S u m m e r R e v i e w
Over the summer the news has been
dominated by the usual issues:
accommodation, poor security and thefts
within both the Union and College,
student finances and yet more changes in
the members of the Union's Permanent
Staff.
In August the College announced that it
was buying a new hall of residence in
Ealing. The hall is a new development
which will eventually accommodate 405
students in 1 to 4 bedroom houses and
flats. The hall is being partly financed by
the sale of Montpelier Hall and new
arrangements for a postgraduate hall are
being considered. The first students
should be able to move in at the end of
this year.
Both the College and the Union
Building have been plagued by a number
of thefts over the summer. £38 was stolen
from the till in the Union Bar, while the
door to an office rented out to an
American Students Organisation was
forced and a cash box containing £300
was taken. A float of £250 was taken
during a Salvation Army conference
being held in the Union Building.
Personal possessions belonging to a film
crew shooting an advertisement were
taken from an unattended, unlocked
dressing room and STOIC suffered the
loss of a video camera from their studios.
There have been a number of changes
in Union Permanent Staff over the
summer. Laurens Alexander was sacked
as manager of the Bookstore for
'unacceptable conduct'. Last year's Union
President Neil McCluskey has been
appointed on a short term contract to
The most serious theft of the summer
occurred when £15,000 worth of platinum
crucibles were stolen from a safe in the
Materials Department which had been
opened with the key.
Good news for students beset by
student loans and the loss of benefits was
the announcement of the Access Fund,
which is intended to fund students who
would not come to university for financial
reasons. The NUS and ULU believe the
money should be used to support the loss
of benefits. Imperial is to receive
£250,000 and the money is to be used
primarily to help students who are self-
financing, parentally-estranged, disabled
or with families. Undergraduate
claims will be made by applying
to Senior Tutors.
replace him while a permanent manager
is sought. Also sacked was Andy Knight
as Assistant Union Bar Manager following
his failure to lock up the front door of the
bar. A previous Assistant Bar Manager,
Andrew Carson, who disappeared last
January with £1430 from the Union Bar,
has been found guilty of fraud and
feigning to defraud in Snaresbrook
Magistrates Court, but the Union will
receive no compensation for the money
taken.
Leaving the Bar for more pleasant
reasons is Adrian 'Jelly' Johnson, who has
worked there for three years. He is to
study Mineral Resources Engineering in
the Royal School of Mines having
dropped out of the Aeronautical
Engineering Department before working
for the Union. He is being replaced as
Manager by John Riding, previously the
Bar Steward; Tracy Sedgwick will become
the Bar Steward.
A new member of the Union
Permanent Staff is Chris Stapleton, who
has been appointed to the temporary post
of Print Unit Production Manager after
failing his exams and being unable to
take up the sabbatical post of FELIX
Editor. He will continue in the role until
elections have been held at the beginning
of term for a new Editor. The three
Union Office Sabbaticals, President Paul
Shanley, Deputy President Benjamin
Turner and Honorary Secretary Murray
Williamson, all passed their final
examinations and gained their degrees.
There were some notable misfortunes
within College. The Refectories suffered
problems when catering planned for the
Salvation Army conference fell in to
disarray as the attendance for meals fell
drastically short of the numbers expected.
Some food was returned, some sold to

