The Sisters of Mercy
More 12"
The record company promised ' M O R E
thrash-cello noises, M O R E piano, M O R E
singing than is probably good for you,
and M O R E guitars in A L L your favourite
colours'. What was to be expected from a
two-year creative silence?
The record was slapped eagerly onto
the turntable to hear what mind
bombardment w e were to be blessed
with. The intro to this eight and a half
minute epic crescendoed, as the office
clamoured for more. What we got was...
The orchestral lead built on to the
typically hard bass and d r u m spine,
relished with a m u c h smoother A n d r e w
Eldritch than before. However, following
the Nephilim's triumphal release, this was
disappointingly bland. A n d r e w himself
admits in the lyrics, 'Some people get by
with a whole lot more' and many will
wish that he himself DID more. More is a
turgid and repetitious drone of a hard
beat and racey guitar w h i c h would have
provided the basis of an epic, but does
not stand well alone. After the skillful
complexity of Floodland, More retains
only the thought but not the deed. It does
indeed need more.
After this disappointment, the B-side,
You Could Be The One shows that the
Sister's prowess is not latent but active,
this is almost a masterpiece with power,
rock, rumbles, reverb, massed choirs,
-'ariation and, gasp, M A J O R C H O R D S ! It's
well worth buying the 7" just for this flip,
and we are assured that it won't be on
the album. More is released today on East
West Records.
Finally, the record company says of
their forthcoming gigs—'be there or wait
another five years for G o d and all His
angels to make that funny exploding
noise in your head again.'
SJH
Ruff Ruff &Ready The Levellers
A Weapon Called the Word
Tribal Mutation 7"
This band are just waiting to stomp on
the ears of any apathetic student or
precocious politician. If they act as
aggressively and stirringly live as they
sound, old Imperialists should start
building their bomb shelters now. They
reek and rock of a new social stand.
Tribal Mutation is littered with agile
bag-pipes, Rotten rap and an insatiable
scream of p u n k defiance and wah-wah
scream against social stereotypes.
The double-A, American Rappers,
deserves a place at No 1. London raps
America, and crushes politics with D M s . It
is rounded off by a Tribal Reprise. The
House bagpipes and trumpets give a
violent rave for a new punk generation of
today's music.
Play this at the next Anti-Poll Tax rally
or Conservative Party Conference for a
riot.
SJH
m
8 |
Maybe I'm wrong. Call me wierd if you
want, but leaving all he good stuff to the
end of the album and shoving the dross
at the beginning seems like a Bad Idea.
The first five tracks are very mediocre
folksy type music that totally fails to hold
one's attention. The best that can be said
of them is that they would make
adequate background music while
struggling with a problem sheet. Not
anything that you would sit and listen to,
or even, heaven forbid, dance to.
The Trudy
Destination Love
Singer Melissa sounds still more like
Debbie Harry on vinyl and the whole
seems so tame w h e n compared to the
searing sponteneity of their live act. The
single only goes to prove that The Trudy
are best appreciated during the cosmic
spangle and scorching crazyness on stage.
The swinging single often seems more
appropriate to a film soundtrack depicting
a swooning sixties heroine than befits this
infamously zany band and does not do
them justice. H o w e v e r Melissa's strong
London accent gives a biting contrast to
her 'oh-so-American' sweet singing lilt. It
also heralds a return to the walking bass
and jazzy keyboards.
Altogether a jolly good boogy and not
to be missed at this week's Freshers'
Night.
SJH
LP
Suddenly, without warning Three
Friends leap out of your 3D super woofer
and tear you away from that particularly
difficult equation that made sense in the
lecture but...
Y o u find yourself screwing up your
eyes and ears, respectively trying to read
the inlay and listen to the music to find
out what this stuff is all about. Hey, admit
it, you're interested.
The second side really picks up where
the first left off, and tracks like No
Change and England My Home are really
rathergood. In puzzlement you listen to
the first side again. Sorry still duff.
Definitely a game, err, album of two
sides, Brian, but none the worse for it.
Adam T.

