Mozart: The Magic
24 August E.N.O. London Coloseum
In Peter Shaffer's award-winning
Amadeus, Mozart's wife, Constanze, was
shown to have declared, 'Twelve foot
snakes? Magic flutes? Your libretto is
ridiculous!' She was talking about
Emanuel Schikaneder's text for what was
to become the last and perhaps the most
accessible opera of the greatest composer
to have ever lived. At one level, it is a
story of love, morals, magic and
traditional good versus evil; a pantomime
for all the family, where darkness
contrasts starkly against light, with our
heroes treading the dangerous path
towards the latter. More subtly, it had a
political message, defending the tenets of
Freemasonry at a time when it was under
severe threat in Austria: a cause very
close to both composer's and librettist's
hearts.
In brief synopsis, a prince, Tamino, is
told by the Queen of the Night how her
daughter, Pamina, is held captive by
Sarastro. Tamino and Papageno, the
Queen's comical bird-catcher, set off to
save her, armed with a magic flute,
enchanted bells and three boys to help
them on their quest. Tarnino is led to
Sarastro's Temple of Nature, Reason and
Wisdom by the Three Boys and is warned
by a speaker there how the Queen and
not Sarastro, is evil. This is confirmed by
Pamina when they meet for the first time
towards the end of the first act. After
undergoing trials to enter the
Brotherhood of Isis, Tamino and Pamina
are united and, although Papageno fails
to enter, he too finds a beautiful bride,
Papagena. The Queen, her three
attendants and a Moor called
Monostatos— previously a servant of
Sarastro, but banished from the temple
after twice attempting to rape Pamina—
plot to kill Sarastro, but are destroyed by
the strength of love. The opera ends in a
triumphant chorus declaring that strength
has conquered.
The English National Opera has a
reputation of excellence, and this revival
of Nicholas Hytner's 1988 production
certainly lives up to such standards. The
orchestra, conducted by Jane Glover, play
in a clean and lively fashion from the
opening masonic chords to the very end,
anticipating mood and expression with
tight control over volume and texture,
and are a credit to Mozart's music.
When the curtain first lifts, we see
Tamino, played by Neitl Archer,, in the
coils of the snake standing on a mirrored
floor and surrounded by a curved, white-
washed wall. It is a clinical chamber,
implying a place free of human emotion,
where the morals of the story could be
argued out. A jagged crack in the wall
opens to reveal the outside world in vivid
colours that contrast from scene to scene,
and through it, the characters come and
go, treating the chamber as a divine
court room.
The costume is vaguely of the late
Eighteenth Century, except when dealing
with the Brotherhood of Isis, when it
reverts back to Ancient Egypt, as do the
props and stage backings Overall the
stage design and use of colour is very
effective and well worthy of praise. The
simple elegance of the scenery is retained
in the second act when the stage receives
a new dimension—the vertical—used
masterfully. The hero and heroine do
indeed descend to the deeps, there is
humour in Papageno's floating love-nest,
and the surprising entrances within the
temple walls and columns.
The translation by Jeremy Sams
magically retains all the sparkle and wit
of the libretto, though occasionally,
expression's such as 'girl-friend' seem
rather garish for such delicate discourse
as this. Undoubtedly, though, translation
of such a piece is a very difficult task,
and hearing an eight year-old girl in the
audience laugh delightedly at Papageno's
Curl Up & Dye
Tricycle Theatre
The last time I was in Kilburn 1 visited
one of the many curry houses, washed
my Vindaloo down with copious
quantities of beer and on ordering a pint
at a nearby Irish pub was horrified to find
that the whole place went silent just as I
had opened my mouth. It's a rough area
no doubt, but the Tricycle Theatre (289.
Kilburn High Road) stands out. A major
venue on the 'London Fringe', it
consistently produces new and by and
large quality drama. Curl Up and Dye
fresh from the Edinburgh Fringe, is no
exception.
Susan Pam (who also plays the lead
role) has written a revealing
comedy about the attitudes and anxieties
that will continue to underlay South
African society, long after apartheid has
gone. Rolene, manageress of a seedy hair
salon (Curl Up and Dye International) in a
dilapidated 'grey area' is a most touching
Flute
banter, it was obvious that Mr Sams has
succeeded wonderfully. The production
itself is also imaginative and skilful,
indeed the entire audience could not help
but laugh as a white dove flew to
Papageno's cage at each beckoning of his
pipes.
It was not just the translation and
effects which made the little girl laugh;
Benjamin Luxon, who plays the role of
Papageno, is a skilful actor as well as
baritone, in the same way as the rest of
the cast seems to have mastered the art
of singspiel. Particular mention should be
made of Nan Christie, who plays the
Queen, and was able to reach the high F
in her two arias so effortlessly, and
thoroughly deserved her rich applause.
The Three Boys sung with such clarity
and precision that they too should be
congratulated. The diction was
immaculate throughout, but a few notes
did seem too low for John Connell
playing Sarastro as the volume noticeably
dropped, and at times the orchestra and
performers did not enter or finish in
exact unison.
In today's society, the success of a
production lies in the overall effect and
not solely the musical preciseness of the
performance. If the latter is all that is
required, then there are many excellent
recordings publicly available. At a live
performance, the visual impression is
equally vital as the aural, and in this the
ENO excels. With its innovative style and
desire to show that opera is alive and
entertaining, and not just a status symbol
for the high-browed, the ENO has
impressed. Many who visit find
themselves somewhat surprised at the
accessibility and entertainment of their
productions. Of course, it is expensive,
but at the same time, well worth the
money. The ENO has brought the opera
back to the people, where it belongs, so
why not see for yourself?
example of how poor whites tend to
scapegoat everything onto the blacks
when it is themselves, or rather 'society'
that is to blame. After a somewhat slow
and flabby first half, the five contrasting
female characters combined to create a
pacy and painfully funny conclusion
which really brought Pam's message
home. The audience's spontaneous
applause after a desperate speech from
Rolene's black assistant goes to show that
not all shows these days have punters
sitting robot-like in their seats. Forget
the curry, go to some Vindaloo Theatre
instead. ir^V
Adrian Pagan. K f l i

