S T O I C a n d I C R a d i o
Television arguably now influences the
way we see the world more than either
the printed word or radio. This is partly
because it combines the medium of
written words (in the form of scripts),
audio effects and visual images. Students
Television of Imperial College provides
you with an opportunity to learn about
and use one of the best equipped student
television stations in the country.
But far from being all serious, on the
programme side we produce 'Into the
Night' on Fridays, showing popular films
to all the halls of residence with live
comicf?) links. Throughout the year there
are trips to places such as the Museum of
the Moving Image, Thames Television
and social outings such as ten pin
bowling.
Keeping the studio and the four mile
cable network working is not easy, and
Hugh, our technical manager, would be
glad of any help. No experience required.
If any aspect of Television appeals to
you then come and see us, we are on the
top floor of the Union Building. For a
sample of the programmes we produce
watch 'Into the Night' this Friday, or even
better come up to the studio and help us
go 'on air'.
Richard Crook.
Imperial College Radio is IC's most
accessible media club, and the country's
only student radio station broadcasting in
a built up area. Since reportedly humble
beginnings in the mid-seventies, IC Radio
has expanded from single speakers in a
few communal areas to broadcasting live
every day on 999kHz AM.
Each week we present an up-to-the-
minute college news service and a wide
range of music programmes: breakfast
shows, lunchtime news updates and light
entertainment, and a range of more
specialised music shows into the night,
together with the newsteam's feature
programmes.
The most obvious way to become
involved with IC Radio is surprisingly
simple. Approach any station member or
call in at our main studio in Southside,
next to the shop and ask to be trained as
a presenter. After two or three hours of
being shown the ropes by one of our
experienced presenters you'll be allowed
on air—ready or not. You are free to
develop your own style, and possibly
specialise in a certain musical area.
Anything goes, and new ideas are sought
after hungrily—why not write a radio
play, or a feature for the news team. On
the other side of things, we are one of
the best equipped student stations in the
country and keeping it all working takes
some time. If you can wield a soldering
iron (or even if you can't), come and be a
part of our technical team repairing
things that have gone wrong or building
new projects.
This is a rare chance to play at being
part of the glamorous (?) media, to use
and develop your creative talents. Even if
you only want to try a one off show you
are welcome. Come and see us at
Freshers' Fair at the base of the Queen's
Tower or drop into our studio any
evening for a coffee and a look round—
we want to see as many new faces as
possible this year.
Tom Cunnington, Station Manager .
M l '
I
M M M B W L . I
—
'The President Speaks'

