Sabbatical Games Pic.
Present
"haven't a cluedo
The Great Incompetence Game
Momentous happenings are afoot at Imperial Manor. Head Butler,
Governor Smith has agreed that one room in the manor can be
taken over by one of his staff. Six people are in the running:
Reverend Burgess, Miss Kingston, Gruppenfiihrer Fontana,
Sergeant Northey, Professor Anderson and Space Commander
Lehman. Eight rooms are under consideration and there are six
possible items which could be placed in the room by the
successful applicant: a case of sherry, a rape alarm, the Mines
coffee machine, a pizza-oven, a blackboard and a particle-beam
weapon. Governor Smith has already made up his mind but hasn't
told anyone what he's decided. The object of the game is to
discover which combination of person, room and article has been
selected, sothat the owner of Imperial Manor, Emperor Ash, can be
informed of the decision.
Any resemblance between this game and another well-known
board game is entirely coincidental. However the rules are pretty
much the same. For those unfamiliar with them the rules are
summarised below.
They are twenty special playing cards to go with the game
representing the six persons, eight rooms and six articles, which
are printed on a separate sheet of card inserted in FELIX. You will
also require a counter for each player and a dice to play.
Variations on the basic rules can be used as desired. For
example, after the Reverend Burgess has entered the Bar he
subsequently moves diagonally from side to side. If fewer than six
play, Miss Kingston and Gruppenfiihrer Fontana can safely be left
out — this does not affect the game in any way.
Rules
1. Each player (two to six can play) chooses one of the six characters and places a token on
the appropriate starting square. Each player also needs paper and pencil to make notes against
a list of the rooms, persons and articles appearing on the cards.
2. The cards are separated into those representing rooms, persons and articles and one of each
type is selected (unseen by any player) and placed in an envelope. The remaining cards are
shuffled together and dealt out face down to the players. Some players may have a card more
than others — such players have a slight advantage.
3. Players move around the board from their starting positions on the throw of a single dice.
Miss Kingston plays first, followed by players to the left in turn. Tokens must be moved in
straight lines (not diagonally) and may not land on or pass over occupied squares. Players may
enter rooms only through the doors marked on the board, but an exact throw of the dice is not
necessary. However, any unused dice units are lost on entering a room and the move ends. Any
number of players may occupy a room at the same time.
4. Each player attempts to discover the correct combination of room, person and article
corresponding to the cards hidden in the envelope. Cards in the player's own hand can, of
course, be eliminated immediately. In order to eliminate further cards players enter one of the
various rooms where they can suggest a possible combination. For example, a player who
enters the Bar may then, on the same turn, make a suggestion using the words "I suggest that
(Reverend Burgess) has gained control of the Bar and will install the (Mines Coffee Machine)".
Brackets indicate that any other article or person (including those charaters not in use by any
player if less than six are playing) can be substituted as best suits the player's enquiries. The
room, however, must be the one that the player's token is in at the time. While making the
suggestion the player moves the token representing the person named into the room where the
suggestion is being made. It is not replaced after the suggestion, the player whose token it is
continues to play from the new position.
5. After a player has made a suggestion the player to his/her left examines the cards in their
hand. If they have one or more of the cards corresponding to the room, person or article named
in the suggestion they must show one to the player making the suggestion. They should not
show the card to any other players. If they hold more than one of the appropriate cards they
can show the one of their choice.
6. If the first player to the left of the one making the suggestion does not have any of the three
cards named then he/she must say so and the enquiry moves on to the next player, and so on.
As soon as the player making the suggestion has seen one card, however, the turn ends and no
further enquiries are made or cards shown.
7. The player who made the suggestion will thus see one card held by another player which can
be eliminated from his/her enquiries. But players can deduce further information from the
suggestions of others and their movements on the board. In addition, players may make
suggestions including a room, person or article for which they hold the card in their own hand.
Players should take care not to show their cards to other players, and deliberately peeping at
other players' cards is definitely not on.
8. Players do not have to throw the dice on their turn, they may choose to stay in the room they
are in for as many turns as they wish or they may use the secret passages marked on the board.
Once the dice is thrown, however, a move must be made. Only one suggestion may be made
per turn and once it is made a player may not then move on that turn. Movement, either by the
throw of the dice or via the secret passages, must be made before any suggestion.
9. If after a suggestion is made no other player posesses any of the cards named, then the
player making the suggestion has either found the correct combination of cards or has one or
more of those named in his/her own hand. If the latter applies the player does nothing and play
continues as normal. Otherwise the player opens the envelope and checks the cards inside. If
the suggestion is not correct after all then one of the players has overlooked a card in their
hand and deserves a good bolloking for ruining the game. If the cards in the envelope are those
named then the player making the correct suggestion is the winner and should seek an
immediate meeting with the Rector to put forward their suggestion.

