Where to go
The majority of European ski resorts are in
one of the 'Big Four' ski countries: Austria,
Switzerland, France and Italy. There are of
course many other countries where you can
ski—package tours are available to Spain,
Andorra, Bulgaria and Yugoslavia, and it's
also possible to ski in Norway, West
Germany, Greece, even Czechoslovakia and
Romania. Of course you can also ski in
Scotland, but unless you live nearby it isn't
much cheaper than a package tour to the
alps, and the weather and skiing aren't
anywhere near as good.
Leaving aside the more unusual
destinations, let's consider the characteristics
typical of resorts in each country.
Austria
There was a time when skiing holidays were
synonymous with Austria. The country has a
special undefineable atmosphere which means
that, despite the increase in popularity of
other countries, Austria is still the most
common destination for British skiers. The
typical resort is a small village with a dozen
or so ski-lifts and good skiing for beginners
and intermediates. There is an increasing
tendency for neighbouring resorts to share lift
passes with the skiing areas linked by
interconnecting lifts or ski buses. The
reputation of the ski-schools is very high.
Since the villages were there long before
skiing became a form of recreation, they have
a life of their own, unlike the soul-less
French ski stations. There are also a few
largish towns which act as ski resorts,
notably Kitzbuhel and Innsbruck. The
ubiquitous apres-ski is the best there is—the
Austrians know how to enjoy themselves and
how to make their visitors feel welcome. For
a good all-round holiday, especially for
beginners, Austria takes some beating.
However, its skiing is often at comparatively
low altitude and may fail to provide sufficient
challenge and scope for the more advanced
skier. Other minus points are the high cost of
living in Austria, compounded by the lack of
alternatives to hotel or pension
accommodation— self-catering is almost
unheard of in Austria.
Switzerland
Like Austria, one of the traditional ski
countries. Resorts do tend to be larger than
Austrian ones, and suffer some of the same
limitations—a single cable car from the
village to the slopes, or ski areas spread out
along the valley some distance from the
village. Swiss skiing is often higher than in
Austria and there are some superb
areas—Zermatt has the highest cable car in
Europe at 3880m (12600 feet) to the summit
of the Klein Matterhorn. Facilities are
generally superb and perfectly maintained.
Unfortunately skiing in the world's most
civilized country isn't cheap, although some
self-catering is available. Count on an extra
£50 on the holiday price compared with
France, before you even think about the
prices in the resort. It hurts every time you
get your wallet out.
France
The French pioneered the concept of the
purpose-built ski-station, examples of which
include Les Arcs, La Plagne, Courcheval, Val
dTsere, etc. Perched high in the previously
uninhabited mountains, they open up vast
tracts of superb skiing terrain. Being designed
and positioned solely for skiing, they are
right slap-bang on the slopes with no cable-
car ride up from the valley.
Accommodation is available in hotels, but
most popular are self-catering apartments.
The most obvious advantage of this is
On The Piste
Skiing holidays are becoming ever more popular and, despite being notoriously
impoverished, large numbers of students find their way to Europe's snow-clad
peaks every year. For those contemplating a first trip, or choosing their own
resort for the first time, Ramsbottom's answer to Franz Klammer, J Martin
Taylor, tells you where to go and how.
Early morning skiing in virgin powder snow.
Tower block apartments at La Plagne, France
A cable car suspended high above Cervinia, Italy
20 11 December 1985 FELIX

