cheapness but there is also much more
flexibility since you're not tied to hotel meal
times, and there's no restriction on bringing
in your own booze from the supermarket
(given the bar prices this saves a small
fortune). Evening entertainment is usually
what you make of it—being in an apartment
you're automatically in a group, and
apartment parties are the 'in' thing. Other
than that there are bars, restaurants, discos,
etc which are often half empty in the late
evening. For all abilities the purpose-built
centres offer an unrivalled range of
skiing—often more than even the best skier
can cover in a week. Many resorts are linked,
so a day's skiing can take the form of an
excursion on skis. For the ski fanatic they are
unequalled and for the beginner there are
also advantages—skiing from your doorstep
(anyone who's walked even a short distance
in ski boots carrying skis will appreciate this),
and the well designed lift system reduces
queueing (if at the end of the aforementioned
walk you have to join an hour-long queue for
the cable car, you'll appreciate this too). For
example, in Tignes if you ever have to queue
for more than ten minutes you get your lift
pass price refunded.
Italy
After becoming very popular a few years ago
Italy has declined as the price differential
with other countries has narrowed. However,
it is still a popular destination and is
reasonably priced. Most Italian resorts give
the impression that they just 'happened'
rather than being carefully planned as with
the French purpose built resorts, or having
strictly controlled development as with the
traditional Austrian or Swiss resorts. Many
consist of a small old part, which is usually
in a bad state of disrepair, and masses of
modern hotels all around. Apartment
accommdation is often also available,
especially in larger resorts such as Cervinia
and Courmayeur.
One Italian resort popular with British
Skiers is Sauze d'Oulx. I'd definitely give this
one a miss. The Brits who go there are the
same ones who fill the concrete tower block
hotels of the Costa Brava at a different time
of the year. A Benidorm of the alps is not my
idea of a good ski resort and although the
skiing is surprisingly good you probably
won't get enough sleep to appreciate it.
When to go
Undergraduates may be constrained by
vacation dates to a week over Christmas or
New Year, or around Easter. However, these
dates tend to be the most expensive,
expecially the former. The price of skiing
holidays performs a double hump through
the season, starting low pre-Christmas,
shooting up over the holiday period, falling
to the cheapest time in January, rising for
school half term before a less marked fall in
early March leading to a rise for the end of
the season at Easter.
First of all don't, whatever you do, go pre-
Christmas. I know it's cheap, but you'll
probably find most of the resort's facilities
haven't yet opened (the swiming pool will
always be empty!), and the snow may well
lack a firm base layer. The Christmas
vacation should be alright if you can afford
it, although the resorts will be packed and
the days are short and cold. For a budget
holiday go mid-January—it can be bitterly
cold, but there will almost definitely be
plenty of snow, uncrowded slopes and it is
very cheap. Early March is also fairly cheap,
and it is warmer with lighter evenings (hence
more precious hours on the slopes). Easter is
a bit risky for snow, but this depends on how
early in the year it is. Easter 1986 is quite
early and so should be okay.
The temperature varies enormously from
early to late season. At Christmas and in
January the temperature rarely approaches
zero (from below that is!) even in strong
sunshine. The sun is weak, hence you don't
tan easily. But at Easter it can be relatively
hot, and sun-burn can be a real hazard, so
take some high protection sun cream (at least
factor 6 or 7). If you're not sur? about
withstanding the cold you're better off
plumping for a late season trip.
Equipment
Unless you're a proficient skier there is no
point in buying your own equipment. For
your first trip all you need is good ski
clothing, since all your skiing equipment is
best hired in the resort. For a beginner you
shouldn't bother with anything flashy, just
mid-length skis of between shoulder and head
height, depending on build. The base should
be reasonably gouge-free. The bindings
should be easy to step into and release
yourself from, and they should be specially
adjusted for your weight and ability.
The most important item of equipment is
boots. If your feet are cold and
uncomfortable you can't ski—it is as simple
as that. When trying boots on, clip up both
of them properly and walk around the shop
for a few minutes. If you have any doubts
ask to try another pair—this is common
practice, you aren't being an awkward
customer. Return them for another pair later
in the holiday if you find you have trouble
on the slopes.
If you are considering buying some
equipment after one or two weeks skiing
experience, boots are the item you should go
for first. Spend at least an hour in the shop
wearing the boots you intend to buy. If you
can find a comfortable pair, nothing else
really matters. Personally, I swear by
Salomon boots, but then I may have funny
feet.
You will require special ski clothing, ie. a
ski anorak and ski pants or salopettes. If
you're going in mid-winter these must be of a
high quality. If this is your first trip try
borrowing from a friend, since ski clothing is
'not cheap. If you are buying it is possible to
keep the cost down by opting for less
fashionable makes, like Rodeo (C&A). Ski
resorts are a poseur's paradise so expensive
fashionable ski clothes such as Ellesse and
Killy abound, but aren't necessary, especially
for beginners. It doesn't matter what label
you've got on your designer one-piece ski suit
if you can't move without falling over you're
still going to look a complete wally!
You'll also need good quality special skiing
gloves, ordinary gloves are no good at all.
Don't skimp on this item or you'll regret
it—having cold hands is almost as bad as
cold feet. In addition, you'll need a ski-hat,
sunglasses or goggles, some good quality ski
socks and several thin sweaters including
some polo necks (rather than wearing thick
sweaters, you should wear two or more thin
layers).
We are well placed for buying ski clothing
and equipment. Kensington High Street has
branches of Alpine Sports, Snow & Rock and
C&A, while Brompton Road has Sun'n'Snow
and Harrods. The are also larger branches of
all the ski shops in central London.
Learning to Ski
Ski instruction is a vital part of any skiing
holiday, at least until you have several weeks
of skiing experience under your belt. The
teaching method varies from country to
country in accordance with the policy of the
national ski school. The Austrian method,
which is probably the most traditional, is
especially good for the less confident
beginner. The Austrians have a reputation for
high quality instruction with instructors who
speak good English, which is undoubtedly
deserved. French teaching uses more modern
methods designed to allow faster progression
to more advanced techniques, which may suit
the more impatient. Their instructors, being
French, tend not to speak such good English.
Similar comments apply to the Swiss. Italian
instruction tends to be of the 'follow me'
variety, where the class is expected to keep
up with the instructor whilst he
flies off down the slope for long
stretches at a time showing what a good skier
he is. No doubt there are good Italian
instructors but the overall standard is
probably lower than in other countries.
The French in particular have developed
new teaching methods available only in
certain resorts. The best known is ski evolutif
at Les Arcs, but there are other schemes. I
personally wouldn't recommend those, since
there is no real short cut to skiing
proficiency, but if you think you may lack
perserverence they may make the first stage
of learning a bit easier. These methods
involve starting on considerably shorter than
normal skis and increasing the length through
the week.
If you are going skiing for the first time a
course of lessons on a dry slope is well worth
considering. Whilst skiing is an utterly
marvelous sport once you can do a bit,
struggling to get used to having a plank
strapped to each foot and generally falling
about all over the slope is best done before
setting off on holiday. You can start
at the same level as someone who has been
skiing before, after a few hours instruction on
a dry slope. The best slope within easy reach
of IC is the Blue Sky Slope at Uxbridge, and
the Ski Club organise trips there every
Tuesday and Wednesday. Personally I think
there are few things as boring as dry slope
skiing once you've achieved a reasonable
standard, but for learning the basics they are
extremely useful.
Fitness
Any reasonably fit person should cope with a
skiing holiday without problem especially at
beginner's level. For more advanced skiers
fitness is more vital since they ski faster and
harder than beginners. However, a few gentle
exercises never did anyone any harm and
may help prevent you stiffening up whilst on
holiday. I can't include a guide to
pre-ski exercises here, but a few weeks of
standard physical jerks before you
go will help. If you play any form of sport
regularly you should already be fit enough
without special exercises.
Skiing is Wonderful
There are few people who don't enjoy a
skiing holiday, and more and more people
are getting the bug every year. When I first
went skiing many years ago recreational
skiing was in its infancy, ski boots were made
of leather and had laces, and skis were
wooden with screwed-on edges and cable
binding. Since then the sport has changed out
of all recognition. It has devotees from all
walks of life, and is no longer seen as a
pastime for the rich. It has all the necessary
ingredients of a great holiday—sun, fresh air,
fantastic scenery, physical activity, not to
mention the apres-ski! If you've never tried
it, you almost certainly wouldn't be
disappointed.
FELIX 11 December 1985 21

