FRIDAY 30TH OCTOBER 2020
11
Comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
COMMENT
Mr Trump has time and again down-
played the severity of the surge in covid
cases, amidst a pandemic, he has ignored
the advice of scientists and physicians
and has peddled unsound and danger-
ous medical ideas. Mr Trump did not call
for social distancing or the use of facial
coverings, despite evidence that such
measures reduce the spread of the
disease. He made misleading claims
about the speed with which a vac-
cine would be available to the public
but offered a less optimistic timeline
when pressed by the moderator, Kris-
ten Welker of NBC News.
President Trump, after contin-
uously stoking the fires of white su-
premacy, , has promised to address
the growing racial unrest by ensuring
to “defend” America’s police forc-
es in the wake of growing protests
against instances of police brutali-
ty towards African-Americans. Mr
Trump says he doesn’t believe racism
is a systemic problem within US po-
lice forces, and his campaign promis-
es to protect police funding and hire
more officers, increase punishments
for attacks on police, and take action
against political protest movements.
The law and order promises also in-
clude tough action on illegal immi-
gration and stronger requirements
for legal immigrants.
Mr Biden wants to set up a na-
tional contact-tracing programme,
establish at least 10 testing centres
in every state, and provide free
coronavirus testing to all. He sup-
ports a nationwide mask mandate,
which would require face cover-
ingstobewornonfederalprop-
erty.
MrBidencallsforbroaderac-
cess to education, health care and
wealth for those who have been
denied the opportunity. He also
advocates for rehabilitation rath-
er than jail for people convicted
of drug-related offences and em-
phasises the need to get rid of
mandatory minimum prison sen-
tences.
Coronavirus
Criminal and Racial Justice
“Most of the globe will breathe a sigh of relief if Biden is elect-
ed,” said Stubb, now director of the varsity of Transnational
Governance, at the ECU University Institute in Florence. “But I
believe we must always all be realistic and understand that we’re
not going back to the supposed good old days — either way, I do
not think American power will return to what it had been.”
The entire world is watching the Presidential Race and is try-
ing to figure out what the result will mean for them, every U.S.
presidentialelectionhasswayoninternationalaffairs;thewinner
despite everything becomes the leader of the world’s largest eco-
nomic and military power. For some, President Donald Trump
has ushered in a very new style of politics that they fully support.
For others, a Joe Biden victory would be warmly welcomed.
In Europe particularly, Trump is extremely unpopular in most
countries. Countries like the Asian nation, China and Asian
countries could find that a Biden victory would mean closer
scrutiny of their human rights records and military actions. The
US Director of the National Counterintelligence and Security
Center last month warned foreign states were using “covert and
overt influence measures” to sway the vote in their favour. His
statement asserted that Russia wants to damage Joe Biden. But
it also claims China doesn’t want Donald Trump returned to
power. Beijing, he says, “prefers that President Trump – whom
Beijing sees as unpredictable – does not win re-election”, and has
been “expanding its influence efforts” ahead of the November
vote. Meanwhile, Russia has been attempting to “denigrate” Bid-
enwhile“seekingtoboostPresidentTrump’scandidacyonsocial
media”. In Iran, many are probably hoping for a Biden victory, a
brand new nuclear deal and relief from the crippling sanctions
that Trump introduced.
This really is the most important election in US History. The
difference between a second Trump term and the election of
Biden will have enormous consequences, especially for Wash-
ington’s involvement in the world. It’s kind of a fulcrum mo-
ment, if Trump is re-elected, American democracy would
ceasetoexist,andevenifBideniselected,USrecoverywill
be a long time coming.
“One term is bad enough, but if Trump is reelect-
ed, Americans and people around the world would
no longer be able to say the American electorate made
a mistake. Instead, it would be an affirmation this is the
direction Americans want to go.”
Didn’t want to exist in an era where Borat was an
acute political satire but here we fucking are I guess but
despite the constant negative vibes covfefe.
MR TRUMP
I’M THE LEAST
RACIST PERSON
IN THE ROOM
“ MR BIDEN
THE FACT OF
THE MATTER
IS, THERE IS
INSTITUTIONAL
RACISM IN
AMERICA
“ HAVE AN OPINION
ABOUT TRUMP OR BID-
EN THAT YOU WOULD
LIKE TO DISCUSS WITH
THE AUTHOR?
EMAIL ARGUMENTATIVE
INDIAN AT
LALALALETSTALKABOUTIT@
GMAIL.COM

