In a hotly anticipated press conference on Monday,
NASA announced that the Moon (large, grey disc
in the sky)was actually “much smaller and closer” than
previously thought. They went on to explain that de-
spite years of research to the contrary, and multiple
successful missions to the lunar surface, the mysterious
ball of cheese was in reality only 600 miles away. This is
over 3 times less than the comonly accepted distance.
It is thought that this shortfall is what allowed the
spaceguysatNASAtoreachthelunarmilestonebefore
the Soviets. “They just assumed it was further away”
saidNASARocketEngineerHaroldvonLuneberg,ex-
NASA: Moon “smaller, closer” than thought Credits: wikimedia
Moon Moon Hangman’s Man on the Moon
KEEP THE CAT FREE
Felix@ic.ac.uk
16
HANGMAN
plainingwhyRussianrockets
were built so large. “They
built them so large that it
was quicker to walk up the
side than to send them into
orbit”, he continued. It was
at this point he became quite
irate and the interview end-
ed prematurely.
This is not the first time
that NASA has waded into a
public debate on the Earth’s
closest ally. Despite the
Moon “definitely [being] there”, it is often mistaken
The Moon: Friendly guest or grotesque, horrible eye-sore?
for a large searchlight that is
looking for the Moon. This
is in turn not to be mistak-
en for the large searchlight
heralding the Moon-based
superhero, Moon-Man, who
is responsible for this years
reduction in bootleg alcohol
related crimes.
Whilst NASA has repeat-
edly expressed dismay at the
recent rise in Moon-crime,
the space body is reticent
to endorse Moon-vigilantism, instead asserting that
Moon-crimes should be dealt with by the appropriate
Moon-authorities.
In an exclusive interview with Hangman, the Moon
stated that it was “looking forward” to re-starting its
waning solo career, adding that fans can expect its de-
butself-titledfunkalbum“Thecelestialbodyprevious-
ly known as the Moon” in time for Christmas.
The move will come as a shock to Moon enthusiasts,
aka ‘Moonies’, who have long lemented the Exxon Mo-
bil announcement that they have paid an undisclosed
sum to rename the Moon “Exxon Moonbil”.
The oil giant was expected to complete work on
its Moon-Pipeline before it ran into difficulties cir-
cumnavigating the web of planning permission need-
ed as a result of the Moon’s recent classification as a
Grade 2 listed building. This cast a larger shadow on
plans to demolish the Moon and replace it with a mas-
sive Moon-Westfield, plans that have been met with
Moon-criticism by Moon-activists.
Credits: wikimedia / Luc Viatour
“
THEY JUST ASSUMED IT
WAS FURTHER AWAY[...]
IT WAS QUICKER TO
WALK UP THE SIDE
THAN TO SEND THEM
INTO ORBIT

