KEEP THE CAT FREE
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
18
ARTS
Since its inception in 2000, Tate Britain has been in
an uneasy marriage, struggling to accommodate its
vast collection of classical art with its apparent ambi-
tion to be the next Tate Modern. In 2017, Art Critic,
Jonathan Jones, urged for the museum to embrace its
pre-20thcenturycollectionofartinascathingopinion
article appearing in The Guardian. He wrote, ‘It seems
to be a requirement that, to work at
the national museum of British art,
you shouldn’t like the nation’s great-
est art.’ He further argued, ‘It can
show us everything from the indus-
trial revolution and slavery to the
history of horse racing. All it needs
to do is put as much of that collec-
tion on view as possible, with an eye
to history.’ Somewhat prophetic, the
museum seemed to have heard this
call and put together the largest ex-
hibition on Joseph Mallord William
Turner’s work in recent times, bring-
ing together much of his bequest
and shining a light on the artist and
his lesser known works.
Tate Britain is, in so many ways,
a museum for Turner. This is not to
suggest that British art begins and
ends with him, but it is an unassaila-
blefactthathisworkwas,andstillis,
a corner stone of post-Renaissance
British Art. Until the 18th centu-
ry, the industrial revolution aside,
Albion was trailing behind main-
land Europe, and the high arts since
the renaissance flourished through
Florentine, Venetian, Flemish, and
French circles, and seldom reached
English shores with the same inten-
sity. The tide, however, changed with
the arrival of Turner and John Constable in the late
18th century. These two men, empowered by a bitter
rivalry, ensured that English Art no longer found itself
in the fringes of European high Arts.
Turner, upon his death in 1851, bequeathed his
entire art collection to the nation, making one of the
greatest donations ever made since Hans Sloane’s be-
questwhichsetupthefoundationsoftheBritishmuse-
um. His collection, after a circuitous journey tumbling
about in The National Gallery and V&A Museum,
founditselfitscurrentquartersatTateBritain—home
to British Art.
The current exhibition “Turner’s Modern World”
draws on this vast collection, seeking to expand our
understanding of the evolution of the artist’s work.
Unashamedly embracing the collection’s breadth, it
presents a comprehensive and wonderfully curated
exhibit of Turner’s work with a penchant for deep re-
flection on the milieu. The late 18th and early 19th
century were arguably the most turbulent and con-
sequential period in European history, and, as with
many artists, this volatility filtered into his work. The
revolution across the channel, the Napoleonic ‘world’
wars, reformation of the parliament, emancipation of
Catholics at home, and the abolition of slavery; Turner
lived through them all and as the exhibition puts it elo-
quently, ‘Though not all works of personal conviction,
Turner saw fit to capture them all’.
Through a series of eight thematic rooms, we ex-
plore the societal turbulence and its influence in and
though Turner’s work. Known extensively for his
landscapes, the exhibition seeks to subvert this pop-
ular public opinion by underscoring his other works,
primarily maritime and industrial paintings. The exhi-
bition has not shied away from using his well-known,
popular works to thread this narrative. Indeed, we see
‘The Fighting Temeraire’ and ‘Rain, Steam and Speed
– The Great Western Railway’ loaned by The Nation-
al Gallery, and ‘Snow Storm: Hannibal and his Army
Crossing the Alps’ among numerous other highlights.
In an exhibition telling a seldom told story such as this,
it can often be distracting to have such popular paint-
ingstakethecentrestage,but‘Turners’ModernWorld’
treads this line quite carefully - not sacrificing the nar-
rative for the grandeur and vice versa. An encouraging
exposition of Turners attitude to slavery is presented
with a reproduction of his painting ‘The Slave Ship’.
Even as a reproduction (the original, currently housed
in the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston,
was deemed too fragile to transport),
it takes centre stage in presenting the
dichotomy of progressive attitudes in
the early 19th century. A proponent
of liberal trends in his later life, Turn-
er had also infamously invested in a
Jamaican slave plantation.
Itisinterestingtonotehowalmost
every painting from this exhibition is
sourced from within the Turner Be-
quest, meaning, sourced largely from
within Tate Britain. But then again it
is what Turner would have wanted;
In his will, he conditioned that his
paintings be hung together. This was
disregarded over the years and a few
pieces now lie scattered between The
National Gallery and Tate Britain. It
is thus encouraging to see them find
a common shelter as he wished, even
if only temporarily during an exhibi-
tion such as this.
Often romanticised and pigeon-
holed, Joseph Mallord William
Turner, with his modest upbringing
in London, was the man who put
British art on the world map. But
thereismuchmoretohimasanartist
that sets him apart from his contem-
poraries. This exhibition about him
is striving for something much more as
well, and, apart from capturing the artist, it reflects on
a museum seeking to re-invent itself by looking to the
past. It is fitting in a sense that one of the final works
weseeintheexhibitionis‘War.TheExileandtheRock
Limpet’ (inset) with Napoleon standing at St. Helena,
brooding over his legacy. We all should do that from
time to time, shouldn’t we? I mean reflect! So why not
begin at Tate Britain, where this exhibition runs from
the 28th of October until the 7th of March 2021.
Modern Love: Turner at Tate Britain
Reviewed by Vaidhiswaran Ramesh Music Editor
Turner’s Modern World
Where? Tate Britain
When? 28th Oct - 7th Mar 2021
Howmuch? £22 (Students £20)
Exhibition
Credits: Tate / Accepted by the nation as part of the Turner Bequest, 1856
War. The Exile and the Rock Limpet, exhibited 1842

