FRIDAY 30TH OCTOBER 2020
19
MUSIC
Music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
People who are constantly around me know that I
identify myself as a snob when it comes to music.
I take pride in discovering artists (hello, Dua Lipa,
*cough*) before they go big, and scold them when
they dismiss music I share with them only to fangirl
over them a few months down the line when they
become hits. Yeah, I’m a little annoying.
Rina Sawayama, the up and coming Japanese-born
British singer-songwriter, has built a rabid fanbase,
in no small part thanks to her brilliant debut album,
SAWAYAMA, which was released in April 2020, in
the height of lockdown. Although consistently grow-
ing her fanbase, which includes the
legendary Elton John who has gone
on record to name SAWAYAMA as
his favourite album of the year, she
has not yet reached the popularity
that a lot of her contemporaries have.
However, I am a firm believer that
for Rina, the only way is up.
SAWAYAMA doesn’t quite have
an overarching concept, however
I think it would be a valid assess-
ment to say that there is running social commentary
throughout the album. For instance, ‘XS’ (a pun for
‘excess’) is a faux-‘flex song’ which criticises commer-
cialism. What a Marxist anthem. I believe it would
also be fair to say that the most prominent themes
throughout the album are heritage and identity. Not
only do various songs heavily refer to Japan and her
Japanese roots lyrically, they also gorgeously tie in to
her British upbringing, resulting in deeply personal,
honest songwriting.
One of the things that makes SAWAYAMA special
is the seamless way different genres have been blended
within each individual song. Banging rock guitars
bleed into smooth R&B beats not only from track
to track, but within individual songs. Amazingly, no
song on the album ends up sounding out of place, and
the overall project is incredibly cohesive. Although
Rina’s songwriting and delivery play an
important part in making this album
the juggernaut it is, it is the produc-
tion that truly elevates it through
genre-bending, mind-melting choices
that are in equal parts confusing and
brilliant.
Although the album is outstanding
throughout, ‘XS’, ‘STFU!’ and ‘Chosen
Family’ are perhaps some of the more
immediately attention-grabbing tracks
on the album. Further, the opening and closing tracks
of the album, ‘Dynasty’ and ‘Snakeskin’, are also noth-
ing short of brilliant. ‘Dynasty’ is the thesis statement
of the album, both thematically and sonically. As it’s
guitar solo kicks in, you know you are in for some-
thing special. ‘Snakeskin’ ensures that the album closes
on an energetic note following the relatively more
traditional (albeit beautifully penned and extremely
heartfelt), slower paced ‘Chosen Family’. It leaves the
listener fully satisfied yet wanting more.
All in all, SAWAYAMA is a brave, borderline genius
effort from the Cambridge graduate songstress. The
album has been critically hailed as ‘compelling’ and
Rina has been labelled as ‘one of the boldest voices in
pop today’. If this record is any indication, I am firmly
standing my ground in my belief that the only way for
Rina is up, and she is already on her way.
When did you first hear this song?
23/09/2016 10:47am
How old were you when you first hear it?
19
How often do you listen to the song?
Frequency varies. I have a playlist of songs I listen to
a lot that moves with time. Now, it’s pretty rare that I
listen to this song, but I still come back to it.
In a sentence, describe the song
Smooth, a little bit bubbly, comforting, subtle, airy.
What initially drew you to the song?
I was already a fan of the artist. I really got into DnB
from about 2014, I was almost exclusively listening to
DnB but was a bigger fan of the harder stuff. So, when
I enjoyed the liquid tracks they stood out.
Is there a killer moment?
The very first part, with the one note repeating, the
sheer clarity of the time that it brings me back to is
insane.
Does listening to this song put you in a
certain headspace?
The headspace it reminds me of is from the
start of second year. I had just come out of
first year, one of the best years of my life, and
now I’m free to get back to excitement and won-
der of seeing my friends. That feeling of being free.
Is there another sense you associate strongly with
this song?
Overcast. A very, very cloudy sky (only because of the
weather back then).
How did this song affect your musical habits?
This was a key liquid DnB track in my collection that
helped me fully appreciate the sub-genre. Lead to a
long time of listening to liquid.
Why do you love about this genre?
In the genre tracks usually lack vocals, allowing you to
focus more on what’s around you. It becomes part of
the scene. If I listen to these songs, I can see points in
my past so purely, without clouding.
Final comments?
Take some time to listen to music for the sake of lis-
tening to music.
SAWAYAMA - Album of the Year?
Passing the Aux to Gabriel Kassayie
Reviewed by Ozbil Dumenci Music Writer
SAWAYAMA
Albumby: Rina Sawayama
Toptracks: XS; Chosen Family; Snakeskin
Forfansof: FKA twigs, Alanis Morisette
Runtime: 44 mins
Album Review
Feature
Lenzman - African Dream
Interview by Guthrie Ruby Music Editor
Gabriel - Pure Maths PhD and powerlifting legend

