Felix is the newspaper of Imperial College Student
Union. We provide entertainment, information
and news while also being a space that members of
the Imperial College community can use to pub-
lish their views and respond to the views of others.
WHAT IS FELIX?
CANIWRITEFORFELIX?
Yes. We welcome all submissions and aim to pub-
lish everything we are sent. An editor will work
with you to make sure your article is in the best
condition it can be for publication. We also pro-
duce video and audio content if that interests you
more.
HOW DO I SUBMIT AN
ARTICLE TO FELIX?
• If you already have an
article in mind or have
written one already then
send it to the section
editors via email. These
email addresses can be
found at the top of each
page in a section.
• If you want to write
but don’t have a topic
in mind, check out or
section specific writers
Facebook groups that we
update every week with
topics we would like
articles about or email
the section editors
Send your article to us by 8 o’clock on Tuesday and
we can then have it ready for publication that Fri-
day!
We are also always recruiting editors,
copy editors, photographers, artists
and more. If you would like to get
invovled in Felix in a regular capacity,
email Felix@ic.ac.uk
Imperialsecretsadmins
respondtopagecriticism
KEEP THE CAT FREE
NEWS
Felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
2
He explained how his long history of run-
ning meme pages and facebook bots have
given him a good understanding of what
can and what can’t be posted, though he
admitted that facebook is “moving fast and
fucking breaking things on the daily” so
the team have to remain on their toes.
Past admins of Imperial confessions pages
have not been careful enough in the past,
either due to a lack of experience or care.
However, this admin team is careful to
avoid their predecessors’ fate. They have a
clear rule set that is designed to prevent the
page being taken down at any cost.
The team also has pedigree. Ethan was
originally involved in the original Imperial
Secrets page that was run by BNOC Paul
Balaji and was made an admin after he cre-
ated a rudimentary bot that streamlined
the posting process. This page was shut
down due to lack of moderation leading to
someone posting a link to “Indian midget
porn”.
Originally set up in response to the ICE
practice of not posting during the holi-
days, the new IS page was set up to cater
for the demand. Formed during the 2019
easter holidays, the IS team originally just
comprised of Ethan and Seb. The page be-
gan receiving a high volume of submissions
but once term started again people shifted
back to using ICE. This pattern continued
until mid-2020 when the ICE admin shut
down the page and IS became the de-facto
Imperial College confessions page.
While the admins are comfortable in their
positions, confident that they can evade
being taken down and happy to share their
names they have given less thought to why
they do what they do. Their answers to my
questions deal with practicalities, how to
avoid being shut down, how to more effi-
ciently publish confessions and how to add
Imperial College staff lax mask discipline
Calum Drysdale Editor in Chief
Members of College staff are wearing
masks incorrectly. Felix reporters
have found that 42% of staff are not wear-
ing their mask correctly.
College rules on student mask behav-
iour state that masks should cover both the
mouth and nose and should be worn at all
times, “especially when transiting between
buildings”. However, many staff members
are failing to follow these guidelines.
Many staff members have little to do,
with retail, finance and porters not needed
due to the reduced level of in person teach-
ing. These staff members are being em-
ployed as guides to new students and can
be seen on campus and around the South
Kensington area, wearing blue ‘Welcome
to Imperial’ t-shirts.
Due to the little amount of work re-
quired of them they face having to stand
around whiling away time and many re-
move their masks.
With the end of the furlough scheme,
the College faces having too many employ-
ees with no work to occupy them with.
This can already be seen in the various
shops around campus where up to 9 staff
members wait around for the occasional
student customer.
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
-Do not accept bullying
-No targeted posts i.e including students’ full names, etc
-No porn or sexual related posts at all
-No suicide related posts
-No random meaningless spam. The secret should actually have some level of qual-
ity
-Use your common sense! Nothing that has the slightest possibility of getting the
page taken down by Zucc or Imperial themselves.
-If someone askes for a post to be removed, remove it
Imperil Secrets post rules

