The Texas Chainsaw
Massacre blurs the
lines between a cinematic
experience and an assault.
It’s like watching a bal-
loon that’s on the verge of
popping, being inflated
more and more—and
whenever they do release
some air, a second later
they’re blowing it up
again but at twice the
previous rate. This unrelenting tension makes for one
of the most powerful cinematic experiences you’re
likely to have. It doesn’t have a great plot; the visuals
are adequate; the dialogue is average; and the per-
formances are forgettable; but the film, for whatever
reason, is not. There are very few movies that can be
excused in this way, and I hold it in a class of its own
in this regard.
“Do you enjoy The Texas Chainsaw Massacre?” is
a bit like asking someone whether they enjoy getting
punched in the face. The answer is no, but at the
same time, the specific exhilaration you get is wholly
confined to that experience, and, in that, there’s a
unique thrill. This is, of course, the essence of horror:
volunteering to be terrified and tricked, all for the ex-
hilaration of the experience. I see Texas Chainsaw on
a par with The Shining in its ability to lull you into its
world, and then gun for you relentlessly. Although
the all-out brutality of Texas Chainsaw is in stark
contrast to the symphonic composition of The Shin-
ing, it is no less terrifying. Within the savagery and
the whistle-stop pace, director Tobe Hooper reaches
the pinnacle of artistry in horror: capturing the es-
sence of fear, then letting it loose on the audience.
What I love most about this movie is its unapolo-
getic tone: it is unashamedly simple and absolutely
fearless, not once does it try to please the audience
or attempt to get them on their side. As it becomes
more twisted and more horrifying, it shrugs off any
obligations it has to the audience and says bluntly:
‘Deal with it...it’s about to get a whole lot worse in 5
minutes’. Nothing is ever explained, but once the ride
begins, you very quickly lose the urge to ask ques-
tions.
Halloween Pick: The Texas Chainsaw Massacre (1974)
Borat Returns + Rebecca Remade
Reviews
In this new
American ad-
venture, Borat
returns to the
States looking
to make amends.
After some years
interned in a
Kazakh labour
camp—due to
the displeasure
the Kazakh au-
thorities had for
the first mov-
ie—he is sent to
America to deliver gifts to the elite. His only daugh-
ter, Tutar (played by Maria Bakalova), tags along
for the journey, finding it hard to unite the ludi-
crous doctrines of her father with the liberal values
of the USA.
Now, to be upfront, I’ve never been much of a
fan of the original movie or of the character of Bo-
rat himself; however, I recognise that many people
do love him. With that said, I think the two most
important questions are: 1.) did I think it was fun-
ny? and 2.) was it as scathing a satire as was adver-
tised? Firstly, I didn’t find it particularly funny, or
at least not any funnier than the first movie. The
joke writing in Borat II (as I’ll call it) is mainly fo-
cussed on shocking you, interspersed with nostalgic
catchphrases and familiar Borat beliefs. For me, the
jokes seemed desiccated and thoroughly squeezed
of their goodness; whatever humour was bound up
in them originally has long-since fled. What I did
like about Borat I was that Cohen made the objects
of his satire stick out more than his own ridiculous
character in many ways; Borat was merely the spark
to ignite reactions that, while seemingly normal in a
room next to Borat, had some sting when they were
considered in isolation. For me, Borat II didn’t have
the bite or the wit I wanted (given its political tar-
gets), and I very much doubt that it will be the cul-
tural nuke that Cohen anticipates it to be heading
in to November 3rd.
To revisit something that has been done before
is perhaps more difficult than producing some-
thing new. In such an endeavour, you begin in the
shadow of previous work, rather than casting your
own shadow over the genre. It is not all doom and
gloom though, and there are two main ways in which
directors can ‘succeed’ in remaking a movie: one can
do what the original did but even better, or one can
make sufficiently
many alterations
that it takes on a
altogether differ-
ent look. If a di-
rector pursues the
second approach,
then in the even-
tuality that the
new version is
not as good as the
original, it will,
at least, be nota-
bly distinct from
it. So stands Ben
Wheatley’s new adaptation of Daphne du Maurier’s
novel alongside Hitchcock’s 1940 version. Firstly,
Wheatley’s version is predictably worse than Hitch-
cock’s—to back this up I can only really advise you
to watch both. What is of more interest is whether
Wheatley makes his Rebecca distinct, whether he
succeeds in creating something true to the book
but unique from the Hitchcock. I’m not entirely
convinced he does. The film is remarkably void of
remarkable features. Almost every aspect is...fine.
The cinematography adequately captures the gran-
deur and mystique of Manderley, the script ade-
quately captures the early love in Monte Carlo and
the consequent jealousy stirred up at the estate, and
the performances by Lily James, Armie Hammer,
and Kristin Scott Thomas are similarly adequate,
doing little to get the heart racing. If you really
want to watch Rebecca, I advise you to stick with the
‘Master of Suspense’.
Reviewed by Oliver Weir
Oliver Weir Film Editor
Directedby:Tobe Hooper
YearofRelease: 1974
The Texas Chainsaw Massacre
KEEP THE CAT FREE
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
20
Borat Subsequent MovieFilm
Directedby: Jason Woliner
Starring: Sacha Baron Cohen; Maria Bakalova
Studio: Amazon Studios; Four by Two Films; Oak
Springs Productions
Rebecca
Directedby: Ben Wheatley
Starring: Lily James; Armie Hammer; Kristin Scott
Thomas
Studio: Working Title Films
Credits: Amazon Studios
Credits: Netflix

