If you have staunchly ruled
out watching The Texas
Chainsaw Massacre this
Halloween, then perhaps
Suspiria (1977 version) will
be a more palatable substi-
tute; it is far less abrasive
than Texas Chainsaw (hell, what isn’t?), and keeps
itself at a distance, establishing a tempo that is
far more refined and much less frenetic. Suspiria
follows Suzy Bannion (played by Jessica Harper):
an American ballet-dancer who has recently joined
a prestigious Tanz Academy in Germany. As her
studies get under way, the mysteries of the insti-
tution unravel themselves—students disappear,
matrons shuffle around at night, and the school’s
suspicious directress is much discussed, though
rarely seen.
Without hesitation or hyperbole, I can say that
the soundtrack and cinematography of Suspiria
will blow you away. The music is electric, and the
repetition of the central theme is hypnotic. In the
few scenes where the tempo is about to let up, the
theme tune sounds and a new, ethereal energy is
breathed into the picture. The final element to this
near-perfect horror film is the cinematography by
Luciano Tovoli. The colour palette—consisting of
corporeal reds and fleshly crimsons—washes over
you as it does Suzy, giving you no sense of direc-
tion, no chance of escape. The persistent glares of
carnal reds and cobalt blues come to embody both
light and dark, the natural and the supernatural,
the real and the imagined. [Suspiria (1977), as
well as Suspiria (2018), is included with Amazon
Prime—of which students can get 6 months for
free.]
Free Film of the Week: Suspiria (1977)
Classic of the Week: Being There
Editor Recommends
“Do you realize that more people will be watching you
tonight, than all those who have seen theater plays in
the last forty years?”
“Oh yes?”
“Yes.”
“Why?”
It doesn’t sound like
you’ve understood a
film very well if you can’t
decide whether the main
character is an idiot or
the messiah. Reassuring-
ly, Hal Ashby does not
seem to demand that we
settle that distinction—it
is sufficient that we are
left conjecturing: ‘Who is Chance the Gardiner?’. A
man who has resided in the same house, tending the
same garden, year upon year, never leaving; a man
whose understanding of the world has come from the
TV and the radio; a man whose idle speech is twist-
ed into profundity, allowing him rise up the ranks
of society and into the world of talk show hosts and
socialites, ambassadors and presidents; a man who’s
able to walk on water, not because he knows he can,
but rather because he never learned that he couldn’t.
Perhaps Chance is merely a satire, and his success
a jab at the willingness of the political elites to hear
what they want, to look, not for change or substance,
but for charisma and empty optimism. I think that
is partly true, but that is not all he is. Sure, we, the
audience, see where Chance has come from, and
are privy to more information than the characters
on screen. We know that they’re being duped, and
that they mistake his naivety and uncorrupted spir-
it as wisdom and
prudence—we
see the satire is
aimed at them.
And yet, in
the final scene
where Chance
walks on wa-
ter—something
only the audi-
ence is privy to,
we are forced to
see him on the
same terms as the other characters, and we are help-
less to deny it—the satire is turned on us. Why is
this? Do we all see in Chance what we wish to see in
the world? Does Ashby decide to show him walking
on water because, deep down, we know that such a
miracle is needed to save our washed-out politics?
Or is Chance a warning that all of us can be lulled
into irrational beliefs, even if it is just for a second?
Of course, before his benefactor passes away,
Chance really is a gardener; however, once he steps
into the world, he becomes a mirror for all acquaint-
ances, a tablet on which they chip their sorrows, a
clay man that they can mould into a solution. For
those infatuated by power or money, Chance is their
mouthpiece, and likewise, for those intent on friend-
ship and love, Chance is the warmth and good-spirit
they so badly crave. Ultimately, he is more a reflec-
tion of your own character than any outstanding fea-
ture of his; he is the ideal man to meet the needs of
those that meet him.
In my opinion, Chance is an echo, the inevitable
effect of all causes finding form in the world. As
such, he is the totality of characters: he is a compan-
ion to those who yearn for affection; a business part-
ner and financial advisor; a suit mistaken for sense;
he is a backroom scandal at a bourgeois party; he is
a friend for those resigned to death; a little boy who
never grew old; a white man gaming a broken sys-
tem; 15 minutes of fame; the saviour of the world;
he is the impotence of men in power; a mistaken
member of a rival gang; the zeitgeist of a broken
age; an awkward handshake with a slimy lawyer; an
eccentric man in a stately dining hall; the next Pres-
ident of the United States; a tabula rasa; a state of
mind; a Christly figure saving the damned; the will
of men within this world; Gautama under the bodhi
tree; a blissful season of deliverance.
Reviewed by Oliver Weir
Oliver Weir Film Editor
Suspiria
FRIDAY 30TH OCTOBER 2020
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com 21
Directedby: Hal Ashby
Yearof Release: 1979
Starring: Peter Sellers; Shirley MacLaine; Melvyn Doug-
las
Directedby: Dario Argento
Yearof Release: 1977
Starring: Jessica Harper
Being There
The stunning neon glow that pervades throughout Sus-
piria
DO WE ALL SEE IN
CHANCE WHAT
WE WISH TO SEE
IN THE WORLD?
“
Peter Sellers, as Chance, in Being There’s iconic final shot
Credits: Hal Ashby & United Artists

