KEEP THE CAT FREE
Books.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
22
BOOKS
Youhavebeendiagnosedwithaterminalillness,left
with days to live. The devil comes along and makes
adeal,inexchangeforanotherdaytolive,hemakesone
thingdisappearfromtheworld.Thisisthepremisethat
sets the scene for If Cats Disappeared from the World
by Genki Kawamura (translated by Eric Salland). The
narrator, faced with the peculiar and difficult decisions
of life and death, embarks on a journey of reflection
and reconciliation.
The premise is nothing special; it takes the what ifs
that everyone has wondered about at least for once in
their lives and builds a story out of it. The choice of
presenting the “decision-maker” as character of a devil
betting with God is surely interesting. Kawamura even
goes so far of structuring the books in “days of disap-
pearances,” echoing the classic Christian reference of
seven days of creation. Each day reveals more about the
protagonist and weaves into the next day smoothly; al-
though the plot moves rather slowly at first, the com-
plete picture comes together eventually, and it ends at
the perfect place.
The book touches on many themes in its short
span, each of which is profound on its own but to-
gether creating
somewhat of a
messy read—
just when I was
hooked and
wanted to read
more about
something, the
author swiftly
moves on to the
next. Neverthe-
less, the book’s
depiction of
family relation-
ships and the
narrator’s con-
templation of
life and death
stood out to me. The narrator’s will to live, juxtaposed
with his inevitable death prompts one to reflect on the
century-old questions of why we live and what are the
most important things in life. You see the ending com-
ing, but you get to experience the narrator’s emotions
firsthand as he walks down memory lane. It is an emo-
tional roller coaster, but it leaves me feeling satisfied
when he attempts to reconcile with his past leaving no
regrets.
Three thieves accidentally come across an aban-
doned general store with a mailbox which con-
tained simple letters from the past, dropping in asking
for advice, and there began the story of this magical
store. The Miracles of the Namiya General Store by
Keigo Higashino (translated by Sam Bett) covers a lot
more than what can be written here. Such a story is
not what I would ever expect from Higashino, a pow-
erhouse of thrillers and crime fictions, including some
of my personal favorites The Devotion of Suspect X
and Malice. It reminds me of how Stephen King could
write a story as hopeful as “Rita Hayworth and the
Shawshank Redemption” but also a tale
as dark as “Apt Pupil” within the same
collection of short stories.
The storytelling is both unique and bril-
liant. Higashino’s background proves to
be very useful in crafting the suspense
portion of the book. His whimsical writ-
ing style fits the magical realism genre
and makes for a very pleasant reading
experience, which is especially needed
since we jump between different time-
lines. The plot is almost as good as its
storytelling. All the characters are beau-
tifully fleshed out and every detail comes
together to weave an unexpected, heart-
warming story. The book ultimately is
about redemption, kindness, empathy,
and how our words and actions can in-
fluence others; it is a worthy message and what makes
the story so touching. To end it with
one of my favorite passages from the
book, “Your map is still blank. Even
if you try to set a destination, you do
notevenknowwherethepathis.But
because it’s blank, you can draw any
map. Everything is free and the pos-
sibilities are endless. I sincerely hope
you believe in yourself and live your
life to the fullest.”
One of my all time favourite memoirs,
this book details Murakami‘s (Japanese author
known for Norwegian Wood and Kafka on the
Shore) journey of writing, running, and growing
old. It’s a meditative piece that truly speaks to me
and inspires me to write. It’s not just a recommen-
dation for fellow runners out there although it seems
like the perfect read for a long distance runner (it is).
The way he writes ahout determination and consist-
ency makes it universally relatable, and it also pro-
vides insights as to why he is such a great writer.
What I Talk About
When I Talk About
Running
By Haruki Murakami
MORE JAPANESE
BOOKS
Yet another exploration of magical re-
alism, this book offers its protagonists
a time travelling offer, that is, you must
stay at given seat in the cafe, you cannot leave, and
everything will return to the present when the coffee
gets cold. It’s unique, beautiful, and heartwarming.
Before the Coffee
Gets Cold
By Toshikazu Kawaguchi
If Cats Disappeared From
the World
If Cats Disappeared from
the World
Reviewed by Jia Qi Tan Books Editor
By Genki Kawamura
Book Review
Credits: Yen Press
The Miracles of Namiya General Store
The Miracles of Namiya
General Store
Reviewed by Jia Qi Tan Books Editor
By Keigo Higashino
Book Review
Credits: IPicador

