Riddled with clichés and stereotypes
FRIDAY 30TH OCTOBER 2020
TELEVISION
Television.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk 23
Emily in Paris
Program Review
Emily in Paris is a Netflix show starring Lily Col-
lins as the titular character and written by Darren
Star who was known for his work on Melrose Place
and Sex and the City. It follows Emily, a girl in her
mid-twenties working as a marketing strategist from
Chicago, who accepts a job in Paris despite her not
knowingawordofFrench.Thispremisealreadymakes
for an unfortunate start for both Emily and the show.
The show’s plot can be best summarized as Emily try-
ing juggle her new job, friendship, and romantic rela-
tionships as she struggles to adjust to the new culture.
I did not have high hopes to begin with—all I
wanted was a simple, undemanding show—an eye
candy, per se. A show with a young protagonist start-
ing a new chapter of life in a new city seems like the
perfect story—fun and motivational, the exact kind
of show to keep me in the mood to start another se-
mester of university. Besides, Lily Collins is a lovely
actress, with a likeable personality that fits the aura
of a character like Emily. Not to mention how Paris’s
beauty and charm makes the perfect backdrop for a
plot like this.
But that about sums up all the ups of Emily in Par-
is—Lily Collins and Paris itself.
The major flaw of the show is the weak plot. There
is little to no character development; the Emily from
the first episode is identical to Emily in the last epi-
sode. Any conflict that arises always magically solves
itself. Emily doesn’t speak French? Everyone she
meets speaks perfect English then. Emily doesn’t
have friends in Paris? She just randomly meets the
friendliest people on the streets and instantly be-
comes best friends with them. Emily gets fired?
There is no such thing as firing people in Paris. Emily
breaks up with her boyfriend in Chicago? She has one
encounter with a hot guy after another in Paris, oh,
and they all speak perfect English as well.
I get that TV shows are bound to have coincidenc-
es and conveniences here and there,
but this is way beyond what should
be acceptable. I love rom-coms
and fairytales and perfect endings
too, but the plot is outright su-
perficial and frivolous. At the very
least, Emily could have had a Dev-
il Wears Prada moment like when
Andy reflects on herself, buckles
up, and impresses Miranda. But
the lazy writing of the show rushes the plot, skips any
build-up, and oversimplifies everything. It makes the
show frustrating to watch and does not do justice to
the character of Emily either.
Even an actress as charming as Lily Collins cannot
make the character of Emily works because this char-
acter is written so poorly. Emily is a character with a
lot of potential, but we do not really
get to see Emily go beyond the im-
age of a basic white American girl.
What Emily’s boss Sylvie (played by
Philippine Leroy-Beaulieu) sums up
the problem pretty well, “You come
to Paris. You walk into my office.
You don’t even bother to learn the
language. You treat the city like it’s
your amusement park. And after a
year of food, sex, wine and maybe some culture, you’ll
go back to where you came from.”
Emily in Paris is riddled with countless extreme
French clichés. It is almost as if the writers refuse
to take Paris as a true city and instead grab all the
stereotypes they can think of and dump them all
into the script, from workplace extramarital affairs
to chain smoking to mean Parisians, a lot of which
are untrue. The writers do not stop at France when it
comes to stereotypes; Emily holds a lot of American
stereotypes as well (although I am not sure if it is just
poor character writing or piling up stereotypes or
both). Emily’s newfound best friend in Paris, Mindy
Chen (played by Ashley Park), a rich Chinese girl
who runs away from her rich family, is yet another
inaccurately written character written from typical
Asian impressions.
All in all, I would say that this is a hate-watch,
cringe-binge type of show that prompts an inexpli-
cable urge to keep watching despite much to dislike.
Emily in Paris
Reviewed by Jia Qi Tan Television Editor
Starring: Lily Collins, Ashley Park, Lucas Bravo
Episodes: 10 (30 minutes)
Credits courtesy of Netflix
Lily Collins as Emily
Credits courtesy of Fox Pictures
Andy (Anne Hathaway) in The Devil Wears Prada
“
A HATE-WATCH,
CRINGE-BINGE
TYPE OF SHOW

