KEEP THE CAT FREE
FOOD
Food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
24
Set a 15 minute timer on your phone.
When the alarm goes off, you’ll have
made a deliciously fluffy (Vegan!) piz-
za from scratch. Your pizza will be jam
packed with nutrient-rich ingredients
without compromising flavour. The best
part of this recipe is that everything is
customisable. So mix it up, add whatever
your heart desires (apart from pineapple
of course) and enjoy! If you do make this
recipe, please make sure you tag me on
Instagram @nooreatsalot so I can share
it!
I hope you guys have fun following
this recipe and savoure every last bite of
your delicious pizza. As always, if you
have any recipe suggestions, please email
me at noor.akhtar19@imperial.ac.uk or
message me on my food Instagram ac-
count
Tier 2, London’s current situation, means that
mixed household groups can no longer meet
indoor. Again the rules have made the lives of res-
taurants even harder.
As the temperatures drop and the sun scurries un-
der the horizon before you can finish your horizons,
itisahardselltogetagroupofyourfriendstodineal
fresco anymore. Restaurants have had to be the bad
guys and do the government’s dirty work, forcing
groups to prove they are in the same bubble. Now
they have found a solution to this pesky number that
is threatening their business model once again.
If the rules weren’t confusing enough, there are a
few exceptions to this indoor meet-up ban. Mixed
meetings at restaurants can continue if it’s a business
meeting. Restaurants have jumped on this technical-
ity and used tongue in cheek language
to reassure that their customers that
it’s still business as normal for all
their “business talk”. Now I don’t
know how you can talk tax with
bottomless mimosas but after
restaurants stepped up following
the decision of the parliament to
not provide free meals for strug-
gling children during this half
term, I’m not going to snitch. So,
go forth and talk “business” at all
your favourite spots. Remember, it’s
not “wasting money” and being “too
lazy to cook” anymore, it’s “doing your
part for the country” and “stimulating the
economy”.
15 Minute Healthier Pizza from
Scratch (Vegan)
Noor Akhtar Food Writer
Zahra Abiola Food Editor
Photo credits: Noor Akhtar
Ingredients Recipe
Pizza Base
113g self raising flour
1/4 tsp of baking powder
1/2 tsp of mixed herbs
1 tsp instant yeast + 1 tsp of honey
1 tbsp of hemp hearts (any seeds will
work but preferably de-shelled seeds,
they create a really soft dough!)
1 tbsp of olive oil
Toppings
Sauce (e.g. tomato sauce - pasta sauce
works well, BBQ, white sauce, pesto
etc)
Low moisture cheese (e.g. Cheddar,
Vegan Violife is amazing!)
Veggies (Sliced mushrooms, peppers,
onions, sweetcorn, tomatoes etc. -
roast the peppers and onions before
hand!)
Protein (optional): sausage chunks,
chicken, beef, tofu, nutritional yeast
sprinkled later
Step 1
In a small bowl, add the yeast and honey alongside 3 tbsp of water.
Cover with several towels and leave in a warm cool place.
Step 2
Preheat the oven to 180°C fan (200°C standard)
Step 3
In a medium sized bowl: stir in the flour, baking powder, mixed
herbs, hemp seeds and salt and pepper to taste.
Step 4
Once a few bubbles start to form in the yeast-honey mixture, incor-
porate into the flour mixture and stir with a fork until it forms a soft
ball.
Step 5
Incorporate all the flour from the bowl into the dough with your
hands and flatten into a 1cm thick base. If the dough is too sticky add
some more flour (vice-versa)
Step 6
Cover the bottom of a non-stick baking tray with some olive oil (al-
ternatively a sheet of aluminium foil) and transfer the base.
Step 7
Add the sauce, toppings and cheese and spray with some more olive
oil for a crispier crust.
Step 8
Bake for 8-10 minutes until all the cheese has melted and the
base is golden brown. Enjoy!
How restaurants are
working around Tier 2

