Union Page
National Student Mental Health Survey
Your Clubs, Societies and Projects events
Who’s up for cocktails? Grab your bundle!
We might not be able to do things the way we used to, but that never stopped
us, did it? We adapt and we go on. Our CSPs are doing an amazing job
themselves, adapting to what is happening in the world right now and are still
working to put on great events for you. Introductory sessions, quizzes, training -
they’ve got it all!
If you haven’t signed up for a CSP in Welcome Week and you’re really passionate
about something or simply want a new hobby - don’t wait - have a look through
the list on our website at imperialcollegeunion.org/a-to-z, and pick something
you like.You’ll automatically be signed up for that CSP’s newsletter and you’ll
be able to find out more info about their events directly from them. More than
that, you should keep an eye on our What’s On page imperialcollegeunion.org/
whatson, where CSPs update the calendar with events. Go, go, go!
A jug of Cheeky Vimto for only £12.50? Yes, please! We’re definitely ready to try
all the new drinks on the FiveSixEight menu. New beers in the bottles section,
more cocktails on jug, and something new coming on draught soon (get excited,
it’s really good!).
Don’t forget about the Beer and Burger deal on Sundays - for £7 you can grab
your favourite beer or cider and any burger you like (yes, even the vegan one!).
We’ve made sure that FiveSixEight is compliant with any rules from the
government and that it’s safe for you to come and socialise. Even if you’re only
in to watch Bake Off with us on Tuesdays or to listen to live music on Saturdays
- we want you to feel safe and welcomed. Stay tuned to our Instagram to watch
FiveSixEight taking over our Stories some Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays!
We would like to invite you to take part in one of the largest studies on
student mental health. College has partnered withTrendence to navigate the
conversation surrounding student mental health and address how we, both
College and the Union, can best support you as you study.Take part in the
10-minute survey, and you’re automatically entered into a prize draw.You can
win:
· a £50 Netflix voucher (given away every week – 4 to give away!)
· a £50 Deliveroo voucher (given away every week – 4 to give away!)
· a Fitbit (4 given away at the close of the survey)
Mental health can be a sensitive topic for many, but please remember your
answers will always be treated confidentially, anonymously and will never be
analysed individually.You can stop at any time during the survey.
Complete the survey here: imperialcollegeunion.org/nsmhs20

