FRIDAY 30TH OCTOBER 2020
SCIENCE
5
Science.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
SCIENCE
immunity’ is very unlikely to be achieved
in the absence of a vaccine”. This Tues-
day, a study published by Imperial found
that antibody prevalence in the popu-
lation had dropped from 6% in June to
only 4.4% in September. For many, this
appearedtobeproofthatwecan’trelyon
naturally acquired immunity to keep the
virus at bay.
According to Gupta, however, anti-
body levels play a much less significant
role in immunity: “There is no link be-
tween the level of antibodies and protec-
tion, the dynamic of antibodies is not a
true reflection of how protected an indi-
vidual is; it doesn’t even tell you whether
we have a good antibody response.”
While most young, healthy indi-
viduals recover from COVID, cases of
‘Long COVID’ have been extensively
documented since the
virus swept through-
out the world. Patients
report crippling fa-
tigue, breathlessness,
complete loss of smell
or taste, as well as an
array of other COVID symptoms var-
iations. For Gupta, who explained that
post-viral fatigue and other symptoms
are common after many viral infections,
“it’s not unusual. And I don’t see a fre-
quency of it that makes me think this is
something that we need to be seriously
worried about”. According to the COV-
ID Symptom Study, ‘Long COVID’ has
been found to affect 10% of 18-49-year
olds.
Neurological damage and a reduction
in lung capacity have also been shown to
affect individuals who had only suffered
the lighter COVID symptoms. Faced
with these challenges, Gupta remains
clear in her stance: “I think if you bal-
ance the costs of long-term COVID in a
few individuals against 130 million peo-
ple dying of starvation, that puts a differ-
ent perspective”. It appears that accord-
ing to Gupta, the price we would pay for
more rounds of lockdown is much heavi-
er than the risk we would be taking if we
adopt her Focused Protection approach.
Gupta also objected to the suggestion
that it is ‘safe’ to follow in the footsteps
of New Zealand’s successful response, re-
sponding with moral concerns over their
border restrictions: “I don’t approve of
that strategy because I think it’s hugely
nationalistic... [Their strategy] works if
you’re small, but if you’re a bigger nation
where it’s harder to do that, and where
it’s already settled in and embedded,
it’s impossible to do this... I don’t think
[their] strategy is sustainable.”
ACCUSATIONS OF
IDEOLOGICAL
MOTIVATION
The choice of venue to launch the
Declaration was cause for concern in the
scientific community, sprouting accusa-
tions of ideological motivation behind
the proposal. The scientists met at the
American Institute for Economic re-
search (AIER), a right-wing libertarian
think tank that has also assisted them in
launching it; a WHOIS lookup reveals
that AIER are the registered owner of
the declaration website domain name,
gbdeclaration.
org. They have
since published
articles with ti-
tles such as ‘The
Great Barring-
ton Declaration
Is Not Saying ‘Lock Up Grandma’’, de-
fending the statements made in the dec-
laration against the storm of criticism
that it has faced.
AIER has been strongly linked to cli-
mate change denialism - every climate
change report or comment that is pub-
lished by the think tank downplays the
fact that man-made climate change is a
risk to the planet, as well as the fact that
climate change is a reality at all. The or-
ganisation also has financial ties to the
Koch brothers, right-wing libertarian
businessmen considered to be some of
the biggest funders of popular climate
change denialism.
“These are not the names one would
associate with sound public health pol-
icies.” say public health experts and sci-
entists Trish Greenhalgh, Martin Mc-
Kee, and Michelle Kelly-Irving, in an
article published by the Guardian, titled
‘The pursuit of herd immunity is a fol-
ly – so who’s funding this bad science?’.
“The science is clear: attaining herd im-
munity to coronavirus via uncontrolled
infection is a fringe view, peddled by a
minority with no evidence to back up
their position. What’s less certain is the
political and economic interests that lie
behind this declaration. Let the debate
begin on those.”
When asked about the controversial
choice of venue considering she is try-
ing to reach as many people as possible,
Gupta stressed the think tank was noth-
ing more than a meeting spot for her and
her two colleagues: “One thing we need
to get very clear is that this declaration
was in no way funded, or even launched
by the AIER... Where we happened to
meet, it was hosted by this institution.
Now I think it’s very common among
academics to go to meetings at various
different institutions. I think we reg-
ularly attend meetings at places where
the politics, as such, don’t align with our
own”. She recognised their political affil-
iations: “They are clearly very right wing
- they’re not libertarian. Libertarianism
implies that they’re only interested in
the individual not the community”, and
expanded on her own beliefs, emphasis-
ing that she does not share their politics.
“My politics are extremely left wing - I
consider Jeremy Corbyn to be a bit too
much to the centre. I think part of what
we’re seeing is a major crisis precipitated
by a withdrawal of funds to the NHS
and centralisation of hospitals rather
than local authorities looking after local
hospitals.”
Regarding the website, Gupta stressed
this didn’t prove anything: “they put it
up for us. I don’t think that means spon-
soring it. It’s just a website. It’s not an
AIER website.” However, a website is a
resource that costs time and money to
maintain, particularly one that has been
translated into over 40 languages, so it is
doubtful that this response will do much
to assuage concerns coming from other
scientists.
Another concern, reported in the
Byline Times and raised by public health
expert Anthony Costello, addressed
Gupta’s use of private PR firm Sugrue
Communications. Listed as a primary
press contact on Gupta’s March COV-
ID model, they have been reportedly
assisting her throughout the pandemic
and were the ones who arranged the Fe-
CONTINUED
10%
of 18-49 year olds
affected by ‘long
COVID’
Illustration credits: Nicolas Geiseler Toran
The Great Barrington Declaration is an open letter policy proposal that opposes lockdown.

