KEEP THE CAT FREE
SCIENCE
Science.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
8
Research shows that in certain in-
dividuals, COVID symptoms can
last longer than the typical 3-10 days
one would expect from a respiratory
illness, dramatically altering their daily
lives through a condition known as ‘long
COVID’.
For some people, long COVID is a pro-
longeddiseasestate,includingsymptoms
such as lasting loss of sense of taste and
smell, breathlessness, and chronic pain.
Others may experience resurgences of
more ‘typical’ COVID symptoms, such
asafeverorcough.Suchresurgencesmay
be mistaken for reinfections, but current
knowledge suggests that these are ex-
tremely unlikely in such a relatively short
time period. Overwhelmingly, however,
the most common symptom is debilitat-
ing fatigue.
It is estimated that one in 20 people
infected with COVID-19 are ill for a
minimum of 8 weeks, with many people
being affected for many months. A study
conducted in 143 people in Rome found
that 87% of hospital patients had a min-
imum of one symptom almost 2 months
from the date of discharge. However,
long COVID does not only affect those
who have undergone intensive care; pa-
tients with relatively mild infections may
also experience this syndrome.
A recent study performed by scientists at
King’s College London aims to identify
possible individual cases of long COVID
early on, subsequently allowing health
services to plan for additional care of
earlier, more intensive treatment. Here,
computational techniques were used to
analyse symptomatic and test result data
inputted by individuals into the ‘Covid
Symptom Study’ app and predict which
of those would go on to experience long
COVID. However, despite the mod-
el correctly identifying 69% of people
who experienced long COVID, around
a quarter of results were false positives
(i.e. were predicted to have long COV-
ID, but in reality, underwent a speedy
recovery). Therefore, further research is
required to perfect and adapt the model
for improved detection efficiency.
Nevertheless, being female, overweight
and having underlying respiratory con-
ditions, such as asthma or lung disease,
were all shown to increase the risk of
long COVID - the former of which may
appear surprising given that men gener-
ally seem to be at higher risk of severe
disease and death from COVID. Per-
haps less surprisingly, risk was also found
to increase with age. Dr Claire Steves, a
scientist involved in the King’s College
London study, adds: “Having more than
five different symptoms in the first week
was one of the key risk factors.”
While this is yet to be definitively con-
firmed, numerous hypotheses exist. One
oftheseisthatdespitebeingclearedfrom
most of the body, the coronavirus still
lingers in small spaces or areas. Alterna-
tively, since the virus triggers an intensive
immuneresponse,anotherideaisthatthe
immune system does not fully return to
its normal state, so overactive function-
ing causes further health problems and
damage. The WHO has cautioned that
widespread inflammation in post-COV-
ID patients leads to a higher risk of heart
diseases at a younger age. Furthermore,
some unexpected organs may be affect-
ed in the long term: COVID is thought
to alter human metabolism, resulting in
post-COVID diabetes or lipid process-
ing, cause abnormal clotting and prema-
ture ageing of blood vessels, and perhaps
even cause changes in brain structure.
Overall, while curbing the immediate
spread of the pandemic remains the pri-
mary goal worldwide, discovering the
causes behind and treating long COVID
will nonetheless yield multiple benefits.
Recognising this, the NHS has recently
announcedtheprovisionofa£10million
package to fund long COVID clinics
around the country. Despite time being a
crucial component of such investigation,
with the copious amounts of further re-
search currently being performed, with
every publication we are one step closer
to tackling this unexpected pandemic.
Long COVID: What do we know?
Julia Dabrowska Science Editor
In order to put an end to the glob-
al coronavirus pandemic, researchers
around the world are working tire-
lessly to develop a vaccine to protect
against COVID-19. While vaccine
production usually takes multiple
years, a coronavirus vaccine is hoped
tobedevelopedwithin12-18months.
Vaccine testing can be split into 5
stages:
Pre-clinical – animal testing to see
whether the vaccine elicits an immune
response.
Phase I – healthy human volunteers
to determine safety and evaluate im-
mune response.
Phase II – hundreds of volunteers to
identify correct dosage.
Phase III – thousands of volunteers
toconfirmsafetyandefficacyvs.apla-
cebo.
Phase IV – studies on adverse effects,
long-termmmunityandvaccineusage
following the approval and licensing
of the vaccine.
The WHO is currently tracking the
progress of over 170 candidate vac-
cines; at Felix, we’ve chosen 5 of the
most promising candidates to follow,
so watch this space!
New Update: This week, the Oxford/
AstraZeneca vaccine candidate was
reported to have effectiveness in both
youngandolderadults,whichwasone
of the greatest prior concerns. More
detailed results from the Phaase II
study are to be published in a peer-re-
viewed journal.
COVID-19 VACCINE TRACKER: Felix Edition
Julia Dabrowska Science Editor
WHAT IS LONG
COVID?
WHAT FACTORS IN-
CREASE THE RISK?
WHAT IS THE BIO-
LOGICAL BASIS OF
LONG COVID?

