THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 15
FELIX 14.11.2014
Editor Philippa Skett
Features Editor VACANT
Features
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Educating the masses on Funding
Higher Education Funding
(HEF) is certainly not
sexy. Like British Politics
it has all the charisma of your
average British politician. But
it is important. It’s important
because defining the future of
how Universities receive funding
is something that will affect
thousands of young people who
(for the most part) can’t vote in the
upcoming UK General Election
next May, and yet their lives could
be profoundly altered by the next
government’s stance on this issue.
You might say: “But I’m already
here, it won’t affect my fees”, but
many of these young people are
your brothers and sisters; your
nephews, nieces, cousins; your
friends or perhaps one day your
children, they are your future
colleagues, employees and perhaps
even employers. And let us not
forget that Higher Education
Funding does not just mean
home undergraduates. The debate
includes all kinds of students and
while it may be easy to focus on
Home EU fees we should bear in
Alex Savell and Andrew Tranter explain Higher Education
Funding and how you can help in shaping its future
mind that even that has a knock
on effect on what other fees
Universities may charge to all other
students.
Another reason I have heard a
lot over my time here is: “Why
should I bother? We’ll never
change anything.” Which I think is
surprisingly defeatist for a group of
over 16,000 of the brightest people
in the world, at an institution
recently listed as the second best in
the world, who last year managed
to have information from their
response to the government’s
Immigration Policy read in the
House of Lords. And particularly
at a time when the nation will
be asked to choose its next set of
representatives. This moment
presents a true opportunity to hold
those we ask to lead our nation to
account and to raise our collective
voice to make a change.
The union over the next few
weeks will be defining our stance
on Higher Education Funding and
we can only do that with your help.
Come along to our first Union
General Meeting since 2012 at
6.30pm on December 1st
in Blacket
Laboratory LT1 (Physics). The issue
we’re looking at most closely is
the debate between which funding
model the union should support;
‘Free Education’, ‘Tuition Fees’,
‘Graduate Tax’ or ‘None of these’
which you may recognize as the less
well-named brother of R.O.N from
our union elections. Many of you
may not be entirely familiar with
these models, particularly if you are
not a Home undergraduate yourself
so we’ve attempted to lay out the
case for each below.
Free Education means just that:
university education which is free for
all students.Education is a public good,
not a commodity to be bought and sold.
How can we compromise an idea so
fundamentally important? Increasingly
we hear students referred to as
“customers”,research being prioritised
based on what makes money instead
of what serves society.That attitude
is created by a system that is turning
universities into businesses–a system
which cuts education funding while
making students pay more and more
ludicrous sums.Free education works in
France,Germany,Denmark,Sweden and
Scotland.And anyway,increased tuition
fees basically aren’t saving the taxpayer
any money.
Free Education is the only system
which takes commercial interest out of
the equation,and it’s the only system
which doesn’t leave students in £60,000
of debt.Taking a firm,principled stance
is the only way to stand up to those who
would change University for the worse.
Tuition Fees are the system we have now.
They’re not trendy or popular but at the
end of the day they work.At the end
of the day more students from poorer
backgrounds are coming to University
now than ever have in the past so it’s not
the barrier to entry that some would like
you to believe.
And is it really so bad that people
should have to pay for a specialized
education and qualification? In a few
years most of us will be paying income
tax,why should we pay for someone else
to be educated? What makes it a right
for those fortunate enough to score
better in exams to be given more than
those that don’t?
Plus,tuition fees encourage
competition: competition to offer
the best course so that they get the
most funding and are seen as the best
institution,attract the best researchers
and then other sources of income.
No one is saying Tuition Fees are
perfect,but they’re a damn sight better
than any other option.
There has to be something better than
bankrupting the nation to pay for
thousands of students to do Mickey
Mouse degrees or loading students up
with debt and making universities treat
them like walking income.A Graduate
tax seeks to achieve just that.
Instead of a loan you pay a percentage
of extra tax on income over a certain
value for a number of years.So you
literally pay more if you get a really
great job due to your degree than if you
struggle to earn anything.There isn’t
ever an actual‘debt’and there isn’t a real
or perceived barrier to entry to Higher
Education Funding.
My favorite thing about the system
is those that gain the most as a result
of their degree give back the most in
return for it.That’s like being able to
only pay for the cinema if you enjoyed
the movie…you pay for the value of your
degree not the cost of it.
Why pick a second rate system when
you can have the best of both and extra
benefits on top?
What are you kidding? These three
models are so wrapped up in proving
that they are better than each other
they fail to notice that being the best
of a bunch of bad options is still a bad
option.Why would anyone support
a one size fits all solution to such a
complex problem? Why would we
swallow the downsides of any of these
in order to have just one way to fund
a degree.There isn’t good evidence
to show that Tuition Fees will make
University more accessible and it will
definitely cost the nation and taxpayer
money.Tuition Fees leave students with
debts that can hang on their shoulders
for decades and if we supported them of
course they will slowly creep upwards.
And a graduate tax is a laughable
thing to try and implement and the only
‘improvement’it has on tuition fees is
hiding the amount you will have to pay
back from you.
We should be campaigning for fresh
ideas and admit that it’s time to go back
to the drawing board.
Free Education Tuition Fees
Graduate Tax None of these...
What model do you agree with most?
The Union over the next few weeks will be defining their stance on Higher Education Funding.Fill in the #HEF_ICU Higher Education
Funding Survey to have your say,which closes on November 19th at Midday.
Find it at imperialcollegeunion.org/HEF-Survey

