30 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
14.11.2014
Television Editors Guila Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Is Mindy Kaling too ugly, or are you just too rude?
Giulia Gabrielli on why The Mindy Project deserves to be taken seriously
Yet another CBS police procedural
After an incredibly well received
debut, praised by viewers and
critics alike, what is happening
with The Mindy Project? After a bumpy
second season that brought threats
of cancellations, the Fox Network
decided to renew the sitcom for
another series.
This was largely due to the interest
created by the finale to the will-
they-won’t-they between the quirky
female lead, Mindy, and the attractive
colleague/increasingly-more-intimate-
but-just-a-friend-come-on-who-are-
we-kidding-here, Danny.
Now Danny and Mindy are finally
together, with the biggest drama
on the horizon being how long she
will be able to fake going to the gym
in front of her man. The start of a
relationship like this one is often the
end of a show’s charm. Ratings have
progressively dropped, pushing the
producers to schedule 15 episodes,
instead of the usual 22.
Writer/producer/star Mindy Kaling
must not feel great about this new
development. Yet, she probably has no
time to focus on the disappointment,
since all her efforts have to be
put towards answering ridiculous
accusations. The latest being that the
actor Chris Messina, who plays Danny,
is too attractive for her.
Critics (which in this context I would
more appropriately refer to as pure
and simple trolls) have pointed out
that many of her past co-stars were
equally “out of her league”. Are they
suggesting that she tricked them
into acting alongside her? Because
any actor in their right mind would
jump at the opportunity to work with
Kaling, who has become one of the
most successful comedy writers in the
US since her participation in the show
The Office.
The long list of fitties includes
actor Seth Rogen. How come when he
stars in a movie where he plays the
husband of Australian beauty-queen
Rose Byrne, no one questions the
plausibility of such a plotline? Mindy
Kaling is just as talented and just as
funny. She is possibly more powerful,
yet she doesn’t even seem to deserve
realistic criticism.
You know what? The writing on The
Mindy Project is getting progressively
lamer since Mindy and Danny became
an item. Its humour is more facile.
Kaling’s character has become too
over-the-top to be relatable. And
frankly nurse Morgan and receptionist
Beverly are just a little bit creepy.
However, how screwed up is the
world of TV that they can’t seem to
find a way to criticise Mindy Kaling
for the content of her work? Instead
it seems more worthy to spend time
describing how she is the only fat
and ugly lead on a sitcom, something
which never happened to Seth Rogen.
Or John Belushi. Or basically any
other male comedian.
I’m not going to imply that our
standards of beauty are far off from
what girls actually look like, my
rant has gone on long enough, and I
actually have nothing against some of
the beautiful actresses on our screens.
It just so happens that I think Mindy
Kaling is one of them. Or that, at
least, she deserves to have her work
shredded to bits for slightly more
constructive reasons. And don’t worry,
she can take it. In this sense alone, we
can say she’s a big girl. Photo: Fox
Photo: CBS
CBS is expertly churning out
police procedural shows like
clockwork and it seems to be
working with the audience. Their
newest show, Stalker, is winning its
new Wednesday night slot across the
Atlantic, competing against ABC’s
country music drama Nashville and
NBC’s police drama Chicago P.D. and
it recently hit the screens over here in
the U.K. airing on Sky Living.
The premise is a rather simple one.
Every week there is a stalker who
harasses someone and it is up to the
Threat Assessment Unit (TAU), a team
of highly skilled detectives led by the
charismatic Lieutenant Beth Davis
JOHN PARK
SECTION EDITOR
(Maggie Q), with the newest addition to
the force, Senior Detective Jack Larsen
(Dylan McDermott) tagging along, to
solve the mystery and catch the bad
guy within the 40 minute episode slot.
Red herrings are of course used
frequently, so the most obvious
answers tend not to point to the right
perpetrator, because otherwise the
show would be over in five minutes.
Instead each episode introduces nice
little twists, although its amateur,
frankly patronising, psychological
profile the characters spew out
that help them build some sort of a
portfolio for the man/woman they
are trying to catch, is somewhat
embarrassing.
But there is fun to be had in a
procedural that adds an element of
horror into the mix. Creator Kevin
Williamson was also responsible for
writing the Scream franchise back
in the day, and there is certainly an
element of torture-porn in here,
although being on a network television
show there is very little Stalker can do
to push the boundaries.
Maggie Q and Dylan McDermott
make a good team, with both
characters carrying secrets that could
and probably will affect the way they
do their jobs in the future. No doubt
when it comes to the ratings sweeps
stage some dramatic can of worms
will be opened that will stretch into a
double-episode format.
Stalker serves well as a bit of harmless
fun, particularly for those with an
aversion for seeing all the fake dead
bodies the CSI franchise hurl out week
after week.

