32 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
14.11.2014
Music
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Music Editors Grace Rahman & Amna Askari
Music to role-play to at the Royal Albert Hall
Concentration of nerds at the RAH hadn't been this high since graduation. Photo: pushstartgaming
Eamonn Postlethwaite reviews Distant Worlds: Music from Final Fantasy
People not heavily invested in
video games may not realise
the reverence and devotion
shown to the music from a select few
series by the fans. One such, arguably
the best, example is the music from
Final Fantasy, which is almost entirely
created by Nobuo Uematsu.
Part of the evidence I would present
to support this statement (ignoring
all the Asian performances and
huge back-catalogue of recorded
music) is this tour, now in its seventh
year and quickly approaching
its one-hundredth concert. Led
by the Grammy award winning
conductor Arnie Roth and with new
orchestrations overseen by Uematsu,
it travels across the globe to such
lavish venues as the Sydney Opera
House, the Royal Albert Hall (RAH)
and the Stockholm Opera House,
and introduces world class orchestras
(the Royal Philharmonic last night!)
to what I expect many in the classical
world would scoff at. However, there
is an interesting fact to be noted
here: listeners of ClassicFM (and
what better measuring stick is there?)
voted Uematsu’s body of work as
their third favourite and indeed the
piece ‘Aerith’s Theme’ from Final
Fantasy VII was the first video game
composition played on ClassicFM.
This is the third time Distant Worlds
has come to England, each time to the
RAH and coincidentally the third
time I made the pilgrimage. It is also
the third time it has completely sold
out the RAH, this time in under two
hours. Perhaps that is unsurprising
given the predisposition to obsession
we gamers all seem to have about the
things we enjoy. To give some context
as to why people are so fond of this
music, listen to orchestral variants
of ‘Dear Friends’ from V, ‘Terra’s
Theme’ from VI, ‘Don’t Be Afraid’
from VIII and ‘Not Alone’ from IX.
After that brief history lesson,
the review. This performance was
exceptional, and I’m not saying that
as some addled fan, foaming at the
mouth, who would say the same if
the orchestra had come on stage in
Final Fantasy T-shirts, shat, and then
left. Indeed the second performance
was sub-par compared to the first
and third, in terms of the selection
of pieces and the quality of the
orchestra, presentation and sound.
However for their latest effort, that
all seemed to have been rectified.
The orchestra was true to the original
orchestral recordings while still
adding enough energy and emotion
to the pieces to make it a truly live
experience. Full motions videos and
concept artwork from the games
was in perfect sync with the melody
and had moved back to the single
screen configuration which made the
organ available for use in the seminal
boss-battle theme, ‘Dancing Mad’.
Seriously, hearing that played on
Europe’s second largest pipe organ
was something to behold. There was
a wall of pulsating sound towards the
end of the organ solo where the heavy
chromatic blocks slowly resolve into
harmony which shook the hall.
And the surprises came thick and
fast. Breaking all tradition the first
piece played was ‘The Hymn of the
Fayth’ from X rather than ‘Prelude’,
an opener that features in every game
somewhere. This rendition (new to
the European tour) was beautiful in
its simplicity. The London Voices
Choir performed the complex
intonation flawlessly and it was
accented by gentle gamelan bells and
a simple string line. What’s more,
and I believe this to be one of the
reasons video game music has such
a following, when you know what
the piece represents in the game (in
this case, the sacrifice of the self for
those you love, and compromise
between a foul-pragmatism and a
seemingly unreachable ideal) your
emotional response is heightened,
especially when similar memories are
invoked in everyone you can see. The
concert pianist who featured as the
first soloist in previous incarnations
to play the battle theme ‘Those
Who Fight Further’ from VII was
replaced by a classical guitarist who
performed a beautiful rendition of
‘Dear Friends’ from V and a lively
‘Vamo’ alla Flamenco’ from IX.
It is interesting to note that ‘One
Winged Angel’ was hastily dispatched
immediately after the opener, losing
its previous encore spot. I take this
as vindication of my long held and
unpopular opinion that it simply
doesn’t work in an orchestral setting.
I don’t wish to continue simply
recalling a list of pieces that were
played and what I thought of them, so
I shall briefly mention the highlights.
For me these were: ‘Hymn of the
Fayth’, the classical guitar soloist
playing ‘Dear Friends’ the character
theme medley from VI (including
Terra and Kefka), the brand new
arrangement of ‘Festival of the Hunt’
from IX, the battle medley, including
most importantly ‘Battle on the Big
Bridge’ from IV, and finally seeing
Nobuo himself on stage playing ‘Dark
World’ with the opening credits of VI
rolling behind him on the big screen.
All of this praise is not to say the
concert was without its problems.
First and foremost in my mind is
the single appearance of vocalist
Susan Calloway, the voice behind
the soundtracks to the two online
games in the series, XI and XIV. Not
only did she appear only once during
the concert, but she sang ‘Answers’
from XIV, by far the weakest song she
features in, especially considering in
the past she has performed stunning
versions of ‘Eyes on Me’, the love
theme from VIII, ‘Suteki da Na’, the
love theme from X and ‘Memoro De
La Stono’ (especially good), the main
theme of XI from which the name
Distant Worlds comes.
Along with this, the second act
was almost entirely music from
VI and IX, likely because it was the
unofficial 20th birthday of VI and
it happens to be one of Nobuo’s
favourite scores, along with IX.
While I agree wholeheartedly, and
I recognise the need to alter the set
lists to keep the experience fresh, the
over-focus meant we only got one
piece, namely ‘Don’t be Afraid’, from
VIII, and nothing at all from the first
four games. While I know it’s hard
to criticise set lists without seeming
like you’re throwing a temper
tantrum because you didn’t hear
your favourite pieces, to neglect five
games in the series almost entirely
seems a little fierce. Allow me a sole
personal gripe, that even with all this
focus on IX (including new pieces to
the European tour) they still didn’t
play ‘You’re Not Alone’ which is
my favourite piece, and as yet isn’t
officially available on any of the non-
Asian CD releases. Alas.
Distant Worlds will almost certainly
come back to England, and I will
almost certainly be there again
and again until they stop. But
I’m happy because I think, even
after seven years, the quality still
keeps increasing. The variety, the
production, the performance and the
presentation are all world-class, and
as strange as it will no doubt seem to
people who have never been affected
by a video game, the experiences,
morals, stories and characters (and
of course music) will stay with me
always. Each performance of Distant
Worlds reminds me to unashamedly
focus only on what I love and nothing
else.

