33 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.10.2014
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial on Google+ only scores 4.7
This week Hangman was
shocked to find themselves
inadvertently using Google
Plus, having clicked the wrong button
on a phone screen. The stillborn social
network appeared before us like a
ghost town in a hackneyed Hollywood
Horror, and we curiously took a look.
The main discovery was a brace of
embarrassing old photographs of
friends on accounts set up 3 years ago
when the G+ tried to launch itself as
a competitor for Facebook, before
turning into a glorified Youtube sign-
in platform.
Our most exciting discovery,
however, is the fact that Imperial
College London has been rated 4.7
out of 5 on the site. Even better: most
of the reviews are hilarious. They are
either written in broken English by
people who have no link to Imperial
at all or slightly twee thank-yous
from former International students
(one of whom has his profile pic as a
selfie with the business school in the
background). Total piss-take reviews
by sarcastic home students are few
and far between, but hilarious.
The only negative review was
from someone who stayed in halls
of residence over the summer and
complained it was crap. However as
they complained in Spanish, no one
cares.
Imperial College doesn’t score as
highly as its physics department,
which actually has an astonishing 5
stars, based on its one review. Despite
having a profile, at the stars, based
on its one review. Despite having a
profile, at the time of going to print,
nobody had left a rating on the
central library’s page. However it’s
suspected that Felix editor Philippa
Skett will probably replicate the weird
flirty relationship she has with the
Library’s twitter on Google Plus to
attempt to get some form of hollow
validation in her life.
Imperial is tied at 4.7 out of 5 with
UCL, and both are ahead of KCL and
QMUL which both have 4.4 out of 5.
It is important to note that Eastside
bar, favoured by one anonymous
Deputy President (Welfare) over all
other bars on campus, has 4 out of 5
Biologists “enraged” by inaccuracies in
latest Christmas advert
Biologists were left outraged this
week after the unveiling of the
new John Lewis advert.
The two minute feature that has
gone viral on the Internet, features
a small boy with a pet penguin,
that, according to sources “displays
anthropomorphic tendencies that
are, at best, transparent replications
of Disney-esque ideals and, at worst,
are a disgusting attempt to replicate
the intricate behavioural patterns
seen in these aquatic, flightless birds.”
The video tells the story of a small
boy, who, for unknown reasons, has
a singular companion in the form
of a penguin. The boy proceeds to
enjoy various childhood scenarios,
whilst the penguin seemingly joins
in too. The bird is seen to help the
child construct Lego buildings, put
Christmas lights on the tree, and even
at one point take part in a game of
football.
The penguin however seems
distressed, and is seen to stare
“longingly” at those around him
displaying loving affection to
partners. The penguin soon loses
interest in the world around him, and
it is only when the boy is able to buy
and package a new female penguin to
gift to his pet penguin at Christmas,
does the male penguin become happy
once more.
The species of the penguin is
never specified, nor is there any
explanation as to why this penguin
in particular is not residing in the
Antarctic or in any other natural
habitats these flightless birds are
usually found.
Said one second year ecology
student “This digitalised penguin
doesn’t bear any specific traits
that allow for any sort of classic
speciation.
“If I’m honest, I doubt they even
tried to model it accurately on any
sort of species, as the fact that it seems
to enjoy sleeping on a duvet and
eating processed food indicates that
there were no biologists involved in
the script writing process at all.”
Said another on the apparent
mating rituals exhibited by this
penguin, (known as “Monty”), the
behaviour exhibited was “irregular.”
“In most species, the females are
the ones that choose a mate, often
via a long and arduous ritual that
involves preening, nest building and
vocal communications. In this case,
the female was simply “presented”
to the male in a gift box, a scenario
that would be highly unlikely in usual
mating circumstances.”
Others took issue to the breach of
International animal movement laws
that the advert implied. A third-year
said that a young boy being able to
both own and transport a penguin
around Central London (on a bus, no
less) is “nothing short of outrageous.”
“International legislation makes
owning a penguin illegal, something
that this advert neglects to address.
He went on to add: “Provisions
should be put in place to care for the
animal, such as a climate controlled
enclosure that features large bodies
of water that the penguin can swim
in. None of these were evident in the
advert.”
“It could be possible that is penguin
was illegally purchased by the family,
and could be under considerable
distress given the conditions it is
having to reside in.”
He explained that what may
be construed as “pining” may be
troubling behaviour resulting from
not having a large flock to reside in,
or potentially being made to follow
around a small boy whose taste in
woollen hats is “nothing short of
poor.”
None of the sources Hangman
contacted wanted to comment on the
fact that the penguin in the end turns
out to be a stuffed toy that has been
imagined to be real by the boy.
They did however discuss at length
the implications the advert may
have on the mail-order industry
of exotic pets, the reputation of
behavioural biology within the wider
community and the apparent ease of
domestication of large birds.
Concluded one fourth year “I just
don’t think it is fair that this advert
has been viewed so many times, and
no-one is providing justification as
to why so much of the behavioural
biology we work so hard to research
has been neglected.
“We don’t go on field courses to the
Antarctic, trek for weeks on end in
cold blizzards, stare at these birds for
hours and hours, and then expect all
of our work to be overlooked by the
media.”
on the social network, which means
that its standards must be pretty
fucking low.
The penguin in question was considered by biologists to act "irregularly" and display "distressing tendencies."

