THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 34
FELIX
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
CANCER
VIRGO
Thisweekyoumanagetoleave
yourroomforthefirsttimein
afewdays,astheflashbacksto
theUniversityChallengetryouts
arefinallyover.Youspentweeks
revising,butwhentheyasked
youaquestion,youpanicked.
“Whatsmallinvertebrateis
coveredinspotsandsmellslike
fish.”Apparently“Mypenis”
wasn’ttherightanswer.
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
Thisweekyouhavetosubmit
theplanforyourfinalyear
project.Outofinspiration
youturntoalcohol,andinthe
morningyourealisethatyou’ve
promisedtomake“TheWorld’s
BestDildo”.Atleastyourproject
supervisorseemstoliketheidea,
grinningandaskingwhatyou
plantodowithitwhenyou’re
done.
Thisweekyouonceagainregret
introducingyourroom-mateto
yourbrother.Notonlydothey
keeplockingyououtofyour
roomtohavesex,butroom-
mateabsolutelyalsolovesto
discusstherelationshipwith
you.Therearesomethings
youneverneedtoknow.How
well-hungyourbrotherisone
ofthose.
Thisweek,afteranaccident
inthePhysicslabs,youfind
yourselfrandomlyteleporting
backintime.Aftergettingshot
duringtheFirstWorldWar,
havingaraunchyaffairwitha
minorEnglishnobleman,and
drawingarocketonacavewall
totrickarchaeologists,youfulfil
yourchildhooddreamofbeing
crushedbyadiplodocus.
Thisweek,aftercomplaining
aboutyourhairgettingtoo
longforthelastmonth,your
girlfrienddecidestocutitfor
you.Havingahaircutfroma
personwithnoformaltraining
goesaboutaswellasyoumight
think,andafterthethirdbald
patchyoudecideit’sprobably
bettertoshaveitalloff.Oops?
Thisweek,asyouaresatenjoying
aslightlycoldSAFbreakfast,
you’rerudelyinterruptedby
themostdangerouscreature
intheentireanimalkingdom,
thepigeon.Asitfliesoverhead
youscreamandhideunderthe
tablesneartheorangesofas.As
youemergetogenerallaughter,
youdiscoverthatthepigeonhas
pooedinyourbreakfast.
Thisweekyoudecidethatit’s
probablytimetogetbackto
workastheDeputyPresident
(Welfare).Afteranother
unfulfillingdaytellingpeople
thatyobcultureprobablyisn’t
thebestidea,youdowhatyou
knowiswhatisbestforyour
welfare.Acoupleofpintsfrom
Eastside,ofcourse.
Thisweekinadesperateattempt
tofindajobandsomefreefood
atthesametime,youattendyet
anothercareersfair.Everytable
seemsdesperateyougiveyou
brandedsweets,soyoustockup.
Twelvetinsoftinymintslater,
yourealisethatthatprobably
wasn’tthebestideaasyouare
prettysureyouarenevergoing
tobeabletogotothelooagain.
This week your girlfriend
leaves you for not being
assertive enough. You’re quite
upset by this, but decide not
to challenge. After all, who are
you to argue...
This week it’s fast approaching
the deadline to get the
newspaper printed, and you
still haven’t written all the
horoscopes. You know that
you can’t leave it blank, so you
write some waffle and hope
that no-one will realise that
you’re just trying to fill space.
Probably shouldn’t leave it so
late...
This week you attend the
Tri-Union bar night. After a
few pints, you lead a rousing
chant of “Oh RSM is wonder-
ful”. After beginning the verse
about RCS, you realise that you
are standing in the middle of a
ring of angry chemists. You are
pelted with colouring pencils
and gravel.
Thisweekyousuggestthat
theFelixEditorwillgiveyou
advertisingspaceinreturnfor
sexualfavours.Littledoyou
knowthatthiswillgetbackto
theEditorandsheswearsnever
topublishanythingaboutyour
shittyconstituentunionagain.
Youhavebeenwarned.
Diary Of a Fresher, aged 18 3/4
Saturday 8th November
This weekend I’m going on RAG Jailbreak, how cool! Unfortunately I couldn’t convince Dorothy to come with me
so I’ve been paired with Kris Kraye, the Welfare President, who for some reason doesn’t have any friends
to go with either. The point is to get as far away as we can from London without spending any money. I
hope it goes well. I met up with Kris this morning and he handed me an identical t-shirt to the one he
was wearing with a picture of the queen on the front, with “HM Ladz on Tour” across the back.
Sunday 9th
Diary I’m in the British consulate in Ashgabat. I had never heard of Ashgabat until today, and I’m still not
sure where it is. Jailbreak’s been very strange. The welfare president managed to call in some favours
from a friend and once we hitchhiked to Heathrow we were smuggled into the cargo hold of an Aeroﬂot
plane heading east. Mumbling to himself about “liquid lubrication” Kris rummaged around a container near the
back of the plane and came back with two large bottles of Vodka. I blacked out and awoke this morning
in the passenger seat of a Lada tearing its way across the Karakum Desert with “God Save the Queen”
blaring loudly from the radio and Kris singing along at the top of his lungs. We were nearly at the Iranian
border when Kris got arrested for being over the Drink Drive limit in Turkmenistan. I’m now awaiting to
be repatriated on an army cargo plane tomorrow.
Monday 10th
Dear Diary, I won Jailbreak! The medics rugby team were on course to win: they’d managed to blag their
way on a submarine and were travelling to the Falkland Islands but then a fresher smashed a window so I
win by default! Woooo! Once Kris gets released from Turkmenistani jail he’ll be so happy
Tuesday 11th
The funeral service for the medics rugby team was held today. There was a 21 window smash salute in
their honour. I’m so far behind on my lab report this is such a mess
Wednesday 12th
Dorothy and I hung out again today, we went to the library together. I feel this is Imperial Dating
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS WITHOUT
THE NEWS
THIS IS WHAT THE UNION
PAYS £25K A YEAR FOR

