4 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
14.11.2014
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This week I had the honour of laying a wreath,on
behalf of the Students of Imperial College,to those
staff and students who paid the Ultimate sacrifice in
service during the First and Second World Wars.The
moving ceremony was held in the foyer of the City &
Guilds Building and was led by the College Chaplain
with a reading from the College Archivist.
This had me reflecting on the international make-
up of our Imperial community.Remembrance Day
and the poppy as a symbol of bloodshed and loss
during War perhaps seems rather anglo-centric.But
of course death,destruction and loss happened all
over the World.
Last Christmas I went to Hong Kong,where I
visited Sai Wan War Cemetery.This was particularly
poignant,as Hong Kong fell to Occupation on
Christmas Day 1941.It was another 4 years before
Hong Kong was liberated,suffering some horrendous
hardship which saw the population dwindle from 1.6
million in 1941 to just 600,000 by 1945.
Sai Wan War Cemetery (pictured) is on Cape
Collinson,on the North-East corner of Hong Kong
Island.There lie some 1,500 graves of soldiers.These
include Canadian,Indian,British and local Chinese
servicemen who were killed.Over 400 graves are known
only unto God.
A further 2,000 names are engraved at the entrance
to the cemetery,listing the servicemen who died in the
Battle of Hong Kong or subsequently in captivity and
who have no known grave.
The Commonwealth War Graves Commission
maintains the Sai Wan War Cemetery,and is responsible
for maintaining the graves of some 1.7 million deceased
Commonwealth military service members at over 23,000
locations in 153 countries.
Many of these countries are represented in the
make-up of our community at College here today.It is
also important to remember that loss and suffering
happened on all sides during conflict.
Looking around College today and seeing the diverse
make-up of our student community,all striving for a
common goal,is perhaps the greatest tribute to the
sacrifices made by our predecessors all those years ago.
CHRIS KAYE
COMMENT: Chris Kaye discusses Remembrance Day
Medical robots lab opens at Imperial
On Wednesday the EPSRC
Micro-Machining Facility
for Medical Robotics was
officially opened at Imperial College
London. Costing £4 million, this new
lab will allow the development of
miniaturised surgical robotics that
could reshape the way diseases are
diagnosed and treated.
Professor Alice Gast, Imperial
College London President and Dr
Lesley Thompson, Director of the
Engineering and Physical Sciences
Research Council (EPSRC) opened
the Facility. The Facility will be lead
by Professor Guang-Zhong Yang,
Director of the Hamlyn Centre, in the
Bessemer building, where the Facility
is located.
The new facility will house
advanced 3D printers for researchers
to create the surgical devices on
various scales, ranging from the
microscopic to the nanoscale.The
Faculty also boasts a micro CT
scanner that allows researchers to
view the microscopic components
they are working on, alongside a
micro-machine assembly line.
The robotics that will be developed
in the Facility will hopefully
improve the diagnosis of diseases
and drug therapies, and lead to the
improvement of minimally invasive
surgical procedures.
The opening of the Facility also
means that these technologies can
be developed on-site and in-house,
reducing the cost by cutting out the
need for third party suppliers. This
will also speed up the process, making
the development of such robotics
both more time and cost efficient.
EPSRC funded the project, and
the Facility is part of the UK
Robotics Network. The Network is
led by Imperial, and various other
laboratories that focus on robotics are
scattered throughout the departments
of aeronautics, bioengineering,
computing, electrical engineering and
mechanical engineering.
The launch of the Facility also
comes only a week after Imperial
announced the launch of a £1.25m
flying robotics lab. The Brahmal
Vasudevan Aerial Robotics Lab will
be a two-story structure that will
feature workshops and a working
laboratory. The lab will be installed
on the roof of the City and Guilds
building, and will have also teaching
facilities for undergraduates and
postgraduates.
Professor Guang-Zhong Yang
said: “At Imperial we are already in
the process of developing a range
of miniaturised medical robots and
smart surgical devices that improve
the way patients in the UK are cared
for. Thanks to the foresight of the
Engineering and Physical Research
Council, this new Facility will speed
up and improve development and
production processes not only for the
Hamlyn staff but also for researchers
across the College and at other
institutions.”
PHILIPPA SKETT
FELIX EDITOR

