THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 7
14.11.2014
FELIX
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Council “condemns” Provost Board decision
to alter bursary allocations
Philippa Skett reports on Council’s damning motion
On November 7th,nearly 21,000 people took part in
WALK2014,a walk to raise awareness of diabetes,in
Abu Dhabi.The walk was organised by the Imperial
College London Diabetes Centre (ICLDC).It is
estimated that over 150 million steps were taken in
total during the walk,which was at the Yaz Marina
Circuit.
Last month,Felix reported that former Basketball
legend Kareem Abdul-Jabbar had agreed to join
the campaign to raise awareness of diabetes.
Abdul-Jabbar took part in a walk in Al Ain around a
municipality building.
Earlier at the event,a presentation on healthy living
was given to 400 students from the Indian School Al
Ain and Brighton College Al Ain,all aged between six
and thirteen.
When talking about health and fitness in the United
Arab Emirates,Abdul-Jabbar said,“People should not
try for perfection–they need to try to improve.”
Abdul-Jabbar can speak from experience–his mother
was diabetic,whilst he himself had a battle with
leukaemia in 2009,which he has now fully recovered
from.When asked about it,Abdul-Jabbar said“When
you have a threat like leukaemia in your life,you have to
make some changes.I’m very fortunate to be alive.I’m
going to make the best of these years.
“The most important message that I want everybody to
get is that diabetes is preventable.”
During a question and answer session,a pupil took the
opportunity to ask Abdul-Jabbar whether he actually
liked vegetables.Abdul-Jabbar replied,“I really don’t like
vegetables”.He later added that his grandmother would
“smack him”on the back of the head if he didn’t eat
them,and he now ate them regularly.
When speaking about the visit of the Basketball star,
Bashar Al Ramahi,Chief Executive of the Imperial
College London Diabetes Centre,explained that young
people are more likely to take heed of a message
on healthy living from an athlete.When the proper
message goes to younger generations,“they accept it
much more easily than the older generation.”
KUNAL WAGLE
Diabetes walk is a sweet success
Union Council on Tuesday
voted to “condemn” the Col-
lege’s Provost Board decision
after the changes in bursary alloca-
tions for undergraduate students
were announced.
A table of figures featured in Tom
Wheeler’s Council Report showed
the differences between his proposed
allocations and the Provost Board’s
decision. The table displayed the
new allocations for each student on
an annual basis, which varies on the
income bracket of the student’s fam-
ily household.
Council members were quick to
voice outrage over the changes, with
one saying that they were essentially
“Anti-Robin Hood”, due to the fact
that students from households with a
lower income were getting less money
at the cost of students from a higher
income getting more. Said another
Council member, “These changes are
essentially evil.”
A statement was drawn up by a
member of Council after the paper
was discussed, that was then read
out towards the end of the meeting
so as to be included officially in the
minutes. The statement read that
“The Imperial College Union Council
would like to condemn in the strong-
est possible terms the Provost Board’s
alterations to the bursary structure.
“We feel the College has not con-
sulted extensively enough on this
decision and that it does not reflect
the needs of low and middle income
students.
“We are particularly concerned
with the large decrease in support
at the £50k boundary and decrease
for the poorest students in the under
£30k category.
“We call on them to revisit this
issue as soon as possible with a full
and extensive consultation that fully
takes into account all students’ views
and needs, and to provide full details
of the reasons for any changes made.”
All members of the Union Council
passed the statement unanimously.
The Provost Board has decided
to reduce the bursary allocation by
£1,000 for students from a house-
hold of an income of less than £16k,
meaning they will now receive £5,000
a year. Those from a household with
an income of £16 to £25k have seen
an annual reduction of £2,000, with
the Provost Board deciding to allocate
£4,000 instead of the previous £6,000
they receive.
Meanwhile, those students coming
from households with an income
above £35k will have seen an increase
in the bursaries they receive. Students
from a household of £35k to £42k
preciously received £1,200 a year, but
now will also be looking to receive
£4,000 from now on.
At the top of the bracket, students
from a household with an income of
£55k to £60k will receive £2,000 a
year, quadrupling what they previ-
ously received before the Provost
Board made the changes.
Tom Wheeler explained that he was
given a very short window in which
to survey students about their living
costs, due to the Provost Board keen
to make a decision in time for a print
deadline of next year’s prospectus.
Wheeler ran a forum for students
to talk to him in person about their
bursaries, and, after turnout was low,
ran an online survey open to all those
that receive bursaries from the Col-
lege. He received over 300 responses,
which he used to make recommenda-
tions to the Provost Board.
However, none of these were
reflected exactly in the final figures
decided upon by the Provost board,
although they did use the survey
results to finalise their own figures.
Tom Wheeler said in the meeting
that Council citing its displeasure at
the figures was unlikely to influence
a change in the figures in the near
future.
In a quote to Felix, Tom Wheeler
said: “To ensure student input on the
changes to the distribution of the
College Bursary, I carried out an Open
Forum meeting, as well as an online
survey to discuss these changes. The
An artist's impression of the fridges in Wilkinson Hall after the Provost
Board's ruling. Photo: Aude
responses I received to these were
used to draft a recommendation to
Imperial College’s Provost Board.
“There are differences, particu-
larly in the lowest income brackets,
between the recommendations I
made and the decision that was made.
I welcome the increase in support to
the students in low-to-middle income
brackets, however the decision to
decrease funding to the students in
the <£16k bracket is concerning.”
Photo: Keeneland

