ELIX
The Student Newspaper of Imperial College Not 029 19MAY95
Imperial Stands
Firm Against NUS
BY R A C H E L W A L T E R S
The campaign to reinstate
Imperial to the National Union
of Students was overwhelmingly
defeated in last week's referen-
dum. W i t h a markedly larger
ballot than many had predicted,
965 students voted to stay out of
the N U S while 696 wanted to
rejoin.
The decisive result has been
seen as a vindication of Imperial
College Union. Criticism of both
the pro-NUS campaign and the
Union Exec's management had
dogged the referendum.
A barrage of complaints
concerning discrepancies in cam-
paigning led to a heated debate
in an emergency executive
meeting held just before
counting started. Karl Drage led
calls for the referendum to be
declared void, but the motion
was defeated. "It would have
been a great shame if the N U S
had won in the light of the
campaign which was run," Dan
Look, Deputy president (Finance
and Services) said.
Sarah Thomas, who master-
minded the anti-NUS campaign,
said that she was surprised and
delighted with the result. Saying
that the election had 'turned into
a farce' she was 'just relieved that
it was all over, to be honest.'
L u c y Chothia, Imperial
College U n i o n president, was
also 'very delighted'. She said
that the referendum, which had a
Union Funding Council budget
of £1000, was an essential
assessment of student opinion
after the seventeen year period
since I C U left the NUS.
Interestingly, results from
the St Mary's side of campus
showed that over 80% of the
medics actually wanted to rejoin
the national body. Explaining
their voting, one St Mary's
student speculated that they may
have thought that they would get
lower beer prices by joining.
The annual staff/student art exhibition returned to the Sherfield Ante-r
this week, writes Owain Bennallack. Visitors are treated to a wide rang
themes and mediums with paintings, photography and sculpture all fea
prominently. The exhibition, which is free, has been co-ordinated by
Leonardo Fine Arts society, who run a variety of courses for both staf
students throughout the year. Speaking at the exhibition's opening, V
President Ola Al-deeb commented: "It's wonderful to see that there i
chance to see art at IC". So if you want to see art at IC get along to the
exhibition: it runs untilJune 16th. Some of the works are alsofor sale.
College Goes To Press
Imperial
BY O W A I N B E N N A L L A C K
Imperial entered the world of
publishing last Monday with the
launch of Imperial College Press
(ICP). The venture is a collabor-
ation between College and the
Singapore-based World Scientific
Publishing (WSP), which has a
51 per cent share in the initiative.
Dr K K Phua, chairman of
WSP, and also of IC alumni, said
that the press would publish
books and journals i n both
printed and electronic formats in
a number of different languages.
"We hope to develop Imperial
College Press so that it is as good
as Cambridge University Press or
Oxford U n i v e r s i t y Press - or
better," he said.
Publishing operations are
relatively common among top
universities - as well as the
Oxford and Cambridge concerns,
both Edinburgh and Manchester
University have presses.
Recently the latter had to close
its scientific publishing wing as
the effort to manage both science
and arts interests became too
great. Given this, it seems almost
surprising that ICP has taken so
long to arrive.
The Rector, Sir Ronald
O x b u r g h , expressed similar
sentiments. "It's high time that
an institution of the stature of
Imperial College had its own
press," he said. "We are excited
by this venture, w h i c h w i l l
further strengthen our inter-
national network, particularly in
(continued overleaf)
• news one&two&three • editorial&credlts three • incoming five • s-files: picking up on radio
seven • features: a moving experience part 2 and information superhighway eight •
backchat: with computer chess master Richard Lang nine • xtra curricular: soaring eleven •
standby: lo-fi thrills twelve&thirteen • eight day guide fourteen&fifteen • sport: airborne sixteen Q

