Xtra Curricular
D jjj
Union Job Offers
Keys: Council, Represent, Chair
The following posts are up for election at the
Annual General Meeting at the Union.
Rag Chair: Chairs the Rag committee to
organise a l l the Rag Events, from
collections to Tiddlywinks. Rag raises
thousands of pounds every year. Can you
improve on this?
Welfare Officer: Represents the students
needs on the College welfare committee.
It is also the Welfare Officer's job to alert
the students to welfare issues of all types
and, i n collaboration with the U n i o n
Welfare Committee, to run the Union's
Welfare week.
Women's Officer: Represents women
students at Imperial College and is
responsible for r u n n i n g the U n i o n
minibus service.
ICCAG Chair: Imperial College Community
A c t i o n Group Chair organises the
community action. The major effort is, at
present, put into maintaining a regular
soup run for the homeless in London.
Transport Officer: Looks after the Union's
fleet of minibuses.
Accommodation Officer: Works to improve
the living standards of IC students both
in and out of halls. They also Chair
regular meetings between the H a l l
representatives and members of the
College staff.
Postgraduate Group Chair: Responsible for
running the Postgraduate network. The
network provides entertainment and
meetings for Postgraduate students.
Equal Opportunities Officer: Alerts students
to the needs of minority groups within
the college and works with the welfare
and women's officer to run the Union's
Welfare week.
Forthcoming Attractions
Keys: Killing, Porter, Quiz
Another famous I C U cinema late show takes
place this Saturday at 11pm with everybody's
favourite transvestite f i l m , The Rocky
Horror Picture Show. The film before this
(at 8pm) is the much talked about catwalk
film, Pret-A-Porter. Robert Altman's satirical
film has so many cameo roles that it is hard
to pick out an overall star. Julia Roberts, T i m
Robbins, Sophia Loren, K i m Basinger and
Tracy Ullman seem to get top billing but this
is just the tip of the iceberg - blink and you'll
miss a stunning supermodel. There is a
murder involved so not only is the film a
who-is-it but it is also a whodunit.
If you are thinking about cheating i n
your exams then come along on Sunday at
8pm to see how the professionals do it. Quiz
Show, a film directed by Robert Redford, is
concerned with the scandal of the 1950's
American programme twenty-one i n which
the contestants (Ralph Fiennes et al) get
given the answers, which surprisingly enough
seems to make things a tad easier.
The last film of the week (Wednesday at
8pm) is one for which Quentin Tarantino was
executive producer, Killing Zoe. Eric Stoltz
stars in a Roger Avary film about a bank job
in Paris. W i t h the way my grant's going
(quickly) I may have to consider a similar
idea.
Bate
More Revision Killers
Keys: Comedy, Music, Football
So, here I am, basking in the reflected success
of Harry H i l l and ready to go with another
week of'12 points' style fun. And here it is...
Friday - Comedy Awards
The triumphant return of the Bust-a-Gut
Comedy Club, after last week's sell out show.
For our final show of the year we are proud to
present the Semi-finals of the National
Comedy Network Open M i c Awards. The
show features 5 top new acts, as well as
Boothby Graffoe. The winner of the show
based on audience reaction and the opinion
of the expert panel will go on to perform at the
E d i n b u r g h Festival. So, you could be
witnessing a star in the making. Tickets are
just £2, there's a free bottle of Newcastle
Brown Ale to the first 50 in, and the doors
open at 8.30pm. Then you can dance the rest
of the night away 'til 2pm at Atmosphere. Free
if you go to the comedy or are there before
9pm, £1 otherwise.
Saturday - Man U 7 - Everton 0
Almost as good as being there... the FA Cup
Final between Everton & Man U live on the
B I G screen i n D a Vinci's. Come and see
whether United bite off more than they can
chew against the toffees (that's my fantastic
football cliche for the day - just see how
many times it gets used on match day). The
bar opens at 1pm to set the atmosphere, and
Heineken is £1 a pint (while stocks last), so
don't be anywhere else.
Monday - Monday Madness
There might not be any more footie, but
we've still got Monday Madness. As usual,
one beer will be £1 a pint while stocks last.
Tuesday - Bar Trivia
Put your mind to gainful pursuits with a
special Bar Trivia night. There's £50 cash, or
crates of beer to be won and entry is free.
Questions start at 8.30pm in Da Vinci's, and
there won't be an invigilator in sight.
Wednesday - Club Spanque, Football
Providing that length isn't everything, the
ever s h r i n k i n g sensation that is Club
Spanque. Music from 8pm to 11.30pm, but
it's still great value for money because it's
free. Also, the European Cup Final will be live
on the big screen at 7.30pm.
Thursday - Cocktail Night
We can't guarantee a screaming orgasm every
week (well, not in cocktail terms any way),
but we have got the best value Cocktail Night
in South Ken, 5pm until 11pm.
Friday, 26 May - Shaft
Leave your Gaultier at home, forget being
cool and get your spangliest dancing trousers
on for a night in Disco Heaven. Yes, for those
who believe in the Boogie Wonderland, and
the power of pop, the return of Shaft. Classic
records from the days before remixes, when
House was where you lived and Texaco was
the only Garage that mattered. Thrill to the
likes of A B B A , Odyssey, The Jacksons,
Duran Duran, Wham and a cast of thousands.
Dress up and there's T-Shirts and C.D.'s to
be won. F R E E before 9pm, £1 after.
®Q8(H0[D£)
Record Breakers
Keys: Fastest, Youngest
Only a few months after the purchase of our
new competition class glider, Pete Masson
(Biochem 2) broke 2 U K gliding records on
Good Friday. He became the youngest person
ever to accomplish this feat.
He achieved the fastest flight ever in this
country over a distance of 500km in both the
15-metre and standard classes. The flight was
from Lasham (near Basingstoke) to Tickhill
(near Doncaster) and back again. He did this
in a time of around 5 V2 hours at a speed of
85kph beating the previous record of 75kph
which stood for the past 5 years.
The glider was purchased thanks to
money from the Union and the Harlington
Trust. The ASW-24 single seater glider was
recently on show on the Queen's L a w n
during which time the Rector came and
wished the club every success for the future.
The total number of glider pilots who
have flown 500km is very low as a flight of
this length is only possible on a couple of
days each year. Pete's background in gliding
commenced when he was 16 as a Lasham
cadet and he has recently been awarded an air
league flying scholarship to enable him to
gain his P P L . H e joins Afandi Darlington
(Aero 4) as only the second ICGC student to
have ever flown 500km.
If you are interested, come to our weekly clu
meeting in Aero, room 266 on Thursday at lpm
You could also contact Wendy Yates (Captai
on w.yates@ic.ac.uk or Pete Masson (Vice
Captain) on p.masson@ic.ac.uk.
I
9
H
1
A
V
9
5 F E L I X MM

