Features
Moving Experiences II by Owain
lthough I have stressed that Paul is a
competent individual, I should make
clear that he shared some of our
collective traits. We left him to look for a
house and he, competently, decided to pay
someone else to do it. The agent's name was
Bob. He didn't like Indians very much, he
told Paul, and he hoped that none of our party
were of this or any other Bob-deigned
undesirable class. He'd had a lot of trouble
with Jews and the Irish were difficult to
manage too. It seemed a weird sort of inverted
racism (Bob himself was dark-skinned) that
led him to categorise his wards purely on
genetic background: I have no doubt at all
that when approaching landlords he got in
'they're white' before 'they're non-smokers'.
H e didn't further his case as an
impressive and assured agent when we arrived
at his office, with a cheery Paul telling us that
together they had found the perfect place. I
have a generous spirit, and when I saw that
his office had been ransacked, his filing
cabinets emptied onto every available surface
and the office stripped bare of any modern,
post-sixties office equipment I felt we should
leave him to recover the bare essentials of his
agency business. But he was a plucky man: he
welcomed us and dived beneath the
thousands of pieces of paper littering his desk
to find one with 'Paul - not Indian' written
across the top.
The poor mentally retarded immigrant
who he employed in the office (due I presume
to the unwavering goodness he had already
displayed) stood in the corner and repeated
everything Bob told us with a 'Bob is very
good' tagged on to the end. Bob explained the
details of the wonderful three bedroomed
apartment we would be moving into.
Principally it was halfway up the building and
Bob felt that properties always improved as
one ascended skyward. (Only later did I watch
a cockroach struggling to escape up the
bathroom wall and realise his reasoning). It
was close to college - true. The landlord was
very nice (more very polite, I later found out,
like the villains in James Bond). His main
recommendation was that he had turned away
most of Imperial's students that very
afternoon because he had promised the flat to
Paul. We'd be fools to miss out.
I must admit that I was carried away
with the whole romance of it. Plus, I knew
that I would be living on the streets in a
couple of days and that lit up the future
apartment with a rosy, super long-life glow.
At that point I believed we would actually be
visiting the flat before buying it - indeed the
assistant had phoned the landlord minutes
before. Most of their conversation had
centred on money rather than a prospective
visit, but we had faith in Bob.
We couldn't unfortunately enter the flat
on arrival, due to a lack of keys on the agents
part, but it certainly looked as i f it was
undergoing the promised 'renovations'. To be
honest it looked as though it would have been
falling down without them. I was too busy at
work to worry much - and after all, my
request had just been for a roof over my head.
The others moved our possessions
across whilst I languished in the office all day,
as recounted in an early editorial. But the
fateful moment couldn't be delayed. At about
2.00am we unlocked the door. The light
didn't work but dawn's glow eventually came.
I went into denial.
Information SuperGxhibiton
mmm
A new exhibition at the Science Museum aims to give the public a better idea of
what the Information Superhighway could do for them. Mark Baker logs on...
S C I E N C E
M U S E U H
LONDON
The Information Superhighway (ISH) does not
exist. So says the Science Museum in a new mini-
exhibition. But why have an exhibition about
something that doesn't even exist yet? (and might
never exist, the exhibit goes on to tell you).
The simple answer is that the press
coverage of the Internet / ISH has increased by
over 1000 times in the last two years, and most of
the public is probably still wondering what all the
fuss is about. T h i s exhibition is a great
opportunity to find out more about the current
technology and what the future may hold. You
can even have a go 'live' on the Internet, with
'Lifeguards' standing by to help you out (should
you fall off your digital surfboard).
The exhibition itself is very small, and is
located on the first floor of the museum. To find
it, go through the barriers, straight ahead, first
steps, it's right in front of you. It's fairly gaudy to
look at, but presentation aside, the content is very
good. As an example, here is their definition of
the ISH:
"The information superhighway will allow
people to send and receive words, sound and
moving pictures, anywhere in the world, over
computer networks."
The language used is deliberately non-
technical but without too much skimping on
information or simplifying of issues. As well as
several interactive 'simulations' of using the
Internet and ISH, there are eight PCs ready to use
in a special 'Surf City' section. With these PCs
you can browse the World Wide Web and get a
taster of the kind of information and services
available on the Internet today. Very friendly and
helpful boffins are on-hand to enable even the
most computer-illiterate of museum-goers to try
out the system. When I went I saw a young girl
looking up Hockey teams, next to her dad who
was looking for travel information. This is the
best part of the whole exhibit, and is popular with
visitors. "One lad sat there for four hours, and
even worked out how to use email." a 'Lifeguard'
said.
I was expecting to be patronised, but
instead was informed. This is an exhibition that
is well worth seeing, even if - like myself - you
already know something (or a lot) about the
Internet, and even more so if you don't.
The exhibition runs until 3 September,
when it goes on tour. Entrance is free to I C U card
holders or £5 adults, £2.60 concession. Q
F E L I X

