UP U P A N D A W A Y IN THIS S P E C I A L
In one of my first editorials, I
mentioned that I was interested in
feature articles for FELIX, and if
any club was interested in taking
on a new member for an after-
noon, I'd be happy to write about
it afterwards. I didn't really expect
much of a response, but it seemed
a worthwhile gamble to attract
some feature material and (with
luck) pick up a few freebies
along the way.
Two people replied. The first was a man who
is trying to set up a parachute club at IC, and
he suggested I should jump out of ai aeroplane
at 2,000 feet. This sounded more than a little
terrifying—and was; with Pallab's permission I
shall be telling you about it next term.
The second reply didn't arrive till the
beginning of this term. Colin Butter,
Recreational Clubs Committee Chairman and
President of IC's Balloon Club suggested that
the club could do with some publicity and
would I like a trip in a balloon so that I could
write about it in FELIX afterwards? The
problem in interesting people in ballooning, he
explained, is that it is almost exclusively a
summer sport. Consequently it's next to
impossible to generate enthusiasm at the
October Freshers' Fair, and come the summer
many people are already entrenched in other
clubs (to say nothing of exams).
All of which goes to explain how I found
myself just outside Harrogate in a place called
Pannal, which appeared to be one of those
minute villages which consist exclusively of a
railway station and a pub. (Actually Pannal has
the distinction of compressing itself even
further, since the pub is a metamorphosed
railway station and is served only by
paytrains.)
Colin picked me up in the minibus and I was
whisked away to a camping site where a large
crowd consisting mainly of middle-aged
To avoid nearby airfields it is important to
have a competent navigator on board.
couples dressed in old flannel trousers and
baggy pullovers had emerged from expensive
and comfortable-looking trailer tents and were
studiously focusing long telephoto lenses on
the hive of balloonists before them. We skirted
the crowd and I got my first chance to see a
hot-air balloon close up.
In retrospect, all the things which surprised
me about ballooning were quite obvious, and if
I had taken the time to think about them
beforehand really shouldn't have surprised me
at all. It doesn't take much intelligence to
realise that cold air isn't that much denser than
hot air, and so to lift three people, a basket and
three cylinders of propane a balloon has got to
be big. Nevertheless I was still taken aback by
the size of what looked like vast circular
marquees laid out on the grass.
Rather than fill the balloon with hot air
directly, they are filled with cold air first which
is then heated, and to this end some of the
team started a large petrol-driven fan which
blew a force eight gale into the mouth of the
balloon. Slowly the flaccid worm on the ground
began to fill out, and soon the distinctive
balloon shape appeared.
When there was enough air in the balloon
for its mouth to stay open, the burners were lit.
IC's balloon has two burners, each about nine
inches in diameter, which direct a jet of flame
several feet long into the balloon. My second
obvious surprise came when it was pointed out
that the hotter the air, the more lift you get; the
air in a modern hot-air balloon has to reach a
minimum of 85°C before a flight is possible.
The balloon was now inflated, but still lying
on its side. As we waited for the air to heat up
enough to pull it vertical Colin introduced me
to the rest of the crew: Gill, his wife, who was
to be our navigator, and Andy who was to pilot
the balloon. Most of the baskets I could see
held four people, but ours had a three-man
basket, so I was the only free-loader.
Several other balloons were already taking
off, so I occupied my last few minutes on the
ground by photographing them as they went.
Finally Colin signalled to me that our balloon
was almost ready. I ran over to the basket
where I was handed a thin off-white jerkin with
the British Oxygen motif. I was a little puzzled
by this, but did as I was bidden and put it on
over my own anorak. Colin deliberately didn't
explain its purpose until I was just about to
climb aboard, and then his explanation
consisted of just two words: 'It's fireproof.
Climbing into a wicker basket in a hurry is
easier said than done. There is very little grip
for your feet, and it doesn't help that you are
wearing walking boots or wellies. But
somehow I managed to get inside (the right
way up) and said my goodbyes and was wished
a good flight by the ground crew. When the
balloon went up it was important that it rose fairly
quickly at first, to clear trees and power cables
and so as many people as possible were
gathered to hold us down while Andy gave the
To get the air in a balloon hot enough to lift it f
at the rate of over a pound a minute.
burners a-final blast. Then, quite undramati-
cally, we were free of the ground and balloon
and cargo—two and a half tons in mass but still
lighter than air—rose majestically into the
atmosphere. ^ -
One thing my parachute jump had prepared
me for was the cold. The further you rise, the
colder it becomes and a fresh breeze can only
make things worse; consequently I was well
insulated, with plenty of warm layers under my
anorak and asbestos jerkin. What I had
forgotten, of course, was that firstly the
balloon drifts with the wind, so the relative
airspeed is zero, and secondly you are
A "it
II
They aren't all balloon shaped!
F E A T U R E A R T I C L E
ie ground,the massive burners need to burn propane
standing only a few feet from two of the largest
propane burners you have seen in your life.
Cold was not a problem.
The other surprise was the noise. I had
always visualised balloons as totally peaceful—
the one absolutely silent means of transport.
This illusion was also shattered as the
burners, when they are used, make such a
roar that conversation is only possible with
difficulty.
But the view was every bit as spectacular as
one could wish for. Even though we were only
flying at about fifty feet, the constantly
changing panorama is perfectly magical. All
the farms and villages of the Yorkshire
countryside are spread out below you, as
adults point, children wave, and herds of cows
stare in sheer disbelief as you glide effortlessly
over them.
The ballooning fraternity is quite small—
there are only about 300 qualified pilots in the
country—and Andy was able to tell me about
jthe other balloons we could see, and the
'astonishing diversity of their pilots, whose
ranks include a top doctor, a pig farmer, and a
professional balloonist.
There is also considerable mystique
attached to the naming of balloons: Hot'n'Cold
was pointed out to me, as was Shadowfax II
and the disgustingly named Meconium which
you can look up in a dictionary like I did. IC's
balloon is called Passing Wind.
There is no way to steer a hot air balloon,
and your direction is determined entirely by
the wind. The only possibility of altering course
is when the wind is blowing in different
directions at different levels, for you can
control the height of the balloon astonishingly
accurately.
There is an altimeter in the balloon, and it's
•also quite easy at low altitudes to estimate
your height by looking over the edge of the
basket at the ground. Yet Andy explained that
neither of these is the best way of judging
whether the balloon is climbing or dropping;
the most accurate method for an experienced
pilot is to use parallax on distant objects—
when nearer objects are rising relative to the
horizon, the balloon is dropping, and vice
versa.
About half an hour after we had set off our
navigator announced that we were approach-
ing Leeds airspace, and so we began looking
for a suitable place to land. Airports, not sur-
prisingly, mistrust balloonists; Heathrow
was once completely shut down for thirty
minutes at a cost of several million pounds
because they thought two balloons had drifted
into their airspace.
It's wise to avoid landing in fields with
cultivated crops, and grazing livestock is
worse—the shock to a pregnant cow of having
a balloon land in her field can cause her to lose
her calf.
The first three fields we passed were all
cultivated with one kind of crop or another,
although this isn't as obvious as one might
think from the air. The next field had cows
grazing in it, but the field after that looked
ideal—which was lucky, since it was the last
possibility if we were not to trespass into Leeds
airport's airspace.
It was not until we crossed the fence into the
cow field that we saw that our intended landing
site was not what it had first appeared. In one
corner was an electricity substation, and the
whole field was criss-crossed with a fan of
power lines.
Andy shut off the burners and
explained that cows or no cows,
we would have to make a fairly
rapid landing into the held beneath
us.
At the top of the balloon is a
parachute-type opening which can
be regulated by a long red cord
which hangs into the basket. By
manipulating this Andy was able
to aim for, and eventually hit a dry
ditch, thus bringing the basket to
an immediate halt and not letting it
drag across the field.
As we hit the ground, the basket tipped over
onto its side and the occupants were thrown
into a heap on the floor. Immediately we were
stationary Gill disentangled herself and ran to
comfort the panicking cows. This reduced the
weight of the basket of course, and it began to
move again, thus enabling me to make my sole
contribution to the flight by pulling the red
parachute cord to deflate the balloon.
We had barely caught our breath from
landing when Colin and the rest of the crew
appeared on the scene. They had been
following us in the minibus and had now come
to help us pack everything away as swifly ais
possible.
Gill had placated the cows and our main
problem now was satisfying their curiosity; a
typical cow, it seems, is not content to sample
the sight and smell of a balloon, but she wants
to taste it too!
My final surprise of the evening came after
all the equipment had been packed away and
we were preparing to carry it back to the
minibus: balloons are heavy! To fly a balloon
takes about a quarter of a ton of equipment,
and most of that is the balloon envelope
itself—no joke when yoq have to carry it the
entire length of a boggy cow field to get back to
the van.
And so, inevitably, back to the railway
station for a few pints. As I mentioned earlier,
the ballooning fraternity is quite small, and this_
immediately promotes a great feeling of-
friendship and camaraderie, the alcoholic*
manifestation of which I was pleased to enjoy.
It's easy to see the appeal of ballooning, and
to anyone who has ever considered it I urge
you to try it now while you're at IC, and tlje
heavy capital outlay is all covered by the
Union. There's still plenty of time to enjoy a
balloon trip this summer, and anyone who is
interested should get in touch with Colin
Butter on internal 3521.
Martin S Taylor
While practical balloonists repack the envelope in its bag, the FELIX
editor does the no less important job of keeping the cows from eating
the basket

