¥ < D Soc
The streets were packed with the tall, rod
shaped bacteria, each energetically waving its
flagella. Hyde Park was seething with
them—they had climbed into trees, high onto
the Albert Memorial, everywhere. On a huge
platform in the middle of the park a tiny spiral
shaped figure moved up to the microphone
and shouted, 'Quiet, please, quiet!' The crowd
hushed—the agitation decreased. A young £
co/i bacterium tugged at its mother's gram
negative coat.
'Mummy, why are all these bacteria here?'
His mother smiled a wistful smile. 'Well, ten
generations ago, the world was saved from
total distruction by the very first of our race,
Burt the Bacterium. The humans were about
to unleash the Elastic Bomb on the surface of
the earth.'
'What happened?'
'Well, Burt is a thiobasillus and he ate the
Elastic Bomb and used the energy to divide
very rapidly. So rapidly that the humans didn't
stand a chance.'
'What happened to them?'
'We ate them, too. They share the fate of all
creators. They genetically engineered us—the
new macro-bacteria, and we turned on them,
finding our creators imperfect'.
'Mummy, I'm hungry.' •
'Here's an R plasmid, now be quiet.'
Far away on the platform Burt the
Bacterium (number 57), stepped up to the
microphone. The crowd went wild.
Gene Carlile
ICLUBS & SOCIETIES!
Imperial College/Royal College joint Industrial
Design Engineering Course. The pioneering ID
Eng students projects were illustrated in
and design press including one Chinese
publication.
Chinese publication.
This year's crop of projects promises to be
just as exciting. They include Guy Desbanat's
prize winning urban vehicle, Bill Evans' colour
print and slide developer for amateur use,
John Ewan's radical two wheel motor vehicle
and Andrew Laitt's teamaker and lighting
projects.
If you get a Mech Eng or similar degree at
2.2 or higher level, and can show some
evidence of visual and creative thinking
potential, you too might be acceptable for this
exciting course.
Len Wingfield
ICST/RCS IDEng Course Tutor
RCA
The Royal College's annual Degree Show is
open to the public between 10:00am and
6:00pm until Sunday June 19.
This free show provides a range of
spectacular interest and entertainment from
way-out fashion to radical engineering
projects. Past projects have ranged from an
egg packaging scheme which led to improved
nutrition in seveteen Third World countries to
pornographic garden gnomes (beautifully
detailed)! Last year saw the debut of the new
Jazz
Preview
Gig reviews have always struck me as
somewhat of a waste of time, since anyone
who was there knows what it was like, and
anyone who wasn't probably isn't all that
bothered. A gig preview, however, is a much
more useful idea; you can get some inkling of
whether you will enjoy it if you go.
Don't be fooled by the name—the music
played by the Jazz Sluts bears no resemblance
in any shape or form to jazz. The comparison
that springs to mind most easily, if we must
have comparisons, is Santana: strong Latin
rythms, good percussion, long flowing tunes
and very competent musicianship. Their info
sheet claims that members of the band have
worked with all kinds of interesting people,
from the Rolling Stones to Brand X. Even
allowing for the hype (info sheets are notorious
for being a bundle of lies), there can be no
doubt that they play together very well. Their
music is fun and easy to listen to, and it should
be a gig worth seeing.
When, Where, £?
The Jazz Sluts are playing at the Guilds End of
Year Party on Friday June 17. The party is in
the JCR, and tickets cost £1 in advance or
£1.50 on the door. The accompanying disco
will include a laser light show.
Bookshop News
If lecturers/tutors/teachers wish to check on
prices of books they will be recommending in
the coming academic year, please get in touch
with the Bookshop Manager who we hope may
be able to help. Don't forget we would like to
have all recommended reading lists back as
soon as possible.
New Titles
Antiques collecting directory - Lorraine
Johnson, Pan £6.95
Markers of London - Forshaw & Bergstrom,
Penguin £4.95
The war atlas - Kidron & Smith, Pan £5.95
A traveller's life - Eric Newby, Picador £2.95
From the land of the shadows - Clive James,
Picador £2.50
Burning leaves - Don Bannister, Picador £2.50
Lime-light blues - Tony Parsons, Pan £1.75
Side Wall - David Graham. Pan £1.75
Flashman & the redskins - George MacDonald
Fraser, Pan £1.95
Gbdel, Escher, Bach-eternal golden braid
Douglas R Hofstadter, Penguin £8.95
Country Wisdom - Gail Duff, Pan £1.75
Walkers Britain - Pan-Ordnance Survey £4.95
Richard's Bicycle Book - Richard Ballantine,
Pan £2.95
Not tonight Josephine...I've got an alibi- Geep,
Pan £0.80
I'm slimming tomorrow...I've got an alibi today
- Geep, Pan £0.80
I'm not giving up...I've got an alibi - Geep, Pan
£0.80
Sorry Iforgot. ..But I've got an alibi -Geep, Pan
£0.80
Egon Ronay's Lucas Guide 1983...reduced to
£3.50
Hello again suckers! And welcome, once
again, to the column that pokes you in the eye
with a sharp expletive. I hope you've enjoyed
the two 'Films of the Year' programmes—we
kept them short, 'cos we didn't think you
deserved longer ones. However, we have
relented, and today you can see the second
and last (aren't you glad?) 'Turn it on Again'
programme, with yet more highlights and even
lower-lights of this last year. This is also the
very last STOIC broadcast this year (OK who
was that cheering?).
We will be back next sessidn, though, on the
first Thursday of term, with extensive
coverage of Fresher's Fair (yes, again!), the
usual invitation to join the 'wacky, fun loving'
STOIC mob-and a surprise mystery guest
(or so a cloaked, masked man told me). We
will, however, be without one of the best
known and greatly admired (shome
mishtake, surely?—Ed) presenters on STOIC
in recent years, Lawrence Windley, who is,
retiring from television after many years;
service.
You may also like to know that we have
interviews arranged next year with Ronald
Reagan, Liza Minnelli, and the Duke of
Edinburgh (the real one, not Rowan Atkinson).
So, until next session this column is returning
to a STOIC test transmission eeeeee
(1kHz tone)
The Mole
PS: Did you spot the 3 huge lies in paragraph
3?
PPS: Our usual (and much funnier) columnist
(5th?) will be back next year, too!
3SSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSSS
Southside
Bar
Friday 17 June
LIVE MUSIC
Cocktails from £1
New Guest Ale:
YOUNGS ORDINARY
63p
sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss
It is with great regret that the Union
learned of the death on June 14 of
Carrie Craig. Carrie was the forewoman
cleaner in the Union Building until her
retirement last year. S h e will be
remembered with great affection by
the students and Union staff.
The death in April of J i m S a v o y ,
carpenter in the Estates section, was
another sad loss to the Union.
FELIX I I June 16,19831 IPagel7

