" A R L W A R J T -
RETURN
OF
THE
jEDI
For many people the release of Return of the
Jedi (U, Richard Marquand), the third film in
the continuing Star Wars saga, is the movie
event of the year.
Even before production started, this film
was virtually guaranteed substantial commer-
cial success—but I'm pleased to say that
George Lucas and co haven't rested on their
laurels. Indeed, they have produced another
virtuoso space-opera that is certain to delight
"Star Wars devotees (myself included) and, at
the very least, provide a few hours of harmless
fun for the hardened cynics of this world.
Following the briefest of Flash Gordon style
resumes we are plunged straight into the
action once more. A new and more powerful
death star—a massive space battle station—
hangs partially complete over the forest moon
of Endor. The Galactic Emperor himself is to
supervise final construction and is greeted by
Darth Vader, his evil majordomo and general
bad guy.
But first, despite the mortal danger which
faces the Rebel Alliance, Luke Skywalker (nice
guy and last of a breed of noble galactic
knights, the Jedi) must rescue his old chum
Han Solo (hunky space pirate) from the
clutches of the vile Jabba the Hutt.
Before I have another attack of the
brackets, I had better pause here to marvel at
the delights of the Jabba's abode, where a
large slice of the film takes place. For this
scene an alarming array of alien creatures has
been created, who hold the voyeuristic appeal
of an outrageous freak show. Jabba himself is
an overweight, slug-like creature with
enormous eyes and an inexplicable, if
convenient, taste for pretty dancing girls. The
convincing realisation of this ghastly monster,
complete with mafia mentality and splendid
deep voice, is one of the major successes of
the film.
Anyway, after a well paced but over-
complicated rescue, it's back to the old familiar
game of blow-up-the-death-star. This entails
disabling a powerful force field projected
around said battle station from Endor, and this
allows plenty of daring chases (notably a
stunning jet-bike sequence) and cliffhanging
rescues in a plush forest location.
Meanwhile, Luke Skywalker has once more
been tipped the wink by Yoda and a ghostly
Obi Wan Kenobi (played with increasingly
obvious embarrassment by Alec Guiness) vis a
vis his immediate relations. He rushes off to
confront dastardly Darth Vader (who, as you
may or may not know, was revealed as Luke's
pater in episode two) and is brought before the
Emperor for conversion to the dark side of the
all powerful Force. Cue final confrontation.
Well, as you can see, the Force is certianly
continued with a rollicking, no-holds-barred
action adventure. It would be all too easy to
criticise the acting and story, but you must
bear in mind the overall concept of the
saga—it is, and should remain, an unashamedly
naive and accessible fairy tale. Images of jack-
booted nasties and titilating princesses are
mixed with magic and mysticism in liberal, but
exact, doses. Achieving the right balance here
is as skilled a task as creating the highest form
of art film, with the added dangers of over-
indulgence and disappointing devoted
Overall, I felt that Jedi was only partially
successful. The special effects have been let
loose to a frightening degree, but are brilliantly
accomplished by a team of fine craftsmen.
However, the overcrowded action occasionally
becomes confusing (as in a battle of space
fleets involving hundreds of ships) which does
All for one--Han Solo (Harrison Ford),
Princess Leia (Carrie Fisher) and Luke.
Skywalker (Mark Hammill) busy saving the
tend to blunt the spectacle a little.
Ian McDiarmid gives a splendid performance
as the Emperor, mixing pantomime caricature
with malevolent zeal, and even eclipses the
role of Darth Vader as Mr Bad. It is a pity that
other characters are wasted however —
notably Boba Felt, the mercenary, who is
quickly killed-off, along with a few other
surprises (in what was presumably a deliberate
trimming of numbers in this concluding
episode of a trilogy).
The most daring and, to my mind,
successful introduction is the Ewok race, a
band of gritty teddy bears who help the Rebels
on Endor. This whole idea could have failed
abysmally and brought the film crashing with
it, but once more George Lucas demonstrates
his gift for entertaining without insulting the
intelligence 'of his audience. The Ewoks are
genuinely convincing, even though they look
like furry midgets, and I'm amazed that the film
makers managed to pull this particular idea off
at all.
So, there is no doubt that Return of the Jedi
is more-of-the-same and better for those who
have enjoyed the previous two films. It ties up
many loose ends to varying degrees of
satisfaction (oh yes, I have avoided revealing
several major revelations in the plot!) and has a
satisfying up-beat ending itself. And judging by
the way it is already smashing box office
records (yes, even those of ET) both here and
in America, I hardly feel I need recommend it
anyway.
So, until the next episode, may the Force be
with you.
Mark Smith
Luke Skywalker and Chewbacca hanging around on Endor.
Page 20 • • • • • • • ^ • ^ ^ • ^ • • • M June 16,19831 I FELIX

