Bond Wagon
Rolls On
Octopussy, cert P G , starring Roger
Moore, directed by John Glen, now
playing at Odeon Leicester Square.
Once again it is time for Ian Fleming to do one
of his perennial rotations in his grave as
another of his crime thrillers gets the
Hollywood treatment. Indeed this treatment
has reached such a point now that the end
product has little in common with the original
plot. In the credits we find that George
MacDonald Fraser, Richard Maibaum and
Michael G Wilson are responsible for the
'screen story and screenplay' and the name of
Ian Fleming is revered and then forgotten.
Nothing wrong in all this, but it does make the
carping over Never Say Never Again a bit
hypocritical. There has been a court case over
this rival production brought by Fleming's
trustees and MGM/UA who contend that this
is a misuse of the rights which were sold to the
rival company, ie the rights to Thunderball.
However, we can all rest a little easier with the
knowledge that some American justices have
their heads screwed on: the case was thrown
out of court; Never Say Never Again will be
with us just before Christmas.
Anyway, what about Octopussy. What is
there to say but that this is real vintage
escapist stuff in The Spy Who Loved Me and
For Your Eyes Only mould? The gadgets, the
chases, the spies, the murders, the double-
crosses and the women. Most particularly the
women—there are an awful lot of them. The
Octopussy of the title is the leader of an
ancient order of female bandits revived for the
purposes of a spot of dirty dealing. This gives
the ideal excuse for Bond's natural habitat: an
island populated exclusively by dangerous
women ready for conquering in his own
inimitable style. There are the usual band of
male villians bent on the denial of his perfectly
natural conjugal rights by shooting him, knifing
him, sawing him in two and trying to remove
him from the economy class section without
the courtesy of a parachute. Of course these
numerous attempts on his life result in the
ruffling of his hair and the untimely demise of
the creases in his trousers, but one has to put
up with such hardships.
Whatever you may say about Roger Moore
(and to his credit he has never claimed to be
much of an actor) he is a superlative Bond.
Sean Connery has said that while in his Bond,
the humour comes out of the character, with
Moore, the character comes out of the
humour. This is possibly true and probably
unimportant, but we will have a chance to
judge with Connery in Never Say Never
Again. It is difficult to say when humour
started to be injected into Bond, but over the
years the tongue has been wedged more and
more firmly into the check; perhaps it may
soon have to be re-categorised under
adventure-comedy a la Gene Wilder. The Man
With The Golden Gun marked the turning
point with the introduction of Jaws as the
manic molybdenum molar man accelerating
the fall. However, any genre must move with
the times and evolve in order to survive, rather
like Dr Who.
Playing the title role, Maud Adams, who
played an illfated role as the mobsters moll in
Man With The Golden Gun, is fascinating and
deadly by degrees, but of course puts up little
defence to the amorous eye brow lifting Bond
who sweeps her off her tentacles..
There is also an appearance by Vijay
Amritraj who portrays a playboy tennis-playing
contact, and of course we have the perennial
'A' and 'M' without whom Bond would not be
Bond.
The stunts, chases and fights are well done
and imaginative; it is difficult after so many
Bonds (fourteen so far) to invent more
variations on a theme but there are some
amusing twists which are well worth waiting for
and their superb finesse and polish really
makes the finished product shine.
The bare skeleton of plot on which all the
action hangs is somewhat thin and rather
pointless. It concerns East-West detente,
CND, and other contemporary issues which
really have no place in this kind of film. In an
effort to make the film up to date, the film
succeeds merely in dangerous trivialisation. It
makes one long for the simple days when Bond
merely had to foil the dastardly plot of some
supercriminal bent on world domination/
destruction. Bring back SPECTRE and dump
the KGB!
But this is a minor blemish on an otherwise
spotless surface—plot is never paramount in
such a film. Don't let this spoil you're
enjoyment of a damn good, entertaining and
thoroughly sexist film.
Lee Paddon
Something
Missing
The Year of Living Dangerously, cert PG,
directer Peter Weir, Plaza.
This is a film I had been looking forward to.
The pedigree looked good: Peter Weir is the
finest Australian director, he was responsible
for Picnic at Hanging Rock; Mel 'Mad Max'
Gibson, one of Australia's best actors, plays
Guy Hamilton, a journalist—and journalism is
a profession close to my heart. Unfortunately I
have to admit I was disappointed; it's a film
that promised a lot, but in the end rather failed
to deliver.
It is set in the political turmoil of Indonesia in
1965; they have kicked out the Imperialists and
have gained independence, but have lost their
scapegoat for the starvation and poverty of
most of the population. Civil war is brewing
and the situation is tense.
Into this explosive atmosphere comes Guy
Hamilton from the Sydney Herald on his first
assignment as a foreign correspondent. He is
ambitious and sees this as his big break, if he
blows it he'll be back on the city desk for ever.
After a shaky start he becomes a member of
the ex-patriate set and manages to assimulate
something of the plight and background of the
people of the country as seen through the eyes
of a natives (Linda Hunt) who decides to adopt
Guy and be his photographer.
The obligatory love interest in supplied in
the shapely form of Sigourney Weaver who
plays a British Embassy attache, Jill Bryant.
The last time we saw Miss Weaver she was
battling against unwelcome extra terrestrial
hitchhikers in Alien; this time she has the odd
ugly confrontation with rather more human
but equally deadly inhabitants of Jakarta. This
is however a far better role for her as this time
she does more than push buttons, ask dumb
questions and scream a lot, but her American
accent was a bit offputting; possibly Aussies
can't tell the difference.
Although I found the film as a whole a little
disappointing, there are some fine perfor-
mances: Guy Hamilton stands out. He
develops from an idealistic journalist daunted
by the responsibility of his job to a reckless
daredevil of limitless ambition. Linda Hunt
plays his native photographer who is saddened
by the change in Guy and the plight of the
people of the country—a nicely downbeat
tragic role. There are some well made scenes
of angry crowds on the march and the tension vj
and tautness of the camera work is reminr^j
scent of Costa Guervers' Missing. All .the
components are there, but for some reason
the total is less than the sum of the parts—the
feel is wrong.
Still, not a bad film by any means and one
I'm sure will consolidate Peter Weir's high
reputation and do the Australian film industry
nothing but good.
Lee Paddon
FELIXI [June 16,1983 Page 21

