IREVIEWSI
Roll over Fauldgate and tell Beethoven the news.
Unbearably
Pompous
Critics
Beethoven's Tenth by Peter Ustinov,
directed by Robert Chetwyn, Vaudeville
Theatre.
The curtain rises on an extremely elegant
and smart interior. It is the living room of
Stephen Fauldgate (Robin Bailey). Mr
Fauldgate is an eminent music critic whose
special study outside the contemporary scene
is Beethoven. He is fastidious in his choice of
words. Unfortunately he is also unbearably
pompous and overflowing with self importance.
His son, Pascal (Reece Dinsdale) complains of
his 'writings of intolerable pretension'. Pascal is
a 22-year-old aspiring composer who 'writes
facile symphonies in menacing profusion'—
according to his dad. His works are 'tepid,
vapid and trivial'. (Father and son are at odds,
you see.) Mr Fauldgate's wife (played by Dilys
Laye) is a former mezzo-soprano who gave up
her career to make peace between her two
men. The other member of the household is
Irmgard (Clare Higgins), an Austrian au pair,
whose childhood was spent with Beethoven's
death mask over her cot and whose pocket-
money was spent attending concerts of his
music.
During a family quarrel, Fraulein Irmgard
closes her eyes, clenches her fists, and with
germanic determination exclaims 'I vish
Beethoven vere here. I—vish—Beethoven—
vere—here.' Immediately there is a knock on
the door. A large and very old figure enters. It is
Herr Beethoven. His appearance is alarming:
shuffling gait and badly stooping, shabby old
clothes, anarchic hair and restless jowls. He
mutters German.
Peter Ustinov plays the maestro in this his
new play. Mr Ustinov, as one would guess, is
superbly suited to this role. A very talented
actor, playwright, novelist, linguist and above
all a master of impersonation of the European
character, Ustinov lends a very humorous and
clever performance. Beethoven's Tenth is
inventive, honest and human and rather than
follow a single line or pursue a particular idea,
the play instead airs a diversity of Ustinovian
philosophy. However, the play does home in
on three things: an homage and an apology to
Beethoven, a savage attack on art critics, and
a look at the family.
Mr Ustinov thinks that the critics have been
extremely unkind to Beethoven. Although the
maestro is enormously appreciated by the
world at large, it is pointed out by Mr Ustinov
that the professional critics do not regard
Beethoven as a 'real' musician! This is largely
due to their ignorance of the maestro's
character and so in the play Mr Ustinov
attempts to put across this omission. He is
trying to settle scores with the critics.
Herr Beethoven keeps up a fair pressure
against critics. He complains to Mr Fauldgate,
who fancies he knows more about him than he
does of himself, that we tend to over-scrutinise
and over-intellectualise what should give us
unselfconscious joy, and on a note of
exasperation, complains of scholars and
historians who 'analyse the urine in your
chamberpot' to 'try to find out your darkest
secrets'. When Mr Fauldgate gives his son's
F E L I X H H H B ^ H m
manuscripts to Beethoven to pass judgement
on them the maestro declines, saying he has
no right to do such a thing, and claiming a
judgement of 'right' or 'wrong' is often
unapplicable. 'Zere are many truths. Each has
its own integrity' he claims.
Herr Beethoven is also clearly taken aback
by the modern world in which he finds himself.
He eyes with incredulity tubular chairs,
records and cassette players, and is appalled
by the world of cars, traffic lights and hideously
garish lights 'shpelling out ze vord humburger.'
The maestro spends several days in the
household, during which time he offers advice
on family matters. We also see him as an
Cordon
Bleugh
b y t h e
G a l l o p i n g G o u r m a n d
Even in a city like London where there are
restaurants to cater for every conceivable
minority, it is unusual to find an establishment
which deals exclusively with true Cordon
Bleugh cuisine. How refreshing, then, to find
the Chateau Grot in Cromwell Road (opposite
the Cromwellian) just in time for a post-exam
celebration meal.
Starters were chosen from a list which
included caviar and strawberry mousse,
smoked salmon sundae and melon boats
served with custard and grated nutmeg.
However, the grilled avocado mornay is highly
recommended.
In the main courses, the versatility and
originality of the menu can only be compared
with the skill with which traditional and novel
June 16,1983 ^ K H M
intensely religious man, but not lacking in
mirth. The local priest comes round and is
surprised to see that Herr Beethoven is both a
Christian and a pagan at the same time. He
wonders how this is possible. 'Ven I am in a
good mood I am a Christian. Und ven I am in a
bad mood I am a pagan. Zat vay I can't
blaspheme.'
The play is very amusing and very
interesting and is well worth a visit. It also
offers a chance of witnessing Mr Ustinov on
stage, which is a very rare thing—a great pity
since he is such a marvellous talent.
Nick Bedding
dishes are prepared and served. Old favourites
like liver meringue pie and rhubarb and kidney
crumble were evidently greatly enjoyed by
other customers. A word with the wajter
revealed some of the secrets of the house
speciality, Squid a l'Ancien. Mashed beetroot
is combined in a blender with cornflower and
caraway seed and then simmered until thick.
Beaten egg is added and the mixture
refrigerated. The squid, meanwhile, is cut into
long strips and deep fried in batter, and served
with the sauce and a generous helping of deep-
fried cucumber and lettuce. The spices used to
produce the strangely evocative flavour
remain a mystery.
An amazing selection of wines is on offer,
including rare vintages from all over the world.
Owing to the nature of the occasion, a little-
known champagne, Veuve Clouseau, was
chosen. This wine has a fragrance which will
clear the stuffiest nose while the full-bodied
flavour is excellent for sore throats.
And so to the desserts. Old favourites like
Black Forest Gateau with steaming hot tomato
sauce vie for attention with swede and mango
sorbet. In the end I chose a portion of prawn
and spinach cheesecake.
Coffee was served with chocolate-coated
after dinner mince and the bill for two people
left enough change from £20 to catch a taxi to
the nearest hospital.
•iiMiiBiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiittii r11IJ i

