WAIKABOUT-
LOOKSEE
by Mobile Optics Inc.
If the 'Walkabout-Looksee' column has
achieved nothing else this year, I hope that it's
provided sufficient evidence to justify Mobile
Optics Inc' love for the V&A. I was there again
last week in a mood of self-indulgence, not
quite by chance, but to witness the re-opening
of the Museum's Dress Collection.
Restoration and Conservation
The huge gallery of the old Costume Court has
been closed for five years for repair, involving
extensive roof works, and refurbishment.
Some of the clothes now on show had
previously been displayed, untouched, for
twenty years. They, and others from the
museum's store, have been painstakingly
restored and are now re-displayed in
showcases designed to conserve them as well
as show them off: they are ventilated by
'breather' units which filter out the dust and
gaseous air pollutants responsible for the
deterioration of fragile textiles; and illuminated
by tungsten spotlights at low light intensity, to
prolong the"exhibits' life.
IREVIEWSI
The art of dressing
The study of dress has undergone a major
revolution. Gone are the anecdotal period
tableaux: fashion is now taken seriously. The
fashionable aspirations of a period are as much
a reflection of society as painting, literature
and music. Dress is thus an essential
ingredient of a lifestyle and can be treated as
an art form in its own right.
The V&A costume collection is huge and
glorious. The display includes over 200 figures
from the early 17th century to the present, and
ends with a flourish in 1983, with a Tommy
Nutter suit and Margaret Howell's cottons and
linens.
Who should visit?
The fashion-conscious will need no per-
suading. Those who never notice new
shoes/dress/etc, and even less appreciate
understated elegance, might still enjoy the
underwear cases (!)—boned, tight-laced
corsets to define a neat waist and uplift the
bust; lace-trimmed pantaloons and bloomers,
for a grown up Little Miss Muffet.
The collection is presented in terms of
fabric, cut and style. The fashionable
silhouette characteristic of each period derives
not only from the clothes, but from the choice
of accessories, the way the hair is dressed, and
the way the figure stands, and we are treated
to a spectacular display of period styles. But the
mannequins are immobile and expressionless.
As such an essential ingredient is missing, and
we can only guess at the formality or natural
grace of the figures' movements.
Where? When? £?
The Dress Collection is part of the Victoria and
Albert Museum's permanent collection, and so
free. The museum is open Mon-Thurs and Sat
10:00-17:50; Sun 14:30-17:50.
Dressing gown worn by Thomas Coutts (1735-
1822), founder of Coutts Bank.
From Barrow to Brighton, from Abingdon to
Ashby-de-la-Zouch wherever you go, you will
inevitably stumble across that most un-English
of English institutions—the Indian restaurant.
Almost without exception it will be
empty—how they manage to make enough
money to keep the army of immaculate clad
waiters in bow-ties is an enigma which is to
great mysteries as the Rubik Cube is to the
Sun Junior Crossword.
Yet the greatest mystery of all is that these
generally excellent establishments are not
packed out with eager disciples of the
vindaloo or crazed addicts craving for their
daily fix of prawn dhansaak. For a start, prices
tend to be very reasonable—repletion can be
achieved in most for under £5 per head.
Service is usually very good. The burger house
norm of plate loads of food being plonked in
front of you is not the way of the Indian
restaurant. Instead it's all 'silver service', coats
taken, doors held and thank you very much.
Most important of all is the food, which
offers a wide range of exotic and exciting
tastes.
The most likely explanation of the apparent
lack of enthusiasm for Indian food is that most
people don't know how to get the best out of
an Indian restaurant. Confronted by an
enormous list of meaningless names,
unadventurous folk might opt for the starter,
main course, dessert approach which is
unlikely to prove satisfactory. To enjoy Indian
food you need to understand the menu and be
adventurous.
There are two basic types of menu. The
least expensive is usually the one which
consists of long lists of dishes categorised
under meat dishes, chicken dishes, fish dishes,
sundries and so on. In the more expensive
restaurants, the menus offer fewer dishes but
each is described in glowing terms which give
you no idea at all of what it is going to taste
like.
Most restaurants offer Tandoori dishes
which are supposed to be cooked in a special
clay oven, although one suspects that in many
cases the clay oven is a figment of the menu
writer's imagination. Tandoori dishes are very
different from curries and tend to be rather
dry.
Another type of dish is the Biriany which is a
rice dish. (For most other dishes, you have to
order the rice separately.) Sometimes birianys
are served with a vegetable curry, but if not, it
is wise to order one as a biriany is a rissotto
type dish which does not have a sauce of its
own. Most of the other main dishes come
under the general heading of curries although
they vary tremendously. For example the
dreaded pahl, hotter even than a vindaloo is
approximately eight times as hot as a standard
curry and apart from being virtually inedible
produces unfortunate and very painful after
effects!
At the other end of the scale, a Kurma is
mildly spicy and suitable for the most delicate
tastes.
An essential accompaniment to Indian food
is the wide range of breads. Costing between
25p and 80p they are an inexpensive way of
ensuring satisfaction for even the most
rapacacious appetite. The main types are Nan
which is a tandoori bread and is available
stuffed with meat, vegetables or fruit. Puree is
flaky and a little greasy, Porota and Chapati
are likely chewy pancakes. Pappadoms are
light and crispy. Of these, plain nan and
pappadoms are generally the best value.
If you are rather dubious about Indian
food—try the following combination as a
gentle introduction.
While perusing the menu, order a pint of
lager (wine doesn't really go) and a couple of
pappadoms each and (if you are feeling
adventurous) some Bombay Duck better
described as dried fish.
In due course order onion bhajees as a
starter. Unlike most bhajees which are a sort
of spicy vegetable stew, an onion bhajee is a
ball of deep fried onions and batter served with
a yoghurt based dip.
For the main course try a fairly mild curry
with pilau rice and some nan together with any
other inexpensive side dishes which might
appeal. This should be a more than sufficient
repast which is probably a good thing since
Indian puddings tend to be rather sickly.
At this point, you will, of course, be wanting
to rush out and tuck into an Indian. The
nearest venue is the Aladin at the bottom of
Exhibition Road. Although this restaurant has
been slated in successive editions of the Union
Handbook, it is actually fairly good, although
the onion bhajees are disappointing. South
Kensington and Knightsbridge have a high
proportion of the expensive type, an excellent
example being the Tandoori of Chelsea at 153
Fulham Road. Although you can expect to pay
£25 for two for the whole works, the food there
is really excellent. Just opposite Earls Court
Underground in Hogarth Road is the New Asia
where you can expect to get away with a fiver
a head including a pint of lager.
The area around the Drayton Arms in Old
Brompton Road is an excellent spot in that a
couple of beers at the Drayton can be followed
by a meal at any one of three reasonably
priced Indian restaurants within a radius of fifty
yards—a perfect recipe for a summer's
evening.
FELIX is published by the Editor lor and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit Prince Consort Road. London S W7 2BK
Tet 01-589 5111 Ext 1048 or Internal 2881. Editor: Martin S Taylor; Business Manager. Peter A Rodgers; Advertising Manager: N,ck Thexton. Copyr,3 h< FELIX 1983

