CBS Proudly Present
fun!
THANK HEAVENS FOR
LITTLE GIRLS
Women were again much in the news this
year.
Can you answer these extremely carefully
worded questions on women?
1. Who need virgins to become social?
2. Who needed a woman for the holiday?
3. Who wanted a hand in altering pin-ups of
women?
4. Who left us, but didn't get a rose for her
pains?
5. Who, by 'wowing the lads in Mechanical
Engineering' won a ride?
6. Why did somebody want to feed the
virgin?
7. Who was taken as a hostage for Mary?
8. Who arrived in January, and was
immediately described as 'efficient and hard-
working—not at all suitable for the job'?
This years News Quiz has been set in rather a huriy-I still haven'tfinishedmy exams,
and consequently haven't had as much time to spend on it as I would have liked.
Nevertheless, I think youll get the most out of this quiz if two or three of you see how
much of it you can do, rather than individually pondering over it. Good luck, and have
QUOTES
Interspersed with the rest of the questions are
photographs of eleven well-known people,
together with a quote made by each of them in
FELIX over the year. Each quote has been
taken well out of context, and matched to a
face. Who made which quote (and 1 apologise
in advance to those offended by the quote with
which they have been connected)?
Michael Newman
7 have no doubt that Mary will feel moved to
reveal all'
Christine Teller, ICU Deputy President-elect
'What is a sausage?'
Martin S Taylor, FELIX Editor
7 am sometimes'
SMALL ADS
Small Ads have proved a constant source of
amusement to many people. Even if you may
not understand the joke behind the ad, try
these to test your knowledge of current non-
events.
1. What was the last thing available from
the Welfare Officer?
2. Where was the scar on the second year
chemist who was on Sugarloaf. What was his
actual discipline?
3. What were the imitations of Jon Barnett?
4. What inanimate animal did the STOIC
secretary want?
5. What did the FELIX News Editor thrice
' deny involvement in?
6. Who did Pussycat advocate that we
should screw (final version)?
7. What was X of Paris otherwise known
as?
8. Against who, according to the Small Ads,
did Physics Wanderers first suffer defeat?
VIEWS AND
REVEIWS
Who said, of what, in a review featured in
FELIX:
1. '...every time someone gets on a horse
the orchestral soundtrack wheezes back into
cliched 'riding boldly' format. It reminded me
of a two hour title sequence performed by a
cast of characterless dummies.'
2. 'One is tempted to recall the words of the
Victorian poet and naturalist, Stanley
Rumbold Meadows who died in tragic
obscurity:
'Words more thrusting than the hind legs of
the South American dung beetle.'
3. He 'burst upon the stage shrieking at the
top of his hoarse voice like a distraught
warthog eyeing a stampede of rhinoceros
approaching in all earnestness.'
4. 'It may well be that Spaghetti alia
Carbonara is meant to turn out as greasy
spaghetti with bacon scraps, but this
observation is of no consolation whatsoever to
the hapless diner...'
5. 'Faced with the tiring business of all that
humping again and deciding that the old ticker
just wouldn't take it, he invented the whole
spurious sub-plot fdr himself which has
absolutely nothing to do with the rest of the
film...'
6. 'My other film's theme isn't cruelty,
unless it's cruelty to the reviewer. If it wasn't
for the jolly nice seats in the review cinema and
a misplaced sense of duty to you, dear reader,
I'd have joined the rush for the door...'
Paul Simion
'Imperial College will
not survive after the
recession.'
J Martin Taylor
7 am...a Reactionary
Capitalist'

