MOVES
1. What event moved from Oxford Street to
Kings Road?
2. What body was thinking of moving from
Prince Consort Road to Watts Way?
3. What was at Chelsea, and meant to be
split up and taken all over London?
4. What's long and thin and goes round
Britain at an average speed of 20mph?
5. Who made a motion from a UGM after a
motion in a UGM?
6. Why did a bed and a Waitrose trolley
containing a sleeping bag run around in
Princes Gardens?
7. Who left the bar after a disagreement
about money?
8. Who made it from London to Brighton
with five minutes to spare?
9. Who left for Greenland?
Jon Barnett, ICU Welfare Officer
There is no justification for preventing right-
minded adults from doing whatever they
please.'
Lord Flowers, 7 never liked Mary from the start.' Stephen Goulder 7 am not organising a rent
strike.' John Smith, 'Our nature is one of violence, and therefore we are not responsible for the
present appalling situation.'
Can you identify the six photographs around the edge of this montage (they have
all appeared in FELIX at one time, although one of them is from last year) and
name the three faces joined together in the middle?
Magnus Pyke
'Members of the executive are psychotic'
VISITORS
A lot of very important people visited IC this
year. Test your general knowledge
1. Who claimed that Britain is slowly
bleeding to death by exporting its capital?
2. Who came to tell us about the £25
minimum grant?
3. Who wanted to legislate in such a way as
to allow for the disclosure of detailed financial
information (no, not Roy Francis)!?
4. Who spoke on Fare's Fair, Tory Policy
and Civil Defence.
5. Who charged Margaret Thatcher with
deliberately and cold-bloodedly provoking an
unnecessary war with Argentina?
6. Who claimed that the failure to solve
many of the world's social and economic
problems was due to a paralysis of world
leadership?
7. Who would be the last person to oppose
further industrial action?
Adrian James, FELIX News Editor
'Outside these walls, they are savages!'
HEADING FOR
TROUBLE
Headlines were, for the FELIX staff, a cause of
amusement (apart from some slight quibbles
from the News Editor, Adrian James). What
stories came below these headlines?
1. UGM Sanctions Smut
2. CCUs NET CASH — After Gross Tactics
by Council Members.
3. Brian Turns The Screw
4. Welfare Officer Posts A Brick
5. Wet from Bath
Answers on Page 25

