FELIX: What does the job of Union
President involve?
SG: Briefly speaking, it is an administrative
and representational job to ensure the Union
runs effectively for twelve months to
represent the views of the Union determined
through UGMs to .College and external
bodies. The job also entails coordinating
the work of Union representatives on
committees and to formulate overall policy.
Briefly, that's it. There are many many
minor tasks which would probably bore the
readers of FELIX.
FELIX: What were your objectives at the
start of the year?
SG: To ensure the Union ran effectively and
to fully represent the views of its students to
College and to other bodies, and to allow
ordinary students access to as many facilities
as possible.
.FELIX: One of your main achievements this
year, of course, has been the systematic
dismantling of RCSU, your own CCU, are
you proud of this?
SG: I entirely reject that I had as an
objective the dismantling of RCSU. RCS
destroyed itself from within. I have not
taken an anti-CCU attitude. Possibly in the
case of RCS I may have taken a series of
positions which may be construed to be in
opposition to CCUs. However I would be
the first to say that C&GU and RSMU have
both worked effectively to represent their
membership quite capably this year. It has
only been RCS that has been found to be in
a state of moral decay. I certainly don't
accept that RCSU is a victim of a vendetta
from IC Union. We simply addressed
ourselves to its own internal collapse.
FELIX: It must have come as a great blow to
lose a Deputy President at the start of the
year and then to have an Honorary
Secretary resign in the first term.
SG: Yes
. F E L I X : How would you judge Andy
Grimshaw's performance compared to
Mary's?
SG: Andy is a far more likeable chap than
Mary. He shares some of Mary's problems
in that he was flung in at the deep end. He
did make a more conscious attempt to learn
the job. Any shortcomings he may have stem
from having been flung in from the deep
end. He did the best he could under the
circumstances.
FELIX: Can I ask you about the argument
that flared up between yourself and Andy
recently?
SG: It was an unfortunate situation that
centred around a particular Gestetner that
had been left in the Union Office for two and
a half terms. Mike Bartlett from C&GU
came up to the Union Office looking for a
Gestetner and pointed to one in the corner
of the Union Office. It had been there one
and a half terms. I wasn't aware of why it
should be there so I said if you want it take it
away; it seems to be performing no useful
purpose here. A couple of weeks later at a
refectory committee working lunch Frank
Rowsell happened to mention to Andy that
this Gestetner was working very well. Andy
hadn't realised that it had actually gone and
after lunch we had an, er...argument over
the circumstances of its removal. It was an
understandable error on my part.
FELIX: Is it true that you were so angry
after the whole incident that you threatened
in your own words, 'to nut the bastard'?
SG: Well, uncharacteristically I became
drunk out of my mind. It always pays to
clear rather than let pent up frustrations
cloud the atmosphere of the office.
FELIX: Do you get drunk often?
SG: It is a question of degree. I can only
think of three or four times I have been
quite that drunk. The consumption of
alcohol in its many and various forms is one
of the aspects of the job of President.
FELIX: What do you think of next year's
sabbaticals?
SG: Sean Davis does suffer from the
handicaps of his predecessors in being
distinctly uninvolved in the Union prior to_
Pallab Ghosh, FELIX Editor-elect, shows the
full extent of his journalistic capability.
Page S H H H E H I H H ^ B H H B H H H
An Audience
with the
President
Pallab Ghosh questions Steve
Goulder's performance
•••••••••••••••••••••••••••<
his election. This will be insuperable unless
he takes steps over the summer to get to
know his job. Of the three sabbatical officers
Christine is the most capable and very
talented. I'm sure she will do a very
professional job. However her drawbacks
stem from the fact that next year will be her
fifth year as a student at Imperial College
and I think she will have problems in that
she may not have a complete idea of what
people four years her junior really want. I
think she ought to allow them some say in
the running of the Union. Gaynor may have
a problem in keeping Christine in check. She
will have to keep control. It would be easy by
default to allow Christine too much rein.
However Gaynor has been involved in
Mines Union which has given her experience
in dealing with other people. One can never
tell how anyone will perform until the first
week of term. This is the make or break
time.
FELIX: Jen Hardy-Smith has described you
as one of the most stylish Presidents she has
worked for. Would you like to comment on
this.
SG: Modesty forbids, but of course it's true.
FELIX: Has serving champagne regularly
out of the Union Office 'slush fund'
anything to do with your popularity
amongst the staff?
• • • • June 1 6 , 1 9 8 3 « « B " i
The President shows the absence of hairs in
the palm of his hand. '
— :
SG: Well. I think that is a blanket comment
that I would slightly disagree with. Of course
on retirements and special occasions we do
serve champagne in the office.
FELIX: How much weight have you gained
this year?
SG: In my first three months of my
Presidency I actually lost a lot of weight.
After Mary Freeman resigned I proceeded to
put it all back on, and by Christmas my
weight had increased by a stone.
FELIX: Could you tell me a little bit about
the INCOST Conference you attended in
Holland recently?
SG: I enjoyed it immensely. INCOST is the
international conference of science and
technology students and is held at various
venues in Europe. Representatives of
technology students of each member
country are invited. It is basically a venue to
promote good contacts between those
people who will be involved in industry with
their counterparts across Europe.
FELIX: You didn't promote very good
contacts when you threw up over one of the
Finnish delegates!
SG: Well that's life. It was hardly an act of
international aggression. They got a far
better impression of the British delegates the
evening before.
FELIX: I understand that both yourself and
Jim Boucher, who went with you visited the
red light district in Amsterdam while you
were over there.
SG: (pause) You're not going to print this
are you?
FELIX: Yes
SG: Er...I refuse to confirm or deny such a
rumour.
FELIX: Don't you feel at all guilty about
bonking at the Unions expense?
SG: Of what?
FELIX: Bonking.
SG: I don't understand the term.
FELIX: You know, getting your end away.
SG: Certa...well...that um, certainly not!
FELIX: After the first of July you will be a
normal human being once more. Do you
have any plans for the future?
SG: I shall attempt to find gainful
employment over the summer after which I
shall be undertaking an MSc in biochemical
engineering at University College and then
into the industry of biotechnology. Oh, and
to be Prime Minister in fifty years time.
FELIX: Thank you very much Steve. I'm
sure FELIX would like to wish you all the
best for the future.
• H H M H M H F E L I X

