A M N E S T Y INTERNATIONAL
Syrian Campaign
As you are sitting here reading this,
someone, somewhere in the world, is
screaming out in agony while being
beaten. Can you imagine the pain
he/she is going through? If you want
to do something, please read on.
Torture is illegal in Syria. It is
prohibited by international covenants
to which Syria is a party.
Nevertheless anyone suspected of
opposing the Syrian Government risks
torture at the hands of the country's
security forces.
For many years, Amnesty Inter-
national has received reports that
political prisoners are systematically
tortured and ill-treated by Syrian
security forces. People arrested or
abducted by the security forces in
those areas of Lebanon under Syrian
control have described tortures
similar to those suffered by detainees
in Syria. The use of extensive powers
of arbitrary arrest and detention
conferred on the security forces by a
state of emergency which has been in
force in Syria since 1963 provides the
main context in which torture takes
place. These powers have been
grossly abused. The various branches
of the security forces have seized
people at will, without warrants,
without any explanation of why they
are being arrested and without
reference to any central authority, and
held them incommunicado for long
periods, in some cases for years. It
is during such incommunicado
detention that most prisoners are
reported to have been tortured.
Brutal methods of torture at the
hands of the Syrian security forces
have been described to Al. One, the
Syrian Chair, involves the use of a
metal chair to which the victim is
bound by the hands and the feet. The
chair's backrest is then bent
backwards, causing acute stress to the
spine. Meanwhile metal blades fixed
to the chair's front legs cut into the
victim's ankles. People tortured in the
Syrian Chair are said to have suffered
fractured vertebrae and near
back or chest with a sharp hot metal
rod; plucking hair or skin with
pincers/pliers; extracting finger and
toe nails...the list goes on.
Detainees are tortured to make
them 'confess' or to incriminate
others. Some are tortured as a
punishment for protesting about their
detention without charge or trial,
Torture method known as the 'Guillotine'; the blade stops just short of the
victim's neck.
strangulation. Al has received
descriptions of over 35 different
methods of torture, excluding the
routine beatings. For example, 'Bisat
al-Rih' (flying carpet): strapping the
victim to a piece of wood shaped like
a human body and either beating
him/her or applying electric shocks
all over the body; placing pieces of
cotton wool soaked in petrol on
various parts of the body and setting
them alight; piercing the victim's
This drawing illustrates a method known as the 'Flying Spider', reportedly
used in Anjar detention centre in Lebanon. Victims are suspendedfrom the
ceiling by their hands and feet and beaten on their backs.
often for many years. Others are
tortured in order to force them to sign
statements renouncing their political
views. Relatives of political prisoners
have been taken hostage and tortured
to try and make the prisoners
'confess' or give information. Others
have been taken prisoner and tortured
for information about a relative who
was wanted by the security forces. A
number are reported to have died in
prison in recent years. Some are said
to have died as a result of torture
during interrogation, or through
routine ill-treatment and appalling
conditions of imprisonment.
The Imperial College group will be
part of a worldwide campaign against
these human rights abuses. If you
would like to join us, come to our
meetings (Tuesdays, 5.30pm, Brown
Committee Room) or contact Guy
Sims or Monique Yeo (both of Maths
2).
Don't just be horrified by man's
inhumanity to man, join in the fight
against it!
ISLAMIC
Instinct and
Intellect
God gave man a spiritual instinct, a
desire to revere something greater
than man's own self. Throughout
history we find people worshipping
something—God, idols, the sun,
water, or even other men.
However, God did not leave us the
emotionally-based spiritual instinct
alone by which to discover our
creator. God also gave man intellect,
which should guide us to the proper
path. Without its guidance, instinct
may cause man to worship fire or
stones, a result of low level thought.
Thus God made Islam to be
accepted intellectually, not as a blind
faith. Many verses of the Qu'ran give
rational arguments for the existence
of the one true God; unfortunately
space is too short to quote any.
Only after the muslim is
intellectually convinced that God is
alone the creator and worthy of
worship, that Mohammad (may peace
be upon him) is the Prophet of God
and that the Qu'ran is from God, can
he submit himself to the will of God.
But that will be enlightened
obedience, not blind obedience.
Imtiaz Z Malik (EE2)
Chairman of the Tuesday Circle
ROCK
Music
Rock Society, the newest society at
Imperial, has a simple aim: to bring
together people who enjoy rock music
in any of its forms. We will be
arranging trips to gigs (including
regular pilgrimages to the Marquee),
holding rock discos and concerts in
College, and showing rock-related
films and videos.
We also intend to forge links with
other colleges such as Goldsmiths and
.UCL; the new ULU rock society
should be big enough to hold concerts
featuring well-known bands.
IC Rock Soc's first event will be
a 'Sixties and Seventies Disco' for
Rag Week, to be held in Southside
Upper Lounge on Saturday 23rd
November. So come along and
support us and Rag.
As with any new club, there is
plenty of scope for (polite)
suggestions, so come and make them.
Meetings are in Southside Upper
Lounge every Monday lunchtime.
18 Friday November 13th 1987 FELIX

