iKdLdtr^r
J i X
e r s
in
ANNOUNCEMENTS
• Tug of War—come and pull for
Guilds at 11am in Prince's Gardens.
Sunday 15th.
• Slave Auction ME 220, 12.45pm,
Tuesday 17th.
• Drink a cup of tea for Rag—The
world's best tea at the Sri Lankan stall.
JCR, Fri 13th, Sat 14th and Tue 17th.
• Yuppies wanted—to swell the ranks
of the ULU Finance Society. Contact
Gehan de Silva Wijeyeratne or John D
Doyle (Civ Eng 3).
• Join the Linstead Life Fan Club—the
most exclusive society in College
• All those wishing to take part in the
RCS 1,000,001 down darts during Rag
Week should collect sponsorship forms
from the RCS Office or Dave Burns
(Physics 2) from today onwards. All
standards of spear chuckers wanted.
• The RCS Motor Club The Godiva
Run'. If College gives Motor Club
£1,000 for Rag, Jez will circumnavigate
Hyde Park with 13 daring members.
Donations to S J Bell (Physics 21 or
RCS Office asap
• I am looking for somebody who can
guide me around the V&A, Science and
Natural History Museums. Payment of
£5 offered. Hans Hasek, Hopfenstr. 67,
708 Aalen, West Germany.
• ICNAC-Working in the USA is
possible with BUNAC. Weekly meeting
in the JCR.
• YupSoc—Anyone with Barbours,
stripey shirts and brogues, interested in
forming an upwardly mobile society
contact Basil Heaney (ME 3). Make sure
you've got your filos to arrange a date.
• Need a professional disco? Top sound
and lighting effects, as seen during
Freshers' Week. Special student rates.
Contact Vince Roper 381 5388.
• For a professional disco sound, hire
solar winds. Cheap rates for all student
and charity parties. Contact Hans Beier
870 8112.
• The Wine Tasting Society presents a
very mysterious tasting...Union SCR,
Tuesday 6pm.
FOR SALE
• V Reg Daihatsu Charade XG,
1000cc, LHD, cream, good condition,
12 months MOT, 6 months tax, stereo,
sun roof, £800. Tel 01 385 7477
• BBC Micro computer, Model B (32k
and interfacesl, DFS and 40 track 100k
d/drive Software: 150-Pascal (Acornl, S-
Pascal Worldwise, user guide, advance
user guide, BASIC II user guide, Acorn
graphs and charts, disk and book,
assembly language programming and
disassembler, three types of screen
dumps (EPSON), £275 ono. Contact A
Churchill (Solid State Physics) int 6925.
Letters to the Editor
Slave labour
Dear Judith,
I am writing to warn your readers about the dangers
of working as a Manager for the Imperial College Summer
Lettings Scheme.
I worked as the Day Manager of Beit Hall over this
Summer—six days a week, eight and a half hours a day,
for which I was paid £2 per hour and given a room in
Beit Hall. I frequently exceeded these hours mainly due
to being woken at 6.30am on my day off by a resident
for some trivial reason.
In addition to my basic wage, I was contractually entitled
to a bonus of £100 for working the whole scheme, and
a further sum up to £200 for generally being a good boy.
Most other Managers in the scheme totalled bonuses of
around £260, including the Night Manager of Beit Hall.
I received £150 five weeks later than promised.
Interested in what looked like a £110 shortfall, I
contacted Mr Arthur, who finally—after much
blustering—stated that he had been informed that most of
the time I had performed excellently, but sometimes I had
not been available. I checked: most of the complaints about
my not being available related to my day off, or my
statutory weeks holiday.
At the end of the scheme, I, and most of the other
employees of the scheme were exhausted.
Michael Arthur miscalculated the VAT percentages on
rents this Summer, thereby losing thousands of pounds
over the whole scheme. Has he lost any bonus for his
demonstratable incompetency.
DON'T work for the Summer Letting Scheme.
Yours,
A P Bannister.
Abortive
topic
Dear Judith,
Can I assure Steven Mercer (FELIX November 6) that
the questions I posed in my last letter (October 30) were
merely an attempt to encourage people to accept that, in
considering the Tightness or wrongness of abortion, there
are important issues to be faced which are sometimes
ignored. There seems to be a tendancy nowadays to just
assume in discussions, for example, that the (very real)
emotional traumas of women with problem pregnancies
justify abortion or that abortion on demand must be the
natural step forward as it makes it all much easier (ref
Kemi Adenubi, October 16 and November 6). I do think,
then, that his extreme condemnation of my letter is a bit
much.
In answer to his question, then, I would say 'yes', a
pregnant woman does keep the individuality 'that gives
her the freedom to decide the course of her own life'. But
in believing in such rights (along with Mr Mercer one
presumes) I acknowledge the corollary that there are
certain things an individual does not have the right or
freedom to do. Now perhaps he, or others, would tackle
my question, the one he took such annoyance at: How
' come a woman can choose to end the life of her child just
because it is still in her womb?
Yours sincerely,
Hugh MarKenzie.
Intheear of
the beholder
Dear Judith,
I am outraged at the posters for RCS Broadsheet which
ask if you are 'pissed off. The standard of English in
Broadsheet (to use it's politer title) is generally poor, but
to extend such crudity to posters is appalling.
English is a beautiful language, don't let Broadsheet
wreck it; burn Broadsheet posters!
Yours sincerely,
Simon Cholerton (Physics II).
Planned
and subtle?
Dear Judith
Doubtless you have received many letters on the
mascotry events of Friday November 6, I myself was
present at both events and would like to make the following
2 points.
A few years ago I did a considerable amount of research
into the history of Mascotry of the past 30 years or so
and therefore feel as if I can talk from a position of some
authority on the matter and the following points clearly
emerge:
(i) No CCU mascot has ever been stolen by the violent
storming of a UGM or any other Union event.
(ii) All successful raids have involved planning, subtlety
and above all patience.
I hope Guilds and Mines take good note of these 2 points
and refrain from bringing mascotry into future disrepute.
Yours in all good faith, j
Benjamin Sidle (ex-RCS student)
Gissa bonus
Dear Ed,
I'm still waiting for my bonus. Come on Michael, cough
up!
Yours,
Bill Goodwin
FELIX Friday November 13th 1987 23

