U N D E R T H E
MICROSCOPE
by Steve Black
Chaos is a fascinating and fashionablefieldof research. Curiosity is driven
by the question: how is it possible for a purely deterministic system to
behave in a totally unpredictable manner? If you play around with the
simple equation in the article then you may well catch the bug. Try it;
it really is fascinating. Here is some further reading for those who are
interested: Scientific American 245 pl6 (Nov 1981), Concepts of Modern
Mathematics p307 Ian Stewart (published by Penguin 1981).
Arnold's
Cat brings
chaos
Pure mathematics is in trouble. Gone
are those halcyon days when every
result was guaranteed to be useless.
Even number theory (where people
waste their time trying to prove that
x n + y n = z n has no whole number
solutions for n greater than 2) has
started to prove useful. Recently some
deep (and, until now, utterly useless)
results from algebraic number theory
have just been used by t w o
mathematicians at Queen Mary
College, to make some simple kinds
of chaos more understandable.
It is worth taking some time for a
quick introduction to chaos. Consider
simple recursion relation x n + l = a x n
( l - x n ) . This defines a sequence of
numbers with each new number being
fed back into the equation to give the
next number. Different types of
behaviour occur for different values
of a (values of a between 0 and 4 and
output of the function (that is x n + 1 )
eventually settles on one number, but
for a between 3 and 4, crazy things
happen (go try out a few sequences
on your calculator; y o u w i l l
appreciate chaos much better if you
do). For values of a near 4 the output
of the function is completely chaotic;,
that is, the output fluctuates wildly
without apparent order, visiting every
point between 0 and 1. The function
typifies simple dynamical systems
common in the real world, such as
populations whose growth is
constrained by a limited food supply.
The latest discoveries concern
certain two-dimensional discrete
dynamical systems. These are
described by functions like the simple
equation given above, but with two
variables. The trouble with these
systems is that a great deal of their
behaviour is chaotic and this makes
mathematical analysis very difficult.
However, some initial states evolve
in a perfectly regular manner, but
these are very difficult to find as they
are completely surrounded by states
which are effectively unpredictable.
This is typical of chaos: the slightest
uncertainty in the initial state
produces complete uncertainty in the
state after only a few cycles of the
system.
The system is studied by looking at
the properties of its phase space (this
is just a graph where a point sums up
4
all there is to know about the system,
that is there is one axis for each
variable, position, momentum, etc).
In this case, the phase space is
topologically equivalent to the surface
of a doughnut. The dynamics of the
system are described by a repeated
mapping on the surface of the
doughnut, called Arnold's cat (it was
first illustrated by a drawing of a cat
on the surface).
Percival and Vivaldi (the two from
Q M C ) realised that many of the
questions about the system could be
rephrased as questions about the
arithmetic of some number relating to
the mapping. These can be answered
using some of the most useless
concepts in pure maths (such as the
quadratic reciprocity law, ideal
classes, the classification of primes as
ramified, split and inert..). Using
such arcane devices, the two
mathematicians were able to map out
the regular point in the sea of chaos
(which can be thought o f as the
skeleton on which the chaos is hung).
This is helping with an understanding
of the depths of the chaotic regions
of the system.
The importance of this work lies in
the number of chaotic systems in the
real world. Almost any system with
nonlinearity or feedback will exhibit
chaotic behaviour at some point
(biological systems are often based on
feedback loops: for example, heart
attacks have been modelled as
transitions to chaos. A lot of physical
systems are similarly chaotic (for
example, the weather).
The big question is this: can pure
mathematics survive a l l this
applicability? (Nature 329 p670 and
391).
Gas from
the Earth
If science can be measured by
economic returns on investment, then
Geology is a very successful science.
The world's biggest and most
profitable companies rely o n
geologists to find the oil and gas
deposits that create their profits.
However, all the oil may have been
found by applying an incorrect theory
of its origin, at least according to a
geologist called Thomas Gold (his
book Gas From The Earth was
published last mdnth).
The new theory suggests that
natural gas and oil are not derived
from rotting primaeval rubbish, but
come from the earth's core where
they were trapped when the earth was
formed. Gold, formerly of Cornell
University, now at Cambridge, first
proposed the idea several years ago.
Gold's theory neatly explains some
observed anomalies in the contents of
gas and o i l deposits. The actual
distribution and extent o f
petrochemical reserves has always
been something of a mystery, and it
is often difficult to explain the
reserves' origin in terms involving the
decomposition of biological junk.
Geologists usually propose that the oil
was formed somewhere other than
where it was found and then moved
through porous rock until stopped by
an impervious layer. But the oil
should leak away faster than it has
done i f it is as old as we think.
There is also the problem of the
relative composition of oil and gas.
Basically there is too much hydrogen
for a stricdy biological origin. Worse
than that, there is the helium: some
natural gas wells contain several per
cent helium (in fact this is where all
commercial helium comes from), and
there is no way to explain the helium
within conventional theories. Gold's
theory neatly accounts for the helium,
which was a common constituent of
the early solar system (as was
hydrogen). It is not difficult to
imagine the trapping of gasses in a
planet built by slow accretion of rocky
bodies, as long as the whole body
never becomes completely molten
(and this is now the favoured theory
anyway).
It is, unfortunately, difficult to
verify or refute such an idea easily.
Gold can explain the circumstantial
evidence for biological origin (the
presence o f common plant-derived
chemicals in oil) as the result of
biological contamination of his
primordial deposits. But there is a
definitive test. If Gold is right, then
we should be able to find
hydrocarbons in areas where they
could not possibly have had a
biological origin. These areas of the
earth's crust contain only very old
rocks and no sedimentary deposits
where biological waste could have
gathered.
Gold was able to persuade a team
from the Swedish electricity industry
to drill a deep hole in one such
suitable area. Unfortunately, the
money for the project has run out due
to 'unforseen drilling problems', just
as interesting results were coming in.
No gas field has yet been found, but
there is methane and helium and
hydrogen in places where they should
not be.
Hopefully the project will restart,
because if Gold is right then there is
enough gas down there to keep the
whole world well supplied for
thousands of years. That is long
enough for us to find a better way to
become extinct than running out of
energy.
SCIENCE PAGE
Articles, suggestions
and complaints
should be sent to
Steve Black c/o
FELIX Office or
phone int 4642.
Friday November 13th 1987 FELIX

