• DAVE SMEDLEY, hassled
Broadsheet Editor, obviously
overcome by the hectic events of
Friday's RCS UGM, made a bit of a
blunder when writing up the story for
Broadsheet. As the words of derision
for Guilds flowed from his pen, he
then stumbled by naming the Theta
Bearers as Dave Tyler and Dan Pluta.
Maybe the Broadsheet Editor
considered the only way the Guild's
President was likely to get his hands
on the RCS mascot was by changing
jobs.
•IT'S GOOD to hear that 155
people turned up at Southside Gym
last Friday to donate one braincell
each to the Guilds President.
However the sabbaticals were not
amongst them, maybe they're a bit
short themselves...
•CHAS 'TAKEITEASY' Jackson
ran into a bit of trouble in Marks and
Sparks recently when he went to buy
a new suit for Commemoration Day.
After choosing a racy little £200
number he proceeded to write a
cheque. Unfortunately, Chas did not
have his cheque guarantee card on
him and tried to fob off the attractive
young assistant with his Union card.
Not surprisingly, he was soon seen
heading for the manager's office...
• MATTHEW BRIDGWATER,
bar worker, Hamlet sub-manager and
Physics postgrad, seems, upon first
sight, an unlikely person to embark
upon a PhD. However, Matthew has
scrapped his MSc and decided to try
and become Doctor Bridgwater.
When quizzed on his reasons for the
change he replied 'It's a good chat up
line for the girlies!'. No doubt this
insight into the world of the postgrad
will be a real wow with the girlies
down the 'boooozer', so Matt would
say.
•OVERHEARD IN Mergers Bar...
Pissed Old FELIX Hack: 'Alan, I
need some dirt on you for FELIX.'
Alan Rose: 'Well, how about I
voted for Ian Howgate?'
FELIX Hack: 'But that's not
scandalous.'
Alan Rose: 'I think it is!'
T H E B A R O N
'But this is just the sort of thing I'm
talking about', said Whygate. 'This is
why we must have the "Whygate
finishing school for new citizens" '.
Whygate was getting very upset and
not speaking very clearly. In fact he was
leaping up and down on his desk with
one finger in his ear, trying to do an
impression of the letter 'P. With him in
the citizens' office were Alan Ego, the
Deputy Head citizen, Mrs Jolly Hockey
Sticks, the citizens manager, and Bob
Aitch, the citizens' stool of sport. They were discussing what to do about
a serious complaint from the head citizen of Sorryland. A group of sporty
citizens, the particularly evil looking set known as the rugger buggers,
had gone to Sorryland and behaved very badly after their games.
'It was only a case of high spirits', punned Aitch, trying his best to calm
down Whygate and at the same time checking that his hair was in place.
{Aitch was very careful over his appearance and was proud of his
reputation for being the cutest leading citizen in Cheapskate).
'High spirits?', screamed Whygate. 'Some of them even took their
clothes off.
'But Whygate, dearie, you do that all the time', said Mrs Jolly Hockey-
Sticks, doing her best to prevent the situation getting any worse. 'Why
don't you invite the head citizen of Sorryland over for a vat of sherry. I'm
sure he would enjoy that'.
Fortunately the conversation was interrupted by Whygate's phone
ringing. It was Arthur Michael, who wanted to discuss the colour scheme
for the new Michael-Whygate home for senior citizens. As usual,
Whygate's attention was immediately absorbed by any discussion about
himself. 'Pink, green and maroon stripes', said Whygate at once, forgetting
about Ego, Mrs Jolly Hockey Sticks and Aitch. 'But I wanted wallpaper
with gnomes on', complained Arthur Michael. The two of them settled
down for a serious argument.
Elsewhere in Cheapskate, lots of citizens were still recovering from the
annual Bore Festival. This was one of the many occasions when most
of the citizens drank as much gassy liquid as possible, then brought It
all back up again, telling each other as they did this what a great time
they were having. The excuse of the moment was that it was the middle
of the citizens' Cloth Week, and so all the money they spent on gassy
liquid would be going to charity.
There were lots of events of this type during the citizens' Cloth Week.
Most of the time the citizens would be drinking a lot, breaking the furniture,
and taking their clothes off. In fact. Cloth Week was an opportunity for
the Cheapskate citizens to behave like rugger buggers. But not all of Cloth
Week involved drinking lots of gassy liquid.
Other things to look forward to in Cheapskate included the Daft Race.
This was a very silly competition between teams lead by the three clowns,
Dave Braincell, Clare MacUseless and Jumping Jehosofat. This was a very
popular part of Cloth Week, which was quite surprising really since it
involved people getting wet, but not a lot of drinking of gassy liquid.
Meanwhile, in the Baron's castle, the chief yes man, Ian Bore, was trying
to produce the next WetNerk. Bore was a little worried that the first issue
had been a bit one-sided, so he had decided to make sure that this one
included several people's points of view. He had put together an impressive
list of articles and was certain that he was going to bring out a well
balanced paper. The articles submitted so far included: 'A biography of
the Baron', 'The Baron—a life', 'Cooking with the Baron', 'The best of
Cheapskate', 'The Baron's progress', 'There will always be a Cheapskate',
and 'The Baron's greatest hits'. Bore knew his job all right....
Will there be any articles about the Baron in WetNerk?
Will Ego say anything next week?
Will Arthur Michael get his wallpaper with gnomes on?
Will Whygate manage to convince anyone that he is the letter 'P'?
Find out in the next issue of The Baron of Cheapskate.
• CHAS 'A NOD'S as good as a
wink' Brereton has been having a few
problems with members of the
opposite sex recently. Whilst playing
the piano at one of the Guilds
Freshers Buffets Mr Brereton
suddenly hit upon what he thought
was the ultimate chat-up routine. He
picked out the prettiest girl he could
find and asked her if she would
sponsor him for a charity piano
playing session.
'Yes', was her reply, 'when do I
pay you.'
Wiley Chas suggested that they
should meet that Saturday lunchtime
in Norman's to discuss the financial
aspects. When the girl actually
showed up, Chas was so surprised
that the pnly line he could think of ran
along the lines of 'Would you like to
become an ordinary member of the
Academic Affairs Committee?'
Needless to say, the affair was fairly
short lived.
Not to be outdone, though, Chas
decided to try the same routine at the
remaining dinners and arranged to
meet a number of girls the next
Saturday. Fortunately, with a little
help from hisfilofaxhe managed to
stagger the times so that the girls
would not accidently meet each other.
Pity, no one turned up.
• INFAMOUS Mech Eng 3 wally
James Burdett caused a normally
placid lecturer to erupt into a torrent
of four letter words last week. James
was travelling in a lift in Mech Eng
with Mr Lewis and Dr Barnes when
he was challenged by a fellow student
to open the doors between floors. This
he did, stopping the lift, setting off
the alarms and incurring the obvious
displeasure of the other occupants,
one of whom complimented him on
being a 'f***ing b*st*rd'.
• POOR OLD David Ashforth, the
vicar of Cheapskate, thought that he
was doing a good turn when he
decided to photocopy last week's
edition of Chi Rho. He had heard that
the trusty FELIX litho had given up
once more and ran off all the copies
he thought the Editor would need.
Meanwhile in some dim and distant
part of College, the Chi Rho Editor
was busily trying to Gestetner the
whole edition in an attempt to keep
the costs down.
If anyone out there knows of a good
home for a pile of week old
chaplaincy mags, give the chaplains
a call.
FELIX Friday November 13th 1987 7

