EUROVISSUE
EUROVISSUE
EUROVISSUE
THE FINAL | first half
Austria: Nathan Trent - Running On Air
Following a shameful performance that earned them nul point two years ago, and a strange performance where they sang
in French last year, Austria have played it more safe this year with the incredibly clean-cut looking Nathan Trent. He’s a
sneaky one though, because he also reached some of the final stages of the Eurovision selection process for Germany.
I guess the boy knows what he wants. Dressed all in white (a Eurovision classic) his staging imagines him in the clouds,
where he sings from the moon. Your mum would like him, maybe the rest of Europe will too.
Azerbaijan: Dihaj - Skeletons
Despite being relatively new to the Eurovision Song Contest (first performing in 2008), Azerbaijan have a consistent record
of strong Europop hits, although their scores have dropped off in the last three years. Dihaj were unsuccessful in their
attempt to represent Azerbaijan in 2011, missing out to overall winners Ell & Nikki. One of the edgier performances in
2017, you can expect words to be scrawled on a blackboard, and a horse astride a stepladder, the exact meaning of
which is unclear without explanation. The horse represents the bad guy in a relationships, and the ladder the emotional
distance from the singer; the collapse of the box is a metaphor for the breakdown of a destructive relationship. It’s an unu-
sual theme that breaks from the tradition of happy-clappy songs about love or peace, or strong political statements, and the
imagery might be too strong to make this a Eurovision winner. Still, expect some points to be given for the use of a man in a
horse mask.
Belarus: Naviband - Story Of My Life
Belarus are another of only three performers to sing in their national language. Historyja majho žyccia, or in English, Story
Of My Life is the first ever Belarusian song to be performed at the Eurovision Song Contest, and the duo Naviband have a
charming performance that justifiably earnt them their place in the final. They make strong use of props and costumes, but
their performance feels inexperienced. Belarus have only qualified for the final four times before, so maybe this is the year
that they’ll actually do well.
Croatia: Jacques Houdek - My Friend
Jacques Houdek is already an insanely successful artist, with silver, gold, platinum and diamond albums to his name,
who performs a variety of genres from opera to pop. In his impressive entry, he moves effortlessly between these
genres at almost each line, demonstrating huge skill. From the deliberate camera work, you’d be forgiven for think-
ing that there were two identical performers, each singing the different parts. But there’s not, it’s just Jacques. My
Friend is not only incredibly skillful, but it is also glorious to watch and to listen to. I would be surprised if the rest of
Europe doesn’t recognise it as such.
Denmark: Anja - Where I Am
Anja Nissen is well known from having won Season 3 of Australia’s The Voice. In fact, she was born and raised in Aus-
tralia, but is of Danish descent. In the semi-final, she gave a passionate solo performance about letting go, falling to her
knees as sparks rained around her. This song could be one of dozens of others over the years, but why break away from a
formula that works? If you can tell the difference between all the female soloists singing about love and loss in this competi-
tion, you’re doing better than me.
Artsvik was a contestant on the Russian version of The Voice in 2013, but was not particularly successful. Based on their
music video, Armenia could have been one of the most visually interesting performances, but sadly they didn’t reach their
full potential in the live show. Honestly, the most notable parts are a memorable hairstyle, and a sound effect that sounds
suspiciously like a technical glitch, but yet is intentional. Without Russia being present to exchange douze points with,
Armenia’s score in the final may be dented.
Armenia: Artsvik - Fly With Me
SPECIAL
SPECIAL
SPECIAL
Israel: IMRI - I Feel Alive
The artists and songs that represent Israel are always unpredictable, calling on a variety of genres and styles over the years.
I Feel Alive is a fairly generic Europop song that will doubtlessly be heard in clubs across Europe in the coming months, but
it doesn’t really bring anything special to the Eurovision table. This song could so as well as several other similar entries,
and the dancers dressed in black and white are not enough to visually separate it from the pack. While I’ll be happy to
dance to this in trashy Euroclubs this summer, it’s not going to win.
After being on hiatus from from Eurovision for fourteen years before 2011, Italy have come back strong, doing fairly well
the last few years. This year’s entry, which went straight into the final as one of the Big Five, has the veritable honour
of being simultaneously the most unsettling performance (is it cultural appropriation if it’s about cultural appropriation
though?) and the favourite to win. It’s a great song, bringing quirk and being camp in spades, but they’re running the risk
that the message will be lost on those who don’t speak Italian, meaning that their main selling point is a cheeky Italian man
who dances on stage with a gorilla for reasons unclear. If people get it, this could deservedly win, but they’re definitely not
playing it safe.
Italy: Francesco Gabbani - Occidentali’s Karma
Moldova: Sunstroke Project - Hey Mamma
Sunstroke Project have performed at Eurovision before, coming 22nd
in the 2010 final with their song with Olia Tira. Now,
they are bringing back the widely acclaimed epic sax man in a slightly more mature performance, although there’s still
something of a Guy Fieri look about them. They make the most of only being allowed six performers on stage by cloning
themselves over and over on the back splash. They get points for the use of impressive mid performance costume changes
and use of the running man, but although the song sounds great prerecorded, they didn’t pull it off so well live in the
semi-final. Treading the line between a novelty act and generic Europop, Moldova are going to have to up their game if
they want to do well in the final.
The Netherlands are a Eurovision old hat, having only ever only missed four contests since 1956, and having won four
times. The group of three sisters have previously represented the Netherlands in the Junior Eurovision Song Contest back
in 2007. Their performance is clear and glamorous, their obvious experience working to their advantage. Lights and
Shadows treads the line between cheesy and uplifting, with strong use of Europop and near-a capella singing that high-
lights their vocal skills. In the semi-final, they fluffed a couple of notes, but with a flawless final performance, O’G3NE could
score very well.
Netherlands: O’G3NE - Lights And Shadows
Poland: Kasia Moś - Flashlight
Kasia Moś is one of many performers to have been in a reality music show (not affiliated with Eurovision) before being
selected. She came third in the British, Must Be The Music, and well as The Pussycat Dolls Burlesque Revue. This might give
her international recognition that may prove helpful when it comes to the scores. One of the only performers to have
co-written their song, Moś’s performance takes the Eurovision tropes of a man sawing away at a violin, swelling orchestral
backing, and even a dole of doves, and delivers it in a way that showcases her genuine talent. It’s not a particularly origi-
nal entry, but it ticks all the boxes to score well.
Portugal’s entry of a slightly unsettling jazzy love song performed in Portuguese by a somewhat strange man is reminis-
cent of French entries of old. This is one for the purists. Its melancholy and undeniable sadness comes across even without
understanding the words – the Eurovision holy grail. The performance is simple, with no backing performers or distracting
background. Expect Salvador Sobral to be charismatically uncharismatic as he clutches his arms to his chest and makes
you believe that he is truly searching for his long lost love. This song has done extremely well in previews, and looks likely
to be Portugal’s most successful entry yet, having never come higher than sixth place in a final.
Portugal: Salvador Sobral - Amar Pelos Dois
Hungary are one of few performers to sing entirely in their national language. Those who stick to their language are
usually afforded a place in the final by virtue of making the purists happy. Very few countries this year went down the
obscure instrument and national dress route, but Hungry has done us proud. They might be trying to score points with tra-
ditionalists, but Origo is catchy and somehow manages to feel contemporary while clearly being an homage Hungarian
history. This might manage to avoid pleasing either the young or the old Eurovision crowd, or it could do both. Either way,
I’m a fan.
Hungary: Joci Pápai - Origo

