THE FINAL | second half
Belgium: Blanche - City Lights
Belgium also put forward a 17 year old singer, Ellie Delvaux, who was previously a contestant on the Belgian version of The
Voice. Sadly was eliminated early on in the contest, but that didn’t stop her being chosen to compete in Eurovision. Alone
on stage, she combines a maturity beyond her years with and obvious naivety and innocence that makes her performance
endearing. However, there isn’t to this song beyond generic indie-pop. She visibly relaxed into her performance during
the semi-final, so there may be more to come from Blanche in the final.
Bulgaria: Kristian Kostov - Beautiful Mess
Bulgaria debuted in the Eurovision Song Contest in Kiev in 2005, but have only qualified for the final twice in the years
since then. Last year, they came fourth, and now they’re joining the many other countries to enter an adorable 17 year old
singer who was a finalist in The Voice Kids Russia, and was a runner up in X Factor Bulgaria. He makes good use of visual
effects and is edgy beyond his years – probably the most interesting of the 17 year olds. His performance in the semi-final
was sleek and mature, and his breathy thanks to Europe as he finished unbelievable endearing. I wouldn’t be surprised if
he scores well.
Cyprus: Hovig - Gravity
Cyprus have been relatively unsuccessful over the last fifteen years of Eurovision, but not might be time for them to shine.
Their song was penned by Thomas G:son, a Swedish writer well-known in Eurovision circles who has written winning songs
in the past. Hovig, who same seventh in the 2009 season of Greece’s X-factor, has previously attempted to represent
Cyprus at Eurovision in 2010 and 2015. With the opening having elements that are suspiciously similar to Rag’n’Bone
Man’s Human, it uses familiarity with a similar song to replace the recognition of a song that has already been successful
across Europe to generate votes. The hints of EDM give this song a modern twist on what is a classic Europop perfor-
mance, but it’s still way too generic. There’s nothing to write home about either in the song, or the staging.
France: Alma - Requiem
France have been one of the most consistent countries in the Eurovision Song Contest, missing only two years, and
winning five times. This year, Alma’s Requiem has been the subject of a scandal where it was discovered that it
was performed prior to the submission deadline. As such, they’ve adjusted their classic formula of beautiful French
girl sings about love by adding an English chorus, which I’m sure is to the chagrin of the French public who are
normally sticklers for purity. The performance is dull, relying on Paris’ romanticism to do a lot of the work as she
performs in front of a swirling Parisienne aerial view. There’s nothing special about the French entry, but there’s noth-
ing objectionable either, so it could go either way.
Germany: Levina - Perfect Life
Germany are the only country to compete in every single Eurovision since its inception, but have won only twice. Like
Poland, they’re playing the familiarity game with Perfect Life. There’s definitely more than a hint of David Guetta’s Tita-
nium in this, but the performance is absolutely classic Eurovision, down to the coiffure and shoulder pads. Although the
recording of this song feels modern by Eurovision standards, the live performance is reminiscent of Eurovision of old, this
could appeal to older voters who may not make up enough of the demographic to make a difference.
EUROVISSUE
EUROVISSUE
EUROVISSUE
Europe’s cousins from a slightly different part of the world seem to have been honorarily adopted into the Eurobubble,
and it looks like they’re here to stay. They came second last year and fifth in 2015, and it seems like we love the novelty.
Australia’s entry is 17 year old Isaiah Firebrace, who like the Danish entry, rose to fame by winning an Australian reality
music show. He performs alone on stage while continually walking without going anywhere on a rotating platform.
They’re one of the only countries to be bold enough to use giant moving pictures of the performer as the background
splash; closeups of the singer’s puppy dog eyes creating an intensity and passion that is reflected in his intense eyebrows.
It’s a strong Eurovision ballad, and should propel Australia to a high score.
Australia: Isaiah - Don’t Come Easy
SPECIAL
SPECIAL
SPECIAL
Norway: JOWST - Grab The Moment
Norway have been the subject of some scandal this year. Joakim With Steen performs with some vocals on the backing
track from Norwegian singer Aleksander Walmann. Eurovision rules state that all vocals must be performed live, but
Norway have managed to escape penalty by passing them off as entirely sound effects, and not crediting the vocals. The
aesthetic and sounds are incredible modern for Eurovision, and while their vision is clear, it’s probably not going to work
for the majority of the millions of Europeans watching.
Romania are sporting a strong two contrasting performers: one with a strong 90s RnB meets Justin from the Darkness vibe,
combined with a weird yodelling situation. I didn’t realise that Romania had a strong history of yodelling, and it turns out
that I was right not to. As a reaction to Switzerland putting forward a Romania band as their entry, Romania decided
to “send a yodeller in return.” Sadly, the outfits that made me so happy in their music video didn’t make it to the staged
performance, but the quirk is definitely not lost, what with the puppets on the back splash and the unexplained cannons on
stage. This is definitely one of those “only at Eurovision” ones – maybe it could win.
Romania: Ilinca and Alex Florea - Yodel It!
Spain: Manel Navarro - Do It For Your Lover
The selection of Manel Navarro was extremely controversial, with even Spanish politicians weighing in on the selection
process. Navarro co-wrote his own song, which automatically gets a place in the final as Spain is one of the Big Five – who
knows if he would made it otherwise. Obnoxiously laid back, he seems to have forgotten that Eurovision is a contest in
which people usually perform in formalwear, because he’s forgotten to do up his shirt. With a performance that lies some-
where between Jack Johnson and One Direction, I can’t see it being particularly successful.
Robin Bengtsson, controversially, was not the Swedish public’s first choice for their Eurovision contestant. However, thanks
to the novel Swedish selection technique of using an international panel representing the Eurovision community to give
added points, Bengtsson was bumped into the winning slot. From the music video released on Eurovision.tv ahead of the
semi-finals, Bengtsson’s performance, while clean and well rehearsed, feels sterile. The performance in the semi-finals was
almost identical, from the opening camera shots to the four hipsters in turtlenecks performing a dance reminiscent of OK
Go on neon-edged treadmills. Will Bengtsson’s attempts to seduce with sultry eyebrow movements pay off in the finals?
Sweden are tipped to do well, but to me, the Swedish entry lacks the authentic passion that makes a Eurovision winner.
Sweden: Robin Bengtsson - I Can’t Go On
United Kingdom: Lucie Jones - Never Give Up On You
It’s no secret that the UK tends to be a little unpopular when it comes to Eurovision votes. Although you wonder whether we
even take our choice of artist seriously – think back to when we genuinely entered Scooch with a weird air hostess themed
song – it’s pretty clear from the political voting that we wouldn’t win either way. This year, we seem to have a somewhat
legitimate entry, with the Welsh Lucie Jones from 2009’s X-Factor performing a song written by Emmelie de Forest, who
wrote and performed Denmark’s winning entry in 2013. When Jones sings, “I will never give up on you, I don’t care what
I’ve got to lose” we can ask whether she’s reaching out to Europe, and laying down a stance on Brexit. It’s a strong ballad,
but when even Theresa May admits that we’re not going to get any points this year, is there any point?
After winning last year with a very political performance, Ukraine don’t seem to be able to stick to the tried and trusted
Eurovision themes of peace and love. In their music video, O.Torvald stand astride stylised mountains of rubbish, with
digital clocks counting down on their chests, urging us to take time to look around and find a world without violence.
Unfortunately, this didn’t make it to the final, but you can expect a strong visual performance nonetheless. Ukraine have
a strong Eurovision pedigree, winning twice since they first took part in 2003, and usually making it to the top ten. I don’t
expect this year to be any different.
Ukraine: O.Torvald - Time
On first listen, this is another generic Europop song about love from a country that wants to compete, but ultimately does
not want to win for fear of struggling to afford to host the competition. But this song grows on you, and this is sure to be
a summer club hit in Europe. Greece use a tried and tested Eurovision formula of a beautiful woman surrounded by buff
men. During the chorus, Demy rises out of the stage on a podium as two men wearing only what appears to be breeches
splash in a pool at her feet, possibly also singing the backing vocals. The meaning of these men is unclear, but this is a
catchy club song that you’ll be hearing more of over the coming months, even if Europe somehow decides not to vote for a
Eurovision formula that has done well in the past.
Greece: Demy - This Is Love

