EUROVISSUE
EUROVISSUE
EUROVISSUE
Honorable mentions from 2017
Best use of leather
Slavko Kalezić (Montenegro)
In his music video, Montenegro’s Slavko Kalezić
uldulates in leather trousers with a single braid
flowing from his head. He gave a wonderful per-
formance in the semi-final in the almost as good
sequins and mesh, but sadly did not make it to the
final. Maybe his song was good, or maybe he just
reminds me of our esteemed editor-in-chief, but this
was my favourite music video of 2017.
Best use of cultural appropriation
Check out the music video for Italy’s Occidentali’s Karma without any under-
standing of Italian or subtitles, I dare you. If it does make you feel a little
bit uncomfortable, you maybe need to do a bit of reading up on cultural
appropriation.
Eurovision is not a strange to cultural appropriation, but in recent years the acts
have become more politically correct to reflect the growing social awareness of
the audience. Despite this, Francesco Gabbani appears in a variety costumes
from kimono-style jackets to saffron robes, posing like a Hindu god and dancing
with a man in a gorilla costume. The song is actually a mocking take on the way
that Westerners take Eastern ideas and Westernise them, piggybacking on ideas
of spirituality and treating them as novelties that make them interesting and sexy.
The lyrics are somewhat sophisticated and reference science, art, and literature
to make his point, but I feel that the point is somewhat lost. Even if you know that
the Western habit of appropriating cultures as our own is problematic, using these
cultures in a form of mockery is still parodying them, and it is still disrespectful. It’s
hypocritical for Gabbani to imitate things that are meaningful to serve his point.
The live performance is a lot safer, with minimal obvious cultural appropriation
beyond the use of language. Given that the majority of the audience will not
speak Italian, the meaning of his lyrics is very likely to be lost, and a lot of people
will enjoy it for its faux-spirituality. By using this medium to make his point about
the Westerner’s karma, Gabbani is serving only to do the same.
Best use
of props
Naviband (Belarus)
Performing astride a rotating boat, with dry ice and wind
machines galore, Naviband sing, dance, and have the right level
of interpersonal tension. I have no idea what they’re singing
about, but the combination of the costumes, the props, and the
musical performance are working its Eurovision magic on me.
Naviband (Belarus)
Francesco Gabbani (Italy)
Conchita Wurst winning Eurovision in 2014 showed us that the kitsch
craziness that happens at Eurovision extends beyond just the show. With a
performance as powerful as her voice, Wurst raised the stakes of standard
for powerful female soloists that followed. To have a bearded drag queen
perform the beautiful Rise Like A Phoenix flawlessly and win as she so
deserved demonstrated that the Eurovision community was supportive of
diversity beyond the camp costumes and dances that Eurovision usually
brings.
Conchita Wurst - Rise Like A Phoenix
(Austria, 2014)
It wouldn’t be a guide to Eurovision without a moment dwelling on the
ultimate classic hit. The Swedes are the uncontested kings and queens of
Eurovision; it the winner isn’t performed by a Swede, it was probably written
by one. The 2016 Eurovision Song Contest in Stockholm showed us that the
Swedes are not to be beaten, bringing out Alexander Rybak and Lordi to
perform musical skits mocking the contest itself, and even roping in Justin
Timberlake to perform during the interval. Sweden’s 1974 winning Waterloo
went on to be one of the best-selling singles of all time, and is the quintessen-
tial Eurovision track, defining the genre of Eurovision Europop.
ABBA - Waterloo
(Sweden, 1974)
Alexander Rybak won Eurovision with Fairytale by an absolute landslide
in 2009, scoring 387 points and becoming the highest scoring song of
all time. Having written the song and recorded the backing fiddle track
himself, the violin on stage was disappointingly just for show. Rybak’s son
is about a beautiful creature from Scandinavian fokelore who lures young
men to her, and curses them for all time. It came at a time when the world
was head over heels with the romanticism of Taylor Swift’s Love Story and
Rybak’s earnest innocence drove his popularity. Following the contest, the
song topped the charts all over the world.
Alexander Rybak - Fairytale
(Norway, 2009)
In 2006, Europe was ready for something different. Enter Lordi, a heavy metal
band dressed as terrifying monsters (with the lead singer, Mr Lordi, wearing a
festive Finnish flag hat) who performed surrounded by huge amounts of pyro-
technics. It was critically acclaimed as good for the Eurovision song contest,
paving the way for entries that broke away from the generic cheesy Europop.
Although it may not have been to everyone’s tastes, they lead the votes all the
way through the contest, scoring what was at the time, the highest ever score
(beaten only by Alexander Rybak in 2009).
Lordi - Hard Rock Hallelujah
(Finland, 2006)
SPECIAL
SPECIAL
SPECIAL
Hall of fame

