Knowles went close with a header, which
rocketed inches over the bar. IC failed to
convert many chances, but the defence did
well to soak up some intense UC pressure to
give IC a 1-0 lead at half-time.
The second half started well for IC when
Flanagan scored with a brilliant header from a
cross by Hawa. UC pulled a goal back when
they scored from a controversial penalty
which was awarded after an incident which
left Wiggins on the ground and the UC player
still standing. Immediately afterwards,
Redmayne was injured but, courageously,
decided to play on with a badly twisted ankle.
Despite these setbacks, IC continued to play
some good football with many attacks
coming via Rimmer, who played an excellent
game at right-wing. The third goal was scored
by Hawa who collected an overhead kick
from Flanagan and slotted it neatly past the
keeper. Flanagan completed his hat-trick
when he nipped in on a sloppy back-pass to
give IC an emphatic 4-1 victory.
T E A M : Johnston, Dunhill, Knowles,
Fledmayne, Drabble, Audin, Sims, Wiggins,
Rimmer, Flanagan, Hawa.
Football Fifths
FOLLOWING their excellent 5-1 win over UC
IV on Wednesday the fifths produced another
scintillating performance to bundle QMC out
of the cup.
With defence looking as solid as ever the
fifths took advantage of their complete
dominance to miss a multitude of chances.
After several easier efforts had been missed
Lay stepped up to stroke a through ball from
Morris past a helpless keeper. The second
goal followed soon after and was yet another
Dhillon free-kick special.
The fifths took a 3-0 lead when Hardy took
the ball straight from the kick-off ghosted
past four QMC defenders and chipped the
ball over a bemused keeper. The fifths
continued to dominate the second half and
were unlucky not to score when first Kelly
headed against a post and then Cable
watched a superb shot brilliantly saved by the
keeper. The fourth goal came midway
through the s e c o n d half when Audin
overlapped down the right wing and crossed
for Healy to slot home.
In the dying minutes a suspiciously off-side
QMC attacker headed a consolation goal.
This game represented yet another fine win
and also the final game of Denis Cooke for
ICAFC. Denis has proved over the years to be
a fine and valuable servant of IC Football
always reliable and prepared to turn out for
any team. If advancing years have started to
take the edge of his pace his experience and
coolness in crisis have still been invaluable.
Many thanks to our Denis.
TEAM: Brown, Audin, Cooke, Cable, Lay,
Kelly, Morris, Dhillon, Baldwin, Healy, Hardy.
M O Match D Cooke
Football Sixths
A HAT TRICK from Mike Roache helped the
giant-killing IC Sixths to comfortably over
come St Mary's Hospital 5-1 in the preliminary
round of the cup.
The Sixths started the game at a very fast
pace which the St Mary's defence were
unable to cope with. The Hariington
Academicals went ahead when Davies
sprinted down the left and sent over an inch
perfect cross for Roache to head in. More
goals followed when Chamberlain received
the ball on the left, slammed the ball in the
corner of the net. A few minutes later John
scored an almost identical goal to put the
Sixths three up. The fourth goal was not long
in coming; Tinkler put the ball through and
Roache scored.
The second half started more evenly but
soon IC began to apply the pressure using
the speed and close control of Davis and
Chamberlain to get behind the St Mary's
defence, which was forced to defend in
numbers allowing Gartside, Milner, Davies,
Clegg and even, in some cases, Nagle and
Bradly, to support the attack. IC created
numerous chances; Milner and Davis both hit
the bar and countless times the St Mary's
goalkeeper made acrobatic saves when a
goal looked certain.
Surprisingly, St Mary's scored the next goal
from a cleverly judged chip from the edge of
the penalty area.
IC were soon back on the attack; Milner
split on the defence with a through ball that
Roache thumped in the back of the net (for
his hat-trick) to give IC Sixths an emphatic
victory that belies their presence in such a
low division.
TEAM: Hampton, Clegg, Nagle, Bradley,
Davies, Milner, Tinkler, Gartside, Davis,
Roache and Chamberlain.
Hockey Firsts
LAST SATURDAY saw the IC 1st XI venture
away from Hariington for the first time, to
play Meadhurst, the BP Research Station
team. On a reasonable pitch IC moved swiftly
into attack, and after a few minutes Lito Rich
(Mining 3), scored underneath the goal-
keeper's feet. Meadhurst made a rapid reply,
largely due to the Captain's and goalkeeper's
error. IC were soon back in the lead following
a bullet shot from a penalty corner by Ian
Crowe (Mining 3). A subtle alternative penalty
corner produced the third goal when Steve
Gatley (Mining 3) scored a goal off the inside
of a post. Shawn Bell scored a fourth goal just
before half-time.
The s e c o n d half was goalless, arFd
somewhat less exciting, although this was
probably the best performance by Mining
3/lmperial College so far this season.
TEAM: Jones, Barns, Crowe, Riley, Davey,
Hughes, Ayres, Clarke, Rich, Bell and Gatley.
Hockey Thirds
BRITISH AIRWAYS crashed in an untidy
game after starting the game with only eight
players. Two goals down after five minutes
BA were strengthened by the arrival of a ninth
player and the acquisition of Martin Taylor
from the IC team, who proceeded to be an
embarrassment by being one of their better
players. The match continued with BA having
little idea and our forwards soon tired of
dominating the game and started a competi-
tion to see who could squander the most
scoring opportunities.
Starting the second half three up. IC
decided that any further effort would lead to
BA being whitewashed. BA disturbed our
'keeper' twice whilst IC kept up the pretence
of playing stylish hockey. At 4-0 the final
whistle went and we all adjourned to the
changing rooms to sample Dave Cornwall's
jug (bought for scoring all four goals).
T E A M : Hutchings, Sawers Rampton,
Purdy, Webb, Clift, Subbiah, Witter, Cornwell,
Wylie, Taylor, Mitchell (Capt).
The man in the iron mask
Snooker
This year's B team, looking remarkably like
last year's C team, suffered an unprecedented
defeat at hands of LSE B team. It was only
due to the unexpected good performances of
S Bennett (Trainer-Manager) and G Machin
which save our pride. The other three idiots in
the side managed to lose convincingly.
However, the B team Captain, S Bennett, has
promised the general public that he will
knock the team into shape by next Wednes-
day.
The A team won 4-1 against QMC A team,
and the C team won 5-0 against Bedford
College.
Lessons are being given every Monday
evening at 5:30m, so anyone who feels in
need of tuition is welcome.
Cross Country
JUST a brief set of notes on the season so far;
the UL trials were held on the 4th, attended
from IC by Tim Hayward and Mark Thwaites
who both ran well for such an early stage of the
season. The first friendly of the season was
held on the 8th over a not very well marked
course, where again Mark Thwaites ran well as
did Chris Smith.
The UC relay at Parliament Hill, a 6 x 2 mile
relay, on the 18tn went reasonably well with a
team of Kelly, Kirk, Longhurst, Hayward,
Russel and Burke, finishing 5th this being a
good result for a weakened team.
The first London College's league race, also
at Parliament Hill was held on the 22nd; it was
very nice to have a turnout of ten, which gave
the second team four runners and thanks must
go to everyone who came. The first team ran
surprisingly well and solidly with Steve Kirk
finishing well in seventh place, Chris Smith
running well in 30th, Garry Longhurst also
doing well in 33rd andf Mark Thwaites
recovering from an injury in 39th.
Finally mention must be made, albeit
belatedly, of one of the greatest feats of
athleticism by anyone from IC. Mark Pritchard
in running 150 miles in twenty-four hours is
now in the top twenty of all time for this event.
RSM Football
THIS GAME kicked off early which seemed to
throw the team into some confusion resulting
in some very fluent and entertaining football;
UCH scored when Newman just failed to
reach the ball as it passed under him! RSM
fought back with consistent pressure,
resulting in a move down the right where a
clever back-heel set up put Blain to score his
first goal of the season.
The match stayed evenly poised up to just
before half-time, when Newman mishandled
a cross from the left which allowed UCH to
knock the ball into the empty net.
After the interval, Mr X slotted the ball
firmly into the corner of the net to equalise. A
defensive error allowed UCH to take the lead
again, but not to be outdone RSM equalised
through Hanker.
With fifteen minutes to go fitness began to
tell and UCH scored twice. Overall it was a
good team performance which should have
been better rewarded.
T E A M : Newman, Everett, King, Blain,
Saunby, Aplin, Pio, Mr X„ Hanker (Capt).
A N Other
IC RUGBY
Wednesday, November 5
GUTTERIDGE CUP
IC v Kings College Hospital
at Hariington
All supporters welcome.
NOTE:
Articles are included in these pages
only if the editor can read them
(note: H o c k e y and Table Tennis
Clubs).
FELIX, October 31, 1980
Page 11

