Super Prizes!!
Please tell me if you think I'm overreacting, but
I was absolutely amazed by the professional
way in which John Passmore, at the recent
U G M , flippantly disregarded the loss of £500
on the No Dice concert. In fact, he seemed
quite chuffed by the fact that no one could do
anything about it. Only one person challenged
Mr Passmore, but he was merely laughed away
as he happened to be IC's resident fascist,
William Cortezzi.
I think I've said enough about the matter,
some of you may think I've 'harped on' about
it. So, now's your chance — all readers
(especially Club Chairmen) are invited to write
an essay entitled "What I would do with £500
of Union money if John Passmore had not got
to it before I could". A prize of £5 (Union
money, of course) will be offered to the author
of the essay that makes me laugh the most.
Motion of Censure
Firstly, Mary Attenborough has asked me to
apologise for stating that she was the original
seconder of Dare Afolabi's motion of censure
against myself. If that's not true, then I must
apologise. However, Liz Lindsay has informed
me that Daniel Afolabi most definitely put
forward her name as seconder, changing it
later. I feel this is a private matter between Dave
Afolabi and Ms Attenborough, and hence I
refuse to apologise. Damian Afolabi may
apolgise in print if he likes.
As for the actual motion, Duncan, we were all
sorry to hear you had to go into hospital and
hence were unable to propose it. Still, get well
soon, I've got a libel writ waiting for you.
Keogh Case
The recent Keogh Hall incident, together with
the rape in Southside last term points to easy
freedom of access.
After a survey of Southside carried out last
term by the Union, Domestic Secretary,
Captain Lindley, claimed to have tightened up
the access. All he has succeeded in doing is
making it more difficult to gain entry to Stan's
Bar! Just what the hell is the point of locking
this door in-early evening and forcing people to
enter via the main Southside entrance when
the fire escape door near Falmouth/Tizard lies
off its hinges offering free access to all of the
halls both day and night.
Security? Closed access? Residents only?
CATSPIDDLE!
C B Radio
I feel that this issue has now received sufficient
'air-time' in the letters' pages, so I invite one pro
C B summing-up letter and one anti-CB letter
for next week's issue, after which the topic will
be closed. Both letters will be cut at the 300th
word, and should be received by Monday,
5:30pm. The letter should be marked 'summing
up letter', I will choose the best from each side.
Well fought chaps!
FELIX Distribution
Last week, there were complaints that supplies
of F E L I X ran out too early in various
departments, notably Huxley. 1 have since
altered my allocations to departments and I
think I have it about right now. Copies are left
in all the main entrances to departments,
Bot/Zoo Common Room, Haldane, Lyon
Playfair, Health Centre, Union Office, and
outside the FELIX Office. None are left in Halls
of Residence unlike in the past, as I regard this
as an unfair advantage of living in Hall.
I have noticed departmental messengers
taking substantial amounts for distribution to
senior academics and ask for this practise to
be restricted, if not ceased altogether. While I
like the idea of College staff reading FELIX, I
can't justify a short fall for the student
population. One way of insuring good
circulation might be to keep 'recycable' copies
in common rooms. If social reps could deposit
about 20 in the common rooms in the morning
it might help -»- it's up to you.
Student Journalism
Mark Smith (FELIX Business Manager) and
myself attended the N U S Student Journalist
Conference at the weekend. A good time woz
had by all.
We were amazed to see the level of
journalistic activity in colleges throughout the
country. We met editors who were afraid to
criticise the Union/College for fear of being
abolished and others who criticised their
county councils. Some newspapers had libel
insurance — v. intriguing. The standard of the
newspapers was very variable; initially, one
was tempted to disregard the poorer ones, but
as time progressed we learnt more about their
difficulties, mainly lack of money. By the end of
the conference we had come to two
conclusions. We realised how lucky we were at
IC which actually appreciates its newpaper
and provides adequate funding; secondly, we
saw at first hand the high level of enthusiasm
for student newspapers throughout the
country despite lack of resources. The future
fo student papers and journalism in general
looks bright.
B A Robertson
Don't forget the ENTS gig in the Great Hall
tomorrow night at 7:30pm. It takes an awful lot
of time and effort to set up a large concert, so
let's give ENTS our support.
Thanks to . . . .
Caroline, Mark, Dave (2), Eric, Steve, Phil,
Patrick, Colin, Ian and Maz and all those I
inevitably forget because I write Editorials at
the very last minute. P.S.: B B Wolffe has just
returned from his holidays; he's been
searching for Lord Lucan in the tunnels under
IC for the past three weeks, full revealing story
next week!
Puzzle Corner
By Scaramouche
When Splinter met Wodge in the Queen's
Legs sometime last year, he incautiously
remarked that his sons had joined the Wolf
Cubs.
"My two daughters prefer something more
stimuuting," replied Wodge, "so on the first
Mon^.\y of last September they started
evening classes in practical brain surgery.
They erioy it, too; lectures are given every
evening, Monday through Friday, and they
haven't missed one yet."
" H o w old are they?" asked Splinter,
incredulously.
"Well, let me put it this way; each is at least
one year old, and the sum of the squares of
their ages (in whole numbers) is equal to the
number of evenings they have attended the
course, including this evening. If you can work
out their ages from that before Friday of this
week, I'll buy you a pint."
But Wodge is as tight-fisted as he is mentally
agile, and he knew that without being told that
the girls are roughly the same age, Splinter
would not be able to solve the problem he had
been set.
So how old were Wodge's daughters at the
time of this conversation?
Solutions, comments and criticisms to me
c/o FELIX Office. There is a prize of £5 for the
first correct solution out of the hat at noon on
Tuesday.
Last Week's Solution
Friday at 7:00pm in the Great Hall to play
Faure, brass needed.
Congratulations to Ian Tyes, Elec Eng 3,
who can collect his £2 prize from the FELIX
Office.
This rather easy puzzle attracted a flood of
solutions together with several complaints that
it was 'trivial', 'only took thirty seconds', etc.,
which was rather surprising since till then I'd
only received grumbles about how difficult the
puzzles were.
Anyway, this week's is really difficult, and
there's a correspondingly larger prize
(donated by the author - Ed); in future I'll mix
easy puzzles with hard ones, and rely on
correspondence to determine standards for
'hard' and 'easy'.
Christmas Dinner in Hall,
Tuesday 9th December
Price: £5, bookings open at 11am, 11th
N o v e m b e r . S e e P A T i n the U n i o n
Office
JUNIOR COMMON ROOM,
Wednesday, 5th November.
Would students please note that this
room will not be available on this day
u n t i l 6 : 0 0 p m , d u e t o a n e x t e r n a l
booking.
B.A. ROBERTSON
GREAT HALL
TOMORROW!!!
Tickets £2.75 adv., £3.25 on the
door. Kick off 7:30pm.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Road, London,
SW7 2BB. (589 5111 ext. 1048/int. 2881) Copyright FELIX 1980. Editor: S.J. Marshall, Advertising Manager: M.A. Smith. Registered at the GPO as a newspaper.

