Theatre
The Romans
in Britain
Olivier Theatre
CONSIDERING the fuss everyone is making
about this play, it turned out to be really rather
disappointing, being neither entertaining nor
informative. The play has three settings; the
first act is set in Ancient Britain at the time of
the Roman invasion, and the second act is split
between modern Ireland (near the border) and
Britain at the time of the Saxon invasions. The
latter two subplots ran concurrently, the
characters from each era being conveniently
asleep or deceased when action is occurring in
the other time zone.
The idea of this, it would appear, is to draw
comparison between the contemporary situa-
tion in Northern Ireland and the aforementioned
Roman and Saxon invasions. An interesting
idea, but it doesn't work. There are no obvious
correlations between the three situations as
presented here, other than the (hardly original)
message that War Is Hell. The result is
somewhat perplexing; the first act has no
bearing whatever on the events of the second
and the two subplots in the second act
intermingle confusingly.
Records
Remain
in Light
Talking Heads
Remain In Light is the fourth album from
American art rock band Talking Heads. As
with past albums, it represents a stage in the
evolution of a 'modernist' sound. Each album
develops the ideas of the former, while
retaining the traditional Heads sound.
Unlike most modernist rock bands, the
Heads actually achieve something new —
certainly none of the Numanesque fake
originality. And the result is not some stab at
what rock might sound like in the future, but
a development of traditions in new ways.
'I Zimbra' from Fear Of Music is perhaps the
best indication on the last album of the way
Remain in Light has developed. It is not
surprising to find, therefore, that Brian Eno,
who wrote 'I Zimbra', has produced the new
album and co-written all of the songs.
Thoughtful, serious; the lyrics here become
more obscure, but have not yet reached the
level of Cars songs, where words are used
predominantly for their sound, rather than
their meaning. But they are still writing songs
about buildings and people.
John Miller
Both the Roman and the Saxon sections
suffer badly from a lack of storyline.
Characters come andgoinbewilderingabandon,
and no sooner are we introduced to a character
than he is horribly killed by some means or
other (suicide, stabbing, yellow fever,
and slit throats are just a few of the
delightful exits made. The much publi-
cised obscenity in the play lies chiefly
in the scene in which three young Celtic
the stage, and are caught by a trio ot Komans
out for a good time. After two of the Celts are
killed, the third is held down by one of the
Romans while one of the others simulates the
act of buggery (he gives up after a couple of
minutes, complaining that he "can't get it up.
He's just a mass of piles!"). I found this scene
neither particularly tasteful nor necessary to
the action, but there you go.
The section of the play set in modern times
was somewhat better in that it had a
discernable if somewhat slow moving plot. A
British army officer is waiting in a field near the
border in order to meet, and then assassinate,
a high-ranking IRA member. We later discover
that while he is waiting, although he appears
not to be at the time, he is actually witnessing
in some way the events going on in the Saxon
era. These 'visions' (and, presumably, the
bottle of whiskey he drinks to pass the time)
affect his sense of justice and morality so
profoundly that when the IRA chap finally
strolls along he willingly reveals himself as an
army officer, thereby wrecking months of
careful planning. Result: he gets shot.
Wonderful. Quite honestly, I think this play is a
total waste of time and money (it costs £3.30
with a Unioncard, and you can get tickets in
advance at this price). I suggest you give it a
miss.
Dove Jago
Union Lower Refectory
Ramones - EP
FOUR songs from past Ramones' albums: 'I
Just Want To Have Something To Do', 'Here
Today, Gone Tomorrow', 'I Wanna Be Your
Boyfriend', and 'Questioningly'. They are
awful, so go and buy it cos it's great. Pity it
does not include any of the wonderful over
production of Phil Spector from End Of The
Century, but it is more likely to win new
converts than was that album,
John Miller
W h a t ' s o n
Friday, November 31
•Christian Union: Jesus Said I am the Good Shepherd,
Arthur Pont 6:30pm, 53 Princes Gate.
Sunday, November 2
•Wargames Club Meeting, 1:00pm, SCR.
Monday, November 3
•Environmental Society Inaugral Meeting, 1:00pm,
4th floor, 48 Princes Gdns, ICCET. Discussion of this
year's events all welcome for new ideas. Make this your
society.
•Folk Club Ceilidh with Muckram Wakes, 8:00pm,
Lower Refec, £1, members 50p.
Tuesday, November 4
•Vegsoc Meeting, 12:30pm, Huxley 348. Lunch 30p.
•Conservative Society General Meeting, 12:40pm,
Huxley 644.
•Dept of Humanities presents:
1. World War Two: The War Beyond The Fighting:
Logistics with Dr Ian Beckett, 1:30pm, Read Theatre,
Sherfield Building.
2. What's New in Engineering? Airships in the 80s with Dr
Cyril Laming, 1:30pm, Pippard Theatre, Sherfield Build-
ing.
•RCS Natural History Soc Lecture, Bird Brains and
Calling with Dr T J Sellers, 1:00pm, Botany Basement
Lecture Theatre.
• M O P S O C Lecture: Wave Energy, 1:00pm, Physics
LT3.
•Rail Soc Meeting, 5:40pm, Maths 340.
•Met and Mat Sci Soc Lecture: Problems in Conser-
vation - The Raising of Mary Rose, given by Mrs M Rule
(Mary Rose Trust), 6:00pm, Mines G20.
•Microcomputer Club Meeting, 7:30pm, Dept of Com
room 145. Admission free to members, but 20p to non-
members.
•Mountaineerng Club Slide Show, 8:00pm, Physics
. LT2. Free.
Wednesday, November 5
•Wargames Club Meeting, 1:00pm, SCR.
•Rag Committee Meeting, 5:45pm, SCR. Everyone
welcome to attend.
•Exploration Soc Films: A Wedge of Rock and Expedi
tion to the River Kwai, 6:00pm, Biochem 302.
•Vegsoc Trip to Food for Thought restaurant in Covent
Garden, meet 6:00pm S Ken Tube or 6:30pm there.
Thursday, November 6
•Hang Gliding Club Meeting, 12:30pm, above Stan's
Bar.
•Speech by Richard Wainwright, MP, Liberal Economic
Spokesman, 12:45pm prompt, Mech Eng 640.
•Mopsoc Lecture, Cosmic X-Ray Astonomy, 1:00pm,
Physics LT2.
•Mech Eng Soc, Colin Aldridge and Steve McQueen of
1CL talking on Computers, Engineering and Science,
1:00pm, Mech Eng 220.
• R C C General Meeting, 6:00pm, Upper Lounge. All
club chairmen/women must attend.
•IC Gliding Club Meeting, 5:30pm, Aero 254.
•Ents Film: Exorcist II (The Heretic), 6:30pm, Mech Eng
220,, 40p.
•Real Ale Society Meeting, 7:30pm, Crush Bar, 2nd
floor, Union Building.
* Dept of Humanities presents:
1. Life on Earth: The Swarming Hordes, 1:15pm, Great
Hall.
2. 700th Lunch-hour Concert with Bernard Roberts on
piano. The Music Room, 53 Princes Gate.
Page 8
FELIX, October 31,1980

