FCLUBS
RCC Vacancy
The Recreational Clubs Committee (RCC)
needs a Vice-Chairman (who also serves as
Finance Officer). A Vice-Chairman is vital to
the smooth running of R C C and an election is
being called immediately. Election papers are
now up on the Union noticeboard on the right
hand side ofthe main Union Entrance. Papers
come down at 5.30pm on Monday 15
October, and the election will be held at an
Extra-ordinary General Meeting of R C C on
Thursday 18 October in the Union Upper
lounge at 6.00pm.
Candidates need a proposer and two
seconders, who must all be full members ofIC
Union.
GLIDING
Gliding 1st
for IC
Imperial College came 1st 2nd and 3rd in the
'Wooden' class of the Inter-University
Gliding competition during the summer.
IC Gliding Club hosted the 'Task Week' at
their home airfield of Lasham near
Basingstoke. The competition involved flying
a preset cross-country circuit (a 'task'), by
riding currents of rising air, or thermals.
This year ten universities took part, with a
total of sixteen gliders competiting in two
categories, Wooden and Glass. In the Glass
Class Surrey University came 1st and 3rd,
and Reading came 2nd.
Here Malcolm Andrews of the Gliding
Club describes a typical flight. Gliding Club
can be contacted at Freshers' Fair, or on
Thursdays at 5.30pm in Aero 254.
Having been towed to 2000 feet we caught
several fairly weak thermals taking us
towards Greenham Common airbase. By
luck we stumbled into stronger lift taking us
up to 4000 feet, and on to Newbury race
course.
At the race course we found more lift,
managing to scrape our way up to 3500feet.
Back down to 2000feet and we were looking
for a landing field, but our unpromising cloud
gave us the best lift of the day to 5000 feet.
We used the extra height to round the point
at Newbury and head off back to home.
Back down to 2000 feet again and we
choose a landing field. The landing involved
a tack alongside the field to look for
obstructions (and the local pub) in losing the
remaining height with the airbrakes, and a
final circuit into the landing.
We found our way to the pub, phoned our
retrieving crew, and had a bite to eat. Once
the crew arrived we packed the glider away,
and arrived back at Lasham just after
midnight. The flight lasted 2 hours, fairly
typical for the week.
STOIC
S t u d e n t T V
Ah! So you've got here at last! I expect you
have been idly flicking through the pages of
FELIX while the Rector has been droningon,
and I hope you found it more interesting than
his speech usually is (we had a new one two
years ago, so an update isn't due for about
another eight!), While I have your attention
then, I would like to tell you about one of the
Union's other media, S T O I C — S T U D E N T
TELEVISION O F IMPERIAL C O L L E G E .
STOIC provides a colour television
service to students at IC, broadcasting twice
a week over a campus-wide cable network
(cable television is not new around here!). If
you live in a Hall of Residence, then you can
watch our programmes on your Hall TV Set.
You can also watch in the J C R and the
Southside T V lounge.
Programmes are shown on Tuesday and
Thursday lunchtimes at 1.00pm with a repeat
showing at 6.00pm. On Tuesdays, we show
documentary-type programmes or inter-
views with celebrities—Cliff Richard, David
Attenborough and Gordon Jackson have
recently been guests—and on Thursdays
N E W S B R E A K is shown. N E W S B R E A K is a
news magazine programme covering sub-
jects involving, or of interest to, students,
including the lunatic antics of Rag Collectors;
the perennial (and more serious) complaints
about poor refectories and accommodation;
the latest film releases—with clips—in 'Film
Review'; Theatre Review, and many other
items. STOIC also maintains an extensive
video archive stretching back over the past
15 years,and sabbatical officers have been
known to subsequently regret certain
statements made during their election
campaigns. All our broadcasts are followed
by up to the minute weather forecasts,
illustrated by animated sequences from
'Meteosat' supplied by the Atmospheric
Physics Department(as used on 'Breakfast
Time').
On Tuesday we will be showing a special
compilation from last year's programmes,
and on Thursday, the first edition of
N E W S B R E A K will be on the air, with a
round-up of some of the goings on around
College over the Summer, coverage of
Freshers Fair, plus most of the regular
features mentioned above. Incidently, if a
motley crew of scruffy individuals waving a
T V camera bear down on you at the Fair, the
safest thing to do is to answer the questions
and hope that they will then go away!
If you are, or might be interested in joining
STOIC, you can see us at Freshers Fair(in
the Sherfield lower Refectory), from where
we will be running tours of the College T V
Studio which is situated on the walkway,
underneath the Elec Eng building. If you can't
make it then, below is a list of introductory
events for the first two weeks.
Whether or not you are interested in
joining, we hope that you will enjoy watching
our productions this coming year as much as
we will enjoy making them for you.
Thursday 4 October
Come to the T V Sudio at 6.00pm to see the
transmission of the first edition of N E W S -
BREAK for this academic year. Afterwards,
we will be holding an informal gathering in the
Studio, where you can find out more about
STOIC.
Tuesday 9 October
For those who could not attend last
Thursday, we will be repeating our intro-
duction to STOIC. If you did come on
Thursday, you will be able to take a more
detailed look at the equipment.
Wednesday 10 October
Watch N E W S B R E A K being recorded in the
Studio at about 5.00pm. The programme is
always produced during Wednesday after-
noon and evening.
'DuracelP
The Studio Control Room during a recording session
18 Monday 1 October 1984 FELIX

