CLUBSD
AMNESTY
Student
prisoner
released
Imperia! College Amnesty group has been
campaigning since 1981 for the release of the
Beninese student Firmin Awadon who, with
other students, had been detained without
charge or trial since 1979, probably on
suspicion of participation in a strike at the
national university. In 1983 Amnesty
International accepted an invitation from the
government of Benin to send a mission to the
country to investigate abuses of human
rights, but the government failed to answer
further correspondence and the mission had
to be abandoned. The authorities also failed
to send a representative to the United
Nations in February 1984 to answer
allegations made to the Commission on
Human Rights. However, several temporary
improvements were made in the prisons,
perhaps in preparation for Amnesty's visit,
and after many protests from the IC group
and the prisoners themselves about the
illegality of their detention an official order for
their admininstrative internment was
prepared(four years after the event) and
shown to them.
On 1 August this year the presidential
office of Benin declared an amnesty for all
political prisoners('except those who had
participated in the ignoble and barbarous
imperialist aggression of Sunday 16 January
1977'), and Mr Awadon was released next
day. He had been kept in a prison containing
four times the intended number of inmates,
where several people died every month, with
no food except that provided by relatives. He
suffered from head injuries received in a
beating in 1980.
The group's action, performed in
collaboration with Amnesty groups in two
other countries, consisted of sending
hundreds of letters to the authorities and
some parcels to the prisoner, together with
some attempts at publicity and a
consultation with the cultural attache to the
embassy of Benin in Paris. In December 1983
a petition was sent from the college to Benin
and many members of staff wrote to the
president of the country.
We can only guess whether the group's
activities contributed to M r Awadon's
release. The actions of the government
during the past year suggest that the
presidential amnesty was prompted by
sensitivity to campaigns and publicity about
human rights generally. Mr Awadon wrote to
the group after his release: 'I shall keep up my
contacts with Amnesty through you, my
friends. As I always promised during my
detention, I shall commit myself with you to
the noble task of helping the voiceless
thousands imprisoned purely for their
political or religious convictions or their
race.'
ICCND
The Facts
of...Life?
Fact: Eighty percent of Imperial College
students would not survive a nuclear attack
on London.
Fact: Research into new and more deadly
weapons takes place at Imperial College.
Fact: The Government intends to spend
£11 billion on a Trident nuclear missile'
system at a time when education spending
has been cut to the bone.
The Facts of Life are revealed in full at
ICCND's stall in the Union Dining Hall at
tomorrow's Freshers' Fair. Y o u can meet
Philip Webber (co-author of the book
'London after the bomb') and find out the
truth about the Greenham Women from Zoe
Saunders. As well as this we're giving away
badges, posters, and other goodies
absolutely free. So if you're one of the
millions who were worrried by last week's T V
programmes about the aftermath of a
nuclear war, or if you're concerned about the
College's own role in accelerating the arms
race, please visit our stall. Everybody is
welcome.
Fact: Together we can stop the nuclear
madness.
SURF
Spanish surfing
As the surf this summer was a bit lacking on
the Serpentine IC Surf Club headed off to the
North coast of Spain in search of arriba
waves. A n interesting couple of days was
spent near Biarrittz in eight foot waves with
other dangers including nude French
bathers sharing the warm waters.
After ten days surfing the varied beaches
of the Basque and Asturian regions
everybody was surfing much better with talk
of next year's trip being Ohau North Shore,
Hawaii. The weather couldn't dampen
enthusiasm for this beautiful region of
Europe with friendly amigos and very cheap
spirits. Even if you don't surf it's a place well
worth seeing.
OPSOC
Opsoc Tour-
Devon shocked
Once again this summer, in the time
honoured manner, Opsoc made its annual
offensive on the usually tranquil resort of
sunny 'Budleigh Salterton,' Devon to
perform its usual Gilbert and Sullivan epic.
This year they produced a double bill of 'The
Zoo'by Sullivan and Rowe and the 'Pirates of
Penzance' by G & S . Despite the evening
being unusually long, both visitors and
audience enjoyed themselves enormously.
The tour is a conglomeration of all that is
good in Opsoc, both on stage and behind the
scenes. There was a blend of experience and
raw faces in the principle roles, all giving
memorable performances. After two weeks
of hectic activity, Opsoc said farewell to-
Budleigh, only to begin planning and looking
forward to next year's visit..
Opsoc are recreating Act II of'Pirates' in
the Union Concert Hall on Wednesday 10
October at 7.30pm with various workshops
before hand, where new blood will be
welcomed, whether set building, make up or
performing. The first rehearsal for the
February Show—'The Grand Duke' is at
7.30pm Tuesday 2 October in the Music
Room, 53 Prince's Gate.
®CND AND MILLIONS OFBRITISH PEOPLE
PONT WANT REAGAN'S CRUISE MISSILES.
FELIX Monday 1 October 1984 19

