•NEWS
Phones Fiasco
Faults on the new, electronic
telephone exchange have meant
that many people calling the
College have had to wait for up to
half-an-hour before being answ-
ered. In addition, whole groups
of instruments have been out fo
order.
Of the 38 outside lines serving
the College, 23 were out of action
when the system became fully
operational on 15 September.
This led to long delays in
answering incoming calls.
Many users have also exper-
ienced difficulty with their new
telephone instruments. In many
cases British Telecom, who inst-
alled the system, gave phones the
wrong category, preventing auth-
Pictured above is the computer in the telephone exchange which records
information about each call made, and acts as a directory for the
switchboard staff when connecting outside callers.
Careering
Along
Thoughts for Finalists
There are about 155 term days until you cease to be a final year
student at Imperial College and start to be a well what? It
may seem premature to start thinking about your future now,
but those 155 days will zoom past and before you know it you
might be sitting in my office saying, 'I wish I'd started earlier, I've
missed two closing dates already and it's hard to make a
decision so quickly.'
The Careers Advisory Service is here to help you avoid last
minute 'panic buys'. For the totally clueless, 'I haven't the
faintest idea what I want to do, or when to start' we run two
seminars on Wednesday afternoons entitled, inspiringly,
'Career Choice A and B'. (You have to book for these so check
your notice board for details). Throughout the Autumn Term
speakers from a whole range of organisations will give lectures
about general areas of employment like management, scientific
journalism, design and development etc.
If you feel the need of a personal interview with a Careers
Adviser, you have to book one in advance but, if you just have a
quick query, one of us will be available in the Careers Library
(Room 311, Sherfield Building) between 4.30pm and 5.30pm
Monday to Friday.
Oh and by the way, if you think you might want to teach, join
the fast stream of the Civil Service or study abroad, you should
apply early in October.
Annie Martin
Careers Adviser
orised users from obtaining
outside lines. Other phones have
gone completely dead as engin-
eers have made adjustments to
the wiring.
Some users without a recall
button fitted to their phones have
been over-eager to try the new
facilities, and have found their
calls forwarded to a another
extension with no way of cancel-
ling it.
Peter Burridge, in charge of the
College telephones, said that the
problems stemmed from the fact
that the system was delivered five
weeks late by BT. If it had been
on time, he went on, the teething
problems would have been sorted
out well before the start of term.
Deposits
Deposits paid by residents in
College Halls and Houses are to
be increased by up to five times, it
was decided at an emergency
meeting of the Student Residence
Committee (SRC) during the
vacation. The new deposit of £25
will be held against damage as
well as being a key deposit.
Last year there was a deposit of
£5 in Halls of Residence and £ 10
in the Evelyn Gardens Houses,
which was described as a key
deposit although there have been
instances of it being witheld for
reasons other than loss of keys.
The special meeting of the SRC
was called by the Chairman, Dr
Don Munro, on the insistence of
Student Services Officer Michael
Arthur who had decided that the
deposit should be raised to £25 in
both Halls and Houses. In future,
residents who cause damage to
their rooms or common areas or
leave their rooms in an
excessively untidy state when
they leave, will have deductions
made from their deposits. The
introduction of the new deposit
was supported by U n i o n
president Ian Bull.
Another increased charge on
residence bills will be the
insurance premium, which as a
result of the introduction of a
new all-risks policy will go up
from £4.50 to £9.50. The cover
afforded by the new policy will,
however, be much improved on
last year's insurance. Details of
the policy, which covers
residents' personal property, will
be circulated along with the first
term's rent bill.
C h o i r r o m p h o m e !
Ex-FELIX Editor Martin S Taylor led 'The Choir Team' to victory in the
annual FELIX Motor Club Rally on Sunday 24 June.
Seven teams set off from the FELIX Office in vehicles ranging from
Jez, the RCS fire engine, to a humble mini. Their quest was to answer the
series of questions set by Pallab Ghosh and puzzles editor Ulysses, and to
collect various items of treasure from all over London. The rally took
teams as far away as Greenwich.
Points were awarded for items of treasure and questions correctly
answered. The team that amassed the largest number of points is pictured
above, I to r, Martin S Taylor, Amanda Laurence, and Tony Moorby.
24 Monday 1 October 1984 FELIX

