EPOSTGRADS~
Alpha not
good enough
A recent Science and Engineering
Research Council report entitled 'Support of
Research Grants' has highlighted the
increasing inability of the Council to fund all
of its highest priority research projects.
The S E R C is one of the quasi-
governmental bodies responsible for funding
postgraduates in the U K and it is the
Research Council that Imperial has most
dealings with. Academics submit research
project proposals to the Council in the hope
that they will be accepted for funding. The
Council grades the projects according to
their likely contribution to the subject, their
long term industrial applicability and
relevance to industial needs. Those projects
graded 'alpha' are the highest priority
projects and it is these which are suffering.
For the science board the number of
unfunded 'alpha' projects has increased from
fifteen (1.4% of the total) in 1977/8 to 274
(26.3% of the total) in 1982/3. In Engineering
the decline has been more sudden with all
'alpha' graded projects funded in 1977/8 but
in 1982/3 149 (27.8% of the total) went
unfunded.
The report indicates that this funding
shortfall has resulted in many older
academics stopping research work and in
younger intellectuals leaving the U K for
Europe and America in order to obtain
research funding. It is concluded that unless
ail 'alpha' projects can be funded the
instability of higher education in Britain will
be lost resulting, in a reduction in the quality
of trained manpower in science and
engineering.
Professor G Bull of Metallurgy and
Materials Science acted as one of the
consultants to the report's Steering Group.
P G T i p s
First of all, may I, on behalf of the
Postgraduate Group, welcome all new PG's
starting at Imperial College this week. By
now you've no doubt heard a thousand times
how wonderful IC is, it's all true!!! Be you
MSc or PhD, I hope you have a happy and
successful stay.
As you will soon find out IC has an
unusually high proportion of P G s about 30%
at present, rising to 40% over the next few
years. Unfortunately, what with the pressure
of work and a diversity of outside
commitments, a large number never see the
College outside of working hours. This is a
great pity as the College and particularly the
Students Union has many facilities to offer.
From some of the best College Sports Clubs
in Britiain to a wide range of recreational and
social activities. I Urge you to get involved.
The biggest independent group in College
however is the Postgraduate Group, you are
all automatically members. I hope you will
involve yourselves and help organise its
activities. We can only provide events if we
get support. Our first General Meeting will
be at 4.00pm in the Holland(along the
walkway towards the Huxley building) on
Tuesday 2 October. This will be followed
later by a disco at 8.00pm with a cheap bar.
Tickets will be free but limited in numbers. I
suggest you attend the meeting if you want to
guarantee getting in as there will be very few
tickets on the door.
As Chairman of the P G group I sit on the
Graduate Studies Committee and IC
Council and we also have a representative on
the Safety Council. So if you have any
complaints or suggestions about your
course, working conditions, or the running of
the Students Union, please drop me a note
via the IC Union Office or the Subwardens
Flat, Falmouth Hall. I shall see what I can do!
This year we have an exceptionally strong
Postgraduate Committee. Who will give you
as much support as you give them. We'd like
a busy year. Chris Hendy
P G Chairman 1984/85
S i l w o o d
S p o r t s
1st annual PG-Silwood Sports Day
The first annual Silwood Park—South Ken
postgrad sports day took the form of a
13—a—side cricket match; that is the South
Ken captain took 13 'players'and informed
the Silwood skipper once it was too late to
do. The date was the first cloudy Friday of
September, the venue: Silwood Park,
Sunningdale; transport: minibus. The
journey was rapid, with only one stop—on a
roundabout, to avoid a car which had right of
way. It was still early morning without a
Silwood soul stirring as practice started and
lunch was taken until it was time to start.
Being impoverished postgrads, there was no
coin to toss with, so the Silwood skipper,
covering his watch, asked our captain
whether the second hand was closer to the
six or twelve. He must have pondered for half
a minute before guessing correctly, to field
first—a sensible decision since Silwood were
still missing men, and since he was providing
the new ball and knew how it was likely to
swing in such conditions. Too right, 23 wides
were bowled—but it certainly fooled the
opening batsmen and exhausted the
signalling umpire who would still have to bat.
So despite the potential penetration of the
strike bowlers, quick bowling changes were
made, with the skipper himself coming on to
bowl. By the fourth ball of the over the non-
striker was falling asleep, mesmerised by the
flight of the gently lobbed ball, and by the
whistle as the leather spun wicketwards
through the air he rested on his bat while his
partner, at last making contact with the ball,
dashed up the wicket attempting a quick run.
Reliable Smith returned the ball to the
wicketkeeper, a simple run-out, and first
blood to South Ken
Progress was slow against tight bowling,
with Barnett, the leg-spinner and yarn-
spinner, keeping one end wider control, and
Rynbeck taking the next two wickets to fall.
A couple of hookers were soon together in
the middle, but with a fielder placed square
just beneath the horizon, Barnett knew how
to tempt them; and before long Smith and
Jones were beneath mistimed shots. Jeynes,
Islam and the skipper then took control of
the situation, and brilliant captaincy brought
the run-rate to a standstill—by constantly
moving fielders around and forgetting about
bowling the ball. And when the bat-flinging
final overs arrived, Baggs behind the stumps
bagged two stumpings off Graham, with the
home finishing on 136, Larter swinging his
bat, and scoring 15 in 24 balls, and Day
having a good afternoon with 29.
At tea, South Ken were 23 without loss,
although Collins went soon after: but Jones
and Chew punished anything short, hitting
high over the rabbit-droppings on either side
of the wicket. The all-rounder, Ellison, who
was imported for the match (recognise that
name?) replaced Larter after a spell of six
overs of left-arm lobs, after he had taken a
wicket in the 5th and the 6th; with Le
Mesurier bowling a good length, at 53 for 3
Silwood were in a healthy position. But
wait—isn't that Ian-Botham-give -it-a-wallop-
Richard striding to the wicket. In three steps
he's out there, hits a six off his third ball, and
South Ken are whirlwinding to victory
When the rain began, play continued.
When the sky blackened, and the heavens
opened, and the wicket keeper couldn't see
the ball, Richard hit another six. But at that,
the fielders ran for cover, still40 runs needed
in 20 overs.
Jones by now out, but still punishing
anything short, sent the captain to the
minibus to collect a few bottles of beer to
help pass the time. The umpires made an
inspection and decided it was fit for play, and
shortly afterwards the rain relented, the sun
shone, casting long shadows. A few, fielding
slips occurred as not even Adams' pace
bowling could stem the flow of runs, and
South Ken duly won at, 6.20pm.
Drinks followed, until about 10.15,and
Warwick Road was sighted at 11.30. The
petrol-station 'mastermind' card gave the
answer 'Colin Cowdrey', and the empties
were taken away by Dave's girlfriend who
teaches in an infants school, she thought the
children might like them. Final thanks go to
Jeremy Rudd, their captain, and to Chris
Hendy who couldn't turn up.
Silwood 136(Extra 29, Adams, 29 Day 21,
Barnett 3-24, Rynbeck 2-14, Islam 2-17,
Graham 2-28)
South Ken 137-5 (Jones 30, Chew 37,
Richard 44 not out; Larter2-29, Le Mesurier
2-29)
South Ken won by lots of wickets.
Pat Pocock, Physics Dept
4 Monday 1 October 1984 FELIX

