LETTERS^
OUR
Marxist claptrap
Deal' Sir,
I was shocked and dismayed to find that
the Union is presently seeking to press upon
students literature and other paraphenalia
which extol the virtues of the Marxist-
controlled Greater London Council. To
subject students, including first years,
overseas students and those of a nervous
disposition innocently visiting the Union
Office to get their Union card, to the sight of
the External Affairs Officer dancing around
festooned with 'I love Red Ken' badges,
stickers and balloons is enough to put them
off ever coming near the Union building
again. No doubt they will also get the
impression that Union General Meetings will
be taken up with similar time-wasting issues
of no direct relevance to students, and so not
bother to turn up.
Yours sincerely
J Martin Taylor
Chem Eng PG
Here we go again
Dear Sir,
On Monday 1st October at each of the
Freshers' U G M s a motion will be proposed
that tries to encourage students to think
about the issue of equality in their Unions.
These motion, if not stopped by the Union
Presidents, will probably be shouted down,
or ridiculed.
Freshers will soon discover that the
College they have joined is full of political
and philosophical apathy, that their student
leaders lack initiative and any political drive.
At a College where nuclear weapons,
apartheid, sexism, pornography, animal
rights, human nature are far more than just
theoretical ideas in an abstract arguement.
Where students are faced with these issues in
their studies, research, future jobs and social
life we are told naively that this Union is non-
political.
Over this academic year there will be a
campaign to change the attitudes of students
at Imperial, to get them to apply their reason
and thought outside their academic fields.
We do not aim to create a left-wing or a
right-wing Union, we want it simply to be one
that is intellectually active and aware.
Yours sincerely,
Michael P Newman
Sorry state
Dear Sir,
During the last twelve months two serious
(and potentially very dangerous) accidents
have occured within my department.
The first accident involved a cylinder head
on an oxygen cylinder releasing a jet of flame
out of the back plate. The head was
effectively destroyed and so as an interm
measure the metal gas distribution manifold
was replaced by lengths of rubber tubing. It
was possible that the gas cylinder or its
contents were at fault and so the cylinder was
kept in order that it could be sent away for
analysis. All this was ten months ago and the
rubber tubing is still there—as for the gas
cylinder it stands in a corner gathering dust.
In the second accident, a glass vessel
exploded with appreciable force whilst being
worked on by a glassblower. I believe that
when College officials were investigating the
event their whole attitude was blase and,
rather than leave the case open for further
investigation, they preferred to laugh it off as
a joke saying that it seemed like they had a
mystery.
If this is the attitude of College to incidents
involving employees—incidents where sight,
hearing, even life itself could have been
lost—how would they react to ones involving
students?
I strongly suspect that double standards
would come into play and, bearing in mind
that students are second class citizens at IC, I
shudder to think which way they would fall.
Finally let me say that in no way is the
departmental safety committee to blame for
any of the above—I believe that it is wholly
the indolence and attitude of certain Staff in
Sherfield that have caused this sorry state of
affairs.
Yours sincerely,
Hugh Stiles
Chem Eng PG
Optimism
Dear Sir,
Congratulations on your first issue of
term!
I hope that F E L I X will differ this year from
issues of previous years in that it will be frey
from hypocraphical errers.
Yours siiiincerelyi
Lancelot Wake
Chem Eng 3
Space filler
Dear Sir,
It has always been a source of interest to
me as to how it is that the last letter in the
page always takes up exactly the right
amount of
continued page 94
FELIX
The financial
question
It would be reassuring if Ian Bull, Union
President, were to make a categorical
statement at Thursday's U G M that Clubs'
and Societies' finances will not suffer as a
result of an oversight by last year's sabbatical
officers.
Contrary to Union By-Law 6, (which states
'the finance of the Union shall be administ-
ered by the Council which shall allocate
grants to the sub-Committees and authorise
other Union expenditure') the financial
estimates for this year, which should have
been presented to last year's.Council in May,
have not been put forward. This is probably
due to an oversight by Christine Teller, last
year's Deputy President. Consequently the
finances of every Club and Society in the
Union are now in question. This reflects
badly on last year's sabbatical officers and
last year's Union Council.
Such an oversight is symptomatic of a
disregard for proper financial procedures;
something that the College will be quick to
point out and take advantage of when the
Union negotiates it's annual subvention.
If the President does not give such an
assurance it can only be assumed that he is
willing to misuse his position as the most
important man in the Union Office to oversee
the perpetration of financial misdemeanours
which will work to the detriment of both
Union Clubs and Societies and the Union—
that is to say us—as a whole. '
To ignore this oversight in the hope that it
will go away would be an ostrich-like
abdication of his Presdential position.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Tony
the printer, Rosemary the typesetter, J
Martin Taylor, Hugh Stiles, Hugh Southey,
Dave Jones, Nick Maxwell, M Newman,
Diane Love, Jon Burgess, Chris Hendy, Pat
Pocock, Ian Bull, Pallab Ghosh and Patrick
Coll. Thanks also to all the collators.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of
Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed
by the Union Print Unit, Imperial College, PrinceConsort
Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1984. ISSN 10140-0711.
FELIX Monday 1 October 1984 5

