EFELIX;
Felix Photo File
Among the hordes of new faces to which you will be exposed
in your first week at Imperial, there are a few that belong to
people who are more important (or think that they are more
important) than the others. Here, then, is FELIX'S guide to
such big-shots, big-heads and busy-bodies. (It's up to you to
decide which is which!)
KEY
1. Lord Brian Flowers,. Rector of Imperial College.
The Rector is academic and administrative head of
the College, and probably spoke to you at the
Freshers' Reception. He was a Physics don at
Manchester. Brian is the SDP's spokesman on
Education in the House of Lords, and is Chairman of
the Committee of Vice-Chancellors and Principals.
2. Ian Bull, President of Imperial College Union. Like
Deputy President and Hon Sec, Ian was elected last
term to represent us for 1984-85. Authoritarian,
impulsive, pig-headed and ugly, likes to show who's
in charge. Fond of Guinness, and last year's
president.
3. Dave Parry, Deputy President of IC Union. Dave is
in charge of finance, fixtures, furniture and fittings,
and occasionally turns his hand to females, felony
and photography. Fond of beer.
4. Eric Da rbyshire (with an 'a'), Honorary Secretary ol
iCUnion. Eric takes care of insurance, transport and
operating the toy printing machine in the Union
Office (when he remembers to put any paper in it).
Fond of beer.
5. Lester Kershenbaum, Senior College Tutor. Lester
has recently taken over this job, but has been Senior
Tutor in Chemical Engineering for some time, so he
knows what he's talking about.
6. Sean Davis, UGM Chairman. Sean is Chairman of
the Union General Meeting (UGM), the sovereign
body of the Union. A UGM chairman requires a
distinct voice and a clear style of delivery.
Unfortunately Sean has neither of these, but he does
have a good knowledge of the Constitution.
7. Kathy Tait, Union Receptionist. Kathy is the first
line of defence in the Union Office. She is the one
who will help you, in the first instance, if you come to
the Union with a question. If she doesn't know the
answer then she'll almost certainly be able to find
someone who does.
8. Don Adlington, Student Counsellor. Don is the
man to see if you have any problems. He is the
student counsellor and his office is at 15 Princes
Gardens. The strictest confidence is guaranteed.
Monday 1 October 1984

