[ S A B B A T I C A L S '
BULL!
Registration and issuing of Grant cheques
will continue on Level 3 in Sherfield from
2.00pm until 5.00pm on Tuesday, and
9.30am to 5.00pm each day thereafter. A
word of warning. You must register and
obtain a registration slip first of all because
no Union Card or Grant cheque will be
issued without a registration slip. Y o u will
also require 2 passport photos (black/white
or colour)
In addition, there will be a collection during
registration for the World University
Service. W U S is an educational charity and
has a special concern for academic freedom
and human rights within the e'ducational
sphere. The money raised will be donated to
the central World University Scholarship
fund, so please give generously.
UGM Thursday 1.00pm Great Hall
The Union General Meeting is your
opportunity to make sure that the Union is
doing or does what you want it to, so please
come along. The President of the University
of London Union, Delyth Morgan, will be
8 "
coming along to talk to you about U L U and
related activities. Since you are also a
member of U L U , this will be a good
opportunity to find out more about U L U .
Darbyshire
dithers
Parking Permits
This year the Union has been allocated 178
parking spaces of which 4 are used by our
minibuses, thus there are 174 to distribute
amongst the student body. Application
forms are available from the Union Office
and must be returned by 5.30pm on Friday.
Successful applicants will be listed in the
following week's FELIX.
Insurance
If you are resident in an Imperial College
Hall or House you should have already seen
a summary of the insurance policy, if not they
are available from the Union Office. If you
want to take out extra cover or if you don't
understand it come and see me (Eric
Darbyshire) and I'll try to help. N B Bicycles
are not insured on this policy.
Monday 1 October 1984
Parry
prevaricates
Freshers Fair
Tomorrow afternoon in the Union Building
and Sherfield it's Freshers Fair. All clubs and
societies should have stalls — if you can't find
yours on the map or list then find me in the
Union Office. Clubs are not allowed to take
any money off you for subscriptions. All they
may do is take your name and department so
as to contact you later.
Refectory
The Union has now taken over the refectory
in Beit. This should (hopefully) be open from
10.00am to 3.00pm each week-day.
Elsewhere in this issue you should find more
about it; but if you have any suggestions or
criticisms then either tell Norman, the
manager, or me in the Union Office. We
hope you use this outlet well and the only
way we can satisfy you is by letting you have
a say in what we serve so please do so.
Bookshop and Sports Shop
The four Unions jointly run and own the
bookshop and sports shop on the Sherfield
walkway; we try to provide the cheapest
quality paper and stationery along with all the
books you will need in the bookshop. The
manager, Roy Hicks, is always open to
suggestions about stock for both the shops.
The sports shop is the place to go for all your
clothing and sporting needs and is open from
10.00am to 4.00pm Monday to Friday.
STA
Just inside the J C R is an office belonging to
Student Travel, Australia. This company
specialises in cheap student travel by both air
and land. They can book you on flights
overseas or coaches to destinations in the
U K or Europe. The staff are mainly ex-
students and so can help you with all the
hassles one encounters.
Theft
This college is in a high rate petty crime area.
With over seven thousand people on this
campus it is not worth leaving anything
around unattended whether it be in a lab, a
changing room or the Union office,
because it will undoubtedly disappear
All this week in the Sherfield Ante-room
(opposite the messengers desk on the
ground floor) the Met Police will be stamping
bicyles with the owners' post-code. It's free
so just take your bike along to give them a
better chance of giving it back to you when it
gets nicked.
Games Machines
The video and pinball machines in the Union
go wrong occasionally so if you loose your
money or a bit is broken then tell us so we
can have it repaired, otherwise a lot of people
will get annoyed because they've been ripped
off as well.
FELIX
Hello and welcome, or welcome back,
whatever the case may be. The FELIX editor
has very kindly allowed us some space in his
latest work of art to pass on a few items of
interest for this week.
Crash Pad
If anyone should be in the unfortunate
position of having nowhere to stay, there is a
"Crash Pad" in the Union Upper Lounge.
Just bring along a sleeping bag and we'll
provide a floor.
Registration, Grant cheques and Union
Cards
Elsewhere you will find details of the
registration procedure in the JCR, which will
continue until 12.00 Tuesday. Thereafter,
the issuing of Union Cards will be in the
Union Upper Lounge each day during the
first week from 10.00am to 4.00pm. I would
advise you to obtain your Union Card during
the first week because you may need it for
the Freshers Carnival on the Friday evening.
Students Union
The Union receptionist, Kathy Tait, has
recently started with us and we hope that she
enjoys her time at I C U . If you have any
queries about the Union or anything else,
don't hesitate to ask her. We would also like
to welcome Rosemary Ivor-Jones, FELIX
receptionist and typesetter, and Norman
Jardine, Catering Manager for the Union
snack bar.
Please be patient if they don't have an
immediate answer to your query — it does
take a while to get use to a new job and place
of work.

