4 F E L I X
E D I T O R I A L
W H E T H E R OR NOT TO JOIN
Last year all hell let loose—a motion was passed then reversed in
the furore that followed. Four years ago the same thing happened.
This year the N.U.S. question did net arise, (although it migut have
done), and next year it may well do again, but it cannot be long
before we will in fact join; it is enevitable that we should, as it
was that women should eventually be allowed into the Oxford
Union. Of the many arguments for joining none can concern this
paper more than the annual N.U.S.—organised conference of the
student press.
Each year a competition is held for the best student newspaper—
this year it was won by Oxford's Cherwell. Our own Sennet was
placed third. The competition, however, is but the focus to four
days of discussion, lectures, criticism, and advice by leading prof-
fessional journalists. Our own advertising agency. Educational Publ-
icity, is deeply involved, and the whole conference received National
attention. A recent article in the New Statesman discussed student
journalism in some detail. Imperial College and Felix were not
mentioned. They never are.
Each paper is criticised and editors and staff are invited to quest-
ion and meet informally with Fleet Street professionals. Since the
conference was started, more and more interest has been shown by
the Press, by advertisers, by professionals and by the Universities
and Colleges themselves. While others learn from experience and
highly qualified sources, FELI X continues in an amateurish and
clumsy way. We cannot improve because we do not know how.
The only advice we get is from ignorant and irritating outsiders. We
can only copy without knowing why—to progress we must be told
why.
To our cry add that of the Dramatic Society, excluded from a
festival of drama which receives wide national publicity, also the
Debating Society excluded from the Observer Mace competition and
others who would benefit from N.U.S. organised functions:
We do not get the opportunities we deserve, or the publicity we
need, because a few Union minded hot heads would have us remain
"a princely cloister". By competing with the best and learning from
the best this College can achieve much that it lacks.
WE A N D T H E Y
Are you on friendiy terms with more than one member of the
Staff? Have you ever entertained your Tutor at Hall dinner or in
the bar? Has any member of the staff showed an interest in you as
a person? If the answer is yes, thrice yes, then you are the except-
ion, for staff relations are, at this College, virtually non-existent.
The Chemical Engineering Department is perhaps best endowed
in this field with a pattern of personal and xademic tutors leading
never to marriage, but often to hall dinner. In other departments the
situation is worse and many students feel contact with the academic
staff to be nil.
In the Union there seems to be an extraordinary attitude of "we"
and "they"; with "we" to defenceless students, and "they." the
monstrous megalomaniac authorities. The administrative staff feel
that relations are worse than for many years. One gentleman said
tentatively that people in the Union tended to follow and be in-
fluenced by the small core at the top : another was very much more
specific, but the import was the same.
Although Felix has hinted at feuds in the past, Dave Watson
categorically denied any such possibility in an article in these pages
last term. He talked of "so much rubbish" and said "I wouldnt
know it existed". All quiet on the Union front. Then at Council he
publicly flays Dr. Cameron, warden of Tizard Hall, knowing full
well that the proceedings are to be reported. His lack of tact is
alarming. If this happens on the surface, we can but guess at what
is behind the scenes.
To talk of the diffuseness and the sheer size of the College pro-
vides half an excuse, but the remaining half is really no excuse at
all, rather a reason. It is a pity that staff and student cannot mix
more readily and freely in a way typical of a true University.
S M A L L A D S .
LEAVERS—before you go,
order a subscription to next
year's Felix and keep in touch.
Apply to Subscriptions Manag-
er, Union Rack.
1949 EX-SPORTS RACING
CAR, aluminium body, 2 litre
Austin ensine, preselector gears.
£65. 387 Southside.
INSIDE JOB ?
£29 was stolen from a drawer
in a locked room on 2nd floor
Beit during the afternoon of
May 23rd. The " C " division of
the Metropolitan Police have
been making the usual fruitless
enquiries. It is now becoming
increasingly likely that a few
members of the College are
rather successful part-time crim-
inals.
Spannerama
GUILDS ELECTIONS
There was a Mineswcman at
the last Guilds Union Meeting
of the year. She was holding the
hand of a Mr. J. Pereira. She
was locked in a convenient cup-
board, and as the minutes pas-
sed, read by Cox, various
screams and items of female
nether-ware, flew from the cup-
board. Bob Schroter gave some
deta'ls on the 'Spannc-Re'iever',
newly acquired via Tim Shaw,
and A.E.I. It consists of a nut
and a bolt, suitably mounted,
and of such dimensions at to fit
the jaws of Spanner. The bolt, a
2" Whit ,has been named RCS;
and the nut has been, named
Mines.
The election followed, and as
predicted earlier by Felix, Yog
Bishop was elected President,
with Chris Molam as Vice.
Brian Walpole, Hon. Sec; Geof.
Purkis, Treasurer; Brian King,
Publicity; Robin Claridge, IC
Council Rep., and Reg. Cham-
berlain OC Rep, competed the
electons, all posts beng very
keenly contested. Of the seven
nominees for Spanner Bearer,
who were able to lift Spanner,
two were elected, with two
spares.
Mr. Combes, of Felix Forth-
rightly Newspaper of IC Union,
was unanimously awarded the
Norris Muck Stirring Trophy.
After the President's report
and tne awarding of the Sport,
and Social colours, the Union
General Awards for Superwork
were presented to Mike Cox,
Yog, Charley Baty, Claridge,
Don Leeper, John Edge, and
John Skinner. President Ex-Offic-
io.
After a vote of thanks, and
several minutes thunderous (and
well deserved) applause, for the
retiring President, the meeting
was closed with a Boomalaka.
Then Mr. Pereira was brought
forth, stripped, and reclad in
bra'n panties. The meeting mov-
ed to the Round Pond where
Mr. P. and several others were
immersed in its healing waters.
The new President gave his first
Boomalaka, and then there was
a Zebra Crossing.
N O R . M A N P R I C E
Hot favorite for I.C. Presidency
next term
FOLK CLUB RECORD
There is a fantastic variety of
styles from the various singers
and all, in their own way, are
excellent. It is difficult to single
out any tracks for Do-Re-Mi and
Elvira John's "The First Time I
Ever Saw Your Face" have the
edge. Also appearing : The
Wayfarers, Rod and Alex, Chris
Hornblower, Colin and Judy,
Kate and Roy, Trev. and Stu.
and Chris Wright's Group
(Copies from 382 Keogh—25/-).
B.J.B.
L A M L E Y ' S
TECHNICAL & G E N E R A L
BOOKS
ART MATERIALS
DRAWING
INSTRUMENTS
STATIONERY
PAPERBACKS
1, 3 & 5 EXHIBITION ROAD,
LONDON, S.W.7

