F E L I X 5
THE GODBOTHERERS - A
S
U
R
V
E
Y
R.C's
Sorting from the top are the Roman Catholics. They practice at
the University chaplaincy, and have a representative on the Union
of Catholic students: one of the few members of I.C. with speaking
rights on the N.U.S. Iheir organisation does not appear to extend
much beiow University level, although proposals are underway for
a College Chaplain, and college Mass. Many of them seem to be
quite happy with the present situation: after all, they say, the
priests are the Church and the students must go to them. Also, as
the President elect of the Catholic society pointed out, we are now
living in a post-ChrisJan era, so what can Catholics do in Che
College? It is to be presumed, therefore, that few converts are made.
They are an extremely rigid and the Communist, but this
society, genuinely believing that
it is not their job to do philanthr-
opic work outside the College,
a though there is talk of super-
v sing L.C.C. homework classes.
This rather twisted stern-minded-
ness undoubtedly stems from
their exceptionaly severe serf-
dom under an extremely Con-
servative hierarchy. It would be
tempting to enlarge on the
similarities between the Jesuit
comparison highlights the nature
of their organisation. The
Frest's ruling must never be
qi'est'oned (Contracept'on is not
sett'ed yet, thank God!) and any
ideas that might be supposed to
filter upwards from a comparit-
ively fertile College Catholic
society must either be stifled
vigorously, or stored in some
little "Kafka-Esque" room to be
sampled in many years time.
Then the College Catholics are
virtually forbidden to have joint
discussions on vital topics such
as the Litany and the Bible with
other college Christians, although
the iron-curtain has been lifted
a little, and joint Bible study
groups may be initiated next
term.
ANGLICANS
Next in the scale come the
Anglicans, represented, if not ex-
actly run, by Father Ivor. It is
difficult to evaluate the exact
nature of his influence over the
society : he seems to be most
people's friend and confessor,
and is a vital secular influence
with significant monastic con-
nections. Thus the Anglicans, in
spite of their comparatively
severe Church laws, are able to
bring in excellent speakers on a
variety of topics : comment is
not restricted.
Characteristic of the Anglicans
is their enthusiastic work outside
the college. This is possible be-
SteelI S P R O G R E S S
T H E N E W T E C H N O L O G Y
One of a line of one-ton vacuum induction melting furnaces. This
is among the many new techniques of modern steel production.
STEEL is now undergoing a revolution in manufacturing methods, in the developments
new types of products, in new techniques of application. The recently introduced low
cost pneumatic steelmaking processes and the invention of continuous casting are but
two examples of this new look in Steel.
Steel is one of Britain's key industries and the basis of our whole economy. Its technical
problems are challenging, its management situations complex, its insistence on quality
continuous. It is a diverse and alive industry and welcomes men who can take responsibility.
For details o f a c a r e e r in Steel, c o n t a c t your University
A p p o i n t m e n t s Board.
BRITISH IRON A N D S T E E L F E D E R A T I O N STEEL HOUSE TOTHILL STREET LONDON SWI
cause their Church accepts them
as part of the whole system, and
therefore they feel moved to do
much good work. The feat of
collecting for the landrover
must make the Carnival organis-
ers green with envy : they gO
about their work quietly and
without any gloss, and seem to
achieve wonders.
It is regretable, therefore, that
intelectually the Anglicans ap-
pear to be rather woolly. Most
arguments seem to end in beauti-
fully simple statements of faith :
one wonders if this extends as
far as the faith of the Archbishop
of Canterbury when he states
that he expects to meet the Pope
in heaven. The dangers that the
College Anglicans have to guard
against, therefore, is the spread
of this complacency; a few
Anglicans in this College, by
their well drilled Public school
approach, are doing much to
harm the image of their excellent
society.
FELLOW TRAVELLERS
The offshoots from the Anglic-
ans are the S.C.M. and the
Christian Union. Many hard
words are spoken about these
two organisations : Father Ivor
prefers his Anglicans to come to
St. Augustines to be Christians,
while the C.U. are way beyond
the pale. They are, in fact,
rather erudite discussion groups
the S.C.M. tending to do some
work outside the college, the
C.U. virtually nothing. Actually
t^e C.U. is a calvin'stic offshoot
from the S.C.M., with a constit-
ution forbidding them to take
part in other religious organ-
isations. They are fundamental-
ists, believing that the whole
Bible is nothing less than the in-
spired word of God. They tnink
and talk, therefore, in a very
low-church contact.
METHODISTS
Lastly the Methodists, a very
friendly organisation, befitting
the nature of tneir denom.nat.on.
Emphasis on this established
Churcn is s.ight; they only have
tnree communions a term, to
which, inc.dentally, all Christians
are invited, although only
Methodist partake. I hey also
have a few open meetings which
seem to parallel much of the
discussion of the S.C.M., al-
though they are vefy careful not
to overlap ,and therefore in any
way be identified with tnis
organisation.
ROY ELLIS
This article would hardly be
completed without mention of
Roy Ellis, for he, more than
anybody else, has crusaded to
make Christianity respectable in
the College. He has formed a
committee from all the Christians
in the college with the newsheet
"Contact" as its emblem. By his
influence, he hopes to avoid
further undignified letters to
Felix, acting, partly at the publ-
ic relations man for the Christian
societies. It is to be hoped that
he finds a worthy successor.

