unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Now that the term is under
way the Graduate Studentsʼ
Association has started the ball
rolling with our ﬁrst meeting
which took place last week.
We had lots of enthusiastic
ideas and the wine was
ﬂowing…no, not the last part
alas. Ideas included comedy
nights, weekend trips to other
cities (within England and
abroad!), fashion shows and
quite interestingly, a sports
tournament between the
Graduate Schools in as many
number of sports as there is interest in (kickball, anyone?
Itʼs a cross between dodgeball and baseball in fancy dress).
Most urgently though, we discussed the GSA Christmas
Ball on Monday 11th of December. This is looking set to be
a fantastic event with comedians, break-dancers, mulled
wine (non-alcoholic as well) and a 3-course meal. There
are also rumours of jugglers, casino and vodka/fruit punch
“luges” with an ice bar and all of this for £25. Tickets will
be on sale very shortly.
In the very near future though, I would like to announce
a landmark event between the Royal College of Music,
the Royal College of Art and Imperial for a postgraduate
night on Thursday the 9th of November. It promises to be
a night of eclectic music and people. A chance to meet the
neighbours!
Hope to see you there!
Shama
Shama Rahman
Deputy President
(Graduate Students)
dpgs@imperial.ac.uk
GSA
Update
Recently, in the Union we have been informed of some quite
concerning incidents regarding the personal safety of students in
and around the South Kensington area. It is important especially
at this time of year when the clocks have gone back and the
dark nights are drawing in that students are aware of their
surroundings.
The Information and Advice Centre can help if you have any
concerns regarding personal safety. We can give out free personal
attack alarms as well as give free booklets to students which can
give you common sense advice when walking the streets at night.
Below are a few quick tips for you to take on board:
• If you are going out make sure you know where you are going
and have a planned route. It is good practice to tell people where
you are going if you travelling on your own.
• When walking around look conﬁdent, be purposeful and be
alert to your surroundings. People who look conﬁdent are less
likely to be attacked.
• Try to avoid taking shortcuts through dark alleywas or parks, as
this will increase the amount of risk you will be in as it will often
be hard to see what is around you.
• Try not to draw attention to your valuables especially at night, keep
things like mobile phones and iPods well hidden from people.
• Avoid walking past parked cars with their engines running and
people sitting in them.
• If you are travelling by bus try to sit near the driver, or if by
train try to sit in a busy carriage.
It is also important to be aware, when you are trying to get
home late at night, of the transport you are getting into, London
has quite a big problem with
unlicensed mini-cabs.
• If you are stranded somewhere
and need to take a taxi, ensure
that you use a licensed mini cab
or licensed black taxi.
• It is always better to book a taxi
in advance rather than trying to
hail one late at night.
• If you can, try to share a cab
home with friends.
• Conﬁrm the details of the cab driver before entering the car to
ensure it actually is your cab.
• Make sure you sit in the back if you are on your own and ensure
that you leave all doors unlocked.
These are just a few quick tips to bear in mind when you are going
about your daily life. If you have concerns regarding personal
safety then please do not hesitate to contact the Information
and Advice Centre, other people that can help include College
Security or the local police.
The main thing to remember is to always be aware of your
surroundings and donʼt take risks that you donʼt need to.
Donʼt let your concern turn into a crisis make The Information
and Advice Centre your one stop shop for all your welfare
needs.
Tel: 020 7594 8067
E-mail: advice @imperial.ac.uk
Nigel Cooke
Student Adviser
advice@imperial.ac.uk
Don’t Be Afraid Of The Dark
Health & Safety Advice
imperial
collection
the
THE IMPERIAL COLLEGE
CHARITY FASHION SHOW
FRIDAY 3RD NOVEMBER 06 | 7:30pm
GREAT HALL, SHERFIELD BUILDING,
SOUTH KENSINGTON, SW7 2AZ
AFTER PARTY FROM 10 PM AT
THE ROOF GARDENS CLUB
VIP £25 | Guest £17.50 | (including After Party) | After Party £15
For tickets email>>>
wye.fashion@imperial.ac.uk
www.icpanache.com
panache| fashion fusion noël
Website Success
Update on imperialcollegeunion.org
The Union website imperialcollegeunion.org has been going
from strength to strength since the beginning of term. Last
Month (October) the site served nearly half a million pages and
7.5 million requests. The busiest day was the 4th October, the
day after Freshersʼ Fair, with over 28,000 pages served.
A big thanks to all of you who have visited the site and used its
services. Keep checking the site for the latest Union news and
Club & Society Information.

