Artist, inventor, Renaissance man
Can yet another da Vinci exhibition really bring us any closer to understanding the man behind the genius?
Leonardo da Vinci: painter, sculp-
tor, architect, engineer, inventor,
and the iconic Renaissance man.
A fascinating exhibition currently
showing at the Victoria & Albert
Museum, “Leonardo da Vinci:
Experience, Experiment and De-
sign”, explores the artistic roots of
da Vinci’s creativity. It also claims
to explain how he managed to be
so inventive. In short, it argues
that he used drawing as a form of
brainstorming.
The exhibition brings together
more than sixty of Leonardo’s fin-
est drawings, manuscripts, and
notebooks from a variety of collec-
tions. These documents are ample
testament to the amazing breadth
of his interests. At the same time,
they clearly illustrate the important
links he made between diverse top-
ics that once seemed unconnected.
For Leonardo, the world, and
everything in it, was governed by
laws of nature. He believed that it
was possible to work out the causes
of natural phenomena by observ-
ing them. Once understood, such
causes could be applied by analogy
to other parts of creation. Nowhere
was this better demonstrated than
in his studies of the human body.
The body was the world in micro-
cosm: smaller in scale, yet equiva-
lent in complexity, and operating
under the same natural laws. So,
Leonardo was able to liken the
twisted channel of an aged blood
vessel to the tortuous course of a
silted riverbed. He could even de-
duce the vortex flow of blood in the
heart from observing the turbulent
motion of water.
Many other aspects of the great
man’s work are represented in this
exhibition, such as explorations of
three-dimensional geometry, na-
ture in motion, military engineer-
ing, architectural visions, and vari-
ous devices of entertainment. As
well as seeing them in Leonardo’s
own hand, you can see them come
to life as animated versions project-
ed onto the walls, high above the
exhibits themselves.
Unfortunately, true 3D represen-
tations of Leonardo’s ingenious
designs are somewhat lacking. The
reconstructions that have been
made available are few in number
and are displayed unsympathetical-
ly at some distance from the main
exhibition. In contrast, a previous
Science Museum exhibition called
The Art of Innovation successfully
made a feature of specially created
models.
Anything to do with da Vinci al-
ways attracts plenty of visitors. So,
viewing all the exhibits in the rela-
tively cramped display gallery was
a slow and frustrating experience.
Luckily, I took advantage of the
excellent audio guide narrated by
the show’s curator, Martin Kemp,
Leonardo da Vinci: Experience,
Experiment and Design
Victoria and Albert Musuem
Until January 7th 2007
£5 Students
Horses in action, studies of expression horses, lion and man, an architectural groundplan. c.1505
16 felix Friday 3 November 2006
ARTS arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Professor of the History of Art at
Oxford. This certainly enhanced
my appreciation and kept my impa-
tience in check.
In the end, though, I felt that
£5 for entry plus £3 for the audio
guide was on the steep side for
this intriguing but limited exhibi-
tion. If you are interested, I would
certainly encourage you to go, but
do spend some time to look around
the V&A’s extensive galleries. You
can do this for free and it will make
whatever you fork out seem all the
more reasonable.
Edward Wawrzynczak
The morality of arms dealing
VOLUNTEERS NEEDED!
Why not get active in the community whilst you’re at
Imperial College London? It doesn’t matter if you work or
study in Imperial - volunteering will have always something
to offer you! We have over 250 volunteering opportunities
in our database, so there should be a project for you.
The easiest way to get regular updates about volunteering
is by signing up to our mailing list. You will receive all the
latest opportunities on a weekly basis, directly to your
email inbox. Simply send us an email, clearly stating that
you want to receive the weekly news bulletin and we will
do the rest!
volunteering@imperial.ac.uk
020 7594 8141
www.imperial.ac.uk/volunteering
IMPERIAL VOLUNTEER CENTRE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Imperial Volunteer Centre
Linking Opportunities
Robert Austin stars as Andrew
Undershaft in Major Barbara
Major Barbara
Orange Tree Theatre
Until December 9th
£10 Students
George Bernard Shaw is 150 this
year. You’d think that the NT would
be marking the occasion, that
there’d be celebratory adaptations
of his works on the BBC and that
everyone would be dusting off their
copy of My Fair Lady.
No, the celebrations seem to be
confined to one theatre in Rich-
mond, the Orange Tree. But don’t
let that put you off; their new pro-
duction of Shaw’s Major Barbara is
a fittingly explosive tribute to this
underrated playwright.
The play revolves around the
struggle of morals between An-
drew Undershaft (Robert Austin),
an arms manufacturer, and his es-
tranged daughter Barbara, a Salva-
tion Army Major.
To save her father’s soul, Barbara
persuades him to visit her barracks,
but in return she agrees to visit his
arms factory and listen to his side.
Throughout the first two acts, Oc-
tavia Walter’s Barbara is delicious-
ly evangelical, preserving her ho-
lier-than-though expressions with
annoying precision. But when her
father’s money becomes the only
way of saving the barracks, Bar-
bara’s moral high-ground starts to
look uneven.
Only her images of a hellish fac-
tory can keep her idealism alive,
but she soon discovers how well her
father’s workers live.
Undershaft’skeyspeech,pleading
that poverty is the greatest crime, is
immensely persuasive, and Austin’s
performance is amplified by the in-
tense atmosphere of the theatre in
the round. But Barbara’s ultimate
decision would shake any idealist to
the core, exposing the uncomfort-
able humanity inside us all. I defy
you to sit through this play and not
question your own morality.
Emily Lines
ROBERT DAY

