Enjoy your stay in Lithu-Mania!
Vilnius, churches, stomachs, lastminute.com, zeppelins, The Gorgon and some truly awful photography
The absinthe sits on the alcohol-
sputtered bar, flaming menacingly,
acrid scent clawing at the backs
of our mouths. Jim Morrison sits
to my right, the tassels from his
maroon poncho coiled on the bar,
his eyes dull from too much wheat
beer. On the left is the huge, bulk of
a man called Gorgon, bearded with
flowing, tangled hair, swaying on the
bar stool, mumbling to himself in an
odd Lithuanian-English hybrid. We
are all flanked on both sides by un-
known beauties, like the exquisite
seraphs in a Rubens masterpiece.
We wonder to ourselves where they
possibly could have come from,
how they are genetically possible,
how we can get to know them? Sud-
denly The Gorgon lets out a wail
not dissimilar to that made popular
by Chewbacca in Star Wars, downs
a still flaming absinthe, wails once
more and then collapses in a heap
on the floor, soundless now.
‘Is he ok?’ I ask Jim Morrison.
Jim turns his head with all the
nonchalance of a 1960s West-Coast
rock star. ‘Gorgon,’ he hisses, ‘Gor-
gon!’ Nothing. Jim turns back to
me and in his affected American
accent, peppered with Baltic vow-
els and the guttural sounds of his
true home nation, he says simply:
‘Don’t worry, man. He does this
sometimes.’ We turn back to our
absinthes, forgetting The Gorgon,
prostrate on the mucky floor, proba-
bly wailing in his drunken dreams.
The above is no hallucination. It
only took six days in Vilnius for an
unconscious giant to become an
axiomatic part of our evenings out,
but more of that later.
Getting to Vilnius is an event best
left to lovers of fear. It begins in the
arse-end of Gatwick airport, the end
reserved for drug-smuggler’s cav-
ity searchers and the huge vaults
containing those pointless chew-
able toothbrushes which make you
long for times past when miserable
halitosis was perfectly acceptable.
It takes eight hours to get there
and you need a Sherpa to guide you
on the last ascent through beige,
piss-smelling corridors covered in
the detritus of discarded chewable
toothbrushes. Gatwick does not
like Lithuanians. When the gate is
finally reached, when you lumber
over to the stained window to take
one last look at grey old England,
the metal tube about to take you
miles into the air at speed comes
into view. At this moment you feel
an almost brotherly understanding
with those about to go over the top
in Flanders’s Fields back in 1917.
FlyLal planes look similar to some-
thing Neil Buchanan might have
whipped up in fifteen minutes on
Art Attack. In fact, I think I would
have had more confidence if that
Scouse monstrosity had had a hand
in the aerospace engineering of
FlyLal’s fleet. The plane is cracked
and wizened, garish colours painted
over holes and indents, looking all
the while like some seaside funfair
attraction, inspiring no confidence
in its ability to move, let alone fly.
The interior (brave enough to ven-
ture inside, you see) rests in an
epoch where safety was of concern
to no-one, when jutting metal was
a design feature and seats which
didn’t spontaneously collapse were
the feature on that Friday’s ‘Tomor-
row’s World.’ Three hours of creak-
ing, sputtering, high-decibel bangs
and warm beer, however, we land in
an airport more closely resembling
a farm than an E.U destination.
Welcome to Vilnius.
Armed with Lonely Planet guile
we already know the taxi driver’s
game. Famous for cheating the
foreigners, don’t accept anything
more than 20 Litas to the centre.
We are prepared for haggling, for
financial dancing akin to Rocky
and Apollo going at it in Rocky II.
Within two minutes our ‘know-how’
had precipitated a fight between a
group of colossal taxi drivers and
our bags had been launched at us
at high velocity. Don’t listen to peo-
ple from Lonely Planet. They are
the kind of folk that end up dismem-
bered in a bin in Guatemala. Just
pay for things. With the exchange
rate in Lithuania, an estate to rival
Abramovich’s best only costs about
four quid anyway.
Now before I take you through the
baroque majesty of Old Vilnius, the
castles, courtyards and most indi-
vidual of culinary ideals, allow me a
section reserved solely for bile and
spewed anger. When you arrive in
22 felix Friday 3 November 2006
TRAVEL felix@imperial.ac.uk
Peter Dominiczak
Peter Dominiczak reports on the sights and delights of Vilnius, capital of Lithuania. Pictured above: Gedimino Street leading to the cathedral and Gediminas Tower
One of the beautiful views across a sprawling Vilnius

