On the 22nd October 21 intrepid
RSM students (11 from Materials
and 10 from Geology (ish!), mis-
sioned it out to a warehouse in
Canary Wharf, Greenwich. There,
inside the heavy steel doors, we
were faced with a monstrous ti-
rade of inflatables, ditches, strong
holds, netting, tankers, sand bags,
bunkers … and bodies. This was
war..of a paintballing nature! Af-
ter a safety briefing that consisted
mainly of, “ please don’t shoot the
roof or the marshals, but you can
shoot anything else!”, we donned
our all in ones, found Darth Vader-
like masks and we were away! First
we had a few games of capture the
flag, just enough time to test out our
semi-automaticrifles,itappearsthe
geologists may have gained an up-
per hand on these games… but no
one is really sure! Then we moved
on to different field protecting our
strong houses from invasions by
both sides. After some pretty chill-
ing battle cries from Burg, Steve,
Tom and others (difficult to tell with
masks on!!), the Materials crew
managed to annihilate the geolo-
gists and stormed their castle, win-
ning the game. Credit must be giv-
en to all those who “drew” fire by
running around the battle field and
then “re-charging” their lives, it is
hard to say how much paintballs re-
ally hurt, especially on the neck and
hands. After a few more games in-
volving bombs, flags and diving into
sand, we moved on to the final field
which was the most challenging,
and most realistic… those trenches
really smelt; years of built up paint!!
The geologist one the first round of
save the package.. by sneakily grab-
bing it and then holding their own
extremely well. Also the game of
save the president was entertain-
ing.. which the materials group
nearly own, only to be stopped by a
vivacious Satan, who prevented en-
try to the safe bunker! (That REAL-
LY hurt guys!!). The last round was
a one on one round, so every one
was an enemy, this caused multiple
casualties, and even more bruises!
After all the games had finished (I
am reliably informed) that the ma-
terials group won 5-3, all players
put up a damn good fight, and have
the battle scars (bruises) to prove
it! We all had an awesome time, and
here’s to many a re-match in the
near future.. maybe we can chal-
lenge CGCU nest time instead.. af-
ter all we all know who will win!
RSM wages war
Oranges and lemons, say the bells
If you were in college on Wednes-
day, 25th October, you may well have
heard bells ringing out in celebra-
tion of the college’s Undergraduate
Graduation Ceremony. The bells at
the top of the Queen’s Tower are
the 7th heaviest set of 10 bells in the
world with the heaviest bell weigh-
ing nearly 2 tons. The bells were
given as a present by an Australian
millionaire to Queen Victoria in 1892
and because of this, they are unusual
in the way they remain the personal
property of the Queen.
Bells are found the world over, but
the style of ringing that you hear
in English churches (and of course
the Queen’s Tower) is unique to this
country. Bellringing started in the
sixteenth century and has continued
to this day, with ringers using the
same techniques and music as was
developed all those years ago. Today
there are thousands of people of all
ages ringing in churches throughout
the country, including student socie-
ties at many British universities.
The University of London Society
of Change Ringers (ULSCR) is one
of the oldest student ringing socie-
ties, having existed continuously for
over sixty years and remains very
active to this day. There are regular
practices and ringing trips which
are always followed by a pint or two
(or three) in a nearby pub. Bellring-
ers do not have to be very strong
or musically minded and ringing
with a university society is a fantas-
tic way to meet people and to get
out and about in places all over the
country. In the last year alone there
have been trips to Lundy Island,
Dorset and Birmingham. Also, the
annual inter-university competition
(and piss up!) takes place this year
in Cambridge and the ULSCR are
the current reigning champions.
However, ringing within the ULSCR
is not just limited to church bells,
handbells are also an important
part of the life of the society. Just be-
fore Christmas, handbells are used
in the ULSCR concert when carols
are rung around the Christmas tree
in Trafalgar Square to entertain
the masses doing their Christmas
shopping.
However, bellringing is only part
of the story when it comes to ULS-
CR activities. Whether it is a trip to
a West End show, a treasure hunt
around the city or a “hit the dance-
floor” clubbing event, there is some-
thing for everybody. This term alone
there are plans for a Freshers’ re-
ception where anybody new to the
society gets free food and drink all
night, a bonfire night trip, a Christ-
mas party and the annual dinner
and disco.
Perhaps then, if you heard the
29
felix
Friday 3 November 2006
CLUBS & SOCIETIES clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Eleanor Jay
The huge, very loud bells in the roof space of the Queen’s Tower
Queen’s Tower bells being rung on
Commemoration Day or will listen
again when they are rung for Prince
Charles’s birthday on the 14th and
again for the Queen’s Wedding Anni-
versary on the 20th November, you
will spare a thought for the ringers
who are keeping this ancient tradi-
tion alive.
If you are a ringer, or interested in
just learning more about bellringing
the ULSCR is contactable via email
at secretary@ulscr.org.uk or on the
website www.ulscr.org.uk. Alterna-
tively, come along to a practice night
on Thursday evenings from 7pm at
St Olave’s church, Hart Street (near
Tower Hill tube station) and you will
receive a warm welcome, whether
you have never touched a bell rope
before, or can conduct peals of Lon-
don Surprise Maximus!
Peter Jasper

