Students’ uncapped top-up anger
7,500 students marched through
London on Sunday to protest
against top up fees. The march be-
gan in Bloomsbury, passed Down-
ing Street and ended up in Trafal-
gar Square where 3,000 balloons
were released, one for every pound
each new student owes to the gov-
ernment under the new Top-Up
fees scheme.
The protest was aimed at forc-
ing the government to drop plans
to remove the £3,000 cap on top
up fees. Many students want the
entire scheme scrapped, although
the government pushed the Higher
Education Act through parliament,
which set up the current scheme,
in 2004. There were fierce protests
at the time, and now plans to lift
the cap on fees have rekindled the
touch paper.
Top up fees are an attempt to re-
form the way undergraduate stu-
dents pay for university courses.
Until 1997 students would pay noth-
ing for their university education.
After 1997 students had to pay
up to £1,250 per year for their de-
grees, the exact amount was set
by ‘means-testing’ which looks at
the income of a student’s parents.
Students could then apply for a
means-tested student loan from
the Student Loans Company, a gov-
ernment owned organisation. The
loans were charged such that inter-
est is in line with inflation. In ‘real’
terms this meant the loans were
interest free. After graduation the
student pays back the loan at a rate
of 9% gross income on all earnings
above £15,000. The introduction of
these fees was controversial, seeing
the average student debt rise from
£2,212 in 1992 to £13,501 in 2005.
Under the new scheme, which
came into effect this year, univer-
sities can charge up to £3,000 per
year for undergraduate studies,
provided they meet certain equal-
ity standards as far as induction
is concerned. The Student Loans
Company pays the fees instead of
the student and the loans system
remains unchanged. The student
loans and the university fees are
then paid back to the Student Loans
Company after graduation under
the same terms as before.
The changes mean that the av-
erage student debt is predicted to
reach £20,000 for students enrolling
in 2006.
The scheme that applies to this
years freshers is only the beginning
of the government’s plan though.
There are suggestions for the
£3,000 cap on top up fees that cur-
rently applies to be lifted; this has
sparked the recent protest. If the
£3,000 cap is lifted then students
could be exposed to even more fi-
nancial pressure. Predictions show
that average graduate debt could
rise to £44,000 by 2023.
The main concern is that stu-
dents from low to middle income
backgrounds will be deterred from
further study by the burden of debt.
Gemma Tumelty, the NUS presi-
dent, said: “We really believe that
debt will be a huge deterrent on
students entering education.
“This year there were 15,000 fewer
students - that’s a huge concern to
us, particularly when Government
is trying to widen participation.”
Although new students will not
have to pay their fees until they
start working, Ms Tumelty said the
prospect of debt after graduation
was “still there like a mill-stone
round someone’s neck”.
Just 10 Imperial students as op-
posed to 40 LSE students attended
the protest. The low turn out cer-
tainly does not reflect the Union’s
position with Union President, John
Collins throwing his support behind
the march. John Collins also noted
in an article for Live!: “Around a
dozen students from Imperial were
spotted on the march which com-
pares favourably to larger London
Unions such as UCL, which has a
smaller turnout.”
The union didn’t receive help from
ULU due to illness, and heard the
details of the protest late because
Imperial is not a member of NUS.
But these factors did not stop a con-
certed publicity drive by the union
which included a poster campaign,
publicity at the JCR and the front
page of the union website being
given over to the protest. The main
reason for a low turn out appeared
to be a sense of apathy amongst Im-
perial students.
Ben Harris, Deputy President for
Education and Welfare, said that
the main reason people were not in-
terested was because the cap would
not be removed whilst they were at
university. The drawn out approach
the government has adopted on the
introduction of top up fees seems
to have taken the edge off the cam-
paign as far as Imperial students
are concerned.
Compared to last year’s larger
march, there were 20 fewer Impe-
rial students attending this time
round. This low turn out amount
would appear to be part of a nation-
al trend.
Speaking to Felix, Ben Harris
said: “I believe the low turnout
from Imperial mirrors a national
trend. This is partly due to the fact
that any attempt to lift the cap, al-
though a very real danger, is still
three years away.”
The impetus for reform came
from the universities themselves.
The Russell Group, the British
equivalent of the Ivy League, has
been particularly supportive of the
new measures.
In the US the undergraduates pay
large amounts to study. The univer-
sity loans the student the fees until
after graduation. An undergradu-
ate course at Harvard, for example,
cost $39,880 for the 2004/5 academic
year, that’s approximately £21,000.
The price contains board and lodg-
ing, tuition fees and health care
cover. Students can claim $28,500
in aid from the university. The rest
must be paid up front. By contrast,
an Imperial student living in Beit
hall in the same academic year
would have expected to pay around
£6,000 for a similar service.
With the stark difference in the
amount students pay gives the US
universities access to far greater
resources than the British ones.
The Russell Group, and other uni-
versities claim that this causes US
institutions to be far more competi-
tive in attracting research grants,
the main source of income for uni-
versities. There is then a snowball-
ing effect as top academic talents
chose to work in the US, attracting
more research grants. The Brit-
ish universities are together in the
view that something must be done.
The solution proffered by the
government is the so called top up
fee. But the scheme is a contradic-
tion to a fundamental principle that
Britain aspires to. Namely, that no
citizen should be held back from
success for lack of opportunity. We
have the NHS; every citizen is en-
titled to healthcare, state educa-
tion; every citizen is entitled to an
education. Top up fees are seen by
many as depriving those from less
affluent backgrounds from the op-
portunity of higher education. The
effect is to drive a wedge into soci-
ety, widening the rich poor divide.
Last week Felix reported on the
case of Geraint Banks-Wilkinson,
a student who took his own life be-
cause he was unable to cope with
the financial pressure of studying
at university.
The message is getting through
to school pupils. ‘Sexy Maths’ was
an outreach program at Imperial
College last year. Students went to
local schools and give a presenta-
tion aimed at advertising the ad-
vantages of studying at university
and, in particular, the advantages of
studying Mathematics at university.
The program was very successful,
leading to the more appropriately
titled ‘Maths Matters’ program, al-
though one of the main questions
school pupils asked at the events
was: “Why should I study at univer-
sity, don’t you end up with a lot of
debt?”
This is precisely the question the
government doesn’t want school
pupils asking, they claim to be dedi-
cated to increasing the number of
graduates. With this in mind, they
currently offer a system of grants
for disadvantaged students that
can total £3,000 per year. They don’t,
however, tackle the problem of stu-
dents being disaffected with the
burden of debt resulting in the 3.7%
fall in the number of student appli-
cants, that’s equivalent to the entire
population of Coventry University.
Students march to Trafalgar Square in national protest over government plans to lift the cap on top-up fees
David Ellis
News Editor
Students gathered to hear speeches from prominent campaigners in Trafalgar Square last Sunday
• Families earning less than £17,501 can apply for grant of £2,700 a
year, which reduces to nothing for families on £37,425
• Universities charging maximum fees will have to fund bursaries of
at least £300 for the poorest students
• Students can still pay up-front if they want to
• Unpaid fees are repayable by graduates once their annual income
passes £15,000
• Payments must be at least 9% of gross income above £15,000
Top-Up Fees Information
3000 balloons released in Trafalgar Square, one for every pound new students owe to the government for
each year of their degree
3
felix
Friday 3 November 2006
NEWS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

