Positively Red! Medsin AIDS Week
Dodgeball: the rules
THE TEAM
The game shall be played between two teams of 6 players. Other people will be available as substitutes.
Substitutes may enter the game only during timeouts or in the case of injury.
THE COURT
The game will be played indoors in the Wolfson Sports Hall and the Ethos Sports Hall. The playing field
shall be a rectangle at least 50 ft long and at least 30 ft wide, divided into two (2) equal sections by a
center-line and attack-lines 3m from, and parallel to the centerline.
THE EQUIPMENT
The official ball used in tournament will be a rubber-coated foam ball. Participants must wear trainers.
THE GAME
The object of the game is to eliminate all opposing players by getting them “OUT”.
This may be done by:
1. Hitting an opposing player with a LIVE thrown ball below the shoulders.
2. Catching a LIVE ball thrown by your opponent before it touches the ground.
Definition of LIVE: A ball that has been thrown and has not touched anything, including the floor/ground,
another ball, another player, official or other item outside of the playing field (wall, ceiling, etc)
BOUNDARIES
During play, all players must remain within the boundary lines. Players may leave the boundaries through
their end-line only to retrieve stray balls. They must also return through their end-line.
THE OPENING RUSH
Game begins by placing the dodgeballs along the center line – three (3) on one side of the center hash
and three (3) on the other. Players then take a position behind their end line. Following a signal by the
official, teams may approach the centerline to retrieve the balls. This signal officially starts the contest.
Teams may only retrieve the three (3) balls to their right of the center hash. Once a ball is retrieved it must
be taken behind the attack-line before it can be legally thrown.
TIMING AND WINNING A GAME
The first team to legally eliminate all opposing players will be declared the winner. A 10-minute time limit
has been established for each contest. If neither team has been eliminated at the end of the 10 minutes,
the team with the greater number of players remaining will be declared the winner. In the case of an equal
number of players remaining after regulation, a 1-minute sudden-death overtime period will be played.
TIMEOUTS AND SUBSTITUTIONS
Each team will be allowed one (1) 30 second timeout per game. At this time a team may substitute players
into the game.
FIVE-SECOND VIOLATION
In order to reduce stalling, a violation will be called if a team in the lead controls all six (6) balls on their
side of the court for more than 5 seconds.
RULE ENFORCEMENT
Players will be expected to rule whether or not a hit was legal or whether they were legally eliminated.
All contests will be supervised by a referee. The referee’s responsibility will be to rule on any situation in
which teams cannot agree. The referee’s decision is final, with absolutely no exceptions.
CODE OF CONDUCT
1. Understand, appreciate and abide by the rules of the game.
2. Respect the integrity and judgment of game officials
3. Respect your opponent and congratulate them in a courteous manner following each match whether in
victory or defeat.
4. Be responsible for your actions and maintain self-control.
5. Do not taunt or bait opponents and refrain from using foul or abusive language.
Anyone in violation of this code of conduct as declared by the tournament personnel will be disqualified
from the tournament without refund and will leave the premises immediately.
P
ositively Red! is celebrat-
ing it’s third birthday this
year (in style, of course)
from 26th November to
1st December (World
AIDS day). In keeping with its pred-
ecessors, this year’s Positively Red!
(Imperial-medsin’s AIDS aware-
ness week) will have a whole host
of events and activities to keep you
interested and entertained: from
dodgeball to debating; exhibition
to exciting party! AIDS awareness
week began off the back of the rap-
idly growing global AIDS pandemic
which, since the 1980s, has claimed
25 million lives and seen another 40
million people infected. In the UK,
there are around 58,000 people liv-
ing with HIV/AIDS, and new diag-
noses per year have doubled since
2000. Yet awareness of HIV has
actually decreased in the UK over
this time. Positively Red! is aiming
to raise money (as much as pos-
sible), awareness and debate over
the week. It will kick off with the
final of the fundraising dodgeball
tournament on the 26th November
at Ethos (get your teams together
now!); then move swiftly on to the
opening of the exhibition ‘around
the world’ on the 27th; create a heat-
ed debate on the 29th: “This house
believes that HIV status should be
public knowledge” + perspectives
on stigma from the UK and South
Africa; all will be rounded off with
an amazing party in the Union with
sub-red on the Friday night!
All the money we raise will be
split between three charities: chil-
dren with AIDS charity (www.cwac.
org); Friends of the Treatment Ac-
tion Campaign (www.fotac.org);
and kidzpositive family fund (www.
kidzpositive.org)
If you’d like to get involved,
submit a dodgeball team, enter
some artwork or just want some
more info, email Fenella Benyon:
fjb03@ic.ac.uk
Fenella Benyon
30 felix Friday 3 November 2006
CLUBS & SOCIETIES clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk

