Renting a property is expensive
and difficult, but getting your foot
on the property ladder is even hard-
er. As of October 2006, according to
rightmove.co.uk, the average ask-
ing price for a property was nearly
£220,000 and this is even higher in
Greater London, at over £300,000.
These prices are amplified in some
areas; for example, in September in
Kensington and Chelsea, the aver-
age asking price jumped 10% to just
short of £1 Million. The main cause
of this is a lack of houses of the right
quality in the right areas.
For first-time buyers these prices
are proving just too high. First-time
buyers are now borrowing 3.27
times their income on a mortgage.
Imperial College Graduates, who
earn the most of all graduates, last
year averaged starting salaries of
£25,780, which even with borrowing
over 3 times would leave them with
a house well below the national
average.
All this is not to say it is impos-
sible to get yourself on to the prop-
erty ladder once you graduate. The
government has recently raised
the threshold on stamp duty, in an
attempt to make it easier to buy
cheaper houses for which first-time
buyers demand.
The government has also just
introduced a scheme called Open
Market HomeBuy designed at pro-
viding an additional 25% of the val-
ue of homes in interest-free loans
for key workers.
Many people rely on their parents
to give them a little boost. With the
average couple needing £29,000 for
deposit and stamp duty on a house,
people spend years saving up just
so they can take out a mortgage.
This is where mum and dad join
in, helping towards the deposit, or
even contributing to mortgage re-
payments. Most parents get this
money from the big increase in
value of their house, completing the
property circle.
Increasingly another way of gain-
ing a mortgage is becoming popu-
lar. Getting a house and sharing
the mortgage with another person
often allows someone to get a share
of their first property. However this
has many pitfalls. Finding someone
to share a mortgage with requires
a lot of trust. It is very difficult to
get out of the mortgage if you can-
not stand to live with each other:
you are liable for any of their short-
comings in payments, and you both
have to agree what to do with the
house further down the line.
Whilst it can be tough to get on
the property ladder it is definitely
possible. Once you do get yourself
a nice little place, you can sit back
and reap the benefits of increas-
ing house prices whilst others are
trying to get themselves their first
house.
City explained: hedging with swaps
Options and futures allow the oppor-
tunity to hedge price risks, swaps
allow the opportunity to hedge risk
against cash flows. At their most
simple, swaps do exactly what they
say: they swap the cash flow of, say,
company A with those of company
B. Inherently, they are not traded
on exchanges and are classified
as over the counter (OTC) deriva-
tives, contracts which are struc-
tured specifically for their primary
market, by investment banks. As
such, they cannot be bought or sold
on the open market and represent
flows which are of course very spe-
cific to the counterparties involved
in the transactions.
There are three main types of
swaps: interest-rate, currency, and
equity swaps. In an interest-rate
swap (IRS), there is a transfer of
the interest rate paid on borrow-
ings and loans by company A and
company B. Why would compa-
nies want to swap interest rates?
Just like options and futures help
eliminate price risks, interest-rate
swaps help eliminate risk to inter-
est rates. Typically, in an IRS, a
company will exchange the floating
interest rate (i.e. variable market
rate), usually LIBOR plus 50 basis
points, to a fixed interest rate. LI-
BOR is short for London Interbank
Offered Rate, a rate that banks of-
fer each other on borrowings on the
London interbank money market.
The British Bankers Association
publishes different rates with differ-
ent maturities; for example, there
exists a daily LIBOR, three-month,
When you first think of cartels, it
conjures the image of an illegal
drug empire in the deepest jungle of
South America with tight ranks and
extreme rules, such as the Medellin
Cartel. Whilst a cartel in business
is unlikely to result in deaths, it can
involve the exchanging of brown
envelopes and secret meetings.
A cartel is a group of independ-
ent businesses whose goals are to
jointly raise prices and income, lim-
it supply, or eliminate competition,
usually in a market where there
are only a few sellers, for their ad-
vantage. Such cartels are illegal in
most countries; however, they con-
tinue to exist, particularly interna-
tionally, where nations have immu-
nity under public international law.
In the UK, the Office of Fair Trad-
ing enforces European Community
(EC) and UK competition laws in
particular the Cartel and Competi-
tion Act 1998.
Perhaps the most renowned and
most commonly used example of
a cartel is that of the Organization
of Petroleum Exporting Countries
(OPEC). It is has 11 member state,
and was founded by Libya, Iran,
Iraq, Saudi Arabia, and Venezuela.
Its members are very important to
Jayraj Choksi
Business Correspondent
six-month, one-year, five-year – any
period up to 50 years. Basis points
simply mean 0.01% (1bps = 0.01%).
It is worth noting that the principal
borrowing, the money on which the
interest rate is being paid, is not the
focus of the swap, only the interest
rates themselves. As with cash set-
tled options and futures, a swap is
settled in net. So for example if A
owes B 1.5% and B owes A 3%, B
simply pays A 1.5%.
Currency swaps employ a similar
structure; however, they relate to
the conversion of one currency to
another. In effect, currency swaps
allow companies to borrow debt
in one country, where it may be
cheaper, and then swap it into the
currency they need it in. This can
be a dangerous game as the compa-
ny has debt obligations in the cur-
rency it has initially borrowed in,
and if there are no revenue streams
in that currency to cover for the re-
payments, the company would then
have to convert money, exposing it
to foreign exchange rates.
A landmark currency swap oc-
curred in 1981 between IBM and
the World Bank, arranged by Salo-
mon Brothers (now a part of Citi-
group). IBM had raised debt princi-
pal in Deutsche Marks (DEM) and
Swiss Francs (CHF), and swapped
them into dollars (USD) to finance
their various corporate ventures.
The problem for IBM was that to
repay its DEM and CHF loans it
would rack up considerable trans-
action costs when buying the DEM
and CHF to repay their loans, pay
a call premium (i.e. pay more than
market price), issue bonds in USD
then convert the money to DEM/
4 felix Friday 3 November 2006
BUSINESS business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
the production of oil, accounting for
about 60% of the worlds known oil
reserves and 41.7% of the oil pro-
duction in 2005. Its main aim is to
protect the interests of its nations
by controlling the amount of oil its
members output. Whilst this might
sound all bad and mean high prices
for us, OPEC also tries to keep the
oil market steady by altering its out-
put and can even increase output to
try and absorb a sudden market in-
crease in the price of oil.
Closer to home, earlier this year,
many airlines, including British
Airways, had their offices raided by
the EC and the Department of Jus-
tice and are still under investiga-
tion. This was to look into possible
price fixing of fuel surcharges and
other costs related to cargo. With
the EC imposing a maximum fine of
up to 10% of annual sales, and with
the negative publicity, this could be
costly to the airlines involved.
Typically cartels have a very short
life. It is very easy for one member
to break production limits and pro-
duce more in attempt to make more
money for itself. As soon as this
happens, the cartel will become in-
effective, and normal market forces
will begin to take over.
CHF and pay capital gains taxes if
they made any money in the proc-
ess. At the same time, the World
Bank wanted to borrow DEM and
CHF to lend to its customers, and
doing so on the open market would
involve issuing DEM and CHF
bonds, which would have had large
issuing costs.
Under the swap, the World Bank
assumed IBM’s DEM and CHF ob-
ligations and borrowed in USD to
pay off IBM’s loan. Actually, it de-
livered the money straight to IBM.
In the meanwhile, IBM paid off the
World Bank’s USD loan. The cur-
rency rates swung in IBM’s favour,
and Salomon Brothers made a lot of
money.
Finally, equity swaps. These are
actually a subset of a broader type
of swaps called total return swaps.
In this type of swap, party A holds
certain assets, say shares, and pays
any returns those assets make to
party B, who in return pay A inter-
est. In essence, party B has gained
exposure to the price risk without
actually holding the asset, but any
capital gain made from the assets
must also be given up by A to B. Any
losses are paid by B to A.
In short, swaps allow companies
to hedge their operational risks and
allow them to cut many of the costs
associated with raising debt.
Get on the property ladder Analysis: oil cartels
The average couple borrows more than £28,000 from parents
Paul Estruch
Business Correspondent
OPEC is the oil cartel responsible for half the world’s oil output
Currency swaps play an increasing role in hedging all kinds of risk
The average property in the UK is now worth in excess of £200,000

