Science through the looking glass
Felix examines the new field of neuroesthetics, and decides that it is time to start uniting science and art
For me, the choice between art and
science first came at the end of
GCSEs. I was hit with the stark re-
alisation that I might need chemis-
try and maths A-level to go with the
biology that I loved. But if I’d kept
my options open at A-level, tthen
I certainly would have had to pick
sides when I decided on a degree.
But why is there this polarity, never
‘science and art’ but only ‘either
or’?
The idea of the “two cultures” of
science and art is an old one. Sci-
ence is thought of as being all about
reality, while art allows you to put
your own interpretation on life, the
universe and everything. But are
they really so different? A scientific
theory can be thought of as a repre-
sentation of reality – it’s never com-
pletely accurate, but it’s supposed
to help you understand the world
a little better. But isn’t a painting
just another representation of real-
ity? Doesn’t religion help believers
to understand their world? Does
science really have a monopoly on
truth?
Even the smallest introduction to
philosophy of science will quickly
illustrate that scientists don’t have
all the answers. More and more sci-
entists are turning to art either as
a way to communicate their work,
or as an interesting new subject
for study. A recent event at the Sci-
ence Museum’s Dana Centre is just
such an example. “Art of the Brain”
was presented by Dr Lizzie Burns,
a science-based artist, whose aim
was to inspire the audience about
neuroscience by using art.
Dr Burns presented her own art
inspired by neurons and the brain,
and the audience got messy with
paints, pens and even coloured air
dough, making their own brain art
Nell Barrie and learning about the brain at the
same time. I asked Dr Burns why
she thinks art and science can work
together.
“I genuinely have always loved
both art and science,” she told me.
“I really got into art properly after
‘discovering’ Dali… he saw science
as holding the secrets for some kind
of divine truth. I use art as a tool for
communicating science – I seem
fairly unique in having the science
background but also being an art-
ist… but I see the combination as
a way of being able to help people
find their own way into seeing how
beautiful and inspiring science is.”
She certainly succeeds in inspir-
ing participants in her events. And
she’s not alone in combining “the
two cultures”. Scientists around
the world are becoming interested
in the new field of “neuroesthetics”.
The idea behind this new discipline
is that art, as a human activity, can
be understood by looking at the
laws of the brain. For example, new
brain imaging techniques are be-
ginning to allow neuroscientists to
study the neural basis of visual art.
The Institute for Neuroesthetics
was recently founded in Berkeley,
California, and is attached to the
Wellcome Laboratory of Neurobiol-
ogy at University College London.
The institute pursues the idea of
consilience – the integration of
knowledge from different fields
(such as art and science).
Neuroesthetics is interesting in
the way it assumes that art and sci-
ence are not really so different. Sci-
entists with an interest in where art
and science meet are now engaged
in research projects like identifying
the molecular basis of the brain’s
emotional response to art, and look-
ing at neurological conditions like
synaesthesia, in which the senses
become intertwined so that sounds
Da Vinci decoded: a beautiful mind
Mention the words ‘da Vinci’ and
most people will automatically think
of Dan Brown’s over-rated pot-
boiler, or perhaps of the legendary
Mona Lisa. If, like me, you have du-
tifully trouped off to the Louvre in
order to see that ‘enigmatic’ smile
from 100 feet away, behind hordes
of like-minded tourists, you might
have felt the selfsame disappoint-
ment as me.
However, the da Vinci Exhibition
currently on show at the V&A pro-
vides no such disappointment. The
collection manifests itself as a fas-
cinating and beautifully arranged
collection of sketches and thoughts
of the prolific genius that was Le-
onardo. It provides the viewer with
some insight into the thoughts of
arguably the greatest artistic and
scientific mind the world has ever
seen.
The underlying and continuous
theme running through the exhi-
bition is of the great man’s fasci-
nation with how the world works
– of how everything (including the
human body) is mirrored in the
whole of nature: the smaller merely
reflecting the whole. Thus, we are
privileged to witness Leonardo’s in-
terest in the workings of the human
body via sketches and scribblings.
In one display, he draws the arter-
ies of an old man (Leonardo himself
skilfully dissected the old man after
death). At once, the observations
of the human arterial system seem
to have triggered a parallel fascina-
tion and flurry of intellectual output
associated with rivers and aque-
ducts (not least architectural ideas
involving aquaducts, valves, pumps
and irrigation systems). The ‘body
of the world’, ‘veins of water’ and
the ‘tree of blood vessels’ as he him-
self described them, were the inspi-
ration for these new ideas. That is,
the workings of the human system
(ie. nature), such as the heart valve
and the manner in which the body
pumps blood, provided the inspi-
ration for these new architectural
ideas.
There is little doubt however, that
despite being appreciated mainly
for his artistic side (at least in our
day and age), this exhibition cele-
brates Leonardo the Scientist – one
who utilised drawing as a primary
tool of analysis. For example, the
iconic image of a man drawn with-
in a circle and a square with out-
stretched arms and legs was, for
Leonardo, the product of a study in
human proportion. Other sketches
of parts of the human anatomy and
buildings are also studies of propor-
tion, or innovatory ways of shaping
space (such as the depiction of an
extraordinarily ‘plastic’ spiral stair-
case – the technical feat of a very
skilled draughtsman). Of course,
these drawings are no less beauti-
ful for the fact they are first and
foremost scientific studies. Here
we see that science and art are
interchangeable; though whether
Leonardo himself made the distinc-
tion is debatable.
Certainly his oil painting of the
Mona Lisa residing in the Louvre,
is one in which beauty rather than
science seems to be a primary aim;
however, even in this work, the
background mountains are studies
of proportion and space, the face of
the Mona Lisa draws from his fasci-
nation and subsequent mathemati-
cal studies of light reflecting off the
human face (drawings which we
see in this exhibition).
Furthermore, the figure of the
Mona Lisa herself is also more
than partially the result of da Vin-
ci’s fascination with human pro-
can be coloured and colours can
have their own sounds.
It’s a young field, but with big
players like the Wellcome Trust
becoming more engaged with art
through their Sciart programme
(funding art based around the bio-
medical sciences) it looks like art
and science are set to become bet-
ter friends than ever before.
So while the new spin on “the two
cultures” aims to bring science and
art together, it’s becoming clear
that the two have never really been
separate. Prehistoric art was a win-
dow on the artists’ world, just as sci-
portion. Perhaps most startlingly
of all, da Vinci manages to render
that most irrational thing – beauty
– into something highly rational
and scientific.
Thus, the ‘Experience, Experi-
ment and Design’ exhibition at the
V&A showcases Leonardo’s appli-
cation of the rational, his struggle
for new knowledge and his attempts
to uncover laws of the universe. It
is during this process that he also
simultaneously uncovered great
beauty. Here we witness the work-
ings of a breathtakingly original
mind, yet we also see how the ap-
plication of science to his art helped
him to come up with a massive ar-
ray of new ideas. Indeed his ability
to combine all these aspects have
provided the inspiration for some of
the greatest inventions and works
of art known to mankind.
Leonardo da Vinci: Experience,
Experiment, Design. V&A,
Exhibition Road.
Exhibition open until January 7th.
£7 students/£10 adults.
Telephone the booking line on
0870 906 3883.
Audio tour highly recommended.
£3 students/£3.50 adults.
ence and art are for us today. Each
inspires the other, and we need both
to appreciate and understand the
universe. “The most beautiful thing
we can experience is the mysteri-
ous. It is the source of all true art
and science.” And no, it wasn’t Dali
who said that. It was Einstein.
Da Vinci’s intricate observations
One of the products of “Art of the Brain”. sponspored by the Medical Research Council and EDAB
Tamara Nicolson
5
felix
Friday 3 November 2006
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

