Felix looks back in time at the Imperial alumnus’ poor student days and the formation of rock icons Queen
There are many roads to rock star-
dom, but few are as unlikely as the
one travelled by Brian Harold May.
He was born in Middlesex in July
1947 and his first ambition was to
become a surgeon rather than a
musician claims his mother. Indeed,
his music career had inauspicious
beginnings with much-hated com-
pulsory piano lessons from the age
of five. His father, an accomplished
ukulele player, was undaunted by
this apparent lack of interest in
all things musical. He introduced
Brian to the ukulele the following
year and Brian quickly showed an
aptitude for the instrument. On his
seventh birthday, after persistent
nagging, Brian was given his first
guitar. The seven-year-old Brian
was developing in other directions
too; his love of astronomy and pho-
tography date to this time.
Academically gifted, Brian won a
scholarship to Hampton Grammar
School at the age of 11. He main-
tained his interest in music during
Colin Barras
his teenage years, famously work-
ing with his father, Harold, to build
an electric guitar from the wood
of a nineteenth century fireplace.
The unique sound of this guitar, the
“Red Special”, was later to become
as recognizable to legions of Queen
fans as Freddie Mercury’s vocals.
But, ever the realist, Brian still
recognized music as a mere hob-
by. Encouraged by his parents, he
continued his education at Impe-
rial College in 1965, reading phys-
ics and infrared astronomy. During
his time at Imperial, he continued
making music, initially through
a band formed during his school
days (called 1984) and later through
the short-lived group Smile. It was
through Smile that Brian met future
Queen drummer Roger Taylor.
In due course Brian graduated
with a BSc Honours degree in
Physics and Mathematics, and em-
barked on a PhD, also at Imperial.
He studied zodiacal light, the sun-
light reflected off interplanetary
dust particles. The research went
well, and Brian published in both
Brian May’s cosmic background
Nature and the Monthly Notices of
the Royal Astronomical Society. An
academic career seemed assured.
But then the financial reality of
student life hit. Brian’s doctoral
research dragged on into a fourth
year, and the grant to support his
living expenses dried up. Brian
resorted to teaching in a compre-
hensive school in Brixton to make
ends meet. Meanwhile, his eve-
nings were devoted to music. By
now, Smile was no more; in 1970 the
lead singer, Tim Staffell, had left
the band to pursue new musical ho-
rizons elsewhere. Tim’s roommate,
Freddie Bulsara (later Mercury)
persuaded Brian and Roger to
continue performing, and together
formed Queen. In 1971 John Dea-
con joined the band on bass.
Short of both the time and money
necessary to complete his PhD,
Brian chose to discontinue his aca-
demic work. The decision proved to
be a wise one; Queen recorded their
eponymous first album in 1973 and
debuted in the UK singles charts
with Seven Seas of Rhye in 1974.
Give me a title!(brian bio)
The band was incredibly prolific,
releasing a further fourteen stu-
dio albums and three greatest hits
packages between 1974 and 1999.
This was a band of musical equals;
all four band members contributed
memorable songs to the Queen
canon. Brian was responsible for
rock anthems We Will Rock You and
Now I’m Here.
Following the untimely death of
Freddie in late 1991, Brian coped
by throwing himself into his solo
music career. The Brian May Band
was formed in 1992 and toured the
world and elsewhere on the back of
a successful album. Brian contin-
ued to explore new musical direc-
tions; Queen had become the first
rock band to become involved in
film scoring, for Flash Gordon in
1980 and Highlander in 1986. Brian
penned the score for the French
art film Furia in 1999. Elsewhere,
he was involved in the successful
translation of Queen’s music to the
stage; The Queen musical We Will
Rock You is now well into its fifth
successful year at the Dominion
Theatre on Tottenham Court Road.
Brian continues to make the mu-
sic headlines in the new millen-
nium. One of the abiding images of
the 2002 celebration of Queen Eliza-
beth’s Golden Jubilee is Brian’s ren-
dition of God Save the Queen from
the roof of Buckingham Palace. In
2005, Roger Taylor and Paul Rodg-
ers, lead singer with 1970s band
Free, joined Brian on the first tour
by Queen in twenty years. Later in
the year, Brian received a CBE at
Buckingham Palace.
But Brian has not forgotten his
early interest in astronomy and
photography. He has been a regu-
lar guest on The Sky at Night, the
BBC’s long-running television
show devoted to astronomy, and is
reportedly working on a biography
of nineteenth century photographer
T R Williams. He was awarded the
honourary degree of Doctor of Sci-
ence by the University of Hertford-
shire in 2002. Recently, Brian has
decided he will finally return to his
academic studies to finish the PhD
he began in the late 1960s.
Colin Barras
Brian May’s (far left) writing partners for Bang! The Complete History of the Universe including Patrick Moore (left) and Chris Lintott (right)
7
felix
Friday 3 November 2006
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

