ford, Cambridge, the LSE, UCL, War-
wick, Kings, Manchester, Bristol, and
Edinburgh members of NUS, but they
are also leading players within it.
The NUS provides support services
to affiliate unions. I strongly doubt that
ICU would be able to employ a strong
team of professional lawyers, research-
ers, lobbyists, regional liaison officers,
campaigns support staff, and officer de-
velopment staff with just £52,000. Many
of the benefits of these services may not
be immediately obvious to our students,
but they are nonetheless important.
For example, presently we rely heavily
on the College for legal support, which
is helpful when ICU is being threat-
ened with legal action from an external
source; but what do we do if the College
themselves are using lawyers against
us (as has happened in the past)?
The NUS can mobilise its resources
to achieve things that individual unions
simply cannot manage on their own. I
am currently working through the proc-
ess of closing down a small section of
the Prince Consort Road for our Cente-
nary Ball – a time consuming and com-
plex task. Last Sunday the NUS closed
down two miles of streets in Central
London (and Trafalgar Square) for a
national demonstration against top-up
fees. No other student led organisation
can do that!
Of course the most obvious benefit
of being in the NUS is that all Imperial
students would be able to obtain official
NUS discount cards, which are widely
recognised outside the South Kensing-
ton area and throughout the rest of the
UK.
I fully accept that the NUS has its
faults and I believe that there is much
that we can do to improve it; but I also
believe that we have absolutely no
chance of changing the NUS whilst we
stay out. Even though Edinburgh only
affiliated last year, they have already
established themselves as the lead-
ers of a growing movement for reform
within the NUS and I expect that if we
affiliate this autumn then we would fully
support and strengthen their cause.
So when I come to vote on November
14th, I will say “yes” to a national voice,
“yes” to professional support for our
officers, “yes” to reform, and “yes” to
discount cards.
Wielding the
mighty organ
F
ear not, dear reader, for I have returned from
my editorial hiatus, and I’d like to get a few
things straight. Firstly, I didn’t put myself on
the front page. I was graduating at the time,
and my deputy editors were in charge. When
I returned on Thursday, my face had become the front
page picture story, and they weren’t really happy about
removing it. Secondly, my response to Rupert’s letter
has generated a lot of complaints, and I’ve tried to reply
to all those that took the time to write in individually. If
you feel something is missing from Felix, or that I’m do-
ing a terrible job and should be replaced with an educat-
ed chimp and a typewriter, then you should tell me. I will
reply personally to any email sent to me that’s obviously
a “Dear Editor” letter. I am only capable of generally di-
recting Felix in a particular direction, not generating the
content personally – that’s down to you, the readers.
A few of you that approached me while I was distrib-
uting the papers seemed upset about the loss of Page-
3-which-was-never-on-page-3. “Where are the titties?”
they asked. One young lady wondered if she’d ever get
see the rugby team sans shirts again. Well, fear not, for
Felix has a very talented photographer, and a willing list
of people to get naked (no, not you again, Luke Taylor).
Your gratitious nudity will return next term.
Though you’re probably sick to the back teeth of it,
next week’s Felix will be a NUS referendum special,
with both the Yes and No campaigns doing their best to
convince you that their cause is the right one. You can be
assured that Felix as a whole is neutral, though the team
have their own opinions on NUS affiliation.
I would relate an anecdote in this space, but this week
the staff have chained me to a Mac so I can’t escape to
the bar. If anyone is reading this, please help.
Reasons for voting ‘yes’
I
mperial has been outside the Na-
tional Union of Students (NUS)
for nearly thirty years and in two
weeks time we will be faced with
that age old question once again:
should Imperial College Union affiliate
to the NUS?
All Union Presidents get asked this
question pretty regularly and now that
I have been officially relieved of my du-
ties as Returning Officer for this ref-
erendum I finally have the freedom to
share my personal views with you on
this subject. Of course, these views are
mine alone and do not represent the po-
sition of ICU or any of its committees or
constituent parts. But they are shared
by many prominent leaders within the
Union, including some of my predeces-
sors and colleagues.
Unlike most London student unions,
ICU has been affiliated to the Universi-
ty of London Union (ULU) but not to the
NUS since the 1970s. We presently pay
around £79,000 each year to ULU and
they use this money to run bars at Malet
Street that our students rarely visit and
manage clubs and societies that (with a
handful of exceptions) directly compete
with our own. The only real benefits we
get from being part of ULU are that we
get access to ULU sports leagues, ac-
cess to other student union officers and
support for our campaigns. Sadly, from
2007 we will no longer be allowed to be
part of ULU as our dear Rector is lead-
ing Imperial College out of its parent in-
stitution, the University of London, and
into new territory of independence.
Our withdrawal from ULU will result
in two significant consequences: firstly,
we will ultimately be £79,000 per annum
richer. Secondly, we will have no means
Why I don’t want ICU to be the most isolated union in London
of promoting any welfare or political is-
sue that falls outside the jurisdiction of
Imperial College.
Now we could spend our newly ac-
quired £79,000 p.a. on beer, but I sug-
gest that this is not the most mature
or inclusive way of allocating ICU’s re-
sources. We could spend it on our clubs,
and we do plan to spend some of it on
compensation for those clubs that will
be adversely affected by our withdrawal
from ULU. However, with all this spare
money floating about, should we not be
looking at the bigger picture?
When we leave ULU next year we will
undoubtedly become the most isolated
student union in London. We will have
minimal influence on any debate that
takes place outside our campuses, re-
ducing our capacity to represent the
views of our members. Should ICU
wish to campaign on top-up fees, stu-
dent debt, Council tax, tenancy law, the
Oyster Card, the Congestion Charge,
the Charity Bill, or anything else that
our Rector has no control over, then
frankly speaking, we would be power-
less to influence these debates.
Imagine if you were a cabinet minis-
ter or an editor of a national newspaper
and you were approached by two stu-
dent leaders who both wanted to raise
an issue with you that their constitu-
ents felt strongly about. Now imagine if
one of them spoke for 12,000 students
and the other for 5 million. Who would
you listen to?
Whether you like it or not, there is
only one body in the United Kingdom
that speaks for UK students on a na-
tional level and that is the NUS. Do not
come under any illusion that the media
remotely cares about what we, as Im-
perial students, think about national is-
sues – we simply have no voice.
We may be the third best university in
the country, but the rest of the top 10
universities’ student unions are all af-
filiates of the NUS; we’re really not that
important. Not only are the likes of Ox-
Last Sunday marked the end of British
Summer Time for another year, bring-
ing with it the twice-annual irritation of
adjusting all the clocks to hand, a task
made even more arduous by the inclu-
sion of clocks in pretty much every elec-
tronic device littered around the aver-
age home.
What is doubly galling about this is
that most of these are damn-near im-
possible to adjust, meaning that for the
next six months many people will be
constantly lied to by their microwaves or
setting the wrong things to record with
their set-top boxes, and so on. This year
sees the ninetieth anniversary of the in-
troduction of this less-than-marvellous
innovation which has been with us (on
and off, of course) since 1916, following
the Defence of the Real Act of 1914, one
of a number of wartime measures such
as banning kite-flying, feeding bread
to wild animals, or buying alcohol on
public transport, and various powers of
censorship and requisition on the part
of the government.
BST is not for me, says Hugh Stickley-Mansfield
Fortunately for the kite-flyers of Brit-
ain, most of DORA’s provisions have
since been removed, but BST still re-
mains. The reasons for BST are sensi-
ble enough – to shift the hours of sun-
light to when they would be of most use
in order to increase productivity and re-
duce accidents. However, this does not
address the issue of why winter should
have to revert to GMT – given the lack
of sunlight at the best of times, why
fiddle around with the clocks at all? In
fact, from 1968 to 1971 this was indeed
the case, but this was unpopular with
the Scottish, amongst others, since
dawn would approach noon.
There is a libertarian argument
against any legislation in the matter,
since it should be up to individual or-
ganisations and people as to how they
organise their days, rather than have
government dictate sudden shifts that
may be merely irritating, but also po-
tentially unhealthy. As an insomniac, I
dread the approach of BST each spring,
as it often denies me an hour of my al-
ready scarce sleep. This is in addition to
owning considerably more clocks than
is strictly neccessary (in common with
George III, who was considerably more
obsessive about timekeeping, and was
fortunate enough not to have to contend
with any such troubling notions as day-
light savings), making the whole con-
cept of BST utterly unappealing to me.
Perhaps it would be different if I lived in
somewhere like Brixton or World’s End,
in which case I might well care more
about whether or not I would be walk-
ing home in the dark than I would about
wasting half an hour every six months
and having my sleeping habits out of
kilter for the first fortnight in April.
Though worse still is forgetting about
the whole thing, leading to running an
hour late for much of the day or to be-
ing an hour early and losing any benefit
that might come from a potential hour
extra spent in bed. Or compounding the
error by turning clocks forward when
they should go back, or vice versa. Not
that I did that this year, I assure you.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB. Tel 020 7594
8072. Fax 020 7594 8065. Printed by The Northcliffe Press, Northcliffe
House, Meadow Road, Derby DE1 2DW. No 1,362, Friday 3 November 2006.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2006.
Editor-in-chief Andy Sykes | Managing Editor Alex
Antonov | Deputy Editors Tom Roberts, Becky
Warren | Science Editor Krystyna Larkham | Politics
Editor Matthew Hartfield | Business Editor Michael
Olymbios | Music Editors Matthew Hoban, Jenny
Gibson, Tom Whitson | Film Editor Angela Lee | Arts
Editor Emily Lines | Food & Drink Editor Hannah
Theodorou | Fashion Editor Dolly Delaney | Nightlife
Editor Gregory Mead | Comment Editor Stephen
Brown | Environment Editor João Vitor Serra |
Clubs & Societies Editor Kirsty Patterson | Copy
Editor Andy Mason | Andy’s Mum MILF
felix
Andy Sykes
Editor-in-chief John Collins
Stephen Brown
Comment Editor
A retraction
Last week I was inadvertently very naughty, mainly due
to my copying and pasting frames from previous issues.
I expressed opinions on the upcoming referendum in my
editorial, which referendum regulations say I should not
have done in my capacity as a sub-editor of Felix since
the newspaper has no opinion on such matters. I would
just like readers to know that my opinions were written
in a personal capacity and that Felix is unbiased in this
debate and apologise if my editorial implied otherwise.
“The NUS provides
support services to
affiliate unions”
9
felix
Friday 3 November 2006
COMMENT & OPINION comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

