10 Feature 14 June 1999 14 June 1999 Feature i i
AMERICAN AIRLINE
NEIL MOTHEW CONTINUES HIS AIRBOURNE TOUR O F THE U S , AND ENCOUNTERS CURFEWS, COPS, CAT-FOOD & BUFFALO-BURGERS.
Mi
San Diego & Tijuana, Mexico
ake no mistake about it: San Diego is a
magnet for burnouts, party animals, a n d
i surfer dudes. Anybody looking for a party
will find it here. In fact, we arrived there just in time
for 'Street Scene', the annual rockfest. The whole
town was totally alive and bands were performing
everywhere. Bars and cafes were full and the town
had a most herbal aroma. Such was the concentra-
tion of herb, I felt very light headed on stepping out
of the bus.
We were surprised, no shocked, about some o f
the laws in California. Firstly, there is a curfew for
'minors'. Under 18 year olds had to be off the streets
by 10pm. I won't list the many other totalitarian laws.
In general, we stayed out of trouble with the law -
aside from a small jay-walking' encounter (see
below).
at the age of 18 instead of waiting to reach 21 at
home. This is another silly law that the US has, but
having drunk American beer, under 21 s really aren't
Even the cheesiest of grins won't help you now...
I was fortunate enough to have a friend who had
gone to UCSD (San Diego University) on exchange
for a year, so we had a floor to crash on. An added
plus was that his place was o n the beachfront. We
only intended to stay overnight but, once introduced
to the wonders of midnight surfing in the swells of
the Pacific, we had such a great time that we stayed
four nights. The beach was great during the day as
well.
Restaurants and bars in the area were great,
though we did have trouble ordering food at the Taco
Bell. It helps to speak Spanish here since many work-
ers come from across the border as cheap labour.
Being on the border with Mexico, we couldn't avoid
exploring the neighbouring town of Tijuana. We
decided to enter on foot, as opposed to flying in.
With rumours of corrupt customs officers planting
drugs on innocent teenage pilots ringing in my head,
it took, oh, all of two seconds to come to a decision
on how to cross the border.
As border towns go, Tijuana is not attractive at
all. It's full of gaudy souvenir shops, noisy bars and
sleazy backstreets. Visiting was a massive eye-opener.
This was mainly because of the shocking contrast
between the two sides of the border. Tijuana mainly
attracts young Americans, who can legally get drunk
Democracy: Under construction.
missing anything. We mainly stayed on Avenida Rev-
olucion, the main street, which we were assured was
safe. Despite these assurances, we found this street
to be a raucous strip of seedy bars and dance clubs,
tacky souvenir shops, cheap restaurants and street
photographers with big burros. After dining in o n e
of said restaurants, we noted that Tijuana didn't
have a stray cat problem. Indeed, we didn't see any
stray dogs either. That burrito did taste a bit odd.
Walking along' Revolucion', you will get accosted
by every street seller with a nickel-and-dime business.
'Wanna buy a real Rolex, Gringo? You want women?
We have best women. You wan' ma sister? She really
good.' And so on. Resisting all these temptations, we
headed back over the border. I walked straight across.
Russ got searched.
Santa Catallna Island
Not having the benefit of a car, we decided to bypass
the smoggy urban sprawl of the city that is Los Ange-
les. Instead we chose to visit a place that you can't
how do you build an airport on a hilly island? Simple
- blow the tops off two mountains and use the rub-
ble to fill in the gaps. This is essentially what the
super-rich Wrigley did in the 1930s, creating the 'Air-
port in the Sky', 2600 feet above sea level. The run-
way is not particularly long, so it is mainly used by
light aircraft and the occasional DC3 doing short-field
operations.
Wild buffalo roam the island. They don't have
beef burgers at the airport restaurant - they have half-
pound buffalo burgers. M m m m m , delicious. Avalon
is the only town on Santa Catalina. It's dominated by
the White Casino and the Wrigley Mansion, now a
hotel. We found Catalina to be very expensive and
the preserve of yuppie tourists, so we didn't stay long
Unfortunately, we didn't experience any of the incred-
ible water sports such as diving. Maybe another
time.
Santa Catalina's "Airport In the Sky".
reach in a car. This is Santa Catalina Island, 35 miles
off the Californian coast. Formally owned by William
Wrigley Jr. the chewing gum heir, it remains largely
untouched and is a conservation area.
The island can best be described as hilly. So
Sunset over Avalon Harbour
Los Angeles
We had heard nothing but bad things about LA So
we gave it a miss. W e overflew it just to add to the
pollution in the area.
Palo Alto
Famous for being the University town in which Stan-
ford is located and the centre of Silicon Valley, we
headed for Palo Alto. This time, we stayed with one
of Russ' friends, who was generous enough to lend
us her VW convertible for the four days we were
there.
The affluence of Palo Alto is plain to see. Palo
Alto, home to Netscape, has the highest GDP per
square mile of anywhere in America. Main Street
resembles Knightsbridge and most of the people I
observed in bars and restaurants had the character-
istic pretentiousness o f 'Sloanies'. However, it is an
extremely pleasant and beautiful part of the world.
If it wasn't located directly at the junction of three
geological fault lines, maybe it would be a place I'd
consider living.
San Francisco
We didn't fly into San Francisco. At the time of mak-
ing this journey, I wasn't instrument rated. San Fran's
weather is none too hospitable for pilots: the bay is
often foggy. Local weather patterns are also highly
unpredictable. Whilst we could have flown in, there
was no saying when we could have flown out. It
would be safer to make the one-hour drive from Palo
Alto.
San Francisco: A lot prettier In real-life
This is, in my opinion, o n e of the USA's most
attractive cities. The often-dramatic cityscape came
about because the streets were laid out as if their
planners had never so much as glanced at the city's
topography. They simply dropped a grid pattern onto
the steeply undulating terrain, and the result is that
streets often climb or drop at ridiculously steep gra-
dients. Perhaps the greatest benefit this gives rise to
are the gorgeous glimpses of the San Francisco Bay
and its famous bridges and of course, car chase
scenes in movies. As hard as w e tried to get the VW
Golf to take off, we couldn't reproduce the jumps
from Starsky and Hutch. We needed a white go-
faster stripe for that.
The most densely packed pocket of the city (and
one of its most colourful areas) is Chinatown. It's a
great place for casual wandering through narrow
alleys where you'll find 'hole-in-the-wall' Chinese
restaurants. We went to one where the menu was
only in Chinese, and took our chance by pointing at
some random dish. It was a wonderful meal, with the
added bonus of costing less than a Sherfield Sand-
wich.
O n e can't help but notice the gay community in
San Francisco. Rainbow banners and lavender trian-
gles in shop windows indicate they are 'gay-friendly'.
By a rough estimation of the San Fran population
observed on the streets, any shop that doesn't carry
a rainbow in the window would probably go out of
business through lack of custom.
I can't mention San Francisco without at least a
passing reference to the Golden Gate Bridge. This
The Golden Gate Bridge. Big.
spans the two mile mouth of the bay. If, like us, you
get stuck in a rush-hour traffic jam, then you'll get a
great view of Alcatraz Island from there. Unfortu-
nately we didn't make it to this 'escape-proof prison
owing to massive tourist queues for the boat. Next
time, we will have to get there earlier.
Next Week:
Oshkosh, the World's greatest
air show, Chicago, Toronto,
Niagara Falls & Ottawa.
{0 pimlico connection
mtd or tutoring dinner
eat as MUCH as you like
f o r £16.50
sa« additional subsidy wUbe provided*
T h u r s d a y 17 J u n e If f f
a t t h e C a r v e r y .
C u m b e r l a n d H o t e l , M a r b l e A r c h .
M e e t 5 . 3 0 p m a t S o u t h s i d e Bar, o r
6/fSprrt a t t h e C u m b e r l a n d M o t e t
I f p o s s i b l e , e - m a i l b. j . g a l e # i c . a c . u t
t o l e t u s b l o w y o u ' r e coming,.

