1
2 ^7>X^ Film 14 June 1999
The Matrix * * * * *
Starring : Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, Joe Pantoliano
Director: Andy & Larry Wachowski
V
ery rarely do you see something
that will change the way movies
are made: The Matrix is such a
film. Groundbreaking, both visually and
conceptually, it's light-years ahead of all
competition - and sets the lead which
every new action and sci-fi movie made
in the next few years will undoubtedly
attempt to follow. Within five minutes its
visual style will have you teetering on
the edge of your seat, half-an-hour later
you'll have gnawed your fingers clean
away, and by the jaw-disintegrating cli-
max you'll be clinging onto the back of
the row in front for dear life. Phantom
Menace or no Phantom Menace, this is
the most imaginative, stylish, entertain-
ing and inventive blockbuster you'll see
this year. Period.
What makes The Matrix great is that
the mesmerising visuals are combined
with mind-blowing character twists and
plot revelations. I've no desire to give too
much away, but suffice to say this story
of displaced reality is like nothing you've
ever seen before. At times it undeniably
collapses into the realms of incompre-
hensibility, but by leaving the explanatory
dialogue in the safe hands of classical
actor Fishburne, Moss (as the feisty, sexy,
sidekick-cum-love-interest) and Reeves
(who's finally found the role he was born
to play - acting tough and looking con-
fused) are left free to play with every last
nuance of the phenomenal effects.
Which isn't to say that this is simply an
effects-laden, testosterone driven
actioner; far from it. The Wachowski broth-
ers (whose previous CV includes writing
credits for the dire Assassins and the art-
house hit Bound) use the effects as a tool
to create a style, and then use that style
as the setting for the movie. Thus, the
stunning visuals aren't just an essential
part of The Matrix - they're an absolute
necessity if the movie is to keep a hold
on yout brain.
Nonetheless, it's the effects which
have made The Matrix one of this year's
most-talked about movies. State-of-the-art
production facilities (in Australia of all
places) coupled with several months of
intensive kung-fu training for the leads
and the absolute latest word in CGI pro-
duce images which will burn their way
into your brain for weeks after you see
the movie. Watch bullets pour past
Reeves, as he sways out of the way in slo-
mo whilst the camera pans round him at
regular speed, and you'll know that every
penny of the budget was carefully spent.
And there are twenty other stunning set-
pieces, each worth the price of admission
on their own. Indeed the only downside
is that you spend so much time trying to
wrap your head around the blistering
images (accompanied by pounding
soundtrack) that making sense of the
plot is demoted to a distant second place.
A stunning movie that, once seen,
will have to be seen again and again, The
Matrix provides the shot in the arm that
both the sci-fi and action genres have
been crying out for. Sheer, unadulter-
ated brilliance, fl
Dave
Virus * *
William Baldwin, Donald Sutherland, Joanna Pacula
Lets be dear about this. Its a virus, NOTThe Terminator, OK?
Starring : Jamie Lee Curtis,
Director: Chuck Pfarrer
S
mall boat in the Pacific comes
upon a giant floating ship that is
seemingly deserted...but turns out
to be inhabited by a vicious monster.
Original plot? Er, I don't think so. Most
directly. Virus is a rip-off of last year's
Deep Rising, but more obliquely it bor-
rows from Aliens,, The Day the Earth
Stood Still, Poltergeist, Sphere,
Robocop, The Terminator, The Thing,
Alien... Oh, and it's all directed in a sub-
Spielbergian style.
The opening credits set up the
schlock sci-fi premise: A drifting space
cloud enveloped the Mir space station
and sent a bolt of energy down to the
satellite dish of a Russian communica-
tions ship, and apparently the energy
included a virus that takes over the
onboard computers and represents a
vast, if never clearly defined, threat to life
on earth. Ooooh. Scary.
Cue the stereotypical characters:
Gruff captain Sutherland wants to claim
the ship for salvage, whilst Curtis and
Baldwin would much rather be some-
where else entirely. Meanwhile, the
methods of the Vitus itself are strange. It
creates robots, and uses them to grab
crew members and turn them into
strange creatures that are half-man, half-
Radio Shack. Obviously, it's up to Curtis,
Baldwin and their crewmates to outsmart
the virus, which seems none too bright
and spends most of its time clomping
around and issuing threatening state-
ments through a £1.99 voice synthesiser.
The movie's special effects are not
exactly slick, and the creature itself is a
distinct let-down. It looks like a very tall
humanoid figute hammered togethet
out of crushed auto parts, with several
headlights for its eyes. It crunches
through steel bulkheads and crushes all
barriers to its progress, in a way which
suggests that the makers were far more
interested in copying Robocop and Ter-
minator lhan in modelling a virus.
Like an increasing number of movies
in the post X-Files age, the last half hout
of the movie is almost impossible to
make out. In dark dimness, various
human and other figures race around in
a lot of water and flashlight beams, and
there is much screaming. Occasionally an
eye, a limb, or a bloody face emerges
from the gloom - but exactly what's going
on is anybody's guess.
What's left is another mundane entry
into the current horror revival. With more
and more sub-standard projects being
rushed into the multiplexes all the time
(turnaround times can now be measured
in terms of a few months), surely it can't
be long before the backlash kicks in?Q
Dave

