14 film Competition 14 June 1999
S
taying in London this summer?
Want to see each and every block-
buster movie for free? Well, here's
your chance. We've persuaded the film
fanatics at the Odeon Kensington to
come up with a great prize to mark what
looks set to be a great summer of
movies.
One lucky winner will be able to go
to the movies at Odeon Kensington each
week in July, August and September for
FREE! That's over thirteen weeks of cash-
free cinema going up for grabs.
Next week we'll be offering a massive
preview of this summer's big movies, but
to whet your appetite - and to remind you
of some of the great movies you could be
seeing if you win this brilliant prize - here's
a brief taster.
With early contenders Notting Hill
and The Matrix out of the way, event
with The Spy Who Shagged Me. This time
his sidekick takes on the fabulous form of
movie season kicks-off in earnest on July
2nd, with Entrapment, a light-hearted
caper movie starring Catherine Zeta Jones
and Sean Connery. Current Hollywood
fave Jones Is an investigator who goes
undercover in an attempt to track-down
master thief Connery (a modern day ver-
sion of Raffles the master cracksman)
and, naturally, falls in love with the beardy
one. Although the age-gap might seem
daunting, the chemistry between the stars
is said to be electric, and it's gone down
a storm in the States.
Two weeks later it's Star Wars time.
Can it live up to the hype? Can it possibly
be as good as the originals? More to the
Heather Graham (playing a character
going by the name of Felicity Shagwell),
neth Branagh from killing President
Ulysses S Grant... by stepping on him with
a giant, Jules Verne-esque, robot spider.
Obviously. Whilst director Sonnenfeld and
mega-star Smith can seemingly do no
wrong, test-screenings have apparently
been unimpressive.
The final big release of the summer
is fves Wide Shut, Stanley Kubrick's final
movie which has been so long in pro-
duction that it's already assumed near
mythical status. Starring Tom Cruise and
Nicole Kidman as married psychiatrists, the
movie follows the pair as they somehow
slip into a weird sexual underworld.
ences could be limited. But with one of
the greatest directors in history in the
director's chair, who cares...
point, by the time July 16th arrives will any-
body still care? Seriously, The Phantom
Menace will undoubtedly break at least a
few (If not all) British box-office records,
and its family orientated action style will
go down a storm with a vast part of the
cinema-going public. Quite what the
fanatics will make of it remains to be
seen - but then if you're that impatient, I'm
sure you'll have seen it on import already...
With all the other big distributors
making sure they give Mr Lucas a wide
berth, it's left to Mike Myers, in his Austin
Powers guise, to take up the challenge
W I T H T H E
K N S I N G T D N
whilst Myers himself plays three roles:
Powers, Dr Evil and new henchman Fat
Bastard. Whilst comedy sequels have a
tendency to be something of a let-down,
according to those w h o have seen it
already, Austin Powers 2 is even funnier
than the original.
Continuing the comedlc theme,
August 13th sees this year's Will Smith
movie landing at cinemas. Described as
a comedy sci-fi western. The Wild Wild
West is in fact the latest sixties TV series
to undergo a celluloid transfer. Smith and
Kevin Kline arc a pair of gadget-ridden
secret service agents out to stop Ken-
Rumours suggest that it's shockingly erotic
- the trailer features Hollywood's golden
couple getting hot & heavy in front of a
mirror - so its appeal to mainstream audi-
They'll be a much wider ranging pre-
view next week, but in the meantime
remember that you can keep up-to-date
with all the current and upcoming releases
at www.odeon.co.uk.
And so to the ultimate question: what
do you have to do to win this amazing .
prize, and see all these great films for free?
Correctly answer the following posers,
based on the five movies profiled on this
page:
1.) Who links Entrapment with
Dennis Potter?
2.) Which Phantom Menace star has
shared screen time with Al Pacino?
3.) The Spy Who Shagged Me star
Heather Graham appeared in Twin
Peaks- true or false?
4. ) What's the name of Kenneth
Branagh's next all-star Shakespeare
adaptation?
5.) Name every movie In which Cruise
and Kidman have worked together.
Once you've worked out the answers
to all five questions, email your solutions
to fllm.fellx@lc.ac.uk The winner will be
drawn from all correct answers received
by midday on Friday, and will be notified
by email. A final request - please don't
enter if you aren't around over the sum-
mer, as I'd hate to see such a great prize
go to waste.
Congratulations to all of you who cor-
rectly identified the answer to last
weeks Matrix competition. The link
between Sylvester Stallone and The
Matrix was, of course, that the War-
chowski brothers wrote both the appal-
ing Stallone vehicle Assassins and the
amazing Matrix. The winners were:
Colin C r a m m o n d
Ben Norwood
Tara Ware
Alex Hill
Jennifer Byrne
All five of you have earned yourself a
pair of tickets to see The Matrix at
the O d e o n Kensington. Please drop
into the Felix office (in Beit Archway)
to collect your prize.

