14 June 1999 Clubscene
Soundcolours 2 Soundcolours 2
VARIOUS'
(X:treme) 5
Wonderful collection of dreamy epic tunes (Robert Miles/ Chicane
style) mixed by Cafe Del Mar resident Phil Mison. The music
included on the CD comes from all over the world -Japan, US, Ger-
many, London and err...Sheffield included! The music is dreamy
and epic and Is perfect for watching the sunrise as you're sitting
on the beach outside the Cafe Del Mar. The tracklisting is very
strong featuring many underground artists and the mixing is spot
on. With another summer of 'Iblza-style' releases coming up this
one is as good as it gets. If you like your uplifting, chunky and
funky dreamy house, then this hits the target.
Out soon.
Todd Terry House Music Movement - Todd Terry
VARIOUS'
(Master Dance) 4
Todd Terry needs no introduction. A hero in the world of house
music, Terry sets the standards for both Djing and production. His
latest offering is this excellent house music compilation featuring
predominantly (drum-roll).... himself! Terry is one of the few DJs
in the world that can get away with playing so many of his own
tunes in his sets (the tunes are that fucking good). This mixed com-
pilation sees Terry using three of his own tunes, including the mas-
sive 'Something Going On'. The tracklisting also features artists
such as Kym Mazelle and the Lighthouse Family (mostly remixed
by Terry himself). To say this is a rather 'personal' compilation
would be putting it mildly, but Terry brings the very best of soul-
ful, uplifting and generally darn good house music.
Out in late July.
Helden vs. Slim Fatboy Slim vs. Armen Van Helden
London Brixton Academy
Preview
Lets get reaady to ruuuuumble! The big fight happened in brix-
ton on friday night, after the last event being cancelled due to the
brixton bombing. The sensible money was on Slim with the home
crowd and his trainer, Miss Ball. However, Van Helden is renowned
for his knockout bass - Slim will definately have a real fight on his
hands.
Whoever come away with a result, I am sure everyone will have
a fantasic time watching these two dance heavywieghts going toe
to toe for the title of worlds best DJ. Keep your eyes out for a full
review next week.
Creamfields 1999 Creamfields 1999
The Old Liverpool Airfield
Preview
After Homelands, I bet all you mad clubbers are itching for some
more festival action before or after the inevitble Ibiza trip. Cream
are running their Creamfields event again this year after the
storming sucess of Creamfield in 1998 - but will the change of
venue mark a change of fortune?
Call the Cream on 0891 518 200 for all the latest info.

