20 Sport 14 June 1999
CRICKET
D'oh! Bart's knock IC out of cup
ICs rearranged semi-final away to St.
Bart's last Sunday resulted in the club's
first loss in almost three years and fail-
ure in their attempt to capture their
third successive ULU cup. Team selec-
tion and organisational problems, which
partly resulted from the match being
rearranged, contributed to defeat, as
did the weather conditions.
The draw seemed odd, given that IC
had already defeated Bart's in a bad
tempered group match at Harlington,
and so should really not have played
them again until the final, and should
certainly not have been forced to play
away from home. But as the draw for
the knockout stages had been set
before the competition began, this was
predictably going to happen. The prob-
lem would not have been so noticeable
if Holloway had defeated Bart's in the
quarter finals but they were unable to
do so.
In the match Itself, after arriving
late thus reducing the match to 30 overs
a side, IC lost the toss and were put into
bat on a fairly green and damp wicket.
In cloudy and sometimes showery
weather, IC struggled to 94 all out off 30
overs, Khurrum top scoring with 24, with
next highest scorer being extras on 20.
Predictably after the interval, the clouds
cleared and Bart's batted their entire
innings in bright sunlight. They reached
60 off 20 overs but then lost their best
player, Britton (the UH captain) and had
somewhat of a collapse In the face of
some hostile bowling from the entire IC
attack, and eventually won by just 3
wickets with one over to spare and
s o m e very nervous players on the ?
boundary.
Despite the selection problems IC .
were only 3 or 4 players short of field-
ing their best side, and definitely looked
better on paper against Bart's, espe-
cially in bowling. The good news for the ,
club is that almost all the players that |
make Imperial one of the strongest col-
lege cricket sides in the captal, will b e '
back again next year, when IC try to win
the cup for the third time in four years.
Right. I've got almost a page to fill,
absolutely no sport at all and short of
writing about the cricket world cup
every week, I am up sh*t creek at the
moment. So I have decided to do
something radical. Introduce you all
to baseball. Before you turn the page
or look away in disgust, let m e try and
persuade you it is not a hyped up
game of rounders, but an in depth
challenge of skill and strategy.
For those of you still here, let me
ease you in gently. Baseball is played
mainly in the US but also a lot in Cen-
tral America and the Hispanic parts of
the Caribbean (like Cuba). In the US,
the professional season runs f r o m
April till September, and teams play
almost every day (162 games in a sea-
son). Baseball is a g a m e m a d e up of
two teams of 9 players, a diamond
shaped infield with 4 bases at each
corner and a raised m o u n d in the cen-
tre. There are 8 position playerslfield-
ers) and one pitcher, who throws the
ball, while standing on the m o u n d .
The opposing team then sends up, in
a set order, one player at a time who
has to try and hit the ball and score
runs. Runs are scored by running all
the way around the diamond shaped
infield (although not necessarily in
one go). The pitcher has to throw the
ball over h o m e plate, s o m e w h e r e
between the batters knees and his
elbows. If the pitch is in this box or
zone, the pitch is a strike. If not It Is
a (no)ball. Three strikes and the bat-
ter is out - four balls and the batter
gets to first base for free. Batters can
also be out if they hit the ball and it is
caught, or they are run out by the ball
getting to a base before they do.
Three outs and the whole team is out
and they switch round - the team that
was batting fields and the fielding
team bats. This goes on for 9 innings
each, or until one team is ahead of the
other - whichever is the later.
That's the basics. Now lets go
into some depth. I'll try and make
comparisons with cricket because
that's what most people are familiar
with. As you can imagine, the 8 field-
ers, w h o all have a large glove or mit
on their non throwing h a n d , are
spread around the playing field. The
catcher (wicket-keeperKC - all posi-
tions have letters for short) squats
behind h o m e plate and catches the
pitches (as you will see the names of
the positions aren't very original). He
also tells the pitcher(P) what pitch to
throw by the use of signals with his fin-
gers - e.g. 1 for a fast-ball(85-95mph),
2 for an offspeed (slower) pitch, 3 for
a curveball (ball moves across and
down the strike z o n e due to rotation
of the seam). There are three base-
men, at 1st b a s e d B), 2nd (2B)base
and, y o u g u e s s e d it, 3rd(3B) base.
There are three outfielders in left(LF),
right(RF) and centre field(CF) (they are
n a m e d as if you are looking from
behind the plate). And there is a
short-stop(SS) who fields between 2nd
and 3rd base. Despite the name 2nd
base spends most of his time between
1st and 2nd, and SS and 2B share the
duties of actually manning 2nd base
itself. There are 16 substitutes, 10 of
which are usually pitchers. Uniquely
in American sport, baseball is the only
game in which you are not allowed
unlimited substitutions - once a player
is out of the game, they are out of the
game. Teams usually have a "rotation"
of 5 starting pitchers w h o pitch o n c e
every five days each and are expected
to pitch 7 or 8 innings - about 100/110
pitches, which is quite tough on the
arm and the shoulder. The rest of
the pitchers are relief pitchers who
make up all the innings the starters
can't - not more than about 2 or 3
innings each at most.
The hitter looks to have an easier
job. All he has to do is hit the ball, but
it is harder than that. If you have ever
tried to play rounders (the one and
only comparison I will allow), you will
know it is tough to hit the ball. Now j
imagine the ball b e i n g thrown at
90mph+ and all manner of fielders I,
waiting to catch the ball or run you E
out. You see why even the best hit-jj
ters only get hits 3 0 % of the time. A |
hit is when the hitter hits the ball a n d !
gets to first base without the b a l l l
being caught or the ball getting to j
the base before him. If he hits it well 1
e n o u g h to get to 2nd in one go, it isf
a double. If he reaches third in one go I
it is a triple. If he hits it out of t h e |
park, he get all the way around in o n e !
go and scores a run - this is a home-J
run. Hitters are not allowed to hit t h e |
ball behind them - it counts as a strike j
if they do. They score runs if they!
cross homeplate - it does not matter
if they stop at every base on the wayg
around.
Typical scores in a game are 6-4 oijf
7-5.
If this s o u n d s interesting, livej
baseball g a m e s can be f o u n d onj
Channel 5 on Sundays and Wednes-
day's from about midnight (after the
dodgy porn films). Take a look - you
might be surprised! I might consider
adding more to this guide at a later
date - stay tuned.
We had many many correct answers to last week's
crossword - well done to all of you who entered.
There can, however, be only one winner, and that Is
David Norman (NHLI)
Please contact us (x58072) to arrange your prize.
No Crossword this week...
Many apologies for the lack of a cross-
word this week. Look out for the
Jumbo Crossword in the final issue of
term next week - it's guaranteed to
keep you busy during that long train!
journey h o m e . In the meantime, here!
is s o m e interesting blank space toj
doodle on...
Answers to Crossword 1148
Across: 1 Fertile, 5 Flapses, 8 Acids,
9 Ridiculed, 11 Faith, 12 Electra,
13 Gardenias, 15 Prism, 17 Dwell,
19 Physicist, 22 Chamois, 24 Conga,
25 Galleries, 26 Noise, 27 Nurture.
28 Essence
Down: 1 Foaming, 2 Reinforce,
3 Inspire, 4 Earth, 5 Endlessly, 6 Split,
7 Sidearm, 10 Cheap, 14 Impassive,
16 Imitation, 17 Decagon, 18 Loose,
20 Innings, 21 Toluene, 23 Abler,
24 Caste

