News 14 June 1999
Common Room Plans Unveiled
Plans for renovation of the Senior Com
mon Room have been unveiled by Col
lege Catering, designed to
copy the successful style
employed in the JCR renova-
tion.
Although the programme
has yet to receive final con-
firmation - which must come
from College's Management
& Planning Group - it seems
almost certain that the on-off
project will now go-ahead.
The plans set a tentative com-
pletion date of June 2000 for
the project, with construction
work due to start at the end of
November.
According to the design report,
the current proposals are based on
those utilised in last year's remodelling
of the JCR, "using a curved glass screen
wall to open up the walkway and form-
ing two new entrances to the SCR". The
refurbished outlet will include a variety
of "high quality dining and social
spaces*, with a food court, lounge
By David Roberts
drinks for major events in the Great
Hall, as well as a service for staff and
postgrads throughout the day,
whilst dining facilities will con-
sist of a "contemporary cafe
bar in addition to traditional
style dining". With "panelled
walls, leather seating and cof-
fee tables", the lounge areas
will apparently impart a dis-
tinct "club lounge" atmos-
phere to the room.
Until a few weeks ago,
the plans were believed to
have been shelved, owing to
How much will renovating the SCR really cost? the shorting of funds resulting
PhotO:Jonas from the planned mammoth
RSM refurbishment. However,
the £1.3 million project has now been
re-activated thanks to new plans involv-
ing three new retail outlets to be sited
on the walkway, between the JCR and
the main Sherfield entrance (where a
curved-glass wall will form the new
entrance to the SCR). The proposed
£20-30000 income from each of these
units, plus £15000 rental from three
KEEP THE CAT FREE ESI. 1949
Issue 1149
14 June 1999
Editor: Ed Sexton
Assistant Editor & Hlms: David Roberts
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
Clubscene: Giles Morrison,
Gurmlnder Marwaha & Joel Lewis
Games Editor: Gary Smith
This issue is brought to you by
Golden Virginia and the letter P.
area, cafe and possible 'members
club'. Maximum flexibility will be
ensured via a system of moveable
screens that allow for space to be sub-
divided for private functions, exhibi-
tions, conferences and receptions
(which form a key aspect of the busi-
ness plan for the project). A lounge bar
will be incorporated to provide interval
new cash dispensers means that it is
now possible for the scheme to break-
even.
Despite the fact that the project
seems likely to threaten the rent-ftee
status of the ICU Newsagent (which
will be re-housed in one of the three
retail outlets described above), both of
the sabbaticals available for comment
described the plans as "Fantastic".
BiOChemiStry Breach Last Day for Summer Ball Tickets!
Further details have
come to light regard-
ing the incident in
Biochemistry on Wednesday 2 June, as
reported in last week's Felix. CCTV
images have allowed security to pin-
point exactly when the man entered
the building. Meanwhile the police
have revealed that they recovered fur-
ther stolen possessions from the man's
person.
It is now known that the man
entered the building at 6.10pm, and
not before 6pm as was speculated in
last week's issue. He gained access by
following someone through the doors,
as swipe cards are needed to enter the
building after 6pm. This reiterates the
need for Imperial staff and students to
make sure strangers do not follow
them into departments when they are
using their swipe cards.
The man was challenged by secu-
rity guards six to seven minutes after
entering the build-
By Ed Sexton ing, and restrained
as reported last
week. It is now known that as well as
the purse mentioned last week, a
watch and perfume was also recov-
ered from the man's person by police
officers. Ken Weir has asked any mem-
ber of the college who lost one or
both of these items on Wednesday 2
June to contact him on x48904 or
cso.security@ic.ac.uk, including a brief
description of the item or items. Ken
Weir also reminded staff and students
to lock labs and offices when leaving
them unattended, as he believes this
is a major factor in attracting thieves
to the college.
Meanwhile it is still unclear what
the fate of the Biochemistry thief will
be, although Ken Weir understands
from the police that he has already
appeared in court.
Today is the last day tickets for the
1999 ICU Summer Ball are available. It
is still unclear how many tickets are
likely to be sold - by last Wednesday
night around 900 had been sold, still
significantly less than the predicted
number. Meanwhile ICSM Summer
Ball tickets are currently on sale (see
letters page). The ICSM ball takes
place the day before ICU's ball, and is
expected to attract around 900 stu-
dents, although as Felix went to press
it was unclear how many had been
sold to date. A full report and 'pre-
view' of the balls will appear in the last
Felix of term next week.
Next Week's Issue
Issue 1150 Is the final Issue of term and will be published on
Wednesday 23 June, NOT Monday 21 June.
Craig Perrott, a security guard who has been with the college for fourteen years,
has recently become the manager of his football club, Infotel United. The club was
formed In the 97/98 season, starting In the fifth division of the Southern Area Sun-
day Football League. It has come top of Its division and was promoted two divisions
to the third division. This season It was a finalist In the Intermediate Cup, and only
lost two games In the league. Mr Perrott, who Ironically enough now works In the
Management School, commented that "working here has helped* In his new posi-
tion as manager. He describes his team as "a good squad of players" - Felix wishes
them every success for next season.
Photo: Ed
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Internal fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/Felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP Litho Limited, Units B2 & B3, Hatton Square, 16 -16a Baldwins Gardens. London EC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040 - 0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Felix 1999. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

