14 June 1999
Editorial 7
Portman Travel
Something is definitely not quite right.
Felix knew about the Portman Travel deal
some time ago but, as is often the case,
there was plenty of speculation and very
few facts. Simon Baker (see Voice of Rea-
son this week) seems to have hit the nail
on the head, though, a n d unearthed
some details which don't exactly add up.
I have watched far too many
episodes of the X-Files to possibly believe
that cockup is more likely than conspiracy.
If I am wrong, however, than may I sug-
gest that s o m e o n e in Sherfield w h o does
know what's going on writes a nice letter
setting Felix straight o n the matter. Either
way, w e h o p e to bring you more on this
next week so watch, or rather read, this
space (well, actually the news pages, but
you get the idea...)
Socialist Workers?
On Saturday 5 June there was an anti-
NATO protest in London well attended by,
among others, the Socialist Worker posse
that always seems to crop up at these kind
of demonstrations. N o w those of you
who, disregarding all danger to your
health, have read this space all year will
probably have guessed that capitalism
isn't exactly my favourite ideology. While
not embracing communism on a practi-
cal level, I a m not adverse to having it
round for a slap up meal and a glass of
proletariat Merlot occasionally.
Socialist Worker, however, is not my
preferred reading matter. What irritates
m e most about it is that it is simply pro-
paganda disguised as a newspaper. Let
m e explain. O n e of the most important
codes of conducts for journalists and edi-
tors is the importance of separating fact,
conjecture and comment. Hence most
newspapers have news pages for facts,
which may include quoted comments,
and columns pages for more comment
and conjecture. Socialist Worker, how-
ever, differentiates between these even
less than Felix does (wait, is that a spike
of self-criticism I hear?). Fact and conjec-
ture are often interwoven into the same
article, even the same sentence. Their
facts are generally accurate, their c o m -
ments are often interesting, but trying to
separate the two can sometimes be
harder than pulling a Sun photographer
off the w i n d o w of a celebrity sauna
house.
O n e of their anti-war arguments
pointed to the hypocrisy of N A T O in
bombing Serbia while turning a blind eye
to o n e of its own member states (Turkey)
carrying out serious human rights viola-
tions unchecked for years. Now I agree
that NATO's motives may be less than
saintly, but criticising someone for not tak-
ing action in one situation is hardly an
argument for them not to take action in
another. Hang on, didn't I say I wasn't
going to talk about this?
Senior Common Room
Away from the ethics of capitalism and
conflict, the finances of the Senior C o m -
m o n Room revival, and the tension it
could cause with the Union, are setting
off alarm bells all around Beit Quad. Hang
on, this is capitalism and conflict... oh,
never mind.
OK, so I don't have any actual facts.
Maybe our friends in Estates are going to
d o it all with Do It All, coming in one
weekend armed with DIY equipment, and
get a new SCR built for the price of a
Black&Decker drill. Maybe the rumours of
new trading outlets along the walkway,
including on the newsagent's site, are
untrue. Maybe the Union's tenancy of the
newsagent's doesn't c o m e to the end of
its term next year. Maybe...
The loss of the bookshop was bad
enough for the Union and you, the stu-
dents, as it saw the e n d of a valuable
source of Union income. OK, so Water-
stone's are a bit bigger, and are even ful-
filing their contract now, but at least when
you spend money at the ICU Shop you
know it is ploughed back into Ents, Bars
and the like. We failed to stop the book-
shop from going - let's not let it happen
again.
Felix - the not quite final move
It seems I've got a bit of space left to fill,
so I might as well tell you lot what's hap-
pening with Felix at the end of this term
and next year. The last issue comes out
on Wednesday 23 June. Hoorah. O n the
Thursday and Friday of that week the f elix
Office will be packed up and moved, so
drop by before then if you need to pick
anything up, ask any questions, etc.
Our new, but temporary, abode will
be the portakabins behind the liquid nitro-
gen near Physics (head off Prince Consort
Road towards Sherfield, and they're on
your right). For the record books, I was
somewhat forced to agree to this against
my better judgement, but I am sure David
Roberts will c o p e admirably in the sheds.
The following year w e will move back to
Beit and into the new media centre. And
yes, the irony of Felix moving into por-
takabins while builders take over the cur-
rent office is not lost on me. - Ed
The Imperial College BBk • •
Summer Ball

