8 Columns 14 June 1999
W
e columnists are, with no excep-
tions, a pilloried breed, placed
by many in the social pecking
order between paedophiles and Michael
Winner. Consequently, we must stick
together in times of trouble. To this end,
I note that the new lad on the team,
Kevin, seems to be getting some stick
from the medical fraternity. It would
appear that the sensitive denizens of the
BMS objected to reports of yet another
cockup in the ivory tower. Leaving aside
the observation that building malfunc-
tions in the BMS are so frequent that they
render 'Dog Bites Man' worthy of a lead
on the Today Programme by comparison,
the suggestions that medics are arrogant
needs addressing. For a start, they are not
all arrogant, but they all should be. Has
anyone ever visited a GP that is not arro-
gant, condescending and in possession of
a belief that doctors are God's chosen
few, vastly superior to the proles that pol-
lute their surgeries? You cannot, therefore,
criticise medical students for displaying
similar traits because it is all a part of the
training. As for the attitude of the lectur-
ers, I am puzzled. From my limited expe-
rience of the pharmacology boys at St
Mary's, I would say that they are a much
more pleasant bunch than the young-
sters. A case of he who can sneer does,
he who can't teaches?
Travel, as every citizen of the global
village knows, broadens the mind. Arriv-
ing in a far flung kingdom often raises a
series of questions as one inevitably seeks
to know what is going on. However, the
arrival of Portman Travel on campus has
made me ask even more questions than
a lengthy cultural voyage of discovery in
Magaluf. For those of you that don't know
- and this hasn't exactly been shouted
from the rooftops - they have replaced STA
as the provider of non-student travel ser-
vices. So why does this affect you? Well,
many of you reading this are not stu-
dents, and the rest of you are affected
indirectly due to the money that the Union
earns from such matters. The way this
whole thing has transpired is odd, even
by College standards, so if you're sitting
comfortably, then I shall begin. The first
obvious question is why College sought
to change company. STA has a good rep-
utation, and most academics seemed
pretty happy with the level of service. Our
friends In Sherfield
obviously thought dif-
ferently and put the
thing out to tender.
No problem there; if
STA offered the best
deal, both in terms of
revenue generated
for Imperial and level
of service, then they
would get it, or would
be replaced by a better outfit. So it came
to pass, as is the way here, that a com-
mittee was convened to evaluate the
bids. Those bidding would then give their
presentations, detailing the size of their
offers, level and scope of service etc. This
is where it gets confusing. The committee
were not given any financial details of the
bids, Instructed only to concentrate on the
'quality of service.' Additionally, the com-
position of the committee was surprising.
With the greatest respect to those con-
cerned, this was not the usual mix of big
hitters. No Pro-Rectors, no Sherfield Direc-
tors, which, in a College where paperclip
requisitions go before the full Governing
Body, seems very odd.
The cogs whirred and the decision
was made, giving Portman the contract.
Whispers on the breeze along the walk-
has gone into this very thoroughly. So
where does the Union fit in? In bygone
days when life was simpler, ICU received
the rent from both STA shops, a useful
source of revenue. That all changed last
year when Sherfield
decided that the Union
should pay for the refur-
bishment of a facility it
did not own or control,
the JCR. While our
friends in Estates made a
superb job, it cost the
Union, and hence us,
70% of this rental income. This is clearly
not good news for an organisation that
has seen its trading income slashed over
"my first, toe-dipped-
in-the-water opinion
is that this looks
extremely dubious..."
Simon Baker
Voice of Reason
"...the arrival of Port-
man Travel on cam-
pus has made me ask
even more questions
than usual..."
way slowly revealed a bit more about the
arrangement. How much rent would they
pay? Er, none. Well, they must at least be
paying for phones,
electricity, start-up
refurbishment costs.
Now this seems very
odd. Has Imperial
started to take its char-
itable status a bit far?
Of course not. They
have come up with a
fantastic wheeze
whereby the College
receives all Portman's travel commissions.
How this has been defined is not
absolutely clear, but I'm sure someone
recent years, beginning with the Water-
stone's victory. So, I hear you cry, let's talk
turkey. How much will they now get?
Well, my friends, you are not the only ones
asking. Nobody knows, which must be
causing the Union a few headaches in the
budgeting department. Still, if we leave
aside all this financial malarkey, we are left
with the issue of customer service, which
must obviously be higher than STA, given
that this was the key criterion. Ah, not so
sure about that. I have heard many peo-
ple complain that Portman are not per-
forming at quite the level their success in
the tender would suggest; bookings have
been incorrectly made, the suggestion
being that the staff may not allegedly be
quite as good as STA. Allegedly.
My first, toe-dipped-in-the-water opin-
ion is that this looks extremely dubious.
College has behaved in a totally inexplic-
able manner in respect of this. To have a
committee charged
with evaluating ten-
der bids without
access to any finan-
cial information
looks extremely sus-
pect. How on earth
can one judge how
realistic levels of ser-
vice are without seeing some figures?
Taken together with the unusual compo-
sition of the committee, you cannot help
but conclude that this was a fait accom-
pli, and if so, why? Since I have always
believed that Sherfield's weirder machi-
nations are always cockup rather than
conspiracy, I shall not speculate as to
whether the best bid won. However, the
contract must have had Portman in
stitches. I cannot think of any other land-
lord that would draw up a similar arrange-
ment, under which the College takes all
the downside risk; if Portman don't make
a profit, Imperial will not get a penny. Of
course, a company with such generous
terms is unlikely to lose money. Or could
they? A number of academics are not
happy with Portman. But it does not stop
there. STA have been told that they must
not accept orders from academics under
any circumstances, as this would be
deemed breach of contract, for which
they would be penalised. In effect, staff
at IC may use any travel agent in the
world, stick it on their credit card and
claim the money back later, except a shop
on campus. Whether this is legal is any-
body's guess, but there is strong possibility
that people will use other companies out
of sheer bloody-mindedness. Should that
happen, I smell egg on face. At a time
when Imperial is, not unreasonably, seek-
ing to maximise revenue from its com-
mercial activities, this whole saga looks
very, very strange, if not outrageous. I
haven't finished with this...
Finally, I must return to the subject of
the College's tie clubs. Though they do
not seek publicity, despite the perpetual
carping directed at them, I feel I must
mention the RSM's Chaps Club. A vener-
able organisation, established in the Twen-
ties, its members, not to be confused
with the C&G's Links Club, are fine ambas-
sadors for Imperial. This could not be illus-
trated more clearly than at last week's
Derby. The good name of the RSM andIC
in general was worn on their sleeves and
sung from their hearts, moving one young
lady to remove her upper garments onat
least four occasions. Clearly moved b
y
the spectacle, she cryptically added, 'just
because I've shown you my tits, it does-
n't mean I'm that sort of girl.' Ladies and
gentlemen, I give you the Chaps Club.
Scholars and gentlemen.

