CFEATURE FEATURED
Technology Transfer
It has become a cliche to say that the UK is good at inventing
things but poor at marketing them. It is a fact nevertheless
that the UK lags behind the USA and other countries when it
comes to the successful marriage of a technological
possibility with a market need.
The blame for this shortcoming has been laid squarely at
the feet of the universities. In Britain they have historically
developed as places of scholarship and education, although
their research has ranged from the pure pursuit of
knowledge for its own sake to applied research and
development. In an ideal world the fruit of this effort would
flow through to industry and commerce via technology
transfer or the formation of new business or 'spin-off
ventures.
In a series of feature articles, FELIX will examine the
various mechanisms for Technology Transfer, see how
they affect Imperial College.
This week's article looks at the proposed Technology
Transfer development at the College's field station at
Silwood Park.
T
he Cuts o f 81, Keith Joseph's summer
vacation project that year, were
rushed, discriminatory, arbitrary to a
degree, and badly implemented. But
for those universities not damaged beyond
repair they have also proved salutary not
least in engendering a unity of purpose in
opposition. Academics and administrators,
or some of them, have been shaken out of
their lethargic superiority complex and
brought nearer to the realities of economic
recession. Universities have come to realise,
under pressure from the University Grants
Committee, that full use must be made of
capital and real estate assets, or they should
be disposed of — exploit or liquidate. The
rules regarding the sale of land or buildings
originally purchased with public money have
even been changed, allowing institutions to
keep at least some of the proceeds (witness
the recent sale of the Bedford College site in
Regent's Park).
The U G C , in their highly supportive
strategy document published in September
following the '28 Questions' exercise,
emphasise the need for Universities to seek
alternative sources of funding, and make
recommendations to Government to assist
this process. The Committee also says
"Universities need to acquire what they now
lack: a deliberate bias towards change."
Imperial College emerged from the
carnage with a cut in block grant of 15%,'(the
national figure was 17%) some of which was
made up with extra overseas students' fees,
the rest through early retirements and some
long overdue tidying up. The point had been
made, however, and a number of College-
linked commercial schemes were instigated.
College companies were formed (Imperial
Bio-, Software-, and later Polymer
Technologies) and industrial liasion was
markedly stepped up. The concept of an IC
Science Park was considered. Amongst a
number of suggestions which got no further
than an Admin file was its possible location
in a disused chalk pit in darkest Surrey. There
are now, we are led to believe, other plans for
the site.
ean while, down at Westminster, a new
buzzword had hit the streets.
'Technology Transfer" — the
commercial or industrial exploitation of
technological innovation developed, usually,
in universities and polys. Your average
academic inventor, it was considered, is more
interested in carrying out research than in
earning money from it — a typically British
failure to capitalise on home-grown ideas.
The Government pronounced itself in
favour of technology transfer and pledged its
•support for schemes devoted to this end.
Some university Science Parks were held up
as shining examples of just this, but
investigation reveals the older, larger ones, at
least (Cambridge, Aston) to have no more
connection with their respective universities
than a company in which the institution
happens to have a shareholding. They are
little more than medium-sized industrial
estates often sited miles from the university.
'Technology transfer'there is limited to the
recruitment of Prof Smith or Dr Jones to the
board of tenant companies in order to lend
the latter some credibility. In the Science
Parks' favour, though, is their employment
of large numbers of graduates and post-docs
from the parent university.
S
o the great minds at IC put themselves
together. What could they do along
these lines, only better? Well, big was
clearly going to be no good. It had better have
strong connections with the College on the
academic side. It ought to be physically as
close to the College as possible.
Where could it be built? Two sites sprung
to mind. Once the new 'Chemistry 2' building
is complete, another in the space between it
and Civil Engineering would more or less
complete the Queen's Lawn square. And the
Governors had been muttering darkly about
the under-use of Silwood Park ("Very pretty,
Smith, but what actually happens there?").
250 acres of land used by about 300 people at
a net cost to the College of around £3/4m a
year didn't sound like efficient use of
resources. And those awful sheds on South
Gravel could only be improved by
demolition.
Who was going to pay for these
developments? How about those chaps who
helped set up Imperial Biotechnology —
Investors in Industry — the ones with full
page colour advertisements in The Times?
What should we call them? Not Science
Parks, for a start. What about Technology
Transfer Centres?
purpose-built laboratory at Silwood, as a
protoptype. The architect is taking special
care to integrate the design of the Centre with
the existing architecture of Silwood House
and with the rural nature of the site. As few
trees as possible will be cut down, and many
more will be planted.
There will be a one-storey building
comprising a number of small 'seed-bed'
units of variable size, where an academic can
extend his or her research one step from the
pure laboratory stage towards full
commercialisation. He might initially want
to employ a researcher, say, or a part-time
secretary. The management company will
provide advice on banking, accounting, law,
etc, and maybe help with contacts in the real
world. Central reception, conference and
secretarial facilities will be available in the
building.
There will also be six two-storey buildings,
grouped in pairs, ranging in floor area from
4k to 12k sq ft. These will be leased by larger
R & D companies — perhaps one of the
academic's companies having grown after a
few years, perhaps the research group of an
established company. These units will
provide a greater sense of identity for tenants,
each being occupied by just one company.
Flexibility is the key to the development. If
an individual in a seed-bed unit wants to
extent that he needs to employ more people,
or to have given up altogether. Projects
involving use of the Reactor and Computer
Centres, or the wind tunnel when it is built,
will be regarded particularly favourably.
The type of tenant will be strictly
controlled. All must have strong connections
with the College, perhaps through their
personnel or because they need facilities
uniquely available at IC. Only low-bulk,
clean research will be permitted —
microelectronics, software development,
biotechnology, etc. There will be no
juggernauts thundering around the lanes of
Berkshire. No more than prototype
production for research purposes only will be
allowed.
A
part from the usual problems of a new
development, one barrier will prove
particularly difficult to climb —
Silwood Park is in the Green Belt, which
forbids almost all new building. In order to
show compatability with Green Belt Policy
and to show an overall improvement to the
site coupled with some advantage to the
locality, the master plan for Silwood Park as
a whole will be revised and submitted along
with the planning application. It will include
provision for the resiting of the storage and
other facilities at present on South Gravel,
three new academic buildings behind
3 * r An artist's impression of the proposed develpment at South Gravel, Silwood.
A
nd so it came to pass that plans to
prove the viability of two TTCs,
organised under one umbrella
company, got under way. 3i would provide
the development, m a n a g e r i a l and
organisational skills, not to mention finding
the money; Imperial would contribute the
land and the all-important academic input —
both people and services. 3i and IC would be
equal partners in the management company,
dividends from which would provide the
College's income from the project.
Plans for the Silwood Park Centre are
currently the more advanced, using M-Scan,
a mass-spectrometry consultancy housed in a
expand his operation, he can move to a larger
unit within that building or to one of the six
individual ones. If a company in one of these
buildings wants more space, it can move to
the one next door or even have the two joined
together — they are designed so that a link-
way can easily be constructed. Any
organisation requiring more space than, say,
20K sq ft is considered too large for the
Centre and should really be looking for space
in a different type of development.
Leases will be of the order of 3 years for the
seed bed units, longer for the larger buildings.
An academic with ideas is likely within 3
years either to have developed them to the
Silwood House, and possibly a new
Southwood hostel, together with the
demolition of some of the obsolete, wartime
buildings. Nobody will lose out, rest assured.
The South Kensington T T C will be a
prestige block visible from the main entrance
in Exhibition Road. Its function will be
similar to that at Silwood Park, though the
details have yet to be decided. There will
probably be some College-related retail
outlets on the ground floor — a bank, the
ICU bookshop perhaps, STA, the union
travel agency — and an underground car
park. There is a strong possibility that
Sinclair Research Ltd will occupy up to half
of this building, and that S R L will be
involved in its financing. Sir Clive Sinclair
already has links with IC as a Visiting
Professor, and will be admitted to the
Fellowship of the College at Commem-
oration this month. The same management
company will operate this Centre and will
provide similar facilities to those at Silwood.
The timescale of these projects is largely a
matter of conjecture at the moment. A .
preliminary application for planning
permission for the Silwood development will
probably be made this autumn and if all goes
well, building could start in the spring and the
Centre be operational within a year. If all
goes well. The South Ken Centre is a rather
different matter, and is likely to take at least a
year longer. The winds of change are in the
air, you see, but they are sometimes a little
gusty.
If you would like any more information
about the TTCs please contact Don
Ferguson, Sherfield 537, ext 3017.
SOUTHSIDE BAR
Friday 5th October:
DISCO—Jamie Bell
8.30pm till 12.00 midnight
(Bar closes at 11.00pm)
Sunday 7th October:
CARLSBERG Lager
ONLY 50p pint
Tuesday 9th October
Dustin Hoffman in
TOOTSIE
on video in Real Ale Bar
6.30pm and 9.00pm
Opening hours:
Mon-Fri
•Sat
Sun
12.00-2.00
12.00-2.00
12.00-2.00
5.30-11.00
6.00-11.00
7.00-10.30
Guest Ale
Courage Best 60p per pint
4
Friday 5 October 1984 5

