PREVIEWS;
SINGLES
Spandau Ballet: Highly
Strung
T h e latest F r o m t h e
Spandaus' hit album 'Parade'
maintains the standard set by
'I'll Fly For You' and 'Only
When You Leave'. Is this real ly
the same band that Radio 1
was saying was passed it last
year? This one's as good as
'Gold'. Possible no 1?
Mtume: Prime Time
The sucess of 'Juicy Fruit'
came as such a shock to this
long time Soul band, that it's
taken nearly 6 months for a
follow up. They obviously
don't have much confidence
in it, since they've flipped the
new single with their previous
hit. However, from the airplay
'Prime Time' has already
r e c e i v e d , I r e c k o n t h e
'unknown duo' won't stay
unknown for much longer.
Haywoode: / Can't Let You Go
After falling off a Hammer-
s m i t h s t a g e last y e a r ,
Haywoode had to give up
recording until her leg had
r e c o v e r e d ( n o , I d o n ' t
understand why either!!). Now
back on vinyl, and supported
by record company hype, 'I
Can't Let You G o ' is a club
smash, but personally, I'll let it
go.
Difford & Tilbrook
After being dubbed T h e
70's Lennon and McCartney'
the success of their band
S q u e e z e i n e v i t a b l y went
downhill. After a year away
(writing Stage musicals) Chris
Difford and Glen Tilbrook
return with an album, and a
couple of excellent singles.
Unfortunately the seventies
feel is no longer 'hip', so this
won't be a massive hit, but
then again if crap like'Agados'
can make no 2, who knows?
The Questions: A Month of
Sundays
Despite the fact that all
Respond records sound like
the s t y l e C o u n c i l , t h e
Q u e s t i o n s m a i n t a i n a n
individuality without sacrific-
ing a good tune. Paul and
Maureen Barry on lead vocals
complement each other much
better than I remember from
their IC gig a couple of years
ago. I still prefer the Higsons
though!
Tinker
TINKER
Welcome to the puzzle column. Let me start by telling you
what sort of puzzles will appear in the column over the next
year. Firstly preference will be given to off beat, clever and
difficult puzzles even if they are quite well known to the keen
puzzlers. None of the puzzles will involve any kind of trickery
deceit or slight of hand one normally expects to find in such
articles.
The puzzles will be graded 1-5 and unless the puzzle is grade
4 or 5 a bin full of algebra will be fair indication of an incorrect
approach.
For people wishing to send puzzles, solutions or
correspondence to me, I will operate at the Felix office under
the pseudonym TINKER.
Each solution received before Wednesday will be put in a hat
from which one winner of the £5 cheque will be drawn.
And so to the first Puzzle
Divide a rectangle of side 65 by 47 units into ten squares no
two of which are of the same size.
NEW YEAR PARTY
The Higsons al New Year Party Photo Nigel Atkinson
Stumbling into a sound check several hours before London's
Trendiest Band swaggered onto stage, the Higsons' pop-press
popularity was instantly intelligible to our party of lubricated
hipsters.
The Higsons are a gang of normal lads who seem refreshingly
devoid of the pretension which su rrounds many similarly attired
pop prats. The glaring defect of their approach was identified by
a Fresher: 'They don't exactly play to the audience...'. The all-
male make up of the band also creates a conceivably offensive
machismo, but your reporter is not a strident feminist. The
lyrical style and content seemed to owe much to the
anonymous poets who compose the lyricsatall London football
matches.
This band do have the ability to create a moderately'charged'
ether-though the cockroach of a lead vocalist could purchase a
more effective deodorant. A special mention must be made here
for the Eastbourne demi-skinhead who was scandalously
denied fame when ejected from the stage for attempting a dying
fly breakdance manoeuvre.
Jazzerwocky, the support, spunkily completed the bill: a
bunch of dodgy characters with a dubious socio-political
stance-but oodles of 'street cred' nevertheless.
A sense of humour is a rare and invidious asset in a band: any
such extravagantly liberated wimmin who can respond that
cheerfully to a 'Gerrem ort dahli'!' can buy me a Guinness
anytime. Their 'jazzy' day-glo disco funk stimulated a few
unlikely 6oppers: combat-jacket headbangers.
I apologise insincerely for labelling the best all-female lineup
that I have seen or heard of-my 'typical music journalist's'
constructive cynicism may have been dulled by the 'remarkably
lively' ground floor disco and cheap (everything is cheap when
you have just received a large cheque) booze.
Beam Me Up
You have the following clues.
Kirchoff's Laws
The sum of the currents into a node is zero.
The sum of the voltages around a loop is zero.
Suggest another circuit to solve the same problem.
G R A D E four.
6 Friday 5 October 1984 FELIX

