12 Elections 99/00 - Interviews 22 February 1999
ICU President
9 Dennis Patrickson
What Is your opinion on medic and Imper-
ial sports'teams?
I thinkthe point of this question is h o w they
are going to survive in light of the BUSA sit-
uation. I think hybrid entry has been
explained fully already. O n e of the key issues
I feel I need to raise is what happens when
it does actually fully merge. Under BUSA this
has already been ruled, so there will be sin-
gle entry. O n e of the problems I see is with
the medics' rugby team - they are better than
the South Kensington campus. I want to see
their first team entering in the first division.
If they turn into the IC first team they'll be
entering in the second division. I think Dave
Hellard's maybe making s o m e headway
there but it would be stupid if ICs first team.
which would be mostly medics, was enter-
ing in the second division. I think that's a key
point that needs to be dealt with.
What Issues need to be resolved with respect
to the merger with Wye College?
Accommodation for a start. I don't know if
the first year undergraduates will be coming
here? or not. I guess with the postgraduates
it will end up in a Silwood Park type of situ-
ation. If the first year undergraduates are
coming here, there isn't enough accom-
modation as it Is, so that will be something
that'll need to be sorted, that would be the
most urgent thing o n the Wye College
merger. I really want to ensure that first years
get accommodation, because it'll frighten
people off when they're applying il thcyre
not certain of accommodation.
Are you proposing to do anything that will
dramatically change IC student life?
I want to try and inform people, so they'll
know what's going on. Ihere isn't enough
of a cirde of communication going on within
IC, within ICU, within departments, within
CCUs. It all boils down to us communicating
more with each other and getting feed-
back I'll be asking for feedback as well.
What Mark Home's doing with these focus
groups, that's exactly the way I want to go.
It'll Increase involvement a n d it will help
overcome this feeling of Isolation and exclu-
sion that some people in the IC community
are feeling at the m o m e n t
How do you Intend to merge the medics
and non-medics, and bring the college
together?
The question is how do you do that over the
next two years, because after that there'll be
three years w h o have all applied to Imperial
College, rather than applying to a M e d
School, and then it'll be integrated by itself.
The difficult thing is the next two years - try-
ing to get people to get rid of this secular
idea. The only way w e can do that is inform-
ing people what you do and what they do.
It shouldn't b e us versus them - it should be
communicating in a circle.
Natasha Newton
Could you explain howyou are goingto han-
dle the merger of the various sports teams
when you so adamently fought against
them?
It would be jumping the g u n to say h o w
Council is going to view BUSA entry and ULU
entry. It's the President's role to guide and help
phrase emotions, but it's not really personally
my decision. Ifw e were to merge the clubs,
if that's what Council went for, then I would
use the Boat d u b as my model because that
Boat d u b has worked with medics and IC,
rowing alongside each other for ten years.
When you Ve got such a fine model of h o w
it can work and how student resources can
go in an excellent direction, that's where
youVe got to start.
How do you Justify to the smaller dubs the
disproportionately' huge amount of funds that
are allocated to the boat dub?
It's very difficult to justify just the money
O n e of the problems is that the equipment
for rowing Is just so expensive. All that's hap-
pened with the allocation of finance is that
people get what they need, as much as is
possible. Unfortunately w e can't do anything
about the fact that the top eight cost so
much, and when w e have such talent in the
club, would it be right to say 'sorry, guys, you
haven't got the money.' Ihe system out-
wardly is not very fair - but if you want to play
your sport well, we'll back you up one hun-
dred percent. Ihat doesn't mean that just
because you aren't going to be a rower
you're not going to get your money it means
if you can show us you're really keen, we'll
given you a trial run. and if you d o it from
there, we're behind you all the way
What Isyour opinion on Imperial's lackofaffll-
iatJon to the NUS andwoufclyou change that?
I don't think that w e should be affiliated to the
NUS. I do think it's a very good idea but if we
want to join the NUS w e have to have a ref-
erendum of college because it's a vital issue,
and it should be something that every student
has a chance to answer Personally I think
what we're doing as ICU and in combination
with ULU, making 100,000 students com-
pared to our 10,000 - w e are fighting for Lon-
don Underground to change I ares I air for all.
W e are getting discounts, and that can go
towards next year, I laving been at UCL last
year for my BSc, I was really quite strongly
attacked by an NUS representative, I know it's
only one person, but he was really full-on and
political. I would be concerned that that
would happen to us at IC.
Your manifesto seems to be fairly generic,
promising things that seem to be promised
everyyear andaresramewhatunquantlflar^
What exact policies do you wfch to Implement
In your possible tenure?
I think it is generic, it is, "students, students,
students..." But that is answering what I per-
ceive to be as one of the biggest problems
- ICU becomes its own club for politics, and
that's all. Specificallythe communication side
that's practical, things like the e-mail system
in halls.
9 Robin Pitt
What Is your opinion on the current lack of
affiliation of imperial College to the NUS?
Quite frankly, I feel that it isolates students
of this college from campaigns that take
place in other colleges in the UK. I think w e
lose out in hearing about what they are up
to, h o w they are fighting back against the
attacks o n them; for example, fees. The
fight against fees in this college has been led
by SWSS, whereas in NUS colleges demos
have been advertised quite widely.
How would you better our existence with
ULU?
I think quite a lot of good work has been
going on with the links with ULU already. Our
^campaign on the travelcard issue, I think has
shown our links with ULU to be quite use-
ful. I believe that Matt Hyde has managrxJ
to secure some concessions from London
transport - I think I'd definitely want to keep
up those kind of links, in order to fight as
effectively as Dave Hellard has been o n
issues such as that.
You spoke out against receiving funding
from companies Involved with oppressive
regimes. Isthisreallythe remit of Imperial Col-
lege Union and wont this in fact have a detri-
mental effect on the students by reducing
research?
I'm not arguing for a lack of corporate spon-
sorship, but I think it definetely has to be
questioned. IC research, particularly for British
Aerospace, is being used to kill people-jets
manafactured by British Aerospace were
used extensively in Last Timor, where a quar-
ter ol the population was killed. I think that
w e should perhaps be looking to companies
with considerably better human rights
records to fund our college.
Would you d o this to the detriment o f the
students?
I'm not going to come down hard and leave
us unfunded, but thete definitely are com-
panies which have considerably better
records that are going to want to fund
research at IC.
H o w do you thinkyou'll ease the burden of
iMng In London for students?
Publicising the hardship fund is obviousf/ a
big thing - there's been talk from Dave Hel-
lard about the lack of takeup o n that, so I
think an occasional mention in Felix isn't
enough to advertise that fully. I thinkthe Lon-
don Transport issue is quite important, I
myself live in z o n e 2 and it costs m e sixty
pounds extra just because the card took
three months to come through. I thinkthat's
unacceptable. I thinkthe campaign against
fees is particularly important; I'm definitely not
turning my back o n it. IVe got an excellent
record in fighting against that - I'm probably
the only candidate that has that kind of
experience in that fight.

