SCIENCE
FELIX
10
In brief
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alex Karapetian
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 07 october 2011
Physiology or Medicine
The Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine 2011
was divided, one half jointly to Bruce A. Beutler and
Jules A. Hoffmann “for their discoveries concern-
ing the activation of innate immunity” and the other
half to Ralph M. Steinman “for his discovery of the
dendritic cell and its role in adaptive immunity”.
Between them, Beutler, Hoffmann and Steinman
revealed how the innate and adaptive phases of the
immune response are activated, giving us new in-
sight into disease mechanisms and opening up new
ways to treat infections, cancer and inflammatory
diseases.
Physics
The Nobel Prize in Physics 2011 was divided,
one half awarded to Saul Perlmutter, the other
half jointly to Brian P. Schmidt and Adam G.
Riess “for the discovery of the accelerating ex-
pansion of the Universe through observations of
distant supernovae”.
In 1998, Perlmutter, leading the Supernova
Cosmology Project, and Schmidt and Riess,
leading the High-z Supernova Search Team, all
published papers that revealed something ex-
traordinary about the universe: it was not only
expanding, but the rate at which it was doing
so was accelerating. Since then, physicists have
tried to make sense of this discovery. They call
the stuff responsible for the acceleration “dark
energy”, but its nature is still a mystery.
Chemistry
The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 2011 was awarded
to Dan Shechtman “for the discovery of quasi-
crystals”.
The atoms inside a quasicrystal are packed
in a pattern that cannot be repeated. Before
Shechtman’s discovered these strange crystals
using an electron microscope, chemists believed
that periodically repeating patterns were needed
in order to obtain a crystal.
In early October this year, there were 687
confirmed discoveries of planets outside our
solar system. This number is growing almost
daily and as it increases we can begin to dig
deeper into the details of these planets, known
as exoplanets because of their “extrasolar”
nature, and explore their properties and those
of the planetary systems they exist within.
A paper, to be published in Monthly No-
tices of the Royal Astronomical Society, an-
nouncing the discovery of “stardust” in two
exoplanet systems is a step forward in this
direction. The dust was found in planetary
systems hundreds of lights years away from
Earth.
Alexander Krivov, the lead author on the
paper and an astronomer at the Friedrich
Schiller University Jena in Gemany, believes
the dust formed within a debris disk. Debris
disks are common features in planetary sys-
tems. Our own solar system has two: the as-
teroid belt that lies between Mars and Jupiter,
and the larger Kuiper belt that extends out-
wards from the orbit of Neptune.
Debris disks are thought to be left over
from the formation of a star and its planets.
The first step in the formation of a planetary
system is the creation of a protostar at its cen-
tre. Around the protostar is a disk of matter,
out of which planets begin to form. This hap-
pens when chunks of the matter in the disk
begin to stick together, attracting more mat-
ter towards them through gravity. Eventually,
enough matter is gathered to form a planet.
The stuff left in the disk continues to orbit the
young star and becomes a debris disk.
Krivov believes that dust forms when rocks
in the debris disk collide. His team are the
first to find this “debris dust” in a system dis-
covered using transiting planets.
There are several ways of detecting exo-
planets. One, known as the transit method,
involves measuring the amount of light com-
ing from a particular star that astronomers
suspect has orbiting planets. When a planet
passes in front of the star, as seen from Earth,
it creates a small dip in the amount of light
we measure. One such dip could easily be
explained away, but a series of dips that oc-
cur periodically can mean only one thing: an
exoplanet. The transmit method is capable of
measuring the density of exoplanets and, by
extension, their size.
The fraction of planetary systems that can
be studied using the transit method is small
because Earth, the exoplanet and its star must
be perfectly aligned for it to work. However,
because of the extra information that can be
gleaned this way — namely the size of the
planet — it is still a useful method.
By using the transit method, Krivov and his
team were able to find debris dust by looking
for the telltale increase in radiation caused by
the star warming up the dust and the dust then
radiating this heat. The astronomers see this
as a radiation curve above the radiation curve
of the star.
Kelly Oakes
Distant stardust found
Artist’s impression of a debris disk around a star with exoplanets
Ritalinbringsyouaroundfaster
Massachusetts Institute of Technology neuro-
scientists studying the effects of anaesthesia
on patients at Massachusetts General Hos-
pital have found that Ritalin, a drug used to
treat attention deficit hyperactivity disorder
(ADHD), could help bring patients out of an-
aesthesia almost immediately.
Published in the journal Anaesthesiol-
ogy, Emery Brown and colleagues found that
anaesthetised rats injected with Ritalin were
brought out of anaesthesia faster. Anaesthe-
tised rats given Ritalin were revived in an
average of 90 seconds. Rats that were not
given Ritalin took 280 seconds. The research-
ers hope that this effect can be replicated in
humans so that patients spend less time in a
groggy, disorientated state.
After a procedure is completed, the anaes-
thesiologist stops administering anaesthetic
to the patient. The patient takes around five
to ten minutes to regain the ability to breath
unassisted but remains confused and disorien-
tated for up to two hours.
It would be better if doctors were able to
bring patients out of anaesthesia more quickly
so that they can make important and informed
decisions after their operation. Ritalin in-
creases the amount of dopamine in the brain
and improves focus and attention in ADHD
patients.
A similar effect is observed in anaesthetised
patients. Ritalin awakens the parts of the brain
responsible for decision making faster than
they recover unassisted.
Bringing patients around more quickly
also means that patients spend less time
in costly operating theatres – even a small
time saving of ten minutes per patient will
reduce costs significantly over the course
of a year.
Unfortunately, some patients experience
unwanted side effect with Ritalin, such as
hyperventilation, hypertension and nausea.
However, Zheng Xie, assistant professor of
anaesthesia at the University of Chicago, ex-
pects that it will be possible to design other
drugs that have the same effect as Ritalin.
Brown and co-workers are currently seeking
approval for clinical trials.
Tom Phillips
Transiting planets reveal dust in far away planetary systems
Follow the latest science news
from Imperial and more on our
Facebook page:
facebook.com/FelixScience
Like us on Facebook
This week the winners of the 2011 Nobel Prizes
were announced. The coveted award honours men
and women from around the world who have made
outstanding contributions to physics, chemistry,
medicine, literature, and for work in peace.

