SCIENCE
FELIX 11
Friday 07 october 2011
Cells captured in highest detail
An 100-year-old lock of hair has helped
scientists to unravel the movements of
early humans on their journey toAustra-
lia. Scientists have obtained a genomic
sequence from the hair, donated in the
early 20th century by a man who was an
Aboriginal Australian.
The genome reveals that, while we
knew when humans first arrived in Aus-
tralia, our knowledge of how they got
there was a bit more patchy. An inter-
national collaboration of scientists, in-
volving researchers at Imperial as well
as University College London and the
University of Cambridge, worked on
sequencing the genome.
There is strong archaeological evi-
dence to suggest that humans were in
Australia 50,000 years ago. The new
genome reveals that Aboriginal Aus-
tralians are descended from humans
that left Africa between 62,000 and
75,000 years ago, long before the hu-
mans that modern Asians and Europe-
ans descended from left.
The previous most widely held theory
was that all modern humans come from
a single wave of migration out of Af-
rica, but the new findings show this not
to be the case.
New sequencing technologies have
made it easier to sequence and compare
the genomes of individual people from
geographically distinct populations,
enabling scientists to work out more
about the movements of early humans
than ever before. Dr Francois Balloux,
who lead the UK team on this project,
said: “The science of genomics makes a
unique contribution to our understand-
ing of when and how humans colonised
the world.”
The genome shows no genetic input
from modern European Australians. It
supports the idea that present-day Abo-
riginal Australians descend from the
first humans to occupy Australia and
means that they represent one the the
oldest continuous populations outside
Africa.
Professor Eske Willerslev from the
University of Copenhagen, who led
the study, said: “While the ancestors
of Europeans and Asians were sitting
somewhere in Africa or the Middle
East, yet to explore their world further,
the ancestors of Aboriginal Australians
spread rapidly; the first modern humans
traversing unknown territory in Asia
and finally crossing the sea into Aus-
tralia. It was a truly amazing journey
that must have demanded exceptional
survival skills and bravery.”
Researchers from Imperial Col-
lege teamed up with the University
of Oxford were able to reveal how
white blood cells kill diseased tissue
using deadly granules in more detail
than ever before. The findings were
published in the Public Library of
Science (PLoS) and outline the use
of optical laser tweezers and a micro-
scope to be able to see the internals of
white blood cells at the highest reso-
lution ever.
The study involved white blood
cells known as Natural Killers (NK)
which play a major role in the rejec-
tion of tumours and infected cells.
The research was led by Professor
Daniel Davis from the Department
of Life Sciences, who said that “NK
cells may also play a role in the out-
come of bone marrow transplants by
determining whether a recipient’s
body rejects or accepts the donated
tissue.”
The results of this research will al-
low scientists to learn more about
how NK cells identify which tissues
to kill. “In the future, drugs that in-
fluence where and when NK cells kill
could be included in medical treat-
ments, such as the targeted killing
of tumours”, Professor Davis added,
“they may also prove useful in pre-
venting the unwanted destruction by
NK cells that may occur in transplant
rejection or some autoimmune dis-
eases.”
The research was conducted by using
a novel imaging technique developed in
collaboration with physicists at Impe-
rial whilst using a super-resolution mi-
croscope at Oxford. An NK cell and its
target were immobilised using a pair of
laser tweezers so the microscope could
capture the resulting action at the inter-
face between the cells. Inside the NK
cell, the actin filaments created a por-
tal to which the enzyme filled granules
moved towards, ready to pass through
the NK cell in order to reach and kill
the target.
Dr Alice Brown of the Department
of Life Sciences at Imperial said that
“these previously undetectable events
have never been seen in such high reso-
lution.” She was one of the researchers
who carried out many of the experi-
ments involved, adding “it is truly ex-
citing to observe what happens when an
NK cell springs into action.”
The distance between an NK cell and
its target when in contact is only about
a hundredth of a millimetre across and
the actin proteins and granules continu-
ously change position until the target is
killed. As a result, the super-resolution
microscope had to be able to capture in
such a frame rate and with such detail
in order to successfully reveal their ac-
tivity.
On the use of the microscope tech-
nologies developed with the Photonics
Group, Professor Paul French from the
Department of Physics at Imperial said
“using laser tweezers to manipulate the
interface between live cells into a hori-
zontal orientation means our micro-
scope can take many images of the cell
contact interface in rapid succession”,
providing an “unprecedented means to
directly see dynamic molecular pro-
cesses that go on between live cells”.
The method used maximises the
amount of light captured from the cells
allowing for super-resolution 3D im-
ages at twice the normal resolution of a
conventional light microscope. Profes-
sor Ilan Davis, a Wellcome Trust Sen-
ior Fellow at the University of Oxford,
involved in applying such techniques
to cell biology research, said that their
“microscope has given unprecedented
views inside living NK cells”.
Funded by the Medical Research
Council, the Biotechnology and Bio-
logical Sciences Research Council and
a Marie Curie Intra-European Fellow-
ship, the study also won a £150,000
award from the Rector’s Research
Excellence Prize for high academic
achievement in research with signifi-
cant potential. Both Professors Daniel
Davis and Paul French have Wolfson
Royal Society Research Merit Awards.
Alex Karapetian
The General Assembly of the Inter-
national Council for Science (ICSU)
have recently recognised guidelines
regarding the responsibilities and
universal values which should be
considered by scientists.
The new wording of the Principle
of Universality of Science, a prereq-
uisite to membership of the ICSU
family and the underlying foundation
of their statutes, outlines the need for
scientists to pay attention to their du-
ties as well as preserving scientific
freedom.
The ICSU was founded in 1931 and
has a global membership of national
scientific bodies and international
unions, focusing on areas including
planning and coordinating research,
science for policy and strengthening
the Universality of Science.
Bengt Gustafsson, Chair of ICSU’s
committee on Freedom and Respon-
sibility in the conduct of Science
(CFRS) said that “the balance be-
tween scientific freedom and respon-
sibility is not always easy to get right,
but awareness of its significance and
of the value of ongoing dialogue must
be maintained within the scientific
community.”
On the explicit inclusion of respon-
sibilities as well as freedoms to the
Principle, he said that “ICSU has em-
phasized that this balance is critical
both for science and society.”
The new wording of the Principle
was approved at the end of Septem-
ber at the ICSU’s General Assembly
in Rome. The Principle now states
that “the free and responsible practice
of science.. requires responsibility at
all levels to carry out and communi-
cate scientific work with integrity,
respect, fairness, trustworthiness, and
transparency, recognising its benefits
and possible harms.”
The Principle continues to maintain
“freedom of movement, association,
expression and communication for
scientists, as well as equitable ac-
cess to data, information, and other
resources for research.”
The CFRS was also involved in
the organisation of the second World
Conference on Research Integrity in
Singapore last year, from which the
Singapore Statement on Research In-
tegrity was presented to the Assem-
bly in Rome.
The statement emphasized good
scientific conduct and the need for
honesty, accountability, professional
courtesy and fairness in working with
others.
In addition to the notion of re-
sponsibility, the Principle promotes
freedom by equal opportunities for
access to science and, in addition,
opposes discrimination based on fac-
tors such as “ethnic origin, religion,
citizenship, language, sex, gender
identity, sexual orientation, disability
or age.”
Gustafsson added that “there are
continually changing challenges to
the freedoms of scientists, and an in-
creased onus on the scientific com-
munity to articulate and embrace its
responsibilities.”
“Given the unique position of sci-
entists as the gate-keepers of new
knowledge in today’s knowledge
societies, respect for these values is
critically important if confidence in
science is to be maintained.”
Alex Karapetian
Aboriginal Australian
genome sequenced
Wanted for murder — have you seen this NK cell?
Scientists’ responsibilities outlined
Want to write for
Felix Science?
Email us!
Kelly Oakes

