FELIX
12
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Sam Horti
Tim Arbabzadah
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 07 october 2011
W
hen facing a dichot-
omy, it often takes
only a small amount
of creative think-
ing to find a secret,
third option. Some people will use this
tactic unknowingly when their religious
beliefs are called into question, espe-
cially when the question posed is: “Are
you a theist or an atheist?” The secret,
third option in this case is agnosticism,
which, in the case of this question, is a
nonsensical answer.
The irrelevance of such a response
to the question posed is something that
often goes unnoticed and unchallenged.
Of course, agnosticism as a concept has
no intrinsic connection to the question
of the existence of God, and can be de-
fined only as “not knowing”. It in fact
relates to an entirely separate dilemma,
forming one half of another dichotomy
with “Gnosticism”.
The truth is the distinction between
atheism and theism leaves no room for
a middle ground. Not even the most
skilled of verbal contortionists can slide
themselves between the two without ig-
noring the most basic rules of the Eng-
lish language. A thorough understand-
ing of the terms at hand is at the crux
of the issue and, when achieved, forces
those who have previously dismissed
the choice to come down on either side
of the non-existent fence, on which they
have been previously content to sit.
A “theist” is someone who believes
that a God (or Gods) exists. Definitions
will occasionally include the belief that
the universe was created by this God
(or these Gods), although such addi-
tions are superfluous to this discussion.
The concept of theism is, in general,
well understood and is not the primary
source of confusion as far as this issue
goes. That mantle is taken up by athe-
ism in almost every case. The prefix “a”
is of Greek origin, and denotes an ab-
sence of, a lack of, or simply “not”. Tak-
ing this into consideration, it must be
conceded that atheism is not a belief, as
it is so often professed to be. It is merely
a lack of belief. It is nothing other than
an absence of theism.
The fact that we even have a word for
this kind of disbelief is simply a sign of
the historical prevalence of the belief in
the existence of a deity, and is nothing
other than a direct consequence of the
fact that belief in God itself commands
its own label. The reason that we do not,
for example, have a word for disbelief
in the existence of less popular beliefs,
such as unicorns, Bigfoot, fairies, or
any other fantastical creature that you
can care to imagine, which, by the way,
could easily be believed on nothing
other than “faith”, is simply the result
of the absence of the word for positive
belief in these things (you may argue
that “stupid” may suffice in each case).
Without theism, no one would be la-
beled an atheist.
A more useful question than the one
I asked in the first paragraph would
perhaps be: “Are you a theist?” If you
answer in anything other than the af-
firmative, you are an atheist, and this
includes those who “don’t know”. This
is the point at which agnostics have a
choice to make. The choice is not, how-
ever, between two viewpoints. There is
only one viewpoint to consider.
If you do not identify with theism, you
are an atheist. The separate question of
Gnosticism opens up a long and arduous
debate, which requires confrontation of
many contentious issues pertaining to
the meaning of knowledge and our abil-
ity to acquire it. I often find that agnosti-
ATrue Dichotomy
cism is a rather useless term to include
in discussions due to these contentions.
This discussion, I’m sure you’ll be re-
lieved to hear, is for another day.
You could well be an “agnostic theist”,
which would mean you have a belief in
God, but do not claim to “know” that a
God exists. Be that as it may, I would
hazard a guess that the label “agnostic
atheist” would in fact best describe most
agnostics. This would satisfactorily il-
lustrate a state of not knowing whether a
God exists and believing that we cannot
possibly know either way, or, as you so
often hear, a state of mind in which the
subject “doesn’t care” about the ques-
tion enough to have a belief about it.
The key thing to recognise, in my
opinion, is the discrepancy between two
issues that are only loosely related: one
about belief, and one about knowledge.
This means that agnosticism is indeed
a viable position, but you must not fall
into the trap of thinking that this an-
swers the main question about the belief
in a God. As an agnostic non-theist, you
may be reluctant to associate yourselves
with the group that all have two horns
and a tail, but don’t let this reluctance
or any social stereotype get in the way
of what is the plain and irrefutable truth.
An atheist you are.
Don’t find yourself stuck in No-Man’s Land
Sam Horti
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
At the World Championship Adam was arrested for indecent exposure
“ ”
If you answer in anything other
than the affirmative, you are
an atheist, and this includes
those who “don’t know”.
Earlier this month it was revealed that Im-
perial College London had slipped eleven
places in the Sunday Times University
League Table for 2012. With such a dra-
matic fall from third to fourteenth position
nationally, this is undoubtedly a cause for
concern.
Yet if one considers the latest results
from the Times Higher Education World
University Rankings, released yesterday,
Imperial finds itself in comfortable territory.
The university currently sits in eight posi-
tion globally, and takes third place nation-
ally, behind Oxford and Cambridge. Clearly,
there is disparity between not only these
league tables, but also many others.
If it is a case of UK-only league tables
placing a greater emphasis on student
opinions, as stated by the Union President
last month, then should we even be paying
attention to world rankings and drawing at-
tention to our significant success while they
fail to fully gauge the university experience?
Naturally, league tables are not to be
balked at, though at their heart a great
gap is widening – that of consistency. As
it stands, prospective students eager to
assess the merits of individual universi-
ties are invariably swayed by the allure of
league tables. The varying ranks of univer-
sities such as Imperial across a variety of
well researched though contrasting tables
can easily serve to complicate and hinder
potential applications.
Equally, the sudden drop of an institution
such as Imperial with comparison to other,
perhaps more favourable league table re-
sults, may lower the credibility of such ta-
bles in the eyes of the reader.
The Union President’s pledge to work
with the College to improve student satis-
faction as a result of the sudden fall must
be welcomed. Any attempt to improve the
admittedly poor results of this year’s Na-
tional Student Survey (Imperial stands at
163rd out of 168 UK institutes with regards
to student satisfaction) will obviously reap
the benefits.
Nevertheless, the league tables system
is inherently confusing and when the future
of your own higher education is at stake,
clarity is precisely what is needed. Sepa-
rate tables do serve a purpose of providing
genuine comparison between institutions,
though it is dangerous to place full trust in
their varying criteria or conditions.
There is no denying that Imperial has a
problem with student satisfaction that
it must attempt to tackle; equally, there
needs to be a firm examination of the
league table process, before they become
an arbitrary ranking wholly dependent on
publication.
FELIX
Just how important are
league tables?
“
”
The concept of the-
ism.. is not the primary
source of confusion

