Ben Aaronovitch’s new work brings magic to the police
FELIX
14
Poems for the Week
ARTS
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 07 October 2011
An Imperial Student’s “Love
Poem”
by Osas Omoigiade
A deft mix of police procedural and urban
fantasy, Aaronovitchs’ Rivers of London fol-
lows Peter Grant, police constable in central
London and all round nice guy. After coming
across a voluble witness to a murder (who
himself is already dead), Grant is plunged into
the magical and twisted underside of the city
and apprenticed (in more ways than one) to
England’s last wizard, Inspector Nightingale.
Together they must attempt to hunt down a
vengeful spirit that threatens to bring chaos to
the city whilst avoiding the wrath of varying
Chief Constables.
This book has such potential that it is hard
to accept it as what it is; a light hearted,
well-plotted, well-written adventure story.
The problem lies in a lack of exposition; the
titular ‘rivers’ are the god’s and goddesses of
the Thames, a wonderful idea sorely lacking
in any pursuance. A few brief historical allu-
sions to the more obscure subterranean rivers
are never expounded upon, so that the reader
finds himself in the awkward position of wish-
ing for just a little more. Yes, there are vampire
nests in Purley and graves in Covent Garden
and improbable names all round, central Lon-
don wonderfully evoked as it rushes by, but so
little is explained it is infuriating.
The central plot is well carried off and cer-
tainly enjoyable, but so much more is dangled
in front of the reader and then snatched away;
the sequel is almost worth buying simply on
the off chance the motivations and histories of
certain characters are. The other area in which
this novel falters slightly is in its attempt to ca-
ter to adult audiences. This essentially means a
reasonable volume of gratuitous violence and
Rivers of London
Ian Green
“A long series is clearly
in the offing and the
author does not want to
show all his cards just
yet”
I mean, the two of us go together like stress and
strain
But sometimes I just don’t understand you
scramble my brain
It’s worse than trying to solve Schrödinger in 3D
Perhaps I make too many assumptions, could the
problem be me?
I could swear you were staring back at fresher’s
fair
We shared a heated gaze enough to ionize the air
And I estimated our distance to be under a metre
But like an incident X-Ray my gaze diffracted two
theta
Then all of a sudden I was surrounded by mates
They created a gap between us like two capacitor
plates I tried to shoulder through them but they
gave me no room
And I was too scared to shout and cause DB to
breach the vacuum
Then I could only see you in the distance walking
out of my midst
Like the rest of stars in the universe experiencing
red shift
Although unlike the other stars, you’re the
Sun within call
And perhaps, I will see you Friday night at the
Fresher’s Ball.
A warm welcome back from ARTSOC! We have the
pleasure to present you all with very special offers
of discounted musical tickets!
Oct 12 Phantom £25.00
Oct 14 Best of Broadway £5.00
Oct 18 Mamma Mia £20.00
Oct 20 Legally Blonde £20.00
Oct 24 39 Steps £10.00
Tickets of the shows above will be sold in the first
ARTSOC meeting.
Date: October 12, 2011 (Wednesday)
Time: 12:30pm – 1:30pm
Venue: G65 SAF Building
Felix Arts is constantly looking for new
poets. If you want to see your work ap-
pearing here, do get in touch. Addition-
ally, those interested in joining Poetry
Society, contact Osas, either by seeing
him on Friday night at the Freshers’ Ball,
or alternatively email him at osamudien.
omoigiade@imperial.ac.uk.
Get a taste of South American salsa, Ozy Shyne style
¡Sabor Sabor!
One roof, three party rooms, four teachers,
five DJs and hundreds of guests make for one
of London’s most interesting dance events. It
takes place every first Friday of the month at
Firefly Bars & Restaurants across London,
and for those that prefer to have a warm-up
before the event, dance classes are held be-
forehand at a small extra cost.
One of the main organizers, Ozy Shyne,
confessed that “we share our experience and
music in the most friendly way to make people
happy. We work hard to keep up to date and be
good DJs. The love we receive from the peo-
ple is what makes us get better every time.”
Ozy has been a choreographer since 1996
and for several years he has worked with
some of the biggest artists from all over the
world through his experiences as a profes-
sional dancer. Trained in contemporary dance,
and former World Hip-Hop Dance Champion,
he has given a new dimension to salsa classes
since his arrival in London in 2008.
Ozy’s colleague and organizer at Sabor,
Dani K, an innovator in the salsa scene, prom-
ises to show you another way to appreciate
salsa dancing. His main quality as a dancer
Anastasia Eleftheriou
“We share our experi-
ence and music in the
most friendly way to
make people happy”
some sheepish sexual references, all done with
schoolboy awkwardness and lack of finesse.
Aaronovitch seems unwilling to commit to full
blown adult sex and violence, falling back to
pre-watershed levels of innuendo (if not gore).
Rivers of London is a good read, enjoyable,
and certainly better than much else out there.
It is tightly plotted and welcoming, and it is
only afterwards that you feel a sense of disap-
pointment. A long series is clearly in the offing
and the author does not want to show all his
cards just yet, which leaves you wanting some-
one who had more cards to begin with. For
adult ‘urban fantasy’ go and read King Rat or
Kraken by China Miéville or American Gods
by Neil Gaiman, titans who Aaronovitch can-
not yet match. Rivers of London is entertaining
and readable, with a good premise and reason-
ably sharp execution. What it lacks in depth it
makes up for in pace, and there is always the
hope that the world built here will be expanded
on more fully in the first sequel, Moon over
Soho.
Rivers of London is out now in paper-
back. Moon over Soho is out now in hard-
back.
is interpreting the music appropriately, whilst
making his partner feel comfortable and re-
laxed.
Dani suggests that “for students in London,
as well as surrounding areas, it is the best op-
portunity to get out of campus and not only
practise your moves but learn more moves and
experience a friendly environment full of mu-
sic laughter and dance. ”
The next opportunity for salsa at Sabor is to-
night (the 7th) at 10pm, but if you can’t make
it you have until the 4th of November to prac-
tice your moves. So, come with a good com-
pany or alone (if you want to meet new people
there), bring your smile and good mood and
dance the night away!
Advance tickets £6; £8 on the floor;
£2 for dance classes. Find out more at
http://www.danihke.com/sabor.html
Ozy Shyne sez “Hey!” “Please come.” “Or I’ll be sad.”

