FELIX Friday 07 October 2011 15
ARTS
There ought to be a word for that moment
when, as you’re reclined in blissful peace
an arm’s reach from a trashy novel and
an iced drink with the Mediterranean sun
beating on your overworked, pasty body,
you realize that you haven’t got any mate-
rial for Felix next week. My best attempt
has four letters and begins with ‘f’, but I’m
sure the Germans must have got a better
compound word for it.
Irrespective of whether they do or
don’t, it’s the French who’ve spared my
first week blushes. The Fondation Cartier
pour l’Art Contemporain plays host later
this month to an exhibition entitled, deep
breath, wait for it… Mathematics. Whilst
I’m sure you all view Felix Arts as a ve-
hicle for escape from an Imperial routine
so saturated with scientific ideas it would
test even Brian Cox’s enthusiasm, stick
with me a paragraph or two more.
Enigmatically subtitled ‘a beautiful
elsewhere,’ the project has paired up re-
nowned mathematicians with a handful
of the gallery’s past collaborators and set
the latter the slightly hackneyed challenge
of representing the abstraction of maths
through art. Cue the likes of Patti Smith
and David Lynch in the blue corner, Mi-
chael Atiyah and Alain Connes in the
other, together trying to assemble a jigsaw
with pieces from two completely different
sets.
Regrettably the Felix budget didn’t
stretch to the pair of Eurostar tickets,
let alone the time machine, I would’ve
needed to see the exhibition that opens in
Paris in three weeks myself. However af-
ter close inspection of the press files from
my Hammersmith bedsit, I get the sense I
could have a not too dissimilar experience
at the interactive kids’ floor at the Science
Museum.
David Lynch’s structure housing an au-
diovisual installation charting the major
developments in the history of mathemat-
ics (its shaped like a zero! The ingenuity!)
sounds more like a grandiose learning aid
than an artistic exploration of mathemati-
cal beauty. The curators trumpet their
real-time displays of data from the Planck
space probe and the LHC at Cern as tan-
Bobby, what’s the French for maths?
The worlds of mathematics and art collide at a not-so-novel Parisian exhibition
“Michael Atiyah
might be convinced
to represent punk
rock through topo-
logical K-theory”
gible examples of real, live science, but
the mental image it evokes more closely
resembles teletext than a window into the
beauty of science.
But as the sun lounger beckons me
back to the poolside, there are some posi-
tives that can be drawn from this year’s
first slightly pessimistic preview. Whilst
C. P. Snow, who so bemoaned the death
of the polymath in the modern age nearly
a century ago, still turns in his grave, we
can all live in hope that one day rather than
Patti Smith being asked to express maths
through art, Michael Atiyah might be con-
vinced to represent punk rock through to-
pological K-theory.And until then, I guess
the best place to understand the beauty of
maths, and science as a whole, is studying
at you know where.
Mathématiques, un dépaysement sou-
dain opens at the Fondation Cartier
in Paris on October 20.
Will Prince
Patti Smith thinking about Poincaré homology spheres. Probably

