TECHNOLOGY
FELIX
16
Tech news and reviews
Technology Editors: Feroz Salam
Chris Bowers
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 07 october 2011
Steve Jobs passes away
An announcement made by Apple during the early
hours of Thursday paid tribute to Steve Jobs, who
passed away surrounded by his family at his home.
Apple’s co-founder, chairman and former CEO was
a powerhouse whose drive pushed computers be-
yond the hands of researchers and hobbyists into
the home and our daily lives. His work at Pixar took
high-quality animation into mainstream cinema,
giving us hits such as Toy Story, Wall-E and Finding
Nemo.
In recent years, his leadership at Apple has made
the world’s most valuable brand, synonymous with
high design principles and a focus on user experi-
ence. Not content with the massive success of the
iPod, he led development of the touch-based iPhone
and the iPad, which revolutionised their respective
markets. Despite his passing, his influence on tech-
nology will be felt for decades to come.
Daylight’s Foldi LED Lamp is exactly what it says on
the tin. A desktop lamp featuring 30 LEDs to produce
up to 1500 lux, the Foldi both dresses to impress
and performs. Once you put in the batteries or plug
it in using the supplied USB cable, you open up the
Foldi and it immediately produces brilliantly bright
light. It has green credentials too, claiming it uses
90% less energy than conventional bulbs. That’s not
all the Foldi has going for it though. Its name comes
from the fact that it compacts itself when not in use.
Open it up to get the lights themselves in the top
part, and a stand in the bottom. So it will stay upright
on a flat surface – perfect for desk use. So while the
Foldi does perform well and is a quality product, it’s
not quite perfect. It seems large for what it is, and is
pricey at £69.99. And when it’s tethered to your com-
puter, I don’t know what it will light that your monitor
won’t. But if you’re looking for a portable desk lamp,
you could do worse than the Foldi.
Bringing daylight to your desk
Cables, chargers everywhere. You’ve got one
for your phone, another for your laptop, more
for those multiple alarm clocks that get you out
of bed in the mornings… The list goes on. And
while we can transfer so much wirelessly these
days – our keystrokes and mouse movements,
our voices and even our internet – power is
something still constrained to those same ca-
bles we seek to banish.
Well, mostly - charging by induction has been
around for some years now. This technology
(based on electromagnetic induction – using an
electromagnetic field to produce a current in a
nearby wire) is quite widespread, but also has a
very short range. It’s been the preferred charg-
ing medium for electric toothbrushes for as long
as I can remember, and more recently it can be
found on those “wireless charging pads”. But
the farthest you’ll generally see it reaching is
to activate RFID chips/NFC tags, and they only
work from 2 – 3 centimetres away. Also, induc-
tive chargers are usually slow and inefficient –
not exactly desirable traits.
So for most applications, inductive power is
next to useless. You don’t want to have to sit
with your laptop within 3 centimeters of your
plug socket – it’s just not practical. On top of
that, most inductive chargers are attached to
the power by a cable anyway, so you’re really
not gaining much. Enter WiTricity. As you may
have guessed, the name derives from ‘wireless
electricity’ and that’s exactly what it aims to
deliver.
Research into this technology started at MIT
back in 2007, and was demonstrated two years
later. Since then, not much has happened, but
Toyota this year made an investment into the
project. So hopefully we should be seeing some
advances in it soon. In fact, in a statement made
in the last couple of weeks, Toyota, Mitsubishi
and the company behind WiTricity announced
that they will be looking to use the technology
to charge electric cars wirelessly while parked.
Already it seems WiTricity is being applied to
real practical issues, which should really kick-
start development.
But how does it work? Instead of induction,
WiTricity uses electromagnetic resonance to
transfer power wirelessly. No actual electricity
is sent through the air, instead you have a trans-
mitter and a receiver set at identical frequen-
cies, allowing the transmitter to use magnetic
fields to transfer energy to the receiver. Parts of
it do sound quite similar to inductive charging
technology, but the variances do make all the
difference.
Indeed, WiTricity basically makes up for the
other technology’s shortcomings. Where induc-
tion has a debilitating short range, WiTricity has
been proven to work at distances of between 3
– 5 metres, and even when something is block-
ing direct line-of-sight between the transmitter
and receiver. Additionally, a spokesman for the
company has said that, while 90% efficiency
has been shown, they could limit transfer loss
to a maximum of 3%. And with a quoted fig-
ure of 3.3 kilowatts of power being transferred
using the technology, albeit over a smaller dis-
tance, it seems this technology has all its bases
covered.
It all sounds pretty good, but there must be
same drawbacks. Looking at those figures, it
seems a careful balance between power and
range must be achieved, so as to still be useful.
And as much as the company assures us that it’s
perfectly safe, and all electromagnetic radiation
levels fall safely under the FCC’s limits, there
will always be those who distrust it. All in all
though, WiTricity looks like it could revolutio-
nise the way we get power to our many devices.
Electricity through the air
iPhone 4S debuts to mixed reactions
Tuesday evening brought us Tim Cook’s first
keynote as Apple’s outright CEO, but that
wasn’t the largest change as Apple turned
away from its huge yearly update of the iPhone
to instead offer punters an incrementally up-
graded version, the iPhone 4S.
Key features on the new phone include an up-
grade to the A5 processor found on the iPad, an
upgraded camera, faster data transfer rates, as
well as a new voice controlled ‘assistant’ Siri.
With the exception of the new display and Siri
the updates are all internal, providing snappier
performance without much of an UI revamp.
Siri, however, proved to be the star of the
show. The assistant, originally created by a
company for the earlier iPhones (now purchased
by Apple), attempts to intelligently guess your
voice requests and answer your questions. Ask
it ‘what’s the weather like where I am now?’, for
example, and it should pull your location from
the GPS, look up the weather for it and push out
a weather forecast for you in a few seconds. It’s
an exciting feature, but it’s not hard to imagine
the ridicule that would be heaped on anyone
poncing around London streets conversing with
their phone.
Otherwise, reactions to the new iDevice were
mixed. While Apple has managed to raise the
bar in some way at every iteration of the iPhone,
this update put it squarely where other compet-
ing Android devices have been for the last few
months.
The fact is that after the minor price cut,
Apple is competing directly with Samsung and
Motorola on price, a position it isn’t holding in
any other markets. This is probably indicative of
how importantApple finds it to get these devices
into people’s hands - withAndroid phones quan-
titatively outstripping iOS devices by a large
margin, Apple will not want to lose out on the
steady revenue stream of a strong app market.
Also worth a mention is Apple’s refresh of the
iPod lineup, which sees the Nano now available
as a watch and the Touch available in both black
and white with a storage upgrade to 64GB.
Given Apple’s strong fanbase it would be
foolish not to expect the regular queues for the
4S in a week’s time, but whether you buy one of
the new 4Ss or not will likely depend on where
you lean on the Android/Apple debate. In case
you’re an Apple fan, this is probably a good
chance to refurbish your phone to give it some
top-notch speed and graphical goodness; in case
you’re not, look up the Samsung Galaxy S II
for a similar specification at a similar price, or
wait for Samsung’s ‘Something BIG’event next
week, which will probably reveal the Nexus
Prime in all it’s cutting edge glory.
Feroz Salam
Chris Bowers
You could win a Foldi! See Page 2 for details
Wireless electricity? I’m counting down the days until we get superpowers

