POLITICS
FELIX 17
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 October 2011
America’s Tahir Square
You may not have heard about it, but there is
currently a mass protest in New York’s financial
district. Named #OccupyWallStreet after the
Twitter hashtag, the protest against the banking
industry started on September 17 and is sched-
uled to last until the protesters’ demands are
met. Accusations of police brutality, however,
have turned #OccupyWallStreet into a spark that
is lighting fires of protest across America and
Western Europe. So what are the demands of
the protesters? How far will the protests spread?
And is this the start of a social revolution?
The protesters claim to represent “the 99%”;
that is, the poorest 99% of American soci-
ety. Loosely speaking, after the recession of
2007/2008, many billions of dollars of the
American people’s taxes were given directly
to certain banks to save them from bankruptcy.
These banks are now making large profits again,
but the vast majority of Americans (the 99%)
are worse off because of the bailout. The pro-
The disgruntled left’s great fight back
Stephen Smith
A group of New Yorkers angry at the lack of Starbucks on this block
The world beyond
College walls
Somalia
Governor Rick Perry has said he would consider
sending US troops into Mexico. The United States
has been trying to control the drug flow across their
Southern border by helping fund Mexico’s police
forces. However, with growing concern that Mexico
is not doing enough, potential Republican presi-
dential candidates, such as Mr Perry, are keen to
show they are tough on drugs. The move is likely
to cause anger in Mexico, where the government
has been pressuring the United States to do more
to reduce consumer demand and the flow of arms
south, rather than shifting the blame to them.
USA
Seventy people were killed in a suicide bomb in
the capital, Mogadishu, on Tuesday. Al-Shabab, an
extremeist Islamist group, took responsibility for
the attack. The attack consisted of a truck packed
with explosives exploding near government build-
ings. Although no senior officials were killed, it
puts pressure on the Transitional government after
a brief period of relative calm since August, when
Al-Shabab withdrew from the capital. The govern-
ment is still trying to secure territory from Islamists
in other parts of the country as well as dealing with
a famine.
Bangladesh
A senior member of the largest Islamic party has
been charged with war crimes. Delawar Hossain
Sayedee, of the Jamaat-e-Islami Party, is facing
twenty charges including genocide and torture. The
charges have been brought against him by The In-
ternational Crimes Tribunal set up last year to probe
crimes commited in 1971 during Bangladesh’s
(then East Pakistan) Indepence struggle against
Pakistan (then West Pakistan). Two members of the
main opposition, Bangladeshi Nationalist Party, are
also facing charges.
testers cannot understand why they should pay
for banks to survive while huge cuts are made in
welfare spending by the government.
In a more general sense, the protesters are
disillusioned at the lack of democracy in their
country. Obama promised “Change” that never
materialised. If the Democrats behave in a way
that benefits only the richest 1%, and the Repub-
licans favour the rich more than the Democrats,
what hope is there for the 99%? It is certainly
fair to say that both parties are far to the politi-
cal right of the majority of the people. #Occu-
pyWallStreet is a protest at the fact US elections
offer a choice between two evils, to the extent
that the only way for an American to formally
disapprove of their government is to not vote at
all.
It is surprisingly easy to see how this curious
balance of power came about. In recent years,
the price of running an election campaign has
soared: a well-run campaign is more important
than a good manifesto in gaining votes. This
has driven presidential candidates – desperate
for the money to run a successful campaign –
into the pockets of large companies and banks
in search of corporate sponsorship. It is not a
conspiracy between corporations and politicians
(there is nothing sinister going on)- it is simply
a rational consequence of the importance of
money in today’s America.
Accusations from the protesters that the real
power lies with “the bankers” were reinforced
by allegations of police brutality. A Youtube
video of a police officer spraying mace (alleg-
edly without warning) into the faces of young
women has sparked outrage from human rights
groups and activists. At the time of writing,
more than 700 arrests have been made (many
for such seemingly self-referential charges as
“resisting arrest”) and activists on the ground
claim that the police are restricting their right to
gather, protest and speak freely. The majority of
protesters have now been released.
As so often happens with such events, the bru-
tality merely increased the protesters’ anger and
the numbers have ballooned from 150 to over
3,000 since then. Moreover, similar protests
including #OccupyBoston, #OccupyChicago
and #OccupyWashington have started, spread-
ing hope amongst activists that a revolution is
soon to begin. Closer to home, #OccupyLondon
is scheduled to begin on October 15, and has
nearly 1,000 attendees on Facebook. That these
protests could spark an Egypt-style revolution
seems unlikely, but, with momentum gathering,
anything could happen.
If you’re looking at this page and thinking
that writing about the latest political devel-
opments from across the globe is right up
your street, then you might just want to be
a Politics Reporter. If you’re interested, get
in touch with the Politics Editors at politics.
felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts
“A well-run campaign
is more important than
a good manifesto in
gaining votes”

