FELIX
2
HIGHLIGHTS
Friday 07 OcTOBER 2011
Competition
Lolcat of teh week
Last week’s winner
Congratulations to Jeremy Neale,
who wins last week’s grand prize
of a £50 Sudocrem goody bag, you
lucky, lucky person
Win a Foldi LED Lamp!
Right, so it’s an LED lamp that costs £70. Who
doesn’t want that? I could find countless ways of
using that, other than the recommended ones
(working at your desk). It’s as if you’ve got the lighting
of a football stadium in your hand or something. To
win, send an email to felix@imperial.ac.uk letting us
know who won the Oscar for Best Director in 2010.
Hint: the answer is on this page. Yes, I am insulting
your intelligence – and what?
Now you’re settled back in, why not take
a look over there to the left? That’s right
– we’ve only gone and bagged ourselves a
competition column. There’s no excuse not
to send us an email and win one hot piece
of tech, aw yeah.
Since we’re in such a prize-addled mood,
now might be a good time to mention the
glorious return of the infamous FUCWIT
Puzzle League on Page 33. Prizes and
eternal glory await those brave enough to
enter!
Competition crazy
Even more prizes... excellent!
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alexandra Nowbar Reporters Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Features Editors Katherine Bettany Stephen
Smith Sports Editors Indy Leclercq David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alex Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors
Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Mena Music Editors Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto Stephen Smith Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors Matt
Allinson James Simpson Games Editor Laurence Pope Online Editors Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim Kadhim Shubber Puzzles Captain James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Travel Editors Dushi
Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Copy Editors Deepka Rana
Special thanks: Slobodan Radosavljevic
iCU Cinema returns
Lights, Camera, … er, hold on, let me grab my beer …
Action! If you thought that going to the cinema would be
as expensive as front-row seats at a Madonna gig, you’d
be wrong. As wrong as the decision to give Katheryn
Bigelow the Oscar for Best Director (come on, the smurf
version of Dances With Wolves was wayyyy better).
Imperial College Union has its own cheap-as-chips
cinema, right here on campus, and next week we’re
showing The Inbetweeners Movie and Friends With Bene-
fits, back-to-back, on two freakin’ nights (holy hotsauce
Batman, shit just got real…).
We’re showing the movies from 18:30 on Tuesday and
Thursday and it’s a piddling £7 for both movies (less
if you want to watch one/if you buy membership.) Be
there, or Justin Timberlake and Milas Kunis will be to-
tally unimpressed.
For more info, head over to www.icucinema.co.uk
Extra prizes is in no way heinous

