MonsterMind
Finally, a game you’re unlikely to have stum-
bled across. MonsterMind is a Facebook game,
but bear with me for just a moment. Normally
I’m no fan of FB games, so it came as a pleas-
ant surprise when I was introduced to MM and
found it rather enjoyable. The game is currently
in its infancy, running as a beta, but it has poten-
tial. The creators of the game realise that most
FB games – though called ‘social games’ – are
far from social, unless you count giving virtual
bales of hales to your friends a form of stimu-
lating contact. In MM you control your own
city, and are tasked with attacking your friend’s
settlements with various monsters whilst simul-
taneously protecting your own hub from theirs.
It’s more interactive than many other games on
the market, and doesn’t require FB credits to
play - at least on paper. You do earn currency
through building virtual businesses, but it can
be slow going, and the temptation to spend a
few pounds to get a boost is strong. Fun? Yes.
Will it have a future? Watch this space. Worth
some of your time certainly.
The Nintendo 3DS
Gave me a headache. I don’t like headaches.
Reflow
Another game tucked away from the mad-
ding crowd. Reflow, by the two man team
Xymatic, is an even smaller game for the
iPod/ iPhone. The game is simple but addict-
ing – you need to direct one ore more dynam-
ic particle flows into a bowl. This is achieved
by using your body as the slopes. This led to
an interesting situation where I was standing
in a crowd with my arms twisting and posi-
tioning themselves madly – a little like the
Kinect I guess... In addition you can also take
pictures and use them to direct the flow. Need
a straight path? Take a picture of the Queen’s
Tower and use the architect’s good work to
your advantage. It’s a fun little app, and the
£0.69 price tag is unlikely to break the bank.
Unless you’ve spent your student loan on
booze, that is.
OnLive
Fine, you would’ve been hard pressed to miss
this one as well. OnLive, the cloud gaming
platform, also showed itself at the event. The
OnLive system basically allows you to play
games without the need for a powerful PC be-
hind you. It achieves this by letting a remote
server run games for you and stream a live
feed to you, though you do need a wired 5MB+
internet connection for it to work smoothly,
10MB+ recommended. Right now the high-
est quality you can receive is 720p, but the
company is working up to bring it to the 1080
standard. The hardware you need, the OnLive
box, costs £70, and though you have to pay
for a monthly subscription (£6.99/month for
the PlayPack Bundle) it gives you access to a
hell of a lot of features. I wrote a whole article
on the system several months ago when it was
still fairly new, and there’s not enough space
here for me to go on, so I won’t. Sufficed to say
OnLive is an exciting new advancement in the
world of gaming, far more so than the Kinect,
and certainly something to keep a keen eye on.
Just don’t forget your revision.
I
guess now’s the time for me to offer
a late (but warm) welcome to all the
freshers who’ve stumbled onto the
Games section. I would’ve written for
the Fresher’s Issue, but I was too busy
doing more important stuff like working on
my rock-hard abs, jet skiing in the Caribbean
and seducing beautiful women. Oh, and play-
ing video games.
During my action-packed thrill ride of a
summer I managed to find time to go to Eu-
rogamer Exposition 2011. I’d booked my
tickets months ago, before I took up the most
illustrious and well-respected (I wish) post
of grand mighty Games editor, and as such I
didn’t get a press pass. Still, I’m man enough
not to dwell on that fact too much.
As usual you had your slew of somewhat
similar army shooters: Call of Duty: Modern
Warfare 3, Battlefield 3, you know the stuff.
If you’re at all interested in these games then
you’ve no doubt read all about them some-
where else. So, for my first article of this
term I’ll be talking/waffling about some of
the things you may well have missed – that
is, if you went at all (obviously if you didn’t
go you’re even less likely to have seen them).
The Kinect and its kids
OK, I admit, you were very unlikely to miss
the
stalls featuring a Kinect – you just had to
look for those people jumping about as if
their skin was crawling with flesh-eating fire
ants. Just Dance 3(Ubisoft), Dance Central
2 (Harmonix Music Systems) and the infuri-
atingly addictive Fruit Ninja (Halfbrick Stu-
dios) were just a few of the games offering
people the chance to embarrass themselves
in public. At £70+ though the Kinect is still
a rather expensive party piece (that was the
cheapest price I could find it for online, pre-
owned). In my humble opinion it’s not worth
the money unless you’ve got a group of
friends who you can invite round regularly
to mess about with. Bitter misanthropes such
as myself would do well to invest their dosh
elsewhere.
Tekken Hybrid
My strategy of randomly mashing buttons,
though commented upon as ‘unimaginative’
and ‘boring’, still earned me glorious victory
after glorious victory. And a sore thumb. Good
game though.
GAMES
Hey you! Yes, you! An ex-po-citing Expo
@FelixGames on
Twitter
Guaranteed* to keep you
reading for hours.
*Not actually guaranteed.
[Insert hilarious Darth Vader joke here]
Laurence Pope stops the bad puns and talks Eurogamer ‘11
Second years and above may well have heard
about and read I, Science, the science magazine
of Imperial College. Freshers, pick up a copy, it’s
well worth a read. Why am I talking about this in
the Games section? Because we want to do the
same - a magazine about people’s stories of vid-
eogaming!
Be they big or small, funny or serious, about you
or about someone else we want to know them!
Though not everyone plays videogames we all
know people who do - after all, we’re all at Impe-
rial!
We’ll do all the fancy-pants graphic design and
hard work - we just want all your stories and experi-
ences to help make this a one-of-a-kind magazine!
If you have any questions, stories, or just want to
find out more contact
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
FELIX
20
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 07 october 2011
“OnLive is an exciting
new advancement in the
world of gaming”
Disobey him, I DARE you.
Or him. Your move, kid!

