FASHION
Post-summer accessories update
A new term starts a new season, and what better way to break into your student loan than by updating your
look with a few accessories. Alice Yang gives you this season’s best, and remember – detail is everything
Hats
Eyes were drawn up and beyond the faces of
this season’s models to the hats that flew
across the catwalk for AW11/12. Marc Ja-
cobs presented fun plastic berets with a hint
of fetish, whilst Dolce and Gabbana strutted
sharp androgynous trilbies, adding an edge to
their fun and glittery show. Wide brims offset
decorative collars at Nina Ricci and Lanvin,
creating a sense of mystery and glamour. On
a warmer note, Christopher Bailey perched
simple furry caps above a sea of multicolored
coats at Burberry Prorsum, as Missoni opted
for sugar sweet beanies giving the upcoming
winter a sprinkle of fairy dust.
Be daring, pick out your look and wear with
a generous dose of attitude.
THE PICK:
The deep autumnal shades seen in Gucci’s
wide brimmed trilbies with traditional orange
feathers nail subtle sophistication to perfec-
tion. For a smaller feather to suit smaller wal-
lets, try H&M’s version in deep plum. Pair with
a jewel coloured faux fur coat and dark scarlet
lips for a nod towards the seventies, or perch
above a simple cut dress and boots for an
effortless city vibe that will take you from day
to night.
Shoulder Skimming
Earrings
A good outfit is never complete without the
right jewellery, and this season designers
headed for statement earrings.
The models at Oscar de la Renta hung
strings of irregularly shaped gems from their
ears skimming the shoulders of beautifully lav-
ish dresses, whilst Marni took a trip back to
kinder garden with large coloured disks and
hoops contrasting strict, elongated hemlines.
Ralph Lauren embraced the east, matching
his enchanting rich flowing silk gowns with
oriental lucky charms in traditional colours of
jade and red. Back in Paris, maturity and sim-
plicity emulated at Sonia Rykiel’s seventies
inspired catwalk as classical metallic baubles
hung from delicate long chains creating a real
sense of Parisian elegance.
Add a hint of red carpet to your look this sea-
son, be bold and let your ears take the weight.
THE PICK:
Dolce and Gabbana take home the golden star
for their playful crystal encrusted series, an
instant buy for any glamorous, fun loving fash-
ionista. Not quite so precious, but still very
shiny, Topshop do a brilliant imitation. Throw
on your favourite LBD and let these sparkly
stars hang above your shoulders, drawing at-
tention to your neck, which is best left clear.
Boots As always, when the cold settles in, the boots
come out. This season is no different. Deeply
luxurious and embellished in jewel coloured
velvet, Alberta Ferretti went thigh high with a
rich retro feel. Going back to the sixties, Pra-
da incorporated snakeskin and Mary Janes
into pair after pair of knee boots as Valen-
tino managed to keep things pretty, matching
delicately sheer dresses with beautiful lace
covered boots. Isabel Marant preferred the
wilder side, and made hers heavily fringed for
cool cowboy chic.
What ever your style, make sure you invest
in some good boots. They’re a staple this sea-
son and will keep your feet toasty for months
to come.
THE PICK:
Textured, tough and with a hint of grunge, Cha-
nel’s boots are perfect for stomping through
piles of crunchy leaves. A slight heel adds
femininity (not to mention height), yet is still
wearable on the slipperiest of frozen days.
More affordable variations can be found all
over the high street from Zara to H&M. Wear
with skinny jeans and a leather coat for the
rough and ready biker look, or do like Alexa
Chung and team with a cute dress.
Dazzling Feet Longer hours thrown in the dark may be a
cause for concern for some, but not on this
seasons catwalks. Jean Paul Gautlier’s metal-
lic kitty heels matched the chignon hair of his
models, as they marched down in his colour-
fully patterned play on smart wear. Prada too
displayed elegance in glittering courts, a wel-
come sight after seasons of feet clad in black,
grey and nude. Alexander Wang’s tough cool
girls also embraced the shine, parading silver
caped stilettos to match their heavy billowing
coats. Of course, not to be out-shone, Vivi-
enne Westwood joined the fun as heavily se-
quined feet strutted down a similarly stunning
gold-covered catwalk, light bouncing of every
surface creating a scene of brilliant luxury and
richness.
Whether it reminds you of the glamorous
seventies or your dream wedding, live like a
fairy tale and let your feet shine.
THE PICK:
Miu Miu dazzled this season, teaming long
sophisticated lengths and sharp collars with
disco shoes. Kurt Geiger’s platforms are simi-
larly bright and can dress up the simplest of
outfits. Wear with a tailored suit for a stun-
ningly powerful take on this season’s androgy-
nous look.
Topshop
£12.50
Kurt
Geiger
£120
Gucci
£305
H&M
£12.99
Miu Miu
£370
Topshop
£70.00
Chanel
~£800
FELIX Friday 07 october 2011 21
Fashion Editors: Saskia Verhagen
Alice Yang
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Dolce and
Gabbana
£245

