MUSIC
FELIX
22 Friday 07 October 2011
music.felix@gmail.com
Kadhim’s totally hot al-
bum of the week
Clams Casino
Instrumental
Mixtape
2011
Instrumental Hip-hop is officially ‘it’. You can’t go
more than a few hours in the day without some pro-
ducer deciding that hip-hop would be infinitely better
without an ex-parole officer pretending to be gangster
‘spitting rhymes’ over his beloved beats. Remove the
distracting, tired clichés about having a big dick and
you’re left with atmosphere, nuance, and the kind of
music that will leave you rolling your shoulders hyp-
notically for hours on end.
Clams Casino’s free mixtape, released in April, is
the perfect embodiment of this instrumental hip-hop
ethos. It has emotion; it has syncopated drums roll-
ing over each other like kids falling down a hill; and
it has a sense of the epic, which hip-hop can usually
only create with obnoxiously loud horns, a la Usher’s
‘Yeah’.
Towards the end of the summer term, when most of
us have finished our exams (sucks to be you, Biolo-
gists/Biochemists), the Union sometimes has a DJ
outside, floating music through the sun in the Quad.
My little dream is that the DJ will turn off the bro-
step, and stick on this super smooth mixtape.
If you spend all your evenings on Pitchfork you’ll defi-
nitely know more about instrumental hip-hop than me.
Tell how much more by tweeting me @kadhimshubber.
(Better still, tweet @NMEmagazine and tell them to
give me a job.)
I
s there a more appealing time warp than
an old record player? Not only does the
standard matt black metal and peeling
wood-look veneer sum up a bygone
era, but the sound quality still surpasses
anything that digitised files can muster. I’m
sure that most of us have, at some point in our
adolescence, played some of our parents age-
ing record collection out of curiosity and I’m
sure that most of us were quite disappointed;
for me, the artists were so disappointing that I
didn’t even take the records out of their covers.
Part of this issue is a clash of tastes. Firstly,
my dad doesn’t really seem to have any; it’s
odd how someone went to the trouble of buy-
ing what must have been a fairly decent record
player all those decades ago and never ex-
pressed any interest in music at all. Instead, the
LPs were my mother’s and they really weren’t
worth listening to.
Oddly, she has good (well, acceptable) taste
in music; she’s into Bob Dylan, Leonard Co-
hen, Joan Baez and the like, not really my
thing. However, these artists did not appear
in my mother’s record collection, only in the
more recently acquired CD library. Instead,
there were albums by Neil Sedaka, the New
Seekers (if I remember correctly) and a whole
load of other stuff that no one in polite society
would ever admit to owning. I know that we
all have guilty pleasures and that the folly of
youth does result in some fairly bad decisions,
but this was on another scale.
How was this even possible? Was my mother
the victim of a record swap that went horribly
wrong? Or was it that her tastes matured for
the better as she grew up? I have never got
round to asking her about this thorny topic, but
I don’t think I’m alone: my experience is com-
mon amongst people of my generation.
Most of our parents come from an age
that produced some fantastic music, and yet
it seems to be an insurmountable challenge
to find anyone who actually liked any of the
bands and singers who have gone down in his-
tory for the right reasons. Some of my friends’
parents describe themselves as fans of David
Bowie and Led Zeppelin, and yet none got
around to buying their albums, what was going
Music, through the ages
C. I. Franke would like a word with your parents about
their shockingly bad taste in music
going to be remembered fondly in the future.
Frankly, I’m not sure who’s going to be seen
as great in the years to come from this genera-
tion’s music scene. I would have said Muse,
but they’ve been heading downhill since Ab-
solution. Amy Winehouse is a safe bet, and,
as morbid as it is to suggest as much, dying
young has certainly helped her on that front.
What we can be sure of is that a lot of the
music around today owes so much to the 60’s
and 70’s, an era of truly awful and truly great
music. The Beatles took the Mersey beat and
gave us pop music, The Rolling Stones took
the blues and gave us rock, Jimi Hendrix
showed us that the limitless potential of the
electric guitar and David Bowie, whilst dab-
bling in an astonishingly vast variety of genres,
played an important part of bringing electronic
music to the fore, along with Brain Eno and
Kraftwerk.
Sadly, a lot of us live in blind ignorance of
the groundbreaking artists who define new
musical genres, preferring instead to listen to
familiar music inspired by the sounds of previ-
ous generations.
Your parents’ record collection: nothing but a catalogue of embarassing purchases
on in their minds?
There is a rather depressing answer: a re-
cent survey by Twentieth Century Fox (prob-
ably not the best source of cast iron evidence)
has revealed that about one in four parents in
Britain have lied to their children about what
music they listened to and which concerts they
went to - a vain attempt to impress the younger
generation.
Of course, for there to be good music, there
must be bad music, and history shows us that
commercial success does not equate to artistic
brilliance (consider, for example, that Westlife
and Cliff Richard both have 14 number ones).
But this also leads us to consider how easy it is
to tell, from when they’re at their peak, who is
“One in four parents in
Britain have lied to their
children about what mu-
sic they listened to.”
Do you love
music?
Do you love to
write?
Are you a music
snob?
Write for Felix
Music!
Email us for more
information:
music.felix@gmail.com
Make sure not to miss
Iron & Wine
Hackney Empire, E8
Sunday October 9, 2011
www.hackneyempire.co.uk
As the music world’s second favourite alt folk,
guitar playing, bearded hippy, Iron & Wine’s Sam
Beam presents a more acceptable alternative to
those who are too embarassed to say they like
Bon Iver. Like Justin Vernon, Beam moved into
slightly more experimental territory with his most
recent album, the critically acclaimed folk-rock in-
stnat classic Kiss Each Other Clean which achieved
a rare 9/10 in NME. However, this gig promises to
be a return to his stripped-back folk roots, accom-
panied by Czech pianist Marketa Irglova.
Those looking to see Beam play his more recent
work should head to the Shepherd’s Bush Empire
on Monday October 10. There he will be playing
with a full backing band and will be supported by
electrobilly outfit The Mules.
Both gigs promise to be great evenings for lovers
of folk, rock, and anything in between. Bon Iver
fans are welcome to attend as well, as long as they
keep their musical tastes quiet. Harry Rickerby
Music Editors: Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith

