Web Games
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Each week we’re going to bring you a
selection of fresh, free and fun web
games that you can play right away in
your browser. Unless otherwise speci-
fied, you’re going to need the Adobe
TELEVISION
FELIX Friday 07 October 2011 23
Doctor Who in plot-hole drama... again
The second series of ITV’s latest (and
very successful) foray into the world
costume drama began towards the end
of the summer break, with its first epi-
sode clocking up over ten million view-
ers. But why? This unusually high figure
is rarely reached by similar program-
ming on the BBC, and ITV aren’t usu-
ally known for their ability to produce
a good period piece, or, for that matter,
anything other than the X Factor-esque
arse-gravy which routinely hypnotises
fourteen-year-old girls and their chavvy
mothers. Moreover, the BBC pitched
their flagship drama Spooks against
Downton in the prime-time 9pm Sun-
day slot, but the first episode drew in
a mere 4.6 million - one of the lowest
ratings ever recorded for Spooks.
Jim Carter, who plays Mr Carson
the Butler (image: left) says “people
[didn’t] think costume dramas [were]
for them - they might be ‘a bit BBC’
- highbrow and offputting. This was
on ITV so they thought they’d give it
a go”.
If you’ve never tried costume drama,
now is the time!
Given that this is Imperial I’m sure that
few of you will be unaware that last Sat-
urday saw the broadcast of ‘The Wed-
ding of River Song’ - the final episode
of the latest series of Doctor Who. This
has been probably one of the best seasons
since the 2005 revival of the show. Start-
ing with the chilling image of a future
version of the Doctor being killed in ‘The
Impossible Astronaut’ it included the
wonderful exploration of the Doctor’s
companion Amy that was ‘The Girl Who
Waited’ and the near perfect ‘Let’s Kill
Hitler’. It’s not surprising that I had high
hopes for this episode.
‘The Wedding of River Song’begins with
the Doctor finally resigned to his im-
pending death and the mysterious River
Song trapped by the Doctor’s enemies,
the Silence, in a mechanical spacesuit
which is trying to force her to shoot him.
She manages to resist, thereby disrupt-
ing the fixed point in time that was the
Doctor’s death and causing all of history
to become compressed into a just a few
moments and begin to collapse. The rest
of the episode sees the Doctor trying to
convince River to kill him in order to
save time while River tries to find a way
to save him. Needless to say by the end
of the episode our heroes had managed to
save both the Doctor and time.
While this was certainly a passable end-
ing to the series, with the manner in
which the Doctor manages to survive
being quite clever, I can’t really say that
that I wasn’t disappointed. It’s not just
that there were plot holes (why did the
Silence even need River - couldn’t they
have just used a fully robotic spacesuit to
kill the Doctor?) and that many of scenes
when time was compressed were frankly
ridiculous (with flying cars supported
by hot air balloons and Churchill as the
leader of a Holy Roman Empire which
apparently has London as its capital).
It’s just that the entire episode felt a bit
thin on the ground. Whilst the ultimate
solution was pretty good, it’s clear that
the writer, Steven Moffat, had no idea
how to translate this into 45 minutes of
drama - resulting in an episode full of
filler. The titular wedding between River
and the Doctor is a prime example – it
comes almost out of nowhere. While it
is the case that River has been obsessed
with the Doctor her entire life, the Doctor
himself hardly knows her at that point -
making it all the more surprising that it
is he who proposes the marriage. No, I
Maciej Matuszewski
don’t know what I would have done bet-
ter myself, and Moffat has probably done
the best job possible but that doesn’t stop
me feeling a bit let down!
Thinking back on the previous series,
however, ‘The Wedding of River Song’
is actually well above the average qual-
ity of a Doctor Who episode. While it is
easy to be blinded by the few gems, the
fact is that even series six contained its
fair share of sub-par episodes such as
the completely forgettable ‘The Curse
of the Black Spot’ and the dreadful two-
part ‘The Rebel Flesh’ and ‘The Almost
People’ which has guest characters
whose motivations change every twenty
minutes and ends with the Doctor killing
somebody for no good reason.
While ‘The Wedding of River Song’
failed because it couldn’t live up to the
impossibly high standards expected of it,
far too many others fail because of lazy or
simply incompetent writing. Episodes are
so often filled with deus ex machina end-
ings and meaningless technobabble while
every series finale seems to threaten the
end of the universe, or even time, thus
completely devaluing the level of danger.
The question is, therefore, why is the
show so popular? The answer is quite
simple. In essence, Doctor Who is a
children’s or - to use a typical BBC eu-
phemism - a ‘family’show. It irrefutably
offers near peerless entertainment for the
target age group, whilst remaining large-
ly watchable for adults. But ought it be
judged by the same criteria as a mature
show?
Yet it so often is, and usually favourably.
It has a massive adult following and I
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Downton smashes Spooks in ratings
have even seen some of the more sig-
nificant episodes discussed on the main
pages of national newspapers. Its popu-
larity can probably be explained in two
ways. I imagine that for many the reason
is nostalgia, which is of course helped by
the show having been on our screens for
so long. Even the show’s revival has al-
ready been going for a not insignificant
six years – indeed I was only thirteen
when I started watching it.
For the more serious SF fan, however,
or at least for myself, the attraction is
the show’s great potential. The premise
of having a machine that can take you
anywhere in space and time allows for
a literally endless variety of stories and
the show’s long running nature allows
for a depth, both of character and plot,
rarely found anywhere else in television.
Of course the full potential will never be
reached. That’s not to say that family pro-
gramming can’t be eminently entertain-
ing, series six proved that, but it means
that there will always be topics that won’t
be touched and simplifications that will
be made. I, however, will keep watch-
ing for those glorious moments where
the show transcends both standard sci-
ence fiction and family programming and
comes so close to all that it could be.
It’s time to pick holes in the Doctor’s nebulous, wibbly wobbly, timey-wimey thread
“Near peerless
entertainment for the
target age group”
This week’s TV pick
It’s cloudier than last year at Downton Abbey, but Sybil and Mary have become more bang-tidy
Friday | 2100 - 2130 | BBC1
Outnumbered
Fantastic sitcom starring Hugh Dennis and Claire
Skinner set in the Brockman family home.
Saturday | 2100 - 2145 | BBC2
QI XL
There’s nothing else on so increase your general
knowledge.
Sunday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC1
Spooks
The last series of the BBC’s spy drama continues
Monday | Anytime | ITVPlayer
Downton Abbey
Really you should have watched it last night, but
you can watch it on ITVPlayer now!
Tuesday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC1
The Body Farm
Forensic thriller starring Tara Fitzgerald. Really
quite gruesome and featuring Tim McInnerny.
Wednesday | 1930 - 2030 | BBC1
Waterloo Road
It’s back and it’s worse than ever.
Thursday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC1
Hidden
Philip Glenister shows he isn’t actually Gene
Hunt.
Television Editors: James Simpson
Matt Allinson
James Simpson
And then, I just CHUNDERED
EVERYWAHHHH!

