FOOD
FELIX
24
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 07 october 2011
I have good news for the chocolate-lovers;
the biggest celebration of chocolate in the UK
is on its way! A wonderful opportunity for the
public to learn more about the chocolate mar-
ket in the UK and have fun in a unique way.
The highlight of the week, is the Chocolate
Unwrapped show where visitors can immerse
themselves in the spectacular world of choco-
late. The very best of British and international
chocolatiers will exhibit their stunning and
creative chocolate art and provide chocolate
tastings, experiences and demonstrations for
the visitors. All these, will happen under one
roof at the price of £8 only if you book it on-
line, on Saturday at 11:00 - 19:00 and on Sun-
day at 11:00-17:00, at Vinopolis in London.
You can receive free entry to the show if you
participate at the Chocolate Cake competi-
tion that is open to all home bakers (amateurs
only). The winner will receive signed copies
of the judges books, a trophy and the honour
of having their recipe published on the Choc-
olate Week website. The competition is lim-
ited to just 30 entrants, so you must get your
entry in asap to be in with a chance of taking
part in the fun. Closing date for entry forms is
Wednesday October 13 and the entrants must
Shots
by Anastasia Eleftheriou
Thought for food
I believe that everyone has something to say
about food. Personally, I don’t see food as a main
source of energy only. The enjoyment of eating is
probably the main aspect of a good quality of life.
In other words, being able to eat what you want,
when you want it at your favourite place, makes
you feel good and satisfied.
In our society, food is the king of entertaining,
celebrating and connecting. All of us have turned
to food at one time or another for comfort, to help
us cope with stressful experiences and bad emo-
tions, and to satisfy desires.
Have you ever noticed the strong relationship
between memory and food? The taste and smell
of food are able to flash memories of past food-
related events and activities in our lives. For me,
having egg and lemon soup with chicken, reminds
me of some Easters with family and it momentarily
brings me closer to home.
Therefore, feel free to share with us any food ex-
periences that you find important and make sure
that you put food in its proper place in your life.
It does make a significant difference to your life-
style, mood and health.
Diwali Festival
This year Dishoom, the Bombay Café in Covent
Garden, celebrates the wonderful stories behind
the Hindu festival of light (Diwali) presenting a deli-
cious, celebratory Diwali feast menu that starts on
the 18th October and lasts until October 30.
Vegetarians will swoon over the Phaldari Kofta
Ruby, a dish of dumplings stuffed with vegetables,
paneer and pomegranate; and the Diwali Biryani,
slow-cooked and layered with winter vegetables
and aromatic rice encased in a dough purdah - all
for just £22.50 per person.
Another choice is the much-loved Dishoom
grilled Lobster tail, cooked with ginger, chilli, lime
and coriander followed by the Chicken Berry Biry-
ani - for £27.50 per person. Both feasts are served
with Dahi Puri - mini puffed bread shells with chick-
peas and yoghurt and flavoured with tamarind,
cooling raita, a choice of freshly prepared breads
and Dishoom’s signature slow-cooked house black
daal.
Desserts include a choice of a Gola ice or Kulfi,
followed by the House Chai. Diners will also re-
ceive complimentary mithai, traditional Indian
sweets, as part of the festivities.
Are you tempted enough?
arrive with an 8-inch diameter cake by mid-
day on Sunday October 16.
Except from the above, there are many more
events organized by the participants. If you
have a passion for chocolates or you simply
want to see something different, then the fol-
lowing events may be of great interest to you.
Firstly, the week starts with La Maison Du
Chocolat Luxury Tasting experience, at 15:00
on October 8 at La Maison du Chocolat bou-
tique, in Piccadilly. There you will trace the
steps of the creation of chocolate from the
harvesting of the fruit from the cacao tree,
to the creation of chocolates with refined in-
gredients. They promise to prepare for you
couvertures, finished ganaches and pralines to
try, for the price of £50 for the whole session.
You shouldn’t miss the free in-store mini
tasting sessions that will take place at 16:30
from October 10-16 at La Maison du Choco-
lat boutique, in Piccadilly.
Divine chocolate is going to treat its choco-
holic friends with various ways especially
prepared for the chocolate week. From the
10th until the 16th of the month, at various
locations in London, like Shepherd’s Bush
and Westminster, you will have the chance to
enjoy delicious Divine cocktails, Chocolate
packages, body chocolate exfoliations and
chocolate pedicures.
Afrisan du Chocolat has scheduled a half an
hour tutored tasting that commences with a
brief history of chocolate followed by sam-
pling of their new Columbian bars and lim-
ited edition truffle, at 12:00 on October 10,
12, and 13 at Selfridges, Oxford Street.
You can find more details about the partici-
pants and the events at www.chocolateweek.
co.uk.
Have a lovely choco-week!
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Chocolate Week announces a melt-in-your-mouth lineup
October’s Food Highlights
London Restaurant Festival showcases culinary diversity
London Restaurant Festival celebrates the
Capital’s restaurants and their diversity. For
two weeks (October 3-17) visitors will be able
to try things they wouldn’t otherwise, tickle
their tasting pallet and taste extraordinary food
prepared by all kinds of chefs experiencing the
ultimate dining experience. The Festival splits
in two main areas; restaurants running festival
menus and a whole series of events.
Countless restaurants around London will be
offering great lunch/dinner packages ranging
at special prices from £10 up to £30. This is
a great opportunity for you to visit not only
your favourite brasserie but also have a taste
of the best, Michelin awarded restaurants in
town without spending a fortune!
From the various events taking place, I’ve
shortlised the most exciting ones.
Firstly, the “Gourmet Odyssey” comprises
the absolute gastronomic road trip you’ll ever
experience. How would it sound if you could
have your first course in one top London res-
taurant, your main in another and dessert in
a third? Pretty challenging. Having the option
of walking (October 8 - £110) or taking a retro
routemaster bus (October 15 - £150) get ready
for a city journey you will never forget!
London’s mayoral elections are taking place
in a few months. Pizza Elections, on the other
hand, are right now. As part of LRF Pizza Ex-
press designed two very special pizzas: a Bo-
ris (Johnson) pizza and a Ken (Livingstone)
one. Both pizzas cost £10. The most popular
pizza will be revealed at LRF Awards on Oc-
tober 17.
The highlight of the Festival is “Pop up in
the sky”, a pleasure for few. For four days –
October 3-6 – dinner will be served at three
of the London Eye’s capsules. Three top chefs
will cook a course for every capsule. Does that
sound exciting? Go ahead, make a withdrawal:
capsules are priced from £12,500 to £15,000!
Finally, LFR is eco-friendly too. The Sustain-
able Restaurant Association (SRA) is prompt-
ing restaurants and costumers to think before
they throw out. Have some extra food on your
plate but think you’re full? Just ask for a dog-
gy box and save it for later.
You still think that’s too few for you? Have
a visit at www.londonrestaurantfestival.com
and get the full list of restaurants and events.
Make sure to book early and get the best out of
this wonderful fest!
Michael Krestas
Don’t miss the next issue: the Imperial Food Awards are coming...
greenloveblog2.edublogs.org
Mmmmm...
She just can’t get her mouth away from it...
aolcdn.com
I thought he was taking me to the Union
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas

