FELIX Friday 07 OCTOBER 2011 25
TRAVEL
Acclimatising to incredible India
When I first touched down in New Delhi
I have to say I was a tad deceived. Hav-
ing skimmed my trusty Lonely Planet, I
was expecting the Paharganj area to be
a bustling Th Khao San à la Bangkok,
but was greeted with something else
entirely. I suppose I have my own igno-
rance to thank; I’d been told about what
to expect, but brushed it off under the
pretence that I am some sort of travel
wizard.
Day one was largely about acclima-
the tower for spectacular views of the
city: the contrast of Old to New Delhi
is quite a sight.
At this point in the day the torrential
downpour began: a Hindu festival was
underway, so rather than cowering for-
ever we waded through flooded streets,
up to our knees in the water. Sounds
like fun, right? It would be so were it
not for the unidentified floating objects
swishing by our ankles. Cars chugged
by, barely missing our feet, and the
street was lit up and excitable. We fi-
nally escaped the madness and decided
to kick back with a thali.
But enough about ambling through
Old Delhi: having been confined to
that small hub we eventually ventured
into sprawling New Delhi to see what
was on offer. New Delhi and Old Del-
hi are worlds apart, but each has their
charm according to your needs. New
Delhi makes for fantastic shopping,
both the franchise and market variet-
ies, in and around the Connaught Place
area. One place I highly recommend is
Palika Bazaar, a conveniently air-con-
ditioned market selling endless Indian
garments, where it’s easy to push for a
good bargain.
I could ramble endlessly about the
temples on offer, but every guidebook
will already give you the low down.
All I’ll say is be sure to check out at
least a few before you get ‘all templed
out’ – the Lotus Temple, Humayun’s
Tomb and Akshardham just out of
town were all personal favourites and
shouldn’t be missed. And after temple
apathy takes its toll, a peaceful stroll
through Lodi Gardens will refresh the
body and soul. And no trip would be
complete without a visit to the Gandhi
Smriti: Gandhi is still an invaluable
inspiration to modern Indian activists
such as Anna Hazare, and this interac-
tive remembrance centre does his ide-
ologies great justice.
Delhi is a metaphor for all of India,
really: initially the madness is fright-
ening, but let the initial uncertainties
and doubts subside and you’ll soon
find that you’re in the middle of one of
the most interesting and diverse coun-
tries on the planet. Expect a culture
shock, but don’t let it get the better of
you. Because the food is fantastic, the
people are perfect, and the sights are
simply spectacular – I don’t need to
sell it any more than that.
Follow the adventures of a backpacker across the mighty subcontinent, beginning
with some sightseeing in the country’s brilliant capital city
Chris Richardson
tisation; opting for Old Delhi as our
quarters we headed out to live and
breathe the fresh stenches of cow pat
and spices. Now don’t get me wrong,
Old Delhi is fantastic, if a little daunt-
ing for your first India destination. It’s
got some fantastic eateries serving
vast amounts of sweet and savoury
fare, and is the cheapest option when it
comes to racking up gifts. As always,
just beware the commission touts!
While still getting used to malaria
pills and the thick monsoon air we
headed for Old Delhi’s Red Fort area,
to get our first taste of incredible India.
This was the first of many forts we’d
encounter on our adventure: they make
great landmarks for tuk-tuk drivers
and offer a glimpse into the shimmer-
ing past with their dusty construction
and plethora of artefacts. We ticked
off the Old Delhi to-do list, round-
ing off in Jama Masjid, India’s largest
mosque. If you visit, be sure to climb
“the food is fantastic
and the sights are
simply spectacular”
The LaLiT New Delhi: Luxurious stay in the heart of the city
Planning a trip to Delhi? The LaLiT New Delhi is a perfect “city stay” option – nestled snugly in the Connaught
Place area, this luxury hotel offers immaculate rooms with bedroom views over Delhi to rival the towers of Jama
Masjid. With largest inventory and room space in the hub of New Delhi, this hotel takes away the location ad-
vantage.
After touring the smoggy city, Rejuve - The Spa is the most apt place to unwind, or if you’re still feeling the
heat then kicking back in a comfy lounger by the pool might be more fitting. Rejuve – The Spa, The Lalit’s sig-
nature award winning spa is known for its therapies and treatments. To satiate one’s appetite, this hotel has
cuisine variety for individual taste, buffet of more than 67 dishes, one of its kinds -Indian Bread Bar, Specialty
restaurants, 24 hours food service and a lot more. The new and swanky night club - Kitty Su is anyway under the
spot light for being the most happening party place in town. Perfect place to dance the night away with friends!
The LaLiT Hotels is the flagship brand of Bharat Hotels Limited Enterprise, a part of The LaLiT Suri Hospital-
ity Group. They provide luxury hotels at destinations across the country, offering unbeatable accommodation,
facilities and services.
Want to find out more? Visit thelalit.com or contact the Editor.
Humayun’s tomb in the heart of New Delhi: a fine example of Mughal brilliance and a perfect spot to unwind
The TNT Sun & Snow Travel Show is London’s only free travel exhi-
bition during the winter season and is dedicated to travellers aged
between 18 and 39. It showcases sun, snow and adventure travel
alternatives during the winter months and into 2012 and offers ex-
pert advice, inspiring travel talks, exclusive deals and a chance to win
prizes. New for 2011, there will also be a Recruitment Fair, perfect for
those seeking employment from part time bar work or seasonal work
to the serious professional. Entry is FREE for those who pre-register
online or just £2 payable at the door. To book and for more information
visit www.tnttravelshow.com
15th October 2011
9:30am — 5:00pm
QEII Conference Centre
Broad Sanctuary
Westminster
London SW1P 3EE
Travel Editors: Chris Richardson
Dushi Arumuganesan
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk

