CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 07 OCTOBER 2011 27
A Cappella Soc tours Croatia
With a 10 month existence under their
belts, ICU A Cappella Society took a
bold step and organised a maiden over-
seas tour for 25 members this summer.
This was a joint excursion between
two established vocal ensembles at
Imperial – IC Chamber Choir and all
male a cappella group The Techtonics.
The entire tour revolved around an in-
vitation from Croatian musician Olja
Desic to attend an inaugural three-day
a cappella festival, ‘Vocal Marathon’,
in Rijeka, North Croatia. Olja is the
Croatian Simon Cowell – judge and
vocal mentor on the Croatian X Fac-
tor and prolific composer and arranger
for TV and radio (OK, quite a lot more
talented than Cowell… and nicer). IC
Chamber Choir were invited to open
the festival but could not enter the con-
test, due to the size of the group.
We began by visiting the beautiful is-
land of Krk, the largest in the Adriatic
and a popular holiday destination since
Roman times. We arrived in Krk city to
discover a beautiful coastal old town
complete with narrow pedestrian stone
paths and stunning views of the Adri-
atic. The city was awash with tourists
– none of the English stag-do types;
this was a city with a thriving tour-
ist industry attracting happy-camping
Germans, Italians, Slovenians and
other continental Europeans for sev-
eral months each summer. Undaunted
by the lack of English speakers, we
checked in to our hostel, which was a
shoddier version of the hotel featured
in this summer’s blockbuster The In-
betweeners Movie. Seriously. Police
tape covered room doors not occupied
by us, unisex bathrooms had no wash-
basins and the staff had a combined
English vocabulary of about 50 words.
Still, in true Inbetweeners form we
managed to enjoy our time there, give
or take the broken bunk bed, the TC in
the shower and the hostel owner who
threatened to visit London and take our
TV because we used his cutlery!
On the music front, IC Chamber
Choir and Techtonics each performed
one evening concert in the main square
of the city of Krk, to appreciative and
enthusiastic crowds. Several mem-
bers of the Techtonics were surprised
to discover they’d attracted a teenage
German fanclub – we’re still hoping
these girls won’t find us on Facebook!
Bonus of the tour was free shots at
multiple watering holes for singing
our songs after a few drinks… the
locals couldn’t get enough of us! We
also managed to visit the nearby port
town of Punat, where the groups per-
formed a joint concert on the terrace
bar of the swanky Park Punat Hotel
on the promenade. Passers-by stopped
to listen, hotel patrons swooned, and
we received a generous round of figs
and brandy from the manager! That
evening was definitely one of the high-
lights of the tour.
Krk island also featured great ex-
cursions. Many of the group hired bi-
cycles and visited, amongst others, a
nudist beach, where our pasty skins,
brash English accents and faff about
undressing attracted more than a few
onlookers! We salute the brave few
(many!!) who did the Full Monty. It’s
not everyday you can say ‘When in
Croatia… get naked’.
On to the business end of tour,
upon arrival in Rijeka we travelled to
Trsat Castle, a 13th century fortress
at the top of a steep hill, overlook-
ing the Adriatic. On the castle terrace
that evening, IC Chamber Choir kick
started the Vocal Marathon, perform-
ing jointly with award-winning youth
choir ‘Josip Kaplan’ to a full house
audience and several TV cameras. IC
flickr/publicenergy
Eugene Chang
Chamber Choir director Jess Gilling-
water conducted both groups as they
performed several folk songs together,
and the concert rousingly finished with
ICCC singing ‘Over the Rainbow’.
The next day featured vocal master-
classes with Tomaz Kozlevcar, Slove-
nian composer/arranger known for his
arrangement of Toto’s Africa, which
has gained 11 million YouTube hits.
We worked on group exercises, and
split up to learn and perform several
vocal arrangements. Next up that eve-
ning was the main event of the festival
– the Vocal Marathon, a 4 hour concert
featuring 25 minute sets from various a
cappella groups including the Techton-
ics. With vociferous support from IC
Chamber Choir, the Techtonics sang
their hearts out on top of the range
sound equipment and microphones.
We performed our own arrangements
of This Love (Maroon 5), Dreadlock
Holiday (10cc), House of the Rising
Sun (The Animals), Dock of the Bay
(Otis Redding) and a Go Your Own
Way mashup (Fleetwood Mac). We
like to think we brought the house
down; many of the other groups came
to tell us how much they enjoyed our
set. We finished the evening on our
charter coach full of singers from all
groups, singing girl band tunes, The
Lion Sleeps Tonight and a host of vo-
cal favourites. Probably the most har-
monious vocal coach journey ever!
THE highlight of the contest was
the performance of Austrian solo loop
beatboxer ‘fii’ who blew the entire tour
group away with his range, personal-
ity and ability – his hit ‘Power To The
People’ got us all dancing, and did
the same to TV judges on German X
Factor 3 weeks ago! Definitely worth
checking out on YouTube!
The final awards show of the compe-
tition featured each group performing
a song for TV recording, to be broad-
cast later in September – Techtonics
reprised Dreadlock Holiday. In the
end, competition results did not go our
way, but we were up against several
professional and semi-professional
groups with years more experience,
and we were grateful for the experi-
ence and opportunity to perform and
interact with such fantastic vocal
groups such as Cappella’A, the Slash,
Octachord, and Akvarel – we have
been invited back next year and who
knows how much our game will have
risen by then!
There was time for one final night
of partying with other groups on a
floating nightclub along the seafront,
before our weary trip back to London.
To find out more about each group
or to audition, email Donal Connolly
d.connolly09@imperial.ac.uk for
ICCC, or Ben Chadwick at techton-
ics@imperial.ac.uk for TTs.
Two vocal ensembles take on Rijeka and contend with (Croatian) X Factor judges
Man strives to achieve elusive falsetto as A Cappella group pose in the Croatian sunset
“It’s not every day
you can say ‘When in
Croatia... get naked’”

