FELIX
30
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 07 OCTOBER 2011
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
the turnip
Biology to reclassify mushroom as plant
Common sense prevails over science for once, says Daily Star-esque headline
Top scientists in the Biology department at
Imperial have come to a unanimous decision
(apart from that one who still advocates intel-
ligent design as an alternative to evolution)
that mushrooms and toadstools be removed
from the fungi kingdom, which includes
slime molds, and placed in the plant king-
dom, which contains aubergines, onions and
turnips.
The shake-up came after an argument be-
tween two Freshers about whether or not the
button mushrooms they had recently picked
and eaten sautéed with some butter counted
towards their five-a-day. On one hand, mush-
rooms are heterotrophs: they do not make their
own food, not unlike many students, in fact.
However, unlike students, they are clearly not
animals and are apparently healthy. They also
have an uncanny resemblance to plants with
the classic “stalk-coming-out-of-the-ground-
with-stuff-on-top” design that’s been in vogue
for the past 200 million years or so.
When the College’s resident biologists were
confronted with this dilemma it forced a re-
think of what a mushroom actually is, and af-
ter some debate involving the arguments of
“come on” and “it’ll be jokes”, a vote was
passed in an office somewhere in SAF, though
whether the wider scientific community will
recognise this remains to be seen. Preliminary
speculation suggests a response along the
lines of “you must be fucking joking”.
One unexpected consequence of this is that
this precedent has opened up the possibility
of addressing other discrepancies in the Eng-
lish language regarding fruit and vegetables.
Currently the tomato is a fruit even though it
finds its way into clearly savoury dishes; yet
neither the strawberry nor Matt Berry are con-
sidered true berries, despite their misleading
names and being rather seedy. Putting these
in more appropriate groups would at the very
least give Alan Davies a couple fewer things
to trip up over on QI.
Designers Brad and Chad are sitting in the Ap-
ple boardroom. They are joined by the blue-sky
thinker, and marketing guru, Clint. He is walk-
ing around barefoot, thinking about his game
of hacki-sack later, and thinking about a lovely
pair of hemp shorts he saw recently. They are
joined by the electrical engineer Wallace, who
is currently slightly annoyed that he has had to
interrupt a lovely dream he was having about
electrons. Let’s just say, they were penetrating
every part of his body.
Brad: Urgh, man, we have to design another
iPhone already.
Chad: Yeah, I know it sucks – well we better
get on with it.
Brad: I bet you we could just sell people the
same phone twice.
Chad: What? No way. How do you plan to do
that?
Brad: I don’t know exactly, but with our cus-
tomers it’s definitely possible. I’ll ask Clint.
Hey Clint, Clint, CLINT. Good, got your atten-
tion. Any chance you could move your bean-
bag a bit closer?
Clint: Sorry, the energy is just about right in
this area. (Wallace snorts in disguist)
Brad: Fantastic, sounds completely plausible,
anyway, do you reckon we could basically just
relaunch our iPhone 4 and pretend it’s new?
Maybe add a feauture?
Clint: It’s possible. Adding a truly new feature
would break up the harmony though (Wallace
starts grumbling). It would be better if you
took a feature no one uses that the product cur-
rently has and made it better.
Chad: How about that whole voice command
shit.
Brad: Yeah, that’s perfect. I’ve never used it.
It’s not like anyone can ever test it outside on
the streets as if it fails we can say it was due to
background noise.
Chad: Plus it’s not like everyone’s going to
walk around talking to their iPhone asking it
to call someone – they’d look like a complete
bell-end.
Brad: And it’s quicker to just do it yourself
anyway.
Clint: I’m really getting a good vibe here vis-
à-vis the birthing process.
Wallace: Shouldn’t we fix the fact that it keeps
dropping calls?
Brad: We’re not at fucking Nokia now Wal-
lace; we’re innovating right now.
Clint: From a marketing point of view, we can
fix the problem and then announce it as if it’s a
massive achievement that a phone can receive
and make calls.
Brad: Perfect, all the fans will love it. They’ll
think we’re listening to them and fixing a
problem!
Chad: We can’t just do that though; we also
need to add in a slightly better camera and a
minutely higher resolution screen. Is that even
possible? Wallace, quick question for you man
… stop writing, redrafting and then ultimately
not sending Facebook chat messages to all the
women in the office you like.
Wallace: Hey, she liked one of my photos. I’m
so in. Ah, she went offline; next time I’ll DEF-
INITELY say hi. And, yeah, of course we can.
Shouldn’t we design something new though?
Clint: No, this is innovation by stagnation,
some people cannot see as far as others. We
definitely need to release it in both black and
white. That will guarantee our success.
Chad: Brad and I will go away and brain-
storm, we’ll come back when finished … 30
minutes later …
Brad: So, here’s the new design.
Clint: Right. Brainwave people. I’m going to
market it as having 200 new features. It’s not
as if anyone will ever search them all out. We
can claim minor changes are actually bone fide
new features. See that pixel you changed from
grey to darker grey on the bar at the bottom.
They all go out. Wallace is unhappy, as he
wants to actually completely redesign every-
thing from scratch rather than just tell people
they are. The week after, they show Tim Cook.
Tim Cook: What the fuck? Are you guys
trying to make me look shitty or something?
Bollocks to announcing this, I’m letting some
other poor bastards do that.
How the iPhone 4S was desigined ...
The magic mushroom taking commu-
nity welcomed the move, saying “Hello
talking dog, I like your purple tail.”
DRUNKEN MATE OF THE WEEK
Hey losers, you haven’t sent any in.
What the fuck have you been doing –
revising in the library or something?
Send your photos to felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Ask if it’s okay first. It’s not like a blow-
job. Not asking for permission will NOT
mean they just get a pleasant surprise!
HANGMAN
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
Man admits creaming himself
outside house - trousers for sale.
Photos that scared
us this week
Chanel want to skin Jodie Marsh for a new set of
extremely limited edition handbags. Animal rights
campaigners are said to not give a fuck

