4
In Brief
Silfest surpasses charity target
Saturday 16 July saw Imperial’s Silwood Park cam-
pus in Berkshire play host to this year’s Silfest,
with the annual independent music festival raising
enough money to buy two cows.
Silfest, or the Silwood Festival was first held in
1999 and has since become an entirely student-run
event. This year’s festivities included a full line up
of bands and DJs as well as fete-themed entertain-
ments.
Silfest 2011 supported the Berkshire, Bucking-
hamshire and Oxfordshire Wildlife Trust (BBOWT),
in particular their Chiltern Chalk Grassland Project.
The project concerns the management of the in-
creasingly rare habitat of chalk grassland.
With an original target to buy one cow to help
graze chalk grassland sites, the amount of money
raised from the festival led to the purchase of two
cows instead.
Two of Silfest 2011’s organisers, Rosie Burdon
and Mark Ramsden, hailed the event as a “massive
success”.
“A capacity crowd of 500 people rocked up to see
12 bands and 3 DJ’s … from 12pm until 4am the
next morning. The pick of the bands were Kentish
Fire, the fantastic headliners Alphabet Backwards,
The Winter Olympics, and our very own MSc Men
and Late Night Munchies.” Matt Colvin
FELIX
NEWS
Friday 07 OCTOBER 2011
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial has dropped a stunning 11 places
in the Sunday Times League Table for 2012
entry, published last month. The College is
now ranked fourteenth in the UK, behind in-
stitutions such as the University of Exeter and
Newcastle University. This is the first time in
fourteen years that Imperial has not been in the
table’s top four. This drop has been attributed
to a change in the methodology of compiling
the table, which has also seen King’s College
London slide from tenth to seventeenth place
and the University of Edinburgh from four-
teenth to twenty-seventh.
The table no longer considers universities’
student/staff ratios, instead giving greater
weighting to the results of the National Student
Survey (NSS) and the number of students un-
employed six months after graduation. Gradu-
ate employment now contributes up to 200
points to each institution’s score and the first
12 NSS questions; relating to “the teaching
on [the] course”, “assessment and feedback”
and “academic support”; contribute up to 250
points. Out of the 168 institutions participating
in the NSS Imperial is ranked 102nd, 163rd
and 130th in each category respectively.
Universities can also gain up to 50 points
or lose up to 55 points depending on answers
to question 22, relating to overall satisfaction.
While the overall weighting given to the NSS
is greater than last year the answers to ques-
tions 13-21, concerning “organisation and
management”, “learning resources” and “per-
sonal development” are no longer considered.
Each University can receive up to 1207 points,
with Imperial receiving 832 and Cambridge,
which is ranked number one, receiving 1004.
Other league tables have also seen a drop for
Imperial. Nationally it has been ranked tenth
by the Guardian (down from seventh) and
fourth by the Times Good University Guide
(down from third for the first time ever).
The College has, however, gone up from
seventh to sixth place in the QS World Uni-
versity Rankings, which take less account of
student satisfaction than the UK tables. In ad-
dition, the Times Higher Education World Uni-
versity Rankings 2011-2012, published yester-
day, have seen Imperial rise to eight position
globally – up from ninth last year.
Union President Scott Heath has called the
drop in the rankings “worrying”. In his official
blog Heath writes that the Union is taking the
situation very seriously and that he is drafting
a document, due to be released on Monday
10 October, that will outline what “should be
done to increase student satisfaction”. He has
already called for the College to produce “new
guidelines to improve the pace of feedback
across the board” and work to improve par-
ticipation in the Student On-Line Evaluation
Student satsfaction hits tables
(SOLE) as well as the NSS. He has also urged
“the College to roll out our recommendations
universally; as opposed to allowing each Fac-
ulty to individually uptake changes at different
paces” and to treat “students as colleagues, not
as customers”.
Heath, however, admitted that the Union also
has a large part to play. It has already begun
to restructure “the Representation & Welfare
Board, in order to facilitate the sharing of best
practice, bring issues to the Union’s attention
more rapidly and provide a better forum for
discussion”. The Union will also advise the
College “on how to better provide Feedback”
and will contact the other “Russell Group Stu-
dent Unions to see what systems they have
implemented”. Heath hopes that these actions
“will bring into place better student satisfac-
tion and help restore our University to the rank
it fully deserves in the UK tables”.
New emphasis on NSS sees Imperial fall 11 places
Maciej Matuszewski
This year’s Silfest committee
Matt Colvin Sean Gallagher
A birds eye view of the South Kensington campus

