FELIX
6
NEWS
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 07 october 2011
In Brief
Stolen medic mascot scandal
Luke Kanczes, President of the Royal College of
Science Union (RCSU) successfully stole the Impe-
rial College School of Medicine’s (ICSMSU) Phoenix
mascot head earlier this week with RCSU Vice-Pres-
ident Paul Beaumont in a mascotry scandal which
continues today. The RCSU President explained that
they ‘’saw the chicken head carelessly tossed aside
on the Queen’s Lawn”, posed as freshers to dis-
tract the medic manning the RAG stall and took the
mascot.
He continued that the medic mumbled, “that guy
just stole our head” and that they had to “dodge
several rugby lads” to escape. It is claimed that the
medics, “unable to understand the difference be-
tween Science and Engineering”, went to the CGCU
office as their first port of call.
ICSMSU’s President, Suzie Rayner, responded
that they are “highly disappointed in the poor man-
ner the head was stolen”, adding that it has had
“enough abuse from non-medics at Varsity” result-
ing in damage to its right eye. “It is questionable
whether this constitutes mascotry when they don’t
have the full mascot”. The RCSU’s demands includ-
ed a £200 donation to RCSU RAG, the ICSM Presi-
dent streaking in Beit Quad with only the Phoenix
head on and a department-wide email stating that
“RCSU is better than ICSMSU”.
During the Freshers’ Fair, this medic-friendly re-
porter was targeted by medical students and the
Felix Cat head was stolen. Although swiftly retrieved
with aid of the ICSMSU President, she sympathised
but commented “the medics have taken to stealing
mascot heads in retaliation. No head is safe, as the
Felix Cat discovered.”
Union President Scott Heath describes mascotry
as an “adults’ game of hide and seek” aiming to
“humiliate those unable to protect their mascot”
and to “gain a charitable contribution”. The rules
have been historically laid out and the mascots are
open to theft by faculty unions only.
Alex Karapetian
I
mperial College is a fantastic environ-
ment in which to study and most staff,
visitors and students will never ex-
perience crime whilst on the campus.
However, some will and it is my job to
deter crime, provide crime prevention advice
and investigate reported crimes, along with
my colleague Community Support Officer,
Paul Stratford. Imperial College has an ‘Open
door’ policy and some non-sensitive areas are
unlocked during working hours and accessible
to the public. This affords unhindered passage
for all but can attract criminals. Keeping your
property with you at all times is probably the
best way of keeping them safe. I often walk
around the campus and see laptop computers,
mobile phones and bags left unattended, not
just inside the buildings but also in the garden
areas. The in-house security team are very ef-
fective at collecting these items and storing
them in the security office, but some are stolen.
This can lead to a complete loss of a student’s
work, which can be devastating. The same
advice is pertinent to offices: if you keep your
laptop computer or digital camera in the office,
ensuring it is under lock and key is the best
way of keeping it safe.
If you use your pass to enter a door, please
check the identity of anyone following you
in. They won’t mind showing you their pass
if they are genuine. There have been instances
recently when students have assisted some-
one entering a restricted area by opening the
door for them. The person they let through was
there to steal property. Don’t be the one to let
them in.
There have been some recent incidents when
students have been stopped by people in plain
clothes pretending to be police officers. The
students have been searched and made to hand
over property. If a police officer stops you
and shows you a police warrant card, please
check the following: the warrant card wallet
is black. Inside the wallet is a silver badge on
the left with a small slip of silver metal which
has braille on it. A Metropolitan Police warrant
card (left) is blue, white and red. The words
‘POLICE OFFICER’ are at the top printed in
Red. If you are unsure dial 999 or get some-
one to dial it for you and ask for the police.
They will confirm if the person is a real police
officer. The police will never ask you for PIN
numbers for bank cards, you should never re-
veal these to anyone.
You can security mark your property, or
register it on the Immobilise website (www.
immobilise.com). If you would like help or
information about this, please contact me.
If you would like to contact me directly, in
confidence, for advice, information or to ar-
range a talk for a group, please email police@
imperial.ac.uk.
PC Nigel Lewis is the Imperial College Police
Officer. He is part of the Knightsbridge & Bel-
gravia Safer Neighbourhood Team based at
Belgravia Police Station.
Warning over campus thefts
PC Nigel Lewis reports on college security concerns
Felix Summer Ball survey results re-
veal students’ concerns with event
“Errrm...where were all the people?” was one of
the many questions asked after last year’s Sum-
mer Ball. With less than half the expected turn-
out and a 6-figure loss, it will come as no sur-
prise that the initial results of the Felix survey are
looking rather bleak.
As Felix reported previously the Summer Ball
generated the largest loss in recent memory, with
the key cause involving high expenditure on mu-
sical acts and a low turnout. The Union claimed
that there were “many unforeseen circumstances
that contributed to the lower than expected in-
come”. The Union also stated that the loss would
not significant impact on the Union’s activities.A
statement which Michael Foster, this year’s Dep-
uty President for Finance and Services stands by.
The Felix survey confirms that there were in-
deed many reasons for the lack of attendance, a
frequent complaint being the price of the ticket
and what students perceived they would be get-
ting for it:
“Waste of money for something that didn’t
seem value for money”, “I didn’t see the Sum-
mer Ball as value for money, £40-45 for the festi-
val set-up where food wasn’t even provided? No
chance.” These were both anonymous comments
posted by Imperial students in the survey.
A lot of complaints were directed towards the
festival format, a change from previous years,
which angered many students, in particular those
in their final year. “...It sounds like it wasn’t
much of a ball, just standing in a crowd in the
rain wearing normal clothes?! To celebrate the
end of our time at Imperial, we don’t really want
big-name bands. We can go to a music festival
for that. The summer ball should be about having
a special evening with our friends, celebrating
and dancing” suggesting that the Union “should
just get a DJ, make the tickets more like £20-25
(or otherwise include dinner) and ask people to
wear formal clothes.”
Other complaints included that the event was
“too spread out”, the “music catered to a minor-
ity of people” and the timing, with some under-
graduates still working towards exams when the
Ball took place. Expressed in true Imperial style,
this student maintained, “Revision must take pri-
ority”.
However there was also some positive feed-
back to be found in the survey results such as
the performances by Nero and Chase & Status,
which were much appreciated in the Great Hall.
Also many students were very satisfied with the
prices of food and drink on the day, adding that
the “free funfair rides were genius”.
The mixed reactions for the Summer Ball rais-
es questions as to how the Union will take the
feedback on board and organise this year’s event.
Michael Foster stated that the Union has “not
made any decisions regarding the 2012 Summer
Ball yet”, including whether to collaborate with
other universities again. Afull report with the fi-
nancial breakdowns will be provided to Council
in due course.
Deepka Rana
Common complaints centre around format change, though funfair is praised
Alex Karapetian
The Union has “not made
any decisions regarding
the 2012 Summer Ball
yet”
A genuine police warrant card with
imprinted braille
ICSMSU President Suzie Rayner, powerless to
retrieve the mascot head from the RCSU office

