7
FELIX Friday 07 october 2011
FEATURE
Interview: Dr Martin Dare-Edwards
Alice Yang bring us the first in a series of monthly interviews with some of the
UKs premier industry leaders.
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
world leader in petro-
leum additives, Infineum
is a 50/50 joint ven-
ture between Shell and
ExxonMobil creating
products used in 1/3 of the world’s
vehicles. I interview Dr Martin Dare-
Edwards; the company’s UK Country
Manager with nearly 30 years experi-
ence in the industry after graduating
and completing a PhD in Chemistry at
Oxford University.
Tucked into the green suburbs of
Oxfordshire lies a small cluster of
buildings, home to one of the most
successful petroleum additives com-
panies across the globe. Dr Martin
Dare-Edwards himself greets me apol-
ogising for the modesty of the site ex-
plaining that at Infineum ‘we prefer to
impress with our technology, not our
buildings’.
electric vehicles and fuel cells to fi-
nally kick in.
What we sell to our customers, the
oil companies, is an additive package
containing up to 50 different chemi-
cal components in a concentrated form
which when you take the package and
pour some into oil, it makes a lubri-
cant.’
He translates this for me, since my
brain has long forgotten all its chem-
istry, by comparing the process to the
making of tropical fruit juice cordial.
‘Imagine for a moment if you buy it
from Tesco, you pour water in and you
have something drinkable. We make
the cordial, but the cordial itself is
made up of a number of different com-
ponents; mango, pineapple….’
As I finally begin to nod in compre-
hension, he explains the process in
more detail. ‘What these laboratories
are developing is the individual tropi-
cal fruit juice types in a concentrated
form. They are detergents, to keep
the engine clean; dispersants, because
there are particles that are created dur-
ing the operation of an engine, includ-
ing soot, and anti-oxidants to try and
avoid the degradation of the oil and
anti-wear additives which go onto
the surface of the metal, so when the
pieces of metal come into contact it re-
duces the tendency of the metals that
adhere to each other.’
Realising that chemistry is not strong
subject for me, Dr Dare-Edwards sug-
gests we move away from the labs and
into a meeting room as I inquire into
his day-to-day activities.
‘I maintain the integrity of all of the
operations on this site. All of the con-
tracts for running the site are under my
responsibility. At any point in time, if
any of these facilities are not available,
then the whole operation grinds to a
halt very quickly and on the research
end of the business, some of the time
scales we work on are very tight.
I happen also to be a member of
the technology leadership team, also
known as the Global R+D leadership
team, which is important in ensuring
the way the projects are selected, pri-
oritised, and that the way they are con-
ducted is as effective as possible.’
Having graduated with a First Class
Honours in Chemistry from the Uni-
versity of Oxford, yet now being in
such a managerial role, I wonder if
he ever misses the safety glasses and
white coats. ‘I did miss it to start with.
One of the main reasons why I took
up to do a scientific degree in the first
place is that I am a curious person, I
want to understand why and beyond
that, I wonder if it can be made bet-
ter than it is currently. If I worked in
a finance house, just managing money,
I wouldn’t gain the same pleasure as
I do now. However I’ve been very
fortunate to still gain some of the ex-
citement from discovering things, but
I don’t actually have to get my hands
dirty so to say. The closest thing I do
to practical chemistry is cooking at
home.’
In the academic world, the chicken has
got to come before the egg.’
Shell gambled on him to the tune of
£110,000 to study the behaviour of lu-
bricants in a working lubricated con-
tact, the resulting research earning him
a prestigious academic award.
‘If you want to have a varied career,
go into industry,’ he advises as I won-
der how it is he gained the large variety
of business management skills he has
harnessed. ‘Shell had a management in
research course to help you understand
people management. It taught me what
was necessary to motivate people and
manage their performance. This pro-
vided a good foundation.’
Beyond the Infineum campus, Dr
Dare-Edwards is also Chairman of the
Oxfordshire Local Enterprise Part-
nership (Oxon-LEP) and the Oxford-
shire Innovation and Growth Team
(OxIGT), both of which give advice
and support to local businesses, help-
ing them to develop.
I question whether or not the govern-
ment cuts have then in fact hit Oxford-
shire and its local support projects.
‘Government cuts are a big issue in
various regards; infrastructure, even
the provision of skills, apprentice
places and so on are all affected by
government cuts. So at the same time
the government wants the economy to
grow, a number of the features that it
hopes to grow have been taken away.’
After such a successful career, and
now in a demanding role he obvi-
ously enjoys, I ask Dr Dare-Edwards
what advice he’d give to our readers.
‘In terms of what you can control, un-
dergraduates should find opportunities
to visit industrial research activities in
the UK and see what it’s about.
Also, it would be useful for people to
recognise what business management
is actually about. It’s not all about just
managing financial affairs; there are
people in there and new ideas to be
fostered. The sourcing of money and
how to turn those ideas into some-
thing practical is itself very interest-
ing and will intrinsically benefit from
somebody who’s had a scientific back-
ground.’
Before ending the interview I ask
Dr Dare-Edwards what lessons he has
learnt from his experiences and what
he looks for when employing people.
After a deep thoughtful silence he re-
plies, ‘I like people to be curious, state
the obvious and question the given
truth because what you’ve always told
to be true might not be.
The interview is conducted in the
James Watt Building, which Dr Dare-
Edwards refers to as his own, hav-
ing led its construction of £20m. The
building is split into mirroring quar-
ters. ‘It’s open plan and also egali-
tarian, which means that everyone is
equal, except for this glass front’ sig-
nalling to the glass planes separating
(yet giving a full view into) the con-
necting laboratories.
‘At Infineum, what we’re doing is to
try and reduce the environmental ef-
fect of transportation now with the in-
ternal combustion engine, rather than
waiting 30 years for the technology of
“If you want to have
a varied career, go
into industry”
“State the obvious
and question the
given truth”
Upon the subject of his PhD, which
he also took at Oxford, I ask why it
was he chose to do one as opposed to
entering the industry directly. ‘I didn’t
know what industrial research was
like; I was never introduced to it at
university. I think the largest problem
is people just don’t know what’s out
there. I went to do a PhD because at
that particular time I might have imag-
ined I wanted to become a university
professor.’
On applying for fellowships, Dr
Dare-Edwards came across Shell and
describes to me how this proved to be
life changing. ‘If you stay in academic
research you typically have to stick
with the subject you already started
working on whether you like it or not,
or else you can’t get funding. In the in-
dustrial, world people will harness you
on the basis that you have a track re-
cord of being able to learn something
quickly, get it right, do some research
and get an outcome. They tend to take
a calculated gamble in putting some-
one in a role they can’t do yet. The
academic world would never do that.
Dr Martin Dare-Edwards
Infineum campus, Oxfordshire
Infineum
Alice Yang

