10 COLUMNS FELIX FRIDAY 18TH OCTOBER
Simon Baker - Voice of Reason
Firstly, Mr Caldwell, Robin Riley is
not a pseudonym of mine. Much as I
would love to take credit for the
excellent article on Campus
Renaissance (Campus Destruction,
more like), I must congratulate the
man responsible. Apart from the odd
crane crashing into Chemistry, the
BMS project does appear to be pro-
ceeding well, save for the natty red
and yellow barrier outside the site
entrance that has been up and down
more often than a whore's drawers.
The real concern is the Library
project. Quite frankly, I have to say I
told you so when I heard about the
bulldozer almost crashing through
the roof. We have read about large,
heavy chunks of metal falling off
cranes, and if this were to happen
over the Library roof, the conse-
quences of huge metal javelins
plunging through to Level 2 would
be terrible. Leaving the building
open over the summer was risky if
not foolhardy, even though there
weren't that many people around.
Having seen the cavalier attitude of
the contractors on that site, safety
clearly is not a major consideration.
As any chemist at IC knows, one
has to comply with all manner of
safety requirements before undertak-
ing any work. As they also realise,
this is not really in the name of safe-
ty, but an example of what is known
in the trade as 'covering the arses' of
our elders and betters. The Schal
managers and indeed Ian Caldwell
himself might care to consider this. I
accept that moron crane drivers etc.
are not your fault, but you try telling
the HSE that you have no legal
responsibility whatsoever.
This nation is about to be gripped
by the greatest threat to our way of
life since the 1940s. Not monetary
union; we'll have that bit of nonsense
dispatched soon enough. Not insta-
bility in the Middle East; a couple of
Cruise missiles and Bob's your
uncle. This is far, far more serious. I
have read that Desmond Lynam's
contract with the BBC ends in
December, and Sky have made him
an enormous offer. The conse-
quences of this are too terrible to
contemplate. Des is not simply a
consummate professional; he is the
greatest sports broadcaster on the
planet. To cite even a small percent-
age of the great man's triumphs
would fill a year's Felixes, but one
only has to mention the aborted
Grand National to emphasise the
genius of the Lynam. The BBC is, by
common consent, the finest broad-
caster in the world and sport is
arguably its strongest department. It
has already lost football, some crick-
et and Formula 1. To lose the
Guv'nor would be unthinkable. We
must unite to stop this. Write to John
Birt, petition your MP, chain your-
self to TV Centre. Des must stay!
Nice to see that the wait for the first
ULU balls-up of the season has not
been a long one. A resignation and
it's still only October. Fair enough,
since it was for personal reasons, but
it was almost inevitable that the
replacement candidate would have
friends in low places. The Campaign
for Free Education is a particularly
distasteful organisation that has been
hijacked by every extreme left outfit
in the country, and hasrightlybeen
disowned by the rest of ULU. Mind
you, I hope he's elected. The expres-
sion on Ghassan Karrian's face...
in the course of duty -
Freshers really are a disgusting
breed. At this time of year they
miraculously appear, obstructing our
corridors and barging through our
doors as if they owned the place.
They have no redeeming features;
they are sallow of skin and crude of
tongue, and stagger around without
even a hint of politeness, leaving
only the scent of alcohol and ner-
vousness to remind you of their
unhealthy existence. You can imag-
ine them at night crawling back to
their purposefully scruffy rooms at
the end of a pathetic night out, fum-
bling drunkenly under their bed-
clothes to alleviate the knowledge
that the woman they were drunkenly
eyeing up still won't be interested
tomorrow. Freshers however can be
excused. They will learn in the end.
But there is another breed of unde-
sirable at Imperial who is far more
insidious; I am talking about the lec-
turer. They are proud and well paid,
but in the main they are completely
useless. OK, so there are a few
exceptions worthy of respect, but the
grand majority are totally unquali-
fied to stand up and teach anything
to anyone, let alone teach a complex
subject to a large group of people.
They will mumble, hesitate and ram-
ble, they will read their notes word
for word in a grim monotone, they
may attempt a few feeble jokes, but
it is rare that any student leaves the
lecture theatre any the wiser.
Teaching is a skilled art, and only
a very few lecturers have the motiva-
tion, inspiration or skill to do it prop-
erly. The rest are simply ploughing
through a heavy load of unwelcome
work between the hours when they
can carry on with their research.
Aside from that, the lecture as deliv-
ered has become unnecessary any-
way. They date from a time when
books were rare and expensive, and
the only way to transfer the required
information to a large collection of
students was by dictation. Now, with
photocopiers, and wordprocessors,
this is an outdated and pointiess
methodology. It would be far betterj
to simply provide the students with
printed notes and exercise sheets and
allow them to field any questions
during tutorial time. This would free
both the lecturers and the students to
get on with the work they want to do,
rather than forcing everybody to
waste valuable hours sitting through
a painful daily charade. This is not
to say that lectures have no role at
all, they do - but it is one of inspira-
tion, rather than information.
Lecturers should utilise their time
to encourage thought and discussion,
to promote the excitement of the stu-
dents and to pass on their passion
about their subject. That is what lec-
tures should be for; but how many do
this? Very few. The rest are too
incompetent to cope or too lazy to
T H E W E E K L Y P O E M
supplied by PoetIC
The Cat Poem
Standing, alone in the kitchen, I see through the window
The cat, stepping neatly up the garden path, tail held high
Heading for home to deal with thosefirsttwinges of hunger
I anticipate the rattle of the cat-flap
Then sink into sadness, reminded that soon
The other door will bang
Signalling the other homecoming
For I know that, as always, I will wait
Standing alone in the kitchen
Longing for a tender look....even a kiss as in the movies
But he will stay apart as long as possible
Moving about in the next room, in his private angry hell
And when he does come in to seek his food
Keep me at bay with trivial sharp rebuke
But now the delicious moment
The cat caresses my leg with his soft and silky head
Then, after having eaten, leaves
And I amfilledwith admiration
That he can take the care he needs then go
And also I amfilledwith gratitude -
I brushed against another living soul
Anne
This poem taken from A Selection of Member's Poetry, published by PoetIC
the society for creative writing at Imperial College.
PoetIC welcomes new members. If you would like more details about
PoetIC, please contact the publicity officer Keith McNulty on k.mcnul
ty@ic.ac.uk, or the chairman Ed Sexton on e.sexton@ic.ac.uk

