Clubs & Sports
Sailing J h i d W o r l d F i r s t
The Castaways' Cup is a sailing
competed for by all the individual
colleges forming the University of
London, for w h i c h Imperial traditionally
enters two teams. The first part of the
competition was run as a league, in
which the first team finished second,
close behind Guys Hospital, while the
second team dropped out of sight. The
top four teams then went through to the
semi-finals. Unfortunately for IC one of
our first team helms then had to go
home, and his second team replacement
was not of the same calibre, as IC
narrowly lost to University College,
w h o m they'd beaten earlier. Guy's
Hospital eventually thrashed IC in the
final, but didn't enter into the spirit of the
competition, and it was left to IC and U C
to celebrate in the normal fashion.
Water Polo
A n y women out there? Come along don't
be shy, enthusiastic beginners welcome.
Fun on Fridays 7.30-9.00pm for a great
game. Have y o u got a swimming
costume? If y o u haven't, b u y one now so
that you can play a game w h i c h never
has a dull moment. Mondays and Fridays
at the College S w i m m i n g Pool. Regular
exercise. There will be s w i m m i n g practice
from 6.30 on the same night including
training. Unleash your talents at Women's
Water Polo, you'll love it. Zap along.
Dramsoc
Imperial College Dramatic Society will be
running a series of acting workshops
every Wednesday at 2.30pm in the
Concert Hall. These are open to everyone
and will cover topics from stage fighting
to improvisation. Entry is free.
Cricket
Imperial College Cricket Club sent a team
to the U A U 6-a-side Cup at Norwich on
Sunday February 3. Despite an excellent
effort by Paul Wiltshire, w h o averaged
over 100 with a swashbuckling 73 not
out, ICCC were knocked out after only
two matches. This was mainly due to
inexperience of the indoor game,
however we will try again next year,
hoping A n d y Jones and Daniel Jaffe will
do better than 0 and 3 respectively.
Don't forget Cricket Nets at Lords every
Tuesday at 9pm. Also on Monday 18
February there will be a curry night for
members of ICCC. Meet at Southside at
6.30pm and o n to Khan's at 8.30pm.
Third W o r l d debt is one of the
fundamental causes of impoverishment.
3rd W o r l d 1st, a national campaigning
organisation on 3rd world issues is
participating in a Europe-wide campaign
directed at requesting the major banks to:
a) reduce, by at least half, the debts owed
to the banks by the largest debtor
countries, and, b) cancel completely the
debts owed by the poorest countries.
Coming Events
1. Stall in the JCR: Tuesday 19 Feb,
12.30-2.30pm. Come to our stall if you
would like to do any of the following:
sign a petition or a letter to your bank
Last summer, after a break of a few
years, Richard Gere came out with a pair
of films of a completely contrasting
nature. The first Pretty Woman, was a
happy fairy tale romance, the other,
Internal Affairs, a riveting thriller.
W h e n R a y m o n d A v i l l a (Andy Garcia)
starts to investigate corruption in the Lost
Angeles police department: malpractice
which they believe also includes Dennis
Peck (Richard Gere), an officer much
respected for his apparent efficiency. The
film concerns these two principal
characters and how R a y m o n d gradually
uncovers the shady side of Peck.
The film has a cracking narrative drive
and moody atmosphere and some
excellent performances. The title is a
double entendre which refers not simply
to the L A P D division of that name, but
also the way in which the monstrous
Whilst ordinary people gathered fuel and
kindling for the onset of the cold snap,
the Phonoecian Spartans were girding
their not inconsiderable loins to attempt
another feat of abjectly sublime athletic
insubordination. The snow swirled, the
glasnost wind blew, but at the top of the
tree there was little change. Frank,
frightened to a frozen standstill in his vest
and shorts by the prospect of a first
individual win, came the usual and
splendid 5th; A l e x after a brief hiatus
from the top 10 was in with a bullet at
8th, while Bill and Laurence fought it out
to come 13th and 14th. From out of the
metaphorical and personal gloom flew a
shaggy haired hero. Duncan was only
held back at 35th by failing to adequately
manager; have all your cheques stamped
with the message 'stamp out third world
debt now'; pick up a leaflet, buy or
browse through a selection of books, food
and craft products from T h i r d World
producer groups; talk to us.
2. A talk on the debt crisis by Rob
Wilkinson of the W o r l d Development
Movement on Thursday 21 February from
12.45-1.45pm in M e c h E n g 542.
3. Follow-up to the letter writing
campaign will take place during our
weekly meetings o n Fridays at 12.45pm
in Southside Upper Lounge.
Peck cunningly and cruelly manipulates
both Raymond's emotions and his wife.
The interplay between the two men is
frequently electric. Come along and see it
next Thursday, 21 February, at 7.30pm in
Mech Eng 220.
time hisJoiorhythms with his menstrual
cycle, a gross lack of professionalism
from an otherwise perfectly prepared
athlete. Next, in quasi gurka fashion,
were Dave, Ian and Jolly Bobby in 50th,
51st and 52nd. Our Asian disciple then
returned spurting blood, while Dave
splendidly larded himself into all but last.
O n the girlie front, Edwige continued her
continental assault to come 2nd, while
Helen, with her terrific team spirit, came
11th and left immediately. Male Bonding
was forged in the A n v i l of Siberia when
the course markers had to be collected
on a windswept and desloate wasteland
which days before had been recognisable
as Richmond Park. Such is life at the
top...
Film - Internal Affairs
Cross Country
11

