Ken Livingstone Speaks
Ken Livingstone, Labour MP, attended the
Labour party Anti-War meeting on
Tuesday. Professor Steven Rose, a
recognised expert on chemical warfare
and formerly at the biochemistry
department of Imperial College opened
the meeting.
Professor Rose examined the role of
biological and chemical weapons are
playing in the Gulf Conflict. He said that
western governments had not competely
removed their stockpile of chemical
weapons, all of which are illegal under
international laws. He added that western
governments had failed to condemn
President Hussein's chemical attacks on
the Kurdish population.
Commenting on the possible threat of
biological weapons being used by Iraq he
said that they 'don't make military sense'
and that a biological attack would 'have a
beginning but absolutely no end.'
Professor Rose described the war as an
'unmitigated disaster environmentally' and
added that the United Nations resolution
was 'a fig leaf of respectability to cover
up the nakedness pf US imperialism'.
He went on to say ' a continued western
presence in the Gulf after the war would
be a constant expense to us and an
irritation to A r a b nationalism.'
Ken Livingstone said that the reason for
the relatively small size of th6 peace
movement in Britain as compared to the
US could be blamed upon the uniquely
conservative British press. He added that
there was nothing like economic decline
to precipitate the smashing of a third
world regime, and that w e only had to
look back at the Falklands to see the
readiness to beat the war drum.
'Massive economic forces' were behind
this war as the result of the 'Open door'
policies drawn up b y the US at the turn
of the century w h i c h stated that all
obstacles to the expansion of the US
economy should be removed. This policy,
Mend-a-Bake
PETER THOMAS
BICYCLE
REPAIRS
SALES
A N D
ACCESSORIES
4-6 Effle Road
Fulham, London SW6
071-371 5867
TD
according to Mr Livingstone, 'laid down
the pattern of US foreign policy' for the
best part of this century.
The present economic system meant
that 'the whole world supports the US'
either directly or indirectly because of the
need to trade in dollars. The present
problems were signs of 'resistance' that
are emerging, said Mr Livingstone.
Quoting statistics, Mr Livingstone said
that 2 2 % of the world's population was
now in economic decline in real terms, as
compared to only 3 % in the 1960s and
70s.
M r Livingstone went on to say that
'eventually the Arab nations will be
reunited, and it would be better to have
them as friends' and 'the Arabs will have
to solve their own problems in their o w n
way—we can't solve them for them'.
M r Livingstone was asked how he could
'reconcile his views in the Middle East
with his support for Sinn Fein' to which
he replied that Sinn Fein had received
the overwhelming support of the Irish
people in the only free election that had
occurred in Ireland this century. W h e n
challenged that Sinn Feinn supports the
killing of innocent people, Mr Livingstone
replied that he did not, but that every
British government did.
M r Livingstone was asked to what
extent he thought that the Americans had
planned the w a r before the Iraqi invasion
of Kuwait. He replied that he did not
think that it was premeditated because
the whole affair had the 'ingredients of a
cock-up' and was an unexpected
opportunity for the West t o reassert its
influence in the World.
W h e n asked w h y Neil Kinnock and the
Labour front bench seemed to be toeing
the Tory line on the war he answered
that he could not comment because 'Neil
hasn't spoken to me since 1986' but that
he had fared better than T o n y Benn to
w h o m Neil Kinnock hadn't spoken since
Sabbatical
Elections
The election papers for the four
sabbatical posts of Imperial College Union
are going up this Monday. The posts open
are President, Deputy President,
Honorary Secretary and F E L I X Editor.
Candidates must have a proposer and a
full list of seconders b y Friday 1st March,
when the papers come down. Hustings
are on the 7th March and Elections on
the 11th and 12th. A l l prospective
candidates should come to the F E L I X
Office as soon as possible to discuss and
arrange their publicity requirements.
1984.
Ken Livingstone finished b y saying that
'I'm not a fan of fundamentalism but I
recognise its force as representing a
ground swell of change amongst the
ordinary A r a b people'.
He described Britain as 'the most
backward of all Western democracies—a
real backwater'. The only w a y to improve
the situation was to cut the ties with a
heritage of a declining empire.
He described the 'special relationship'
between Britain and the US as the ' P M
licking the President's arse and getting a
21 gun salute'.
National
Theatre
Trip
The National Theatre opens its doors to
students on Wednesday 20th February.
The trip will involve a backstage tour
of the three theatres and will leave Beit
Quad at 5.00pm. If interested, contact
Dramsoc on extension 3531 as soon,as
possible, as places are limited.
3

