Short Time
Short Time is about a cop on the
edge...oops, sorry, a cop with a
short time left both on the beat and
in his life. Said cop is one Burt Simpson
(either a desperate publicity bid or a gaffe
of vast and degenerate proportions) and
all his life he has lived for the future,
planning for his kid's Harvard education
and his own long-term financial security.
After a mix-up at the doctor's (doesn't it
always happen to you, boys 'n' girls?)
Burt is told, to his dismay, that he has
only a few weeks to live and, even
worse, that his life insurance only pays
up if he gets wasted in action. So bearing
in mind 111* Dougie's future Burt sets out
to kill himself, provoking m u c h
bemusement from his mild-mannered
partner, played by Mat Frewer in a
frantic effort to escape type-casting as a
robot video jockey (and thus missing out
on a lucrative contract with MTV). If I
wanted to damn this movie I need say
nothing more now than there follows a
series of touching tableaux as Burt
confronts his true feelings, as well as his
bumbling attempts to commit suicide on
the beat, invariably (and naturally) ending
in commendations for heroism. However
this would be unfair, since it would
ignore the startling similarities between
this and the other parent-kiddy-love film
out this week (see elsewhere this issue).
First of all we are treated to another
bizarre Sesame Street crossover since
Burt's partner is named Ernie and, being
played by Frewer, he bears more than a
slight resemblance to the Great Yellow
One both in character and looks. I cannot
bring myself to believe this is accidental.
Secondly, in both, we are treated to
acting performances w h i c h scrape the
edge of saccharine sentimentality without
actually taking the plunge and thirdly, do
we end up rootin' for the hero pop kids ?
Yep, I think so; by the end of the movie
Burt has so efficiently turned his life
around that I was praying he didn't
destroy the 12 certificate by actually
snuffing it. Or does he ?
Short Time is alternately fairly moving,
if you're easily moved, fairly exciting, if
you're easily excited, and amusing, even
if you're a miserable sod (Would the real
A l a n Bailey please stand up?). A film
greater than the sum of its parts.
The Flying Gerbil
The Crop
The Crop, winner of three Critic's
Prizes at the Brighton Film
Conference for Best Foreign Film,
Best New Director and Best Supporting
Actor opens in Britain on February 15th.
It is a masterfully sombre reworking of
the great Yugoslav director Varschek's
Hard Winter (Die Unglucklischewinter);
the director has made his debut with a
compassionate and moving portrayal of a
simple potato farmer before the outbreak
of hostilities in the First W o r l d War.
Perter Weinstag (better k n o w n as Ralph
Malph in Happy Days) commands the
screen with a presence reminiscent of the
early work of Fritz Lang as he fights to
raise-his people from the earth to a land
he calls Glucklichuberalles (the land of
love). Unfortunately for Perter, the
w o m a n he loves, Falia (played by Glenda
Jackson) is pregnant with the bastard son
of the Burgermeister (Vincent Price). The
roots of Perter's faith are tested in a
moving scene intercut with Falia's
seduction, w h i c h swirls with barely
restrained eroticism. Perter is forced to
lead the villagers on a quest across the
Siberian steppe in search of his vision, in
a trek that brings hardship and pain to
those he loves. In a dramatic avalanche
sequence Falia is crippled in the third
month of her pregnancy; a potato blight
threatens the very stability of the village.
(Die Kroppe)
With stout direction from Jon Pertwee,
proving himself more than simply a fine
actor, this film leaves the viewer's mind
full of complex resonances w h i c h persist
long after the film has ended. When Falia
gives birth to the two headed fish (in a
dream sequence handled with a m i n i m u m
of taste) after eating a bad potato, the
villagers ostracize her, calling her 'The
Bad One' and the viewer is left full of
guilt but also anger.
The film is a stark metaphor for our
times, from its metaphysical use of the
potato as a symbol for fornication to the
prolonged (sometimes several minutes)
shots of empty fields. Pertwee's crisp
direction gives a challenging and
sometimes frankly disturbing insight into
one man's love for his root vegetable.
The Crop is also rich in incidental detail;
try and spot Clive Dunn in a rare cameo
role as Stalin, or the moment briefly
glimpsed where Tarkin tries to sell Perter
a hard core porn video. Unfortunately the
film is marred by the clownish buffoonery
of Una Stubbs, appearing as the naive
and voluptuous daughter of Dienstag
(Lionel Blair), although the sequence in
which she is dragged away by the
merciless agents of the secret police
(Frank Muir and Arthur Marshall) is
strikingly effective.
Although shot in black and white, and
distracting at times with the poor Italian
translation of the Serbo-Croat dialogue,
The Crop is an unmissable treat for
students of the tuber, and a treasure for
generations to come.
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine
A n d Friend.
4

