The Adventures of
Ford
Fairlane
A n d r e w Dice Clay is an American
comedian who specialises in the
new breed of hate comedy.
To launch him as a movie star in a
mainstream comedy/action film, such as
this, may seem to be something of a bad
move. A n d indeed it is.
Ford Fairlane is an A m e r i c a n comic
strip detective (is it just me, or does this
sound familiar?) who specialises in Rock
'n' Roll. He gets involved in a plot w h i c h
is either so (a) complex or (b) badly
written, that I didn't understand a word
of it. However, it does involve a brainless
bimbette, 3 CD's, a record producer who
pisses in the punch, Jimi Hendrix's guitar,
a penis called Stanley, the lead singer of
a heavy metal band, an explosive
microwave and a koala. F o r d does very
little actual detective work, preferring to
profane, punch and pucker his way
through the film, while his red-headed
bombshell of a secretary solves the case
(and gets thrown out of the window).
Despite the above, the film is not as
good as it sounds. There is potential both
in the script, despite the ridiculously
sentimental ending, and in Clay's
performance, but they are both badly let
down by gross directorial mishandling.
The director, Renny Harlin, is best k n o w n
for his work in action movies, and it
shows. The crashes and fights are superb,
but many of the best lines lost.
There is some potential for a cult
following here, but otherwise a
potentially good movie seems
condemmed to sink without trace.
Pendragon.
Flesh Gordon 2
Flesh G o r d o n Meets the Cosmic Cheerleaders
Emperor W a n g managed to survive
the cataclysmic explosion on the
planet Porno and has now
reappeared on the Ice Planet with the
Frigid Queen. Further research and
extensive tests with the sex ray have
now produced the Impotance Ray, w h i c h
he uses on a nearby planet. Here the
Cheerleaders of Cosmic High, faced with
an unsatisfied sex drive go in search of
the most virile member of the human
race—Flesh Gordon.
They kidnap Flesh from Dale's loving
clutches, forcing Dale and our old friend
Flexi Jerkoff to persue Flesh in a
spaceship powered by the energy of
copulating chickens, facing the dangers of
an a s s - t e r o i d belt and the chickens
running out of steam, they finally meet
up with Flesh and the Cosmic
Cheerleaders in the land of the T u r d
People.
Escaping to the Ice Planet they have to
stop Wang from bathing the Earth in
impotance radiation so strong that Flesh
is in danger from it, though it would be
too late for him as his organ would have
been transplanted.
I think that sums up the plot, w h i c h on
paper is funny and, indeed, the film has a
few good funny lines to offer. While the
acting is abysmal, the are models
amusing and in several cases very crude.
Unfortunatly, it has totally lost the spirit
that the first film had and is nothing
more than a cheap sequel. If you like
seeing big tits on the big screen this is
your film, otherwise don't go and see it!
Killer Bob.
— F i l m
Men at Work
O h dear. A movie written and
directed by Emilio Estevez, and
—
starring himself and his brother,
Charlie Sheen. W h o are they playing?
Garbage men. What do they do? Find a
dead body. What do they do with it?
Carry it around with them, along with a
mad Vietnam vet and a kidnapped Pizza
man. Meanwhile Carl (Mr Sheen) is
making the dead man's campaign
manager fall in love with him, by using
his knowledge of her, gleaned from
watching her in her apartment, by means
of a pair of binoculars. Uh-huh.
This film should have been really bad.
It nearly makes it, but the principals have
enough feckless charm to sustain the
thing, at least for an undemanding
adolescent audience. In its favour, it
initially avoids going straight for the
w h a m bang action approach, instead
opting for something that is a fairly close
imitation of character development. But
not that close.
The twists are obvious, the jokes
simplistically funny, and the climax, well,
silly. There are worrying homophobic
undertones in the treatment of the
policemen, and the Vietnam vet, although
getting all the best lines, is not exactly
sympathetically handled. Admittedly, I did
laugh occasionally. But not that much.
Not great.
Pendragon.

