Roland Flowerdew uncovers a barking vicar, a potato inspector
and a man who thinks he's Robin Hood.
Eccentrics
'Are you eccentric? If you think you are,
or know someone who may be, contact
Dr David Weeks at the Royal Edinburgh
Hospital.' This message was on cards
displayed around Edinburgh, when Dr
Weeks decided to investigate eccentrics
and eccentricity in 1984.
His ultimate aim was, and still is, to
look at the thought processes of
schizophrenics, whose brains seem to
function in a sort of secret code,
intelligible to no-one but themselves.
Instead of jumping in at the deep end, Dr
Weeks tackled the lesser, but equally
interesting, problem of eccentrics.
What makes an eccentric eccentric? A n
eighteenth century Scots laird suddenly
decided to take to his bed. A couple of
years later, he heard that Bonnie Prince
Charlie had landed in Scotland,
whereupon he jumped to his feet
declaring 'I'll arise the noo'. He was later
found in bed between two nubile serving
women, who, he said, were simply to
keep him w a r m .
There is the case of the Englishman
who decided to corner the rice market in
San Francisco. To further this end, he
bought up the entire rice stocks of the
city, with the intent to sell it at a profit
later. Unfortunately, several clippers
carrying rice sailed into the harbour, so
the bottom fell out of the market.
Suffering from shock, he declared himself
emperor of the United States of America.
The cards displayed around Edinburgh
generated newspaper, then radio and
television interest in eccentricity, w h i c h
enabled a large number of people to hear
about the investigation. This technique is
k n o w n as multi-media sampling.
Simultaneously, Dr Weeks used the 'snow-
ball' method, where friends are asked to
ask other friends if they k n o w any
eccentrics. The other friends ask their
friends and so on, until a whole chain is
built up. Over two years, these two
methods asked an estimated 30 million
people in Britain whether they were, or
knew any eccentrics. This sampling figure
is only exceeded by the national census
in scope.
Some have questioned the validity of
these selection methods, saying that they
are unscientific and open to abuse. This is
partly true; however, Dr Weeks needed
to locate eccentrics, rather than conduct
an opinion poll. The fact that his sample
size was so large means that it is unlikely
to be unrepresentative of the whole
population.
Following up the returns from this
survey, Dr Weeks and his team came
across the following:
• T h e man w h o invented the 'Balloon
Wire Strategic Defence Initiative'; a plan
to surround Edinburgh with balloons
armed with lasers connected to vibration
sensors. His idea was that, in the event of
a nuclear strike, the lasers w o u l d
neutralise the radioactivity. However, the
I
same person has come up with other,
more practical, inventions.
• The militarist, with 30 model tanks
across his living-room floor. He had taken
to his bed to read books o n military
history. During the interview, he pulled
out a hand grenade and asked
'Frightened, dearie?'
• T h e vicar of a church in Berkshire, who
barks during sermons to liven things up.
• T h e old lady who said 'I'm trying to
become a cultivated enigma.'
• A n o t h e r old lady, who added another
Beatitude to those given in the Sermon
on the Mount: 'Blessed are the cracked,
for they shall let in the light.'
• The potato inspector, w h o eats nothing
but potatoes, and goes on potato holidays
to Peru.
• The man who works for the Ministry of
Defence. However, in his spare time he
identifies with Robin Hood, to such an
extent that he walks around complete
with bow and arrow, and dressed in
Lincoln green.
What distinguishes these people from
the 'man-in-the-street'? The study found
that eccentrics are enormously creative,
and many have vivid dreams. Although
they know that the rest of the world
considers them peculiar, they have the
self-confidence to ignore others. This non-
conformism means that they are
remarkably free from stress, which in
FEATURES
turn means that they are incredibly
healthy: the average eccentric visits his
doctor twenty times less frequently than
his 'normal' compatriot.
Eccentrics usually start becoming
eccentric fairly early in life, from about
seven years old and upwards. Frequently
their parents are or were fairly strong
disciplinarians, but this may be because of
the behaviour of their children. There is
often a history of eccentricity in the
families of eccentrics.
Eccentrics are also extremely curious
and highly motivated. Although some of
their ideas may be 'wacky', many could
be put to good use, but only if people
stop dismissing them as being stupid.
Eccentrics feel invisible to the rest of the
world - for m u c h of the time they enjoy
this, because it allows them to get on
with their lives without m u c h
interference. However, people tend to
overlook them as contributors to the
benefit of m a n k i n d . This they find
irritating, because one of the main
motivations for an eccentric is to improve
the lot of others. They often feel that
they are ahead of their time and that the
rest of the w o r l d is out of step with them.
Most eccentrics are male, but the
number of female eccentrics is increasing,
probably because of the increasing
independence of women. It seems that
female eccentrics tend to become so later
in life than the males: Dr Weeks found
that they tended to get married and raise
children, then they 'get rid' of their
husbands and restart their lives with an
amazing burst of creativity.
Dr Weeks considers that society needs
eccentrics. Their ability to cast off
preconceptions and ignore conventions
means that they can produce radical
ideas which can be put to good use. He
also draws parallels between the high
occurrence of eccentrics in Britain and
British creativity. Over half the world's
new commercially-adopted ideas and
inventions come from Britain. He says
'Eccentricity is essential if society is to
have a sufficient variability within itself to
adapt successfully to changing conditions.'
IZIT
+
HIPJOINTS
Free before 9.45pm
then £2.50 or £1 (Ents card)
BAR TIL lam
DISCO TIL 1.50am

