Rufus Isaacs and Fizz Marsh report on Saki-Winki and Bearded Sakis from Kurupukari on the Essequibo.
U Expedition Guyana '90
The Guyana '90 Expedition was born two
years ago when a poster appeared on the
Life Sciences noticeboard saying, 'Anyone
want to go to Brazil?'. It was an
opportunity far too good to miss,
although the Brazilians were less than
keen to have seven biologists witnessing
the treatment of their forests. So we
plumped for Guyana, a tiny country, also
in the A m a z o n i a n Basin, north of Brazil,
w h i c h is 8 0 % rainforest. G u y a n a '90 was
an ecological conservation minded
expedition to study the flora and fauna of
the tropical forests. No one seemed to
have studied the forest there since David
Attenborough in 1957, and earnest
organisation for the trip began.
First stop was an overnight stay in
Trinidad, our introduction to the laid back
Carribean life, r u m punch, calypso,
mosquitos and mind-numbing heat. Next
morning, a quick flight took us over the
coast of South A m e r i c a . Trees stretched
everywhere beneath us, except where the
snaking brown rivers cut through the
dense green carpet; a breathtaking first
glimpse of what was to become our
home.
W e took a taxi from the airport into
the capital (and only) city, Georgetown,
where 8 0 % of the Guyanese people live.
He took us into the hubbub of
Georgtown's market square. Here, full of
excitement and a naive wonder at the
foreign surroundings, we watched in
stunned disbelief as a defenceless old man
was robbed of his bag by a teenage thief
w h o leaped just out of his reach, laughing
with the c r o w d who stood by. Water
Street, we found out later, was not a
place to go shopping alone. Going out
anywhere alone or at night was a bad
idea, as 'whities' were sitting ducks for
the bandits. During a pleasant evening
stroll in the tropical air on the first night,
four of us were robbed by a couple of
broken bottle waving yobs. While we
were in Georgetown we saw very few
Europeans on the streets.
Part of the reason for the tense
atmosphere is the very unstable political
situation, as most of the population are of
East Indian descent, but governed by
West Indians, unsympathetic to their
needs. The Peoples National Party
government have been accused of ballot
rigging in the past, and the people are
demanding free and fair elections this
time. Riots and racial friction are
increasing as the elections, due any time,
approach.
The city itself, once a corner of the
Commonwealth, still retains much of the
past; the statue of Queen Vic, the grand
buildings of the High Court and St
Georges Cathedral and rattling Morris
Minors. Almost every building in Guyana
is wooden and on stilts, as the land is
mostly beneath sea level and prone to
flooding. In the city centre, impressive
St
FELIX
elaborate whitewashed houses several
stories high line the broad Parisian-style
streets with grassy central walkways,
shaded by scarlet flowering flame trees.
The rich suburban areas along the sea
wall contrast strikingly w i t h the poorer
quarters where muddy potholed roads
thread through the r u n d o w n shacks and
children play around stagnant drains and
decaying rubbish heaps.
Having expected to be at our study site
within a week, the problems we had
organising food, equipment, permission
and transport delayed departure a second
week. The smiling Guyanese officials
wanted to help, but their inbred love of
red tape and bureaucracy was a constant
obstacle to progress. In between daily
meetings we were invited to teach at
local schools. At primary schools, we
shouted to be heard above the clamour of
hundreds of chattering children, drawing
a tree with monkeys, snakes and parrots
to illustrate our talk on very basic
rainforest ecology.
Departure day dawned on the 17th
October and w e headed for our
destination, Kurupukari, 200 miles south
of Georgetown on the Essequibo River,
where, we were realiably informed a
pontoon would carry us across the river.
W e travelled in a Toyota Landcruiser
driven by the mad Rastafarian, Mr
Baptiste, who insisted on stopping for
several beers before breakfast and
laughed and swore riotously for the entire
journey. The equipment was packed into
a Mercedes U n i m o g lorry with huge
wheels, looking like it could get
anywhere through anything. Our driver,
Elvis, held the landspeed record for the
journey, and he was warning us how bad
the journey was. None of us believed
him.
The 200 miles to Kurupukari took a
tortuous nine hours. Houses turned to
fields and as the tarmac ended and the
forest began a feeling of great excitement
gripped us all. This was what we had
come to see. The cruiser went in front
while the U n i m o g lumbered behind,
squeezing between the trees w h i c h
hugged the narrow road a n d poked their
branches through the windows. The most
serious obstacles were the swamps. Both
vehicles got stuck and we had to wade in
the m u d to clear logs and attach the
winch before they could be freed.
Eventually a shell-shocked team fell
from the vehicles into a small clearing at
the edge of the Essequibo at Kurupukari.
There was no village and no pontoon
(dismay!). The site was occupied by the
Canadian Y o u t h Challenge International
group (YCI), w h o told us that the pontoon
had been broken for two years, but there
was an Amerindian settlement across the
river.
Well, we chatted to the YCI gang, then
went for our first blissful swim. W e were
assured that the Pirhana only came out at
night, but something bit a hole in a
swimming cozzie! W e staggered around
trying to cook dinner in an exhausted
stupour, and in the end strung up our
hammocs for our first night beneath the
stars.
The following day, we had our first
encounter w i t h the Amerindians. Jonas, a
short, dark triangular torsoed man with
wiry dark hair and a solemn expression
paddled some of us across the river to
search for a study site. Alighting by some
beautiful rapids, our guide led us up a
small grassy hill through lime trees and
coconut palms to the village. This
comprised of several wooden palm-
thatched huts on stilts, seemingly
occupied by only a few chickens. W e
were met by Captain Andrez, the 68 year
old boss of the village. A bright eyed,
round faced, loquacious m a n who
welcomed us eagerly. He took us to the
small wooden stilted school building, built
by Operation Raliegh in 1988, unused
dim and the air relatively cool. It was
incredibly silent, the atmosphere soothing
and secure, the ancient grey trunked
trees were the epitomy of complete
serenity. The only sounds were the
whistling and calling of the birds above,
the periodic squawk of macaws, the
buzzing of wasps and the helicopter whir
of the Hermit humming birds that darted
around, sometimes only inches from our
faces.
We saw several species of monkeys,
often disturbing their feeding and seeing
a rustling branch in the canopy. With
much patience, their bright orange, long
haired bodies could be viewed as they
moved slowly and carefully between
trees. The extremely rare Black Spider
Monkeys were even more timid. Although
initially inquisitive, they seemed to
evaporate into the leaves once disturbed.
In contrast, Capuchins were obstreperous
creatures, screeching and swinging from
tree to tree throwing debris down to
since the government had not provided a
teacher. After a couple of hours looking
at possible campsites in the forest, we
decided to stay in the schoolhouse and
walk in to the forest every day to work.
D a w n started each day with the distant
roaring of the Howler Monkeys shouting
across the mist shrouded tree-tops. The
m a m m a l trappers would go off before
breakfast to check their traps. Things
weren't always easy; mammals were
elusive and not inclined to be trapped.
This was all rather conducive to nervous
breakdown but fortunately Jacuzzis in the
rapids and the delight of wandering
through the virgin forest in our spare
time kept us sane.
Huge buttressed trees, towered
majestically straight up into the dense
canopy. Thick woody vines spiralled
around branches and trunks. Here and
there a tree had toppled over slightly, still
held up by other trees and creepers, but
letting shafts of sunlight sparkle through
the green. Otherwise the light was quite
chase us away. W e also caught sight of
large troupes of Squirrel Monkeys, or
Saki-Winki, and Bearded Sakis.
The Amerindians were very hospitable;
Augustine, the master fisherman would
bring us fish each morning from the
previous night's moonlit hunt. Other
villagers brought us sweet bananas,
refreshing coconuts, berries and fresh
lemons and limes. W e ate like kings and
only resorted to eating rodents
occasionally! E v e n the children, who
were initially terrified of our strange
white skin, soon greeted us shyly,
offering rats and insects w h i c h they had
caught, to help us with our studies. They
also let us in on their tree secrets, sniffing
bark and snapping twigs to identify them,
sometimes offering gems of stories about
the medicinal or food uses of the plants.
We became especially close to Captain
A n d r e z — k n o w n as Captain because of his
unquestionable knowledge of the river.
He passed us very early every morning
on his way to the fields beyond the
school, where crops of cassava, yams,
peas and sugar cane were tended by the
villagers. He would often visit us for
breakfast on Sunday (his only day off) or
in the evenings when he could be
persuaded to take a shot of rum, w h i c h
made him even more talkative than
usual. A very religious man, of high
morals, the Captain had an opinion about
everything, from the trivial e.g. a w o m a n
with a first toe longer than the others will
make a bossy wife, to the deeply
philosophical, 'No matter how hard they
look, scientists will never find God'. He
talked endlessly on history, politics, war,
science, farming, conservation, love and
religion with astounding knowledge,
considering he didn't even have a radio
and posessed no books. H e would
invariably end up on the subject of the
new road from Brazil w h i c h was planned
to run past Kurupukari cutting through
the forest to the coast, and was reputedly
progressing rapidly at a rate of 10km a
week, much to the Captain's obvious
dismay. He loathed Brazilians and was
appalled at the prospect of the road and
the havoc it would bring to his peaceful
village.
After three weeks at Kurupukari, we
met with a team from the Ministry of
Agriculture and Wildlife, w h o were
surveying the Black Caimen population
(very big alligators with sharp teeth
which we weren't scared of at all!). They
warned us that the imminent November
rains could leave us stranded beyond the
impassable swamps. The Captain
confidently predicted from the colour of
the moon's halo that the rains would
come late, if at all this year. In fact,
spending Christmas with the Amerindians
was quite inviting, but after much debate
we decided for safety's sake to pack up
and wade,through the swamps to drier
forest. After getting settled into life at this
idyllic site it was hard to leave, after the
last swim and final farewells we
clambered back onto the Landcruisers
and headed for the next camp.
v
Site 2, at a place called M i m u , was set
in a white sandy clearing, by an ice-cold
magenta coloured creek. The land was
owned by Demerrara Woods Timber Co.,
who operate small-scale selective felling.
A team of their foresters w h o lived in a
palm-thatched hut by the creek, helped us
build shelters from w o o d a n d tarpaulin,
using the ubiquitous, razor sharp
cutlasses—one for hammocks, the other
as a kitchen/communal room. We were
soon back into the routine of work, with
help from the Guyanese wildlife team.
Monkeys were arguably more abundant
here and we definitely saw more snakes
(no fatalities though). Our nearby creek
was found to be the night time haunt of a
young Spectacled Caimen w h i c h we
disturbed one evening. Fresh footprints
on the road each morning prompted
night-time searches for Jaguars, but they
sensibly kept out of sight. Signs of tapir,
deer, anteater, agouti and labba were also
seen on our travels.
Being next to the jungle track, we were
often visited by passing travellers,
particularly 'pork knockers'. These
wandering gold and gem prospectors,
getting their interesting name from their
survival on bush pig meat w h i c h they
tenderise by bashing with hammers. They
live a rough life, always o n the scrounge
for food and tobacco and always ready to
strike a deal. Notorious for their sticky
fingers they set the camp on edge when
they arrived and often left in the dead of
night, sometimes with more than they
came with the price of their raw gold was
too good to pass up and we each bought
a pennyweight—enough for one ring.
About a week into our stay at Miku, we
saw the first traffic from Brazil pass by,
indicating that the new road had been
completed. It was disturbing to imagine
the changes to Kurupukari where we had
been so recently.
After another ten days, the November
rains began, in infrequent showers, but
becoming daily more fast and furious.
Our last few evenings were spent
frantically digging gutters to divert the
torrents. O n the last night, the weight of
water collected in the roof and split a
massive hole in the tarpaulin, convincing
us that it was time to leave.
W i t h both vehicles piled high with
bodies and equipment, we slipped our
way back towards Georgetown, sorry to
leave our beautiful home, but looking
forward to a hot shower a n d cold beer.
After seven weeks in the forest, the
unfamiliar sights of buildings and crowds
of people turned Georgetown into a
Manhattan in our eyes. Mirrors, running
water, toilets, walls, ceilings, doors and
stairs, beds, pavements and traffic all
seemed bizarre. The culture shock was
eased a little by a night in an air-
conditioned hotel with a superb meal, but
it still took some time to adjust.
Georgetown seemed like a different city
now that we had Guyanese friends to
take us around. W e went raving at
reggae street parties and clubs, squeezing
in with wild dancing locals. Shopping for
souvenirs at markets, we now paid
Guyanese prices, often half what we
previously paid.
Mark Johnson, who masterminded
Guyana '90 is already organising
expeditions for 1992 to G u y a n a and
Trinidad. We strongly advise anyone who
is interested and doesn't m i n d snakes,
crocodiles, pirhana or nasty skin invading
parasites (didn't tell you about that one)
to jump at the chance of being involved.
DIARY D A T E : The G u y a n a '90 will be
telling their story with slides on the
evening of Feb 21, in Beit W2/3. Cheese
and Wine. Look out for posters.

