F E L I X F R I D A Y 7 T H F E B R U A R Y COLUMNS 11
Westminster Eye - Hamish Common
Tony Blair had a rather uncomfort-
able interview last Monday. He was
interviewed by Daphne Barak, little
known over here, but a celebrity tele-
vision personality on the other side of
the pond. His problems stemmed
from the immense similarity between
Blair and Clinton, and the accusation
that Blair had been cribbing ideas on
policy and presentation from the
American President. It seems that he
was being led into the trap, for when
he was asked what he thought of
descriptions of himself as "the
English Clinton" he replied that there
were "obvious similarities" between
them. "I think that American politics
and British politics are very different,
but some of the things are the same
that we're trying to do - putting edu-
cation, welfare [and] tougher policy
on crime high on the agenda and
being very determined to make sure
that our countries are outward-look-
ing." He also denied being advised
by George Stephanopoulos but
emphasised again his close relations
with the Democrats.
Since the debacle in 1992 when the
Conservatives sent strategists and
advisers to help the Republicans
(many Tories were shocked by such
obviously crass behaviour) the new
Clinton administration has had
decidedly cool relations with Britain,
only warming in the last 18 months.
Clinton is known to want to punish
the Conservatives for their past
behaviour and has quietly supported
Labour during the past few years.
The two men gave a show of close-
ness at Blair's visit to the White
House last April when it was pointed
out they are both Oxford-educated
lawyers who married lawyers, with
each pushing their respective parties
towards the centre-ground. Since
Clinton's re-election, Labour offi-
cials have been privately hinting that
senior Clinton advisers such as
George Stephanopoulos may agree
to help in the Labour campaign, in
fact many of them have been keeping
in close contact with the administra-
tion in recent years. This enthusiasm
does not seem to be shared however,
as many White House insiders
believe that the relationship between
the two leaders is not as close as
Labour would like to think. This has
made Blair's humbling American
interview even more humiliating: it
would be difficult for the President to
have a great deal of respect for some-
one who is so desperately trying to be
like him.
The interviewer, Daphne Barak, had
been scathing about the Labour
leader, saying that she knew as little
about Blair after the interview as she
did before. "Clinton is more than just
a hair-do. What ever his mistakes, at
least he has charisma. When I asked
Tony Blair what he wanted to do, he
kept saying he wanted change, but he
didn't seem to know what to change.
There doesn't seem to be a message
there. He may be any average politi-
cian but I don't see him as a leader."
The same CBS programme empha-
sised other examples of Labour's
imitation of the Democrats, describ-
ing him as "Tony Blinton". NBC got
in on the act too, screening a cynical
interview of him to coincide with
CBS.
Although there is some substance to
these accusations from the American
media - Tony Blair cut his teeth on
his plagiarism skills with Tory poli-
cies - Blair is probably more a victim
of the Brit-bashing our American
friends like to perform occasionally.
John Major has certainly had his fair
share with unflattering comparisons
with Margaret Thatcher and the usual
abuse from the strong Irish-
American lobby. It is probably better
for Blair to make these mistakes
now, for a failed attempt to suck up
to the Americans doesn't look good
on any Prime Ministerial curriculum
vitae.

