4 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 7TH FEBRUARY
PHOTO: IVAN
Conservative Stephen Norris MP (left) having an informal chat with members of the Conservative Society on
Wednesday. The MP spoke for an hour to a meeting of the society, covering topics such as the battle for the lead-
ership of the Conservative Party and the Tory divisions on Europe.
Internet purchasing facilities to hit IC
V A S K O R B A S A K
A pilot run for purchasing equipment
over the internet is soon to arrive for
Imperial College members. The main
intention of the service is to replace
orders for college equipment to third
party suppliers.
At the moment, there is only infor-
mation concerning the purchase of
personal computers. However, this is
hoped to be expanded to include sta-
tionery, gas cylinders and chemical
supplies, as well as printing and pho-
tocopying services all available over
the internet. Full purchasing facilities
are expected to be available after
adequate security procedures have
been implemented. Co-ordinators of
the pilot state the advantages of the
service to be speedier response for
orders, cost savings for the college
by the reduction of paperwork and
easy access to the latest catalogue of
products over the internet.
Speaking to Felix, Mr James
Bayley, Procurement Systems
Officer, said that there would be no
security risks involved in transac-
tions across the internet, since Secure
Socket Layers (SSL) and encryption
techniques would be used, and the
facilities would only be available
from within the Imperial College
computing network
Currently, only the Union
Bookshop on the Sherfield walkway
and the Kodak centre in the Electrical
Engineering Department can receive
orders over the internet.
Medics'
independence
continued from front page
the Easter vocation, when rooms
there are not going to be rent out.
The issue of top-up fees was also
brought up. Professor Swanson
assured all those present that the
College has no plan to introduce
such charges in the near future. He
warned, however, there is the possi-
bility that all institutions may be
instructed to do so by the govern-
ment. The earliest this can happen
will be in 1998, after the new
intakes have been informed of this
in the new prospectus. However, no
present students of the College will
be affected. The suggestion that the
College might start bringing in top-
up fees just to keep itself on par with
the rest of the so called "Ivy
League" universities such as UCL,
and LSE was strongly refuted by
Professor Swanson, who said that
they would only be forced to do so
under financial pressure.
The medics' concern about their
future was reflected by their high
attendance at the session, which was
generally felt to be productive. They
were pleased to learn that the sub-
vention of their future student union
has been secured and the indepen-
dence of their clubs and societies
guaranteed.
Both aspects are seen as crucial in
maintaining the sense of identity
among the medics after the merger.
The willingness of Professor
Swanson to discuss matters further
was welcome by all those who were
present.
H E F C E c u t s f u n d i n g t o l o w - r a t e d d e p a r t m e n t s
ALOK J H A
The Higher Education Funding
Council for England has decided on
the weightings it will use for the dis-
tribution of funds to universities and
colleges for the coming year. A big
difference this year will be that none
of the £680m will be going to depart-
ments rated at 1 or 2 in he recent
Research Assessment Exercise.
The decision to cut the low-rated
departments out of the funding for-
mula was made when the two bodies
that used to fund higher education,
the University Funding Council and
the Polytechnics Funding Council
were merged to form HEFCE a few
years ago. HEFCE originally contin-
ued to fund departments rated at 1 or
2 so that they could improve their rat-
ing in time for the funding water-
shed. A spokesman from HEFCE
said that any other way of doing
things would have been 'unfair' on
the old polytechnics which may not
have had research departments of
particularly high standards when
they became universities. An addi-
tional fund was set up for this pur-
pose, the Development Research
(Dev-R), although this is now being
phased out.
When asked whether not provid-
ing money to low-rated departments
would leave them stranded and there-
fore not able to become a 'good'
department, the HEFCE press offi-
cer, Philip Walker, stressed the need
to be selective about its decisions due
to their limited budget. He said that
there was no point in spreading
money thinly over all the universities
but instead to concentrate it on the
ones that carried out the best research
since that was the best way to benefit
society. This view is echoed by Dr.
Rodney Eastwood, finance planning
officer at Imperial College, which
was amongst the top-scoring colleges
in the country. He said there was "no
point in giving money to second best
research" and that it would be better
spent at "international" departments
such as the ones at IC. As a result of
the last RAE, Imperial would not be
affected by HEFCE's decision.
The reaction from universities
which didn't do score so well last
year has been critical, as expected.
Although they cannot get much
money from HEFCE, they are look-
ing to a replacement for the Dev-R,
the exact details of which have not
yet been worked out according to
Philip Walker. The Times Higher
Education Supplement quoted
responses from some of these univer-
sities, among them the University of
Luton and the University of Central
Lancashire. They thought that the
move by HEFCE was 'grossly
unfair' and generally condemned the
action.
HEFCE have floated the possibili-
ty that there may be new areas of
research to takre in to account in the
future, but that would be considered
nearer the time. It is possible that the
new universities which may be
undertaking the 'new areas' of
research could then get more fund-
ing. Until then, the future of their
research funding is not entirely cer-
tain.

