10 NEWS FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 7TH FEBRUARY
The Saints are Down
Simon Wistow looks into
a resurgence of cult activi-
ty on campus
In Felix 10711 wrote an article about
the presence of the London Church
of Christ on campus. Apparently
they weren't very happy about the
way I portrayed them. They also filed
a complaint against the BBC saying
that a recent program had defamed it.
The complaint was not upheld. But
why do cults target Imperial
College? Tacky as it may seem it
may have a lot to do with the 3:1
male to female ratio. Beer is expen-
sive in Kensington and with precious
few females around the boys from
IC, especially those away from home
and under pressure from our notori-
ously hard courses become suscepti-
ble to the techniques used by the
mind control cults.
It would appear that, once again,
Imperial College has been targeted
by a cult. The Foundation for Human
Understanding has recently
approached students on Campus.
Armed with the Cult's prospectus the
Chaplaincy contacted a specialist
organisation for advice on how best
to deal with the situation.
The A4 pamphlet handed out by
the F H U reads more like a Sunday
Supplement advert than a manifesto
on faith. The first page boldly poses
the question "Roman Catholicism -
just another Cult" and cites the exam-
ple of the Right Reverend Roderick
Wright. It goes on to ask "Does not
the deceit of these religious hyp-
ocrites again question the possibility
of a greater two thousand year long
hoax". It continues in the same vein
before switching to the artificial
nature of celibacy, stating the 'gift'
of copulation.
Pretty tame stuff so far. However a
box on the front page warns
"the Foundation for Human
Understanding teaches an observa-
tion exercise which permits you to
become objective towards yourprob-
lem and allows your heartaches, bad
habits, fears and anxieties, to
become completely eliminated from
your life without effort on your part.
Until you commit this practice to
your daily life some of what you read
on thefollowing pages may be shock-
ing or upsetting to you. But ifyou will
read calmly and with open mind, you
may discover the key to the peace of
mind for which you have been
searching all your life."
It might as well say that it also
helps you lose weight FAST, gets
you ripped by Christmas and shows
you how to bring a woman to orgasm
every time and have her ache for
more.
More gems in this surprisingly
funny publication include the won-
derfully informative "Understanding
Sexuality". In this Y O U can discover
the reasons why:-
•Women are attracted to abusive
men
•Men use sex to degrade women
•People become homosexuals
•The reasons for marital infidelity
•Men and women change roles
•Men feel guilty after sex
With great trepidation I turned the
page and read through the rest of the
brochure. The champion of the FHU,
Roy Masters gives a lengthy disserta-
tion on the conjuncture between
Science and Religion. He points out
the similarity between not being able
to travel faster than the speed of light
and flesh and blood not being able to
enter the Kingdom of God. The
"incomparably articulate" Masters
article is randomly interspersed with
adverts for Christianity today which
urges you to purchase this "unique
application of biblical Christianity to
present day conditions" for a paltry
£7 a month or the special price of £55
for one year.
In a move which is sure to make
die hard scientists slap their forehead
with a Homer Simpson like "Doh"
our Roy EXCLUSIVELY reveals the
existence of the smallest particle in
the Universe: the orgitron.
Unfortunately for scientists, they will
never be able to see it because "it is
unlikely that any electron micro-
scope will ever be able to see it
because it is so tiny as to be virtually
undetectable; in fact it is so tiny, it
practically doesn't exist at all." He
also shows how "matter is simply
pressurised 'crystallised' pre-time
force flowing now in what has
become a river of time".
Although all this may seem funny, there is a more serious side. As far as anybody except the cults
themselves are concerned, cults are bad news. A cult is defined as :
Theological usage: (positive meaning) a style of worship and its associated rituals. This is the his-
torical meaning of the word.
Sociological usage: (neutral meaning) a small religious group that exists in a state of tension with
the predominant religion. Hindus might be considered a cult in North America; Christianity might
be considered a cult in India.
General religious usage: (neutral meaning) a small, recently created religious group that is not a
variant of an established religion. Often, it is headed by a single charismatic leader.
Evangelical Christian usage: (negative meaning) most Evangelicals would define as a cult any
Christian religious group which does not accept the historical Christian doctrines (accepting Jesus
as Lord and Saviour, virgin birth, the Trinity, salvation through beliefs, etc.). The implication is that
the cult's theology is invalid. They might consider the Church of Jesus Christ of the Latter Day
Saints (the Mormons). Unification Church and Jehovah's Witnesses to be cults. But they would not
classify Wicca as such, because it is not Christian. The earliest use of this meaning of the word
"Cult" is believed to be a 1938 book "The Chaos of the Cults" by W.B. Ecrdmans.
Fundamentalist Christian usage: (negative meaning) Some Fundamentalists would accept the
Evangelical definition of cult defined above. Others might brand any religious group (Christian or
otherwise) which deviates from historical Christian belief as a cult. This definition would include
the Mormon Church, Wicca, mainline and liberal Christian denominations, and all of the other reli-
gions of the world. Over 70% of humanity would belong to cults, by this definition.
Popular, media usage: (very negative meaning) a small, evil religious group, often with a single
charismatic leader, which engages in brainwashing and other mind control techniques. Often used
as a synonym for mind control cult or for doomsday cult. The earliest use of this meaning of the
word is believed to have been in a 1965 book by Walter Martin "The Kingdom of the Cults" (revised
and expanded in 1985).
Hypnosis - inducing a state of high suggestibility by hypnosis, often thinly disguised as relaxation
or meditation
Peer Group Pressure - Suppressing doubt and resistance to new ideas by exploiting the need to
belong
Love Bombing - Creating a sense of family and belonging through hugging, kissing, touching and
flattery
Rejection of Old Values - Accelerating acceptance of new life-style by constantly denouncing for-
mer values and beliefs
Removal of privacy - Achieving loss of ability to evaluate logically by preventing private con-
templation.
Time Sense Deprivation - Destroying ability to evaluate information, personal reactions, and body
functions in relation to passage of time by removing all clocks and watches
Dis-inhibition - Encouraging child-like obedience by orchestrating child-like behaviour
Uncompromising Rules - Inducing regression and disorientation by soliciting agreement to seem-
ingly simple rules which regulate mealtimes, bathroom breaks and use of medications.
Verbal Abuse - Desensitising through bombardment with foul and abusive language.
Dress Codes - Removing individuality by demanding conformity to the group dress code.
Chanting and Singing - Eliminating non-cult ideas through group repetition of mind-narrowing
chants or phrases.
Confession - Encouraging the destruction of individual ego through confession of personal weak-
nesses and innermost feelings or doubts.
Finger Pointing - Creating a false sense of righteousness by pointing to the shortcomings of the out-
side world and other cults.
Flaunting Hierarchy - Promoting acceptance of cult authority by promising advancement, power
and salvation.
Controlled Approval - Maintaining vulnerability and confusion by alternately rewarding and pun
ishing similar actions.
Games - Inducing dependence on the group by introducing games with obscure rules.
No Questions - Accomplishing automatic acceptance of beliefs by discouraging questions.
Guilt - Reinforcing the need for salvation by exaggerating the sins of former lifestyles
Fear - Maintaining loyalty and obedience to the group by threatening soul, life or limb to the slight
est "negative" thought, word or deed.
Replacement of Relationships - Destroying pre-cult families by arranging cult marriages and "fam
ilies".
The chaplaincy has, as yet, been unable to do anything and are waiting for more information before
acting. If you are approached by these people or any other cult then please contact the Chaplaincy
on Ext 49600.

