MOTION FOR IC UNION UGM 6TH NOVEMBER, 1984
DEPUTY PRESIDENT'S REPORT TO UGM.
UFC Estimates.
Last session College gave the Union a recurrent grant of £228,750.
This was made up of a 3-8% on 83/84 + £6,500 for the extra costs of
taking part in UAU.
Estimated recurrent edpenditure i s £280,300.
This represents a deficit of £13,500 for 84/85 after estimated non-college
subvention income i s taken into account. £7,000of this was planned as
various underspending was identified in 83/84.
The remaining £6,500 deficit i s due to a mis-interpretation of the
Governing Body Finance Sub-Committee Minutes dealing with the College
subvention. Tne UAU £6,500 was taken to be on top of the £228,750
whereas the true situation was that i t was included therein.
I am now awaiting College Finance Section to inform me as to the
returnable balances from last year are,so as to be able to determine what
shortfall there i s . At present there i s a general policy from UFC to make
sure that 5 year plans (money given by the Union for major equipment
purchases) are strictly adhered to in terms of equipment bought and money
spent.
Contingency has also been defined as money available for emergencies only.
When the balances from last year are determined then I shall consult with
the various Committee and CCU heads to determine where savings can be made.
Rooms.
Proposed by: Graham Brown, Chairman,
Conservative Society.
Seconded by: David Fyfe, Evironmental
Technology PG.
Union Rooms may be booked by any IC Union club or society. Deposits in the
form of a personal cheque may well be demanded by the Executive Committee
i f there i s to be drinking, eating or dancing at the event. I f the
deposit i s not paid before the eyent the event w i l l not be allowed to
occur.
Only IC Union members and members of institutions which have reciprocal
agreements are allowed into the Union Building - no member of the public
is allowed in without permission.
When a club has finished an event i n a room i t must be left clean and tidy
with a l l furniture returned to i t s proper location.
Security Passes.
Club Captains whose members are issued with security passes to allow them
into their storerooms should see me as soon as possible.
HONORARY SECRETARY'S REPORT.
Halls & Houses Insurance.
The new policy for the Halls & Houses appears to be satisfactory in that
a number of claims have been made and no-one has come to see me to say
that they are having problems. Only one person, however, has l e t me know
of a claim successfully settled. Please l e t me know the outcome of your
claims, i t ' s the only way that I can assess the success of the change of
the policy.
Union Insurance.
Seme clubs have been in to check up on their inventories but most haven't.
It's up to you to l e t me know what you've got, i f you don't i t won't be
insured and there w i l l be nothing that can be done i f i t gets nicked or
damaged.
We have also been offered a three year agreement by Commercial Union which
gives us a 5% discount and a constant premium for the next three years.
This would t i e us to CU for the next three years unless they raise the
premium in which ease we could pull out. We have had this kind of
agreement for the last three years and i t has been satisfactory so i f my
report i s accepted I w i l l proceed to do i t again.
Parking Permits.
The allocation of these seems to have gone fairly smoothly. I'd just like
to say how much some people have got up my nose by considering themselves
to be on a different level to us mere mortals. There has been a very slow
trickle of barrier cards returned but I could really do with a lot more
- please bring them back.
1. That the real level of student grants has steadily declined under successive
governments.
2. That since the reports of the Anderson and Robbins Committees of Enquiries
into Higher Education, the proportion of students from 'working class'
backgrounds has remained constant at less than 1% of the total number of
students in full-time higher education in the United Kingdom.
3. The current grant system i s an effective barrier to entry into higher
education amongst 18-24 year olds.
4. Recent studies indicate wide dissatisfaction amongst students and their
parents towards the grants system.
ICU Believes:
1. The present system of means-tested grants has failed to meet i t s objective
of achieving a fairer distribution of social classes in higher education.
2. The introduction of a loans scheme w i l l result in wider access to higher
education.
3- The grant system perpetuates the image of the student as yet another social
parasite clamouring for tax-payers money.
4. Student loans are in line with the NUS policy of greater independance for
students.
ICU Instructs:
1. ICU President to inform the Secretary of State for Education and Science of
the views of IC Union on this subject.
2. ICU delegation to ULU GUC to put forward this motion at the earliest possible
opportunity.
* # * * *
MOTION ON REFECTORY PRICES.
Proposed by: Hugh Southey.
Seconded by: J. Martin Taylor.
1. That until the end of last year refectory price increases were fixed
according to the Financial Times 'shopping basket' index.
2. That since then the Financial Times has ceased to publish a 'shopping basket*
index.
3- That no alternative system of determining the increased cost of food and
consequent refectory price increases has yet been introduced.
4. That despite this there have been two increases of 2% each in the refectories
so far this year.
5. That a computerized accounting system i s planned for the refectories, but
there have been protracted delays in introducing i t .
6. That such a computerized system would be capable of calculating the real
increase in food costs to the refectories over a given period, so that price
increases could be based on actual increase i n costs rather than on
speculative estimates.
7. That the arguments put forward by Union representatives on the Refectory
Committee that the recent increases cannot be justified were totally ignored.
ICU Believes:
1. That the College must have some logical system of determining what refectory
price increases should be, and that relying on guesswork i s simply not good
enough.
2. That the recent price increases are arbitary and hence unjustified, since
the College has no method of determining the increase in the cost of buying
food.
3. That i t i s gross incompetance that the computerized accounting system for the
refectories i s s t i l l not in operation several years after i t was decided to
introduce i t .
4. That u n t i l a proper method of determining the actual increases i n food costs
is adopted, preferably based on the computerization of the accounts, there
should be no further price rises in the refectories at a l l .
ICU Instructs:
1. Its representatives on Refectory Committee to press the College to adopt a
sensible system of determining price increases based on actual food costs,
preferably by the speedy introduction of the computerized accounting system;
and to strongly oppose any increase in refectory prices until such a system
is introduced.
2. That in the event of a further increase being imposed before such a system
is introduced, the Officers of the Union shall organise a series of lightening
refectory boycotts by picketing selected outlets, distributing leaflets
explaining the reasons for the boycott and persuading people intending to use
the refectory to eat elsewhere.
3- That such boycotts are to be organised at the rate of at least one each
College week, until the situation i s satisfactorily resolved to cover one
opening period of one refectory for one day each week. The details of each
boycott are to be decided in secret by the President after consultation with
other Officers, with the College receiving no advance warning of the time or
place.
4. The President to write to the Chairman of the Refectory Committee to inform
him of this policy.
ICU Requests:
A l l i t s members not to eat in any refectory which i s at that time the target of a
Union organised boycott, and to urge others not to do so.

