• T I T E R S :
OUR
Bloding writes
Dear Sir,
Fame at last! I'm glad to see that finally
F E L I X has acknowledged that STOIC is run
by a group of dedicated and hardworking
individuals. However, in your item last week,
you got a number of facts wrong:
First of all, people don't join STOIC just to
aid their job prospects; indeed the vast
majority join because they enjoy making T V
programmes and using equipment which
would normally cost £800 per day to hire!
Secondly, you have the gall to imply that
there is a lack of professionalism within
STOIC! We have a tape, sent to us by another
student TV group, which you are welcome to
come and see, which shows that STOIC is the
best student TV in the country!
Finally, have you forgotten that during the
summer F E L I X requested, and STOIC
installed, a line so that you can watch
programmes in the F E L I X offices? I trust
that you will be among our many viewers for
N E W S B R E A K on Thursdays, if only to
plagurise it for the following days F E L I X .
Yours (in the spirit of media co-operation),
Martin Bolding
STOIC Chairman
Wet blanket
Dear Sir,
As the Diving Officer of the Underwater
Club I feel I must cast my spurs aside and
reply to M r Snivel's letter (Felix 26/10).
The club exists to enable students at IC to
learn to dive. So far this year we have 50 new
trainee's and 6 experienced divers to train
them. All these instructors, 2nd and 3rd year
undergraduates, give 5 or 6 hours of their
spare time each week to carry out the
training. The club diving trips are organised
to complement the training programme
which involves a large amount of swimming
pool training.
All dives require, for safety's sake, a novice
to dive with an experienced diver.
Unfortunately very few experienced divers
deign to turn up; out of 20 divers trained last
year only 4 turn up regularly, thus there is an
upper limit of 12 members per trip. In
addition, most trips are to Cornwall and high
mileages of 1000-1500 miles are common.
Thus they are very expensive, even with
union subsidies. Consequently it is hard to
raise interest and they are less frequent than
we would like.
On the social side, all members are
encouraged to meet above Southside bar
after every training session, lively discussion
on all aspects of diving takes place and
constructive criticism is welcomed.
Finally I would ask Mr Snivel to come and
talk to us, we're very friendly people and will
happily discuss his misconceptions about the
club.
Yours sincerely
Nick Cozens
Underwater Club Diving Officer
Dear Sir
I am forced to reply to the article in last
week's Felix concerning the sub-aqua club. It
would appear we have rather upset this
gentlmen in some way, although I am amazed
at some of the accusations he has made.
I'll start at the beginning with his rather
vague c o m m e n t s c o n c e r n i n g o u r
introductory meeting. This consisted of the
first two lectures of the B S A C snorkel
training program (on Branch Organisation,
and choice of Basic Equipment) which were
seperated by a slide show. Now the
gentleman concerned may have known all
about this, having some experience in
S C U B A diving, but the vast majority of
people present did not, and have to start at
the beginning.
The accusation that the club's executive
are a bunch of drunken cowboys I find even
harder to take. The club's executive takes out
two evening a week Tuesdays and Thursdays
to train novice divers to B S A C specification.
This includes the preparing and giving of
lectures and pool training. Unlike non-
college branches of the B S A C this instruction
is given free of charge. I would be surprised to
find many college clubs doing more than this.
The idea that anybody giving lectures is
drunk is equally ridiculous. If the gentleman
feels that the can of Forster I drink with my
pie before giving the lecture classifies me as
drunk, then I'm afraid our definitions of
drunk differ sharply.
The other main accusations concern the
bar, and its use for organising club outings.
After having finished with the pool training
most of us like to go over to the bar to relax,
and this is generally where we talk about and
plan club activities, again this is not
something I feel is desperately unsual.
Everybody is welcome and indeed
encouraged, to come down to voice opinions
and ideas. What the gentleman calls a clique
are people who have know each other for
several years^ some of whom have left college,
but still come back to help out with
instruction. Moreover, people who are not
full members of IC Union do not receive a
union subsidy.
The last accusation is that three trips a
term is not enough at thirty to forty pounds a
weekend, I find that with my grant I can't
afford much more. Apart from this most
people in the past have been reluctant to give
up more time through academic or other
social reasons.
I don't know why we have upset the
gentlemen concerned so much, but the
accusations he made against us are quite
simply bullshit.
Yours sincerely
Eric Tietema
Underwater Club Chairman
FELIX
The Rector was quite right, in his
Commemoration Day speech, to come out in
favour of a broader education for 16 to 18
year olds.
One only has to look at the standard of
written English achieved by most Imperial
College students to see the advantages that
could be gained by scientists learning; English
beyond 'O'-Level. But despite the 'evils of
over-specialization', it seems to be true that
the universities are demanding higher
entrance requirements that can only be met
by doing specialized subjects at A-level.
If students are to sit seven or eight A-levels
instead of three or four, how can they be
expected to meet the exacting standards of
the universities?
The idea of the AS-level is a compromise; it
is intended to broaden and supplement the
normal A-level curriculum. But it must, per
force, lead to some lowering in the standard
achieved in the student's specialist A-levels
In may countries the solution to this
problem is to have four year degree courses,
but with a Government committed to cutting
the education budget, this seems unlikely to
happen here.
Clearly the schools and universities are
going to have to think long and hard about
the consequences of a broader more balanced
curriculum. Someone, somewhere, will have
to pay for it.
Acknowledgements: M a n y thanks to
Grenville, Dave, Jon, Martin, Andrew,
Richard, Graham, Ajay, Tinker, Nick Gillie,
B B Wolffe, Andy, Rosemary, Tony and all
the collators.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of
Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed
by the Union Print Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1984. ISSN 10140-0711.
UNION
BAR
Carlsberg
Promotion
Only 50p per pint
Saturday 3 November.
Friday 2 November FELIX

