•PUZZLES;
U l U Travel
is nowon campus
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
THE JUNIOR COMMON ROOM
SHERFIELD BUILDING
PRINCE CONSORT ROAD
SW7 2AZ Tel: 589 8882
STU
Tinker
Here is a quite excellent puzzle sent in by Dimitus Kabilufkus
(who needs no pseudonym) an E E P / G .
One computer needs to communicate with another down a
phone line using an 'alphabet' of the 5 letters A,B,C,D, and E.
Unfortunately there is a roughly 50% chance of the transmitted
letter being corrupted, and received as the next letter in the
alphabet (ie A becomes B, B becomes C...and E becomes A). To
overcome this problem we must define five pairs of letters such
that when one pair is transmitted (one letter afterthe other), the
receiving computer will be able to distinguish which of the five
pairs was sent without possibility of error.
All entries should be handed in to the FELIX Office by 5.30pm
on Friday 9 November.
G R A D E 3
There were many different solutions to last fortnight's
puzzle.The clue to 29 down—(cc) evoked three different
solutions—seduce, recede and seance, all of equal merit.
Seduce was the one I was looking for and is perhaps slightly
more apt than the other two.Of the six correct solutions I A
Fagandini was the lucky winner and may collect his £5 cheque
from the Felix Office.
P O T A T O C U R R Y A N D RICE
This is what I call a 'rent week' recipe: it will stuff two adults for
about 60p.
First, the rice. When Japanese sailors were fed white ricethey
all developed beri-beri, warts, and neverplayed theviolin again.
Nevertheless, brown rice is always soggy, ugly, takes ages to
cook and is either mushy or chewy, so I use Basmati rice, which
is the tastiest of the white rices.
Perfect rice is simple; 11
/4 measures of water to one measure
of rice. As a rough guide, a half-pint glass filled with uncooked
rice grains is enough for a family of four.
Rinse under running water for one minute. Drain and put in a
saucepan with a lid. Add 11
/4 measures of water, put the lid on
and bring to the boil. Immediately turn the heat off and leave for
eight minutes. Stir briefly to fluff it up and serve with curry.
11
/2 lbs of potatoes, sliced, two medium onions, sliced,
dessertspoon of curry powder, 1
/2 bar of coconut cream (from
any supermarket or Indian grocer's), and a tablespoon of
cooking oil.
Fry the onions in the oil until they begin to brown. Add the rest
of the ingredients, stir and almost cover with water. Boil in an
open saucepan for about fifteen minutes, stirring occasionally,
until most of the water has evaporated. Serve.
4 Friday 2 November FELIX

