OPINION!]
Graham Brown — Loan Ranger
The last 20 years have witnessed much debate in the field of
Government policy towards higher education, and in particular the
financing of students at universities and polytechnics. There is now a
growing movement amongst both students and academics to question
the principles which underlie some of the reports of enquiries into
higher education undertaken by previous governments. This article
sets out Graham Brown's views in favour if the introduction of a loans
scheme for financing students to replace the present inadequate system
of means-tested grants.
Background
The two reports which have since become the
foundation of current policy towards financing
students are the Anderson report of 1960,
establishing the principle of awarding a grant as of
right to every student who is accepted for a first
degree course; and the Robbins report of 1963
which recommended that courses of higher
education should be available for all those qualified
to pursue them.
Several factors now force a reappraisal of these
(hitherto) guiding lights. First, the underlying
philosophy of the present Government toward
rolling back the frontiers of state socialism, and to
restore freedom and responsibility to the
individual. Already we have witnessed the long-
standing moves towards making overseas
students bear a greater proportion of the costs of
their education. Should not all students, not
merely those from overseas, shoulder more of the
responsibility for their education themselves?
Secondly, this Government is committed to 'firm
control of public spending' as stated in the
Conservative Manifesto of 1983, and since
Education now accounts for some £13 billion of
public expenditure it cannot be considered
unworthy of consideration. The statistic is
accentuated by the increase in the student
population due to the higher birth rate of the
1960s, and the greater disposition of those in sixth-
forms to continue their educational studies on a
full-time basis. While British opinion in the past has
been inflexibly opposed to the principle of student
loans, with both the leadership of the National
Union of Students (NUS) and the Association of
University Teachers being against the idea, recent
research by educational economists have fuelled
the growing movement amongst students in
favour of a loans scheme.
The failings of the present system
The intentions of the Anderson committee in the
direction of a more equal social distribution
amongst students was commendable, but the
grant system, rather than providing the necessary
impetus to encourage a greater diveristy of social
backgrounds has merely preserved the position of
20 years ago. If one looks at the occupation of a
student's father as an indication of social class, less
than 1
% of students come from a manual worker
background; a proportion that has remained
approximately constant since 1951. Clearly higher
education has not become more available, and
indeed the reverse may be argued when we
consider the number of full-time students in Britain
has increased by 260% in the period 1951-80.
Having established that the aim of higher
education financing is to make it more widely
available, it now appears that the present grants
system is the least equitable method.
At present the primary objection to the grants
by students is their inherent heavy reliance upon
the continued financial support of their parents,
who often resent being expected to finance those
who, although still dependant, are over what the
state has declared to be the age of majority. It is
evident from various surveys undertaken recently
that a very large number of parents either can not
or do not make up the grant to the recommended
level (A recent NUS survey revealed that over 60%
of parents fail to meet their financial obligations).
While some are unwilling to pay their
contribution, many more are simply unable to do
so. The present system of assessing parental
contributions on the basis of earnings 18 months in
the past fails to take account of change in
circumstances, while the disincentive effects of the
rise in marginal tax rates due to the system of
means testing the grant (estimated at over 60%)
leads to a sitaution where many students suffer
financial hardship when their parents fail to pay
their contribution, resulting in many students
having to survive on an income below the so-called
'poverty line'.
Not only has the present grant system failed to
meet its original objectives, but in practice it has
contributed to the poor image of higher education
among the public. The present system has little
support from the taxpayer , and there is therfore a
clear political advantage to be derived from a
change to a loans system It is widely believed that
students are 'having it easy' at the taxpayer's
expense, and such a view will obviously remain
while the evidence continues to show that the
children of higher income earners are being
subsidised through government grants by the
taxes from those with less income, and whose
children have either no wish to take advantage of
higher education, or who lack the academic ability
to do so.
The Case for Loans
The inadequacy of the present system has been
demonstrated, and this tends to increase the wide
discrepancies in the financial requirements of
students. For example, those at different
establishments face widely differing costs for the
necessities of life such as accommodation—a
student in Glasgow may well find it as expensive, if
not more so, than in London. The course subject
may also determine the level of student
expenditure, for while the science student is faced
with the purchase of a wider range of typically
more expensive text books and often has to
purchase special equipment, his colleague on an
arts course without such heavy expenditure will
receive the same grant. A loans scheme would
therfore enable a closer correlation between a
student's needs and his income to be established-.
The mandatory grant, free of parental
contribution is often proposed by the NUS as a
method of student financing. Yet this is completely
unrealistic in the current economic climate and
given the not inconsiderable benefit a student
receives from his education there is a clear case for
him to meet the cost of it himself. Britain is in a
distinct minority for retaining a grant system, and
amongst other Western nations operating loans
there is a wide measure of student support for
such a scheme.
Under a loans scheme, education would be
viewed as an investment for the student and the
shift in responsibility from state to student
inherent in such a scheme would tend to result in a
greater commitment to studies. Instances of NUS
militancy and student discontent would be
replaced by more civilised behaviour in a sound
academic environment. A loan would provide an
efficient means for market forces to determine the
supply and demand for higher education places by
encouraging students to follow courses for which
there are more opportunities in graduate
employment, for example the sciences and
engineering at the expense of non-vocational
subjects.
It is often suggested that there would be no
incentive for a potential student to undertake a
higher education course under a loans scheme
because of his obligations to incur debt, which,
especially among stduents from a low-income
background, he may be unable to repay at a later
date. In practice given the ready availability of
funds for loans on acceptable terms, low-income
students would be as willing to borrow as higher
income students.
Details, of a loans scheme are complex, but the
recent work by Lewis, Sandford and Thomson
incorporates a survey of student and public
opinion and presents a suitable framework on
which to model a loans scheme in practice. The
survey indicates substantial support for a
government backed scheme with zero or low real
rates of interest, a feature common to the many
loans schemes operating in Europe. The report
estimates that such a scheme could be self-
financing in a relatively short period of time, and
hence enable real savings to be made in the
education budget in the long term. The study
recommended that loans should be repayed only
after an initial four year moratorium on payment,
and not until a certain minimum income had been
reached. Even then it would be calculated that loan
repayment would add only an extra 5-10% to a
gradute's tax contribution, with the likelihood
being that employers, realising that graduates
were funding their own education, making
appropriate adjustments in remuneration levels,
leaving little net financial penalty with the
graduate. Clearly these figures are only indicative,
but they do show that an excessive burden would
not be placed on the undergraduate commencing
a course of study.
While loans require a different administrative
system to grants, the potential cost of bureaucracy
cited by its opponents may be overstated since it
would be feasible, as in Denmark and the USA, for
the commercial banks (who have well established
facilities for individual loans) to administrate a
student loans scheme on behalf of the
government.
Conclusions
The findings of the Anderson and Robbins
Committees are now over 20 years old and still we
see no greater equality in the social background of
students. The means tested grant has reinforced
rather than broken down the social barriers to
education. There is great resentment by students
towards continued dependance upon their
parents and in many cases the parental
contribution is not paid in full. The inflexibility of
the present system further results in considerable
financial hardship for many students.
Apart from loans there are two alternatives to
the means-tested grant; namely mandatory grants
(both politically and economically unrealistic), or a
voucher system which has already been
discounted by the present government. A loans
scheme therefore represents the only viable
alternative to grants.
The present system, while failing to meet its
original objectives, is undermining higher
education by imposing an ever increasing strain on
the educational budget. A loans scheme offers
financial benefits to both students and central and
local government, and as such the means tested
grant should be abolished.
The merits of the loan scheme, independance,
responsibility and self-determination, are deep-
rooted pillars of Conservatism and as such I urge
the Government to include the abolition of the
means-tested grant as part of its programme to roll
back the frontiers of state socialism. The present
system cannot be justified to those who believe in
market forces and individual freedom. I urge the
Secretary of State for Education and Science to
abolish the grant system and introduce student
loans at the earliest possible opportunity.
FELIX Friday 2 November 5

