LCLUBS
MOUNTAINEERING
Cornish
Climbing
Last weekend IC Mountaineering Club made
its annual trip to Cornwall. Climbing took
place on the magnificent cliff at Bosigran and
Chair Ladder. Routes included Suicide Wall,
Thin Wall special, Beowulf, Bishop's Rib,
Doorpost, Little Brown Jug and Alison Rib
(at night). A special mention goes to Dennis
Hicks for bravery in the face of adversity and
Dave Idenden for a superb display of high
diving off the 10m board of Flannel Avenue at
Chair Ladder.
Next meet is in the Peak on 9 / l l t h
November. As always meet every Tuesday
night, Southside Upper Lounge at 9.00pm.
3WI
Charity starts
at Home
'Charity starts at home' he said when
provoked by a persistent collector.
And so it does...But where does it
end?... Yourself?... Y o u r family?... Y o u r
country?...Humanity? This cliche defines
only one limit to charity. 'What can I do', he
said mechanically while completing his
diffential equation.
Think about it.Then act! Your career can
stand one unsolved abstract equation and
even your body can cope with the lost
drinking time...but think!
"Wlrat do they do with my money?' he said
raising his eyes and lightly contemplating the
subject.
Find out, commit yourself to educating
yourself and others concentrating on the
projects and problems in the Third World.
'How?' he asked pushing the problem
sheet to one side and resting his pen.
Yes, you've guessed it...come to a Third
World First meeting, see what you think,
then act.
'When do you meet?' he asked
imploringly.
Most Monday lunchtimes at 12.30pm in
Elec Eng 403a. Keep your eyes on the FELIX
'Diary' spot and put a message in my pigeon-
hole giving me your name and department.
'What do you do?' he said, now leading the
conversation. We invite speakers from
various charities and pressure groups to tell
us what they do and how we can help them.
We discuss your ideas on, and other
student's experience of, the Third World.
We campaign to raise money and
consciousness. Anti-Poverty action week (5-
9 November) and our sponsored fast (20-22
November) are two important features of
our term.
Find out more from, Andrew Causebrook
Elec Eng 2.
WINE TASTING
Mischievous
Little Number
Some are born great, some achieve
greatness, some have greatness thrust upon
them...others just join the Wine Tasting
Society.
Amaze your friends with knowledgable
comments on Rioja wines.
Excite your relations with tit-bits of info
about the viticultures of the Loire.
Get slightly sozzled for as little as £1.50, by
joining the Wine Tasting Society.
Here is your chance to join one of the most
popular clubs at Imperial, try up to eight
wines while an expert relates background
and anecdotes about the region, grape
varieties and vineyards. Y o u are provided
with a Tasting Sheet to make those
invaluable little comments like 'This one's
nice!'.
Events on the calendar include tastings
from Loire Valley, Cabernet Sauvignon,
fortified wines, sparkling wines (before the
Christmas Dinner), Alsace, California and
Australia. We hope to arrange trips to
France (duty free vin) and to an English
Vineyard.
So if you are tempted by this offer, come
along any Tuesday at 6.00pm, Senior
Common Room, Beit Quad or contact Robin
Jones Mech Eng 3.
PHOTOGRAPHIC
Shot in
the Dark
To start with, I'm sure it's illegal to store
toxic substances in orange-juice bottles (and
if it isn't then it should be), and what is worse
this filthy practice makes the darkrooms
look untidy. Nearly all member's chemicals
which are currently stored in the new
darkroom are contained in beer/lemon-
ade/orange-juice bottles, usually lumped
together in an old supermarket bag. If any of
these chemicals belong to you would you
please put them in more suitable bottles,
label them with your name, department and
date made up and put them in a small
cardboard box (not a plastic bag), also with
your name on it, and place in one of the
cupboards or under the bench.
As you all know, on Tuesday 16 October,
we had the second of our now traditional
photographic competitions against the
Holland Club Photographic Society. I won't
waste space by describing this magnificent
occasion, except to say that as expected we
completely wiped the floor with them. Also,
for anyone who didn't come to our slide show
on Tuesday 23 October, I would just like to
say how excellent it was. We will probably be
arranging another one of these towards the
end of term, so watch the FELIX Diary
column for details.
On Thursday 8 and 15 November there
will be Cibachrome demonstrations in the
old darkroom at 6.00pm. Anyone interested
should sign the list on the noticeboard
(Union Main Entrance).
Sometime next term (or perhaps later this
term) we would like to organise a day out to
the National Photographic Museum and the
Kodak Museum. Unfortunately both these
institutions are in Bradford, and so we will
need to arrange transport, bodyguards,
protective clothing and so on. In order to find
out how many people are likely to want to
come we have put a list on the noticeboard
where you can write your name and
preferred date.
POSTGRAD
Silwood
Bonfire
First of all I hope all the new PGs have setted
into work and College, and are not too
dissillusioned with the prospects of graduate
studies.
On the social side of the group's activities I
should like to thank all those who turned up
for the first group meeting and the disco that
followed. I'm sure all those who attended
enjoyed themselves at what was
undoubtedly the most successful P G event
in recent years. Sadly last week's buffet and
disco was not so well attended, but still
enjoyable thanks to Silwood and Life
Sciences for providing a large proportion of
the numbers.
Our next event is a joint Silwood/South
Kensington Bonfire Night Party on Friday 9
November. Tickets are only £1.75, which
includes the cost of the coach, B B Q , bonfire,
fireworks, disco and late bar. This must be
the bargain event of the year and there are
only 50 tickets, available from either IC
Union Office or the P G reps.
A number of people have already asked for
tickets, so get in quick to avoid
disappointment. The coach will leave from
the Union at 6.00pm returning from Silwood
about 11.30pm.
May I remind a number of departments
that they haven't given me the name of a
departmental rep. Don't complain to me if
you miss out on future events. The
departmental allowance, part of our grant, is
running out rapidly so if you want a share I
suggest you submit a written estimate to Jim
Brannigan, Biochem as soon as possible.
Finally we intend to hold a formal postgrad
dinner the week before Christmas. If
anybody has any ideas or suggestions please
see me, Chris Hendy, or any of the
Committee soon.
8 Friday 2 November FELIX

