Tuesday next at 6:30pm is our second lecture
this term. The subject is Novae by Prof M J
Seaton FRS (quite a big fish this, I'd tell you
more but his Who's Who entry is full of
unintelligible abbreviations!). See What's On
also. Incidentally, observing freaks needn't
worry as we are trying to sort something out.
See you Tuesday.
Fred Hayle
Hope you enjoyed the barnight and laserium
trip and the party and the theatre trip etc etc.
Coming up soon, in fact tomorrow, is tiddley-
winks down Oxford St. It's the biggest stunt
of the year so we need everyone to come to the
RCSU Office for 9:30am on Saturday to pick
up cans and winks (or tiddles). If Motor Club
pull their fingers out you could see Jez mov-.
ing under her own power, and don't forget the
free drinks in the Cockney Pride later!
We still have the Chemistry, Maths, Life
Sci Freshers' Dinners to come, buy your tic-
kets now. All ticket-holders gain free admis-
sion to the party in the JCR after the Life Sci
dinner on 28 Oct.
(Anyone who wants tc go as a wine waiter
come and see us in the RCSU Office.)
In a few weeks is the Rag Week where we
run a student revue, so we want anyone,
anyone from any department to suss
sketches, songs, etc. See Dave Watson in
RCSU.
Today papers will go up for one week for
the post of Honorary Secretary of RCSU to
replace Sue Humphrey. Anyone who is inter-
ested in standing for the post please find any
officer and ask them what it entails.
The suppliers have finally produced some
regalia, namely sweatshirts so we have plenty
of sizes and colours for saleѣ6 only.
Tonight is a trip to the Pig's Ear beer
festival. Meet RCSU 7:00pm tonight. The
entrance fee is 60p but if we have more than
15 people we get in free.
Finally Simon Banton has asked me to
thank everyone for the superb response for
his appeal for staff for 'Broadsheet'.
RCSU Rag Committee at 1:00pm Tuesday
18 October above Southside Bar. All soc reps
must come and anyone else who would be
interested please come along.
Yours in anticipation.
Dave
Health
Are you a woman younger than 40? If so you
are invited to have a German measles blood
test at the Health Centre
In the summer of 1983 there was a marked
increase in the number of cases of German
measles in the UK. The importance of this
relatively trivial disease is the effect it has on
the foetus of a woman who contracts it in the
first three months of pregnancy. The baby
may be born blind or deaf or with a heart
abnormality or any combination of these.
Once a woman has immunity to the disease
it is very unlikely that she will contract it
again. Many women may have been immu-
nised against the disease at the age of 12 or 13
and many others may believe they have had it
and so be immune. Unfortunately there are
other virus infections which may appear in-
distinguishable from German measles and
some women mistakenly believe they have
had the disease. A simple blood test can
determine whether you have rubella (Germ-
an measles) antibodies and thus are immune
from further infection.
If you are not immune you may be immu-
nised with a single injection with no serious
side effects. You should not have this injec-
tion in early pregnancy or within 3 months
of conceiving. An ideal time to have it there-
fore is at a time when there is no chance of you
becoming pregnant. All women under 40 are
welcome at the Health Centre for such a
blood test and immunisation as necesary.
Please come to see the nurse on Wednes-
days or Thursdays between 9:30 and 11:30am
for the rubella blood test. You will be in-
formed within 2 weeks whether you have
immunity or whether immunisation is indi-
cated.
Ill B i l l ! 1
EES
Mi
R C s
Tiddly Winking
Down Oxford Street
Biggest Rag Stunt
In London
Sat 15 Oct
Meet: 9.30am at CCU offices
FELIX Friday, October 14, 1983 Page 11

