5 PORT
EDITORIAL
Cue fanfare and now, the first sports
page of the year. I'm depressed by the total
absence of black and white holiday snaps
with the Spanish Inquisition in the back-
ground. I want the office flooded with
sports photographs by 5:00pm next Mon-
day.
Football Club, you've been very
naughty children. I said no lists of teams.
I've let you off this time but if it happens
again you will be edited.
As for the clubs that didn't even send in
articles, I denounce you as contemptible.
Whose fault do you think it is that the
ignorant plebs are forced to read such a
load of boring crap. Speaking of boring
crap, next year's President Ian Bull, you
know-the one with the funny face, is going
to put in an article explaining details of our
affiliation to the Universities Athletics
Union. This should make next week's
FELIX much more exciting!
Finally, it's my birthday today, so if
anyone wants to buy me a drink or two,
I'll make it worth your while!
John Scott
IC3 v IC2 3-0
The new season began at a windy Harlington
last Saturday with a well contested friendly
between the thirds and the seconds. A slightly
flattering scoreline perhaps but the thirds well
worth their victory in terms of commitment
and workrate.
Steady performances from all of last year's
thirds encouraged new players Tom Dutton.
Martin Barnes and Mark Whitehead to show
well but it was old hands (feet?) Torsten
Behling and Anton Milner (2) who provided
the goals in this game. With the welcome
return of a Speedy Stevie (Coussens) we only
await the re-emergence of Big Ron from the
depths of chemistry to complete the rebuild-
ing of this once famous outfit!
Team: P Simpson, J Barden, C Gordon
(Capt). D Kelland. R Heath; T Dutton. A Mil-
ner. P Snedker. M Barnes. M Whitehead, T
Behling. S Coussens.
-Flash
And God spoke saying: "The thronging mul-
titudes which did join the Cycling Club hath
sinned greatly, and hath filleth their glasses at
the fountain of all evil, the Union Bar. Yea.
verily shalt they be punished. 1 shalt cause
their surroundings to spin dizzily about them
that they shalt not be able to standeth."
But lo, six dared oppose His will and
cometh to Beit Arch. So the Lord in his anger
sendeth forth storms and water poureth from
heaven. But they continueth on their way to
Epsom ceasing only to negotiate the one way
systems the Lord had placed in their way.
And yea, the Lord see-eth their determination
and had mercy upon them, and He holdeth
back the floods, helpeth them on their jour-
ney to the winding lanes of Box Hill. And so
the six returneth with tales of wondrous
lands to be explored. Details of the next
exodus to these fertile lands appeareth on the
noticeboard on the Sherfield Walkway.
(Well copied from last year's Badminton's
report-Ed.)
All those of you who signed our list at
Freshers' Fair legibly will by now know two
details. For the rest of you, here they are:
The club will be organising a trip to Risail
in the French Alps leaving 18 December and
returning 24 Dec. Cost will be approx £122.
This includes coach fare, self-catering accom-
modation, equipment hire, ski school and ski
pass. Obviously, it won't cost as much if you
have your own boots/skis or want to live in a
snow cave.
We need deposits (£26.85) as soon as pos-
sible.
In addition, we will be doing some dry
skiing at Hillingdon on Tuesday evenings.
Contact A J Harpham. Mech Eng 3 or Room
5843. Southwell House for details etc.
Track and
i l l
teg-
Field
Ever had sand kicked into your face? Are you
lacking in awesome super-human powers?
If these are your problems then the Track
and Field Athletics Club will work wonders
for you.
The club has been out of action for a year
and so needs hundreds of new members, male
and female.
To start the shot rolling, we are having a
short meeting at 12:30pm today in the Union
Gym (2nd level, Union Building, Beit Quad)
so we want to see you there to start the
prestige club of IC. (Who are you trying to
kid?-Ed.)
If you can't make it contact me in the
Physics letter-racks.
You want fame? Be there!
We are starting informal coaching sessions on
Fridays practice nights from 6:30 to 7:30 in
the Volleyball Court. First session is tonight.
Matches start tomorrow, so it's important
that any of last year's players who haven't
come along to a practice, get in touch soon, or
we'll assume you've left.
First impressions are that the club is no-
where near as strong as it was last year, but
we'll probably still win everything.
I'll be organising far more social events this
year, so any suggestions for something differ-
ent will be most welcome.
The Chess Club seems to have conveniently
forgotten that it is due to be drunk under the
table and thrashed at darts, due to its imper-
tinence last year. If they want to be branded
as cowards and Horlicks drinkers by the rest
of IC, then I suggest they contact us as soon as
possible.
Last Saturday witnessed the first outing of the
Cross Country Club. Eight members of the
club made the trip to a windswept course at
Bristol. In the Ladies Race Mandy Tindall
ran well to finish third. The Mens Race saw
the emergence of a new star, Sam Carey, who
came 25th, followed home by Jon Lea and
Graham Harker. The 'practical joker of the
week' award must go to Bob Morrison, who
tried to convince everyone it was a two-lap
race, instead of three, and 'sucker of the week'
award goes to the two or three who believed
him!
The Golf Club must be one of the smallest
sports clubs at IC. Sad really when you look
at what the club can offer the golfer. Apart
from the usual £2.25 fee, there are no particu-
lar entry requirements. Any gunge you may
have read about just people with good handi-
caps playing are out of date, and sad re-
minders of better days. The club at present is
not affiliated to any local club. A player goes
along to one of the local clubs and pays the
green fees, keeps his receipt and sends it to the
Captain or Treasurer of the club who ar-
ranges for reimbursement of the fees. This is
how the club has operated over the past few
years and because of this there has been a lack
of club atmosphere with players remaining
anonymous. This year I propose to arrange
some 'social' events and at least one club
tournament. So anyone who is interested, but
did not come to the stall at Freshers' Fair fear
not you can get in touch via the letter-racks.
Martin Ross (Roscoe)
Chem Eng 3
(Captain 1983/4)
Page 12 Friday, October 14, 1983] FELIX

