l
i
g
n
u
m 'u^p^yyyy.t
v
t
J
V
Moonies
Members of the United Unification Church have been
seen on College premises recently. The 'Moonies' are an
insidious religious cult who prey on lost or lonely young
people. They will seem very friendly and will probably
invite you back to their place for a meal. Do not go. They
are very dangerous and are out to make you part of their
sect. Once you get involved they make it very difficult for
you to leave. If they come round to your Hall or House
tell them to go away and you should inform your Warden
of their presence at once.
Other Twats
You may also get people soliciting for the 'Students and
Graduates Financial Planning Division'. They will try
and sell you insurance and assurance policies which are
very rarely worthwhile. My advice to you: slam the door
in their face.
Bike Stamping
Local bobby Paul Gooderson tells me that bike thefts
have gone down from 112 this time last year to just 14
after the Metropolitan Police's bike stamping campaign
at College last week. If you missed out on having your
bicycle coded then there will be a second opportunity on
Tuesday 18 October between 9:00am and 3:00pm in the
Ante Room, Sherfield.
FELIX
Credits
My hardworking staff worked even harder this week.
Equipment failure put FELIX a day behind schedule and
meant we had to work twice as hard on subsequent days
to bring it out on time.
A special thanks to Maz Fellows for typesetting most of
FELIX in one day, Peter Dawson for printing most of*
FELIX in one day and J Martin Taylor, John Scott and
Diane Love for pasting up desperately through the night.
My heartfelt thanks also to: Carl Burgess, Peter
Rodgers, Dave Rowe, Hugh Southey, Lynn James, Andy
Cave, John Jones, La Iatrou, Steve Chamberlain, John
Barnett, Ulysses, Tony Atkins, Steve Brann, Matt Fawcett,
Guy Riddihough.
Pallab Ghosh
Making 82
This problem concerns how to arrange the seven
digits 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 0 and eight dots in an
algebraic sum so that the figures add up to as near 82
as possible. The dots may be used either as a
decimal point or as a dot over a digit to indicate a
recurring decimal. Two dots are used to indicate the
beginning and the end of a recurring sequence. If
no-one manages to get exactly 82, the answer which
comes closest to 82 will win. All digits and dots must
be used, and you can use as many addition signs as
you like. Good luck, everyone; you'll need it!
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the FELIX
Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday, please. £5 from
Mend-a-Bike for randomly selected winning entry.
Last Week's Solutions
Crossword
Across: 1 Imperial College; 9 Academic; 10 Candy;
12 Rex; 13 Use; 14 Once; 15 Sundry; 17 Council; 18
Printer; 20 Notice; 22 Hair; 23 CCC; 24 Two; 251 nigo;
26 Somebody; 28 Deputy President.
Down: 2 MSc; 3 Endure; 4 Immix; 5 Lecture; 6
Orchestra; 7 London; 8 Gaynor Lewis; 11 Union
Office; 16 Directory; 19 Accuser; 21 In lieu; 22 Hot
bed; 24 Times; 27 Don.
Exam Results
On the face of it, there doesn't seem to be enough
information to solve this. However, the problem can
be solved as follows:
Since no-one can deduce their own, no-one has
been told of the two firsts. If Alan had got a first, then
someone would have been told of thetwo first, since
all but Alan were told of his mark and no pair was
repeated. Therefore Alan got a third.
Alan was not told of two firsts but can deduce all
nonetheless. So he was told of two thirds other than
his own. As soon as he knows he got a third, he
knows that the two he was not told about got firsts.
Barry is told by Alan that he (Alan) was not told his
(Barry's), so he (Barry) got a first.
Chris knows his now, so he must have known of
Alan's third and the first of someone other than
Barry, hence Chris got a third.
They all know now that Barry got a first and Alan
and Chris got thirds. Since this is enough to tell
Elaine what she got, then she must have been told of
Alan's and Diana's result. Chris was told of Alan and
the person other than Barry to get a first, and since
no two people were given the same pair of results,
Chris could not have been given Alan's and Diana's,
as Elaine got them. Therefore Diana did not get a
first so she got a third, leaving Elaine as other oneto
get a first. I think the answer is more baffling than the
question!
Nobody got the crossword totally right, but the
best was only one mistake. The randomly selected
winners are Caroline and Sara of Physics 2.
There were eight correct answers for the exam
results questions. Thanks to those who explained
their reasoning; I hope those who got it wrong can
now see why. The randomly selected winner was A
Shiekh, a Physics PG. The winners can collect their
prizes from the FELIX Office on Monday after
1:30pm.
FELIX is published by the Editor lor and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed b
y the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rd, S W7 !
Tel 01-589 5111 exln 1048 or internal 2881 Editor: Pallab K Ghosh, Business Manager: Peter Rodgers: AdvertisingManager: HughSouthey Copyright FELIX 1983 j

