«
Music
CLINT EASTWOOD,
GENERAL SAINT
AND A CAST OF 1000
Well over one thousand people attended the
Freshers' Ball last Friday as Clint Eastwood
and General Saint played the best gig this
College has seen for years. There were other
bands, discos and films as well and our
reporter Peter Rodgers who saw most of it.
He only left when faced with the prospect of
seeing Cat People for the third time.
There was a touch of everything at the
Freshers' Ball: some good, some bad but
nothing ugly. I'm afraid I missed the first
band The Primary but reports were
favourable. To make amends their debut
single will be reviewed next week.
Crazeology had just toppled their key-
boards when I arrived so the bassist
(very out of date—cycling gear was fea-
tured in last month's F A C E ) told every-
one they could dance because there was
still bass and drums. Unfortunately the
soulless sanitised sound didn't offer
much temptation to do this and they
lacked the imagination to inspire with
their seemingly improvised sound.
However at least they were trying
something new which is more than can
be said for the Blue Orphans who stood
'in for the Watuzi Brothers at the last
minute. 99% perspiration and 1% inspir-
ation they may have been but genius
they 'certainly were not. Apparently quite
a few A&R men from various record
companies had come to see them but I
doubt if they will be appearing on vinyl in
the near future. A n almost note-for-note
copy of the Stones' '19th Nervous Break-
down' was one of the few highlights in
their set.
Tne best received of the support
bands were The Slide from Cardiff but
unfortunately for both us and them this
was their last gig. This band played a
J C R party during Freshers' Week last
year but have been unable to find a
record deal in the meantime. They inclu-
ded a version of Patti Smith's 'Because
the Night' in their set and their punkish
energy a n d vitality won them a well-
deserved encore.
Clint Eastwood and General Saint
weren't breaking up as the pre-gig ru-
mour had suggested, they hadn't got lost
beforehand as they said on the stage and
it was a night to remember as FELIX
promised last Friday.
Backing group the Inity Band took the
stage around 12:30 and immediately
The Primary
The Slide
showed they could win over the crowd
without the help of the front two. T h e
beauty with reggae music when it's this
good is that you don't have to have heard
it before to enjoy it. T h e music is ex-
uberant and when it's sung by a duo as
dynamic as C E and G S it's unbeatable.
The performance was not totally
reggae and that was its only fault: rock
influences such as the extended build-
ups at the ends of songs and drum solos
during introductions tended to lesson
the impact of songs.
The show was mostly uptempo and
only during the slow 'Nuclear Crisis' was
there any sign of crowd unrest but this
was only because the band had
proclaimed their support for C N D . How-
ever the song ends superbly with the
keyboards echoing apocalyptically of
Doors of all bands.
The band have been together for
around five years now and released two
albums on the Greensleeves label: Two
Bad DJ and Stop that Train—although
they are now being courted by some of
the majors. Last Friday was the first date
in a nationwide tour and considering
they have already reached the stage
where their audience is principally
white, been one of the headliners at the
Brockwell Park peace concert in front of
about 40,000 people and possess songs
of the popularity and calibre of 'Another
bites the dust' it can't be too long before
they're too big to play Imperial College
again.
Page 6
Clint Eastwood and General Saint
•HBBFriday. October 14, 1983^U
All photos—Matt Fawcett
n n a F E L I X

