Feature
WALKABOUT-
LONDON
»y Mobile Optics lee.
b
1. Covent Garden
Walkabout London was born in a pair of
comfortable shoes on an afternoon of ex-
cruciating lab work. I set off with no very
obvious end point in mind, ie went
WALKABOUT. Armed with this column
you will discover undreamt of bits of
London, visit the odd museum or picture
gallery, find a source of cinnabar green
artists' paint, the best espresso coffee in
London and much, much more!
In the midst of theatreland lies fashion-
conscious fitness land. Between the craft
stalls and buskers of the redeveloped Covent
Garden Market, and the amusement arcades
and hot-dog stands of Leicester Square, run
Long Acre and Floral Street. They are the
natural habitat of stylish street athletes and a
happy hunting ground for people-watchers
and flaneurs alike.
Aerobics
Medical evidence has shown, so we are
informed, that there is a need regularly to
work the heart up to a 'training zone' level:
150 beats a minute-and to maintain this level
for around 15 minutes: this is 'aerobic'
exercise. It's all about sustained effort, rather
than the short bursts of'explosive' movement
involved in squash or in fast-moving team
sports, which are primarily anaerobic.
"Regular aerobic exercise is one of the best
ways of keeping our body in an optimum
condition"—I'm quoting, sitting cross-
legged on my bed, where I've been firmly
planted for the last three hours doing nothing
more strenuous than drinking coffee and
scribbling—I'm full of good intentions! The
spirit is willing but the flesh is
weak...tomorrow maybe?! A workout? A
dance routine?
Out in the sunshine on Floral Street, I
sought inspiration at the Dance Centre. Open
seven days a week, the Dance Centre runs
classes for absolute beginners to
professionals. They range from New York
Stretch to Contemporary Jazz and most last
one hour. Cost is from £2 upwards, paid to
the teacher in the studio. A daily membership
fee of 35p covers use of showers, changing
rooms and the health bar area, which sounds
like it could be friendly as well as healthy. The
Dance Centre also has its own shop, carrying
a range of striped and shiny-bright leotards,
T-shirts, shorts and dance shoes.
As an alternative way to aerobic health and
Page 8
well-being, by jogging. The necessary gear
will be found at the London Runner, 119
Long Acre (open 7 days a week) or at Cobra,
no 38. Select shorts, vests and the essential
running shoe that will absorb the shocks of
constant pounding on city streets.
Pedal Power
The London Bicycle Company, 41-42 Floral
Street, offers an escape to fresh air. Their
'own brand' bicycles range from the best-
selling Londoner 'Black Diamond 10' made
by Falcon Cycles and based on the Black
Diamond (£139.95), to the top model
Londoner 'Dalesman' (and 'Ladydale'): the
frame is a Reynolds 531 butted throughout,
fitted with Campag Rally gears and Wolber
Invulnerable tyres (£299). Bike Events has its
London Office in one corner of the shop and
will take your registration for any of their
sponsored rides. Recently the Bath-London
Bike Ride on 28 August helped raise funds for
Action Research for the Crippled Child;
Hadrian's Ride (25 September), in aid of the
British Heart Foundation, followed the
spectacular route from Carlisle to Tyneside,
along the military road parallel to Hadrian's
Wall.
The cartographically minded can buy maps
at Stanfords, 12-24 Long Acre. The World's
largest map shop supplies travellers with
guide books to the four corners of the earth,
and sells such daydreamers' delights as the
China Railway Map (£1.25).
Having shed a pound or two and gained in
suppleness and muscle tone,findvitamin-rich
refreshment at the entrance to the tube
station.
Need the fitness freak live in
running shorts?
Sports-related aren't out, just rather
obvious—the body-conscious silhouette is
built from supple style—a mixture of
comfortable basics and casual fashion.
Feature
torn
Flip Clothing Warehouse, 125-6 Long
Acre, is open seven days a week (until
midnight Mon-Sat). New and used American
clothing is imported directly and sold at
discount prices. All is cleaned and freshly
pressed for sale, though the odd button may
be missing. Hunt out garish Hawaiian shirts
(£6.99), khaki army shorts from £4.99, and
pale pastel overalls (£11.99). Pristine Fruit-
of-the-Loom T-shirts, printed with a discrete
Flip logo, are £3.99.
When elegance, rather than thrift, is the
aim, invest in classic chic at Blazer, 37 Long
Acre. Pleated cotton trousers by Egon von
Furstenburg, have a diagonal weave or hair-
line stripe, from £35.
Cut a dash in Madras check cotton shirts
(from £20) pleated and tapered cotton
trousers and, in case of summer
thunderstorms, a feather weight rubberised
cotton raincoat (£63)—all from Paul Smith,
44 Floral Street. At No-Yes, on the corner of
Langley Court, girls find designer cottons,
inspired by the desert colours and
Friday, October 12, 1983 • • • • • • B B
archaeological discoveries in the Nile Valley:
city-black T-shirts, printed with palest blue
and sand squiggles, are £6.99; crisp cotton
dresses from about £40.
Thus elegantly attired, pose in style at the
Cafe des Amis du Vin, 12-13 Hanover Place,
open from noon till 11:30pm. With Juan
Gris' Cubist collage in the mind's eye, order
espresso, or smooth milky capuccino coffee
(50p), and Croque Monsieur (£ 1.55). The Bar
des Amis is open during normal licencing
hours: Les Amis Claret (£5.25 bottle) heads a
comprehensive wine list.
What to do at sunset?
Round the corner, at 48 Floral Street, book
seats at the Covent Garden Box Office. The
Royal Opera House is subsidised by the Arts
Council of Great Britain, whose shop is at 8
Long Acre, open 10:00am-7:45pm Mon-Sat.
The culturally inclined select from a wealth of
books on the performing and visual arts,
collect picture postcards from regional
galleries (15p), and catch up on missed
exhibitions with British and international art
exhibition catalogues.
Night owls have more fun than just
shopping at the Covent Garden General
Store, open till midnight Mon-Sat opposite
Covent Garden tube. Baskets, Moses-sized or
miniature (from 20p), will accommodate all
purchases. Cafe-style china jostles for shelf-
space with enamel mugs and coffee pots.
Paper, in rainbow colours, is sold by
weight—loz sombre grey envelopes (27p) to
camouflage exuberant yellow paper (18p for
loz). Albany Orchards Original English Jelly
Beans are justly as brightly coloured—try
lime green or raspberry pink, at 55p for lOOg.
The amateur barman will find everything
necessary for the well shaken cocktail, down
to the essential paper parasol.
Those more intent on consuming than
producing might, at this point, retire to
Giordano's Antipasto Bar. Tehre, indulge in
a Harvey Wallbanger or Tequila Sunrise; all
cocktails are £1.50 during the 'Happy Hour',
from 6:00-9:00pm Mon-Sat. After an
exhausting day spent acheiving fitness and
clothing the new-look, lean-line body,
Giordino's plate of assorted salamis, served
with crisp salad and fresh bread seems very
modestly priced at £2.50.
Cafe Breakfast, by Juan Gris..
H H H H H H H H H H H Pa
9* 9

