Clubs
Bumsoc
May we be the first people to welcome fresh-
ers to IC. Do you lie awake .it night dreaming
of making your own badges? Yes? Then why
not join Vegsoc.
Incidently. today is the Badgesoc Univers-
al Meeting, or as we like to call it the
Grawnshwarg. This MegaEvent is going to
occur at 1300h in the Union Upper Lounge
(or in Union Hackese "at 1 in the UUL").
This wonderful event will supply copious
quantities of alcohol and roughage.
Also a demonstration of badge making will
be attempted without the use of a safety net.
Yours till Barney McCabe returns and re-
stores the partition to the Lower Lounge.
ICBM: Exec
India
All those who put their names down on the
list at Freshers Fair and anyone else inter-
ested in becoming a member: there will be a
Freshers' Reception today at 12:35pm in the
Union Lower Refectory. Free food and wine
will be provided.
If you want to join the Scout and Guide Club
(S&G) the first thing that you will need is a
thick skin. The name sometimes takes a bit of
living down.
Few people know what we do, so it is time
to explain.
S&G is the one outdoor club that is not
dedicated to a particular activity. We cater
for walking, climbing .ind caving, and since
we are not a club for fanatics, we are more
tolerant of complete beginners.
An understanding with the Scout move-
ment allows us to use their huts, so our
weekends away are cheap and reasonably
comfortable.
Cypriot
The IC Cyp Soc welcomes you to the new
academic year. All new IC students are wel-
come to join us to find out about the culture
of Cyprus and participate in our entertaining
activities.
The first Ordinary General Meeting of the
society will take place in Botany Common
Room opposite FELIX Office (Union Build-
ing) at 1:00pm on Wednesday 19 October.
COLLEGE
O K troops, hope you have survived the rig-
ours of a debauched first week. Here are some
important notices from your local fun-
packed thrill-filled radio station!
1. Ta to all the freshers who signed up at
the Fair. For all those who want to be trained
please contact us and sign up on the appro-
priate list in the station. If you want to do
technical work see he of the white jeans and
half grown beard down the station on Satur-
day afternoon. Also for all you news hacks,
Pete apologies for the lack of action but he
will contact you soon.
2. So far only ICCA G and Judo Club have
approached me for taped jingles. If your soci-
ety would like one of these then contact me at
the station.
3. Please note that the editor of this mar-
vellous newspaper together with Diane Love
is appearing on Roundtable this Saturday at
8:00pm.
' Bags of love, see you soon,
Pete Skelley
Page 10
MORALS VIOLENCE IS P E s r ^ a c r f v E
WmJBM Friday, October 14, 1983 WBBB
During the summer Dramsoc (under the
name of Beit Theatre) went to Edinburgh to
perform at this year's Fringe Festival. One of
the three plays that the company performed
was called What do you say before you say
goodbye by Melody Shahan. The play con-
cerns Mikki and her relationship with two
men, the sexually inadequte Billie and the
sexually proficient Tom.
The answer to the question which the title
poses seems to be 'far too much if you really
want to have a happy relationship with some-
one of the opposite sex' and the humour
which results from the language of these mo-
dern lovers is considered.
The play is being performed in the Union
Concert Hall at 8:00pm from Wednesday 19
October to Friday 21 October. Entrance costs
£1 on the door. The play recieved a good
review in The Scotsman newspaper.
FELIX

