> C o m p u t e r s
feature
FUN!'
Yes, I was broke over the summer and needed to top up my
grant for next year. No, I wasn't working in Tescos or fruit-
picking in France. I worked for a computer firm over the
summer. So what, you may ask. This, however, was a serious
challenge. I was fortunate enough to take part in the Shell
lech oology and Enterprise Programme, known as STEP for
short. This programme offers second year and penultimate year
undergraduates the opportunity to work on eight-week projects
for small and medium sized companies.
I was placed with a small electronics company called
Semiconductor Supplies International Ltd, which supplies
industry and private buyers with electrical and electronic
components, such as diodes and speakers. Its computer sales
department was established in October 1993.
The company had a serious problem in that customers
buying computer components wanted these assembled for them.
Because no full-time employee had enough time to learn the
assembly process, this is where 1 came in. The aim of my project
was "To build computer systems to customer requirements and
to write a technical manual on the assembly process".
During my placement I had to teach myself how to build
computer systems from the company's components and built, a
large number of systems for customers. As I was for the most
part unsupervised I continuously needed to show a lot of
initiative- and clear thinking. By the end of my placement I could
build a system in under 30 minutes, quite an achievement
considering that the first system took me one and a half days.
I also had to write a technical manual on the assembly
process. Ibis was distributed to customers who needed to build
their own computers at home and also to companies who
wanted to train employees in system assembly. Eventually I
produced the first fully comprehensive technical manual on
computer assembly. It, is protected by copyright laws and has
been published by the company. I also tested all the computer
components in stock and tutored customers in system assembly.
All students on the STEP scheme who completed the full
eight, weeks had to write an account of their experience. This
report was presented to a panel of judges and the winner was
presented with the Most Enterprising Student award. This was
organised by the local sponsoring company, which in my case
was SIRA Test, and Certification Ltd (who paid half of my
salary).
Each of the 14 students at the local final gave a
fascinating presentation of their placement. To my great
surprise I managed to win (don't ask me how), picked up my
cash prize and qualified for the South East and London
Regional Final. This I also managed to win
(no, I'm not. a spod)! I went on to represent,
the South East Region in the National Final.
This was an excellent experience: the 14
finalists, representing Scotland, Wales, North
England etc., stayed in a top London hotel
and 200 people attended the award ceremony,
including many company chairpersons (a good
time for job contacts). This I did not win,
you'll be relieved to know. The competition
was very intense, with the winning student
having saved his balloon company an
estimated £1 million a year.
Despite not winning the national
competition, my placement was extremely
successful. Computer sales and stock increased
by 100% --- not bad for a summer's work. In
addition, the company offered to employ me
for the rest, of my summer holidays, as well as
in the future.
How did I benefit? Well, I developed
many skills needed in industry, notably the
abilities to think clearly and quickly, show
initiative, take on responsibility, communicate
effectively and solve problems efficiently. Many
of these skills are not developed from academic studies, but
from taking positions of responsibility within clubs and societies
where you can get a feel for organising and co-ordinating.
I would highly recommend STEP to all second year and
penultimate year undergraduates. This year 1025 students took
part, and there will probably be more places next year, so the
actual odds of getting onto the scheme are higher than with
other summer jobs. This is a great chance to get some real work
experience under your belt, a good reference and a CV with a bit
of oomph! Don't miss it.
Forfurther information, contact Faisal Haque (Elec. Eng. 3,
f.haque@ic.ac.uk Pakistan Society President)
\mm FELIX WM

