Union N
e
w
s
President's Report
CONSTITUTION
Over the summer the constitution lias been rewritten to bring it in to line
with the new education act, which was granted Royal Assent on the 21st
July 1994. The revised constitution has been discussed at length with
the Union Executive and College Officials. The Clerk to the Governors
has agreed to take the revised constitution in its present form to the next
College Governing Body meeting. The constitution will dierefore be
submitted to this U.G.M. for its first approval.
The new constitution is available from the Union Office.
ENTERTAINMENTS CHAIR
Due to unforeseen circumstances the Union found itself without an
Entertainments chair. The Union Executive Committee met to discuss
this matter, and agreed that our present Events and Marketing
Managers should take over the post for the first term of the academic
year 1994/95, subject, to ratification at. U.G.M.
UNION BUILDING
Over the summer the Union was visited by two architects who are look-
ing into the feasibility of moving the Union to the Sherfield Building.
This caused a mild panic around Beit Quad but we have now been
assured by the Rector that the Students will be fully consulted before
any move is planned.
NO SMOKING POLICY
College is trying out a no smoking policy in die J.C.R. The Junior
Common Room in the Shcrfield building will be non-smoking for the
first term, after which point the policy will be reviewed.
UGM Agenda Topics
Election of the Chair
Minutes of the Last Meeting
Matters Arising
Deputy President (Finance and Services) Report
Deputy President (Club and Societies) Report,
Presidents Report.
Motion proposed by the Union Executive
Election of other officers
Any other business
Date of the next meeting
Overseas Students'
Committee Elections
To All Foreign Students: Come and vote for your Committee, in the
OSC (Overseas Students' Committee) Elections.
On Wednesday 19th of October at 1 pm in Union Concert Hall (2nd
floor Union Building).
Come and stand for the available posts: Vice Chairman,
Honorary Secretary, Junior Treasurer, Events Officer, Publicity
Officer, Welfare Officer, Sports Officer, 2 Ordinary Members.
Freshers and Postgrads welcome!
SECOND-HAND BOOKSHOP
The Union has been trying to set-up a second-hand bookshop.
Unfortunately college have been unable to find the necessary space,
although they have agreed to consider finding space in the future should
any become available through new building works or other such enter-
prises.
Ifyou have any questions on any ofthe above please come to the U.G.M.
Motion to U G M recommended by the Union Executive.
Imperial College Union notes:
1. There are a large number of possible "cults" operating in London.
2. "Cults" target students as an easy method of increasing their num-
bers.
3. Imperial College has around 7300 students.
4. "Cult" members are banned from Imperial College for recruitment
purposes.
Imperial College Union believes:
1. One recruiting method that could still occur is through posters
advertising events.
2. Students could still be used to place these posters around college.
Imperial College Union resolves:
1. To ban all religious posters except those produced, within the Union
poster rules, by Union or College Societies.
Imperial College Union instructs:
1. The DEPUTY PRESIDENT (Clubs & Societies) or their nominee to
police the Union poster areas and uphold this policy.
Q&SCy GET S
E
L
E
C
T
E
D KflilHII
HOW TO IMPROVE YOUR OUNCES IN THE SELECTION
PROCESS
Both Esso and the Windsor Fellowship are committed to improving
the representation of employees from ethnic backgrounds amongst
major UK employers. The two organisations have joined to provide
a comprehensive training opportunity for minority students about to
embark on the 'milkround'. The course is restricted to students from
science and technical degree disciplines.
The course aims:
• to enable candidates to fully convey their skills
and abilities on an application form.
• to improve their effectiveness within a selection
interview.
• to increase their understanding of, and
performance within, assessment centres.
Students should contact the Careers Office for an application form
and further details. CLOSING DATE: OCTOBER 31,1994.
f F E L I X 140™

