Standby
T
H
E m
e
n
u
This week, Bijoy Kar, a third year maths undergraduate with a
penchant for Simple Minds reviews the singles and he does
not mince words...
Vik lays back and catches some 7 7 7 7 s live with Dinosaur Jr
and then glances over the new Grant Lee Buffalo album
whilst tintin gets to wash his ears out listening to Liz Phair.
Fiona takes to the dance floor as she checks out the latest club
fashions and strangely finds a cord revival. Errrkkk!!!
Mike goes after big game as Disney revisit the jungle in the
company of the Lion King, whilst Magpie choses which way to
jump as he flies down to spy on Threesome.
In a combined doubled headed attack, Marcus Alexander and
Plinthos explore the outbreak of German Romanticism, or
'Deutsche Romantik', on the South Bank.
0)i*o^tion:^ome bad bits
(left) biff";. 1
Guv'ner know
what he thinks
about them.
As we all
know
doesn't mince
his words...
. . fid. vik
adds" the odd
g e m too
Oasis - cigarettes and alcohol
[bijoy] (laughing as the three-
chord guitar intro breaks in); it
sounds like Status Quo. (On
hearing liam's cries of, "
I was
looking for some acshowwwn");
It's Johnny Rotten singing Status
Quo! It's trying to take you back
to the '60s somehow but it's fine
as pub music.
Sugar - believe what you're saying
[b]; it sounds like the singer's got
a cold. I don't really like it - it's
depressive's music...
[vik]; I don't believe what you're
saying! This is prime-time, wistful
pop.
Shady - narcotic candy
[b]; the build-up is excessive and
I'm completely lost as to what
they're trying to do. It sounds like
it's been recorded on half-speed.
(As the sound of running water
enters the fray); the kitchen sink
has literally been thrown in!
[v]; a monotonous collection of
sounds that is tedious in the
extreme.
Guv'ner - curry favour ep
[b]; this is dire. The highs fail to
create the highs and the lows fail
disjointed. The second track
sounds like a warm-up session
and the drumming is atrocious. I
. . . . .
wanting to give this any time at
all but it's fine as pub closing time
music
[v]; a tripie victory. Not con.
with having the worst band name:
and worst ep title of ail time,
they've also managed to create
the most excruciatingly paii-
amateurish excuse for music, to
ever disgrace our ears. The stereo
will never be the same again.
Cardinal - dream figure
[bj; there's a lot of depressive
stuff this week. It's very mellow
.-. .:ep quite
easily. It's okay but it's not hard to
follow that last single...
[v], understatement of the year.
P l a s t i k m a n - plastique
[b]; I don't know what to say. It's
just stupidly repetitive.
[v]; basically minutes of electronic;
bleeps. I hear enough of
every time I switch on my
computer
Reverberation - sou/in'
[b]; the slide guitars make it a
classic Texas intro. An interesting
mixture of styles, though...
[v]; 'interesting' is always a good
adjective to describe something
that leaves you feeling nothing
but apathy. O
american myths awake
Grant Lee Buffalo are either a Californian trio with rare integrity or yet
another bunch of Americans who are over-hyped and over here. Listen to
their new album, 'Mighty Joe Moon', and you should be nodding in the
former direction, but only just.
After using no less than twenty instruments things were never going
to be easy and yet they manage to fuse blues, folk, country and rock
influences into something gentle but exciting. The laid back guitar groove
of opener 'Lone Star Song' leads into the undulating, cello-embellished
strains of 'Mockingbirds', and sees Grant Lee Phillips trading his baritone
croon for a falsetto. Elsewhere, 'Lady Godiva and Me' features a mid-
section guitar riff that uncannily sounds like it belongs on a Cult album
(honest) while Phillips could be Eddie Vedder on 'Happiness', not least
with his lament of "happiness, it's hard to come by..."
Despite the general morose feel, however, the Buffalo have once
again managed to distil the best idiosyncratic American elements to
create something that is, well, heart-warming. (7)
I
With her last album 'Exile from Guyville', Liz Phair broke ranks to
become a feminine icon. Oh yeah. Anyone who believe that needs to
grow up and stop trying to grid axes with their genitalia. It's a dangerous
game they might 'bobbitt' themselves. Just because Liz sings about f****g
a lot, it doesn't mean she's into role reversal. Actually she appears to
quite like men and to that extent her new album, 'Whip-Smart' is no
different to 'Exile'. Yeah she swears a lot - (as the accompanying press
release suggests,'"93% of music reviewers will quote the line..." which I
won't quote as it is just a form of obscene hype) - but it's all a form of
devotion from a mixed up girl with a long chain of events behind her.
More importantly in between all the cussing she actually tells us why
she loves her man, what she'll do with her son when he grows up, the
strains of domestic li(o)ves and more. In 'nashville' when she refrains, "
I
won't decorate my love", we get to hear the root of her music. The point
is that it's not nasty so much as merely heart felt.
When Liz Phair tells you to 'watch your language' you'll know that it's
because you're lying, not because you're necessarily being offensive. (8)
J Mascis of Dinosaur Junior, has always sounded and looked like he
wanted to be somewhere else. I'd like to know what roused the man who
put the 'lack' in slacker because tonight at Brixton Academy, he looked
like he was enjoying himself. Dinosaur Jr: grunge? sloth rock? Try full-
force, power metal trio. I should have known, what with Ozzy Osbourne
playing on the speakers beforehand and Ted Nugent afterwards, but I'd
never seen the man strangling this many beautifully obscene sounds out
of a guitar before, at least not with a smile on his face. Maybe it was the
smug satisfaction of fooling everyone by throwing in that 1988 gem
'Freak Scene' right at the start. Maybe it was bassist Mike Johnson, who
added the humour element to proceedings by looking like an extra from
The Addams Family. Or maybe Mascis was just revelling in shocking
everyone with the band's brutal and un-vinyl like heaviosity. Whatever it
was, it was worth it because we got two (yes, count 'em - two!) encores
ending in a five-minute thrashy workout. Joy of joys. I'm still in shock. ©
MM F E L I X I40CT94

