Standby
^ club's cords explosion
So it's 10pm. You open your had escaped your attention, turn
wardrobe door and survey the ups are out. Top stylist of freshers'
chaos inside. Freshers' week found week goes to Paul of Southwell hall
no talent, pheromones are running for one wonderful coat,
high and it's time to take to the Women, for background
clubs. The London club scene can blenders, replace the MUCH
be fairly described as the most overrated babydoll dress with the
diverse and interesting fashion far more stylish shift and thigh high
show of the country. Encouraging socks. Skirts are short and A-line,
individuality, here to be outrageous trousers narrow, worn with silver
is to be acceptable. shoes or patent stilettoes (£39.99
For men, long shirts hanging Shelleys). It is, after all, the season
loose are fast becoming a necessity, to shine: from sequins, beading,
and are worn with closely fitted and satin to pvc. With jewellery at a
jeans and laced boots (eg. German minimum let the materials do the
Para style). Dressed up for the eye catching. Mohair is big this
weekend, exchange the jeans for season, but the net result in a club
narrow legged trousers worn short is excessive amounts of sweat and
to show off the boots and add a "the fluff gets everywhere even your
waistcoat or tanktop, keeping cuffs mouth". Instead, top it off, if you
loose and hair SHORT. Along with dare, with Chanel's neon fluffy
women think pinstripe or, for the bomber jacket (ie. grab a tenner
exhibitionists, tartan. Backward and nip up Portobello). Finally, for
glances in style and the current absolute extremists, this season's
trend in fabric contrasting has made fashion essentials are Vivienne
cords a desirable commodity, but Westwood's tartan bum pads at just
they may be too warm for any but a a few hundred pounds a pair,
wallflower. Incidentally, in case it Glamour is back. ©
rulers and triangles
The Lion King is a stirring tale of complaining? Alright, so it isn't as
betrayal, murder, teenage angst, good as Aladdin. Alright, it's
redemption and warthog flatulence, formulaic and heartwarming. But I
The mighty, wise and rib-shakingly loved it.
deep voiced lion king Mufasa As for Threesome, it's a bit of
spends bis time teaching his son a college recipe; take two men and
and heir, Simba, sound ecological a woman, stick them in a room for
values, ruling majestically and a term, add some hormones and
generally beating the crap out of see what happens. Alex is in a bit of
the pride's enemies. However a sticky situation. She has been
Mufasa's evil brother. Scar, plots assigned to a coed dormitory,
with his hyena henchthings to do rooming with Eddy and Stuart as
away with both Mufasa and Simba, she was thought, because of her
so he can be king. He lures Simba name, to be a bloke. Unable to
into the path of a wildebeest move to dormitories she has no
stampede, kills Mufasa when he choice but to stay put.
comes to the rescue and then Slowly the living arrangements
convinces Simba that he was become chaotic, as Alex's living
responsible. Simba goes into exile standards collide with the guys'
and grows up with a odious uncaring attitude to the state of the
warthog and a meercat with a shared kitchen and bathroom. She
Brooklyn accent. becomes annoyed with Stuart
How could it fail? Its storylines eating the yogurt intended for her
have been tested in just about every face mask as well as the usual male
other block-buggering film you've living habits like not flushing the
ever seen (even going as far as ex- toilet. Yet as term progresses all
Darth Vader James Earl Jones, as three become good friends, well
Mufasa, delivering a virtual copy of really it's more like a love triangle,
the "but Luke, you're my son" Stuart lusts after Alex, Alex desires
speech three quarters of the way Eddy but Eddy is ambivalent about
through.) The cast contains such his sexuality.
names as Jeremy Irons, Rowan The film has its funny moments
Atkinson and Whoopi Goldberg, and is a comic look at
The jokes are hysterically funny. The college/university life. If you see it
sad bits are as blubbable as you'll though, take a partner or two, as
get in a kids' film. Who's the film advertises.©
kultur und geist
The musical component of the South Bank Centre's 'German
Romanticism' festival began with a program of Beethoven, Wagner and
Henze played by the London Philharmonic under Franz WelsenMost.
Beethoven's 5th Symphony (1808) was a ground-breaking work in
Romanticism, performed here with terseness and precision.
Wagner's Wesendonk Lieder (1858) were composed in the same
period as Tristan und Isolde and their music reminds us of the terrific
emotional and sensual force of that opera; another key work in the
history of Romanticism. But Wagner was also one of those who killed
Romanticism in the dark, morally corrupt events of The Ring of the
Nibelung. Thus the lyrical, heroic, pure spirit of Romanticism was stifled.
Although its influence has survived in Germany and many 20th century
composers have acknowledged an inspiration in the Romantic music of
the 1 9th century, including Henze himself. A fact which may surprise the
listener, since Germany has been particularly associated with the most
extreme varieties of atonal, serialist composition.
Henze's Heliogabalus Imperator (1972) is a solid, well-written piece
typical of its period. It was a challenge to the audience to find the
connections between its sound world and that of Beethoven's - I don't
think I managed that. Still it is good that the festival planners were not
afraid to mix old and new like this; they could easily have chosen to keep
the crowds happy with a serving of solid 19th century repertoire.
The visual delight of the Deutsche Romantik festival is at the
Hayward Gallery, which is showing over 300 works of art embodying the
romantic, themes. Romanticism can be seen as the artist's expression of
the highest values, the search for the spiritual ideals within naturalness
and nature. It is a contemplation of that which celebrates God and the
pinnacles of human achievement. Artists of this tradition saw themselves
as loners, individual anti-heroes who would struggle against the frailties
of mankind in their attempt to portray the purest of ideas and emotions
within natural forms. The early paintings are typically representational
with many landscapes, seascapes and skyscapes. Friedrich provides
typical examples of these, his scapes often viewed by contemplative
figures. Allegorical themes abound, with gods and daemons dancing over
sleeping maidens. The leering, skullbone face of Death lurks in many of
these works, gloating over the inevitability of the artist's end. Around the
turn of the century the shift is quite disconcerting, descending a floor in
the gallery to find that representation has suddenly been abandoned. This
part of the exhibition takes you on a whirlwind tour through modernism,
expressionism and abstraction, with a stark climax at the end in Joseph
Beuys' huge assortment of concrete blocks, appropriately titled 'The end of
the twentieth century'.
The most extreme expression of the Romantic ideals came with
Nazism, and a few paintings from this time are shown, although some
have argued that a more extensive portrayal of Hitler's time was
necessary, as he was perhaps the greatest of all Romantic idealists.
Despite this, the exhibition provides an unparalleled insight into this area
of German Art, and for those who are prepared to slog throuu • a
, iiri.-jiv • i :dl'- ••- :,u;:':r.: - ., . -•;
.
• ii p.. i
The festival continues until 24th November at the South Bank Centre,
tel; 0171 928 8800.
I40CT94 F E L I X H I

