N
e
w
s Feature
Confidential Drift
The Union may be going south, as MichaelLudlam explains below...
A plan has been proposed by College to move
the Union to Sheffield to make way for a
conference centre in Beit Quad. The scheme,
only officially admitted in July, is still in the
early stages of development. These proposals
arc pari of the 'Foster master plan1
that was
conceived by architects to make the Queen's
lower and lawn the "heart-space" of College.
This ties in with the suggested "Albertopolis"
plan to convert the whole of South
Kensington using money from the millennium
fund back to its former splendour. The Foster
architects carried out a review of the Sherfield
building which the Director of College
Estates, Ian Caldwell described as a working
environment that is "tired, worn and
outdated". He added "every time we get one
new member of staff in we spend an absolute
fortune trying to sort out where to put them."
In particular the double corridors and light
wells have been sighted as incredible wastes
of space.
The College is already due for changes
soon. Plans for the Basic Medical School
(BMS) that, is proposed to replace the old
Chemistry building have already been
submitted to the Department of Health . This
will be in place to help the merger with the
National Heart and Lung Institute (NHLI)
and Charing Cross Westminster Medical
school with Imperial College. It is also
proposed that the Biology department move
to the BMS. Thus if the Union was to relocate
to Sherfield, Beit Quad would be free to
become an accommodation block for
conferences. As Beit is the most picturesque
part of College this would probably revitalise
the conference attendance. Discussions have
opened between ICU and College, but. no
decisions have been made. But this is not the
only proposal. ICU suggested that, the Quad
be developed to create what Dan Look,
deputy President of finances and services
described as a "student village" that would
contain the health centre, a dentist and lots of
shops along with other student needs. But
"College weren't overly impressed by that,"
said Dan.
Changes need to be made to the
College to cope with the expected influx of an
extra two thousand students in the next: seven
years. The tennis courts next to Linstead Hall
are expected to go while floors will be added
to the Sports Centre to cushion the loss. A lot,
of the north side of Princes Gardens is
condemned or requires serious work while
there are plans to expand Southside. The
College is going to have change its shape or it.
will run out of space.
The proposals to alter Sheffield are
"very serious" and it is likely that changes
will go ahead. The Director of Estates Ian
Caldwell, said that the administration side of
College could probably be reduced. It
presently occupies parts of all five floors. This
would free up space that could be used by
other parts of the College. "One of these
options is to create more student activities
akin to the union" said Ian Caldwell.
The Union itself is not. directly under
threat and College has recognised its role
within Imperial. Students have been
promised their voice will be heard. Dan Look
said that, "if they [College] want to move us
we would take this to a referendum for all the
students in College" adding that is the answer
was a no to moving, the Union would fight it
ali the way. "It is students in the end who
decide."
Concerns about any move to Sherfield
by the Union have been voiced, in particular
with regard to the Union bar and the Union
Dining Hall. If such a move were to take
place F E L I X has been reassured that they
would both be moved "panel by panel" to
any new Union to preserve them. "There is a
lot of history to this building" stated the ICU
President Lucy Chothia. "The problem is that
the Union has so much tradition [...] and
Sherfield is very faceless," added Dan Look
who continued "let's face it, it's an ugly
monstrosity".
If the Union were to move to Sherfield
it would be contained in one floor that, would
be altered to provide at least all the services it
now provides and hopefully more. The Union
needs a larger venue to be able attract big
bands, at present the biggest room in Beit
only holds 300. A purpose built venue and
bars would theoretically provide a better
service for students but problems have been
cited such as the bar deliveries and the noise
from the bands disturbing the administration
department, as witnessed at last years rag
fete. A partial move so that some of the Union
would remain behind in Beit, has been
suggested but this has as many disadvantages
as advantages. Any move to be considered
would be extremely expensive and would be
met by the College and not by the Union.
The Deputy President was adamant about
this particular issue slating "the Union will
not pay for a single penny of moving us over
[...] we are not going to pay to keep the
facilities we've got".
Dan Look expressed reservations on
how the Union had not been approached
before architects came to conduct a feasibility
study. He said "I think there is a tendency
amongst some members of College
administration not to realise the fact that
Imperial College is here for students. Without
the students it would no be a university, it. is
as simple as that." While Lucy Chothia said
that College may have wanted to sec how
quickly the new sabbaticals got off the mark
and how much they wanted to be involved in
the discussions. For their hard work they
have had the assurances of the managing
director of College, the Registrar, the Director
of Estates and other influential figures within
College that the Union will be fully consulted
before anything goes ahead.
Given the time frame it is obvious that
nothing physical will happen for a long time.
However these are serious plans that require
serious thought. The Union isn't completely
opposed to these plans if they provide
students better services. Dan Look happily
admitted, "I agree with the principals of it, it.
would be nice to have a College campus with
one centre with everything gradually
radiating out."
What ever happens watch this space,
or that space, or watch for the bulldozers. 1
3
BUM F E L I X I40CT94

