Freshers' week
Hypno Show
. . . . . . . . . . .......
Bands (2)
Friday: It's the end of Freshers'
Week and we're getting
progressively more stale. So what
better way to be eased into another
long night than a bit. of acid jazz.
Yah, give over. P M Beatside
started with the sustain of a
hammond organ and prolonged
their sound for longer than I have
tried to forget. I mean it's okay to
have the swing of the sax and odd
piece of funking fretwork but. too
much of anything without a
human voice just, end up a-
whistling into the wind.
Tribute bands have always
had an ephemeral appeal and true
to form, Peroxide Blondie were
fun to watch for precisely one song
(predictably, TIangin' on the
Telephone). Okay, so their singer
did a passable 'Stars in your Eyes'
version of old Debbie and she had
some of the more excitable/drunk
men going with her numerous
Double Six Club
If your dearest wish is for an excuse to play Mousetrap or Buckaroo then
Double Six Club is for you. The founders of the club dress up in
smoking jackets which looked like cast offs from an early 70s 'IY show
whilst the music, from a band called Corduroy, was best described as
easy listening.
On entering the club the punters were shown to a table and given
a leather-bound menu describing games from Bisk to Twister. Orders
such as "I'll have a quick game of Ker-plunk, for main course I'll have a
Jcno for four and, um, I lungry Hippos for dessert" were the sort of thing
that you heard while, standing in the club. The whole effect was to say
the least, surreal. [JohnJ
1** ' . S J I M B H H H H I M M M M
It's said that people won't do anything under hypnosis that goes against
their moral values. If this is true Imperial College freshers' are
rei narkably depraved.
To those brave enough to go up on stage Geno Washington
promised "the second best experience in life". This may have been so
but what he didn't say was that they were, to be, held up to ridicule in a
particularly infantile way. After a relatively mild introduction in which
the victim were, convinced they were pianists, Geno obviously ran out. of
tasteful ideas. This was when the evening got interesting. One. poor soul
was told that his male, member had been stolen. The. look of
mortification on his face, when awakened was priceless. [John]
costume changes, but it, was like
watching Santa Clans in his grotto,
you knew it wasn't for real...
They came, they bored, they
floundered... Sub Sub were bog-
standard dance beats with extra
percussion - what, an exciting
concept. Bring on a singer and
you've got bog-standard dance
beats, extra percussion and a voice
over the top. Even more exciting.
"There ain't, no love and there ain't:
no use..." Well, they got the last, bit,
right. At least they had me running
for the doors I suppose - that's the
most exercise I've had in years...
[PM Bcatside - tintin]
[Peroxide Blondic - Vik]
[Sub Sub-Vik]
above; the Double Six Club go
a-twisting
F E L I X EM

