In celebration of the forthcoming (when we wrote this) US presidential elections, the Coffee Break team are honour-
ing one of the literary world’s unsung heroes, George W Bush. We’re giving you a list of some of his most memorable
quotes, and all you have to do is tell us if it’s a genuine ‘Bush-ism’ or just some bollocks we came up with.
1. I know human beings and fish can co-exist peacefully
2. One of the greatest things about books is that there are some fantastic pictures
3. For NASA, space is still a high priority
4. It isn’t pollution thats harming the environment, it’s the impurities in the air and water that’s doing it
5. It’s clearly a budget; It’s got a lot of numbers in it
6. Well I think if you say you’re going to do something, and don’t do it - that’s trustworthiness
7. In my sentences, I go where no man has gone before
8. I don’t care what the polls say, I don’t. I’m doing what I think what’s wrong
9. I would have to ask the questioner. I haven’t had a chance to ask the questioners the question they’ve been
questioning
10. I know how hard it is for you to put food on your family
Coffee Break is back, again. According to some of you, last week’s edition was far too hard, so we’ve
lowered the difficulty... and the tone. Please enter, by sending your answers to coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk.
We have lots of prize money, and we would prefer not to spend it all on beer
www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 4 November 2004
20
Coffee Break coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk
Whose breasts are these?
1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8
It’s five weeks into the start of term
now, and if you’re male, like most
people here are, you’ve proably real-
ised that there is a distinct lack
of attractive female totty around
College. Sure, there’s some, but
they’re often either too busy or too
uptight for anything interesting to
happen with them.
We know you laydees are feeling
the same too. Sure, theres a lot of
guys around, but have you seen the
state of some of them? They’re not
exactly prime specimens of what
the male sex has to offer, are they?
Imperial boys tend to be either geeky
freaks, obsessed with manga and
computers, or sporty nutters, with
their own more deviant hobbies.
In honour of our hugely distorted
girl-boy ratio, we’ve come up with
this piece of pure class. It’s also an
excuse to get a bit of cleavage in the
paper, and there’s nothing wrong
with that.
Anyway, we’ve taken some of the
best pictures we could find, and
focused on the most important area.
All you have to do is match the
boobs with their owner.
George W Bush is dumb
It’s week two for the Felix Unforgettable Coffee Break Weekly Issued Tournament, and things are hotting up. Literally. Sex sells, and hopefully a
bunch of semi-naked celebrities should encourage you all to enter. Plus, it’s piss-easy this week – even a geologist could do it.
Whose breasts are these? You’ll get two points (two points, geddit?) for correctly identifying who owns each pair of magnificent mounds.
George W Bush is dumb And will probably still be President when this issue is released. Never mind, how much harm can somebody do in
four years? Anyway, there’s a point for each quote – just tell us which are genuine and which are dirty stinking lies.
Well there you go, thats 26 points available.
You can still send in your answers to last week’s quiz, and you have until next Friday
for this week’s. Send your answers and team names to coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk
The League of Extraordinary FUCWITs

