Who are the real pirates?
In response to Numaan Chaudhry’s article on illegal downloads in last week’s Felix,
Matheus van den Bergh argues that the music industry are the real villains of the piece
www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 4 November 2004
8
COMMENT felix@ic.ac.uk
In any discussion of the music indus-
try, it is vital to keep one fact in mind:
it’s all about the artists and the
fans. Everyone else involved is just
a useful intermediary, and like all
middlemen they face the prospect
of being superceded by advancing
technology. There will probably be
record labels for years to come, but
their role is changing and the ‘big
five’ behemoth labels seem unable
to adapt. It certainly doesn't help
that record labels (especially the big
ones) are routinely accused of using
byzantine ‘Enron-style’ accounting
techniques to defraud their artists.
Throughoutthelatenineties,labels
passed up opportunities to develop
online music distribution. Indeed,
they only took notice of the internet's
existence when Napster turned
MP3 sharing from the preserve of
the technically adept few into the
new hobby of the wired masses.
The RIAA’s (Recording Industry of
America) response was to litigate
(not legislate as Numaan Chaudhry
claimed in last week’s Felix) Napster
into the ground. Perhaps they naïve-
ly imagined that this would be the
end of the problem. One might have
expected that Napster’s popularity
would serve as a wake up call to the
industry. Unfortunately, they missed
the boat again.
Speaking of lawsuits, the RIAA’s
legal campaign of terror, which the
BPI (the RIAA’s sister organisation
in the UK) is now bringing to this
side of the Atlantic, has achieved
– despite Chaudhry's comments
– absolutely nothing. The RIAA has
often quoted a statistic indicating
a 50% drop in file sharing activity
since they deployed their legal bea-
gles against errant downloaders, but
unfortunately that figure is based on
deeply flawed studies. The surveys
did not take into account the migra-
tion of users from older, established
networks to newer ones which are
more difficult to trace. They also
relied on asking a large group of
American adults about their music
downloading habits, which is a bit
like basing crime statistics on the
results of a door to door poll con-
ducted by local policemen. In fact,
all that they can be said to show is
that in the wake of a cluster bomb
of lawsuits aimed at heavy Kazaa
users, people are (a) moving to
other networks, the users of which
have not yet been targeted, and (b)
less likely to admit to using Kazaa.
Surprise!
Quite aside from their ineffec-
tiveness, the lawsuits are morally
dubious. Among those torpedoed by
the RIAA’s lawyers was a 12-year-
old girl from a lower income family.
Like most of the targeted ‘pirates’,
her family eventually settled out ot
court. In her case, the RIAA had to
make do with a settlement of only
$2000 – not a bad haul considering
that this was the all of the family's
savings. Who are the real pirates
here?
Not all musicians are thrilled to
see their fans reduced to destitution.
One prominent musician denounced
the RIAA’s tactics as “pure Gestapo”.
The Association’s claim to be pro-
tecting the artists is also dubious.
Disturbed’s David Draiman reacted
by saying: “Protecting the artists,
my ass. I didn’t ask them to protect
me, and I don't want their protec-
tion.”
There isn’t even any evidence that
file sharing really decreases CD
sales. Chaudhry tells us that 2001
was a bad year for the industry and
says that “there are no prizes for
guessing the root cause of this”.
Certainly none that our esteemed
business editor is likely to win. The
economic recession that started in
early 2001 and only got worse after
the 11 September might have had
something to do with it. In general,
sales of luxury items are the first
and hardest hit by any economic
downturn, so a modest decline in
sales is hardly surprising. Indeed,
in the second quarter of 2004, with
file sharing more popular than ever,
CD sales actually increased by more
than 10%. Not only that, but several
recent studies have shown a positive
correlation between filesharing and
music purchases.
This fits neatly with the experienc-
es of the many unsigned bands who
have used the internet to promote
themselves and find audiences that
would otherwise have been out of
their reach. According to Chaudhry,
saying that greater exposure leads
to higher sales is a “flawed argu-
ment”, but he gives no good reasons
for this bizarre assertion. He posits a
hypothetical situation in which there
are artists who prefer to be obscure
and without fans.
The industry may finally be mov-
ing into this century. Apple has man-
aged to wrangle distribution con-
tracts with large numbers of major
labels, and this number will likely
increase in the wake of iTunes' suc-
cess. Unfortunately, all is not well in
electronic distribution land – there
are indications that labels are using
the transition to new distribution
channels for a sordid orgy of finan-
cial shenaningans. Understandably,
artists are not at all amused by this.
Can the major record labels fix their
problems and embrace modernity?
Only time will tell.
A rather extreme message on the
subject of pirate MP3s
By Nichola Hawkins
at the Wye campus
As Wye Charity Week is in full swing,
it is hard to imagine why anyone
would want to be anywhere else.
However, once the week is over,
the next major event will be the
launch of Campus Link, a scheme
that will hopefully allow Wye stu-
dents to participate in some events
at the main campus.
The scheme has taken several
months to set up, largely because of
the amount of funding that had to be
secured. It will allow each student,
undergraduate and postgraduate, to
attend up to three specific College or
Union events at South Kensington
per academic year, by reimbursing
the cost of train tickets.
The scheme was first suggested
after comments made by Sir Richard
Sykes in a lecture last year hinted
that Wye did not fit into his vision for
Imperial’s future, a comment that he
later clarified as having meant that
Wye had not integrated as well as
might have been hoped. Cynics may
claim that the idea was merely an
attempt to regain favour after that
public relations hiccup, but whether
or not that is the case, the scheme
is likely to be welcomed by at least
some students.
In order to ensure that students
are attending the South Kensington
campus, rather than the College
inadvertently subsidising trips home
or shopping excursions, each stu-
dent will be given a card, which will
need to be stamped by the College
or Union in South Kensington.
Wye students will receive further
details from publicity around the
campus in the next couple of weeks.
Whilst this is a one-way scheme,
London-based students should
still take note, as suggestions for
appropriate use of the allocated
trips include events or activities
with London-based Union clubs and
societies. There are now over 300
students currently at Wye, a sub-
stantial section of the student body
that it would now be less wise to
overlook.
Around
Campus
Introducing
Campus Link
Competitions
Books giveaway
This week we have copies of three
fantastic books to give away. They are:
The Prison House
by John King
The Truth About Markets
by John Kay
Dude Where’s My Country
by Michael Moore
For the chance to win, just answer this
ridiculously easy question:
What is the name of Michael
Moore’s recent blockbuster
movie?
Email your answer to felix@ic.ac.uk by Thursday 11 November. Tell us your year, your
department, and which book you would prefer. The first three people to be randomly
selected after the closing date will win the prizes. Felix competition rules apply.
Dance mat winner
The winner of our dance mat competition from issue 1302 is Yung Yung Lee, who knew
that the Imperial Dance Club were salsa dancing during Freshers Week, not break
dancing or morris dancing.

