Council chaos hits poll
tax rebates
Kenneth Baker, the man who claims Poll tax as his brain child
Chaos is expected in the implementation
of the community charge, or Poll Tax, for
Imperial College Students. Westminster
city council (WCC) has assumed that all
students are non-students until the students
concerned send the council a photocopy
of their poll tax rebate certificate, or make
a personal call with the original certificate.
Tjiis is despite IC administration being
required to send full lists of student names
and addresses, and having done so. Mr
Malcolm Aldridge, Senior assistant
finance officer at I.C. said that the list is
compiled from the same data as the poll
tax rebate certificates, so in effect the
WCC are asking for the same information
twice. M r Aldridge expressed
incomprehension as to why the College
had been told to send the lists in the first
place as the data had been ignored by the
City council.
The City council has sent out forms to
students claiming that they are not
students, causing much confusion. Dr
John Hassard, warden of Tizard and
Selkirk halls, has advised students in his
hall to write personally to the W C C to
check that they are registered as students.
Wardens of other college halls are giving
similar advice. A spokeswoman from the
WCC said that students must enclose a
photocopy of the rebate certificate given
to all IC students at the beginning of the
year.
There are reports that the W C C are
responding inefficiently to such enquiries,
insisting that students are non-students and
thus not entitled to the 80% rebate.
On being challenged, the W C C said
they are being deluged with enquiries, but
they must double check all the data. 'We
have to have a formal certificate', a
spokeswoman said. 'You must understand
we are protecting students by doing this'.
She claimed that, so far, the council has
processed data from 1700 students—a
fraction of the number living in
Westminster.
Mr Aldridge commented that the silence
from Kensington and Chelsea (K&C)
"borough council and Hammersmith and
Fulham borough council could mean that
they are dealing with the situation more
efficiently or they haven't got their act
together yet.
To follow this line of enquiry, K & C
were contacted. They said they would also
'require all students to produce a copy or
original of their entry certificates'. They
said they were sending out the first of the
relevant forms 'at the end of this week'.
Hammersmith and Fulham also said that
they needed the poll tax certificate-
preferably the original as photocopies
were often illegible. This is despite
government guidelines which state that no
student ought to part with this proof of
studentship. The spokeswoman from
Hammersmith and Fulham said that the
documents were only of any use to
community charge officers, and were not
useful to students in any other capacity.
The council added that they needed term
dates as well as names and addresses.
Union loses £300 as office
is ransacked
The union office was ransacked last
Sunday night and £300 was stolen. The
break-in caused a great deal of disorder
in tHe office.
Trie intruders broke in by undetermined
means and attempted to force open the key
cabinet which holds keys to a number of
safes and union facilities. They stole some
money from the office of Mr Dave
Williams, Union Deputy President, and
then went on to steal £300 in ten pence
pieces from a desk elsewhere in the office.
Mr Williams said that the money was
from the change machine and games
machines in the Union building. It has
been kept in the desk since the safe under
Beit Arch was removed to 'tidy up' before
Princess Anne visited last year. Mr
Williams said that there was a rumour that
the safe had been dumped in the
foundations of the new carpark in front of
the Biochemistry buildings.
The union is looking into acquiring a
larger safe, as Mr Williams claimed that
the change would not fit into the present
one. The locks have now been changed,
and a movement alarm may be fitted in
the near future. Mr Williams said that
since the beginning of the academic year,
he calculated that there had been an
average of one theft every three weeks.
He added that the fairly high number of
thefts in the union building was probably
due to people knowing the general layout
of the building.
Issue 857
Friday 2nd February

