The Delator Columnby Paul Shanley
The recommendations contained within the report by
Lord Justice Taylor only confirm what every soccer
fan and pundit has been saying for years.
The main proposals in Taylor's report; the bringing
down of perimeter fencing, improved catering and
toilet facilities, closer crowd control using closed
circuit television etc are a matter of commonsense.
Taylor breaks new ground in recommending new
criminal offences to cover pitch invasion and the
chanting of obscene or racial abuse. Again, these
seem to be perfectly reasonable suggestions. Why
weren't they implemented before?
Perhaps the most controversial measure is the
suggestion that all grounds should be made all-seater
stadia. This has come as a culture shock to many. The
British are accustomed to standing to watch soccer,
just as the Europeans are to sitting down. I would not
give up my place on the terraces if offered a seat in
the stand. West Ham United carried out a survey to
this effect last season. The overwhelming message
from supporters was 'We prefer to stand'.
It's a question of atmosphere. No doubt, our way
of thinking will change. Following Hillsborough,
Liverpool unveiled plans to turn the Kop into an all-
seating area. Uproar followed. Scousers have now
accepted the idea, even though they are opposed to
it. In 1981, Coventry City's Highfield Road ground
was converted to all-seated. Two years later, the
terracing was back. Fans had expressed their
disapproval and so the club had bowed to public
pressure.
The Taylor Report was followed by the infighting
of Who Pays the Bill?
The government claims that the conversion to all-
seater stadia, improving of refreshment areas etc
should be met fully by the clubs themselves. They cite
Page 10
the £70m in transfer fees last year as an example of
how affluent the League clubs are. This is quite
incorrect. Only a handful of the 92 clubs made a profit
last year. The transfer fee money travels in a closed
circle. Viewed externally, no income has been
generated.
There is a sum payed to the Football Trust each
year. The Trust is a body that provides funds for both
amateur and professional clubs to carry out ground
improvements and maintenance. The money derives
from the pools c o m p a n i e s - £ 7 m is direct from the
pools; a further £10 comes from Spot the Ball. This
is a drop in the ocean compared to the estimated
£130m needed to provide seating, let alone other
ground facilities.
It is time that Treasury coffers were dipped into.
Soccer is a national pastime. The government must
in some way provide for that, just as it does for the
arts (albeit not enough).
The betting levy on football pools generates £300m
per year. That money could be put to good use in
funding the proposals in the Taylor Report.
So much for Taylor. What other improvements
should be made? Clearly, the drop in football
attendence figures is due to something more than just
social effects. Punters are being turned away. Why?
There are a number of ways to make soccer more
attractive to prospective supporters without alienating
existing ones. The remedies lie with the clubs and the
Fans.
At a basic level, clubs must remember that fans are
paying customers. When a consumer becomes
discontented with a product or a service they receive,
they shop elsewhere or they stop buying the product
altogether.
A few ideas
• Matchday programmes should be printed by the
same company with each one tailored for the match
concerned. In this way, all weekend games have a
common core of the programme with an outside
section dedicated to the individual game. This scheme
worked well in the American Soccer League up until
its demise. The 100-page full colour programme cost
$1 and it made a profit.
• Pre-match and half-time entertainment should be
laid on. This gives fans more value for money and
encourages them to arrive earlier thereby avoiding last
minute crushes at turnstiles.
• The ruling banning plastic pitches should be
revoked. This would enable clubs to make better use
of their grounds. At least one London side has raised
the possibility of this. Wimbledon's scheme was to
field First Division football on a Saturday. The Sunday
would see the ground open again for American
Football. A second division of the American Football
League is being discussed to allow European teams
to do this. The idea is unfeasible without a plastic
surface.
• Whole sections of grounds should be turned over
as family enclosures. Group bookings could be catered
for in this way.
• At a national level, there should be changes made
to the rules of the game to make it more entertaining.
This will meet with disapproval amongst the
traditionalists. But football has changed before. As
times evolve, so must the rulebook.
• The quality of refereeing must improve. This can
only happen if referees are made professionals and
paid at a decent wage-not expenses only.
• Courts must impose stiffer penalties on fans who
misbehave-particularly abroad. There is no point in
clubs mounting excellent security and surveillance
techniques to catch offenders if judges subsequently
act leniently.
• Minor competitions such as the Simod and Xenith
cups should be dropped. This would increase
attendances at more important fixtures and enable
players to be match fit.
• The FA must impose stricter penalties on players
who offend. It must also give the clubs themselves
the power to punish players harder (the maximum fine
a league side is allowed to impose is two-weeks
wages-roughly the fee for opening a supermarket).
• Players who commit violent offences such as
striking an opponent off the ball or using the
'professional foul' should be subject to major
disciplinary action. The idea has been mooted of giving
an extra cautionary power to referees-the so-called
'Black Card'. The level of punishment should, of
course, depend on the offence. It is not unreasonable,
however, to expect a player caught decking an
opponent to have to sit out the rest of the season on
the touchlines.
These recommendations are the tip of the iceberg.
It is time for the League and FA to set up its own
'Taylor Enquiry'. Maybe if that happens, British
football will once again be the envy of Europe.

