Eurotunnel—the environment
Whatever your views on the future impact of the
Channel Tunnel on Britain's economy, it is impossible
to deny that its construction has had a huge effect
on the natural environment of Kent.
Last Thursday Dr Liz Culbard of Eurotunnel gave a
talk to the Environmental Society about how the
company has been trying to meet the environmental
challenge.
As far back as 1985, when the Tunnel project was
still receiving a bumpy ride through Parliament, the
Eurotunnel company approached 130 environmental
agencies in an effort to assess the possible visual
impact, as well as noise and dust pollution of the
proposed project.
They were mainly concerned with three areas, all
designated areas of special scientific interest —
Shakespeare Cliff near Dover; Biggins Wood, which
is an area of ancient oak/ash forest, part of which has
already been lost through construction of the M20;
and Holywell Coombe, which is of interest because
of its marshy habitat and archaeological finds.
Shakespeare Cliff has been the centre of
environmental concern before. It was here in 1982
that a transformer, left over from the 1974 attempt
to build a tunnel, leaked 200 gallons of PCB, a toxic
pollutant. An estimated 1500 tonnes of chalk cliff side
was contaminated, with the clean up operation
costing around £2'A million. So, bearing in mind this
tainted history, Eurotunnel has had to try and meet
the stringent demands of the Nature Conservancy
Council (NCC) and other environmental bodies.
The environmental management has fallen broadly
into three categories: assessment, conservation and
long term monitoring. Assessment has meant
studying possible damage to ecological populations
as diverse as spider orchids and bats. The latter could
be drastically effected if, for instance, rabies was
carried to Britain-one of the more sinister possibilities
of the Channel link. Chemical pollution effects can be
assessed by fresh water stream surveys.
Archaeology has figured greatly in the conservation
work that has been carried out. Over the areas of
countryside scheduled to be lost in the building of the
terminal etc, hundreds of trial pits were dug. Finds
have provided a detailed picture of continuous
settlement in the area from Neolithic hunter/gatherers,
to slash and burn agriculture and finally settled
farming communities. A picture of bad land
management also emerges, with denudation and soil
erosion causing settlements to move with striking
similarity to the effects of deforestation seen in Brazil
today.
Another scheme has concerned four grade 2 listed
buildings including a mill listed in the Doomesday Book
which has been relocated, timbers and all.
Perhaps the most ambitious of all the conservation
schemes is the transplanting of Biggins Wood. The
large trees were cut down and then the topsoil
skimmed off and relaid in an area further from the
construction site. Regrowth has begun but the ground
is further downslope and so wetter than the original
site. Only time will tell if an ancient wood can adapt
to such dramatic change.
In geological circles too, the Tunnel project has
unveiled some valuable information. The tunnel has
been realigned from its original course to preserve a
geological formation of interest. To do this the area
was 'peppered' with boreholes and a memoir will be
written with the information they revealed.
Eurotunnel have had to commit themselves to
monitoring plans far beyond the building time of the
tunnel. At Shakespeare Cliff spoil from the tunnel has
been used to create 35 hectares of new land. The
effect on algal communities of accidental release of
this spoil into the sea was monitored for about a year
before both the company and the NCC agreed that a
single natural cliff fall could release up to five times
as much sediment, instantaneously.
Environmental impact has figured strongly in the
design for the English terminal. Buildings are to be low
key and their surroundings landscaped, so that the
imposing beauty of the scarp scenery is still the focal
point of the area. Local authorities keep a close check
on design, as each phase of the surface construction
has to be separately approved by the local planning
authority-a problem not encountered in France.
Dr Culbard's talk was interesting and informative
about a side of the Tunnel project in which emotional
argument on both sides has often overshadowed the
facts. Unfortunately her defensive attitude toward
questions made the debate a little one sided. One
point that did emerge was that there is a
communication problem between British Rail and
Eurotunnel over the high speed rail link; the cause of
the most heated exchanges in Parliament and the
media so far. In two years, according to Dr Culbard,
British Rail have not approached Eurotunnel with a
view to learning from the environmental problems
already encountered. Also, British Rail have not yet
finalised the exact course that the rail line is to take,
which will again cause hitches at the Eurotunnel end.
Is this lack of communication an omen for the future?
If it is, then P&O will be laughing.
Clare Davis, Geology 3.
International week
This year, too, the International Night on Friday 16
February will be one of the big events. Taking place
in the JCR and Main Dining Hall, starting at 6.30pm,
it will feature the International Food Stalls, where you
will be able to enjoy a variety of foods and drinks from
all over the world: Korea, Indonesia, Italy, Greece,
China and many, many more! This will be followed,
at around 8pm, by the Cultural Show; a fast paced
demonstration of some of the cultures of the overseas
students at Imperial College.
For the more party-inclined people the International
Night will bring two bands to Imperials College: the
Afro-Carribean Disco with Breaking Point and the
Brazilian Carnival, where the Latin-American music of
Sun Tropical will perform-both of which are said to
be brilliant! Doors open at 9pm.
Naturally, the party lasts until 2am, with bar until
1.30am.
We hope you will all come and enjoy yourselves!
Tin I M I T K I \] ( ol I I <;i n\ I K M :
I N T E R N A T I O N A L
N I G H T
•
bar until 1.30am
p a r t y till 2
RFRO-CRRRI BERN
DISCO featuring
» B R E A K I N G POINT
B R A Z I L I A N CARNIVAL
featuring
• f t *
DOORS: 9 pm
'vJ 6J0pm INTERNATIONALFOODSTALLS.UK
• • • F R I D A Y I6th F E B R U A R Y H M I
JCR & \!I)H. SHERFIELD BUILDING, IMPERIAL COLLEGE
8.00pm C U L T U R A L SHOW ,u»i
TICKETS FROM IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
€3.50 in advance i4.(H).on the door
Page 11

