With a reputation for a week ofbedhopping and torrid sex, CRAC courses are graduate courses held over the summer.
Free food and drink!
Attention all SERC sponsored PhD students. About
now you will have received a leaflet advertising the
SERC-CRAC graduate schools. It is not to be thrown
away even if initially you don't fancy it because it is
free (£330 if you are not SERC sponsored) and any
chance to get that much out of our esteemed
sponsors must be worth it. CRAC is actually a charity
and being the Careers Research Advisory Centre it is
us who are the recipients of this charity. So it is not
just the elderly, the handicapped and the Third World
who benefit from that word although I don't foresee
a Live-Aid style concert in aid of CRAC.
The purpose of the graduate summer schools, or
CRAC courses as we veterans call them, is to open
our eyes to what we can do. We academic scientists
who beaver away with chemicals or lasers discovering
useless things about Life and the Universe, often miss
out on everything. We are blind to the useful talents
our studies give us. I ask you, how useful is the
knowledge gained from squinting at our narrow
scientific discipline for three years? But the
communication, writing, decision making and
organisational skills we use every day and take for
granted are actually quite useful too. Yes, that is all
a Management Consultant does, take data, analyse
it and advise people on what to do next, avoiding
responsibility for it in case it is crap yet still making
a big wedge in the process.
Still not convinced? Well for five days you can
forget work, go somewhere different, meet exciting
new people and interact with them. This has
apparently given CRAC courses a reputation for a
week of bedhopping and torrid sex. I missed all that
but I drank a lot, got a great suntan and had FUN.
What happens is that you play at different types of
management, from research through personnel to
being an EEC minister or management consultant.
This is done as part of well worked out exercises and
situations where everyone gets a chance to contribute
and achieve something through teamwork, an
experience notably absent from your average PhD,
Ultimately it doesn't matter if you cock it up as it is
only an exercise but everyone gets so involved that
pride becomes paramount. CRAC tutors are always
on hand to comment on teamwork and group progress
and to ensure that the groups don't stray too far from
the task in hand and degenerate into a screaming
bunch of egomaniacs, although the arguments are
often heated. Also present are industrial executives
and graduates who have a few years experience in
the workplace and can be helpful but are as likely to
make fools of themselves as the rest of us. There is
a business game too which is usually selling boilers
or computers. I defy anyone to try and lose more
money than I did with my own Phoenix Boilers Co in
three short days.
Venues range from student halls of residence (it is
amazing just how bad Southside is compared to other
university halls) to conference centres where the
meals are served by penguin suited waiters. They are
completely informal and have none of the pressure of
company vacation courses. This probably sounds
terribly overstated but the experience is incredible and
exhausting. I spent a week recovering from mine and
no one ends up disappointed.
Similar to this are the Company vacation courses.
Ostensibly PR exercises to give students (both UG and
PG) the chance to 'experience' what industry is like
they also afford the opportunity for companies to size
up students and vice-versa. Hence your expenses are
paid, you get put up in a nice hotel and there are a
couple of decent scoffs bunged in to give a favourable
impression. For this, J student must dress up relatively
smart, behave himself by not taking too much
advantage of the free bar at the reception, and ask
moderately intelligent questions when the opportunity
arises.
Procter and Gamble do not have any recruitment
aspect but give all successful applicants a second
interview anyway. The emphasis is along the same
lines as CRAC, involving exercises to demonstrate
various aspects of management and group working
but as is to be expected the bottom line is always
relevant to P&G. They also throw in a site tour and
a chance to talk to some 'young' managers over
dinner. It is all jolly good fun, designed to persuade
you that P&G is a dynamic managerial company
(which of course it is) and that you want to work for
them.
ICI recruitment course (subtle working in the title)
do not have any recruitment aspect but in The
Exercise (deciding how ICI goes about taking over the
Eastern Block) all the ICI people take notes on each
group and only some people get second interviews
afterwards. This course is much more a polishing of
the ICI corporate image than P&G i.e. each group
explains its business areas whilst we try not to look
too bored. They show us videos on ICI and the
environment and we try not to laugh too much as the
CFC plant outside spews another 100 tonnes of acid
rain ingredients into the atmosphere. (It's only steam
coming out of those chimneys, honest!) They give us
dinner with both junior and senior management. We
try not to enjoy the venison too much in case we give
away our lack of table manners or spill gravy on the
tablecloth. This is of course jolly good fun and the only
price is that you are under scrutiny, but that is only
to be expected in the circumstances.
In truth, any course is valuable experience as it gives
one the opportunity to find things out at no cost. In
fact the expenses fiddles can make it lucrative if the
course happens to be some distance away. They are
good fun if you go with the right attitude, not being
determined to arselick and impress but to observe and
compare notes with the other students, and of course
stay up late and drink a lot. They are worth the time
as an aid to sorting out the wheat from the chaff in
the recruitment mill. Ultimately though it's something
for nothing and no student can turn down an offer like
that.
C.D.L.
The Independent on Sunday
The Independent first appeared, fully formed and
completely opinionless, over three years ago. Its
stated aim, to be a 'quality' newspaper on a par with
those great bastions of what was once Fleet Street:
the Times, the Telegraph and the Guardian. After a
somewhat shaky start, it flourished, a haven for
refugees from Murdochism. Not even its worst enemy
would deny that the Indy has done well against stiff
and hostile opposition and not even a deaf-blind hermit
could have failed to notice the hype. The Independent
has spawned. The Sunday Indy has been born.
On the face of it, Indy 2 should have been born with
the publishing equivalent of a silver spoon in its
mouth. It was entering a market until recently
dominated by the over-opinionated Sunday Telegraph,
the defoliating Sunday Times and the rapidly-
deteriorating Observer, But there was a cloud on its
horizon in the uncomfortably identical shape of the
Sunday Correspondant.
The Correspondant and the Independant are very
similar beasts. The respective news pages are
accurate but unexciting, the features well written but
uncompromisingly uncontroversial and the columnists
Page 12
far too well informed to say anything remotely silly.
Both are definitely 'serious' newspapers. Even the
designs seem similar. The news-stand just ain't big
enough for the both of them.
Both compare well with their opponents, both are
large but nowhere near as collossal as the paper-boy
flattening Sunday Times. Neither seem to suffer from
the petty vindictiveness which the Observer calls
investigative journalism-I personally do not give a
damn who owns Harrods. Both make the tabloids look
like the newsprint loo paper.
There are small differences. The Correspondant
produces a magazine, the Indy, tabloid-sized pull-outs
a la Saturday Guardian. The Indy comes in three parts,
the Correspondant in two plus mag.
Anyone can see there is going to be a war. The two
papers will fight for the hearts and filofaxes of the
same group of ad-man's ' A B d ' s . Unless one
changes, either one or both may collapse leaving us
the unsavoury choice between Worsthorne, Trelford
and Neill.
JL

