Retrospect on Rushdie
The 'Satanic Affair' is now well into its second year,
and Salman Rushdie has just entered his second year
of hiding. Neither side (the Muslim world, nor Rushdie
and his publishers, Penguin) has shown any sign of
compromising.
The problem is ultimately of cultural conflict-
people in the west and people in the Muslim world
simply have very different values. Each has its own,
distinct outlook on life. Even in today's 'global village'
there is a massive gap in the attitudes of the western
person and those of the Muslim one. What someone
in the west might regard as tolerant, progressive or
liberal could easily be seen to be simply wrong,
immoral and yes, even satanic by the Muslims.
For the west, the question the whole affair raises
is whether Salman Rushdie (or indeed anyone else)
has the right to express his or her views under such
pressure from a large part of the world. Freedom of
expression is a key issue in western philosophy.
However this freedom has never (not even today)
been granted totally—Voltaire was deemed to be
blasphemous, D H Lawrence immoral, James Joyce
probably both (his work wasn't published here until
years after it had appeared on the continent). So it
would seem that even one of the most fundamental
'beliefs' of the western world is subject to social
sensibilities, dogma and prejudice-it is hardly well
defined or clearcut. Thus in our age of disbelief The
Satanic Verses seems tame enough. However, the
story might have been very different, if we were at
the beginning of the century and the subject matter
of the Satanic Verses had been Christianity. The same
moral dilemma (to publish or to not to publish, feedom
or suppression) would probably have received quite
the opposite response. So our own moral outlook has
changed dramatically in just a few decades. Is it
surprising then, that a large number of people coming
from a very different faith, civilisation or history, living
in another part of the world hold beliefs contrary to
ours? Surely not. And if there is a clash of beliefs how
should the time-bomb be defused?
The Islamic world has never had much experience
with anti-religious literature. What little has been
written, tended to be heavily veiled, so that the anti-
Islamic interpretation could be easily ignored. What
Salman Rushdie has done is to make an entry so
dramatic that it has set the Muslim world aflame.
Islam teaches its followers that God, Allah, and His
prophet, Mohammed, are the core of a Muslim's life.
They must be placed above everything else, including
one's own life-Islam must be defended to the death.
It is this sense of faith which has forced Salman
Rushdie into hiding (that in itself being a kind of victory
for the Muslims). Islam is a powerful, dynamic religion.
It was never apathetic or static-even at its birth it
was preparing for conquests.
At present both sides seem as inflexible as each
other. Personally, I beleive there is room for
compromise, if humanity wants to live with itself there
has to be. I feel this way probably because I am part
of the 'confused generation' which is part of both
cultures-both east and west.
Unfortunately this view is not a widely held one. It
is unlikely that anyone will give way in the near future.
The best we can hope for is that the Rushdie/Muslim
timebomb will defuse by itself, after a long enough
passage through its sad history.
I Hussain, Maths UG.
Competition
This week's competition is to guess what the object
pictured here is for. There is a £5 prize for the closest
answer. If we receive more than one correct entry,
the winner will be drawn from the hat. Entries should
be handed into the FELIX Office by 2.30pm today. In
the event of nobody guessing the object's use
correctly, there will be a prize for the most amusing
use suggested.
Page 13

