Kelman Vincent Nicholson Kewney Jenkins
Breaking and entering
A few weeks ago a debate was held on the title
'Should Hacking be Illegal'. On Wednesday 17th
January a number of involved parties gathered at
Imperial College. They included Judith Vincent from
the Confederation of British Industry (CBI), Guy
Kewney from Personal Computer World (PCW), Emma
Nicholson MP, leading barrister Alistair Kelman, and
Jolyon Jenkins from the New Statesman.
Mrs Nicholson put forward the 'Anti-Hacking Bill'
early in Spring 1989. The Bill was hastily drawn up
but though there was much interest in it, it failed to
become an act of Parliament.
A report by the Law Commision later that year,
proposed that the following should be made illegal:
(i) Unauthorised access to a computer;
(ii) Unauthorised access to a computer with intent to
commit or facilitate the commission of a serious crime;
(Hi) Unauthorised modification of computer material.
When the Government made no movement towards
acting on the recommendations in the Queen's
speech, Mrs Nicholson, among others, pressurised
Michael Colvin M.P. to introduce a Private Member's
Bill based on the report.
Speaking first, Mrs Vincent thought that it was
impossible to differentiate between innocent and
abusive hackers. She recommended a series of
penalties in line with the offence, and so seemed to
back the report.
From PCW Mr Kewney agreed to the need in
increased legislation, but in the area of freedom of
information.
'I think that there is a definite shortage of legislation
on the subject of what information is, who is entitled
to hide it, and who is entitled to see it.' he stressed.
He went on to suggest that 90% of computer crime
is committed by internal staff, rather than external
hackers as the CBI maintains.
Before politics, Mrs Nicholson worked with
computers for 23 years, and hence her interest in the
subject. She was dissatisfied with the £1000
maximum fine for hacking related activities, even
though cases of £75,000 damages have been
reported.
She advocated tighter legislation, particularly in the
area of personal information. She raised the question
of ownership of such information, citing the case of
'smart cards' (electronic credit cards storing your
health record), where taxes would need to be raised
to employ high security methods of protecting
personal data.
Where ownership of the information is in question,
personal data is vulnerable to abuse. Should taxes be
raised to employ high security methods to protect
against misuse?
PrickoCon 8
However, she conceeded in saying,'I would not
suggest that legislation against computer hacking will
stop computer hacking; what I am saying is that it
indicates a.barrier beyond which society does not
believe an action is socially acceptable.'
The barrister, specialising in copyright laws, was
concerned that increased legislation would lead to
innocent young computer users being lured into
criminal activities.
For present cases, the law can be worked around
any inadequacies, so that malicious hackers can be
prosecuted. He held that it should be up to computer
manufacturers to produce secure systems to a set
standard, stating The major problems that we have
... are there because the world has built itself around
an insecure standard: the IBM P C
The journalist likened hacking to trespass, which is
not a criminal offence. His opinion was that the law
report was poorly argumented, and that in any case,
information can be gained by far simpler means than
hacking.
At the conclusion of the debate, voting revealed
that a majority were not in favour of section (i). Many
were confused on section (ii) but all were in favour
of section (iii): the criminalisation of 'unauthorised
modification of computer material.'
By Simon Bradshaw (Train-spotting club Hon Sec)
It's that time of year again; yes, spring, when the
flowers bloom, the birds sing, and the Science Fiction
Society unveils the latest PicoCon - PICOCON 8, 3rd
March, 10am to 10pm in the Union Building.
'But wait,' we hear you say, 'what is a PicoCon?'.
Well, it's ICSF's very own Science Fiction Convention.
Hence the 'Con'. It's also very small compared with
many SF conventions (but as we shall see, nice things
come in small packages)-hence 'PicoCon'. As for
'PicoCon 8', we'll give you a clue. There have been
seven PicoCons before now...
'OK, OK, but what is an SF convention?' Think
about some of the things ICSF does. We show films,
right? And we have videos. We occasionally have real
SF authors along to give us talks. Now and again we
have quite seriously silly fun with our counterparts
from provincial holes like Oxford and Cambridge.
Cram all of these together in one event and you have
about half of a PicoCon!
We have three, yes count 'em three guests of
Page 14
honour. Bob Shaw has been one of Britain's leading
SF authors for nigh well upon twenty years, with
works like Orbitsville' and The Ragged Astronauts. We
hope to be hearing one of his 'Serious Scientific' talks,
which are neither scientific or very serious! Dave
Langford is a Fan writer, book reviewer and very funny
writer-T/te Leaky Establishment is probably the only
comedy set in an atomic weapons plant, based on
some of his experiences at Aldermaston! His talk on
'Fun with Senseless Violence' will be missed at your
peril... Dr Patrick Collins was IC's very own astronaut
candidate; out of 10,000+ applicants for Project
Juno he came fifth. He'll be talking on Space Tourism,
but is willing to answer questions on just what they
do stick up your bum when they select astronauts!
We also have Return of the Quiz (have you ever tried
Charades where the books have titles like Servants
of the Wankhl) plus Panels where our erudite guests
will hold forth on such topics as life During
Peacetime' and how crummy and repetitive fantasy
writing has become. We'll be raising money for Rag
via a 'Turkey Reading', where some of the worst
purple prose ever written will be orated for you until
enough people bid money for it to stop! Later on there
will be a Filk Concert-no, that's not a misprint,
'Filking' is SF folk singing, sort of like an RCS barnight,
only more so. On the subject of bars, we should have
the Union Bar open from 11 am to 11 pm, so there's
no excuse for any sobriety.
If all this is a bit much, we have a fairly continuous
video programme, both film and TV favourites. There
will be a dealer room, with book and game stalls, and
a selection of computer games for the incurable
zappes. We aim to provide something for everyone
intersted in SF, and this year we hope to be the best
PicoCon by far. Value for money indeed-just £4, or
£3.50 if you cough up before the day, eg at a film or
library meeting.
So, make a date with PICOCON 8.

