And now in an attempt to produce something you '11 remember after the first lecture on Friday..
How to be a stude
2. Stude Music
Well you're a student now, so throw away your
Smash Hits, your SAW 1" singles and your Bros
posters, grow up, grab a copy of 'Sounds', Pink Floyd
LP and some tour posters. Yes we're talking 'student
subculture'.
So you ask, 'what do I listen to so as not to be
(shudder) untrendy?'
a) Classical music. This is so 'out' it's 'in'. The great
thing is you can bullshit to your bottom's content
about it's depth and meaning and the composer won't
contradict you in a magazine interview. It's also a
good investment, some of Mahler's early picture discs
fetch up to £30. Be warned though, groups rarely
supply lyrics with albums and many ballet-otheques
have shut due to rumours of acid concertos.
b) Old shite. Most low profile 60s groups fall into
this category. Make sure you choose a group with a
dead singer, and say things like 'Modern music is too
commercial' or 'there's no lyricism' or 'Yes, but listen
to Transformer for a timeless classic'.
The genre is best represented by the lyrics of Lou
Morrison of the group The Velvet Papas Airplane
Revival:
Riding down a sun baked highway
With a bad moon staring at my woman
Fuck me where did all these purple parrots come
from?'
c) Heavy metal. To be a 'Metal' fan, you must grow
your hair very long (not washing it helps too), wear
leather jackets and black t-shirts with pictures of
zombies, sheep skulls ancf semi-naked women. You
don't have to listen to anything, because you should
look so hard that people don't ask you about the
music.
d) Obscure stuff. This is where it's at. The live
bands, indie bands, singles bands. All you need is a
band like Mick No-one and the Esoterics that no one's
heard of, and won't do except through you. Things
to look for are an independent label (this is so you can
complain when the band move to a major lable), a
stupid name eg The Left-Legged Pineapples, and
records that don't reach the top 1,000 and even John
Peel hasn't heard of them. It is important that
whichever band you pick you must insist they are
doing 'something revolutionary' to the music industry.
The exception to the above is of course that
ultimate of stude bands, those doyen's of the bedsit
pop; The Smiths. In the words of Morrissey the
Mesiah:
'Britain make me so sad
You won't love me
And I've messed up my life,
But at least I'm rich and famous ha ha ha'
That's all for this week and remember folks: punk
is not dead (it just smells that way).
Danny Shiu
FREE food!
FELIX will be conducting a survey of the food outlets in College over the coming week.
We want three volunteers, who are independent of FELIX and IC Union and are not
employed in any of the College bars or food outlets. In return for your comments on the
food served in a selection of eating places we will pay £ 2 per day for all 5 days next
week. The survey will consist of a 'blind' purchase from each outlet, ie the serving staff
should not know you are working on the survey. Photographs will be taken of the food
and the surroundings. In order to maintain a consistent approach within three different
groups in college, we will require one male undergraduate, one female undergraduate and
one postgraduate.
The first three students within these categories to come into the FELIX Office (far
left corner of Beit Quad, over Prince Consort Rd) will receive free food for a
week, courtesy of FELIX.

