S
a
i
l
i
n
g
Eleven teams travelled to London to compete in a
team racing event hosted by Imperial College Sailing
Club and the City University. Racing went well on the
first day of the two day event, with Bristol and
Southampton winning their leagues. The Imperial
team performed consistently throughout the day
despite working under great pressure to organise the
racing at the same time as competing.
Strong winds on the second day forced the team
racing for the finals to be abandoned, and more
adventurous sailors ventured onto the water at Queen
Mary SC in City's Laser 2s for some seriously fast and
very wet sailing.
The final results were therefore calculated on the
basis of points scored in League matches on day one.
1 st (Joint): Bristol and Southampon
3rd: Swansea
F
i
l
m
S
o
c
This Thursday IC FilmSoc is shwoing the most
controversial film of last year, The Accused. Jodie
Foster gives a harrowing performance as a girl who
is violently raped in a bar and who goes on to
prosecute not only her assailants, but also the
customers who stood and cheered during the assault.
Kelly Top Gun McGillis is equally good as the put upon
attorney assigned to defend her.
It is a powerful film, pulling no punches as to
Foster's plight both during and after the rape and
indeed the film climaxes with a flashback to the crime
itself which is shown in graphic detail. I defy anyone
to come away from seeing this, unmoved.
W
i
n
e
i
)
We'd like to start this weekly piece by congratulating
Katie for correctly identifying five out of eight mystery
wines during last week's Blind Tasting. We're sure
that she'll enjoy (or has enjoyed!) her prize: ch. Grand
Puy Ducasse '84, a classed growth from Pauillac,
Bordeaux.
This Tuesday's event was a tasting of red wines
from one of the oldest wine producing regions in
France; the Rhone Valley. Oddbins supplied wines
ranging from the light and fruity £2.49 Cotes du
Rhone '88 to the £11.99 Cornas ' 8 4 - a deep and
tannic wine which will continue to improve for at least
another five years; a wise investment in one bottle
was made by Union Deputy President Dave Williams.
This week's favourite, though, was Paul Jaboulet
Aine's Crozes-Hermitage '87 costing a mere £4.39.
Keep an eye out for posters advertising next week's
tasting and for the Valentine Special Champagne and
Sparkling Wine Tasting on February 13. Don't miss
the forthcoming cross-channel booze-cruise at the end
of term; see Lynda Matthews, Chem Eng 4, for
details.
CHEERS!
R
a
g
The next Rag event this term is the Winged Fellowship
Collection tomorrow in London. Winged Fellowship
are a charity that helps disabled people, their main
operation is to provide special holidays for them.
Come to the Rag Meeting this lunchtime in the Union
Lounge to find out more.
'Son of Rag Week' will be from February 13 to 17
and there will be Milk Tray deliveries and Barbershop-
a-grams will happen around Valentine's Day and there
will be a love Bar Quiz' on the night of the 14th.
For those of you of a less loving nature; Grim
•Reaping and Gnoming will be operating throughout the
week. A new game of Killer may be started (see RCS
for details). There will be another Hypnosis Lecture
on Friday 16 in the Great Hall, doors open 7.00pm.
Son of Rag Week will finish with Monopoly II on
Saturday 17 in aid of BIBIC and should be even bigger
and better than before.
I would also like to mention that nominations have
been opened for the positions of Rag Mag Editor and
Rag Mag Business Manager; anyone interested should
come to the Rag Meeting today.
Hal Calamvokis, Rag Chairman.
Saint Valentine
ISSUE
FELIX will be taking FREE St Valentine's Day messages ne
week. We will carry a lovepage and ajealousypagefor an
parting messages. All messages should be submitted b
Tuesday February 6th, 5.30pm. You can leave an anonym
message (just this once!) in the messages 'folder on the
of the FELIX Office, although the Editor reserves the rig
to edit anything he considers to be obscene.

