Football
New College II (0)-1 IC II (3)6
IC II convincingly put New II in their place with a
comfortable victory. First half one-way traffic resulted
in three goals. The first, an explosive run and shot
from G Phiri, was the pick of the afternoon's efforts.
The next two came from corners, both volleyed in
from close range, by a New College defender and G
Phiri (again) respectively. P Nelson, who wanted a
mention, also came close with a header.
The second half continues in much the same way.
R Martinez added a fourth following a solo run down
the right wing. Soon after, M Wilks was invited by the
referee to have an early shower. However, IC down
to ten men added two more goals. One confidently'
put away by J Fordham following goalmouth pinball
and the other volleyed in from close range by E
Coates.
New II got their consolation in injury time, when a
gust of wind, catching a New College attacker off-
balance, was rewarded with a penalty.
L S E - 0 IC 1sts-1
It was a day for both goalkeepers to remember as IC
came away with victory by the narrowest margin.
Skipper Pip Peel delivered the killer blow just before
the break, hitting home a low drive through a crowded
penalty area.
IC had the best of the first half playing some fluid
football. Mike Patton was inches away from
connecting with a diving header and IC had several
other good chances scrambled away before taking the
lead.
The second half saw a more subdued IC coming
under pressure as they defended their lead. However,
they attacked well on the break and would have
scored again but for the brilliance of LSE's keeper.
First he acrobatically pushed out a Pip Peel volley then
dived full length to save a fierce shot from Mike Patton
as well as denying Pat Fancot from close range. Not
to be outdone, IC keeper Si Holden denied LSE an
equaliser blocking with his legs when the front man
was clean through.
UC V - 0 IC IV—7 IC IV—3 LH II—0
Returning fresh from the Christmas break, a revitalised
fourth team proved that their position third from the
bottom in the league was a travesty of justice.
After Mubarik Chowdhry had missed more chances
than there are 'E' numbers, and captain Simon Turner
had missed a penalty, IC finally scored after 25
minutes. This opened the floodgates with goals from
Bah Tamanji, Chris Collison, and eventually Mr
Chowdhry before UC gained a penalty. This was due
to Sam Tanawy who was playing with a monumental
hangover after the Rugby Cocktails at the Carnival the
night before. This was his crowning moment and he
took all the credit with some pride.
Needless to say Steve Shilling made a lightning save
to whitewash UC for the first time in their season.
LH II, one of the weaker teams in the league, tried to
spoil IC's game by picking fights with anyone who
ventured in their half. Trouble really started when Bob
Ndumu put IC ahead.
The ref then twisted his back and had to referee
from the half-way line. With this improvement in
decision making, IC added further goals from Mubarik
Chowdhry, who has found his scoring touch, and
Narinder Sangha with a feeble shot the keeper decided
wasn't worth the effort.
Sam Tantawy, having set up the second goal,
suddenly realised he was playing shots from
everywhere on the pitch but narrowly failed to score.
Ladies football
IC Dribblers—0 St George's-0
The Dribblers brightened up a cool, grey Sunday
afternoon in Wimbledon Park with their new, dazzling
green and white hooped kit-it's just as well it's green
as, although our footballing skills have improved, we
still haven't quite mastered the art of snotting out of
one nostril onto the pitch and have to make do with
shirt sleeves. St George's obviously have the same
problem as they also wore green and, contrary to
popular belief, the dragon was not slain but appeared
larger than life in their midfield! It was a funny ol', hard
fought, end-to-end sort of game of two halves and the
girls did well to hold them to a draw. Credit must go
to the defence and the amazing, fish-like qualities of
our girl-wonder keeper-young Willomena Thompson!
What more can I say except: 'Don't miss next week's
enthralling episode-The Dribbler'd Day Trip to
Brighton.
Sussex-11 IC Dribblers—0
Didn't we have a lovely time the day we went to
Brighton?? British Rail apologised for the inevitable
Sunday delays and so we had no time for a pre-match
paddle in the sea and play on the fairground. Instead
we trekked up the mountainside in search of the
football pitch-why can you never find a sherpa when
you need one?
Eventually the match kicked off and the scenes that
followed were reminiscent of the Boys vs Masters
rugby game in Monty Python's The Meaning of Life.
Ninety minutes and eleven goals later the Dribblers
limped, hobbled and were carried off in search of some
beers to celebrate the fact that, despite being literally
walked over and sat on by eleven gruesome girlies,
we'd still managed to qualify for the next round of the
UAU thanks to Brunei pulling out. They'd obviously
heard how big and mean the Sussex girls are and how
difficult it is to get food, drink or a half-time orange
out of them! We must thank our lucky stars for the
miracle of the twenty beers, four bowls of soup and
three garlic mushrooms, performed by the staff of
Pizzaland! Despite the scoreline we still managed to
smile, sink a few beers and sing a few songs as well
as annoying bus conductors, Russian spys and
strange women but that's another story!
Rifle
IC's Rifle Team beat teams from Loughborough and
City with an amended score of 1000.530, the highest
score out of the 51 teams, in the first round of the
inter-university rifle team handicap competition. IC will
shoot against Dublin 'B' team in the second round.
Page 17

