Grovel
Dear Dave,
Your editorial in last week's FELIX made certain
comments about the Alternative Prospectus which I
find very worrying. To begin with, you say that the
Rector is 'very naive' to believe that the AP is honest
student opinion. Well, the exact reason for producing
an AP is to form a supplement to the College
Prospectus from the students' point of view, so the
Rector is perfectly entitled to think it is so. To say that
the AP is not achieving that, is to cast doubts as to
whether it is worthwhile producing it at all.
You justify this by saying that 'the AP is written by
Departmental Representatives under the watchful eye
of the Senior Tutors'. I was responsible as the Maths
Dep Rep for producing last year's AP entry and I can
assure you that your allegation is quite false. I had the
freedom to write whatever I felt was necessary, and
this I did after consultation with all the reps in the
department.
The incident you refer to two years ago when
departments 'slammed down' on the 'truth' occurred
only because the AP contained factual inaccuracies,
and was nowhere near as dramatic as you seem to
make out.
Last year's Academic Affairs Committee put a lot
of time and effort into producing an accurate and
representative AP and it hurts to see you brush all that
away in a single paragraph.
Athos Ritsperis, ICU Academic Affairs Officer.
Reply:
I wonder how the editor of last year's AP feels as
you brush him away. Ramin Nakisa spent most
of last year's Easter holiday producing the AP and
a lot of time before pestering Dep Reps for
articles. As an editor he performed admirably, but
there is a limitation to what is possible with the
material provided.
I still affirm that the AP can never give a true
picture whilst it is produced by current students.
This year's supplement will probably be produced
by Neil McCluskey and I shall be only too glad to
assist him. We, after all, have nothing to lose.
As for your comments on the AP supplement
two years ago: the departments complained of
'factual inaccuracies'. Funnily enough they took
offense to the editor's personal feelings as well.
Your comments in this area make me wonder who
you represented as Dep Rep: the students or your
department?
Praise him
Dear Dave,
Among all the excitement of last week's UGM, the
high point for most there must have been the wonders
of Emmanual Saradakis' speech for the motion of
voluntary membership of the NUS, as far as I can
remember. Anyhow due to the poor attendance at
UGMs I feel his eloquence may be more appreciated
at Speakers Corner. I hope he and those who know
him see this letter and encourage him to do so, as
Speakers Corner could do with a change from the
usual religious nuts there. Finally has Emmanual any
plans to stand for a sabbatical, as he shows great
interest in ICU affairs?
Please, please, please could you allow him to write
a reply to this as many of his fans are missing the great
insight his comment brings to matters.
Yours,
Chris Browne, Elec Eng Dep Rep.
Page 18
Knight
takes pawn
Dear Dave,
Should/could one employ post graduate students in
the Careers Library? I do not so much want to argue
this specific case as to explore the wider issue. But
let us stay with that library for a moment. Of course,
a pg cannot replace a professional trained information
officer. But many of the tasks in the library do not
require any great depth of specialist knowledge. There
are letters to write; literature to catalogue; bins to be
filled with company- literature; there is a policing
function-video tapes have been known to walk;
telephones to answer; students need to be directed
to the appropriate file to deposit application forms; etc
etc....These tasks have to be done. If they are done
by ancillaries it leaves more time for career advisers
to advise.
Why caricature the concept? Obviously a pg should
not do such a job for more than one session per week.
But five hours can be found even, in the high powered
frenetic research life which is essential for success.
The rates of pay can be commensurate with the
responsibility of the task. Post graduate students are
less experienced than their elders-of course. But in
my experience they can often see a problem from a
new angle-suggest new approaches; they can
provide enthusiasm and commitment.
We will explore further whether the Careers Library
can gain from their secondment. I am convinced that
more generally, the College could gain enormously
from a greater use of student help.
Yours,
Eric A Ash.
Why oh
Wyatt?
Dear Dave,
It is disturbing that students in general fail to
consider the idirect or 'invisible' effects of their
actions. For example, when assessing loans against
grants, few even consider the fact that under grants,
tax-payers on average income subsidise the costs of
high-flying students, when they themselves received
no direct benefit from Higher Education. The real
debate must be: 'Are the social costs of grants worth
their benefit to the country as a whole?' To choose
grants over loans for short-term financial reasons is
at best selfish and inconsiderate.
Of even more current importance is the proposed
ACC motion on ICU paying all sports travel expenses.
The motivation for this is purely selfish and takes no
account of where the money is to come from, namely
non-sports societies. Disproportionate amounts of
ICU's £200,000 budget for clubs and societies
already go to sports activities. Sports clubs have
added benefits of capital resources, most notably the
sports centre. Should they receive even more money
at the expense of their fellow students? Did the
proposer of the motion even consider this?
Yours sincerely,
Thomas Wyatt, Maths 2.
Imperial is
a con
Dear FELIX,
Re: Last week's letter from the Rector.
The Rector must count himself the luckiest man in
the College today as he surely spends nothing of his
time actually finding out what it is like to be a student
at IC. He may like to ponder as he struggles over his
pennies whether his hallowed institution is what he
thinks it is.
The fact is, that on subjective evidence gathered
while studying here, Imperial is failing miserably to live
up to the expectations of the undergraduate
population. There seems to be a general malaise, a
cloud of despair that lingers whenever the
conversation turns to College life. And nobody can
ever identify what the problem is. But it will not go
away.
Various accusations have been launched at 'the
College' and 'the Department'. The claim that the
work is too voluminous does not wash, in my view.
I have friends at Oxford and Cambridge where the
workload is higher and more rigorously applied: there
is no lack of enthusiasm for College life there,
however.
The dullness of the lecturing, the obsessive
'cleverness' of the problem sheets (certainly in
Electrical Engineering), the complete 'unreality'
characteristic of lab work that we are subjected to:
these are all contributory factors.
But what really gets up my nose is people in
positions of authority pretending the undergraduate
population are here to be trampled upon and pushed
around freeing up vital resources for money-spinning
opportunities. The result is a group of very intelligent,
very talented people who have seen their dreams
crumble to dust-wasted opportunities, every single
one of them. For me it is criminal. To recruit some of
the most gifted students in the country, and once they
are here, pretend that it was all a big joke. 'We were
only kidding-we didn't actually mean that this was
a University. It is just a repository for lost dreams. If
you would queue on the left, hand your dream to the
cashier, and we will give you a degree in return. And
please don't enjoy yourself. If you want to do that,
well you can just fuck off.' The sad result of studying
at Imperial College is disillusionment, cynicism and an
overwhelming desire never to have anything to do
with science or engineering again. Anyone who tells
you otherwise is either lying through their teeth or
they are visiting the metaphorical brothel around the
corner.
Yours sincerely,
Name withheld at editor's discretion.
Ignorant
bigots
Dear Dave,
We are told that the NUS are a collection of small-
minded, ignorant bigots too self-obsessed to even
realise the outside world exists.
IC would have fitted in so well.
Yours,
Jason Lander.

