Temple of
the left
Dear Editor,
Re: 'Imperial's communists'.
As I was mentioned in the same article as a member
of the Ceausescu's, I thought I would take the
opportunity to make it clear that the British
Communist Party supports democracy and opposes
tyranny-under whatever guise. We want a
decentralised, green, multi-party, equitable and
dynamic society.
All the best,
Nina Temple.
Very moving
Dear Dave,
As its author (and I did sign the original: my
anonymity I assume was an editorial decision), I have
a correction to the writing about the new IC Student
Christian Movement group printed in last week's
FELIX. Namely, for 'magical' read 'illogical' near the
end of the first paragraph. I must word-process next
time.
This is actually quite a significant change. The
section in question should read.
'...believe in God...Well yes I do, but not like that,
much more, well in a more sort of vague, illogical but
kind of practical sense.'
My point is perhaps (the interpretation is yours!)
that faced with the world's idea of logic, believing in
an all-encompassing, suffering God and all that that
implies is patently crazy.
So why does it work?
Understanding God comes not from logical
argument, but through the day's experiences, good
and bad, and from God's love in real people.
Yours,
Robert Cumming, Physics PGI.
No more
please
I am sick to the back teeth of the way some
people seem to be abusing the letters pages of
FELIX as a ground for 'spreading the word.' If I
receive one more letter which attempts to
moralise on the basis of what is written in the
Bible or seeks to promote Christianity through
some means I shall sacrificialy burn it in front of
the author. I am warning the God Squad now
there is a limit to how much religion you can stuff
down people's throats in a student newspaper;
this is a newspaper for everyone after all.
Before you start, Mr Saridakis-don't! I am sure
I hate the smell of burning paper as much as you
do-Ed.
Not very
moving
Dear Dave,
I feel drawn to reply to the article last week on the
Student Christian Movement. The article-
failed to
describe a notable feature of the organisation: it is
predominantly left-wing.
Without any explanation the article blames this
government for peoples' 'preocupation with money'.
This is totally unjustifiable. The root cause of the
materialistic attitude in our society is the belief that
the responsibility for other people's problems does not
lie on the people but on the government. This belief
causes people to contentedly wash their hands of the
problems around them, and work solely on their own
self-advancement.
Thatcherism tries to change this attitude and and
awaken a sense of individual responsibility for yourself
and those around you. The blame for the
'preoccupation with money' does not lie with this
government, but in people's belief in government
full-stop.
Yours sincerely,
Dylan James, Maths 2.
Beit plight
Dear FELIX,
We would like to draw your attention to the plight
of Beit Hall residents.
On Saturday 20 January, the Union Lounge was yet
again hired out to a private party, playing loud 'acid'
music until 2am Sunday morning, and still disturbing
the peace of Beit Quad at 3am. We would not
complain so loudly if we hadn't been kept awake until
gone 4am the night before (the New Year Carnival).
Surprisingly, it is not the first time such things have
happened. We would therefore like to ask the Union
to sympathise with the Beit Hall residents and to take
more care when hiring out Union rooms to non-College
activities. We would appreciate if our sleep is not
disturbed for too long, too often, especially during the
week when some of us have to get up for 9.30am
lectures.
Yours,
Beit Hall Residents Committee.
OBN winner
Dear Editor,
I and no doubt many others take the strongest
possible exception to the juvenile attack made upon
the HUB Office by Paul Shanley.
While he demonstrates some grace in accepting
that Clare Ash is unpaid, he completely fails to
recognise the many and diverse roles the HUB Office
plays in College life.
I have been a member of College for many years,
and regret that only over the past four years has the
lack of communication and general social contact
been realised.
The importance of this was recognised by Lady
Ash, the necessarily supported by paid secretarial
staff, the College now enjoys and indeed benefits by
the activities u f the HUB Office.
Yours sincerely,
R Adams, Senior Departmental Representative.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• Auditions for Cloud Nine. Sexual politics in
Victorian Africa and Thatcher's Britain. Boogie on
down to the DramSoc storeroom, Sunday 4th Feb,
2pm.
• Jewish Society will be meeting on Tuesday
Feb 6th from 1.30pm to 2.30pm in the UDH (1st
floor Union Building). Joey Garfinkle, the UJS
London Region Fieldworker, will be speaking.
Everyone welcome. Contact Andrew Preston, new
chairperson (Maths 1) for further details about this
and other meetings.
• ULU Malet Street offers Osteopathy and
Massage from qualified practitioners. For details
please contact ULU reception or telephone 580
9551.
• RCSU trip abroad to Amsterdam. 23-26 March.
£70 including travel and accommodation. Details
from RCSU Office ext 3526.
• Holbein 87/88 reunion, Sat 10 Feb. Hoop and
Toy 8.30pm. Call Henry for info.
• Tuesday 13 Feb-City & Guilds Union will be
holding their annual Field Cup. Teams of 4-6 who
are interested in competing should sign up in the
Guilds Office now!
FOR SALE
• VW Derby 1300 GLS, 1981/W, original regatta
blue metallic, 66,000 miles, 2 owners from new.
Very good condition, four speaker stereo,
economical, unleaded. Recent clutch, brakes,
alternator, plugs. Available after MOT 15th Feb.
First refusal to students at £1,295. Andrew
Bannister, Geology 3 or FELIX Office on ext 3515.
ACCOMMODATION
• Available: Single flat in West Kensington-near
to W Ken and Barons Court tube stations. £ 6 0 pw
without HB. Contact J Lander, Physics 3.
• Single or double room available in shared flat
in Hamlet Gardens from early Feb. £ 4 4 or £ 5 6 per
week plus bills. Rent rebate up to £ 2 4 pw.
Contact Andy Bannister or Robin Knight, Geol 3,
or Peter Brent, Phys PG.
FREE
TO ALL 1st YEAR STUDENTS
ON THE
12TH FEBRUARY 17.45
SOUTHSIDE
ICI IS OFFERING FREE
REFRESHMENTS TO ALL
THOSE ON ITS TRAINING
COURSE MAKING THE
MOST OF YOUR TIME'
PLACES ARE LIMITED SO
PLEASE REGISTER NOW AT
YOUR CAREERS SERVICE
Page 19

