ADVERTISEMENT FEATURE
Union Snack Bar Restart Offer
On Monday February 5th, the Snack Bar will be given a new
lease of life with the hope of attracting more of you to eat more
of the things you want.
There have been problems in the past which we now hope
have been resolved thanks to the hard work of the Snack Bar
Manager, Ian Richards, and the catering committee, Losses are
hoped to be turned around into minor profits but without putting
up prices. In this way we can support and retain a valuable
service to the Union that we can all benefit from.
To encourage you to come and try us out, whether you've
done so before or are a new customer, we're offering you a
free drinks voucher with every meal you buy, redeemable at
your local Union Bar, just next door. This fabulous offer lasts
for the whole week, so get the beers in while you can.
To cater for your needs and wants we've made a few
changes that we hope you're going to like. The emphasis is
on providing a complete carnivorous and vegetarian set meal
together with a wide range of tasty fillings to pack out
sandwiches, baps and baked potatoes, all of which will be
freshly made. Not only that but, we've got a range of snack
items in case you just want a quick munch. Most of the items
available to you will be home-made by Ian and his staff.
The sandwiches and baps will have a choice of varied fillings,
from Curried Chicken to Garlic Sausage and Cottage Cheese
to Egg Mayonnaise, all with the option of Salad to top them
off. The prices start at 55p but don't go sky high. The baked
potatoes, which start at 60p, give you a hot and filling snack
with or without meat.
Amongst the smaller things are fresh fruit, homemade cakes,
hot and cold drinks and a selection of pies, so you can eat
between meals!
Ian Richards has been running the show for eighteen months
now and looks forward to seeing some new faces at the
counter. He's a friendly face and easy to talk to, so if you've
got any ideas or comments go ahead and have a chat.
Remember the Snack Bar opens from 9am to 3pm and from
5pm to 7.30pm, which means you can stuff yourselves the
whole day through. Come along to the Union Building in Beit
Quad and give it a try. It's there as a service for you but if you
don't use it, you're going to lose it! The money is yours don't
waste it.
SANDWICHES MADE TO ORDER
Choose from a range of fillings in a
sandwich or bap:
Beef Ham
Curried Chicken Salami
Garlic Sausage Tuna
Pilchard Cottage Cheese
Cheddar Cheese Egg Mayonnaise
Salad Sausage/Bacon
Single, double or triple deckers freshly made
Why not try your own combination double decker
for less than £1.00

