Ambulance
collection
'A substantial sum' was collected during the midday
stoppage in support of the Ambulance workers last
Tuesday 30th. Mr C Stringer of the Manufacturing,
Science and Finance trade union (MSF) claimed that
200 to 300 members of trade unions and more than
a hundred students of IC took part.
There was a peaceful march down Exhibition road
and part of Cromwell road. The trade unions have
expressed their gratitude to all who took part.
Guilds protest
for ACGI
The City and Guilds Union have decided to take action
following the City and Guilds Insitute's (C&GI)
proposal to bestow the qualification 'Associate of the
City and Guilds institute' (ACGI) on students not of
Imperial College.
Mr Chris Home, president of the C & G U claimed
that the proposals were very unpopular and detracted
from the value of the qualification at a time when
engineers were not highly regarded in the country.
At a C & G U G M last Tuesday it was decided that
the C & G executive should write to Fellows of the
C&GI, and possibly to the Prime Minister, the Lord
Mayor of London, to the professional Institutions, the
Engineering council and the founder Livery
companies of the C&GI. The union believes that the
effort to publicise the proposals will expose the
detrimental effect that they will have.
Mr Home said 'ACGI always ought to be a
statement that I'm an IC Engineering graduate.'
Welsh rarebit
The Princess of Wales will open the 'Activities
Centre' at the Natural History Museum on February
7th. The centre is directed mainly at school children.
Lady Diana is the patron of the museum.
ULU to sack
President?
The president of the University of London (ULU),
Mr Chris Massey, received a vote of no confidence
from the U L U executive on Thursday January 25th.
The executive claim there is poor communication
between the president and the rest of the union, and
they question his use of union funds.
Mr Massey is confident that he will not be asked
to resign at the General Union Council which will
be held soon. He told Felix that he thought 'the
executive are wrong, I feel their reasons are misplaced
and inaccurate' and declined to comment further on
the issue.
Amnesty letter signing
Imperial College's Amnesty International group has
managed to get 72 letters signed and sent to officials
in Turkey concerning the case of one of Turkey's
political prisoners, Mr Alaatin Sahin.
The group at IC have been campaigning on his
Humanities
lecture
A lecture arranged by the humanties department will
take place at 1:15 on Tuesday 6 February in the Read
theatre, on level 5 of Sherfield. Professor Christopher
Frayling from the Royal College of Art will be talking
under the title 'Monsieur Eiffel's Tower—a Centenary
Celebration.'
Students
charged fees
The University of East Anglia is to fund its expansion
by increasing the numbers of its students by 25% and
charging some students the full cost of a course.
There are also proposals to allow students to take
degree courses of less than three years duration and
for lecturers to teach in the evenings to maximise the
numbers of students with which they come in contact.
They may encourage outside organisations to
sponsor courses; a spokesman for the University is
reported to have said that the courses will tend to
become more vocational in the future.
Britain's
bottom
A report in the 'Independent on Sunday' claims that
Britain has about 22% of its 20-24 age group in
tertiary education, a lower figure than Italy, Spain,
West Germany, France, South Korea, Israel, Sweden,
Canada and the USA.
The same report claims that Britain also has a lower
funding of education expressed as a percentage of
household consumption than all of these countries
except Spain.
behalf for a year, claiming that there is no valid reason
for Mr Sahin's detention. They believe that pressure
can be brought to bear on Turkey as the country
desperately wants to join the E E C .
Bar brawlers
let off
The College Disciplinary Committee has heard the
case of three students involved in a brawl in the Union
bar on 27th October last year, in which one of the
students had to go to Hospital to receive stitches.
Mr Howser and Mr Geeson of Maths II and Mr
Finnamore of Life Science II were all found guilty
of breaking student regulation five, which means they
were charged with conduct likely to bring the college
into disrepute. The injured parties decided not to press
charges, so the case will not be taken into the criminal
justice system.
Mr Howser was banned from union bars and
facilities until June this year, Mr Finnamore was
banned until the end of this term, and Mr Geeson was
banned until the day of the tribunal, which was
January 24th. All were reprimanded, and all are
entitled to appeal to the Rector, probably claiming
provocation.
More on loans
The Government's Student Loans scheme will cost
the Treasury £533 million in the years 1992-1993,
compared with the £328 million that the Treasury will
give to local authorities to maintain or replace schools.
Graduates will be required to repay the loan (of upto
£420 a year—or a total of £1260 for three years) in
instalments as soon as their earnings reach 15% below
the national average. Interest will be paid equal to
the rate of inflation, though the Government has not
made it clear which index it will use to determine
interest repayable. The economic outlook for the near
future is not considered to be good, even according
to the Chancellor of the Exchequer, Mr John Major,
so inflation is expected to rise and job opportunities
to fall.
Oppostion M.P.s have complained that the
Government is still being too vague on the details of
the scheme.

