SUR
On leaving the cinema I thought; what the hell was
that about? The film had no form, was not shown in
chronological order; it was an amorphous mess.
However on reflection my views changed.
SUR won the best director's award at the 1988
Cannes Film Festival. Director Fernando Solanas has
taken a familiar plot and presented it in an entirely
unique way. This is not a 'mass-produced formula'
film, at no time does one get a sense of deja vu.
SUR is set in 1983, just at the end of Argentina's
military dictatorship. Floreal, who had been locked up
for subversive activities, is liberated after having
served five years. Although Floreal wants to return
home to his wife and son, he is not ready to face
them. So much has changed, and he is too full of
mustrust, hate and fear.
During Floreal's imprisonment, his wife Rosi had
been through her own hell, and in her desperation had
become the lover of his best friend, Roberto, a
Corsican, who had found friendship and purpose in
Argentina.
Through a long night's journey into day, Floreal
wanders through the dreamlike streets of the
neighbourhood, which are strewn with banners and
leaflets celebrating the return of democracy. As he
walks, he meets ghosts of his past who help him
recollect the moments, and people, of the years that
marked his broken life.
SUR is divided into chapters, a prologue and four
parts. Each stands seperately, but together they form
a masterpiece. Through these chapters echoes a
feeling of finding one's self, Argentina finding itself
after years of oppression, for the traingle of main
characters represents Argentina, not just three people.
It is interesting to note that during filming the director
suffered major kidney failure. This personal brush with
death shows through in SUR.
The ending is left open to personal interpretations.
Perhaps Floreal/Argentina have come to terms with
the changes around them and overcome the fear and
hatred within themselves. However I believe Floreal
dies in prison. In his journey into the past he meets
people who are dead but act as if they were living,
so perhaps Floreal, although apparently alive, is dead.
But why not go to the film and draw your own
conclusions?
If you're looking forward to Police Academy 7 and
think that Lee Majors is a talented actor then don't
bother to see this movie. However, if you enjoy
thought provoking fresh films then SUR is for you.
SUR opens at the Canon premiere, Swiss Centre,
Leicester Square on Friday February 2.
Charles Tomkins
Jesus of Montreal Lock up
This film caused a storm when it appeared at Cannes
(where, incidentally, it won the Jury Prize). This was
despite being, or more probably because it was, a
deeply religious film: an actor (Lothare Bluteau) is
brought in to revamp the Passion play that is annually
performed at a Catholic shrine in Montreal.
He gathers together a sorry group of actors,
currently working as a prostitute, doing voice overs
for blue movies and lousy documentaries, and making
a career as a model in bad commercials. Together they
rewrite the play, basing it on the latest archaeological
evidence which has been unearthed by the
University's theology department. Funded by the
Catholic church, the department is forced to suppress
evidence the church finds 'unsuitable'. This includes
the possibility that the 'Virgin' Mary was raped by a
Roman soldier and that crucifixion was so horrendous
that the early church did not portray it for five
centuries. Thus the department sees the reworking
of the play as an opprtunity to indirectly publish
censored facts.
Naturally, the play, although an artistic success,
causes a storm amongst the trustees of the shrine
who order the run to be brought to an abrupt end.
Meanwhile the lives of the actors, in particular
Bluteau, who plays Jesus, begin to mirror those of the
parts they are playing. At an audition for a lager
advert, Bluteau becomes angry at attitude of the self-
satisfied casting directors and overturns tables and
equipment, whilst later, at the top of a skyscraper,
j smooth lawyer offers him 'the whole city' in return
for placing himself in the hands of the media machine.
Many of the analogies are more subtle than these
two examples (which have been much quoted in
newspaper reviews): the priest in charge of the shrine
regularly visits one of the actresses who sometimes
works as a prostitute, the publicity machine (TV and
radio chat shows) distort and misrepresent the facts
about Bluteau's life, and after Bluteau dies the other
actors are manipulated by the lawyer into founding
a theatre company which will idealise his life.
The film points up the hypocrisies of the followers
of theatre (repeating the same tired, sugared
congratulations at the end of every performance) and
of the church in rejecting the truth ('What is Truth?'
asks Pilate in the play).
This is a funny, witty film: the part where two
actresses and one actor dub a blue movie has to be
the funniest scene in any film this year (comedies
included). The film is informed, with a sense of life,
fun, happiness and tragedy which the religion it
criticises has clearly forgotten.
It is sensuously filmed and an aural treat. Mostly
in French, the subtitles are excellent and easy to read.
Denis Arcand has produced a masterpiece. This is one
of the films of the year and the only surprise is that
it didn't beat Sex, Lies and Videotape (admittedly also
a good film) for the Palme d'Orat Cannes.
Liz W.
Frank Leoni is a model prisoner in a cushy gaol. Then,
without warning, with only a few months left to serve,
he is transferred to one of the toughest lock-ups in
the country.
The reason? A sadistic governer has a grudge
against him.
Well, Sylvester Stallone has finally found the perfect
setting for his type of film. A prison filled entirely with
men. There is but a single woman in the whole film—
his girlfriend, whose only role is to wait patiently
'outside' for him, and to be threatened by the 'bad
guys'. Meanwhile our hero gets to play American
football in the mud, work in a boiler room (a chance
to show his muscles off, covered in sweat), and have
lots of good manly fun rebuilding a car. Of course his
character is a nice chap-he only went to prison for
beating up the thugs that beat up a sweet old man.
Meanwhile the wicked governer lurks in darkened
rooms, fondles his electric chair and plots evilly.
Of course it all comes to a head when one of Sly's
friends is killed, and his girlfriend threatened. Then,
like any red-blooded American male, our hero rushes
off for an ending full of self sacrifice, shock
resurrection, several thousand volts, an electric chair
and not a few guns.
The whole time the only sign of suffering he shows
is a slight quiver of his top lip-what a man!
Corny, unoriginal and badly acted. Avoid at all
costs.
Adam T.
Page 3

