Odyssey around Odysseus
By Beaty Rubens and Olive Taplin
Most people have heard of Odysseus and possibly his
most celebrated exploit, the Trojan Horse, but this is
a book that is much more than a simple jaunt into
fantasy.
The story of Odysseus and his travels, the basis of
many Sunday afternoon films with mystical creatures
flying about all over the place, is based on a huge
poem that would take nearly two days to read out.
Written about three thousand years ago by Homer,
it narrates Odysseus'travels after being shipwrecked,
and his consequent return to his wife after ten years
of wandering.
The book itself explores the poem, giving evidence
both for and against the truthfulness of the story.
Some people believe that much of the story is in fact
true and that Homer did nothing more than write down
basic facts with some artistic licence. Others shun this
idea, saying that the story has very little, if any truth
in it and that he wrote an adventure story loosely
based on the local scenery.
After reading the book I was left with the impression
that portions may well have been true, indeed much
of it seem too coincidental for it not to be, but most
of the story is nothing more than artistic licence.
Throughout the book analogues are drawn against
another epic, a more recent one, James Joyce's
'Ulysses', set in Dublin and unlike the odyssey, lasting
for one day only, rather than the ten year span of the
Odyssey.
Although passages of the original poem are
contained within the book, it still manages to maintain
interest in the subject by keeping text short and to
the point. The text is punctuated by many quite
attractive diagrams and pictures depicting scenes
from the prose. In the centre of the book are sixteen
colour plates showing some of the fine pictures of the
landscape that is the suspected setting for the story.
Based on a radio series it is a very good book on
its own and if the subject matter interests you and
you want an easy, simple introduction into mythology
then it may well be worth a read,
Ian Hodge.
BlackeyesBy Dennis Potter
It may seem rather strange reviewing a story that has
just been screened as a somewhat controversial four-
part series on BBC2. Having watched much of the
series, I, like many other viewers, was left with a
sense of bewilderment, with little idea just what
Potter was trying to say.
Like Potter's last television piece, The Singing
Detective, Blackeyes contained scenes where reality
drifted off into a fantasy world. However, at times the
connection was not always as clearly made.
In order to further my understanding of the story,
and its deeper messages I bought a copy of the
book-from which the screen-play was adapted.
For those of you who did not see the series,
Blackeyes tells the story of a writer, Maurice James
Kingsley, who, after a long period of inactivity, at the
age of seventy-seven, produces a novel which
instantly takes the literary world by storm. Known as
Blackeyes, the novel is the story of a model, and her
view of London's seedy advertising sub-culture.
It transpires that the source of much of the novel
is his niece, herself an ex-model. Kingsley has, in a
sense, stolen her identity and laid it out for an adoring
public. However, fact begins to imitate fiction, the
boundary becomes unclear, and the plot takes a
sinister turn.
In the novel Potter challenges our male stereotypes
of women and their role in society. The use of the
Sins of the mothers
Ipligenia (Iffy) is the half-caste daughter of a prostitute
and a duke. She is six-foot tall, weighing 17 stone,
and has a personality to match. Rosemary is white,
average and middle-class. They became close friends
at school and this book tells of their lives, the man
they share and their children. The story starts pre-war,
and continues to the present day.
Iffy has dreams of becoming an opera singer, but
prejudice seems to prevent that. During a disastrous
marriage she becomes involved in her mother's trade,
an occupation that will support her for a good part of
her life. One day she meets Hilary, a struggling actor
who is destined to become her on/off lover and
Rosemary's husband.
Rosemary gives up her own acting career to become
wife to Hilary and mother to their three children.
Rosemary and Hilary live the perfect middle-class
existence, while Iffy, and her son, live a wildly
extravagent lifestyle of almost hedonistic pleasure.
The children aren't quite what one would expect.
The book starts off with Iffy reminiscing in 1987,
before slipping back to 1930 to tell of the events
leading up to the opening, with the final section taking
us from 1987 to the present day.
The events are related successfully by several of
the main characters, most notably Iffy, Rosie, Hilary,
Ceaser and Sally.
From each narrator we are presented a different,
and often contradictory, viewpoint on the happenings.
Page 4
By Patricia Angadi
Each has misconceptions about themselves, and
about others, so the whole picture is only slowly built
up. The writing is remarkably good, convincing you
that whatever viewpoint you happen to be looking
from is the correct one, realisation of each character's
faults not coming until a good way into the book.
Beyond the main thread of the plot a variety of
themes are considered. The area of discrimination is
touched on, but only briefly. Much more time is given
to morality and society.
The morality aspect is approached from various
angles: prostitution, incest, euthanasia are affairs all
being covered.
Firm conclusions to any of the questions posed are
not really reached, but then that is not really the
purpose of the book. Instead we are left thinking about
these questions, many of which can never be
definitively answered.
Society is addressed by the contrast between Iffy's
lifestyle and Rosie's. They are wildly different and the
worth of each is assessed by the success (or failure)
of their respective offspring.
Patricia Angudi has, in her seventies, produced a
superb work, which has probably benefitted from the
experience of her age. She raises matters that affect
all of us, making for a book that is worthwhile reading
for anybody who likes to think about their life, rather
than just live it.
Adam T.
female form in the advertising industry comes in for
particular examination, as does society's judgement
of personality by physical appearance.
Those of you who did persevere to the end of the
series might have thought that the end came
somewhat abruptly, and indeed the book does bring
the story to a much more conclusive end.
Reading this novel shows what an ambitious project
Potter set himself in trying to adapt the story for
television. A powerful yet often subtle message.
Highly recommended.
Darren Austin.
BBC Radio
On Monday night I went to see the pilot recording of
a new radio comedyAffac/c of the Little Things at the
Paris Studio. If it goes on air, it will be worth listening
to.
The Paris Studio, on Lower Regent Street SW1, is
an underground theatre where BBC radio shows are
recorded in front of a live audience. It's recently been
refurbished and is quite luxurious. As Jeremy Hardy
says 'It's called the Paris Studio because it used to
be the capital of France.'
So how do they fill the auditorium? By giving away
FREE tickets! All you have to do is write to the BBC
Radio Ticket Unit, BBC, London W1A 4WW, enclosing
a sae, and ask for a list of coming attractions. Or, if
you've run out of stamps, drop in at the studio, where
they often have spare tickets.
Coming attractions include the return of Unnatural
Acts, starting tomorrow at 7.45. It stars Jeremy
Hardy, Kit Hollerbach, Paul B. Davies and Caroline
Leddy, all extremely funny comedians. Other comedy
includes The Mary Whitehouse Experience on
Wednesdays at 9.15 and And Now in Colour starting
on the 17th February at 7.15.
If you're more interested in quizzes, Time Cycle
starting on Monday is a light hearted show. If you
want to take part in the ABC Quiz, pick up an
application form at the Paris Studio.
You prefer music? Ask the Ticket Unit for a list of
recitals at the Concert Hall, Broadcasting House.
This is an excellent way to see the stars for the price
of a tube ticket-you'll love it.
Toby Jones

