Indie Spectacular
The Indie Spectacular hyped in last week's FELIX took
place last Friday in the Union Lounge. A good time
was had by all. THE END.
That enuff?...No, I suppose not, well actually I should
stop pissing about and write something constructive...
blah blah blah the Union Lounge...
The Septembers were initially greeted with a tiny
gathering, most folks having retired to the bar, but
their complex guitar sound soon edged across the
foyer and the crowd grew.
They played a set of medium length and excessive
enthusiasm; while the vocalist and the bass were
hardly wallflowers they were overwhelmed by the
guitarist, who bounded across, up, down and around
the stage like a muppet on acid. The music style varied
from traditional indie-pop to wah guitar the way the
Stone Roses ought to do it.
Rain took to the stage in a haze of white guitar noise
before exploding into a confusion of sexgoth
bloodmusic. The crowd flagellated wildly.
No, actually this is all bollox. Rain took to the stage
like it would bite them; if The Septembers were
muppets on acid, Rain were cabbage patch dolls on
dope.
'Some people say we're as miserable as fookl'
announced the merry gentlemen on guitar. 'But we're
not!' Miserable they weren't; stageleaping maniacs
they weren't either. Their music, competent folk-
tinged and (alas) forgettable came close to moving the
Rain
crowd on several occasions but it was only the finale
and encore that energy seeped into the gig.
Rain and The Septembers both deserve to be much
bigger than they are. Look out for them on the Fraggle
Rock side of independence in 1990.
Stone.
The Septembers
Ride
Feet First Night at Camden Palace has run for three
successful years with alternative rock and indie music
all night, plus an 'up and coming' band live every
week.
The music includes the likes of The Cure, The Cult,
The Sisters of Mercy, Birdland, The Smiths, The Jesus
and Mary Chain and much, much more and recent
bands have included The Membranes, Medicine
Factory, Neds Atomic Dustbin and recent music media
favourites Ride
Ride have, of late, had attention focussed onto their
EP Ride, but it has been their increasingly large live
Page 6
-Feet First at Camden Palace
23.1.90
following that has shaped their reputation so far,
attracting substantial offers from the major labels.
They finally plumped for the small but renowned
Creation Records, early home of The Jesus and Mary
Chain amongst others.
Like the Mary Chain, Ride take classic themes and
turbocharge them; their live sound is harsh and
occasionally slips a pure pop break in. Also like the
Mary Chain they use noise, but whereas the former
uses it as random backing, Ride's is more controlled;
the songs erupt at strategic moments, igniting
feedback like a blow torch.
Bop Station—Until Lisbon
Bop Station is the alter ego of one third year PhD
chemist, Matt Duck who writes and records songs
whilst not pushing back the frontiers of science.
Stephen Morrisey he is not, but whilst it would be
easy to fatuously dismiss Until Lisbon as self-indulgent
and primitive the songs he writes are a cut above
many by 'established artists' and there is as much to
like or dislike about this as there is Morrisey's own
brand of self exposure.
The primitive aspect cannot be denied. A four-track
recorder in the bedroom is no substitute for a
recording studio and at times vocal ambitions exceed
his abilities but generally the quality of this is
surprisingly high.
The music is basically unpretentious; guitar,
Casioesque keyboard and drum machine where
required. He sings songs associated with some
emotional or sexual experience but the lyrics tend to
be cryptic and the overall effect is soothing without
being soporific. Claiming influences of the likes of
Scott Walker, Momus, the French poet Jacques Brel
(namedropped on the recent Marc Almond LP) and
Everything But the Girl's Ben Watt (particularly North
Marine Drive) it is plain that there is little to link it to
mainstream styles. However at times it is reminiscent
of Edwyn Collins, Tanita Tikaram and the whimsical
acoustic sound of Anthony Phillips on the early
Genesis albums (particularly on the title track and
Breathless). Highlights are the retrospective Boy
Thoughts, Queen of Hearts, and the delightful Lost
My Way. Matt Duck is trying to flog copies of his
debut cassette at £2. If anyone out there is interested
contact him on x4664 or via the Chemistry PG letter
racks.
Also any other budding artists out there in College,
get yourself some exposure by sending material to
FELIX; it can't do you any harm.
C.D.L.
Ride-Ride EP
Ride's vinyl sound is equally impressive as their live
sound; while necessarily lacking the power of the live
sound, the tunes and guitar work have more chance
to show themselves. This debut EP contains four
songs: Close My Eyes, All I Can See, Chelsea Girl (no
Simple Minds connection) and the phenomenal Drive
Blind-eacr\ song worthy of release in its own right.
Watch them grow.
Stone.

