Birdland
Syndrome 18.1.90
The Birdland 'Bulldozer' tour rumbled into the
Syndrome destroying everything destructable in its
path and leaving chaos and gratified fans in its wake.
So far Birdland's tour of small venues had led to
mayhem and destruction similar to the early Pistols
gigs, and the comparison doesn't stop there; The
Pistols attempted to sensationalise by creating scenes
of mayhem; Birdland in their choice of venues with
an average capacity of two to three hundred, three
months after a sell-out and extremely lively gig at the
1,600 capacity Astoria Theatre, was bound to cause
frustration amongst fans.
A cheap rock stunt? Well it worked, didn't it?
The support set See Rider were pretentious sods
who left after five minutes with problems.
Birdland walked onstage and the crowd were
already in a state of frenzy; within thirty seconds of
fun, fun, fun all had surged forwards destroying steel
crash barriers and almost pushed over the speakers
before arriving largely unscathed, but totally crushed
at the stage.
Futile attempts to move the crowd back were
rendered impossible by the destruction of the barriers,
whose only use now was to act as a ramp onto the
stage.
A brilliant set, comprising of tracks from singles
Hollow Heart, Paradise and Sleep with Me, plus covers
lasted about thirty minutes.
The band overflowed with energy; Richard directed
it through his singing, greatly removed from the record
sound, much more natural, like a Coventry bawl; Kale
attacked a poor defenceless mike stand and killed it.
The Syndrome had escaped relatively lightly and as
the band left the venue, staff knelt and prayed for no
encore, but Birdland, being consumer friendly but
environmentally hostile, bounded back into an encore.
The guitar/bass intro spelt trouble, but the cry of
'This is a Patti Smith soooong' drove it home.
Everyone lost their heads including the band, Richard
also lost his shirt and Kale his guitar somewhere in
the drum kit!
Twas a classic-you just had to be there...
White Zombie
-God of Thunder 12"
After the promise of 'a powerful blend of soul crushing
grunge' they slip back into the oblivion of heavy
American rock leaving only disappointment in their
work.
Their sound is unoriginal, the song is....what song?
They shout a few words, moan a few and as a token
gesture grunge a few on the last track.
Never do they face their music and attack it with
a whole-hearted attitude such as other grunge metal
bands like Killer or Napalm Death.
In the space of fifteen minutes while they redefine
the word tedious, they also try other cliches and
useless gimmicks such as a vain attempt at
seriousness or climaxic noises in the background.
Only for the braindead or soon to become.
The Right Stuff
-The Girls All Go 12"
Well this record just comes at you - roll beat first, then
rock vocals, rock lyrics, rock chant, rock guitar riffs
and the ever complementing backing 'oooooh's';
being the 'Ipcress Mix' just makes it painfully longer.
Having decided it is a commercial rock record just
about says it all.
On the flip side it changes from pop rock to bluesy
rock, reminiscent of U2 (ie crap lyrics) but at least
Bono's voice is (was?) more suited. Whether bad
mixing is to blame or not the track is sparse and at
times almost devoid of any evident motivation.
The final track Song for Blind Alley makes it all
worthwhile; though still sparse, a mellow guitar is
more evident, showing an evident vocation for mellow
rock. Even the final track doesn't make up for the first
two, but if they continue in a direction as shown in
Song For Blind Alley then there is hope yet.
They might....but mightn't...
Skid R6w-18+ Life 12"
Just another American rock record, you could, if you
strayed far enough, find it anywhere in the American
charts, it's all the same 'innit?
The first two tracks are the same really...I wouldn't
tell them apart and probably wouldn't care. But then...
A pretentious live speech between tracks on the
flipside displays the misplaced power of rock music
as Sebastian Balm, lead egotistical brainless moron,
gets the crowd to chant 'fuck you' as a retort in the
face of a conflict of opinions.
They follow this with a sorry revel in their own
arrogance; you can almost see their egos grow as the
crowd responds.
An American rock record gone sour.
Fur's Winner
The winner of the Psychedelic Furs competition was
James Joyce from Aero I. The answers were:
1. Which two members of the band are brothers and
what do they play?
Tim Butler-Bass
Richard 'Rep' Butler-Vocals
2. Who designed the cover of the band's first album?
Andy Warhol
Tie Break: How many singles have the Psychedelic
Furs released since they formed?
14
He will receive two tickets for the Psychedelic Furs
concert at Brixton Academy on Feb 6.
Your trusty FELIX music pages have
taken a turn to the indie of late, due to
the fact that the new music editor is an
indie pop/thrash mad banana and likes
to got to loud indie gigs, slam dance,
stage dive and many other homy
things.
Do you want to see your music pages
wallow in indie pop forever? If not say
something or do something.
Free tickets, free records and the title
'apprentice FELIX rock journo' will all
be yours and more!
Contact Del in the FELIX Office.

