This
Yjeek
• The first successful foetal heart survery has
been carried out at Guy's Hospital. The operation
involved inserting a balloon into the heart of the foetus
and inflating it so that its previously blocked aortic
valve was cleared. However two operations were
required before birth. On the first attempt the balloon
burst while inside the heart and is still lodged there
but has not yet caused any problems. The second
operation though was a success and a third operation
after the boy was born made sure that the valve was
fully opened.
• The number of homes affected by the build up
of the radioactive gas, radon, is thought to be three
times as many as previously estimated. This is the
main conclusion of a report published last week by
the National Radiological Protection Board (NRPB).
Previously the NRPB believed that 25,000 houses
were affected mainly in areas of granite foundation
rock such as South West England and North East
Scotland. The new value is said to be 75,000
dwellings. The gas seeps up through cracks in the
rocks into houses and accumulates due to better
draught proofing and less ventilation in modern
buildings. The Board's new estimate follows revised
maps charting the presence of the gas however it is
exaggerated since the action level has been halved.
The NRPB says that 2,500 deaths each year from
lung cancer are directly attributable to inhalation of
excessive levels of radon gas. This cause of lung
cancer is second only to smoking.
• An American .consortium set up by seven
companies to manufacture dynamic random access
memory (DRAM) chips was abandoned last week.
Their intention was to provide computer
manufacturers with a viable alternative to the
Japanese monopoly in this field. The venture failed,
however, after insufficient investment and
commitment from the American computer
manufacturers to buy the chips.
Meanwhile IBM still intend to manufacture new high
memory integrated circuits with the compact
synchrotron, Helios, being built by the British
company Oxford Instruments. This is an electron ring
producing X-rays which will be used in X-ray
lithography. Most present production techniques rely
on ultraviolet light or electron beams to 'etch' tracks
and junctions into the silicon. The resolution is
dependent on the wavelength of the radiation used.
By using X-rays it is possible to make the circuits
smaller and thus of a higher density allowing for larger
memory on a single chip.
• A new electromagnetic gun test site planned to
be situated in Kirkcudbright (in Dumfries and
Galloway) will be funded jointly by the US Department
of Defense and a division of the British Ministry of
Defence. These guns rely on the electromagnetic
force acting on an armature, which accelerates it
along a conducting barrel to propel a projectile. The
idea is to develop the technique as an alternative to
using explosives since the potential launch speeds are
far higher. Scientists working at Fort Halstead have
built prototypes which have fired a 3mm ball bearing
at a speed of 4.2kmh " 1
. It is thought that this type
of gun could be installed in a tank within ten years.
Confusion by Simon Haslam
Water covering the particle accelerator at Sandia National Laboratories discharges electric
machine fires its beam towards a fuel pellet.
With the ultimate demise of any hopes for room
temperature fusion, as proposed by Pons and
Fleischmann in March last year, our attention once
again turns to 'hot' fusion.
Fusion takes place when light atoms join together
with the resulting nuclei having a lower mass than
their constituents thus releasing energy according to
Einstein's famous equation Energy = change in mass
x (speed of light squared). The fuel normally used is
deuterium often known as heavy hydrogen since there
is one extra neutron in the deuterium nucleus than in
the hydrogen. Tritium is also used which has two
extra neutrons in the nucleus and has the ability to
release more binding energy but is very unstable.
Enviromentally, fusion is far sounder than fission
where large atoms are broken apart. These large
atoms, such as Uranium, tend to be highly radioactive
for a long period of time. Although high energy
neutrons are released by fusion the radioactive nature
is far less dangerous than fission. The possibility for
an out of control chain reaction does not occur since
as soon as the compression of the fuel is lowered
fusion processes stop.
There are currently several methods employed to
achieve the goal of a controlled fusion reaction. Firstly
huge magnetic coils are arranged around a doughnut
shaped, toroidal vessel, creating a very high magnetic
field. Atoms at high temperatures experience such
high thermal energies that the bonds between
electrons and protons disassociate, forming a sea of
electrons and nuclei known as a plasma. Such a
plasma, contained in a high magnetic field can
undergo fusion processes as significantly energetic
nuclei combine to form larger ones.
One example of an experiment in this area is the
Joint European Taurus (JET) situated in Abingdon,
Oxford. This is part of the European fusion
programme, which has a budget of £250m per year.
JET has cost around £600m over its 12 year life; a
small fraction of these resources.
Some researchers believe, however, that the first
objective should be to build smaller vessels to aim for
'ignition,' that is to have enough energy produced to
sustain fusion events; the so called energetic
breakeven. This energy emission would be orders of
magnitude away from what would be required for
economic power generation from fusion. The
limitation of the Taurus approach is the maximum
magnetic field produced by conventional
electromagnets today; science needs stronger
magnets to contain these plasmas.
Intertial confinement is also being developed. The
technique involves the compression of a fuel pellet
causing an implosion then leading to fusion. One
method used is to fire an intense pulse of laser
radiation at a tiny capsule of heavy water from all
directions. The resulting thermal and electromagnetic
effects cause the pellet to implode as its shell burns
away. Such a reactor exists in the Rochester
Laboratory in America. A neodynium laser produces
24 beams which are split using lenses and mirrors into
250,000 individual rays. A pulse of less than 1
nanosecond (10~9
seconds) duration causes the
temperature of the fuel to rise to between 10 and 50
million degrees. This is only successful and entails
fusion when the energy density striking the Yt mm
diameter capsule varies by less than 1% in all
directions. At present this machine can only meet a
minimum of 3% variation.
In order to make such a reactor viable on a
commerical basis fuel pellets would need to be fed
continuously through the target area several times a
second. The power output would then be dependent
on the rate at which fuel pellets were supplied rather
than the size of the laser. Present lasers, however,
can often only be fired a few times per day otherwise
they overheat. High powered, semiconductor lasers
built from arrays of chips which are not economical
at the moment, may well be so in the future.
Lasers do have more than one rival as a means of
inertial confinement. One such case is the use of high
energy particle beams. Another American laboratory
at Sandia has built such a machine (see figure) where
protons are focussed onto a spot with an energy
density greater than 1 0 1 6
Watts per mm2
.
Many research scientists believe that the first
commercial plants will be possible within forty years,
twenty years with a concerted effort. They have been
making claims like this ever since the first research
some forty years ago.
As natural resources become more scarce
alternative means of power generation will become
increasingly necessary and in many respects this will
be the fusion establishment's greatest ally.

