The Rector's decision to remove the post of Information Officerfrom the Careers Advisory Service was rash
and ill thought-out.
The worst cut
Introduction
It was recently decided to 'squeeze' the Careers
Advisory Service (CAS) by removing the key post of
Information Officer. This will, at the very least, ensure
a massive reduction in the service provided to
students, and could, in the long term, lead to a
decentralised CAS run by the departments. If this
were to happen, many students would be forced into
research or engineering through a lack of expertese
within such a departmental CAS.
The CAS at Imperial College has undergone major
changes in the last few years. From being a
disorganised service used by few it has undergone
extensive improvement to become a useful facility
used by 80% of students. Backed up by the London
University facility at Gordon Square, IC students have
a comprehensive Careers Advisory Service.
Money
£15,000 was spent over the Summer, refitting the
CAS. The office houses a library with extensive
information on paper and on video, and has a
computer running careers guidance software. Private
companies will pay to use such a facility-currently,
£13,000 is pulled in.
Now, after all the refurbishment and reorganisation,
the Rector has decided to remove the post of
Information Officer, currently paid about £10,000,
without whom the service will no doubt fall apart.
Needless to say, private companies will not pay to use
the facilities of a failing CAS, and so £13,000 will be
lost. The Rector seems misguided when he calls this
a cost-cutting exercise.
The Service
According to a recent survey, 80% of undergraduates
use the CAS. Most of these (85%) use the Information
Room, helped by the Information Officer. The majority
of students found the service convenient when they
used it, though a third thought it understaffed.
Using the office directly may involve researching a
wide range of careers using the extensive information
provided. The Information Officer is a key part of this
side of the service. She organises the library and can
help students find exactly what they need, whether
in a book or on one of the many videos available in
the Information Room. Indirectly, the CAS provides
the information found in departments; the
departments themselves have little to do with this
service. Again the Information Officer helps to provide
departments with the necessary leaflets and booklets.
The Rector proposes to use occasional
by Steve Meyfroidt
What you stand to lose—the careers library
completing their three or four years here. This being
the case, a departmental careers service would fail
to provide half the students with the service they
require. Tutors would push unwilling students into
research or the engineering industry, and would be
unable to help those wanting to enter, for example,
accountancy or publishing.
Summary
Imperial College needs a comprehensive CAS.
Students come to IC for reasons of prestige, and are
just as likely to leave science as to continue in their
subject area after graduation. The Rector should wake
up to this fact and give the CAS the backing and
finances it needs to serve the wide range of IC
students. He certainly should not be trying to cut back
on this vital service.
postgraduate help to replace the Information Officer.
Untrained, occasional labour can in no way replace
this important post and, unfortunately, without it the
CAS will probably grind to a halt.
Departmental Services
The Rector's attitude to the CAS is hinted at by the
comment he made two weeks ago that 'we don't
have a desperate need to find jobs for obscure
departments.' This suggests that he expects all
graduates to drift into the obvious jobs in research and
industry. In this case, there would be no problem in
closing down the centralised CAS which deals with
all possible careers, and replacing it with advice from
tutors in individual departments. Unfortunately, the
Rector's attitude does not reflect the fact that about
50% of graduates want to escape from science after
The Imperial College Union Handbook
Imperial College Union needs a student to edit its Handbook. The editor will be paid for six weeks during the holiday
and provided with a free room in hall.
The Summer work involves a large amount of production and editing. The FELIX editor will be available throughout the
production period for help and advice on all aspects. This job is not just one for FELIX hacks. If you fancy working
towards producing a publication over 90 pages thick, which you will be able to call your own creation, why not pop
into the FELIX Office for a chat to find out more?
Page 9

