ELixe
The Student Newspaper of Imperial College NolOll 11N0V94
Foreign Office
Vets Students
BY ANDREW SMITH AND
REBECCA MILEHAM
Concerns over the possible
proliferation of militarily
dangerous technologies will
mean that overseas students
from ten selected countries will
be vetted by the Government
before being accepted to take up
posts in Britain.
The countries include
Commonwealth members India
and Pakistan as well as Israel,
Libya, Iran, Iraq, Syria, Egypt,
Cuba and North Korea, while
the research subjects range from
electrical engineering to biology,
covering most of Imperial
College's activities.
Professor Sir Ronald
Oxburgh, Rector of Imperial
College, attended ministerial
meetings of the Committee of
Vice Chancellors and Principals
(CVCP) with the Government to
negotiate the acceptance of
moderate vetting procedures. Sir
Ronald has told FELIX that the
CVCP was the agency chosen by
Government to introduce this
guidance, emphasising that it
was the Government itself which
had drawn up the controversial
list of countries and subjects.
However, Dr John Hassard,
Lecturer in the Physics
Department, has criticised the
list of countries insisting that
some of them are extremely
responsible, contrary to
Government indications. He
cites Pakistan, not a signatory of
the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty (NNPT), as having
refused an approach from Libya
of $100 million for nuclear
technology. The method of
naming countries, which
includes N N P T signatories,
seems to contain a certain
amount of 'racism' suggests Dr
Hassard, with Britain telling
others that they are not
responsible enough to have
nuclear weapons.
The Government has made
it clear that the list of countries
is 'subject to amendment in the
light of changed circumstances'.
The Rector commented that
with the involvement of many
different Government depart-
ments, this is basically a
diplomatic matter.
Dr Hassard is extremely
sceptical about the advantages of
this vetting process, suggesting
that a much broader range of
measures is needed if Britain is
to counter the proliferation of
nuclear weapons. He added that
it is the trade in nuclear
materials that must be addressed,
rather than that of information
which will always be available.
In 1979, an Iraqi Post-
Doctoral student who had
carried out research in Imperial's
High Energy Physics group
returned to Iraq to set up its
nuclear weapons programme.
The present leader of the
program is also an ex-student of
Imperial College. Though
maintaining that he is not
n
a
It's Rag week! writes Chris Berry. So far Imperial College Union Rag has
raised in excess of £5,000. The usual domination of collecting by the Royal
College of Science Union (RCSU) has been overturned and City and Guilds
College (C&GCU) are firmly in the lead. However, The Royal School of
Mines Union (RSMU), doesn't seem to have entered into the collection with
as much enthusiasm. The breakdown for each of the Constituent College
Unions is as follows: C&GCU £1828, RCSU £1403.10, RSMU £5.25.
Money raised will go to many charities, including the Systic Fibrosis Trust.
"Be mad, be silly, be part of it." For more on Rag and Rag Week, see
the pullout in the centre of this edition.
embarrassed by this, the Rector
stressed that these measures are
part of a much larger initiative
by the British and other
Governments. He insisted that
the process is voluntary, with the
final decision being up to the
institution's discretion. Sir
Ronald defended the usefulness
of the measures, saying that even
if only a small number of cases
are affected, it could serve its
purpose and reassure nervous
universities.
Institutions will be expected
to submit details of candidates'
academic and employment
background to the Government,
along with details about their
proposed course and length of
study. The Government,
officially through the Foreign
Office, will then advise the
institution as to the risks
involved in admitting a
particular student.
m news one&two&three • editorial&credits three • incoming four&five • cluedup six • the s-files
seven • feature: science on trial eight&nine • feature: criminal injustice ten&eleven • feature:
euro youth twelve I R A G P U L L O U T I feature: the barbarians thirteen • feature: london
church of Christ fourteen&fifteen • xtra curricular sixteen&seventeen • standby eighteen&nineteen
• union twenty&twentyone • seven day guide twentytwo&twentythree • sport twentyfour Q

