Feature
C r i m i n a l J u s t i c e
You saw the riots, read the tabloids and last week the CriminalJustice Bill
became law. We explore what came to pass... and catch the Post Bill Blues
Three years at Imperial have made me realise
that I'm not from a 'typical' student
background (ie: avid socialism). Not having a
long history of protests and marches under
my belt, I haven't a clue as to what I'm
heading into as I cross St James's Park on my
way to the protest against the Criminal Justice
Bill (CJB). The assembly is to be staged
outside the Houses of Parliament while inside
the final Commons debate to determine the
Bill's future is in session.
The protesters come into view as I
round the corner into Parliament Square.
They stand in a huddled pack, safely
contained behind police lines, just outside the
entrance to the Houses of Parliament. Armed
with my camera, I plunge into the forest of
bodies and posters, bird calls replaced by the
shrill cry of those ear-piercing 'rave' whistles.
Every now and then two drummers begin a
tribal beat to which the crowd instinctively
chants " K I L L , K I L L . K I L L T H E BILL".
An amazing cross-section of people stand
shouting their opip >he passers by
(perchance politicians?). Y"Ottng couples, old
people, groups of st). 1
a - 'vholft
families — not to mt- •• •
•
• - sues and
other seasoned proi
dedicated to their a- - •
moment they seem nu'. •• i-lifct
But to counter last weekend's
catastrophe (the Hyde Park riot),
the only way to regain public
credibility is by fighting within
the rules.
Presently an announce-
ment over the PA calls for all
lobbyists (not protesters, as I am
corrected by a policeman) to
make their way to Central Hall,
where a mass rally is
congregating. Several people
resent being ushered along to
the gathering. One guy shouts:
"They're making us go to church and listen to
lectures, we don't want to do that!" and,
appreciating his sentiments, I abstain from
the exodus. But eventually we go and re-group
outside the hall on the pavement. Across the
road two men begin juggling flaming torches.
I dash to watch. This is much, better than
i f l f ! to a bunch of idealists preaching
truism - i iiu-ur helps quench
; tt
>t ipcithen i mi
sattCtuary. Central Hall is packed, including
i .*. , S'ue1
I lu- Lis * • • II 3
crowd-exciting: "We cannot rv pect a lawJNp
does Jim respect ihf s. opli '! The drummels
issue their unmistu' il It ejrfle ice as Billy
;*r.igg lakes the stage. Half w; tin Jgh his
CJB?JCB!
I cannot real myself a roods protests! But last Thursday, on hearing that the Sill would be
getting its royal-assent that day, I joined a protest against the Ml 1 link road a "protest which
would be crifrsi;|j$llaed by the afternoon. ™
Wearing the yellow and black "CRIMINAL?" placard I was given around my neck anfNb
solicitor's number scrawled onto my forearm I joined the people heading down to the building
sites.
At the main site people had started using metal rods and girders as cymbals and drums.
The rhythms, ragged with an insidious joy, made me feel like dancing in the middle of a work
site. Spontaneous events like these are now impossible without breaking the law. Most of the
locals we met were against the road, the exception being one woman who told us to go back to
where-ever it was we came from. A little while later we bumped into someone who lived in the
flat below, and he asked for one of the "CRIMINAL?" signs to put in his window - portly to sho
he was against the road and partly to piss off the woman upstairs!
We discovered that most of the security were happy enough to let us stop work, as long as
none of their supervisors were around and the machinery didn't get broken. It got a bit silly at
one point when there were just two of us perched on a JCB which was being "protected" by
three security guards The police kept quite a low profile throughout, most just blocking
entrances, although at one point they did herd people playing music and dancing away from the
area. The only other incident I heard of involved the police charging in and breaking Tofu Love
Frog's instruments. (It has only just occurred to me that both the times that I know of police
involvement that day involved music). As darkness fell the remaining protesters were dragged
away by the security guards and dumped outside the site. I had seen no-one being arrested that
day. I went there prepared to be and I still dm.
Being a middle class science student in the third best university in the country it would be
possible for me to ignore this law, but I would have to also ignore what is happening to this
country. Steve H u n t
pious prose a fire-work sails through the air
above him causing the fire-alarms to go off. A
general commotion ensues, and the meeting
comes to a premature end.
Outside, the road back to Parliament
square has been blocked. A diversion directs
the marchers down Great Smith Street.
Somewhat confused, the march back to
Parliament begins. The drum beat leads us
like mesmerized children "Kill, Kill, Kill the
Bill...".
Riot Police line the exits to side streets
making ii clear where the march 'wants' to go.
In fiunt of yne line a women walks back and
fctth.jjlayrag; a flute - the picd-peace-piper?
Whatever her intention, opinions soon
,H ')!-••(.T i' * ' ' , . , - ) ! sou ilies across
• e crowd hitting her square on the forehead.
I am horrified. The flashes start blaring inn!
H a split second the area b e c o m £ 9 H H e s s
i-'r.i I hide B^y camera, can't bare to think
• f thatTmight belong to that bunch of parasitic
vultures. Waiting foi blood t. Time
to catch the fading drum beat, ojSr icon. We're
red back to Westmister buae$Mhort of
entrance to the!.Gommoaswa police
rricade — a stand-off.
The drummers set up a makeshift rave-
fit and eventually, with a final defiant "Kill,
Kill...", the majority of the crowd turn their
bajk on the barricade and walk away. Only a
bewildered, though resolute, few remain.
They are allowed to walk to the entrance to
the Houses of Parliament. But with only a
couple of protesters remaining, the lobby
seems to have been less than a rallying
success.
During the evening Parliament passed
the clause removing the right to silence. Had
they been oblivious to the protest? Did we not
shout loud enough? What good is a
democratic system which makes a mockery of
the only possible way to oppose
totalitarianism and dictatorship?
David Cohen
l i T C F E L I X 1
1
1
)
0
1
1
9
4

