Feature
Beware! London Church of Christ
On some campuses they're banned. At King's they've
beaten up. Who are the LONDON CHURCH OF
do people join, and what does membership involve?
Every Sunday afternoon, 1500 people meet in
a hall somewhere in London. There is a huge
variety of people from many racial
backgrounds. Over 90% are less than 30 years
old. For as many as 400 this is the first time
they've been. Among those who have been
before there's an excited buzz; eager
expectation for the service to begin.
At the front there's a stage with
microphones and big speakers; suddenly, to
loud applause, 4 guys and 4 girls
enter. They are the song leaders and,
following their instructions, the
congregation comes alive to fill the
room with song. Forget traditional
hymns; this is jazzy, funky music
with rhythm and energy. For the
next 2 hours there'll be more songs,
bread and wine, fellowship and
preaching the Bible. This is the
London Church of Christ, or LCC.
In 1982 a tiny group of people
came from Boston, USA, to spread
the Boston Church of Christ (itself a
break-away from the orthodox
Church of Christ) into Europe. They
formed the LCC.
The foundation of L C C
teaching is the Bible and every
member has at least one copy.
Through regular sermons and one-to-
one instruction, new members soon
have guidance for all aspects of life
with a selection of Bible quotes
forming the core doctrine.
At an early stage they also
mention one of the most
controversial aspects of life in the
LCC. Each member is expected to
give 10% of their gross income to the
church. This, they say, goes to the
considerable running costs of a
church with 1100 members and 30
full-time staff, and also to charity
activities in Africa and India.
You agree, and when you next meet, or
even in the first encounter, the conversation
quickly turns to religion. Before you know it
they've got a Bible open before you and are
showing you verses that indicate you're not
actually a Christian, even though you thought
you were.
Having worked during my gap year and
then been on an expedition to a remote,
mountainous rainforest area, ending in my
even been known to get
CHRIST, how and why
and tell you it would be useful to go through
them alone.
When you meet again it's the same
situation: clear, precise arguments supported
by quotations. Your resistance drops - it all
seems so right. Two or three weeks later, and
after intense reading of Bible quotes together
with careful instruction, you're beginning to
believe God wants you to live the rest of your
life as a disciple in the LCC. You're also led
to believe that nasty things will happen
if you don't.
Finally you agree to go for it and
are baptised into the L C C . This
j§f involves total immersion in water - any
will do, from a heated swimming pool to
the chilly Serpentine! It is actually a
very joyous occasion, with a lot of people
there, singing and praying. The sense of
belonging is beginning.
D A Y T O D A Y
It's early in the first term. You're in the JCR,
still a bit bewildered. You're queuing for food
and someone starts chatting to you. They're
friendly and you talk about study, sports,
whatever. After a while they invite you to a
sports event or maybe a Bible discussion or
just to go for a drink sometime.
Photo: Matt
being offered a place as an assistant expedition
leader on a future expedition, I didn't
consider myself as having a weak character. If
you think you're the same, don't be fooled.
Sometimes there's two or three people
with them and one of them always finds a
quote to quell any protestations or
disagreements you have. During the next few
hours you see your beliefs of the past 20 years
crumble away. You're numb by the end of it
and hardly realise you've agreed to meet them
again. They've written all the quotes down
The LCC is split into zones. From I.C.
you'd be in the Central Zone, which is
made up entirely of students. Try to
imagine a group of 70 students with as
many, if not more, girls as guys. Fashion
designers, illustrators, philosophers,
linguists, lawyers^, economists and
medics, as well as other engineers,
scientists and computing students. You
see them so much that you very quickly
develop close relationships with many of
them. You often meet them during the
week purely for the stimulating
friendships.
HFT| Tuesday evenings are taken up
with the 'zone meeting'. This is a time
to socialise but mainly involves listening
to a sermon, or 'message'.
On Fridays you regularly meet in
Parkes someone's flat, developing these
friendships. You go for drinks, watch films or
play sport; invariably a 'message' is included.
Saturday evenings are a time for dating
- within the LCC. Group dates are the most
common, ranging from seeing a film to going
on day returns to Paris. This raises an
interesting point - you are basically destined
to marry someone from the church!
The focus of the L C C week is the
service on Sunday afternoon. Imagine the
buzz that I described earlier being enhanced
by the presence of such close friends.
FELIX

