feature
At the beginning I also said that
there are as many as 400 visitors. This is
not by chance. A very significant aspect
of LCC life, and one I know many of you
have experienced personally, is
evangelization. LCC's belief is that we
should live exactly in the image of Jesus'
disciples. Jesus expressly commanded
that they go and make other disciples.
LCC are persistent because they believe
you can only be a disciple if you are
baptised into a church of disciples - and
they would indicate the LCC.
There are also daily aspects of life
in the church. Each weekday morning you
meet someone else and pray together for about
an hour. You are also expected to read the
Bible for about 1/2 hour a day and this,
combined with everything else, makes life in
the LCC very intense.
psychological and emotional pressure to distort
the relationship between church and individual,
enslaving their disciples. The LCC consider
| // !«-r..;"',v(,..t fin'rJ er.',:. §§ | | | |
Don Adl'mgton, the Student Counsellor
(x49430), can odvise on the various otganisalions
T H E D O W N S
An artillery barrage of criticism and
questions perpetually surrounds the LCC.
This has a profound effect on you if you're in
the church.
My life polarised. On the one hand I
had family, friends at IC, people I'd never met
before, leaflets, the national media and my
own concerns telling me to GET OUT. On
the other, I had the close friends I deeply
valued saying STAY IN. I often felt totally
alone and isolated because there was no-one
who was neutral and understood what I was
going through. I was torn apart inside
between "Stay in? Get out?" It was
emotional torture.
It is also very difficult for your family
who, wanting to protect you, cannot
understand why you don't leave.
Financially it is not good either. This,
in fact, is not really due to the 10%
'contribution', but to the day-to-day costs.
Tube fares, and eating out because you don't
have time to cook, are just a couple of ways the
money trickles away.
Let's just put things into perspective
and remember that behind this intense
lifestyle is a minor detail: your degree. The
demands on your time undeniably conflict
with study at IC. This is exacerbated by the
emotional stress you are under.
This was the situation I was in.
Emotionally stressed, falling behind with
coursework, financially drained and
haunted by the question I couldn't
answer: "should I stay or should I go?".
The final straw was my end of year mark,
which was, to say the least, on the razor
edge between pass and fail.
OK, so what if you decide to leave?
Firstly the idea scares you because you
have become dependent on the
friendships. Secondly the LCC will make
it very difficult. They have a juicy
selection of quotes to instill guilt and a fear of
hell-fire and damnation. Any point you raise
they can flatten.
The only thing to do is cut yourself off.
When you do, you and your family receive
persistent phone calls. People even travel
across the country to see you, believing Satan
has twisted your mind away from God. This
also illustrates the tragic side of involvement,
because these people are quite simply the
friends you have made, who have come to
depend on and value your friendship - bonds
that are cruelly lacerated.
In summary, life in the London Church
of Christ is in many ways happy, stimulating
and refreshing, but, in many more, sad,
confusing and disruptive.
My advice if you're approached? To
quote Soul II Soul:
"Keep on movin' ..."
Probably
the best pub in
Knightsbridge
DJ and Dancing every
,Thurs, Fri & Saturday,
Flowers IPfi:
£4 a 4 - Pint
Pitcher
PARTY ON A POUND
All Night Monday - Thursday
& Saturday
WIN A CASE OF
LABATTS ICE BEER
King GeorgeIV* 44 Montpelier Square, Knightsbridge.Tel: 071-589-1016

