Xtra Curricular
Who: iCSf
What: Dark Star
Keys: Alien, Bombs, Parody
On Tuesday November 15th at 7.00pm,
IC Science Fiction Society will be showing
Dark Star in the Union Concert Hall.
Dark Star is a cult classic, originally
made as a student film by the since-prolific
John Carpenter and Dan O'Bannon, the man
who went on to write 'Alien'. It tells the story
of the titular ship 'Dark Star' with its sexily-
voiced computer and aded crew, whose job it
is to locate unstable suns and nuke them
before they go nova. The problem is, the
bombs which they use have personalities and
when one is forced to return to the bomb bay
due to an electrical fault, it doesn't see why it
shouldn't just go ahead and detonate anyway.
Wrapped into this are subplots involving
deranged elevators, the ship's dead captain
kept in stasis in the freezer compartment, and
an alien pet which kind of resembles a beach-
ball with rubber claws.
Although the film's student short origins
and low low budget are very evident, it
remains the finest SF parody on film due to
its oddball humour and moments of pure
genius; watch the existential conversation
with the stroppy bomb, or Sergeant Pinback
(who's not entirely who he should be) berat-
ing the 'cute' alien with a broom and call me
a liar.
Entrance is £1.50 for members or £2.00 for
non-members. Membership for the year is £3.00
with thefirstfilmfree, and also gives you use of
our library of3000 books, videos and graphic nov-
els. For further information on icsf please see
http://www.ph.ic.ac.uk/moontg/ on the WWW or
email icsf@ic.ac.uk.
who: Film Soc
What: A Truly Bumper Week
Keys: Arnie, Lies, Slickers
Well, this week at Filmsoc we offer you the
chance to see four (count 'em), four films.
Included in the line-up is one of the year's
biggest films with one of Hollywood's biggest
stars. Yes, you've guessed it, Arnie and True
Lies arrive at the ICU Cinema. It's an 8pm
start on Thursday 17th but remember, doors
do open 15 minutes earlier. Our week howev-
er kicks off on Saturday 12th, with one of our
famous double bills.
At 8pm you can follow the legend of
Curly's gold in City Slickers II, watching
Jack Palance team up again with the cast that
helped him win his Oscar. If you then wait
till 11pm you will have the good fortune to
catch a little gem of a film, True Romance.
f FELIX unougq
This film has yet to grace the small screen,
but there is no excuse for missing it on the
big screen and Quentin Tarantino's writing
never fails to shine. The fourth film is on
Sunday at 8pm, with Christopher Lambert
starring in Fortress. Lots of action that will
set your blood pumping.
who: Astro Soc
What: Plug for Astronomy
Keys: Telescope, Dawn French
Picture this. A clear, moonless night
sky. A great panoply of stars shine like gimlet
eyes above... above a garden behind an other-
wise anonymous house. Shrouded by the
night, a clock chimes thrice as half a dozen
anorak-clad figures mutter excitedly about
the luminosity of the Pleiades while perform-
ing what could best be described as a cross
between a Mancunian rain dance and a mosh
around a telescope.
This is not a satanic ritual. This is not
some form of teenage rebellion. This is not
even a very low key protest against the crimi-
nal justice bill. These are people who have
chosen to take an interest in what lies beyond
our home planet; in astronomy. Believe what
you will, but astronomy/astrophysics can be a
fascinating subject. Yes, it is true that at
times it's heavier than the offspring of
Russell Grant, Dawn French, and two dozen
boxes of Milk Tray - but it can, and does
have its moments.
It must have. Some very interesting peo-
ple in the media have based their fame on
their work in this field - Patrick Moore, Carl
Sagan, Isaac Asimov, and Arthur C Clarke, to
name an obvious few.
So at last, we come to the point of this
text. It's a plug for AstroSoc. The
Astronomical Society caters for those who
like to show off that they've spent many a
Friday and Saturday night memorising the
classification of every star visible to the naked
eye; as well as the less zealous who are just
generally interested in the subject.
AstroSoc usually holds at least one lec-
ture every fortnight, as well as the odd trip to
places of relevant interest such as the plane-
tarium at the start of term. Demand allowing,
we would also like to organise a weekend trip
to the Silwood park campus, whose telescope
can offer us a superior view of the stars and
whose bar can offer us a rather hazy view of
the rising sun.
Our next lecture will be on the 15th of
November, and the guest speaker (with the
aid of 3D glasses and slides produced by a
computer) will give a talk entitled, 'The
Universe on a Micro'. This will be in lecture
theatre one, on level one of Blackett. Signs
will be plastered around Blackett and Huxley
for the directionally-challenged.
Lectures we have planned for later in the
year include the talks, 'The Search for
Extraterrestrial Intelligence', 'The Voyager 2
mission at Uranus', and one about the exis-
tence of UFOs. We are assured that David Ike
will not be mentioned, nor will little green
men wielding casio keyboards playing the
theme to 'Close Encounters'.
Annual membership is a measly one pound.
To join orjust have a chat, simply turn up to any
of the lectures.
who Outdoor
What: Peak District
Keys: Cream Teas, Climbing
Late at night on the tube; the beggars are ask-
ing each other for 20p and the crazy man in
the corner is trying to convert you to his reli-
gion. Haven't you ever felt the urge to get out
of London for the weekend? To go where
Kamikaze Mercedes are rarer than a cheery
smile from the staff in Sainsbury"s?
On October 21st, 16 people headed
North in search of adventure... or at least a
reasonably-priced pint. Pausing only for the
usual Edgware Road jam, we were eventually
speeding our way towards the Peak District.
Our accommodation for the weekend was
a village hall and it was here that the normal
Saturday morning faff occurred as we looked
out to see low clouds and rain. Three moun-
tain bikers set off on a 30 mile jaunt across
the hills, whilst the remainder went climbing,
half outside chancing the wet conditions and
half at an indoor climbing wall in Sheffield.
A highlight of the day's climbing was watch-
ing Olivier leading up a Severe rock climb
which might more reasonably have been
called a small waterfall.
After our evening meal we adjourned to
the pub across the road, which unfortunately
showed no signs of closing at eleven - it's a
hard life! Sunday gave the less adventurous a
chance to go walking (to a cafe for a cream
tea) whilst the die-hard rock climbers visited
Stanage Edge. The rock was initially quite
damp but thanks to a raging gale it was soon
dry and we enjoyed some good climbing, if a
little windswept at times. The evening
brought the London-ward rush with
thoughts of Monday 9.00am lectures resurfac-
ing after the excellent weekend.
So if you're into walking, climbing,
mountain biking or cream teas then come
along and see us. New members and total
beginners are always welcome. You can come
on one trip before deciding whether to join us
or not. Coming up is a weekend in
Snowdonia (Nov 18th - 20th) one to the
Lake District (Dec 2nd - 4th) and the winter
tour to the Cairngorms in Scotland.
You can sign up for trips orfindout more at
the weekly meetings on Tuesdays from 12.00pm
till 2.00pm in Southside Lounge.

