lira Curricular
who: Overseas
What: Foreign Affairs Part 2
Keys: Benelux, Disco Night
First of all, I would like to thank F E L I X for
the coverage of the first Chairman &
Treasurers' Meeting of the Overseas
Students' Committee (OSC) in issue 1009.
Some important points were raised in the
article and here I shall clarify the present
state of the OSC, and also give a short report
on what we've been doing and what we are
planning for the future.
This year the OSC started off with just
one elected member of the executive commit-
tee, the Chairman. This was due to the elec-
tions being held during the exam period of
the summer term. Fortunately, by the first
week of this term people interested in the
OSC (who later became members of the com-
mittee) volunteered to help out. This made it
possible for the OSC to hold a stall during the
Fresher's Fair and deal with all urgent mat-
ters. The new elections took place on the 19th
October and although there was a low
turnout, most of the committee posts were
filled. By having the elections so late in the
first term we enabled freshers to stand for
posts, something which was impossible in
previous years. We now have a full committee
of 12 elected members, holding all available
posts.
The 'Overseas Disco Night' was organ-
ised jointly with Ents and happened on
Friday the 4th of November. This was actual-
ly an improvement over previous years as the
Union was used instead of the JCR, so there
was a band and a long bar extension.
Overseas students that were members of a
society (i.e. had paid their membership fee)
went in for free as the event was fully sub-
sidised by the OSC, whilst non-members had
to pay £2. More than a hundred overseas stu-
dents took advantage of this and it seemed
that everybody had a great time, as both the
band and the disco were quite different from
what we are used to getting in the Union. It
was a great opportunity for international stu-
dents (and freshers in particular) to meet and
communicate with British students while
having a good time. Finally, overseas soci-
eties were able to recruit more members as
the advantages of paying a small membership
fee were immediate.
Well, that's all gone so what's next?
Coming up next is the start up of at least two
new overseas societies - the Benelux Society
and the Italian Society - which will receive a
grant from the OSC as soon as all the little
details are dealt with. This will increase the
number of overseas societies in IC to 23.
The OSC is also investigating the possi-
bility of creating a National Committee for
Overseas Students. Contacts with U L U and
NUS (National Union of Students) have been
made and results of preliminary talks are
more than satisfactory. If this actually works,
it will be a major step in integrating students
from around the world, and particularly
European Students and things like 'real cer-
tificate equivalence' will become possible,
and IC will receive credit for this as it will
actually have originated the OSC.
The next big event is the Overseas Week
where all the overseas societies (hopefully
including the two new ones) will have the
opportunity to promote and educate others in
their cultures by holding stalls in the JCR.
If you want to find out more about any of the
above contact the OSC through our pigeonholes
(OSC Exec.) in the Union Office.
I rtic les foj X Ira C urr'km iar
If'you would li'kf m v < to be
included'in tfcu Xtra Zuti cu'la'i section
pt< asc >nng it aio ig I • ilie F t L i Office
fhe n tide n usi ••: subuiiirei on ii .
; . ida-i b me at it d
< • ••• • mi >
i
and pre-viniji-, ->r iisis Article -lib. pic-
tures §§11 takf \ > or ty ovei lb >se tha
u „/... i limned If ycm snide i
riojfi lias S
D
O words fieri ,-•>• mm ||
advance warning.
°4r
B U S T - A . - G U T
C O M E D Y C L U B
feaLxndng...
BOOTHBY GRAFFOE
with Tim V i m
F r i 11th NDV
£2.50 (£2 ents)
Doors 8.00, Show 8.30pn
LATE BAR
' DISCO AFTER COMEDY ONLY £1

