Union
DEPUTY PRESIDENT
(Clubs & Societies)
Report to UGM
by Ian Parish
Keys
I am looking into getting the whole building
re-suited on new keys. This was meant to be
done about 2 years ago but has not been. I
am in negotiations with College Security
about the cost of the new system.
Rooms
After the Bar Managers Flat had had new
locks fitted, RAG came up with a proposal
that the room they were meant to move to
was too small. It was discussed and passed at
an Exec meeting that RAG would move into
the existing Clubs & Societies store room
behind the Union
Dining Hall. The storage lockers would be
moved into what was meant to be the RAG
room in the Flat and the existing Jazz and
Rock room in the basement of Beit. These
moves will be taking place when sufficient
discussions have taken place with the
Societies involved.
The Princes Mews Garage space problem is
being looked into by a working party chaired
by Dan Look.
World Wide Web
As the Events and Marketing Manager is
leaving the Union I will be responsible for
maintaining the Unions www pages. These
are still under construction at the moment
but will, hopefully, be operational by next
term. Most of the Clubs & Societies now have
e-mail accounts and I am waiting for them to
see me to open the accounts. Clubs &
Societies will have to wait before creating
www pages. This is due to College currently
working on a College-wide policy on
students having their own www pages. The
results of this committee, which I sit on,
shall be known in January.
Sports
We are now nearing the end of the Block
Fixtures and within two weeks I will know
which of the Imperial College teams have
made it into the next round. College have
appointed a new Sports and Leisure Manager,
Frank Murray. His brief is to develop a
College Sports Strategy. College can not
claim money from the National Lottery
unless it has a Sports Strategy. Frank has
worked in Universities before and is very
keen on student sport. We shall wait and see
how his new job works out.
DEPUTY PRESIDENT
(Finance and Services)
Report to UGM
by Dan Look
Treasurers Training:
These first few weeks of the year have been
very busy for myself and the Union Finance
Manager as we have been training all the
Presidents/Chairs/Treasurers in the ways of
the Union's finances. This has more or less
been completed, with the Treasurers of all the
MSC/CCU's now happily (?) installed in their
positions.
Union Finance Committee:
Since the last UGM the first UFC meeting of
term took place where the two main items of
business were the "trimming" of the Union's
reserves and the review of our subsidy rates.
Both of these items need to be concluded in
some way at the next meeting (November
10th), I will report the decisions made after
this time.
Refectory Services:
This committee has met once already this
term where a policy stating that "strippers are
prohibited from public places within the
Union" was agreed (as reported to Council).
The Committee meets again on November
14th to discuss the annual accounts for last
year. I shall report verbally on the outcome.
Bookstore Committee:
This committee has also already met once
this term where the performance of the new
Newsagent was discussed. Although still an
early stage in its life it appears to be doing
very well, pushing total sales well above last
years level. This committee will also meet on
November 14th to discuss last year's
accounts, again I shall report verbally on the
outcome.
Minibuses:
It appears that any standard driving licences
issued after 1 July 1996 will not be a licence
to drive vehicles with over 8 passenger seats.
This will clearly fundamentally affect the
operation of our minibus fleet. I am still in
the process of trying to get more information.
Accomodation:
I have had some meetings with College over
accommodation related matters but to be
honest that's about it. The main problem
being very limited feedback from the student
population. This either means that our halls
of residence are near perfect or that people
are not aware of the fact that the Union may
be able to help with any complaints. If
anybody has any comments or queries
concerning accommodation please get in touch.
PRESIDENT
Report to UGM
by Lucy Chottia
Constitution
The amendments passed at the last U G M
have been made. The revised Constitution is
now available from the reception desk in the
Union office. It will be submitted to this
UGM for its second reading.
Academic Affairs
Council met on the lst of November. It
agreed to my rewriting the Academic Affairs
Constitution with the assistance of the
Constituent College Union Academic Affairs
Officers. I will be meeting with them on the
9th November to discuss the structure the
Academic Affairs should take in the future. I
will inform UGM verbally of the outcome of
this meeting.
The Russell Group
On the 10th October I received a telephone
call from the LSE General Secretary, Martin
Lewis. He informed me that there had been
an article in the Observer newspaper stating
that the vice-chancellors of 9 Universities and
Colleges had met in the Russell Hotel to
discuss forming a separate fee paying Super-
League. He suggested the Union Presidents
for the 9 mentioned institutions meet to pool
ideas.
On the 17th October the Union
Presidents of UL, Manchester, Cambridge
postgraduate Union, L S E and IC met.
Nothing was concluded except that they
should meet again.
On the 20th October I met with the
Rector. The Rector assures me that there is
nothing sinister about the Vice-Chancellors
meeting and that they are not thinking of
forming a Super-League. I was also told they
meet as representatives of the large research
based institutions in order to lobby the
Government as a group.
On the lst of November the Unions
again met and talked at great length with
little result.
Job Agency
College at present need various part time staff
for cleaning and reception type jobs. These
staff are needed to work during the evenings.
A number of students need work. The Union
is therefore setting up an index of students
who need work. The idea being that College
use these people rather than seeking
employment externally. The Estates
Division appear to be in some confusion as to
what work they actually have available. The
Union has therefore contacted all Heads of
Department, CAD and Registry informing
them that we have students available for
work.
I T T F E L I X 1100091

