Rag Week Pull Out Rag Week Pull Out
Comedy Night
Rag week this year kicks off with a comedy night. This will be featur-
ing Boothby Graffoe and Tim Vine, the evening will be topped off
with a disco, and a late bar. Tickets are priced £2.50 and are available
from the union office, or pay at the door. Doors open at 8pm and the
show starts at 8.30pm.
Rag Raid
Location unknown (well, England somewhere). Opportunity to meet
students from another university and see what pathetic and dreary
lives they lead. We cheer them up by selling them IC rag mags (offen-
sive, racist, sexist, subversive, anarchic, etc.). Common response is
along the lines of:
"Want to buy an IC rag mag?"
"Got no money."
"It's highly offensive and has been banned from your campus."
50p mysteriously appears very fast and you can rest in the knowledge
that you have brought happiness and cheer to a sad and lonely non-IC
student.
Note: We are on our best behaviour. On no account do we ever
descend in a large,rowdy mob, and e.g. take over their bar, buy
all their beer, break into their union offices, re-arrange garden
furniture, re-paint walls, etc., and we definitely, most definite-
ly do not nick any signs.
Meet up in the carpark by the minibuses at 10am.
Rag Bar Evening
This is where Raggies and anyone else who wants to converge on the
Union Bar and have a particularly excellent evening! We will be
indulging in such silly things as 1001 Down Darts and other such daft
bar games! We'll be there for a chat or any information that you may
require so pop in and see us - we may even buy you a drink, depending
on how generous we're feeling at the time. But you'll be guaranteed a
good nights entertainment if nothing else so come along and meet us!
Mines Dirty Disco
Here's another on
of the many
chances during
the week to get
your clothes off
for charity! The
Mines Dirty
Disco is, as the
name implies a
disco where the
theme is the less
you wear the less
you pay - there-
fore if you turn
up in just a sock
(if you are a man
that is), strategi-
cally placed of
course, then you
probably would
get in for free or
have to pay very
little indeed. Of
course no clothes
means no cost!!
ICU Rag Week
Fri 11th Nov
Sat 12th Nov
Sun 13th Nov
Mon 14th Nov
Tue 15th Nov
Wed 16th Nov
Thur 17th Nov
Fri 18th Nov
Sat 19th Nov
Sat 19th Nov
Sun 20th Nov
Sun 20th Nov
Comedy Night
Rag Raid
Night in the Bar
Mines Dirty Disco
Slave Auction
RCS Beer Festival
Rocky Horror Night
Rag Bash
Union Building
Somewhere Far
Union Bar
Union Building
Union Building
Sherfield JCR
Union Building
Union Building
Sponsored Nude Kamikaze Somewhere Near
Parachute Jump
Pub Crawl
Rag Rugby
Bungee Jump
Somewhere Nearer
Harlington
Docklands
Roaches Thrive '95
Rocky Horror
At 8.00pm this Thursday is Rocky Horror night. Where we will be
having a special screening of The Rocky Horror Picture Show on the
large screen in Da Vincis. This will be followed by a disco. Entrance is
free but we will expect you to make a donation to Rag. Just to add a
twist to the evening we want everyone to come dressed in drag or in
the Rocky Horror theme. There will be prizes for the best costume.
Rag Bash
Union building, 7.00pm. Tickets £3 and worth it, (what else is there to
spend £3 on? 5 pot noodles? 2 and eight elevenths JCR sandwiches?).
There will be live bands and a disco, a special cocktail bar with a live
jazz band and waiter/waitress service and much much more besides.
The weekend starts here and any work can wait...
S.N.K.PJ.
By now you might have heard all about the Sponsored Nude
Kamikaze Parachute Jump, but for those of you that haven't then let
me inform you. This is a little activity where a certain number of peo-
ple jump out of the back of a minibus outside Harrods wearing noth-
ing but bowties and then proceed to make it back to college. This is
usually done as rapidly as possible, but for the mad amongst you there
is a prize for the last back to college! So if you fancy watching some-
thing silly on a Saturday morning then go and watch or for the more
daring of you - take part!!
Bungee Jump
Normally people on a Sunday students would be lying in bed catching
up on sleep and doing all the work they hadn't done all week, but not
today! Loads of mad people are going of to London Docklands to
jump of a 170 foot high crane and try to touch the water, all raising
money for Tenovus, the cancer charity, whilst they fly through the air!
This is some thing people equate to sex or just plain adrenaline but
whatever your viewpoint on this spectacular event it should prove to
be excellent fun. If you want to do a jump there might just be enough
time for you sign up to do this but you will have to come and see us
very rapidly as places are limited and going fast!!
5-legged Pub Crawl
Self explanatory, really. Technique is simple: Visit pub, buy drink,
collect money, buy drink, find another pub, buy drink, etc. Keep
going until you feel dizzy, the room starts to spin, and weird creatures
walk across the ceiling. That's about it; start in Union Bar or Da
Vinci's, then make your way to Southside, probably followed by
Queen's Arms, The Harrington, Hoop & Toy, Gloucester Arms,
Hereford Arms, Ennismore Arms, Stanhope Arms, etc. The 5-legged
bit is to make it more of a challenge to stay upright and not get kicked
out. Start time is after the SNKPJ and finish time is when there's no-
one left standing. Be there or be sober.
Killer
Also this week we will be running Killer. The aim of this is to elimi-
nate your target in the most original way you can think of. Be careful
not to get killed yourself as someone will be out to eliminate you. Once
you have killed someone, you then go on to try to kill their target. The
winner is the person left alive at the end of the week. To take part, go
to the Rag office or the Union office before 5pm today. All you need
are two passport photos of yourself, and £2.50.
This year's incentives: £50 - Mug, £150 - T-Shirt, £500 - Sweatshirt, £1000 - Rugby Shirt, £1500 - Tankard

