HHI Rag Week Pull Out
Beer Festival
Calling all pissheads, real ale fans, cheap-
skates, students... in fact anyone who likes a
good pint or two. This event is the biggest
non-CAMRA beer festival in the country,
and basically involves lots of people consum-
ing approximately 3 tonnes of some of the
best beer around in the comfort and safety of
the JCR. Also the Beer Festival marks the
launch of this years version of IC's notorious
RAG MAG!
Slave Auction
Piles of washing up, laundry getting on top of
you, lecture notes in need of copying? Here's
the ideal solution, the Slave Auction is where
anyone who is silly enough to take part auc-
tions off twenty four hours of their time with
the proceeds going to charity . Buying a slave
for the day could help you get your life sorted
out! Imagine having all your meals cooked
for you, having all those smelly socks washed,
that urgent lab report written up all whilst you sit around with your
feet up having all your drinks bought to you... unfortunately sexual
favours are by written consent only! But still worth your while, you
could club together with a group of friends to buy a really good look-
ing slave. Concert Hall at 1.00pm - if you fancy signing up as a slave
yourself pop along to the Guilds office or Rag office and put your name
down.
Rag Rugby
Virgins get to grips with the miners
The match of the weekend has to be the charity rugby match between
the Royal School of Mines Rugby Football Team and our very own
Ladies Rugby Football Team, the I.C. Virgins (who are they trying to
kid!). The ladies team have only been going for a year and what they
may lack in talent and fitness they make up for in enthusiasm and pure
skill when it comes to the odd boat race! Last year the ladies threw
down the gauntlet and the men were so bemused that they played in
stocking and suspenders! The battle then commenced with the girls
putting up a valiant fight against the men and doing extremely well,
the final score was 24-24!! So whoever said women can't play rugby
should have been there to witness this spectacular event, as you should
be. Come along and watch the most unique game of rugby you are like-
ly to see, we are playing at Osterley again this year travelling out there
by coach, if you want to come then book in the RSMU Office or see
any member of the IC Virgins team. This promises to be one wacky
event so miss it at your peril, after all, what else is there to on a Sunday
afternoon!!
Rag Services
Services will be operating during the whole week and, for a small fee,
you can get almost anything done to anyone. City and Guilds College
Union are running the notorious Hit squad and the Royal College of
Science are doing Grim Reaping, handcuff-o-grams and pint-o-grams.
To explain these further, for anyone who didn't know, Hit squad pro-
vides you with the opportunity to get a flan placed in the face of your
best friend or your worst enemy. Lecturers are not out of the question
if you can club together the danger money, and if you think final year
students are too boring then why not get a mass hit taken out on an
entire lecture?! Hits can be taken out on production of a Union card at
the C&GU Office in Mech. Eng. Contact lens wearers should also get
themselves a contact lens immunity badge which prevents flans from
hitting you in the face, this can also be obtained from the same place.
Grim Reaping involves setting a grim reaper to follow someone around
all day until they cough up enough money to get rid of them. For a
small charge you can have a pint and a packet of bar nibbles delivered
to someone (or yourself) during a lecture, lab, tutorial... you tell us
where, when and who and we'll sort it out. Handcuff-o-grams involve
handcuffing two victims together until they cough up sufficient
amounts of money to get the keys. Do you hate someone enough to
handcuff them to that boring smelly person in the corner? For any one
of these services pop along to the RCS office, round the back of
Chemistry and see one of the friendly bods inside.
Beer and Cider List
Brewer Beer Brewer Beer Brewer Beer
Adnams Broadside, Mild Morlands Old Masters Courage Directors
Archers Village, Head Banger Morlands Old Speckled Hen Gibbs Mew Deacon
Batemans Dark Mild, Victory Palmers Bridport, Tally Ho! Everards Tiger
Batemans XXXB, Salem Porter Ridleys IP A, Mild King and Barnes Broadwood, Old
S A Brain & Co. Dark Mild, S A Best Ringwood 49er, Old Thumper Mauldons Suffolk Punch
Brakspear KPA, Special, Old Rodinsons Old Tom Mauldons Black Adder
Charles Wells Eagle Smiles Brewery Exhibition Felinfoel Double Dragon
Eldridge Pope Blackdown Porter Thwaits Craftsman Marstons Owd Roger
Eldridge Pope Royal Oak Wadsworth Old Timer Timothy Taylor Landlord
Exmoor Ales Exmoor Ale, Stag Youngs Special Ciders
Fullers Mr Harry Sheppard Neame Bishops Finger Westons Tradtional Draught
George Gale BBB, HSB Arkells BBB Westons Perry
Greene King Abott Ale Belhaven 80/s Zum Zum Zider Dry
Hook Norton Old Hooky Caledonian Merman Zum Zum Zider Sweet
Rag T-Shirts £6.50, Rag Mags 50p Available from the Rag Office and at the Beer Festival

