Feature
Would you eat a tomato that's been genetically engineered to last longer, or t
better?4m' reportsfrom the first UK Consensus Conference on Plant
Biotechnology, where the public gave their answer, and put...
Science on Trial
There is growing disillusionment with our
political system and politicians. We complain
that "they're not doing their job", or "they're
in cahoots with big business, lining each oth-
ers' pockets". But is there anything we can do
about it?
Well, last week the Science Museum
tried to make governments and business and
pressure groups listen to the public. The
Science Museum and the Biotechnology and
Biological Science Research Council organised
the UK's first National Consensus Conference
on the subject of plant biotechnology. This
could be the start of a new democratic process,
a new way of connecting the public with deci-
sions made for the public.
As the Science Museum says, this was
"an unconventional contribution to public
debate and public decision making" - uncon-
ventional debate in the sense that a panel con-
sisting of 16 members of the public is given
free rein to invite experts to answer any ques-
tions the lay panel puts to them. On the basis
of these answers the panel writes an indepen-
dent report. The unconventional nature of
the decision making is that no-one who
actually makes the decisions has to listen
to the panel. The initial signs were not
good. William Waldegrave M P ,
Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries
and Food, was billed to open the
conference, He could not attend
due to "cabinet business".
Consensus conferences
started in Denmark, to col-
lect the "unfiltered views
of the people" on issues
such as food irradia-
tion, road transport
and electronic iden-
tity cards. Denmark
has a much
stronger tradi-
tion of consult-
ing its citizens
than we do, so it
remains to be
seen how much
notice will be
taken of this con-
ference in the
UK.
The organ-
isers advertised
in local newspa-
pers throughout
the country ask-
FELIX
ing for volunteers. Over 360 people (including
myself) applied for the 16 places on the lay
panel. The panel was chosen to be representa-
tive of the UK's population - equal numbers
of men and women from a wide range of social
classes, geographical areas and ethnic groups.
None of the panel had any experience or par-
ticular knowledge of plants or biotechnology.
A couple of months before the conference
started, the panel was given two intensive
weekends of introduction to the basics of
biotechnology. First, they addressed issues
such as how biotechnology works, and how it
might affect society, the economy and the
environment. Second, they identified seven
key questions (see box on facing page) and
chose appropriate experts to give evidence
during the conference, which took place in
Regent's Park on 2 - 4 November .
So when we, the audience, arrived at the
conference to hear the questions, the lay
panel, as one of them said, had been "living
and breathing plant biotechnology for the past
2 months." Each expert was given 5 minutes
for their answer. For example, the first ques-
tion was answered by a professor at the John
Innes Centre, an employee of Zeneca Seeds
(formerly ICI), a representative of Greenpeace
and a representative of the National
Federation of Consumer Groups. The fourth
question was addressed by a professor of moral
philosophy, an Anglican vicar and a represen-
tative of the Vegetarian Society. After the
answers, the lay panel questioned the expert
witnesses more deeply on the issues raised.
At the beginning of the conference all
sides treated it as another platform for their
propaganda, not as a genuine forum for dia-
logue with the public.
There was a distinct lack of consensus
from the speakers answering the first ques-
tion. Prof. Dick Flavell of the John Innes
Centre conveniently ran out of time before
addressing the risks of plant biotechnology.
Dr Sue Mayer of Greenpeace could find no
benefits outside the research lab for plant
biotechnology. Both sides were attempting to
use methods of disinformation; presenting
conjecture as fact and trying to scare the
panel with hypothetical horror stories. Dr
Mayer talked of genetic pollution and
transformed cereals becoming vora-
cious weeds. Dr Ed Dart of Zeneca
Seeds told us the world's population
was set to rise from today's 2.4 bil-
lion to 12 billion by 2150 and thus
biotechnology would be neces-
sary to feed the world. (2150 is
about seven generations
away.) If the world cannot
feed 12 billion people with
or without biotechnology,
then there will never be
12 billion people on the
planet. And as another
contributor said, "You
can't feed the world
with tomatoes and cot-
ton" - the main crops
being enhanced by
biotechnology at pre-
sent. Interestingly,
Prof. Flavell and Dr
Dart addressed the
audience whereas Dr
Mayer and Jill Moore
of the National
Federation of
Consumer Groups

