6 F E L I X
- 5 ^ M V 5 A - / C L U B I N T H E A L P S
Thirty members of I.C. Ski Club
left Victoria on Saturday 21st December
for a fortnight's ski-ins (and she-lng)
in the Tyrolean Alps.
On arrival i n the small winter
sports resort of Soelden (4550 feet)
the party, which included several
attractive female members, split into
two, one half remaining at the Hotel
Post and the other going on to the
Pension Gystrein. That evening the
fir3t of many encounters was made
with "Wiener Schnitzel" and "Spezial
Bier," and the peculiar Austrian bed
covers.
The following day wa3 spent in
hiring skis and boots and i n trying
to find some snow to ski on. Through
some hard work by Otto Jakubovic some
snow was finally found, and on Christmas
Sve the whole party started ski-ing les-
sons under the instruction of the local
"Sk±3Chule," Wayne Piatt getting into
the top class.
That evening a very pleasant time
was had in the Pension Gystrein, which
was decorated with a Jocal Christmas
tree, and many well known and some les-
ser laiom carols were sung.
On Christmas Night the management
didn't share the festive spirit, and
after unplugging the "Juke Boa"
threatened to throw everyone out.
However, Clem Lemayre came to the
rescue and produced, seemingly Out
of a hat, a party complete with strong
drink, hot music, and French women, in
a neighbouring Guest House.
Although snow conditions degenerated
and in spite of the gay nights, most of
the beginners graduated to higher olass-
es at Hochsoelden (6830 feet) after a
few days. This latter resort is over
2000 feet higher than Soelden, and
virtually the only way of reaching i t
is by a 20 minute ride in a "Ses3el-
bahn" or chair-lift, the 3eoond long-
est of its kind i n Austria. Passengers
are apt to get very chilly in transit:
on one occasion a certain member of the
club had several beers before leaving
the top, and was forced by the cold a i r
to relieve himself, on the way down.
By New Year's Eve everyone was on
intimate terms and the Old Year was
seen out in the conventional and some
unconventional manners. Even the shy
American g i r l l e t her hair down on this
occasion.
The large number of sprained knees
and twisted ankles reflected the
worsening snow conditions after
the New Year. Happily no one was
seriously injured, but several
people can s t i l l be seen limping
around the college.
A comfortable journey back to
England was marred by an extremely
rough Channel crossing during which
most people lost their breakfasts.
However a very enjoyable time had
be<m had by all and the standard of
ski-ing in I.C. has been greatly
improved.
C L U B R E V I E W /
fC A W E I G H
Many members of the Sailing
Club are to be seen discussing
boats in the Union during the lunch
hour. This i s an indication of
their interest in the College fleet
of 5 Fireflies, which they sail, race,
and maintain.
The Firefly i s a light twelve foot
racing dinghy which, for its size, has
a yery high performance. In a strong
wind i t w i l l l i f t up and plane over
the water like a speed boat, giving
its occupants a tremendous sensation
of speed and a generous cold shower;
i t will also give the unwary a oold
bath when i t is least expected.
Being a racing boat, comfort is not
very well catered for and there is
l i t t l e space for stowing more than
a bottle of beer and a packet of sand-
wiches (well wrapped up in something
waterproof). Although such a small
boat, i t will sail well on the sea,
but on such a trip the bailer is the
most important member of the crew.
Most of the club's sailing is
done on the Welsh Harp, a reservoLr
of dubious origin and use, near the
North Circular and Ed^ware Uoads.
It is about three-quarters or a idle
loop and wide enough for people to
get lost in a mist.
Last Summer most of the I.C. boats
were taken to Heme Bay to give members
experience of sailing on big waves.
This turne.3 out to be quite some
experience and many tales will live on.
There was the time X gave a thrilling
but uncontrolled exhibition of aero-
batics in a Firefly before disappearing
in a cloud of spray. There was also
the ti:ne that Salome, a rather tempera-
mental and very unladylike lorry used
for carrying boats was apprehended by
the Police for having no silencer and
"no audible warning of approach" - as
i f she needed oneJ The Polioe were
more friendly later: One constable
helped to push Salome along Southend
Promenade to start her.
T H E I S L A N D S I T E L A T E S T M O D E L
Last Monday the revised development scheme for the Island site was laid before
the Planning Committee of the L.C.C. The photograph above shows the model of the
new plan as viewed from the East. The Coleutt tower, set in a two-aere lawn fig-
ures prominently. As can be seen, i t will serve as an excellent sundial. Perhapi
the Planning Offioe oan be induced to calibrate the row of windows facing i t
Salome's presence at Southend was
the result of The University attending
the Firefly championships at We3tcliff,
all five I.C. boats being present
Dinghy racing is a very satisfying
3port as i t demands both physical and
mental agility together with a sense
of humour. Stephen Potter would, no
doubt, be able to write a good book
on racing tactics, especially those
used in team racing, where i t is the
aggregate position of a team of three
boats and not an individual boat's
placing which counts.
Sailing is essentially a sport
to take part in and not to watch - a
race is very hard for an onlooker on
the 3hore to follow and is usually
regarded as somewhat of a mysterious
proceedure by the general public.
The natives who frequent tne shores
of the 'tfelsh Harp seem completely amazed
by the queer beings who go out sailing
the foulest of weather. A l l I can say
is that we wouldn't risk a swim in
January i f i t wasn't worth i t l
S A D A P S
MrBCozen3Wcruldbeextremelygratefulif
thepereonwhoborrowedthelegofhianightcom
modewculdreturnthesame.

