8 February 2002 ^SBfe Th<
Issue 1227
te
The Student Newspaper for Imperial College
Punch Drunk or Punch
and Judy? Felix Film
spars with Ali (Page 16)
Black Rebel
Motorcycle Club, but
no helicopter (Page 18)
Students to Decide Future in NUS
Imperial College students will vote in a ref-
erendum to decide whether Imperial should
join the National Union of Students, after
Union Council narrowly voted last Tuesday
to put the question to the student body.
Under the Union Constitution, referenda
must be held within thirty College days of
this decision being taken, meaning that a
vote on the issue will be held on or before 19
March.
Speaking at the meeting, Union President
Sen Ganesh argued that as six years had
passed since the last such referendum, " a
whole generation of students has not had
the opportunity to vote on the affiliation to
the National Union of Students," and that
he wanted to give the students this oppor-
tunity to "have a say i n what the Union
does."
The decision to hold a referendum met
some opposition, led by Natasha Newton, a
former Union President. M s Newton argued
that similar polls at other universities had
"torn the student body apart," and that
such referenda "really stuff up a student
union."
She went on to argue that it would be an
unwise move to hold a referendum at a time
so close to exams and elections for
Sabbatical officers, as many students
would pay more attention to the vote than
to revising.
There was also dismay at the decision
from Medic students, as it became clear
that the referendum would fall outside of
their term time, meaning that a large sec-
tion of the student population would be
excluded from the vote.
The most obvious benefit of NUS affilia-
tion is the discounts offered to NUS card-
holders by many shops, though many local
outlets also accept the ICU card. Affiliation
may also give Imperial students more rep-
resentative power, as it would be part of a
larger, national body of students. It would
also allow ICU members access to more
welfare support, which could potentially
offset the loss of the backing of the
University of London Union if the College's
application to award its own degree-award-
ing powers is successful.
However, financing the £56,000 annual
cost of membership would probably divert
money away from Union clubs and soci-
eties. Prices in the Union bars may also rise,
as the bars would be forced to use suppli-
ers endorsed by the NUS rather than its
own, cheaper providers. A spokesman for
the bar at the University of London Union,
which uses NUS suppliers, told Felix that
Grolsch is sold there for £2 a pint, whereas
it currently costs £1.85 at the Union.
The political nature of the NUS is also a
major problem, as all member unions must
declare some kind of political affiliation
This is certain to conflict with the apolitical
stance of ICU.
The impending referendum is likely to
bring a new dimension to the Union elec-
tions later this month, raising the possibili-
ty that candidates may take up a position
when campaigning for Sabbatical positions.
John S
"A rival university held two day
Sci^i Conventions called Micro-
con, so as ours was even smaller
?cide fi Pic in."
Size doesn't matter. Or so I'm told.
Send your Valentine's Day messages to fellx@ic.ac.uk before

