picocon preview
icsf: 25 Years and Counting
The IC union science fiction, fantasy and horror society is cel-
ebrating its 25th year during this academic year. The big red
book of society accounts indicates that the society started in
1976 and had such exciting events as showings in the IC cine-
ma of Barbarella and Invasion of the body Snatchers. 25 years
later and we are still showing equally cheesy films, although we
now show them in our own dedicated library.
In 1976 the Beit hall warden generously donated a couple of
hundred science fiction and fantasy books. These Were stored in
3 large lockers in the Green CommitteeRoom on the top floor of
the union. In 1987 the society was given its own room, a pleas-
ant cupboard under the south west corner of Beit Quad. It con-
tained a growing collection of books and healthy colonies of
cockroaches and silverfish. The card system was getting rather
difficult to manage, so in 1995 a member donated a pc to run a
database and this sturdy little 386 ran the system until 1999. In
1996 the library obtained a television and video player and
there were regular crowds of people squashed in the cramped
space between pipes watching the increasing number of socie-
ty videos.
After a hard fought campaign the society obtained a new
room, located almost directly underneath Beit Quad arch. After
several weeks of cleaning, painting, decorating and moving
over 3000 books down the corridor, icsf became established in
its new library (a room which is now the Beit Hall laundry). The .
library was huge and was quickly furnished with things
acquired from various skips around college. However with the
start of the Beit renovations we were once again on the move to
a location dubbed by the sabbaticals at the time as "the icsf por-
tacabin experience". In October 1999 the society reluctantly
moved venue from its luxurious underground cavern to an upper
portacabin behind the main library which was about half the
size of our previous one. It was generally pretty crowded in
there, although at least when there were lots of people in there,
it wasn't quite so cold!
The delays of the Beit project meant that we were in the por-
tacabin for twice as long as originally planned, but the wait was
well worth it. Last year we moved into our beautiful new home
in the Union West Basement Media Centre. We could finally
spread out all the library contents. At the moment the library
contains 4460 books, 113 graphic novels, 447 videos, and 36
audio items. A l l of these items can be borrowed by society
members and we show a video every lunchtime for members to
sit, watch, debate and make jokes about.
Picocon 19 - February 9th
Our major event almost every year since 1984 has been our
one day convention - Picocon. The first Picocon came to be
when a group of society members invited a few friends, includ-
ing a couple of authors to the union bar for a day of discussion
and drinking. The event was called Picocon as a rival universi-
ty held two day conventions called Microcon, so as ours was
even smaller we decided on Picocon. We now also hold femto-
cons for Freshers that only last an afternoon - see, our sense of
humour is still as good as ever.
Over the years Picocons have grown, they now take over the
entire union building and attract more than 100 guests. Over the
years we've had such renowned authors as Stephen Baxter,
Terry Pratchett and Iain (M) Banks. Other events include
debates, quizzes, panels and film showings in the icu cinema.
This year is no exception: Picocon 19 will be coming to the
Union building from 10am on Saturday February 9th and we will
be joined by four special guests:
A n n e Gay - author of several fantasy books including
Mindsail and Dancing on the Volcano and also edits LineOne's
Science Fiction and Fantasy Club.
China Mieville - The winner of this year's Arthur C. Clarke
award for his novel Perdido Street Station and has also written
King Rat and The Scar.
Stan Nicholls - has done a wide range of jobs in the genre,
including managing a SF&F book and memorabilia shop, jour-
nalism, teaching and writing fiction and biographies.
Geoff Ryman is a past winner of the Clarke and many other
awards for his novels. He has also created an internet book - 253
<www.ryman-novel.com>, about the people on a tube journey.
Other events of the day will include our famous (or is that
infamous?) destruction of dodgy merchandise during which we
auction tacky items to be destroyed in entertaining ways by the
highest bidder (all money to RAG). There will also be book-
sellers, a L A N network, Dalek racing and even a Killer tourna-
ment running throughout the day. To round it all off there will be
a showing of Pitch Black in the icu cinema which everyone can
come along to. The day kicks off with registration at 10am and
finishes with the film at 6pm. A l l of this will only cost you £5 if
you're a current student, £2 if you're already and member of icsf,
or £8 if you are neither. Oh, and there will be a piece of birth-
day cake for every attendee. What more could anyone want
from a sci-fi convention?
There is more information on icsf, its history and details of
Picocon on our WebPages - www.su.ic.ac.uk/icsf. Or drop by the
library one lunchtime to have a chat... we're not that scary... not
really.
Lorna

