film interview
This week's film section features an interview with the man who
has the task of bringing the story of the Greatest to screen...
Will Smith
Willard Smith was born on the 25th September 1968, the second
of Caroline and Willard Smith Sr. 's four children. His father was
the owner of a refrigeration company and he grew up in middle-
class West Philadelphia where he got the nickname 'Prince'
(because of the way he would charm his way out of trouble).
Years later in 1989 and after embarking on a showbiz career,
Will Smith starred in the NBC sitcom based on his early life. In
The Fresh Prince of Bel-Air, Smith played himself, a street-wise
teenager transplanted into the heart of Beverly Hills. The series
lasted six years and set him on the road to super-stardom.
His first movie was Six Degrees of Separation (1993), followed
by the successful action picture, Bad Boys (1995). The Smash-hit
Independence Day (1996) secured his position as one of
Hollywood's highest earners. Since then he has made a sequence
of often dubious, but invariably successful movies, including Men
In Black (1997) and Wild Wild West (1999).
He is currently working on Men In Black 2 (2002). In the mean-
time, audiences around Britain are waiting in keen anticipation
to see his performance in Michael Mann's, AIL But will Will do
justice to the legend behind the story?
In this interview Will Smith talks about the rigorous training
schedule required for playing the part, his views on Ali. boxing,
being punched, and his prediction on the Lewis versus Tyson
match.
How tough was it to get to the A l i standard of fitness?
Essentially, we trained for twelve months. I had a little sneaky
month before that where I crept out by myself to try to get into
some sort of shape. Little bits so Michael Mann would think
that I was already in good shape.
So probably twelve or thirteen months of training and essen-
tially we would run at six for three to five miles in the morning,
depending on the day, and we would go into the boxing gym
from 10.30 am to 1.00pm. Technical boxing training, jumping
ropes, sparring, and then in the evening we would go into the
weight room for physical weight training. So that was five or six
days a week for a year, so your body would definitely come into
shape with that kind of regime.
Did the pain of being punched ever deter you from taking the
part?
Yeah! That's the first thing! There's a really strange primal thing
that happens when you get punched. When you get hit there's
a blue flash and you start trying to remember where your car is!
Where did I put my keys? As soon as this buzzing goes out of
my ears, I'm outta here! But when you get hit and you get
knocked down and you stand up, there's a really animalistic
thing that happens inside of you that either destroys or reaf-
firms your manhood.
The first time Michael Bentt (who plays Sonny Liston) hit me,
he hit me really clean. I didn't have much time to move so I put
my chin down and he hit me right on the top of my head. But it
didn't flip my head back. It sort of compressed down onto my
neck and I felt an electrical shock from the base of my neck
down to the back of both of my elbows. I remember thinking
'Damn that Michael Mann!1
But it felt like a rite of passage to the
commitment that we had all made to telling Muhammad Ali's
story; so it almost felt like I was worthy now after getting hit, to
be in the ring with all the champions. We didn't use any actors;
we only used professional fighters so that sort of confirmed my
worthiness, in my mind at least.
When you were a young m a n M u h a m m a d A l i had already
ended his fighting career, but was he still an icon for you?
That was what was really important to me about telling this
story. I'm thirty-three years old so I was born September 25th
1968, so by the time I was paying attention to fights,
Muhammad A l i had already finished fighting.
By that time, he had obtained icon status so I knew that
Muhammad A l i was an icon. I knew he was a fighter and I knew
he was important, but I didn't know why. That was part of what
inspired me to want to tell this story because anyone that is
younger than me has no idea what Muhammad A l i had to
endure in his life. They just know that their parents love
Muhammad A l i and everyone claps when he is on television or
when he walks into the room. So I really was inspired to tell this
story, however terrified I was!
I can understand the intimidation of taking the part. D i d it
make you think 'mmm, perhaps not me'?
I felt physically perfect to tell the Muhammad A l i story. I felt
that I could put the weight on, and that I could look like him. I
felt that I could physically become Muhammad Ali, and I felt
spiritually akin to his transformation from being at a stage
where he believed in God, through to being a man who elevat-
ed himself to an individual one-on-one relationship with God. So
I can relate to that transformation very well. I can relate to that
spiritual space and I have always felt similar to Muhammad A l i
in the simplicity of his spiritual beliefs.
At the same time I was terrified by the prospect of being the
guy that messed.up the Muhammad A l i story They would say
'Independence Day', that was good! 'Men in Black', that was
cool! But he's the dude that messed up the Muhammad A l i
story!' So, I was terrified by that prospect, until I met Michael
Mann. A n d he really got the ball rolling in terms of what I had
to do to be Mohammed Ali. He gave me the belief that it was
possible for that transformation to occur.

