interview film
Was there a particular moment w h e n you felt you had
become Ali? W h e n you felt you had made it?
You know there were moments that information created an
epiphany. I don't specifically remember a moment where I said
'I got it, I'm Ali'. I don't remember that moment. It was such a
gradual process for me. I remember Michael called in a guy
called Jeronimo, formerly Jeronimo Pratt, of the Black Panthers.
Michael had called him in to give me a sense of the era, because
that was what was really difficult for me. The comprehension of
the sixties is so foreign to me. I'm a child of rap music, cars, and
women so I just cannot relate to the social upheaval of the six-
ties and Jeronimo said that war had been declared on Black
America. Fire hoses, dogs, domestic terrorism, the bombing of
the church in Birmingham, Alabama. He said war had been
declared and when he said that, I just felt a wave of under-
standing. Of course, Muhammad A l i had not gone to Vietnam to
fight a war, when in his mind, he's fighting a war right here at
home, and if he goes ten thousand miles away, women and chil-
dren aren't safe here in America. One war at a time. A n d with
that point of view, I started to feel the dominoes beginning to
tumble towards becoming Muhammad A l i and understanding
the necessity for that point of view. The necessity for this hero
during that era.
There was a negative sense out there that the Fresh Prince of
Bel A i r was playing the k i n g of the boxing world. Seeing that
it would take two year's of your life to become this man, did.
it take you a long time to make that choice?
Well, I turned the script down for years. Probably for six years.
I think I was probably twenty-seven the first time an A l i script
was presented to me. I just turned it down for years and years.
Even I couldn't see the road from Will Smith, Fresh Prince of Bel
Air, to Muhammad Ali. Someone said 'you have to become
Muhammad Ali'. What do you do to become Muhammad Ali?
Michael Mann was the first person who illustrated what he
called a 'course syllabus' for becoming Muhammad Ali. He said,
'I will create the curriculum that will create Muhammad A l i
inside of you'. I was like 'alright, cool!' I didn't know what it was!
He said that there would be essentially a three-tiered course
syllabus. The first tier would be physical. He said we are going
to run the way Muhammad A l i ran in the cities on the routes
that he ran. We are going to eat the food that Muhammad A l i
ate. We are going to spar the way he sparred. We are going to
go get Angelo Dundee and train the way Muhammad A l i
trained. A n d by we, he meant me! He said that creating the
physical life and the physical burden of Muhammad A l i would
take us to the second tier, the mental and emotional develop-
ment of Muhammad Ali. A n d he said by understanding what it
feels like to be in a ring, and when that bell rings, and knowing
that there's an animal on the other side of that ring that wants
nothing more than to tear your head off, by being in that physi-
cal space you will understand the mental and emotional stress
that Muhammad A l i lived with on a daily basis.
This would naturally carry us to the third tier which would be
the spiritual development. From understanding the physical,
mental, and emotional, he said that I would understand the
necessity for the spiritual convictions that Muhammad A l i had
developed during the period that we were shooting in the film.
What about Ali's vocal mannerisms?
We worked with a dialect coach. It was the same 'course syl-
labus' that Michael Mann laid out just after the physical. We
found that A l i had a big, wide open chest and that's what gave
him a big resonant voice, but he also really constricted his
throat which gave him almost a higher pitched sound. Then we
traced essentially the flavour of his dialect to seven Baptist
preachers. So we studied a few Baptist preachers. You know
how he'll get really low and speak really low and getting really
dramatic, and then he takes it up high. So the voice is really that
very holy Baptist preacher trying to impart the holy ghost.
What is your view about boxing as a sport?
I think in America, with boxing in the early 20s, 30s and 40s, the
boxing ring was the only place where is was fair. For Jack
Johnson, for Joe Louis, for Muhammad Ali, the boxing ring rep-
resented the only place that racism didn't matter. Because when
Johnson hits you with that right hand, no matter how racist you
are, you're asleep! So it represented a place where it was man
to man, it was one on one, and there was no perceivable way to
cheat. So I think that's a large part of the reason why people
tend to gravitate towards the boxing match as a true test of
man to man. There is no room for the referee to fly a flag; you
can't get a red card! There's none of that, it's one to one, man on
man. Or woman to woman! Absolutely!
Did any of Ali's mannerisms stay w i t h you after the shoot?
Yes, the pure appreciation of beautiful women. That has stayed
with me. The mementos also, I kept everything. A l l of the
clothes, all of the gloves, everything. I knew from day one that
this would be a journey that I would remember for the rest of my
life. When we got into Africa, we had the opportunity to sit with
Nelson Mandela and at every turn in making this film I just had
new experiences and was being enlightened. I was keeping
everything that I could get my hands on.
What chance has Mike Tyson got against Lennox Lewis?
That's a tough one. That's real tough. If Mike trains, he's hard to
beat. But I think Lennox Lewis is a heavy enough puncher and
a cautious enough fighter to potentially beat Mike cause he's
jab, jab, jab, right hand and will tire him out. I think if he gets
past the third round he will be a really great champ.
"Ali" is released in the West End on the 15th February
Darius

