music reviews
Black Rebel Motorcycle Club
B.R.M.C.
Out now on Virgin records
There's been a fair bit of hype about this
band. Judging from the photos on the
inlay, this is probably due to their live act
- lots of thrashy guitars, with dry ice bil-
lowing melodramatically in the intense
lighting - and not much to do with their
music. Or maybe pensive, moody male
trios with unkempt hair are now back.
They namecheck the Dandy Warhols on
the inlay and go in a similar musical
direction, but without the humour or the
flair.
A sample of the tracks is illustrative.
On Love Burns, the lyric "Now she's
gone, her love burns inside me" repeats
to three-chord riffs, sounding like a
bunch of teenagers practising after
school. Whatever Happened To My Rock
'n' Roll [Punk Song] delivers what it
promises, though rather unimaginatively.
White Palms rolls out a dreary, deliber-
ately muffled bassline, whilst an even
drearier vocal moans over the top.
The attempt to spice it up with jangly,
muffled Madchester guitars and key-
boards only adds to the misery. Rifles is a
good attempt at something genuinely
moody - multiple repeating voices lay-
ered like canta Gregoriana are entwined
with threatening basslines reminiscent
of the Jesus and Mary Chain. After 90
seconds though, it suddenly reverts to
pop-rock with indie vocals. The dark
mood of the intro occasionally reprises,
but the dumb indie vocals and post-
Oasis guitars ruin the track.
The album ends with a couple of tracks
that try to sound like Primal Scream but
end up sounding like Celine Dion with a
sore throat. Dull and disappointing.
Robert
Cooper Temple Clause
See This Through And Leave
Out this Monday on Morning records
The Cooper Temple Clause are a band
with passion and integrity. That was the
first impression I got when listening to
the London live favourites' debut album
See This Through And Leave.
They don't waste time in getting start-
ed, with the omnipresent, minimalist,
futuristic arrangements of Did You Miss
Me? focusing my attention firmly on the
music. The guitar-riffed rock 'n' roll open-
ing of current single Film Maker takes me
completely by surprise, since it could
hardly be more different from the first
track. It's sleaze-rock, with a hint of
glam, done in the best possible way.
Panzer Attack carries on in a similar vein,
with older punk influences (Buzzcocks,
The Clash) coming through.
Lush orchestral backing features on
the bluesy Who Needs Enemies?, which
is one of the highlights of the album.
Amber is both haunting and lyrically
blessed, displaying the band's emotional
side. This is continued on the simplistic
Radiohead-inspired track Digital
Observations, which demonstrates that
the band can be experimental without
being irritating.
The recent single Let's Kill Music
comes through with its '60s-style bril-
liance, its chanting attempting to "kill"
soulless, manufactured pop through pure
repetition. Even a weather report makes
an entrance - is there anything this band
can't do?
The creeping The Lake and the atmos-
pherically excellent Murder Song serve to
close the proceedings effectively. I'm
close to crying now, the album is that
good! Go out and buy it!
S0B9B Sajini
Ludacris
Word Of Mouf
Out now on Def Jam South records
One of the hip-hop intellectual elite
Ludacris is not. The main subjects "dis-
cussed" on Word Of Mouf are hoes and
the all-important life of a gangsta. But
unlike many other rappers, Ludacris has
fortunately picked up a bit of a comic
streak, and some of the best moments of
this album are the comedic skits.
Although hip-hop snobs may dismiss
the subject matter of Word Of Mouf, one
cannot ignore the production quality.
Timbaland and Organized Noise (the
team behind Outkast classics such as
Wheelz Of Steel) produce the best tracks,
like Area Codes and Cold Outside.
Ludacris is a self-proclaimed "ass vale-
dictorian" and "abominable ho'-man",
and the tracks where he lets his freaky
comedic side run wild are up there with
any Redman track.
It rs when he starts the gun-toting
gangsta routine that the album falls
apart, and Ludacris turns into a generic
No Limit or Cash Money clone. He has
the potential to become hip-hop's super-
freak genius, and should follow his own
advice on Area Codes and "put the .44
away".
Marcus
COMPETITION
This week, we've got a copy of Word Of
Mouf (see above) to give away.
QUESTION: What is the name of
Ludacris' first album?
Please email your answer to
music.felix@ic.ac.uk by Thurs 14 Feb.
Sean Regan of Chem E n g I knew that
Motorhead's original name was
Bastard. He wins the Motorhead DVD.

