reviews music
LIVE: Jimmy Eat World +
Seafood @ Astoria
Kicking off this evening's proceedings were the relatively eclec-
tic Seafood. Giving us a selection of offerings to show the unac-
quainted audience precisely what solid matter they're made of,
they started big and ended big, just like a band should (and
gained top points for effective use of a starcloth!). The high-
lights of the set were their dynamic recent single Splinter and
two very short cover versions - a couple of chords from Ash's
Shining Light and the first verse of Jimmy Eat World's Bleed
American (a short intermission while they tried to recover their
bassist from the wings). A very classy and original idea from a
band that just didn't want to leave the stage.
BBBBO
They're not crazy 'cause they take the right pills every day, they
bleed Americans and they sweat salt and sugar. They are, of
course, the amazing J i m m y Eat World.
Jimmy Eat World began the evening with the highly success-
ful Bleed American (although whether this could top the totally
unexpected Seafood version is doubtful). The crowd were
excitable to say the least - at times, the number of crowdsurfers
almost exceeded the number of people with their feet on the
floor. The band had astounding stage presence and drive, and
interestingly, they introduced a guest keyboardist/vocalist after
the first couple of songs.
The sheer energy of some of JEW's heavier tracks was nicely
contrasted by their mellower, more melodic emo side. Tracks
like If You Don't, Don't proved that the band are not only capa-
ble of producing large amounts of noise, but also of moving
adult and child alike. To our surprise, they left the stage before
playing new single The Middle. Luckily for us, they came back
and thrashed it out of their guitars with proper vigour and style.
The thing about Jimmy Eat World that confuses us is how
they managed to release four albums before anyone had even
heard of them. But the reason why they became so popular so
quickly is obvious - emo-core never had it so good.
BBBBB Jess & Sajini
LIVE: Hell Is For Heroes +
Kids Near Water @ Borderline
Tonight, I finally laid to rest the ghost of Symposium. Fond mem-
ories abound of the "your best mate's high school band" vibe of
the endearingly gormless pop-punkers. But drummer Joe Birch
and baby-faced guitarist Will McGonagle's incredible incendi-
ary rock rebirth buries Symposium under ten tons of blood,
sweat and, er, piss... ooh look, isn't that Som from My Vitriol?
But hang on, rewind an hour or so, and Kids Near Water are
venting their spleen at a surprisingly unenthusiastic audience.
Surprising, because they sound pretty similar to HIFH. They
seem extremely pissed off about something or everything,
though between the tunes they seem more apologetic - shame.
To be fair, they're not nearly as good as HIFH, but they're still
exciting in that interesting way that only angry young men with
guitars and nothing to lose can be.
•II
Hell Is For Heroes tease us with the almost unbearable build-
up of Slow Song. Then, as soon as Out of Sight kicks in, the place
goes mental. It's pandemonium, at once a catharsis of all the
teenage angst of punk and a joyous celebration of the glory of
rock'n'roll. Or something like that...
Singer Justin hangs, monkey-like, from a pipe over the stage
before leaping off and crowdsurfing. Surely that's gotta hurt?
The rest of the band are equally unflinching. Cut Down and new
tune, er, New Tune kick particularly hard, powered by
McGonagle's angular riffs and the band's sheer rock momentum.
Hell is for Heroes list Fugazi and Deftones among their main
influences. That's setting the bar pretty high, but at their best
moments, HIFH manage to weld Fugazi's righteous anger to the
Tones' tide of ill-feeling.
Their first single Sick/Happy closes the set and has the place
in a frenzy again. Will claims that this is what he wanted to do
all along. Is it, or is he just moving with fashion? Who cares,
because this is incredible stuff. 2002 will be their year, mark my
words.
BBBBB Tommy Mack

