Singles
Roundup
THE HIVES - Hate To Say I Told You So
Unknown to many, this band (pic above) are from Sweden,
but you wouldn't have thought so, For one, they're good, sound-
ing similar to The Strokes. This single is quality rock music that
sounds slightly punky and energetic. Unfortunately, the B-sides
are not up to scratch - they're quite thrashy, more like other run
of the mill rock. But on the basis of the first track, I look forward
to hearing the album.
TobyB
B E N & J A S O N - H o w The Hell Do I Explain?
This is the second single from the beautiful album Ten Songs
About You. Apparently written in the period of relief the pair felt
after believing they had finished the album, How The Hell Do I
Explain? is full of laid-back strings and tambourine shakes.
These, together with Ben's smooth, melancholy vocals, make
this track the perfect chill-out tune.
Jess
SPEK - Smell the Coffee
A fun little pop song where Spek puts on the coolest voice he
can and raps over a ditzy guitar riff, while female vocalists
chime along obediently in the background. The track isn't as
catchy as Im a Hippy, his previous single. Nothing here to get
annoyed about, but nothing to get interested in either.
Tom X
TIMO M A A S - To Get D o w n
German D J Timo Maas makes a good fist of imitating the
Chemical Brothers/Prodigy style of combining guitars and funky
house breaks, but it doesn't quite come off. Still, this is head-
nodding stuff, and the Fatboy Slim remix is possibly better than
the original.
music reviews
O U T T H I S W E E K
The following should appear in all good record shops on
Monday 11 February. Please note that all release dates are
subject to change.
A L B U M S
COOPER T E M P L E CLAUSE - See This Through A n d Leave
LHB - Tell 'Em Who We Are
SINGLES
IAN BROWN - Whispers
DEPECHE MODE - Goodnight Lovers
DILATED PEOPLES - Worst Comes To Worst
SPIRITUALIZED - Do It A l l Over Again
...and also all eight singles reviewed below
RELISH - Heart Shaped Box
On reading the title of this single, you would be forgiven for
thinking that this was a substandard cover of the seminal
Nirvana track of the same name. Thankfully, it goes nowhere
near that, and is instead a fine bluesy number reminiscent of
the Black Crowes at their peak. The song does get a bit repeti-
tive after a while, but it's a good one to bring out now and then
for a bit of cheering up.
Tank
S A H A R A HOTNIGHTS - On Top Of Your World
Sahara Hotnights are an angry ball of frustration, all shouts
and hollers over jumpy rhythms and staccato guitar salvos.
Strong vocals burn through the slick production, only to offer up
boring teen cliches. SH have a pure pop sensibility and apply
this to their garage basis stylishly. Ultimately, however, the final
product is pleasant, but nothing more.
• • • • • Chris
L L O R C A - Indigo Blues
This is a fantastic single, taken from a wicked album. It's
chilled-out jazz house, courtesy of the man who revolutionised
French house music in the mid '90s, and it features the stunning
voice of Nicole Graham. The two B-side tracks are both good
remixes - the first is an Indigo Blues remix by Minus 8, and the
second is a remix of I Cry (from the album Newcomer) by Ernst
St Laurent. I only hope to be hearing these in clubland soon.
• • • • • Toby B
PINHOLE - Breaking Hearts A n d Windows E P
Pinhole are the right age to play rock 'n' roll. They love their
tunes, but they also love the rush of cranked guitars. Their
debut release is a four track EP which comes stuffed with a live
video, loads of photos, an interview with the band and more.
Intro track City, complete with puerile, simplistic vocals and
crashing guitar background, is a pleasant enough, half-energis-
ing track. The lyrics are the only real down side to this promis-
ing EP
• •••• Derek • • • • • Sajini

