reviews arts
Paris:Capital of the Arts 1900-68
Royal Academy of Arts
For most of the 20th century Paris' beauty, romantrc spirit, liberal-
ity (and low cost living too!) have made it the world's capital of
arts, attracting artists form all over the world: Picasso and Dali
from Spain, Chagall and Kandinsky from Russia, Modrgliani from
Italy, Foujita from Japan and Kelly from the USA are a represen-
tative sample.
From the World Fair of 1900 to the student street riots in 1968 .
the exhibition guides the spectator through the masterpieces of
the artists, and at the same time it highlights the social and polit-
ical context in which they were developed. Four main sections
correspond to the four districts of Paris that constituted the cen-
tre of intellectual activities: Montmartre with its rural character,
its cabarets and nightclubs from 1900-18; Montparnasse with a
sophisticated taste for cafes, Jazz and an international artistic
elite from 1919-39; Saint-Germain-des-Pres as a shelter during
the Nazi occupation and later as the cradle of existentialism
(1940-57); finally The Latin Quarter with the politic turbulence of
the European 60s, culminating with the 1968 student rebellions.
It's hard to choose the most representative works out of a set of
almost 300, all of the highest quality. Worth mentioning are sure-
ly the studies for "Les Damoiselles d'Avignon" by Picasso, open-
ing the way to Cubism, and the nudes of the Ecole de Paris for the
first section. Avant-garde, Dadaism and Surrealism constitute the
Montparnasse section, where Mondrian, Duchamp and Dali are
the flag bearers. During and after the German occupation is evi-
dent a radical shift in the themes and techniques employed, and
the visual arts undergo the transformation through the metamor-
phosis of the sixties, to the contemporary way of interpreting art
and the artist. Finally the 60s, characterised by political engage-
ment and torn between philo-american Nouveau Realisme and
the left wing sympathising Narrative Figuration movement.
To our opinion the value of the exhibition lies, apart from the
impressive collection of art, also in a coherent exposition that
allows to travel through time and follow the evolution of arts in
their own very centre, that constitutes in a certarn way the ulti-
mate masterpiece: Paris is the real focus, the "prima-Donna".
Klee:The Nature of Creation
Hayward Gallery
Wrth a grandiose title like "The Nature of Creation" our expecta-
tions of this exhibition were high, and if the queue was anything
to go by we weren't the only excited ones. The Hayward Gallery
has become a temporary home to about one hundred of Paul
Klee's works created between 1914 and 1940. The exhibition has
met with mixed reviews so feeling all important with our press
tickets in hand we stepped out of the drizzle and waved good-
bye to the soggy queue to give our, ahem, definitive verdict.
Paul Klee is often heralded as one of the great painters of the
last century and a fore-father of abstraction. The exhibition was
joint-curated by Bridget Riley and this is reflected in the choice
of works. Lots of the pieces have a hypnotic quality and the
selection reflects Klee's analytic skill.
Klee's most famous works are probably the early "Square
Paintings". The vivid geometric paintings reflect Klee's passion
for colour. A s he explained "To paint well is simply this: to put
the right colour in the right place". The influence of his time in
Africa is prominent in these works. The colours are a response
to the light at dawn and at dusk. Curves reminiscent of North
African architecture are contrasted with rectangles and
squares.
As the title suggests the exhibition focuses on the process of
creation. "The Narrative Line" section focuses on Klee's uses of
lines and simple geometric shapes to create dynamic and organ-
ic images. The pictures have a form that is free from the rhythm
of the shapes that they are constructed from. A highlight of the
exhibition was being able to explore the development of this
new form of abstraction.
In 1935 Klee contracted scleroderma a disease that reduced
his mobility. The delicate construction of images using hundreds
of repeating shapes is replaced by sparse symbolic shapes and
coarse lines.
The exhibition is a lively display of Klee's talents and also a
chance to study the methods of one of the great abstractionists
of the last century. The Nature of Abstraction is at the Hayward
Gallery SE1 until April 1 and costs students £6.
Sergio Jon & Trevor

