union talk
Throbbing Elections
Don't leave it to everyone else!
With election season fast approaching,
and nomination papers up for the sabbat-
ical posts at both Imperial College Union
and ULU, I thought I would write a few
words about the whole election business,
from a club and society perspective. You
should also be aware that your club or
society's A G M must be held this term, but
more about that later.
So, the sabbatical elections, what's the
big deal? Well, it sounds obvious, but you
get the chance to choose who you want to
run the show next year. For club and soci-
ety members, the results could have a sig-
nificant bearing on how easy, or difficult,
your lives become next year. This applies
not only for the DP(C&S), but for all four
Sabbatical Officers. Perhaps you'll hit
problems or you just need assistance or
support in trying out something new; the
attitude of the Sabbaticals may determine
whether you get the kind of help you need
or the opportunity to go ahead with your
plans.
Thinking more globally, the U L U
Sabbaticals will set the direction of
London-wide campaigns to shape your
lives as students in the capital, examples
being the LT Travelcards and student
finance. So, in both cases, find out about
the candidates, ask questions, raise inter-
est among your friends and fellow club
and society members and, most impor-
tantly, cast your vote!
On a smaller scale, each club and soci-
ety will be electing its officers for the fol-
lowing year at its Annual General
Meeting. This is a great opportunity to
get more involved, give something back
to your contemporaries, and gain valuable
experience in a whole host of tasks. It
would be all too easy to leave it to every-
one else to stand for the posts on your
club committee; remember, if everyone
did that, there would be no club next
year. So, take the initiative and go for it;
even if someone else is standing for the
post you want, don't let that put you off,
the members of your club deserve the
opportunity to choose the best candidate.
If you've already been on your club's
committee, perhaps you'd like to take it a
stage further and help run all the clubs in
your CSC. You could go for Athletics
Clubs Committee Chair, Overseas
Students Committee Secretary, Arts and
Entertainments Board Treasurer, to name
but three posts. A n y student is able to
stand for any post on a CSC Executive,
you don't have to have experience run-
ning a club, but it helps. These posts are
more demanding, but you get the satis-
faction of helping a broader range of peo-
ple, and the knowledge that comes from
working more closely with experienced
Union staff, as well as the Sabbatical
Officers. Without dedicated individuals
putting themselves forward for these
positions, the Union quite simply could
not operate as it does. So give it a go, put
your heart into it, and the rewards will be
yours at the end.
Rob Davenport
Deputy President of Clubs and Societies
President Speaks
Elections
It is that time of year, and election fever
will soon grip us. The first major elections
are for Sabbatical Officers. These officers
take a year out from their studies and get
paid to run the Union for one year. There
are four Sabbatical Officers: President,
Deputy President (Finance and Services),
Deputy President (Clubs and Societies)
and Deputy President (Education and
Welfare), and one who is not an officer of
the Union: Felix Editor. They are charged
with the day-to-day running of the Union
and will have a big impact on the facili-
ties, services and support that are provid-
ed to you. There is of course an opportu-
nity to come along and question the can-
didates at hustings. Keep your eye on the
publicity (posters around College and
adverts in Felix) for more information.
Summer Ball
Most of you should be aware that the
Summer Ball is now back on. The College
has kindly donated a large amount of cash
to support the Ball. The Summer Ball is
the biggest and most expensive event
hosted at Imperial College and we hope
to build on the success on last year's
event. The event features live acts on
stage on the Queens Lawn, cocktail bar,
casino, fairground rides, obligatory rooms
with cheese and dance music and much
more. The best thing is that it is a student
lead event and you have the chance to
contribute. So if you are interested in get-
ting involved just get in touch with me
(president@ic.ac.uk).
Freshers
One of the hottest topics at the moment
is the welcome that is afforded to freshers
arriving at the College. A s most of you
found out "Freshers Week" is not quite'a
week. Indeed some of you might have had
lectures starting on the first Wednesday
of term. Due to the heavy work load and
highly loaded timetables, there is very lit-
tle flexibility to allow for these induction
activities. I am campaigning to try and
remove formal lectures from the first
week. I believe it is important to have a
full and considered welcome which could
help students settle better into the
College life.
One group of students where the wel-
come is especially important is
International Students. Imperial College
has one of the highest proportion of inter-
national students to be found at any
University and they can face especially
acute problems coming to study here.
Many come from a completely different
culture and it can take time to adapt to
life in London.
I have started a consultation process
with students to find out what would
help. Ideas include allowing International
Students to move in halls a day or two
earlier and bus service to pick freshers up
from major London airports. If you have
any views or suggestions on the matter
please get in touch with me.
Sen Ganesh
President, Imperial College Union

