[TETTERS
Letters
To: Aidon Jennery-Broadsheet Editor
Dear Aidon,
I write with regard to the 'Vicious
Rumours and Dirty Lies' column in issue 13
of Broadsheet, especially the references to
Lee Standley. The author, who can only sign
himself ' X ' (further evidence that RCSU
hacks are ESN?), claims that 'Even Gluids
(sic) don't particularly like him...and asource
close to Gluids (sic) Office tells me that they
actually regard him as a complete shit-bag.'
B O L L O C K S ! I suppose that your 'source'
also told you that the earth was flat, Simon
Banton is Samantha Fox in disguise and that
the Rector works part-time in Gloucester
Road Kentucky Fried Chicken. As far as I
could make out, there was not one iota of
even half-truth in your little story. A n d all
this from a column which in issue 12
questioned the accuracy of F E L I X ' s
reporting!
Lee is one of the most pleasant blokes that
I have been privileged to meet in my short
time at College, and any suggestions to the
contrary merely serve to portray R C S U as a
collection of lying illegitimates, as well as
being grossly insulting both to Lee and to
Guilds Union. It is a shame that R C S U ,
which on an individual basis contains so
many decent people, is seen once again to
reduce the C C U system to one of childish
bitching.
Your readership may not be aware of the
great help that C & G U has been in the
technical side ot the last few (where few is at
least four) issues of Broadsheet. Not only
have we lent stencils and reams of paper (of
which ten of the former and five stencil
cutters) b a s i c a l l y , w i t h o u t C & G U
B r o a d s h e e t w o u l d have had very
considerable (if not infinite) problems in
appearing. Whilst I do not mind Broadsheet
poking jibes at Guilds Union, this final
incident has gone beyond the pale; we do not
wish to assist you in making libellous
statements about us and our friends, and
henceforth the use of our equipment is no
longer open to RCUS—after all, would you
supply the bullets for people to shoot you
with.
There are, however, two stencils which we
will readily cut for you; the first is one
featuring this letter (undoctored and
unedited), and the second a letter of
unconditional apology for the insulting
remarks, signed by the true author of the
column. These would be printed by you or
your successor in the next issue of
Broadsheet. Perhaps then we could review
the situation. If there is any integrity and guts
in R C S U (which seems to be doubtful), you
will take us up on this.
Yours sincerely,
Adrian Johnson
Guilds Union Duplicating Officer 1984-86
Dear All,
It has been brought to my attention that an
article in last week's Broadsheet has annoyed
one of its readers.
The article in question is 'Vicious Rumours
and Dirty Lies', a scandal and gossip column
whose first appearance was prefaced by the
disclaimer: 'Warning, anything contained
within this column is likely to be:-
a Totally Untrue
b Totally Warped
c Very, very T R U E ! '
So you can see it is meant as a light-hearted
piss take column. However, the paragraph
which criticizes third year Mathetician Lee
Stanley, who has been driving (dangerously)
for Gluids Mascotry for a long while, and
which advocates the awarding of a ' U G A
(Ugly Git Award) or at least Anti-social
colours' apparently caused M r Stanley some
discomfort.
The paragraph also mentions that Guilds'
Hit Squad flanned him eight times at the Beer
Festival and that a 'source close to the Guilds
Office tells me that they actually regard him
as a complete shit-bag'—this source was a
RCS man who happened to be standing in the
Mech Eng foyer at the time.
A popular RCS Bar song does contain the
two lines:
'S is for Stanley, just see the next line and T is
for Traitor, yes that'll do fine.'
And yes, the RCS Mascotry Team have
unanimously voted him 'Absolute Bastard of
the Year 1985',
I list these points to show the nature of the
paragraph in question which M r Stanley has
said is all lies and plans to 'take the matter
further' if an apology is not forthcoming in
this F E L I X . A l l the information above is
factually correct, if a little vicious in its
delivery.
In fact the only line which may contain a lie
is:
'If anyone sees his car, twist the wing mirrors
round the wrong way, that really pisses him
off
—Perhaps it really W O U L D N ' T piss him off,
who can tell??
Anyway, from the bottom of my heart I
would like to say I'm very, very, sorry to have
described you in the way that I did and I
would ask everyone to ignore the fact that
you have deserted your own C C U in favour
of another, and to judge you on your own
merits—like attempting to run over six RCS
men who were standing in the road to block
your car after the Maths Dinner, one of
whom you injured quite badly, when you
were trying to steal Theta.
I wish you every success in your degree
exams, that you get a good job and are able to
leave College as soon as possible.
Yours,
The apolegetic sincere, git
X
More than thirty years ago Victor Mooney
came to Imperial College as Refectory
Manager. His retirement today marks the
end of an era.
Ever since his arrival Mooney has been the
butt of student humour. Generation after
generation have hurled a barrage of
complaints and abuse at the man and at his
staff. As his 'empire' has grown the criticisms
have become more severe and more
numerous. To the detached observer it would
appear that Mooney is a genial buffoon who
listened to complaints and brushed them
aside with always the same tired, old excuses.
It seems incredible to me, that a man can
stay in the same job for thirty years when he is
continually being criticized for doing a bad
job.
Ever since the 1960s, Mooney has always
b^en on the defensive. There have been no
really new initiatives—any changes have
been reponses to criticism after the event. His
management style has been more suited to a
corner shop than to a vast refectory
system—the man is still living in the 1950s.
His successor M r Northey must be full of
bright new initiatives and changes if he is to
have success.
Despite M r Mooney's detractors, chief
among whom has been F E L I X , let it be said
now that he is really a very nice chap. The
loyalty and respect that his staff have for him
is enormous. He is a man of remarkable
character. He is truly the last of the old
school, and the place just won't be the same
without him.
Goodbye, M r Mooney, and Good Luck.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit. Imperial College. Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe. Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
2 Friday 31 May 1985 FEUX

