•TITERS:
Academic
Affair
Dear Sir,
I am writing in response to the article Peter
Klemperer wrote in F E L I X number 705
(Friday 24 May). Much of what Peter says is
true, and I support him, however there are a
few points which I must object to:
1 He implies that science alone is central to
technological bargaining power and
economic effectiveness, omitting that science
(ie knowledge) alone is not as central as the
engineering for wealth which is a skill. It is
engineering skill, applying scientific
knowledge, which underpins our nation's
technological developments. Skilled
management is also very important to our
economy.
2 While I agree with the purpose of the
NUS campaign to augment the role of Higher
Education as the nation pulls out of the
recession, I feel that our responsibility as
A A O s in Imperial College should be to
defend the interests of the students we
represent—so that the nation is not starved of
the engineers, managers and scientists needed
to pull the economy out of decline.
3The A A O s in IC are not there to
communicate with the N U S at all, in my
opinion, for two distinct reasons; I C U is not a
member of the NUS, this being a decision of
the student body here. Why does Peter seek
to act as a N U S rep to IC—he should
recognise the views of the students and seek
to work within that framework.
The A A O primary function while I have
been C & G A A O this year has been almost
exclusively within IC—on College and Union
committees. Although I have attended
meetings of U L U General Union Council, I
feel that the relationship between I C U and
U L U and beyond is the responsibility of the
External Affairs Officer and Committee. I
sincerely hope Peter is not distracted from his
role within IC during the coming year.
Yours,
Luke Walker
C&G AAO 1984-86
Rucksack Soc
Dear Sir,
In last week's editorial, you mentioned
that the Union has achieved quite a lot this
year. Yet we still have to capture the students'
faith.
Let me explain—last week you received a
petition from some Computing students. It
resulted from courses being stopped
following discussion at a staff-student
meeting on Friday 10 May. A meeting to
which the Guilds A A O , Luke Walker, was
not invited. This year's Computing Dep Rep
saw, and spoke, to Luke, and I on the
following Monday at Council. Despite
having signed the petition, he didn't mention
the problem (obviously engrossed in the
colourful conversation!). The matter was
raised at Guilds A A meeting on Tuesday,
where it was decided that it was in hand. And
yet, we have the petition still handed into
FELIX—not the Union, not to an Academic
Affairs Officer, but to FELIX??
Thankfully, having chased up Luke, and
the petition organiser, I now understand the
situation. By why didn't the Computing
students bring the problem to me, Luke or
even Ian? A m I using the wrong deoderant?
Yours, upset and mystified
Graham Thorpe
Academic Affairs Officer
Dear Sir,
I have just put down a bible after looking
up the references in M Hayes' letter printed
last week. I was interested to see which bits
he/she had pulled out. You see, I too have a
hope! I hope for a world where we can
dispense with Politics with a big P, and
Religion with a big R. For to me, they are
both obnoxious, because both stand in the
way of true world peace. I am sure M Hayes
abhors racism, but how much of it is due to
sectarianism instead of skin colour? Did we
not have proof of this recently in F E L I X ,
with those Israeli/Lebanese letters.
Please, M Hayes, and other like him/her,
let us dispense with any Religious
superstition and mysticism. Instead let us use
our human resources and compassion to
solve the real problems of the world.
Yours,
G Thorpe
Metal 3
Hamlet
Dear Sir,
Here are some points which we think may
be of interest to prospective residents of
Hamlet Gardens and possibly other places.
They are the result of a six-month farce over a
leaking roof:
•The legal status as regards repairs to Head
Tenancies is that unless repairs are affected
within a 'reasonable period', tenants are
entitled to compensation under Section 32 of
the 1961 Housing act. The nature and extent
of compensation is, of course , a matter for
discussion with the landlord, ie College.
College is responsible for all repairs and the
excuse that they're doing all they can is
unacceptable even though they don't carry
out repairs themselves. It is worth getting as
much down in writing as possible—if you're
not paying your rent for some reason, then
write and tell them why.
•The system of reporting faults to Student
Managers cannot be relied upon to get
repairs done promptly. For example, four
months of reporting a leaking roof using this
system had absolutely no effect.
•Reporting your problem direct to Student
Services is much more effective—they will
usually ring the owner of the flats (who is
supposed to do repairs) and will also be
threatening if you're lucky. With the help of
Student Services we were able to get a rent
reduction of about £230 each.
• The H a m m e r s m i t h a n d F u l h a m
Community Law Centre, 106-108 King
Street, W6, will give free advice on all sorts of
legal matters, especially housing. Law
Centres like this one are a valuable asset to
students who are having problems with
housing.
Hopefully this information will be useful
to someone. There is often a temptation to
give up in cases like this, but persistent
nagging usually has some effect eventually.
Yours faithfully,
Neil Weightman
Miles Turner
Physics 2
fofoo'l To
4 Friday 31 May 1985 FEUX

