BIOMECHANICS
Damage to human joints can occur in a number of ways
involving disease, trauma, or accumulated damage arising
from normal activity. Osteoarthritis is a typical example of
the latter process and for some people it can lead to joints
becoming 'worn-out'. At this stage cartilage has been
eroded from opposing surfaces of the joints allowing bone
ends to rub together painfully. The development of artificial
joints that are capable of relieving pain and restoring
function in such areas forms the major research
programme in the Biomechanics Section. Most of the work
is being carried out at the request of orthopaedic surgeons,
and involves close collaboration with them at all stages.
One current project, which is headed by Dr Amis, has
led to the development of a replacement elbow joint and
the surgical instruments that are needed to fit it. Clinical
trials on this joint are showing good short term results for
the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. The photograph
shows the components that make up the joint, and the two
radiographs show the side and front view of a joint two-
and-a-half years after replacement. In the past Professor
Swanson has produced a number of implants which include
a knee and a hip joint.
When designing the components it is important that they
can be fixed reliably to the ends of the bones, and can
withstand constant use without loosening, as it is possible
that they might have to function in this hostile environment
for thirty years or more. The prototypes, which are
generally made of stainless steel or titanium alloys, are
initially used in small scale human clinical trials. It may be
several years before problems appear, and it is generally at
least five years before the artificial joints are widely
available. During the clinical trials close work with the
surgeons is necessary to appreciate the modifications that
are needed.
When implants fail it is important to know why so that
the design can be improved. One of the major ways to
make them more reliable is to improve the materials so
that fatigue failure or wearing out is less likely. PArt of the
Section's work involves looking at failed implants to try and
discover why they fail, and the facilities available include
materials testing machines.
The research activities of the Biomechanics Section are
not limited to work on aritificial joints, but cover a number
of areas. For instance, they are involved in fundamental
biological research to try to understand how natural joints
work and how breakdown occurs with the onset of
arthritis. Other study areas include fixation devices for
fractured bones, artificial ligaments for use after knee
injuries, and artificial tendons for use after hand injuries.
There are also a number of Mechanical Engineering
undergraduates who are working on Biomechanics
projects. They are looking at a number of interesting topics
such as implants to treat leg fractures, the contact presures
experienced on bones at the elbow joint, possible use of
carbon fibre and terylene fibre for artificial knee ligaments,
and the design of a hand splint to be used when tendons
become damaged.
Ailments such as arthritis cause a great deal of suffering
for a large number of people, and the research in the
Biomechanics Section is making a valuable contribution
towards solving this problem.
W h e n h u m a n j o i n t s
become damaged it c a n
cause severe pain for the
sufferer. T h e B i o m e c h -
a n i c s S e c t i o n of t h e
Mechanical Engineering
Department are develop-
ing artificial joints that will
relieve pain and restore
some use to the affected
parts.
FELIX Friday 31 May 1985

