CFEATURE:
Management Science
—thirty years on
On Wednesday 15 May the Management
Science Department held an Open Evening
to celebrate thirty years of Management
Science at Imperial College. Over 250 people
attended this function, staff and students,
past and present, and friends from College
and industry. Professor Samuel Eiloi, who
was one of the original lecturers in 1955,
welcomed the guests and spoke briefly about
the progress of Management Science at IC
over the past 30 years. Examples of the
department's present work were displayed.
Everybody enjoyed the evening. Over 80
past students attended, some from as far
back as 1961. This gave the present students
an opportunity to find out more about
possible careers available to them and gave
the staff a chance to indulge in reminiscences
about classes of students long gone.
The department was formed in 1971 with
Samuel Eiloi as its head. Before that it existed
as the Management Engineering Section in
the Department of Mechanical Engineering.
When the postgraduate course was first
instituted in 1955 with two members of staff
and four students it was regarded as an
intriguing though somewhat risky
experiment, which few thought would
survive, let alone grow into one of the largest
courses of its kind in the country. There were
no business schools in those days, and
management education in the university
sector was rather sparse and quite
insignificant. Courses in general
management, or in a particular function of
management, were available in non-
university institutions, but the general ethos
was that you acquire your managerial
knowledge and skill on the job.
In the Mechanical Engineering
Department at Imperial College it was
realised early on that for engineers to be
effective in industry, technical knowledge
and expertise was not enough. They needed
to know what it costs to convert a design into
a marketable product, how to evaluate
market potential, how to ensure the financial
viability of their enterprise or a particular
venture, how to handle superiors and
subordinates; in short, engineers need
managerial skills and know how. Most
engineering institutions have long included
these requirements as a necessary
component of the professional qualifications
of their members, and at the beginning of the
1950s the College started exploring ways in
which engineering students could satisfy the
professional institutions in this respect.
The first move in this direction came as a
result of an agreement between the College
and LSE, whereby third year engineering
students could go to LSE every week for two
terms, largely to attend courses in
economics, accounting and the structure of
industry. Later, a set of lectures was
instituted in the College on production
management with special reference to
manufacturing industry, there by marking
the beginning of the service teaching activity
provided by Management Science staff. This
service teaching now constitutes an
important component of the wide range of
activities of the department, involving
hundreds of undergraduate students in
science and engineering, particularly in the
areas of managerial economics, accounting
and finance, production management, and
operational research. In addition, the
department has a modest number of
students on joint honours courses, where
students devote their third year to the study
of a wide range of subjects in Management
Science. Unfortunately, this course will be
terminated soon, an indirect casualty of the
government cutbacks in education. Both
staff and students regret the decision.
Research and the MSc in Management
Science have always been the mainstay of
the department's work. There are over 100
MSc students this year, a far cry from the
tentative beginning of four students in 1955.
This is no longer a risky experiment, but a
robust activity with a proven track record.
The lecturing staff now number over 20.
Over the 30 years there have been over
1250 graduates of the Department. Surveys
of past students and feedback indicate that
they have greatly benefited from their spell in
the Department both intellectually and in
their career development. It is also
encouraging to see the diversity of careers
followed. While some have gone into
Operational Research and Management
Services Departments in industry and
commerce, there has been a distinct trend in
recent years for our students to go into other
functions of mangement, covering the whole
spectrum of careers, showing clearly that
many of our past students are not content to
advise decision makers but have aspirations
to become decision makers themselves.
Five years ago it was proposed to set up an
alumni association using the results obtained
from the surveys of past students.
Unfortunately those plans had to be shelved
due to the severe financial cutbacks all UK
universities have experienced. A restriction
on manpower and other resources meant
that all effort was concentrated on teaching
and research. Today we find ourselves in a
reasonably stable position. More positive
steps are now being taken to establish an
alumni association. As well as the central
body in the UK, there will be branches
scattered world-wide. Plans are progressing
to set up branches in Singapore, Malaysia,
Hong Kong and Cyprus.
The variety of research undertaken in
recent years is a clear indication of the
widening base of the department, which a
decade ago was in the main known for its
interest in the production planning and
inventory control fields. These areas
continue to thrive with recent work in
scheduling and investigations into integrated
production-inventory systems. Other areas
have now come into prominence, such as
financial control and corporate planning,
distribution systems, foreign exchange
modelling, leasing, risk analysis, productivity
and profitability measurements, graph
theory and mathematical programming, the
development of approximate solutions to
queueing models, the use of simulation and
industrial dynamics, and the problems of
energy and resources.
The department has obviously grown and
expanded its activities in the last 30 years —
it is now looking towards to the challenge of
the next 30!
Prof Samuel Eilon, centre, greeting guests.
6 Friday 31 May 1985 FEUX

