Global Warming? Sounds good...
Sunshine
Director: Danny Boyle
Writer: Alex Garland
Cast: Cillian Murphy,
Michelle Yeoh,
Chris Evans
From the pen of Alex Garland
comes the spiritual successor
to the sleeper hit 28 Days Later
– Sunshine – a story of salvaging
humanity from a seemingly inexo-
rable extinction. As his first ma-
jor success raised the bar so high
for storytelling, the key question
regarding Sunshine is this: can it
breathe new life into the science-
fiction genre in the same way his
first did for the horror genre?
The story itself is unprecedented
in its topic: our Sun is reaching the
end of its life, and a scientific expedi-
tion is sent to the centre of the Solar
System in order to deliver a payload
that will – theoretically – reignite
the star. What follows appears to
be an amalgamation of all previous
science-fiction sub-genres, molding
action, suspense and horror into
two hours; in this sense it does not
at any point generate anything sur-
prising or unseen, but the Alex Gar-
land-scripted space opera exhibits
a distinct flair for dark storytelling
and emotive cinematography that
deserves to be applauded.
Surprisingly, the two hour time
slot does not allow for much char-
acter development, with the focus
being kept primarily on the pace of
the story and the atmosphere; de-
spite this slight disappointment, the
focus is clearly on the conditions
these astronauts are surrounded
by and, more importantly, the deci-
sions they have to make.
However, despite the lack of char-
acter development the audience is
still able to bond with each of the
crew members and their collective
journey to the Sun, which increas-
ingly looks like a one-way trip. When
tragedy begins to befall the charac-
ters, you cannot withhold your sor-
row as the excellent, emotive and
suitably surreal score kicks in; the
absolutely stunning and terribly
lifelike CGI effects engulfing the
characters at points like these are
beautiful to behold but at the same
time terrible to watch.
The predictably tragic yet endear-
ing storyline continually spirals out
of control and into an abyss of de-
spair until up to half of the screen
time is devoted to the psychologi-
cal breakdown of each of the crew
members; however, the film, despite
its darkness, is always injected with
optimism from time to time, usually
from a character’s revelations or
eventual course of action, leaving
the viewer with a spark of hope de-
spite the unfolding horrific events.
Whether it was by design or not,
by not having a great deal of in-
depth character introspection the
issue of survival is not focused on
the individual crew members but on
humanity itself, and several refer-
ences to our indigenous home world
and the importance of this mission
repeatedly, but by no means annoy-
ingly, reminds the audience of this
fact, and it pays off incredibly well.
The Sun is represented here as
the creator, the origin of all life on
Earth; whenever it is onscreen the
characters never see it as anything
less than the utmost hallowed of
universal presences, even if they
are staring death right in the eye.
At various points during the sci-
ence-fiction epic our scientists and
astronauts are frequently lost in its
bathing luminescence, and the CGI
is implemented so successfully that
Robert Andrews
the audience finds it hard to avert
their glare either.
The atmosphere generated by
the simply breathtaking effects, the
sweeping score and the excruciat-
ingly tense and minimalist use of
the sound effects would be nothing
without the superb cinematogra-
phy; innovative, often provoking
camera angles that only reveal part
of the scene to the audience and
continuous shots not unlike those
seen in the Oscar-winning thriller
Children of Men are perfect for
accumulating a nail-biting atmos-
phere, particularly during the ex-
tra-vehicular spacewalk scenes.
What Sunshine indubitably does
best is convince you throughout the
entirety of the story that you are
beside these astronauts, confined
within the gigantic but claustro-
phobic Icarus-II; not until the very
end, when the perspective is finally
removed from the Sun and focuses
on our very own Earth, does this ef-
fect really hit home, finally releas-
ing you from the self-incarcerating
conditions imposed by this domi-
nating vessel.
With a well-chosen cast, includ-
ing an unsettlingly-fearless Cillian
Murphy (28 Days Later, Batman
Begins) as the onboard Physicist,
and a welcome return to western
cinema for Hiroyuki Sanada (The
Last Samurai) as the expedition’s
righteous commander, this film ex-
udes quality, and despite the lacking
character depth, the atmosphere
alone is worth the viewing price.
Sunshine is a truly mesmerising
film, proving once again that direc-
tor Danny Boyle and scripter Alex
Garland are two bright stars in the
vast swathe of Hollywood hotshots.
Long may they survive.
Cillian Murphy ignores the age old advice not to look directly at the Sun. Or touch it
Scully finds there’s more than truth out there
Straightheads
Director: Dan Reed
Writer: Dan Reed
Cast: Gillian Anderson,
Danny Dyer
If you are partial to movies that fail
to fully answer the questions they
pose, where the main characters
are never fully developed and the
plot is a loose construction that
would collapse under the slightest
scrutiny, you are going to have a
whale of an 80mins watching Dan
Reed’s .Straightheads.
Starring the familiar (surely eve-
ryone at IC watches sci-fi?) Gillian
Anderson [The Last King of Scot-
land] as Alice and Danny Dyer [The
Football Factory] as Adam, this at-
mospheric and sexually charged
thriller describes a chance meet-
ing between two young lovers and
a posse of rugged men, intoxicated,
high and ready to mete out some
pain and suffering.
Adam and Alice meet while he is
installing her new alarm system.
They are a bit of a mismatch; she
is a confident, beautiful business-
woman, while he is a young Cock-
ney lad, unsure of himself and
painfully ready to follow her lead.
However, there is enough chem-
istry evident on-screen between
the two to ensure that they are not
wholly unconvincing as a couple.
After attending a lavish party in the
country, Adam and Alice speed off
through a desolate forest in the ear-
ly hours of the morning. They come
to a sudden, grinding halt when Al-
ice’s Benz wraps itself around an
unsuspecting deer/elk/mammal of
your choice. While Adam is outside
investigating the damage, a sinis-
ter looking Jeep pulls up and some
men disembark. Not that threaten-
ing, you’re thinking? Just wait…
Unfortunately for Adam and sub-
sequently Alice, these are the same
group of men who she earlier over-
took on the way to the party and
who Adam vociferously swore at. In
their present inebriated state, the
only thing on their mind is to beat
him to within an inch of his life.
This scene is not for the squeamish
and while Tarantino it is not, I still
found myself cringing with each
blow. Leaving Adam prone on the
ground, the men move on to Alice,
their lust for violence not yet sated.
If I told you that this scene is one of
the main reasons why an 18 certifi-
cate has been placed on this movie,
I am sure you can infer the invasive
manner in which they abuse her.
After this most horrific encounter,
the two drift through life together
aimlessly, unable to forget those
who left her with severe emotional
scarring and him with the use of
only one eye. How appropriate then,
that while Alice is visiting the rural
abode of her deceased father, she
glimpses a familiar face; it is Hef-
fer, one of the men who forced him-
self so cruelly upon her. When she
tells Adam, they conclude that they
must take some sort of revenge - an
eye for an eye, as it were.
The second half of the movie is
all about the tension and expect-
ancy, but will they be able to bring
themselves to commit brutality
that few understand like they do?.
The somewhat abrupt ending left
me relieved, rather than intrigued
or wanting more. Straightheads
never fully capitalises on its poten-
tial: too much is left unsaid and the
eroticism that pervades the whole
movie feels somewhat forced. The
link between violence and sex, ex-
cellently delineated in movies such
as Angel Heart and Leaving Las
Vegas, is never really made here
and one cannot help wondering
what the point of this whole exer-
cise was.
To conclude, I guess it was watch-
able, but you’re better braving Dav-
id Lynch’s Inland Empire.
Patrick Tumilty
Gillian fears her hair won’t cut it for the 100 Sexiest lists this year
20 felix Friday 16 March 2007
FILM film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This Easter, Danny Boyle will put science in the shade, and make the world crave those extra two degrees

