Steve Jones, professor of genetics
at UCL, says that most science is
part of the entertainment industry.
If a scientist can’t ‘sell’ the idea of
their research to the public, they
will struggle. This is certainly true
of Jones’s own research into the ge-
netics of snails, an esoteric subject
if ever there was one. But some sci-
ence has clear benefits and doesn’t
need to be sold. Medical research
has a surprising ability to enthuse
the public, judging by the number
of column inches devoted to it in
the broadsheet press. At least one
scientific paper a week offers an
ingenious new approach to tackling
an old disease. In recent months,
there have been a number of new
advances in diabetes research.
The two main forms of diabetes,
types 1 and 2, are life-long afflic-
tions characterised by high blood
sugar levels. Patients with type 1
diabetes are incapable of produc-
ing insulin, a hormone that controls
blood sugar levels, and must go
through the inconvenience of daily
insulin injections to remain healthy.
Insulin pills would provide a more
convenient method of replenish-
ing insulin levels but remain a pipe
dream; insulin breaks down when
exposed to stomach acid. But in
December 2006, a team of Chinese
scientists produced a working in-
sulin pill. Their work was published
in the journal Biomacromolecules.
The key discovery was that a natu-
ral component of shrimp cells could
survive in stomach acid. The scien-
tists fashioned tiny capsules from
that component and filled each
with insulin. The microscopic pills
were robust enough to survive in
the stomach of lab rats but small
enough to pass into the bloodstream
and lower the blood sugar levels of
the test animals. What works for
rats may work for humans in the
near future.
Of course, a better treatment for
The sweet, sweet smell of success?
A tantalising whiff, as various teams worldwide make headway in understanding and treating diabetes
type1diabeteswouldinvolverepair-
ing insulin production in the pan-
creas. Arguably the most impres-
sive recent research into this area
was announced in the journal Cell
in December. It has always been as-
sumed that diabetes is a disease of
the immune system, caused when
white blood cells attack the insu-
lin-producing cells in the pancreas.
A team of Canadian researchers
suggested a second possibility, that
diabetes is a disease of the nervous
system. They noticed abnormalities
in the pancreatic nerves of diabetic
mice. When the scientists removed
Colin Barras
the abnormal nerves, the mice im-
mediately began to produce insulin.
Healthy nerves produce a pancre-
atic neuropeptide that controls the
production of insulin, but abnormal
nerves produce too little of the neu-
ropeptide. The team found they
could also cure diabetic mice by
boosting the level of neuropeptide
through injections. And one injec-
tion can keep a mouse healthy for
months. In humans, the equivalent
injection could restore health to a
diabetic for several years.
These results suggest that type 1
diabetes may become less of an in-
convenience in the future. But what
of type 2 diabetes? This form of the
disease results from insulin resist-
ance, which leaves the body less
able to react to variations in blood
sugar levels. The disease is com-
mon in the overweight. As obesity
becomes more prevalent across the
western world, the instances of type
2 diabetes are on the rise.
Treating type 2 diabetes might be
as simple as encouraging the body
to release more insulin to counter-
balance insulin resistance. A joint
Chinese-USA research team pub-
lished a paper in PNAS in Janu-
ary working on this principal. They
found a molecule, called Boc5,
which encouraged rats and mice
to release more insulin and combat
the effects of type 2 diabetes.
Another approach is to identify
and neutralise the agents that help
build up insulin resistance. In a
study published in Cell Metabolism
last week, an American research
team discovered that the fat mole-
cule ceramide increases the risk of
insulin resistance in rats. A strain
of rats predisposed to develop type
2 diabetes ordinarily show signs of
disease after ten weeks. When the
scientists treated the rats with a
drug to stop ceramide production,
none of the rats developed insulin
resistance or diabetes.
But prevention is better than
cure. A team of Imperial research-
ers, working with colleagues in
France and Canada, made head-
lines last month by mapping the
genes which put people at risk of
developing type 2 diabetes. Their
research, published in Nature,
promises to allow the development
of a genetic test to identify those at
most risk of developing the disease
later in life. “It is very possible to
prevent diabetes even if your father
is diabetic, but it needs good ad-
vice and possibly medication,” said
Professor Philippe Froguel, a sen-
ior researcher on the project, via
email. The research also suggests
that the mutations which increase
the risk of type 2 diabetes were at
one point advantageous to human
health. “The theory says that these
genes were very beneficial when
we had little to eat and much to do
to find our food,” continued Profes-
sor Froguel. “These genes support
a thrifty metabolism increasing
fat storage, which is not good in a
situation of overeating and obesity.”
Further proof that type 2 diabetes is
very much a disease of the modern
world. Even so, advances in medi-
cal research may soon render it a
disease of the past.
A group of scientists from the Uni-
versity of North Carolina have found
a gene that increases the number
of sexual partners men will have by
80-100%. They also discovered this
‘horny’ gene will make teenagers
more likely to lose their virginity
at a younger age, and to gain more
pleasure from sex with a larger
number of partners. There is no
similar gene in females, statistically
likely to have fewer sexual partners
than men. The study, carried out at
the University of North Carolina,
used more than 2500 individuals in-
cluding siblings of both sexes. The
results were adjusted for a range
of socioeconomic factors, and same
results were found across differ-
ent ethnic groups. It was published
in the highly respected European
Journal of Human Genetics.
This pre-determined promiscu-
ous tendency, passed down from
your parents, is far more common
than the ‘faithful gene’ which leads
to fewer sexual partners and less
immediate pleasure from sex out-
side of a loving relationship.
Young adults have more sexual
partners than any other age group,
and those who sleep around will
have a significantly higher risk of
contracting STDs, including HIV.
With HIV cases worldwide rapidly
increasing, finding what drives
young people to sleep around is
vitally important to help curb the
spread of this deadly virus.
Evolutionary advantages for
men who had lots of sex include in-
creased fitness, as well as making
them more likely to pass on their
genes. Sex increases muscle tone
and aerobic fitness, both important
advantages in finding food and es-
caping predators. Women had no
fitness benefit attached to having
more sexual partners, while the
risk of them getting pregnant meant
they chose partners who would stay
and help with the burden of raising
children. Socially, it is far more ac-
ceptable for men to sleep around,
and encouraged in many societies
as proof of how manly that person
is – obscurely, also making them
more attractive to many women.
The gene involved is for a protein
involved with dopamine receptors,
the same receptors stimulated by
amphetamines, cocaine, and other
illegal and addictive drugs. It is
thought sex stimulates this recep-
tor more in men who have the gene,
acting as a ‘reward’ for deviant sex-
ual behaviour, making it addictive
– men with this gene quickly ‘learn’
to get this reward by seeking out
more sex.
It was found 9 out of 10 have this
gene, meaning many men may
use it as an excuse. The message
to women is clear: keep an eye on
your man – the urge to stray is in
his genes!
Men ‘designed’ to cheat
9 out of 10 men have a ‘horny’ gene that increases promiscuity
Lizzie Murdock
Youch – neuropeptide injections cured diabetic mice. But could human diabetics be injected elsewhere?
Would you trust this man?
4 felix Friday 16 March 2007
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

