Core blimey! Flipping magnetism!
Field reversals in a vat of molten sodium reproduce the irregular behaviour of the Earth’s magnetic field
One of the thornier problems in
understanding the Earth lies far
beneath its surface, in the core,
a region shrouded in mystery. As
MIT’s David J. Stevenson pointed
out in a somewhat off-the-wall let-
ter (about which more later) to
Nature in 2003, mankind has sent
space probes 6 billion kilometres
from Earth, yet the far greater en-
ergies involved travelling through
dense matter rather than a tenuous
vacuum partly explains why we’ve
only succeeded in drilling down to
10 km – barely scratching the sur-
face – to learn more about what lies
beneath our feet.
As a result, to understand the
processes which govern zones such
as the core, geophysicists rely on
a combination of remote sensing,
simulations, theory and guesswork.
Employing these, they infer that
Earth’s magnetic field originates
from motions of the molten iron
which makes up much of the core.
Dynamo theory aims to explain how
the motions of this electrically con-
ducting fluid can generate currents
and hence associated magnetic
fields, which interact with them-
selves in a complicated fashion,
resulting in a roughly dipolar field
for the Earth – as if it contained a
bar magnet. At present this is ori-
ented such that the Earth’s north
magnetic pole lies in the southern
hemisphere. This is why a com-
pass needle indicates north – op-
posite magnetic polarities attract
each other, so the compass needle,
a magnetic north pole, seeks out
the south pole of the Earth’s mag-
netic field, located (confusingly)
in the northern hemisphere, pres-
ently somewhere north of Canada’s
mainland.
To make matters worse, not only
is this location known as the Mag-
netic North Pole, but every couple
of hundred thousand years or so,
the Earth’s field reverses direction.
Evidence for this can be seen in
places like the Mid-Atlantic ridge:
as out-flowing magma cools, it
‘freezes’ the field direction at that
time into itself. Going from the ridge
centre outwards (from newer rock
to older), a succession of bands of
rocks containing oppositely direct-
ed magnetic fields are seen. From
this, it’s inferred the Earth’s field
has switched directions abruptly
many times in the past.
Computational simulations have
backed this up, but in a recent ar-
ticle in Europhysics Letters, follow-
ing up work reported in Physical
Review Letters in January, a team
from France’s ENS reports they’ve
been able to observe field reversals
in a physical simulation as well.
Berhanu et al filled a large cop-
per cylinder with 160 litres of liquid
sodium, chosen as it conducts elec-
tricity and has a low melting point
(98C). Using counter-rotating iron
paddles at each end of the cylinder
to generate a turbulent flow, the
Science: changing the public’s perception
Science: a series of cogs working
mechanistically and reductively; a
systematic study of the nature and
behaviour of the material universe,
based on observation, experiment,
and measurement; the formulation
of laws to describe these facts in
general terms. Can one conclude,
like Keats, that scientific under-
standing takes away the beauty of
the rainbow?
With the growing mistrust evident
in an unforgiving and frequently
sceptical society, some representa-
tions of science have become weak
and flawed. In this 21st century sci-
entific and technological advances
are perceived by some as a threat,
scientists merely working as ama-
teurs playing God, running all that
is natural off-course and directly
into the grave.
In this plagued vision, nanotech-
nology eats away at reality; robots
inherit the earth; genetic modifica-
tion defines ‘perfection’; diseases
are cured but not prevented; and
the powers of the scientific mind
have fallen deep into the shadows of
corruption. As the pessimism para-
site infects, disreputable scientists
in the public eye come to represent
a majority, scientific progress ap-
parently becoming the bane of our
existence.
In today’s world, science and so-
ciety meet in an arena that is ten-
tative, uncertain and sometimes
even hostile. It is therefore impor-
tant that the perception of science
is handled with care. If negative vi-
sions are to be associated with sci-
ence, will it ever flourish?
In order to change the tainted im-
age of science, one needs firstly to
understand that science is owned
not by scientists, but by society.
One must recognize that scientists,
as the ‘caretakers’ of science, not
the possessors, are only one link in
a social chain of politicians, econo-
mists and social planners jointly
deciding whether scientific prac-
tices are going to harm or benefit
society. The decaying foundations
of trust must also be rebuilt, with
scientists openly and modestly
addressing the taboos of science;
embracing the downfalls, the er-
rors, the missing links and most
importantly answering questions
of doubt. The journey that lies be-
tween research and eventual public
delivery of scientific discovery must
also be highlighted, marking the ob-
stacles placed by rigorous regulato-
ry practices. “To every action there
is an equal and opposite reaction”
– learning from the words of Isaac
Newton one must see that the mo-
mentum of science will always be
harnessed by forces of control.
With honest communication, ap-
propriate engagement, and dia-
logue, the relevance and positive
impacts of science in our everyday
lives can be demonstrated. The
golden promise of science can be
given the opportunity to shine.
In a vision of colour, scientists can
be valued as they dedicate their
lives to pioneering research on ne-
glected diseases of the developing
world. In the light of nanotechnol-
ogy (working with objects that are a
million times smaller than the milli-
metre), new electronic devices and
drug delivery systems are set to
transform medicine. With a poten-
tially revolutionary ability to repair
diseased and damaged body tissue,
stem cells may offer hope to those
affected by cancer, diabetes, Par-
kinson’s and Alzheimer’s disease.
In this brighter picture, explain-
ing something in a scientific way
does not diminish it but rather, like
learning of the complexity of our
brains, stimulates a fascination and
appreciation for our extraordinary
existence.
So let the cogs of cognition and
scientific discovery keep on turning.
Let the oceanographer venture into
team was able to generate a sta-
tistically stationary magnetic field
(i.e. centred around a well-defined
average value), as others have be-
fore them. The breakthrough came
when they investigated the effect
of altering the speeds at which the
paddles rotated. At certain values,
the resulting field reversed direc-
tion at irregular time intervals,
much as the Earth’s field does.
The resemblance extends further,
however, as the time taken for the
A “solid, ironical, rolling orb” or a dense, ductile and malleable
spheroid? Depends who’s looking. (Photo: J. Caldwell, Dublin 2005)
the uncharted 95% of our oceans;
let physicists continue to work with
electrons, positrons and mind-bog-
gling quarks in order to learn more
about the building blocks of our uni-
verse. As geneticists pore over the
three-billion-letter long genomes of
humans and mice, let us paint the
image of a science that searches
for a solution, solving rather than
creating the problem. Let the as-
tronomer search our skies for new
worlds, landing remote-control-
led vehicles on comets to excite
our curiosity. Let the geologists
tell the world of the 1,000-foot-tall
underwater volcano coloured with
microbial life. Let us support the
environmentalist and their efforts
to save the ozone layer. Let the
archaeologist illuminate Ancient
Egyptian manuscripts using NASA
imaging technology in an attempt
to make greater sense of our civili-
zation. Let us interpret more effec-
tively the true meaning of science
and the scientist.
If our scientists and society can
hand-in-hand nurture science, ad-
dressing as a priority the challeng-
es and controversial moral, ethical
and social issues, then the vision
of science can undergo a transfor-
mation. Rather than a machine of
deception and destruction, science
can be perceived as a remarkable
system of dynamics, sensitively
working in order and motion to
explore the Universe around us.
Scientists and communicators can
awake the beauty of science, inspir-
ing us all.
Jenna Caldwell
Science is
owned not by
scientists, but by
society
experimental field to reverse direc-
tion was always much shorter than
the time the field spent in a par-
ticular orientation. Again, this re-
produces behaviour seen at Earth:
reversals take place over hundreds
or thousands of years, but on aver-
age stay in a particular configura-
tion for several hundred thousand
years, as mentioned above. Overall,
these similarities, and others not
discussed here such as excursion-
like signatures, suggest this experi-
ment provides a good model for the
Earth’s core.
Shedding light on this remote
region may well require getting
hands dirty with experimental in-
vestigations such as this. However,
there’s a limit – the aforementioned
Stevenson’s call-to-arms, as some
readers may recall, proposed driv-
ing sensors down cracks generated
by vast quantities of iron, melted by
an atom bomb. A vat of molten so-
dium suddenly seems a lot tamer.
Age of the Earth’s ocean-floor crust, red is young. As new rock cools, it records the magnetic field at the
time. Transects across the Mid-Atlantic ridge reveal the history of the Earth’s field, and show it reverses
Edmund Henley
Science Editor
5
felix
Friday 16 March 2007
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk

