unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Council Elections 2007
for more info: imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Voting for Council Elections 2007 is now open.
Voting closes 20th March at 23:59.
In the advice centre our most popular area of enquiry
is about housing rights and within this by far the
most popular enquiry is that your landlord has kept
your deposit unfairly and how can you get it back? So
we build up an argument and in some cases this may
go to the small claims court.
Over the past couple of years the government
have been looking at private housing and the next
development in this is the Tenancy Deposit scheme,
basically what this means is that any one moving
into a private house or ﬂat and signs an assured
shorthold tenancy, has their security deposit put into
an approved government scheme by the landlord.
If a landlord chooses not to do this and is reported
then it is possible that the tenant could be awarded 3
times the amount of deposit they have paid, so what
does all this mean for the average private student
tenant? Well hopefully this article will answer some
of your questions.
Landlords will be able to choose from two types of
scheme,oneisasinglecustodialschemethisiswhere
the landlord would pay the deposit into the scheme
handing the full amount over to the scheme.
At the end of the tenancy and if both parties agree
to the amount of money being paid back, then the
scheme will pay back the agreed amount to the
tenant, if there is a disagreement the a dispute
resolution service will step in at no extra cost to solve
the disagreement.
The second type of scheme is an insurance based
scheme, where the tenant would pay a security
deposit to the landlord but in this instance the
landlord retains the deposit and pays a premium to
the scheme.
If there is a dispute the landlord will legally have to
hand over the full deposit to the scheme until the
situation is resolved, if the landlord doesnʼt comply
and a decision is made in favour of the tenant, then
the insurance payments cover this.
These schemes are all run by private companies
but the key diﬀerence from the way deposits were
held before is that there is an independent dispute
resolution service in the past, it could take weeks of
arguing with a landlord then eventually it may get to
the small claims court, this could often be costly and
intimidating for a student to initiate, this way there is
no need to take it to the small claims court.
Of course it is likely that there will be a few teething
problems with the scheme in the ﬁrst few months
so the Information And Advice Centre has drawn up
some important points to remember when signing
an assured shorthold tenancy after 6th April 2007:
1. Insist on your landlord drawing up an inventory,
this is a piece of paper which will have the condition
of everything in the property on the date you move
in, this will make it easier to decide the condition of
furniture and the like when you move out.
2. When you move into the property take pictures of
anything that you think may cause a problem when
you move out of the property, try and ensure you
can get these dated somehow, so for example if the
landlord says there is a stain on your carpet take a
picture of this to avoid getting charged when you
move out.
3. Ensure that your landlord is part of the scheme
and donʼt take any excuses or explanations as to
why they are not, if you have questions or are not
sure whether your landlord should be part of the
scheme please contact the Information and Advice
Centre.
4. In the scheme when the landlord and tenant are
agreed on the amount to be paid to the tenant, this
must be paid back within 10 days, this is the same if
there is a dispute and a decision has been made .If
a landlord fails to comply with this rule then further
action can be taken.
5. Any assured shorthold tenancy that is signed
before April 6th 2007, the tenancy deposit scheme
will not apply it is only those assured shorthold
tenancies that are signed after this date that will be
part of the scheme.
This scheme is a
massive change
to the way that
landlords used
to conduct their
business in the
past. The scheme
may be able to
have a massive
impact on students
as tenants, however
this will mean
nothing if students
are not aware of the
scheme so I would
ask anyone reading
this to pass the
word on or show
people this article.
As an advice centre we will be distributing some
promotional materials on campus over the next
couple of weeks, NUS will also be helping us by
providing promotional materials, so help the student
community by spreading the word!
Obviously there is a wealth of information on this
subject and in this article I have tried to give you a
brief introduction to the tenancy deposit scheme, if
you have any further questions regarding this article
please do not hesitate to contact The Information
and Advice Centre
Moving into private housing after April 6th? Read this!
Nigel Cooke
Student Adviser
advice@imperial.ac.uk
020 7594 8067
imperialcollegeunion.org/advice
This week the Union Council passed a radical
environmental policy that calls for the Union to
reduce the waste it sends to landﬁll by 50% by 2010
and to reduce its carbon emissions by 60% by 2009.
This policy came about following an overwhelmingly
positive response to an environmental petition that
was signed by over 1300 students during Green
Week.Giventhatwehaveneverhadanenvironmental
policy before, I think this is a bold and positive step
forward. In the long run we aspire to achieve carbon
neutral status by 2012 – but ﬁrst we need to focus
on the basics.
We aim to achieve these ambitious targets by
implementing the following operational policies:
1. Reduce our waste by using reusable crockery and
cutlery instead of disposable crockery and cutlery in
our catering outlets;
2. Reuse our waste by using reusable glasses and
multi-use skiﬀs;
3. Recycle and compost as much waste as possible
and ensure that recycled waste is sorted into the
correct bins;
4. Procure products that have a high recycled content
where practicable;
5. Reduce our water consumption through installing
simple devices in existing appliances that use water;
6. Reduce energy use by maximising building energy
performance in the Beit Building Masterplan;
7. Reduce energy wastage by improved building
management(i.e.byturningoﬀlightsandcomputers
in the evening, turning down radiators in unused
rooms, and so on).
8. Substitute carbon-emitting energy for renewable
energy by lobbying the College to use energy
supplies from a low-carbon source.
9. Support and where feasible, pursue proposals for
the installation of onsite renewable energy and zero-
carbon technology
on College
Buildings.
10. Reduce
the Unionʼs
dependency on
air travel to certain
destinations (as
detailed in the
new Unionʼs Tours
Policy) by not
subsidizing short-
haul ﬂights.
Obviously we will
not be able to implement these policies all at once
so please give us a few months grace to bring in
these changes over time. However, the Union can
only do so much and every member of the College
community has a role to play in helping reduce our
carbon footprint, waste and water consumption.
Last week representatives from the Union and the
Environmental society met with the head of facilities
management, Nick Roalfe, to discuss the Collegeʼs
energy and waste strategy. What emerged from this
discussion is that plans and policies and in place or
are being developed, but many are simply not being
enforced. So, if you know of a building that turns
the heat on full on a hot, sunny day then please tell
us (the Union) or the College and we can advise the
appropriate manager to take action. By taking simple
measures like this, I am optimistic that we can make
an impact that I hope will inspire others to do the
same.
This leaves me to wish to a relaxing, green Easter
holiday and best of luck with your revision!
President’s Update
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Any student at Imperial who has spent the summer
termrevisingintheCentralLibrarywillbeabletorelate
agrimtaleofovercrowdeddesks,unhygienicstudents
and, most importantly, soaring temperatures. The
library is a mix of 1960s concrete and 1990s glass
– creating a building which has the same eﬀect as a
green house with no ventilation. While this may be
bearableinthewintermonths,assummerapproaches
and temperatures rise and working conditions
plummet.
This situation is long standing, and not particularly
easy to solve. The library already has specialist glass
and window blinds ﬁtted,designed to reduce solar
gain, but this simply isnʼt enough. Luckily for students
action is being taken to change this – the library is
undergoing a facelift. You wonʼt have been able to
avoid the work carried out in the library last term. This
involved relocating the humanities department, but
more importantly improving the ventilation provided
to ﬂoors 4 and 5. This was the ﬁrst phase of a series
of works to dramatically improve the library, with
the second phase (due to start this summer) even
more ambitious – a complete reﬁt of the ground
ﬂoor to provide modern, ﬂexible study space and
the installation of solar shading on ﬂoors 4 and 5 to
further reduce the soaring temperatures. More details
are available at www.imperial.ac.uk/library.
Unfortunatelythereisbadnews.Localresidentsobjected
to the original proposal, or more speciﬁcally the solar
shading. Apparently the shading was ʻtoo denseʼ and
it marred the building by obstructing the windows on
the 4th and 5th ﬂoor (of course the residents objected
whenthisextensionwasbuilt).Youmaythinkthatthis
isnʼt enough to stop a planning application, but you
would be wrong. As a result of this the College was
forced re-submit the planning application without
the solar shading. Although a separate application
for revised solar
shading will go in,
this is a real shame
for students as it
means another
summerofblistering
temperatures.
This should have
been the end to
this sorry saga. But
no, residents are
objecting to the
revised application
on grounds
which can best be
described as petty. Issues like the precise appearance
of a plant room which can be viewed by a handful of
peopleattherearofAlexandraCourt.Isthisreallythat
important?Thereisarealdangerthattheseobjections
could put oﬀ the library redevelopment completely,
leaving students in an untenable situation. We need to
make sure this doesnʼt happen.
What can I do?
Right now the best thing you can do is to support
the Collegeʼs planning application (ref no. 06/0743/
FULL). You can do this online at www.westminster.
gov.uk/environment/planning/, or by sending a letter
to the planning department. The Union has prepared
a draft letter which you can ﬁnd online at www.
imperialcollegeunion.org/library,alongwithfulldetails
of the campaign for a cooler library. If you live within
the City of Westminster you may also want to write
to your local Councillor, raising your concerns with
them. You can ﬁnd their details at www.westminster.
gov.uk/councilgovernmentanddemocracy/. If you
need any more information please donʼt hesitate to
get in touch with me.
KeepingtheLibraryCool
Ben Harris
Deputy President
Education & Welfare
dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Last Chance for “Early Bird” Summer Ball Tickets
This yearʼs Summer Ball is a special one, it is the Imperial College
London Centenary Ball and will be our biggest and best yet. Tickets
have been on sale for a few weeks now at a discounted “Early Bird”
rate, however this special oﬀer will end very soon, so donʼt miss out.
Prices will be rising by £5 per ticket.
for more info: imperialcollegeunion.org/ball

