THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 35
28.11.2014
FELIX
CANCER
VIRGO
Thisweek,youaretheFelix
Editorandhavetowritethe
horoscopesavoidinganyFelix
in-jokesduetoallthosethat
complainedaboutthein-jokes.
Nowyouareanin-joketoo,how
fuckingmetaisthis.Westill
thinkyouareawanker,youtry
writingthesefuckingthings
everyweek.
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
GOON,YOUFUCKING
WRITETHESETHINGS,
LIKELITERALLYCOMETO
THEOFFICEANDGIVEME
50HILARIOUSWORDSOF
DEPTHANDMEANING
TWELVETIMESOVERLIKE
IBETYOUBLOODYCANT
EITHER
Thisweekyouhavetocalmthe
Felixeditorwithsomesedatives
asshehasabreakdowntrying
towritethehoroscopessonear
tothedeadline.Asshelullsinto
unconsciousnessonthefloorof
theoffice,yousecretlychange
thetitleofFelixto“TheLibrary
CaféMagazine.”No-onenotices
thedifference.
This week you are so hungover
you puke right in the middle
of the library. However, being
Imperial, no-one bothers to
look up, someone absent-
mindedly shushes you and
you simply return to your seat,
pale and dazed. Better crack
on with that problem sheet, it
won’t do itself.
ThisweekyoutakeanapinEEE.
Youwakeupandfindsomeone
hasuploadedapictureofyou
nappingtofacebook.Aroused
bythevoyeurismofitall,you
browsethroughthesitegetting
hard.Youwakeagain;itwasa
dreamwithinadreamandnow
someonehasuploadedaphotoof
younappingwithaboner.
Thisweek,ontheadvicefroma
friend,youtrytocheatonatest
bywritingyournotesonyour
dick.Sadly,thetestisonline,
andnotonlythat,wasplagued
bysomanytechnicaldifficulties
thatitgetscancelledanyway.
Youwipetheinkoffyourshaft
ofknowledgedejectedly;maybe
nexttimeeh.
ThisweekyouarestillDPW.You
decidetoaskanolderwoman
outonadate–toReynolds.
Asyousiponamidoribomb
together,yourdateiscrashedby
fournakedmedics.Youwatchin
sadnessastheyenthusiastically
leadyourdateaway,whoseems
justashappytojointhem.Don’t
besad,thereareplentymore
swipestobemadeontinder.
Thisweekyoudoyourfirstall-
nighterinthelibrary.Youspend
sevenhours“prepping”yourself
mentally,threereadjusting
yourseatandtwomoaningon
facebooktofriendsabouthaving
topullanall-nighter.Youcram
allyourworkinbetween5am
until8am,butyoucrashoutas
yourworkprintsandmissthe
deadlineentirely.
Thisweekyoudecidethatyouare
sojealousofallthestudentsthat
getreadingweeksthatyoudecide
totakethisweekoff.Aftermissing
allyourlectures,theheadofyour
departmentcallsyouintotheir
officetotellyouthatasalecturer
youarebeingemployedtoteach
and,unlikeyourstudents,youhave
toturnuptolectures.Personally
youcan’tseetheproblemasall
yourstudentsloveyou.
Thisweek,youplanyouroutfit
fortheACCBarNight.Youuse
thehallwashingmachinetoclean
yourBDSMgearforyour“getyo
freakon”outfit,butfallasleep
withitstillinthemachine.You
wake-upchainedtoyourbedwith
yourHallSeniorstandingover
youwearingnothingbutyour
knee-highleatherboots.Lifejust
gotawholelotmorefun.
This week you are an oversized
spanner. Upset about being
brandished by your committee
members in an attempt to
overcompensate for their own
(personal) shortcomings, you
run away, hobbling awkwardly
into the night. Some RSM
douche picks you up, and
claims you for their own. Sweet
freedom was so close.
Thisweek,youarestudyingforan
examandwriteallofyourrevision
notesonyourdick.Afternipping
tothetoilettoexamineyourshaft
ofknowledge,yourealiseyour
crotchsweathasblurredtheblack
ink,makingthemunreadable.
Onceyougoblack,younevergo
back;youhobblebacktohalls
instead,knowingthereisnoway
youwouldpasstheexamanyway.
Diary Of a Fresher, aged 18 3/4
Saturday 22nd November
Dear Diary,
Today I went ice skating with Dorothy, as she had never been before and wanted to take pictures of us together on the ice for Facebook, instagram and twitter. She took about 150
photos and all were blurry as I kept slipping and sliding about on the ice. She posted them all and then tagged me, and Mum liked some of them, then started to ask me about Dorothy
during our Saturday night Skype call. She wants me to bring her over for the weekend. MY BEDSHEETS ARE EVEN MORE EMBARRASSING AT HOME GOD NO
Sunday 23rd
Dorothy knocked on my door super early this morning, asking if I wanted to go for a walk in Hyde Park. I was planning on having a lie-in (I was up quite late on reddit) but she
pretended to go in this sort of childish strop until I said I would.
She still won’t sleep with me, she says if I love her I will wait until “she’s ready.” That’s ﬁne (obviously, I am a feminist after all) but when did we start telling each other we loved each
other? This is meant to be a big point in a relationship, and we have been only going out like a week? Need to Skype Mum about this.
Monday 24th
Received 55 whatsapp messages from Dorothy. Many consisted of just strings of emojis, some of which I didn’t even recognise or even know what she was trying to say by using them.
Dating is hard.
Received a letter from Kris Kraye in jail in Turkmenistan, and he is coming home next weekend! They dropped all the charges and apparently he had started an underground gambling
circle with some of the cellmates, and he’s a liability or something but it doesn’t matter, he is coming home! I am going to meet him at the airport, and Dorothy really wants to come along
too.
Tuesday 25th
I spent the afternoon off in the library. I went to the fourth ﬂoor (where all the fresher’s study obviously, I am not ready for the imposing silence of the second ﬂoor yet). It is so warm!
Even though it is November people are walking around in shorts and t-shirts, and at one point I swear I saw someone literally tackle another person for trying to move their desk fan.
Wednesday 26th
I told Dorothy that I was going to the ACC Bar night next week (as a geek lol so I can just wear 3D glasses from that cinema trip in freshers week) and she got super upset before
I had even had a chance to ask her to come with me.
I don’t understand this woman .
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk

