38 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
28.11.2014
C & S Editor VACANT
Clubs and Societies
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Mascot Mayhem at
Tri-Union Bar Night
It seems that City and Guilds
College Union (CGCU) have been
foiled again; this time having
their mascot, Spanner, stolen from
right under their noses.
The mascot – a giant spanner
imaginatively named, well, Spanner
– is over a metre in length and weighs
in at 64lbs [why am I reporting on a
fucking spanner!? Ed.].
This cumbersome piece of brass
was taken from the CGCU office last
Friday morning by a member of the
Royal School of Mines Union (RSMU)
committee, despite a member of the
CGCU committee also being present.
The RSM student, a member
of “Skinner’s Bottom” (The RSM
mascotry team) visited the office
to return another mascot and a
tankard that was stolen from CGCU
on Thursday evening during the Tri-
Union Bar Night. According to CGCU
President, stealing mascots during
the night was off limits “so that they
could meet for a play-date.” Felix
remains uncertain as to what this
actually means but was not inclined
to investigate.
After being granted access to the
office by security, the student went to
return the mascots, but was greeted
by the CGCU Media and Marketing
Officer (MMO), seemingly fresh-faced
after the previous night.
The MMO did not recognise when
the RSM student lumbered the
large, overbearing piece of hardware
into his Mary Poppins-esque sports
bag, then left, Spanner in tow. Said
the MMO “I thought the spanner
was already in the secret mascot
stronghold safe from the slimy hands
of RSMU.”
Felix spoke to Ben Warnick, who
gave us a hilarious recount of what
happened. Said Warnick, “As soon
as the CGCU’s officer’s attention
strayed, the spanner was hidden
deftly in a hockey bag and the Miner
beat a hasty retreat.
“The weight of the spanner in the
bag was not insignificant, sufficiently
so that the Guildswoman commented
Philippa Skett reports on the loss
of CGCU’s mascot
Why is he wearing a cloak? Photo: Facebook
Dear Guildsmen,
It is with great shame and sadness that I must write this apology.For apologies I must for
the loss of our dearest,most spanneriest mascot,the Spanner.
Unbeknownst to the CGCU Exec,most of whom spent the morning in question
recovering from the Tri-Union Bar Night,the cunning President of the RSMU had hatched a
dastardly plan to robe us of our most scared of artefacts.
Having somehow gained access to the CGCU Ofice he was able to search unabated
for Spanner.Until,that was,he was walked in on by our Media and Marketing Oficer.To
her shame she did not recognise the violation that was occurring in front of her or the
incredibly heavy bag he walked out with.She believed all too easily the story he told about
returning poor violated Bolt and did not recognise the flattery he bestowed upon our ofice
as the distracting lies they were.
But what chance did she have when up against such an astute,calculating individual
as the leader of the great RSMU.What chance would any mere real engineer have when
confronted by the wit and skill of those who study the rocks.It is itting that we take this
total defeat valiantly and it is right that we congratulate the RSMU on their patience,their
adeptness and their determination.
And now lonely Spanner,so far from home,faces the indignity of having to appear
next to the so much more impressive,shinning ediice of Davy and our union faces the
humiliation of being so clearly bettered by the RSMU.
So I apologise to you all for the loss of our mascot and the shame brought upon our
Union by it.I ask you for your forgiveness and promise that this will only make us more
dedicated that one day the CGCU will reach the dizzying heights of success of the RSMU.
TIM MUNDAY
CGCU President
The letter of Apology
upon the weight of bag. Despite
being a hair from discovering the
intercollegiate espionage occurring
under her nose, the miner managed
to escape with the spanner much to
the embarrassment of the CGCU
Mascot Bearers.”
Photos later surfaced of two
members of Skinner’s Bottom – one
wearing what appears to be a fresher’s
pub crawl t-shirt as a bandana –
brandishing the large spanner in
front of the RSMU office. Both are
wearing top hats, and one also appears
to be in some sort of cloak, although
it is unclear if the outfits are integral
to the mascotry stealing, as one would
assume a cloak would only hinder the
movement of a large metal spanner.
RSMU then issued a ransom to the
CGCU, asking for £250 to be donated
to RAG, for evidence of Spanner
working on the bolts of Tower Bridge
for which it is allegedly designed to
do, for the president and Spanner
bearer to do yards of alcohol and
CGCU to write a grovelling letter of
apology.
Felix has kindly printed the letter,
mostly because we find it hilarious,
satisfying one of the four ransom
note demands. Since the Tower
Bridge walkway is closed after a
dropped beer bottle smashed its
new glass walkway, it is uncertain if
students will be allowed up wielding
a heavy piece of weaponry to attempt
to unscrew any fixtures, but at time of
press a spokesperson of Tower Bridge
declined to comment.
Felix has every faith in Tim
Munday, CGCU President, that he
can indeed down a yard, and wish him
every success in his endeavour.
"one would
assume
a cloak
would only
hinder the
movement
of a large
metal
spanner."
... why am
I reporting
on a
fucking
spanner?
Ed.

