4 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
28.11.2014
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Philippa Skett investigates the inancial state of the team after the
punishments received for smashed coach window on tour
Imperial Medicals Rugby Football
Club, one of the rugby teams
suspended earlier this term for
smashing a coach window, appealed
against the sanctions placed against
them last week.
However, their appeal was rejected,
and they could now be facing extreme
financial difficulty as a club. With
the costs incurred from the coach
damage, fines for missing matches
and the loss of earnings from the
Reynolds Bop they can no longer run,
they may be out of action by the next
academic year.
The sanctions involved included
banning the whole club from
socialising, and also having to forfeit
several key games. Those involved
with the incident will also have
to take part in Union community
service.
The appeal was escalated past
Imperial College Union President
Tom Wheeler through to the chair of
the Union Trustee Board, Dame Julia
Higgins, but was then rejected.
It was rejected on the grounds that
they thought the original sanctions
to be justified enough; they had no
desire to modify them further and
considered them an appropriate
measure to stop such behaviour in the
future.
The appeal, backed by the Imperial
College School of Medicine Student
Union (ICSMU) President, Dariush
Hassanzadeh-Baboli, was made via
email on the 17th of November, and
authored by George Cross, the Club
Captain of the Medicals team. His
extended statement on the matter
is below. The appeal was rejected the
following day.
Cross appealed specifically against
the social ban element of their
punishment, as the sanctions levied
against the club currently prevent
them hosting the Reynolds bar’s
Christmas Bop. Traditionally, the
bigger sports clubs with greater
financial pressures, such as the
Medicals Rugby team, run the
Christmas Bop, which are very
popular and often attended by both
medic and non-medical students.
Running the Bop would have
hopefully recovered some of the costs
lost, although it seems doubtful it
would be able to recuperate all of the
costs from the coach incident. They
have already missed several matches,
and incurred fines as a result, and
have also had to cover the costs of the
coach damages and loss of earnings of
the coach company.
Said Cross in his appeal: “It will be
an opportunity where we can prove
our responsibility as a club and
showcase the fact we can be sober at
events as we will be responsible for
stewarding.”
They also challenged details that
were taken in the minutes by the
Governance committee. Although
Cross stated in the appeal that “My
committee was and continues to
be embarrassed by the situation,”
they took issue with the fact that
the committee stated that the club
is “resigned” to the drinking culture
within the club.
Cross outlined that “before
sanctions were imposed by the Union,
the club had begun to address this
issue already, by creating a series
of documents including a ‘Club
Alcohol Policy,’ ‘Tour Etiquette,’ and
‘Statement of Aims and Objectives.’”
The appeal, made by email, also
featured a letter from Dariush to
Dame Julia Higgins. In it he stated
that he was “Concerned that the
Governance Committee did not
take into account the financial
ramifications the sanctions would
have on the club.” He pointed out that
with the costs to repair the coach, the
British University & College Sport
league fines the team having to pay
for missing games and also the loss of
earnings from being unable to host
the bop, the team will be “financially
deficit within two years.”
He also compared the sanctions
against Imperial Medicals against
those that were held against Imperial
College Union Rugby Football Club,
usually known as ACC (Athletics
Club Committee) rugby. These too
were suspended from playing and
socialising due to the ruling of the
governance committee in response
to the incident involving team
players stripping on tube platforms,
which took place towards the end of
October.
Dariush highlighted that despite
Medicals Rugby team left broke afte
Last year's Imperial Medicals team celebrate their JPR Williams Cup victory at the Stoop Photo: Ian Gillett

