Letters
Aids I
Dear Bill,
Having just read the letter by Emmanuel
Saridakis, we feel compelled to write in response.
M r Saridakis seems to object to the contents of
the I C U AIDS Day, describing them as 'totally
irrelevant'. H o w can anyone pretend that drug
abuse, homosexuality and family planning have
no connection with the general issue of AIDS?
He also complains about the money spent by
I C U o n the A I D S Day. From his description,
everthing provided was free. Syringes and
condoms are distributed without charge by the
relevant organisations. From our point of view,
M r Saridakis' argument is non-existent and
purely indicative of his ignorance of the factors
affecting AIDS and its spread.
The views expressed i n M r Saridakis' letter
illustrate the need for days like the AIDS Day,
in our opinion, acquiring life-saving information
is priceless.
Yours,
Sophie Wardle, Physics 1,
Gareth Davies, Physics 1.
Wendy's
Glasshouse
Dear Bill,
Firstly, may I point out a few inaccuracies
within last week's letters page:
1. To Nicky Fox—Neil McClusky is the Council
Chairman.
2. To Simon Bradshaw—The minutes of the St
Mary's merger working party were put to Council
to decide whether or not they should be
submitted to a U G M . Anybody who was under
the impression that Council has the power to
enforce such a decision is misguided. Your
comment therefore about not consulting the
student b o d y is s e c o n d h a n d , incorrect
information no doubt derived from an irate Dave
Clements.
3. To Ashley Unitt—The posters in question were
privately funded, not by Club funds.
The question as to whether the Club can
indulge in anything not directly connected with
water p o l o is a case of constitutional
interpretation. This interpretation is at the
discretion of the committee as defined i n their
constitution. If the committee did not support the
action, the person responsible would have been
acting unofficially, that however is a different
problem and one that I cannot be blamed for. It
is not my job to check that every poster reflects
a club's committee decision exactly.
Also, Bill, your news page contained a rather
biased cartoon which goes against your o w n
policy of news is news, opinion is opinion. When
I complained to someone that FELIX was too
biased about the U G M issue, they answered that
I could have submitted a letter stating any opinion
I might like to. However, you have stressed to
the Exec o n many occasions that letters and
reports must be submitted b y 12.30pm o n
M o n d a y s . N o w unless S i m o n Bradshaw
emulated the Sun by writing a letter on a decision
which had not yet been decided (ie the report of
Torvill and Dean winning the Olympic medal
even though the newspaper had been printed
before they won) then you accepted that letter
for some extenuating circumstances. Those
circumstances are your complete and utter bias
towards maintaining U G M s , a bias which clouds
your ability to present an informative FELIX
rather than an indoctrination of your beliefs.
You are not the Union's G o d , Bill and some
of the stones you are throwing might one day
smash the panes in your glass house.
Yowrs,
lan Morris.
Hole rants
Dear Bill,
I feel I must reply to the highly misinformed
letter by Ashley Unitt. The reason why the
students against loans posters were headed by
the title 'Swimming and Water Polo Club' was
to legalise the posters. As a group of students
forming a students against loans society we
needed a legitimate title for our posters before
our society was officially formed. The Swimming
and Water Polo Club title was used because it was
an official title and because the Club felt that the
loans system may prevent water polo players
from coming to Imperial College. A t no time did
we spend any of the Club's, or the Union's,
money on these posters as they were privately
funded.
I w o u l d also like to comment o n the
Conservative Society's statement that 'We should
not think that the current leftish rabble is
representative of more than a handful of hacks'.
Firstly, the membership of Imperial College
Students Against Loans Society consists of people
from the entire spectrum of political thought,
including several former Conservative voters (eg
myself). Secondly, that the 1,700 people who
signed the petition against loans, do not
constitute a handful of backs. This number is
several orders greater than the average turn out
at a Consoc meeting.
Julian Moore, Treasurer Swimming
and Water Polo Club.
Vote for me
Dear Bill,
In reply to Nicky Fox's letter of January 271 do
happen to be the Union Council Chairman. I was
only asked to chair the meeting with M r Peter
Brooke at a couple of hours notice and I was
prepared prior to that for questioning the M P
myself. I'm afraid I may well have come across
a little biased but I think the comments reflected
the feeling of the meeting. O n the whole the
meeting was well ordered, the questions
pertinent and representative of the persons
present at the meeting. If offered the opportunity
of chairing another such meeting I would surely
stand down in favour of those better qualified.
I believe the Labour spokesman on Education
may be speaking some time in the near future
Nicky, fancy a job?
Over to Bill 'it pains me to have to devote so
much space that's w h y I've put it in double size
print Goodwin'. A few more factual inaccuracies;
1. There are more than 25 students on Council.
In fact, of the 50 posts there was around 70%
attendance of the posts filled at last term's
Council meetings.
2. M y name is spelt McCluskey.
3. You intimate that I ignore mandates to do
work. Far from it, Council papers have been out
on time for every Council so far not withstanding
the propensity of bumph. I just wish Council
members would stick to the motions and papers
presented instead of deviating to heart felt
'discussion' completely unrelated to the matter
in hand.
A n d there's more...Council sketch p l 9 Jan 27,
yet more inaccuracies! 'The motion made it no
longer compulsory for sub-committees to present
their minutes to Council', referring to my motion.
Sorry, but as far as I'm aware it's never been
compulsory to present minutes of sub-
committees to Council, simply tradition to
present a selected few. In passing the motion
Council democratically agreed that all minutes of
all sub-committees be available for all to see in
the Union General Office.
Neil McCluskey, Council Chairman.
PS. Congratulations on a wonderfully unbiased
FELIX of Jan 27, you obviously thought very hard
about which articles to include so that y o u gave
a fair view of both sides of the coin. It seems a
pity that you've got a double-headed coin.
What a rotter I am—Ed
High farce
Dear Bill,
Above the core of every politician lies a thin
veneer of decency necessary to obtain their
election. Last night that layer, snake-like, was
shed, the hideous face of totalitarianism revealed
from behind the mask.
The three weapons of democracy are a free
press, a directly accountable executive body, and
a free flow of information from the committees
that make up that body. Last night attacks fell
on all three.
The first blow came i n a change to the
proceedings of the Council. A s the rules used to
stand, the chairman of a Sub-committee of
Council was required to submit the minutes of
each meeting to the full Council for approval as
a fair and accurate version of the events that took
place.
N o w the rules are different. A l l that now has
to be submitted is a report, written by the
Chairman, of his version of events. A t no time
do the minutes of the meeting have to be passed
or approved.
The second blow came with the main order of
business—the St M a r y ' s merger working
committee report and motion. The working
committee, after giving the matter 'a great deal
of thought over the Christmas Holiday'—S Snell
(89), had come to the conclusion that to hold
U G M s on one site only would be undemocratic.
Their recommendation? Abolish U G M s a n d
establish Council as the sole policy making body
of Imperial College Union. Ordinary students will
be able to have motions raised at Council if they
can collect a petition with 150 signatures, but they
will not have an automatic right to speak, and
they will be unable to vote.
Perhaps the saddest moment of the night came
Page 2 FELIX February 3 1989

