in a quote from the Electrical Engineering
Departmental Representative: 'After all, Council
is a more democratic body than a U G M ' , which
he actually seemed to believe.
A few minutes later, one of the few opponents
for the motion inquired how many members of
Council had gained their posts unopposed. Over
half the members present raised their hands.
In parallel with this, the Exec were mounting
a totally unforeshadowed attack on FELIX. One
of the most important freedoms enshrined in the
Constitutions is the right of the FELIX Editor to
determine the contents of his Newspaper. This
right has been attacked many times in the past,
and has stood firm against all challenges. If the
last bastion against the powerlust of the inner few
is breached, hope is no more.
The meeting was chaired by Neil McClusky,
although at times it was hard to differentiate
between h i m and the proposer. H e ignored
speakers w h o m he disagreed with, and seemed
totally incapable of following procedure. A t
times, the only thing needed to create a High
Farce was a vicar and a set of French windows.
Ten minutes from Guillotine, the meeting came
to a vote. Unbelievably, almost the entire Council
voted for the proposal that 'abolishing U G M s is
a good idea'. In true Ian Howgate style, Cosmic
Ferret stormed out of the meeting in disgust, and
several people were very close to following.
Now is the time for action. A petition form is
being printed at this moment, and will be
distributed round the departments. A n y help that
you can offer will be gratefully received. Don't
sit back and ignore the situation—this one will
make a difference to you.
Simon E Spew, Observer.
Distraught
Dear Bill,
I write to you as the distraught I C U G M
Chairman. I do not even have a seat on Council,
did not know what was going on, have made no
other job plans etc, etc. N o w I find that I'm going
to be out of a job if those faceless hacks have their
way. Sod democracy, I'm going to be out on my
ear! I feel therefore that I must write to complain
about the undemocratic and downright sneaky
way in which all this has been carried on.
When an R C S General Committee discussed
the matter, and decided that some sort of senate
type body might be a good replacement for
U G M s , Steph Snell had carefully planned that
I would be completely pissed and unable to object
to the plan. She has since put paid to my naval
promotion prospects by calling my boss a 'fruit'
over the phone last week.
I can now reveal to FELIX readers that this
whole U G M business is just a ploy on the R C S
President's part to drive me to drink and render
me destitute. (Fortunately I've already found the
drink, so she can only make me destitute). I must
inform you that I have a fiancee and overdraft
to support and cannot take any more of this
harrassment. I shall be taking my plight to the
next I C U G M and let the people decide what
should be done.
I can only implore everyone to preserve the
U G M in order to keep me in a job and keep
student democracy alive at IC.
Yours sincerely,
Dave Burns, IC UGM Chairman,
RCSU Assistant Honorary Secretary.
ICUIRC
Dear Bill,
The ICU Industrial Relations Committee met
for the first time last week. One item which we
discussed was our objective to 'help in supplying
advertising contracts to I C U publications'. The
conclusion that we reached will interest and affect
some of your readers, and I would be grateful
for their comments and suggestions.
After discussion, we concluded that many I C U
and C C U publications would like to carry more
advertising, but that student editions do not have
enough time to search for potential advertisers
and negotiate contracts. We therefore propose,
as a trial scheme, to employ a student, with
relevant experience if possible, to negotiate
advertising contracts for these publications. We
suggested that our targets should be the ICU and
C C U handbooks and the Rag Mag, but this is,
of course, subject to the agreement of the editors.
I would welcome comments on the desirability
and feasibility of such a project. Our intention
is to employ a student for roughly four weeks,
over the coming Easter vacation. Some work
would obviously need to be carried out before
and after Easter. The end result would be editors
being given adverts to print and cheques from
advertisers.
The IRC next meets on February 20 and I hope
to reach a conclusion on this matter, which we
can then put into action.
I look forward to hearing from interested
parties.
Gavin Spittlehouse,
ICU Industrial Relations Officer.
Aids II
Dear Bill,
After reading M r Saridakis's letter to FELIX in
the last issue I feel it necessary to reply to what
I think is unjust and naive criticism.
The aim of all these 'Welfare Weeks' is to
provide information to the students so that he/she
can then make up his/her own mind on how to
react to such topics as drugs, AIDS, etc. The aim
of 'AIDS Day' was to make people fully
understand the dangers that AIDS represents to
hetero- and homosexuals alike (it is, after all, a
huge problem in the States). The idea that the
whole thing was 'ludicrous', 'totally irrelevant'
and 'a shame for Imperial College' I find
unbelievable! If it has stopped one unwanted
child from being born or one drug addict from
dying of an infected needle or even one person
(such as myself or M r Saridakis) being infected
with AIDS, then I consider all the hard work well
justified, and, for your information, no money
was spent on organisng 'AIDS Day', people put
themselves forward free of charge.
Having said this, I am glad that M r Saridakis
takes a strong view on Welfare at Imperial. I
consider it to be a very important subject, but
rather than trying to 'oust' anyone, will he not
represent his views more productively by
standing for the position of 'ordinary member'
on the Welfare Committee (there are still two
places available). Thus he will also be able to take
part in some of the work.
For those people waiting for the results of last
Letters
term's questionnaires, they are still being
processed free of charge by the data processing
company. However, we should be getting them
back any day soon and they will be publicised
almost immediately afterwards.
Mark Fisher, Union Welfare Officer.
CCU UGMs
Dear Bill,
1 would like to congratulate FELIX, IC Radio
and STOIC on their excellent publicity campaign
culminating i n the unprecedented turnout at
today's U G M . this was an ideal opportunity for
the merger with St Mary's to be discussed and
a workable merger proposal to be passed. It was
unfortunate then that a lot of people seemed
unaware that U G M is the means in which the
Exec report on their activities and the students'
views are heard. H o w many times has the order
of the business changed so that the reports are
sent to the end and are only heard by the few
loyal 'hacks' w h o can be bothered to stay. H o w
many of yesterday's voters have been to a U G M
before? I even saw one person turn up as the final
vote was being taken, ask what was going on and
then vote against the motion—lucky he happened
to drop into the JCR in time! What right has he
to vote on an issue when he hasn't even bothered
to listen to the reasons for the motion.
At the moment we have the strange situation
where St Mary's students are full members of
ICU and have full voting rights. However the
reverse is not true and the feelings of IC students
in Kensington and Silwood have no effect on St
Mary's decisions. We also have the problem that
in four years time IC will be centrally funded. This
means that all funding for S M H M S S U will come
from I C U . Without a merger we will have no
control over where that money goes, if St Mary's
receive any money at all.
The suggestions from the working party
covered aspects of the merger from welfare and
accommodation to the contentious U G M issue.
Surely some of these proposals were acceptable
and could have been passed?
O n the U G M issue, one important point seems
to have been overlooked. We already have the
machinery for holding C C U U G M s . If the I C U
U G M was abolished then the students would
have a voice through their C C U . If a motion was
passed then the C C U representatives to council,
the President, H o n Sec, Academic Affairs Officer,
and the Dep Reps, would be mandated to present
the motion at Council, even if they do not agree
with what is said. The M S C Chairmen could also
be lobbied and the proposer of the motion given
speaking rights to ensure that the meaning of the
motion is not altered. Surely it would be easier
to pass a motion through a C C U U G M where a
smaller majority is needed. The proposer can still
call an E G M (with 150 seconders) if they are not
satisfied with Council's decision, or they could
take the matter straight to Council if they get 25
seconders.
The working party's recommendations will
probably come up before another U G M , perhaps
including some of the ideas presented above.
Next time give the other points made a chance.
You can always propose an amendment if you
dislike what is proposed. I look forward to a
rational debate.
Yours,
Chris Home, Elec Eng 2.
February 3 1989 FELIX Page 3

