t LETTERS
Boolery Woolery
Dear Sir
I am not a close friend of Ray Taverner,
but I must say that from where I was standing
the delays in the finalisation of the accounts
appeared to be due almost entirely to factors
outside his control, contrary to what was
implied in last week's Boolery Woolery.
The dates of the meetings of the Finance
and Executive Committees are published in
the College Year Card. Had your reporter
bothered to look it up, he would have found
that the meeting referred to took place on the
very day that the article appeared, not 'next
week'. It was never planned that the accounts
would be considered at that meeting, and
neither were they at the corresponding
meeting last year.
I believe that F E L I X has a valid role to
play in exposing inefficiency, identifying
prejudices, and debunking pomposity,
wherever they are to be found. But if it is to
do the job well, its reporters must get their
facts right. If they cannot do so, it would be
better if such articles did not appear at all.
I am in no position to comment on the other
'facts' contained in last week's article, but
from what I have seen so far this year I think
your readers will be well advised to treat
everything they read in Boolery Woolery
with a considerable pinch of salt.
Yours faithfully
Malcolm Aldridge
Assistant Secretary (Finance)
Apartheid
Dear Sir
I spoke to one of the exhibitors at the R S M
Open Day about the Apartheid System in
South Africa. Referring to the subordinate
position of the black majority population
there, he said:
'You keep rabbits in a rabbit hutch, don't
you?
'You don't allow them on the sofa'.
How many of this year's IC graduates will
go burrowing in South Africa, and so help
keep the cages firmly shut?
Yours faithfully
J Michaelis
Mech Eng 2
A bore
writes
Dear Sir,
Having acquired an appetite for this sort of
thing I wondered who I should slag off next.
A visit to the palatial JCR eating emporium,
euphemistically called a refectory, leaves one
in no doubt of the passage of obscenities that
could be used to describe that abominable
offence to all taste and decency. The editor,
revelling in this upsurge of acrimonious
banter, has tried to persuade me to comment
further on the dirty doings of 'my chums' in
the diving club, some libellous statement
such as 'illicit use of wet-suits overnight' was
one suggestion, but I have no intention of
damning them again. Never kick a dog when
it's down, especially when it bites back like a
wet sponge, is my aphorism for the week.
No, I wish to draw attention to the
unpleasant upsurge in Christian awareness.
Have you not been accosted in the street,
purchased a record you were handed for free,
and asked to repeat a chant for the
betterment of life and humanity? Well last
night I had these two Bible bashers come
knocking on my door. Responsible
m i s s i o n a r y p o s i t i o n t y p e s . Y o u
know...Anorak, sweater, bible; wanted to
discuss the existence of God and the like.
Like a fool I said 'Yes, by all means come in'.
So in they came and sat on my bed. I
questioned their integrity, feeling that their
haircuts were just a little short. 'Not from a
sect by any chance?'
'Oh No!' he exclaimed, 'I'm a member of the
Church of England'. I took this to be at least
some measure of respectability so we got into
a discussion on the authenticity of the
Gospel. I accepted the existence of some chap
called Jesus but suggested in a round about
way that he was merely a confidence
trickster, freeloading food, transport and
women where ever he could. I went on to
admit that there was a definite need for a god
in the world and what a pity it would be if he
really did exist. I mean we have missd out on
such a great opportunity. M y audience was
much encouraged by this so I continued with
a little analogy. Consider the devil receiving a
fresh batch of dead atheists. 'It's so good to
see all you non-believers together. I bet you
feel a right bunch of charlies.' Unfortunately
this passed right over his head although I did
detect a slight snigger from his sidekick.
Whether this was a nervous inflection over
the word devil I shall never know as they left
shortly afterwards. On parting I'm sure I
noticed a slight grimace when I mentioned
that I would like to attend their discussion
meeting. See you there.
Yours evangelically,
Everard Snivel
(Real name supplied)
FELIX
Refectory
Boycott
Refectory food has been brought up again at
a U G M . Hugh Southey and Martin Taylor,
who between them have sat on most
committees worth sitting on, considered a
refectory boycott the only way of getting
home to the College the point that Mooney is
using a wholly arbitrary way of deciding price
increases. On top of unpalatable, rudely
served, wrongly labelled, incompetently
produced food, a ludicrous pricing scheme is
hardly likely to attract students to IC's
refectories. The present inactivity of the
useful people in the College on the refectory
matter is explicable only if College want a
refectory service for extravagant formal
dinners and see that the only way of
maintaining it is to disguise it as a student
refectory service. Students already boycott
Mooney every lunch and dinner time in their
thousands, make no mistake.
Let the College take seriously their
responsibilities to feed students quickly and
cheaply and to appoint as a replacement for
Mr Mooney someone who will adopt such
radically different policies as to reverse the
decline that the refectories have been in for
decades.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Ajay,
Martin, Dave, Dave, Jon, Pete, Richard,
Patrick, David Ashforth, Mike, Rosemary,
Tony, Grenville, and all the collators.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of
Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed
by the Union Print Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 51 1 1 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1984. ISSN 10140-0711.
IBM EXHIBIT
Due to popular demand, I B M have
agreed to admit I C Students to their
E X H I B I T outside the Natural
History museum between 4pm and
6pm daily. Such students will receive
a free, full-colour brochure worth £2.
This offer applies until November 16.
2 Friday 9 November 1984 FELIX

