CLETTERS;
continued from page 2
No to
loans
Brown
Dear Sir
Mr Brown's proposal for the restoration of
freedom and responsibility to the individual
makes entertaining reading. The growing
support for the view proposed is reflected
amongst students by the rapidlyf?) increasing
membership of Consoc, now a staggering
1.1% of college.
He rightly states that 'the aim of higher
education finance should be to make it more
widely available'. He claims that the current
system is inequitable, discriminating against
the children of manual workers. Would
having to pay their own maintenance
encourage more to come? As for 'having it
easy at the taxpayers' expense', as most
students at Imperial know, this is not the
case. It is also claimed that 'the children of
higher income earners are being subsidised
through government grants by the taxes of
those with lower incomes'. He obviously has
little comprehension of the income tax
system.
The loan mechanism proposed would be
unworkable, as banks would be unwilling to
lend large sums of money for no real return.
It is equally unlikely that industry would be
willing to further fund higher education, or
pay graduates more simple because of earlier
years of hardship.
If the country is to prosper, there must be a
sound educational foundation on which
industry can build. M r Brown's proposal
would make it very much more difficult for
those from all backgrounds to progress to
higher education.
Yours faithfully
A Winterton Me 2
W Hooper Me 2
Coal or
food?
Dear Sir
I went to hear the speakers from the N U M
on Thursday 1 November and I would like to
say that the lady who stood up against them
had a lot of courage. I'm only sorry I did not
have the guts to back her up but I was
astounded by the backing the striking miners
received from the people there and also afraid
the 'mob' were around to shut up any
opposition!
At the end of the meetintg a collection was
taken and people were giving pound notes. I
could list a hundred more deserving causes
than the striking miners, above all the
Ethiopian famine and if a student can afford
to give the striking miners a pound, they
should give fifty pounds to help Ehtiopia.
Name witheld by request.
bugger
Dear Sir
Graham Brown's article about student
loans last week contained a number of
d a m a g i n g a s s u m p t i o n s a n d flat
contradictions. For instance he states that
grants cause student financial hardship and
yet also cause taxpayers to resent students as
'having it easy'. If we accept that students are
hard up, this implies that it is the taxpayers'
image of students which is at fault. Those in
the know are more resentful of rich self-
employed people like solicitors and farmers
u s i n g M r B r o w n ' s C o n s e r v a t i v e
'independence, responsibility and self-
determination' to employ accountants to
fiddle their tax returns and obtain a full grant
for their children.
Mr Brown also claims, incredibly, that
grants cause low participation by children of
manual workers in further education, only to
later state that many low-income working
class children 'have either no wish to take
advantage of higher education or lack the
ability to do so'. This contradiction shows
both his bias against the working-class and
his spurious use of a convenient statistic to
try and further his argument. I would have
thought that giving a full grant to low income
families encourages the student to go into
further education.
The most damaging assumption in the
article was that the Education budget needs
'savings' ie cuts, and hence that grants should
go. Education should be a right, and the more
education the better. We have few enough
students in this country as it is — we
shouldn't be proving students' 'resilience' by
putting the millstone of a large debt around
their necks before they even start earning.
The lack of funds in education causes a
genuine waste of talent, and yet there is no
real problem with resources. For instance, by
just cancelling the Trident nuclear missile
programme with its massive and unnecessary
increase in British nuclear capability, we
could save £ 10 billion (or even more, give the
continuing plunge of the pound). This money
could be used to improve and even expand
educational opportunities so that a higher
proportion of our intelligent British people
(especially with falling birthrates) can benefit
from higher education and receive a grant
according to their level of income.
The idea of loans is a loser. In the US over
80% of loans are never repaid. And we have a
form of loan in this country already, albiet
only £200 on average compared to £2100
under a full loans scheme. This British loan is
called an overdraft. It reminds people of their
financial vulnerability and their need to get a
job, but it doesn't saddle them with a big debt
(However it's repaid, £7000 odd is a lot of
money). Even if loans encourage students to
take vocational subjects, there aren't the
places available for them, due (again) to
government cuts. In the end it is policy that
determines resource-levels, and the Thatcher
government seems to prefer threatening to
kill Russians to educating British people.
Your
Tony Atkins
Christmas Dinner
Tuesday 11 December
-open to all staff and students-
Smoked Trout
Horseradish sauce
Roast Duckling Bigarade
Potatoes a la Daupinoise
Red Cabbage Normande
Petit Pois
Christmas Pudding
Mince Pies
Brandy Butter
Dessert Fruit
Petit Fours
Coffee
Price: students £9 (£3 subsidy)
Staff £10 (£2 subsidy)
Includes sherry, wines and port. Bookings open on Tuesday 13
November at 2.00pm - see Pat Baker in the Union Office.
Friday 9 November 1984 FELIX

