simon baker
Well, it happened, didn't it?
Not really surprising. St.
Mary's block vote, that is. 1 had
heard rumours that it might
not be quite as tight this year,
but in the event, the dissenting
medics were but a handful. A t first I simply
thought "what a bunch ol mindless sheep", but
realised I was doing you a grave disservice. After
all, you made up almost a third ol the voters,
highlighting a pathetic turnout at South
Kensington. You bothered to vote, which is more
than many of us did. Then I thought again: you
did not vote in your hundreds. A t most, about
half a dozen people voted at Mary's, namely the
officers of the Student Union, who persuaded
you to vote on their behalf Why did you? I have
had lectures with the 2nd and 3rd year medics
over the last two terms, and 1 have seen intelli-
gent, decent people, who do not require gener-
ous hints from the S M H M S S U apparatchiks.
For God's sake, do what you want. Without
wishing to patronise, we really do value your
opinion: it would lie nice to know what it is.
1 desperately tried to keep the politics to a
minimum this week, but cannot let the
Common fisheries Policy debacle go unmen-
tioned. Alter attempting to protect the already
paltry fish quotas remaining to Britain, Irom
plundering Spanish fisherman who registered
here in 1988, we now face the prospect of hav-
ing to pay compensation of up to £30 million to
them, when little or no money has been paid to
our fishermen whose livelihoods have been
mined. This cannot be tolerated. For some
species, almost hall are caught by these so-called
'quota tourists', compounding the difficulties
suffered here by the shrinking quotas imposed
by this ludicrous system. The
only solution is to leave the C F P
The U K should return a situa-
tion where we fish our waters,
taking account of demand and
preservation of fish stocks. The
E U has a lot to commend it -
free trade within Europe is a great achievement
- but the desire to regulate and harmonise every
aspect of life has lead to crackpot systems like
the fisheries and agricultural policies that mere-
ly create massive bureaucracies, inefficiencies
and injustice. As for the European Court of
Human Rights, my blood pressure could not
stand a discussion of its recent 'judgements.'
Mind you, we are partly to blame ourselves. We
get two Commissioner posts and who do we
choose but Neil Kinnock and Sir Leon Britton.
With friends like them...
Now to something really serious. The
England cricket team have crashed out of the
World Cup in about as embarrassing a manner as
possible after a pathetic performance against Sri
Lanka, who we should have beaten comfortably.
Had it not been for three of our bowlers, the
score would barely have made three figures. I've
seen Girl Guides that could have batted better,
and it showed that we really could do worse than
in South Africa. It is a well known fact that every
male in England over the age of sixteen is a self-
appointed Test selector. You go into any pub in
the land, and you'll get your team chosen. So
how come the bloke that gets paid for the job
the rest of us do for free does not know his crick-
eting arse from his elbow? Illingworth must go,
get Botham and leave Atherton where he is,
since there is no-one else to do the job. Piece of
cake, mate. Next week, I'll do England's Euro
'96 tactics and world peace in three easy steps. —
book: silent treatment
michael palmeri^,,
"Between medicine
and murder, the line is
scalpel-thin" - so
screams the front cover
as you pick up this
jbook. Inside, a story of
torture, intrigue and
great entertainment is
told.
We meet Dr. Corbett,
whose wife mysterious-
ly dies during a routine
procedure. The finger
of suspicion points only at him, circumstances
and his medical training providing the perfect
opportunity. There commences a roller-coaster
ride lor Dr. Corbett around Manhattan and the
New York area in search of the truth. He gets
more and more distressed, convinced that every-
one is trying to frame him. As his life collapses
around him he is told "Just try to focus on the
truth that today is what you
MICHAEL
PALMER
:%-m
have - it's all any of us have. The only tiling you
can do is try to live it to the fullest." A t points he
nearly gives up hope, contemplating the suicide
that has been suggested by one of his enemies.
We get all the classic scenarios and charac-
ters: the ex-Vietnam man, the Fed who was dou-
ble-crossed, a torturing doctor and the alcoholic
whose evidence is crucial. We also get the ubiq-
uitous car chase and stakeout in the dark garden
of a mansion. More interestingly, we are pre-
semted with the scheming of healthcare compa-
nies and the secret "Round table" they establish
to "save themselves money". This provides a
chilling insight into what may happen in the
brave new world of genetic testing - health insur-
ance only for those who are clear. Such intellec-
tually complex moments are however sparse in
this "pulp" novel.
This book may sound rather predictable,
but it actually has many twists and turns that
serve to confuse you more and more as the 450
pages fly by. And fly by they do - the cliche about
being a "compulsive page turner" does hold taie
here. I would recommend this to anyone who
wants a roaring good read.
I I
•:
iV,.iclv>;!
'l jX;hY;<>. .
:::
%: w
;
•
•
'
•
•
/ -P. :'.!,.:.,..
ran <
:
•
-
, :k.

