film: get shortye i ho
' ' : . . ft.;
:
- lift
h
United international
Picture* to bring yon this
' f t f t f t : ' • . ft
the prizes
•a'gctsb 'O tighter
•sets of J." nini-
poslers
•a pair of tickets for vou
bull t inoma
despite llie review! (sorry
on a pittce ol paper, come
.:
ft 'ft i-iiiftfti ' • i /ftft
• ft
shorsv' prop.
be contacted bv
the closing date
John Travolta is Chilli Palmer, a Miami loan shark
and avid movie fan who is sent to Los Angeles to
collect a gambling debt from B-movie producer
Harry Zimm (Gene Hackman). After breaking
into the flat of Harry's girlfriend, Karen Flores
(Rene Russo), where Harry is spending the
night, Chilli pitches him an idea for a new movie
to star Martin Weir (Danny Devito, who also
part produced the film). Martin Weir is a big star
in Hollywood and the 'Shorty' whom every pro-
ducer wants for their movie. He also happens to
be Karen Flores' ex-husband.
From his encounter with Harry, Chilli
decides to become a movie producer and soon
discovers that loansharking was the perfect train-
ing ground for making movies.
One of Chilli's recent assignments was to
find a dry cleaner who faked his death to avoid
paying money he owed to the Mob. Thus, Chilli
pitches his new movie as one about a loan shark
who has come to Los Angeles on the trail of a
man who has faked his death. The blurring of the
world of the Mob with that of the movie-mak-
ing business is a fun and clever idea but gives rise
to a plot which is difficult to follow at times.
Nevertheless, Get Shorty is a hugely enjoyable
comedy/satire (a litde reminiscent of Robert
Altaian's The Player).
John Travolta has already won the Best
Comedy Actor award at this year's Golden
Globes showing that his 'comeback' perfor-
mance in Pulp Fiction was no flash in the pan. In
Get Shorty, Travolta oozes charisma and epito-
mises cool. Hackman, Russo and Devito provide
able support while Dennis Farina also gives an
amusing turn as Ray 'Bones' Barboni. Also look
out for cameos from Bette Midler and Harvey
Keitel.
Adapted from Elmore Leonard's novel, the
end result of Barry Sonnenfield's (The Addams
Family) Get Shorty is a film which combines
humour, intelligence and violence in an amusing
examination of Hollywood and showbusiness.
film: sgt bilko k (yes the music ed)
This is a film that a lot of people have been wait-
ing a long time for. Not in the same way that
they have beenwaiting for hyped film adapta-
tions of Scottish novels perhaps (have you spot-
ted that train?), but with the general hope that
this would be the film that sees one of
Hollywood's famous actors return to the sort of
role which he's made for. Thankfully, Steve
Martin has done just that - he's no longer trying
to be soppy and paternal; he's just being funny.
And yes, Sgt. Bilko is fonny. At least it is if you
like the sort of humour displayed in Police
Academy before they started recycling gags in
the vain hope that only amnesiacs were watch-
ing.
Steve Martin plays Sgt. Bilko (surprise, sur-
prise), a man who can smell money like a shark
can smell blood and who runs a million and one
illegal gambling ventures at the army camp
whilst pretending to be head of mechanics. This
is about as inventive as the story gets. The tale is
a familiar one, of a corrupt-but-lovable hero
fighting to keep the camp open despite the
efforts of an equally cormpt-but-not-half-as lov-
able past adversary, with a sub-plot involving an
honest rookie who joins Bilko's division but pre-
dictably ends up as dishonest as the rest of the
people there. No, it's not very original but then
this is not the sort of film you go to see for an
intricate plot and message. The emphasis is firm-
ly on the gags, both visual and oral, with some
particularly hilarious ones which make light of
•the homosexuals in the army' issue.
All in all, Sgt. Bilko is a welcome, ifnot spec-
tacular, return to form for Steve Martin. It's
amusing and a pleasant way to pass an evening,
although it lacks that certain je ne sais quoi that
would make it a great film. I suppose if I were
doing a music review, as I'm accustomed, I'd give
it a (7), but I'm not so you'll just have to imagine

