TWENTY . FELIX WEDNESDAY MARCH 20TH 1 9 9 6 DIARY
IC Symphony Orchestra Spring Concert
Aristocrats and Plebeians:
Copland Fanfare for the Common Man
Walton Violin Concerto
Tchaikovsky Symphony No.6 in B minor
Friday March 8th, 1996
W o r d is getting around! Even with the
extra seating, there was a capacity
audience l o r what turned out to be a
remarkable evening. This was herald-
ed by Copland's Fanfare for Brass and
Percussion of 1942, which i m m e d i -
ately established the precision and
flair of these sections and set the stan-
dard for what was to follow.
A l l three composers were crucial-
ly influenced and supported by older
w o m e n with strong personalities.
Copland was inspired by his Parisian
composition teacher, N a d i a
Boulanger, w h o he found "exhilarat-
ing" (and who captivated those of us
who saw and heard her at the R C M a
few years ago). W a l t o n was supported
by Viscountess W i m b o r n e , w h o lived
in W i m b o r n e House at this end of Piccadilly.
Tchaikovsky's muse was M a d a m Nadezhda
von Meek, who gave lavish financial support
for I 5 years and then broke off the passionate
but entirely platonic (they never met!) rela-
tionship in such a way as to affect h i m pro-
foundly.
The Walton violin concerto expresses his
feelings for Alice Wimborne, who took him to
Ravello, near Naples, to aid his convalescence
from surgery and to encourage him, rather
forcefully, to write the piece. After many
wartime tribulations it was given its English
premiere two years later in 1941, at the
Albert Hall. David Juritz, the leader of the
London Mozart Players, is an ideal soloist for
this piece. His unassuming manner and pow-
erful playing match the relaxed opening,
which gives no hint of what is to follow, and
the developing brilliant display which was
designed to stretch the abilities of Heifetz in
all three movements. Throughout, the sense
of romance and Italian provenance are unmis-
takeable. This is Walton at his very best.
Particularly memorable in this performance
were the meltingly beautiful sounds from the
woodwinds.
Tchaikovsky's "Pa'thetique" symphony
took us to another emotional extreme. Given
what follows, the middle movements exem-
plify Auden's remark that "Music is the
brandy of the damned". Walton's brandy
is for enjoyment, but here we really need
it to get through the last movement. It
was the turn of the strings for promi-
nence, and their playing, in both intona-
tion and attack, and better than ever
before, took us to the brink of the abyss.
The music stopped; there was a long
pause, followed by a gasp of appreciation
and then grateful applause.
Nine days after the first performance,
Tchaikovsky died, probably not as a sui-
cide as has been claimed, but by con-
tracting cholera by drinking unboiled
water. Evidence from the Tchaikovsky
Museum in Russia (which only became
available in the last year or so) seems to
• - be conclusive on this point.
If performances like these can be pro-
duced with current facilities, we can look for-
ward very eagerly to the future endeavours of
master blender Richard Dickins, when the
music distillery which is to be built above the
college library, as announced by the Rector at
Commemoration Day last term, becomes
available.
C A N T E R B U R Y B U S I N E S S S C H O O L
One year Master of
Business Studies -
the bridge between university
and a better career
If you're graduating this summer, you probably know already how tough the
job market can be. Most employers are looking for much more than just a
good academic record and many will favour candidates with business related
qualifications or experience.
Whatever your degree discipline, the one year Master of Business Studies
programme will provide you with an excellent grounding in key areas of
management theory and practice, enabling you to market yourself more
effectively to potential employers and giving you a sound platform for
pursuing a higher qualification such as an M B A .
You'll be studying within our purpose built business school which combines
high quality learning facilities with a friendly and supportive environment.
The University of Kent is one of the UK's most attractive campus based
Universities - we pride ourselves on offering an excellent all round student
experience.
All you need to qualifyforthe M B S is a good honours degree, in any
discipline.
More details of the programme and an application form available from
Graduate Admissions, Canterbury Business School,
University of Kent, Canterbury, Kent CT2 7PE.
Tel: 01227 827726. Fax: 01227 761187. Quote ref MBS/FX.
UNIVERSITY OF K E N T
A T C A N T E R B U R Y • • • •
Excellence in Higher Education at Britain's European University
ATERING
a limited range will be
available 10am -2pm
each day
closed W e d s 3 r d - w e d s

