10 felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
BUSINESS
Business Editor
Business Editor Sina Ataherian
Sina Ataherian
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Newspaper rocked by fresh scandals
T
his week saw further scan-
dals for the embattled fe-
lix newspaper that is still
struggling to recover from
recent news surrounding
Editor Dan Wan’s unholy communions
with senior members of the Roman
Catholic Church. It emerged on Tues-
day that next year’s editor-“elect” Ka-
dhim Shubber had in fact bought the
position for $500,000 from a Roma-
nian Governor Rod Blagojevich. The
position was initially supposed to go
to Barack Obama, who won 51.5% of
votes cast in the Union’s online poll, in
what the media described as a massive
landslide that set a clear mandate for
healthcare reform.
But the FBI is now alleging that
following Obama’s decision to turn
down the position in order to become
President of the United States, Shub-
ber bribed Blagojevich to give him the
seat instead. The FBI’s suspicions were
first raised when they noticed that
Shubber was Iraqi and therefore most
probably an Arab. They claim to have
subsequently obtained secret footage
of Shubber boasting “sup me bitches,
guess what - I just bribed my way to
becoming felix editor!” Mr. Shubber
insists that that comment has been
taken out of context.
The newspaper’s legions of staff were
united, along with both of its read-
ers, in dismissing the allegations as a
distraction from the important work
ahead. Politics editor Phillip Gold-
crees, expressed strong support for
Shubber, asking “who amongst us can
truly say they have never slept with a
goat? Oh what, you mean the bribery
thing?” Poor People Editor Rory Fen-
ton added, “blah blah blah poor people
– that’s why I support Kadhim.”
But the most damaging aspect of this
story for felix may be the way in which
it handled it. The story was initially
leaked by one of the paper’s own blog-
gers in an article for the online version
of the publication. Staff felt Editor Dan
Wan in particular was out of touch, es-
pecially when asked about his efforts to
clean up the news leak. His answer of
“I want my life back” led many to doubt
his sympathy with staff who have been
even more rocked by the scandal.
The newspaper is used to being criti-
cised, for example for making up most
of its news stories, relying on Wikipe-
dia as a primary research tool and con-
sidering staff photographers to be an
interchangeable asset with Google Im-
ages. But the recent revelations about
corruption within the organisation
have weakened its bargaining position
in currently ongoing negotiations with
Rupert Murdoch’s News Corporation
about a possible takeover deal.
Dan Wan has been under pressure recently to testify against Malaysian
opposition leader Anwar Ibrahim, but both men strongly deny the allegations
On your way to work you pass a small
pond. On hot days, children some-
times play in the pond, which is only
about knee deep. The weather’s cool
today, though, and the hour is early,
so you are surprised to see a young
child splashing about in the pond. As
you get closer, you realise that it’s a
very young child, just a toddler, who
is flailing about, unable to stay upright
or walk out of the pond. You look for
the parents or babysitter but there is
no one else around. The child is un-
able to keep its head above the water
for more than a few seconds at a time.
If you don’t wade in and pull him out,
he sounds likely to drown. Wading in
is easy and safe but you will ruin the
new shoes you bought only a few days
ago, and get your suit wet and muddy.
By the time you hand the child over
to someone responsible for him and
change your clothes, you’ll be late for
work. What should you do?
This is the central piece of philoso-
pher Peter Singer’s book ‘The Life You
Can Save’. There is, of course, only one
morally justifiable course of action;
wading in. And of the new shoes and
few hours’ pay - they’re clearly mean-
ingless compared to saving the child’s
life. Singer’s argument is as follows: if
10 million children under the age of
five die every year of poverty, is fail-
ing to respond not morally equivalent
to walking past a drowning child? Es-
pecially if combating extreme poverty
will take no greater sacrifice than that
pair of shoes.
But just how effective is the aid that
individuals and governments invest
in combating world poverty? It’s easy
to talk about children and ponds but
the situation on the ground in a de-
veloping country may involve corrupt
leaders, civil wars and inefficient char-
ity bureaucracies. It’s time to put the
economics of fighting poverty under
scrutiny.
There’s an apparent contradiction in
what charities tell us about the world’s
poor. They tell us that a billion of the
world’s people live on $1.25 a day or
less. And yet they then say that it only
costs £3 to feed a child for a month.
Only £5 for a mosquito net. Only a few
pounds for a month of primary educa-
tion. Unless I’m grossly mistaken about
the dollar/pound exchange rate, the
world’s poorest should quite comfort-
ably be able to afford all of these basics.
People on such a wage have no finan-
cial security as they haven’t the ability
to save up for rainy days. In the case
of a sudden medical bill or natural dis-
aster, that may mean selling an animal
on which a family had relied for milk
and meat, leaving them poorer still.
Subject to such a spiral, it can’t rea-
sonably be expected for these people
to ‘help themselves’ put off poverty if
they can’t afford the medical care or
education to get into work or improve
farming techniques. This would also
have been the case in London only a
century ago until universal education
and, later, healthcare were established.
It takes a minimum standard of living
before a person can become economi-
cally productive.
But this doesn’t mean that aid will
make the situation any better. The
questions still remain - how much does
it really cost to save a life and is aid re-
ally a long term benefit?
A concrete example is the prevention
of malaria. Nothing But Nets, a charity
that sends anti-malaria nets to Africa,
says it costs just £5 for one net - “that’s
£5 to save a life”, they say. “If you do-
nate £50, that’s 10 lives saved”. But this
is clearly not really the case. Most peo-
ple who get these nets will not die of
malaria. Many of those who do get the
disease will not die of it, not forgetting
that in practice the nets may not always
be used all of the time. Taking these
facts into consideration (and bearing
in mind that a net will cover more than
one child) the truer figure is more like
£500 for each life saved, according to
the organisation GiveWell. This seems
like a lot, and certainly considerably
more than the charity would have us
believe but perhaps we can put it into a
wider context. Our own governments
use an approximate ‘price per life
saved’ when making decisions about,
for example, the cost effectiveness of
improved road safety. According to
figures by the USA’s Environmental
Protection Agency, the average life in
America is worth 7.22 million dollars,
or 4.5 million pounds; in other words,
the government considers intervening
to be justified if they can save a life for
no more than every £4.5 million spent.
British figures are similar. If a life is
worth this sacrifice to save in the West,
a life lost to malaria in Africa will have
to be worth less than 500/4500000=
0.00011 lives in the West. It’s simple
arithmetic. Can we really justify such
imbalance?
A strong argument against aid is
that it encourages dependency and
removes the incentive for countries to
help themselves. It is true that while
charities must avoid dependency, the
amount of money put by charities to-
wards the education and healthcare of
children in developing countries will
never compare to the amount our own
UK government spends on our uni-
versity tuition (£7,000 per student per
year) or healthcare (£1,700 per person
per year) for each of us. I’m sure we
would all be offended at the idea of this
encouraging dependency in British
students. I certainly don’t plan to be on
the dole after graduation.
A fair criticism is that food aid en-
courages dependency when wealthy
countries simply offload their surplus
food to developing nations, destroying
domestic farming in the process and
leaving communities entirely depend-
ent on the foreign food but this isn’t
practiced by charities, except in emer-
gencies. It is governments who have to
answer for that.
The argument is hard to refute, but
it is equally hard to act on. It’s hard to
consider oneself a bad person for en-
joying at pint in the union or going on
holiday, and yet the argument above
would have us down as passing by a
drowning child. It’s certainly true that
the drowning argument can never real-
istically be taken to its extreme, which
would have all of us give up everything
until we had barely enough for our own
education and health. Thankfully, that
isn’t at all necessary and the sacrifices
required are quite manageable.
Peter Singer suggests that every
person who finds themselves in the
top ten percent of American earners
should donate 5% of their income to
development charities, rising to 10%
for the top 1%. This wouldn’t be at all
difficult and, importantly, wouldn’t be
a tax, rather a suggestion. This equates
to those earning over $100,000 per
year, or £65,000. How many Imperial
students are likely to be earning this
kind of money by the time they reach
their thirties? My guess is, quite a few.
In the US alone, this would raise over
$450 billion - well over double that re-
quired to reach the UN’s Millennium
Development Goals (and that’s not in-
cluding the amount already promised
by government) to eradicate extreme
poverty.
But while poverty fighting salaries of
£65,000 are a long time in the future for
us students, there is still much that we
can do.
Getting involved in the many chari-
ties on campus is a great start. Extreme
poverty is arguably the last great evil
left for mankind to face down. With
the right will from both government
and citizen it can be done and as I hope
is shown above, tackling it is not just a
moral obligation but entirely practical
and painless.
Are your shoes worth more than a child’s life?
Rory Fenton spends his summers teaching English to Kenyan orphans - do YOU?
RoryFenton
RoryFenton

