11
felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
In
brief
A
nd it’s here, the last issue
of this year and the last
felix Nathan and I are
science editors for. After
taking a break from felix
for several weeks due to exams
and such like, I had one final
opportunity to get an ar-
ticle printed as science
editor. After a four
week break,
you would
have thought
that would be plenty
enough time to come
up with an utterly
amazing idea. Some kind
of thoroughly researched
feature with a whimsical interview,
flashy graphics and a show-stopping
title. But no, nothing, not a sausage. I
couldn’t even think of anything to rant
about in typical column style where I
could bombard you with my opinion
about something you really don’t give
a damn about and would stop read-
ing after 100 words. (Though I doubt
you're still here even now.) The only
thing I can think of is that
the whole summer term
in its revision-filled glory
has turned my mind to
mush and banished any
amount of creativity
that was doubtfully
lurking in there in
the first place.
Science, I think, is
one of the most diffi-
cult subjects to write about.
You only have to thumb through the
Daily Mail - not quite sure why you
would - or The Sun - again, especially
On writing ‘Science’ - a half
arsed rant
Science Editor
when you have such a high quality paper
distributed around college for free every
Friday - to see what a crap job they do of
it and some of the rubbish that passes as
‘science news’ (though, strictly speak-
ing, this column can’t really pass
for either of those terms.)
As is well documented by
several stand-up come-
dians, the Mail would
have us all avoiding
artificial light and
water for fear of de-
veloping cancer. (In-
terestingly, they claim
gardens, grapefruit, sex
and electricity both cause
and prevent cancer – talk
aboutadilemma.)Socheers
for anyone who wrote for the
section this year and sorry
we can't pay you.
Although, saying this,
Kadhim just brought in
a copy of The Sun: ‘As
followers of Pascal have
found, everything in the
universe has a non-zero
probability except for ab-
surdities. And absurdity is
a phenomenon with-
out a valid math-
ematical relation.’
Eh?! THE SUN!?!?
All in all it’s been
a good year for the
science section with ar-
ticles on laser diet treat-
ments and the use of horse
placenta fluid in injury
treatment featuring among
the covered topics. Of course we
got heavily involved with following the
W
elcome to the end
of the academic
year, the end of an
arduous, tumultu-
ous, rewarding and
life-defining year, something which
you'll always look back on with fond-
ness. Or maybe not. In fact, probably
not. You may find that you're so worn
out from exam season and all the as-
sociated shit that you built onto it that
you'll need 3 months to recover by do-
ing absolutely nothing. Typical, just
typical.
Back in my first issue in October I
told you not to become a typical Im-
perial student. I told you to not follow
the stereotype and actually go and do
something different outside the realm
of your immediate sphere, but here
you are, the typical exhausted end of
year student with nothing else going
on in your life. But who am I to look
down my nose at you? I'm just a lowly
science editor with no right to dictate
terms, surely? Wrong. I know better,
and I know how you should be living
your life. End of.
Anyway, to other matters. We've
tried to bring you quite a lot this year
in our section. Some weeks, Brigette
and I have neglected to offer you any
pearls of wisdom due to reasons such
as "work", "other commitments" and
"being a second year physicist OMG
IT'S SO HARD", but most of the time
we have endeavoured to take time out
of our lives to create something origi-
nal, interesting, witty and sometimes
opinionated. It is something that I
hope you have enjoyed reading occa-
sionally, because it's been a fantastic
thing to be responsible for, mostly due
to the creative and imaginative skills it
has forced me to harness as well as the
influence and power at my disposal.
Occasionally people (boring, pedantic,
losers-at-life I can only assume?) have
written in complaining about certain
things that have been published, but
most feedback has been positive. It’s
tradition to end on a lighter note in
the final edition of the year, but we’ve
maintained a degree of integrity and
honour the whole time and don’t see it
right to ruin our hard work with one
slack issue. By way of a compromise,
one of the stories below is false, the
other is true. Enjoy.
But to conclude, and let this be my
parting shot, so what if I, myself may
come out with a terrible, career in-
hibiting degree in a couple of weeks
time? I’ve tried damn hard, but just as
importantly I’ve maintained a perspec-
tive, and a view of what it’s like to actu-
ally be a normal human being, unlike
the majority of the Imperial populace.
Even if bad news does come my way, I
can freely say my whole time at Impe-
rial hasn’t been a waste, not at all.
It would, however, be a complete lie
to say that this place is the dogs bol-
locks. It’s not. For the most part, Im-
perial attracts the wrong sort of people
(dull, boring nobodies who have had
it all on a plate), gives them the wrong
things to do, and makes it too easy for
people to come out the other side and
graduate as insular, nervous, quivering
wrecks. I’ll most definitely look back
upon my time fondly (to a point), but
really? There’s a whole world out there
you know, and maybe that’s something
you should think about before you
come back next year.
Wot u lookin’ at?
NathanLey
NathanLey Science Editor
court
case between Simon
Singh and the Brit- ish
Chiropractic Association (boo-
hiss) - that was at least four weeks of
material right there. We also highlight-
ed the problem surrounding libel tour-
ism and its effect on science writers
being able to make public scientifically
true, if reputation damaging, informa-
tion. We had an entirely unexpected
response to our call for writers for
the Green Week edition, with ten
articles sent in over the space of
one week (trust me, that’s lots!),
covered the second attempt
to switch on the LHC and
Hubble’s 20th birthday. So,
busy times!
Like I said, I’m fresh out
of ideas and need a summer
break to clear my head of
mulch and cobwebs. But,
hey, we filled the space
once more and there’s
a science page for the
first time in a couple
of weeks!
Oh yeh, the ran-
dom pictures? Not
just essentials for any
lairy summer weekender
- they all give you cancer also. Don’t
say you weren’t warned - flip flops are
truly evil.
On Wednesday new plans to combat the increasing problem
of global climate change got the go-ahead from the new
coalition government. The Nimbus 2000 project will see the
construction of two large ‘dehumidifying’ machines set to be
placed above the English Channel and the Atlantic. The so-
called ‘Cloud-Creators’ will extract excess water vapour from
above the sea surface, condense the water to liquid using
electricity generated by inbuilt solar panels and produce
clouds. The Creators stretch 9km into the sky and will increase
the high-level cloud content of the atmosphere thus increasing
the planetary albedo and allowing for an increased reflection of incoming solar radiation.
The whole project will cost £26million and take five years to construct. Early computer
simulationsshowthattheNimbus2000projectcouldcooltheUKbyover15degrees-conditions
not seen in this part of the globe since the last ice-age. Dr Rob Green, the brains behind the
concept, stated ‘We hope this will revolutionise how we perceive and tackle climate change. I
want the UK to act as a small ‘cool - box’ which will gradually lower the temperature of the rest
of the Earth over a longer period of time.’
The idea has been met with much enthusiasm by the public. Stacey, 21, Luton commented ‘It’s
really good idea and we need to stop the sea levels rising because things are dying.’ However, the
Nimbus 2000 has been a cause for concern for many animal rights activist groups who claim the
machines will disrupt the flight patterns of seagulls and may pose a danger to them should they
fly into the machines. The first phase of the development is scheduled to begin later this year.
‘Cloud-Creator’ gets go-ahead
The Daily Mail has this week reported findings
from its new research laboratories in Happy Valley
- Goose Bay, that the humble black Labrador has
properties that make it an ideal candidate to
be the first official “Parkinson’s disease cure”.
They claim that the degenerative disorder can be
reversed, and in 99.99% of cases cure the patient
completely. How does it work? Well, evidence has
yet to be released from the somewhat secretive
and controversial institution, but it is thought
that the curative effect can be induced by simply
stroking the animal whilst it sits next to the patient with a bone in mouth (assuming
one’s hand can be kept still for long enough).
The skeptics are already out in force to condemn the findings. Distinguished
restaurateur Zheng Wong from the “Chinese Official Chowing-on-dogs Kollection”
(COCK) dismissed the findings as “absolute wubbish”. He continued “these things,
they need to be eaten not worshipped. You saw what happened when the Hindu’s
started worshipping the cow, they stopped eating the besets meat of them all and their
lives have been worse ever since!”.
Despite the fact that the evidence has yet to be released, Labrador lovers have
embraced the findings, stating “we knew this all along, I mean, how can one breed
of dog be so handsome, functional and loving without having at least one curative
function”. We’ll let the jury decide.
Labrador saves the day...again!
Brigette Atkins
Brigette Atkins

