13
felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
I
n days gone past, the front row
was the place to be – the most
expensive and exclusive tick-
ets, the tickets that showed you
had power and position in the
world. In short, theatre-seating hier-
achy was simple. The closer you were
to the front, the more important you
were. I guess this has something to do
with being closest to the stage (and
supposedly having the best view) as
well as being closest to the stars.
So what has changed? Most front
rows are now taken up by loudmouth
teenagers with no theatre dress sense
(I once saw a girl wearing a t-shirt and
not much else). I think this progres-
sion is twofold (or maybe three if I can
think straight!) and its results also give
the appearance of ouroboros: that of
a snake biting its tail – or in theatre
terms, well we'll get to that later.
Over the years, set designs have be-
come vaster if not more imaginative. In
the sixties and seventies we saw some
of the most amazing designs such as
the set of Grind that completely rotated
between scenes to show the inside and
outside of a club. A pioneer of outland-
ish set design was Eugene Lee, one of my
favourite set designers if only for the way
his sets perfectly set the atmosphere of
a play. Among his crazy ideas was a pro
Fuck the Tate Modern, we can draw too
Lucy Harrold takes out four years worth of anger and sarcasm on some poor unsuspecting self portraits
Alex Ashford (Music Editor) obviously took my email about ruthlessly and
scathingly critiquing these pictures seriously. Look at the effort! There’s even
shading and shit. I’m impressed, I don’t think I can analyse this, I don’t even like
art.
I really don’t want to meet Elizabeth
Griffiths (Copy Editor) on a dark night
as I’ve always had a fear of people with
big heads. So I’m just going to leave
now...bye...um, yeah.
Ed Knock (Film Editor) originally gave me a picture of himself as a superhero, now I’ve got
a picture of himself with a superhero. Anyone guess who it is? Yep, saviour of the world
Barack Obama. He looks a bit scared, maybe because of Ed’s wandering hand/paw.
Yeah, thanks Az (Games Writer), what
was the fucking point? Lined paper? No
colouring in? You should be ashamed.
Although I am a fan of the blank
eyebrows and goaty beard.
Rox Middleton (Copy Editor) has gone for an “I can draw me” look, I particularly like the
Schindler’s List-esque use of red which, of course, you can’t see as I scanned these in on a
black and white copier. There’s a slight tinge of sadness there, obviously because the hair
was longing for a yellow felt tip.
This interpretation the Editor Master Dan Wan Esquire really emphasises exactly
what he is: a short chubby Chinese boy, or the effort he’s taken to ensure his hair
is absolutley perfect, even using a completely different pen! Definitely gay.
The Library - a post modernist gallery or just Rhys Davies (Catnip Editor) was
so lazy he couldn’t be arsed to use his own paper. This is a drawing of much
symbolism. Is the straight jacket an expression of his own madness or a cry for
help? And what’s with the fez?

