14 felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ARTS
F
or years now, the lead-
ing question in Modern
Art has been, “Yes, but is
it Art?” Those five words
have haunted museums and
galleries up and down the country as
people have grappled for answers, or
alternatively, suggested that answers
are merely one way of many of seeking
and expressing knowledge in a post-
colonial, post-modern, post-office so-
ciety. However, things are beginning to
change as more and more people ask
the new question on the block, “Yes,
but will it blend?”
In a drive to breathe more life into the
art world, classic works, both old and
new, are subjected to the steely jaws of
the blender to purée out the essence of
art itself. The leader of this new move-
ment, Paul Verizer, described the phi-
losophy behind it, “Art comes in many
shapes and forms and what is art varies
from person to person. The debate is
fine, noble even, but it's getting in the
way of what art should be about; mak-
ing weird shit and getting paid for it.
We're trying to recapture that element,
just when it is at risk of being lost.”
Works already transformed into
BlendArt include sculptures, installa-
tions and several of the nation's most
popular paintings. The results have
been interesting, inspiring, and in
Rhys Davies uncovers the secret movement of Blendism: famous pieces of artwork that have been blended
some cases, surprising, keeping many
a commentator on the edge of their
seat.
The mystery of the Mona Lisa's smile
was famously solved last month when
the blended product was found to have
the same consistency as a McDonald's
Happy Meal; turns out she was just
happy after all.
Other blended works include Dami-
en Hirst's ‘Mother and Child, Divided’
(which actually made quite a splendid
beef gravy) and the ‘For the Love of
God’ skull (though the diamonds did
put the blender out of comission for
a few weeks); Michelangelo's ‘David’
(which is now being touted as a power-
ful aphrodisiac) and Tracey Emin's ‘My
Bed’ (which, everyone agrees, has been
much improved by blending).
We are living in exciting times.
With so much already achieved by the
Blendism movement, what does the
future have in store? Verizer stated
that one day, he would like to blend
The Angel of the North if only he could
find a blender big enough. Work has
already begun on such a device but it is
evident the Blend-men still have a long
way to go.
On seeing the blender-in-progress,
many people are prompted to ask
themselves and those around them,
“Yes, but is it art?”
Art? Yeh, sure, sure... but will it blend?
Believe or not, the original Mona Lisa was actually blended in 1972. Mr. Bean drew the replica currently in the Louvre
Get recognised!
If you’re working with others to help your community, the Philip Lawrence Awards
Network (PLAnet) wants to hear from you!
To find out more and be in with a chance of winning a prestigious award and £1000
towards your project visit www.philiplawrenceawards.net
That’s exactly what one Imperial student did. Christina Saadalla is a past winner and
she continues to be involved in the Awards as both an Ambassador, inspiring more
young people, and in helping to shape the future of the Awards.
The awards, which commemorate the headteacher Philip Lawrence, reward and
support young people (under 21) who are taking a lead in their communities and
making a difference. Now jointly funded by the Department for Education as well as
the Home Office, the awards this year will have a wider reach than ever, with
opportunities to hear from previous winners around the country, and the recognition
of more young people through regional tier awards finalists.
From tackling issues like bullying and antisocial behaviour to building respect and
improving their environment, young people are a force for good. Last year, ten
fantastic groups of young people were rewarded for a range of inspiring work
including an anti gangs peer research project, a youth music festival, and a support
group for recent immigrants.
The 2010 awards are open now and you can apply on line.
Visit www.philiplawrenceawards.net for more information about PLAnet and how to
enter. You can also read about previous winners, watch videos of their work, and
engage with the network through Twitter and Facebook.
Philip Lawrence Awards Network

