20 felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tweet @felixcatnip
Tweet @felixcatnip
The Top Ten Drunken-Mate Photos Of The Year!!
After a number of emails – and one police inquiry, I can
confirm that that is just hand-wash. Honestly!
Some people say that snooker isn’t a man’s game. These guys decided to change that false perception. Stripping off, they engaged in a
deadly duel with all to play for. Now there’s nothing more manly than knocking some balls about with your long wooden cue.
A new entry this week. Oh sure, anyone can misplace their
trousers but the tiara gives this guy an edge.
If you’re going to curl up and vom, a toilet’s the best place to
do it. Though, maybe not when the cleaners are in there too.
Some people take an extreme approach to spilled pints, and
the prevention thereof. Don’t drop it now!
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
GOODBYEEE...
(BUT KEEP SENDING US STUFF!)
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text: 07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter:@felixcatnip
The Cat Speaks!
And since this is the last issue, I de-
cided to do something special.
Introducing, the Top Ten Drunken
Mate Photos of the Year! Fanfare and
applause. Each week, the inbox is
crammed with exhibits of drunken
tomfoolery that only Imperial students
could pull-off. The laughter rings out
loud and long down here in the felix of-
fice as we sift through the photos.
That’s all I have to say. You all have
a great summer now, and remember,
if you happen to have one too many
Pimm’s, make sure there’s a camera
nearby.
Love, Catnip.
H
ello there!
I don’t often get a chance
to write anything here but
they’ve finally decided to
let the cat out of the bag.
Firstly, I want to say a massive
THANK YOU to everyone who sent
something in in the past year, be it a
simple one-line text to a picture of
your mates at their most wasted. felix
is built on student contributions and
nowhere is this more true than Catnip.
If it weren’t for you, this page would
be blank every week...and I’d be out of
work. I’d have to go back to studying
for my degree – and that’s a terrifying
thought!
10. 9. 8.
7. 6.

