23
felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk TECHNOLOGY
WikiLeaks - Freedom of
Information’s Greatest Asset
Feroz Salam looks at the Whistleblower’s best friend and every government’s enemy
W
here would you go
if you had a govern-
ment secret that you
felt needed publishing?
Just as there’s a wiki for encyclopaedia
articles and another for dictionary en-
tries, you might want to try the wiki for
whistleblowers and activists, Wikile-
aks. Among its eclectic collection of
leaks are a manual on the ‘Boomerang’
method of sniper location, a descrip-
tion of FBI methods for mobile phone
tapping, a full list of British postcodes
and a roster of BNP members. Their
website describes their mission as pro-
viding ‘a multi-jurisdictional public
service designed to protect whistle-
blowers, journalists and activists who
ments that would otherwise be covered
up. The problem is that along with this
growth has come the inevitable rise in
the number of people looking to shut
the site down and quickly. Wikileaks
hasn’t helped its cause by being exactly
the impartial publisher it claims to be,
publishing articles from all areas of
the political spectrum without bias to-
wards any particular political philoso-
phy. Apart from true free speech activ-
ists, this has meant the site has found it
hard to make any real allies, something
they may desperately need as the site
seeks to expand its reach.
Shrouded in secrecy
Shrouded in secrecy
have sensitive materials to communi-
cate to the public.’ For a website that
has little funding, Wikileaks has shown
a remarkable ability to stay in the head-
lines, bragging of more scoops in its 3
year lifetime than the Washington Post
has had in 30. Yet how long the website
will be able to survive is questionable,
as it is hounded by governments and
corporations that often come with the
power to switch off servers, confiscate
documents and launch major legal
battles - weighty financial burdens on
a site that survives largely on dona-
tions and awards from human rights
activists.
Theterribleandthegruesome
Theterribleandthegruesome
For a website that believes in open-
ness and transparency, Wikileaks itself
is shrouded in secrecy. Ostensibly to
protect the identities of the network
behind the website, the only face that
has associated itself with the website
has been that of the founder, Julian
Assange. Even Assange is a figure of
much mystery, a former computer
hacker turned activist - who, during
the incubation period of Wikileaks has
been described as “frequently forget-
ting to eat or sleep, writing mathemati-
cal formulas all over the walls and the
doors”. A mathematics student who
grew disaffected by the amount of re-
search being done at his college for the
American Department of Defence, As-
sange has channelled his efforts into
human rights and anti-censorship
movements, working on software
while campaigning for global privacy
rights. Wikileaks has been his biggest
success to date and while the organi-
sation is still struggling financially, it’s
maintained a steady stream of headline
grabbing leaks that have caused uproar
in the mainstream media.
Sources at risk
Sources at risk
The biggest of these was the recent
publishing of classified American mili-
tary footage of a helicopter gunship
firing on Iraqi civilians in cold blood,
a horrific video that only served the
emphasise the case for Wikileaks’ ex-
istence. Apart from the gruesome and
bloody, the collection of documents
that Wikileaks has amassed in 3 years
is astounding. The site offers nearly a
million articles ranging from Church
of Scientology manuals to the guide
for standard operating procedures at
Guantanamo Bay and therefore has be-
come an invaluable collection of docu-
The toll of maintaining and updating
the website is beginning to become ob-
vious. After three years of maintaining
strict secrecy about the identities of its
informants, American intelligence ser-
vices were able to detain an informant,
Army analyst Bradley Manning. Aside
from the fact that Manning seems to
have been a steady source of informa-
tion for them, this will come as a ma-
jor blow for Wikileaks as it will mean
that other informants will be much
less likely to trust the website to pro-
tect their identities in the face of an
investigation, even though Manning
was turned over to the FBI by another
hacker. As I write this article, there
are reports that Wikileaks is attempt-
ing to publish 260,000 classified cables
between American diplomats and of-
ficials in the Middle East, and that the
Pentagon has launched a manhunt to
detain Julian Assange before he man-
ages to upload the cables. The only
comment from Wikileaks on this issue
has been on their Twitter stream sim-
ply to say that ‘it looks like we’re about
to be attacked by everything the US
has’ and ‘Any signs of unacceptable be-
haviour by the Pentagon towards this
press will be viewed dimly’.
Is automation the future?
Is automation the future?
This comes at a time when there
has been much talk about Wikileaks
expanding from the central Assange-
based system into a set of autonomous
units that operate across the globe.
The purpose of such a system would be
to reduce the dependency on Assange
and his team to maintain the website,
while simultaneously increasing the
amount of material they publish. Yet
there are many risks to such a plan, and
it is doubtful whether Wikileaks will be
able to organise a secure, multinational
network of Wikileaks cells. The most
obvious risk is closure and detention
by various national governments, but
aside from that there’s also the ques-
tion of whether Wikileak’s finances
will be able to sustain expansion of any
sort. With its greater size, there also
comes the question of how they will
monitor what gets published and what
doesn’t. With Assange not monitoring
everything, there will have to be some
method to maintain neutrality and
prevent political agendas from seeping
into the website.
Wikileaks is vital for the work it does,
and there’s no doubt that a great repos-
itory of important information will be
lost if Wikileaks were to go down for-
ever. Yet, considering the nature of the
work they are doing, it’s unfortunately
likely that it’s only a matter of time
before something happens that either
permanently shuts the website down
or fundamentally alters its purpose. I
hope to be proved wrong and Wikile-
aks has shown an astonishing ability
to bounce back from setbacks. But in
pitting various national governments
against a few men with limited re-
sources, I don’t know many who would
bet money on Wikileaks surviving out
the year
Check out what all the commotion
is for yourself at WikiLeaks.org
“Even Assange is
a figure of much
mystery, a former
computer hacker
turned activist”
I
n a surprise press conference
called at Apple’s headquarters in
Cupertino, California, early on
Thursday morning, Apple an-
nounced that they would be releasing
a new 4G version of the iPhone “before
the end of July”. The announcement
came just days after the release of pre-
orders of the fourth generation iPhone
model, which had broken all sales ex-
pectations with pre-orders selling out
in both the US and the UK, leaving
both critics and fans stunned.
The new phone boasts many new
features over the iPhone 4, primar-
ily a 4G modem replacing the slower
3G chip. Critics have claimed this is
a move to combat the increasing mo-
mentum that HTCs EVO 4G Android
smartphone is gaining. The fun doesn’t
stop there however, as the iPhone 4G
sports a new third camera unusually
positioned on the top of the case to
make the device easier to use when
walking, by allowing users to watch out
for obstacles in the background whilst
still staring down at their phone. The
device also comes with a localised hair
trimmer for emergency touch-ups to
beards and nose hair, and a glue gun
to facilitate the repair of plastic glass-
es. Apple said the new features were
designed to appeal to the ‘core Mac
market’, and also announced that the
release of a new app, the ‘Pretentiom-
eter,’ which alerts users when they’ve
become too mainstream.
In a bold move, Apple announced
simplified pricing for the ‘revolution-
ary’ new device, which will retail at 499
regardless of what currency you’re us-
ing. Purchasers in the US will obvious-
ly get a bargain at $499, compared to
the €499 in Europe and £499 in rip-off
Britain. To maintain the price differ-
ence, Apple also revealed that on top of
the carrier lock to AT&T in the US, de-
vices are now ‘region-locked’ and can
no longer be imported or brought back
from overseas. This also means that if
you wish to travel with an iPhone 4G,
you will have to buy one from each
region, or in some cases country, that
you intend to visit. More details of the
new model are expected to emerge af-
ter the Electronic Entertainment Expo
(E3) in the coming weeks. ;)
STOP
THE
PRESS
iPhone 4G
Unveiled
to Stunned
Press
ByS.Worthington

