27
felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk FOOD
La Ratatouille’s simple yet classy interior adds to the gastronomic experience
Restaurant Review: La Ratatouille
T
here are just some days
when your body and pal-
ate yearn for some qual-
ity grub derived from our
neighbours from across the
Channel. This kind of day involves the
consumption of well conceived, rich
and most of all scrumptious dishes,
which, in my opinion, should not be
eaten too often. For me, these days don’t
occur to often; my palate is slightly bi-
ased towards lighter Asian cuisines, but
when these days occur, they happen in
a big way. I go for the richest, heaviest,
most tummy-tantalising grub I can get
my hands on. So on one such day I de-
cided to indulge most of my senses at La
Ratatouille, a little restaurant situated
a stone’s throw away from Baker Street
station. As you enter, its traditional
French façade complete with wooden
chairs and tables, alfresco dining area
and pleasant music make for an unpre-
tentious, slightly homely atmosphere
in which to dine. Alas this place not
only has the ambience for a quality din-
ing experience, it also has the food to
match.
The menu is not overly extensive, yet
is filled with the right number of French
classics as well as twists on the said which
can keep you mulling over your choices
for a wee while. For starters, myself and
a fellow diner elected to opt for an onion
soup and a Mediterranean seafood soup.
The former embodied the classic sweet
and salty flavours of this Gallic soup dish,
and was topped off with croutons and an
overly-generous layer of grilled cheese.
Pretty good stuff, but not quite up to the
Despite trying pretty hard, Chris Sim could hardly find fault with the produce of this French establishment
Finding the best Korean eateries that this town has to offer
Chris Sim definitely enjoyed this challenging quest, and here are the winners which are worthy of your custom
I
t has taken me all year, but I
think I’ve decided once and for
all. My two favourite Korean
restaurants, from very, very dif-
ferent categories. The former
is superior for a less hastily gobbled,
more formal eating occasion; whereas
the latter is great for a quick lunch.
The former in my opinion has risen to
take the mantle of London’s best Ko-
rean restaurant, whereas the latter has
always held a special place in the hearts
of Asian students throughout this city.
You might be able to guess the title of
the former, especially if I informed you
that it took that aforementioned crown
away from Ran recently. I am talking
about Arang, one of the more pricey
establishments whose higher charges
definitely are justified by the quality
of the cuisine, impeccable service and
classy ambience created by modern
Korean décor and spacious seating ar-
rangements. And not to mention com-
plimentary kimchi and beansprout
cold side dishes, which provide the
perfect method to get your stomach
acid going.
But now down to business. Their
starters are generally of high quality,
of particular note were their kimchi-
chun (kimchi pancake) and dokbokki
Food: 9.25
Value: 8.0
Service: 8.0
Ambience: 8.0
Overall: 8.5/10
standard of the latter, which oozed with
unctuous seafood notes, the origin of
which was no doubt from the shells of
prawns and lobsters. This light soup, ac-
companied by some crispily toasted crou-
tons and grated cheese, made for the per-
fect commencement to our meal.
Having had a brief rest from the con-
sumption of the entrees, the mains ar-
rived on time. We decided to opt for the
balance of a light fish dish, whole roasted
seabass with tomato and basil, and a
heavy meat concoction, braised lamb
shank with mashed potato, sundried to-
mato and garlic confit. The former was
easy one the eye, and easy on the palate
too, with the unspectacular yet clean to-
mato and basil flavours enhancing rather
than overpowering the subtle tones ema-
nating from the fresh sea-dweller. Au
contraire, the lamb shank was uber-rich,
and comprised delicately soft meat falling
off the bone, sublimely smooth mashed
potato and unctuously rich gravy packed
with lambby and rosemary-derived over-
tones, punctured by the occasional sweet-
ness of sundried tomato and mellowness
of the roasted garlic. We partnered these
dishes with the creation which gave the
restaurant its name. Not overly sweet,
this rendition of ratatouille hit all the
right spots; well cooked vegetable compo-
nents brought together by a rich tomatoey
reduction.
Despite our stomachs approaching
their fill, the delights that are French des-
serts were too tempting to miss out on.
And without doubt, La Ratatouille lived
up to the billing in this department. A re-
juvenatingly refreshing vanilla ice cream
and raspberry vacherin with red berries
sauce had all the right elements of a sum-
mer dessert: sweet, light and cooling, with
the tartness of the berries balanced by the
soothing vanilla ice cream aided by the
crunch of meringue fingers. This was the
perfect complement to an indulgent plum
and almond tart with crème anglaise,
whose plums were juicy and plump, pas-
try was baked to perfection and whose al-
mond filling was as close to velvet as one
could hope for.
Despite a slight delay in the arrival of
the starters, the overall level of service
was excellent, with all the food arriving
piping hot. The portion sizes were fair
for the price, with starters setting you
back around £5-6, mains around £13-16
and desserts around £4-5, which, con-
sidering the quality of the gastronomic
creations, generates value to such an
extent that in my opinion, you’ll be
hard pressed to find at many other mid-
ranged French eateries. And it gets bet-
ter, for us students are eligible for a 10%
discount when dining at this quality
establishment.
Beef bulgogi (barbequed beef), probably Korea’s second most famous dish
(rice dough sticks with fish cake in a
sweet and spicy sauce). The former
had a crisp exterior, soft batter interior
with interludes of crunchy kimchi and
onion, brought together by a slightly
sweetened soy dipping sauce. The lat-
ter consisting of not-too-heavy rice
sticks and richly flavoured fish cakes,
married by a wonderfully spicy yet sub-
tly sweet chilli sauce, with a few back-
ground notes to the tune of seafood, is
one dish to really get your tastebuds
racing. At this point I’d recommend
trying some more exciting starters,
such as yukhwe, raw beef strips with
pear, egg yolk and sesame seeds. This
is a delightfully light and sweet dish,
yet with the salivating satisfaction of
being composed of high quality beef.
For mains, a traditional Korean bar-
beque should definitely be on any din-
er’s wishlist when visiting Arang. Their
beef bulgogi is not just packed with
sesame overtones, it comes accompa-
nied with spring onions and wrap it in
lettuce, a more authentic touch not of-
ten seen at Arang’s counterpart estab-
lishments. Another cow-derived dish
is their galbi (beef short ribs), again
marinated in a sesame and soybased
sauce, but whose meat firmer than
that of bulgogi yet is divinely richer in
meaty notes. And don’t worry about
leaving with that barbeque smell en-
grained in your hair, for an extractor-
fan type device more than adequately
deals with those aromatic odours.
Korean food lovers out there should
of course be able to name the latter,
it is, of course, that little restaurant
with an everpresent queue of Asian
students standing outside, Assa. Its
charmingly overcrowded feel, espe-
cially when seated close to the kitchen
steaming with heavenly aromas, gives
it a slightly homely touch. Service is
brisk, and top quality, simple one dish
meals are incredibly moreish. Take for
example their pork and vegetables in
spicy sauce with rice, so simple, but
packed full of flavour and is a truly
moreish treat. Their hotpots (vari-
ety of meat, seafood or vegetables in a
spicy broth) are also tasty, though not
altogether suitable for those whose
gastro-intestinal tract is slightly chilli
averse. Other dishes that are worth a
try are yukejung (spicy beef soup) and
their kimchicun.

