34 felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SPORT
Ponies, sticks, sunshine and silverware
With exams hitting our polo teams
hard this summer it was a somewhat
diminished crowd that arrived at Off-
church Bury Polo Club for the Akuma
Universities Polo Nationals. With most
of our Novices stuck with their revi-
sion for the weekend we were pinning
all our hopes for a strong result on this
year’s batch of new players in the Be-
ginner Section.
On the first day of the tournament
we emerged from our tents with vary-
ing levels of fatigue; not all due to
drinking. But with plenty of time to
wake up and get ready before matches
started we even had time for a quick
shopping trip and a little cricket before
we had to deal with the now traditional
stress of ponies arriving late, getting
lost or breaking down on the journey.
Fortunately myself and Jon Mat-
thews had no matches on Friday so
could sort things out as much as possi-
ble before our Beginners 2nd team had
their first match late in the afternoon.
With Flora stuck in the exam hall one
of our first team members had to sub
in, but Muhammad really helped Mi-
kaela and Giuseppe out in their first
ever competitive chukka [match].
The team played really well.
Giuseppe in particular showed just
how much you can pick up your game
when the pressure is on and really got
into hassling the opposition for the
ball; hooking their swings and riding
them off to spoil their attacking plays.
The net result, a win for the B2s and
a great start to our nationals, and with
the arrival of our few stragglers that
evening we were all in high spirits for
the start of play on Saturday where
everyone would be playing two match-
es on our busiest day.
Saturday started somewhat earlier
and all at the same time. Jon and I,
playing in the combined [mixed] di-
vision revisited an old grudge match,
playing on opposing teams. In one of
the fastest and most fun matches I’ve
ever played I finally managed to get a
little revenge and turn the tables on
Jon after he won at the winter nation-
als. Unfortunately my elation was short
lived as we were both sorely trounced
by the other team in our group, some
small recompense being gained by the
fact that they went on to win in the
final.
The Beginners too didn’t get the
start they wanted for the day. Having
to play at the same time as us on the
opposite pitch meant a lot of stress as
five people tried to mount their ponies
at the same time. The addition of Flora
to the team meant a very different feel
and shape to the team and perhaps the
team needed a little more time to set-
tle into that new shape as they were
unable to play quite at their best and
couldn’t match that 1st round victory
in the 2nd round.
After a short gap our 1st team
mounted up for their first match in
the Beginner 1 division. We had high
hopes this year since we knew Mu-
hammad and Thijs have a big hit on
them that was unlikely to be matched
by other teams in their division and
Charles was there to add some extra
consistency and security in position
number 2, but I think it’s fair to say
that they themselves piled the heaviest
of expectations on, eager to show how
good they really are at the end of only
one year of training.
Perhaps it was this that showed in
their play, all seeming a little tense in
their first match. Their opponents
managed to gain a couple of good
breaks and everything seemed quite
even for a time. Those big swings
though and the confidence to really at-
tack the ball eventually proved telling
though and the Beginners were able as
the match progressed to assert their
dominance despite a few little slips and
misses.
They came away with a great result
to build on as the initial tension start-
ed to release and they went forward
to their second match knowing that
if they played to their full ability then
they were in a very strong position.
Their next couple of matches though
were to be against two of the tourna-
ment favourites, particularly Warwick
who have the advantage of being on
home ground and are often able to
train several times in a week. And, in
contrast, due to the weather leading up
to the nationals the teams were only
able to get out to play on the fields
once or twice and so were at a real
disadvantage in terms of experience
of the larger, faster, summer version of
the game.
The Warwick match seemed to fol-
low a similar pattern to the first and
we were all a little surprised at how
easily our B1s were able to stamp their
mark on the match against a team we
all expected to be challenging them
hard. Again it didn’t all go Imperial’s
way and a few little fouls crept in again
and allowed Warwick to get a slight
foothold in the game, but for the sec-
ond time the big swings and pace of
our Beginners proved too much to
defend against and once their forward
momentum got going it proved impos-
sible for Warwick to stop.
The B2s were also up to face a War-
wick team in their final chukkas. A 2
chukka match across Saturday and
Sunday. We were really impressed with
the way the team were playing togeth-
er, all of them playing some of the best
polo we’ve seen from them.
Giuseppe showed that his increase in
confidence in the first chukka was not
a one off. Flora, generally one of our
quietest players, seemed to pop up in
support of the other two at every play.
And Mikaela, who has picked up the
game only since finishing competing
in BUCS for our riding team, showed
how consistent and reliable she’s be-
come as a player in so little time.
Unfortunately, despite stepping up
their game significantly the team were
only able to manage to hold Warwick
Alex Savell Polo
to a narrow victory, keeping them in
touch with their opponents and in
with a shot in the second half on Sun-
day morning.
It was the B1s that drew the really
short straw though, their Third match
slipped off the end of Saturday’s pro-
ceedings and was rescheduled for
Sunday morning at ten to ten meaning
they were the ones unable to really en-
joy the players party on Saturday night.
A marquee, a DJ, a bar and a couple
of hundred polo players makes for an
interesting evening and there were
more than a few embarrassed faces
the following morning and a few angry
glares at those teams choosing to drive
around a field full of sleeping students
at 4 am, blaring out music and waking
half the field up.
So it was slightly bleary eyed that the
B1s made their way to the ponies on
Sunday morning. But that didn’t seem
to bother them too much once they
took to the pitch. This match seemed
to have less periods of flowing play
than the others, a few fouls on each
side kept the play to shorter bursts and
inconsistent spot hits from both teams
could have cost either side a goal if the
other could capitalise.
It was us that managed to though
and a couple of great spot hits from
Muhammad led to some great chanc-
es. One in particular pushed just wide
as Thijs headed to goal at pace in par-
ticular led to a missed hit out from the
opposition and was probably the pivot-
al point in the match. Leaving the B2s
to face Newcastle in the final.
Both my chukkas followed directly
after Jon’s in our playoffs in the com-
bined. All of these were hard fought
and had some great moments, but
where Jon’s team managed to beat his
opponents in the first chukka and hold
them to a stalemate in the second the
results for me were reversed, going
down 2-0 in the first and unable to
break a stalemate in the second leav-
ing Jon and I 5th and 4th respectively
in our division.
The B2s also had a mountain to
climb in their second chukka, needing
to put 2 past Warwick to get a victory.
Unfortunately, it was not to be and de-
spite Giuseppe’s growing confidence
little things meant they never quite
got the break they needed to get a goal
yet they also managed a very respect-
able 0-0 draw in their final chukka, just
loosing on aggregate.
So we all waited with anticipation for
the Beginner 1s, crossing our fingers
and wondering whether they could ac-
tually bring home the trophy. Right at
the end of the day they took to the field
for the final time against the blue shirts
of Newcastle. I know my heart was in
my mouth as the first play of the match
got underway and Newcastle quickly
managed to counter a first break by
our beginners, perhaps the first team
to really be able to keep up with our
B1s and mount some kind of defence
against them.
True to form though, the B1s
stepped up their play. Suddenly they
weren’t able to go it alone and unchal-
lenged but they were there in support
of one another and quickly a couple of
massive goals from 40 or 50 yards were
scored and Newcastle finally collapsed
and conceded two more making us
the champions with a convincing 4-0
victory.
A happy bunch of polo players with their trophies - but what did the horses get?
ICU Riding and Polo put on a very impressive performance in the summer nationals with trophies aplenty
A specimen of horse, in no doubt highly sought after by Furse

