35
felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
SPORT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Hit the waves, boyo - Surfsoc in Wales
Leaving the Union on Friday 11th June
at an ever punctual 4:45 pm SurfSoc
embarked on its final trip of the aca-
demic year to Rhossili Bay in Wales.
The tiny village of Rhossili, located near
Swansea, is a hidden gem amongst the
more popular surfing hotspots such as
Newquay and Croyde and has proven
to be a great place to enjoy post exam
celebrations with the club.
Even with surf forecasts predicting
less than favourable conditions, the
general vibe on the bus was ‘totally
psyched’, with sheer enthusiasm pro-
viding the driving force. The Surfsoc
Freshers were keen to pick up on our
weekend traditions, as Ellie seized the
opportunity to drop the milk and leave
us all wondering why we don’t just let
Jamie carry it. The Welsh banter con-
tinued as we met the elderly couple
who ran the hostel, who said they’d get
our keys ‘now in a minute’.
Waking up on Saturday the great
weather allowed us to appreciate the
location of the hostel, an old Lifeboat
House, as we ate breakfast looking out
on the Gower and Port Eynon beach.
After a short drive we met with the surf
school in Rhossilli at 10 am, but were
disappointed to see the lack of waves
that the forecasts had been predicting
all week. On the plus side the condi-
tions were ideal for beginners, of which
there were five novices, all of whom
keenly jumped into their wetsuits to
get started with their lesson. Not ones
to be fazed by the less than ideal state of
affairs or waste a weekend by the coast
the rest of the crew zipped up and wad-
ed out into the water to try their luck.
After some lunch and a game of beach
cricket the surf picked up with the high
tide and most of the group headed
back in for an afternoon session, be-
fore heading back to Port Eynon to get
the evening meal underway. Commit-
tee member Alex Karvelas fired up the
barbeque beside the seafront to cap
off a relaxing day in South Wales. Af-
ter many burgers/sausages/bananas,
and feeling pretty beached we headed
to the local pub to catch the England
game, which won’t be spoken of here. A
few drinks later and not wanting to be
in poor condition for the next day the
group got in a solid 4 hours sleep before
the morning wake-up call.
Sunday morning started off grey
and overcast but brightened up con-
siderably once the bus reached the
cliffs. Surfing conditions were much
improved from Saturday with regular
sets rolling in on the 2mile long sandy
beach. With the sun holding out we
were able to surf all morning with some
pretty nice rides to be had. The morn-
ing’s surf provided a nice end to the trip
and with the sun slowly creeping away
from sight the team followed suit and
headed to the local inn for the Sunday
carvery in preparation for the 5 hour
journey home.
SurfSoc bade farewell to the valleys
just as the heavens gave way to the in-
famous Welsh rain. The return journey
was a more laid back affair but one with
quiet satisfaction (or so I believe). Al-
though the surf wasn’t as brilliant as it
could have been the sunshine and am-
bience made up for it and resulted in a
thoroughly enjoyable weekend.
Tabby Mirza Surfing
Forget the World Cup - try the Wimbledon sweepstakes
Robert Bush Tennis
The English summer has arrived and
with it, as always, Wimbledon! After
a very unpredictable and surprising
AEGON championship at the Queen’s
Club and at the Halle Club in Germany
where Federer was beaten by Hewitt,
the winner of Wimbledon this year will
prove very hard to predict.
However, the Imperial College Ten-
nis Club is offering the chance to win
an ATP tennis T-shirt or towel if you
predict the right player (male or fe-
male) to win Wimbledon.
***
This is how it will work:
Email lawn.tennis@imperial.ac.uk
with your intention to enter;
you will receive one of the top 16
seeds selected by random (1 male play-
er and 1 female) OR you can select an
unseeded player of your choice or a 16-
32 seeded player.
***
Can’t get away from the vuvuzelas and the En-ger-land chants but want some summer sport? Tennis Club has the answer for you!
That’s not all -how about a bit of
Summer Tennis?
This summer, football will prob-
ably take centre stage but nevertheless
there will be the usual flock of people
blowing the dust of their tennis rackets
and catching some summer sun while
chilling out on the tennis court.
The tennis club is offering a half
price discount for summer member-
ship. At only £15 you will recover the
costs after playing just twice! The club
supplies the balls, rackets and organ-
ises opponents of a similar standard.
We already have 4 sessions booked in
June and courts are still available. You
can pay for membership at www.impe-
rialcollegeunion.org/lawn-tennis-157/
category.html after which you will au-
tomatically receive your username and
password to book courts. Then go to
www.union.ic.ac.uk/tennis to book
your court!
So if you have an internship, live in
London or are still studying join now
to secure courts for June, July, August
and September and emulate Andy
Murray’s (possible) success at this
year’s All-England Championships.
Apparently this is in Wales. If I gave two shits I would go further to dispute this claim. But I don’t so I won’t. T’isn’t half bad though
Let me know if ANYBODY partakes in this comp featured by this highly enthralling form of faux-gambling. Actually, don’t.

