4 FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
FELIX
FELIX
The world beyond
College walls ...
A
merican builder Gary Faulkner was arrested in
Chitral, Pakistan, a remote, mountainous region,
while equipped with night vision goggles, large
sword, pistol, dagger, wire ties, and Bibles during his at-
tempt to find an Apple store with iPads in stock. Faulkn-
er has kidney problems and must undergo dialysis every
other day. After intensive interviews and psychiatric
evaluations, Pakistan police stated, “The doctor told us
he has some psychological problems but said he is not a
mad man.” Instead, they concluded that he felt that Ap-
ple “was not doing enough” to get iPads in stock in his
local Colorado Apple Store and set out to do something
about it because Hamas refuses to agree to tenets set
by international members of the peace process including
Europe, Russia, and the U.S.
Pakistan
An embarrass-
ing Brown end
Ashley Brown, who had spent an ex-
traordinary 81 years at Imperial as a stu-
dent, was found lying naked in his office
in Beit Quad late last night by a shocked
Deputy President John James. Despite
performing oral resuscitation Mr James
was unable to revive Mr Brown or his
flagging erection. He was rushed to
Charing Cross hospital where he was
declared dead at 03:34 am. Reports that
his body was desecrated by drunk med-
ics are unconfirmed.
It is believed that Ashley was engaged
in auto-erotic asphyxiation but it will
not be known for certain until a post-
mortem examination is conducted.
Early medical tests show the presence
of branded super sexual-stimulant, Un-
ion Policy. It is a substance chemically
similar to viagra, but it is said to contain
dangerous levels of methyl-boringum
and phenyl-uselessness.
Mr Brown first came to Imperial as a
fresher in 1939 and during his time as an
undergraduate, postgraduate, PhD stu-
dent, Live! Editor and Union President
had won respect for his honesty and
can-do attitude.
“Who would have thought eh?” said a
guy we met in the pub, “Ashley Brown, a
fucking pervert.”
Continued from Front Page His colleagues echoed those senti-
ments telling felix “Ashley was an in-
spiration to us all but I guess he wasn’t
quite right in the head”
Deputy President John James how-
ever slammed his colleagues for their
intolerance. In a call from the North
African coast he said “Who cares if he
liked to choke himself while he played
the fiddle. What people do in their own
time is their own business. And to be
honest, he had a look of ecstasy on his
face so maybe he was on to something
after all.”
Mr Brown was a mere four weeks
away from completing his year as Presi-
dent, a year he described as one of the
“greatest and proudest achievements”
of his life. This proclamation came after
he claimed he was dictated by astrol-
ogy into becoming President last year.
“Well, I showed those stars who’s their
Daddy, now!” he exclaimed at Union
Council last week.
Brown’s extraordinary behaviour had
become increasingly erratic in the lat-
ter days of his Presidency. He reportedly
drew up plans to construct a nuclear
bunker in Beit Quad before his clinical
advisors reassured him that World War
II was “well and truly over”. Mr. Brown
has been regularly seen crying over the
damaged walls of the Victoria & Albert
Museum where chip marks from the
Blitz bombings were preserved to com-
memorate London’s resilience under
adversity. It was an adversity Brown
experienced first-hand as he hid in the
catacombs of the Museum itself as a
small child.
Although unconfirmed, leaks from
Imperial College Health Centre suggest-
ed that Mr. Brown was suffering from
schizophrenia, and that his personality
had become split between a mad-cap
President of a faltering student Union
and a Robin Island- incarcerated Nelson
Mandela.
The tragic news is especially poignant
as he had plans to marry his sweetheart
in the Union this summer. OK! maga-
zine revealed last month that his fiancé
was unhappy at hosting the wedding in
Beit Quad, stating the Union’s catering
service was “like something from a hor-
rible boring nightmare”.
Plans have already been drawn up to
commemorate Mr Brown and the work
that he did for the Union and students
in general. Proposals are said to include
a day of mourning, a special concert in
the Great Hall and perhaps, a giant ice
sculpture of Mr Brown on the Queens
Lawn. The initial sketches for the statue
show Mr Brown with a manic grin and a
suspiciously tight tie around his neck...
Sordid . . . very sordid things found on Brown’s desk
B
P’s unilateral revenge of the BostonTea Party con-
tinued once again this week, spilling oil all over
American sunbathers, holiday resorts and wildlife.
The move was seen as revenge for the East India Compa-
ny’s tea spilt by Bostonians in 1773. In a Oval Office tel-
evision address, his first, U.S. President Obama received
mixed reviews when he asked, “Can’t the British get
over this already? It’s been over 300 years since the Tea
Party.” Meanwhile, two newspapers, both owned by the
same company, debated over which country’s pensioners
would be hit hardest by BP’s stock market decline. The
Sun seemed to convincingly defeat the New York Post
in the debate: BP is 40% British-owned, as opposed to
39% American-owned. A new controversy raged due
to idiomatic confusion after BP chairman Carl-Henric
Svanberg, a Swede, mistakenly said, “We care about
the small people.” Those hit by the catastrophe were
offended by the use of “small” and would have preferred
the use of the word little.
USA
N
orth Korea intentionally lost its first round
World Cup match with Brazil in order to please
North Korean dictator Kim Jong-il. An ex-
clusive felix interview with a DPRK higher-up, the
first ever of its kind for this column, alerted us to the
situation. According to FELIX’s source, “Kim Jong-
il watched the film “City of God” last week, really
loved it, and wanted to say thank you to the Brazil-
ians by ensuring that his outstanding football team did
not outshine the Brazilians at their national sport.”
The match was 0-0 at the half, at which point Kim
made the order, and his team allowed Brazil to score
two goals. In the eighty-ninth minute, in a highlight
bound to be played alongside his execution on state
television for many years to come, Ji Yun-Nam scored
bringing the final score to 2-1.
N.Korea
By TOM GREANY AND HAL NEVILLE-JONES
UNION PRESIDENT DEAD IN
SOLO OFFICE SEX GAME

