5
felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
“Thank you for reading each week, and I hope
you’ve laughed, learnt and even baulked at felix
as much as I have this year.”
T
hirty issues later, and
we’ve got a full comple-
ment for this year. This,
being the thirtieth, is an
issue that seemed so long
away when I started as felix Editor
back in August 2009. It may not seem
too long ago for you, but after several
strings of sleepless nights and intensely
stressful print deadline days, it seems a
lifetime to me.
Although it might not literally have
been a lifetime since then, my Edi-
torship has certainly been a defining
phase of my time at university, if not
my life.
I’m still a mediocre Biologist fum-
bling his way through an otherwise
straightforward degree. Coming to
think of it, taking a year out to edit the
student newspaper is probably an ulti-
mate form of procrastination. Unlike
most students in sabbatical positions
within the Union, I have little interest
in Union politics; neither did I come
into this job hoping to peak the inter-
est of The Guardian or The Times. I’d
describe myself as an average student
at Imperial and really hope that has
shone through in every facet of my role
as Editor, from the pitch and direction
of the newspaper’s content to the way
I’ve approached new and returning
writers. Throughout the year, I’ve run
with stories that have been of interest
to me, and hence what I judge as of
interest to the students of Imperial. I
hope my judgement wasn’t too off tar-
get and you’ve been reading intently.
The main bone of national conten-
tion this year has been that of the
Browne Review on student finances.
Intensified by the General Election
that saw each of the three main parties
take an interestingly different stand on
tuition fees, the Browne Review’s find-
ings will be released just as we return
for a new academic year in the autumn.
The Review will be highly influential in
the Government’s plans for raising tui-
tion fees; so much so, their proposals
to lift the current £3,290 cap on fees
will most likely be executed.
Higher education looks to be an
entirely different playing field in the
coming years, and it has been up to
the current students to take a stand. I
was incredibly impressed with the Ald-
wych Group’s dedication to the cause
against the Russell Group, an admin-
istration that represents our universi-
ties and hence us. They had seemingly
refused to let those they represent see
what they were submitting to the on-
going Browne Review.
Although they claimed transpar-
ency, our own Union President took it
upon himself to march his way into the
Russell Group offices to ensure that
Group’s Browne Review submission
was released publically and promptly.
It was good to see Imperial College
Union actively involving themselves
with issues of great importance to stu-
dents beyond South Kensington. Stu-
dent activism didn’t die with a bygone
era.
The felix Editor’s relationship with
the Sabbatical Officers in the Union
is usually quite a rocky one. In previ-
ous years, Editors have gone head-
to-head with Presidents. I’ve always
found it odd that I could be slating
someone I’ve spent plenty of time be-
coming friends with, known for years,
and who sits three floors above me in
the Union Building. Luckily, this year’s
administration has been a steady ship,
captained by the born-to-be President
Ashley Brown. He’s done a good job
and stayed off our headlines, which has
helped me run with lead features and
stories that are of genuine interest to
you, rather than the tried-and-tested
‘Union does something wrong’ exposé.
As promised in my election manifes-
to, I did pick up on the Union’s failings
when needed and not unnecessarily.
Their dealing with the new bar names
astounded me. After taking a success-
ful student poll for a new bar name,
Dan Wan
Dan Wan Editor-in-Chief 2009-10
they decided to scrap the entire thing
and start over. This time, without a
poll. Democracy at its best.
Closer to home, Sir Roy Anderson’s
sudden and swift resignation threw the
felix office into an investigative frenzy.
Preparing for that issue in November
allowed us to lead with a story that was
the essence of student journalism.
The hierachy of our institution was
in turmoil, and rumours regarding why
the Rector left so quickly were bandied
around the country. The head of one
of the world’s most respective institu-
tions leaving with a dark cloud over his
head was making national news. We
even had a reporter from The Guard-
ian phone us up for extra information.
For a little while, we were ahead of the
national press on this story.
With every single person associated
with College’s governance tight-lipped,
we didn’t quite find out the real reason
why Sir Roy stepped down as Rector,
but we definitely lifted the lid on a few
things along the way.
Hopefully, lips will be loosened as
time rolls on, then we’ll finally be able
to conclude one of the biggest stories to
come out of Imperial in recent times.
Obviously, we don’t get a story that big
or with that much potential to run with
every week. This is even more so the
case in the lulling Summer Term.
I’m incredibly proud of Phoenix, our
special summer arts annual. We were
secretly confident about how much
untapped creative talent was about
campus and, luckily, we were right.
I hope Phoenix will continue to ex-
hibit everything Imperial’s students
can excel at beyond their degrees.
One aspect of this past year I am
most thankful for is the opportunity
to meet so many other students. From
those who just recognised my face
from the newspaper to those that end-
ed up being an integral part of the edi-
torial team, I’ve loved meeting you all;
even if you didn’t all leave me walking
away with a smile on my face. There
were several occasions where some of
you left me puzzled, worried, angered
or offended. Despite that, the emotion
stirred is evidence of how much I care
about about felix and my job.
There is a thick black line between
delight and stress for me in the felix
office. This line is a wide, dark wedge
of delirium and caffeine. However, the
felix office has been a place of many
things: searing discussion and debate,
entertainment and, for some, solace.
As different section editors, copy edi-
tors and contributors pass through the
door, it has been wonderful to see so
many new faces enter the fold. Most
notably, there’s the news team entirely
made up of Freshers; Luke Turner,
whom was miraculously appointed
Music Editor within Freshers’ Week;
Lizzy Griffiths, a Fresher who due to
her regularity in the office has become
a felix veteran in my eyes; and Char-
lotte Morris, the girlfriend of the Com-
ment Editor that accidently usurped
him as Comment Editor, and then
ending up doing so much more and
becoming Assistant Editor.
It is to the latter who I have awarded
my hand-picked accolade of Editor of
the Year. Charlotte has become a driv-
ing force behind felix, and has climbed
her way up the editorial ladder to one
of the highest positions of responsibil-
ity on the team. Her organisation and
almost demonic necessity to get things
done there and then will lend her great
help if she decides to become Editor
during her time at Imperial. Thank you
for your invaluable support this year,
Charlotte. Maybe we’ll pay for you to
get elocution lessons to lessen that
Northern accent of yours.
It mustn’t take anything away from
the rest of the editorial team this year.
We’ve had about 50 editors on the ros-
ter, more than ever before. Each and
every one of them has done a tremen-
dous job to produce 40 pages every sin-
gle week. The fun we all have together
during the week has shone through in
every Friday’s product, and that’s en-
tirely satisfying for the Editor.
What’s in the works for next year, I
hear you bark. felix will be in the ca-
pable paws of Kadhim Shubber. He’s
already running around the place like a
boy with a new toy trying to get excit-
ing projects ready for next year. I’ll be
taking a step back, and thankfully you’ll
see less of me in the newspaper. Maybe
you’ll even see more. Either way, if you
see me around College, come and say
hello still. We’ll get a pint or do pretty
much anything that’ll prevent me from
studying Biology again.
Kadhim has all the abilities required
to excel as a student newspaper editor,
and I’m sure he’ll evidence that with
next year’s felix.
Have a memorable summer, and
whilst you won’t have felix to remind
you of the lighter side of life, make
sure you take as much enjoyment as
you can out of whatever you’re doing.
Thank you for reading each week, and
I hope you’ve laughed, learnt and even
baulked at felix as much as I have this
year.
Thank you once again, for helping
me take so much pleasure in produc-
ing felix this past year.

