6
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
Charlotte Morris
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
O
ne of the highlights of
my day is meander-
ing my way through a
copy of The Metro. For
every story of drugs,
crime and general badness, there are
at least two along the lines of, “Largest
Banana Museum Saved,” or “Man Has
Sex With Bicycle.” The ratio is a keen
reflection on our society. The nega-
tive articles are news because they are
exceptional and the odd articles are
news because they are indicative of the
world we live in. It reaffirms a long-
held belief of mine: that deep down,
people are stupid but good.
The universe is massive, not that
you needed me to tell you that. Mil-
lions of galaxies, billions of stars, and
it’s mostly empty. Whoever packed
the shopping bags after the Big Bang
clearly overcharged us. But this is more
than just a violation of our consumer
rights. For the most part, the universe
is cold, desolate and empty. For all in-
tents and purposes, we are alone. Not
that anyone would notice. Like I said,
the universe is massive – and we are
tiny. I remember looking down from
the Queen’s Tower once and remark-
ing how small everyone looked from
my vantage point, like ants even. Com-
pared to the universe, collectively we
are smaller than the grains of dust in
the shadow of an ant. An anorexic ant.
In a corset. We’re not even dust – we’re
dust’s dandruff!
Don’t worry if this is starting to get
you down because I’ve got something
that’ll cheer you right up. Death. It can
take the form of an apocalyptic aster-
oid or a splodge of fat bedding down
in the wrong coronary artery; it can
come after the longest of longevities
or seconds after conception. Needless
to say, when it does come, it is unin-
vited and does not care a jot for what
it interrupts. In that sense, it has much
in common with taxes, that other uni-
versal constant. Death is a lot like jury
duty; it’s unpleasant, it messes up our
diary for the foreseeable future and
it’s something everyone has to put up
with.
So where does that leave us? We
have (in the absence of rampaging tax-
is, leopards and spontaneous human
combustion) eighty years or so on an
insignificant planet in one of the dim-
mer corners of an uncaring universe
before the lights snuff out, the curtain
falls and we’re done for good.
Now, the rational reactions to this
reality would be sadness or anger. The
only reason anyone would rise out of
their Poesian pit of despair would be
to impotently punch a wall for a few
hours. But I look around and while,
yes, there is plenty of anger in the
world and more than enough sadness,
these aren’t all there is! In spite, or of-
ten because, of our own mortality, we
have built up the most complex de-
signs of architecture, the most soulful
works of art, the most exquisitely pre-
cise theories of science and logic. None
of it will last – it all carries the same
expiration date as we do – but we do
it anyway! Yes, we have our fill of pain,
angst and anger but we match it meas-
ure for measure with joy, awe and won-
der. And when we do see fit to see red,
to rage, rage against the dying of the
light, we make sure to do with a stiffly
worded letter to whom it may concern.
In a distinctly irate font.
And what of when the galleries and
museums close, when the libraries and
cinemas shut their doors, when Face-
book crashes and the servers go down?
When we are cut off from our friends,
our society, our culture and there is
only the vast, uncaring emptiness of
the universe to gaze up at and com-
prehend. Are we overcome then? Yes,
of course we are! But by grief, no! We
see the myriad fires in the firmament,
the shooting stars, the planets, bright
and wandering – and, if we’re lucky,
perhaps a supernova. We see all this
and are struck dumb. If we have the wit
to summon words to the occasion, the
most eloquent of us may just be able to
muster, “Wow!”
To some, we’re just a guttering match
but I think we burn brighter than a su-
pernova with petrol thrown on it. So
the universe may be cold and empty –
but it’s pretty – and death may be ubiq-
uitous and rude – but life is great while
it lasts! We are fleeting and inconse-
quential. But we are also ridiculously
silly and reassuringly good.
No. Hang on, that’s not right. Scratch
that. We’re bloody amazing!
“We are
fleeting and
inconsequential but
also ridiculously
silly and
reassuringly good”
Rhys Davies will make you happy, ready?
Angry Geek is finally getting some counselling
F
ather died today. Or maybe
yesterday, I don’t know. Oh
wait, no, I do know because
it’s a hugely important point
of detail. It was last June.
Much as I appreciate the importance of
French people doing sod all through-
out their lives and then writing a book
that sums up how they felt, I’ve got to
say that while there are some things I
forget - GCSE Biology, what nuts my
brother is allergic to, that sort of thing
- there are other things that I put a bit
of effort into remembering. My father
died on June 29th last year. It was fuck-
ing awful, and Albert Camus can go to
hell.
While I was quite open about the
passing of my grandfather a couple
of years back, I didn’t mention my fa-
ther’s long-term illness and eventual
death. Why? I’ll be honest, it didn’t
strike me as gold-plated comedy ma-
terial. But more than that; while my
grandfather’s death was swift and rela-
tively uneventful, my father’s death
was prolonged, unenjoyable, and not
really for public consumption. Yet here
we are.
So, I’ve started counselling. I realise
it might come as a surprise to many of
you to discover that behind this facade
of ranting, hatred and insecurity there’s
actually a good deal of repressed rant-
ing, hatred and insecurity vying to get
out. Like all truly self-destructive mo-
rons, I decided that the best approach
to take to the whole affair of death
would be the classic “Problem? What
problem? You’re the one with prob-
lems, buddy. Problems with your face,
that is. Now how about that Israel-Pal-
estine situation?” stance. It’s a stance
whose track record looks something
like British tennis players - alright up to
a point, but likely to collapse violently
whenever anyone actually needs to rely
on it. The violent collapse occurred a
few months ago, and I promptly found
myself sitting in the student counsel-
ling service wondering why they didn’t
have one of those lying-down-couch
things.
Counselling is sensationally strange.
It’s like your own personal episode of
Trisha, where you are simultaneously
the audience, participant, interviewer
and the ‘He’s here in the studio!’ cock
that jumps out halfway through as a
surprise guest. The counsellor acts
like a cameraman, shifting focus be-
tween these otherwise idiotic parts of
your personality in order to try and
provide some kind of link between
them all.
Before going to counselling, my im-
pression of the experience - and by
impression I mean wild guesses based
on years of cynicism and episodes of
The Simpsons - was that it involved a
lot of chin stroking, and then several
repeated stabs in the dark until one of
those stabs hit a particular region on a
flowchart or Venn diagram which cat-
egorised me into some variety of loon.
On reflection, this was somewhat
unfair.
Much to the chagrin of my counsel-
lor, at least at first, I spent a lot of time
trying to work out how the process
works. My conclusions - uh, dunno?
It’s nuanced. It’s the exact opposite of
what I spend most of my day doing -
looking at a problem, planning a solu-
tion, and ploughing that bastard until
it’s solved. Instead, we sit and stare
and wonder. Sometimes we do the cli-
chéd thing and talk about childhoods.
Sometimes we talk about mistakes I
think I made. And sometimes we talk
about vitamin supplements.
The whole process of dealing with
this depression has been very much
like the cancer that caused the problem
in the first place; I don’t talk to other
people about it, there’s no known cure
and it doesn’t make for very entertain-
ing comment pieces. And I’m still un-
sure of what the role of counselling is
in that. But one thing that I am now
sure about is that student welfare is A
Good Thing. And that my Simpsons-
fuelled preconceptions of the process
are extremely unhelpful.
It’s Fathers’ Day this weekend, which
will be exactly the shitter you might
expect it to be. I will spend it playing
Doom 2, eating Wotsits and doing
other things that remind me of the old
man. If you’re also spending this week-
end reflecting on exam performance
or how much you pushed yourself this
year, my advice would be this - don’t.
Have a great summer. I’ll be back, mis-
erable as ever, in the Autumn.
“Counselling is
sensationally
strange. It’s like
your own personal
episode of Trisha”

