7
felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
A sickening display of hypocrisy in politics
O
ne thing to notice amid
this whole positive dis-
crimination debate is
that we here at Impe-
rial benefit more highly
from positive discrimination than
most realise. A few weeks back, felix
informed us that the Russell Group
receives two-thirds of the UK’s higher
education budget. Now that’s positive
discrimination if ever I saw it: subtly
implying that those twenty universi-
ties are better institutions for the gov-
ernment to ply with money. However,
I think this is an example of sensibly
applied positive discrimination. From
a logician’s point of view what is the
point in investing money in something
that you know is going no-where; that
is why we don’t invest more money in
less capable, less pioneering universi-
ties. The same argument can be ap-
plied to whether known alcoholics
should be given liver transplants. If
the probability of wastage is high, why
bother? It is in these situations that
positive discrimination works.
It is when decisions are made that go
against logic that positive discrimina-
tion becomes a laughing stock. Nathan
Holford spent his entire article de-
scribing a situation where a company
was choosing between two completely
candidates, identical in all but gender.
But the fundamental flaw is that this
is not positive discrimination. It is de-
fined by what he said ‘makes no sense’
– where ability is completely ignored.
But this is where the entire issue comes
from. It is illogical.
That is to say nothing of his claims
that it does nothing to undermine
pride. The sting of being denied a job in
favour of someone less qualified must
be painful. But to get a job because of
your gender must be infuriating.
Imagine if this policy was in place in
the admissions process of this very uni-
versity. Imagine being denied a place
because the college had to fulfil their
female quota or they were already full
of people of your ethnic background.
You may remember the feelings of
Diane Abbot on the issue of race at
Imperial around this time last year.
If she had her way, everyone would
be defined by their race or gender or
sexual orientation and not the people
they are beneath. Ironically this is the
argument used by most anti-discrimi-
nation organisations. To use what they
so vehemently protest against in order
to ensure equality is a sickening display
of hypocrisy. Interestingly enough, Di-
ane Abbot is currently campaigning to
replace Gordon Brown as leader of the
Labour Party. Her campaign centres on
the fact that she is black and a woman.
Are these really the qualities people
Azfarul Islam bids adieu to Imperial
“Fun turned to
horror at the first
lecture when
I realised that
nothing made
sense”
W
hen approaching
the end of some-
thing as momen-
tous as University
life, one can’t help
but sit down for extended periods of
contemplation - even if said sit downs
take out rather scary chunks of time
from working on my final year project.
But it simply must be done.
There’s nostalgia, there’s regret,
there’s joy and - I’m not ashamed of
admitting it - a sense of unfathom-
able sorrow. School passed by over an
overly long, protracted period and you
really had no choice on the matter; A-
levels ended before they even began.
University, though? There’s an entirely
different phenomenon altogether. Can
I even begin to describe that first feel-
ing of freedom? Or that realisation that
all of a sudden, one is truly a master of
his or her own destiny? Or reminisce
about chance encounters that change
the course of our lives? Or apprecia-
tively look back on mistakes even, at
least ones that let us gain incompara-
ble experience? I could, however, easily
begin to rail at spending that one (and
soon, far more than one) weekend in
the library. Seriously, what’s up with
the workload here?
The first time I found myself in the
wide hallways and even wider com-
mon room of Beit was like nothing I’ve
ever been through. What’s to compare
against? In school events you knew
everyone and gravitated towards your
peer group. At parties, weddings and
the like back in Bangladesh, you were
either busily involved in managing
the proceedings or just found yourself
milling around uncomfortably in an at-
tempt to find some long-lost relatives
and then spend the whole time catch-
ing up with them.
It was soon after that one of the Senior
Tutors spoke to us gravely in the Great
Hall about being adults or some such.
Did that matter when the carnival-like
atmosphere of the Freshers’ Fair hit me
full in the face? Of course not. My poor
mailbox still bears the scars of the myr-
iad clubs and societies I expressed “in-
terest” in without any intention of ever
attending a single event. Note to certain
societies: can you please, please sort out
your mailing list subscription cancella-
tion procedure? Thanks.
Fun turned to horror at the first lec-
ture when I realised that nothing made
sense. Imperial has this habit and it’s
come up in discussions with friends
quite regularly: it doesn’t matter how
high a pedestal your school stood you
up on because Imperial will kick it
down. And then kick you in the face.
And then walk off. And run back to
kick you some more. I actually went up
to the Senior Tutor to ask her if I was
dyslexic or suffering from some sort
of learning disability because my hu-
bris couldn’t allow me to take in that,
at University, you really needed to re-
discover studying. Or at least, fake it. I
think she took pity on me and handed
me a booklet about, you guessed it,
“learning how to learn”. I would like to
say that turned out to be some sort of
hallowed revelation with angelic trum-
pets playing softly, but it transpired
that pure and simple determination
works quite well too. Well, determina-
tion to not fail, at the very least.
Around then, I also started to meet a
large number of like-minded (an earth-
shattering experience after being one
of very few geeks at school) individuals
who continue to amuse, annoy, enthral,
challenge and support me to this very
moment. Every day, these encounters
took place with relentless regularity:
I couldn’t get over the fact that there
were so many new faces to process.
There’s a close friend of mine whose
name and number I asked for thrice on
the same day when we first met. Also, I
didn’t even get his name right until af-
ter a week. Speaking of names, I took
this very good opportunity to shorten
my own when introducing myself. I got
rather tired in Bangladesh when not a
single person could get my name right,
mangling it with either mispronuncia-
tion or simply couldn’t get the order-
ing of letters right. I could reasonably
argue that Imperial lead to new begin-
nings in more ways than one.
The year 2007 was pretty special
because that’s when I joined felix as
Games Editor thanks to a glowing rec-
ommendation from the, no surprises
here, Games Editor of yesteryear. I
was initially contemplating whether
I’d have time to do something like that
given that EEE has a reputation of all
work, no play. Suffice to say, it was a
decision I cherish every day. I had a
blast in my position (and missed a
bunch of lectures in the process), met
some incredible people (who are still
in felix) and paved the way for my con-
tribution to Imperial College; three of
us banded together to create Another
Castle which joined the lofty ranks of I,
Science, Phoenix and The Rival as the
gaming magazine of Imperial College.
Sure, it seems like I’m approaching
this with the demeanour of the elderly
and about to inscribe my memoirs, but
I dare anyone to not dig deeper into
their memories once they’re at the end
of University. The end. Now there’s a
funny phrase. Perhaps it is just me. A
friend of mine had picked out some of
my traits and through a process of un-
ceremonious typecasting and the use
of some online psychological profiling,
found that I’m the kind of person who’s
not very good at dealing with closure.
At the time I heatedly disagreed with
her but I couldn’t really do that now.
I’ve always been proud of my writing
ability and any other time I’d probably
be shaking my head at this childish at-
tempt to squash in four years of, well,
life into this space. What I really mean
to say is that I thank you all. From all
the academics I met in various depart-
ments (well, mostly Computing and
Electrical Engineering), to the mem-
bers of countless societies, to the lovely
people that have been part of felix and
are still part of it, to the seemingly-
disorganised yet well-meaning Union
to all the irreplaceable friends and ac-
quaintances I’ve met over the years, to
you who actually gives a damn about a
University leaver’s ramblings. I would
name each and every one of you but I
can’t take up the whole paper now, can
I? This is the one time that the word
‘epic’ fails to capture the feeling but
here it is anyway: you’ve all been epic.
Thank you for the memories.
Jonathan Woodcock has the last word on the positive discrimination debate
“If Diane Abbott
had her way,
everyone would be
defined by their
race or gender or
sexual orientation”
look for when choosing a leader?
The problem is that whilst racism,
homophobia and sexism exist, en-
forcing positive discrimination is to
subliminally imply that all people are
racist, homophobic or sexist. This is
absolutely not the case and positive
discrimination is just a disguise for a
deeper social evil than that which it
tries to prevent.

