8
POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack and James Lees
James Goldsack and James Lees
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
Army found at fault for Bloody Sunday
Saville Inquiry
Investigation
No warning had been
given to any civilians before
the soldiers opened fire
None of the soldiers fired in
response to attacks by petrol
bombers or stone throwers
Some of those killed or injured
were clearly fleeing or going
to help those injured or dying-
including one man shot dead
while crawling away from the
soldiers, already wounded.
None of the casualties was
posingathreatordoinganything
thatwouldjustifytheirshooting.
Many of the soldiers
lied about their actions
Growing up as a Catholic in Belfast
left me many experiences I wouldn’t
have had elsewhere and would frankly
rather forget. I remember our car be-
ing searched by the British Army every
time our family went shopping. I re-
member my little church being burnt
down and my Catholic school petrol
bombed - twice. I remember the fear
when our school was closed early dur-
ing riots and being in the back seat of
the family car, aged 7, when a man was
shot dead by the IRA outside our flat.
Life in a city dissected by a 25ft wall
meant that I never met socially with
Protestants, right up until coming to
Imperial.
We now find ourselves in a period of
unparalleled peace and prosperity, al-
though largely down to the death toll
rather than political success. But while
most of the country was left in peace
to tend to the emotional and physical
scars of the past, families of the victims
of Derry City’s infamous Bloody Sun-
day massacre were left with insult and
further pain; their dead or wounded
loved ones branded terrorists by not
only the Army but the official inquiry
into the fiasco.
It is only now, after the release of
the new Saville Inquiry on Tuesday,
that I can say without fear of conse-
quence what happened on Sunday
the 30th January 1972. 10,000 people,
predominantly Catholic, marched on
Derry City with the Northern Ireland
Civil Rights Association, demanding
an end to internment without trial.
Such marches had been banned by the
Unionist Northern Irish government
and the march was blocked by barri-
cades set up and manned by the British
Army.
Enraged, many of the younger pro-
testors began throwing stones at the
barricade and were met with rubber
bullets, tear gas and water cannon
from the army. The army was then sent
out to arrest as many of the marchers
as possible. It is at this point that, when
studying the incident in school, we are
taught that it is difficult to say what
happened next but 25 minutes later
13 marchers lay dead with a further 15
wounded, one of whom later died. Ac-
cording to reports from the soldiers at
the time, the Provisional IRA opened
fire on the Army, who responded ap-
propriately, shooting back at them,
returning one shot for one shot and
many of those killed were found to
have had nail bombs in their pockets.
This, at least, was the official account
as accepted by the Widgery Tribunal
which looked into the shootings. It is
this same account that has now been
found to have been largely fabricated.
British troops should never have
been used to block marches which
never should have been banned in the
first place. That paratroopers, who
were trained to fight Soviets, perpe-
trated a massacre against British citi-
zens (British whether they liked it or
not) in a British city is now clear. This
massacre was then covered up, with
the scapegoat of the dead innocents
preferred to the tarnishing of the regi-
ment’s name. To go through almost
40 years of being told by the govern-
ment that your dead brother, son or
father was a terrorist and got what he
deserved must have been unimagina-
bly hard for the relatives of the Bloody
Sunday victims.
At a time when there is such atten-
tion on the wrongs of that Sunday, it
is understandable that some will raise
the many people, including soldiers,
who were killed in equally as cold
blood by the IRA and other terrorist
groups in Northern Ireland, as well as
here in London. Death dealt by terror-
ists should never go without investi-
gation nor be left unpunished, but the
idea that murder could be committed
by professional soldiers against the ci-
vilians they are supposed to protect is
surely beyond justification; that they
could then manage to cover this up is
beyond belief.
The victims of IRA bombs were
never blamed by the government
for their own deaths. A simple truth
Rory Fenton
Rory Fenton
Yesterday evening it was announced
that the Cabinet will be replacing the
England team in the World Cup. In a
move that sees the first democratically
elected national football team, David
Cameron and chums will swapping
their suits for England kits.
The switch was prompted after
England’s draw against the USA gave
rise to widespread condemnation
of Capello’s squad. After decades of
armchair managers proclaiming they
could pick the squad better than the
England manager we are one step
closer to the goal.
While no-one actually voted for the
cabinet to represent us at football,
the cabinet doesn’t accurately repre-
sent the overall will of the country in
politics either. As such they have de-
cided they have an equal mandate to
represent the nation in South Africa
as they have in Westminster.
With Green no longer in goal, the
chances of England bringing home
the World Cup have soared. Book-
makers already are giving 2-1 odds
that William Hague will score a hat-
trick in today’s match against Alge-
ria. Other star players include Eric
Pickles, who, being almost the size of
the goal, is expected to block nearly
every shot on target.
While the cabinet are in South Af-
rica the country will be run entirely
by the Queen. She has stated her
main policies will be to set up an Al-
paca farm in every local park.
Prince Philip has been deputised
into the foreign office.
The Lib Dem players are widely ex-
stands; 14 unarmed civilians were shot
dead by the army of this country.
It is hard to stress enough the influ-
ence that Bloody Sunday had in drag-
ging Northern Ireland into much of
the bloodshed that followed it. Many
moderate Catholics who had previ-
ously rejected violence drifted easily
into the hands of the IRA, including
some I know and perhaps my own
experience of nineties Belfast could
have been rather different. The effects
of the past 40 years cannot be erased
by a single inquiry into 14 of the over
3,000 who died in the Troubles but if it
can heal some wounds and right some
wrongs, not only is the principle of jus-
tice upheld, but a chapter may finally
be closed on one of the bloodiest times
in Northern Irish history.
Mike Hunt
Mike Hunt
Cameron captains England
pected to start on the bench. This is
by far a promotion from their tea and
coffee making tasks in the cabinet.
After years of advocating a 4-3-1 for-
mation they have backed down to the
Tory demands of a 4-4-2 lineup for a
chance to sit on the bench.
Boris Johnson has flown out to
South Africa but is unlikely to play
after his rugby-tackling shenanigans
of his last football match. Of course
Boris isn’t a member of the cabinet,
but it just wouldn’t be right for the
other toffs to go without him.
Naturally the move means that
from now on the England team will
be democratically elected.
Following the World Cup we will
finally have an England squad that
truly represents the English pub-
lic. Tactical voting has a whole new
meaning. Boris Johnson could be England’s star player if he could avoid rugby tackling

