9
felix FRIDAY 18 JUNE 2010
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk POLITICS
Back in 1927, André Gide, a French
author, heard about opium-smoking,
cocaine-addicted school kids. One was
caught injecting in his finals. When
cornered, he blamed his teacher: “Do
you think anyone could endure the
dullness of his teaching without shoot-
ing up?” Contrary to contemporary
tabloid warnings about the ever-spiral-
ing degeneracy of today’s youth, drug
consumption has long been a rite of
passage across the world for a minor-
ity of young people trying to cope with
the emotional and physical stresses of
growing up, meanwhile defying au-
thority and causing mischief.
In Britain, narcotic prohibition came
into force through the 1920 Danger-
ous Drugs Act, which passed follow-
ing debate between six MPs. The only
dissenter was a Scottish doctor, Walter
Eliot, who warned against the moral
absolutism those “barbarians of the
West” – American prohibitionists –
who had pressured other countries
into following their lead. From these
foundations emerged the Prohibition-
ist consensus that grew to become the
“War on Drugs”, a war that govern-
ments are losing miserably, defeated by
a motley collection of ruthless organ-
ized criminals, baffled potheads, hope-
less addicts, profit-hungry dealers and
ordinary consumers.
In 1927, Edmund Wilson wrote that
“people going on sprees, toots, jags,
brannigans or benders” were rare be-
cause “fierce protracted drinking has
now become a universal feature of so-
cial life.” He was speaking at the height
of the Prohibition, the law that turned
Americans into a nation of law-break-
ers and created a new breed of organ-
ized criminal.
Contemporary parallels are plain to
see. Conservative and Labour politi-
cians desperately clamber over one an-
other to prove their moral absolutism:
sternly condemning drug-users, play-
ing to tabloid hysteria over mephe-
drone abuse, and competing to con-
demn and denigrate Professor Nutt,
the sacked expert who mistakenly pro-
nounced his own opinion.
For decades, the question of decrimi-
nalizing drugs has largely been outside
the parameters of accepted debate.
The dominant discourse on illegal
drugs portrays them as the greatest so-
cial evil, looming over the minds, bod-
ies and souls of the nation’s children.
There is a stigma attached to arguing
against prohibition, one that makes
me seriously reluctant to put my name
on this article for fear of future reper-
cussions concerning my professional
advancement.
Stepping out of line from the prohi-
bitionist consensus leads to attack by
populist demagogues on all sides, as
was seen in the criticism of Professor
Nutt, unsurprisingly nicknamed the
“Nutty Professor” (despite being an
internationally recognised expert in
neuropsychopharmocology).
Voicing opposition to prohibition
has long been one of the popular me-
dia’s enemies. Criticism of prohibition
is muted, relegated to opinion col-
umns. This is driven by two factors:
firstly the issue’s political unpopular-
ity with the voting population (i.e.
middle-aged parents and the elderly),
and secondly, because critical debate
of complex policy issues doesn’t sell
papers. Headlines like “Cocaine Kate:
Supermodel Kate Moss snorts line af-
ter line” do.
This has been a significant and ne-
glected cause of youthful alienation
from conventional politics ever since
the end of 1960s, when the over-op-
timistic counter-cultural wave broke
against the rocks of the conservative
backlash.
Following the United States making
LSD illegal in 1968, youthful prefer-
ence steadily shifted towards more
damaging drugs: to cocaine and heroin
from the 1970s, MDMA/Ecstasy from
the late 1980s, crack and crystal meth
from the 1990s, and now ketamine
and mephedrone at the end of the
noughties.
Telling the curious, the rebellious,
and the vulnerable that chasing any
kind of unsanctioned high is wrong,
disgusting and evil has had limited ef-
fect. Disingenuously telling schoolchil-
dren that smoking cannabis will result
in their becoming a schizophrenic,
crack-addled prostitute will clearly al-
ienate them from established power
structures (particularly the police)
when they discover this is not true.
Illegal drug users frequently con-
struct a self-image as individualist re-
bels against conventional society and
the established political order. This
goes for both addicts and occasional
abusers. For addicts, it is more attrac-
tive to see oneself as a romantic out-
sider free from conventional morality
rather than a hopeless wretch, driven
to desperation by sickness. Changing
attitudes to addiction, recognising it
as an illness deserving pity rather than
animosity is one step towards tackling
it.
Meanwhile, occasional drug-fuelled
hedonism has become an entrenched
part of clubbing culture. Cocaine con-
sumption in Britain is the highest in
Europe. According to UN statistics,
5% of the world’s population take il-
legal drugs. Another UN estimate
guesses the trade is worth $320 billion
per year. This giant sum goes straight
to the pockets of organized criminals,
spilling gallon after gallon of blood in
the Third World – as can be seen in
Mexico at the moment.
Prohibition, as in the time of the
prohibition of alcohol in the US in the
1920s, essentially removes the role of
state in regulating trade rules and en-
forcing contracts. As a businessman, if
your product of, say, gold are stolen by
a competitor, you can go to the police
to get them back and put your com-
petitor out of business. The security
services possess the monopoly on vio-
lence. If, however, your product of il-
legal liquor or cocaine is stolen by your
rival, unable to go to the police, you
must arm yourself and seek vengeance.
The police lose their monopoly on vio-
lence, and become an unwelcome and
ineffectual referee in the competition
for profit.
This simple explanation accounts for
the violence of organized criminality,
from warring Colombian cartels to fe-
ral youths in street gangs. In modern
consumerist society, where wealth is
portrayed as the precursor to happi-
ness, the ambitious few without the
connections or education to achieve
this legally will inevitably resort to
achieving it illegally. Producing, trans-
porting and pushing illegal drugs is the
most profitable way to do this.
Effective repression of drug markets
at best forces a change in consump-
tion trends and the relocation of pro-
duction. For example, cannabis pro-
duction has shifted from the Middle
East, Latin America and South Asia
to secret factories and farms in the
developed world, often manned by il-
legal workers. Opium production has
moved from Thailand and Turkey to
Burma and Afghanistan.
Removing traditional supply routes
from Colombia to the US led to their
relocation to Mexico, which is now
fighting a bloody war with powerful,
ruthless and heavily-armed crimi-
nal networks. Prohibition has been
the spring of rivers of blood in Latin
America. Blood feuds, corrupted re-
gimes and criminal empires have be-
gun, fattened and imploded, fuelled by
the giant profit margins that prohibi-
tion stimulates by the high price of and
demand for illegal drugs.
There is little evidence that more
repressive policy reduces drug abuse.
Repressive Sweden and more liberal
Norway have precisely the same addic-
tion rates. UK cannabis consumption
actually decreased during the time it
was a Class C. Unless we create a total-
itarian system of informant networks,
arbitrary repressive punishments and
absolute control over borders, drug
abuse will simply not go away. Remov-
ing prohibition is the least bad option.
There are some glimmers of hope,
emerging from the century-old fog
of hysteria. Various influential cul-
tural and political outlets in the media
are putting the case against prohibi-
tion. The television series the Wire,
Narcotics and prohibition in UK today
Dominc MacIver
Dominc MacIver
“... prohibition, the
law that turned
Americans into
a nation of law-
breakers”
“Meanwhile,
occasional drug-
fuelled hedonism
has become part of
clubbing culture”
amongst the finest western cultural
outputs of the noughties, argued pas-
sionately against the continuing fallacy
of prohibition. The Economist, a bas-
tion of the British Establishment, has
long done the same. Stories abound
of British policemen, having caught
potheads in the act, helping them play
the system out of sympathy. The US
is very quietly opening the door on a
state-by-state basis for decriminalized
marijuana through a messy, state-by-
state system of medical prescriptions.
The contours of a new policy would
have to be gradual and cautious. Re-
turning cannabis to Class C would be
the first step, with an exemption for
the strongest strains. Reducing penal-
ties for possession, and, later, supply,
would be the next. Any money saved
from law enforcement should be re-
invested into drug education and re-
search, and public health programmes
to cut addiction, particularly in prisons
and deprived areas. Fully decriminaliz-
ing soft drugs, providing honest infor-
mation about them and pricing them
accordingly through taxation would
both offer government a (much need-
ed) new stream of revenue and greatly
reduce the role of gangsterism in the
trade. This alone would be a good start.
Today’s generation – apathetic, in-
debted, demoralized and broke – have
been largely turned off conventional
politics. Prohibition is not all to blame.
We have been left with an ugly, ugly
world full of debt and pointless war by
our elders. Governments don’t change
until their population compels them
to. Let us hope the coalition govern-
ment charts a separate course to its
forebears. I am not optimistic. I just
pray our generation doesn’t descend
further into apathy and hedonism,
instead of working to change a faulty
system.
“Stories abound of
British policemen,
having caught
potheads in the act,
helping them play
the system out of
sympathy”
Drugs guns and money are all very profitable. Some argue for their decriminalisation to cut crime and raise revenues.

