14 felix Friday 22 February 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Sorry, but the computer ate my piece
I
’ve never really had Computer
Trouble. Granted, there have
been times when I could have
thrown the bloody thing out of
the nearest window, followed it
to the street with a large hammer and
taken it apart, piece by blasted piece,
but then again, haven’t we all? Sure,
I’ve sometimes been forced round in
logical Mobius strips by nonsensical
error messages urging me to perform
impossible commands over and over
again. Of course I’ve had hypertensive
crises installing programs, uninstalling
programs, reinstalling programs, re-
booting software, and playing solitaire,
but somehow it never really got to me.
Until now.
I’m a fairly impatient person. I can
take quite a lot of aggravation, but
there comes a point when I go off like
a 06:00 alarm clock in a neighbour’s
room. Not too many things have the
power to make the vein in my forehead
palpitate and turn burgundy, but it
seems that the list is expanding. Until
now, these nought-to-sixty transitions
have been almost entirely the result of
human interference. Irritating sales-
men calling you during dinner, twisted
media coverage of stories close to your
heart and anyone with a handshake
like a cold trout that’s very, very dead.
These special creatures, and a few oth-
ers, really know how to pull my levers.
But now, it seems, there’s something
else on my list. For the last half hour I
have been in a shaking white-hot rage
unequalled since Pliny the Younger
A
s any engineer will tell
you, no matter how many
calculations you do there
is no substitute for ex-
perimentation. Mechani-
cal engineers have the common sense,
when designing containers for nuclear
waste, to put them on trucks and drive
them into the central reservation, put
them on trucks and drive them into
bridges, put them on trucks and, wait
for it, drive whole trains into them just
to see what will happen. For real. Civil
engineers get the brunt of public (or at
least my) mockery because it’s harder
to build a model stadium and test it
out so you can realize that a little snow
might break the roof, or that if you put
Imperial: A fool’s paradise?
looked across the Bay of Naples in AD
79 and briefly described what was hap-
pening to Pompeii. I wrote a full col-
umn just under two hours ago, and
it has now vanished into the abyss of
Vanished Documents.
Screw the Turing Test; this is the
true yardstick to measure technologi-
cal progress. If this deceptively sleek
and annoyingly efficient pile of transis-
tors can make steam come out of my
ears, then artificial intelligence is not a
myth. If this lump of metal and plastic,
forged together by Beelzebub himself
in the heretofore undisclosed VIP-only
eighth circle of Hell, can mess with my
mind to this extent, I declare defeat.
Of course I’ve heard the disaster sto-
ries. Friends of mine have lost univer-
sity applications through digital sad-
ism, Mac-hiavellian torture has caused
havoc in the workplaces of family
members, and my grandparents con-
tinue to look on their new computer
as a Satanic intruder into the quiet of
their homes.
But I always expected that could hap-
pen. I saved everything compulsively
(Ctrl+s). I copied things into e-mails
and sent them to my gmail account
(Ctrl+s). I read things out loud just in
case they should get lost and I have to
use key sentences (Ctrl+s) to help me
write it out again. But now? With my
disarmingly shiny new Sony laptop,
a seemingly user-friendly Microsoft
Vista, and the beguiling come-use-me
interface of Office 2007, surely nothing
can go wrong.
And that’s when the bastard strikes.
When I’m weak and helpless; sure
that at last I have a device capable of
responding to my every command,
indulging my slightest whim. But no.
No. You lower your guard for a second
and WHAM. Document gone, soft-
ware uninstalled, wireless multi-server
hardware deprocessed (??). Sacrifices
to the faceless God of Technology:
Microsoft.
It wasn’t a particularly brilliant com-
ment piece; I’ll admit that. But it had
such potential. And now I’m supposed
to smile, shrug it off, and write another
five hundred brain-freezing, spleen-
engorging, gut-wrenching, hair-pull-
ing, vomit-inducing, sodding words. I
won’t do it. You can’t make me do it.
No. Way.
To be honest, this has been fairly ca-
thartic. I can really see why columnists
enjoy weekly torrents of abuse. I could
make a habit of this. If my computer
lets me keep the damned files for long
enough.
Gilead Amit
books in the library on an island you
were supposed to have pdfs in it will
sink into the lake. Oh, how I enjoy a
good laugh at the expense of civil en-
gineers. Testing is no doubt the only
way to go, and you have got to enjoy
being paid to fire dead chickens into a
jet engine under the pretense of “engi-
neering”. Can we then continue calling
things foolproof without genuine test-
ing? Certainly not!
Now you will see the dilemma this
creates for the market-leading compa-
nies wanting to prove themselves; how
can they find genuine high-quality
fools on whom to test out their prod-
ucts and can they legally do it without
infringing on human rights? I know
that there are those who understanda-
bly stand firmly in the “I don’t think we
should kill the stupid people, just take
away the obvious warnings (which now
plague every surface I lay eyes on) and
let the problem sort itself out” camp,
but with people now suing their own
pre-school children almost for sport,
the shrewd manager is wary of doing
anything out of the ordinary, least of all
with someone who could conceivably
manage to hang themselves with only
a bottle of shampoo if left alone for 30
seconds.
But let’s say they risk it. They have
carefully constructed auditable trails of
paperwork and small print to protect
themselves and their children and their
children’s children to the nth genera-
tion and they are ready to bring in the
fools. They still have a problem. In or-
der to find these nutters they need an
interview process. One that is able to
weed out all the fake fools in it for the
money and all the only partially stupid
ones and leave the real cream of the
crop … or skin on the milk, or what-
ever the negative equivalent is. And
they have to get them to apply. And
then turn up. It’s a logistical nightmare
trying to offer a job to someone who
would demonstrate that they weren’t
fit for it simply by accepting. Say you
actually get them to the point of tak-
ing some form of test. Is “duck loins” a
suitable answer to a simple maths ques-
tion? Are they the words of a true fool,
or a fake? I suppose the way forward
would be to just funnel people off the
street as they walk past and see if they
get stuck in the revolving doors. Then
Jellybean
Don’t tell me you’ve never been tempted
the fool-proofing era would begin for
sure, but it wouldn’t take long before
they needed an ISO standard for that
thing. There is a standard for every-
thing. E-v-e-rything. Maybe some form
of institution to mould them to this
standard would be needed. It would
be a crazy and disturbing place; some-
where where the students were willing
to challenge their core beliefs and the
very nature of basic physical truths
just to match up with the answers pro-
vided by the powers that be. I imagine
to aid the degradation of the mind it
would be strange architecturally too.
I see some form of shiny blue cube, a
pink penthouse, and a giant bean tin
featuring. Thank goodness we are at
Imperial and not being psychologically
crafted to some standard by a bunch of
whacked out power-crazed puppets of
a morally corrupt culture …
The two-coloured Rubik’s cube: Who do they think they’re fooling?
Bessemer building or giant pink
penthouse?
“
Thank
goodness we’re
at Imperial
and not being
psychologically
crafted into a
standard bunch
of whacked out
power-crazed
puppets...
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix

