comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 22 February 2008 felix
Comment
A. Geek
A day in the life of a corporate sell-out
I
had the misfortune of being in
Canary Wharf the other day.
Actually, that doesn’t entirely
explain it. I went to Canary
Wharf the other day. I went to
see A Bank. About A Job. I realise that
as you flick through your Angry Geek
scrapbook tonight and re-read past
columns you may notice some intense
frustration and anger towards those
that hop on the Gravy Eurostar to
the Cayman Islands. If I was the kind
of guy who defended himself against
things like hypocrisy, I’d probably tell
you that the reason I went was that I
felt honour-bound to see first-hand
that which I hate so much, and that the
fact that I didn’t turn up to the follow-
ing day’s aptitude tests show this. But I
could give a toss what you think, so I’m
not going to.
In case you’re interested, two things
struck me about Canary Wharf and
those that work there. First of all, it is
completely cut off from reality in every
way possible. Even within a single of-
fice building there are launderettes,
gyms, banks, beds, bars, and the like.
Canary Wharf itself isn’t so much lit-
tered with high-risers as it is walled by
them – they block out the unsightly
smudges of London itself, unless you
are so high up in one of them that the
buildings and people just blend into
part of the landscape below.
The second, and perhaps more wor-
rying, thing I noticed is that no-one
seems aware of this whatsoever. I
stood outside the Reuters building for
three quarters of an hour in the early
evening, and I watched the traders,
sellers, and support staff drink and
make merry like they were in a Hol-
lywood film. The reason they don’t
miss the world outside is because this
is their world – but that doesn’t bother
them. They’ve grown used to it, and
now it’s all they need.
I don’t know why this hit me in the
way it did, but there was something
immediately jarring about it. I couldn’t
bear the thought of returning to the
Wharf after having left it, because it
made me feel cold inside: as if one of
the enormous what-are-these-guys-
compensating-for-anyway skyscrapers
was harbouring the Eye of Sauron at its
top. Yet despite all of my reservations,
these people have learnt to live with
it, and they feel none of the remorse
or regret that I wished upon them
whatsoever.
Back at University, I’m currently un-
dertaking a project sufficiently large
so as to make weekends more or less
a nonentity, a phenomenon familiar to
anyone reading this, I’m sure. Clearly,
no Maths students read this anyways.
It dawned on me the other day that the
project was progressing in a depress-
ing cycle. I would reach something that
hadn’t been explained. I would ask a
staff member, who would demonstrate
the concept for me. I would take down
what he said, and then move on to the
next thing that hadn’t been explained
properly. It’s not that I wasn’t learn-
ing anything. After all, I learnt what he
told me. But when you put phrases like,
“fifth best in the world”, “masters of
science”, or, you know, “engendering a
sense of discovery and enlightenment
amongst the most talented young indi-
viduals in the world”, then the idea of
using a Professor as an extremely slow
alternative to Wikipedia seems not
only to be taking the piss, but loading it
into a piss-cannon and pissing it right
back all over my face.
So. It’s election time down at Impe-
rial and people want you to be enthu-
siastic all over again. The first years
might still care, but I sure as shit
couldn’t. Not just because I’ve gone
and stared into the abyss, and had the
abyss stare back at me, but because
fuck me, what’s the point? What do
you care if someone wants to make the
blades of grass on the Beit Quad lawn
greener? You couldn’t give a shit, that’s
why people are so apathetic about their
future – the present is too dull to keep
their attention.
I’m not a fan of one of the candidates.
So the plan this week is simply this –
don’t vote. Don’t vote, and try and get
their attention that way. It doesn’t work
if you vote a tit in. It doesn’t work if you
vote a minority in. The only way you’ll
ever get anyone to take any notice is if
you break the system in the first place.
And while you’re not voting – go
and register for the London Mayoral
Election. Because that’s a community
worth making an effort for.
Mmm, I love the sight of skyscrapers and the smell of briefcases in the morning
“
these people
have learnt to
live with it, and
they feel none
of the remorse
or regret
that I wished
upon them
whatsoever
”
H
ello all. If you’ve just
joined us, do please
take a seat. The week
before last, Jonas Neu-
bert, who I do believe is
involved with the ICU Fair Trade So-
ciety, posted a rebuttal to an article I
wrote the week before, where I damned
Fair Trade for not tackling global pov-
erty properly. Whilst I anticipated that
this would generate some backlash, I
was at least hoping my point wouldn’t
be lost entirely. For those who want a
more in-depth argument by a seasoned
economist, I’d encourage you to read
the article Grounds for Complaint by
Brink Lindsey, which covers more is-
sues than I have space for.
Jonas alleges that Fair Trade is com-
patible with free market economics.
From a consumer point of view this is
largely true. However, he ignores the
seller’s perspective. Fair Trade ignores
the market rate of coffee and gives its
farmers an uncompetitive rate above
what the market demands. Market
prices fluctuate according to supply
and demand. Low price is oversupply
(buyers have the advantage); high price
shows scarcity power (sellers have the
advantage). One only needs to do some
rudimentary research to find the sup-
ply of coffee beans in the past 10 years
has been constantly outstripping con-
sumption by a wide margin. This will
drive the price down. And this is, un-
fortunately, entirely fair. It is a signal
that acts to both curb supply and raise
demand. It signals to farmers to stop
making it and make other products
instead. Third World farmers do often
not have this option, due to fierce (and
unfair) competition in other markets.
Fair Trade works a little like a do-
nation on top of a product, which is
where it gets its intrinsic extra value
over other products. This doesn’t re-
ally stop poverty any more than donat-
ing money directly to homeless people
prevents homelessness. Short term, it
helps. In the long term it just encour-
ages them to get more donations. That
means producing Fair Trade coffee and
not finding a better living. I don’t want
farmers to become reliant on charity,
guilt, and false economies.
This is not my primary worry, how-
ever. If it were just pure charity, then
it would only affect Fair Trade farm-
ers. My main worry is that whilst Fair
Trade helps its own farmers, others
who are independent are sliding fur-
ther into poverty, due to their custom-
ers fleeing to more ‘ethical’ products.
I would argue that non-Fair Trade
farmers need the money more than
they do. Fair Trade propaganda loves
concentrating on how their farmers
have better lives. It makes me want to
scream out: at whose expense? By buy-
ing normal coffee, you’re increasing
demand for the product the poorest
farmers make. I’d argue that either one
would benefit someone. Fair Trade has
no extra intrinsic value: it is just una-
bashed prejudice for their farmers over
others. In a lot of ways it ruins the very
people they are supposed to help: the
more people buy Fair Trade, the less
non-Fair Trade coffee being bought,
and the more non-Fair Trade farmers
are put out business.
I do have a solution, and that involves
giving every farmer a better chance
at a new life. Currently they face stiff
competition from Europe and the US
because governments pay farmers to
exist, and block Third World trade.
We already have an advantage through
better knowledge and access to capital.
Let the costs add up and people will de-
cide for themselves what is worth pay-
ing for. My guess is that Third World
farmers will have a distinct advantage
with low wages and land costs, giving
them a deservedly thriving industry,
independent of charity.
Meddling in market economics is
something to be done with extreme
caution, and can cause more problems
than it fixes. I stand by my original
point, that better economic mobility is
the real solution, and it is one I believe
could be within Fair Trade’s remit. Di-
recting Fair Trade premiums towards
helping farmers start a new life, rather
than sustain and reward an overcrowd-
ed industry, would be a move I’d gener-
ously applaud. Even better, you should
send a strongly worded letter to your
local MEP and let them know how you
feel.
Un-Fair Trade
Matt the Hat
Fair Trade: just a method of donation cleverly disguised?

