science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 22 February 2008
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Imperial's environmental army
What exactly does the Civil and Environmental Engineering Dept. "regiment" do for the environment?
Brian A. Giannakopoulos
Almost a decade into the 21st Century,
the environment and its protection is
a hotter topic than ever before. Public
awareness of the need to provide our
children with a decent place to live in
has heaped much responsibility on the
backs of politicians and policy-makers.
As public concern for the environment
continues to grow worldwide, priorities
in political agendas are set to change.
In this battle against environmental
damage and climate change, civil and
environmental engineers are among
the most valuable conscripts, equipped
with the technical knowledge and skills
needed to overcome challenging obsta-
cles and achieve tangible results.
The job of the civil and, in particular,
the environmental engineer is to apply
science and engineering principles to
improve the quality of air, water and
land. Environmental engineering in-
volves not only water and air pollution
control, recycling, waste disposal and
public health issues, but also a knowl-
edge of environmental engineering law
as well as studies on the environmen-
tal impact of proposed construction
projects.
Civil and environmental engineers
also design and construct energy-
efficient buildings, reducing their de-
pendence on mechanical heating and
cooling, with their associated carbon
emissions and health implications. Fi-
nally, these engineers are also respon-
sible for studying and proposing trans-
port policies and traffic management
measures on land, water and in the air
to reduce the impact of vehicles on the
environment.
Imperial’s civil and environmental
engineers are “not soldiers, but elite
troops”, Professor Julian Bommer sen-
ior lecturer in Engineering Seismol-
ogy at Imperial’s Department of Civil
and Environmental Engineering states
proudly. Indeed, this prestigious de-
partment plays a leading role in both
national and international research ac-
tivities relating to the environment and
also provides advice and guidance to
UK and overseas governments as well
as international agencies.
Environmental and Water Re-
source Engineering (EWRE) at
Imperial
The department is home to the Envi-
ronmental and Water Resource Engi-
neering Section, or EWRE, the largest
and one of the most active sections
in the department. Together with the
Centre for Environmental Control and
Waste Management, it forms one of the
premiere, multi-disciplined environ-
mental groups in the UK and world-
wide. “EWRE has a large and diverse
portfolio of research activities and
consults widely in the UK and over-
seas”, notes Howard Wheater, Head
of the EWRE Section and Professor of
Hydrology. “To help our understand-
ing, we can think of the environment
as being broken up into three main
branches” explains Professor Wheater.
The first branch, environmental sci-
ence, concentrates on the natural en-
vironment and studies the impacts of
human activity on ecosystems. Envi-
ronmental engineering, the second
branch, focuses on applying science
and engineering principles to improve
the quality of air, water and land while
the third, engineering and the envi-
ronment, is the meeting point of the
first two and concentrates on sustain-
ability and other topical issues such as
low-carbon footprint and the “smart
house”. The 10 full-time members of
staff, some 20 research assistants and
25 full-time post-graduate research
students at EWRE are involved in all
three branches and their work is as
varied as the environment itself. Cur-
rent and recent projects have been un-
dertaken not only in the UK, but also
in countries as far afield as Botswana
and Mauritius, amongst many others.
Keen to find out more, I went along
one late Friday afternoon, and in an
informal and relaxed interview, asked
Professor Wheater, a past president
of the British Hydrological Society, to
give me an overview of some of the
work that members of EWRE have re-
cently been involved with.
Organic and inorganic waste
Drs Chris Cheeseman and Stephen
Smith are working in the areas of in-
organic and organic waste respec-
tively. In particular, Dr Cheeseman’s
research aims at converting inorganic
waste (such as the waste produced by
Part of a Falaj system in Oman – an ancient system that taps in to shallow groundwater and feeds it to the
surface. Some aflaj are more than 1500 years old; as a whole they've been deemed a World Heritage Site
construction materials) into some-
thing useful, as well as developing CO2
–capturing cement technology. This
will provide a significant step towards
tackling the adverse environmental
impacts of cement ¬ the cement in-
dustry currently produces about 5%
of global man-made CO2 emissions.
At the other end, Dr Smith’s research
focuses on sewage sludge disposal and
recycling. He has also recently been
involved in an EU-funded project in
Cyprus to generate energy from waste.
His experiences from this project were
shared with undergraduates, forming
the basis of a Group Design Project in
2006.
Waste management
Professor Sue Grimes, the first woman
to be appointed to a chair sponsored
by the Royal Academy of Engineer-
ing, is also the College’s first professor
in Waste Management. Together with
her research group, Professor Grimes
has been involved in a wide range of
projects in waste management involv-
ing the electronics, secondary metals
and waste industries, as well as the En-
vironment Agency and Local Authori-
ties. She has also carried out research
leading to the development of clean
process technology for selective metal
recovery from waste streams, material
recovery from composites, methodolo-
gies for the analysis of toxic pollutants
in wastes, and diverting waste from
landfill, to name but a few.
Water and Wastewater
Engineering
Professor Nigel Graham and Dr
Michael Templeton work in the field
of water and wastewater treatment
and have participated in a wide range
of projects both in developed and de-
veloping countries. Professor Graham
has been working on developing water
treatment plants using local and im-
ported materials to provide safe, clean
drinking water to refugee camps, while
Dr Templeton has been asked to con-
duct research in water and sanitation
management for Nepal. “We also enjoy
doing things on the hi-tech end” adds
Professor Wheater. Professor Graham
is developing a ‘smart-sensor’ system
which is able to detect leaks in water
and wastewater distribution networks,
while Dr Templeton is also involved
with computational modeling of treat-
ment processes. Professor Cedo Mak-
simovic, chief advisor to UNESCO’s
InternationalHydrologicalProgramme
VI on urban water management, has a
broad research interest in the field of
urban flooding and is currently devel-
oping LIDAR technology to digitally
map areas contributing to major urban
floods. Meanwhile Dr Adrian Butler, is
the principal investigator on an EPSRC
funded project modeling contaminant
transport processes in landfill waste.
In a recent project, Dr Butler used his-
torical data from the 1840s to simulate
flood events from the river Lament
in Chichester and showed that exist-
ing climate models are still poor in
predicting long-term changes – “the
trends indicated by his simulations
have bad implications for the future of
South East England” Professor Wheat-
er adds.
Hydrology
Wheater himself certainly has no
shortage of research activities and
projects in his portfolio. With his spe-
cial interest in the hydrology of arid
areas, he describes his work as scien-
tific advisor in a water resources study
in Saudi Arabia in the late 1990s aimed
at improving the management of flash
floods. He now provides technical sup-
port to governments and organizations
through UNESCO’s programme on
hydrology. In recognition of his work
on water resources in arid areas, Pro-
fessor Wheater was invited in 2006 to a
banquet in Riyadh, to receive the pres-
tigious Prince Sultan Bin Abdulaziz
International Water Prize, which now
“By improving
energy efficiency,
CO2
emissions
from buildings
can be reduced
by up to 20%”
What a waste:wastewater treatment in Pleasant Grove, USA. I suppose the pleasant groves are at top right

