science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 22 February 2008 felix
Science
proudly sits in his office.
Professor Wheater certainly has a
lot of experiences to share with under-
graduate students in his early morning
Hydrology lectures. Not only was he
initiator of the £10 million Lowland
Catchment Research Programme (LO-
CAR) in the UK, but he’s also a current
consultant to the State of Nevada con-
cerning safety assessment for a highly-
debated $10bn repository for high level
radioactive waste at Yucca Mountain.
He’s also involved with radioac-
tive waste closer to home. In Britain,
despite Labour’s previous strong op-
position to nuclear power, it is an en-
ergy source that now sits high on the
‘clean energy’ list, partly due to its low
CO2 emissions. “However, this does
not mean that real decisions are be-
ing made”, explains Professor Wheater
in a previous interview in LIVIC, the
departmental newspaper. “Even if we
don’t build new power stations, we will
still have to deal with the waste that
has been generated. At the moment
that waste is just lying around across
Britain,” he complains, “there is abso-
lutely no policy. In the meantime, the
UK engineering industry has also lost
the expertise to build nuclear power
facilities. Yet, we are certainly going to
see a revival of the nuclear option”, he
predicts. “The UK government is mov-
ing forward once again with plans for
deep disposal of nuclear waste, which
is certainly a good sign”, he adds with
a smile.
Dynamic though the EWRE Section
may be, it doesn’t have a monopoly
on environmental activities within the
Civil and Environmental Engineering
department. The Fluid Mechanics and
Transport Sections also conduct cut-
ting edge research on minimising the
environmental impacts of the build
environment.
Environmental Fluid Mechanics
DrGaryHunt,readerinFluidMechan-
ics, and his research group are work-
ing in the area of natural ventilation
of buildings. Winner of an award for
energy efficient buildings in the 2007
Australian Engineering Excellence
Awards, Dr Hunt argues that the gains
from naturally ventilated buildings sig-
nificantly prevail over traditional alter-
natives such as air conditioning, while
making a substantial contribution to
the protection of the environment.
“You can forget about not leaving your
TVs on standby, when CO2
emissions
from buildings can be reduced by as
much as 20% just by improving their
energy efficiency” explained Dr Hunt
in an Environmental Fluid Mechanics
lecture earlier this month. Indeed, it
is estimated that naturally ventilated
buildings typically consume less than
a third of the energy used in a compa-
rable air-conditioned building, making
natural ventilation an attractive option
for the future.
Centre for Transport Studies
The Centre for Transport Studies is
also undertaking a wide range of re-
search in environmental areas, includ-
ingactiveinvolvementintheGrantham
Institute for Climate Change. Another
high-profile collaboration involves the
development of a mobile environmen-
tal sensing system to monitor urban
air pollution, aid in informing travel-
lers and improving traffic management
(www.message-project.org). Recent
studies have included an evaluation
of the impact of aviation on climate
change and the development of an on-
board vehicle emissions monitoring
system. "Real world emission rates are
substantially different from those seen
on the standard regulatory tests" says
Dr Robin North. "These techniques al-
low us to assess how actual traffic pat-
terns and driver behaviour affect emis-
sions from road transport".
In this ongoing battle against climate
change, civil and environmental engi-
neers can proudly boast of their unique
role. In their absence, any decisions
made by the ‘powerful’ of the world
can only, at best, remain on paper, leav-
ing targets unmet and desired results
unachieved. The research currently
being performed at Imperial strives to
make the profession even more valu-
able to society by providing members
of the engineering community around
the world with cutting-edge knowl-
edge. When this knowledge is used
properly, it can achieve breathtaking
results which rarely pass unnoticed.
For more information, see www.
cv.imperial.ac.uk
Energy inefficiency. Pretty, I'll grant you, and possibly a sign of a healthy economy, but not much good for
the environment – how many of these buildings are naturally ventilated do you think?
C
an scientists dance?
While it is a question that
has surely kept Nobel lau-
reates awake at night for
years, anyone who has
ever witnessed the closing dinner at a
scientific conference will know with
some confidence that the answer is
no. Now Christoph Campregher and
Nilay Yapici of the Medical University
of Vienna, offer further evidence in the
form of the world’s first “Dance your
Ph.D.” competition.
Twelve international teams of rhyth-
mically inclined scientists travelled to
Vienna for the intellectual hoedown.
The goal of the contest was for the
scientists to express their doctoral re-
search in the language of dance for an
audience of several hundred of their
drunken colleagues. With the scientific
specialities of the participants covering
areas as diverse and abstract as the ev-
olution of galaxies and gene regulation,
this posed a serious test of the artistic
imaginations of the teams. Thankfully,
Science magazine was there with a vid-
eo camera to record the extravaganza
for later analysis.
Expert advice was on hand with
judges including a professional dancer
and a science communicator and with
scientific rigour assured by the pres-
ence of Michel Breger, professor of as-
trophysics at the University of Vienna.
The fourth judge, Karl Grammer, is a
professor of anthropology and an ex-
pert on the evolution of dance. The
author of such articles as “Charisma
Cam: A prototype of an intelligent dig-
ital sensory organ for virtual humans”,
he is clearly no stranger to the more
obscure parts of the interface of sci-
ence and the humanities, but even so
he must surely have hoped some of
the mutant dance offspring on display
were on a rapid road to extinction.
Perhaps it is not fair to judge people
who have spent years stuck in the lab
on their physical prowess and the danc-
ers cannot be faulted for the creativity
and diversity evident in their choreog-
raphy, but many of the performances
could certainly do with a further few
more years of intensive study. Some
of the contestants did manage a dis-
play of vigorous physicality but grace
and coordination were noticeably ab-
sent, replaced instead by the rigid hips
and shoulders so characteristic of the
geek in motion. Quite how some of the
dancers arrived at their moves is also
mysterious. For instance, Sven Ram-
elow’s interpretation of “Single photon
upconversion” more closely resembled
an enraged beast attempting to escape
from a sack than particle physics.
The most unfairly overlooked en-
trant was Josef Penninger, director of
the Austrian Institute of Molecular
Biotechnology. With impressive devo-
tion to the mad scientist stereotype
and apparently a total disregard for his
scientific reputation, the wild-haired
and football shirted Prof impressed
with a piece featuring both a double
cartwheel and strong elements of the
chicken dance. Another notable loser
was Simone Recchi whose high-ener-
gy recreation of the "Dynamical and
chemical evolution of blue compact
dwarf galaxies", looking rather like an
over-caffeinated child at a wedding
disco, came in only mid-table despite
the rousing support of the crowd.
Overall winner Brian Stewart, a pal-
aeoanthropologist from the Univer-
sity of Oxford, was clearly in a league
of his own with his exploration of the
resource gathering strategies of prehis-
toric man. Remarkably he managed to
incorporate rhythm, style and a great
tune (a Herbie Hancock interpretation
of African Pygmy music [Watermelon
Man – Ed]) in a funky dance that was
almost educational. The fact that the
buff boffin was also clad only in a shiny
loincloth no doubt also helped.
Explaining a doctoral thesis verbally
to the layman is difficult enough a task,
but doing so without words must sure-
ly require an exceptional degree of skill
and clarity of thinking. While the fancy
footwork of this group of scientists is
unlikely to trouble Strictly Come
Dancing on a Saturday night perhaps
it is time for Imperial to consider dance
interpretation as a viable alternative to
the viva for examination of a Ph.D. the-
sis. Judge for yourself at http://tinyurl.
com/yuzn7c . (Or, for those who pre-
fer big urls, www.sciencemag.org/cgi/
content/full/319/5865/905b)
Strictly come off it! A science dance-off?
Explaining their PhD research verbally isn't enough for this lot: they do it through dance. Tim Sands reports
Mirrors mirrors on the ball: who's got the best research dance of all?

