politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 felix Friday 22 February 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – Li-Teck Lau and Kadhim Shubber
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor
I
spoke to an analyst from
Chatham House, the London-
based international relations
think tank, the other week. Yes,
I am name-dropping to some
small extent. And no, it doesn’t hap-
pen often. But she did remind me of
a central point in all political theory.
That is, politics is about power. News
is what happens when people gain,
lose and use their power. The best
measure of this is who has lost and
who has won. The actions in between
aren’t too important, and politics is
certainly not about ideology.
Allow me to elaborate. The elec-
tions in Pakistan this week were
generally regarded as ‘free and fair’ by
the international community. Who
lost? General Musharraf alongside
the USA. Who won? Military leaders
hiding in the foothills of Afghanistan.
The US has invested a lot in building
relations with the country on the door
step of what it terms as ‘extremism’,
but made the mistake of aligning itself
too closely with one individual.
The attempt to keep him in power
by sending Benazir Bhutto back after
years of exile to share power after
legitimising elections, preventing less
reliable (with regards to military coop-
eration) candidates from abusing the
political turmoil after the purging of
prominent judicial figures, backfired
spectacularly after her assassination.
The USA invaded Iraq in 2003.
Who won? Energy companies. Who
lost? Well, the rest of the world. Oil
companies, such as Shell, have posted
record profits this year owing to the
high price of crude. Despite all of the
safeguards that the democratic system
of government was supposed to per-
form, the military might of the world’s
foremost superpower was put to use
for the benefits of a small number of
the powerful. The American economy
may see reward in the long term, but
today, it is only the so-called hawks
who have seen proverbial green.
Myanmar has one of the most
despotic governments in the world. Its
use of force against its own population
to keep power has been in the news
for several months now. Similarly,
in the Sudan, thousands are dying
because of internal violence. The
question is, again, who would win and
who would lose in the case of regime
change? In both cases, China stands
to lose, as it is a significant investor
and customer for energy resources.
What is commonly referred to as the
western alliance is, and have been
relatively effectively, using human
rights to further individualistic
agendas. However, neither Myanmar
nor the Sudan could claim the crown
of ‘worst country in the world’; that
all-so-highly-sought-after accolade.
Yet it is they who are the focus of
international organisations such as the
United Nations.
What is the lesson to take away
from all of this? Firstly, know whose
side you’re on. Secondly, make sure
you’re on the winning team.
Fidel Castro resigns
Fidel Castro steps down as Cuban leader after almost 50 years as President
The 81 year old Cuban President an-
nounced he would not “accept the
post of President” if elected by the
National Assembly when it convenes
on 24th February. Fidel Castro, who
has ruled Cuba since the revolution in
1959, made the announcement in an
open letter entitled “Message from the
Commander in Chief” published on
the website of the Cuban Communist
Party’s newspaper Granma. Released
in the middle of Monday night, it states
that the leader does not “aspire” to be
the next President of the Council of
State and Commander in Chief. Cuban
exiles in Miami celebrated but there
were no such demonstrations in Cuba
itself.
Cubans recently elected a parlia-
ment, due to meet for the first time this
coming Sunday. One of the duties of
this parliament is to elect a new Execu-
tive Council of State, the president of
which will become the new President
of Cuba for the next five-year term.
Since July 2006, Fidel’s younger broth-
er Raul has been temporarily running
the country; Fidel Castro underwent
emergency intestinal surgery and has
not been seen in public since, though
videos of the leader have been re-
leased. So far, this transition has been
smooth with little outward change.
Raul Castro has kept the military loyal
whilst weeding out corrupt officials to
keep the people’s trust. However, in a
keynote speech last year, Raul Castro
announced that “structural and con-
ceptual” changes were needed to help
save the collapsing economy. This has
led to increased speculation of major
economic changes to come, possibly a
move away from the Communism seen
in practice there today and towards a
market-oriented economy. The Cuban
economy has been in decline since the
USSR collapsed at the end of the 1980s.
The continued support from Venezue-
lan President Hugo Chavez in the form
of millions of barrels of cheap oil has
helped prevent the economy from col-
lapsing sooner. This situation is not go-
ing to be helped by the departure from
office of Fidel Castro, the last of the
great Cold War leaders. The last thing
Cuba needs is division and a power
struggle for the leadership. However,
most Cubans, despite being saddened
by the news, appear optimistic and
James Goldsack
hopeful for the future.
The resignation of Fidel Castro did
not come as a complete shock to ana-
lysts as Mr. Castro’s illness has been
well documented. Despite the details
of this being kept a state secret, it is
believed to be diverticulitis, an inflam-
mation of the colon. In recent Cuban
newspaper articles, the Cuban leader
hinted that he may soon retire. De-
fending himself from claims he should
have stepped down earlier, Mr. Castro
said he had a duty to the Cuban people
to prepare for his absence. However,
talking about his current situation, he
added “It would betray my conscience
to take up a responsibility that requires
mobility and total devotion that I am
not in a physical condition to offer”.
Despite retiring from the Presidency,
Fidel Castro will not give up on Com-
munism or his revolutionary spirit. “I
just want to carry on fighting like a
soldier of ideas”, he wrote in his open
letter to the country. Mr. Castro prom-
ised to continue writing essays entitled
Reflections of Comrade Fidel and to
be “one more weapon in the arsenal
[Cuba] can count on”.
The world’s longest ruling non-mon-
arch head of state, Fidel Castro dur-
ing his 49 years in power has helped
transform Cuba. Before the successful
revolution in 1959, the Castro brothers
attempted to overthrow the authori-
tarian regime of Fulgencio Batista but
failed, resulting in a 22 month prison
sentence. After leaving prison, they
escaped to Mexico where they be-
friended idealist and revolutionary
Ernesto “Che” Guevara de la Serna.
In 1959, they succeeded in leading a
guerrilla campaign to overthrow the
government and Fidel took his place as
the President of Cuba with his brother
Raul as Defence Minister and first vice-
president of the Council of State. Che
Guevara went on to take many roles
to help develop socialism within Cuba
and the rest of the world.
Fidel Castro pursued the ideal for an
egalitarian society and the Communist
Party members set an example to all;
Mr. Castro recently told reporters that
his “primary duty is not to cling to any
position” and various members of the
government only accept the salary of
a revolutionary soldier. Under Castro,
both the healthcare and education sys-
tems have become world-leading and
are both free for all – one main pinna-
cle of their socialist agenda. The new
government in Cuba has helped free
the people from an extremely oppres-
sive authoritarian regime. However,
many would claim that it has been re-
placed by a new but similar regime. To
an extent this is correct but in recent
years many political prisoners, often
called “prisoners of conscience”, have
been released, including 4 last week-
Castro has visibly deteriorated due to his recent illness
Fidel Castro has been in charge of the communist state since the 60’s

