politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 22 February 2008 felix
Politics
Dry Wit & Tonic
end. According to the Cuban Commis-
sion for Human Rights, there are now
20% fewer prisoners of conscience
than there were two years ago. Cas-
tro and others in the regime of course
have their enemies; there have been
many failed assassination attempts, the
United States of America attempted an
invasion and there has been a harsh US
embargo since 1962.
The future for Cuba is uncertain.
There are two main contenders for the
Presidency: Raul Castro and de facto
Prime Minister Carlos Lage Davila. It is
expected that Raul Castro will be elect-
ed; he appears to have Fidel’s blessing.
Of Raul, he said “[He] is younger than
I, more energetic than I. He can count
on much more time”. Even if Raul Cas-
tro does become President of Cuba for
the next 5 years, no one can predict
how he will act as leader. “Behind me
are others more radical than I”, added
Fidel Castro in 1997. However, Raul
Castro has pledged to sign the United
Nations conventions on human, po-
litical and economic rights later this
year, showing a less oppressive style of
governance than Fidel. Raul Castro has
initiated debate over what changes the
Cuban people want to see. Amongst
students’ complaints, low wages, lack
of ability to travel and lack of free ac-
cess to internet are common. It is the
student population, largely opposed to
continued Communist rule that is the
future of Cuba. There are indications
that the regime is listening and adopt-
ing policies to help the people based
upon these debates. Even if elected it
is not certain that Raul Castro would
accept the Presidency as in June 2007
he indicated that a collective leader-
ship would most likely govern Cuba
after Fidel.
International reaction to Fidel Cas-
tro’s resignation has been mixed. US
President George W. Bush called for
free elections to be held saying “This
should be a period of democratic tran-
sition for the people of Cuba” and
pledged support and help. However,
senior US state department official
John Negroponte added that the 1962
embargo would probably not be lifted
“any time soon”. UK Prime Minis-
ter Gordon Brown says “we can only
hope that a new path will open up...
and there will be more democracy in
[Cuba]”. Spanish Latin America min-
ister Trinidad Jimenez supports keep-
ing links with the Cuban regime and
believes Raul Castro “should start to
put the reforms into action” to benefit
the Cuban people. A spokesman for
the EU agrees, adding “we reiterate
our willingness to engage with Cuba
in constructive dialogue”. UK Liberal
Democrat foreign affairs spokesman
Edward Davey said “it is important for
the international community, espe-
cially America, to hold out the hand of
friendship”.
It appears at time of writing that the
transition of power will be peaceful
with the most likely candidate to suc-
ceed Fidel being Raul Castro. If this
happens, Cuba can hopefully look for-
ward to economic stability and a con-
tinuation of the socialist ideals put in
place by his brother Fidel before him.
Whatever the outcome of the elections
on Sunday, the international commu-
nity should take the opportunity to
create stronger links with Cuba which
can only serve to help the Cuban peo-
ple, most of whom have not known
of any other regime; over 70% of the
population was born after the revolu-
tion. However, Cuba must push ahead
further with social reforms, including
ending the oppression of the opposi-
tion. There are signs that this will hap-
pen in the future. With the departure
of one of the most important and en-
during icons of the latter half of the
20th century comes not only the end
of an era but the beginning of a new,
promising time for Cuba.
Pakistan has never been a nation
with stable political leadership; cur-
rent events represent the continua-
tion of the struggle between Islamists,
Secularists and the military that have
plagued the Islamic Republic since its
creation in 1947. Recent elections fa-
voured secular groups such as the par-
ty of the late Benazir Bhutto (the PPP)
and former Prime Minister Nawaz
Sharif (the PML-N). The possibility of
an alliance between these rival parties
is a significant counter weight to the
power of Pervez Musharraf. Hardline
Islamic politicians have suffered heavy
losses, this makes it likely that Paki-
stans support in the war on terror will
continue.
The elections have, in general, been
carried out smoothly. There is no indi-
cation of vote rigging or tampering. In
addition, efforts by terrorists to disrupt
voting was largely unsuccessful. How-
ever, there are reports that turnout
amongst woman was low, due to fear
of violence.
The victory of secular parties can, in
part, be interpreted as a protest vote
against the assassination of Benazir
Bhutto. However, many Pakistani’s also
resent the degradation of democratic
institutions under the rule of Mushar-
raf, the lawyer’s protests last year is just
one example. For the UK, this result is
favourable in several ways. The success
of democratic processes in Pakistan,
such as elections, makes it easier for the
UK to continue co-operating with Pa-
kistan on issues such as terrorism. The
accusation that the UK has supported
dictatorship in Pakistan has been a
source of embarrassment both inter-
nationally and at home. The UK will be
glad to shake off the label of hypocrisy.
Results of Pakistan’s elections
Long after the death of Benazir Bhutto, Pakistan holds free elections that herald defeat for Musharraf
Kadhim Shubber In addition the election victory contin-
ues the separation of the military from
government that began with the retire-
ment of Pervez Musharraf. As the mili-
tary fulfils its role with the direction of
an elected government it will be more
confidant in its fight against terrorism.
With the decreased support of Islamic
politicians the army will be firmer in its
fight against the Taleban and extrem-
ists; with the knowledge that it has the
support of the electorate.
With the proviso of continued sta-
bility, the outcome of the elections is
favourable for the UK. For Pakistan,
however, there is still much uncertain-
ty ahead. It remains to be seen whether
Musharraf will have his wings clipped
or be forced out altogether. There is a
big question mark over the leadership
of the PPP and PML-N, will they shake
off an image of corruption and credibly
lead the nation?
Castro has throughout his life cultivated the image of a revolutionary.
Asif ali Zardari (Bhutto’s widower) and former PM Nawaz Sharif

