20 felix Friday 22 February 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics
The state of Kosovo is born
After months of negotiations, Kosovo unilaterally declares independance from Serbia
“The Kosovars are now independent”
is how US president George Bush suc-
cinctly summarized the situation that
has recently occurred in Serbia, and
indeed they are. On Sunday the 17th
of February 2008, in a historic session,
Kosovo’s parliament unanimously
endorsed a declaration of independ-
ence from Serbia. The province, pre-
viously subject to ripples of anticipa-
tion, erupted into celebration, with
fireworks being set off and scenes of
intense happiness on the streets. So
what is the significance of this and why
has it come to be such an international
situation?
Ethnically, the majority of Kosovo is
Albanian as opposed to Serbian, a fact
that leads many to believe that it has a
right to self-determination, something
that it has been seeking for many years.
The repression under Slobodan Milo-
sevic combined with the ethnic tension
and armed unrest that escalated in the
‘90s supports this view, international
opinion, however is extremely divid-
ed and worldwide debate concerning
whether it can be legitimately recog-
nized as a state has been ignited.
Kosovo can be safe in the knowl-
edge that they have the backing of the
United States, George Bush declaring,
in archetypal one-dimensional manner
that Kosovo ‘has a friend in America’.
Serbia earlier withdrew its envoy to
Washington in protest citing that Ko-
sovo’s declaration of independence
violates international law. The new
Government, headed by Prime min-
ister Hashim Thaci has also however
gained substantial backing within the
EU, with the UK, France, Germany and
Italy all pledging there support to the
creation of a new democracy which
respects the rights of all ethnic com-
munities. Amongst the dissenters are
Spain, China and most unfortunately
for the Kosovar Government, Russia.
This opposing opinion of America
and Russia has led some political ana-
lysts to predict a cold war type tension
developing once again. This, however,
is highly far-fetched, Russia is nowhere
near powerful enough to cause the US
any worry, to be quite frank they sim-
ply don’t care about Russia anymore,
they are not major trading partners and
Russia cannot pose any kind of military
threat, this disregard is characterized
by the fact that there was no formal
disapproval of Russia’s treatment of
Britain or Ukraine. As long as Russia
keeps supplying the EU with gas, there
is not likely to be an escalation of the
problem. The viability of new Kosovo,
however, is something that needs to be
considered carefully.
It is true that with support from
America and basically the EU, she has
a much-improved chance of surviv-
ing but again the stance of Russia is
significant, the EU can easily protect
Kosovo against Serbia but will hesi-
tate in a direct political or economical
confrontation with Russia. In addition
Russia may see this as on opportunity
to assert itself, by bullying this newly
established state they are reminding
everyone, especially the EU that they
still harbour ambitions of being a great
power. It would be more efficient and
less confrontational than closing the
British council in St Petersburg, possi-
bly more traditional as well. So already
Kosovo has encountered a problem…is
it a problem, which can be overcome,
or is the writing already on the wall for
‘Little Albania’?
Only time can solve such a conun-
drum, but in the mean time the im-
mediate repercussions in Europe, and
around the world need to be assessed.
Spain has shown indignation and un-
ease in response to Kosovo’s decla-
ration, frustrated at the fact, as they
consider it, that “the future of Kosovo
has been decided in Washington and
to some extent in Moscow, and not in
Katya-yani Vyas
Europe.” These were the words of the
Spanish minister for Europe, Alberto
Navarro. In addition to this view that
the creation of Kosovo is blatant dis-
regard of international law, there are
also fears that the situation will ignite a
separatist movement. These concerns
are echoed across Europe, Russia in
particular insisting that such a move
should have been discussed with Ser-
bia first. “We are talking here of the
disruption of all the basic fundamen-
tals of international law in Europe,
which is a result of years of suffering
and wars and strife,” was the reaction
of the Russian Foreign Minister Sergei
Lavrov, “It would undermine the basics
of security in Europe... It would inevi-
tably result in a chain reaction in many
parts of the world, including Europe
and elsewhere.” An opinion that corre-
lates directly with that of Spain, which
is already facing problems, regarding
its Basque population, could Kosovo
be the catalyst to a crazed worldwide
frenzy of self-determination? More
specifically, will Russia and Spain now
more actively listen to the demands
of their respective problem regions in
Georgia and the Basque areas?
The UK foreign secretary, David
“Kosovo has
a friend in
America”
“The road to
stability will be
rocky”
Presidents Fatmir Seijdu of Kosovo and Boris Tadić of Serbia
Miliband seems to think not, he de-
scribes the situation as being ‘unique’
and indicating that it should not set a
precedent for other separatist move-
ments in Europe. Mr. Miliband, em-
ploying a certain level of diplomacy,
said that European nations had given
“clear leadership” to Serbs and Ko-
sovars, adding that there was a “future
for co-operation” over the issue. What
makes it unique, he explains, is that
there has been a UN protectorate over
Kosovo within the independent Serbia
for nine years now and so the situation
cannot be equated with Basque or any
other issue that has been raised for that
matter. To ease the concerns of the dis-
senters however, an EU statement has
proclaimed that Kosovo does not set
a precedent and leaves it up to each
member state to decide on their future
relations.
The road to stability will be rocky for
Kosovo, but having now gained inde-
pendence they are not likely to relin-
quish it lightly. What will become of
the situation is difficult to assess, and
many questions hang over the prov-
ince like a dark cloud. Does Russia care
enough to interfere dramatically? Will
Serbia mount any kind of significant
protest? Will Kosovo’s declaration of
independance be the trigger that un-
leashes a torrent of European ethnic
minority unrest? These are all inter-
esting questions, and will not be an-
swered immediately. Kosovo has taken
the first step; will she stumble and fall
or carry on walking?
The new state of Kosovo and its capital Pristina, in relaton to its neighbours; celebrations extend from eastern Europe to allies in the US

