business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business
Business Editor – Afonso Campos
Supersonic China growth
An exploration of China’s somewhat bipolar attitude towards its economic expansion
Afonso Campos
Business Editor
T
here’s one thing I abso-
lutely must get out of the
way as soon as possible – a
deep and heartfelt (ok, not
really) apology to all my
utterly devoted readers. Yes, I mean
all three of you. I know you have sorely
missed not only this column, but also
the more often than not disgracefully
written articles. I will make a pact with
you: from this week onwards, there will
be enough Business in Felix to make
you ill from the second you wake up to
the moment you lie down to sleep in
your unchanged sheets.
I shall not plague you much today.
Actually, this is a lie. I will plague you
bucketloads – if you are a damned
hippy, that is. One of those who make
it a life-long goal to hate every mildly
successful businessman or every single
multinational corporation known to
man, be their headquarters in Mexi-
fornia or somewhere in Albion. I have
a problem with people who think and
feel this way because it is fashionable to
make a bold statement. The amount of
filth they speak is directly proportional
to that hanging from their disgusting
dreadlocks. Their hatred of anything
that does not involve copious quan-
tities of acid or extra-marital group
sexual intercourse or a combination of
both is sickening.
Among these people, there is a
somewhat schadenfreudistic mental-
ity regarding entrepreneurs and the
über wealthy. This does not seem to
be limited to Birkenstock-wearing,
tree-hugging idiots, though. It is al-
most as if this frame of mind plagues
the majority of the population in the
UK. People seem to enjoy it and take
pleasure when others fail. There is the
automatic assumption that if someone
has the cojones to try something com-
pletely new and revolutionary, they are
automatically arrogant. This an unbe-
lievably preposterous train of thought.
What these people fail to see is that it
takes a lot to become a wildly success-
ful entrepreneur. Any man or woman
who has managed to create something,
be it a product or service, from scratch
deserves all the praise in the world. I
have the utmost respect for those who
have come from nothing and built em-
pires from nothing and those who are
able to successfully continue running
those passed on to them.
Relatively poor shows like Dragon’s
Den seem to have actually helped this
situation, albeit in a slightly demean-
ing fashion. They have spawned many
a wannabe inventor/entrepreneur, but
forgot to educate on the responsibility
that comes with trying to reach their
goal. They fail to comment on the very
real risk some of these people face of
losing their careers, money, and some-
times family.
Entrepreneurs push known bounda-
ries and debunk widely spread myths
about risk and reward. Learn how to
love Richistan. Learn how to learn
from it. Most importantly, learn how
to transform the energy you spend be-
ing envious, into building and creating
something real.
T
his summer, I spent a
month in Beijing. Despite
being a pretty frequent
visitor to the city, each
trip back is still an exciting
experience; that same taxi ride, taking
me from Beijing International Airport
to my apartment, has looked so differ-
ent every time. Where before I recall
only an empty patch of land, or scaf-
folds just bursting upwards from their
foundations, now stands a park, some
public amenity, or, more often than
not, a gleaming new tower bustling
with people.
These “overnight skyscrapers” have
become a symbol of China’s seemingly
unstoppable development. With GDP
growth reported at 11.4% for 2007,
having been cruising close to this fig-
ure for around a decade now, and a
spectacular US trade surplus of $232.5
billion in 2006, it is little wonder then
that the global community have
their eyes firmly fixed on Chi-
na. The country is acutely
aware of its nouveau
riche status, still not
yet fully accepted by
its western peers.
It undoubtedly pos-
sesses economic clout,
but there are too many
skeletons in its closet. The
favourites of activists across
the globe include the Tianan-
men Square massacre, the op-
pression of Tibet, censorship of
the press, and more recently the
alleged support of the Sudanese gov-
ernment in Darfur; the list goes on.
Hence China’s eagerness to dazzle
at the 2008 Olympics. It hopes to draw
the world’s attention away from such
troubling issues whilst at the same
time showcasing its economic power.
To gain the Olympic bid, Beijing had
promised $20 billion towards devel-
oping infrastructure alone, over five
times the amount spent by Athens in
2004. This accounts for only half of the
$40 billion estimated Olympic related
spending which includes a brand new
airport terminal, drastic expansions
to the city’s tube network, new road
links, and targets to drastically reduce
pollution and improve air quality. Es-
sentially the city is undergoing a dras-
tic facelift in a bid to transform Beijing
into a modern capital to rival those
found in the west.
With the Olympics less than a year
away, cranes and scaffolding still dot
the skyline, roads are dug up through-
out the city, and the sound of machin-
ery fills the smog-laden air. In any
other country the situation would have
looked desperate, but in China eve-
rything is right on schedule. When it
comes to ambitious projects, China’s
track record is impressive. The $22 bil-
lion Three Gorges dam was finished
nine months early and the $3.2 bil-
lion Qinghai–Tibet railway completed
almost three years ahead. This is be-
cause manpower is one thing China is
definitely not short of.
With lax laws on
working
hours and a
veritable army of over
120 million migrant workers
drafted from the countryside, the pace
can be stepped up to incredible levels.
These cheap sources of unskilled la-
bour are the less than glamorous, yet
vital, underbelly to the Chinese eco-
nomic juggernaut. They are willing to
live in basic temporary accommoda-
tion, often far from their families, and
work continuously on 24-hour shifts
with no weekend breaks. The jobs are
dangerous and deaths are often swept
under the carpet. But for many this is
just a fact of life. Heavily reminiscent
of the days of the industrial revolution,
only 13% of workers are part of a trade
union and even then they have little
voice. If they are not prepared to work
to support their families, there are
plenty waiting in line to replace them.
At the othr end of the spectrum,
however, are those who have
flourished under China’s
burgeoning economy. As
disposable incomes rise
there is now a significant
number who follow the lat-
est fashions and shop at
designer outlets, looking
and acting every bit like
their western
counterparts. Although
it is true that China’s wealth
has translated into a general im-
proved standard of living, with an
increasing number of families now
able to afford common household
appliances like washing machines
and refrigerators, some have defi-
nitely felt the benefits more than
others. The urban-rural divide remains
prominent and it is primarily the city
dwellers that are enjoying the luxuries
associated with rising GDP. The middle
classes, defined by the Chinese Acad-
emy of Social Sciences as having assets
valued between 150,000 and 300,000
Daniel Wang Yuan (around $18,000 to $36,000), now
compose 49% of the urban population
whilst only accounting for 19% of the
population overall.
It is unsurprising then that, in a
country with such social inequality,
the government’s lavish spending on
the Olympics has received criticism.
They argue the money could have been
better spent on healthcare, the welfare
system or education programs rather
than on flashy showpieces which will
only benefit the privileged few.
Amazingly, breeding a class of elite
citizens, albeit temporarily, is exactly
what China wants; as expressed in the
sentiments of former CCP leader Deng
Xiaoping, China is “letting some get
rich first”. While ethically debatable,
there is good reason, at least economi-
cally, for China to advocate a two-tier
system. The premise is to heavily con-
centrate resources on a select few,
hence the disproportionate amount
of urban spending, helping them rap-
idly gain affluence so that they can es-
tablish a foothold in the competitive
global market. Once accomplished, it
is hoped this empowered minority,
using their significant purchasing
power, will then be able to pull up
the rest of the population, ultimately
benefiting the country as a whole.
Such a grandiose plan is fraught
with the risk of social instability
and requires a tight rein, central or-
ganization, and extensive long term
planning – something that is only
possible in a single-party state like
China, free from the need to pan-
der to voters.
The idiom “business is business”
is well known, but China’s conduct
is certainly pushing at its bounda-
ries. China’s willingness to distill
morality away from its economic
activities is frightening, but when
it comes down to it, without this
ruthlessness it would not be such
a well-oiled machine.
One thing is for certain: spring-
ing up alongside the gleaming
new cities is a huge market wait-
ing to be tapped. This is the sweet
coating that makes China’s shortcom-
ings such an easy pill to swallow. When
there are such profits to be gained,
even the most civilized of nations find
it hard not to occasionally look the
other way.
China’s cranes propagate across the smoggy horizon like wild mushrooms
21
Friday 22 February 2008 felix

