22 felix Friday 22 February 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
W
ell hello again, my
little reader chums.
I hope you all had
a nice Valentine’s
Day, whether you
spent it holding hands and skipping
with a loved one or drunk out of your
skull (as is only traditional). Bonus
points to anybody who took their
date out to something artsy. But do
you know what?... You don’t need a
girlfriend/boyfriend to enjoy the Arts.
Personally what I love about art gal-
leries and museums is how you can go
solo without looking too much like a
social leper. It’s an excellent opportu-
nity for some quality me-time. You’ll
go home soothed and relaxed, and
87.5% less likely to bite your flatmate’s
head off.
However, you might want to wait
until half-term’s over before you brave
any of the major museums. South
Kensington station and the route to
College become an assault course of
pushchairs, yummy mummies and
ankle biters. And don’t even try and
set foot in the Science Museum. Grrr...
I hate half-term.
So this week I’ve been sticking to
the arts of the outdoor variety. I’ve
been on an exciting expedition to
look at our local British Heritage blue
plaques. There are literally hundreds
dotted about this part of London. It
took me hours to whittle down the list
of which I wanted to look for and then
find them all. This wasn’t helped by
my astounding inability to read a map
and lack of any sense of direction.
You’d damned well better appreciate
my labours. I try very hard for you. I
am but a humble wench, serving you
day and night... or something. In fact,
this morning I bravely sacrificed going
to a lecture so I could go to a press
viewing at Tate Modern (see? An arts
editor’s life is never easy). It was my
first press viewing, and hopefully not
my last – it was good fun. Though
there was no free coffee and danish, as
one (well, me) would expect.
Don’t forget we’re always looking for
people to go forth and review stuff,
and go to these fancy press events.
I’ve got some free tickets to a couple
of Tate exhibitions that I’d gladly give
to anybody who emails in. All I ask in
return is a couple of hundred words.
It’s that easy!
Aside from those blue plaques, I’ve
got many other delights ready and
waiting for your reading pleasure. The
relentless Rosie Grayburn has been
offended by some portraits and wants
to bitch about them to you. Then Lucy
Harrold strikes again with another
musical weekly – this time it’s Les
Mis. I’ve never seen it myself, but the
gist I got from her article was: some
crazed French people pratting about
on a stage, with the added bonuses
of bloody revolution and the occa-
sional sing-song. Also, a nice, young
man from Musical Theatre Soc. has
provided me with an exciting preview
of their upcoming production. I see all
of their stuff, so I can vouch for their
musical talents and witty sexual innu-
endoes. Go see them in action!
S
ometimes it’s nice to get
outdoors, even in London.
So I thought the good read-
ers of Felix Arts might like
to escape the usual stuffy
galleries and museums and go for a bit
of a stroll. And I’ve made it easy for
you – I’ve found some cultural attrac-
tions that are all within easy walking
distance of College, and seeing them
won’t cost you a penny. I’m talking
about British Heritage blue plaques.
These can be found on perfectly
ordinary buildings to commemorate
the not-so-ordinary people who lived
there. London is dripping with them –
you almost certain go past a couple on
your daily commute. But did you ever
stop to think about who these people
are and what they did?
I decided to go on a Day Out and
find some blue plaques around South
Kensington. If you want to follow in
my footsteps, you’ll need: a map, a list
of plaques to see, decent weather and
a good pair of walking shoes. When I
was looking up plaques I used the Brit-
ish Heritage website. This was a bit poo
in that you can only search by name of
the plaque-holder, and not location,
but there are more helpful websites out
there (GIYF!). You may want to look up
your personal idols, or you may want
to look up who’s in your local area. Or,
if you’re stuck for inspiration, just fol-
low my lead...
My first stop was 33 Thurloe Square,
ex-home of Sir Henry Cole (1808-
1882). There is a wing of the V&A
named after this fellow, possibly be-
cause he was the museum’s first direc-
tor. But did you know he was also in-
volved in the setting up of our beloved
Imperial College? Before the Henry
Cole wing was part of the V&A, Impe-
rial had its Mathematics department
there. Just south of South Ken tube,
and next to a handy bus stop, is the
London home Hungarian composer
and pianist Béla Bartók (1881-1945)
at 7 Sydney Place. Bartók liked his folk
music, and collected it (I bet his neigh-
bours loved that). He was so keen on it,
in fact, that he is considered one of the
founders of ethnomusicology, which
is the study of the social and cultural
origins of music, and the kind of word
you could throw into a conversation
for smuggery points.
If you get into blue plaque spotting
(which is probably close to ornithol-
ogy in the hierarchy of cool hobbies),
you’ll start to notice certain streets are
a veritable treasure trove. One such lo-
cation is Onslow Gardens. At number
5 is a plaque to James Anthony Froude
(1818-1894), historian and “man of
letters” (liked to complain a lot?). At
number 24 there’s Andrew Bonar Law
(1858-1923), Canada-born British
prime minister. My companion on my
blue plaque expedition took one look
at number 24 and said “hee hee, ‘Bon-
er’!” - I hope my readers will be more
mature. Then at number 38 we have
W.E.H. Lecky (1838-1903). The W.E.H.
stands for William Edward Hartpole, in
case you wondered. Lecky, like Froude,
was a historian.
If you’re a bit peckish at this point,
you might want to pause for a snack.
There’s a lot of walking to be done! On
my trip I had a triple chocolate cookie
from Ben’s Cookies at South Ken sta-
tion – purveyors of the greatest cook-
ies I have ever eaten (triple chocolate
is obviously the best, though my friend
had a mere single milk chocolate – tsk,
novice). They are also my favourite
pre-lecture pitstop, as they serve the
bestest, cheapest coffee in South Ken-
sington – get the Parisian blend rather
than the Costa Rican. Anyway, this isn’t
very cultural so let’s get back to it...
Next stop: Dennis Gabor (1900-
1979) at 79 Queen’s Gate. If you’ve
ever lived in Evelyn Gardens (which
all the best people have), you’ll have
walked past this plaque every day, and
possibly thought “hmm, just what is
holography?”. Well, it’s holograms.
Dennis Gabor invented them. I think
that’s pretty cool. And the physicists
and mathematicians out there might
have heard of Gabor atoms (I looked
these up on Wikipedia and I have no
idea what it’s on about – answers on a
postcard please).
A thrilling adventure in blue
plaques and pointless trivia
What famous person used to live here? Read the article to find out!
Emily Wilson wanders the streets of South Kensington, looking for famous names
Which famous director has all this rubbish outside their old house? This article will tell you! Wow!
This is what we’re looking for, readers: lovely shiny blue plaques!

