arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 22 February 2008 felix
Arts
John Stuart Mill (1806-1873). Appar-
ently he was a precocious child, and
spent his younger years reading An-
cient Greek. He was the first member
of parliament to call for women to be
given the vote, which certainly deserves
a pat on the back. Interesting facts: his
godfather was Jeremy Bentham, whose
body can be found in a box at UCL (the
head attached to it is wax – they keep
the real deal tucked away so students
don’t play with it), and Mill in turn was
godfather to Bertrand Russell, who was
a philosopher, political activist, math-
ematician, winner of a Nobel Prize in
Literature, and all-round intellectual.
See? You’re learning things today!
Moving swiftly on, we come to Hen-
ry James (1843-1916), previous inhab-
itant of 34 De Vere Gardens. This dude
Cromwell Road is a bit of a trek, I’m
afraid, but you get the two-for-one of-
fer of Sir Alfred Hitchcock (1899-1980)
at 153 and Benjamin Britten (1913-
1976) at 173. The iconic director that is
Hitchcock requires little introduction,
but somebody really needs to tidy up
his ex-front garden, which resembles
the contents of a skip. Despite being
considered the best director of all time,
did you know the poor guy never won
an Oscar for his directing? Benjamin
Britten is a well-known composer. He
created, amongst rafts of other things,
The Young Person’s Guide to the Or-
chestra and Winter Requiem.
Back towards College we have T.S.
Eliot (1888-1965), who lived at 3
Kensington Court Gardens. You will
know him best as the poet who wrote
Old Possom’s Book of Practical Cats,
now best known in the musical Cats,
though he did write more serious poet-
ry as well. It just so happens that Eliot
also lived in my home town, and my
house in primary school was named
after him (we wore yellow PE kits, in
case you wondered).
Another gold mine for plaques was
Kensington Square, near Kensington
High Street. It was here I discovered it’s
not just British Heritage that produce
plaques. Another plaque-mounting
organisation is The Heritage Founda-
tion, which celebrates mostly comedi-
ans and TV stars. Their website isn’t as
comprehensive as British Heritage, but
is still worth a look. I found a plaque
for Joan Sims (1930-2001), Carry On
star, placed by them. At 41 Kensington
Square there’s Sir Edward Burne-Jones
(1833-1898), a Pre-Raphaelite artist
and chum of William Morris, of whom
I am a big fan. In fact, Morris had a bit
of a crush on Mrs Georgiana Burne-
Jones, but she rejected him. This didn’t
stop Edward having an affair with his
Greek model, who then caused a spot
of scandal by trying to publicly commit
suicide. Ah... I love the eccentricities
of artists, don’t you? At 17 Kensing-
ton Square we’ve got Hubert Parry
(1848-1918), composer of everybody’s
favourite song, Jerusalem, the lyrics of
which were written by the poet Wil-
liam Blake. Over at number 17 there’s
a plaque for the philosopher and MP
was an influential writer. You may have
heard of The Portrait of a Lady and
The Wings of a Dove, two of his novels.
The Turn of the Screw, was turned into
an opera by Benjamin Britten, who we
visited earlier. Nearby at 2 Palace Gate
we have Sir John Everett Millais (1829-
1896), a Pre-Raphaelite chum of Sir
Edward Burne-Jones (have you been
paying attention?), and subject of the
first article I ever wrote for Felix.
There are a few famous names on
Hyde Park Gate. At number 9 there’s
RobertBaden-Powell(1857-1941),self-
proclaimed Chief Scout of the world,
and possible paedophile (I refer you to
the whole Wikipedia article dedicated
to “Robert Baden-Powell’s sexual ori-
entation”). At number 29 there’s Enid
Bagnold (1889-1981), who wrote Na-
tional Velvet. Nearby there’s the con-
troversial sculptor Sir Jacob Epstein
(1880-1959). Sir Winston Churchill
(1874-1965), possibly the most famous
Briton of all time, lived and died at
number 28. 22 Hyde Park Gate got me
very excited because it has not one, not
two, but THREE blue plaques. Sir Le-
slie Stephen (1832-1904), author and
critic lived here. So did his children
Vanessa Bell (1879-1961), painter and
interior designer, and the great liter-
ary figure Virginia Woolf (1882-1941).
Number 22 is also a beautiful building,
which I would very much like to live in
(please).
Never fear, reader, for the end is in
sight! We’re on to our last plaque! Pos-
sibly the closest of all to College, it’s
stuck on the side of Albert Hall Man-
sions. It’s dedicated to Sir Malcolm
Sargent (1895-1967), a conductor, or-
ganist and composer. He is possibly the
best known of all English conductors,
in fact. No prizes for guessing where
he did most of his conducting. So there
we are: a whistlestop tour of your local
blue plaques. Even if you don’t go look-
ing for them yourself, I hope you’ve at
least found my little tour educational.
I bet you didn’t realise there were so
many famous faces lining the route to
your lectures. And maybe, if you work
hard like good little students, the grotty
little flat full of empty beer bottles you
call home will someday have its own
blue plaque with your name on it.
For beaucoup de information,
visit www.english-heritage.org.uk
Winston Churchill lived and died on Imperial’s doorstep, sort of
The famous painting of Ophelia by Millais, another Imperial neighbour Scouts: invented and fiddled by Robert Baden-Powell. These ones are earning their chocolate-eating badge
Three plaques on one building? That gets you triple the points, hurrah!

