24 felix Friday 22 February 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
David Brent does Broadway in the
Musical Theatre Soc Spring Show
Fertility God enters the musical scene
Lord Robert Winston; fertility
expert, Baron of Hammersmith,
writer, director, presenter and
generally all round nice guy,
makes a cameo appearance in
the show! The BAFTA award-
winning recipient of 14 honorary
degrees plays the voice of How
to Succeed, the narrating book.
The Professor’s dulcet tones,
soothing the ears of the nation
on the BBC, will be soothing au-
dience members’ ears through-
out the night in the UCH, Tues-
day to Saturday next week.
“Eagles may soar high, but weasels
don’t get sucked into jet engines.” –
wise words indeed from the self-styled
business guru, David Brent. That said,
Ricky Gervais’ character in his hit sit-
com, The Office is not the first to gen-
erate such nuggets of wisdom. A shred
of deviousness here and a dash of chi-
canery there had been staple features of
the business of satire, long before Ger-
vais was even a twinkle in his father’s
eye. The universal popularity of office-
based comedy lies in the fact that we
can all, whether we have experience in
that environment or not, relate to the
characters and situations portrayed;
the schoolyard politics, over-zealous
stereotypes and grating one-upman-
ship are inherently familiar.
Perhaps that’s why in 1952, when
Shepherd Mead published the satiri-
cal self-help book, How To Succeed
In Business Without Really Trying, it
became an instant best-seller. Drawn
from his own experiences in the busi-
ness world, the book’s “advice” struck a
chord with everyone from Wall Street
to Broadway. Indeed, it inspired both
the composer and writer of Guys And
Dolls, Frank Loesser and Abe Burrows,
to adapt it into a stage musical of the
same name which, upon its debut in
1961, swept the awards board, netting
seven Tonys (the theatrical equivalent
to the Oscars) and a Pullitzer prize.
This Spring, ICU’s Musical Theatre
Society, MTSoc, takes on this iconic
show. In a departure from recent years’
more modern pieces (Batboy, Little
Shop of Horrors, A Slice of Saturday
Night, etc.) this more traditional mu-
sical brings a sense of freshness to the
stage of the Union Concert Hall. The
decades that have passed since its con-
ception have only served to reinforce
the plot and if anything, it’s more rel-
evant now than it ever was.
The show tells the story of a hopeless
window washer, J. Pierrepont Finch,
who comes across a book, How To Suc-
ceed In Business. He decides to leave
his old life behind, following the book’s
simple tips to climb the corporate lad-
der. After getting his foot in the front
door of the World Wide Wicket Com-
pany, Finch rapidly begins to make his
move out of the mail-room and into
the executive pool. Watching his ca-
reer with eager interest are Rosemary
Pilkington, a secretary who has her
heart set on spending the rest of her
life with an oblivious Finch, and Bud
Frump, the president’s nephew who is
dismayed to see Finch succeed in get-
ting promoted where his own schemes
have failed.
As Finch tricks his way into promo-
tion after promotion, the show’s wide
array of colourful characters provide
rich satirical insight into the business
world with musical numbers such as
the very tongue-in-cheek ‘A Secretary
Is Not A Toy’ and the simply manic
‘Coffee Break’. Whether Finch’s suc-
cess is due to the ineptitude of his col-
leagues or the advice of the book (the
dulcet tones of Professor Lord Rob-
ert Winston) is anyone’s guess, but if
watching his bizarre progress is any-
where near as fun as it has been playing
the character myself, then you won’t be
disappointed.
J. Pierrepont Finch is a far cry from
my last two appearances on that stage:
Jimmy-Jack Cassie, the unwashed,
drunken yet brilliant Irishman (Dram-
soc’s Translations) and Dr. Thomas
Parker, the obsessive, insane, murder-
ousveterinarian(MusicalTheatreSoc’s
Batboy). As it becomes clear through-
out the course of the show, Finch is
as much of an idiot as the rest of the
male workforce (the secretaries being
the brains behind the business) and
I’ve always enjoyed playing the fool.
But Finch’s real charm comes from his
childlike naivety and dependence on
the book he carries everywhere with
him. Despite his tricks and deception,
it’s difficult not to wish him success.
After six years, this will almost cer-
tainly be my last Spring Show with
MTSoc before I embark on my own
career. Fitting, then, that this particu-
lar show is my swansong. After all, the
majority of us come to Imperial Col-
lege to improve our chances of suc-
ceeding in business before launching
ourselves into a world we know noth-
ing about. So, I urge you, make some
time next week (or have your personal
assistant do it for you) to come and see
this excellent show. Who knows, you
might learn a thing or two!
This is what Musical Theatre Soc has to offer you: lots of lovely ladies, and the opportunity to have them carry you about like you’re royalty
Sebastian Junemann

