Investigating Imperial’s efforts to
conserve the world’s environment
W
elcome to the Environ-
mental Research pullout:
Green’perial! We hope this
Felix supplement will give you
a good insight into Imperial’s
research in the areas of climate change, energy
and the environment. Imperial’s highest calibre
scientists and engineers work at the forefront
in these fields; many of them are advisors to the
Government and international organisations on
some of the biggest environmental challenges of
the century.
If you take a look over to the right of this page,
you’ll see a rundown of the contents. Inside you’ll
find interviews with a number of Imperial’s re-
searchers hoping to make the environment a
greener place; the centre spread covers environ-
mentally-related projects happening in the de-
partments around campus; there is a piece on the
resurgence of coal as a viable energy source and
finally, on the back page, the experts tell us about
the environment’s future and give you some
pointers on how to get involved.
At the beginning of this academic year, Federica
came up with the idea of an informative piece
about Imperial’s environmental research. Indeed,
it occurred to us that even after 3 years of full-
time study at Imperial, we were still quite clueless
as to the kinds of environmental and sustainable
research the College is engaged in. As we browsed
a few websites, we became aware of the consid-
erable extent of environmental work at Imperial
and decided to investigate further. The investiga-
tion has been a team effort since the beginning,
and as the days went past we became more and
more ambitious about the contents of the piece
we wanted to write. Somewhere along the line,
Brian, Roger and Vij joined forces with us. We
hope you enjoy the fruits of our labour!
We would also like to say a great big thank you to
Ed, Science Editor, and Tom, Editor-in-Chief, of
the Felix team. Without them this pullout would
not have seen the light of day. They supported
and guided us throughout the project, and they
also spent many hours putting everything togeth-
er, giving it a journalistic touch, and crafting out
the brilliant design that you can see here.
A special thank you goes to all the people we have
interviewed or talked to. We found College’s staff
very approachable and all the people we met were
generally very enthusiastic about the whole idea
of a special piece on environmental research. Un-
fortunately, we could not include all of the infor-
mation provided to us due to lack of space, but
most of it is there. A particularly difficult decision
had to be made regarding Brian Giannakopoulos’
piece on Civil and Environmental Engineering.
We were painfully short of space, and as a result
you will find Brian’s highly informative article in
the Science pages of this Felix issue.
Finally, we hope you will enjoy reading this pull-
out as much as we enjoyed putting it together!
Well, ok, we’ll be honest with you, there were
frustrating moments, but as a whole the experi-
ence it was a hugely enjoyable one. The best part
was undeniably the chance to meet so many of
Imperial’s staff and students who are all so pas-
sionate about their work.
Irini and Federica
Contents
Page 8
Credits Written by Irini Kyriacou and Federica Dalamel de Bournet, and assisted by Vij Dhayan and Roger Rouhana.
Designed by Tom Roberts and edited by Edmund Henley. Centre spread photograph by Sean Gallagher.
“
Humanity’s impact on the environment
is one of the most pressing issues of our
time. The answers will only come, I believe,
from scientific communities in which teams
of scientists, engineers and medics of all
disciplines work side by side, bringing
their different expertise and techniques
to approach each challenge from every
angle.
” Sir Richard Sykes
Rector of Imperial College London
Introduction
Page 1
The Grantham
Institute’s Dr
Simon Buckle
Page 2
Centre for
Environmental
Policy, Energy
Futures Lab
Page 3
Departmental
research group
innovations
Pages 4 & 5
The Energy and
Environment
Office’s Dr Tariq
Page 6
Black is back – The
return of coal
Page 7
What Imperial’s
professionals have
to say and how
you can help

