The Grantham Institute: the facts
Simon Buckle is Director of Climate Policy at the Grantham Institute, the latest addition to the Walkway.
Irini Kyriacou and Federica Dalamel de Bournet caught up with him to find out more about what it does
T
he Grantham Institute for Climate
Change was launched in February
2007 after a £12 million donation
over ten years by the Grantham
Foundation for the Protection of the
Environment.
What is the role of the Grantham Institute
(GI)?
The GI’s role is to develop cross-disciplinary re-
search at Imperial on climate change, its impacts
on humans and ecosystems and what we can do
about it in terms of mitigation technologies and
adaptation. The Institute also has as one of its
core aims to translate the results of research into
our responses to climate change, both in terms
of technological and policy development. So that
what we actually do about climate change has a
sound basis in the research.
How did the Grantham Institute come about?
Imperial College has a long tradition of research
in climate science across the different depart-
ments, but it has never really been joined up. And
one thing about climate change is that it requires
people working in different disciplines to come
together to tackle some of the key questions.
Before the Grantham Institute was launched in
early 2007, College (led by Sir Peter Knight) was
developing its own initiative on climate. Then the
Grantham Foundation for the Protection of the
Environment came along and after some discus-
sion offered to give £12 million over a period of 10
years, i.e. about £1 million a year, to be invested in
climate research. The rest is history.
How is this money distributed each year?
It will fund PhDs, post-docs, and permanent
positions around College and a small number
at the Institute. Last year we funded 7 PhDs: in
Physics (on photovoltaics and wind energy), in
Life Sciences at Silwood (biosphere-atmosphere
interactions and climate impacts on biodiver-
sity), Earth Science and Engineering (carbon se-
questration) and Civil Engineering (flood and
drought risk assessment). Another set
of PhD studentships has just been
advertised, as have a number of
lecturers and postdoc posi-
tions. [see http://www3.
imperial.ac.uk/cli-
matechange/courses/
phdstudentships]
Can you explain to
us in more detail
what kind of re-
search the GI is
involved in?
We are still very new
but we aim to develop
cutting edge research
across all areas at IC.
We have set out four
main research themes:
1) Earth Systems Sci-
ence: this looks at fun-
damental Earth processes,
e.g. atmospheric physics,
ocean modelling and how
the biosphere affects the cli-
mate. For example, a new
generation of ocean com-
putational model-
ling is being
developed in the Department of Earth Science
and Engineering.
2) Vulnerable Eco-systems and Human Welfare:
this will focus on climate impacts on eco-systems
and human welfare and what can be done to adapt
to those impacts. For example, climate change
will change the incidence of major diseases such
as malaria in Africa. We need to be able to un-
derstand this process so that we can then make
informed decisions to control the disease.
3) Sustainable Futures: this covers both mitiga-
tion technologies to reduce carbon emissions into
the atmosphere (e.g. carbon capture and storage,
photovoltaics, renewables etc) and also policy re-
sponses, e.g. how to drive the transformation to a
low-carbon economy? Can we get effective inter-
national action on emission reduction?
4) Risk Extremes and Irreversible Change: A lot
of the costs of climate change could come from
extreme events, e.g. more severe storms. We
need to understand these much better. We also
need a better grasp of the risk of abrupt climate
change, e.g. the melting of the Arctic ice-cap is
taking place much faster than anyone predicted.
And climate change also threatens extinction for
a huge number of species. Some of these impacts
would be irreversible.
There are lots of people around the College who
are committed to doing high-quality research in
these areas, so that is very encouraging.
I think what we need to do over the next few years
is to use the Grantham Institute to build up the
scale of resources working on climate related is-
sues around the College. We want to make sure
that IC makes a real contribution to this work and
that the Institute makes an important contribu-
tion to the policy debate and the decisions that
are made.
Just how worried should we be about global
warming?
The UN framework aims to avoid dangerous
man-made climate change, but we don’t really
know where that danger lies. But things are al-
ready happening now in the system
that we can tell are due to climate
change rather than natu-
ral climate variability. Al
Gore might be trying
to shock people, but
there’s no doubt that
the climate CAN
change over quite
short time-scales,
e.g. decades rather
than centuries. I
wouldn’t like to
say it’s going to in
the next X years,
we just don’t know
enough. But the
fact that there is
that risk means
that we really DO
need to be cautious
about letting green-
house gases build up
in the atmosphere. The
problem is that we don’t
know where the dangerous
points are.
Even without any abrupt
change to the
system, the
rising
temperatures and changing patterns of rainfall
could have huge impacts on water availability, ag-
riculture, biodiversity, extreme events etc.
Do you have a message for the student body?
Climate change is a critical challenge for society
and we need the expertise of the researchers and
students of IC to really address it over the next
few years.
We need people to understand the urgency of the
problem. We have a window of 10-15 years to do
something really serious about this problem, oth-
erwise we are committed to have a level of CO2
in the atmosphere which IS worrying in terms of
potential impacts.
Look out for special events hosted by the GI,
we’ll be developing our program over the next
year. The Annual Lecture by our new Director,
Professor Sir Brian Hoskins, will probably be in
May. Brian is a world-class climate expert; he has
chaired the Met Office Scientific Advisory Com-
mittee since 1995, he was elected as a Foreign As-
sociate of the US National Academy of Sciences
in 2002 and appointed as a Foreign Member of
the Chinese Academy of Sciences in the same
year. He was knighted in 2007 for his services to
environmental science.
Many people who acknowledge the fact that
climate change is happening are still not pre-
pared to change their lifestyles to reduce car-
bon emissions. Why do you think that is?
That’s partly why trying to understand the risks,
and communicating them better, is so important.
And a lot of people still don’t understand what
climate change is.
People say “Oh climate change, that’s about the
ozone hole!” They have inherently flawed notions
of the problem. They hear things and they get
worried about it, but they don’t really understand
it.
So you believe that individuals can make the
change happen; it’s not just the government’s
job and big policy makers?
Well you know, governments will act when peo-
ple tell them that they are fed up with what is
happening and what’s been done before. Or when
they are really convinced about the scale of the
threat they face – and there’s still some work to
do there. Look what happened after WWII: the
US put together a massive program of aid, the
Marshall Plan, because they were worried that
communism would destabilise Europe. There was
a massive political and financial effort. I think you
need a similar scale of effort – political, scientific,
technological and economic - on climate change.
Do you think the US has got the message now?
There has been some movement e.g. at the G8
meeting in Heigendamm in 2007. But the nego-
tiations at Bali showed how difficult it still is to
make progress. I think there is a fundamental
scepticism that President Bush will commit to
the scale of changes which are needed. People are
waiting for the next president. Whether he or she
will be radically better or not we need to wait to
see, but other governments are not going to do
a bad deal with the current administration. They
are going to wait. And in the meantime there is a
lot of progress at the individual State level, e.g. in
California.
Are you optimistic about what Imperial can do
in terms of climate change?
In terms of the expertise we can bring, I am very
optimistic. We now have a chance of doing some-
thing really exciting and important across the
whole College. But it is not just Imperial, lots of
other people and institutions will have a role too,
some of whom have been working on the area
for a much longer time and on a larger scale. The
appointment of Sir Brian Hoskins immediately
means that we will be able to link more closely
with Reading’s extensive climate modelling ex-
pertise. We are also developing partnerships with
other leading institutions both in the UK and
overseas.
Grantham Family: Quick History
Jeremy Grantham was born in Yorkshire,
and went to the University of Sheffield.
He is a well-known investment manager
and chairman of Boston-based invest-
ment firm, GMO.
His wife Hannelore is German and is
the Director of the Grantham Founda-
tion for the Environment. She is also a
member of the Advisory Board of Oxfam
America.
The Grantham Family established the
Grantham Foundation for the Protection
of the Environment in 1997. The Foun-
dation supports natural resource con-
servation projects both in the US and
internationally.
You can find out more at: http://www3.
imperial.ac.uk/climatechange/about/
donors
The Grantham Institute on the South Kensington campus, and bottom left: Dr Buckle
2

