A cross-disciplinary department
D
eveloping a sustainable energy
future involves providing clean,
secure and affordable energy to
a growing market. However, the
growth of first-world economies,
the emergence of new energy-guzzling nations,
the depletion of fossil fuels, technological limi-
tations, and complex climatic and geopolitical
scenarios are making energy policies increasingly
difficult to craft out.
The future of energy production and distribution
is so intricate that an approach where technology,
economics and politics are viewed independently
will necessarily be ineffective. In fact, tackling the
energy challenge will require a holistic approach,
and this is exactly what the Energy Futures Lab of
Imperial College is set to achieve.
Housed in Civil Engineering’s Skempton Build-
ing, the Energy Futures Lab aims to tackle impor-
tant energy questions by harnessing the exper-
tise of various departments around the college.
Imperial’s mastery of engineering and scientific
disciplines such as energy efficiency, nuclear en-
ergy and transport, coupled with input concern-
ing economics, policy-making and risk from the
Tanaka Business School, makes it an excellent
motor for research and innovation in the field of
energy policy.
This multidisciplinary approach is ideal, since it
allows the Energy Futures Lab to combine the re-
search performed within departments at Imperial
to the United Kingdom Energy Research Centre
(EKERC), the Carbon Trust and the government.
Importantly, the Lab acts as a bridge between the
university and industry, thus ensuring that the re-
search carried out within Imperial’s departments
is relevant to the actual requirements of real life
applications. This collaboration is seen through
some of the research projects currently being car-
ried out at the Lab.
The BP-Imperial Urban Energy Systems investi-
gates various ways by which cities could optimise
the use of resources such as power, heating and
Energy Futures Lab: what’s it all about?
Vij Dhayan gives us the lowdown on the centre taking a holistic approach to the energy challenge
Irini Kyriacou and Federica Dalamel de Bournet talk to Prof Nigel Bell and Dr Nick Voulvoulis about the
Centre for Environmental Policy and how changes in science are catching up with changes in policy
T
he Centre for Environmental Policy
(CEP) is a vibrant department situ-
ated in the heart of the Mechanical
Engineering building, and also at Sil-
wood Park. We met with Nigel Bell,
Professor of Environmental Pollution and Direc-
tor of the MSc in Environmental Technology, and
then Dr Nick Voulvoulis, Senior Lecturer and
expert in Waste and Wastewater Management.
They kindly accepted to meet and talk to us about
CEP’s work.
The Centre is a unique interface between science
and technology, and economics and policy. Sci-
entists, economists and social and policy experts
work towards gathering the scientific evidence
necessary to implement new environmental poli-
cies, or, alternatively, support policies already in
place. “We collect the evidence in order to change
or develop [environmental] policy” explains Dr
Voulvoulis. However, most policies are set in
place before the scientific evidence is present.
This is “because science does not move as fast
as policy”. The CEP is working towards inverting
that trend.
As a result, the Centre actively collaborates with
institutional bodies such as the Department for
Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), Re-
search Councils UK and the Environment Agency
amongst others. Part of CEP’s work involves ob-
taining information from medics, engineers and
scientists across College to understand where the
needs for new policies stand. Similarly, amending
and modifying policies currently in place requires
strong scientific evidence which the CEP gathers
from Imperial’s outstanding science and technol-
ogy research.
As the name suggests, CEP’s expertise touches
all areas of the environment from energy to pol-
lution, conservation of resources, food and envi-
ronmental security, and poverty reduction. The
excellence of Imperial’s research, which is carried
out in such an extensive range of subjects, makes
it an especially suitable place for the CEP to carry
out its mission.
The department also runs one of the most suc-
cessful and innovative post-graduate MSc cours-
es at Imperial, the MSc in Environmental Tech-
nology. It is currently the largest MSc on campus,
with ca. 135 students enrolled every year. The
nature of this course is highly interdisciplinary.
Indeed, the course comprises modules as diverse
as Ecology, Environmental Law, Risk Assessment,
Environmental Economics, Environmental Pollu-
tion and Control, and Environmental Policy and
Management. In the 2nd Term students choose
an area of specialization such as Business and the
Environment, Energy Policy, Water Management
and many more, depending on their academic
background and interests.
A significant number of MSc students remain
within the Department to pursue a PhD. Cur-
rently the Centre is home to approximately 80
PhD students. The research projects are highly
cross-disciplinary, and focus on current or po-
tential upcoming environmental issues in the UK
and world-wide. PhD projects are often jointly
supervised by the CEP and one or more other
departments.
Last but not least, the CEP houses the Impe-
rial Centre for Energy Policy and Technology
(ICEPT). The latter is an academic hub which
focuses on the link between energy and the en-
vironment. Interdisciplinary research carried out
(Bioenergy, Energy in Developing Countries, Hy-
drogen and Fuel Cell Energy, Decentralised Ener-
gy and Transition, Innovation and Policy) grants
ICEPT with the necessary expertise to lead the
Technology and Policy Assessment (TPA) func-
tion of the UK Energy Research Centre (UKERC).
The UKERC is the UK’s pre-eminent centre of
research on sustainable energy systems; it was
established in 2004, following a recommendation
by Sir David King, the UK Government’s Chief
Scientific Advisor in office at the time.
CEP’s academics work together towards estab-
lishing trans-disciplinary expertise in the envi-
ronmental field. The aim is to translate science
into policy. The next step is to make sure policies
are endorsed and respected by citizens.
water, or improve their transport systems. This is
done by using complex modelling techniques onto
which business and policy factors are grafted, and
by comparing current and novel approaches used
in managing big cities.
Another interesting endeavour of the Lab is the
Shell-Imperial College Grand Challenge Pro-
gramme on Clean Fossil Fuels, the main targets
of which are to find ways of limiting the release of
greenhouse gases during the extraction of fossil
fuels and the delivery of energy and by-products
to consumers. This will be done hrough analysis
of the supply chain and either limiting the amount
of C02 produced or capturing what is released.
The Energy Futures Lab offers MSc courses in
Sustainable Energy Futures and Environmental
Technology, and cross-disciplinary PhD research
themes.
The Energy Futures Lab is currently working with BP to research how cities can optimise the efficiency of their existing energy sources
The CEP is working to improve the UK’s environmental policies and its countryside
3

