Translational research at Imperial
Dr Tariq Ali is Director of the Energy and Environment Office (EEO). Irini Kyriacou and Federica
Dalamel de Bournet met with him to talk about his work, the role of the EEO and Scarlett Johansson
O
n a frosty clear January morning,
we went along to the elegant Ed-
wardian building at 58 Princes Gate
which hosts the Energy and Envi-
ronment Office (EEO). Climbing
up a couple of flights of stairs, we found ourselves
in Dr Tariq Ali’s bright and airy office. We knew
that the EEO has a central role in promoting and
nurturing Imperial’s environmental research, but
little else. Fortunately Dr Ali was kind enough to
tell us more.
How did you come to be the Director of the En-
ergy and Environment Office?
I was in the Astrophysics group in the physics de-
partment, working away minding my own busi-
ness. But I was vice-chairman of the National
Organisation of Scientists in my spare time. At
around 1998 Lord Oxburgh – the Rector at Impe-
rial – and the Deputy Rector decided that, strate-
gically, College could have a major impact in three
key areas: Energy, Environment and Healthcare.
We were all working in an interdisciplinary mode,
and we felt we had a lot to offer and that we could
be world leaders in some areas. In healthcare, it
was slightly different so he set about doing that.
However, what he asked me to do was to set up
the Energy and Environment office, which was
called the Environment Office at the time.
What did your job entail? How were the begin-
nings of the Environment Office?
I didn’t have a job description as such, or a mis-
sion of statement but my job was to make inter-
disciplinary research happen – get projects
together that were interdisciplinary, and work
across the departments. At that time there were
20 departments and all sort of verticals per fac-
ulty structure. So the Environment Office was set
up to focus on research, facilitate and initiate new
projects – anything to do with the environment
that was interdisciplinary. One thing we had at
the time was a network which I had set up called
the Environment Forum, which had about 250 re-
searchers working on environmental projects.
What does EEO work on?
We work right across from basic research to
translational research, and with industry partners
all around the world. We act as the first point of
contact and do a lot with the media – a lot of pro-
ducers and journalists call me up. We also deal
a lot with the investor community, people who
want to invest in our technologies both at the
R&D level but also at the spin-out level, or licenc-
ing our technologies.
What are the links between industry and Im-
perial College in the environmental field ?
Dialogue with companies and research coun-
cils, as well as other institutions is a significant
part of what I do: building the bridges between
the external drivers in environmental science and
sustainability and us, to get an alignment. We did
that quite successfully, and we’ve had a number of
projects that kicked off. I also helped set up the
Strategic Alliance with BP on the environment. It
started in 2000 as totally focused on the environ-
ment, and resulted in 60 consultancy projects all
round the environmental theme. Subsequently,
they gave us millions of pounds for working on
next-generation photovoltaics, solar energy, car-
bon capture and related issues both from the
technology perspective and also the policy per-
spective. Shell has provided for the Future Fossils
Programme, run by Professor Geoffrey Maitland
in the Chemical Engineering department.
Any other exciting joint projects with
Industry?
We’ve got the Urban Energy Systems Program
which is a multimillion pound initiative. This is
quite exciting because it’s the first time anyone
has attempted this. We went to BP and said: “By
2030 most of the world’s population will be living
in mega-cities. These are your customers, do you
understand what the impact is going to be on you
as a business on a wider global perspective?” They
said “no”. So we put together this programme
(UESP) that is led by Professor David Fisk in Civil
Engineering and Professor Nilay Shah of Process
Systems Engineering in the Chemical Engineer-
ing department.
How supportive have College been with these
initiatives?
When Sir Richard Sykes came along as the new
Rector he was totally supportive and under-
stood the strategic importance of energy in the
environment.
Does the EEO have any links with governmen-
tal environment bodies?
I am on the Energy Minister’s Renewables Advi-
sory Board, and I have been for the last four years.
It’s kind of an independent industry-led body; I
think I am the only academic on it. What we do
is we provide independent advice to the Govern-
ment and also make recommendations. One of
the things we have done for example is to extend
the targets for renewables for the UK which was
taken by the ministers. We actually work in help-
ing to shape the UK’s national strategy in key
technology areas. Imperial has an important role
in this.
How about the new MSc in Sustainable Energy
Futures?
Yes, this is one of the things I was really keen to
do and Professor Sandro Macchietto took
the challenge and has been the driving
force behind it. There are quite a few
energy Masters courses around the
world.Wehaveprobablythebiggest
coverage and the greatest depth.
We have more projects in energy
that anywhere in Europe. Because
of that we are able to offer a re-
ally coherent programme, suitable
not only for young people coming
straight from their first degree, but
also for more mature people from
industry who are looking to un-
derstand what’s happening from
a science, technology, economics
and policy perspective.
Any plans for a new Masters pro-
gramme on Renewable Energy and
the Environment?
There is a major initiative in biofuels:
the Porter Alliance. It may well be
that in due course we may have
a specific MSc program
around the whole is-
sue of biofuels.
And Solar Energy?
We have big lead in solar energy. It turns out we
could meet all of our domestic heating require-
ments from solar panels. We’ve got the next gen-
eration of solar panels which are going to be 10
or maybe 100 times cheaper. That’s what Profes-
sor James Durrant at the Chemistry department
is working on. So from an innovation perspective
we have the lead in a lot of things. We don’t have
much geothermal or biomass, but then again we
don’t have much land for biomass. However, we
mustn’t think of the UK as geographically con-
strained because it’s all about creating ideas and
new technologies that will have a global impact.
Just how worried should we be about climate
change?
I am just sceptical about political leadership or
political institutions being able to do anything in
trying to stabilise 450ppm CO2. I am
nervous personally wheth-
er we are even going to
make it. That is 2-3
degrees. And actually
people think that
if you hit 550ppm
that’s it; that it’s
kind of a vertical
switch. But it’s a
distribution and
there is still a
20% chance
that we are
going to get
5 degrees,
so even if
you stabilise at
550ppm you’ve
got an uncer-
tainty in our
understanding.
So the model pre-
dicts a 2-3 degree
increase, but actual-
ly it could
be 5
The AtlanTICC Alliance initials stand for
Transatlantic Innovation and Commer-
cialization Centre.
It is essentially a collaboration between
three of the world’s leading centres of
excellence in sustainable energy; Oak
Ridge National Lab, Georgia Institute of
Technology and of course Imperial Col-
lege. Oak Ridge, the largest Department
of Energy National Lab in the United
States has formed its only partnership
outside the US with Imperial College.
‘This is a real honour, a feather in our
caps!”, proudly boasts Dr Tariq Ali.
And their are tangible benefits too: Im-
perial researchers now have access to
otherwise unavailable multimillion dollar
infrastructure and equipment.
This is a major initiative in bioenergy
and biomaterials led by Professor Rich-
ard Templer along with Dr Tariq Ali. The
Porter Alliance brings together more
than 100 scientists, engineers and policy
makers from Imperial College and other
leading UK institutions to help commer-
cialise the technology. As the Business
Development Manager, Mr Rafat Malik is
responsible for making sure that there is
an alignment between the research car-
ried out and industry, thus making it pos-
sible to reach the product development
stage. As Dr Ali puts it, “To make a differ-
ence we have got to get this technology
out, there is no point in just publishing
papers”.
A holistic approach is neceassary to ensure safer and cleaner energy supplies for all
6

