I
If anyone had told me a few years ago that
coal was to become trendy, I would have
told them they were crazier than a naked
guy riding a saddleless bike. Although it has
never really gone away, coal is perceived by
the public as a dirty resource that belongs to an-
other, less advanced, time. It is indeed dirty but
it’s far from being relegated to the history books.
Not only does it still provide a colossal portion of
our energy supply – more than 50% of the United
States’ power stations run on coal – but it also
has prospects which are bright and, if I may say,
shiny.
Charleroi is a Belgian city, famous for its fries,
its beer and a glorious past built on the back of
a redoubtable and powerful coal industry. Now
it’s just one of those cities that has never recov-
ered from the decline of coal related activities
– the unemployment rate is one of the highest
in Belgium, violence is everywhere and the future
doesn’t seem to hold anything pleasant in store.
I’ve taken the example of Charleroi, but I could
have taken the example of any number of cities
in other European coal centres such as North-
ern France or South Wales, each of them having
suffered a similar fate. Lack of efficiency, tough
working conditions and competition from other
energy sources (such as oil or nuclear power) and
other continents, where labour was cheaper and
where ‘open air’ mines often made it much cheap-
er to extract coal are the main reasons the coal
industry in Western Europe declined so swiftly
in the latter part of the last century. The percep-
tion of coal as an archaic energy source, produced
by an industry that sustains poverty more than
anything else is, to a great extent, biased by the
trauma associated with this decline.
While thousands of jobs were lost in Europe
when this labour intensive industry disappeared,
coal continued to play a vital role in the devel-
opment of another giant; China. For the last
twenty years, the Chinese authorities have been
using coal as a key component in their search for
growth. More than 80% of Chinese electricity
comes from coal – more than double the world
average – and in 2005, around five coal power
stations were opened every week. Of course,
this single-minded focus on coal has costs, both
human (around 5,500 Chinese miners die every
year) and environmental (China’s carbon emis-
sions from coal use account for approximately
10% of the world’s CO2 emissions) but this focus
also provides an invaluable boost to the economy,
Black is back: The return of coal
The future’s bright, but it ain’t orange – coal’s making a comeback! Roger Rouhana tells us why coal is cool
allowing millions of people to leave poverty every
year – lest we forget, in a country where more
than 200 million individuals still live with less
than a dollar a day.
China’s insatiable need for energy is not the
only reason making coal an essential element in
tomorrow’s energetic landscape. The explosion of
the demand for energy is common to many other
developing countries such as India, Brazil or Rus-
sia, adding pressure to dwindling energy resourc-
es. This plays an important part in the future de-
velopment of coal – it enjoys a relatively high cost
efficiency, up to 6 times less expensive than oil
and gas. Moreover, coal resources are distributed
much more evenly than the oil and gas resources:
coal can be found on practically all continents,
and in abundant quantities (pessimistic estima-
tions give us more than 100 years of coal based
on the present consumption standards), which
could release many countries from the energetic
dependence they have on others.
It seems clear that coal is here to stay, wheth-
er we invest more in green energies or not, and
whether we invest more in nuclear power or not.
Unless major breakthroughs in the energy do-
main are found, this polluting energy is to have a
big stake in the future diversity of energy systems
and the only thing to do about it is really to find
reasonable and cost effective ways to control it
and make it less ecologically harming.
In the wake of the Kyoto agreements, some
Governments have taken action against carbon
emissions; an example of one such initiative is the
European Union Emission Trading Scheme (EU
ETS) which demonstrates the European Union’s
leadership on climate change. This plan allows
firms to buy and exchange ‘pollution credits’ be-
tween themselves, acting like a tax on pollution.
After a difficult (and not very efficient) start, this
scheme has proven to be very successful, and
has had a significant impact. It’s not universally
lauded – many companies see it as a direct attack
to their competitivity as companies polluting out-
side Europe are not constrained by the EU ETS.
However, a positive effect of this plan has been
to oblige companies to invest in ways to pollute
less, notably in the research and development of
greener ways of producing, therefore using fewer
‘polluting credits’, In the steel industry, where
carbon emissions could add more than 20% to
the original costs, initiatives have been taken
to reduce the energy consumption and invest-
ments have been made in carbon sequestration
technologies.
Innovative technologies should therefore be the
key to the control of what seems to be an inevita-
ble increase in carbon use. Many heads of compa-
nies are hoping the Carbon Capture and Storage
(CCS) technology will relieve their pain. CCS is,
as the name suggests, a process that captures car-
bon dioxide from sources of significant emission
(such as coal power plants) and stores it either in
underground geological formations (such as de-
pleted oil or gas fields) or directly in the ocean (A
third way called mineral storage also exists, which
involves reacting carbon with other minerals to
produce carbonates, but this process is very cost
and energy intensive).
Regrettably, despite seeming promising on the
face of it, this technology has costs associated
with it, which may be great. Some costs are fi-
nancial: adding the necessary infrastructure onto
new and existing plants has an economical cost,
increasing the price of a plant by up to 90%. De-
spite it being less expensive to build new plants
equipped with CSS kits than adding them to
existing plants, without public incentives, firms
wouldn’t be very keen on taking such initiatives.
Other potential costs are environmental: storing
thousands of tons of carbon underground or even
in the oceans may have undesirable effects, such
as the acidification of the ocean, or dangerous
leakages of carbon dioxide, which could be lethal
to the surrounding environment. Finally, some-
what ironically, the CSS process dramatically
increases energy consumption , by up to 50% in
some cases.
Nevertheless, the overall savings for the atmos-
phere are tremendous as it is estimated that a
plant equipped with a CSS system could reduce
its carbon emissions by more than 90%. And such
systems will play a central role – as Malcolm
Wicks, the British Energy Minister, notes:
“Whatever the most fierce environmentalists
may say and wish, the world is going to be burn-
ing lots of carbon, particularly loads and loads of
coal, for 100, 200 years to come”.
degrees which would be catastrophic.
So how do you meet the aspirations of the de-
veloping world who quite rightly want to get out
of poverty and decouple that from environmen-
tal impact? To have an increase in quality of life
means provision of energy – you need to decou-
ple that from emissions and decouple that from
environmental impact. You can do it but it means
configuring the engineering systems.
How is Imperial involved in tackling climate
change?
We’ve got the Grantham Institute which is a ma-
jor new effort. We have tremendous expertise in
certain parts of biodiversity with Professor Geor-
gina Mace (Biology), hydrology with Professor
Harold Wheater in Civil Engineering, and in the
Physics Department in terms of earth observa-
tion, and modelling and understanding of clouds.
Professor Jo Haigh is fantastic and an expert in
radiative transfer in the atmosphere and the roles
of clouds which are big uncertainties in GCM
models. There is a lot of expertise around Col-
lege, and the Grantham Institute is going to be
able to capture that and articulate it in a way that
answers some of the bigger questions. Sir Brian
Hoskins has been appointed as the first director.
He is an outstanding scientist and we are very
lucky to have someone of his calibre to come in
as the director.
I’ve been getting more and more personally in-
volved in climate change. I am involved in a char-
ity called Global Cool. You may have heard of it.
Sienna Miller and big celebs are involved. I helped
launch it about a year ago – I was on the platform
giving a science talk and right up there with me
were KT Tunstall and Josh Hartnett. Jesus, he is
such a good looking bastard, it’s awful! He is 6 foot
3 and I was standing next to him thinking ‘this is
terrible’. Luckily, when they were doing the photo
shoot, somebody took pity on me and moved me
to the other side, next to KT Tunstall! She’s nice
and very eloquent and very smart. Anyway Josh
Hartnett was really sad because he had just split
up with... what’s her name... Scarlett Johansson.
And I was thinking I’ve never even been in the
same country as Scarlett Johansson, I don’t think!
Oh it’s a funny old world.
Cromwell Road is one of the most polluted
roads in England...
I wouldn’t be surprised: do you remember that
story published in a paper by one of our research-
ers – Dr Roy Colvile? He said that air pollution
in terms of particulate matter going into your
system [depends on] how closely you stand to the
edge of the curb: one metre back and you mas-
sively reduce the amount of rubbish going into
your lungs.x
What sets Imperial apart from other
Universities?
The academics here are usually very easily mo-
tivated to work together, because of the culture
of the place here. We are very pragmatic, very
practical, we see challenges that may actually lead
to new technology and commercial return, even
though sometimes research may be purely a sci-
ence curiosity driven enterprise. We are a very
small campus in South Kensington, and it is not
that far from Silwood and Wye, so it’s easy to get
people together. There is a cohesion about Impe-
rial, and a motivation to actually do what it takes
to get the job done. Really we should be proud
of our university. We don’t advertise ourselves or
market ourselves as well as the Americans do and
as well as some of the other places do. There is
some fantastic work going on here.
Global Cool is a charity which takes
a ground-up approach on climate
change by getting individuals to
make a personal commitment to
reducing their carbon footprint.
The founders of Global Cool be-
lieve in the power of individuals to
tackle climate change, without ignor-
ing corporate responsibility.
An exciting joint-project is
currently underway with Voda-
fone: next time you are in a Vo-
dafone store, take a minute to look around
and you might spot Sienna Miller on
the mobile phone recycling bin!
Vodafone gives approximately £10
per mobile phone recycled though
this scheme to Global Cool.
The money goes towards fund-
ing projects in Zambia: old kero-
sene lamps are exchanged for solar
powered white light LEDs, a
change which make a massive
difference to the livelihoods of
people living in villages with ab-
solutely no electricity.
You’ve told us a lot about the academics, so
what about the student body?
Our students don’t realise how good they are.
Obviously you are very good in science but you
are also very knowledgeable, there are so many
talented musicians and sports people and writ-
ers and many other things. You can appreciate
art, literature and culture and can contribute in
so may ways.
You talk to people who study arts and have abso-
lutely no clue about science, but so many people
here that I have met are fantastic musicians as
well as being good scientists.
People don’t realise how talented the students
here are, they are fantastic!
Sparklingly clean with an (Olympic?) torch to guide him through the tunnels
7

