What can you do to get involved at Imperial?
If you’re feeling inspired or you aspire to make the world a greener place, check out these courses on offer
I
mperial offers plenty of postgraduate
courses which can lead to environmentally
related careers. If you’re interested have a
look at the list we’ve compiled below. Like-
wise, if you’re an eager undergraduate, you
might want to check out the UROP placements
available in the departments around College
which offer a selection of environmentally related
summer placements.
This long list below reflects the breadth of en-
vironmental research at Imperial. There are fur-
ther opportunities but we’ve limited ourselves to
courses we judged to be most closely related to
climate change, energy and the environment.
You can always find out more by going to each
department’s website, by contacting the research-
ers directly or through the department’s post-
graduate admissions representatives.
PhD
The breadth of Imperial’s environmental research
is massive and so are the number of PhD op-
portunities. If you’d like to find out more about
PhDs at Imperial, head to www.imperial.ac.uk/
employment/phdstudentships.
Masters of Science (MSc) &
Masters of Research (MRes)
Courses
Masters courses are offered throughout each de-
partment. The entry requirements differ for each
course with some requiring a 2:1 undergraduate
degree as a minimum. Others might involve an
interview process as well. For specific details,
check out the information related to the course
you are interested in.
Interdepartmental
– MSc in Sustainable Energy Futures
– MSc Metals and Energy Finance
– MSc in Nuclear Science & Technology
Engineering
– MSc in Hydrology for Environmental
Management
– MSc in Engineering Geology for Ground Mod-
els and Sustainable Development
– MSc in Environmental Engineering
– MSc in Soil Mechanics and Sustainable
Development
– MSc in Transport and Sustainable
Development
– MSc in Soil Mechanics and Environmental
Geotechnics
– MSc in Concrete Structures and Sustainable
Development
– MSc in Structural Steel Design and Sustainable
Development
– MSc in Environmental Engineering and Busi-
ness Management
– MSc in Environmental Engineering and Sus-
tainable Development
– MSc in Transport
– MSc in Petroleum Geoscience
– MSc in Petroleum Engineering
– MSc in Petroleum Geophysics
– MSc in Hydrology and Sustainable
Development
Natural Sciences
– MSc in Environmental Technology
– MRes in Green Chemistry: Energy and the
Environment
– MRes Nanomaterials (Solar Cells research
cluster)
– MSc in Conservation and Forest Protection
– MSc in Conservation Science
– MSc in Crop Protection
– MSc in Ecology, Evolution & Conservation
– MSc in Ecology, Evolution and Conservation
Research
– MRes in Integrated Crop Pest and Disease
Management
Medicine
– MSc in Modern Epidemiology
– MSc in Public Health
Tanaka Business School
– MSc in International Health Management
Brand New Green Chemistry MRes
(The editors’ choice)
If you fancy the idea of a multidisciplinary course
in energy and the environment then take a closer
look at the MRes in Green Chemistry.
The course includes core lecture modules in a
wide range of disciplines such as: Renewable En-
ergies, Green Reaction Media, Catalysis, Sustain-
able Chemical Engineering and Environmental
Chemistry, Economics and Policy.
UROP (Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Programme)
UROPs are summer programmes within research
groups at Imperial. If you are an undergraduate,
and you are interested in participating in some
cutting-edge science projects for a few months
then this is for you! The pay varies from one
project to another, but you will receive a salary.
A number of the projects advertised for this
summer involve environmentally-related re-
search. To see a list of projects available this
summer go to www.imperial.ac.uk/urop. If you
miss the deadlines for UROP placements, a ‘Last
Minute Opportunities page’ will be made avail-
able online at the same website address on 1st
April.
Seminar hosted by the Energy
and Environment Office
If you’re not quite ready to consider a career tack-
ling the world’s environmental concerns, you may
just want to find out about how the UK can take
the initiative by attending George Osborne’s (MP
Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer) seminar:
“How the UK can take a global lead in Green
Technology”. The details are below:
Date – 27th February 2008
Time – 3:00pm
Venue – Sir Alexander Fleming Building Lec-
ture Theatre G16.
To register, please RSVP to eeo@imperial.ac.uk
For more information, head to: www.imperial.
ac.uk/energyandenvironmentoffice/newsevents.
The experts’ views on the future and development of renewable energies
Solar Energy
“Of all the renewable energy technologies, solar energy has the
greatest potential as a world power source. The energy of solar
irradiation incident upon the earth in one hour is equivalent to
the world’s entire annual energy consumption at present. For
this reason, solar photovoltaic, the direct conversion of sunlight
to electricity, is expected to play a significant role in future
electricity supply.”
– Dr Saif Haque, Department of Chemistry
Fuel Cells
“Fuel cells allow efficient conversion of chemical to electrical
energy. In doing so we hope to produce efficient, inexpensive
and stable catalysts, and to develop ionic conductors which
function efficiently over a wide range of operating conditions.
Getting a fuel cell to work well is all about adjusting the
chemical, electrical and physical properties of multiple
materials so that they all function in harmony ”
– Dr Anthony Kucernak, Department of Chemistry
Fuel Cells
“Fuel cells offer the potential for high efficiency and low
emissions. However, engineering the right microstructures in the
component layers, manufacturing them repeatably and making
them cost-competitive requires an enormous range of skills. Fuel
cell components frequently have to perform many functions
simultaneously and finding the best compromise can only be
done by working in a multi-disciplinary team.”
– Dr David Hart, Center for Environmental Policy
Wind & Tidal Turbines
“The increasing size and flexibility of the latest wind turbines
and the need for offshore deployment have increased the critical
importance of predicting blade dynamics accurately. Projects
in the Aero department are investigating unsteady blade load
control by rapid-acting flaps, interaction between blades and the
tower and the effect of upstream wakes in a wind farm impinging
downstream rotors.”
– Prof J Michael Graham, Department of Aeronautics
Biomass Derived Fuel
“The problem is to make fuel from plants in ways that are
sustainable and to do this we are looking at low-energy,
low-carbon ways of converting plant cell walls into
alcohols and oils. Doing this will reduce land requirements,
agricultural inputs and the costs of processing plant
material into fuel.”
– Prof Richard Templer, Porter Alliance, Hoffmann Chair in
Chemistry
Solar Energy
“Achieving efficient solar energy conversion places very
tight constraints on the properties of the materials which are
employed. Employing molecular materials allows us to exploit
the power of synthetic chemistry to prepare molecules with
a vast range of functionalities. The challenge is knowing what
properties are key for efficient solar cells, and then to integrate
these molecules into practical, low cost and stable devices!”
– Prof James Durrant, Department of Chemistry
8

