film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 22 February 2008 felix
Film
Aronofsky and his Avant-Garde
Matty Hoban
Derided by critics upon its release, The Fountain was claimed to be a dent in the crown that Darren
Aronofsky had built himself. On reappraisal however, there’s a definite case to be made for its merits
Ambition in film is the path most
fraught with danger; it can be divisive,
awe-inspiring at best and deadly ob-
tuse at worst. Aronofsky’s The Foun-
tain is a film that understands its own
ambition, yet refuses to be understood
in terms of its ambition. Whilst being
ambitious almost to the point of avant-
garde, it has at its core the fear of loss
and immortality.
Critics reacted negatively to The
Fountain. This put me off this movie,
along with the fact that a director re-
nowned for ultra-realism is making a
fantasy film for a studio that oppresses
ambitious filmmakers (Warner Broth-
ers) unless they are cheap (Tim Bur-
ton). The tempestuous history behind
The Fountain’s production is another
story which only serves to make the
film more of a curiosity rather than a
profound work. However, I believe it is
worthy of return and admiration.
Hugh Jackman is Tommy Creo, a
medical researcher who is trying to
find a cure for brain cancer, a condition
that his wife Izzy (played by Rachel
Weisz) suffers from. Interlocked with
this simple story are another two sto-
rylines, one that sees the immortal soul
of Tommy Creo in a bubble in outer
space with a tree (that represents the
soul of Izzy), heading into the centre
of a nebula, and the other centring the
book that Izzy is writing. Too book
itself, called The Fountain, is set in
Conquistador era Spain and Central
America where Hugh Jackman’s con-
quistador is in search of The Tree of
Life to save Spain (and Queen Isabella)
from the Spanish Inquisition and each
story intertwines with one another
whilst Jackman’s intense performance
(surprising I know) draws everything
together convincingly. It also creates
more questions than answers, but then
this is brilliant – you cannot separate
yourself from the film because your
interpretation is also intertwined with
the story; deconstructionism, the crit-
ic’s best friend, becomes inept as each
element is connected irreducibly.
Aronofsky has only made three fea-
ture-length movies to date, and never
has one director said so much in such
a small oeuvre. π was about a trau-
matised mathematician attempting to
work out the laws governing the stock
market who ends up seeing recurring
patterns everywhere until he is driven
to ending this insight with a drill. In
my opinion, π is a parallel film to The
Fountain, although where the former
has a black and white, rational insight
into nature that only serves to self-de-
struction, the latter is ultimately a film
in the Romantic tradition. Both films
utilise a multitude of shots cut togeth-
er quickly either in close-up, bordering
on intrusive, or widely expansive; this
No, not enough gold yet
IC Film Festival without any Sci-Fi
The very best of the Imperial College auteurs step up to the challenge of the FilmSoc Short Film Festival
all gives an unsettling and visceral feel
that you are never fully connected to
the characters, yet you share in their
feelings almost to the point of exploi-
tation of the viewer. Requiem For A
Dream’s finale is a tortuous resolution
to a film that is a great example of this.
Aronofsky consistently says that hu-
mans are fragile and we as an audience
cannot disconnect from this.
However, in this bleak world-view,
The Fountain for all its visceral impact,
extracts comfort. Tommy and Izzy’s
love is incredibly real (unlike the love
driven by vanity that seems to imbue
Requiem), the greatest gesture of real-
ism Aronofsky has given us. The Tree
of Life not only embodies the hope in
finding a cure for Izzy but it begins to
symbolise in his eternal soul Izzy her-
self, who gives him not only hope but
life also.
In the end, in both Izzy’s book and the
eternal soul, Tommy is reborn within
Izzy, not resolving the film but merely
beatifying it. Like I said, for all Aronof-
sky’s unrelenting realism, sometimes
reality is just too real to extract beauty
from, and like many a Romantic before
him, he has dug deeper.
Alex Casey
Film Editor
Wednesday night saw the second an-
nual FilmSoc Short Film Festival take
place in the Union Concert Hall which
saw 8 very different films from budding
student directors take centre stage. On
entering I must admit that I was a bit
dubious about what to expect and,
with the winning prize being a 2 day
course in introductory direction run by
Raindance, a bit envious too perhaps,
yet must concede that, despite a cou-
ple of disappointing technical hitches,
I came away feeling very entertained
and impressed.
Having heard word of the high
standard set by last year’s inaugural
event but not having seen it for my-
self, I wasn’t really sure what to expect,
and the correct response to this in
hindsight would have to be that there
isn’t a typical entry. The eight couldn’t
have been more different; from a geo-
metric claymation shape-off to a po-
tential murder mystery, or a Nietzche
inspired tale of fate to a Biblical break-
fast plague. This certainly wasn’t just
another Romeo & Juliet adaptation cut
down and rehashed in 7 minutes, but
a great breadth of directorial skills in
a developing infancy that did a lot to
inspire admiration of the filmmaking
process.
Perhaps the best technically, in my
opinion, was Shadowman, a 4 minute
piece by Hardy D. Saleh about a teach-
er leaving school but with the forebod-
ing impression of someone following
Victoria Sanderson, FilmSoc President, joined by the winners and judge, Oli Harbottle (far left)
him. The pacing of this was certainly
handled in a way that belied its ama-
teur credentials with great employ-
ment of music and camera positioning
to create an effect taken for granted in
so many feature films.
In terms of narrative storytelling abil-
ity, I’d give it to David Looney’s Faith In
The Eight which opened on Nietzche’s
quote: “God is dead”. Instead of God’s
determination, the characters at vari-
ous points use a Magic 8 ball to deter-
mine the course their lives will take,
similar to the methodology of Luke
Rhinehart’s The Dice Man novel, and
at various points the ball must make its
way from one owner to the next, a situ-
ation easily mishandled, especially in
the early days of silent cinema.
On the humour side of the scales,
I would have to admit that, despite
not warming to it at the start, I was
charmed by Soumen Sen and Sophia
Paget’s Bready and Milk in the Carnage
of the Croissants by the time it had got
into its 13 minute stride. Whilst the
scene length seemed to be at points
decided by how long the score of pop-
ular songs were without editing, the
tale of the rampaging four croissants
of the apocalypse and the resistance of
Bready and Milky, two unlikely super-
heroes, was more than enough to raise
a chuckle. Is it all a metaphor for the
British staple diet getting bogged down
amongst foreign delicacies? Who cares,
it was worth a good giggle.
The almost Lynchian beginning of
Alistair Turnbull’s entry, Three in the
Hand is also worth of note amongst
the competition for its splendid spook-
iness, although I’m glad it didn’t go
down the road of the unspoken love
between a man and his spade as I had
strangely envisioned from the opening
minute or so.
The winner, however, was none of
these but a short about the horrors of
war, Pourquoi Nécessite Notre Cri de
Cirque? (Why Must Our Circus Cry?),
by Sushil Kumar. As much as I would
have liked to have disagreed with the
winner for no other reason than to
add praise to another of the worthy
candidates, I am glad this won. With
its interesting use of photo montage
to begin, apparent archive war foot-
age and almost subliminal insertion
of a still frame depicting a woman sat
reading under a tree at the beginning
of each act, it was the avant-garde of
the bunch. Not only this, but I have a
sneaking suspicion that the subtitled
version of a letter at the end of the film
was not quite a literal translation which
would explain the audience’s comical
reaction. Sadly, my French is rusty so
feel free to email me if you know better
on this point.
For those I haven’t mentioned, I apol-
ogise, and was still very impressed at
the level of artistic skill on show given
Imperial’s perception as a cultural void.
Even more impressive, in addition, was
the absence of any sci-fi. Who said this
college was a one-trick pony?

