music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 felix Friday 22 February 2008
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair and Susan Yu
OJ...Homer...Guilty Simpson
Rising star of Detroit hip-hop, Guilty Simpson, paid a visit to Cargo last Saturday. The
crack team of Felix Music reviewers were there to bear witness and shake their asses
Peter Sinclair
Music Editor
I
sometimes pride myself on hav-
ing a pretentious, inaccessible
taste in music, but this week I
think it has backfired. A con-
voluted set of circumstances
has just led me to discover The Moldy
Peaches (it wasn’t Juno), a band who
I’m now totally in love with after a 48
hour extreme-listening session. Pretty
impressive for a band with one studio
album to their name. My friends back
home used to bone on about them and
I never gave them a second thought
because in general they listen to shit,
but now I regret it. Sorry Hannah and
Lara. It’s just got me thinking – how
much music have I written off just
because they have been NME poster
boys, or I didn’t like the name, or they
were recommended to me someone
whose jeans were just that bit too
skinny? Probably loads, but then at
the same time, most NME poster boys,
most bands with shit names, and most
bands recommended to me by people
with skinny jeans are indeed quite shit.
So I didn’t doubt myself for long. I’ll
take The Moldy Peaches as the excep-
tion that proves the rule.
Take for example this weeks PYTs,
Pete and the Pirates, whom, you will
notice, our resolute and fearless re-
viewers have diligently reviewed for
you. Earning themselves an unenviable
2 stars, they are the embodiment, and
thus categorical evidence, of my point
in paragraph one. A bad band with an
even worse name. Or the other way
round. Why have we bothered review-
ing it, you ask? Two reasons, I answer.
Reviews which totally destroy bands
tend to be funnier, and there is a no-
ticeable lack of the word ‘swashbuck-
ling’ in the press these days, especially
the Music Media. We’re bring it back,
baby!
Also in this weeks copy, Iambic2
s lat-
est release on Laridae, a free internet
based label specialising in ambient,
chill-out and all things electric. Free
music? That’s right. All of their releas-
es from all of their artists are available
in full for FREE on their website www.
laridae.at. With illegal downloads of
everything but the kitchen sink avail-
able on sketchy Russian websites, la-
bels like this could well become a big
feature in the hazy future of the music
industry.
What’s more, we’ve got a live review
from big fat rapper Guilty Simpson,
the latest MC to emerge from Toronto/
Atlanta-based underground hip-hop
label Stones Throw. This label is pretty
much the Buckingham Palace of hip-
hop, home to the royal family of funky
fresh beats. From J Dilla, to Madlib, to
MF Doom. Oh man, so good. We ex-
pect large things from this large man.
And an absolute motherfucking shit-
load of singles! This and oh, so much
more. I don’t want to give any more
away as there’s proper articles to your
right. So just shut up and read the re-
views, OK?
Detroit’s fastest rising alternative hip-
hopper, Guilty Simpson, made his
way down to Cargo last Saturday on
the third leg of his UK and European
tour. The tour comes in advance of his
album, ‘Ode to the Ghetto’, set for re-
lease on March 24th through Stones
Throw Records. Guilty has built up a
bit of a reputation in the last few years,
appearing on J Dilla and Madlibs left-
field masterpiece ‘Champion Sound’
in 2003, as well as various guest spots
with Dabrye, Black Milk and Dilla
himself. With all this to his name, it
was only a matter of time until Guilty
Simpson broke out on his own.
The venue, Cargo, couldn’t have been
a better choice. Even before the MCs
took the stage, the Dilla beats were
reverberating around the brick tunnel
arches. Around 10pm, the DJ kicked it
up a notch after being given a bottle of
Courvoisier on the house. The classic
hip-hop fans in the crowd approved.
First to hit the stage was old skooler
Percee P, delivering a clean cut, no-
frills opener to get the mouths salivat-
ing. Although his lyricism was pretty
good and blazing out a couple of hot
shit acapella verses during the set, I
was left feeling a bit underwhelmed all
in all. His delivery was clean, but a bit
too polished for the gritty underground
sound that makes Stones Throw artists
stand out. I’d heard a bit of his music
before, but somehow expected more
from his live show. All in all though it
wasn’t a bad set – his experience was
plain to see and he worked the crowd
pretty well, softening us up for the
main event.
So then Guilty stepped up, the main
feature of the night, and expectations
in the room were high. Filling up the
stage with his 6-foot brick shithouse
frame, if there’s one thing this boy has,
it’s stage presence. Without hesitation
he launched straight into tracks from
his album, with the aggressive delivery
that’s fast becoming his calling card.
Apparently honed in the Detroit bat-
tling scene, his poise and tone could be
said to be remnants of his early days. As
the night went on though, his perform-
ance seemed to lack the variety I was
expecting, the kind of variety you nor-
mally get from the more underground
side of hip-hop. I mean, it wasn’t bad,
but there was definitely a lack of the
kind of off-the-wall wit, both in the
lyrics and in the performance, that you
normally get from Stones Throw art-
ists. Almost all verses that I could hear
seemed to revolve around the same
kind of ‘Guns, Gangsters and Ghetto’
themes that fixates the mainstream.
Maybe I was just expecting great
things – Madlib and Dilla both make
appearances in the production of the
beats which really can’t be faulted, but
there was something in the MC side of
things which just didn’t match up to
the (possibly overly) hyped expecta-
tions I had.
It wasn’t all bad though. As I said,
the beats were undoubtedly great, and
when Guilty got in the zone he could
be pretty mesmerising. If he loosened
up a bit, he could put on a good show.
After a brief stop in Sheffield, Guilty
is heading across the Channel to con-
tinue the tour, so tell all your European
friends to check him out if they can.
But, you know…don’t stress the point.
Peter Sinclair
Guilty Simpson
Cargo
16th February, 2008
★★★✩✩
Guilty Simpson at Cargo last Saturday. Photography by James Houghton
Eliot Lipp
The Outside
Mush Records
★★★✩✩
Continuing the Unintentional Detroit Theme – Eliot Lipp
‘The Outside’ is the latest LP from the
L.A. based electro/hip-hop producer
Eliot Lipp released on Mush Records.
For those who don’t know, Lipp’s dis-
cographyspansoverthepastfouryears,
with his first LP ‘S/T’ being released
on Eastern Developments, which is
owned by Scott Herren (one part of
Prefuse 73). On first listen to ‘The
Outside’, Herren’s influence on Lipp’s
music from both a technical and mu-
sical standpoint is very obvious, with
certain songs having a strong Prefuse
73 vibe to them. However as the album
progresses, the hypnotic intertwining
layers of analogue synthesis and chilled
electro glitch-hop beats create an al-
most building sensation. But nothing
really happens. It’s like that point on a
Friday night when you’re getting ready
to go out, you’ve donned the dancing
shoes and slapped on the Old Spice –
nothing can stop you now! Then the
phone rings; it’s all your friends tell-
ing you they’re no longer going out, so
you spend the Friday night alone, cry-
ing into that beer you cracked open an
hour ago to get into the mood.
To cheer you up, variety is some-
thing this album does not lack in, and
makes up for the somewhat minimal
sense of direction. From the chilled
twisting bass line of ‘Opening Cer-
emony’ (which is seems to be one of
the stand-out tunes on the album), to
the industrial feel of ‘The Machine and
the Wind’, you can really tell that Lipp
takes influences from many different
styles and incorporates them with his
trademark minimal electro lead synth
lines. As a fan of Prefuse 73, I couldn’t
but help notice the similarities that this
album has to parts of ‘One Word Ex-
tinguisher’, this is not necessarily a bad
point, but if you’re a pretentious muso
who gets kicks from only listening to
original artists stay away, as this album
will, in places, let you down.
For the more average listener, one
who doesn’t insist on listening to
Squarepusher’s latest million beats
per second ring-modulated funk bass
noise (which I am actually a fan of) and
claiming it to be the best thing since…
well, his last album, I’d recommend
this LP as simply something to chill to.
Lipp’s lack of overall theme, complex
beats, emotional builds and direction
is made up by the perfectly blended
monophonic tones of his Korg MS-20
synthesiser and his minimal, kicked
back Los Angeles beats. Personally, I
find great comfort in the fact people
are still making albums like this, keep-
ing the old dirt filled electro vibe go-
ing but adding a new age IDM edge to
spice things up. Think original Detroit
techno, modernised and turned into
hip hop; then you’ll have something
which vaguely resembles this album.
Guy Andrews
Eliot Lipp
Eliot Lipp’s ‘The Outside’ is out
on April 8th on Mush Records
If you fancy becoming a Music
Felix editor, drop us an email at
music.felix@gmail.com and get
yourself added to the mailing list.
Free CDs and gigs all the time,
you can’t go wrong really.

