G
areth Pugh contin-
ued to define and
shape his unique
vision with a hard-
hitting collection of
dark and formida-
ble looks that drew influences from
19th century samurai armour and The
Wizard of Oz, all merged with the de-
signer’s east London club kid aesthetic.
Perhaps his strongest commercial col-
lection to date, Pugh managed to pull
it off without losing any of the magic
that has come to define his highly an-
ticipated shows.
Over at Roksanda Ilincic, things
were all about redefining proportions.
Favouring volume and an architectural
style reminiscent of Cristóbal Balen-
ciaga, it was only appropriate that Ilin-
cic would cite Oscar Niemeyer’s struc-
tural innovations after a jaunt to Brazil
as an influence on this collection. Ilin-
cic contrasted the rush of fluid, languid
toga dresses rendered in vibrant block
colour with structured shoulders, and
clearly has a knack for taking the sim-
plest shapes and transforming them
into something utterly unearthly. Her
talent and technique are advancing
with every season.
Christopher Kane’s multifaceted fall
2008 show continued his ongoing fas-
cination for all things body-conscious
with sculptural bodice-style dresses
that formed a base for sheer layers
in black and neutrals. Added depth
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 felix Friday 22 February 2008
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Sarah Skeete
London Fashion Week, Fall 2008
With its group of highly touted newcomers and burgeoning fashion scene, London is definitely the city to
came in the form of knit dresses and
oversized sequin detailing that shim-
mered like waves in a late afternoon
sun. Many commented that this was
the most sellable collection of Kane’s
career. Regardless of this, with his abil-
ity and level-headedness, Kane’s future
seems assured.
This season’s London wild card came
in the form of Vivienne Westwood’s
Red Label show, a shouty affair that
had Lily Donaldson and company pa-
rading down the runway in reworked
British classics channelling vivacious
secretaries, eccentrics and other King’s
Road workaday gals. Hair was dishev-
elled and eyes deep-set, as tartans and
pinstripes clashed excitably with leath-
er. Quintessential British prints were,
again, a strong theme. Surely the blue
houndstooth check will be a ubiqui-
tous fixture in the glossies come fall.
The clothes were everything you’d
expect from Westwood, but what
about the message? Models held plac-
ards and wore strategically placed po-
litical statements—but ironically, the
impassioned political undercurrent
that made it such an exciting show also
undermined the collection’s message. It
felt like open warfare as opposed to the
backhanded commentary provided by,
say, a Hussein Chalayan spectacle, and
as a statement was about as subtle as
a Sherman tank rolling into Downing
Street. Understatement and the abil-
ity to speak plainly are both strengths
fashion possesses—but given the cur-
rent climate of unrest one has to won-
der how to appropriately respond, and
Westwood is clearly contemplating
this.
Giles Deacon’s show on Wednesday
evening was a dark and breathtaking
spectacle. Citing the Masque of the
Red Death as his main influence, a
short story which details the decadence
inside a castle as death blooms on the
outside, an assortment of death divas
and macabre femme fatales wowed all
in attendance. Opening with a series
of trademark voluminous pieces that
shouldn’t have worked but oddly did,
he trod his way through bleached-bone
shifts and organic, animated B-movie
skirts with lives of their own, finally cli-
maxing with dramatic chiffon and sat-
in dresses seeped in rich ruby reds and
dramatic billowing capes. While Dea-
con’s London peers have toned down
their avant-garde tendencies as of late,
Deacon’s collections have lost none of
their profligacy, or desirability.
The House of Holland show was a
breath of fresh air in a week packed
with all things dark and gothic. What
can be said about it? The show’s look
was typical Holland and Deyn—com-
plete with acid bright colours and suf-
focatingly hip skinny jeans. Incorpo-
rating a signature tartan, along with a
humorously concocted house coat of
arms, Holland sealed the deal for him-
self, and there is enough in the collec-
watch: move over Paris, Milan & New York. A report on the Fall ‘08 London catwalks by David J Paw
(Left to right, then top to bottom;
you try describing a way round
those photos!) Christopher
Kane, Roksanda Ilincic, Vivienna
Westwood, Giles Deacon,
Christopher Kane, House of
Holland.

