riffed on this thoroughly, as if taking us
through his personal thought process.
Showing very few commercial pieces,
the collection showed the silhouette in
lamé and with puffy neon add-ons. He
cut sections out of the front to expose
the models’ legs. Regular body-con
looks seem pedestrian in comparison.
More or less everyone wanted a seat
at Jaeger’s first show in its 125-year
history. To be truthful, expectations
were not exactly high for the show.
Despite its upper-high street standing
in the British commercial fashion hi-
erarchy, it suffers from a lack of mass
market appeal that Topshop and H&M
enjoy, while also being relatively de-
void of the elite caché of its designer-
label competitors.
These preconceptions were suspend-
ed when model Suvi Koponen opened
the proceedings in an animated black
and brown goat-hair cape worn over a
more predictable gold-buttoned black
skirt/jacket combo. Hair was tucked in
tightly beneath a trailing black scarf.
What followed was perhaps just about
as adventurous as high street can get.
Major trends were nailed (high waists,
flared legs) and the Jaeger woman was
given a major youth injection—silk
jackets with oversize bows gleefully
followed massive hooded jackets, and
classic British prints like plaid sharply
contrasted the python print found on
skirts, dresses and leggings. With Brit-
ish Vogue’s Lucinda Chambers and
Stephen Jones batting for your team, it
would be hard to go too far astray, but
the house exceeded expectations and
for that it deserves recognition.
feel guilty for wallowing in ill-thought-
out indulgences like ruffles and sports-
wear. Marios Schwab is one such de-
signer. His collection early in the week
felt more like a study and a showcase
of ideas rather than a typical fashion
show, and developed on the concept of
a tight, stretched dress pulled down to
the ankles. The “silhouette of the sea-
son” has already been explored several
times by the London pack, but never
with the same mastery as Schwab. He
ed excitement. It was obvious in each
of the piece’s details that Moralioglu
had thrown himself into the collection.
A series of graphic floral architectural
dresses each looked totally different to
the ones preceding it, and were unique
in their conception and detail.
Every so often there comes a col-
lection that deserves a massive dou-
ble take. And every so often there is a
designer so devoted to his art and the
process of creation that you begin to
skirt paired with a casual blue vest.
Working with a spare palette of corn-
flower blue, grey and stark white, Lynn
produced perhaps the most effortlessly
debonair collection of the week.
Erdem Moralioglu’s show displayed
a wealth of promise. Daring, progres-
sive looks and increasingly ambitious
techniques were interspersed with
trenches and other wardrobe staples.
Even these basics were beyond the
norm—couture-like flower details add-
tion to keep the East London pack and
coolhunters happy this season. Clearly
Holland knows his limits—but with
the city as his oyster, he doesn’t have to
rush to push beyond them.
ToddLynn’spreciselytailoredcollec-
tion of flowing, high-waisted trousers
cut to perfection and smart, mannish
jackets also included more feminine
concessions such as a jacket dress belt-
ed at the waist to give the illusion of
separates, and a ruched gunmetal grey
T
he bastard child of Super
Super, a magazine so hip
and current it may as well
be delivered by ninjas eve-
ry hour (look I’m referenc-
ing the Mighty Boosh, I’m The Guard-
ian, I’m so relevant to young people.
Facebook, Facebook!), it was always
going to be a self-consciously uncon-
ventional catwalk show.
The show started with an insane
woman wearing a feather headdress,
neon pink bumbag and graffitied leg-
gings dance-walking up and down the
stage singing. Whilst amusing at first,
I was soon thinking to myself, not for
the last time that night, when is it go-
ing to end?
The first designer on the catwalk,
Scott Ramsay-Kyle, showed a mostly
uninspiring collection. The exception
being the interesting plays with vol-
ume on a series of skirts constructed
in a graduated bubble style. Dress after
dress walked up the catwalk looking
like American Apparel t-shirt dresses
with multicoloured streams of vomit
stuck on, resembling my primary
school collages in clothing form.
Emma Bell, the following designer on
the catwalk, showed a supercute con-
fectionery themed collection. With the
colours sugary & artificial, junk-food
patterning, and shiny fabrics remins-
cent of candy wrapping. The sugary
theme enveloped the entire catwalk.
There were twee hair pieces; skew-
ered mini hamburgers, drink umbrel-
las, oversized bows, sitting atop teased
out, candyfloss spun hair. The models’
faces were embellished with make-up
of artificial brights; glitter painted eye-
lids, green & blue lipstick.
When Dharma Taylor’s collection
came down the catwalk you could feel
shame emanating from the models.
That’s really what you want a collection
to do, make the models question the
validity of their careers. “Why do I do
this? Am I really walking up and down
a catwalk wearing a leather pig’s head
and a pair of sweatpants with a penis
drawn on? I’m in a grassy meadow, I’m
in a grassy meadow.” I blame nu-rave
for this aberration of a show.
After the bass-thumping of Dharma
Taylor, the delicate, ethereal atmos-
phere of Thomas Sels was refreshing.
Unfortunately, the atmosphere of the
show wasn’t so much led by the cloth-
ing, as the only thing stopping the
clothing looking like dross. The most
interesting thing about it was the way
the models walked the catwalk as if in a
slow-motion relay race. The first model
slowly drifted out, stopped after a few
paces, and waited for the touch of the
model behind before floating forwards
a few steps further.
Next “artist” Niyi rapped, I kid you
not, a song about eggs. Poached eggs,
scrambled eggs, eggs eggs eggs, for
what seemed like the rest of my life.
The beats were strong, but that was
only enough to carry it for about 30
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
Friday 22 February 2008 felix
Fashion
The Super Super (super!) Fall show ‘08 at LFW
(Left to right) Todd Lynn, Erdem, Marios Schwab, Jaeger
Dharma Taylor Dharma Taylor
Thomas Sels Emma Bell
Emma Bell
Emma Bell
Thomas Sels
seconds before I started wishing for
oblivion.
Super Super had an electric atmos-
phere, it was a different breed to some
of the other overly sombre fashion
events. It was fashion for a young
generation. Plus, free Krispy Kremes.
Not that I ate any, because I don’t eat
wheat, but they looked as if they would
taste delicious.
The funnest show of LFW. The good, the bad, the ugly, the beautiful, the jolie-laide by Sarah-Jane Skeete

