36 felix Friday 22 February 2008
Electrostatic Loudspeakers?
Richard Lai reminds you of this forgotten, but superior, speaker technology
W
elcome to another
weekly instalment
of the Tech section.
Once again we’ve
had a good amount
of news this week so let’s dive right in.
By the time this hits print the US
navy should have shot down the fall-
ing spy satellite allowing it to burn up
in the atmosphere instead of crashing
to earth. A 1400 mile long section of
the Pacific has been cleared and planes
and shipping have been ordered to
stay away as assumedly this is where
the missile will ditch if anything goes
wrong. Some debris from the satellite
may fall on Canada. Accidental or not
I’ll let the conspiracy theorists resolve
this one.
Mesh PC’s have begun to offer the
first of AMD’s Phenom 3-core proc-
essors in some of its machines. The
intention of these models is to offer
something in the large price gap be-
tween the majority of dual and quad
core machines. Maybe this will give
AMD a bit of an edge in a market that
is constantly being taken away from
them by Intel.
A Ukranian hacker has found a
loop-hole in American insider trad-
ing laws that may allow him to keep
his ill-gotten gains. Oleksander Doro-
zhko used information gained from a
hack into IMS Health’s system to bet
that their share price would drop. He
was correct and made a tidy $250,000.
The loop-hole is that in US law to be
an insider trader you must actually be
involved in the company you’re trading
on and since Oleks is not it seems he
could be onto something.
According to some “ground-break-
ing” research at Northampton Uni-
versity some people are addicted to
mobile gadgets. It’s always interesting
when someone comes along and offi-
cially states the obvious but there are
some new interesting bits of informa-
tion. They claim the problem is not the
addiction but the fact people are get-
ting fired for constantly checking their
texts during work. I don’t think this is
addiction to the devices as you could
just as easily chat via emails which I
doubt your boss will want to stop you
using. There is no real way to stop this
happening short of removing all sourc-
es of communication within offices as
you have to remember most people
are, in fact, social.
Scientists have unveiled plans to test
new hazardous chemicals on cells pro-
duced in a lab as opposed to testing on
lab animals. Expanding on this, and
getting a bit more techy, they want to
use machines to perform the tests as
they do the work far faster; allowing
for a broader range of tests.
Silicon Valley is going green with
most companies hoping to make the
move to solar power to take advantage
of the wonderful weather they have
over there. Before they all go and in-
stall it they want to drive the technol-
ogy forward to get the most of it. So
maybe we might get to see some dras-
tic improvements in the validity of so-
lar power in the coming decade.
Anyway I’ll let you get on with our
nice big Loudspeaker article and a top-
up on the whole HD-DVD thing.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – James Finnerty
James Finnerty
Technology Editor
N
owadays, there is no
doubt that consumers
are increasingly aware
of high-definition video,
mainly due to the on-
going battle between Blu-ray and HD
DVD – the two next-gen HD video
formats. However, it is uncommon to
hear about high definition audio: the
market is flooded by low-grade digital
music, as well as low-resolution loud-
speakers that can still sell because con-
sumers believe the wattage is the main
feature. Should you care?
To answer this, imagine you are sit-
ting in front of a jazz band: somewhere
on the left you can feel the plucking
and hear the delicate reverb of the gui-
tar strings, and right in front of you
come the saxophones and the trumpets
tickling your ear canals, along with the
trombones that gently shake your en-
tire body, and the piano with tones that
comfortably fade away. This is what
you should look out for in a concert –
there is no way you can reproduce the
same sensation back at home, unless
you have the money to hire the band
plus the ownership of the same concert
hall and making it your home. This is
where the challenge is: can you bring
a similar sensation back to your actual
home?
If you are one of those who have
taken up the challenge, you are then
known as an audiophile. Most audi-
ophiles swear by analogue playback,
which include the use of vacuum tube
amplifiers with vinyl record players,
and most refuse to go digital wherever
possible due to their belief in the lack of
warmth (or even soul, as said by many
audiophiles) in digital formats and
devices, even though current technol-
ogy proves otherwise. Ignoring all the
digital audio devices, the audiophiles’
absolute latest favourite technology
would probably be the superior yet
less-known electrostatic loudspeakers
(ESLs) – essentially flat panel speakers,
definitely nothing close to your ordi-
nary speakers. I wouldn’t be surprised
if you have not heard of this technol-
ogy before, but trust me, they are way
better than what most of us are using
right now.
So what is wrong with our everyday
magnetic coil speakers? Well, placing
one in your hand, you would imme-
diately notice its heavy weight due to
the magnet and metallic coil (usually
hidden). This actually kills any delicate
signals – such as the tiny reverb of the
piano – in a well-recorded soundtrack.
Unlike the average consumer, any ex-
perienced audiophiles would be able to
spot these tiny missing details. There
is then the coil-driven motion of the
driver: to reproduce sound, the inner
coil and the diaphragm constantly are
pushed in and out to change the air
pressure around it. Such large move-
ments will easily distort the sound,
and on top of that, a large diffraction
is also introduced to the sound waves
due to the shape of the cone, therefore
allowing the sound quality and vol-
ume to deteriorate very quickly over a
short distance. This is why audiophiles
always have to carefully find the so-
called “sweet spot” before they can sit
down for three hours or so of music.
Looking at a bigger picture, a com-
plete speaker requires a cabinet – usu-
ally wooden – to go with the magnetic
coil drivers. This is to prevent destruc-
tive interference by the sound waves
produced from the back of the drivers,
as well as making the bass punchier.
However, this often adds unnecessary
flavour to the reproduced sound, which
defeats the whole objective of hi-fi, or
high fidelity, meaning close-to-original
I think you would be more likely to get your wife to approve this than a a set of 6-foot tall monsters
reproduction. Some people may like
this additional flavour, but the veterans
are strictly allergic to it.
To understand how ESLs defeat such
problems, we should look at the gen-
eral structure of them: originally de-
signed by Quad Electroacoustics of UK
in 1955, these flat panel speakers con-
sist of a polarised plastic diaphragm
Nakamichi HD-A ESL

