felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
The Democratic Republic of Congo
Taking an impromptu trip into the Democratic Republic of Congo last summer, 4th Year Medic Ammar
Waraich runs into some adventure and a spot or two of bother. What was he thinking?! Part 1 of 2
I
had been in Rwanda for a good
few days when I decided to
matatu myself over to the lake
town of Gisenyi overlooking the
calm waters of Lake Kivu. This
town was supposedly the Costa del Sol
of Rwanda where the rich and famous
came to enjoy watersports in front of
expensive lakeside houses. When I got
there, it was pretty dead to be honest
and there certainly wasn’t anyone rich
in sight!
I was aimlessly wandering around,
sticking out like the sorest of mzungu
thumbs with my gigantic lopsided
green rucksack, a variety of bright
bags, and sporting a pink shirt. There
really was not much to do here having
spent the whole afternoon making ru-
dimentary chat in English with the cu-
rious residents, eventually ending up
alone by the lake watching it become
the same colour as the sky.
I had no further ideas or bookings but
instead I had a bit of a secret agenda.
Ever since landing more than two bor-
ders away, I had been toying with the
idea of seeking adventure in the Demo-
cratic Republic of Congo and perhaps I
forgot to mention this, but Gisenyi was
also the border town to the Congo. My
conversation with the locals all day had
been about this and that while I pre-
tended to myself that I wasn’t looking
for information on the situation across
the border and that I wasn’t actually
going to go there. It’s akin to making
chat with your boss while pretending
you are not interested in a promo-
tion. Alas, I so shamelessly was. The
muezzin sang out the call to the dusk
prayers, and praying for the best I ven-
38 felix Friday 22 February 2008
“A few steps
away from the
smooth roads
and relative
safety of Gisenyi,
the town Goma
was an utter
moonscape”
anymore I would go to the ATM.
On the way back from the one of
the few squat toilets Shu Shu offered,
I noticed a dark red glow crowning the
north of the city. It was the brooding
Nyiragongo volcano responsible for
Goma’s current state, still alive and
kicking. Well for that night at least I
went to sleep soundly.
Waking up when the reception-
ist turned up for work, I saw Goma
in daylight for the first time and was
dumbfounded. For as far as the eye
could see the landscape was hilly con-
tours of black and curly hardened lava.
Nyiragongo’s impact on Goma’s his-
tory was evident; it had erupted three
times in recent history and as a result
most buildings used their second or
third floor as the entrance. I decided
then that no matter what it took, I just
had to go up that mysterious volcano’s
side and take a quick gander into the
bubbling crater. I just did not know
how yet.
The guesthouse luckily did though
and put me in touch with a local
pioneer of tourism by the name of
Kennedy, a tall, funny and hearty guy,
lacking any formalities, whose man-
nerisms made me feel like he was old
school friend.
He was a firm believer in a vast un-
tapped tourism market in Congo, set-
ting up his own firm ‘Hakuna Matata
Tours’ to capitalise on it. He took me to
his house to show me the tent he and
I would use for the 2 day return trip
but warned me that another curious
The marvellous lava landscape
my stuff together, paid the dingy ‘ho-
tel’ and legged it to Kennedy’s for some
answers.
Apparently, some rebels had decided
to make an advance on to Goma and
the Congolese army was amassing here
in huge numbers to try and quell this
rebellion. The UN was also getting in-
volved, providing the ill equipped army
with tanks, weapons and helicopters. I
knew I shouldn’t have felt this way but I
got incredibly excited seeing the mach-
inations of the military, the aggregates
of soldiers marching and the possibil-
ity of history unfolding in front of me.
Well, I got up to a lot of fun stuff here
that got me into the thick of things,
but I will talk about that next week. It
seemed the rebels were a force to reck-
on with as only a year ago they actually
had managed to take over Goma and
the UN had to drive them out to regain
control.
The subsequent day Kennedy came
to me and told me how he felt the
situation was going to get a lot worse
very soon and that the fighting was
probably going to come into Goma
once again. He advised me to leave the
Congo as soon as possible. Kennedy,
as I said, was generally a bit of a comic
but this time he was being very serious.
To make matters worse I could not go
back the way I came he said because of
the fighting so would need to escape
using a boat. It left the very next morn-
ing across Lake Kivu for the border
crossing at Bukavu.
This seemed immediately not to be
Lake Kivu changes colour at dusk
tured towards the border on foot.
Once the somewhat difficult border-
crossing had been bargained through
in dollars, I felt a sense of false pride
overcome me. I was a student, used to
the safety of South Kensington, and
here I found myself in the Congo with
little information and no plans. My
excitement became even more elated
when I saw convoys of the United Na-
tions, Medicine Sans Frontier, NATO
and various armed military personnel
cruise past me as I literally walked it
into the Congo alone on the night of
the 29th August 2007.
It is truly fascinating how much
of a difference a man made border
can make. A few steps away from the
smooth roads and relative safety of
Gisenyi, the town Goma was an utter
moonscape, with layers of uneven lava
forming the town’s surface. Shielding
myself from clouds of dust, I started at
the basics first. Rooms were full eve-
rywhere because of the UN presence
but about an hour into my endeav-
our, I chanced upon the oddly named
‘Shu Shu Guesthouse – The Cheapest
Rooms in Goma’. They too were full,
but here it was with visiting locals.
I pleaded with them for help but at
this late time they couldn’t really offer
much. In desperation I asked them if
they would let me sleep on the floor of
the reception that we were sitting in.
For a price of $10, they agreed. At this
point I remembered that I had not re-
ally thought about money. Well I had
$400, I thought naively, and if I needed
person had fallen in and died about a
month ago.
Well nothing comes without an in-
herent risk I thought. It was a bit ar-
rogant, but you can’t be so close to
such excellent adventure and shun it
because of someone else’s bad luck.
However he had to take a few MSF
doctors to see the Silverback Gorillas
of the Zaire basin first and this for me
meant either a 2 day wait or a $290 trip
with them. I therefore agreed to this
trip also but because of my poor finan-
cial situation, agreeing to wire him the
payment when I got back to Rwanda.
I was surprised he was okay with this
and spent the rest of the day walking
around Goma, admiring the marvel-
lous lava landscape.
When we returned Kennedy told me
that there was now a problem. Some
rebels had suddenly come to occupy
the slopes of Nyiragongo so we would
not be able to climb directly. So the
next few days I explored the surround-
ing regions, visiting green volcanic
lakes, pygmy villages of men with 30
wives and 60 children, and other lo-
cal sites on motorbike. I also tried my
best to hobnob with some of the other
foreigners at expensive hotels, meeting
a few doctors, one diplomat and a few
journalists.
The most interesting guy by far
though was a New York Times pho-
tographer who had some amazing
shots chronicling a pygmy genocide
taking place in central Congo that no
one outside had any idea of. He also
had some riveting tales from his time
covering the Rwandan genocide and
he went on to describe some horrific
stories from places I had just visited to
my disbelief.
Anyway, one morning I was back at
Goma, still waiting for the go ahead
from Kennedy when I woke up to the
sound of helicopters flying overhead
and heavy machinery. I had a breakfast
of UHT milk and white bread before
getting dressed to take a peek at the
hullabaloo outside.
Now, I get excited by the smallest of
things as I am sure you have noticed,
but the shock of seeing the entire city
suddenly swarming with the presiden-
tial guard and the army when the day
before it had been as dead as a goat was
quite something! A transformation had
taken place that day and things were
going down but I was clueless. I got
“but warned
me that another
curious person
had fallen in and
died about a
month ago.
Well nothing
comes without
an inherent risk I
thought.”
Buildings submerged in ash and lava on the streets of Goma

