Konnichiwa, watashi wa...
Fumiyo Nakagawa reports on the 3rd annual Japanese speech contest which took place this month
O
n the 2nd of February,
Imperial College were
proud to be the hosts
of the final round of the
third Japanese speech
contest for university students. This
prestigious event, sponsored by the
likes of Toshiba and Japan Airlines, had
been hosted by SOAS for the first two
years, and we were very honoured to
have held it here this year.
The first round involved a series of
telephone interviews (all in Japanese,
obviously!) and the potential candi-
dates had to persuade the judges that
they had what it took to compete in
the finals. The 12 finalists were from
all over the UK, including Warwick,
Oxford and Nottingham, and three of
Imperial’s finest, Faizal Farokh, Ro-
42 felix Friday 22 February 2008
han Nanda, and Handoo Seo. Their
speech titles were “Do video games
have a bad influence on youth?”, “Non-
Japanese people’s impression of Japan”
and “Life’s Magic”. All were inspiring
and fresh, and spoken in such beauti-
ful Japanese that it was hard to believe
they aren’t studying for degrees in it!
This competition was split into two
categories; the first category was for
the six students who studied Japanese
as their main degree subject, and the
second category for those studying
it as an optional course. It involved a
15-minute speech, which they had to
prepare for and know inside out. This
was their chance for all their hard work
to pay off. The event, which was held
in LT1 of the Chemical Engineering
building, was absolutely packed.
It was great to see so many people in-
terested in the language and culture.
After much deliberation and many
tough decisions, the judges had to
choose the winners, and in the second
category, to our delight, Handoo was
placed first, and Faizal second, both
claiming prizes which consisted of a
Toshiba laptop, and a digital camera
(plus 500 quid!!), respectively. So huge
congratulations to both of them and
we wish them the best of luck in their
future endeavours.
The extremely generous prizes didn’t
end there – the winner and runner-up
for the first category (students from
Leeds and SOAS) received air tickets
to Japan and a digital camera too!
The end of the day was a happy one
for all competitors and spectators, as
we had a raffle, and a seemingly end-
less supply of sushi, tempura, and wine!
The success of the day was thanks to
the huge amount of organisation and
effort put in by the Japanese teachers
from the humanities department, as
well as the students who helped out
on the day – namely the level four
students, and those from the Japanese
society (they weren’t there for the free
sushi and booze…).
Finally, I would like to take this op-
portunity to advise those interested in
learning Japanese to contact the hu-
manities department or send an e-mail
to the Japanese society at japanese@
ic.ac.uk. We look forward to seeing
more new faces soon; sayonara!
“Do video games have a bad influence on youths?” was second
placed Faisal Farokh’s topic for the speech competition Handoo Seo, winner of the second category, giving his speech
Relationships and religion
Imperial’s Muslim and Christian societies used last week to talk love. Tosin Ajayi has all the gossip
D
uring Valentine’s week
there were two intrigu-
ing events held within
24 hours of each other.
Understanding the Op-
posite Sex, held by the Every Nation
Christian Society, and Islam and Ro-
mance, held by the Muslim Medics
Society. Topics that neither religion is
well known for addressing.
Understanding the Opposite Sex was
a light, fun affair, with all the female
attendees being given roses upon en-
trance (note, might wanna do some-
thing about the thorns next time). All
attendees were given a card and asked
to recount their most embarrassing
moment of misunderstanding, then
two male and female volunteers from
the audience were quizzed on what the
sexes found most difficult to under-
stand about each other. The pick of the
answers had to be when one of the guys
said he didn’t understand why women
talk so much and one of the women ac-
tually agreed with him.
The speaker for the evening, Wolf-
gang Eckleben, the pastor of Every
Nation Church London, was engaging
and raised a few laughs from the audi-
ence, one audience member is known
to have asked afterwards: “Why does
he keep going on about his wife?” If
you’ve got it, flaunt it I guess.
His case was one that the majority
present agreed with, even though he
took passages from the Bible (nota-
bly Matthew 19: 4 - 6) as his starting
point, suggesting that the differences
between men and women were delib-
erate and put there by God, who nev-
ertheless expects us to “join together as
one”. He went on to describe similari-
ties between men and women, mainly
our needs for belonging and intimacy.
He then got onto what it seemed
many had come for: the differences.
One highlight was when he described a
theory that linked testosterone to a dis-
connection between the two halves of
the male brain, which also shrinks the
right side of the brain. He went through
the way the differences affect commu-
nication, crisis management and even
sexual turn-ons. His aim seemed to be
to give each sex an insight into the way
the other thought, and his conclusion
was to get the most out of relation-
ships, be a lover (someone who seeks to
give to the other person) as opposed to
a luster (someone who’s just after what
he/she can get, usually sex). The Q&A
indicated that what he had said had
been well received, with many students
wanting more detail on how he would
suggest they go about implementing
his principles. It appeared he’d painted
an attractive picture of what a relation-
ship should be like.
Islam and Romance was aimed
mainly at Muslims, the idea being to
provide guidance. The speakers were
three Muslim students, and the scope
was to look at relationships between
the bounds of a marriage. The talk took
the form of looking mainly at the life of
Prophet Muhammad and his relation-
ships with two of his wives; Khadejah,
his first wife who was with him at the
beginning of his life’s mission, and Ai-
sha, his youngest wife.
A key quote that kicked off the talk
was “your relationship with your wife
reflects on your relationship with Al-
lah” and a lot of the principles men-
tioned were in that vein, with such
Qu’ran verses as “Be dutiful to your
Lord, who created you from a single
person and from him he created his
wife”. The picture was one of Devotion
to Allah first and foremost, and then
to your wife. One such story was of an
army general, who asked Muhammad
who he loved most, expecting that Mu-
hammad would say him. Muhammad
surprised him by saying his wife.
The picture that was drawn of the
marriage relationship was a sweet, al-
most beautiful one, especially when
Muhammad’s dealings with his wives
were recounted. What emerged was a
loving picture of righteousness, sum-
marised in the conclusion that the re-
lationship is to be “built on steadfast-
ness, playfulness, hearts united, always
bringing a smile, laughter & tranquil-
lity”. A side of Islam that doesn’t get
much airtime.
So, Valentine’s week with the Chris-
tians and the Muslims. On this evi-
dence, they should talk a lot more
about relationships; it appears they
have much worth saying.
Watch or shampoo advert? You decide

