Rhythm, brains and then hysteria
Emma Thompson celebrates Dance Company winning a haul of cups at the Edinburgh dance-off
H
eading up to Edinburgh
to the annual Dance-Off
hosted by Edinburgh
University, Dance Com-
pany were understand-
ably optimistic, having won the Con-
temporary category twice in a row
as well as the Jazz category last year.
However, no-one could have predicted
the absolute obliteration of the com-
petition from around the country that
took place to see them winning a total
of 5 cups, placing in all categories en-
tered, proving that Imperial has talent
as well as brains.
Our sexy Tappers picked up a well
deserved 1st place, with a dance cho-
reographed by Francesca Garrard that
the judges described as “very polished
[with a] great sense of style”. Next up,
in the Contemporary category, com-
petition was fierce, and our pyjama-
clad dancers just missed out with their
piece by Alvaro Feito Boirac, despite
their “excellent performance quality”,
to a deserving Edinburgh and Sun-
derland to gain a joint third place with
Bangor.
Our beautiful Ballerinas picked up
another 1st, with a dance choreo-
graphed by Claire Stanley and Elisa
Bellomo with what the judges called
“excellent choreography [with a] lovely
artistic quality”. To complete the hat
trick, our neon wearing “high energy”
jazz dancers star-jumped their way
through Hildur Einarsdóttir’s chore-
ography to Dance Company’s second
win in a row in this category. As an
added bonus, the cherry on a very big
cake, dancers Elisa Bellomo and Per-
nelle Nunez won the Best Dancer and
Judges’ Awards respectively for their
performances in the Ballet, Jazz and
Contemporary pieces; high praise in-
deed for a competition involving 100’s
of individual dancers. This brought
celebrations to near hysteria level,
and excitement did not dim until well
into the next morning after a night of
cocktails and dancing. The only cloud
on our huge silver lining is the thought
of how we can possibly better our per-
formance next year!
You can watch Dance Company
perform some of their winning pieces
at International Night on the 7th of
March, or come along to the JCR on
Sundays and join in.
Log on to our website at http://
www.union.ic.ac.uk/rcc/dance-
company/ for further details on
how to get involved
Dance Company celebrate winning a total of 5 cups
The Ballerinas elegantly pretending to be a forest
dB’s to the Great Hall: the growth of Afrogala
Tosin Ajayi gives a review of the Afro-Caribbean society’s 9th Afrogala held a fortnight ago
T
here aren’t many times
you get to say the words
‘There’s nowhere else I’d
rather be right now” and
mean it. At 7.50pm, 9th
February 2008, 5 minutes into Afroga-
la presents PULSE, was one of them
(started 15-minutes late, but that’s
good compared to the track record).
As the pyrotechnics went off, the sell-
out crowd in the Great Hall was left in
no doubt that this year, the show was
going to be on another level.
As the MC opened up, recounting
how he’d received a facebook message
all the way back in November inviting
people to audition for the show, those
who’d gotten used to an amateur per-
formance where the sound cuts out
halfway through most acts realised
how much hard work and preparation
had gone into it this time.
And the uncharacteristic (for Afri-
cans) preparation process paid off in a
big way, as a rap performance followed
by a fashion show, musical number and
comedy sketch wowed the audience.
Although there was not a single act
that could be described as being bad,
the less said about the Nzinga Dancers
the better. One performance that re-
ally stood out was given by EQHO, a
dance crew from Warwick University,
who put on a great show at the packed
after-party.
Thereweretwocomedysketches,one
an African twist on Cinderella titled
‘Fatimarella’, which had the boisterous
audience rolling about in the aisles,
and the second was a comedic take on
a Nigerian Folktale called Oluronbi,
done in the style of a childrens’ sto-
ryteller narrating the story, a popular
African norm. Virtue and Vice, a Fash-
ion show built around the seven deadly
sins, presented some very unique and
creative outfits modelled by a selection
of great-looking students.
An African dance, a staple of Afroga-
la, made inventive and energetic use
of the Great Hall aisles to begin with
and ended up with around 20 female
dancers on stage dancing to a medley
that went from the Coming to America The events ranged from a fashion show to rap performances, a musical and a number of comedy sketches
soundtrack through to Yahooze, a cur-
rent West African hit song.
As with any great show, full credit
cannot just be given to the perform-
ers, the audience played a big role in
making it as successful as it was, and
this was one of the best audiences any-
one could hope for. Made up mainly
of Africans (majority Nigerian), with a
smattering of bemused-looking Cauca-
sians, every single movement on stage
was encouraged and all performers
seemed to have some family or friends
in the crowd who would yell out when
they showed up, despite it being highly
embarrassing.
This reporter thinks the great crowd
was the result of a strategic master-
stroke by Events co-ordinator Damilola
Soyode & Society President Damilola
Jaiyeola by deciding to feed the audi-
ence about an hour before the show
started. With the Jollof rice, plantain &
Chicken flowing round their systems,
they were happy; and a well-fed Afri-
can is a generous one.
If there was one problem with the
event, it would be that for an event
hosted by the Afro-Caribbean society,
there was very little Caribbean about it,
either on stage or in the audience. The
only representation seemed to be Miss
Jamaica UK (an Imperial medic no less)
showing up about halfway through to
present some awards to those who’d
made a significant contribution to the
ACS. But that’s nit-picking a wonder-
ful show.
So the 9th Afrogala, the annual cul-
tural showcase of the Afro-Caribbean
Society which had its humble begin-
nings in dB’s; had started as a way of
creating funds for the then fledging
Afro-Caribbean Society; had one act,
a hired Caribbean steel drum band,
which was supplemented by an open
mic session; and now has about twenty
acts, mostly Imperial students, came to
an end.
It was all summed up by a veteran of
many Afrogalas, “We used to be ama-
teur, this is something else.” I can’t wait
to see what they cook up for their 10th
Anniversary.
43
Friday 22 February 2008 felix

