felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Mission Report – Operation Green Emerald
January is known for many things,
cold days, exams, sales and other hor-
rific things that cause pain and misery.
Back in the days of yore during this
darkest of months the RSM hockey
club decided to raise spirits by encour-
aging King Richard to invent the hock-
ey crusades, now abbreviated to simply
The Crusades.
The first ‘tour’ back in medieval
times saw hockey players from all min-
ing faculties across the nation unite un-
der Richard Lionheart (an avid hockey
player) against Saladin in Syria. Sala-
din’s devilish reverse stick skills fooled
even the wisest of opponents. Since
then the bloodshed has been replaced
with beer and as a consequence we all
get home safelyish! Oddly enough, the
hockey skill hasn’t much changed.
Last year’s great success in Operation
Market Garden meant that the threat
had been subdued in Holland and full
attention could be given to the ever-
aggressive Ireland. The unsuspecting
citizens of Belfast wouldn’t have a clue
what hit them, leaving us to reign su-
preme in all the British Isles.
Our journey began at a mind-bog-
gling 5am after a pre-hockey tour bar
night to generate good feeling among
the troops. Our first casualty of war
was Sangy Sangy Sangy Sang-eee-
Sang-eee-Sang, who had failed to get
up after what could only be described
as a sickening blow to the liver. Soon
to follow was Melmin who through
quick-witted thinking and skill re-
trieved the contents of her stomach in
her coat hood.
Undeterred by these early setbacks
we set off by the cover of darkness
across the Irish sea, setting up camp
at Paddy’s Palace, carefully selected for
its proximity to the water (well beer)
supply of Queen’s College Union.
There was need for much prepara-
tion before a full assault on the City
could be made. A platoon, led by resi-
dent Chef/Lieutenant Spam-a-Lot,
went out in search of supplies and then
prepared a meal fit for kings with help
from the Chinese Consultant Wiltshire
(for the rice). While spirits were high
a trip to the range(Bowling Alley) was
made to hone the skills for the next
day’s eploits. Jemima Holes’ taking out
of a turkey was awarded by an instant
promotion to Corporal and Wankin
known more for his err intelligence
role in this operation was consigned to
non-automatic weapons.
After more split pins than Fish’s
nether regions a recon exercise to the
Union was made. We were surprised
to enter unhindered at the main gates
and like a Trojan Horse we slipped
through and found ourselves in an Art
Deco underground lair. We found that
this conquest may not be so difficult as
pints were £1.60 and soon found our-
selves on the inebriated side of blad-
dered. We fled before our cover was
blown, only to find the next day that
the union had been closed down due
to having run out of beer. Special Ops
team Velvet and Fish went on to the
garage for further recon, unfortunately
straying into an unprotected zone, Fish
was stalked home while Velvet was
licked by a man.
At the crack of noon on Saturday,
the Battlegroup split, half recruiting
freedom fighters on a black cab tour
of Belfast, half collecting ammuni-
tions from the stores in the centre. At
1400 hours we reconvened at our first
battleground and a manic battle com-
menced on the uneven terrain of crazy
golf. Sangy Sangy etc nearly took out a
civilian from a pot shot across the river.
Gayve has an awesome kill count, yet
cried over getting his iron rations(malt
loaf) mixed up with a plum loaf. Tim-
maaaaay had to deal with cocky young
upstart, Slushie and played a kamikaze
roll of aiming for his ball to teach him a
thing or two (you’re not in the air force
now, boy).
Franpiss, one of the not-so-very-
quick-witted recruits almost lost her
kit by failing to realise that running
might help and simply saying “some
one stop him”, *dramatic pause* “he
has my bag” was enough.
After this great success, we quickly
moved on and took on Ireland in a full
frontal attack, and no I’m not talking
Timothy Harford-cross about Man Hands getting her baps
out (that was later), but hockey. The
Belfast Harlequins, a ferocious team of
crazy Celts came to field of battle but
at the sight of the RSM three defected
immediately pledging there allegiance
to us. With this, our heads were high
and hearts were proud and we bore
down against the locals. Urinal did a
brilliant job at controlling the game yet
failed to time the second half, after ap-
proximately an hour, both teams col-
lapsed, well, Little Miss Dislocation did
and we stretchered her off. Btw: the
score was 5-3 to us. Rear Guard gun-
ner Velvet got the Victoria Cross for
his bravery and Gayve got dishonour-
ably discharged for kicking the keeper.
A surrendering Irish force lead us to
the bar and allowed us to collect sup-
plies. Replenished with victory/beer
we returned to camp.
Sergent Meat Head led the onslaught
onto Eglantine, the final target of the
invasion, a menacing £6 for a jug of
cocktail (Molotov or otherwise) bom-
barded our table, but that did not de-
ter us, Tampon soaking up most of the
fire. Chaplain Jeboobs kept the faith
but was not in time to stop the morally
objectionable Air Strike by Lt. Spam-
o-lot and Little Miss Dislocation.
As Major General, I would just like
to add: very well done chaps, the op-
eration was a complete success and has
given paddy something to think about.
I think that this has given us all good
experience and you are my top trumps.
Now don’t just go and forget the lesson
we’ve learned, SAY NO TO STEVE.
The fixtures are likely to be a bit less friendly than this pair
Face
Off
Varsity and Bottle Match
previews, see page 45

