9
Friday 22 February 2008 felix
Student Trustee
& NUS Delegate Manifestos
A little about me: I’m a first year Medi-
cal Student, and I’m involved with
various Clubs and Societies including
being Treasurer of MedDebate Soc
and I also have show on ICRadio. The
Trustee Board may seem a less excit-
ing Union role, but it’s no less impor-
tant; I’d give it all the commitment and
dedication it deserves to ensure good
practice and student concerns are fore-
most in the mind of Trustees. I may be
“fresh faced” to University politics, but
that might not be a bad thing- it means
honest and open representation of stu-
dents is something I can guarantee.
Jaimie Henry
STUDENT TRUSTEES (2 posts available)
The Trustee Board requires members
that are hard working, strong-willed
and most importantly that have a vision
for the Union. I am all of these things
and much more. My vision is that the
Union should be transparent, finan-
cially sound and efficiently delivering
what students want. As you can sense,
I do not believe the Union is currently
these things, as Student Trustee I will
strive to bring credible and noticeable
change to the Union, as well as making
sure that students are better informed
about the workings or indeed failings
of the Union.
Kadhim Shubber
What are Student Trustees and
what are they for?
Student Trustees sit on the Trustee
Board in order to represent students at
the highest level of governance in the
Union. The Trustee Board provides le-
gal and finincial oversight to the Union.
They control the Union’s overall strat-
egy and ensure that the Union does not
expose itself to legal misfortune, or do
anything stupid. Student presence on
this board is extremely important with
the imminence of the Beit redevelop-
ment masterplan.
NUS DELEGATES (8 posts available)
The fact is, Imperial’s delegates have
to vote how they are told to vote, so
you can’t really pick us based on our
beliefs. All our delegates have to vote
for the reforms currently proposed to
drag this creaking, ineffective and poor
1970s organisation into the 21st centu-
ry. As editor of an award-winning news
site last year, I’m in an excellent posi-
tion to come back and tell you whether
the NUS is worth our time or money,
or if it’s still as useless as it has been for
the past decade. Send someone who’ll
tell you if we’re wasting £44k.
Ashley Brown
NUS Conference 2008 is the most
important conference in a genera-
tion. Fundamental changes to the way
the NUS works will be debated and if
passed will represent a major reform
of the organisation making it less likely
that financial crisis and political irrel-
evance will prevent it from delivering
for students. Imperial College Union
has been one of over 40 Unions driving
these reforms and I have been a strong
supporter of this policy. For a delegate
who will represent the views of Impe-
rial students and report back on what
happens in Blackpool VOTE JEN for
NUS Delegate.
Jennifer Morgan
I voted no to joining the NUS because
I could not see that the £44,000 a year
fee was justified. In fact, even after at-
tending the NUS Extraordinary Con-
ference last term, I am still dubious as
to where the students of Imperial are
benefitting.
However I really want to represent
Imperial at conference because I think
that we need to contribute to and get
as much out of it as we can. I want to
help Imperial students see results from
Conference. This is a huge task but it
starts by improving communication
between the NUS delegates and the
students.
Victoria Gibbs
Following some great comedy, but aw-
ful debate, at the NUS extraordinary
conference last December, I voted and
saw the passing of the Governance Re-
view. I want to see this voted through
again. I want to be there to vote it
through. Imperial deserves better than
the current NUS farce. Students de-
serve better. Without the governance
review, this won’t happen and it will
continue to be a playground for aspir-
ing socialist hacks and their ‘free pet
care for students’ motions. The NUS
should deal with student issues, not
students creating them, so vote Liz for
the sensible logic found at Imperial!
Liz Hyde Chris Larvin
Each year we spend £44,000 of our sub-
vention in affiliation fees to the NUS
and it’s very hard to quantify what ben-
efits we receive from this considerable
sum. It is important ICU gets value for
money by attending conferences and
giving input, where appropriate, on is-
sues that affect Imperial students. The
students at Imperial are often special
cases in that they are studying science,
technology and medicine that live and
study in London. I don’t care for anti-
war or other Trot motions; I just care
about the motions that affect Impe-
rial students, so vote Chris for NUS
delegate.
John Matthews
The NUS claims to speak for us, but
they can only when we tell them what
we want them to say. With guidance
from Council on which way to vote,
some may question what difference
it makes who is elected to form the
delegation. There are few motions on
which delegates must vote a particular
way, but many where a delegate can
vote differently with just cause. We
need to elect delegates that will main-
tain the interest of Imperial students
and work to ensure that the NUS works
for us and delivers what we need.
Kirsty Patterson Camilla Royle Rosie Smithells
What are NUS Delegates and
what are they for?
ICU’s Delegates to the NUS Annual
Conference 2008 will be voting on
the radical restructuring of the NUS
that caused controversy last year. The
students that are elected as delegates
essentially act as a puppets controlled
by the ICU Council, and must vote as
mandated by Council Policy. This is
to ensure that ICU NUS Delegates act
according to the will of the entire Im-
perial student body, not according to
their pet interest.
However, at a time when the future
of the NUS is hotly debated, the only
outcome of the coming conference is
likely to be the ratification or rejec-
tion of the restructuring; ICU is still
uncertain as to whether it wishes to be
affiliated with the national institution.
Never before has the ICU delegation
been more important to the NUS and
to the Union
I have attended two NUS Conferences
in the past year and am familiar with
the procedures of the NUS. As a mem-
ber of the NUS Working Group I am
writing amendments for Conference
based on research that I have under-
taken. As a familiar face in the NUS I
will gain support amongst other del-
egations to change the NUS into a un-
ion that is relevant to our needs and of
greater benefit to our members in the
future. I believe I am the Candidate
with the most experience, the appro-
priate knowledge and the most influ-
ence. Mwu ha ha cough cough...
I’m a final year biology student who’s
also spent much of the last three
years campaigning on various issues
(anti-war/anti-fascist/women’s lib/
anti-climate change etc). I oppose the
new NUS governance review because I
think it diminishes many of the demo-
cratic structures that make it possible
for ordinary students like me to go to
conference in the first place. The way
to improve the NUS is to get more stu-
dents involved and run campaigns that
people care about so we want to stay
affiliated not to cut back on activism.
Vote for me to represent this alterna-
tive point of view.
The Union operates a ‘whipped vote’ –
meaning the way delegates vote on im-
portant issues to Imperial Students has
already been decided by NUS working
group and ultimately Council – I’m a
member of both.
Whilst at Imperial I have been a Re-
app, a member of several clubs, ICU
senior bar staff and RSM Treasurer;
I’m in touch with student issues so can
vote sensibly when the vote is ‘free’ and
give real feedback on the conference.
I voted ‘NO’ to the NUS but feel if
we must be a part of it then we should
maximise the benefit for our students.
Luke Taylor and Salman Waqar
failed to submit manifestos
Voting open: www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Voting open: www.imperialcollegeunion.org/vote

