The Editor
by the Staff
M a r k Smith and T o m Brown (of the novel
T o m Brown's Schooldays) have two things in
common: they both went to school in Rugby
and have very common names. They differ in
that T o m Browri spent many action-packed
years at Rugby School whereas the highlight of
Mark's schooldays was being bullied by Neville
Staples, later to join the Specials and the
Funboy Three. It was also whilst living in
Rugby that the infamous event involving a
young lady and a vacumn cleaner flex took
place.
The young Smith left Rugby for London when
he entered the Physics Department in 1978.
He became Departmental Representative in
his second year and is regarded by many
(especially himself) to have been the best Dep
Rep the department (or College in his opinion)
ever had. At the end of his second year he
edited the R C S U Handbook and was F E L I X
Business Manager in his third year. He was
This week's caption competion:
The winner can have a free appointment with
M r Smith's dentist.
The staff are sorry that the photo fails to
capture the red rings around M r Smith' eyes.
returned unopposed as F E L I X Editor and
graduated with a lower second.
Mark's interests are films, science fiction
novels and women in general. However he has
narrowed this last interest down to an Asian
nurse, Nita. O n their first meeting Mark told
Nita that his mother, was a mud wrestler, but
she has since apparently changed her job to a
bricklayer.
A fan of fast-food and girlie magazines Mark
fondly remembers dropping over a dozen
copies of Playboy on the floor of Kentucky
Fried C h i c k e n on Gloucester Road, in front
of a large crowd.
Mark's F E L I X have been interesting and
avidly read even though he failed to keep many
of the promises he made in his statement of
intent and has let his feelings towards a certain
Southside Warden influence his judgement on
many occasions.
Mark was honoured by both R C S U and I C U
and this year he was elected to the '22 Club
and awarded a Union General Award.
M r Smith intends to tour India soon and
would like to be a film director, astronaut and
novelist when he returns but feels his failure to
take up sub-aqua diving may prove to be a
disadvantage.
We wish him well.
News Quiz Answers
In Disquise
Starting top left and working clockwise: Nick Mor-
ton, Martin S. Taylor, Don Monro, Mary Freeman,
Andy Rushton and in the centre Steve Marshall.
Quotes
1. Mark Smith made quote 10.
2. Barney McCabe made quote 6.
3. Steve Marshall made quote 1.
4. Phil Greenstreet made quote 7.
5. Frank James made quote 9.
6. Steve Goulder made quote 8.
7. Eric Laithwaite made quote 5.
8. Nick Pyne made quote 4.
9. Sir Keith Joseph made quote 2.
10. Nick Morton made quote 3.
The Year's Personalities
1. Andy Rushton (B.B. Wolffe, FELIX 596)
2. Geoffrey Reeves, College Security Officer (in
The Phoenix)
3. Andy Rushton when Bo's lamps were stolen.
4. Martin S. Taylor when his bell failed on Univer-
sity Challenge.
5. Jasper (Jeremy Nunns) of IC Radio.
6. Ann Dziwior, Astrosoc Chairman, in her space
shuttle hoax on April 1 (FELIX, No 611).
7. Stephen Goulder (Exec News, October 5)
8. The University Challenge team.
9. Nick Morton (FELIX 597)
10. Mary Freeman in her election manifesto
(FELIX 608)
Surnames
1. Lindley (College Domestic Secretary)
2. Passmore (former I C U President)
3. Schmidt (RCS President-elect)
4. Hewanicka (Union Receptionist)
5. Flowers (the Rector's wife)
6. Hardy-Smith (Union Administrator)
One to Six
1. Angie of Linstead.
2. Barney McCabe and Ronan McDonald (FELIX
603).
3. Union Administrator, U L U Representative and
FELIX Editor.
4. Tobacco, Leather, Isst-Pigs and Measure.
5. Athletic Clubs Committee, Recreational Clubs
Committee, Social Clubs Committee, S C A B and
Publications Board.
6. Chemical, Mechanical, Electrical, Civil, Petro-
leum and Mineral Resources.
Animals
1. A snow lion was sculpted at the foot of the
Queens Tower (FELIX'600).
2. Princess Anne
3. Victor Mooney, in his pasties.
4. Steve Marshall, embarking for South America
(FELIX 593 Editorial).
5. Reggie, King's College's lion.
6. Barney McCabe.
Insults and Praises
1. J . Martin Taylor of David Owen.
2. Mark Smith of J . Martin Taylor.
3. Nick Morton was quoted as saying this of Bar-
ney McCabe. Whether he actually said it is open to
conjecture.
4. Mark Smith of Nick Morton
5. Nick Morton of Jo Hewanicka.
6. Barney McCabe of the Lower Lounge partition.
Fun & Games
1. The Mines-Camborne fixture.
2. FELIX Editor
3. James Deeney (FELIX 604).
4. 1,000,001 up darts match.
5. Raft race.
6. Chess display by grandmaster John Nunn.
Goodbye
1. Annie Lathaen, former Union Receptionist.
2. Tony Schaffner, Bookings Manager (B B Wolffe
FELIX 606)
3. Ian Morse (FELIX printer)
4. Barney McCabe (Freshers' Handbook)
5. Monty, the Montpelier St. cat (FELIX 597)
Also Known As
1. Montpelier Street hall (FELIX 591)
2. Marco Ledwold (FEELSICK)
3. Andy Rushton (Editorial, FELIX 597)
4. The Lower Lounge partition (Letters, FELIX
590)
5. The Lower Lounge partition (Letters, FELIX
591).
Does anyone really wantMartin S. Taylor's FELIX?
Leaving College this year? Interested in keeping in touch with what's going on? Then why
not subscribe to FELIX for a year. For a mere £9.00 you can have your very own copy of
FELIX delivered to your door every week. (Students living overseas can arrange to have
FELIX sent to them as well, but the rates will vary.)
If you are interested then enquire at the FELIX Office for further details or return the form
below:
Please, please, please s e n d me F E L I X for a year. I willingly e n c l o s e a £ 9 . 0 0
cheque/postal order/cash.
N a m e
Department
Address to which F E L I X should be sent
Cheques payable to: ICU Publications Board (FELIX).
FELIX, June 18, 1982

