REVIEW O F T H E Y E A R
FAIRLY EVENTFUL YEA
IC UNION CAUGHT NAPPING!
Guess what, folks? Yes, it's that Hall! Photo: Jane Williams.
If the powers that be intended 1981/2 to
be a good year at IC they certainly made
a very poor start. Union officers and
College employees alike made a series of
errors in the romantic, patriotic and riot-
torn summer that created extra work for
themselves, hardship for some, and a
source of amusement or indignation for
many others.
Hall Hell
One of the most trouble-ridden aspects of
C o l l e g e life this year has been the
postgraduate Hall of Residence in Mont-
pelier Street. Purchased last August the Hall
suffered from poor heating and lack of
cooking facilities and communal areas. The
latter was particularly important in view of
the small size of the rooms.
Although residents received a rent rebate
of £20, they were paying the highest rents
(£23pw) for College residence at the time
and since then a serious case of dry rot has
set in, which will cost at least £16,000 to
repair, in addition to the discomfort the
repair will cause. The residents were also
shabbily treated by the Union President
N i c k M o r t o n who on two separate
occasions was reticent to support their
complaints after they had written to Student
Services.
Personal Attacks
Two publications edited over the summer
put the Union in a lot of trouble when Nick
Morton read the pasteups but "failed to
notice" some of the more controversial
articles. The ICU Handbook had originally
contained vicious personal attacks on
Victor Mooney and Captain Lindley, but
these were removed at the printers.
However the Rag Mag was published iri its
original form and dominated Union General
Meetings in the autumn term (and kept
them quorate). Originally City & Guilds
Union refused to sell the magazine because
they objected to some of the jokes. ICU
Council then passed a motion restricting its
sale to IC students, who later voted to
totally ban the magazine. Unfortunately-
when this d e c i s i o n was r e v e r s e d in
December, street collecting licences had
not been obtained, the Rag Chairman
resigned, and with the exception of the Rag
Fete, Rag activity stopped for the year.
The notorious partition in the Lower
Lounge was built during the summer and
was part of a £2,500 redecoration scheme
which included recarpeting the Lounge. The
partition was the idea of former Deputy
President Barney McCabe and met with
widespread opposition for a number of
reasons. These included the cost, the
reduced floor space, the lack of consultation
with the appropriate Union committees and
the increased opportunities for vandalising
the games machines, which were to be kept
behind the partition.
Resignation
Mr McCabe was to meet with further
c r i t i c i s m d u r i n g his time as D e p u t y
President because of his "laziness" and
nonchalant attitude towards his work. This
resulted in motions of censure at both
Council and a Union General Meeting
before it became obvious that the games
machines were running at a large loss. This
and the low turnover from the Southside
Shop led to his resignation and replacement
by Christine Teller.
Rag Mag Editor Patrick Coll passes a
motion of his own.
Violation
In the first week of the session four
brass lamps, worth £500 were stolen from
Guilds inviolate mascot Bo. In March Guilds
had to retrieve their violate mascots
Spanner and Bolt, after they had been
stolen by R C S seven weeks previously.
RCS also violated Reggie (Kings College)
and Mary (Queen Mary College) while their
motorised mascot Jez appeared on Blue
Peter and on German television.
Mike, the mascot of ICU, was stolen from
the Union Office in May after being left
there by N i c k M o r t o n and H o n o r a r y
Secretary Marco Ledwold in an alcoholic
daze. Since a ransom note has not been
received the matter may be reported to the
Police.
Celebration
1981 was also the centenary of the Royal
College of Science. The fortnight of events
in November included lectures by Nobel
Laureate Lord Todd (Chemistry Past and
Present), Prof G . J . Whitrow (Personalities
and Achievements in RCS) and Prof B.S.
Hartley (RCS leading into Biotechnology).
The guest at the Centenary Dinner and Ball
was Prof Sir Andrew Huxley, President of
the Royal Society and Nobel Laureate.
There was also an exhibition of College
archives material organised by Mrs Pingree,
the College archivist.
Soon after the centenary celebrations had
ended a working party examining the
possibility of a merger between IC and
Queen Elizabeth College reported that the
colleges should form "an association with
the intent of a merger at a later date".

