F E L I X
B R I T I S H U N I V E R S I T I E S SKI
- C H A M P I O N S H I P S , 1963 -
Last April, at the British Univer-
sities Skiing Championships held
in the Cairngorms, Scotland, Lon-
don University gained 3rd place
overall, behind St. Andrew's and
Edinburgh Universities. Eight
Universities competed. In the
meantime, the organisation which
until recently was purely a Scot-
tish affair, has, been greatly im-
proved, and it is hoped that this
year more Universities will take
part. The organisation of the
University of London Ski Club
has also kept up with the times,
and we are intending to enter a
far stronger first team than last
year, also a second team. The
standard of these teams depends
upon the number of top class
skiers at London willing to sup-
port the University. As things
stand at present, we should have
at least two internationals in the
team of sixes, as well as one or
two continental county racers.
The arrangements are to send
a faining team of seven to Scot-
land, leaving London on the 29th
"''arch, and staying in the same
place as last year. A further
trailing party of ten will leave
for Val d'lsere in the French Alps
on 21st March and stay there till
early April. Around the 5th
April, the best skiers from France
together with a few others with
other training commitments will
travel up to Scotland to take part
in the giant slalom and two
special slaloms on the 8th and
9th April. It is proposed to re-
turn to London on the 11th April,
travelling probably being by
train as it is hoped to get reduc-
tions from British Railways.
Anyone wishing to come and
cheer on the London teams as
well as getting in a few days' ski-
ing, is very welcome, and the
University officials will be only
too glad to help with the arrange-
ments.
Finally, the ICSki Club in con-
junction with the U L Club is in-
tending to send a mixed party of
21 to Zurs, leaving 23rd March
for a fortnight. This will be pri-
marily a social party in Austria's
top skiing country, the Arlberg.
There are only a limited number
of places left, so anyone inter-
ested should get in touch with the
organisers as soon as possible.
The people to contact at IC
about any of the above are Colin
Williams. President IC Ski Club
(Int. 2533) and Andy Kisiel vice-
President, U L Ski Club (Int.
2611).
Badminton
The term began with the Club's
yearly acknowledgement of cul-
ture, in the form of a dinner and
theatre outing. After a dinner in
somewhat spartan conditions, a
last minute dash to " Beyond the
Fringe" was made, resulting in
about half of us missing the
puzzled audience reaction to the
National Anthem.
As regards our more mundane
activities, the first team go march-
ing on with consumate ease, beat-
ing Battersea 7-2, but ironically
Chris Harvey and Dennis Forster
lost their three-year unbeaten re-
cord, which was praised in these
columns last term. Last week,
they summarily dismissed West
Ham. another all Malayan com-
bination, with an 8—-1 victory.
After being balked of matches
last term through cancellations
and postponement, the Ladies
marshalled their best team for
the annual battle with UC, but
unfortunately, the result was a
6—3 defeat, though this was
more of a cliffhanger than th»
numbers imply. The Men's
second team continue their enig-
matic performance, enigmatic in
so far as results are disappointing,
although the team is stronger
than in previous years. Since the
win over LSE I last term, they
*>ave lost against U C I 6—3, aid
QMC 8—1. In the former, Lim
and Raman played well, winning
two, but they were not available
for the latter match, while R.
Clements gave a solid perform-
ance. Both matches were mara-
thon five-hour affairs, due to
there being only one court avail-
able, the match against QMC
being more of an exercise in
keeping warm. It was played in
a converted barn, aptly called
" the Hut" by the resident Boy
Scouts, and matches were punc-
tuated by the sound of parts of
the roof falling down.
The meagreness of club days at
Nine Elms is recognised, and
extra courts have been booked ;
it is hoped that full use will be
made of them. Finally, the Club
Singles tournament will be held
on Wednesday, February 13th,
and this will give an opportunity
to at least one dissident who at
the moment complains of the pre-
ponderance of doubles play.
J. H . WEDDLE.
M O T T O : f u e s
S P R E R D DISERSE
A R E Y O U Q U A L I F I E D F O R A N I M M E D I A T E C O M M I S S I O N ?
Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers
Yes; a full and exciting life is waiting for youifyou have
either a Higher National Certificate, or a Diploma i n
Technology in Engineering or Physics, or a Degree i n
Engineering or Physics.
This is what you wou'd r/c. R.E.M.E.'S task is to keep the
Army's mechanical, electrical, electronic and aero-
nautical equipment operational at all times. With your
skilled soldiers, you must be able to maintain equipment,
ranging from vehicles, tanks and guns to guided wea-
pons, light aircraft and radar. You could also play an
important part in influencing the design of weapons and
equipment. After specialised training, you will be
required to work at home or overseas and often with
fighting troops. Y o u will, therefore, need to be self-
reliant as well as a good engineer. Y o u will have a vital
responsibility at an early age for men and equipment,
and the varied experience you gain will be fully re-
cognised by the major Engineering- Institutions.
This is how you can enter. There are two methods: a
Short Service or Permanent Regular Commission.
Short Service Commissions. To qualify for a Short Service
Commission, you need a Higher National Certificate or
its equivalent and should be1
'between 20 and 25. During
your service (minimum three years), you would be
building up a tax-free gratuity at the rate of £155 a year.
Should you decide to make the Army your career, there
are opportunities, providing you are qualified, to convert
to a Permanent Regular Commission.
Regular Commissions. To qualify for a Regular Commis-
sion, you must be between 20 and 27, have a Degree i n
Engineering or Physics, or be qualified for Graduate
Membership of the Institutions of Electrical or Mech-
anical Engineers. When assessing seniority, account will
be taken of any suitable civilian engineering experience
you may have had. B y 27 you would be a Captain and
earning £1,500 a year, if married. If you were to retire
after only 16 years, you would get a life pension of £500
p.a. and a £1,500 tax-free gratuity. Pensions and grat-
uities increase proportionately to a maximum after 34
years' service. For service from 10-15 years you would
get a tax-free gratuity, ranging from £1,150 to £2,300.
Further Training. Specialist and post-graduate courses
are provided to augment the training you have already
had. If you are interested in following this worthwhile
career, write now, giving your age and educational
qualifications, to:—
Maj.-Gen. D. A . K . Redman, O.B.E.,
The War Office (A.G.21), F K S , Stanmore, Middlesex.
There are vacancies for similarly qualified women in the
W.R.A.C. Such W.R.A.C. officers are permanently employed
with R.E.M.E.

