Reviews FELIX, Friday February 27th 1987 6
The Fly opened in London on Friday
13th February (and was reviewed in
the FELIX issue of the same date).
The director is a mild-mannered 42
year old Canadian dubbed variously
'The Baron of Blood', 'The Prince of
horror and Dave 'Deprave'
Cronenberg.
Canada must have been a hard
place for an aspiring young film
maker to become a success. There is
no studio system in Canada to speak
of, and this means two things; firstly,
there are no big financiers who will
put up money for films. Secondly,
therefore, there are not many
bankable Canadian stars to be found
working in Canada.
The logic runs like this: only big
budget films are successful,
rewarding their backers with profits.
Therefore a Canadian film is going to
need more money than its group of
small-time investors will ever be able
to put up. The Government, in the
guise of the Canadian Film
Development Corporation will help
by supplementing the budget. But
now. since the film is using
Government money, it must have
Canadian leading players. And
because there aren't many of these
who are well known where it counts
(ie: the USA. Europe, etc) the film,
once made, is pretty unlikely to be
successful. This partly-vicious circle
hence imposes a limit, or 'ceiling
investment' on what potential backers
will put into a film. However, the
circle is only partly-vicious because,
by its very nature, it encourages
selection of only the best from the
directors working within it. And it
was from this system that David
Cronenberg emerged.
It was at university, with some
student friends, that Cronenberg
discovered the medium of film,
delighting in its possibilities of
expression. Even at this early stage
his uncanny ability at blending
together the macabre with scientific
and literary themes is clearly
apparent, especially in two of his first
short films. From the Drain and
Transfer. Transfer is described by
Cronenberg, who wrote,
photographed, directed and edited the
film as 'a surreal sketch for two
people—a psychiatrist and his
patient—at a table set for dinner in the
middle of a field covered in snow.
The phychiatrist has been followed
there by his obsessive former patient
From the Drain has two men sitting
in a bath discussing the changes that
are occurring in the biology of both
man and plants. Whilst one of these
mutated plants comes up from the
drain and kills one of the men the
other merely watches, and then takes
all that is left—a pair of shoes—and
stores them in a cupboard, which is
already full of shoes of previous
victims. It becomes obvious that all
this is a plot to prevent veterans
talking publicly about 'the War'. Both
of these films are strongly surrealist;
the events pass before the viewer's
eyes as if they were a dream.
Stereo and Crimes of the Future
established for Cronenberg a
B l o o d B a r o n
FELIX film buff Charles Robin looks back at the career and
films of the controversial C a n a d i a n director David
Cronenberg
reputation for fresh technique, good
script writing and courage in putting
what he wanted up onto the screen.
Both films deal with the physical and
intellectual implications of genetic
mutation and experimentation on the
human mind and body. In the former,
the soundtrack consists of three
narrators, and nothing else. They
describe, using pseudo-scientific
phrases and long, intricate sentences,
a highly organised and carefully
orchestrated experiment in which
"Eight category A subjects
underwent pattern brain surgery to
make them telepathic".
In Crimes of the Future, a
dermatologist, whilst trying to cure
lethal skin conditions caused by
cosmetics, creates Rouge's Malady,
resulting in the eradication of the post-
pubertal female population. The
soundtrack is the musings of the
protege of the scientist who caused the
catastrophe, and the film has one
section in slow motion—the closing
sequence, where the narrator starts
crying as he impregnates a five year
old girl before she passes puberty and
becomes a victim of the Malady.
With these two works 'tucked
under his arm' Cronenberg made his
way to the Cannes Film Festival—
and promptly realised that nothing
like what he was offering had ever
been seen before. So he beat a hasty
retreat to the French countryside and
decided that he had to have something
more 'commercially viable' to show
to the public and communicate his
ideas. With partial funding from the
CFDC, Shivers' (also known as The
Parasite Murders, They Came from
Within) was made.
In Shivers, parasites are symbolic
of the recurring nightmare in
Cronenberg's films—cancer.
(Cronenberg watched his own father
die of the disease, and this obviously
deeply moved him). These parasites
are implanted in patients by a surgeon
as a substitute for the organ
transplants that they want. He wishes
to develop a parasite that, when
implanted int a host, could isolate the
malfunctioning organ, consume it and
then replace it, duplicating its function
exactly and forming a symbiotic
relationship with the patient.
Unfortunately the surgeon's
experiments have gone wrong, and
the parasites grow and divide in the
bodies of their hosts, secreting
enzymes which turn them into sex-
crazed machines. The parasite,
literally an aphrodisiac crossed with
venereal disease, is deliberately
designed to be repulsive. Cronenberg
exhibits an almost puritan disgust at
the promiscuity of the inhabitants of
the sterile starliner complex in which
the film takes place.
Fast Company is something of a
departure from Cronenberg's firmly
established territory in the horror
genre—it isn't even horror. The film
is about drag racing—and drag
racing—and drag racing. All tarted up
with a little humour, sex and violence.
Cronenberg says of it: "Fast
Company is really about men and
machines." The drivers put on cold,
unemotional helmets that make them
featureless robots. They are strapped
into their cars, becoming half-man,
half-car organisms. In a recent
interview with Time Out, Cronenberg
said of Fast Company: " A lot of
people think it's an anomaly, but it's
as much me as Videodrome or
anything else." The fact that
Cronenberg ever agreed to direct Fast
Company is probably more to do with
his own obsession with motor cars
and bikes.
The Brood, Cronenberg's fourth
'proper' film, was made just after his
marriage broke up. In it, the science
of 'psychoplasmics' allows patients to
release their anxiety and anger by
manifesting the emotion in their
bodies.
The film is an allegorical tale about
the breakdown of a marriage. The
frustration, fear and anger of the
mother is manifested as a brood of
murderous 'children of rage.'
Cronenberg described the film as his
own personal Kramer vs Kramer, in
which the mother's emotion is
expressed with immeasurably more
force than Meryl Streep's custody
case.
Scanners marks Cronenberg's first
real commercial impact on the
cinematic public. Before, his films
were regarded by most as exploitation
pics. People went to see Scanners,
and were inspired to pay more
attention to his earlier films as a
result.
Scanners are people blessed (or
cursed—it's up to the viewer to
decide) with the ability to lock onto
the nervous systems of other people,
read their minds, control them, and
ultimately kill them. In the celebrated
opening scene, a scanner explodes a
man's head. The film is concerned
with the way in which these scanners
(of which there are relatively few—
about 200) have split into two
opposing factions because of their
powers. One group wish only to live
in peace: the other group are virtual
fascists. The hero scanner, Cameron
Vale, passes from the security
organisation ComSec who wish to use
scanners as tools of espionage, to the

