20 FRIDAY 29 NOV
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
t’s Wednesday night
and I am at Heaven to
see angry Welsh noise-
rockers Future of the
Left. Formed from
the ashes of mclusky and Jarcrew,
and now featuring Julia Ruzicka
from Million Dead on bass, they
are known for their heavy stop-start
guitar riffs and front man Falco’s
viciously delivered satirical lyrics.
I arrive as the first support finishes
but catch The Wytches - a fuzzed out
surf rock trio from Brighton with lots
of hair. Catchy, if a bit buzz-bandy. By
the time FOTL make it to the stage,
the venue is packed. They open with
older track ‘Arming Eritrea’, followed
by ‘Small Bones Small Bodies’ from
their first album. Both feature those
powerful guitar riffs and fist-in-the-air
shout-along refrains that FOTL do so
well. They have successfully woken up
the sleepy midweek crowd. On tour
Future of the Left at Heaven
I
AMS album of the week
Death Grips rose to prominence with
the 2011 mixtape Exmilitary. This still
stands to this day as one of my favourite
hip-hop records. It’s raw, filled with
crushing industrial beats and has, in MC
Ride, a very unique rapping style. 2012
saw two more albums: The Money Store
and NO LOVE DEEP WEB, both of which
I found a bit disappointing, and then shit
really hit the fan. NO LOVE DEEP WEB
was leaked by the band to bypass the
record label who wanted to delay release
until 2013. This resulted into Death Grips
being dropped and the cover of NO LOVE DEEP WEB being an erect penis with
the album name drawn onto it (also available as a t-shirt). Since then it’s got
even weirder. Their set at Lollapalooza this year was a suicide note being read
out over feedback, and then they cancelled a tour they hadn’t even announced.
The most recent record, Government Plates, was released with little fanfare.
Luckily, it turns out that in amongst all of the crazy bullshit, Death Grips were
actually recording a really good album.
The crushing industrial beats, viciously shouted rapping and dissonant
keyboards all remain. In fact, the main sound is still fairly similar, but the song
structures are far more interesting. There’s slightly quieter bits, there’s a few bits
that sound a hell of a lot like Nine Inch Nails. The industrial influences seem
to have progressed to industrial rock in places, rather than the pure noise that
seemed to dominate earlier releases. Highlights include the schizophrenic Anne
Bonny, the hectic This is Violence Now and the hypnotic, almost tribal, Feels Like
a Wheel. There’s a few tracks that don’t quite hit the spot for me, lead single
Birds just feels a bit too flat for me and Whatever I Want is a bit too techno for
my tastes.
I always felt like my indifference towards the two 2012 records was due to
having overlistened to Exmilitary and being a bit tired of the whole concept.
I’m not sure whether my enjoyment of this one is because I’m now ready to
listen to Death Grips again, or because it’s actually better. Either way, it’s a really
good album. Big fans of Death Grips will almost certainly enjoy it, though I can’t
imagine this converting anybody who doesn’t like them. For those of you who
fall in between, this is definitely amongst their better output, and is definitely
worth your time.
Death Grips – Government Plates
Stuart Masson
to promote their new crowd-funded
album they play a decent balance of
new material to older favourites with
the topical ‘How to Spot a Record
Company’ off the new record going
down particularly well with the crowd.
Falco’s scathing wit – an integral
part of any FOTL show, seems to be
slightly subdued tonight. I can forgive
him for the recycled “having to explain
what a keyboard is to a Metallica
fan” joke since the reason for said
keyboard is to play ‘Manchasm’ – one
of my favourite tracks from the first
record. It finishes with a wonderful
shout-along ‘round’ about Colin – a
very pretty pussycat. And that is what
makes FOTL so immensely enjoyable
live: they may, at heart, be an angry
noise-rock vehicle for Falco to spew
his darkly amusing bile into the world,
but they combine it with catchy
keyboards, great guitar riffs, and yes,
even vocal harmonies and rounds!
They treat us to some
old mclusky tracks.
No surprises there.
‘To Hell with Good
Intentions’ seems to be
their go-to fan-pleaser,
but it hardly seems
necessary since they
are doing a great job
of it so far (I confess,
I still sang along to
every word). FOTL
have managed that
rare thing: they have
successfully stepped
out of the shadow of
their former beloved
cult band. Rarer still,
four albums in and
they show no signs of
losing their edge. They
have more than proved
it tonight – filling
Heaven to capacity on a Wednesday.
Every track they play is a winner.
They build to a spectacularly
scathing and surreal finish. Out comes
new track ‘Singing of the Bonesaws’.
Falco preaches to the crowd in
Recieved Pronunciation English over
this bare-bones track about how we
may be confusing our feelings of
excitement with the fear of missing
out. They blend this into an intense
mash-up of ‘Lapsed Catholics’ and
mclusky’s raw and dirty ‘Lightsabre
Cocksucking Blues’, speeding up on
each successive verse until Falco is
just screaming nonsense and sending
the crowd into a frenzy. As Falco
begins dismantling Jack Egglestone’s
drum kit while he and Ruzicka are
still playing, guitarist Watkins climbs
the scaffolding above the crowd to
feed them with chorizo tied to a stick.
All very exciting for a Wednesday
night; I certainly didn’t miss out.
Clemy Walker reports on the Welsh rockers
smerine are one of the
more loosely-related
Godspeed You! Black
Emperor side projects.
It features Bruce Caw-
dron, the drummer from GY!BE (he
also plays in Set Fire to Flames),
alongside cellist Beckie Foon, who
plays with both Set Fire to Flames,
HRSTA and A Silver Mt. Zion (all
other Godspeed side projects, keep-
ing up?). Probably due to the mem-
bers’ other bands, they’re frequently
labelled as a post-rock band. However,
to my ears this owes much more to
chamber music than it does post-rock
traditions. It’s a far cry from God-
speed, but it’s still a fascinating listen.
Opening track ‘Learning to Crawl’
comes from a fairly basic modern
classical direction, but it’s really
beautiful and works great as an
openingtrack.‘LostRiverBlues’IandII
explore Arabic musical traditions over
a background of ambient and more
upbeat modern classical respectively
to moderate success. ‘Barn Board
Fire’ is probably the closest thing to a
post-rock track on the album, but it’s
laced with heavy folk rhythms, and it’s
absolutely fantastic. ‘Hayale Dalmak’
is a fairly ambient track, but it fits in
nicely. ‘Translator’s Clos’ I and II are a
bit more upbeat, and they really don’t
do it for
me. ‘White
Pine’ on the
other hand,
is a really
lovely track,
again from
a more basic
m o d e r n
c l a s s i c a l
d i r e c t i o n
and ‘Yavri
Y a v r i ’
closes the
album with
a n o t h e r
really nice
a m b i e n t
piece with a
few strings
over it.
This is an
album of
Lumina Kemp
Emserine – Dalmak
Stuart Masson
Music Editor
E
inconsistent styles, but it all meshes
together fairly well. The tracks are, for
the most part, really quite nice, and
there’s a few that I would go as far as to
call strikingly beautiful. It’s not hugely
exciting: it’s pleasant, and I don’t mean
that in a disrespectful way. It’s really
quite lovely, just don’t expect F#A#∞.

