31
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 29 NOV
CAREERS
First impressions DO count
A
t times you may feel like
it’s almost a full time job in
itself trying to get your first
opportunity in the workplace.
As we have talked about
previously, there are a lot of considerations
to take on board when seeking opportunities.
Have you fully considered all your skills and
selling points? Have you researched the areas
of work that you are interested in? Have you
looked at all opportunity providers, large or
small? Have you considered the hidden job
market, and finally, are you doing yourself
justice on your applications and CV’s?
Once you have secured yourself that
internship or graduate role it is important to
recognise that you are moving into a totally
different environment that, for many of you,
may well feel a bit alien. The workplace. It is
important to ready yourself for this transition
into the workplace, as first impressions
really do count. How you present yourself,
your manner, and interactions with your
new colleagues, really will last. If you are
going onto an internship or placement it
is important to be aware of this as these
interactions with your colleagues could well
determine whether you receive a permanent
offer of a full time role on completion of
your studies. Lots of organisations are using
their internship programmes as a way to
identify talent early on and to start building
a relationship with their future employees.
This, for you, is a great opportunity to really
show what you can do, and perhaps even
secure a graduate role based on both your
performance and the impression that you
have made. Starting your final year with a
job offer is a great position to be in.
Some of you will also be starting with a
completely new employer. Again, your initial
interactions with your new colleagues will
create an impression, and you want to make
sure it’s a good one as you embark on your
career after your years of study at Imperial.
The Careers Service has compiled some
key considerations to note before you start
your new role to enable you to make that all
important first impression.
1 Remember that you are no longer within
your familiar environment, with well-known
faces who you have got to know over the
last 3 to 4 years. How you now need to
communicate may well differ markedly
to how you talk with fellow students and
friends. This also is the case in your written
interactions in the workplace. You should
maintain a professional approach. Also don’t
be too quick to disclose details about yourself
that you may regret later. As a rule of thumb,
if it feels wrong to say or write something,
then generally it is! Learn to listen to your
intuition. It is something you will rely on as
you progress through your career.
2 Consider your social media presence.
Some organisations may check out your
Facebook profile. Those holiday photos that
were taken last year might be best if they are
not accessible to your employer. Ensure that
you have your privacy settings set to the full.
Some organisations even recommend that
you have two Facebook pages, one for your
personal life and another for your outward
facing professional life. Also if you use
Twitter remember that these 140 character
statements are open to all to see. Take care
with what you tweet! There have been a few
cases recently of past tweets coming back to
haunt people. LinkedIn is also something
else to consider. If you don’t have a LinkedIn
account you should consider one. This will
not only give you a professional front of
house image, but it’s also a great way to keep
connected to all the professional contacts
you will start to make.
3 People can start to form impressions
straight away. Your body language and
appearance is important. Dress appropriately
for the organisation and when being
introduced to your new colleagues offer a
firm handshake and make eye contact. Have
tidy, well groomed hair, nails etc. and be
conservative with jewellery, make up, and
so on. This sounds very obvious, but in the
Careers Service we often hear feedback from
employers about times when students have
not quite made the transition from student
life to working life successfully. Also show
some of your personality and smile. By the
end of the day you will be amazed at how
tiring it is to permanently display a positive
persona, but it will certainly help you
integrate and build up a circle of friends and
support at work.
4 Now you are in the workplace be careful
to adhere to some basic professional business
etiquette. Be alert and engaged, polite and
courteous. Show consideration for others.
During all your research before applying
you will have gathered some idea about the
organisations culture and values. Do not
forget these on day one. Remember that you
should show respect for all employees from
the reception staff right up to the CEO. Most
organisations now have a very strict code of
conduct which includes aspects of mutual
respect for all employees. This might be the
first time that you have been in the situation
of instructing someone or supervising
another person. This should be done in a
positive, supportive way, appreciating the
individual’s skills and strengths.
5 Emails and phone calls can be the first
indication to an employer of how you will
fit into the organisation. When writing
emails use professional language and
certainly don’t be tempted to use shorthand
text style language or add smiley faces to
correspondence. Start emails with Dear and
continue to do so until you have established
a relationship with whoever you are writing
to and they perhaps reply with “Hi”. Do not
use work time or email for personal use and
the same goes for having your Facebook page
open at your desk. Over time, once you have
gained a bit of confidence and awareness of
the organisation, it may ok to use the internet
over lunch for personal use, however do not
assume this. Remember, if your intuition
tells you this feels wrong, it probably is.
Some other points to consider are using
headphones to listen to music, eating at your
desk, and trying to become too familiar with
new colleagues. This will take time, so take
your time. Get to know them, how they act
and talk with each other and before long you
will feel comfortable in your interactions
with them. It pays to spend the first few
weeks trying to listen and absorb as much as
possible and this also means the culture of
the work place.
These are just some of the aspects that you
need to be aware of as you start work. You
will undoubtedly come across more, however
just as Imperial was a learning experience,
so is the workplace. Employability skills are
not something that you learn once and never
improve on. You will be learning new things
every day and these will make you into the
experienced and desirable professional that
you are striving to become.
For more information on some of these
issues visit www.imperial.ac.uk/careers
The Careers Service
Imperial College London
Careers
Events
Workshop
2 December, 12:30 – 14:00
Preparing for Assessment Centres – In-Tray / E-tray
Exercises
Getting an Internship in…
2 December, 13:00 – 14:00
Media, Broadcasting and Journalism Sectors
Workshop
3 December, 12:30 – 14:00
Group Mock Interview
Lunchtime Careers Talk
3 December, 13:00 – 13:50
Law for Non-Lawyers
Workshop
4 December, 12:30 – 14:00
Preparing For Assessment Centres - Group Activities
Seminar
4 December, 16:15 – 17:15
Interviews
Employer-Led Skills Workshop
4 December, 13:30 – 15:30
Teamworking Skills Workshop (Rolls-Royce)
Book in person at Careers Service - £10 deposit
required (correct change only!)
Workshop
5 December, 12:30 – 14:00
Preparing For Assessment Centres - Presentation
Skills
Seminar
5 December, 16:15 – 17:15
Assessment Centres
Seminar
6 December, 16:15 – 17:15
Applying for Postgraduate Study
Erm, wearing a balaclava to a networking event probably gives a bad impression.
Apply via Jobs Live unless stated

