32 33
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 29 NOV FRIDAY 29 NOV
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM
December is just around the corner,
and film studios are lining up their
critically-lauded films to take part in
this year’s much-anticipated Oscar
race. As with any year, there are strong
contenders in every field and it’s
certainly too early to be betting on a
winner.
So over the next few weeks, Felix
Film will be giving you a breakdown of
the actors, actresses and films that will
be grabbing the headlines in the near
future but this is in no way a definitive
list, as some of the films haven’t even
been released here yet.
This final week in our feature is the
Best Picture category.
Ready...
Steady...
Go!
2014 at the Oscars: Best Picture
The Wolf of Wall Street
There’s a reason why Martin Scorsese
is one of the most respected directors
around, and with DiCaprio on top
form, tackling a very timely subject
matter (greed, corruption of the 1%) is
an extra bonus ingredient required to
almost certainly make the cut.
Nebraska
Alexander Payne’s heartfelt father-son
roadtrip movie is a charming, smooth-
ly-directed, carefully paced, nostalgic
black-and-white delight. Bruce Dern
is quietly moving with very few words,
which pretty much sums up the film’s
general atmosphere.
August: Osage County
With a cast this good, it could end
up as an overstuffed turkey, but early
reviews indicate a warm response, al-
though not overwhelmingly positive
which is a disappointment given the
number of A-list names involved. Still,
it’s early to completely rule this out.
Dallas Buyers Club
Anchored by Matthew McCo-
naughey’s career-best turn, he’s an
HIV-positive man who takes matters
into his own hands to find drugs that
actually work. There’s compassion
and fearless energy in its story, which
is exactly what the Oscars look for.
Lone Survivor
A potential dark horse in this year’s
race is Peter Berg’s (not normally
someone associated with high-end
awards) intense military action film
that has all the predictable but pow-
erful, patriotic elements of heroism,
courage and survival.
Before Midnight
Jesse and Celine talk/fight/argue their
way through yet another Before film
that shows what wonders a fantastic
script and two actors with faultless
chemistry can do just by exchanging
words to one another. May look sim-
ple, but it’s so much more than that.
Blue is the Warmest Colour
The highly graphic, extended se-
quences of lesbian sex as well as its
three-hour running time will certainly
alienate some voters but this Palme
d’Or winner certainly deserves a men-
tion for its powerful, unrelenting ap-
proach to its story-telling.
Blue Jasmine
Woody Allen is on tip-top form with
his wickedly funny, keenly observed
film, with Cate Blanchett most defi-
nitely in the running for Best Actress
this year portraying what arguably is
this year’s most fascinating, entertain-
ing female character.
All is Lost
J. C. Chandor’s sophomore directo-
rial effort is unlikely to get much at-
tention this year since a DVD release
date has already been set, as well as its
alarmingly early online release date.
Very few will see it, but it’s one that
deserves to be seen and admired.
12 Years a Slave
One of this year’s most beloved criti-
cal darlings, Steve McQueen’s brutal,
unflinching slavery drama is as shock-
ing as it is intensely moving. Already
a big winner at the Toronto Interna-
tional Film Festival, the film, as well
as its cast, should gear up for some
deserved awards glory. The subject
matter is one that is tough to swallow,
and traditionally such difficult films
have been overlooked by the Academy
for the sake of something brighter and
shinier, but the undeniable force 12
Years a Slave packs into its narrative
will be hard to ignore.
Gravity
Not only are the critics on board with
Alfonso Cuarón’s terrifying new space
drama that will put you off flying to
the Moon forever, it’s proving to be
immensely popular with the audienc-
es worldwide as well. Having already
bagged an impressive international
gross of $500 million+, the film is
showing absolutely no signs of slow-
ing down in its colossal box-office run.
Sandra Bullock’s performance is phe-
nomenal, but the real highlight here is
the technical aspect of the film - and
so overall, a Best Picture nomination
is most certain.
Saving Mr Banks
The ultimate feel-good movie of the
year, this “opposites attract”, behind-
the-scenes telling of the production
woes of Walt Disney’s Mary Poppins
is one of the funniest Best Picture con-
tenders. Emma Thompson and Tom
Hanks are a magical pair as they go
head-to-head over the rights of P. L.
Travers’ (Thompson) novel, and who
knew there was so much touching
personal background stories in each
character to make one hell of a tear-
jerker? A film that perfectly balances
comedy and drama, this is exactly the
kind of film that moves the voters.
American Hustle
Director David O. Russell has yet
to win an Oscar so perhaps here is
hoping that this year, his luck will
change. Coming off the successes of
The Fighter and Silver Linings Play-
book, he has assembled a mighty
cast (Christian Bale, Bradley Cooper,
Amy Adams, Jeremy Renner, Jennifer
Lawrence) and the setting of the cool,
suave 1970s for his newest slick heist
film. Very few have actually seen the
film, and the release date is still quite
a while away, but given the amount of
promotion and backing the studio is
giving, this is one to watch.
The Butler
Although released in the States all
the way back in August, The Butler
certainly won’t be escaping the minds
of the Academy voters anytime soon.
Director Lee Daniels’ name is one that
carries some weight in the industry,
and thanks to the outstanding per-
formances of Forest Whitaker and
Oprah Winfrey (the mega-famous,
mega-rich chatshow host who makes
a welcome comeback to the screens),
this is a textbook example of how to
do an Oscar-bait, which must be why
The Weinstein Company picked it up
for distribution.
Captain Phillips
Despite the controversy that sur-
rounds how Captain Richard Phillips
is depicted as a heroic leader when in
fact some of his crew argue that he
really wasn’t, Paul Greengrass’ tense,
claustrophobic thriller is a palm-
sweatingly effective, heart-thumping
story, Tom Hanks is hugely reliable, al-
though the revelation here is Barkhad
Abdi, the leader of the Somali pirates,
a first-time actor of such fearful,
threatening demeanour. It’s smart,
well-paced and the closing scenes are
incredibly stirring. If there’s an action
film to be nominated this year, it’s this.
Inside Llewyn Davis
A tragi-comedy in which we follow
the titular Llewyn Davis’ (Oscar Isaac)
struggle in the little known music in-
dustry of the folk music genre, the
Coen brothers’ new film has an overall
bleak tone that nevertheless finds time
for humour arising from entirely con-
vincing scenarios. The Coen brothers
have justly been awarded with many
honours in the past, and their most
recent work deserves an equal amount
of attention. With heartfelt perfor-
mances as well as a killer soundtrack
all performed by the talented cast, the
Coens have once again struck gold.
Philomena
Too British to be considered? The
lowering of the film’s certificate from
its original R-rating to a more au-
dience-friendly PG-13 will work to
widen the love and critical acclaim,
where hopefully Dame Judi Dench’s
heart-wrenching performance will
help elevate this deceptively sim-
ple, straightforward “based on a true
story” drama. The search for her
long-lost son is both a comical but ul-
timately powerful one for Philomena
Lee (Dench), with an unlikely but ef-
fective pairing between her and Mar-
tin Sixsmith (Steve Coogan).
Fruitvale Station
2013’s down-to-earth and genuine
breakout independent film is based on
the blood-boiling true story of how a
young black citizen was accidentally
murdered by the police. It’s neither
preachy with needless emotions nor
dry with tons of information.
Rush
Ron Howard’s Formula 1 biopic is as
exciting as it is informative, and even
those not familiar with Niki Lauda and
James Hunt will find themselves com-
pletely hooked by their rivalry and
blown away by the adrenaline-pump-
ing race sequences.
Her
A quirky, 21st Century rom-com in
which our leading man falls in love
with the robot voice of his phone. It’s
a funny, screwball comedy that takes
the story to places you would never
initially expect it to, which is why it’s
proving to be such a hit already.
Out of the Furnace
Christian Bale is out for blood, which
is always an excellent way to start a
movie. It’s described as being a gutsy,
raw feature with Bale’s powerful per-
formance to top it all off - this alone
should be enough for the film to pave
its way to awards glory.
Mandela: Long Walk to Freedom
It’s that time of year for inspirational
biopics to start coming out, and with a
figure as legendary as Nelson Mande-
la, the film stands a real chance, what
with Idris Elba’s outstanding perfor-
mance that should work well in the
film’s favour.
The Secret Life of Walter Mitty
Ben Stiller’s fifth feature as director
is creating buzz for its wonderfully
creative mix of fantasy, comedy and
poignancy. A Christmas Day release
date? Sounds like the perfect film for
the whole family. Something for the
Academy to consider? Maybe.

