FRIDAY 29 NOV
2 3
FRIDAY 29 NOV
NEWS
Editors: Aemun Reza,
Nida Mahmud,
Philippa Skett
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
EDITOR’S PICKS
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
FreshHairdressers
Men’s cuts £22 (normally £35)
All over clipper cuts from £10
Women’s cut and rough dry £28
Women’s cut and salon finish
blow-dry £38 (normally £55)
Highlights from only £40
Sorry CASH only!
FRESH hairdressers are offering
the best haircuts, prices and
service in South Kensington.
Please call 0207 823 8968 to
book an appointment and ask for
a student discount. Please bring
your student ID we look forward to
seeing you.
We use the best styling products
fromWella, Moroccan Oil, L’Oreal.
Student Discounts At
Appointments available Tuesday to
Saturdays 9.30 to 6.30
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington station at 15a
Harrington road, South Kensington,
SW7 3ES 0207 823 8968.
Check out our website:
www.freshhairdressers.co.uk
70m from South Kensington tube
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: More from teh Lolcat editor
Erratum
Sponsored Editorial
Last week we printed the wrong version of an article in the Food section. We
would like to apologise to the subject of the article, the correct version has been
uploaded to the website.
5 Things Consoles are killing.
Console killers
GAMES
Part Two of Eoghan Totten’s
short story, “Raw Words”
Short Story
BOOKS
Film Editor John Park makes
predictions about the Oscars
2014 Best Picture
The Oscars
FILM
Editor-in-Chief Joe Letts News Editors Nida Mahmud, Philippa Skett, Aemun Reza Features Editor Shiladitya Ghosh Wellbeing Editor Marissa Lewis Business Editor James Tsim Science Editors Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley Politics Editor Kartikeya Rana, Jash Rughani Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Michael Chung Comment Editors Eoghan J. Totten, Tessa Davey Arts Editor Arianna Sorba Fashion Editor Cécile
Borkhataria Books Editors Maciej Matuszewski, Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Simon Hunter, Riaz Agahi, Stuart Masson, William Stocker Television Editors John Park, Emily Fulham Film Editor John Park Games Editors
Maximilian Eggl, Calum Skene, Imran Rashid Technology Editors Maximilian Eggl, Yong Wen Chua, Osama Arawa, Clubs & Socs Editor Nida Mahmud Charity Editor Ben Fernando Travel Editor Chris Richardson
Sports Editor Kunal Wagle Online Editors Philip Kent, Annina Sartor, Stephen Ball Puzzles Commanders Kingshuk Dasadhikari, Oliver Price Copycats Stephen Ball and Annina Sartor Copykittens Alexandra Hamilton,
Tom Rivlin, Iulia Gherman, Tom Heaven, Mattin Mir-Tahmasebi Felix Furniture Jonathan Pratt
O
ver 400 postgraduates
will join seven
Imperial doctoral
training centres in the
next five years. The
research will be in areas ranging from
fluid dynamics to chemical biology.
There will be a total of 70 Centres for
Doctoral Training (CDTs) between 24
UK universities. The research will be
in areas that are considered important
for economic growth, this represents
the UK’s largest investment in
postgraduate training in engineering
and the physical sciences. The ESPRC
will be providing £350 million to the
CDTs, furthermore another £250
million will come from industry
partners.
The announcement was made by
David Willetts, who is the Minister
for Universities and Science, he said:
“scientists and engineers are vital to
our economy and society. It is their
talent and imagination, as well as their
knowledge and skills, that inspire
innovation and drive growth across a
range of sectors, from manufacturing
to financial services.
“I am particularly pleased to
see strong partnerships between
universities, industry and business
among the new centres announced
today. This type of collaboration is a
key element of our industrial strategy
and will continue to keep us at the
forefront of the global science race.”
The Provost of Imperial, Professor
James Stirling commented: “These
awards underline Imperial’s status
as a powerhouse for postgraduate
education and research.
“Imperial will use its highest ever
number of CDTs to train the next
generation of leaders in science
and engineering while undertaking
research that makes a real, long-lasting
contribution. This will strengthen
higher education, industry and society
alike.
“In recent years, Imperial’s CDTs
have pioneered a series of innovations
in doctoral training, including the
development of bespoke professional
skills training, public engagement,
entrepreneurship and cohort-
building. This approach has cultivated
the right environment for students
to combine world-class training in
research with the acquisition of a
broad range of work-ready skills. Our
new CDTs will enable us to take this
successful approach to the next level.”
The Chair of the EPSRC, Paul
Golby said that: “Centres for Doctoral
Training have already proved to be a
great success and the model is popular
with students, business and industry.
These new centres will give the
country the highly trained scientists
and engineers it needs and they will
be equipped with skills to move on in
their careers.”
Campus Services:
Silence Abounds
Nida Mahmud
Writer
Imperial to create new Centres for
Doctoral Training for postgraduates
O
ne week further into
the confusion over
cleaning in halls and
Campus Services has
yet to reply to the
questions sent to them by Felix over
two weeks ago, begging the question:
Does the department feel any
obligationtoprovidingitsstakeholders
with satisfactory information? We
now approach the end of the first term
of the academic year, and for some
students there is still confusion over
their cleaning rotas, and some would
still like to see some token of apology
from the department in regards to the
poor communication that has gotten
so out of hand.
One major cause for concern is
the fact that despite the duration
that the changes have been in effect,
some students still have no idea about
whether they have access to cleaning
equipment, and if they do have access,
some still may not be aware to find it.
Here at Felix we find it upsetting that
many new students will have waited
a full four weeks before their rooms
have been cleaned, without the option
to clean it themselves.
Felix believes that at a minimum the
Campus Services department should
provide much more information about
the feedback process they consulted
before making the changes, as well as
the decisions and reasoning that led to
the final choice.
Hopefully, at the upcoming cleaning
services review (that Campus Services
promised in their most recent missive)
we will see a situation where the people
who are affected most by the changes
get to have some input into the
cleaning solution, whether they would
like things to return to the way they
are, or whether they have suggestions
that would drastically improve both
their happiness and wellbeing.
Looking forward to the future, Felix
hopes that all College departments
will learn from this mistake and
will consult or at least inform
stakeholders of important changes to
the services it provides, rather than
just implementing changes, which are
announced at a later date.
Felix
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Union releases
12/13AnnualReport
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
T
his Tuesday the Union
released their most recent
annual report, covering last
year’s activities. There have
been some changes in the
Union’s financial reporting methods,
after the recent change to full charity
status it now has to present financial
statements according to the Charities
SORP (Statement of Recommended
Practice). The SORP requires a charity
to not only present its finances, but
also to do it in such a way that shows
how financial transactions relate to
their charitable activities.
The Union’s charitable activities
fall into three categories, Social
Enterprise, Student Activities &
Development, and Student Voice.
Social Enterprise incorporates the
activities of the Union’s “licenced
trade, retail outlets and the hiring of
space”, which includes the bars run by
the Union (on the South Kensington
Campus) and the Union Shop and Gift
Shop on campus.
Student Activities & Development,
however, encapsulates all the activities
relating to student volunteering
and Clubs, Societies and Projects
(CSPs). Meanwhile, the Student Voice
category accounts for campaigning,
representing student views and
various other student-related
democratic activities.
As a part of the changes to the
accounting practices used to present
the Union’s accounts (after gaining
charity status), they now have to
report the value of goods and services
provided for Union use free of charge.
This includes the provision of building
space and IT services by College.
Over the 2012-13 period, the
Union (via CSPs) paid over £40,000
in affiliation fees to external bodies,
including £20,096.82 to ‘British
Universities & Colleges Sport’ (BUCS)
and £5111.28 to Denham Golf Club.
The Union donated £145,296.37
through fund-raising activities last
year,includingdonationsof£35,235.75
to the Winnicott Foundation,
£24,204.97 to Islamic Relief, £9297.00
to Tsunami Rehabilitation and
£5,192.76 to Children in Need.
Examining the statement of
Financial Activities (for the year
ending 31 July 2013), ignoring the
£359,804 estimated for support costs
(which are in fact provided by College
for free), over the 2012-13 year the
Union made a £171,246 surplus from
Social Enterprise Activities (including
bars, the Union Shop and hiring out
spaces in the Union building).
Overall, the Union seems to be in
a healthy financial position, having
achieved a surplus of £196,112 over
the 2012-13 period.
According to the Union’s Balance
Sheet on 31 July, the Union owned
Next week’s issue is
the last issue of term!
Ahhh! What to do?
Don’t worry, we’ll still be active
over the Christmas holidays on
our website and via
social media!
There’s still time
to get involved
this term,
simply send an
email to one of the
section editors and
they’ll be in touch!
£190,960 worth of stock (think goods
for sale), was owed £50,699 by debtors
and had a total of £1,525,434 between
funds in the Union bank account and
cash held on the premises. While the
Union also owed its creditors a total
of £514,921 at that point in time, after
taking into account the value of the
Union’s investments (£110,627) and
the value of its tangible fixed assets
(£5,398,106 – which we assume
includes the value of the building
containing the Union offices), the
Union had (at the time) net current
assets worth £6,760,904.
In terms of staff salaries, the Union
seems to pay a total of £1,773,812
(including pension and National
Insurance contributions), with
£1,045,000 going to staff in the Social
Enterprise category (including full
and part-time staff and students at the
Union’s bars and shops). According to
the report on average 49 permanent
staff and 109 student staff were
employed over the 2012-13 period.
The highest paid employee at the
Union is paid between £70-80,000.
Overall, the Union is in a good
financial position, having made a
strong recovery from the 09-10 period
and now has healthy reserves which
can be used to improve the student
experience at Imperial.
Imperial college union
Do Campus Services truly care
about their stakeholders?

