34 35
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 29 NOV FRIDAY 29 NOV
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM
Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious
If the single word that makes up this
article’s title is the one thing you took
away from watching Mary Poppins
thenyoumaybesurprisedtoknowthat
the jolly word would have most likely
induced a deep frown of disapproval
from the author of the book itself, P.
L. Travers (Emma Thompson). Mrs
Travers to be exact. And nothing else.
She is very clear as to how she would
like to be addressed, much like how
Walt Disney himself (Tom Hanks)
would have to have others call him
Walt instead of Mr Disney, and so it
would seem that they have both met
their deserving match in this film. And
it turns out that this match is packed
with wonderful little details.
There is never a boring moment
in this incredibly well acted film
despite its 125-minute running time.
The story has a defined thread that
it follows through without getting
sidetracked but does manage to get
enough details to weave a sound piece
of work. It also makes good use of
warm-toned flashbacks to add depth
and layers to the emotions that lets the
viewers understand the complicated
character that is Mrs Travers, without
overusing the sentimentality factor.
Thompson, with 2 Oscars under her
belt, is absolutely spot-on in terms of
living and breathing her role in the
movie. Her overwhelming reluctance
in agreeing to Walt’s proposition
brought to life by her stiff upper lip
attitude that dominates more than
the first half of the film is hilarious
to say the least, which is made even
more enjoyable by Hanks’ and other
supporting roles’ priceless reactions
that utilises every pause, flinch, sigh,
look etc. to its fullest effect.
The film does not feature many
characters which is because there
is no need to do so; each character
is meticulously placed to play their
respective part that gets the overall
clock of this movie tick smoothly.
Even Disney’s receptionist has her
moment of glory and Mrs Travers’
chaffeur in Orlando has something
valuable to add to the fabric of the
plot. Of course, seeing the woman
herself who inspired the original
character of Mary Poppins, aunt Ellie
(Rachel Griffiths), is such a treat that
it really is tease that we only get to see
her for around 4 minutes total.
Another very welcome treat is the
number of interesting trivia that is
revealed to the viwer in relation to
Disney as well as the making of Mary
Poppins itself. Not only do you get
to see the original character sketches
that were used in the process, those
who are already familiar with the
Disney picture will instantly recognise
its iconic words such as ‘spit-spot’ and
‘spoonful of sugar’ in addition to the
songs that are sung for Mrs Travers’
high threshold approval and no doubt
her reaction will only make it better.
The concession that Mrs Travers was
willing to make in the famous ending
song ‘Let’s Go Fly a Kite’, for example.
All in all, this film is certainly one
of the best we will see this year with
its ever funny, heartwarming and
intriguing content. By all means, do
make sure to check out the original
work of Mary Poppins if you haven’t
done so already but then that would
mean that you’ve been living in a cave.
And may the odds be ever in your favour...again
Anonymous
Reluctant Writer
The Hunger Games:
Catching Fire
Director: Francis Lawrence
Writers: Simon Beaufoy, Michael
Arndt, Suzanne Collins (novel)
Starring: Jennifer Lawrence, Josh
Hutcherson, Liam Hemsworth,
Woody Harrelson
Runtime: 146 minutes
Certification: 12A
So it’s been about a year since the first
Hunger Games film made its debut,
however, the second one in the series
catches up with the protagonists
before a whole year has passed for
them. Because just being out of the
arena does not necessarily mean
that you’re out of the game. Rather,
after becoming the victors Katniss
(Jennifer Lawrence) and Peeta (Josh
Hutcherson) are unwittingly in the
middle of some political agenda which
requires them to be madly in love.
Which would have been fine but for
Peeta’s sheepish passivity but more
so due to Katniss’ long standing love
interest Gale (Liam Hemsworth) –
despite the severe lack of progress
on that front so far – being in the
picture. And occupying quite a bit
of space in the so-called picture. In
spite of the positively life-threatening
circumstances that unfold, the tension
from the love triangle is lingering in
the background which sets down the
cringe-foreboding grounds for the
third one especially as it will be split
into two films.
However, the film is more or less
faithful to the contents of the original
novel that it is based on and does not
make the mistake of overly dwelling
on certain details whilst cutting out
significant chunks and ultimately
maintains appropriate balance. As
fans of the series would already
know, quite a bit takes place in the
second volume and the film digests it
all well without losing the hints and
foreshadowing and, most importantly,
without dragging on and on. This is
also true for the introduction of new
characters (Sam Claflin, Jena Malone)
that will carry on into the later films
where only the essential parts of their
stories are told to let them intertwine
skillfully with existing characters. The
chemistry between the existing and
new casts certainly seems convicing
which is very good news for the
remaining characters waiting to be
introduced.
The film also packs much more
of a punch in terms of action in
comparison to the first film where the
game seemed more of a solo camping
challenge than a gladitorial fight to the
Saving Mr Banks
Director: John Lee Hancock
Writers: Kelly Marcel, Sue Smith
Starring: Tom Hanks, Emma
Thompson, Ruth Wilson, Colin
Farrell, Paul Giamatti, Bradley
Whitford, Jason Schwartzman,
Rachel Griffiths
Runtime: 125 minutes
Certification: PG
Anonymous
Reluctant Writer
The example above shows a script
that is clearly not one which will stop
denigration of women in films. It does
however pass the Bechdel Test.
Two named female characters:
Check. Who talk to each other :
Check. About something other than a
man: Check.
I know the Bechdel test started as a
joke in a comic, but it has build a lot
cultural momentum behind it to the
point that some cinemas in Sweden
have decided to use it as a ratings
system.
It is shocking how few films actually
pass this test but I really don’t think
this is the metric we should use to
decide if a movie avoids gender bias.
I believe there should be films with
just men in, in exactly the same way
there should be films with just women
in, and like the real world you’d kind
of hope there would be films with
people of all genders interacting. The
problem with the Bechdel Test is that
it only applies to one film at a time, not
the landscape of cinema.
Run Lola Run? Fail. The Devil Wears
Prada? Pass! Maybe there is a problem
with the Bechdel Test, but clearly we
need some mechanism to fill the
vacuum of women on screen. My
question is, whose job is it?
The Producers?
Who decides who directs a movie?
The producers. Who produces films?
80% of the time it’s men. Now I think
this is the place where, with the right
kind of lobbying and nudging, we can
slowly change the number of women
in films. These are the positions in
which women need to be given more
opportunity. The producer brings
together the script, actors, and
director - plenty of opportunity to
bring other women on board.
I hear you cry “Exactly, I agree with
Pete! It’s all the producers’ fault!”.
You recline into your chair and relax
feeling kind of smug.
NOPE. It’s our fault.
Pete Brook
thehussingtonpost.blogspot.co.uk
Will Sweden’s Bechdel Rating Work?
The Directors?
Females are underrepresented
behind the camera. Only 7% of
directors are women. Of the entries
to Sundance Film Festival, women
direct 16% of entries and produce
30%. Obviously these festivals are
fostering more female talent, but they
seem to be a sticking point for lots of
female talent. Women just don’t move
on to direct blockbusters. Sundance
sponsored Dr. Stacy Smith to do some
great research and found that having
female directors also increases the
number of women on set, but still
not to 50:50. However the increase
of women on set will hopefully mean
more women get a foot in the door.
The Audience?
Why do producers do what they do? It’s because they get paid by people going
to see their movies. You vote with your wallet and in 2012 the paying public spent
$10,957,460,255 at the cinema. Currently women make up 51% of cinemagoers
but are represented by having 1/3 of the presence on screen. Women spend $5
billion a year going to the cinema, and producers don’t think that sounds like
dissatisfaction. This gender imbalance won’t change until male-oriented films
start to make less money than a more mixed bag.
If you see a film by a female director whom you admire, buy the DVD, tell
your friends to go see the movie, because without legislation that impinges on
creative people (no one wants that) it’s the only way the situation will improve.
Finally, the thing that annoys me most is that because of the gender bias in
front of and behind the camera we are missing angles, stories and entertainment
that would actually make the producers money!
A gender-bias test that applied to a studios’ output for a year which measures
the number of movies that it releases that pass the Bechdel test, the ratio of
male/female leads across its films and the ratio of male/female directors would
be a start.
Fire in the Blood showing
FREE SHOWING!
Trailer: http://bit.ly/VkvEo1
“A shocking exposé of how pharmaceutical companies use patent law to
keep profits unconscionably high even at the expense of peoples’ lives, and a
plea for universal access to affordable, life-saving generic medicines. FIRE
IN THE BLOOD tells the story of how Western pharmaceutical companies
and governments aggressively blocked access to affordable AIDS drugs for
the countries of Africa and the global south - causing ten million or more
unnecessary deaths. It is the inspiring story of the improbable group of people
who decided to fight back. Shot on four continents and including contributions
from global figures such as President Bill Clinton, Bishop Desmond Tutu and
economist Joseph Stiglitz, FIRE IN THE BLOOD is the never-before-told true
story of the remarkable coalition which came together to stop ‘the Corporate
Crime of the Century’ and save millions of lives.” (copyright: International Film
Circuit)
Title : Fire In The Blood
Cost : FREE
Date, 25th November, Monday
Venue : LT16, SAF Building, SK Campus
www.mybikemyworld.com
theguardian.com
huffingtonpost.co.uk
death. Since this Game is a special one
for which tributes are selected from
the existing pool of victors you also
get to see many victors with a variety
of weaspons, skills and both of them in
action. Understandably the handheld
camera has been replaced to offer a
bigger, grander picture particularly so
for the scenes of the chariot sequence.
Another aspect to look forward
to in this series is the fashion; Effie’s
(Elizabeth Banks) outfits for the sheer
outrageousness accompanied by
frankly alarming attention to matching
details that would make even Lady
Gaga jealous – and we do get a good
variety of ensembles with one truly à
la Alexander McQueen! – and Katniss’
for the imaginative realisation of her
symbolic costumes and makeup.
The film ultimately comes to a
significant twist of an ending setting
the big scene for what is likely to be
the most anticipated films over the
next two years. Much remains untold
and unsolved but with such steady
and calm take as demonstrated in this
second work I think we can reliably
expect high quality feature from the
cast and crew should the odds be
again in their favour.

