36 FRIDAY 29 NOV
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sexy scientists study science of sex
Masters of Sex is a show science lovers can’t miss
Let’s face it: after Sex and the City,
most mainstream TV programs with
the word sex in the title have caught
our interest – but not Masters of Sex,
and yet this show had so many things
going for it that it was impossible not
to look forward to it. With its great
cast, Michael Sheen in the leading
role, the 1950s costumes, and the sci-
entific content, I would have watched
it no matter how random and non-
committal title. The show has been on
for more than eight weeks and it is safe
to say it has not disappointed.
The series shows the story of Virginia
Johnson and Dr William Masters,
the team that pioneered laboratory
based observations of human sexual
behaviour and anticipated the rise of
the sexual revolution. Their story is
not only one of interesting medical
achievements. In fact, despite their
groundbreaking discoveries (the four
stages of sexual response, multiple
orgasms, vaginal lubrication), most
of the general public would not know
about them were it not for their TV
show-inspiring personal relationship.
After years of collaborating in some
of, literally, the most hands-on pro-
jects science has to offer (I’m sorry to
say dissecting Drosophila flies pales
compared to inventing giant glass
vibrators), Masters married Johnson
and the two became inseparable com-
panions in life and work. Despite their
divorce, and recent interviews with
the late Mrs Masters revealing that
the two never loved each other and
that Virginia married Bill out of fear
of compromising her job, the show is
currently airing the sweet initial stage
of the relationship.
Michael Sheen is, unsurprisingly, in-
credible, managing to portray a char-
acter who is both innocent and dis-
turbing, likeable and creepy. Similarly,
Lizzie Caplan (‘mean girl’ Janis Ian)
is perfectly able to handle the com-
parison with her talented colleague.
She is such a strong female lead that
it is hard not to like her. Even so, Miss
Johnson is not just a romantic hero-
ine, but a complex figure: a sexually
conscious single mother, ambitious,
competitive, free-spirited, and trou-
bled. Caplan is able to show the inside
worries of her character, driven and
dedicated to her work, yet tormented
by having to leave her children.
Although the show has been criti-
cized for approaching sexual libera-
tion too freely and for not presenting
the pressures that society must have
imposed on such an independent
woman, the actors perfectly portray
the personal struggles and moral di-
lemmas. The other characters’ stories
are equally compelling, with subjects
such as homosexuality and traditional
marriage creating riveting plotlines.
In addition, the set is so beautiful that
everyone from Downton Abbey geeks
to Mad Men aficionados will enjoy it.
Finally, it is rare to find a program
that so accurately depicts the everyday
life of scientists. In this program, the
actors do not spend their time flirt-
ing with each other whilst occasion-
ally wearing white coats. Research is
an important side of the series and,
although it is not a recollection about
the joys of grant proposals and Eppen-
dorfs, it definitely succeeds in showing
the ambition and motivation of scien-
tists and even in making them a tiny
bit sexy for once. This show was made
for Imperialites, as it’s basically intel-
lectual porn: love and research as an
excuse to watch TV on a Sunday even-
ing without feeling guilty about the
unfinished lab report.
Giulia Gabrielli Television Writer
What’s on this week
Sherlock
Before the long-awaited third series
begins (the date of the premiere is
as of yet unreleased), remind your-
self of what happened in the last
series of the modern-day retelling
of the detective.
Friday 29th November,
BBC Three, 9pm
Don’t miss New this week On catch-up
Don’t Ever Wipe Tears Without
Gloves
Another Scandinavian import, this
three-part miniseries is the story
of young love in the Stockholm
gay community at the height of the
AIDS scare.
Monday 2nd December,
BBC Four, 10pm
Doctor Who: The Day of the
Doctor
In case you missed it, the much-
hyped 50th anniversary episode
(along with the 3D version) is
available online, along with all the
celebratory specials and documen-
taries.
Online on 4oD until Sunday
Samurai Jack aired on Cartoon Network from 2001-2004. It was created by
Genndy Tartakovsky, also the creator of Dexter’s Lab and a producer on The
Powerpuff Girls. It tells the story of an unnamed samurai (nicknamed Jack)
from “long ago in a distant land” (a deliberately nebulous era/place where
Robin Hood, Vikings, Cossacks and samurai coexist), who is tasked with de-
feating an evil demon named Aku using a magic sword forged by the gods.
Standard hero’s journey fantasy stuff, but the snag is that Aku transports
Jack to the far future, where he has succeeded in taking over the Earth and
turning it into a seedy spaceport. Jack’s mission is then to defeat Aku and
find a way back home. It’s still pretty simple, but also unique and creative.
One interesting feature of the show is that there are almost no recurring
characters – most of the time Jack is alone as he wanders from place to place
looking for a way home. Many episodes contain almost no dialogue, yet
somehow still remain gripping. The only recurring character besides Jack
and Aku is The Scotsman (again, never named), who has a machine gun leg
straight out of a Robert Rodriguez movie. Just thought I’d throw that out
there.
The plot of each episode is usually very simple: Jack wants to get from A to
B but Aku has sent something to stop him, or Jack must save someone from
Bad Things that Aku has done. The simplicity of the plots allows the show to
focus on the action scenes and the interesting characters that Jack meets.
The show is not afraid to mix genres – for example, Aku’s minions are all
robots (allowing Jack to slice an infinite number without spilling a drop of
blood). Jack frequently encounters monsters of all shapes and sizes, and
they rarely state whether they’re aliens or something magical – it basically
doesn’t matter. Episodes vary in tone and genre; Jack goes from fighting
robots in space to trying to get past blind archers to reach a magical wishing
well – nothing is off limits.
Tartakovsky’s influences in the show are very obvious, yet they’re diverse
and colourful. He draws inspiration from Star Wars, old martial arts mov-
ies, various anime and comics (one episode is ‘inspired’ by 300, one is yet
another Seven Samurai retelling, but with only one samurai). The art style is
‘Japanese’ (not necessarily anime) and it looks, well, pretty damn good. The
episodes are atmospheric, with intense action scenes, yet are never afraid to
be light-hearted and fun on occasion.
You may be thinking ‘so Jack wanders from place to place and nothing ever
happens’. In a sense, yes, but what’s amazing about the show is how it man-
ages to make this really gripping and engaging. Every episode is an individ-
ual work of art and a memorable, satisfying experience. Sadly the series was
never finished, and Jack never made it home/defeated Aku. Tartakovsky has
always dreamed of finishing it, and recently IDW comics started publishing
a continuation series. Hopefully someday soon Jack will return to the past
and undo the future that is Aku!
Cartoon Corner
Samurai Jack: A Retrospective
Tom Rivlin
channel 4
cartoon network

