38 FRIDAY 29 NOV
TECHNOLOGY
Editor: Maximilian
Eggl, Yong Wen
Chua, Osama Awara
technology.felix@imperial.
ac.uk
used. In addition, because the keys
are going to be different for each
session, the compromise of a secret
key on the server will not cause the
compromise of the session keys,
thereby enabling perfect forward
secrecy. The downside to this
protocol is the increased complexity
in implementation, and a possible
performance hit on the server due
to increased complexity. However,
Twitter has written that they have
not noticed any adverse effects in
terms of performance, and that
the increased security is worth
the slight increase in complexity.
One problem still remains in
all of these security measures:
technological advancement. With
the NSA storing information storing
vast amount of encrypted traffic,
there is a chance that these traffic
can still be retroactively decrypted
in the future. This is because many
of the cryptography technique rest
Encryption moving forward
The News Bubble
Maximilian Eggl
Yong Wen Chua
Osama Awaara
Technology Editors
The competition in the wearable technology sector is growing extremely
quickly. Each company is trying to come up with that one knock-out
product that will allow them to dominate. Sony has taken a completely
new approach with yes, you read right a Wig. If this product will ever
be released is a big question, would be interesting though right?
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to
date with the newest, wierdest and most futuristic things around
Sony’s SmartWig
iPad Maxi
Somehow , somewhere a rumour sprang up on the internet that Apple
was planning a new larger iPad, with a diagonal screen size of 12.9 inches.
To be perfectly honest this seems like a bit of strange rumour. Why
release a product into a market that seems to prefer smaller products?
The recent spate of NSA tapping data
and storing huge amount of internet
traffic has been rather worrying.
The exposé courtesy of Edward
Snowden has made end-users more
aware of the need for encryption,
and accelerated the process of
enhancing the security between end
users and the service providers at
many big names. Twitter is the latest
company to join the ranks of Google
and Facebook by implementing
Perfect Forward Secrecy on their
servers. This is a much needed
move. The end user might not
notice anything different in their
experience, but NSA will certainly
have a harder time trying to pry
open your private communications.
Transport Layer Security (TLS)
and its predecessor, Secure Sockets
Layer (SSL) are the most widely
used protocols in your web browser
to encrypt traffic between the
user and service providers such as
Google and Twitter. When you see
a “lock” icon in the address bar of
your browser, and a web address
beginning with “https”, that’s a sign
that TLS is being used to encrypt
your traffic. TLS works in two steps.
Firstly, your browser will perform
a “handshake” with the server to,
amongst other things, decide on
the cryptographic algorithm to
use for the entire session, and a
“shared secret key”, known as a
session key, that will be used to
encrypt and decrypt the traffic.
Then, the server and your browser
will transfer data to each other using
the session key and an algorithm
that was agreed on. The same key is
used for encryption and decryption,
and therefore the algorithm used is
called a symmetric-key algorithm.
However, most websites
implement a form of TLS that
does not exhibit the “perfect
forward secrecy” property, and this
weakness lies in method being used
for handshaking, in particular the
step when the shared secret key is
being transmitted. This is because
most servers uses the RSA algorithm
to exchange the shared secret, a
type of public-key cryptosystem.
A public-key cryptosystem is
an asymmetric algorithm, having
different keys for encryption and
decryption. The public-key is used
for encryption, and is public and
known to all. The private-key is used
for decryption, and is only known to
the owner. This means that anyone
can encrypt messages using the
public-key that only the recipient
with the private-key can decrypt.
RSA is such a system, by deriving
the public and private keys from a
pair of randomly generated prime
numbers. The strength in this system
lies in the fact that it is infeasible to
try and “crack” an encrypted message
or “find” the private-key from the
public-key in a reasonable time.
Most servers implement TLS by
asking browsers to generate some
random secret, and then sending
that secret encrypted using the
server’s public key back to the
server. If someone can, by means
as simple as obtaining a court
order, obtain the server’s private
key, then all communication to
and from the server can then be
retroactively decrypted because
the private key is essentially the
master key in the grand scheme.
This is a violation of the “perfect
forward secrecy” property that
states that even if one of the secret
keys are compromised, the session
keys are not all compromised.
In order to obtain this property,
another form of protocol for key
exchange has to be used. The
“Diffie–Hellman key exchange” is
an example. This process can be
illustrated by a very simple analogy
as seen in the diagram. Essentially,
any eavesdropper will not be able
to trivially obtain the shared secret
Yong Wen Chua
Technology Editor
on the belief that cracking them are
equivalent to solving two well known
problems that are known to be in
the complexity class NP: the prime
factorisation and discrete logarithm
problems. This is equivalent to
saying that there are no computers
that can solve these problems
in a reasonable amount of time.
However, it has been proven that a
quantum computer would be able to
solve these problems in a reasonable
amount of time, and if someone can
prove that P = NP (one of the biggest
unsolved problems in Computer
Science), then this no longer holds.
In the digital age where
connectivity is ever more prevalent,
it is still important to have some kind
of privacy. Aside from the possible
threats of governments trying
to silence dissent, simple things
like keeping your communication
away from an annoying ex-girl/
boyfriend can be as important.
Common sense computer
Computers have many things, but common sense is not one of them.
Researchers at Carnegie Mellon in the US are running an algorithm
which allows a computer to teach itself common sense. Some
connections that this program has made is that roads and cars are
somehow linked. You go you machine genius!
threatpost.com
A.j Han Vinck
Perfect Forward Secrecy and What It Means for the End User
I,SCIENCE
The Science MagaZine of Imperial College
life and Death Issue
Coming Soon

