40 41
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 29 NOV FRIDAY 29 NOV
FOOD
Editor: Carol Ann Cheah,
Michael Yat Kit Chung
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FOOD
TEA
Tea Studio, teastudio.co.uk
Prices from GBP1.00/10g sample, or GBP3.50 onwards for 50g
bags. Various other sizes available.
A joint venture between a musician/designer and an artist/
photographer - in short, two creative folk. David Balfour and
Hannah Scott specialize in loose leaf tea from around the world.
From the staple English Breakfast to some more-exotic Oolong from
China, to sumptuous caffeine-free blends of rooibos and other
herbal teas, Tea Studio has such a wide variety to pick from - there’s
something for every tea connosieur out there.
What we think makes them stand out is the highly visual aspect of
their products - everything from the tea itself (in its loose, “come
hither and brew” state) to the packaging (done in collaboration
with other artists and designers) is impeccable and pleasing to the
eye. Think Whittards with a lot more understated yet artsy flair - the
tea looks great both in and out of its packaging! (Okay, we’re sure
there’s an innuendo in here somewhere...)
But it’s not all flash, the blends are wonderfully aromatic and
uplifting. And of course, they taste heavenly. They’ve also got
substance; a good number of their products have won some gongs
in the Guild of Fine Food’s Great Taste Awards 2013. We could go
on, but as the proof’s in the tasting you might as well go and sample
them yourself! Samples are cheap on the internet and they last a
good few cuppas.
Felix Loves: Everything (it all looked and smelt good on
the stand), but our star pick is the Camomile/Chamomile
(caffeine free) at GBP4.00/50g. It’s whole head chamomile
blossoms, not the sneeze dust wrapped up in teabags you can
procure from aisle-number-whatever in Sainsbo’s. Honey buttery
notes aplenty (without the bitterness that plagues most chamomile
infusions), it’s the perfect calming/sleep aid (not like we require
sleep aids here at Imperial, do we...)
Also try: Reindeer Rooibos (seasonal), Peppermint,
Superfruit (not available online - try contacting them!)
A Taste of Christmas (2013)
We get taken into custardy by the myriad of goodies on offer
Now in its ninth year, the Taste
Festivals cohort show no signs of
slowing down or giving up any time
soon. Taste Festivals are annual
affairs that take place in at least 12
cities around the world, from Bath to
Melbourne to Cape Town. In London,
they run two events a year: Taste
of London, the flagship event that
started it all, happens in the summer,
whereas Taste of Christmas more
aptly takes place a few weeks before -
er, Christmas.
Having been introduced to the
Taste of Christmas festival a year
ago by a former Felix Games editor
- and thoroughly enjoying it - we
saw no reason to miss out this year.
Especially since the festival moved
to the beautiful spacious Tobacco
Dock this year, and with a bevy of free
masterclasses and demonstrations
(amongst other things) on offer -
hosted by a star-studded lineup that
included Eric Lanlard, Gizzi Erskine
and Michel Roux Jr - who were we
to say no? Even if Tobacco Dock
was quite a trek away from typical
Imperialite haunts (put it this way - we
saw what the DLR looked like for the
first time!)
Of note was the Intel Baking Theatre
- if you were lucky enough to get in
line for a free slot, you got to indulge
in a baking masterclass where chefs
would demonstrate in front, and you’d
follow along with an Intel-powered
tablet on your station that showed you
procedures and tips as the instructor
went on. It’s meant to be both digitally
and personally interactive, and it sure
looked so. Naturally all the slots were
booked out due to its novelty value;
but from what we could see from
the sidelines many were enthralled
by it. We can’t imagine messy cooks
will take too well to the idea though;
leaving cupcake batter smears all over
touchscreen displays probably isn’t
the best thing!
But the bulk of this festival’s
attraction really lies with the various
small (and not-so-small) artisan
producers who were present and
exhibiting their wares, alongside
restaurants who had pop-ups on
the day to cater to hungry tummies.
Having moved to their new venue
from dingy ol’ ExCeL last year, there’s
plenty more space to accommodate
new producers on show. (In fact when
we went, part of the LG floor was
unused! More next year maybe?)
Anyway - there were many star
products on the day; if we tried to
wax lyrical on all of them here we’d
probably need a full issue of Felix on
our own. We’ve painstakingly whittled
our picks down to the top one or two
in each category - we’re not saying
by any means that you HAVE to give
these guys a go; but they’re amazing.
Disclaimer: While Felix Food received
complimentary tickets to the event, all
purchases and opinions on the exhibits
are our own - we’re not paid for them.
And just as well - support artisans!
Taste of Christmas, cheesy no? Stop w(h)ining about the weather and mulling over your troubles!
THE FELIX GUIDE TO VISITING FOOD FESTIVALS
We totally realize that they’re not all one size fits all (they’re all
structured rather differently), and that’s fine. We’re not saying
that this guide is a hard and fast set of rules to follow; however,
if you’re a food festival rookie/virgin, you might find this helpful
so you don’t get “deer in headlights” syndrome when you arrive.
After all, it’s hard to see sense and know where to start when
there’s a myriad of mouth-watering fare on offer right in front of
you...don’t worry, it’s a valid excuse.
GETTING THERE// In the winter, the bigger indoor food festivals
tend to take place in the East London exhibition centres due to
space constraints with the West London venues. For the love of
crumble, figure out transport beforehand. Especially if your route
involves using the Overground/national train services, which can
be sporadic.
SAMPLING ETIQUETTE// Just because you sample some wares
doesn’t mean you’re obliged to buy what you’ve just tried, so
don’t guilt yourself into HAVING to buy everything and be out of
pocket. Then again, don’t just. gobble and ditch your way around
the festival - that’s greedy and rude. We find making small talk
with the people on the stand fun; you get to know the stories
behind their companies and products (some of which are rather
serendiptious and funny!) Remember, they’re people too - you’re
not buying from a faceless big-name party.
MASTERCLASSES/WORKSHOPS// Probably the most fun
part! Please, please read and plan ahead if you know one of your
culinary idols is hosting a session and you want to be part of it.
While most tend to be free, some can cost - so check to make sure
you won’t be caught out. Other than that, you’ll need to sign up
for them on the day - so check times and go early to register for a
good hands-on view/experience!
CHEESE
Blue Monday, Alex James Presents.
GBP18/kilo
Available at Whole Foods Kensington,
Harrods Food Hall, pongcheese.co.uk
Yes, *that* Blur bassist has only gone
and bought himself a farm before
going into cheesemaking. Sounds like
the British version of The American
Dream; but when his venture now
produces award-winning cheeses that
have had us going back for more (since
last year’s ToC festival!), you really
can’t complain. All of James’ cheeses
are stunning - we can’t fault any of
them, but Blue Monday - a Shropshire
blue not unlike a British Gorgonzola
- really stood out for us from the
time we took home a cheeky wedge
last year. It’s since been “remixed”
so it’s a little bit firmer than the Blue
Monday of yesteryear; but the flavour
and punch is still as we remember it.
Serve on a cheeseboard, or cook with
it - we hear one of the Food editors has
a boyfriend who mades a mean blue
cheese tagliatelle with it...
If blue cheese really isn’t your thing,
not to worry - the other (milder)
offerings in his range are just as
scrummy. Cow’s milk intolerant
foodies can enjoy the Little Wallop
and Farleigh Wallop cheeses, and the
recently-launched Goddess is a lovely
crowd pleaser. @elaineforan
OIL AND VINEGAR
Drury and Alldis of Thornwood
Prices vary, but they start from
GBP4.50 for 100ml. Available online:
druryandalldis.co.uk
We’re not about to get full-on
gourmet on your derriere and say
you HAVE to have extra-virgin
this, cold-pressed that, and posh
everything when it comes to your
choice of seasonings/oils/vinegars.
Most students will probably be blase
about what oil and vinegar they use in
cooking as long as it wasn’t harvested
from the BP spill. In Carol’s home
(where we have loads of foodies) the
housemates have got a huge bottle
of standard Sainsbo’s sunflower oil
coexisting alongside some smaller
bottles of finer oils like sesame, etc.
As for vinegar, it’s much the same -
standard supermarket fare side by side
with some posh Balsamic of Modena,
Chinese Chinkiang vinegar, etc etc.
Naturally, we use some for everyday
cooking and the others for special
occasions/dishes or certain flavours.
Bottom line is this - good quality
CHOCOLATE
Schokolat
Prices from GBP5.95 per item/”tool”.
Available at schokolat.co.uk
Believe it or not, the two ‘tools’ you see
on the left are actually pure chocolate.
Schokolat takes pride in producing
novelty “toolbox”/”around the house”
necessities in fine Belgian chocolate;
but it’s not as bog-standard as pouring
it into a shaped mould, leaving it to
set and then applying details. Rather,
the nut and bolt you see on the left
actually works - you can thread the nut
on! “Functional” whimsical stocking
fillers, we say - they definitely taste as
great as they look!
oils and vinegars are a nice off and on
addition, much like how you can enjoy
some Cadbury bars on the regular
and some Lindt/Green and Black’s/
Valrhona for special occasions. They
certainly give an lift to your dish; if
you’re still “meh” about them, they
make awesome “fallback” gifts for
foodies if you don’t know what to get.
Drury and Alldis sell great oils
and vinegars in convenient sizes - if
you’ve always wanted to try a fancy
oil/vinegar but aren’t sure if you’ll
finish the lot up, they do economical
100ml bottles which don’t look one bit
economy. There are a wide variety of
other options available as well - we like
how gorgeous the 3-bottle stacking
set (GBP25, 3x250ml) looks and that
it doesn’t take up much room either.
Felix Loves: Sweet English Raspberry
Vinegar - nice balance of sweet and
sour., and pretty unique. Makes
an unusual but perfect addition to
mojitos (instant raspberry mojito!)
or as a way of jazzing up that extra-
special marinade or salad.
Fraiche Food
DISCO BISTRO
Permanent site coming soon in 2014!
Follow @DiscoBistroLDN to find out.
There was a good line up of top
quality restaurants who had pop-ups
at the festival (so attendees could
sample some “gateway” dishes) in the
hope of luring a bigger customer base.
We did enjoy a few of them (Carol’s
boyfriend went straight for the
scrummy pulled pork at Barbecoa);
however, funky laid-back underdog
Disco Bistro is one to keep tabs on.
Chef Carl Clarke is at the helm of
this venture - they’ve most recently
been spotted over the summer at Skate
Aaaaaaand our favourite new pop up - one to watch...
Chocolate Special Mention: Cocoa Runners, a monthly fine bar chocolate subscription
service (not unlike Graze.) Watch this space for a full review in Felix...we felt lumping it
in with the others in this feature didn’t do it any justice!
King’s Cross, which in itself was a pop-
up roller disco. Prior to that Clarke
was part of a series of successful pop-
ups; a few which were old Disco Bistro
incarnations - along with Rock Lobsta,
The English Laundrette and God Save
The Clam, some totally different pop-
up experiences which were based in
or close to East London. Suffice to say
Clarke is one of the heavyweights in
London’s pop-up restaurant scene;
so the fact that Disco Bistro will be
getting a permanent home soon is
rather exciting!
The Roller Disco Burger - complete
with rare breed patty, pineapple,
bacon and cheese was (and probably
theupcoming.co.uk
theupcoming.co.uk
still is) the star of this pop-up’s food
line-up; thankfully there’s no need to
wait until 2014 to sample it. Until Dec
20 you can find Carl prepping said
burger at Rotary Bar & Diner, 70 City
Road near the Old Street roundabout.
Felix Food plumped for the sticky
K-Pop Chicken Wings (with a bit
of a giggle at the name.) Buttermilk
fried and laced with gochujang (spicy
Korean red pepper paste to the rest of
us), and topped off with sesame - these
were crunchy pieces of dynamite. Not
so explosive that you can’t enjoy them,
but just the right mix of sticky, sweet,
spicy and crunchy for that perfect
flavour hit. We’ll be waiting, Carl!
The London Influence

