42 FRIDAY 29 NOV
CLUBS & SOCS Editor: Nida Mahmud
felix@imperial.ac.uk
All Nighter - Tuesday 10th December
6 films back-to-back, starting at 6pm and finishing at around
7:30am the following morning.
Tickets £10 online or £12 on the door.
Can’t make the whole night? Tickets for individual films will
be on sale on the door for £3 each. You can also catch the first
two films again at the same times on Thursday 12th December
(tickets £3 a film on the door).
As usual, we’ll be doing all-you-can-eat hot food and drink
throughout the night for just £5 a head.
Includes the usual mix of hot dogs, toasties, noodles, soup, tea
and coffee and more!
Imperial Cinema is located on the second floor of the Union
Building in Beit Quad, above the bar.
Buy tickets now at http://bit.ly/1ibv0bM
Ender’s game
6 year old Ender Wiggin joins a military academy to be trained
as humanity’s last chance to fight against a deadly alien invasion
(lol no pressure then). Ender trains everyday, simulating war as
little more than a game but he has to come to term with how the
annihilation of life comes with a higher cost. Be prepared for zero-
gravity setp ieces and astonishing special effects worth all $110
million of the report budget.
Captain Phillips
Any fans of the genuinely amazing Bourne Trilogy should check
out this ‘based on a true story’ thriller by Bourne’s director Paul
Greengrass. Greengrass brings his signature tense, kinetic style
to this incredible story of the hijacking of Captain Phillips’ (Tom
Hanks) ship by Somalian pirates.
Rush
Chris of the hench Hemsworth trio (fun fact: another brother once
starred in Neighbours) stars as Driver James Hunt as he works his
way up from the dire straits of Formula 3 all the way to Formula
1. Along the way he encounters Austrian driver Niki Lauda as
they clash with their contrasting driving styles of aggression vs
precision.
Alan Partridge: Alpha Papa
Nowforsomecomicrelief.Everyone’sfavouriteDailyMailreading,
lady-boy loving DJ is back in his film debut. Alan’s radio station is
bought by a multinational conglomerate with redundancies on the
horizon. When a slightly unstable colleague who’s worried about
his job brings in a gun and holds the staff hostage, it’s up to the
famously tactful Alan to save the day!
Much Ado About Nothing
The Avengers write/director did something um in no way similar
to The Avengers when he decided to adapt a monochrome version
of Shakespeare’s classic comedy. Adapted for a modern-day
setting, the imminently married Claudio and Hero attempt to
trick their warring friends Benedick and Beatrice into falling in
love with hilarious consequences.
Prisoners
A tattooed Jake Gyllenhaal play the detective on the case of two
abducted girls who disappear metres from their house. Time is
ticking away for their panic-stricken parents especially the father
of one of the girls (Hugh Jackman) who resorts to desperate and
arguably morally reprehensible means to reach an end. Filled with
twists and turns, Prisoners is a thrilling, morally complex insight
into the victims of a salacious crime.
ICU CINEMA ALL NIGHTER
The greatest cinematic experience of the term is back: Prepare to forget all about horrific library all-nighters and MatLab probs. We’ve got a pretty diverse lineup ranging from: military sci-fi, black and
white Shakespeare adaptations to the film debut of Norfolk’s greatest export, there’s something for everyone!
Chartoff Productions Revolution films Michael De Luca Productions
StudioCanal Alcon Entertainment Bellwether Pictures

