4 5
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 29 NOV FRIDAY 29 NOV
FEATURES Editors: VACANT
felix@imperial.ac.uk FEATURES
Rory Fenton
AfroDev President
T
here is probably no other
question in economics
that evokes such strong
emotions and creates such
a clear divide between left
and right. To the left, the world’s poor
are caught in a poverty trap; without
the minimum resources to help them
help themselves, they will never break
out of this cycle. Aid, then, is clearly
needed as a big push to kick things
off. To the right, aid encourages
dependency, distorts markets and
props up nasty regimes – keeping the
poor in their place. There is no sign
of either side winning this battle. But
subjecting individual aid projects to
robust statistical analysis through
randomised controlled trials (RCTs),
modelled on medical trials, could
provide a way out of the ideological
mire.
So what is aid? Aid can come in many
forms – such as military aid to help a
country fight terrorists, or budgetary
aid sent with no strings attached to
bolster a government’s finances, or the
cancelling of historic debts. Here we
focus on a more altruistic form of aid
– that sent to help the world’s poorest
with little expectation of benefit to the
donor, for example direct financing of
mosquito nets or primary schools.
The moral cause for wishing to
alleviate world poverty is a clear one.
That one billion people live on this
planet on less than a dollar a day while
so many of us live in luxury is surely a
moral outrage. The philosopher Peter
Singer has compared such inaction to
standing by a lake as a child drowns.
Surely, he reasons, no person would
give a seconds thought to diving in?
Practically speaking, of course, giving
aid is complex and costly yet the
principle, he argues, is the same.
This metaphor succinctly
encapsulates the argument for aid
– that only immediate, decisive and
potentially painful action, essentially
diving in, can help the poor. The clear
implication of Singer’s reasoning is
that the solution is to get actively
involved – but what if modern aid
offers our metaphorical child little
more than a faulty life ring? Or worse,
what if aid actually helps to drag her
down? This is the real question in the
aid debate. This goes beyond rock
concerts and emotive advertisements;
is the obvious solution the right one?
Diving In
Many would say yes. These aren’t
solely rock stars and actors –
distinguished professors of economics
such as Columbia’s Jeffery Sachs see
aid as an essential way of unlocking
the economic potential of the poor.
In his book The End of Poverty, Sachs
points to farming as an example of this
– if farmers are donated fertiliser, they
can massively increase their harvest,
which in turn gives them money to
be able to buy their own fertiliser next
year, thus creating a virtuous cycle.
For Sachs, the farmers are caught
in a poverty trap (unable to buy the
fertiliser they need to progress) and
without an aid-based kick-start (free
fertiliser) they will never escape from
poverty. Sachs sees this poverty trap
model applying to many other areas
of development – sick, poor people
cannot afford medicine, but whilst
they are ill they are unable work,
meaning that they get even poorer. But
aid also has a larger role to play. It can
help small, cash strapped democracies
stay on their feet and provide for
their people’s basic needs. It can also
kick-start basic infrastructure such as
roads and schools.
Sufficiently compelled by this call to
action, I headed off with some other
Imperial College students last year to
witness just this type of aid – designed
to kick-start economic progress – in
rural Kenya. Herdsmen, caught by
a severe drought, were encouraged
to take up fishing. A British charity
subsidised nets and boats for the
fledgling fishermen, with the idea
that the subsidies could be gradually
reduced as the economy took off. Each
boat would take ten fishermen and
each fisherman supported around ten
dependents, meaning 100 people were
helped by just one boat. It seemed to
be the perfect project.
Unforeseen Consequences
There are, however, powerful
arguments against this kind of help.
On a nationwide scale, the large
and sudden influx of foreign money
makes the local currency rise in
value, suffocating exports. This was
best documented in Holland when
the manufacturing sector contracted,
following the discovery of natural gas
in 1959, earning the phenomenon the
name Dutch disease. Furthermore,
money given to poor country
governments needn’t necessarily
end up going to infrastructure or
healthcare. According to Paul Collier
of Oxford University, 40% of African
military spending is funded by aid,
unbeknownst to the donors. It is
certainly no secret that the poorest
countries often have the nastiest
regimes.
Aid can also undermine democracy,
making poor countries accountable
to donors, not to their citizens. The
old American maxim of ‘no taxation
without representation’ too often
works in reverse – no representation
without taxation. When poor
countries rely on foreign funds and
not taxes from local people and
businesses, the need to be accountable
to citizens is reduced and corruption
and inefficiencies can more easily set
in. Somaliland provides an excellent
counter-example – not recognised
as a country by the international
community, it cannot receive aid
and in fact has seen significant
improvements in accountability
and reduced corruption as citizens
demand more for their taxes. And
lastly, we cannot forget the ethical
implications of aid recipients relying
on public services provided by
politicians in wealthy countries for
whom they cannot vote.
The Truth Lies in the Data
Where does this leave the Kenyan
fishermen? They lack a mature
manufacturing sector so that shouldn’t
be an issue. But how could the other
factors affect them? It is here that we
get to one of the biggest problems
with aid – the lack of good data on its
effectiveness. In truth neither the left
nor right perspectives can offer a good
evaluation of such a program without
first gathering data. This was exactly
what we did in Kenya.
Through interviewing 200 of the
fishermen, we were able to gain a
clearer picture of how the subsidies
were impacting the local economy.
The results were surprising; the perfect
picture offered by aid evangelists was
found to be murky at best. Investment
in boats turned out to be not only
a surprisingly ineffective way of
catching fish – as opposed to just tying
nets to rocks and leaving them – but
was also heavily biased in favour of the
relatively rich fishermen who could
afford to pay the unsubsidised half of
the price. However, we also found that
investment in nets, especially targeted
at the poorest, was a very cost effective
way of helping out, with nets paying
for themselves after two months.
This was not only interesting, it was
also very useful. The data enabled the
charity to refocus its efforts, saving
valuable donations and improving the
quality of life for the fishermen.
Our research is part of a bigger
shift in the aid debate – its scientific
revolution. In seeking out quality data,
we were able to get to the heart of the
issue. The apex of this is the use of
randomised controlled trials (RCTs),
in the style of medical trials, on aid
projects. The idea is simple. Half of
a population is given a form of aid
(nets, extra teachers etc.) while the
other isn’t. Those who do and don’t
receive the aid are chosen at random
and in such a way that they cannot
affect each other so that the impact of
the aid can be clearly demonstrated.
Essentially like any lab experiment.
The idea is simple and common sense
to any science student but it is having
a significant impact on a hitherto
opaque world.
The world before evidence-based
medicine is hard to imagine –
quack doctors of varying credibility
combined folklore and pseudoscience
to propose cures for just about any
illness. Today, trials form the basis of
medicine. Think of the 1991 discovery
that folic acid reduces incidence of
spina bifida, as a result of which 10% of
the world’s flour is now fortified with
the acid and thousands of such birth
defects have been prevented. This
same process is gradually taking place
in aid. RCTs in Uganda have found
that providing food in schools won’t
increase enrolment, but it does boost
attendance. RCTs across Africa have
found that charging even a nominal
fee for a malaria bed greatly reduces
their use, contrary to the intuitive
view that people only value what they
pay for. Aid is experiencing its own
scientific revolution.
The pioneers of this field are
undoubtedly Professors Abhijit
Banerjee and Esther Duflo of MIT’s
Poverty Action Lab, who have been
working in this area since the Lab’s
founding in 2003. In their 2011 book
Poor Economics, they outline the
results of their RCT work. Their
findings agree with neither left nor
right, they simply find out what
works. A new student union project
at Imperial College called The African
Development Project is dedicated to
doing just this; involving science and
engineering students in the evaluation
of aid projects.
The potential of RCTs is very
exciting indeed. They can provide no
magic bullet – far too many such cures
have been proposed in the past – but
they do provide a way to go beyond
the ideological warfare and change
the aid debate for the better. Beyond
simple moralising and abstract
philosophising, scientific trials offer
perhaps the most effective approach
yet to understanding and tackling
poverty. Its message is simple: find
out what works, and then fund what
works.
Imperial students interested in
learning more about what makes an
effective charity might want to attend
“How To Run The Most Effective
Charity In The World” on Thursday 5th
December, 6pm Huxely 145, a panel
discussion with the directors of two of
GiveWell’s 3 “most effective charities in
the world 2013” and the director of a
charity consultancy. Email afrodev@
ic.ac.uk for info.
How to analyse aid: using statistical
analysis to improve effectiveness
FEED MY STARVING CHILDREN
H
ope comes before
sunrise, a dream in
hand and the promise of
a better future. For the
children of Tanzania,
this is not always true. Less than 20%
of Tanzanian children have access to
secondary school education. This is
due to the lack of funds and secondary
schools that do not work closely
together. However, a glimmer of hope
comes in the form of TEKUA. As an
education centre that provides free
education for the neediest students,
TEKUA aims to empower its students
with knowledge, giving them a means
to make a living. TEKUA gives them
hope, and our dream of a better future.
Two local men, Chris and Ally, saw
the plight of teenagers and decided to
set up a centre where young people
can learn basic skills. Together,
through much personal sacrifice, they
purchased a building in Usa River,
about twelve miles outside Arusha.
There are about 120 students in
TEKUA. All students (ages 13-25)
comefromimpoverishedbackgrounds
who cannot afford regular secondary
school education. The students of
TEKUA study English, Art and basic
IT skills. Learning English allows
them to gain employment as safari
guides and the other subjects equip
them with the skills necessary to set
up their own businesses and sell what
they have created. This allows them to
make a living to support themselves
and their families as well as to be able
to join the workforce.
TEKUA relies heavily on donations
from charitable organisations such
as Helping Africa 100 to fund the
education centre and its activities.
However, 10% of their expenditure
comes from self-sustaining ventures
such as the selling of artwork and
souvenirs made by their students. This
reliance on donations is worrying;
when financial difficulties arise,
very often the grants dry up. This
happened in 2008, when the financial
crisis caused TEKUA to nearly shut
down due to a lack of funds.
Enactus Imperial began its
involvement with TEKUA in 2007,
when project founder Kushboo
Lalwani visited Tanzania and
discovered it. She saw firsthand what
she had always seen in the media – the
deprived conditions under which the
locals were living. She saw how the
absence of the most basic ideas and
objects were hindering the growth of
a Tanzanian child in every dimension
imaginable. She came back to Imperial
and decided to import the artwork
that she had seen in Arusha. She,
with the help of other students, went
on to display it in a very successful
exhibition. The capital raised was
used in relocating the TEKUA to a
better location, positioning it within
the reach of the larger region.
In recent years, the economic
situation in Tanzania has been
improving. More tourists than ever
are visiting the safaris, making the
Arusha region a staple location on the
savvy traveler’s list. However, the safari
industry is becoming increasingly
saturated, prompting TEKUA to begin
teaching new courses in carpentry and
furniture making. Vocational skills
such as these are in demand in rural
areas, where a trip to the furniture
store in the commercial centre of
Arusha is a luxury few can afford.
However, many students graduating
from their course at TEKUA find
themselves with the skills, but without
the tools to make a living. One of the
causes that money from the exhibition
will go to is the funding of carpentry
kits for the brightest students,
allowing them to sustain themselves
once they graduate. In this way, by
Cheong Yi Heng
TEKUA Director, Enactus
Hear Hidden Voices of Africa at ICBS
supporting themselves and not being
reliant on charitable donations, the
sustainable source of income will see
them through longer than a simple
grant can.
Enactus Imperial this year also
hopes to engage both students and
teachers of TEKUA from the UK
through the internet. Generous
donations of computers and hardware
equipment from businesses have
allowed TEKUA to set up its own
little cyber café, the profits of which
go to sustaining the education centre.
The team aims to develop a package
of teaching materials, geared both at
teachers and students of Tekua, to
empower them with soft skills such as
basic management and fundamental
finance. Doing this would benefit
not only the teachers in their job of
running the centre; the students would
also have a chance to be taught skills
and concepts they would otherwise
not have access to. With students
going from primary school to TEKUA,
and then directly into jobs that force
them to balance their expenses from
day one, failure to empower is not an
option.
The situation in TEKUA has
improved much in the past decade,
and the centre has grown to be able to
accommodate more students, lifting
them out of backbreaking poverty.
Enactus Imperial has worked with
the centre since 2007 and seen it go
from strength to strength. Much still
needs to be done, however, and for
all the students that pass through its
classrooms, it’s a drop in the bucket
compared to the overwhelming need
for education in the country. Faced
with such statistics, it’s easy to lose
hope. TEKUA refuses. Its drive to give
underprivileged Tanzanians a better
shot at life, its willingness to be the
boy that throws just one more starfish
into the ocean, has brought it this far.
Whenever help is needed, wherever
we can provide it, Team TEKUA and
Enactus Imperial will be there.
But, will you?
Enactus Imperial hereby invites you,
the reader to the ART EXHIBITION:
TEKUA – the Hidden Voices of Africa
showcasing an intriguing blend of styles
and unique mediums - highlighting the
versatility of minds and talent of the
students.
WE see past, present and future in
different aspects through expression
and realism of their artwork. It will be
on the 4th December at the Imperial
Business School Entrance. Come and
be amazed! We will also be selling
doughnuts to raise money, so grab one
while stocks last!
B
et you didn’t know
your one idea can save
the world! You will be
surprised to find that in a
typical week, the average
UK household is throwing away
what would have been six complete
meals. Not shocking enough? Well,
how about picturing five Wembley
Stadiums full of food waste? That is
the amount of food waste we generate
every year – all these could have been
good, consumable food that would
have fed the stomachs of the millions
who are badly in need of it And if food
wasn’t so much of a concern to you,
how about heat and fuel, since the
supposed worst winter in 50 years is
hitting us right now? Canary Wharf,
tall skyscrapers, the London Stock
Exchange – all the posh and modern
images of London would have never
hinted to you that UK is ranked the
2nd-highest in Europe for the number
of people struggling to pay their
energy bills. Households are being
trapped in fuel poverty, a trend that
has increasingly blighted the lives of
millions of households. And of course,
there are so many other issues like
environmental damage, child poverty,
ageing population and healthcare.
You might have heard of all these
before, but have you ever stopped
and pondered seriously the extent of
all these social problems affecting the
UK?
You might ask – how does one
individual solve all these and more?
It might sound really tough, but
rest assured that it is not totally
impossible. In fact, what you really
need is an idea. A good idea that may
be simple, easy, yet effective and gives
a great impact when implemented on
a large scale. As amazing as it might
sound, a single good idea indeed has
the ability to make a large difference,
thanks to a new business model called
social enterprise.
Social enterprise is, in the simplest
terms, a business with a heart.
Fundamentally, it is still a business,
therefore making money and
generating profits are still essential.
It is, however unlike a charity where
it gets its income from donations
either by the government or the
public. A social enterprise makes
its own money through provision of
goods or services. But what makes a
social enterprise really different from
typical businesses is how the goods
and services provided help address
a particular social problem, and how
most of the profit earned through
the business is reinvested to grow the
business further.
Therefore, essentially, a single idea
that helps address a major social
problem may be developed as a
business and be transformed into a
world-changing phenomenon. Take
for example The Big Issue, a business
set up to give homeless people a
chance to earn income. The Big Issue
is a news & current affairs magazine
that is sold to homeless people for 75p.
It is later resold at £1.50. Driven by the
social meaning behind this, it became
so popular that weekly circulation
figures topped 135,000 in the UK.
With the mechanism of a social
enterprise, we at Imperial Hub believe
that every student in Imperial has the
potential to change the world, as long
as you have an idea for how to do so.
Hence, we are organising for the first
time a Social Innovation Bootcamp
from 7-8 Dec 2013. Join us to build
your own social enterprise within 48
hours to solve some of the UK’s most
pressing social issues. There will be a
series of workshops where you learn
from our industry experts and hands-
on sessions to really get your hands
dirty. At the end, there will be an
opportunity for you to pitch to a panel
of judges. The top team will eventually
be shortlisted for mentoring schemes
and fast-tracked to Imperial Create
Lab’s Venture Catalyst Challenge
2014!
Early bird tickets are available until
Saturday this week! Secure your spot
today at
imperialhub.wix.com/sib2013
Social Innovation: Saving the World
Chen Yann Qi
SIB Organising Team

