6 FRIDAY 29 NOV
BUSINESS Editor: James Tsim
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Are you thinking of buying property in South Kensington?
Chartered Surveyors). This means that
they will have minimum professional
standards and there will be a route for
redress in the case of misconduct.
•The running costs of a rental
property include a list of things
such as: BTL mortgage repayments,
tax on rental income, repairs and
refurbishments (allow for around 10%
of annual rent), agency fees (varies,
usually around 12% of annual rent)
and Voids (periods where the property
is empty – most landlords again allow
for around 10% of rent, but as this is
a student property there is a chance
that it could be empty for as much as a
quarter of the year).
Finally if you are planning on
investing in South Kensington,
according to the London property
watch, the average cost for a
1 bedroom property in South
Kensington currently is £912,000; 2
bedroom is £1.568 million; 3 bedroom
is £2.256 million. Back in early 2006,
house prices in South Kensington for
a 1 bedroom property was just below
£500,000. This can be compared with
figures to properties in Hammersmith,
Become a property owner in London
Imperial houses some of the wealthiest
students in the UK. At Imperial,
students are only able to live in college
provided student accommodation for
their first year, before moving out with
friends or becoming a hall senior. As
SW7 is the most expensive postcode
in the UK, rent in the neighbourhood
can be extremely expensive. One
way some parents get around this
problem is through investing in
property in London. Trends are good
at the moment in London, with the
London Property Watch measuring
14.2% growth in house prices for a one
bedroom property in London between
October 2012 and October 2013.
Most universities can accommodate
first years in halls of residence, but
around 70% of all students in most
university towns will be looking to
the private sector for accommodation
(Telegraph, August). According
to HESA (the Higher Education
Statistics Agency), in the 2011/12
academic year, there were around
2.5m students in Britain, so this would
amount to 1.75m students looking for
accommodation.
In the past 18-24 months, there
has been a 20-30% uplift in parents
specifically purchasing properties
for their children to live in during
study. These customers are generally
dissatisfied with the return on their
other investments such as pensions,
ISAs etc, and want something that
will offer a decent return whilst
simultaneously helping their son or
daughter through study. Once their
child’s period of study has passed, they
will either sell the house or continue
to rent it out for a steady income
booster. These customers may already
have a buy-to-let property, however
will not be experienced in property
investment. Key factors which they
must take into account when choosing
a property is the area, property type,
how to finance it, how to manage it,
etc. These factors coupled with the
probability that the parents will be
buying at a distance means that a good
letting agent is recommended.
Usually a student plus around
3-5 others will live in the property,
but rent will only be charged to the
housemates. This is important, as
there are regulatory implications for
mortgages on properties that you
will let to family members – by only
charging rent to the housemates, the
parents avoid this.
A few pointers to parents investing
in university digs for their son or
daughter:
•Most BTL mortgage lenders
require the rental income to cover the
mortgage interest by about 120–130%.
In order to achieve a good yield, many
BTL investors opt for an interest-only
rather than a repayment mortgage –
however, this means that the capital
part of the loan needs to be repaid,
either by the sale of the property or a
separate ‘investment vehicle’.
•Your letting agent should be
accredited by ARLA (the Association
of Residential Letting Agents), NAEA
(the National Association of Estate
Agents) or RICS (the Royal Institute of
Business Editor
James Tsim
where the average 1 room property
is just less than £400,000. On top
of that, as an investor, you will be
coming under increasing competition
from universities and colleges which
are buying and building brand new
student accommodation as well as
experienced professionals which are
snapping up the good properties
intending to offer the wealthiest
students luxury and glamorous
accommodation.
Thank you to turnkeylandlords.
co.uk for providing a portion of this
information. TurnKey Landlords is a
specialist buy to let mortgage website
set up by TurnKey Mortgages and run
by landlords. We can therefore offer
you expert advice based on our wealth
of knowledge and experience in the buy
to let market. As a whole of market
mortgage broker Turnkey Mortgages
offers the complete range of mortgage
products and is directly authorised by
the FCA to provide you with the right
advice. Most BTL mortgages are not
regulated by the FCA however, they
follow their principles and guidelines
for all its customers.
Summer Finance
Internship
Quadrature Capital LLP is a technology company applying
rigorous statistical and mathematical methods to
investment management. Founded in 2010 by two Ex-
D.E.Shaw Portfolio Managers, we aim to combine great
people and technology in a friendly, energetic and creative
environment.
This summer we have openings for four quantitative
trading research analysts. Areas include time series
analysis, machine learning, optimisation, risk, slippage.
Candidates must be highly numerate and able to program,
but no financial experience is required. An ability to be
practical rather than theoretical will be helpful. Competitive
rates. City based.
Application is by CV and covering letter.
Email: recruitment@quadraturecapital.com
Deadline for applications January 31st 2014
Company Number OC356491 Regulated by the FCA FRN 560678
FREE
INSIGHT
DAY WITH
FELIX
BUSINESS
Send an email
to:
felix.business@
imperial.ac.uk
Some banks
call technology
the back room
Deutsche Bank
db.com/careers
Agile minds call it the engine room
Group Technology & Operations (GTO) Graduate Program
Technology drives everything we do. It allows us to execute trades across multiple
time zones. It informs our investment decisions. It shapes the way we transact with
our clients. Without it, our business simply wouldn’t function. And that’s why
GTO graduates have such a vital part to play in Deutsche Bank. You’ll work
at the very heart of our business — delivering solutions that have a real
impact on our future.
Applications are reviewed on a rolling basis and deadlines are as follows:
Analyst Training Program
(London & Birmingham) - Sunday, 8th December 2013
Analyst Internship Program - Sunday, 30th December 2013
Spring into Banking Program - Sunday, 5th January 2014
To find out more and apply, please visit bit.ly/1ff7Ajq
Discover something different at db.com/careers

