8 9
FRIDAY 29 NOV FRIDAY 29 NOV
FelixScience
@Scifelix
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
SCIENCE
the invisibility cloak is the stick preventing reflection of
the object hidden (e.g. water), making it undetectable
to the eye.
This research does not mean that Harry Potter fans
can have a new addition to their ‘wizard collection’ for
Christmas, but instead it may hold great promises for
biomedical and military applications. This design could
protect areas against radiotherapy for instance, or it
could be used as a new strategy for camouflage.
The potential of the ‘invisibility cloak’ is unimaginable,
anditonlyemphasisesthecreativeusesofmetamaterials.
Progression in this field could generate a new era of
technology and gadgets!
Amrita Ghosh & Arya Mehta
Science Writers
Keir Little talks about Harry Potter, US Defense research and the
creation of a new frontier of science with Professor Sir John Pendry
The magic of metamaterials
F
unction through structure”
is something of a mantra
for researchers of
metamaterials, a truly
twenty-first century field
which aims to create materials with
bizarre and fascinating optical and
magnetic properties, invented here at
Imperial by Professor Sir John Pendry.
“It was serendipity, really,” he told
me. His office is warm and inviting,
a far cry from the laser and steel-
filled lab one might expect of the
inventor of the invisibility cloak. “I
was doing consultancy work with the
Marconi Company in the 90s. They
were interested in producing stealth
cladding for warships which consisted
of carbon fibres. These worked very
well, but they didn’t know why.”
“The carbon fibres strongly
absorbed in the middle of the typical
radar frequency band, but in a very
narrow range; however, they found
that if they spread them very thinly
on paper, it becomes a broad band
absorber over nearly the entire radar
frequency range, but why?
“Obviously, they were interacting
with each other. My first impression
was that they were touching, but my
second take was that if you have a wire,
there’s a magnetic field associated with
it that’s inversely proportional to the
radius. If the wires are very thin, you
have a very powerful magnetic field.
There’s a magnetic loop connecting
the wires, so it’s magnetic induction.
You wouldn’t think that, would you,
just from putting a conductor down?
That gave me the idea of function
through structure.”
Marconi had unwittingly invented
the first metamaterial. “They were so
pleased with that result that they said,
‘go away and do something interesting
that you like!’ So I went away, and what
I did involved a series of structures
whose properties were dependent on
the structure rather than what they
were made of.”
John Pendry’s publication of his
theory in 1999 gave rise to the new
topic of metamaterials, in which the
elements or molecules that make
up the material are secondary to the
arrangement of its larger parts: while
some metamaterials are discernible
only on the nanoscale, some have
structures that are easily visible, like
magnetic split-rings.
“The next thing was to see if we could
get some unusual magnetic properties,
so we devised these little so-called
split rings. They’re about 5mm across.
If you put a magnetic field along here,
the current tries to go round the loop
but can’t because we’ve deliberately
cut it, but there is some capacitance
between the two loops, so the current
can flow through that. What you’ve
got with loops with an inductance
and a gap with capacitance; t’s a little
resonant circuit. This material has a
very peculiar property: it behaves like
an ordinary magnetic material below
the resonant frequency, but if you
tune the frequency above that, the
response flips, so the applied magnetic
field is trying to push one way, and the
response is in the opposite direction!”
This was the first step towards one
of the greatest early breakthroughs
in the field: materials with a negative
refractive index, where light bends
the opposite way to normal materials.
In 1967, Russian physicist Victor
Veselago theorised that a substance
with both a negative permittivity and
permeability – the properties which
define its response to electric and
magnetic fields – would also have a
negative refractive index.
“You never find this in nature.”
Professor Pendry continues, “it was
the realisation by my friend and
collaborator David Smith in San Diego
that with this new metamaterial which
I announced in 1999, they could make
in the laboratory a negative refractive
material. His group made the first;
that set off a lot of interest and a lot of
controversy. It also stimulated me to
think of what else you could do with
negative refraction: if you build a lens
out of this negative refractory material
and you do it right – you have to do it
exactly right – then that would break
the so-called diffraction limit.
“It’s hard to explain how
controversial these ideas were at the
time, people got really upset and I
really had to handle some very violent
criticism. I think those people would
have to agree with me now that
negative refraction, sub-wavelength
resolution is a valid concept.”
From this theory came the perfect
lens, in which light can be focussed
down to points far smaller than its
wavelength, at the nanometre scale.
This could lead to microscopes able
to directly see large molecules, such
as DNA. At such scales, the usual
laws used to describe light rays break
down: ‘transformation optics’ is the
name given to manipulating light
waves at this level.
“Have you heard of DARPA?” The
USA’s Defense Advanced Research
Projects Agency is most famous for
inventing what would later become
the Internet. “They had some
funding problem, and invited me to
a meeting. I wanted to show off this
transformation optics, so I had to
think of something that would surprise
them – that’s how the invisibility cloak
came into being. I realised I could use
this transformation technique to hide
an object, and oh boy, did they go wild
on this! I didn’t expect them to take it
quite as seriously as they did.”
The invisibility cloak is what
Professor Pendry is most famous for
in the public eye. “That led to, largely
due to JK Rowling, a huge amount of
popular interest. I think it was a great
opportunity to sell science to people:
everybody knows what light is; thanks
to Harry Potter, everyone knows what
a cloak is and that it’s something
magical. If you say you can make one
the public are immediately interested
and say, ‘it’s magic! How can that be?!’
But you explain to them that it isn’t
magic, it’s really just hard science.”
Small-scale, single-wavelength
invisibility cloaks have been
made, but we’re still very far away
from creating one of the Deathly
Hallows. More modest metamaterial
products, however, are already being
manufactured. “It’s a typical trajectory
in engineering when you have a very
new idea: the engineers want to do
what they’re doing already, but just
a little bit better, so they’re making
lenses which are lighter and focus a bit
better.”
Toyota are funding the development
of metamaterial lenses to focus
terahertz rays, which are found in
the radars of cars with active cruise
control systems, and in projects to
make self-driving cars. Similar lenses
can be used to track the motion of
satellites without costly mechanically-
moving dishes – essential for
telecommunications in remote areas.
In Imperial’s Department of
Electrical and Electronic engineering,
Professor Richard Syms is developing
metamaterial-based detectors for
MRI machines, which allow safe and
detailed imaging of the heart and
brain.
Professor Pendry is keen to point
out these beneficial areas of research:
“people say it’s all about radar and
stealth, killing people and so on, but
it’s not: it’s about safety in cars, and
health. In any place where you can use
electromagnetism, you can probably
find an application for metamaterials.”
The invisibility cloak
So far, the most popular application of metamaterials
being worked on is the ‘invisibility cloak’. This idea was
first proposed by Professor Sir John Pendry. His team
received a grant of £4.9 million to develop metamaterials
for ‘invisibility cloaks’ in 2009.
The aim of this cloak is to use metamaterials to grab
light and conceal it, therefore making it invisible to the
human eye. This idea is based on the same principle as
how water in a river flows around a stick – in this case
Metamaterial-enhanced solar cells
A newly developed layer of tiny Aluminium studs has
been found to enhance the efficiency of solar cells by
up to 22%.
The coating, made up of cylinders just a hundred
nanometres across, was investigated by scientists
at Imperial College as part of an international
collaboration.
They looked at similar structures in gold, silver and
aluminium, to see which could scatter the incident light
at a high enough angle without absorbing too much
itself.
The scattered light takes a longer path through the
solar cell, which can then extract more of its energy.
This increase in efficiency looks to make the price
of solar cells more competitive with fossil fuels in the
future.
“As the absorbing material alone can make up half the
cost of a solar panel our aim has been to reduce to a
minimum the amount that is needed,” lead author of the
research Dr. Nicholas Hylton said.
For thinner solar cells in particular this is good news
as they are already cheaper than traditional, thicker solar
cells, but the thinness of their light-absorbing material
means that they are too inefficient to be widely used.
This new coating could mean lightweight, flexible
solar cells that could power laptops and other everyday
devices.
Emma Wills
Science Writer
Frozen rainbows and corkscrew lasers
Professor Ortwin Hess speaks to Keir Little about his research
O
rtwin Hess is known
for the ‘trapped
rainbow’ principle,
but this is just one
step towards his
exciting vision for metamaterials.
“It stops light,” he says about it,
“so the only thing it can do is ‘lase’
energy off its surface. Why is this
different to a good old normal laser?
It doesn’t have a cavity and is about
a factor of ten thinner. You could
include this in integrated circuits.”
Successful pairing of photonics
and electronics would have wide
applications, including a practical way
of realising quantum computing. “I
think the way how one, as a condensed
matter physicist, approaches these
problems is really quite unique
as we know we can do something
special with optics because we have
an understanding of how to arrange
and change matter. The task is to get
photonics down to where electronics
is, as the wavelength of photons is
around a factor of a thousand bigger
than that of electrons. Photons are
very good for communication over
fibres, but very bad for integration
into circuits. We’re aiming to change
that.
“Two things that go throughout all
that I’ve looked at in my academic
career are materials and light. I
was first drawn to spatial-temporal
effects in very small lasers and
semiconductors: this was before
metamaterials were invented.”
The theorisation by John Pendry of
materials with a negative refractive
index was the next step in Professor
Hess’s research. “My way of thinking
about these metamaterials was about
what they can do to the speed of
light. We looked into controlling the
speed of light and saw that under
certain conditions, through the
clever arrangement of the width of
waveguides, one can approach states
where the light would need to stop.
That realisation led to the trapped
rainbow principle.”
In collaboration with Ullrich
Steiner’s group at the University
of Cambridge, Professor Hess
considered a ‘bottom-up’ approach to
making metamaterials. By depositing
gold on a framework of co-polymers,
then selectively etching and removing
the polymers, a 3D ‘gyroid’ structure
was made which has chirality: it can
come in ‘left-handed’ and ‘right-
handed’ forms.
“You have this three-dimensional
structure with a chiral property,
which gives us an avenue to generate
metamaterials with optical activity,
which means they interact with
polarised light, something that normal
materials struggle with.
“Having manufactured them, the
experimentalists investigated them
and found the very disappointing
result that although these have a
highly chiral structure, they don’t have
much optical activity.
“This is where we theoreticians
came on board and were asked to
develop some models. We realised
that when wires are helical they have
different properties than from when
they’re straight. This is one of our
major research thrusts at the moment.
The aim is to build something that
doesn’t exist yet: a laser that emits
circularly-polarised light. Can you
imagine that?”
Light can be plane polarised,
causing all the waves to lie flat in
the same direction, or it can be
circularly polarised, in which the light
corkscrews in a left- or right-handed
direction. Circular polarisation is used
to create the 3D effect at cinemas, but
on the nanoscale could be used to
probe the structures of molecules and
materials.
“At Imperial we have something
that is probably unique worldwide:
we can bring together knowledge
on metamaterials and knowledge
on lasers. Normally, the researcher
communities don’t talk or work
together. We’re now combining the
two using gain and active materials.
This has huge implications: it opens
up a whole realm of research. There’s
no way of controlling light so strongly
as with a metamaterial.”
What is plasmonics?
Plasmonics is the the study of free metal electrons which trap light at the
interface of a metal and another substance, creating ‘surface plasmons’.
This confines light to an electronic scale, and is the basis on which meta-
materials science is built.
Imperial’s Professor Stefan Maier is a researcher in plasmonics and na-
nophotonics, who was pivotal in developing the field as a modern science.
“The topic is a little older than metamaterials,” he says, “by about one hun-
dred years or so! But it was really revolutionised by the development of
nanofabrication, so new research in plasmonics began at the end of the
90s and the turn of the century.
“I did my PhD at CalTech at that time, which showed that you can make
tiny waveguides far below the diffraction limit based on surface plas-
mons.” This discovery was key to enabling the research of many other
plasmonics and metamaterials scientists.
“I think the most exciting applications are nanoscale biosensors and
highly efficient light sources. If you focus light down to the nanometre
scale, you can interface it with molecules.”
IMPERIAL COLLEGE

