10 FRIDAY 29 NOV
POLITICS
Editor: Kartikeya
Rana
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org/pizza
We’re introducing some new food offers to our bars and we want you to have a
say!
For the last week of term, we’ll have a special guest pizza on offer alongside
the regulars on our menu. Feast your eyes on the choices below, and then
cast your vote online for which pizza you prefer! The poll will close at 23:59
Tuesday 3 December and the winning pizza will be on our menu from Friday 6
December until the end of term.
Mushroom, Tomato and Basil - Fresh Mushrooms, Basil and Mozzarella.
Deluxe Spicy - Spicey Beef, Peperoni, Mozzarella and Tomato.
Napoletana - Ham, Egg, Mozzarella and Tomato.
Pizza Union - Spicy Beef, Tomato, Mozzarella and Chips.
All pizzas will be available in 9” and 12” sizes.
You choose the pizza, we’ll serve it
The Sexual Health Clinic is back!
Imperial College Union will be hosting another free sexual health clinic
run by the Terrence Higgins Trust on Thursday 5 December. It will take
place in the Activities Spaces, Union Building, Beit Quad. Services
available include rapid HIV testing, Chlamydia testing, Gonorrhoea
testing, condoms, lube and advice. The clinic welcomes all students
regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, study type or country of
origin.
Appointments can be booked in advance and a walk-in service is also
available. To book an appointment or get more information about the
clinic, please contact Zoe Richardson, Representation Coordinator, at
z.richardson@imperial.ac.uk.
imperialcollegeunion.org/sexual-health
imperialcollegeunion.org/realales
Vote for December guest ales
The cold and dark nights are approaching and there is nothing better
than having a sip of one of your favourite ales inside the warmth of
the Union. To get your favourite ale behind the bar all you need to do is
take the poll at imperialcollegeunion.org/realales and the ales with the
highest votes win! There is a separate poll for The Union Bar and h-bar.
The current poll will close at 10:00, Monday 2 December and the
winning ales will be on sale later in the month.
December’s guest ale will join out regular ales in the bars - IPA (£2.90 a
pint) and Tolly English Ale (or TEA - £2.20 a pint).
Every year the Union produces an Annual Report detailing our financial
performance for the year as well as our achievements. The Annual Report of
the Trustees and Financial Statements 2012/13 is our first such publication since
registering as a charity.
It has been another strong year for the Union with achievements including:
An increase in the number of students taking part in our elections.
A 6% increase in satisfaction with the Union in the National Student Survey.
The publication of Our Plan - our three year strategic plan.
The launch of the Student Academic Choice Awards.
A continued strong financial performance.
You can download a PDF of the Annual Report 2012/13 at:
Read this year’sAnnual Report
imperialcollegeunion.org/annual-report201213
Geneva 2- Peace Talks for the Syrian Crisis
Jash Rughani
Politics Editor
Nuclear agreement signed with Iran
But will it really manage to make the world a safer place?
A
fter months of
escalating tensions
between Iran and the
United States, a nuclear
deal has finally been
signed. After intense negotiations
between the P5+1 nations- the
Permanent members of the UN
Security Council and Germany-
and Iran was signed in Geneva. The
agreement is one, which manages to
ease the pressure on Iran for a six-
month interim period. It’s perhaps
a small step towards improving
understanding between western states
and a rather unpredictable nation.
Iran tried to hold talks with the US
government in 2003 to come up with a
nuclear deal. The Bush administration
believed, however, that since Iran was
weak and battered by sanctions it
would not be able to enrich Uranium
and therefore decided not to hold
any talks. As a result, the number of
centrifuges in Iran has gone up from
174 to 19,000. Although there are
tough sanctions in place, the cost of
enriching nuclear fuel for an oil rich
company like Iran is relatively small.
This realization led to the Geneva
Convention and the subsequent
agreement. As a result of this deal,
Iran will not be allowed to enrich
uranium above 5% and any further
enriched Uranium would have to be
oxidized. Furthermore, there will be
greater access provided to inspectors
in the nuclear sites, which includes
daily access to Natanz and Fordo-
two of Iran’s key nuclear sites. This
deal, however, manage to shut any
of the fuselages down. If Iran abides
by the rules, there will be no new
nuclear related sanctions for the next
six months. This, however, does not
guarantee any new nuclear sanctions
after the aforesaid time period.
Furthermore, the sanctions on its
trade of gold and precious metals,
car-making sector and petrochemical
exports will be suspended. This deal
has culminated in about 7 billion
dollars of sanction release, which is a
fraction of the sanctions currently in
place against the country.
The deal has been met with mixed
reactions around the world. Israel’s
President Benjamin Netanyahu has
called the deal ‘a historic mistake’.
Iran is a country, which has publicly
displayed its dislike of Israel, causing
it to be seen as a threat by the Israeli
government. Last week itself, Iran’s
Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khomeini
compared Israeli’s to ‘rabid dogs’. Thus,
Israel desires a complete dismantling
of Iran’s nuclear program but the fact
that the Iranian nuclear program has
been legitimized for an interim period
has caused it a lot of worry.
This deal has also been a source of
worry for Saudi Arabia. Israel may be
willing to reach a diplomatic solution
with Iran but Saudi Arabia sees itself
in the middle of an endless proxy
war in the region and it wishes that
the western powers, united states in
particular, be involved in this war.
The Saudi rulers see the Middle
East through a sectarian lens. Saudi
Arabia is a nation of a Sunni majority
and it does not wish to see a Shiite
majority country gain power. In Iran
itself, people see the deal with an air
of skepticism but are excited by the
prospects of reduced sanctions and
better relations with the west.
Kartikeya Rana
Politics Editor
A
fter a political turmoil
that took a toll on the
lives of thousands
of hapless innocent
Syrians, peace talks
between opposing factions has
emerged as the only recourse for the
multitude. The situation on ground
has deteriorated beyond recognition-
derelict streets, blast ravaged homes,
unemployed youth, crying orphans
and polio-infested children abound
the Syrian land.
The leaders of the Syrian National
Coalition, President Assad’s
adversaries are meeting to agree its
stance on the so-called “Geneva 2”
talks, which aim to end Syria’s two-
and-a-half year civil war by creating
a transitional governing body. They
strongly demand that the President’s
reign be called off and that President
Assad relinquish his office as the head
of the state.
A few other factors bolster
Assad’s claim to hold onto the top
position. Ever more Syrians reject
the opposition coalition’s authority,
seeing it as an ineffective group
exiles that have failed to supply arms
or aid to fighters on the ground. On
November 4th one of the most senior
pro-Western rebel commanders in
northern Syria resigned in frustration,
citing divisions among fighting
factions and the fecklessness of the
national coalition as reasons. On
October 15th 50 groups, most of them
Islamist-leaning, announced that they
no longer recognized its authority.
Syria also claims to have destroyed all
of its chemical arms by now.
Damascus has decisively said Assad
will stay in his post at least until his
terms ends in 2014 and that he may
run for re-election.
These demands are being asserted
by the National Coalition, which
claims to be the only representative of
the Syrian people, but which doesn’t
represent even a majority of the
opposition groups.
Also, the coalition members demand
a certain fulfillment of promises made
by intervening nations- the promise
to ensure that humanitarian corridors
were opened so that aid could reach
rebel-held areas currently blockaded
by the regime, the promise to release
opposition detainees and the promise
to bring an end to air raids. In an
interview with The Sunday Telegraph,
his first with a Western newspaper,
Ahmed Jarba said he was willing to
take part in the long-awaited talks.
“Yes, but do you think we can sit with
the regime whilst there are people
in Syria who can’t even drink water?
We have been promised by the West
that these humanitarian issues will be
solved before the conference.”
America who supports the ousting
of President Assad and Russia, the
regime’s staunch supporters have
jointly agreed on the need to end the
war and reach a peaceful agreement.
However, Saudi Arabia, which has
aligned itself with American forces in
Syria, has a differing call. The Saudis
see an axis of Shia mischief, stretching
from Tehran through Baghdad and
Damascus to Hizbullah in Lebanon,
as their biggest threat, and Syria as
its linchpin. On the other hand, Iran
has invested billions to prop up Mr
Assad’s regime and to retain a vital
link to Hizbullah.
Mr Assad has felt stronger since
America failed to carry out a threat
to punish the regime with missiles
for its mass-murderous sarin-gas
attack on August 21st. Saudi Arabia,
infuriated by America’s loss of nerve
over punishing the Syrian regime with
missile strikes after its sarin attack,
has embarked on a project to create
a new national army in the south of
Syria rather than working through
the Supreme Military Command,
the coalition’s armed wing based in
Turkey. For months it has reportedly
been training 5,000 rebels in Jordan,
with help from French and more
recently Pakistani forces.
Severe malnutrition is reported,
especially among children in areas
besieged by government forces. The
UN says two in five Syrians now need
emergency aid. Neighboring countries
warn they can no longer cope with
the scale of the refugee influx, the
most dramatic since the Second
World War. Displaced Syrians now
make up nearly a quarter of Lebanon’s
population. To add to the pall of grief,
Al Qaeda is waging polio biological
warfare in Syria. The Poliovirus is very
contagious and thrives in an infected
person’s throat and intestines. It could
be that Al Qaeda is seeking vengeance
as America in the past had abused
polio vaccination program to find out
Osama bin Laden.
The stalemate in Syria needs
immediate redressing. The unrest
that has gripped the Middle East has
Syria as its epicenter. If not addressed,
outbreak of epidemics and economic
instability might only aggravate the
difficulties faced by innocent Syrians.
And redressing can only be effectively
achieved by show of sympathy and a
compromising spirit from both the
factions of a warring nation.
President Assad’s adversaries meet in the wake of ending the Syrian Crisis
OXFAM AUSTRALIA
The next question to ask is- why
did US partake in this deal? By going
forward with the deal, the US has
tried to make a deal with a state,
which not only has a very anti-
American sentiment but is also a
sponsor of terrorism. As a result of
this agreement, it has also managed to
aggravate its closest ally in the middle
east- Israel.
I believe that one reason why the
US signed this deal is because it does
not want another war in the Middle
East. The frequency with which
the US has been going to war in the
region in the 21st century has had a
detrimental effect on its standing at
home as well as around the world. As
a result, the Obama administration
found it particularly hard to garner
support domestically for a military
intervention in Syria. Thus, gaining
support for a full-fledged war with
Iran would be particularly hard.
However, the immense pressure it
put on Iran due to the secret nuclear
program made a war with the nation
very likely. By signing this interim
deal, the US has been able to ease
some of the tension and has reduced
the probability of a war taking place
in the near future. But this does not
necessarily mean that the tensions will
not rise again in the future.
The deal signed is an interim one
and the pressure is reduced only for
a period of six months after which,
further nuclear sanctions can be put
in place. Thus, the idea that this deal
is anything ‘significant’ is a misnomer.
The agreement can be simply seen as
a source of cautious optimism but not
anything else.
The fact that there are some tactical
constraints on Iran’s nuclear program
has of course made the world safer but
this is a nation, which has had a long-
standing anti-American rhetoric.
Around the same time the Geneva
talks were held, Ayatollah Khomeini
gave a ferociously anti-American
speech to Iran’s revolutionary guard
corps. Thus, it is unlikely that the
nuclear aspirations of Iran are going
to decrease in the near future even if
that is what the US wishes for. Once
this agreement is put into practice, it
would also be very hard to reinstate
the sanctions on a country with such
strong nuclear aspirations.
This is only the first stage of a very
long and difficult road. The next step
for the ‘P5+1’ nations would be to try
and close some of the fuselages. It will
be interesting to see how they manage
to ease tensions when the six-month
interim period comes to an end.
nypost

