12 13
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 29 NOV FRIDAY 29 NOV
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
COMMENT
“I’ll never again get to live in South
Kensington. More precisely, I’ll never again get
to live beside Exhibition Road. I’ll miss it.
”
Exhibition Ode: Fenton Reflects
T
his being my last of an
excessive six years at
Imperial, I can’t help but
wonder, with more than
a little panic, just how
different life will be outside of the
academic bubble. Excactly how I’ll gel
with a world of 9-5s, responsibility,
mortgages and early nights is
uncertain. One thing I do know is
clear: I’ll never again get to live in
South Kensington. More precisely,
I’ll never again get to live beside
Exhibition Road. I’ll miss it.
Visiting London from Belfast with
my family as a child, I would always
insist on a visit here. In every way a
future Imperial physicist, it was the
Science Museum that leapt out for me
and would fill up my precious London
hours; a vast warehouse of discovery
and invention – with whole rockets
and World War II aeroplanes, hands-
on exhibits and guided tours. I wanted
to work there. I wanted to live there,
or nearby. I ended up doing both.
Actually working at a museum, now
that’s a lot of fun. I spent a few months
as a volunteer guide in the Science
Museum’s 1001 Inventions Gallery
(which looked at science during the
Islamic Empire), mostly hovering
around the display on numbers. Did
you know that the numerals we use
today were drawn so that the number
of acute angles each has corresponds
to the number it represents? Think of
chubby, rounded zero. Or the number
one with its slanted cap. I imagine I
bored the hell out of the hundreds of
school kids who passed through, but it
was an awful lot of fun.
Heading down the road from
College, taking care to avoid the ever-
earnest Mormon missionaries, gives a
drive-by viewing of one of the finest
buildings in London, the V&A. But
this beauty is a war veteran ­
– take a
closer look and you’ll see that her
newly restored side has ugly lumps
missing, wounds inflicted by German
bombers in World War II and left by
restorers in memorial. To get to know
the museum, the ideal would be to
spend whole days walking around, but
for the exam-pressed Imperial student
I offer the most convenient way to get
to know the museum – my patented
Study and Toilet Tour.
It is a little known fact that the V&A
contains the National Art Library, a
huge collection of mouldy old leather-
bound books in plush surroundings
with 100 desks for studying, open to
all and free of charge, complete with
comfy leather chairs, old fashioned
desk lamps and a view of the museum’s
large quadrangle. You can feel like you
I
learned this week that the
Spanish government have
recently been taking lessons from
George Orwell. The new Citizen
Security Bill is a title worthy of
the delicious irony heaped upon the
various ministries in 1984, while the
Spanish government is trying to use
it to introduce new laws that brings
the Spain of Franco (as described by
Orwell) uncomfortably close.
The bill, if it passes in Parliament,
legislates for massive fines (up to
€600,000) for a plethora of “very
serious crimes”, such as illegal protest
(including the particularly Latin form
of grass-roots protest, the ‘escrache’),
or publishing photos and data of
policemen online. One might argue
that this graces the police with an
element of immunity. After all, the
public is rather stupid and might
misconstrue advanced and modern
police techniques for brutality,
assault and all too often, murder.
Other ‘serious crimes’ (meriting fines
of up to €30,000) include insulting
policemen and, um, dangerous,
criminal activities such as botellones.
Or, in English, drinking outside…
The way this new bill aims to
protect the good citizens of Spain is
by rendering them destitute if they
protest for being, well, destitute. The
Spanish have very sensibly given up
their financial independence and
left the hard work of managing the
economy to the Germans (I’m being
ironic).
The population doesn’t realise what
a blessing it is to have the time to
enjoy the golden sun, sea and sands
of Andalusia. They don’t realise how
wonderful it is that over 25% of the
population is unemployed. In the
words of Morrissey, “I was looking
for a job, and then I found a job, and
heaven knows I’m miserable now!”
Miserable Morissey may be but
I hope we can agree the Spanish
people probably have it worse. There
is a sad truth to the mantra “the only
thing worse than being exploited by
really did get into Oxbridge. Now for
my Toilet Tour; go to this library to
study instead of Imperial’s and take
a map. Every time you want a toilet
break, chose a different toilet on any
floor you like and take your time
walking there. I count eight toilets
The Orwellian Spanish Security Bill
Christy Kelly
Writer
capitalism is not being exploited by
capitalism” and history has shown that
top-down administration has proved
remarkably ineffective in resolving
social and political problems. The
lame attempts by Bismarck and
Alexander II are cases in point. Even
‘success’ stories such as Park Chung-
hee of South Korea demonstrate just
how problematic attempts at genuine
reform are when ‘permitted’ from
above. The utter rural-urban divide
in South Korea was little mentioned
during the visit of Park Chung-hee’s
daughter to Imperial College recently.
Despite everything, significant
hope remains for the Spanish people.
Spain has a rich and long standing
tradition of grass-roots and anarchist
protest. Eric Hobsbawm’s essay on
the ‘Expropriators’ is one of the most
touching historical portraits I have
read. The 2008 crisis prompted the
re-emergence of widespread protests
which have engendered this reaction.
It indicates, at the very least, that the
Spanish government must be feeling
the heat. If it is overcome it could lead
to genuine political change. So, in a
perverse way, is this a positive sign?
It all depends on the results. It
is only with hindsight that we can
tell whether this will herald a new
beginning or simply the beginning of
the end. There is, to paraphrase Alain
Badiou, no objective determination
of an event. What is required is the
further radicalisation and organisation
of the protest movement. This means
less focus on ethics and doing what is
necessary and more focus on politics
and doing what is right. This is not
quite as paradoxical as it sounds: the
difference is best exemplified by the
opposition of Churchill during WWII
and Che Guevara in Batista’s Cuba.
At the risk of massively reducing the
complexity of the situation, what will
it be? A new Generalísimo or the
Third Republic? I know which side I’m
on.
Rory Fenton
Columnist
@roryfenton
publicintelligence.com
I’ll never again get to live in South Kensington.
More precisely, I’ll never again get to live beside
Exhibition Road. I’ll miss it.
I
n today’s world I would challenge
any reader of this newspaper to
nominate a sportsperson that
they could truly say they have
an emotional attachment to.
Messi, Ronaldo, Federer, Nadal, Tiger
Woods; these names roll off the tongue
as behemoths of their respective
sports. Hearing these names evokes
admiration, loyalty, respect, but never
a sense of identification, brotherhood,
or, most importantly, a sense that that
particular player could ever possibly
be bigger than the game itself.
Well, this is precisely where Sachin
Ramesh Tendulkar is different; and
in a category of his own. For the
reasons that I will delve further into
below, this man has dominated both
the sport as well as the hearts and
minds of fans; boys, girls, mothers,
fathers, doctors, lawyers, rich, poor,
old and young for the best part of a
quarter of a century. He has carried
the hopes and dreams of a nation that
was beginning to find its voice and
emerge from insecurity. The rise and
rise of Tendulkar coincided with the
rise and rise of naya India – and this
is probably one of the most important
things to consider.
I will try and make the rest of
this article as easy as possible to
understand for those of you not yet
acquainted with the glorious sport
of cricket. Tendulkar’s career as an
international cricketer began in 1989
as a tender 16 year-old boy facing
some of the most fearsome and skilful
bowlers to ever grace the game. He
was hit in the face, blood flowing from
his nose, but continued to play on.
Fast forward 24 years to the day and
he bows out from the sport, having
broken nearly all conceivable batting
records, plundering runs with ruthless
efficiency and outrageous flair all over
the world. It is almost impossible
to convey how great his career was
without having to revert to some
nerdy statistical analysis (cricket fans
love stats), and whilst statistics do not
tell the full story, there is much truth
to the old adage ‘the numbers don’t lie’.
The best way to measure the
greatness of a player during his
career is to compare him to his
contemporaries/rivals. He has scored
24% more Test Match centuries than
the next highest century maker. He has
scored 19% more Test runs than his
nearest competitor, who has retired,
incidentally. A whopping 63% and
34% are Tendulkar’s respective ODI
numbers. In addition to this he holds
just under 100 individual and team
records. Compare these achievements
to modern day legends such as Tiger
Woods – who has yet to beat Jack
Nicklaus’ record of Majors won.
“India is a country where cricket is
almost like a religion, and Sachin is
treated as a god”. This is a cliché that is
bandied around all the time; I dislike it
and feel it does injustice to the average
Indian cricket fan. I would like to
embark on a more detailed analysis of
what Tendulkar means to Indians. To
clarify the quote, he has been a beacon
of hope and aspiration to the entire
Indian Diaspora. But let me put this
statement into context.
India gained independence from
the British in 1947. The next 40-
50 years were ones of turbulence,
wars and relative global economic
insignificance. Citizens had limited
heroes and role models, Indian
politicians have by and large been a
source of despair and corruption, and
inequality was still widespread. Cue,
within a few years of one another, two
of the most important Indians of the
past couple of decades; Manmohan
Singh and Sachin Tendulkar. The
current PM and then finance minister
implemented wide-sweeping,
critically acclaimed economic
reforms in response to the Balance of
Payments crisis in 1991. These reforms
liberalised the economy, opened India
up to foreign investment and signalled
a new chapter in the development and
international recognition of India. At
the same time Tendulkar emerged
as India’s great national treasure,
still merely a boy at the time. He
was magnificent; able to tame and
decimate all that stood before him
with joyful abandon. Tendulkar has
now retired, a shadow of his former
self for the past few years; Singh has
been increasingly ineffective, mainly
due to his party’s incompetence and is
facing the very real possibility of the
end of his political career next year
with the upcoming general elections.
The symmetry between the two is
striking.
Coming to the subject of unity and
equality, Tendulkar brought all sorts
of people together, in the early days it
would be listening in silence around
a transistor radio, and later television
shops would be invaded to capacity.
Indeed, such was Sachin’s hold on the
nation that economic output could be
seen to drop in the morning after he
reached stumps not out. People could
forget about their problems for a short
while when he was batting.
Throughout the 24 years he has
represented the largest democracy on
earth, there has never been a scandal
in which he was implicated. He helped
restore credibility to Indian cricket
after a damning match fixing exposé
in 2000. He played the game in its
true spirit, and was one of the last
of a generation of real gentlemen.
He exhibited sportsmanship down
to his core and was one of the main
instigators in the calling back of
the England batsman Ian Bell when
he should have been given out. He
has hardly said a bad word about
an opposition player and, out of
respect, has hardly ever been abused
or ‘sledged’ onfield. This is made
Sach a Life: So long and farewell
all the more remarkable given the
overbearing adulation of over a billion
people. No other athlete in the history
of sport has had to deal with so much
combined pressure and expectation
and not buckled at some point.
Furthermore, Tendulkar was a true
pioneer of his sport. He reinvented
the ‘One Day International’ format
almost single-handedly, displaying
a never-before-seen combination of
the traditional and the new. Dogged
by uncommon injuries for a cricketer,
tennis elbow being his most potent
nemesis, he also helped scores of
first-class cricketers by leveraging his
status as a healthcare ambassador.
Arjun Jayaswal
Writer
This ensured that these poorly paid
cricketers would have some kind
of cushion if they became unfit to
play. He even refuses to advertise for
companies that he feels uncomfortable
with; one example is his turning down
a $4 million a year contract to be
sponsored by Vijay Mallya’s United
Breweries Group.
Tendulkar, for a large proportion
of people, was synonymous with
childhood. Perhaps this is because the
average age of the Indian population
is 26 – approximately the length of
his career. He has straddled three
generations of cricketers in his career,
but never seems to have aged. He
still has the chubby 16 year old’s face,
perhaps a little more worn around
the edges; he has celebrated every
opposition wicket with childish glee,
never the angry, profanity-inducing
macho-isms of others. Fittingly,
the most common source of sorrow
for cricket fans was that their only
source of innocence and current link
to childhood had been severed when
Tendulkar retired. Even now, merely
footage of his strokeplay is enough
to turn grown men into babbling
schoolgirls.
As I am coming to the end of
this article, I would like to add a
few personal anecdotes and views.
My grandfather (who, incidentally,
announced he would leave his job
if he wasn’t allowed leave to watch a
particular Test Match) was fortunate
enough to watch Tendulkar on his first
tour of England. He arrived home and
prophetically exclaimed in Punjabi
“This boy is going to be great”. I also
had the privilege of watching him bat
on his last tour to England at Lord’s on
the 5th day of a pulsating Test Match.
For the first time in many people’s
living memory, Lord’s was at full
capacity on a 5th day.
I myself have never been one
for putting Tendulkar particularly
higher than other cricketers, but a
certain journalist was able to sum up
emotions from the past week very
well: “many who didn’t believe they
were red-blooded Tendulkarites, or
even cricket maniacs, listened to him
speak and were bewildered by their
own reaction. They didn’t belong to
the “Sachin” faithful, yet they sensed
a reverberation”. This is completely
correct; as I listened to his retirement
speech, I struggled to contain tears, as
did about a billion across the world.
Not only were the crowd and myself
moved beyond belief, but they realised
that they had been in love, true love,
for 24 years, without them knowing.
Tendulkar, the Little Master has
been a colossus of the game and a
constant in every Indian’s life. He
has stoked fierce pride in the face of
opposition, pure enjoyment for the
neutral, and most of all, someone
to place all your faith and hope in. I
hope this article can help those people
who don’t know who this great man is
understand the impact he has had.
Farewell, Sachin, thanks for the
memories.
mirror.co.uk
in all – it won’t be long before you’ve
covered the entire museum, from the
incredible collection of statues on the
ground floor to the British Galleries
on level 4. And lunch in the museum’s
café is accompanied by a live pianist
on Saturdays so you’ve no reason to
leave the place at all, really.
Then we have the Natural History
Museum, a temple to Darwinism and
the natural world. The millennium old
Giant Red Wood segment is worth
catching, with the history of the last
1,400 years marked using its growth
rings as a timeline. You’ll find it in the
main entrance hall, a few floors up.
Not forgetting the Darwin Centre –
apparently if you flash your Imperial
card, smile politely and imply you’re
some kind of expert, they’ll let you in
to see their giant squid. Now there’s
a sentence that I never expected to
write.
Exhibition Road is now
pedestrianised, with the traffic/
pedestrian distinction blurred and
speed limits kept to 20 mph, much to
the annoyance of drivers. Until two
years ago, it was just a regular road,
with none of those fancy benches and
‘Boris Bike’ stations. I’m glad for its
makeover, because the truth is that it
is more than a road.
For such a busy part of Central
London it’s pretty amazing to have
places where you can sit in complete
silence. For such an affluent part of
the UK, it’s nice to have such a variety
of people walking around. We lucky
devils get to live here, for now. Make
the most of it.

