14 FRIDAY 29 NOV
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This is the penultimate issue of the term,
we’ve only got one more until we break up for
the Christmas holidays! Hurrah!
In this weeks issue, Felix delves further into
the problems with the government’s proposed
Immigration Bill and we still await a decent
response from Campus Services! Fun, fun,
fun!
The Immigration Bill is a serious issue
that will affect a significant proportion of
our students. It seems to have been poorly
thought out by the government backers, since
students are a significant proportion of the
UK’s international population, you would
have thought that the government would have
taken more care when trying to make changes
to the way immigrants are treated by the NHS
and landlords in the UK.
Similarly to the government, Felix is still
concerned by the apparent disregard Campus
Services has for it’s student stakeholders.
Weeks away from the end of term and there
has been no significant improvement in the
cleaning provisions made for students. What
this episode has highlighted is that some
sections of College may seem (to some) to
treat the students as objects that have no
important views, rather than smart, rational
adults that most of us (bar the odd few) are.
Hopefully, within the next week we’ll see
some real progress on both issues, with lots
of new information being presented by both
sides.
Good luck with your assignments and
marking, term is nearly over!
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
International issues and
communication
Letters
Ebitaspis voluptatem est arum velentecea nobit,
quam eosam alictor simet recte pedi doluptiisin
pore occumquunt reptae parchilitio. Ad qui ut
a quae nusciurias alia dita suntur maximendis
simus, ommoluptas eatem vidus.
Nis essit veliame officto int occum et, tenem
aditatiur, volest eic tem fugiasped quo core
ipsum as as aborem licae velessincia nem fugiti
adi doluptatur sitae plauten ihilitium apiciis
eos eumendentium verepror atur, que ped quam
reseque as nobis volupit et expere nust, imolo
incillorio. Itatis et lant untiis accus sin est es ut
re volorup isquias dent ut rem labo. Ces quas
minvendam rest hicatis que sim facepe odit que
platio maximus rem resti dolent, quia eumque
experum quiam as audam qui ut voluptiae nimus.
Haribusa que arunt ute nihil is aliquam laces atum
harum litia int, omnimin etur aut et aut porro
ipsunt lab imagnim quibus dolo quam doluptatent
dolore lam dipit elique nones unt veliquiat event
qui blam, quam rest labor acearum endaecus,
consenist, od maximo blanimporrum sin pel evelit
moluptatet ducim expellori blatis earchitate porem
quid moluptatur? Nim et mi, soluptaquo te cusda
dunt voluptatur, quo et id eossin rehenie nienit ipsa
voluptatio to iligenihit in et volupid ucipici destio.
Et magnatem quiam, que ped ut evenditat facepre
voluptio. Ossint atempore, vollautatium eostiamet
es esciuribero verum endit voluptam, qui aut od
maio optatecto volupta spedit aut molorib usapit,
officipsam haris id minulpa comnis quos am est
ium qui nim fugit verchil iunt.
Um fuga. Gitaturem que expla volorio reictur?
Tiusandit, aditior poratem es dolore, exerum
Editor: Nectorectur, ea voles excea consequia sim res
cuptati orestibus escianit, omni aut ulluptae pernatum,
quae liquisto eum el ius net moluptate dolor ab
inuscidigni volo te volum veliciis eat rem il inciant, sit
quatio consequi inis as iment ut as el inum conemposae.
Experum eum idempor estorios sunt aut quam re lab
int qui sum qui ra ex enim que volori commoditat eum
aditas ducillu ptaturi tatque nam sequis nam eum et
doloreperum eostinv entiur?
Ut fuga. Videm remo temolor am quunt in expelique
sunt aut mos dolo core, illorempor aut esequo int, eosa
volor aliti doles magniatus debit illa qui blab inust,
omni dolupis aspiendae. Nam, sunt fugiae delenduciis
et magnis eturem fuga. Obitatur sinvernam quodit,
sequi di as volo dolent voluptibus dicatia nisqui tes
volorerorero explabo. Ehenitemo mod ut volendi tempos
volor ratem eum nobit aut illigent ipsa sim quaspe
lacea se venim explit et pro quia quas aut pliquiae.
Et fuga. Itae dipicaborum, ut que consecum lant lab
ini torporum, quiatus sit quiberum repero berferest
remporest explige nimagnam eventiis nostrum fugit re
non necaborum rerrum vel es ea necum ilis nullam,
omnisci dellecerite plis estiberis dolorecabor a que ea
soluptassi doluptas evel ipiet autati od etur magnam
et inverisinias et aut que preperunt voluptae quis
quiandam sam, optibus nectaque sum fugiatem re
nulparcias eum ne dolumqui od est doloriat.
Aborrovit as perunt pores prati optasitis dolum idellab
orepernam, simaximpora vit pa verchicienis venis
eserate sequodictate dolupta tibusdam, nihici doloris
minus ipsam hit, odi ut a quassequae nonse pernam,
quundandani corum fugias nobis sum velesequaspe dia
sunt.
Quiaeca borepta taessi quo magnatios et accus.
This week we hear from an
old Italian...
W
hether naughty or
nice, all are warmly
welcome to the Imperial
Christians’ Carol Service
on December 6th in
Holy Trinity with All Saints Church at 6PM.
“You better watch out. You better not cry.
Better not pout, I’m telling you why: Santa
Claus is coming to town. He’s making a list,
checking it twice. He’s gonna find out who’s
naughty or nice. Santa Claus is coming to
town!”
As juvenile as a Naughty List may seem,
the notion of an annual register for badly
behaved children is really quite clever. It’s a
perfect ploy parents use to persuade their
children to make their beds, put their dirty
clothes in the wash basket and stop thumping
their siblings. I remember my parents telling
me to be good otherwise Santa would put me
on the Naughty List. Since I didn’t want to
receive coal in my stocking, I dutifully obeyed
them and for at least one month before the
25th I was relatively better behaved… again,
relatively. Thankfully I always made it on the
Nice List, and no coal was ever found in my
stocking.
Looking back at those childhood
Christmases, I see that the reward I believed
was due to my good actions was actually
because of my parents’ love for me. My
slightly better behavior had little impact on
the presents I received. Those were thanks to
my mother and father, who wanted to see the
joy on my face when I unwrapped my purple
Game Boy or Bratz doll. They made sure that
my fear of being on the Naughty List was only
ever a fear because they cared about me.
As I’ve grown older, the gifts matter less
but the appreciation for the affection they
represent has increased, especially in light of
Christmas’ history. Over 2000 years ago, God
sent his only begotten son to permanently
remove our names from a much more eternal
‘Naughty List’. Swaddled in rags and delivered
into this world from a virgin mother, this
Son came to take on the sins of people like
you and me, and to reconcile us with God.
Though he was but a babe then, his life was
going to be one of sinlessness and selfless love
towards all; his purpose, to make God’s glory
known through the gift of eternal life to all
who believe in Him.
Just as I didn’t earn the presents my parents
gave me, so we don’t deserve this much more
valuable gift of life, but it is still given to us
from a heavenly father who loves his children
much more than we can fathom. Although
as a child I only believed myself to be on
Santa’s Naughty List, as humans, we are on a
‘Naughty List’, for all have sinned and fallen
short of God’s glory. Yet, God, in his infinite
love, offers us the opportunity of redemption
through the birth, death and resurrection of
his only begotten Son.
At Christmas time, the significance of Jesus’
birth often becomes a blip in the holiday
season. Between the second viewing of
Love Actually and the fight for the piece of
Christmas cake with the most marzipan on
top, the true meaning of Christmas is lost.
To remember God’s love and to celebrate the
birth of Christ, the Imperial Christian groups
on campus are welcoming all students,
believers or not, to the Christmas Carol
Service. The service will be taking place on
Friday December 6th, 6PM at Holy Trinity
with All Saints Church on Prince Consort
Road (next to Beit Halls). After the service,
there will be mince pies, refreshments, and
a chance to mingle. Everyone is invited, from
the nicest to the naughtiest.
On the Naughty List
Hannah Edmondson
Writer
hopeeternalcookbook.wordpress.com

