15
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 29 NOV
FASHION
Imperial FashionSoc’s Answer
to London Fashion Week
Oscar Tucker
Fashion Society
M
ade by Manish Arora, I like
this outfit as she gets to wear
a freakin’ toucan for a hat.
Her dress is kind of nice
too I suppose, but really no
one’s paying any attention to that. This is a nice
example of how what’s on the catwalk is allowed
to be totally cooky compared to bog standard
‘clothes’. Does anyone think that this is the kind
of outfit you’d be able to wear to Tesco with three
kids in tow? No! Does anyone give a flying fuck?
Also no! Once you look a bit closer you get to
see the nicer touches – her hat also contains
anonymous, tropical-looking flowers, which
are probably reminiscent of where toucans live.
I’m sure that this has a deep and meaningful
message, probably to do with the reckless
destruction of the beautiful environment that
inspired this outfit. But hey, who are we to dwell
on such things? Let’s sit back and enjoy the pretty
colours present in this dazzling outfit.
T
his was designed by Gareth Pugh, who
describes his style as, “the struggle
between light and darkness”. Anyone
who can’t see this immediately from
the picture and thinks it just looks
like someone dressed as a spike is obviously
not trying very hard and should probably enrol
in a Horizons philosophy course. This is a
METAPHOR, people. It’s MEANINGFUL.
Anyway, I like this one because it’s clearly
batshit cray-cray. It looks like someone began
with a triangle, gave it a ruff and called it an
outfit. This is the kind of creative outlet civil
engineers just don’t get to experience. No matter
how much they want to make a spiky dam, they
get told ‘that’s stupid’ and that it would lead to
“Holland being crushed by billions of tonnes
of water”. Well, no such restriction applies to
fashion. You want a spike, you get a goddamn
spike.
T
his colourful little number is being
worn by the amusingly-named
Milagros Schmoll for New York’s
Fashion Week. We like this primarily
because it’s colourful and pretty but
also because you can see her underwear. This
design is all about conflict – just look at the
hostility on her face against the friendly and
colourful outfit and the way the pink and the
green of her dress fight for dominance. But that’s
enough of that – if this article carries on like this,
we might end up seriously discussing fashion,
and we absolutely can’t have that, can we?
Y
es, it has been what every student
here yearned for for years. “WE
NEED A CREATIVE OUTLET!”
we cry in block caps. “WE HAVE
ALL THESE COLOURFUL
AND STYLISH IDEAS BUT NO MEDIUM
TO EXPRESS THEM!” Well, finally there is a
solution to your problems. Fashion Society has
announced that it is running a fashion show and
needs models and stylists to help. Well if you
need some fashion guidance before applying
for this doubtless oversubscribed position
your author has included some handy fashion
critiques below.
Nicki Minaj Wearing Manish Arora
Manish Arora is an Indian fashion designer. He
is regarded by many as the ‘John Galliano’ of
India. He is known for using psychedelic colours
and traditional Indian crafts such as embroidery
and beading on modern Western silhouettes.
I hope that after this analytical and deep article, you feel quizzed up and psyched about the world of fashion! Fashion Soc needs models, stylists and
general help – if you’re interested/competent/enthusiastic contact fashionsoc@imperial.ac.uk!
Rebecca Connor, UK Rebecca Cotton, UK David Shankborne
Want to write for the felix
fashion section?
Have a burning passion for
fashion? E-mail us at fashion.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Kyle Rover

