F E L I X S
£e&eK. is. the. Editor
University of London Union,
Malet Street.
18th, Ootober, 1955.
Dear Sir,
I was very interested to read the spirited attack
Hade i n "Nelson's Column" on U.L.U. Membership Cards.
Unfortunately, "Nelson", seems to have slipped into one or
two misapprehensions which X hope I may be allowed to
correct.
I think most people would agree that this costly
and splendid building whioh is now U.L.TT.*s headquarters,
should be used mainly by those people for whom i t was
built. Membership cards were issued not to prevent damage
to the building by outsiders, so much as to ensure that
the facilities were used solely by members and their friends.
If the President's Council did not make every effort to
ensure this, I think they would be falling in their duty
both to the members and to the University who finance the
building. Without some attempt to control admission, the
building would be open to anybody who oared to walk in from
Tottenham Court Road. This would appear to be a reasonable
precaution rather then a "Gestapo-like move."
"Nelson" was, of course, right in answering his
question "What is wrong with the individual College Union
Membership Cards?" with "The doorkeepers can't recognise
them." But this i s only part of the real answer.
Cut of the 43 Colleges in U.L.U., 15 are Medical
Colleges and 13 Institutions with Recognised Teachers. In
practically all of these a member of the College Union is
not necessarily a member of U.L.U.. Therefore, possession of
a College Union Cardgives no indication of the right to
enter the new building. Of the 15 Colleges remaining, many,
Including the three large ones, U.C., King's and L.S.E., do
not have membership cards at all.
Thus the number of Colleges in which the College
Union membership cards are issued and where College Union
Kenibership means the same as membership of U.L.U. i s very
small. I.C. happens to be in the exceptionally fortunate
position. In view of these difficulties i t vras decided tb
issue one standard card in the opening year and then to
reconsider the position in the light of experience. It may
well be that some College cards (I.C.'a included) can be
accepted at a later date.
• • As to the cost of membershipcards, this deoreases
proportionately with the number printed. Since, for the same
reasons given above, the Union had to print so many Union
cards, tile extra cost of printing for the few Colleges such
as I.C. was very small. Moreover, the importance of,a
membership card from the publicity point of view cannot be
underestimated.
I frankly am unable to see how the charge o f stupid
bureaucracy' can be justified. The charge, i f made, should
be levelled at«President's Council who accepted the proposal
unanimously at their meeting on the 20th. June, 1955. This
meeting was attended by Mr. M. Neale, at that time, ft-esident
of the I.C. Union.
Yours faithfully.
Alec Leaver
(Hon. Secretary, University of London Union. )
*• See Nelson's Column
Dear S i r ,
As one of the Quildsaen who were forcibly
ejected by hooligans on Mines Freshers' Night from
the bar, I was astounded to see the Mines pornograph-
er READING a manuscript of "Eskimo Nell" to xhe Mines
Freshers, I feel that the Mines should be given a
chance to regain their lost prestige i n the College.
I therefore challenge the Hon. pornographer to meet
me i n the bar on Friday 23th October at 7.00p.m.,
where an Impartial judge w i l l select the better un-
scripted rendering of this epic poem. The stakes to
be one pint of best ale.
Yours etc.,
Dead-eyed-Dick.
C O M I N G E V E N T 3
Typewriters'
Christopher Shoies was tht
first man to produce a really
workable typewriter. In 1873 he
contracted the firm of E- Rem-
ington and Sons for its manu-
facture, and now the name is &
household word. We buy, ewtii
loan and repair not only Remr(
ingtons, but also many other
makes. We have specialiterms
f o r students and our name t*
TUCKER OF 118c. CROMWELL ROAD, S-W-
MACHINES HIRED WEEKLY OR MONTHLY
Friday 28th October
1.10 p.m. (S.C.M.) Room 128 C. & G.
Sandwiches on sala.
"Is C h r i s t i a n i t y True?" by Rev. H.B.Jamieson.
5.30 p.m. (Photographic Society)
Zoology Lecture Theatre.
P o r t r a i t Group Meeting.
5.30 p.m. Chen. Eng. Society i n Chem. Tech.
Two films: The Island & The Tower.
Saturday 29th October
Entertainments Committee Hop Ayrton H a l l .
Tickets from Union Office at usual times.
Sunday 30th October
8.15 O H MounTaineering Club Meet at
Harrison's Rocks. Assemble V i c t o r i a Station
8.15 a.m. Bring sandwiches and o l d clothes
Tuesday 1st November
5.40 p.m. Mathematics & Physical Society i n
large Physics Lecture Theatre. "Atoms & the
Solar Corona" by Professor C. W. Allen.
Teas (6d each) from 5.15 p.m.
Thursday 3rd November
1,10 p.m. Photographic Society. Botany
Lecture Theatre. "Beginners' Album" Kodak
Filmstrip lecture.
5.30 p.m. Engineering Society Room 15
"Tidal Power" by B. D. Richards A.C.G.I.,
M.I.C.E.
Friday 4th November
1.10 p.m. S.C.M. i n Room 128 C. & G.
Sandwiches on sale.
"What i s C h r i s t i a n i t y ? " by Rev. N. Spoor.
6.45 p.m. Film Society i n Room 04, C. & G.
Rashamon & V i s i t to Picasso.
Saturday 5th November
Hop & Fireworks Sc"Special Attractions at
Harlington. Transport inclusive. Tickets
from Union Office at usual times.
Friday.11th November
5.IS p'.!n™Photographic Society i n Botany
Lecture Theatre. "Print C r i t i c i s m " by
A. Manning A.R.P.S. Bring prints.
(Znmimcement&l
A MASS X-RAY, unit w i l l v i s i t I.p.from Dec. 5th-
7th. Watch for details towards the end of November.
UNIVERSITY OF LONDON UNION CARDS. Those who wish to
possessU.L.Union cards may obtain them from the
Union office, students using the U.L.Union building
may be asked to produce their cards before being
admitted.
SPS3CH-MAKING AND VOICB PRODUCTION. Anyone inter-
ested i n attending a brief course of training i n
the art of speechmaking and voice production should
contact the Hon. Secretary, I.C.Union.
YOU HAYS B33N WARNED We hereby announce that we
cannot accept any responsibility for persons riding
or attempting to ride on the Traction Engine.
Should the locomotive proceed to Putney on Morphy
Day,we w i l l expect spectators to use their discre-
tion and assist i n the prevention of thoughtless
acts which might endanger others i n the neighbour-
hood of the machine
The Royal School of Mines
Traction Engine Sub Committee.
•••••ALL CLUBS AND SOCIETIES please note that
"THE CLUBMEN"
may be booked through Peter Goldberg, Chem I I I . ,
R.C.S. or 290, High Street, Sutton, Surrey.
Phone: VIG 9798.
FOR SALS: Tennis Racket (Slazenger) - i n good con-
dition - 37/6 o.n.o. see J.Walton,Aero p.g. or
Room 37 Old Hostel.
morning' coffee • lunch • tea
J A N E BROWN 9e* 6
7. EXHIBITION ROAD

