South Africa
The Conservative Society are considering inviting the South African
Ambassador to speak at Imperial College next year. There are a great many
black students at Imperial who would find not only the presence of a
representative from such a brutal and devisive regime abhorrent but would
also be offended by the fact that such a person was speaking at the invitation
of a Union society. Other colleges refuse a platform to declared racists and
fascists.
On the other hand if universities do not provide a forum for free thought
then what hope is there for free speech and debate? The Union has a policy
against racism, it also has a policy for free speech—which do you think is
more important? Submissions to the letters page should be sent to the FELIX
Office by 1:00pm Monday.
Futures
It is a shame that at a place like Imperial buzzing with exciting research on the
forefront of science that there is no science page in the College newspaper. In
an attempt to remedy this I have started a FELIX Futures page (page 4)
which I hope will continue next year. This week it is about work going on in
the Department of Computing on the development of Fifth generation
computers. If this page is to continue we will need the cooperation of staff
and students to tell us about any interesting or exciting research they know
of. Please get in touch with either myself or David Rowe via the FELIX
Office.
Rag Fete
Tomorrow is Rag Fete. There will be all kinds of stalls, the Queens Tower will
be open, the Guilds custard pie brigade will be out in force and Mike Stuart
will have his head shaved if £300 is raised. You don't even have to miss the
Cup Final since there will be a giant video projection screen showing the
match live. It will start at about 2:00pm on the Queens Lawn.
Free Accommodation
Please note on page 9 there is an advertisement for new House Wardens.
Apply to the Union Office by Tuesday 29 May.
Credits
Jon Jones, John Scott, Ulysses, Dave Rowe, Diane Love, Hugh Stiles, Peter
Rodgers, Pete Hobbis, Nigel Atkinson, J Martin Taylor, Mike Smith, Chris
Martin, Nick Shackley, Maz and Pete. Pallab Ghosh
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
UNION
A G M
24 May Great Hall lpm
This Week's Puzzle
For this, I am indebted to 'Rupert Bear'. It's a logic
puzzle which is better than the usual, and even
though I said I'd make them easy this term, I'll make
an exception this week.
There is an old tradition in the physics department
at Primelia College. Every year, at the end of the
autumn term, there is a Christmas Test to see how
the first year students are getting on. Unfortunately
there is another well established tradition that if a
student finds out that he has failed then he waits
until lunch time before climbing to the top of the
Queens Tower and jumping off. O n e year, after
receiving all the results, Dr Keith Bamight, Head of
the department, had an idea to help the struggling
students without the possibility of any fatalities. He
wrote notes to all the first year students listing those
people who failed, always leaving out the name of
ther person to receive the particular note if he was
also a failer. This way, he thought, the people who
needed help would get extra support from friends
without actually finding out that they had failed.
After delivering all these notes in the afternoon, he
relaxed knowing that the students wouldn't show
each other the lists at the risk of causing
unnecessary damage to the Queens Lawn.
After five days without anyone jumping, Dr
Barnight thought everything was alright. However,
on the sixth day after delivering the notes, the six
freshers who failed all went up the tower and jumped
off. Assuming there is at least one failure, how did
the failers know that they had failed?
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday, please. £5
cheque, courtesy of Mend-a-Bike, for the randomly
selected winner.
Last Week's Solution
80809
124)10020316
992
1003
992
1116
1116
Of 25 correct solutions, the randomly selected
winner is R B H Tan of Chem Eng 3 whomust know
where to pick up the cheque from by now.
Thanks Neil.
If anyone wishes to apply for the job of Puzzles
Editor for next year, could they please contact me by
Wednesday week (30 May) with a few puzzles.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince ConsortRf,SW?
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertismgManager:HughSoutheyCopyrignttt.UA

