EXEC NEWS SPECIAL
A N N U A L R E P O R T S
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
INTRODUCTION
As the President has overall responsibility for the running of IC Union
the annual report of the person holding this office is usually an
assessment of the many and varied aspects of IC Union, as well as a
report on issues which have been the direct responsibility of the
President.
This year is the first in three years that the Union has not lost one or
more of its sabbatical officers. I believe that the Union has functioned
more effectively than in recent years due to team work of the
sabbaticals. A friendly, working atmosphere in the Union Office
generates a smoother more efficient Union and hopefully produces
more results.
One of the major disruptions in the Union Office this year came with
the loss of Jo, our receptionist, in early April. Jo left us to return to her
original vocation, graphic design, and is thoroughly enjoying her new
job. I would like to takethis opportunity to thank herforallshe has done
for IC Union and wish her the best of luck with her new job and in the
future.
The loss of a receptionist put more pressure on Jen, Pat and the
sabbaticals due to the increased workload. As ever both the staff and
students coped amazingly with the extra work, and I am extremely
grateful to all the Union officers, especially Jo, Hugh and Ian, who
'stepped in' and helped when the office was under strain. There is no
doubt that the Union would have suffered without the extra support of
these people.
UNION GENERAL MEETINGS
Union General Meetings have usually been quorate this year. I feel this is
directly related to the discussion of issues that are relevant to the
student body within IC. Although issues such as student grants, the
Inner London Education Authority, and human rights have been
discussed, there is no doubt that the majority of people attending UGMs
were more interested in the 'Freedom of Choice' and NUS motions.
However the importance of the UGM as a body to which the sabbatical
officers are ultimately responsible should never be lost. I have been
disappointed and angered this year by certain individuals, who because
a decision has not 'gone their way', have called quorum either at the
beginning of the meeting, or at a point during the discussion when it is
obvious that their feelings are not in the majority. Personally, I feel that
these people who advocated democracy and responsibility, do not live
up to their own expectations and certainly do not live up to mine. When
such incidents have occurred it was pleasing to see so many people
remaining to ask one or two questions.
COUNCIL
This year, although this committee has been fairly active I have felt that it
was unable to discern between matters of immense importance to the
Union and minutea. Issues such as the takeover of the Union refectory
raised little discussion, whereas minor changes to student
representation on College committees appeared to be extremely
controversial. However, the attendance at Council this year has been
extremely encouraging with no meeting failing to be quorate.
The Executive
The Executive met this year only when relevant issues needed to be
discussed or after a certain time lapse. There is certain feeling amongst
some Union officers that the Executive this year has not fulfilled its
function, but although the Executive has not functioned as well as I
might have liked this year, I do not feel that their opinions are fully "
justified. I believe the Executive committee is essentially an information
committee, which takes decisions on everyday matters but makes policy
only when the time scale involved prohibits the issue being discussed
beforehand by Council. This year the executive has had to make
disciplinary decisions, some of which were overturned by various
appeals. Dealing with the disciplinary actions made me realise that the
Union disciplinary procedure needed updating. I presented the updated
version at Council which was approved; I would ask this UGM to
approve this updated version, with the inclusion of the
recommendations of the last appeals committee.
CONSTITUENT COLLEGE UNIONS
The Constituent College Unions have in general functioned well this
session, and have been active in many different ways. Certain events
fielded have caused controversy within the Union and its members,
resulting in many motions being tabled at IC Union General Meeting,
with some decisions being overturned from one meeting to the next.
I was disappointed by the attitude taken by some of the Constituent
College Union newspapers during the IC Union sabbatical elections,
. which contributed towards the decision of the elections committee to
disqualify one of the Presidential candidates. Whilst I am aware of CCU
autonomy, I would recommend that if in future a C C U newspaper
directly contravenes ICU eleciton rules then that paper should cease to
be funded through IC Union subvention.
MAJOR SUB COMMITTEES
As usual the major sub-committees have worked well and been very
active. The regular meetins serve as a useful forum for information to the
sabbatical officers. It was my loss that I was unable to attend as many as I
would have liked.
Athletics Clubs Committee
At the beginning of the 1983/4 session IC Union affiliated to the
Universities Athletics Union, in order that sportsmen and women would
be given the opportunity to compete on a national level. The results
speak for themselves, with IC winning the national finals in volleyball
and waterpolo, being runners-up in a 6-a-side cricket, winning regional
competitions in many sports as well as individuals from IC being chosen
to play for the UAU team, in some sports. With full representation in all
sports next year, this can only improve.
I am extremely grateful to College and John Smith in particular for
providing special grants so that the sporting facilities at IC could be
improved. This included the installation of shower facilities in the
volleyball court and the initiation of a loose weights facility in Southside.
Sportswomen at IC have also received recognition this year, with
Ladies Rugby making their debut TV performance in a large bubble bath
at Harlington.
Overseas Students Committee
OSC suffered many problems at the beginning of the year with the
election of its officers and attendance at meetings being low. However
with the appointment of a new chairman the situation is quickly
improving. A new society was formed this year, the Nigerian Society
who have been exceptionally active since their formation.
Publications Board
Controversy reigned early in the Union publications this year, with the
Executive censoring certain articles in the IC Union Handbook. It was
felt that some articles reflected too much of the Editors own views rather
than providing general information about IC Union.
The Rag Mag also caused controversy, with a delegation of women
coming to see me to voice thier complaints. Nothing came of this
incident, as the Executive were satisfied with the contents of the Rag
Mag.
Again the annual publications of the Phoenix and the Alternative
Prospectus were produced, the quality of both being high.
FELIX, the newspaper of Imperial College Union, exhibited a certain
style this year that caused major discussions both on Council and in
College. The style and personal comments in many articles caused
College to produce an alternative magazine, Fido, expressing views that
had not been published in FELIX, as well as different types of articles.
After the publication of Fido, Council made known its views on FELIX,
which I hope were noted by Pallab. From my own viewpoint, I was
disappointed that I had to continually correct inaccuracies that had
been reported in FELIX. My only other comment on FELIX this year is
that my personal opinion of the Editor is not very high!
Recreational Clubs Committee
The activity of many RCC clubs appear to have increased this year, with
many achieving national notoriety, including hang-gliding and chess. A
new innovation in RCC this year was the introduction of first aid courses
for the safety officers in the 'hazardous clubs'.
Social, Cultural and Amusements Board
As usual the societies in SCAB have excelled themselves, in their
various productions and debates, lolanthe, Gallileo, the choir
productions and Debsoc's debates being well supported by both
students and staff.
Social Clubs Committee
With the increased activity of a number of the clubs, the notoriety of
people invited to speak at many of the clubs meetings has also
increased. In many other colleges the reaction to controversial speakers
has been violent activity would occur at IC, clubs have had to ensure
adequate security whenever speakers have been invited.
UNION COMMITTEES
Academic Affairs
This year academic affairs have had a lower profile than last year,
however I believe many departmental representatives have worked well
within their departments.
External Affairs
Peter Burt, EAO, has put a tremendous effort into his post this year,
guiding the committee into an active? involvement in campaigns against

