the reductions in the student maintenance grant, the decrease in
student travel awards and the abolition of ILEA. Peter has expressed the
view that the sabbaticals and Council have not supported the External
Affairs Committee. Personally, I did not stand on a politically inclined
platform and have felt that my priorities lay with many other aspects of
the Union, which may have led to my involvement with External Affairs
being less than that of my predessessor.
I have attended G U C (essentially ULU Council) as a representative of
IC Union, however in my opinion the committee has very little to offer IC.
The internal sabbatical structure of ULU has been put under great strain
this year, which has lead to a loss of direction of any objectives it
originally had. G U C has functioned, but has suffered in my opinion from
the political inclinations of the other London colleges in attendance.
Internal Services
The Internal Services Committee was set up for the first time this year. It
has worked well, being actively involved in the discussions on the
takeover of the Union refectory. I hope it continues to work well next,
year under its new chairmanship.
Rag
Rag looked doomed at the beginning of the year with the failure of the
Rag Chairman, however thanks to Sean, Dave Parry andJames Benbow
and their active involvement during the summer and autumn term it has
succeeded beyond anything I could have imagined. The CCUs have
been active with many different stunts and have contributed
wholeheartedly to the Rag Charity appeal. I believe the Rag total this
year is hoped to reach £7,000.
Union Finance Committee
I was please that the responsibility for the finances of the IC Union
returned to the Deputy President this year. Chris, has chaired the
committee with great expertese and a responsible attitude, which has
resulted in a more balanced financial view of the Union by both major
sub-committees and CCUs. My thanks must also go to Dr Ken Weale the
senior treasurer of IC Union who has exhibited great patience and calm
wnen we have continually introduced further financial commitments
onto IC Union.
Union House Committee
I have regularly attended House Committee and am pleased with the
progress that has been made in redecorating and refurbishing Union
areas. However, both Chris and I have been fed up of moving furniture
around the Union Building that clubs have borrowed but not replaced.
Union Transport Committee
I have been more involved in transport matters than many of my
predessessors. This year we proposed certain changes to the IC Union
transport system, which has resulted in a larger number of clubs and
societies regularly using Union vans rather than having to hire
externally. Due to this re-vamping of the bookings system I have
negotiated a deal with Budget Van Hire, so that minibuses may be hired
at rates lower than standard commercial charges. On one or two
weekends during the summer term, a shared costing exercise was used,
in order that no club suffered financially from being unable to use a
Union van. This worked well and I intend to chargethesummertourson
a similar basis. Next year I have recommended that the Hon Sec is
responsible for transport, as this ties in well with the extra aspect of
insurance incorporated due to the external account being set up with
Budget.
COLLEGE COMMITTEES
Governing Body and Finance and Executive Committee
These are the two most senior committees within the College structure,
both are chaired by Sir Henry Fisher and are attended by senior College
administrators and College Governors. IC Union has three
representatives on these committees, who have observer status. On
several occasions this year :we have been given opportunities to voice
our opinions on matters ranging from the progress, or lack of it, on the
fire alarm installation in Southside, the 28 UGC questions, to the
development of the Harlington Gravel with a view of possibly £1,000,000
being made available to expand the sporting facilities at IC. I feel that
these meetings are exceptionally valuable to the student representatives
as a vast amount of internal College business is discussed, often
producing immediate action after discussion at these committees.
College House Committee
This is a smaller, internal version of Governing Body and F&E, and
chaired by tne Rector. It deals primarily with matters relating to
residences, refectories, estates and conferences. Again, Chris and I, as
student representatives have been vocally active on many issues, stating
our dissatisfaction with aspects of the Estates and Refectory sections of
College. In general, this is not the committee to initiate internal'
arguments critisising the inefficiency of certain aspects of the College
administration, however we did raise a number of issues during the
spring term meeting as we were frustrated by the lack of progress being
made even though we were continually reporting our dissatisfaction at
lower committee levels. This has resulted in something being
done—however whether College are able to improve efficiency in cer-
tain parts of their administration must remain as a long term objective.
Overseas Students Committee
This year the committee has been actively involved in the recruitment of
overseas students from certain areas. This is directly linked to the
College objective of attaining a 40% postgraduate level and restrictions
imposed by the UGC.
Graduate Studies
This committee is concerned with the postgraduate sector of College. It
is notable that many of our postgraduates are unable to complete their,
studies in the allocated three year period, which often results in financial
problems. I am grateful to Chris Hendy for his support on this
committee.
Welfare Committee
I found this an unusual committee—it appears to make very few
decisions, but receives reports from various sectors. This year we hae
discussed the Health Centre, student councelling, student residence
and women students.
Athletics Committee
An interesting committee chaired by Sir Toby Weaver. It was
unfortunate this year, that for the first time in many years, two fatalities
in the Sports Centre had to be reported. The first involved a University
College student who committed suicide in the rifle and pistol range, the
second, a tragic accident, in the swimming pool where Christopher
Darkes. an Elec Eng first year drowned. On behalf of the Union I
expressed condolences in both cases. I was able to attend Chris's
funeral in December. One of the notable achievements on the
committee this year was the agreement that the entry charges to the
Sports Centre would not be increased for the 1984/5 session.
Athletics Ground Committee
A thoroughly enjoyable committee. My thanks to Mick and Ann
Reynolds for their work at Harlington—Ann's catering has been well
received by all. It is pleasing to report that the attitude of the committee
is that any surplus in the bar or catering accounts should be spend on
student needs. The mid-term reduction in bar prices was greatly
appreciated by sportsmen and women. The only disappointing report
at the final meeting this year was that Mick and Ann were still awaiting
work on their kitchen by the Estates section, first reported two years
ago. To quote Peter Mee, the chairman, "the student representatives see
this as a further confirmation of their views of the Estates Office."
However, further to Peter's memo to the Estates section, action was
taken withih hours, and Mick and Ann may even have a modernised
kitchen by the end of this session.
Student Residence Committee
This committee has functioned well this year, although there have been
occasions where decisions appeared to be 'railroaded' by the Chairman
after possible indications that further discussion was necessary.
Meetings have often proved frustrating due to the continual lack of.
progress made by the Estates section on many important projects.
Following the Lauwerys report on residences last year, many of the
issues discussed at SRC were directly related to the report. A College
notice, published in February cleared up many uncertain aspects of
residences, reitterating the College commitment to obtain a minimum of
another 125 residence places, as the loss of the Fremantle is expecteed
in June 1985, with many of the smaller Head Tenancies being lost atthe
end of the current session.
One of the more controversial aspects of the College notice included
the transfer of messenger and security personnel costs onto the
residence account. The initial figure discussed was in the region of
£90,000. The chairman of SRC, Don Monro and I discussed messenger
and security personnel with the Chief Security Officer and eventually
proposals were put before John Smith that resulted in the service being
costed at approximately £40,000. It remains to be seen whether or not
the proposed service will function adequately, although both Don
Monro and I believe that students must take an active role in
contributing to the efficiency of any security service. Personally, I also
believe that, apart from a notable few, security guards employed by the
College are totally uninterested in their responsibilities and actively
contribute towards the failings in our security service rather than
attempt to improve them.
The appointment of the Managing Surveyor (Residences), Peter
Hallworth, initiated several discussions. Peter is on secondment from
the Estates section and his primary responsibilities will be the upkeep,
refurbishment and management of College residences. In recent
years Wardens have found it almost impossible to get prompt action on
many occasions where work has been requested. I hope this
appointment will improve the situation.
Controversy has also predominated this year over the occupancy of
the Southside penthouse flats. I am disappointed to report that,
although the reasoning has been continually questioned, it appears that
the Southside flats will in future be occupied by academics. On asimilar
but more satisfactory note, the Rector has agreed that the Linstead flats
presently occupied by academics, will be put at the disposal of the
Students Residence Committee as soon as possible, for use as student
accommodation.
One of the issues, on SRC actively taken up by the student
representatives this year was the loss of Gerrard Mansions. As this
accommodation is unfurnished it was felt that College had acted
unfairly in failing to inform students taking up the accommodation atthe
beginning of the session that the loss of the accommodation at the end
of this session would happen, thus making reapplicaiton impossible and
the financial outlay on furnishings heavy. I am pleased to report that the
decision was taken to renegotiate the lease for a further 12 month period
which was satisfactory to all concerned.
It has been a great concern of the SRC this year that the loss of a large
number of residence places will occur at the end of the 1984/5 session. A
great deal of work has been done by Michael Arthur, Don Monro and
John Smith in searching for suitable new accommodation. Although we
have viewed several properties this year, none have proved to be

