acceptable. One of the major contributing factors to this follows on from
the recommendation that the residence should be essentially funded on
the basis of a self balancing loan financed scheme servied from income,
but College now realise that a large gap exists between going property
prices and the likely income from present levels of student rents. Due to
this shortfall, the residence account is attempting to provide a small
surplus each year in order to retain reasonable student rents in the new
residence.
A report has been compiled recently on aspects of the Lauwerys
report that as yet remain without any action, this is yet to be discussed at
SRC. I have also compiled a revised appointment procedure for
Wardens, Subwardens (Houses) and Head Tenancy Managers which is
soon to be discussed. I would like to make clear that a warden,
subwarden or manager should not be reappointed if they have not been
satisfactory during the course of a session.
Refectory Committee
Refectory Committee has been chaired by Dr Simon Perry this year. The
meetings have acted as a forum for bringing together the reports of the
sub-committees—Wine Shop, Suggestions and Complaints and Bar
Committee. On a number of occasions this year we have felt that
although the student representatives continually reported their
dissatisfaction with the standard, quality and presentation of thefood in
the refectories, the solutions for a number of our complaints appeared to
be the improvement of the environment in which the food is eaten.
Although I agree that pleasant surroundings are desirable in a refectory,
I do not believe they will m ake up for poor food quality and extortionate
prices. During the year it appeared that the refectory committee were
unwilling to make decisions on the major objectives of the refectory
system ie whether each outlet should be functioning on a break-even
basis or how much profit the bars should be making. It was always stated
that in the past the system has worked—however I feel this was more
luck than judgement.
I have been disappointed with the management of the refectory
system within College—the situation oftened appeared as if no one
really knew what was happening. The number of occasions when the
student representatives questioned why the system should be managed
in such a way, was only outnumbered by the number of times it was
reported that someone "would look into it'. Chris has fully documented
refectories in her report—I don't believe I need to report any more.
Shop and Suggestions Committee
I was asked to take over the chairmanship of S&C Committee in the
spring term. I did so hoping that this would improve the communication
into the refectory system. I failed dismally. It appeared that we were
continually minuting the same problems meeting after meeting with
little having been achieved to solve them at any point. I do not believe
these committees work well as the basic problem lies with the quality of
the food, not in talking about it meeting after meeting after meeting.
Union Refectory
The dissatisfaction of the refectory system offered by College caused
the Union to investigate the possibility of taking over the Union
refectory.
ICU submitted proposals to College in late March, indicating their
interest in running the present refectory as a snack bar outlet under IC
Union control. The objective being to provide a complementary service
to the present College facilities available, providing a simple hot and
cold food during the lunch period, and snacks mid morning and
afternoon.
It was envisaged a committee would be set up as a means of
communication between the Union and the manager of the outlet, and
would consider problems such as suppliers of food, long term fabric of
outlet etc. The manager would be responsible for ordering of stock, day
to day running etc. College have agreed to the Union's proposals for the
refectory outlet, however the final discussions regarding capital
expenditure, financial aid from College and personnel matters are still to
take place. Chris and I will be meeting the senior College personnel
involved to discuss these issues at the end of May.
Although the sabbaticals originally began work on this project, I am
grateful to Hugh Southey and the internal services committee for their
help during the final stages of the proposal, indicating that a strong
continuity through to next year will exist, which will ensure that the
outlet is managed effectively and efficiently. This is undoubtedly one of
the major achievements during this year, and I wish everyone the best of
luck for next year.
WELFARE
There are numerous aspects to welfare problems at IC, some of which
have been solved this year, some of which are unlikely to reach a more
satisfactory solution than at present.
Health Centre
The continual problem of a long waiting list and 'all day' open clinics has
increased this year. The Health Centre has attempted to alleviate the
problem through introducing a ticket system at the open
clinic—however this has done little solve the problem as the centre is
overworked with the present level of staff.
Rape Alarms
At joint Council last year, policy was made that every female student
would De enimea 10 a rape alarm if they felt this necessary. Both Chris
and I have always been dubious as to the use of these hand-held rape
alarms as we felt they were unreliable and possibly dangerous to the
victim as well as the attacker. We investigated the possibility of
distributing a different model but have had limited success. I would like
to recommend that next year's welfare officer thoroughly investigates
the sources of supply of rape alarms if this policy is to continue and (ii) is
responsible for the distribution of the alarms.
Welfare Handbook
I was disturbed to find that there were a number of inaccuracies in the IC
Welfare Handbook 'But were afraid to ask', I also felt it lacked
information directly related to IC. I hope this situation will be remedied .
before the Handbook is reprinted this year.
Welfare Assistant 1
I was extremely pleased that Karen Stott was appointed as a permanent'
member of staff this year. She is an invaluable asset to Student Services
and our welfare service.
OVERSEAS STUDENTS
Judgements made at the House of Lords during the past eighteen
months regarding the terms and conditions under which ordinary
residence of the United Kingdom was considered, leading to the
decision of whether home or overseas fee status is applicable, has had a
significant effect on a number of students at IC. Many students
previously classified as home students now have to pay overseas fees. I
had to deal with a number of queries at the beginning of my term of
office, with many students being in a financially desperate state.
Fortunately, in most cases the departments involved were able to cover
the extra fees for the remainder of the research period. However some
students suffered from the decisions. One of the outcomes of the
judgement was that some students may be eligible for a refund in fees
for the 1982/3 session. This may have affected about 50 IC students.
College are awaiting a decision on a test case presently in the Courts
before they take any further action.
POSTGRADUATES
My involvement with the postgraduate sector of IC has been very low
this year. Although I have had a fair amount of communication with
postgraduates through clubs, societies and financial problems, my
involvement has not really extended beyond those issues. However, I
would like to thank Jeremy Rudd (Silwood) and Chris Hendy for their
involvement in postgraduate issues, and congratulate them on an
extremely successful joint Postgrad party held at Silwood in March.
CONFERENCES
This year the sending of delegates to conferences has been one of the
main issues of discussion, with a decision to send delegates to NUS
Conference as observers being made at Council and subsequently
overturned at a UGM. However, a number of delegates have attended
conferences this year.
Presidents Informal
I attended this two day conference in Bradford. Although the intentions
and objectives of the conference were good, I did not really feel that
either I or ICU had benefitted to a areat extent. I would suggest to next
year's Exec that this conference is probably more applicable to the
External Affairs Officer than the President.
Bars Working Party
Again I attended this conference with three other delegates from IC. I
found this conference informative, useful and interesting and would
recommend that at least the Deputy President and President should
attend next year.
ULU Training School
I was unable to attend this due to illness, however, reports indicate this a
worthwhile venture for sabbaticals to participate in.
NUS
Eventually a decision was made (and upheld) to send two delegates to
NUS Conference. Hugh Stiles and Dave Rowe attended as observers,
their general impression appeared to be that although NUS was
developing into a better organisation, the benefit ICU would gain
thorugh affiliation was not worth the affiliation fee of £15,000. In my view
IC Union should not reaffiliate to the National Union of Students. I do
not believe the moral argument is valid as I feel the NUS do not have as
much bargaining power as they might like to believe. Their success this
year with negotiations on the student maintenance grant and travel
awards has been minimal. I do not believe IC Union's affiliation would
alter the situation. The £15,000 is better spent within IC Union.
INCOST
Jim Boucher and Joanna Claydon, represented ICat INCOST 1984. The
Conference appears to have been extremely successful. The delegates
returned with the recommendation that IC host INCOST 1985. The
subject of the conference will be Biotechnology. Discussion at Council
indicated a favourable response to the idea. During my discussion with
College both the Rector and John Smith indicated support for the
conference and John Smith was able to commit College into financially
supporting the venture, for which I am indebted as there is no doubt that
without this financial support we would not have been able to proceed. I
am at present writing to a number of companies and interested parties
asking for support both financially and through participation. I will
continue to administer INCOST 1985 until the end of my term of off ice. I
anticipate approximately 50 delegates attending INCOST 1985, which
will be held between April 13-18,1 wish next year's Exec sucess with the
venture.

