HARLINGTON GRAVEL
Last year a paper was presented at Governing Body outlining the
Union's recommendations for the use of monies obtained from a gravel
extraction project at Harlington. I have discussed this issue with Dr John
Stocks, the Union advisor on extraction, however as the project is long
term, little has developed this year. Test bore holes were driven overthe
Easter vacation the results of which are expected to be available in the
summer. Tenders will then be invited for the contract around
August/September. The successful contractor will then have to obtain
planning permission which may take up to five years. The exploration is
estimated to take a minimum of ten years after that.
UGC RESPONSE
IC Union was asked to reply to the UGC '28' questions on 'A Strategy for
Higher Education in the 1990s' by College, in order that the Union's
viewpoint could be incorporated into the official College response to the
document. The Union' did compile a response, however, I felt that
although we expressed our views on many of the questions, we
disagreed with the fundamental assumptions on which the questions
were based, and found it difficult to relate IC Union's activities to any
future strategy. Under no circumstance were we willing.to commit IC
Union to a decrease in future funding. My thanxs to Peter Burt for his
exceptionally active involvement in the Union's response to the UGC
questionnaire, and the organisation of an open meeting to discuss the
College's response.
TELEPHONES
During the initial months of my sabbatical I regarded telephones as
highly frustrating due to the slow progress that was made on repairs etc.
However this improved 100% during the autumn term, and I must thank
Mr Burridge for the prompt service we have received in recent months. I
am also grateful to him for his advice and cooperation in establishing the
Union's requirements within the new electronic telephone system due to
be operational next September. I wish him the best of luck with the new
system, I have a feeling he might need it.
SPORTS SHOP/LONDON STUDENT TRAVEL
One of the early decisions taken by the Union was in asking LST to
vacate their premises on the walkway. This arose through the
requirement of the site for a sports and regalia shop and the absence of
any income from LST. The sports shop is functioning well and I am
indebted to Roy Hicks, the Bookshop Manager and Chris, for the
amount of work they have put in to make the shop a success.
STUDENT TRAVEL AUSTRALIA
With the loss of LST in September, we had a vested interest in re-
introducing a travel centre into IC. STA are now installed in the JCR and
I believe are providing a more satisfactory service to both students and
staff. Best of luck to all the staff in the IC office.
COLLEGE DINNERS
We were asked what would improve student attendance at College
Dinners. We suggested they be held on a Friday evening, have a bar
extension and a disco or jazz band. The most recent of these events,
although did not have a bar extension, was held on a Thursday and was a
buffet format. However I believe it was enjoyed by all, and suggest that
the autumn term would be the more suitable time for such an event.
Although I believe the dinners are value for money, I feel that the
difference in price between staff and student tickets is far too small.
SOUTHSIDE
The myth of the Southside move, remained inconclusive during my year
of office. I do not believe there is any possibility of the Union ever
moving to Southside. I have always viewed the project as an expansion .
to Union facilities rather than as a replacement site.
However progress this year has been slower than at a snails pace. I
came into office expecting the central laundretteand gym facilities to be
complete by mid September. As I reported in one of my UGM reports 'as
accustomed as I am to the incompetence and total ineptness of the
Estates section, even I find it hard to believe that for a project originally
intended to begin in Easter 1983, they could have mismanaged the
project so effectively as to be months behind the fourth schedule'. I now
believe the central laundrette is complete apart from a number of
security problems, however rumour at the moment indicates that two of
the washing machines may have been stolen, before the laundrette is
even open. The gym area is also complete, but whether the lighting in
the area is adequae for sports use is debatable. Security in Southside
has been discussed in every Presidents report for the last n years!
Although things are actually moving at last the delays have been
endless—with the Estates section delaying work until the GLC ap-
proved, I can only say that the Estates delay factor was prominant yet
again! The latest security proposals include a double door system with
the outer being on an ASSA key system, the inner on a key card system.
This will mean that the inner doors will be locked on a 24 hour basis.
Naturally there has been a delay in the installation of the doors and
uncertainty after a final decision had been made as to whether or not the
key card system was suitably secure for student use.
Mentioning the fire alarm system in Southside makes me shudder—I
cannot believe the failure of this system. After handing over the contract,
at the end! of the proposed schedule (only 3 months behind the original
deadline), the fire alarm has continually set itself off for no apparent
reason on average of once daily. My only comment is that the Estates
section appear to get more and more incompetent as the weeks go by. I
can only hope for an improvement in the future—it surely can't get any
worse.
The only successful venture in Southside this year has been the
Weights Facility—in which the Union played an active role—after
continual delay by College. My thanks to John Smith for the funding of
this facility.
AT LAST—THE END
As usual my thanks must go to all those people who have helped me this
year, especially to leuan Thomas, Peter Mee and John Smith in College
administration—they are a pleasure to work with.
To attempt to thank Jen, Jo and Pat in the Union Office would be an
insult—I can never express how much we are indebted to them for their
help and support at all times this year. I hope we are able to find as good
a replacement for Jo, and warn future Presidents to dread the day when
Jen has to leave the office.
I have enjoyed working and nearly all the Union offices this year and
am grateful to a special few for all their help and advice. Sean, the token
man in the office this year, has added spice and originality to the
office—the quote 'There's never a dull moment' is so applicable when
Sean's around. Chris, in her sabbatical term as Deputy President has
excelled all expectations—her work on bars and refectories has been
amazing. My thanks for her support and friendship throughout the year.
It only remains for me to wish Ian the best of luck next year—and hope
that he, Dave and Eric enjoy their year of office as much as I h ave.
Gaynor Lewis
ICU President 1983/4
DEPUTY PRESIDENT'S REPORT
Introduction
It has been an interesting exercise concentrating into one report the
efforts and anxieties of a year's work as sabbatical Deputy President.
Those who read it may consider it long and over detailed yet whole days
or weeks of thought, discussion and action on several topics have each
had to be compressed into single sentences. I have tried to concentrate
on information that will be useful next year and on subjects about which
I have felt deeply, I hope that this report conveys an impression and
flavour of the Deputy President's job to those interested.
FINANCE.
This is one of the single largest and most time consuming
responsibilities of the Deputy President involving as it does the
chairmanship of Union Finance Committee as well as responsibility for
the budget and estimates of the Union.
Union Finance Committee
The biggest problem this year was the high commitment to equipment
expenditure on the five year plan scheme which left little unallocated
equipment fund for unforeseen expenditure. Policy has now been
adopted to prevent this by limiting the five year plan committed
expenditure to about three quarters of the equipment fund. Major
purchases from the fund this year have been boats, a hang glider, a
snookeitable, a phototypesetter etc. There is still a lot of confusion and
miscomprehension about how the 5 year plan system works and I urge
officers to check policy so that their clubs are not caught out next year.
Budget 83/84
On the whole spending has matched the estimates drawn up last year,
two factors have cushioned what could have been a very tight year,
these are an increase in Conference bookings income and a saving in
salaries due to the delay in replacing the Union receptionist
Estimates 84/85
It is premature to make much comment on these as atthetimeofwriting
the final figure has yet to be confirmed. The single largest change in
expenditure is due to our affiliation to the Universities Athletic Union
allowing us to play sport natinally—this tips the balance even further to
club expenditure which is a most laudable change. On the income side
we have over the past couple of years increased non-subvention income
significantly through increases in Conference and Union bookings
income and through further commercial ventures, the STA office being
the most recent. This has enabled us to increase our activity faster than
the increase in College subvention but it is difficult to envisage how we
will be able to sustain this increase in 'privatised' income making the
estimates progressively more difficult in the coming years.
Compiling the estimates gives a DP a good insight into the workings of
sections of the Union. On the whole offices were most helpful with the
preparation of estimates and I found it a difficult task imposing cuts but I
was pleased to be able to avoid the ugly Major Sub Committee CCU
rows of last year.
Accounts and Audit
This year saw a change in the College accountant responsible for the
preparation of Union accounts and provided an opportunity to try a
change in style. Though not wholly successful I am sure that with a
year's experience Ray Taverner will produce a set of accounts that are
more relevant to the activities of the Union at the end of this financial
year.
I have also worked with the Internal Auditor on several aspects of the
Union accounts, particularly the revision of the 'Financial Procedures'
booklet, and on improving aspects of the accounting system.
The changes of responsibility within the Finance Section have lead to
a few awkward patches overthe last year particularly with interpretation
of the VAT regulations and it will make life much easier for Dave if a clear
ruling is given as to the responsibilities of the Finance Section.

