professional institutions, local media, industrial and business concerns,
and schools. Next year's INCOST may be useful in making such
contacts. Individual students and their parents can continue to help by
contacting MPS, concillors and businessmen and pointing out the
importance of investment in education.
Any efforts that the EAC may make to improve the public image of
students will be futile if they are thwarted by the activities of other
groups within College. Few people are likely to support our case if
certain students carry on organising pornographic film shows, throwing
decaying organic matter around Putney, and generally maintaining a
reputation for drunkeness and thuggery.
London
At present the University of London Union is the most active 'umbrella'
representing student unions in London. However, there is a great deal of
current discussion on the feasibility of setting up a London region NUS
group. If such a body was to form, it is likely that emphasis on the
broader issues facing London students is likely to move away from ULU
and towards the new group, leaving ULU to concentrate on academic
affairs alone. This could be very damaging to IC Union, since at present
most of our contact with other student unions is via ULU. There is
therefore a danger that we could become still more isolated from the
remainder of the student body through non-membership of NUS.
ULU next year has the potential to be far more relevant and effective
than it has been recently. Nevertheless, ULU will only work if there is
adequate input from constituent unions, and it would greatly benefit
Imperial College Union if any of next year's officers were taken on the
admittedly demanding extra duties of being an active ULU hack.
College
External Affairs must, in future, have a much higher profile in Union
activities. Cutbacks in the amount of money being spent on Imperial
College will mean less technical and administrative support, less new
equipment, and fewer new initiatives in teaching. These will all have an
effect on the academic standards of Imperial College graduates, and the
Union has a role to play in ensuring these standards do not drop. Many
students are still unaware that Government policies have a direct impact
on the quality of teaching, time spent in the laboratory, and shortages of
library books. The Union must continue to work on the Academic Affairs
front to prevent teaching from suffering unudly from financial
constraints as well as highlighting and opposing the root causes of the
danger.
Despite the image of the stereotyped Imperial College student, this
year's work has shown that, by and large, students are concerned atthe
effects of education cuts and are prepared to act against them. The key
to getting student involvement in such matters is to minimise the amount
of effort an individual student must put in. It is not enough to put up
posters and write articles in FELIX. Union officers must make an effort to
break away from the Union Office and UGMs and actually talk to
ordinary students about these matters. Sabbaticals in particular must
show far more involvement in doing this, since to a large extent they are
seen as the leaders of the Union.
A mini-campaign in the first week of the new academic year, with a
high External Affairs presence at the Rector's Speech and Freshers' Fair,
woudl go a long way towards nurturing an interest in Government
Educaiton Policy, but follow-up work in letter-writing and petitioning
etc together with a major spring term campaign, is essential in
maintaining this interest. Obviously a great deal of work will be involved
if such a campaign is to succeed, but this work will be made far more
effective if other interested groups within College, such as political and
debating societies, campus trade-unions, or the College Press Office,
are approached for assistance.
A bit of self-indulgence
'Many people in higher education pursue the hopeless illusion that the
future of universities, polytechnics and colleges can be treated on its
own. They want the cuts to be resisted but in a political vacuum. But
higher education policy cannot be abstracted from the ordinary process
of politics. It is tied up with privatisation and cruise missiles and the
Common Market. It comes as part of rival packages and cannot be
bought and sold singly. It is the vain attempt to deny or judge this central
fact, the instinctive commitment to an apolitical and so anaemic
defence, that really explains any lack of bite in higher education fight
back against the cuts'.
A quotation from the leading article of the Times Higher Education
Supplement, March 2 1984.
>
The most important part of all
Lots of people have been very, very helpful to me during my time of
office. Special thanks must go to Pat, for typing excessive amounts of
pompous verbiage for me, and to Karen in her role as the source of all
knowledge. I must also thank the long-suffering External Affairs
Committee, and above all else, everyone who marched, lobbied, wrote,
signed, leafletted, filled in questionnaires, attened meetings, or
otherwise helped with or participated in External Affairs Committee, and
otherwise helped with or participated in External Affairs events this year.
To all those who didn't: why not get involved next year?
Best of luck to everyone for next year. It will be a difficult time for the
External Affairs Committee, but keep up the good work and remember:
Don't let the bastards get you down.
Red Pete
ICAAO
This year problems associated with Academic Affairs have not been in
the forefront of College life, but things have been rather quiet. This
stems from a lack of desire on the part of the Academic Affairs Officer to
attempt radical changes. Nevertheless, various matters have come to
light this year, few of them new, that have been sorted out to some
degree or another.
Atthe beginning of the year the third year undergraduate students at
Management Science, were faced with having to attend events within
their departments which clashed with other arrangements throughout
College such as the Rectors Reception and Freshers Fair. When this
came to light, the Department of Management Science at first denied it,
but then pointed out that they had not timetabled anything for the
postgraduate 'freshers'. It seems that there is no College rule that the
first two days of term should be kept clear for second, third, and fourth
years although only the Department of Management Science arranges
anything. Complaints about this department date back to at least 1971.
The problem is that once the first few days of the first term are over, they
tend to be forgotten about. This year I feel that we should get in before
the event, rather than after, so I intend to start up discussions again with
Prof Eilon and Peter Mee, over the summer. Another old problem which
has come to the surface again this year is that Geologists and Mining
Engineers tend to be very much out of pocket after field trips. There
seems to be very little which can be done to alleviate the problem at a
College level. The departments are aware of the difficulties, but the fact
that the problem is country-wide lends itself to consideration by the
External Affairs Officer.
It seems that the old problems are running rife again this year, since
there still seems to be widespread dissatisfaction at the standard of
Maths lecturing in non-mathematical departments. The problem stems
not only from a widespread need for lecturer training but also results
because the departments try to push too much into the syllabus.
As Academic Affairs Officer this year I have sat on several College
committees: Board of Studies; Admissions Poilcy; Vacation Training
and Education Technology. (There has only been one meeting of the
Educational Technology Committee this year, which I was not able to
attened). It is sometimes difficult for undergraduates to attend College
meetings since they tend to be held at times which clash with lectures or
lab time. For the meetings which I have attended, I feel bound to
question my worth. Although occasionally I have been able to make
useful comments most of the committees are long standing ones and
tend to move very slowly. It is very difficult for a student who attends
perhaps only two or three meetings to gain any feeling of continuity, and
to be aware of the niceties of the committee.
This year I have had a bare minimum of Academic Affairs meetings
and do not feel that this has been particularly disasterous. There is such
a large chunk of student representative bureaucracy beteween the
academic reps at the grass root level, and the IC Academic Affairs
Officer that most difficulties can and should be dealt with well before
they reach the ICAAO. However this means that the Academic Affairs
Officer must trust the system to bring to his attention the true problems.
This is best achieved through informal discussions with dep reps and
constituent college academic affairs officers rather than through
regular formal meetings where there may be nothing to discuss. In
general I think that this approach has worked fairly efficiently this year,
and feel that it should be continued next year. I wish Graham Thorpe the
best of luck in tackling the same old problems next year!
Joanna Claydon
IC Academic Affairs Officer

