ACC
I am pleased to report that it is possible to be A C C Chairman for two
consecutive years, pass my exams and enjoy it! This has been important
because of long term changes and improvements which require a
certain amount of continuity; I am of course referring to UAU.
After many years of indecision as to whether to affiliate or not, ACC
and ICU decided to affiliate for 1983/4 session, but unfortunately were
unable to enter all sports. However, ACC gave a very creditable account
of itself by winning the national finals in Water Polo and Volleyball,
runners-up in 6 a side indoor cricket, quarter finals in Rugby 7 a side,
and current success for 11 a side cricket. Individual and team
performances in other sports including basketball, squash and fencing
have likewise proven to be a headache for southern Universities who
surely could not have expected such high calibre sports teams from
Imperial.
We have set a danger ously high level of success in UAU which I hope
will be continued for many years. I hope that rugby, football and hockey
live up to the challenge, and I wish all clubs the best of luck next year.
The extra competitions have certainly given a new lease of life and
rekindled interest to the clubs involved this year, and provided much
more scope for sports men and women at Imperial. 1
On campus facilities have also received a boost this year, with the new
weights room, showers and changing facilities in the volleyball court
and the (delayed) completion of a gym in Southside, all very kindly
provided by College and Mr John Smith.
The new weights room was dreamt up by Boat Club who, along with
Rugby Club, put a lot of hard work into its formation and setting up. It
has been extensively used by all sectors of the Union, and has been run
very efficiently with the kind cooperation of Cliff and his lads at the
Sports Centre. Furthermore, no increase in sports centre fchanges for
next session will ease the financial burden for the sports enthusiasts..
The introduction of an exercise bike in the multi-gym was intended for
the ladies who found the multigym not entirely fitting to their needs. It
seems to have been well received and used extensively, though whether
the ladies have had chance to use it I'm not sure.
After five years of use, the volleyball court has male and female
showers which will be greatly appreciated by its many users. Thanks
must go to the Queensgate Trust and Mr Smith for the provision of
funds. But oh for a generous benefactor to build a proper sports hall!!
I had intended that the martial arts clubs and table tennis may enjoy
new facilities in Southside for at least half of the season, but Sims and
Russell (Contractors), had other ideas. I apologise to those CIUDS wno
may have been disappointed and look forward to the grand opening this
summer.
Out at Harlington, the facilities seem to have been better than the
performance of some of our teams (sorry football 1st team). Mick and
Anne Reynolds and the ground staff have continued to provide the
excellent service and support for IC students. Coupled with the new
lower bar prices, I hope that Harlington users will continue to enjoy
themselves on and off the field.
The Harlington Gravel scene progressed slowly, with Dr John Stocks
RCC
Club News
This year has seen the formation of two new RCC clubs: Waterskiing and
Parachuting and Parascending both of which are now running
programmes of regular activities. The large number of first and second
years involved in the formation and running of these clubs augures well
for their continuation as active members of RCC in the years to come.
On a less cheerful note, three clubs were wound up by RCC; these
being Art Club (their lighting equipment being passed to SCAB),
Angling Club again (their fridge passing to Photosoc) and Railway
(whose 3" guage live steam loci 'Dymphna' is currently being recovered
from a past member, possibly for use at Rag events).
Club Activjties
All RCC clubs have been active this year (membership being overall well
up on last year) although the independance displayed by one or two to
them has given cause for concern.
Some clubs have been designated 'Hazardous' by the RCC Executive
and they have all submitted safety policy'documents to RCC and to
College. It is to be hoped that these documents, essentially laying out a
safety framework for running trips, will finally lay the spectre of
Mountaineering Club's Christmas 81 tour climbing accidentto rest. The
hazardous recreational clubs were all offered the chance to send a
number of members on a British Red Cross First Aid Course paid for by
RCC. As a result RCC now has some 25 extra qualified first aiders. I hope
that the same scheme can be worked next year. Thanks to those who
took part and especially to Roger Serpell for running the course.
Tours so far have featured YHA, Caving, Gliding and Balloon and
acting as Union adviser on the committee. Trial bores were carried out
during Easter which will be used for inviting bids for extraction. The
promised millions of pounds are still many years away but my successor
must keep on top of the developments.
Another year of indifferent, expensive service by Capital Coaches to
Harlington may at last have some competition. There is a possibility of
contracting a new. cheaper, punctual, reliable coach operator for next
year, and now that RCC have very kindly agreed to let some other clubs
in the Union occasionally use the Union vans (especially the new 17
seateri. it is hoped that the inconvenience of having to travel long
distances to compete may be redueced.
It has not been a year entirely without low points. It is with great
sadness that I must report on two tragedies during this year. Chrisopher
Darkes accidentaly drowned in the Sports Centre despite the valiant
efforts of the sports staff, and a student from UC committed suicide in
the Rifle Range Security and safety procedures were reviewed in the
light of both of these, but it still remains a mystery how Christopher
drowned.
Within ACC. two items topped the discussions during the year,
athletic colours and tour grants. The Exec felt that the whole procedure
and criteria for awarding colours needed serious reconsideration,
especially to prevent devaluation and worthlessness of such awards.
The new guidelines seemed to have worked reasonably well and awards
this year probably reflect activity and ability much more so than in
previous years. It is a pity that ICU Colours Committee doesn't want or
see the need for a similar review or common sense approach!
Tour grants necessitated an EGM as the gap between available funds
and this year's 'holiday fantasies' disguised as tours widened further. It
seems perfectly clear that distance will have to be penalised in future; it
is true that it is entirely illogical to fund a team tour to Gloucester at the
same level as a tour to Europe, or anywhere else overseas. Next year's
Exec will have to sort this problem out early in the new session to avoid a
repetition of this years ill feeling.
I would like to take this opportunity of commenting on a point raised at
the same meeting " A C C and the Union exist to tuno the elite, to tne
detriment of the rest of the Union". I can sum my feelings up in one word
BOLLOCKS! We don't have sufficient funds to carry out all that we
would like to do at present. How can anyone sensibly expect preferential
treatment because they consider themselves to be better than everyone
else? I suggest that they sacrifice a good education and turn
professional if they are that good, and leave ACC and the Union to put
on as many sports and facilities to benefit as many students as possible.
Finally, the success of ACC is a function of the level of input, interest
and commitment from club captains and the Exec. I would like to thank
the ACC Exec: John (especially for lively and interesting sports pages in
FELIX), Steve, John, Tim. Gabbv, Graham and Pete, Dr Dave Chadwick
for his continued support and patience as Treasurer and Jen, Pat and
Jo in the Union Office. There are hundreds more who should also be
thanked here and I apologise for not mentioning their names.
Ian Bull
ACC Chairman
details of summer activities are awaited. It is however known that
Mountaineering are planning an expedition to Equador and that Caving
hope to be going to Peru.
Financial
The money so far has held out well, but with the pressure on funds from
supplementary claims brought on by an overall increased level of
membership (especially where outdoor activities are concerned since
these require travel subsidy) it looks as though the subsidy on summer
tours may have to be below.
The use of Five Year Plans has been high this year with Billiards and
Snooker purchasing a fourth table and Hang Gliding procuring a
secondhand hang glider and a very competitively priced microlight
engine. In addition Canoe Club have continued to build up their fleet of
plastic kayaks—these being stronger than fibre-glass and consequently
having a much longer life.
Two new Five Year Plans have been submitted; one from Photosoc
who do desperately need an injection of cash and equipment and the
other from Waterskiing who, realising the potential cost of their sport
both to themselves and to RCC (through subsidy), are seeking to
purchase much of the facilities and equipment they would otherwise
have to hire.
Transport
This year has seen the demise of the old Transport Committee, which
took overthe running of the Union vans from RCC in early 1980, and the
quashing of the Priority User System which gave certain RCC clubs
what some people would claim was an unfair precedence when it came
to booking out the Unions vans.

