The new committee and the revised structure of Union Transport
seem much more reasonable from an unbiased Union standpoint, but as
RCC Chairman I am unhappy with the way that Union Transport has
slipped away from RCC in only four years, especially since I seethe new
scheme of things leading to an increase in transport costs for RCC clubs
and therefore an increase in the transport subsidy claimed. This is
almost certain to strain the finances next year, since the proposed RCC
grant income wholly comprises the additional grants of Waterskiing and
Parachuting and Parascending. I hope that next year the CCU's and
other MSC's will acknowledge the fall in their transport costs and will act
reasonably when RCC approaches UFC for additional finance.
The RCC ExeG felt that the business of the new committee had the
potential for a lot of work for RCC—possibly more than the Chairman or
Vice-Chairman could handled. Therefore, the dormant post of
Transport Officer has been revived to provide the RCC representation
on the committee.
General
The use of a computer program to peform the RCC accounting has
proved its worth again this year especially at RCC Exec meetings, when
the state of any club's finances can be reviewed in the knowledge that
they are a maximum of one treasurers' meeting out of date. Like all past
RCC Chairmen I urge all the other MSC's (and any other part of the
Union which may be interested) to take up the computerised accounting
system. This year the use of the College mainframe to perform the
accounting has moved onto a formal basis thanks to the generosity of
ICCC in letting RCC have a user numbeV specifically for that purpose.
The composition of the RCC Exec this year has proved very
successful: RCC divides into two sections, 'indoor' and 'outdoor'. This
year has seen an 'indoor' chairman and an 'outdoor' vice chairman
resulting in informal, well-balanced, unbiased decision making. I
therefore recommend to future RCC's that they seek to unite the two
factions in the top two student posts for the good of their clubs and for
the good of RCC.
This being my fourth year on RCC, I was aware at the start of the
session that the same old questions cropped up again and again at
General Committees and to overcome this, information sheets were
produced for CC club treasurers and for RCC club chairmen detailing
how to set about doing things in RCC and mentioning as much RCC
policy as possible. To my mind these sheets have been a success; I am
sure that the club chairmen have, this year, had a much better idea of
what they can and cannot do. It is my intention that these sheets be
revised and reissued next year.
Finally, I would like to thank my Exec who have all been wonderfully
conscientious in the execution of their duties, the Union Exec for
assisting me over the course of the year and the RCC Club Chairmen all
of whom have given time up to explain to me just what their clubs
actually do.
You have all helped RCC run smoothly for the benefit of all. Thank
y O U
' Hugh Stiles
RCC Chairman
SCC
This year has seen a tighter control in the running of S C C clubs and
greater cooperation between them with increased activities. As a result I
believe that the S C C is starting to work together as a group of similar
clubs, rather than as isolated units.
EVENTS: At the Freshers Fair the clubs were separated into four
groups; the current affairs clubs, the religious clubs, the miscellaneous
ones in Sherfield and those in the Union; each set were grouped
together ine one room and had an SCC poster advertising them. Thanks
are due to Mr Terry Quirk and fhe Quills publishers for allowing us to
reproduce their poems. Unfortunately, due to a mix-up, the Overseas
Students Committee had been allocated one stall for about ten different
clubs, in the room containing the SCC pressure groups; as a have lost
potential members here, but the aggregate membership of all SCC clubs
has nevertheless increased considerably this year. The largest clubs are
the Industrial Society (approx 400), Wellsoc (approx 350) and SF
(approx 250). During the year three new clubs were formed (Socialist
Workers, Pooh Bear and here at last, QT), while the Social Democrats
have re-formed. An attempt was made to restart PATA, while an
Alternative Technology group may still be in the pipeline.
During the year, SF, Wellsoc etc have filled the gap left when Ents
decided not to have regular film shows; Wellsoc celebrated their 20th
anniversary, and have found two more to celebrate next year. Pimlico
Connection have lost the services of Dr Sinclair Goodlad, after nine
years of help, but I am pleased to note that Council awarded him
Honorary Life Membership for contributions to Pimlico, STOIC and
Wellsoc.
The Conservative Society and the CND held four successful joint
events; the Bah'ai, Islamic and Jewish societies held a religious week,
coordinated by Nigel Young; there was the Christian Societies' Contact
Week; and twenty clubs from SCC and OSC participated in the Human
Rights Week, coordinated by John Sattaur, which was* the most
impressive of the three HRWsto have been held in College. I would like
to thank the FELIX staff for the help in producing the supplements and
articles for these events and all others. The current affairs groups have
had a very active year, this being reflected in the Social Colours
nominations received by the SCC, and WIST have been heavily involved
in the production of a report for the Women in Science and Engineering
Year.
FINANCE: This year has been a great improvement inefficiency in the
running of clubs. In particular, the finances of each club have been
under stricter control, with all clubs now keeping a detailed and up-to-
date account book. This requires a large effort by each club treasurer,
but it probably leads to a greater awareness of budgeting through the
year, which enables better control of the money supply. As a result, the
, SCC has been able to purchase a secondhand cine-projector and a tea
urn. The expenditure of these items is only a little more than the annual
costs to the SCC of hire. Dr Robin Smith, The College Senior Tutor and
SCC HST is stepping down at the end of this term. He has been
exceptionally efficient and helpful for the past two years, and he, too,
has had HLM awarded by Council.
FINALLY: This year has Seen the beginning of the formation of an
SCC identity; clubs have been encouraged to take an active part in
decision making, which has been most democratic this year (!!), and to
coordinate their events more closely with each other. I would like to
thank the S C C committee for their help this year, and wish Jonathan
Gerson, S C C Chairman-elect, and the clubs, success in the future.
R J E Graham
SCC Chairman 1983-4
PUB BOARD
The job of any Major Sub-Committee Chairman seems to consist mainly
of sorting out problems; this year has been no exception as far as
Publications Board is concerned.
The session began with the events surrounding the resignation of the
Handbook Editor Adrian James. Here both the editor and the Exec were
to some extent at fault, the difficulty arising through a lack of
communication. In future years, both parties must ensure that the
Handbook is adequately checked before printing. Adrian James did,
nevertheless, do a very good job, and produced a fine Handbook.
FELIX this year has been a controversial as ever and editorial freedom
has been preserved. Whilst this is a healthy position to be in, future
editors and Execs should realise that editorial freedom and efficient
running of the Union need not be mutually exclusive. Pallab has
succeeded in attracting a large and enthusiastic staff and producing a
FELIX that has always been lively and, increasingly, well read.
The Phoenix this year, contrary to all expectations, has been
controversial in respect of one article. In spite of this it isafine magazine
and the editor, Tony Atkins, has excellened in producing a magazine
that is in the best traditions of recent years.
The Alternative Prospectus has, for the third year running, been
produced by an AP Editor. In previous years the Academic Affairs
Officer had this responsibility. I feel that the move to having a specialist
I editor has resulted in dramatic improvement in quality and I am pleased
j to note that Council have recognised this in the awarding of an AP
I Editor's pot.
IC Radio remains the only student radio station in London, and goes
from strength to strength. Under the able leadership of Neil Collins the
station has attracted a large and capable staff. The friendly atmosphere
in the station is reflected in the large number of freshers who have
started working on IC Radio this year.
In spite of internal difficultis, STOIC have succeeded in broadcasting '
a full program„<t>ver the closed-circuit system to the Halls and Common
Rooms. It is hoped that the new leadership will resolve these internal
difficulties and that the station will continue to thrive.
It has been evident to me, at times, that a degree of animosity has
existed between certain of the Publications. This is particularly counter-
productive, and both parties should realise that if each is to function to
its full potential then this must stop.
In spite of this, publications at Imperial College are in a very healthy
state, and are the envy of colleges and universities throughout Britian.
The range of publications that we produce is unrivalled, and as for
quality, we rank among the best. If the level of capital expenditure
achieved this year is maintained, and students continue to be interested,
then things can only improve.
Finally, I would like to thank our Honorary Senior Treasurer Steve
Cook, who took over this year and has done a splendid job. Thanks are
also to Hugh Southey who took over as Pub Board Chairman on my
resignation.
David Rowe
INTERNAL SERVICES
The performance of the Internal Services Committee this year has been
patchy. On the plus side ISC has played a major part in the Union
refectory takeover, a move that the Union should have thought about
earlier. However, on the minus side, ISC often performed in an aimless
manner. To counter this ISC is drafting a list of policies that it feels it
should be pressing for. Hopefully this will result in things such as a new
servicetill. (Anyone with an idea for services for the Union to provide
should contact me in the FELIX Office.)
The committee members of ISC have sat on several college
committees.
REFECTORY: This committee can (and does on occasion) totally
ignore student representatives. On issues such as pricing where student
suggestions are sensitive but unpopular they are often ignored.
SUGGESTIONS AND COMPLAINTS: Sometimes tends to ignore
food and concentrate on furniture. However, in general, it is prepared to
get to the root of problems.
SHOP: An excellent management committee.
LIBRARY: There were few problems.
BOOKINGS: Apparently no problems.
BAR: Many improvements in bar management by the committeee. In
particular the revision of bar pricing.
Finally, I would like to thank everyone who has helped this year,
Christine, Gaynor, Sean, Jean, Pat, Dave, Martin, Pete, Diana, Pallab
etc.

