F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
No. 170
FRIDAY, JANUARY 19TH 1962
PRICE 4D.
DSIR Grants Increase
A N O T H E R V I C T I M O F T H E " P A Y P A U S E "
Rumours have been circulating for some
time now to the effect that there is to be an
increase in the maintenance allowances paid
by the DSIR to graduates studying for a
higher degree. Whether this will come to any-
thing for a long time is doubtful. The Gov-
ernment's policy, as witness the ridiculous
gambit of the "pay pause", is to be as mean
as possible with its money, whatever the long-
term effects of this may be on the country
and its economy. Although we are short of
school-teachers, in some areas desperately so,
the Government cuts their pay increase and
the Minister of Education is reduced to beg-
ging mothers to return to teaching. In these
circumstances arguing that £400 a year is a
pitiful wage for a graduate aged up to
25, or that the country will need many more
scientists with higher degrees in the long run,
is unlikely to cut any ice.
At present the difference in remunerating be-
tween industry and study for a higher degree
is very marked and is discouraging many
graduates from staying ion. Even allowing
for tax and holidays £400 a year at college
does not stand much chance against £750 in
industry. The casual labourer and the grad-
uates staying on get £8 per week and the
graduate in his first year in industry gets £11
to £13. Third year students should bear this
in mind when deciding what they are going
to do next year. And if you do reject the idea
of staying on for financial reasons, why not
write to the DSIR and tell them so? Other
ways in which we can get the Government
to move itself is by writing to our M.P.s, per-
haps suggesting that they asked a question
on the subject. The House might be inter-
ested to know, for example, when the present
figure of £400 was fixed and how much the
cost of living has gone up since then; some
Government departments may also be able
to compare the average pay for an honours
graduate in industry with the average allow-
ance for graduates still studying. £400 is the
London allowance only; students at provinc-
ial Universities get only £340.
Unless we do something of this nature the
only thing we can look forward to from the
present Government will be the 2d. off the
price of beer that will precede the General
Election by a month or so.
Dec 8th — The Facts
The Swimming Gala at the U L U Pool was
the best-attended for several years and the
result was a win for Guilds with Mines sec-
ond and R C S third. After the Gala a large
number of IC students packed out the U L U
Bar, next door to which is the Concert Hall.
The University Gilbert and Sullivan Society
were producing Princess Ida there that ev-
ening and we were therefore asked not to sing
until the performance was over. Despite re-
peated requests not to start singing from U L U
officials and some IC students a large pro-
portion of those in the Bar were soon in full
song and eventually the Bar was closed.
The disgruntled singers moved on to the
Marlborough, the nearest pub., and packed
that out, those who could not get in causing
a mild disturbance outside meanwhile. Traf-
fic was held up for a short while and one
or two dustbins were rolled across the road,
though these were picked up later by IC
students. Inside the Marlborough the atmos-
phere was rowdy, but no damage to furn-
iture etc., was evident.
After two police cars had stopped outside
the pub for a short while the police arrived
in force, both uniformed and plain clothes.
Several entered and an inspector announced
that the landlord had asked for the pub to
be cleared: the constables .started pushing
everyone out without any ceremony, though
some students were allowed to finish their
drinks. The police appeared to be arresting
students quite arbitrarily and some at one
stage were picking up every third one leav-
ing the pub. Students were also arrested out-
side and in Tottenham Court Road.
A total of 42 students were finally arrested
and appeared before Clerkenwell Magistrates
next morning. A H were persuaded by a some-
what dubious arguement on the police's part
to plead guilty. A l l were fined £2 for Insult-
ing Behaviour and two students got an extra
£2 for Obstructing the Police. The Magistrate
gave a short lecture of the sort that we have
come to expect, and the Press reported the
occasional fully.
IAESTE
Conference
The 15th Annual Conference of the Inter-
national Association for the Exchange of
Students for Technical Experience was held
this year at Imperial College from January
7th to the 11th. President of the Union, Si
Lyle, and another members of the council
were hosts in the Union on the 7th at the
opening reception for the delegates and ob-
servers from various countries participating
in I.A.ES.T.E. The conference was officially
opened on Monday by the Rector, Sir Pat-
rick Linstead, who is the President of
I A E S T E (U.K.). Sir Patrick welcomed the
delegates and observers to the College and
explained how pleased the College was to
have the annual conference here again. M r
E. L e O . Herbert, who was acting as chair-
man of the opening session, announced that
the conference had appointed the Rector
President of the Conference. He then introd-
uced the General Secretary of IAESTE, Mr.
R.A. Beijer of Sweden. Mr. Beijer gave a
brief resume of the association's activities
since its founding 15 years ago here at Im-
perial College, and pointed out that since
that time, the association has exchanged ap-
proximately 60,000 students. Following the
opening session the conference got underway
with Prof. W.D. Wright, professor of Tech-
nical Optics, Chairman of the I A E S T E (UK)
Executve Committee in the chair.
On Monday evening the observers and de-
legates were the guests of Sir Patrick and
Lady Linstead at a dinner held in Ayrton
Hall. On Tuesday evening the Lord Mayor
of London and the Ladv Mavoress received
the conference delegates at the Mansion
House. On Wednesdav evening the Director
General of the British Council. Sir Paul
Sinker, was host at a reception held at the
British Council.
The conference was officially ended on •
Thursday with the announcement that Dr
K. Wyneken of Germany had been elected
General Secretary and that two more coun-
tries had been admitted, making a total of
31 countries taking part in the Association.
Delegates from 23 of these countries were
present at the conference.
On Thursday afternoon, the delegates and
observers went on a bus tour of London,
guided by a Scotsman, Findlay McPherson.
Following the bus tour, some of the delegates
and observers joined the Union Executive for
an informal evening of discussion.
The conference, having completed nearly
all the items of discussion, was deemed a suc-
cess and much credit must be given to its
Chairman, Professor Wright and to one of
its chief organisers, Mr. Nefby, for their
tasks well done.

