- 4
FELIX
by C O L C U T T
EditauaE Comment
While the recent U L U Swimming Gala held
at U L U and its aftermath do not quite am-
ount to a public disgrace as one of our cor-
respondents suggests, it has certainly brought
some unwelcome publicity to the College and
to one or two students personally. A s for
the conduct oLthe police, it should have been
obvious that this was an occupational haz-
ard of our conduct. While it was a pity that
the arrested .allowed themselves to be per-
suaded to plead Guilty, rather than deplor-
ing the conduct of the Law we would be bet-
ter employed organising a fund to reimburse
the fines. The 42 convicted were scapegoat'
for all who were present after all.
Another laspect of the episode that has
not received so much attention is that it will
lead to an even greater antipathy between IC
and U L U . Although the U L U executive seem
to "be taking a reasonable attitude towards
the incident, the U L U Warden, Mr. Fenn,
has presented the Union with a set of con-
ditions which must be complied with if next
vear's Gala is to be held at the U L U Pool.
The conditions are such that the Swimming
Club and the IC Executives are considering
going elsewhere next year, and I C will there-
for be severing yet another connection with
U L U . Surely the Executive can get the War-
den to relax his conditions so that the third
largest college in the University can use the
University Union facilities.
Discerning observers will not have failed to
notice that a disturbing state of affairs has
slowly built up in the Union Executive. No
less than three of the five members are get-
ting married in the fairly near future. The
question suggests itself, what has happened
to lower the resistance of these three young
men, will it spread to the rest of IC, and
what can we do to counteract it. Clearly the
two survivoits Messrs. Stacev and McPher-
son, are in an extremely dangerous position
and should be put into confinement at once,
while the nature of the germ or virus is in-
vestigated. The fact that this occured in the
New Hostel raises grave doubts about the
continued presence of the ladies on the Third
Floor. No one wants to see the New Hostel
decimated by marriage and strong action is
called for.
At the last meet of the Felix Board, it was
decided to raise the charge for Small Ads.
from 3d. per line to 6d. per line. The increase
will become effective from (and including)
the issue of February 2nd.
D U N C A N D O U G L A S S
We regret to report the death of Duncan
Douglass, second year Mechanical student at
this College, who collapsed and died on
Thursday, January 4th. Duncan, whose home
was in Blackpool, was the Publicity Man-
ager for last year's Carnival and was the
Business Manager on this year's Carnival
Committee- He was a member of the Square
Dancing Club and contributed occasionally
to this newspaper. To his relatives and friends
Felix and the Union extend their deepest
sympathies.
I I
I am convinced! For years now I have
been entering into, and listening to discus-
sions as to whether we are just getting older
or IC students are becoming more juvenile.
I remember having a very long discussion
with Pewker last year to decide if a custard-
pie fight at Morphy Day was a good idea.
We thought that it would be better to try
to create some general interest, any interest,
in Morphy Day, and this was one way of
doing it; although we felt that this idea would
no doubt stir a lot of feeling from what we
described at the time as the more mature
element. A l l we got was a feeble little bleat
from Phoenix, and the custard-pie episode is
now becoming an established part of Morphy
Day. But these first weeks of the New Year
have finally convinced me. The Union now
possesses a group of students who delight in
writing on lavatory walls, and you cannot
get any more juvenile than that.
The Swimming Gala was quite eventful.
Pity Laurie gave his bowler to someone else.
It was rather funny waiting in the Union
Bar hearing the latest numbers of arrests as
the boys made their way back, especially as
the first question was usually "Has McPher-
son been arrested?" Wonder why there were
so many long faces. Thinking of the Execut-
ive, is McPherson to be the odd man out?
Lyle, Fairfield and Austin are heading for
the altar at considerable pace, there really
must be something in this marriage business.
I was very glad to see Ken Weale come
through his ordeal reasonably unscathed. We
extend very many congratulations and best
wishes to Carole, Ken and the baby.
The last Council Meeting was rather am-
using, I remember writing something in the
N E W Y E A R ' S H O N O U R S
The Observer Award for Relevance.
— Sir Patrick Linstead
The Woman's Own NappieWashing Machine
for Waiting.
— Dr. K. Weale
The Victorious Medal for Gallantry in the
Face of Heavy Odds.
— "C" Division
The Royal Drama Society Embossed Tool
for Production.
— Mi. Barron
The Finney Award for Devotion to Finney.
— Mrs. Finney
The Montague Burton Polished Mahogany
Dummy for Smoothness.
— M.J. Stacey
The FtMx Bed in Broadmoor.
— The Editor
A Reinforced Concrete Pipe of Peace.
— Scrutiny
Three Copies of The Ring and the Book-
— The Executive
The Robert Bruce Memorial Spider for Per-
serverance beyond the Call of Duty.
— I.C.C.N.D.
"Hints on How to lose friends and confuse
people" by I.D. Hill
— To S. Lyle
first issue this year about the Executive and
big business methods, but I never imagined
that thev would have such an idea as the IC
Union setting itself up as a printing firm with
machines costing thousands of pounds and
full-time operators required. Let us hope thev
think again and try to see this Union in its
true perspective.
The Duty Officer programme seems to be
becoming rapidly obsolete. The Duty Officer
now appears to be the man with experience
who happens to be in the Bar feeling in a
generous mood.
Thinking back to big business methods one
wonders what has happened to Mrs- Robb
Is she still behind that sealed door, or is
there a fiendish Robb computer from I B M
hiding in that inner sanctum or perhaps lurk-
ing in the little attic. We wonder too if the
President keeps a store of liquor behind that
vast security network, and is there any sign-
ificance to the Bible in the Felix Room. Deep
dark powers are at work.
I do wish somebody would give Yogi Bear
(any Yogi Bear) back to Chem. Eng. Then
perhaps they would have some other topic
of conversation.
Ever driven a car in a strange city in a
strange land at 500 a.m., after a dozen whis-
kies, and after the drunken car owner has
passed out before being able to tell you more
than the position tor first gear? I do not re-
commend it, and it does not do the car any
good. Thank goodness for a considerate
Belgian police force.
These international conferences are the
coming vogue, McPherson is off to one at
Easter and judging by the continuous ineb-
riated state of Stacey, this current IASTE
conference seems to be a great success.
N E W Y E A R ' S RESOLUTIONS
To try standing up for a change.
F. Fuchs
Not to take strange ladies to Guilds Union
Meetings.
J. Klaschka
To keep an eye on the Spanner.
J. White & C. Liddle
Not to drink sherry.
Miss P. Williams
Not to dictate editorial policy.
Miss P. Howard
Not to talk to strange men.
Miss Carolyn Russell
To be wary of prompters.
Miss Carole Bedingfield
To be faithful.
D. Harburn
A L S O G R E A T B A R G A I N HONOURS
O F F E R !
B O O K Y O U R B I R T H D A Y HONOURS
NOW !
Send your Conservative Party membership
ticket and 2000 Regurgito Wonder Cereal
carton tops to the address at the bottom of
the page. You will receive a O.Y.B. (Order
of Yogi Bear) in due course.
FELIX AWARDS

