FELIX
Beware
the international hotchpotch
by Felix ace reporter Crunnion Lineage
A charge frequently levelled at the students
of this College is that they do not take enough
interest in the international student move-
men. I would like to answer this charge by
showing that the international student move-
ment, and in fact most corporate student
bodies, is far from being thel high-minded
institution that our critics would have us be-
lieve and that IC is fortunate in being con-
nected with their fiendish machinations.
Firstly, it is obvious that the officials of
those organisations cannot be genuine stud-
ents, for the amount of time that they spend
on international congresses and Weeks of
Solidarity and Friendship precludes their ob-
taining any sort of degree or diploma from
whatever institutions they nominally attend
The question then suggests itself, who are the
officials of those national and international
student organisations? It does not take much
thought to realise that they can only be min-
ions of, and in the pay of, subversive polit-
ical groups. The International Union of Stud-
ents, for example, of which more later, is
universallv accepted as being a communist
propaganda group, concerned only with the
subversion of! those immature nations that
have only recently broken awav from the ma-
ternal care of the British Empire. The Inter-
national Student Conference, on the other
hand, has recently shown itself to be a tool
of American imperialists who are seekine to
do for the Latin-American nations what
Britain has done for Africa, though it must
be added, with nothing like the same success.
I have on mv desk in front of me two sets
of documents. One set is from the IUS. out-
lining the programme of the Eishth World
Youth Festival, organised bv IUS ,and to be
held in Helsinki this vear: the other is from
an American organisation, detailing the plans
for the same event but giving a full account
of the opposition of the Finnish Student
movement to the choice of Helsinki as its
venue. The Finnish students in fact are going
to have nothing to do with so-called World
Youth Festival, although they are supposed
to be the hosts! This ridiculous state of affairs
is typical of the international student move-
ment.
There is only one solution to the problem
of these student movements. That is for Imp-
erial College to allow IUS, ISC and all the
rest of the international hotch-potch to be
affiliated to the IC union. The World festival
the Solidarity Campaigns and all otheri
functions can then be held here, where the
delegates will have the opportunity of play-
ing cricket and rugby and drinking g o o d
English beer, which will do them far more
than the "meet the workers" trips which
form so large a part of their present cong-
gresses. The large influx of these aliens
should also work wonders with our balance
of payments deficit. Under our influence
these misguided people will soon adopt a tru-
ly British attitude in the spirit of our Emp-
ire-building forefathers.
Now is the time for Imperial College to
make this truly magnaminious gesture; only
we can do this. Let us pledge ourselves to
the creation of a Greater Imperial College
Union, that will be known and respected
throughout the world, even, may we hope,
as the British Empire is respected. And if
these rude foreigners throw our offer back
in our faces, let us go it alone. We can do
without them in any case. Remember always
Lord Beaverbrook's shining example, so
splendidly recorded in the pages of the Daily
Express. Britain owes nothing to anybody;
a United States of Europe, the United Nat-
ions, we can dispense with them all. So the
Greater Imperial College Union will lead
the worlds' students, either with their back-
ing or without it.
CAREERS AT BRISTOL SIDDELEY
FOR UNIVERSITY GRADUATES
Bristol Siddeley needs graduates to join a large team
of Engineers, Scientists and Technologists engaged in
producing a wide range of power units and allied
equipment.
THE COMPANY
Scope and interest is assured as there is virtually no
field of engineering progress in which this Company is
not concerned—modernising the railways, building
newmarine craft, supersonic aircraft, turbo-generators,
etc. We are a large company employing over 25,000
people, and our stability lies in our diversification, from
a wide range of aero engines, rocket motors and ram-
jets, to diesel engines and gas turbines for marine and
industrial uses. The most up-to-date research, develop-
ment and production facilities are employed by the
Company to carry out its vast programme of work.
So we have the equipment, the orders and a progres-
sive future—now we need more qualified men.
THE OPPORTUNITIES
There are many and varied opportunities for graduates
at Bristol Siddeley and careers are offered in Mechani-
cal Engineering, Industrial Chemistry, Technical En-
gineering, Production Engineering, Electronics, Metal-
lurgy, and allied divisions. Vacancies exist at Bristol
where aero engines are manufactured and at Coventry
where the Company's marine and industrial division is
based. For many of the vacancies the graduate is en-
couraged to undertake a post-graduate training course,
which will also enable him to qualify for membership
of institutions, for example, Institution of Mechanical
Engineers. In addition, there is a comparable number
of opportunities for direct employment with training
taking place on the job.
SALARY
Salaries will be over £1,000 per annum at 25 years of
age for top class graduates while senior posts, which
are normally filled from within the Company, com-
mand salaries of £2,000 upwards.
Bristol Siddeley representatives will be conducting
interviews at the College on Wednesday, 14th March.
Graduates interested in obtaining further details of the
opportunities offered should contact the Appoint-
ments Board for details of the visit. Alternatively full
information can be obtained direct from Mr R. E.
Stevenson, Chief Training Officer, Bristol Siddeley
Engines Limited, Mercury House, 195 Knightsbridge,
London SW 7.
Mr S. Niarchos's yacht "Mercury" is power-
ed by Bristol Siddeley Proteus gas turbines.
This 3 MW turbo-generator is powered by
the Bristol Siddeley Proteus gas turbine.
BRISTOL SIDDELEY ENGINES LIMITED
The revolutionary Hawker P 1127 is pow-
ered by the Bristol Siddeley Pegasus lift/
thrust engine.

