FELIX
htHM to ik tdJtoL
Dear Sir,
When will Mr. Mooney learn to make de-
cent Yorkshire Pudding! Many other York-
shiftmen must experience the same feeling
of amused horror when they' see this insipid,
dnaemic4ooking mass on their plates. The
•firpt time I saw this so called "Yorkshire
Pudding", I mistook it for Chelsea bun and
it was some months before I discovered my
error.
Through these columns I will make Mr.
Mooney a bona-fide offer. If he will provide
me with eggs, milk, flour, salt, lard and cook-
ing facilities, I will make him a REAL York-
shire Pudding.
Otherwise, the Yorkshiremen of I.C. must
unite to form a "Society for the Preservation
of the true Yorkshire Pudding."
Yours sincerely,
J. PORTER, PHYSICS 3
Dear Sir,
I.C. has been publicly disgraced, and in
anticipation of retribution to be the Rector
some attempt should be made to find the
cause of the incident, though not (necessarily)
to find a scapegoat as well.
Almost all of I.C. must now be aware of
the facts, that:
a. More than 200 I.C. students were mil-
ling around outside "The Marlborough" and
at a different time, outside University Col-
lege.
b. "The number of dustbin lids" to quote
the national press as I remember consisted
of one dustbin which rolled into the road
for a few seconds.
c. Uniformed and plain clothes Police did
not worry about who or how they arrested,
and any arguments with them invariably led
to a Black Maria.
These are the facts that led to 42 I.C.
students, appearing in court, alt he ugh strict-
ly these facts were not the real cause of the
incident.
The real cause seemed to be that I.C.
students, after a rousing swimming gala
(probably the best attended evening in recent
years) were not able to continue an enjoy-
able evening in a festive mood in the U.L.U.
bar. In fact once again the swimming gala
has coincided with a performance of Gilbert
and Sullivan next door to the bar.
Si Lyle said that "true'to U.L.U. tradit-
ion, either we don't sing or we leave the
buildings". It would, I think be fairer to put
it that "true to I.C. tradition another clash
has occured with U.L.U.".
The responsibility for this must lie with
the I-C. Union Committee or more accur-
ately last year's committee who arranged the
date of the gala.
It is shameful that 42 students have to be
arrested before a thought arises of changing
the Gala date to avoid a clash.
Yours sincerely,
A.S. C H A L M E R S (MET. 3. R.S.M.)
Dear Sir,
Having seen the many advertisements for
what I believe are termed "Hops" I resolved
to attend one of these informal functions. I
can only say that what I saw and heard caused
me much astonishment.
I expected to hear the time-honoured com-
pliments that bespeak gallantry and chilvary,
such as "Madam, if your dance-card is not
already full, would you do me the very great
honour of accompanying me in the next
minuet?"
Imagine my amusement when the words
'O.K. chick, let's make whh the feet, huhl"
fell upon my ears. Where all this will
lead I dread to think, but my thoughts upon
the matter are expressed below.
FIRST T H O U G H T S O N ATTENDING A N I.C. H O P
Oh, like crazy on the snog-bash
Little John gets moving big,
Recoups pile-wise on the hop-cash,
Makes that cool-eyed chicken dig;
Lecture-wise he lives in Dregsville,
Sofa-wavelengths he's the most,
Cuts way out and heads for Kegsville,
Flies his bird from Coast-to-Coast.
/ remain, sir
XAVIUS HEPBURN (CULTURE III)
To Catch a Thief
Alfred Hitchcock in "To Catch a Thief"
has produced a comedy thriller with more
comedy than thriller. Set in the Riviera it is
conceir?d with jewel robberies from the mil-
lionairesses who find it socially correct to
gather there during the season. Cary Grant
plays an American cat-burglar who reformed
during the war, whilst working with the re-
sistance, and now lives in a luxurious villa
in the Riviera. Jewel robberies have occured
and he is suspected as the robber who has
used his old methods. To clear himself he
sets out to track down the real thief. In the
process he encounters Grace Kellv who plays
an heiress and provides the love interest. The
plot is basically a chase with Hitchcock's
strange sense of humour invading the course
and with rather too many side tracks. This
is certainly not one of Hitchcock's best films
although it would be good on almost any
other standard, for he has not grasped the
audience with hjs usual tense atmosphere.
On the other hand it does contain sufficient
humour to be amusing, a certain amount i f
dramatic photography, especially in the final
rooftop chase, and a murder. The acting is
smooth, capable and expensive. Some of the
photography of the Riviera is very good.
Overall a satisfying evening's entertainment
but a little disapointing for Hitchcock.
AJ.W.
SWIMMING
CLUB
Facts they dared not print!
The important facts that the National Press
did not print are that Guilds easily won both
the Linstead Cup for swimming, the Forster
Cup for Water Polo, whilst Laurie Austin,
the Guilds President "won" the Pink Pot for
the Presidents' Race.
The biggest crowd ever in the U L U pool,
over 400 until the collection was started, saw
some of the finest swimming and clowning
from IC for many years. The cast included
all the IC Swimming and Water Polo Club,
ICWA representatives, the College Presid-
ent plus Martin Stacey, the other College
sporting club Captains and a collection of
eels representing the Zoology Department.
The fast times in the I C W A races is being
slanderously attributed to the presence of
these R C S worms.
The success of the Gala was due to hard
were behind the scenes by the swimming
clubmembers and the help of Brian Allison,
the U L U pool chief who operated the elect-
ronic timing device. The Swimming Club
would like to thank all supporters for their
attendance and for their donations, amount-
ing to £5.15.0 to the Swimming Pool Fund
for Spastic Children.
The first match of this term resulted in a
win for the IC First team over Ibis S.C tak-
ing the swimming match by 28 to 20 points
and the water polo by 4 goals to 1.
This augers well for the success of the club
in the future. This term's programme in-
cludes matches against Oxford, Cambridge.
Cardiff and Bristol Universities and the
R M C , Sandhurst whilst three teams are en-
tered in the U L league. T o meet such heavy
fixture committments says much for the en-
thusiasm of the club members.
MIXED RUGGER
PHYS. v. M A T H S .
At the end of last term a mixed rugger
match was played between the Physics and
Maths. Department.
The women came out onto the pitch at-
tired in full rugger kit, looking much cleaner
and smarter than their male counterparts in
the I.C. First X V and equally as effective.
The sport began when ICWA were initiated
into the secrets of packing (the forwards all
being ICWArians) Having perfected this fine
art, they then proceeded to deal as quickly
with the line outs, tackling and other fine
points of the game, the battle commenced,
Physics winning the toss and kicking off.
Physics showed their superiority in the
scrum, having an excellent hooker and a very
effective second row forward borrowed from
'Guilds', but Maths, had their share of talent
in an extremely good full back (male) and
a very good ICWArian tackier, they also had
the edge in the line outs.
Maths, won 16-8, two tries and two con-
verted tries to an excellent drop goal and a
dubious penalty try which was converted. The
game was enjoyed by all, and a return match
is to be arranged.
It is envisaged in the near future to form
an ICWA rugger team which will be a ser-
ious challenge to the B 4th X V (Wanderers).
C.B. p.w. B.L.

