FELIX 1
1
times, but it all seems to work out in
the end. An enjoyable film with more
than just a few adrenalinic moments.
99 and 44/100% Dead! (Richard Harris.
Director: John Frankenheimer).
BIFF, BAM, thrills & spills, zappo,
wappo, and didn't they do well? This film
is of the traditionally well-made category
and so in terms of innovation and originality
it has iittle to offer. However, it does go
to show that even within the'conventional-
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 9
type' film framework, it is still possible
to produce a gutsy, kick-'em-in-the-teeth
kind of picture.
Richard Harris plays Harry Crown, the
best (the best) hit-man in the slimy
business, who has been hired by Uncle
Frank (Edmund O'Brien) to rub out Big
Eddie (Bradford Dillman).
Big Deal, you might think. You would
in fact be right - and it gets worse. Big
Eddie has hired 'Claw' Zuckerman (Chuck
Connors), who harbours a personal vendetta
against Harry Crown for cutting off his
hand. Imagine Richard Harris' reaction to
being told that his arch-enemy is on the
baddies' bench: A long pause, a grimace;
then the obligatory gritting of the teeth.
Claw now has a gimmicky left hand stub
to which can be fitted an assortment of
vicious attachments (clearly a crib from
Bruce Lee's 'Enter The .Dragon'),
There's the final shoot-out, in a
commercial laundry of all places. Maybe
they just wanted a paper-towel guillotine
handy for when it came to removing Claw's
claw. When this happens, the result is a
real grin: as opposed to artery blood, we
are treated instead to the sight of spurts
of lubricating oil and a very silly look
Claw seeming just a trifle lost for words.
Incidentally, I have not a clue what the
title has to do with the story.
SECONDS
Paul Ekpenyong
The Mill Valley Bunch -
'Mill Valley Jam Sessions'
(Polydor 2310 300).
When you have musicians like Mike
Bloomfield, Mike Shrives (drummer with
Santana), Spencer Dryden (drummer with
Jefferson Airplane) and the Pointer
Sisters to name but a few, the outcome of
any jamming session is unlikely to be
anything but good. This is the case with
this really excellent album.
The Mill Valley Bunch is so called
because most of the musicians live in the
picturesque Mill Valley area of San
Francisco.
The album starts off with quite a lively
tune called 'I've Had It'; I love the fiddle
on it. The next track, 'Young Girl Blues'
(we all get them sometimes) is written by
Mike Bloomfield and is an ode to the great
Janice Joplin who was to have performed
on the album. It reminds me of 'Just The
Blues', and 'Jigsaw Puzzle Blues' on the
album Fleetwood Mac and is really beaut-
ifully played in the relaxed, happy
atmosphere of true blues music.
On the next song the lady who gives
such a superb solo performance is
Jeanette Jones who sings with a local
gospel group. (A little gospel goes a
long way). As if side one were not already
filled with good music, we have side two
taking excellence even further. The
guitar work throughout is first class.
The music takes on a magical touch
and it is as if one is floating in a fantasy
world. There is no need to single out
any particular track, they are all finely
done. What more can one say? A really
fine album. Let us hope we do not have
to wait too long for more.
Dave Snell - 'plays hits on a harp'
BBC Records REC 178.
I wonder if he tuned his harp before
he started recording the album. This
mediocre music which is supposed to
put the harp on the spotlight, may have
done so but in the process has managed
to virtually destroy twelve very popular
classics.
As far as innovations go we could
have done without this one. The harp is
not the instrument. of popular music,
can you imagine what Stevie Wonder's
You Are the Sunshine of My Lite'
sounds like on a harp, or 'Uy Qherie
Armour' (totally beyond recognition)," or
'Guitar Man' or 'Mrs Robinson' the
famous Simon and Garfunkel classic
from the film 'The Graduate'.*
The BBC should really have more
sense than this, do they think that the
music market is full of morons who are
just dying for their latest fol ly in musical
accomplishment. The mind boggles at
what might have happened if popular
jazz tunes had been the victims of
'harpmania'.
I suggest very strongly to Mr. Snell
that a more appropiate field of exploration
is the classical one. This will, not only
bring him greater success but will also
be a blessing for popular misic lovers.
HOOKS
Philip Webber
Woody Guthrie: Bound for Glory
(Picadore)
MANY PEOPLE have attempted to
capture in a book America of the depression
years from the point of view of the down
and outs. Until reading this, that always
meant for me John Steinbeck, who in
Grapes of Wrath tried to put down America
as 'She is spoke' straight from the mouths
of the speakers.
Here Woody Guthrie in an autobio-
graphical style, has set down life as he
saw it, written as he would have said it
or sung it.
The result is a down to earth account
of life in a small Oklahoma town through
the boom years of oil discoveries and the
terrible 1930 s between wars depression
which also affected England at this time.
By not trying to polish up his writing
style and thus using a large amount of
slang and raw narrative, this book once
gotten into, gives you the impression of
having lived through it all yourself,
being written in the way you see and
hear things from memory.
Woody Guthrie is thought of H
y many
as the originator of modem American
folksinging, many of his son' • being still
sung today.
His account of part of his life gives
you an insight into the inspiration that
went into his songs, which were the only
things between him and starvation for
many of the depression years. ,, .
The book is also a tribute to him,
first published in 1943, a Forword by
Pete Seeger, a tribute by the Secretary
of the Interior, and a Biographical Post-
script have been added which are perhaps
a Iittle superfluous.
To sum up this is America by someone
who always bounced back, and who loved
the country,. appreciating its beauty and
people from hitched lifts, boxcars and by
foot, which is one hell of a' good way of
meeting a hell of a lot of people, if you
can play a guitar, especially like he could.

