FILIX S
I.C&ADIO
o o H ® Q e ^ i a c * ^ h o c
J o h n A l l e n
Since there are so many people new to both the College and
Britain, now seems a good time to look at what is available to
Londoners on the radio. There are two main types, B B C and
Commercial Radio. The B B C runs four national networks and
many small local stations. The commercial stations are mostly
large local ones.
BBC Radio 1 247m
7a.m.—7p.m., 10p.m.-12p.m.
The daytime programmes are commercial and 'teeny-bopper'
pop. Most of the DJs are nauseating in the extreme, try Tony
Blackburn (9a.m.-12). I can recommend Johnnie Walker (12—2p.m.)
*s the best of the bunch. Nightime 'Sounds of the Seventies'
caters for the heavier music scene and goes out on Radio 2 VHF
also, since medium wave reception is so poor. At other times it
relays Radio 2.
BBC Radio 2 1500m and VHF
5a.m.—2a.m.
The BBC's easy listening network, quite a good station of
it's kind, has feature programmes during the evenings and part
of the weekend. Suffers (but not as badly as Radio 1) from not
being able to play many records and having to rely on studio
tapes.
BBC Radio 3 464m and VHR
7a.m.—midnight.
A highbrow network - there's a' lot of classical music and of
it's kind-must be the finest in the world.
BBC Radio 4 330m and VHR
6.30p.m.—midnight.
Mostly news and spoken voice programmes, some fine drama,
features, magazine programmes and really good news magazines
in the morning, lunchtime and teatime. What the BBC is best at.
BBC Radio London 206m and VHR
5a.nr.-2a.m.
The largest BBC local station, too large to be local in fact,
they try valiantly, some of the programmes are good, but are done
with very limited finances and record time. It tends to mean not
much to non-Londoners. Give it a try, particularly recommended
is Robbie Vincent's programme on Saturday lunchtime.
Radio Luxembourg 208m
usually 7.30p.m.-3a.m.
The only really national commercial station. Specially aimed
at fifteen year old girls. Not so bad after midnight.
Capitol Radio
24 hours a day
539m and 95.8 VHF
London's most popular commercial station. It has more time
to play records (about the same as Radio 1 and 2 together).
During the day they play 'quality pop' with features. More spec-
ialist and chat programmes at night. Particularly recommended
are Kenny Everett (6.30-9.00a.m.) and Nicky Home's Rock Show
(6.30-8.30p.m.). Not so good at weekends.
EE A THER
ATIC
M i k e B a u m e
The auspicious visit to Imperial College of Lord Feather,
former General Secretary of the Trades Union Congress, could
not have come at a more appropriate time than thatof an impending
General Election.
Although his frequent humorous remarks retained a familiar
electioneering air, his talk on 'The History and Economics of
the Political Scene' gave a valuable insight into the attitudes
and policies of the T.U.C.
He briefly traced the ascent
of working class representation,
reflected in the consolidation
of Trades Unions and the
growth of the Labour Party.
Concentrating on current
events, he expounded the
T.U.C. policy of consultation
and negotiated with government
with particular reference to
the Social Contract. He stren-
usously dismissed criticism
that the Social Contract was a
sham, reaffirming his belief
that it was, opposed to leg-
islation, the more realistic
approach to improving industrial
relations, even though total
support by all members of the
T.U.C. could not be guaranteed.
Regarding the nationalised
industries, he reminded the
audience that the Government
held down prices and thus
subsidised the private sector.
Diversification of a nationalised
industry into lucrative sub-
sidiary fields which depend on
the basic commodity it supplies
should, in Lord Feather's view,
be encouraged not hindered
thereby increasing the profit-
ability of the industry.
Discussing the Common
Market, he saw the Community
developingthrough renegotiation.
He did not consider that
Britain's membership should
be decided by a referendum.
When asked how he found
the House of Lords, he replied
that he would not be changed by
it and indeed, the impression
left by this man, enthusiastically
received by a full house, was
not Lord Feather, elder states-
man but V i c Feather, Trades
Unionist.
LBC 417m and 97.3 VHF
24 hours a day
Britain's first commercial station, totally news orientated,
national and international on the hour and local on the half hour.
News magazines are good but the news bulletins tend to break
up other programmes unnaturally. Fascinating phone-in for in-
somniacs. Not the ideal format for a commercial station.
Radio Caroline 252m
7p.m.—6a.m.
The Radio Caroline of the 60's — but barely recognisable as
such. They broadcast from a boat in the Thames Estuary, claiming
to be on 259m but their slide rule is obviously not as accurate as
mine. A totally album station with a wide variety of music, re-
ception varies but it's certainly worth a try. Watch out for their
round the clock Top 40 service on 389m in a couple of months.
Pirate Stations.
Watch out for these at the weekends, likely frequencies are
221m, 227m, 266m and V H F . What they lack in professionalism
they have in enthusiasm.
I.C. Radio
Should be on the air within six months and looks like giving
the above a good run for their money.
Sorry if I've missed your favourite station, mine went off the
air six weeks ago

