Results: Saturday, February 7,1981
Rugby
IC 1st X V V Harlequins 'A' 21-20
IC 2nd X V V London Irish 0-9
Ladies v Loughboro Coll 0-46
Football
IC 1st XI V LSE 1-3
IC 5th XI V St Thomas Hosp 1-0
IC 6th XI V LSE 2-4
H o c k e y
IC 1st XI V Old Creightonians 2-1
IC 2nd XI V Kenley 3-1
IC3rdXI V Harrow 2-2
Basketball
IC 1st V V Cen London Poly 59-68
Football Fifths
Cup Semi-Final
ICVl-OSt Thomas Hosp
ON SATURDAY the fifth team made their way
to the LSE grounds at Berrylands to do battle
against St Thomas' Hosptial Seconds. The
prize for the winners a place in the final of the
ULU Cup.
The match proved to be hard and highly
competitive, but at the semi-final stage you
must expect these games. Early on McNicholas
almost gave the fifths an early lead when his
angled shot brushed past the upright. Hardy
made several good runs from midfield to
upset the Thomas' defence. But at half-time
there was no score and the fifths were
indebted, in no small way, to Gilbert, their
goalkeeper, who made two unbelievable
saves in the first-half.
The second half was soon underway and
like the first was still deadlocked with
chances being missed at both ends, then
midway through the half the fifths won a
corner on the right. Lay stepped up to take it
and floated the ball ominously towards the far
post, and there waiting to meet it was Hatton,
who sent a bullet-like header screaming into
the roof of the net. At last the deadlock had
been broken but could the Fifths hold onto
this lead. Dhillon now moved deeper into
mid-field, Buckley suddenly started running
and tackling like his life depended on it, and
in defence Cable, Hatton, Audin and Gohil
played their hearts out, and as ever Gilbert
was ready to collect the odd loose ball when it
came.
But with only minutes to go Gohil was
badly injured and had to be carried off. The
sub, Chown, had to come on cold with only a
few minutes to go. Thomas' made one last bid
for glory on attack down the right. Chown
intercepted but conceded a corner. The
referee looked at his watch thirty-five
seconds to go, surely the Fifths couldn't have
victory snatched from their grasp now. The
corner was looped over into the six yard box
and there, rising like a colosus was Hatton to
head the ball away.
Audin latched onto the ball and hoofed it
for all he was worth down field; to find the
waiting Burns who, having covered every inch
of the field still managed to drag his tired legs
and force athrow-in. Buttherecould be notime
for this to be taken, the referee blew his
whistle on a truly historic performance by
ICV.
TEAM: Brown, Gilbert, Teahan, Cooke,
Audin, Gohil, Buckley, Archer, Morris, Cable,
Kelly, Chown, Lakin, Rickard, Lay, Hardy,
Senkiw, Healy, Dhillon, Baldwin and of
course, Hatton. Truly a vertible who's who of
IC soccer.
Thanks to those also who come to support,
Simms, Knowles (and Missus) and Hardy's
girlfriend.
WhataboutBURNS-Ed.
Rugby Firsts
T H E G A M E started with a c o u p l e of
penalties in quick succession in which
Morgan managed to put one of them over.
Shocked and stunned by this rare event, IC
momentarily slipped back into their usual
generous mood with Symes loosing his
footing and allowing the Harlequin left wing
to score a try which was not converted. The
strength of the Harlequins pack now became
evident as they attempted to swamp the IC
forwards using rolling mauls, but they met the
challenge well by applying greater pressure in
the open play leading to two further penalties,
converted by Morgan. Again pressure paid off
with the IC front row starting to dominate the
set scrums and a back row move at a five yard
scrum led to a try by Johnson, once again
converted by Morgan.
With IC leading 15-4 at half-time, a strong
assault was expected, after the break, as
'Quinns had the wind at their backs. This
certainly followed and the opposition scored
two goals despite good defensive work. At
this juncture a rather unsavoury incident,
initiated by Quins resulted in Warby having to
leave the field injured.
IC now seemed to have established a
sufficient advantage, but following a line out,
Morgan kicked the ball into an oncoming
flankers stomach and the subsequent run led
to a try, which luckily was not converted.
Despite a similar attempt at generosity by
Symes in the dying minutes, IC held on to win
21-20.
T E A M : Symes, Pullen, Narborough,
Chandler, Davies, Morgan, Johns, Richards,
Lorans, Manzoni, Warby, Smart (Capt),
Johnson, Davies, Steer. Referee : R Variable.
Danny Solar
Hockey Seconds
DUE to the sudden absence of certain regular
players (who? -Ed) the second XI took to the
pitch to face Kenley's eleven men.
During a scrappy first half a golden
opportunity presented itself to Kenley when
they were awarded a penalty flick. Jones did
well to let this hit the post, although he was
beaten a few minutes later when the Kenley
centre forward converted a long through ball.
At half-time it was decided to bring on our
secret weapon, Superstar Kenyan, inter-
national R A O was introduced into the
mid'ield. This turned out to be inspired
captaincy (N Masom take note!) as Ameet
dummied the outrushing defence to score
IC's first goal from a short corner and then
slotted away the second a few minutes later.
A third goal followed when our new star
centre-forward, Mahers, flicked the ball into
the roof of the net. As IC sat on their lead
Sharpe had to be restrained from hospitalizing
the Kenley left wing and thus being ordered
to take time out. After this display of strength
IC were rarely in trouble.
T E A M : Jones, Sharpe, Bird, Pound,
Stroomer, Chew, Rao, Shaw (Capt), Afilaka,
Mahers, Morgan.
Martin Shaw/Andy Stroomer
Hockey Thirds
WE didn't start too well, being a goal down
after only one minute. This was due to an
uncharacteristic attempt by Hughes at
something resembling skill. It was suggested
that this was due to an indeterminate amount
of alcohol consumed before the game, but, if
the truth be known, he was trying to put his
fag out.
The rest of the first half can best be
described as an exhibition of unparalleled
inadequacy, with both teams revealing a
remarkable level of incompetence.
In the second half, an excellent first time
shot by a Harrow winger put IC two behind.
We now decided it was time to reveal our
true ability, and, surprisingly, our standard of
play greatly improved. But, it was not until the
last ten minutes that we scored. Mitchell
producing a magnificent shot that is hard to
describe, because no-one saw it.
Wylie followed this up, scoring his sixth
goal of the season, unfortunately, it was his
fourth to be disallowed.
With true style, IC waited until the last
minute to win a penalty, this was unoon-
vincingly converted by Hughes.
Good performances by many players have
to be admired considering that dead mice,
gravel pits and rather large holes adorned a
landscaped pitch.
T E A M : Hopkins, Hughes, Shindler,
Rampton, Bill Weep, Clift, Taylor, Mitchell,
Wylie, Woolard, Brown (Ms).
Sailing
DESPITE the best efforts of British Rail, the
IC team arrived at Oxford to sail their first
away match of the term, and lost to Oxford in
two races. With Kennedy and Chadwick
failing miserably, only Mills made any
impression on the Oxford team, gaining third
and second places in the two races.
The IC team improved enough to give the
Oxford Ladies team a very close match,
although this had nothing to do with the sight
of their blonde captain speeding round the
course ahead of us.
Kennedy slipped into first place while the
Oxford captain turned her attentions on
Chadwick and Younghusband. Mills could
just as well have sailed the course backwards,
coming in sixth and accepting a penalty.
TEAM: Kennedy, Mills, Chadwick, Redman,
Younghusband, Elustrom.
Badminton
T H E R E WILL be a club tournament on
Saturday, March 7 in events Mens singles and
doubles, and ladies singles and doubles. All
events will be h a n d i c a p p e d . Persons
interested please sign their names on the
notice, on the Union noticeboard or send
names to Ken Bull, Mech Eng 1 via internal
mail.
Also, there will be a Club Dinner to be held
at the Rembrandt Hotel (The Carvery).
Details are on the Club noticeboard and
please sign as above.
Snooker
THE B TEAM beat the A team. In a most
amazing match the B team, against all odds,
beat the A team by four frames to one. The
members of the B team who won are Bennett
(Capt), Machin, Cameron, and Kelly, the
person who lost for them is writing this
article.
The C team (fading fast) played at Q M C
After four frames the score was two each,
however their last player was very good and
won the last frame and with it the match.
The position at the top of the league is not
clear but we think the first three positions are
occupied by the IC teams. So let's hear it for
us, hooray!!
The Handicap Singles Tournament starts
shortly and the list is up for anyone wishing to
enter.
FELIX, February 13,1981 Page 11

