twujtiwiq gwi'ue a&wuj* tombed
h hum afoul College f\ccmmdaiimi
Introduction
The purpose of this guide is to try and give you a
better idea of what the College has to offer in the
way of accommodation and of the regulations
that control the way in which the accommodation
is allocated. Hopefully, this will help you to find
the a c c o m m o d a t i o n w h i c h best suits your
particular requirements and save you from the
aggravation of making applications which are
unlikely to be successful.
Since most people already have a pretty good
idea of what the Halls of Residence and the
Student Houses are like, this guide gives a
particular emphasis to the Head Tenancy flats
and r o o m s , i.e. H a m l e t G a r d e n s , L e x h a m
Gardens, Earls C o u r t Square and Redcliffe
Street.
Application forms for next session are available
next week from the Student Services Office, 15
Princes Gardens and should be completed and
returned by Friday, March 13. The results of
these applications should be known by the early
part of the summer term.
Applications from new applicant postgraduates
who are applying to live in a Hall or House have a
later closing date — Friday, July 31.
How College Accomodation
is allocated
(A) Residences
(i.e. Halls, Houses and 9 Princes Gardens
flats)
The following extract from the 'Imperial College
Student Residence Halls and Houses Regulations
and Information' makes it all crystal clear. Note
particularly the underlined bits.
Applications for residence from students will be considered in S
the following catergories:
a) First year undergraduates are admitted to residence on the 1
recommendation of the College departments. The allocation 1
of first year places among the Halls and Houses and between
departments is regulated by the Students' Residence Corn
mittee.
b) Undergraduate new residents will be selected by a random
method.
^ c) Undergraduate and postgraduate readmissions are selected bv ]
a sub-committee of each Hall and House Committee whose
members have not applied for a further year in residence,
d) Postgraduate new residents are admitted to residence on the
recommendation of the College departments. Junior
Research Assistants * are also eligible to apply within this
category.
Wardens shall have the power to refuse any application to
their Hall or House after disucssion with the Hall or House
Committee.
A certain number of places will be reserved for medical,
welfare and compassionate cases as recommended by the
Medical Officer or Student Counsellor in consultation with
Wardens.
" Members of Staff who, for administrative reasons, receive
a net salary comparable to a standard UK postgraduate
student award.
5 The following principles shall be followed in considering appli-
cations for residence:
a) The normal period of residence in any Hall or House for
student members shall be one year.
b) Not more than 10 per cent may be selected for a second
year's residence, but no such members may reside for more
than two years in Halls or Houses except as provided in 5(d)
below and Selkirk and Vickers' Scholars.
c) The proportion of postgraduates in any Hall or House shall
be about 15 per cent of the student members; any IC under-
graduate becoming a postgraduate will requalify for entry.
d) if a student, having been resident for two years, is elected an
officer of the Union, as listed in Regulation 2 above, he shall
be permitted to reside for a third year, but none other than
the President, Deputy President and the Secretary shall be
permitted to reside in Halls or Houses for more than three
years.
e) In applying Regulations 5(b) and 5(d) above, students who
take up residence during the first half-session shall be con-
sidered as re-applicants for any further applications.
Students taking up residence during the second half-session
will be considered as new applicant for the following appli-
cation.
Applying as a new applicant
There is room in the Halls and Houses for about
180 new applicants from second and third year
applicants. Priority is given to third years as it is
their last chance to spend a year in Residence as
an undergraduate. Because of the fall in student
numbers, it is hoped that this year it will be
possible to give all third year new applicants
places but this will not be known for certain until
all the applications have been received.
Applying as a re-applicant
The reason for having a re-applicant system is
that it is thought that if there are a handful of
people in each hall or house who have had the
experience of living in residence and have shown
that they have a contribution to make to the life of
the community, then this will make any given Hall
or House a happier place to live in.
As it says in the regulations, re-applicants are
chosen by a 'sub-committee of each Hall and
House Committee whose members have not
applied for a further year in residence'.
The significance of these regulations to your
personal strategy for getting a place to live for
next year lies i n the fact that unless the
committee which does the selection knows who
you are, your chances of succeeding in getting in
as a re-applicant must be non-existant. So, for
example, if you living in a student house this year,
it would in most cases be a waste of time applying
to live next year in Hall.
Similarly, anyone who lived in residence in their
first year would find it very difficult to get back for
their third year if they had lost contact jvith the
people in that particular Hall or House in the
intervening year.
(B) Head Tenancies
(Not 9, Princes Gardens)
Head tenancies are not affected by the above
regulations and as a result the main thing to
concentrate on if you are applying other than on
your own, is getting together a group of people
who you feel you will be able to peacefully co-exist
with for a whole session!
Halls of Residence
Beit Hall
Warden: Dr C Halls
This consists of the 'Old' and 'New' Hostels, both
situated in the Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, with accommodation for 67 men and 48
women. Each residence has an individual study-
bedroom fitted with a wash-basin. There are
shared kitchen facilities. The Warden and two
Sub-Wardens live on the premises.
Garden Hall
Warden: Mr J Turk
Garden Hall is situated on the north side of
Prince's Gardens and provides residence for 74
men in both single and shared rooms. Communal
facilities include a kitchen, study room, television
room and common room. The Warden and Sub-
Warden live on the premises.
Weeks Hall
Warden: Dr D M Monro
This Hall is situated in the north-east of Prince's
Gardens and provides accommodation for 66
men. Each resident has an individual study-
bedroom fitted with a wash-basin and there is
a kitchenette on each floor. A large common
room is provided on the ground floor. The
Warden and Sub-Warden live on the premises.
Linstead Hall
Warden: Dr M D Carabine
Linstead Hall, together with its extension, is
located on the east side of Prince's Gardens and
accommodates 174 men and 24 women in both
single a n d d o u b l e s t u d y - b e d r o o m s . T h i s
particular Hall provides an evening meal o n
weekdays. Each set of rooms has its own
kitchenette. Social and recreational areas are
located on two gallery levels with the dining room
on the ground floor. The Warden and two Sub-
Wardens live on the premises.
Southside Halls, Prince's Gardens
These four Halls accommodate 382 men and
women as follows:
F A L M O U T H H A L L
K E O G H H A L L
SELKIRK H A L L
TIZARD H A L L
87 men and 31 women
72 men
40 men and 32 women
120 men
Each resident has an individual study-bedroom
fitted with a wash-basin. On the gallery floor of
each Hall there is a communal area incorporating
sitting-rooms, quiet room, kitchen and laundry
room. Situated below these Halls are College
refectories and general common room areas. The
Wardens and Sub-Wardens live on the premises.
During the Easter and Summer vacations the
majority of the rooms in Linstead and the
Southside Halls of Residence will not be available
for letting to students so residents may not be
able to remain in their Halls during these periods.
However, alternative accommodation will be
available in Beit and Weeks Halls and the Student
Houses.
but W&12 o{toid h a&k

