Student
in Evelyn
Houses
Gardens
The six Houses listed below are all situated within
fifteen minutes walk of the College and together
provide furnished accommodation for 422
students in single and shared rooms. Each house
has a television and a recreational room, (the
latter typically including a dart board and table
football). Kitchen facilities are provided together
with washing machines, dryers and ironing
facilities. In addition, each House takes a
selection of daily newspapers.
BERNARD SUNLEY HOUSE 108 men
40-44 Evelyn Gardens.
HOLBEIN HOUSE
61-63 Evelyn Gardens
MINING HOUSE
51,54-56 Evelyn Gardens
SOUTHWELL HOUSE
58-60 Evelyn Gardens
WILLIS JACKSON HOUSE
64,66-69 Evelyn Gardens
RAYLEIGH HOUSE
14 Queensberry Place
66 men
61 men and 19 women
45 men and 20 women
64 men and 18 women
15 men and 6 women
Residents are provided with bed linen and
blankets but are expected to clean their own
rooms with the materials provided. Communal
areas (lounges, stairs, kitchens and bathrooms)
are cleaned during the week by part time staff.
Cooking utensils, crockery and cutlery are not
provided.
Resident postgraduate Wardens and Sub-
Wardens are ultimately responsible for the
organisation and discipline within a House, but,
are advised o n such matters by a House
C o m m i t t e e comprising elected members.
However, most of a House Committee's time is
spent arranging social events and seeking ways to
improve a House.
Evelyn Gardens and Queensberry Place are
located in a controlled parking area. Parking
permits (£35.pp p.a. or £10.00 per 3 months) can
be obtained from the Council if you satisfy the
necessary requirements.
A Hamlet Gardens kitchen
A typical double room in Evelyn Gardens
The Student Services
Office is at
15 Princes Gardens
It was formed from the
College Residence Office
and the Union Welfare
Centre
Besides sorting out your
accomodation problems it deals
with your legal queries and
insurance, covenant, DHSS,
Grant, and Consumer problems
Contrasting lounges in two neighbouring Hamlet Gardens flats
Flats and rooms
in the Head Tenancy Scheme
Hamlet a n d C a m b r i d g e G a r d e n s , L e x h a m
Gardens, 6, Earls Court Square and 21, Redcliffe
Street, are all properties which have been rented
by the College in order to provide an additional
supply of guaranteed accommodation.
They are all places which, without the College's
involvement, would either not be available as
student accommodation or would be let at much
higher rents than those which the College has
been able to negotiate. For example, Lexham
Gardens would not be let to students at all if the
College hadn't taken them on and even the most
expensive flats in Lexham Gardens are around
£5 per week per person cheaper than comparable
private sector flats in the same area.
Another advantage which the head-tenancy
flats have over places in the private sector is that
they give you the opportunity to live close to
other Imperial College students, so you don't
have to feel that you are going home to an alien
environment.
Nevertheless, head tenancies are essentially
private sector places which the College has
acquired wholesale, and so there are things which
distinguish them from the College Residences.
For example, the College has to pay rent on its
head tenancies during the short vacations and
this cost has to be passed on to the people living
in the a c c o m m o d a t i o n — although 'home'
students who spend the vacations living in their
accommodation should.be able to claim most of
the rent back in the form of supplementary
benefit. Another point is that the College does not
have the same degree of control over furnishings
and maintenance as it does with its o w n
residences. The role of the warden or student
manager in the Head Tenancies is very different
from the role of Hall and House Wardens.
Generally speaking, however, there is no
respect in which the Colleges head tenancies are
worse than their private sector counterparts, and
there are many respects in which they are much
better.
The head tenancies provide a wide range of
accommodation, from single flats and bedsits to
eight-bedded flats. To help you decide which
would suit you best, here is a brief resume of the
various properties.
bedrooms in Lexham Gardens
Hamlet Gardens
Hamlet Gardens is situated in Hammersmith, a
few minutes walk from Ravenscourt Park
underground station. All the accommodation
there is in the form of flats which range in size
from three to eight bedded units. There are flats
in Hamlet Gardens for groups of three, four, six,
or seven and eight totalling nearly 150 beds in all.
The flats vary in their levels of decoration and
furnishings but even if you end up in one of the
less well equipped ones there is plenty of scope
for re-arranging things so that you end up with a
pleasant place to live.
One big advantage of living in Hamlet Gardens
is that the rents tend to be rather lower than in
the head tenancies closer to College.
All the flats have their own lounge bathroom
and kitchen and although most of them only have
shared bedrooms, several have single bedrooms
as well.
Cambridge Gardens
C a m b r i d g e G a r d e n s consists of a house
containing two flats, one for a group of four and
one for six. It is situated close to Ladbroke Grove
underground station and within walking distance
of Notting Hill.
Lexham Gardens
Lexham Gardens lies between Gloucester Road
and Earls Court, ten to fifteen minutes walk from
College. The five houses there which come under
the Lexham Gardens scheme are numbers 25, 48,
54, 79 and 81. Numbers 48 and 54 consist mainly
of double flatlets each with its own bathroom and
kitchen area. There are also a couple of larger
flats, some single bedsits with their own cooking
facilities and use of a shared bathroom, and a few
self-contained single flats. Numbers 25, 79, and 81
are divided into flats for three, four, five, six and
eight. As a rule they don't have a lounge although
some have large kitchens which can be used as
'kitchen-diners'. Also, they are more expensive
than the Hamlet Gardens flats. At the same time
the standard of decoration is much higher than
you would normally expect to find. The flats in 25,
79, and 81 are centrally heated whereas the ones
in 48 and 54 are not.
6 Earls Court Square
This house is situated in a quiet square, a stone's
throw from the cosmopolian attractions of the
Earls Court Road and within easy walking
distance of College.
The house is made up of fourteen single rooms
and four doubles with a good sized communal
lounge and a kitchen. Most of the rooms are
centrally heated and the standards of decoration
and furnishings are above average.
Two bedrooms in Earls Court Square

