O v e r s e a s Students in the U.K.
by C.K. Patm
A reduction In the number of overseas students In the UK has led to en Inevitable change ot the
balance ot educational and cultural Interchange. The composition of overseas students within
our International student community, which Is especially prominent and appreciable at
Imperial College, hes had the effect of closures and reduction In size of courses resulting In a
limitation of educational opportunity for all students.
Overseas Students Societies
One of the jobs of the Overseas Students
Committee is to coordinate efforts on behalf
of overseas students and their societies to
represent their views and organise events of
interest to them and Home Students, for
example, the International Week.
The O S C has nine national societies
affiliated to It. These societies organise
activities for their students such as films,
discos, celebration of religious and national
festivals, lectures, etc. These events are open
to all students.
For a group of overseas students, their
society provides a link with home and for
home students and students of another
country an opportunity to learn about the
culture and custom of another people. The
cultural interchange is mutually beneficial for
only by learning about each other can we
solve the problems we face now.
Hellenic Society
This society has a variety of activities catering
for a wide range of interests. Usually two
cultural evenings are organised every term
with live traditional Greek music, dancing and
food and wine. It shows progressive Greek
films and organises lectures, for example, on
the evolution of Greek civilisation and its
influence on modern values. The society itself
has its own football, basketball, volleyball,
water polo, table tennis, squash and gliding
teams. One of the main events is the Easter
Barbecue at which two lambs are roasted
over a coal fire. The society is at present
lobbying the College authorities about the
discriminatory policy towards Greek students
tees and has obtained favourable support
from many MPs and Euro MPs.
Chinese Society
This society has one of the largest member-
ships of any IC society: over 200 at present. It
organises trips and social functions within
the College and takes part in inter-collegiate
sports tournaments and other activities
outside. Every week a lunchtime gathering is
organised where members can get together,
look through magazines and literature or
indulge in a game of bridge or 'hong-lok'
chess.
India Society
India Society this year has had a phenomenal
success in the number of events organised
and the attendance at each event. There has
so far been a freshers' reception, a cheese
and wine party, bar nights, and numerous film
shows. The first major event of the year, the
celebration of Diwali, was a resounding
success; people turned up from as far away
as Glasgow and the Republic Day was
equally successful socially if not financially.
There have been weekly badminton sessions
in the Great Hall and the Society will have
taken part in a sports tournament in Liverpool
by the time this article appears.
The next major function is the Annual
Dinner on March 13.
Afro-Carribean Society
The Society has been very active this year
and has enjoyed a great deal of success. So
far this year there has been a freshers
reception and film show, a slide show about
Notting Hill Carnival and about Nigeria, three
feature films each of which provided lessons
about racial discrimination in various
settings, a disco attended by about one
hundred and fifty people and a talk about the
life and death of Waiter Rodney who talked
and wrote about oppressed people of the
world.
Pakistan Society
This year has seen a great deal of improve-
ment in the activity of this society. It has
doubled its membership since the last
session. The freshers and the Eid parties were
a great success together with food evenings
and films. A talk and discussion evening
attracted students from other London
colleges and professional Pakistani people
working in London.
Sri Lanka Society
Recently the society elected a new executive
committee and are becoming increasingly
more active. This Committee's first event was
a cultural evening with a typical Sri Lankan
dinner and a film show about the island.
The next item on the agenda for the Society
is a Sri Lankan 'Baila' music disco during the
summer term.
Turkish Society
•
The society aims to unite the Turkish
students at imperial College and help them to
establish close friendships. At the same time
the society works for the friendly relations
between various societies of students from
different countries. For this purpose it
organises sports competitions and joint
social evenings, for example, a joint evening
was held with Hellenic Society.
Bhangra
Bhangra is a Punjab Folk Dance. It is
indulged in by the rural peoples during their
leisure hours, especially at Baisakli, the
Punjab's seasonal festival, when the farmers
have harvested their primary crop.
Described as 'the lusty muscle flexing of a
virile people', the dance normally starts
coming on stage and gurunga lead with a
typical Bhangra beat followed by the ever-
smiling performers who are 'high on the beat
of the drum with arms stretched and sturdy
footwork of free birds in an open sky'.
In November 1980 under the patronage of
the O S C and India and Pakistan Societies a
group of students set up a Bhangra group at
IC. The group has performed twice at Indian
functions and will be performing on the
International Evening.
The attitudes and policies of past govern-
ments to the presence of overseas students
have all failed to assess the contribution of it
or to develop a coherent policy about it. On
the contrary, they have only succeeded in
implementing one rapid measure after
another, thus creating chaos and contra-
dictions merely in order to gain short term
benefits.
It is increasingly more and more difficult for
overseas students to study in the UK,
especially since the implementation of the
'full economic' rate of tuition fees and the
accumulation of discriminatory measures
which seem to grow day by day. These
measures contribute in complicating issues
such as immigration.
The National Union of Students and other
student bodies have for some time held a
definitive policy on overseas students
advocating the phased abolition of tuition
fees. However, due to incoherent and
expedient policies of past governments, the
NUS response has largely been reactive.
In 1967 there were approximately 31,000
overseas students in Britain. In 1972 the
Conservative Government introduced the
White Paper on Education entitled 'Educa-
tion: A Framework for Expansion'. However,
no policies on overseas students were put
forward, other than a reference that in the
future the number of overseas student
entrants would not grow in proportion to the
home students. By 1976/7 there were a series
of cuts in British economy. Justified by the
arguments thattuitionfeesdidnot meetthecost
of educating overseas students and that a re-
duction in the 'subsidy' of student fees would
represent a saving, universities were directed
to charge the 'full economic' fees for overseas
students entering in 1980/1 and the following
years representing a 400-500% increase from
1976/7 levels.
However, this 'subsidy' myth hides the clear
evidence that before any fees are paid
overseas students not only cover the cost of
their education but bring a net gain to the
economy.
The London Conference on Overseas
Students did a calculation of overseas
students fees, including the benefits to be
derived from foreign exchange, the training
of overseas personnel and its effects on
export and trade, and the contribution to
research in science and technology. Their
conclusion was that the overseas students
brought in £30m. In addition there are the
unquantifiable benefits to be derived from
educational and cultural exchange.
In an article in FELIX 566, Mark Wong
outlined some of" the difficulties faced by
overseas IC graduates when applying for a
job in this country. Though, it is possible to
have a British passport (i.e. British nation-
ality), an overseas student is still only
considered to be a British subject, not a
British citizen.
The difficulties arise when an overseas
student wishes to settle In this country for
numerous reasons such as he or she likes the
country, the people and believes that he/she
can also contribute more from both educa-
tional and cultural background. An applica-
tion has to be made by an employer who is
interested to the Home Office on behalf of the
overseas worker. However, the overseas
worker has to satisfy a list of regulations laid
down by the Home Office. In 1979 new
legislation came into effect which made the
minimum age of a work permit applicant to be
twenty-three, effectively stopping overseas
graduates from obtaining a job.
Page * FELIX, February 13,1981

