3Fs
J U S T A Q U I C K note to inform all you budding
gastronauts about some trips coming soon:
February 17: Mexican Restaurant
February 25: American burgers in Richmond!
(Strongly recommended.)
March 16: Annual Dinner
Definitely not to be missed.
If you are interested in any of the above, please
contact either me (ME2), John (ICU) or Nick
Green (Bot P G , Int 2230) at least two days before
the event or March 9 in the case of the Annual
Dinner. New members always welcome.
Cheers!
Tref Ellis, PO
Con Soc
IC C O N S E R V A T I V E SOCIETY further their
reputation for inviting top politicians to speak at,
IC with the following speaker meetings organised
for this term:
Giles Shaw, MP
Tuesday, February 24
Undersecretary of State for the Department of
the Environment. Moved from Junior Minister
for Northern Ireland, in the recent Cabinet
Reshuffle. Mr Shaw will speak on the last eighteen
months in Northern Ireland. With the latest
developments concerning the Rev Ian Paisley, his
s p e e c h s h o u l d be b o t h i n t e r e s t i n g a n d
informative.
Huxley 139, 1:00—2:00pm
Mark Carlisle, MP
Tuesday, March 3.
Secretary of State for Education
F i n d out at first hand about the latest
Government proposals on such controversial
student issues as student loans and next year's
County Grants.
Huxley 213, 1:15—2:15pm
Finally, there will be a Consoc General Meeting
on Tuesday, February 17 at 12:45pm in Huxley
644. On the agenda will be a discussion on an
alternative national organisation for university
unions following the demise of N U S . All members
welcome.
Mountaineering
Club
IC M O U N T A I N E E R I N G C L U B ' S 51st Annual
Dinner was held in N Wales over the last
weekend in January. In order to work up an
appetite for the meal, a number of climbs were
done on the Saturday; Tryfan was ascended
without ropes or thirty foot falls! Teams were also
to be found on Dinas Cromlech and Lliwedd.
And so to the dinner: A fine meal at the
Dolbarden Hotel, Llanberis was followed by after
dinner speeches and mince pie hurling. The
Annual Awards were presented, the highlights
being: Best Fall: Charles Savelli, two feet and a
broken wrist; Best Puke: T i m Barnes and
Waitrose Meatballs; Most Entertaining When
Pissed: Ken Baldwin, our guest speaker, who
gave an excellent and lurid account of climbing
among the topless beaches of Southern France.
The post-prandial entertainments then com-
menced with a boat race followed by British
Bulldogs — a stomach churning combination.
Tug-of-War, Piggyback fights, and Wheelbarrow
races were held (the latter being more a
Demolition Derby than a Grand Prix). There
were no permanent injuries, and the company
returned to the hut in full voice.
The p r e v i o u s day's e x c e l l e n t weather
continued on Sunday; most of the party were to
be found sunbathing below the Gomlech, whilst
watching an attempt to Right Wall. When shadow
enveloped the crag, the teams descended to the
van, and we left for London early that evening.
Whilst we were filling with petrol, a Scout and
Guide van drove into view. Insults, gestures and
abuse sent them on their way, but we gave chase.
As we overtook their puny jalopy, the cheeks of
Steve Loyd (Chem 2) were bared in a hostile
manner. The members of S & G were visibly
shocked by the moon. Recovering control of their
vehicle, they gave chase until their windows
steamed up, and they quickly dropped far behind.
The U n i o n was reached at 1:00am, and
e v e r y o n e a g r e e d the w e e k e n d had been
successful.
This weekend, the Club visits Yorkshire —
dare S & G follow?
ICMC News Agency
Saturday, February 14
St Valentines Day Rag, 10:00am, RCSU Office.
Papers go up for President, VP, Hon Sec, HJT and AAO
Wednesday, February 18
Rag Mag Trip to Surrey University
Thursday, February 19
RCSA Sherry Party (Physics and Maths)
6:00pm, Southside SCR.
IT'S V E R Y difficult attempting to write a FELIX
article when still asking after the rugby sevens
and hungover after a barnight but here goes. T le
sevens competition was won by a Physics 1 te< m
who beat Parkes' Royals in the final. Thanks must
go to Tim Latham for organising the event, even if
he is an awful referee.
On to forthcoming events. Tomorrow it St
Valentine's Day and to celebrate it there is a
special Rag Collection. Jez will be turning out for
the event and breakfast will be provided in the
R C S U Office at 10:00am for all collections. Also
t o m o r r o w , papers go up for the posts of
President, Vice President, Hon Sec, H J T and
Academic Affairs Officer. If you want to make a
bid for fame and glory merely arrange one
proposer and fifteen seconders for yourself and
you're on your way.
Next Wednesday there is a Rag Mag trip to
Surrey University. Seats on the minibus are
limited (in number and size) so if you are
interested in going drop a note to me via the
Physics letter-racks or the R C S U Office.
The first of two R C S A sherry parties is on
Thursday in the Southside S C R . This week's for
Physics and Maths third year students and next
week's for Chemistry and Life Sci.
Finally I would like to mention that today
(February, 13) is the sixth birthday of the best of
all mascots, Theta. So all together now, Happy
, Birthday to you
P J
Friday, February 13
Pub Crawl
Saturday, February 14
Guilds/IF Valentines Party
Tuesday, February 17
Inter-departmental Pedal Car Race
Friday, February 20
Nightline Benefit
24hr Pedal Car Race
Tuesday, February 24
Field Cup
THE P U B C R A W L is a practice for Field Cup.
Meei in Stan's at 6:30pm.
There will be a late bar and a live band at the
Valentines Party. Tickets are £1 each from the
Guilds Office.
Tickets for the Nightline Benefit are £3 each
from Guilds or IC Union Offices. There will be a
disco and four bands, including John Otway and
Wild Willy Barrett.
And now, a few words from Ruth . . . .
Field Cup
Field Cup is more than a treasure hunt, more
than a pub crawl, even more than a puzzle, it is a
puzzled pub crawl to be treasured in your
memory for ever if you take part. Entry to this
extravaganza is free, all you have to do is give the
names of your team members to Ruth as soon as
possible. How many people in the team? Well,
multiples of 2, 5 and 3 are acceptable as long as
they are less than 7 and more than 3. And if
anyone feels not quite up to the challenge and
would like to spend a very profitable evening as
an "all bribes gratefully excepted" marshal
instead then see Ruth as well.
FEUX, February 13,1981 Page 9

