STOIC
In a carefully soundproofed and blackened
room under Southside Halls, the single
flickering screen faded to black. It was seve-
ral minutes before any of the STOIC mega-
hacks spoke. "My God..." David (I'm too
busy masturbating) Owen, ashen-faced, was
groping for the lemonade bottle. "Jesus, the
shit we produce at STOIC is bad..." He
voiced everyone's thoughts and vomited.
"There's only one way out of it. We're going
to have to produce a really hot FELIX col-
umn, rip off the SF Soc column so that
people will actually read it and may watch
STOIC." He gazed at his sick subordinates
with a new resolve, "that's right, we'll write a
cheap imitation of the SF Soc Column".
Photosoc
Ahoy me Scurvies!
Now that this year's series of B&W demon-
strations has come to an end, we hope that
everyone who attended one of them found it
interesting and also, perhaps, learned some-
thing useful. We would also like to remind the
RCC that these demonstrations are given free
of charge by members of the photosoc com-
mittee in their own spare time, and that the
agreed rate for student demonstrators in Col-
lege teaching laboratories is £4.75 per hour.
Next year we hope to be able to rectify this
discrepancy.
There will be a colour printing demonstra-
tion in Mines LT303 at 7:00pm on Wednes-
day 23 November, all welcome. Also, pro-
bably on the Monday of the last week of term,
a person from 'Fox Talbot', the well-known
secondhand camera shop in the Strand, will
be giving a talk and demonstration (although
I'm not sure what it will be about). More
details later. Finally, some time in the middle
of next term we may have a B&W and Colour
Print Competition, so start taking pickies
now so they'll be ready on time.
Debsoc
This Monday at 7:00pm in Mech Eng 220, the
society is holding the first of two evening
debates. The motion is 'This house believes
that CND undermines the peace and freedom
of this country'. Proposing the motion are
Peregrine Worsthorne, the leading conserva-
tive and Sunday Telegraph columnist and
Gerald Frost from the influential, Institute of
Strategic Studies. Opposing the motion are
Joan Ruddock (Chairperson CND) and the
Vice-Chairperson CND.
The Lord Mayor's Show went fairly well
except for a few deranged Barts Hospital
students who attacked the float with crap.
Tomorrow, Saturday, is 'Silly Sports' out-
side Harrods where we have egg and spoon
races, -n-legged races, annoy the policemen,
etc, etc all to collect money for deaf children.
Meet in the Guilds Office at 9:30am. (If you
are really keen you can collect for 24hrs and
go for the prize—weekend for 2 in Paris—
meet in teams of about 3 in the RCS Office at
11:30pm tonight!).
Don't forget that Guilds Hit Squad has
already started—so hurry to the Guilds Of-
fice to book your hit!). See *****?
ICCAG
'Something tells me we're going somewhere!'
Well, we'll certainly have to as more people
come along to our meetings. Talking of which
we are starting to have a 'Pay As You Eat'
lunch on Mondays as a
"
n addition to our
meetings (which are still on Monday 12:35
ICCAG Office, top of Union).
Jobbersquad started gently last Wednes-
day. We fitted a new curtain rail up for an old
lady and talked to her for some time. This
week we are moving a single parent into her
new council flat and collecting her furniture
together with as many other jobs as we have
people for. Examples are: gardening, DIY
jobs, taking some old people on an outing (7
Dec), talking to and writing a letter for an old
woman to Mrs Thatcher and Council about
grievance...and many more. Please do come
along on Wednesday 12:45 ICCAG Office.
They need you!
As time draws nearer Christmas more is
.happening: Hospital Visiting would love
more people to help and entertain old people,
for instance, in Christmas shopping and they
have already helped to run a bingo session for
old people! (Monday 12:45 Mech Eng foyer).
The Acton Venture Club always needs
more people. They are taking the kiddies
swimming this Saturday which should be fun
and rewarding.
As nights get colder the Soup Run is more
and more vital to the down and outs. To those
who have been coming; Keep coming. To
those who haven't been yet: There are spare
seats in the van (Meet Falmouth Kitchens
9:30).
As a final comment: we don't do all this just
because we feel it is our duty, we do it because
we really enjoy it! And so might you!
I look forward to seeing you for lunch on
Monday 12:35 ICCAG Office.
Thanks for reading.
Steve
Sorry folks but you may not have seen me this
week. That's because I've got tonsillitis and as
a result I'm not allowed to drink or smoke.
The Beer Festival on Wednesday took over
£2,300 and has a projected profit of £400-500
once we've paid all the bills. Sorry about
some of the barrels being duff. Anyway I'll
finish this drivel and on to the serious bit.
Rag Week has just started and I'm sure you
will have seen the publicity for the rest of the
events, but tomorrow you must come and
collect for us; even if it's only for half an hour
it will be worth it—so turn up any time from
dawn to dusk at the RCSU Office and we'll
give you a can and things.
Any themes and teams who want to collect
for long periods come early so you get a spot
on the high paying areas like Horrids, etc.
Have fun and an awful lot to drink.
Dave
WLC
The first of three Humanities events organ-
ised by the West London Chaplaincy will be a
talk by Donald Soper, on Tues 22 Nov, con-
cernining Law and Order.
Rag Week
Friday
Drink a Bar Dry, meet U n i o n Bar
6:00pm.
Saturday
Rag Week Street Collection, see
C C U posters for details.
Sunday
Raft Race, 10:00am Princes Gdns.
Circular Tug of War. Rarnight BBQ
and fireworks at night.
Monday
Films, 7:00pm Lounge Lizards Club.
Tuesday
Mines Dirty Disco, 8:30pm J C R .
Wednesday
Inter-College Rag Mag Selling.
Thursday
Monster Boat Race, 1:00pm Beit
Quad.
Smoking Concert, 7:30pm Union
Concert Hall.
Friday
Carnival, Union Building
• ^ ^ • • • • • l Page
Urgent: Human Rights Week
Will all clubs who have not yet told me that they wish to take part in
H u m a n Rights Week please contact me via U n i o n Office by 5:30pm
Monday 21 November
Robin Graham
FBUXWBXSBWSiaaBmWBWtaWOWmWBMFriday, 18 November, 1983 M

