Sport
EDITORIAL
Some of you may have thought that I'd cocked
up again with the Canoe Club article about
waterskiing. This was, infact, genuine, and the
Canoe Club are taking up waterskiing.
Sailing vs UEA 2-0; UEA Ladies 1-0; UL2 1-
0; UEA Old Boys 0-1
On Saturday the team travelled to Oulton
Broads in East Anglia to take up the chal-
lenge of UEA.
The first race was sailed in a light and very
shifty force 1 against the UEA old boys. The
IC team made a good start but the old boy's
superiority in Lards soon showed itself and
Imperial were struggling by the first mark.
Matters did not improve in the remainder rr
the race and resulted in the Sailing Cub's first
away defeat of the season.
The second race was sailed in similar condi-
tins but this time the impressive UL2 were the
opposition. Jones and Bennet-Clarke soon
talked their vessel into sailing faster than
everyone else's and a lucky streak from
Howarth saw IC with first and positions at
the first mark. Bevan in the meantime was
seen trying to improve his tacking by leaping
from one side of the boat to the other; need-
less to say at the back of the fleet. Positions
did not change until the last leg of the course
when a surprise last minute attack from UL2
was heroically kept at bay by Jones. IC
scraped home with '/2 of a point to spare.
UEA were obviously not impressed with
the IC tactics and proposed a best-of-three
race series. However by this time IC had got
their act together and in the first race sailed
home ahead of the entire UEA fleet. In the
second race of the series, Kennedy sailed two
of the UEA boats in the wrong direction
single handed to give the remainder of the IC
team a clear starting line. Imperial cruised
home with 1st, 2nd and 5th.
The UEA Ladies then had the audacity to
propose a challenge. They were soon
regretting their actions as Imperial left them
standing at the start. On seeing this Jones and
Bevan nobly decided to return to the start to
make more of a go of it. Even so Imperial
proved too much for the girls to handle and
sailed home in winning positions.
Many thanks to UEA for a very enjoyable
Saturday.
P a g e 7 2 H B H H H H I H H H I H H H H M M [
Gutteridge Cup 1st Round
A magnificent display by IC saw QMC well
tonked and thus they progress to the second
round of the Cup competition where they will
play Guy's Hospital on 16 November.
Thanks to all the supporters who turned up
with crates of Swan and look forward to
seeing you next Wednesday.
After my little self-introduction to FELIX a
couple of weeks ago, the table tennis com-
mittee have decided to submit weekly reports
to enable us to complain about sports page
quality in future issues.
A quick resume of the season to date:
Team 1 are looking to relegation already.
They've only won 1 out of 6. However, their
star player NG is out with (chicken) pox at the
moment so they can only improve (?).
Team 2 collapsed like a prick-ed balloon.
Team 3 doing well! Won 3 out of 6.
Team 4 are settling down after the loss of
their keystone (who me?). They've won 1 out
of 5.
Team 5—Erica's doing a grand job! They
have won 3 out of 5. Cor!
Now, all you freshers form team 5! If you
still want a game come up Wednesday after-
noon and get onto Erica, the queues aren't so
big now.
Bye till next time.
Graeme (Hon Sec)
The Volleyball Club has got off to a fresh
start this year. We have two men's teams, the
second of which have won all of their two
matches!
Team 1. however, failed to win against the
highly praised ULU team, by a very small
margin (score was 3 sets to 2). The sole reason
being, of course, that two of IC's best players
were actually on the other side of the net,*
playing for ULU! To compensate forthisdis-
heartening experience, ICI had an easy vic-
tory over the London Fire Brigade team.
The Ladies' team, which is incidentally the
first one in existence for a few years, is now
practising regularly and the players hope to
bring glory, honour and fame to IC, through
their forthcoming matches! They had a
friendly match against a very vicious looking
ULU team last week....Well, it was good
practise anyway!
A final note, to remind any forgetful club
members, or anyone else interested in joining
the best IC club, on practise times: Tues 5:30-
7:30pm Ladies; Wed l:30-5:30pm Mixed; Sat
l:30-3:30pm Mixed and 3:30-5:30pm Ladies.
One cannot describe the emphoric sense of
team spirit, not because the thirds are illi-
terate but because we won and the bar was
open afterwards.
We won 4-2!
Spot the Ball Competition
Our heroes were reduced to ten men at a very
early stage in the game by despicable intimi-
dation from the Chem Eng thugs. Combined
with this, Matt Fawcett, our goalie and ace
FELIX photographer suffered withdrawal
symptoms when a fiendish forward removed
his pet camera. After this, he didn't have to
stop the ball hitting his camera and he lost his
previous motivation.
Carl Burgess, News Ed and Centre For-
ward, was brutally crocked. Cramp, the
Chem fcng centre forward scored their only
goal, as the rampaging FELIX heroes tram-
pled all over their helpless victims. The final
score was 10-1 to FELIX. The Chem Eng
captain said 'I'm as sick as a parrot! It was a
good job Pallab and John Scott weren't play-
ing, or we'd have conceded 30!''
I Friday, 18 November, 19831
Top of the League! Thats our position after
we thrashed Guys Hospital on 7 Nov. As
newcomers to the League Guys felt they had
an easy first match against last year's holders
of the wooden sppon. Ha!
They had not chance with the scoring of
Alex 'Superhog' Mackenzie (28 points), the
rebounding power of Big George Droungas
the speed of Scott 'The Yank' Broderic, the
coolness of Ken 'Iceman' Jarret and strong
performances from the rest of the team all
brought together by our star coach 'H'. Well,
I rest my case! (Guiltyl-Sports Ed.)
womowownwnwomowmowmFEux

