Morphy Day
I find Gaynor's cavalier attitude towards Morphy Day
rather disturbing. Last year IC students stole dustbin lids
from Putney residents' front gardens, dripping blood and
offal on their way. In some cases dustbins were over-
turned and abuse was hurled at protesting residents. And
Gaynor couldn't care less. She is unwilling to ensure that
this vandalism by IC studerts does not happen again,
despite protests to College from residents and the local
MP. As President of IC Union Gaynor is responsible for
all activities of any event organised by Union clubs,
societies and CCUs. The CCUs may enjoy autonomy
from IC Union but I should think Gaynor is going to have
a tough time explaining the Union's constitutional nice-
ties to Police and angry residents.
Rag Week
Rag Week is upon us a ^ i i n . I hope you will try and
participate in the events. They are all good fun and for
charity. Tonight at 6:00pm is the 'Drink A Pub Dry' event
where we try and uphold our reputation as beer swilling
louts. Meet 6:00pm Union bar.
Bot Zoo Tea Room
Peter Burt has asked me to remind every one concerned
about the Bot/Zoo tea room to turn up at the tea-in to be
held on Thursday between 10:00 and 11:00am. It is
essential for people to turn up in large numbers to impress
upon Professor Wood the strength of feeling about the tea
room.
FELIX
I hope to bring out F E L I X daily next week. Each issue
will be edited by an ex-FELIX Editor, so be prepared for
the worst. What's Ons will still be published in next
Friday's issue.
Credits
Lynne James, Jon Jones, David Jones, Alison Pratt, Matt
Fawcett, John Scott, Guy Riddihough, Carl Burgess, Diane
Love, Peter Rodgers, J Martin Taylor, Andy Cave, Tony
Atkins, Nick Shakley, Simon Nield, Tim Noyce, Maz, Peter
and all the collators.
Pallab Ghosh
What is the
sequence:
missing number in the following
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
21
23
30
33
?
1111
111111111111111
Good luck everyone!
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the FELIX
Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday, please. £5 from
Mend-a-Bike for randomly selected winning entry.
Last Week's Solution
The puzzle was pretty straightforward. If you worked
through it you should have got:
Chris 13
Alan 14
Barry 15
Diana 16
Elaine 17
The full solution is:
Those of you who claimed I was being sexist
obviously forget that Chris is short for Christine as
well as for Christopher. Lots of people got it right,
and the randomly selected winner was Richard Fox
of Chem Eng 3, who must know where to pick up his
cheque by now.
I set a couple of fairly easy puzzles in the last two
weeks because the ones before had been pretty
hard, and this column is not really intended to be just
for real puzzle fans. Some of the regular entrants
have been complaining because they felt these were
far too easy, non-regular entrants have said how
much they liked it. I havesome puzzles up my sleeve,
for example a problem with a square-wheeled bi-
cycle and a long division sum without any digits
which I will set soon and will have you wishing you'd
kept quiet.
If anyone has a puzzle that they'd like me to set,
could they please drop them into my box in the
FELIX Office.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rd, SWT,
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager: PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSouthey Copyright FELIX 1983

