Glengarry Glen Ross by David Mamct at
the Cottesloe Theatre (National
Theatre)
Despite the Scottish-sounding title
Glengarry Glen Ross is firmly set in America,
and more particularly in the jungle world of
hard-selling, smooth-talking, law-bending
American salesmen. A sales contest is near-
ing its close, and each man is desperately
trying to better his position on the sales-
graph, or 'board'. The top man wins a
Cadillac, the least successful gets fired. No
wonder the panic and frantic urgency of the
men, as they alternately form uneasy
alliances, or cut each others' throats in order
to sell more. What they are selling is tracts of
land in obscure regions of Florida, to gullible
city-dwellers. And this they do, employing
the most m a r v e l l o u s k i n d of h o n i e d
'salespeak'. This is brilliantly demonstrated in
the hilarious performances of Jack Shepherd
and Derek Newark as two evenly-matched
crooks. In one brilliant scene, this nefarious
couple display every possible trick in order to
prevent a dubious client from withdrawing
from his contract.
More humour, in this undoubtably funny
play, is given by the shifting relationships and
interactions between the salesmen them-
selves. Unconsciously, they wheedle and
cajole each other, using the same phrases as
they use with their clients or 'prospects'. But
as the pressure increases, tempers rise and
soon the men are swearing liberally, gesticu-
lating wildly as they exclaim 'Now you listen
to me!'
The salesmen contrast markedly with
John Williamson, the miserable office wet.
Openly despised by the salesmen, they are
compelled to defer to him, because it is he
who arranges the much coveted 'leads' or
appointments. He is played by Karl Johnson,
who gives just the right shade of limp reti-
cence as the miserable misfit.
A wonderfully quick-fire comedy this, and
strongly recommended.
Antigone by Sophocles (translated by C
A Tryparis) at the Cottesloe Theatre,
National Theatre
Over two thousand years old it may be, but
Sophocle's Antigone has some of the most
powerful and effective drama going. A decep-
tively simple play, its main theme is the con-
flict between Antigone and Creon; between
the law of the individual conscience with the
central power of the state.
This production has a 1930s flavour, with
the chorus resembling grey-suited gangsters,
Antigone in a turban and slinky dress, and
the guard a kind of British 'Tommy'. In no
way does this detract from the play, but
enlivens it and makes it more accessible.
FELIX — B — W M I
I
H
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
l
l
Michael Bryant is splendid as Creon—
initially the stubborn and irascible autocrat,
then as tragedy unfolds before him, becom-
ing merely a rather pathetic, isolated old
man. Finally, he is so humbled and subjective
that he has to be led away from the stage.
Barbara Flynn is a powerful and tomboyish
Antigone, though sometimes she tended to
proclaim her words rather than act her part.
She is ably matched by Belinda Lang, who
portrays Antigone's more conformist sister.
The chorus—an essential part of Greek
tragedy—have a fascinating collection of
timeless faces, whose fleeting expressions
are intriguing to watch. The music of their
mingling voices was supplemented by eerie
tones from pipes, which intensified the
drama.
So, if you think Greek tragedy died with
the Greeks, going to see this production may
well convince you otherwise.
Claire Moss
Woza Albert, Criterion Theatre
Whatever Woza Albert may be, it is no
longer funny. These two talented actors
(Percy Mtwa and Mbongeni Ngema) appear
to have lost their enthusiasm on the West
End stage, where the actors now play mostly
to tourists.
The play is described as 'our fantasy of the
consequences of a Second Coming to South
Africa of Morena, the Saviour'. It ends a little
obliquely. Perhaps because is is based upon a
series of improvisations, or perhaps because
the play's structure and form take a second
place to getting across the political message,
which appeals far less to the British
audiences than to those in Johannesburg and
New York. Because of this, the pair appear to
have lost interest in their play, and the spark
of enthusiasm for it has long since died.
Simply as an evening out however, I can
recommend the play. Full of African music
and rhythm, the duo work themselves up into
a big sweat as they rush about the stage and
the gestures and the faces can speak louder
than the dialect, which is hard to understand
at times. If you have not seen Woza Albert
yet, then see it soon, because it will not be
long before it has gone.
John Burgess
m LIVE!
Never
Mind
The
Bollocks
A large contingent of
punks descended on
College last Friday to
see London Cowboys
and also outnumber
students at the gig.
FELIX reports on the
Cowboys and support
band Arista Blaze.
Looking and listening Arista Blaze seem
almost identical to The Slide, one of the
bands who supported Clint Eastwood
and General Saint. They both have girls
on lead vocals, play with 'punkish energy
and vitality' and close their sets with
covers of Patti Smith's Because the
Night. T h e only difference is the B o
Derek plaits and being based in C a m d e n
as opposed to Cardiff. This is obviously
an advantage as T h e Slide have now
broken up. Unfortunately Arista Blaze
suffered a lack of crowd reaction (every
one just sat down and waited for the
London Cowboys) which was a shame
as they were m u c h more original than
the top band.
It's possible we wouldn't have seen the
London Cowboys had not D r a m s o c sup-
plied a n d built a light s h o w at short
notice when it transpired the band hadn't
brought their own lights. We really
n e e d e d the lights or we w o u l d have
thought they were some u p - a n d - c o m i n g
H M band doing their A C / D C impres-
sions. However with the lights we were
able to see a dandy bunch of dudes
whose lead singer was really doing Mick
Jagger impressions. The impressions
were quite g o o d but that has little to do
with talent or originality. T h e music was
certainly powerful and dynamic but this
loud and proud cock rock was as pre-
dictable as song titles like Blue Murder,
Centrefold and Animal Pleasure would
lead you to believe. A version of Some-
thing Else was poor whilst Reggae Bop
was best. C o m e back rock'n'roll, c o m e
back C E & G S , c o m e back support band
we don't need this aged rock thang.
Peter Rodgers
• B ^ H H H I ^ B H H Page 7

