1
1 I F E S T I V A L
The London Film Festival is one of the most prestigiousfilmevents in Europe and is
an unrivalled opportunity to see many old and newfilmsnot likely to be on general
release. Some ofthe best directors in the world will be showing their work thisyear;
their idea of cinema is definitely not limited to that of the Hollywood blockbuster.
Over 150filmswill be shown during the two and a halfweeks ofthe Festivalfrom 17
November to 4December. TheLFF is notperhaps quite asfamous as Cannes, butfor
IC students it has one big advantage: the bulk of the films will be shown at the
National Film Theatre, justfivetube stationsfrom South Kensington. The NFTis on
the South Bank, beneath Waterloo Bridge.
FELIX has not covered the LFF in recentyears. Students have tended to complain
that the Festival is loo arty, too avant-garde and too dominated by foreign films.
That is untrue this year. There are some excellentfilmson offer. This article will try
to provide a guide to the Festivalandsuggest afew ofthefilms worth seeing. Most of
thefilmswill not get press reviews, so I have split this article into two parts. Firstly,
those I have seen personally and secondly those seen and recommended by
professional reviewers.
I've carefully selectedfilms that Ifeel will attract most IC students, hence the
large number ofBritish and USfilms.By allmeans try otherfilms outforyourselves;
the best I can do is point out those thatparticularly interestedme. There will usually
be just two showings of eachfilm:times and dates are given. Further details about
booking can be found at the end of this article.
Films Reviewed by FELIX
Pride of place must go to the British films this
year. These show just how strongly our film
industry is reviving. Most are financed by
television, as is usual nowadays, despite
Goldcrest, Virgin and Handmade Films.
Interestingly, quite a few are witien by
novelists like Ian McEwan, William Boyd and
Edna O'Brien; they are just as good writing
film scripts as they are conventional prose.
Good and Bad at Games (Mon 21 Nov
11:00am, 6:15pm) by William Boyd is both
funny and disturbing. Three men were at
school together a decade ago. Mount, the
rugby team captain is now an officer and a
gentleman, upholder of his class. Niles, the
born sportsman yet exploited by everyone,
desperately tries to ignore his present seedy
life and instead relive his old school days of
glory and friendship. Cox, bullied by every-
one, is now a journalist out for revenge.
Their old boys reunion is no fun and games.
This film is well acted and professionally put
together, mixing Cox's attempt to win Niles
over on to his side, with the story of his
humiliation by Mount ten years previously.
You will probably have difficulty getting
into The Country Girls which is today at
6:15pm. Edna O'Brien has skilfully adapted
her own novel about a young girl growing up
in an Irish village, then moving out into the
big wide world. Maeve Germaine as Kate
puts in an enchanting performance as her
life gradually opens out and she realises the
opportunities before her. The plot smacks a
little of the well-worn path to self-discovery,
but the acting and the gentle pacing soothes
this film into something surprisingly enter-
taining. No wild emotions here, but evoca-
tive.
Meantime (Tues 22 Nov 11:00am,
6:15pm) written and directed by Mike Leigh
is about the trials and tribulations of an
Page 8|
entire East End family on the dole.
Meantime is neither oh-so-boring 'gritty
realism', nor is it Coronation Street
cardboard cut-outs. Leigh is superb at
capturing the atmosphere of the working-
class life. He doesn't try to preach, and as in
all his work there's real humour to set off his
character's traumas. The plot proceeds via
'incidents' and you can lose the thread
somewhat, but the acting is excellent: skin-
heads, well-meaning aunts, the local pub.
Worth seeing.
The Weather in the Streets (Wed 30
Nov 2:30pm and Thur 1 Dec 8:45pm) is
another stylish British film. The screenplay
written by Julian Mitchell (of 'Another
'The Weather in the Streets'
'Liquid Sky'
Country' fame) is based on Rosamund
•Lehamann's novel about the hypocrisy and
double standards of between-the-wars
Britain. Olivia Curtis (Lisa Eichborn) chucks
in her old life and decides to find herself in
decadent London. This leads to an affair
with Rollo Spencer (Michael York) who she
had a crush on at a party once before and
now decides to go the whole hog with him.
Unfortunately Rollo is married, with a 'posi-
tion' in elegant society. Shot as beautifully as
Brideshead Revisited, this film is perfect for
those who like to wallow in the atmosphere
of the 20s and 30s.
Finally, of all the British films I've seen at
press reviews over the last few weeks, the
best by far was the double bill A n
Englishman Abroad and Last Day of
Summer (Mon 21 Nov 2:30pm, 8:45pm).
The former is based on the true story of a
meeting between Guy Burgess and the
'actress Coral Browne in Moscow in 1958.
Alan Bennett's script is witty and flows well
and Alan Bates as Burgess and Coral
Browne herself use it perfectly. Burgess is
still the charmer he was before he defected,
but his whole situation is shown to be so sad,
cooped up in a tenement block most of the
time, even though he chose it voluntarily. A
man whose borrowed time ran out. What
could have been spoilt by political argument
and the pressing for interpretations is made
instead into a film that entertains, pokes fun
at and yet celebrates the British, and man-
ages to comment on the important ques-
tions raised by the whole Burgess/Maclean
affair.
Last Day of Summer is superb. Ian
McEwan (writer of The Ploughman's Lunch)
has adapted his own short story marvellous-
ly from prose to film. The story is of the
friendship between Tom, a twelve-year-old
orphan and Jenny, a shy short fatty in her
'An Englishman Abroad'
early twenties who comes to join the hippy
commune run by Tom's elder brother.
Beautifully shot, this film is delicate, funny
sad and ultimately profoundly moving. The
audience at the press review was left very
quiet and thoughtful. The acting of the two
main characters deserves special mention:
Annette Badland as Jenny and Graham
McGrath as Tom—this young man put in a
performance that in its naturalness and sen-
sitivity was something extra special. If you
see nothing else at the Festival, I urge you to
go to this double-bill—it was marvellous.
There are a huge number of American
films at this year's LFF. These include two
Thames Silents (recommended later) and
George Cukor's complete version of A Star
Is Born (Sun 27 Nov 9:45, O d e o n
Leicestr Square) starring Judy Garland
and James Mason. Unfortunately Cukor
kicked the bucket just before he was due to
see the final result of all his work. And there
are five of the best Hitchcock's, all
unavailable for many years:
The Trouble With Harry (Sun 20 Nov
8:30pm, Queen Elizabeth Hall) is that
he's a corpse on a hillside. All the local
villagers have different motives for thinking
they killed him and should dispose of the
body. Unfortunately Harry died of natural
causes. It's a bit like Fawlty Towers, and
then again like an Ealing comedy, but with
the black disturbing humour that
Hitchcock loved. Shirley MacLaine makes
her debut as an actress, the photography's
marvellous and 'Harry' was one of Hitch-
cock's favourites.
Vertigo (Sat 19 Nov 8:30pm QEH) is in
creasingly seen as a masterpiece that even
beats 'Psycho'. The best I can do is quote the
LFF reviewer: 'If there's a better movie in
this LFF I'll jump off Waterloo Bridge.'
Rope (Sat 19 Nov 2:00pm QEH), The
Man Who Knew Too Much (Sun 20 Nov
6:00pm QEH) and Rear Window (Sat 19
Nov 6:00pm QEH) are all excellent murder
stories, all celebrations of cinema,
Hitchcock and the murder genre. If you can
get into any of these, you'll be lucky—ring
up, or try last minute at the NFT box office;
even if they said earlier it was sold out, there
are often a few tickets left, in case the Queen
drops by or something
Recommended Films
These are films that have been recom-
mended by many of the professional
reviewers—I have not seen them, but they
will probably be well worth a visit.
Olmi's Cammina Cammina (Tues 22
Nov 2:00pm, 8:45pm) has been widely and
fervently praised by countless people after
it's first showing at Cannes. The film is in the
epic style, an odyssey. A vast procession of
pilgrims sets off on a trek to the East, meet-
ing all kinds of dangers on the way. The story
is sometimes irreverant, sometimes surreal,
sometimes tragic. Children are often the
wisest, and adults can be fools, but funda-
mentally Cammina Cammina is a celebra-
tion of the human character.
G u n e y ' s T h e W a l l ( F r i 25 N o v
11:00am, 6:15pm) is about the revolt of a
group of Turkish children in Ankara prison
in 1976. Like 'YOL', this film is said to be
tough and highly effective, using children
without sentimentality to show the abuses
and tyranny that ignorant men can inflict on
people, once given the authority. A short
sharp shock against those who believe might
is right.
First Name Carmen (Fri 25 Nov
11:15am)m) is the Critics Choice of Derek
Malcolm from the Guardian. A female film-
maker robs a bank to finance a project, has
an affair with one of the security guards and
gets her cruel but expected comeuppance.
Carmen (Maruschka Detmens) is a real
looker. But as an actress, as Malcolm says
himself, she's 'asked to do very little except
look pretty and strip'. Sounds good.
Wagner (Sat 26 Nov 5:00pm QEH)
stars Vanessa Redgrave and Richard Burton
in an epic British film that in its shortened
form lasts five hours. There's Laurence
Olivier, John Gielgud and Ralph Richardson
'The Trouble with Harry'
too. The photography and music is said to
be fantastic. I doubt if there'll be many seats
left, due to priority booking, but it's worth a
try.
The Wind (Fri 2 Dec 8:00pm, Sat 3
Dec 8:00pm Dominion) along with
Broken Blossoms (Thur 1 Dec 8:00pm,
Sat 3 Dec 4:30pm Dominion) will also be
hard to get into. Both star Lillian Gish and
were made in 1928 and 1918 respectively.
The Wind is a murder story set in Texas and
is a rarely-seen silent classic with wonderful
photography. Broken Blossms is of similar
stature, making an early plea for racial
tolerance, but subtly, calmly. Both will be
accompanied by a full orchestra conducted
by Carl Davis.
Liquid Sky (Wed 30 Nov 11:00am,
6:15m) is weird, extraordinary, a modern
fairy story set amongst the New Wave,
starring sexual perversions, drugs and
punk. For those who like their films different
and lively in the extreme.
Trading Places (Sun 4 Dec 1:30pm,
6:15pm) has been a massive hit in the US,
and is praised as perhaps the best comedy of
the year. A top executive and a criminal
swap places, and all kinds of hilarious things
start to happen as Capitalism meets the
Ghetto.
The South (Fri 25 Nov 2:30pm) marks
the return of Victor Erice after a ten year
absence from films. He made a marvellous
film called 'The Spirit of the Beehive' one of
my all-time favourites. The South is about
the developing relationship between a father
and his young daughter who starts to sus-
pect he is having an affair with a famous
actress. Its themes are the adjustments
made by a child moving into the adult world,
she only half-understanding, confused,
scared. Judging from Erice's past work this
should be good, if you can get Friday after-
noon's off. There's just one showing.
Finally, the burb in the LFF guide is ac-
companied by a still from each film dis-
cussed. In the whole booklet, only Erendira
(Sat 3 Dec 1:30pm) has a photograph fea-
turing naked breasts and taut nipples. This is
one film that is bound to sell out.
Booking Arrangements
Most of the films are at the National Film
Theatre. A few are at the Dominion Theatre,
Odeon Leicester Square and Queen Eliza-
beth Hall.
Members of the British Film Institute are
given priority booking, and there is no tele-
phone booking at the Dominion. Prices
there for Broken Blossoms and The Wind
are £4, £6 and £8.
All other booking is through the NFT and
from the Box Office personally or by
telephone via 01-928 3232 daily between
10:30 and 20:30 hours. Telephone bookings •
I must be claimed within 72 hours and tickets
cost £3. There doesn't appear to be any
student discount. Last minute tickets, ie half
an hour before the performance, will often
be available, especially for non-evening
performances. Telephone bookings made
on the day of the performance will be held3
/4
hour before the film begins.
Tony Atkins
Friday, 18 November, 1983 [Page 9

