OF
d?EftPSKflTE
Recap: Smarty Saylor, ex-
FALIX Editor and failed academic,
wakes up on eday in the fabled Land
of Cheapskate, which is ruled by the
Baron and his minions, a collection
of fairies, ogres and crones.
A n y resemblance to anything at
all is purely unintentional.
'Ah me,' thought Smarty Saylor as he lay in
the Cheapskate sick bay. Life had been look-
ing up: he had gone from being a penniless,
homeless, out-of-work ex-PhD student and
ex-FALIX Editor to someone lucky enough to
live in 6 Queers Court Square with the cock-
roaches and silverfish under the patronage of
the influential if malodorous Eric Professor.
He even got to run the Baron's choir. But just
at the peak of his return to fame, he had been
arrested for drinking too much ginger beer
and spent over six weeks recovering from his
hangover in the Baron's Dungeon. Slowly he
got up and pu' on his clothes. Today they
were letting him out.
He noticed that many things had changed
as he walked towards the Baron's estate. It
was cold, and the leaves had turned brown
and were falling. 'Never mind,' he thought,
'Soon warm up with a nice mug of tea and a
penguin at Bite Zoo'.
However, when he arrived at Bite Arch, he
was horrified to see that Bite Zoo was not
only closed, but boarded up. He found a
starving wretch huddled outside the
barricaded door under some large bits of
cardboard.
'What's all this!' he cried in his funny high
voice (he had still not recoverd from his
encouter with Michael Arthur the good but
not very useful fairy).
'Why is the Bite Zoo closed?' Smarty
shrilled.
By
Juvenal
The wretch shivered under his cardboard
and his bright blue lips formed a word.
'Would,' he hissed, crossing himself feebly.
'Professor Would!...had it closed!'
The wretch shuddered and nodded a little
before sinking into a malnutrition-induced
coma. Smarty noticed that one of his ears
had fallen off.
Meanwhile, in a distant ivory tower Baron
Weed slept, snoring irregularly.
He was old and tired. When he was awake,
his eyes were glazed, his glasses double-
glazed. His position of Baron of Cheapskate
was unshakeable. His one embarrassment in
life was his good wife, Lady Marigold. The
kindest thing to do with her was to ignore her,
however her eccentric behaviour often led to
raised eyebrows and behind-the-back snig-
gers, although it was agreed that she gave
events she attended a cerain je ne sais quoi.
Wha a pity she couldn't inject some life into
the hidebound Baron.
At the Baron's right sat John Secretary,
thinking about his carefully engineered fall
from grace in Surefield. He had recently man-
ipulated the Baron into removing him from
his spaceous level 5 office and installing him
in a dripping, rat-infested cellar. He smiled
se retly, thinking how clever he was.
Smarty thought of none of these things as
he crossed Bite Quad. He was transfixed
with the horror of what he was about to
do—eat at Victual Munchey's infectory.
Munchey was well-known as a man of culture
—so much so that he was inclined to let it
grow on his crockery.
Smarty's heart quailed as he stood before
the hunch-backed crone behind the counter.
He ordered his meal in faltering Catalonian,
and after a few muttered curses and impre-
cations, was handed a plate containing an old
wet football sock, two used brillo pads and
what looked like a spoonful of Swarfega and a
bowl of viscous yellow fluid with an ominous
black fin protruding from it. He shrugged and
took it to the till. Suddenly he noticed some-
thing.
'There's no pasta in my sock,' he whined
ninnyishly.
'DID I HEAR A COMPLAINT?!' boomed a
terrifying ogreish voice behind him
Will the Ogreish Munchey have Smarty
boiled down for stock?
Will the rats complain to the Baron about
having John Secretary in their cellar?
How many starving wretches will die of
malnutrition if Prof 'Bad Guy' Would has his
way?
For the answer to these and many other
questions, don't miss the next thrilling
episode of 'The Baron of Cheapskate'.
SHER
B E H I N D
CLOSED DOORS
Page 10 Friday, 18 November, 1983
4. Victor Mooney, Refectory Manager
When Victor joined Imperial College in 1952
there was waitress service in the U D H with a
general refectory on the top floor of the
Union Building and the Butler had just left the
Union Lower Lounge. The Lower Lounge
was then quite resplendent with stuffed
animal heads adorning the walls. He now
caters for many more people in much larger
refectories lacking virtually all the style of the
former areas.
Victor Mooney has the stature of a man
who has spent his life in the food and drink
trade, he has the ample girth that would be
regarded, in people other than caterers, as
fatness. He is instantly recognisable around
College, which is a contrast to the College
bureaucrats and stands out as a 'Man of
Character' in Sherfield. He is the only person
I know to have thrown a punch at Hector
Cameron-Clark after being let down by Es-
tates, which he is frequently.
He is always willing to put on an apron and
lend a hand serving food if the refectories are
understaffed. Since he clearly has a great
commitment to Imperial College it is rather a
pity that his day to day food is of such poor
standard.
In many respects he is like a captain of a
ship flying a flag of convenience. Though he
and the officers are likely to be capable and
well trained the crew are mostly foreign,
cheap to employ, staying for short periods of
time, and mainly undependable. However
well the crew is led it will never accomplish
great things.
Victor's main fault lies in his old fashioned
approach and ignorance of many modern
management techniques which are essential
now that university cash is limited.
Victor does have Falstaffian faults and has
been criticised for them, but when he retires
and is replaced by a dapper chap wearing a
striped shirt with white collar and cuffs and all
the character of a well peeled grape the
College will be a much poorer place.
The Mole
• • — 1 1 I M — — • FELIX

