Certificate A Starring Henry Fonda,
Katherine Hepburn, Jane Fonda Directed
by Mike Terry. Now showing at Odeon
Haymarket.
The prospect of a film starring two
Hollywood veterans about the generation gapi
and old age is superficially not very interesting.
But when it turns into a beautifully crafted
black comedy its appeal is greatly magnified.
On Go/den Pond is sentimental and
unashamedly so; Henry Fonda plays Norman
Thayer a retired professor approaching hi?
eightieth birthday who returns to his usu;
summer retreat, Golden Pond, with his w:
Ethel (Katherine Hepburn). They dust off th
cabin and are soon joined by daughter Chels
(Jane Fonda) and her boyfriend Bill Ray. Th
.deposit thirteen-year-old son Billy who is left
deal with the crochety Norman while his fath
and Chelsea take a trip to Europe.
Henry Fonda gives a genuinely brillia:
performance as Norman Thayer. The old ma
is stubborn, offensive and has a great line i.
abuse. He jokes continually about death and is
bitter and cynical about everything (including
his daughter) until he encounters Billy. The
two grow to respect each other and the
generation gap is seen to be bridged by a
mutual respect for their differences.
The film has been nominated for ten Oscars,
including Best Picture, Best Actor, Best
Actress and Best Supporting Actress. In my
book it certainly rates above REDS tor best
picture and I feel that to deny Henry Fonda
Best Actor would be a crime; he fully deserves
it, despite having been awarded an Honorary
Oscar only last year. Katherine Hepburn
warbles her way through the picture and Jane
Fonda supports adequately, but I doubt if they
will win awards.
This is the film that should sweep the awards
ceremony though—don't miss it!
Mad Max 2 Certificate X Starring Mel
Gibson Directed by George Miller.
A film that in its weilding of violent, sexual
imagery underlayed with crude wit and a
refutation of charm is a culmination of
twentieth century paranoia.
Max shares a post-nuclear war Austalian
outback with other motorised eccentrics
against whom he continuously pits himself,
justifying his killing with some hopelessly
outdated illusions of 'justice'. Max is the
individual against an arbitrary barbarian horde,
a god-head to himself in a godless scenario, a
weight he and his bike seem fully committed to
bear.
Both plot and characters are sustained by
action which of itself raises questions which
the characters never confront leaving them
embedded disturbingly in the body of the film.
All individual characters except Max and his
faithful dog are ultimately dispensable in form,
with Max's mad, violent vision, derived from
pre-holocaust assumptions, requiring only the
occurance of character to construe action.
Max eventually ends up defending a type of
city state which has sprung up around an oil
well in the irradiated outlands, oil, in the age of
degenerating mechanism, being the most sort-
after asset, and which provides, for Max, a
mitigating circumstance, of sorts, for the
ensuing slaughter as he decimates the
hallucinogenic assortment of bikes, ranging
from the strangely punk-like, mohicans and
bondage, to stylised gladiators, who are laying
siege.
A technically accomplished, trash film
which, if you can stomach the descent into
violence, fills an evening.
Many of you will, no doubt, be familiar with
Simon Bond's best selling book 101 Uses of a
Dead Cat, which brought its author overnight
fame and a series of abusive complaints from
cat lovers the world over.
His latest collection Unspeakable Acts
continues much in the same vein. In this case
we are subjected to some of the blacker areas
of human temptation—convicts use the body
of a dying prisoner as a punchbag, and
grandpa gets a box of Havana cigars for
Christmas, despite his oxygen mask. People
perform all sorts of dastardly deeds, ranging
from a doctor's sneaking temptation to chill his
stethoscope in an ice-bucket to a Romeo
peering up Juliet's skirt on the balcony.
The criticisms of the book are simple; I find
Bond's style of drawing shows little variation or
imagination, half the ideas are very good and
the others are very bad (with none in-between)
and the book seems over-priced.
There are certainly some clever and funny
'sick' jokes included, which fans of 101 Uses
will enjoy. But I doubt whether this book will
add to Mr Bond's present following.
Mark Smith
Most sequels seems to be poor imitations of the original, intended to cash in on their original
success. Halloween II (X, Warner, Classic, Studio) is an exception. The action takes up
where Halloween left off; the monstrous shape rises from the dead and pursues Laurie (Jamie
Lee Curtis) to Haddonfield Hospital where he despatches his victims in cold and gruesome
style. By acting as a continuation rather than a sequel and retaining the simplicity of the
original Rick Rosenthal has produced an effective and entertaining shocker. Halloween has a
lot to answer for in that it started a flood of imitations, but it was undoubtedly an unusual film
whose appeal has not been matched until Halloween II came along.
If you haven't seen Halloween it's a little pointless starting with Halloween II. If you have,
don't pass up the chance for " more of the night he came home".
Page 10 FELIX, March 12, 1982

