T
H
E P
U
B
L
I
C
O C
O
N
N
E
C
T
I
O
N
The Pimtico Connection started six years ago when twelve electrical engineering
students went to tutor at Pimlico Comprehensive School (hence the name). Since
then, the project has steadily developed, and now the opportunity exists for ninety
people to take part, each year, in five different schools.
What is tutoring and why do it?
Tutoring at
the schools on
this map:-
The main purpose of students acting as tutors
is to provide added interest, help and attention
for pupils in the classroom, laboratory or
workshop. Since we are closer, both in age
and outlook, than many of the teachers, and as
we are pupils ourselves, it is easier for the kids
to ask questions and receive much needed
extra attention.
In no way does tutoring involve looking
after a class of 20-30 kids on your own. The
whole point of tutoring is to provide more
individual attention. Usually there is one tutor
to every four or five pupils in the class and the
teacher should always be present as s/he is
responsible for discipline and safety.
To date, every student who has been a tutor
has found it a thoroughly enjoyable and
stimulating experience. Personally, I feel I have
learnt as much as I taught, not so much aboud
H o l l a n d P a r k
I
the subject, but about communicating, about
myself, about kids, and about the education
system.
Some of the experiences of other tutors
(below) provide an indication of the sort of
things we have been doing. Currently we tutor
in science, engineering, maths and electronics
at nearly all levels, from primary to sixth form,
so if you like you can choose a subject and age
group to tutor in.
Women students are particularly needed in
science and engineering classes to tutor girl
pupils who often think 'batteries, wires and
things is boys stuff.
If you think you might like to take part don't
hesitate to get in touch.
GianCarlo
Aero 2
Fox Primary School
This year has been the first year which we
have operated at a primary school. Fox was
chosen because it is a "feeder" school for
Holland Park.
A t the b e g i n n i n g we h a d i m m e n s e
practical problems since science, as such, is
not taught in primary schools. What are we
meant to do when we walk into a class of ten
year olds for an afternoon with the intention
of 'tutoring science'?
Fifteen weeks later, I finally think we are
operating the scheme as it should be. As an
example; when there was lots of snow about
we spent two weeks studying the different
states of H 2 0 , in terms of temperature,
volume, textures, taste and appearance. It
might sound basic but it is in fact very useful
for the children and great fun for everyone.
John Hughes
Elec Eng 2
Science Tutoring
After two years of totally wasted Wednesday
ifternoons, I felt I should take my last chance
o become involved in something at College
that was useful but non-academic. The Pimlico
Connection provided just what I was looking
for. It was an opportunity to find out what
education means to the majority of kids in
London, give a helping hand to them and to
the teachers and to have a lot of fun.
I tutored science (biology, chemistry and
physics) to fourteen year olds. There are
normally two or three tutors to a class of about
twenty-five. Most of the children I met were
very friendly and cooperative and obviously
enjoyed science lessons more with our help.
There is a definite tendency for the girls to'
prefer biology and the boys physics, but women
tutors do help to kindle the girls' interest in all
aspects of science. There is much scope here
for the Pimlico Connection to achieve even
more success. I managed to convince one girl
that if she w a n t e d to b e c o m e a n u r s e ,
qualifications were important, and her interest
and hence quality of work improved after this.
It gives great satisfaction to feel you have
helped these kids, who may not have had the
same chances as you or I, to see that science is
interesting and worthwhile in terms of a
possible career.
Jackie Wood
Man Sci 3
J - L
S i r W a l t e r
S t J o h n , B a t t e r s e a
Engineering Tutoring
This was my first year with the P i m l i c o
Connection and to begin with it was strange
acting as a tutor compared to being tutored as
at College.
The subjects we helped were woodwork,
metalwork and technical drawing; metalwork
proving the most popular amongst the pupils.
T h e a t m o s p h e r e in the w o r k s h o p s was
always friendly and we found it easy to get on
with the kids who were all fourteen year olds.
W e were a l w a y s kept b u s y s o r t i n g out
problems and helping with the work and in
connection with this, I think it is necessary to
have some basic knowledge of w o r k s h o p
techniques. I must stress that the emphasis is
on helping and not teaching. It seemed our
main aim was to interest the kids in their
subject and promote enthusiasm and for this
reason, we took a couple of classes down to
British Aerospace for a factory visit which was
good fun for all. The kids certainly found the
lessons more interesting and enjoyable with
the tutors and it made a refreshing change for
Wednesday afternoons.
Jonathan Wheeler
Elec Eng 2
To take part in 1982-83:
No previous experience is
needed.
Time involved:
1:30-3:30pm (approx) Weds afternoons in Autumn and
first tour weeks of spring term.
Just come along to one of our regular Tuesday lunches in
Elec Eng606orcontactDr J.S.R. Goodlad, Elec Eng501
(int 3080) or Grancarlo Marcheselli, Aero 2.
Special introductory meeting Tuesday, March 16. 12:30.
Elec Eng 606.
FELIX, March 12, 198.2 Page 5

