The arts, and
science
and technology
b y N.Willson
W h e n the teaching of technology was
expanded in the sixties, an entire new system
was created for it—the polytechnics. The idea
seemed to be that universities mustn't be
associated with too much science and
technology, that the creation of technical
universities would be somehow wrong, as if the
very term 'technical university' is a contra-
diction, like 'open prison'. The whole idea of a
university education goes with the arts
r a t h e r t h a n the s c i e n c e s , especially
engineering. You can have a university without
science and technology but not one without
the arts.
Why do the arts (especially history and
literature) tend to be more attractive to an
academic mind? To start with, the arts are
easier subjects to study; arts students don't
have to do so much work. Of course it's easy
to be biased about this at IC, but not many arts
students could seriously complain of being
overworked compared with us. But in any case
the amount of work involved isn't very
important—look how popular medical courses
are.
What's much more important is the fact that
science and engineering are useful. Why
should usefulness put people off? It isn't true of
course that it always does; doctors are useful
and they're highly respected. But in general
luxuries are more interesting than necessities.
A painting of a landscape is more interesting
than a textbook about soil mechanics. And
artjsts can only preserve their work because
someone else is learning about soil mechanics.
An academic sitting in a library making notes
on the significance of prefixes in Sanskrit
philosophical terminology (I haven't made this
up) can only do this pleasant work because
other people who went to IC (or somewhere)
to study technology have supplied him with the
table, the chair, the pen, the building and the
transport to bring him the food he eats. An
artist benefits from the work of technologists,
but they don't benefit from his, except in such
a way that the artist can think of himself as
enlightening them. He can plausibly regard his
work, or rather the work of artists in general,
as the real aim of civilisation, its best and
highest purpose. The technologists do the
drudgery work while the artists are creative.
Look at it from another angle. Technical
courses (science as well as engineering) are
seen as beneficial almost entirely for utilitarian
commercial reasons. We need engineers and
scientists, so it's thought, because the UK
needs to make cars and record players better
than the Japanese. We don't need technology
for any enlightening reasons, but because it's
good for our balance of payments. Naturally it
doesn't do to put it as crudely as that, so
politicians and some organisations (such as the
Industrial Society) try to dress it up a bit. But it
comes across clearly enough to anyone who's
at all intellectually inclined, like an arts student.
(Why does IC have a department of
humanities? It's mainly because of intellectual
snobbery and it's tied up with the reasons
outlined above. You come to IC to learn about
amplifiers or rolling mills, so as to get a degree,
a sort of job voucher entitling you to work for
RTZ or the Chemical Defence Establishment
It doesn't fit in with the idea of a College being
a seat of learning for its own sake. So the
humanities department has been added as a
kind of cosmetic to make IC look more
highbrow than it really is).
Easily the most important reason why
people prefer art subjects to science
enormous ditterence in the scope of the
subjects studied by artists and scientists. It's
the difference between the workings of an
electric motor and the workings of history. An
artist considers the significance of the Russian
revolution or the novels of Swift while a
scientist studies thermostats or bile secretion.
The artist can think of big, dramatic issues
while we usually study very specialised
subjects. (That's why an artist's work is often a
scientist's pleasure—like reading or painting—
but rarely the other way around.) This means
there's a great difference in the outlook
expected of artists and scientists. Most of what
we have to learn at IC are routine skills—how
to use an oscilloscope, how to solve a type of
equation, how to dissect rats. All you're
expected to do is learn what the method is so
that you can apply it when you have to, semi-
automatically, practically without thinking. But
an artist doesn't push buttons on a calculator
according to a formula in front of him, he can
challenge the accepted wisdom and choose
between competing schools of thought. In the
arts you're expected to think for yourself
much more than you are in science and
technology.
What about engineers and scientists? What
do they think about the arts? By and large, the
attitude at IC to the arts, public events,
modern history and so on, is a mixture of
apathy, boredom and contempt. There's a
vague, semi-instinctive feeling that it's
pretentious to be involved in anything
intellectual or 'arty'. Ask a student here if he's
interested in politics (say) and you'll get
various kinds of answers, but rarely will the
answer be 'yes'. A lot of people will be hostile
to the notion that they should interest
themselves in current affairs or the arts. The
general feeling is that the arts are for pratts.
And why not? After all, most people who are
interested in the arts are pratts; they're usually
pretentious, arrogant and self-important (and
for the more extreme ones, narrow minded
and intolerant as well.) (The most repulsive
feature of politics in particular is the
atmosphere of dishonesty that surrounds it.
Most politically-minded people have pre-
programmed themselves to accept an
argument or a fact only if it's favourable to the
party line—look at the controversy over
London Transport's fares.) The art and
politics, are activities where arrogance and
pretentiousness can flourish. It's probably
because you need hardly any technical skills to
become involved in them. Pseuds will feel
drawn towards the arts because they sense
that they'll provide a better outlet for their
pretentiousness than (say) operating a milling
machine. So any intellectual, non-technical
activity tends to be dominated by pratts—look
at the House of Commons.
It's an uninspiring picture that comes out of
all this. Artists regard scientists and
technologists as unimaginative, unable to see
beyond the ends of their noses, too involved
with boring subjects like electricity. Scientists
and technologists regard artists as pretentious,
incapable of changing a light bulb, too involved
with boring subjects like Bauhaus modernism.
Science students and arts students look down
on each other, and they both have good
reasons.
A play by J - P Sartre.
Translated by Frank Hauser.
Union Concert Hall.
W e d 17 to Sat 20 M a r c h at 7:30
Tickets £1.00 on the door.
A Dramsoc production.
V W U W U V W V W W W W U W W b r W ^
Not enough time to go to concerts?
Come to one at College instead!
Consort Chamber Orchestra
Wednesday, March 17, 1:00pm,
Great Hall
Admissions free!
Pachelbel: Kanon
Vivaldi: Violin Concerto O p 12 N o 1
Soloist: M . Abraham
Bach: Harpsichord concerto in f minor
Soloist D . Wisniewski
Everyone welcome!
Page 6 FELIX, March 12, 1982

