www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 3 February 2005
ELECTIONS elections@ic.ac.uk
11
DEPUTY PRESIDENT (FINANCE & SERVICES)
● The DP(F&S) is responsible for all the Union’s finances and commercial services
● There are 3 candidates, plus the option to Re-Open Nominations (see page 13)
EDWARD PIGGOTT
ROBIN AVERY
TIM APLIN
What does a student union want? Its students to be satisfied.
So then we ask: how can that be achieved? There is no simple
answer; the needs are limitless: cheap food & drink, lively
student bars, well funded & active clubs & societies, the list
continues for as many students as you can find.
Many people want many different things and as DPFS I
would strive to help everyone get better value from our outlets
(bars, catering and retail); make sure clubs and societies get
funded more competently; and draw on the practices of other
universities and see what they do well and how we can emulate
that. Our Wednesday and Fridays have recently fallen below
par and I would give my support in trying new things to attract
different student groups into the building throughout the days
and nights.
Nobody can promise miracles, but with a ‘career’ history
that has had me doing everything from participating in a club
to financially overseeing over 45 of them (representing over
20% of the total) as ACC Treasurer – which encompasses the
majority of competitive and graded sport in Imperial College
Union; both drinking in and working behind our bars for the
better part of four years and being involved in the Union’s
recent Club & Society Finance Review, I believe I have the
knowledge, experience and working relationships over all the
other candidates to get the job done best.
DEPUTY PRESIDENT (CLUBS & SOCIETIES)
● The DP(C&S) is responsible for all the Union’s clubs, societies and student activities
● There are 2 candidates, plus the option to Re-Open Nominations (see page 13)
SIMON MATTHEWS
Why should you vote for me as DP (C&S)?
Simply put, you’d be getting someone who is
experienced, competent and who has a track
record of openness and improving communi-
cation. Having spent the last couple of years
on the SCC exec; firstly as treasurer and now
as chair I am aware of many of the current
issues facing clubs and societies in the union
and have been working hard trying to improve
matters. I have been an active member of a
wide range of clubs, including sports and rec-
reational ones, giving me knowledge of some
of the challenges that they face.
As DP(C&S) I would continue the war on
bureaucracy. Some paperwork is a necessary
evil, but I would continue the trend of moving
to online forms, reducing the work that club
officers have to do.
The recent strategic review highlighted a
number of issues. The proposed redevelop-
ment of the Beit building would allow us to
make better use of the available space. There
is also the matter of room bookings. Some
rooms stand empty for most of the year, while
others are fought over tooth and nail: I would
plan to enable these less-popular rooms to
be used more effectively. One of my ultimate
goals would be to see every club have a ‘home’,
whether it’s an extra gym for the martial arts
clubs, or customised room for social clubs.
Remember, a vote for Simon is a vote for
competence and experience.
Hello all, as I know you’re all busy I’ll keep this short and to
the point. Fundamentally I stand for three things that form
a catchy slogan: responsibility, accountability and approach-
ability.
Responsibility is because I was treasurer of ICU Sinfonietta
during their most successful and expensive tour to date, with
a budget in excess of £25k and many challenges along the way
(anyone who’s tried to pay Russians in advance will know about
this). Secondly I am currently the treasurer of ICU RAG which
will hopefully donate in excess of £10k themselves, counted and
banked by me and my team.
Accountability represents my view that all sabbatical offic-
ers should be able to be held to account by the members of the
institution that is ICU. If you had an issue with the way I did
something, I’d strongly encourage you to question me about
it.
Approachability is for all you budding treasurers out there. I
know how hard it can be to run a club and budget for it. I also
know that your job is the most thankless in any society and
think that there should be more support out there for all 300 of
you. I would like to provide that support.
So, I think you should vote for me because I have the ability
to do the job, are willing to be questioned on my methods (and
justify them) and the enthusiastic nature to get the job done
and help people.
More Money for C&S!
I will prioritise the Union’s Money better, allowing for a larger
chunk to go towards the Clubs & Societies. I will also lobby for
an increase in our overall funding, to give Clubs and Societies,
rather than just admin, more.
More Fun Less Forms!
I will move most, if not all, the day-to-day financial administra-
tion for Clubs & Societies online. I will also campaign to move
the rest of the C&S administration online.
Less Fiction More Fact!
I believe very passionately that students should know what is
happening when it is. Thus, whenever I am doing something,
be assured that I will let the people who matter, the Students,
know.
For Students By Students!
I will open the financial sections of the Union to greater stu-
dent involvement, and scrutiny. Thus, if they want something
done, they’ll be able to see whether it’s happening or not.
Real Action Not Gimmicks!
I have a proven track record of delivering the promises I make,
both the very small ones to the very large ones. So be assured,
when I say I’m going to do something, I actually mean it!
A New Union Is Possible!
I passionately believe that all students, irrespective of their
beliefs, should be entitled to help within the Union. I feel that
we should all work together to make a better Union for all.
JAMES THATCHER
I believe that Imperial’s greatest asset is its
clubs and societies; we currently have over
250 clubs with thousands of student members
and hundreds of dedicated officers. My aim
as DPCS would be simply to perform my
duties in an organised and efficient manner; it
sounds obvious, but having been a club officer
I know how vital those two things are.
Club officers have to be well organised in
order to hand in forms on time, and should
expect them to be handled efficiently once
they have. In order to aid this I will continue to
push for more online documentation, a service
which should have been implemented many
years ago.
The year ahead will be both very exciting
and very challenging for many clubs. Most
obviously for the indoor sports clubs with the
opening of the new sports centre, but also for
many others with the closure of Southside
and its gym, and the potential restructuring of
the union building. I will continue all the hard
work of the previous DPCS and CSC chairs
in ensuring that the best deal is reached for
everyone involved.
I could promise all sorts of outrageous things
that I couldn’t possibly achieve, but I won’t. All
I promise is to give every person who votes for
me a planet of their choice when I’m ruler of
the Universe*, and to do my best to represent
all the clubs and societies so they can achieve
what they want.
*Except Uranus. First come first served.

