12 www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 3 February 2005
ELECTIONS elections@ic.ac.uk
DEPUTY PRESIDENT (EDUCATION & WELFARE)
● The DP(E&W) is responsible for promoting important welfare issues and safe-guarding the education of students
● There are 2 candidates, plus the option to Re-Open Nominations (see page 13)
FELIX EDITOR
● There are 4 candidates, plus the option to Re-Open Nominations (see page 13)
SIMON CLARK
I have been involved with Felix since I’ve been
at Imperial and been a regular contributor,
initially as a music reviewer.
This year I have been editor of the Nightlife
section, which has involved writing, as well
as organisation of reviewers. This summer I
was assistant editor on a newspaper for an
international Scout camp of 8,000 people, pro-
ducing a full newsprint edition every day for a
week, from the comfort of a field.
Felix is the best it has ever been. I want to
build upon this success and make it even more
professional, with more and better content
from around the college. As editor I would
repeat the survey of last summer, in order to
get a better idea of what readers want and
improve our publication.
Subject to the survey results I would also
like to work directly with clubs & societies
on ways to work together for more contribu-
tions about, by and for them. Felix needs to
improve its representation of the variety of
the Imperial community, with more content
on college life, The Union and its events, and
personal opinions of students.
As a computing student, I’m in a prime posi-
tion to improve the use of ICT facilities both
inside and outside the Felix office, including
an improved website and online contributions
system.
I would also endeavour to create a more
enjoyable working environment for contribu-
tors in Felix, and so encourage more people
to contribute and provide readers with a more
humorous and entertaining paper.
ALEKS CORR
Having been at Imperial for 4 years, I have
met and talked to many people about their
views on Imperial College and the Union. I
have also had first hand experience in using
the welfare facilities, and feel that I can repre-
sent these views.
I will strengthen the relationships between
personal tutors and students by ensuring that
through regular meetings (not just with first
years) a tutor can build up a relationship that
will allow the student to ask freely about edu-
cation and welfare issues, and allow feedback
for work/exams. New tutors may need help in
providing them the right information.
Postgraduates and taught postgraduates do
not have a huge active role in the Union. Many
postgraduates do not realise that there is a
Union. I can increase awareness by provid-
ing information at the start of the year for all
postgraduates, including the ones originating
from Imperial College.
I feel that a disinterest in Imperial is due to
lack of communication. I aim to work along-
side student representatives to pass on infor-
mation through class representatives and cre-
ate a feedback system.
I will investigate whether there are enough
resources to facilitate disabled students, and
those with learning difficulties, and to provide
necessary changes, by working alongside the
Disabilities Officer.
I would like to see more subject areas intro-
ducing reading weeks, or more time for prepa-
ration round exam times. I feel that this will
decrease the stress that student’s feel, espe-
cially as preparation time has decreased in
certain times of the year.
SARAH KHATIB
RUPERT NEATE
Vote Rupert Neate for Felix Editor
Felix is out of touch with you, the students.
Felix isn’t fun anymore, and doesn’t attempt to
cover any serious news stories. Felix should
concentrate on its core principles of relevant
news, funny columns, opinion on major issues
& College sport.
● More fun, more comedy (bring back page
3?)
● More real news ● More opinion
● More sport ● More relevance
Felix should be full of stuff you want to
read! Felix shouldn’t just be something you
flip through when you’re bored in lectures,
it should be something you look forward to,
something that sparks debate, or at least
conversation. The current bland Felix only
provokes the question “What’s 7 across?”.
We spend all our time learning about sci-
ence in lectures, Felix should be a reprieve
from this, do we really want to read about only
Science and Business? I’m not suggesting
Felix should be dumbed-down; I will introduce
humour and serious hard-hitting articles. I’ll
include an agony aunt (everyone loves read-
ing them!) and a London sport column.
Felix is very un-opinionated, there is no
leader column, all papers need this to express
the paper’s views. I have secured interviews
with prominent politicians such Westminster
MP
, Mark Fields, and will regularly interview
a figure relevant to students.
I have been published in The Reading
Evening Post and The Southampton Daily
Echo, and had work experience on The
Guardian.
Vote Rupert for a Felix you want to read
DARIUS NIKBIN
Felix is your forum. We are there to enter-
tain, inform, and to publish your views. Most
importantly Felix must be relevant and it is
the Editor’s responsibility to print what you
find interesting and entertaining.
During my three years on Felix I have
edited the Film section, written news articles,
relaunched the Science section, and been
involved in unearthing the biggest front-page
scoop Felix’s history. Currently, I am the sci-
ence editor and am working to launch a new
Felix spinout magazine in March. I also have
experience on the advertising and financial
aspects of producing the newspaper.
Throughout my time on the paper I have
placed emphasis on two aspects of Felix:
content and humour. The two are not mutu-
ally exclusive, but are essential. Felix needs
an editorial team who are familiar with the
collective student Zeitgeist and who can tap
into your sense of banter. Today’s Felix Editor
also needs the experience and technical pro-
fessionalism to safeguard your freedom of
speech, motivate a competent editorial team,
and ensure that Felix is printed on time, and
not on bog-roll.
As Felix’s most experienced section editor, I
believe I can deliver on all these fronts.
Vote for me and I will ensure the profes-
sional running of Felix, support clubs and
Union events, publish a once-a-term science
and culture magazine, revamp the website,
and guarantee your freedom of speech. Felix
will reach its potential, but we need to be
relevant in our content and more irreverent
in our humour.
MARTIN SMITH
When it comes to editing Felix, you need
someone with both vision and experience. As
your Felix editor, I would build on the profes-
sionalism already present and introduce a
new ‘feel’ to Felix: one that is interesting,
informative and amusing. I will:
● Extend the already excellent sports cov-
erage to every club and society by offering
‘feature’ sections on the interesting social,
recreational, overseas and athletic aspects of
student life. I’ll continue to print any sports
report that I receive.
● Encourage comment and lively debate on
college, student and world news, giving every
reader the chance to make their voice heard
● Produce well designed, entertaining issues
of Felix incorporating many aspects of talent
available at Imperial, be it photography, politi-
cal cartoons or the written word.
● Reward and encourage the many talented
contributors to Felix with bar nights and other
social events.
I’m honoured to have served you as the
current Books editor of Felix and have tack-
led both interviews and page layout in this
capacity, alongside writing some of the cryptic
crosswords you enjoyed last year. Some of
you may already know me as the editor of
‘Broadsheet’, the Faculty of Physical Sciences
student newspaper. I’m proud to have had
that opportunity to offer entertainment and
amusement to Physical Scientists and to pro-
duce thought provoking articles on a variety
of subjects.
If you want to see features, comment,
debate and other entertaining articles then
vote Martin Smith for Felix Editor
www.martin2005.co.uk
I am Sarah Khatib, a final year Biochemistry
student.
I have been a Year Representative for the
past 2 years and I have enjoyed it because,
at heart, I like to assist students with their
academic issues, and convey their ideas and
complaints to faculty members.
I strongly believe that you should have the
power to change things in your university and
in order to achieve this I will guarantee you
competent representation. I intend to galva-
nize the departmental representation system
so that you have more faith in your Year Reps.
How often do you meet with your personal
tutor? Seldom, I bet. I will ensure this scheme
is more effective, with tutors as your first point
of reference.
Unrealistic deadlines, very little time? I want
to develop a more manageable exam and
coursework timetable for all departments.
I intend to work hard to protect your inter-
ests, ensuring that The Union provides you
with welfare support specific to your needs.
In my position as DPEW, I will address
the issue of accommodation rents. I support
an even distribution of rent increases across
the spectrum of halls and I feel that freshers
have the right to indicate what price range is
affordable for them. Above all, I am seeking to
advocate a fair accommodation system.
Do you want to see it all done?
Speak Out.
Vote Sarah Khatib for DPEW.

