IPage 21
Rugby 2nds
The fact that we arrived with fourteen
players didn't seem to matter, as they only
had eleven. Unfortunately, the other four
turned up and our coach driver didn't want
a game so we started a man short.
They won the toss, and made us defend
the end with all the little bumps. The first
half was very static, the ball being in our
half most of the time. Their N o . 10 o b l i g -
ingly missed two penalties, each from about
40 yds out. Goldsmiths continued to apply
the pressure, and there was one dangerous
bit about ten minutes before half time, when
it seemed as if they had to score, but our
defence held firm.
Half time came and went, but we didn't
see any oranges (you even get those at
Harlington). In the second half, it seemed
as if we had just been using the first half
for warming up. We kept the ball i n their
half much more, and finally, after about 25
minutes, Ni ck Carr scored under the posts
from a scrum, five yards out. The try was
converted. The match was by no means over
though, and it must be said that Goldsmiths'
threw everything they had at us (the water
bucket, corner flags, a kit bag ...), and a l -
though they came at us with a two man over-
lap about four times, they could not find a
way through.
The final whistle blew leaving the score
6-0, a thouroughly deserved victory for I.C.,
who, it must be remembered were playing
with one man short, and three new players
in the pack. Sorry, I can't remember the team,
Ace sports writer Liam Gartside
Football 2nds to Replay LSE
I.C. 2nd XI 1 L . S . E . 2nd XI 1
(The second thrilling instalment of the
Gripping Saga of I.C.'s 2nd X l ' s Road to
Cup Glory).
After some initial worries as to whether
the I.C. team had actually remembered that
they were playing L . S . E . , our illustrious
heroes set off (at very high speed) for
L . S . E . ' s ground. Many train changes later
believe it or not 12 I.C. players arrived at
Marylands on time! Could this run of success
continue into the game was the question
being whispered in the corridors around |.C!s
dressing room.
In the first half I..C. looked like a team
playing for money with everybody looking
and running for the ball (except N. Price win
was nursing an injury which he didn't want
to talk about). When L . S . E . attacked they
found that B. Hatton had marked their centre-
forward out of the game, which undoubtably
took some of the bite out of their attacks,
K. Reeve, in the middle of the defence, con-
trolled IC in a way which could only be des-
cribed as manly.
I.C.'s attack and mid-field pressurized
the L . S . E . defence by kicking the ball into
their half. This eventually paid off in the
later stages of the first half when a good
through ball by M . Hashmi found P . Leaney
who, while holding off two defenders, slott-
ed the ball past the oncoming L . S . E . keepei:
Unperturbed, I.C. played on well to remain
in front at half time.
The second half, however, was a different
story. L . S . E . attacked I.C.'s defence con-
Captain Regains Form?
After the fiasco of Wednesday when the
Cross-Country Club could only turn out five
runners and the opposition three, there was
hope that things would be better on Satur-
day. However, even with the help of U.L.
only six people turned up for the race.
The six turned up at the changing rooms
of the Metropolitan Police at Hayes, Kent.
After changing they set off for the start.
Our problems started here. Only five of
the team made it to the correct start. It seem
-ed that there were two races, starting not
200 yards from each other.
The two races started. It was soon ob-
vious that the University team was going to
be anihilated by not only the P o l i c e , but
also Hercules Wimbledon, the other team we
were competing against. Jim Meades steamed
off with the leaders and stayed with them
to the end, where he finished 5th. BRyan
Acford and Ian Alvey also shot off, but Ian
faded badly.
The second of our runners was the afore-
mentioned BRyan in 13th. The rest were
Rich 'Banana' Harrington in 18th, Maurice
' L o n g John Silver' Wilson in 20th and fin-
ally, keeping a broody eye on his team from
the rear, 'Captain' Ian Alvey. After the race
he vowed it was time to collect his pension
Much of the opposition seemed to have
connections with I C C C C . Mick Fuller, a
sometime inhabitant of RCM bar, got his
- second wind after 20yards and finished
2nd. Steve Webb was 11th and Stu L i t t l e -
wood 14th. Ian Isherwood, wearing his new
'traffic-light' gear, was 16th and Pete Barry,
of somewhere in the Huxley Building, was
17th.
To summarize, we were beaten by oursel-
ves, and the course. Incidentally, John
Whitehouse still doesn't know which race he
ran, but said "It was a good course, I en-
joyed myself and managed to catch some
people towards the end."
tinuously, s t i l l I.C. were unworred. The
finishing of L . S . E . was not as good as it
should have been, but they came close from
a free kick lifted over the I.C. wall which
A . Betts tipped onto the cross-bar.
L . S . E . eventually hit the target with a
flicked shot (which was either well taken or
lucky depending on which side you were on)
into the top corner of I . C . ' s goal.
L . S . E . ' s superior fitness showed more and
more as the game went on. Even so, I.C.
managed to put the ball in their opponents'
net twice - but they were disallowed for
off-side.
N. Price eventually had to be replaced by
C . Beer, due to a very severe attack of
cramp (so he said).
When the final whistle came the scores
were still level, the big question now was
that should extra time be played, a tired
I.C. team said no and suggested L . S . E . con-
tinue without them. A replay was eventually
decided upon, so I.C. have to go through it
all again, the tension, the knocks and the
disappointment of not being able to find the
bar!
A. Betts
I.C. Team: A. Betts, N. Price (C. Beer), K.
Reeve, B. Hatton, M. Hashmi, A. Clarke, P.
Hiccolls, C. Whiteside (capt), D, Higgs, P.
Leaney, D. Parsons
O R I E N T E E R I N G
The Second Sunday of term saw the orien-
teering club setting for a rather unique
event at Hanley Common Surrey. The event
was rather novel in that a l l the competition
set off at once but on differing courses of a
similar nature and length. The open heath-
land and mass start of 250 people led to a
very fast race which was only partially
slowed by the mist.
The best performance of the day was that
of Steve Kirk i n 2nd P l a c e , closely followed
by Dave Rosen in 6th P l a c e , Andy Quickfall
did well to finish in 33rd place with Gary
Longhurst and N i g e l Ward a l s o running well,
and the event was greatly enjoyed by the
I.C. members and other U . L . O . C . members
that went.
Details of events including a "come and
try i t " event at Hampstead Heath, for new-
comers to the sport, are on the c l u b notice
board in the Union Building or available at
club meetings on Fridays at 12.30 the
S.C.R.
Gary Longhurst
Commencing Monday 5th February, open to a l l members of
Imperial College Badminton C l u b ,
Men's Singles, Ladies Singles, Men's Doubles, Ladies Dou-
bles, Mixed Doubles Competitions.
A l l events w i l l be handicapped and trophies w i l l be award -
ed to the winner(s) of each competition. The entry fee w i l l be
20 p. per person per event.
Further information, entries and membership obtainable
from: -
Vic Bevan (Physics HI), Mick Jackson (Physics II), Neil
Marks (Maths III)
Beit Hall football team would
like to play any other hall that
is interested. Please contact
J o h n S h u t t l e w o r t h , I n t . 2 7 5 3
or Beit Hall letter racks.

