Page 18,
IC RADIO
No doubt you have now all How would you like to get invd-
heard about Imperial College Rad- ved in helping to keep IC Radio
io and a fair proportion of you
will hove listened in, be it in a
bar, in the JCR, or on your own
"tranny" in your own room on
301 metres, medium wave.
Many of the people involved in
an air, and have the chance of
putting " I C Radio engineer" on
.that job application form? Then
again, i f you perhaps want to go
into radio a s a career, engineer-
ing experience with a student
IC Radio only present programmes, radio station w i l l stand you i n
and due to their enthusiasm we good stead (well where else w i l l
are able to have an output on the you get experience ... hospital
medium wave approaching 60 hours radio is about the only other way!
a week, together with programmes Our system is totally voluntary
to the J C R and our other landline and because of this, we rely on
outlets on Tuesday and Thursday people to turn up on times that
lunchtime*; are usually pre-arranged. Each
T o maintain our high standard evening we have a Station Co-or-
of presentation, we need to have a dinator, who looks after the smoo-
large amount of equipment in per- th running of the programmes. How
feet working order. You may think nice it would be to have stand-by
that everything/uns smoothly, i engineers on c a l l for each night
and we never seem to- have any of the week, to solve any tech-
problems, or if we do, then they
are solved by a technical wizard
in-between records . . . n o t sot We
nical problems that might occur;
a l l that would be required would
be a 'phone number or room num-
have at our disposal no less than ber to reach you on, so i n fact yoi
2 Ferrograph reel-to-reel tape
decks, 3 B S R record decks, 3
cartridge machines, a Dolby c a s -
sette deck, and last but not l e a s i
the hub of the Station . . . a 19
channel stereo mixer. These do
would not even have to be in the
station at a l l , unless an emergen-
:y occured.
Interested? Well no experience
is required at a l l ! We can train
you and introduce you to the intr-
malfunction from time to time, and icasies and fun of community
i f the fault i s not rectified, then radio. If you want to get involved
the presenter has a problem in contact I C Radio with a note a d -
that a piece of equipment he may dressed to T C Radio, Southside'
need to use for a programme cann- through the internal m a i l , or come
ot be relied on to perform at 100% into the office and studios after
efficiency (in some cases the fig- five any evening (they are next
gure can fall as l o w as 30%, 20% to the shop in Southside.)
.... need I say more?)
Take a programme l i k e " 3 0 1
N e w s l i n e " on Wednesday even -
i n g s . T h i s requires at least thf
Alternatively you can 'phone
3440 anytime.
B y the way our Technical M a -
nager i s Malcolm Locke (EE2),
two reel^o-reel machines, and two so if you want to, you can drop
cartridge machines. If these are him a line personally, telling him
not available, then " N e w s l i n e " what times during the week are
is virtually impossible to produce most convenient for you to come
B y now you should have got the i n . Your time w i l l be really app-
idea that the people maintaining reciated, not only by the presen-
(and of course constructing new
equipment, laying cables etc.)
have a hard job. In fact at pre -
sent, they have too many jobs to
cope with and need help. That's
where you come i n !
tation staff, but also by our l i s -
teners, who w i l l be given a con-
sistently high standard of medium
wave output, due to your efforts.
Hope to see you involved soon.
Harvey Nadin
Assistant Station Manager
John Firth in action, presenting one of his twice weekly "Thro-
ugh Midnight" programmes on Imperial College Radio. He is self-
operating, in the main (and at present only) studio in the basement
of Southside.
AP Meeting
in case you haven't noticed already, Imperial College has a male/
female ratio in which females are very much a minority .Since this
is not in common with society in general, it can have quite drastic
and even adverse effects on the attitudes and way of life of both
male and female students here.
In order to prepare and forewarn new entrants of this, there is
to be included in the Alternative Prospectus, a description of the
social situation at I.C. If this description is to be at a l l represen-
tative, it must include as wide a range of views and opinions as
possible.
Of course the way you react to this situation, depends on your
personality, temperament and what you expect out of student life.
Yet we can a l l observe that I . C . produces different social groups
than society in general.
To consider such effects, a meeting is being held on Thursday
1st Feb at 12.45 pm in the ICWA lounge. It is hoped that views
will be presented, so that they can be included in the A P .
So please come along and speak your mind.
THOENIX
I C s literary/arts magazine w i l l hopefully be published at E a s -
ter. If you have any drawings, cartoons, photos, poems, prose, gra-
phics, short stories, longer short stories, serious s o c i a l comment,
less serious social comment, designs, verse or any combination
thereof, it would be very welcome. P H O E N I X i s your magazine too,
it is not only intended to show you what the rest of us can do, but
also to show the rest of us what you can do. Help to prove that I.C.
is not a cultural desert, leave your contribution in the Phoenix file,
on the board on the right as you enter the F E L I X office.
TV\egalaxy Is 'ir\ the^efc of the ev/il,
totalitarian Tederahon, wK\cV\ s*r\\ces
TkmK into the Hearts o£lhe7orWr/oA/
•aAd envies to vitoew italics.
Onlij one man challenges foe. povier
P
A
R
T 1 °^ ^ e
deration — l)rake..
escapes rVbm the fedenxtlon prison
planet, only fco (Vnd a stf&r^e
Stacslruip, (^oatmc^ discarded
in Sp'ace .DraVe hetVtcalLj names it
Teecui/rrcfc I Ue join our Infcfttp'idi band
ds ttviu] explore Inelf nevo ftnd ^ *
vOitKVusWme feandi of rebels he

