THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 15
FELIX 13.03.2015
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Film Editors Ellen Mathieson, John Park and Jack Steadman
Julianne Moore is in a tragically
isolated situation with Still Alice.
She is largely left to fend for
herself on the screen, and is perfect
in every way. It starts with the little,
subtle signs for Alice (Moore). A few
words here and there, and forgetting
what she just discussed with her
family. As a lecturer she struggles
with pauses, and later on, not
remembering what she was supposed
to teach on that particular day. Her
performance as a linguistics professor
suffers as a result of this, and the
harsh but honest feedback from her
students forces her to face her reality.
Her initial assessment with the
doctors reveals a troubling diagnosis,
and it is all downhill from there for
her memory. Making things worse is
the hereditary nature of her disease.
She not only worries for her, but for
her young children (Kristen Stewart,
Kate Bosworth, Hunter Parrish) as
well, with even the possibility of her
children passing this onto her future
grandchildren also being something
she cannot rule out.
Moore is an actress who continues
to raise the bar she sets for herself in
a league of her own. Her filmography
reads like a long list of performances
she should have been, and to a certain
extent was, awarded heavily for,
and with this stunning, emotionally
resonant film she finally gets her due.
For as long as she has some control,
Alice frantically tries to jog her
memory in whatever way she can, but
as her audience we see the difficult
and inevitable deterioration. Her
husband John (Alec Baldwin) remains
as supportive as he can, although he
STILL ALICE
Directors: Richard Glatzer,
Wash Westmoreland
Screenplay: Richard Glatzer,
Wash Westmoreland, Lisa
Genova (novel)
Cast: Julianne Moore, Alec
Baldwin, Kristen Stewart, Kate
Bostworth, Hunter Parrish
JOHN PARK
SECTION EDITOR
Julianne Moore’s Oscar-winning triumph
Photo: Richard Glatzer, Wash Westmoreland, Sony Pictures Classics
KILL THE MESSENGER
Director: Michael Cuesta
Screenplay: Peter Landesman,
Gary Webb (book), Nick Schou
(book)
Cast: Jeremy Renner, Mary
Elizabeth Winstead
JOHN PARK
SECTION EDITOR
In a time where the cases of
Edward Snowden and Julian
Assange are still left unresolved,
Kill the Messenger serves as a timely
piece to show how the practice of
whistle-blowing can be a deadly game
to get yourself into. Jeremy Renner
heads this at-times flimsy but oddly
captivating conspiracy thriller in
which he is that classic old-school
character of a newspaper journalist
acting like a dog with a bone.
Sensing that he has stumbled upon
what could be the biggest story of his
career, Gary Webb (Renner) ignores
the obvious warnings and dangers
surrounding his passion project,
and continues digging in his search
for the truth. What he uncovers
is detrimental for the important
people high up in the government:
Webb is convinced that the Central
Intelligence Agency (CIA) directly
played a part in supplying huge
amounts of cocaine to be sold in the
poorest, most desperate parts of the
United States, and used the huge
profits from the sales to fund the
Nicaraguan Contras rebel army.
Damning allegations for sure,
and getting involved in such murky
waters is bound to upset a lot of
people. Initially a happily-married
family man, Webb goes through
the clichéd change of prioritising
his work over his family. His wife
Sue (Rosemarie DeWitt) is the first
redundant character of many, as she
plays the tired, same old role of a
worried wife who wishes her husband
would stay at home to look after their
children.
His personal investigation into
the matters at hand proves exciting
however, well worth the hours spent
pursuing numerous individuals and
chasing up leads, sometimes taking
him outside his home country. His
editor Anna Simons (Mary Elizabeth
finds himself having to make the
choice between caring for his wife in a
full-time capacity, and furthering his
career that is on the rise.
Moore’s restrained Oscar-winning
performance is faultless in every
frame, and the film is not afraid to
show all the potential ugly sides the
condition carries with it. Alice unable
to keep a sense of direction leads to
rather frightening consequences,
her safety-net back-up plan for
when things become unbearable for
her is devastating. This truly is an
extraordinary, heartfelt tale with no
fancy, complicated story behind it. It
solely focuses on the woman herself,
her step-by-step decline, and in its
deceptive simplicity, it is outstanding
because of it.
Alice’s moving speech at an
Alzheimer’s conference, awkwardly
strung together by a woman quite
severely affected by the condition at
the point, with uncomfortable gaps
and with an understandable level of
nerves from the character, is no doubt
the tear-jerking highlight of the film.
Try to resist crying listening to that.
Although given its grave, sensitive
subject matter, the film wisely stays
away from relying on melodramatic
plot points. This truly is the most
personal and intimate a character
study can get, one that results in a
deeply touching conclusion.
That Alzheimer’s disease is
incurable makes the film’s ending
all the more important, something
Still Alice handles appropriately.
Directors Wash Westmoreland and
Richard Glatzer hit the inspirational
note they intended on capturing,
without offensively sugar-coating
the hardship that comes with it. Alice
Brown has a lot to teach us, in her life
that was well lived and fulfilled.
Whatever happened to Gary Webb?
Winstead) is cautiously optimistic, as
he insists that he does not believe in
conspiracy theories. He does however
believe in real conspiracies. And the
more that he uncovers, the more we
are inclined to agree with him.
Renner, despite being an integral
part of three huge action franchises
(The Avengers, Mission Impossible,
the Bourne series), is someone who
still finds the time to show off his
dramatic versatility and acting
prowess in the relatively smaller,
less-seen films. As Gary Webb,
Renner more than suits the scruffy,
worn-down look, and his worsening
obsession towards the story plays
out well throughout the film, as does
his paranoid tendency. His passion
shines through, even in the film’s
weakest moments, as he convincingly
portrays the likeable underdog. Being
a journalist working for a relatively
small newspaper, there is a sense that
he has bitten off way more than he
can chew, although the controversial
report does manage to make its
appearance on the newspaper’s
painfully old-fashioned, 90s website,
which is when all hell breaks loose.
It does not take long for the
mainstream news to gobble this up in
its 24-hour news cycle, with messages
of both support and condemnation
from various parties flying across
every media outlet. But ultimately
there is pressure from the powers that
be, one that is too difficult to ignore.
Webb’s reputation is tarnished
and his article discredited for ‘poor
research’. Just exactly who is doing
what at what level is shrouded in
mystery, perhaps due to the fact
that even to this day, it is not clearly
known. But the point is, his life is
falling apart, as people from both
his professional and personal lives
start pulling away from him, and the
support that he once thought could
rely on, is no more. Renner amps up
his game in the second half, as the
character grows more helpless with
fewer places to turn to.
In the end, as with pretty much
any conspiracies/cover-ups, it will be
impossible to know to what extent the
report was true. There are still doubts
as to the circumstances surrounding
Gary Webb’s death (it was eventually
ruled as a suicide). But whatever
the case, the story of Gary Webb
and his passion and ego fuelling
his investigative journalism is one
that is difficult to forget, thanks
largely in part to Renner’s solid lead
performance.
Photo: Michael Cuesta, Focus
Features
Photo: Michael Cuesta, Focus
Features

