THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 39
FELIX 13.03.2015
38 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.03.2015
Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Latin and South America
North America
Aguascalientes, Mexico - Festival de las Calaveras
A 3,000 years old tradition, Dia de Muertos used to occur in the beginning of
summer as a day to remember the deceased. After Spanish Colonisation, however,
the date was moved to coincide with All Hallows’ Eve. Most people are probably
most familiar with the skull-face makeup, flower headbands and gothic dresses.
Sugar skulls inscribed with the name of the dead on the forehead are eaten by
friends or relative, and many have taken up wearing colourful skull masks. It is
considered a celebration with the dead, not of the dead, as the gates of hell opened
on 31st
October.
It is historically celebrated in southern Mexico, but has spread north and south
throughout North and South America. The festival is hosted in the city fairgrounds
with craft and food stands as well as concert, theatre productions and the grand
parade.
Time: 28th
October – 9th
November for 2015
Official website: http://www.festivaldecalaveras.com.mx/
The trade-mark make up for the day of the
deadPhoto: flickr Rob Sheridan
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil
– Rio festival
Over two centuries old, Rio festival is considered the largest
festival in the world. Celebrated four days before the beginning
of Lent, the city is alive with parties, costumes, drinks, food and
music. Street parties are less fancy, with a larger focus on music
and loved by locals. To bring everything to a show-stopping end –
the Samba Parade is the perfect conclusion.
What is Samba? It’s the Brazilian music genre and dance style,
born from Africa tradition and a Brazilian cultural icon. Taking
place in the Sambadrome’s Prof, it involves various Samba
schools showcasing themselves for 80 minutes with floats,
revellers and adornments. Each will have a different theme, mood
and style, showing you a story with choreographed dances and
costumes. Their rehearsals can be attended for a small fee – and
are worth it for the music, show and the possibility of a party
afterwards.
Time: 5th
February - 9th
February for 2016
Official Website: http://www.rio-carnival.net/
The colourful costumes of Rio. Photo: flickr anna_t
Sacsayhuaman,
Peru - Inti Raymi
Translated as the Festival of the Sun, Inti Raymi is the
celebration of Winter Solstice in honour of the god Inti
by the Incas. The ceremonies not only celebrate the
Sun and the start of a new planting season, but a plea
to bring the Sun back and shorten the longest night
in the Southern Hemisphere. The first Inti Raymi was
held in 1412, and was the most important event during
the Inca Empire involving 9 days of colourful dances,
processions and animal sacrifices in Cuzco. It was
banned in 1535 by Catholic priests, but was revived in
1944 at Sacsayhuaman (2km from Cuzco) on June 24th.
However, the festival is still celebrated by indigenous
cultures throughout the Andes. Colourful costumes,
music and food sharing are carried out.
Time: 21st
or 22nd
June
Official website: the official website cannot be found,
but here’s a more in depth article from lonelyplanet:
http://www.lonelyplanet.com/peru/travel-tips-and-
articles/77190
Nevada, US - Burning Man Festival
Originating on San Francisco’s Baker Beach as a bonfire ritual on the Summer Solstice in 1986, the Burning Man
Festival has since migrated to the Black Rock Desert in Nevada. Named from its ritual of the burning of a large
wooden effigy, the festival is different in a sense that it does not have a single focus. Instead, it is guided by ten
principles: radical inclusion, gifting, decommondiciation, radical self-reliance, radical self-expression, communal
effort, civic responsibility, leaving no trace, participation and immediacy.
The weeklong festival begins on the last Monday of August, and takes place in the middle of a large plaza at
the temporary city named Black Rock City by the participants. It is usually built a few weeks before the event
by volunteers from the Department of Public Workers. A temple has become an addition to the burning man
(historically up to 105 ft tall) since 2000, and various artworks are installed in the desert as well. With a price of $390,
it is up to you to decide whether this unique festival in the middle of nowhere is worth the journey.
Time: Last Monday of August
Official website: http://burningman.org/
The burning man festival in 2009, with tall wood art piece ready to burn. Photo: flickr erispaceman
New Orleans, US -
Mardi Gras
They say that USA have a version of everything, and that
couldn’t be more true when it comes to New Orleans’
Mardi Gras Carnival. Similar to the Venetian Mask
Carnival, Mardi Gras was brought to US by the early
French settlers to commemorate the start of Lent. The
first record of the Mardi Gras celebration can be traced
back to 1699, and the custom of balls, parades and
costume were established by 1742.
Modern day Mardi Gras begins on the Twelfth Night
(6th
January), with masked balls held by Carnival’s oldest
societies. Other events to look out for are the parade
featuring Krewes of Muses, Lundi Gras (Fat Monday),
Zulu parade and Rex parade. Activities are spread out over
two weeks and if you do decide to go, don’t forget to invest
in grabs of their official colour of purple, gold and green,
representing justice, power and faith.
Time: Fat Tuesday (9th
February, 2016)
Official website: http://www.mardigrasneworleans.com/
Bourbon Street at night. Photo: flickr praline3001
Las Vegas, US - Coachella
Known as the ultimate music festival, Coachella is one of the most famous
music festivals in the world. A three-day event that repeats over two weekends,
it is held in Coachella Valley, Colorado Desert in California. It started in 1993
as a concert by Pearl Jam at the Empire Polo Club as a boycott to Ticketmaster
venue. This eventually led to an inaugural event in 1999, and reached its
current format in 2012.
Notable performers in the past were Radio Head, Red Hot Chilli Peppers,
Paul McCartney and Eminem. Despite charging an extortionate amount of
money, thousands of people flock to the Californian valley decked in their best.
Whether it is for the line-up, the sighting of celebrities or experience, it seems
to me that people either love it, or hate it.
Time: April
Official website: https://www.coachella.com/
Well dressed festival goers in Coahella 2013. Photo: flickr Thomas
Hawk
The reenactment of the Inca’s rituals in Crusco
Photo: flickr Ayla Zanini
Buenos Aires, Argentina – Festival y Mundial de Tango
It is all about the tango in this Argentinian festival, with the ‘Festival and Dance World Cup’ held in the same week in August. Thousands of
dancers flood into the city from all over the world to take part in the celebration of tango, which is declared as an Intangible Cultural Heritage
of Humanity in December 2009. Whether you are a seasoned tango dancer or just here to enjoy the show, the nightly milonga (where tango is
danced) all over the city, concerts and will definitely keep you entertained. What’s more is that all the activities and shows of the Tango Buenos
Aires festival are free and admitted on a first come, first serve principle or given out at a certain time and place, so make sure you do your
research and be ready for the week. With this amazing festival being free – what excuse do you have for not booking that flight to Argentina?
Time: August (tbc for 2015)
Official website: (from last year) http://festivales.buenosaires.gob.ar/2014/tangofestivalymundial/en/reglamento
Tango shows the true Argentinian spirits Photo:
flickr Jose Maria Perez Nunez
Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah

