THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 41
FELIX 13.03.2015
40 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.03.2015
Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Europe Africa Chad/Niger - Gerewol Festival
A colourful traditional festival of the Mbororo people, this weeklong
celebration involves traditional dancing, feasting, racing, and you guessed
it – finding a mate. The young men of the tribe will donned their best
costumes, jewellery and vibrant face-paint in search for their future wife.
A tradition unchanged by time, this is truly an experience of a life time to
immerse yourself in one of the oldest cultural events in the world and see what
civilization was like hundreds, even thousands of years ago.
A similar ritual occurs on the southern edge of the Sahara by nomadic
Wodaabe Fula people of Niger. They are cattle herders on their way south
to their dry season pastures. The largest festival is at In-Gall in NW Niger,
where the markets and clan meetings take place. Yaake is the name of the
dance event, with the rest of the week consisting of suitors’ competitions and
marriage agreement.
Time: Late September
Official website: (tours by travel agents – due to the sheer number no links will
be provided)
Gerewol festival of 1997. Photo: flickr Dan Lundberg
South Africa -
Huermanus Whale
Festival
An Eco-festival founded in 1992, the Hermanus Whale
Festival combines the spectacle of nature with great food,
music, craft fair and fairground. Over a hundred thousand
people flock to this South Africa Bay each year for a
glimpse of the majestic whale, as it is the most well-known
spot of land to observe these giant mammals. This festival
is kid-friendly and perfect for those who want something
a little different and low key from the mainstream party
festivals. Besides, who in their right mind would turn
their back on an excuse to see whales in South Africa?
Time: 2nd
- 4th
October for 2015
Official website: http://www.whalefestival.co.za/
Hermanus Bay is the hotspot for whale spotting on
land. Photo: flickr Damien du Toit
Tanzania - Wildebeest
Migration
Now this one is more of an annual event than a festival – a force of nature that
is one of the most breathtaking sights in the world. Occurring over northern
Tanzania and Kenya, this migration sees two to two and a half million
wildebeest, zebra and gazelle moving across the wild.
The best place to witness this stunning act of nature is at Serengeti, a UNESCO
heritage park located in north Tanzania that extends to SW Kenya. The
wildebeest migration occurs throughout the year, but the best time to see them
is from December to February. If you really want to stay ahead of the game,
then choosing a mobile camping group is probably best for you (links below).
There are few permanent lodges in this area, and overall it would be wise to
book a tour to visit the majestic phenomenon for both safety and a guarantee
of sighting.
Time: year-round
Link to useful article: http://www.tanzaniaodyssey.com/tanzania/great-migration
A sea of Wildebeest grazing on the plains of Africa. Photo: flickr
anna
Munich, Germany - Oktoberfest
The seeds for what will be the world’s largest funfair begun when the citizens
of Munich were invited to attend the festivities of King Ludwig I’s wedding to
Princess Therese of Saxe-Hildburghausen on 12th
October, 1810 when he was
still a crown prince. Since then, horse races, carnival booths and agriculture
show appeared intermittently between the years on this date, and in 1819 the
event was made annual.
The festival is nicknamed Wiesn locally, a shortened form of Theresienwiese
(Theresa’s meadow) of which the field is named, in honour of the princess. Now
lasting 16 days, horse races were no longer held, but up to 7 million litres of
beer are consumed. Amusement rides, circus tents, games and traditional food
stalls flood across the 42 hectare green space, with an estimate of 6 million
visitors each year.
Timing: Late September to early October
Say cheers to thousands of people. Photo: flickr 46137
Venice, Italy –
Mask Carnival
Lasting ten days, the legendary Venice Mask Carnival
takes place every year, beginning two weeks before Ash
Wednesday and ending on Shrove Tuesday. Originating
in the 11th
century, the world famous festival used to be a 2
month long festivity. It went into a decline during the 18th
century, but was revived again in 1979.
The celebrations centre around St Mark’s Square, with
locals and tourists decked out in their finest costumes
and, of course, their masks attending balls, tea parties and
tours occurring all over the city. Bear in mind, however,
that most of the tickets are rather pricey with few
exceptions, so it’s best to save up or pre plan your trips.
Time of the year: generally around February
Official website: http://www.venice-carnival-italy.com/
The canals of Venice are fulled of elaborately dressed
and masked people. Photo: flickr Nick Moulds
Bunol, Spain – La Tomatina
What started out as a food fight during the Giants and Big-
Heads figure parade in 1945 eventually became a tradition
in 1950 and was made official in 1957. From 1975
onwards, the festival gained traction and draw crowds
from across the world to take part in the ‘tomato pelting’
festivities. In fact, it gained so much attention that it was
declared as a ‘Festivity of International Tourist Interest’
by the Secretary Department of Tourism.
The festival begins with participants climbing a greased
pole to throw a piece of meat speared on top. Water shot
is fired and trucks enter when the meat is thrown off,
then chaos ensues. For those of you who are sceptical on
the safety – tomatoes are squashed beforehand and use
of goggles and gloves are recommended. Whilst some of
you might opt to wear swimwear to avoid staining your
clothes, a source had warned that male participants have
the tendency to try and rip it off you. So ladies, remember
to bring a t-shirt that you wouldn’t miss.
Time: last Wednesday of August
Official website: http://www.latomatinatours.com/
Take part in the madness and chaos that will see you dredged in
tomato paste. Photo: flickr Erkin

