THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 43
FELIX 13.03.2015
42 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.03.2015
Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Indonesia and Ausralia
Bali, Indonesia -
Galungan Festival
One of the most important days for Hindu-Balinese, the festival celebrates
the victory of dharma (good) over adharma (bad). The festival marks the
time when the ancestral spirits visit the Earth and ends on Kuningan when
they return. As offerings to the returned spirits, penjor – bamboo poles with
offerings suspended on one end are installed along the side of the roads.
A curious fact is that the holiday follows the 210-day pawukon calendar,
therefore take place twice a year. Preparation takes place three days prior –
Penyekeban, the day to cover up; then comes the Penyajahan – time to make
Balinese cake jaja consist of fried rice dough used in offering. Finally, the
day before the festival is Penampahan, the slaughter day where animals are
sacrificed as an offerings. On the day, Balinese will pray at temples and make
their offering, followed by visiting of close friends the day after. Despite the
fact that many places will be closed for the day, you will get to see colourfully
flocked Balinese making their way to the temple, as well as local restaurants
offering their native dishes.
Time: Wednesday of the 11th
week of 210-day pawukon calendar (15th
July,
2015; 10th
February, 2016)
Official website: there isn’t one since it is a religious holiday
Cape York Peninsula,
Australia - Laura
Aboriginal Dance Festival
Started out in the early 1980s within the communities
of Cape York, this biennial three-day festival celebrates
and showcases the Aboriginal culture through dancing,
storytelling and singing. Situated on the traditional Bora
ground that is sacred to the Aboriginal people, the area is
home to spectacular rock arts that are some of the oldest
in the world.
With over 20 communities and 500 performers, it
signifies the passing down of one of the oldest cultures
in the world. The festival not only draws thousands of
tourists from across the world, but provides a platform
for descendants of Aboriginal people to learn about their
culture.
Time: 19th
June – 21st
June for 2015
Official website: http://www.lauradancefestival.com/
Australia Aboriginal children in traditional garb.
Photo: flickr Rusty Stewart
Sarawak/West Kalimantan - Gawai Dayak
What was started in 1957 by a radio forum has become a festival
for the Dayak people, a native ethnic group of Sarawak and
neighbouring Indonesian Kalimantan. The world Gawai actually
means festival in Iban, and it was first celebrated on 1st
June, 1965
as a thanksgiving day marking the farming season as well as unity
and hope for the community.
The preparation of the festival starts early, with the traditional
rice wine tuak brewed at least one month prior). Alongside
traditional ceremonies to cast away the spirit of greed and
offerings to the seven deities, there is a lot of drinking, dancing
and music. Visiting others and dressing in traditional costumes
make up the second day, with many mini sports and games dotted
throughout the festival.
Time: 31st
May – 1st
June
Official website: http://publicholidays.com.my/hari-gawai/
Kyoto, Japan –
Gion Matsuri
More of a season of festivals than just one, Matsuri
in Japan is a huge thing. Almost every shrine has
their own, with a procession consisting of men in
traditional garb carrying dashi (temple-like float)
carrying the kami (deity) across the streets. One of
the most famous is the Gion Matsuri in Kyoto of the
Yasaka Shrine that occurs through the whole of July,
with two parades (17/7 and 24/7) consisting of floats
up to 20 m tall. It originated as a purification ritual
to appease gods that are thought to cause natural
disasters by the Emperor Seiwa. Food stalls, festival
games are also set up on streets with girls dressed in
yukata (summer kimono). For maximum culture
exposure, it is worth going to the old kimono
merchant district during yoiyama (15/7) to visit the
private houses exhibiting heirlooms.
Time: July
Official website: http://www.jnto.go.jp/eng/location/
spot/festival/gion.html
The majestic parade that carries the god
out of the temple every year. Photo: flickr
Kasuga Sho
Pingxi, Taiwan
- Pingxi Sky
Lantern
Festival
For those of you have seen Tangled, the scene with thousands of lanterns floating across the skin will surely
be etched in your mind. These lanterns are made out of bamboo stick, covered with thin oiled paper or tissue
with a ball dipped in kerosene inside. It is believed that they were invented by the famous military strategist
Kung Ming (181 – 234 A.D.) during the Three Kingdoms Era in China, hence are also called ‘Kung Ming
Lanterns’. The Pingxi Sky Lantern Festival is set in the remote mountain village of Taiwan and is part of the
celebration of Chinese New Year. It has a less ancient origin, beginning in 1990 as a tradition from war-time
communication. It is a unique combination of parade, fireworks and sky lanterns that attract thousands
of tourists each year. It is said that releasing the lantern into the air with wishes written on it can bring its
fulfilment.
Time: Lunar New Year (usually around February)
Official Website: http://timefortaiwan.tw/cal_en/cal_19543
Spectacular sight where thousands of people release
lanterns filled with wishes to the sky. Photo: flickr Ah Ki
India – Holi festival
Inspiring powdered throwing celebrations around the world, Holi festival is the mother
of all colour festivals. An ancient Hindu festival, the tradition of throwing coloured
powders originated from the Braj region of India. Krishna, a Hindu deity with dark
blue skin from drinking poisoned breast milk feared no one would love him, and his
mother encouraged him to colour Radha’s face in any colour he wants and the two
became a couple. The festival celebrates the beginning of spring, but also with religious
symbolism commemorating the triumph of Vishnu and her son over the demon
king Hiranyakashipu and his sister Holika. The latter was burnt in a bonfire that is
recreated on the night before the festival. Its first record was by poet Kalidasa during
the 4th
century. The day is for pure enjoyment and partying, with only one aim: the
colour everyone. Traditionally, natural colour powders such as turmeric are used, but
nowadays any methods from water balloons to coloured solutions are fair game. The
festival is traditionally celebrated in India and Nepal, but has gained popularity all
over the world. To see what a traditional Holi is like, go to Mathura and Vrindavan; for
modern Holi, then Delhi is the place.
Time: Phalgun Purnima, typically in March
Official website: http://www.holifestival.org/
A parade during the celebration of Gawai
Dayak. Photo: flickr Stephen Bugno
Asia
Protray of a family stained with colourful powders after the Holi festival
Photo: flickr captain supachat

