THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 45
FELIX 13.03.2015
What is going on inside
the Blue Cube this week
We have an exciting stretch ahead of us,
with lots of chances to come together and
truly collaborate, propelling ourselves into
the bright future.
All-Staff Briefing Cancelled
Our weekly staff briefing has been
cancelled by the Vice Provost (Arbitrary
Excuses) due to a lack of tea and biscuits.
Rest assured, College Catering are on the
case, and normal service will resume next
week.
Until then, we hope the news contained
herein will suffice to keep you informed
of all the latest developments at Imperial,
as well as reminding you of how proud
we all are to attend such a world-leading
institution!
Managing Extreme Emotions Training
On Wednesday, Occupational Health are
running an interactive session you are
welcome to attend, about the importance
of managing extreme emotions.
Extreme emotions can often lead to
disputes or tensions in the workplace,
and in such a happy, harmonious place as
Imperial this is obviously something we
wish to avoid!
Come to the session in the Fourth Floor
board room (overlooking Dalby Court) at
1pm to discover ways to relieve yourself of
those extreme emotions.
Don’t forget to bring your yoga mat as
usual, green tea will of course be provided.
Blue Cube Users Group
On Thursday, we’re holding the annual
general meeting of the Blue Cube Users
Network Trust! .
Just turn up to Seminar Room 1 in the
Basement at 2pm to join us.
Anyone wishing to stand for a position
should send a manifesto in advance to
bluecubeUNT@ic.ac.uk, stating clearly in
the email your name, current job title and
preferred position.
What is going on outside the
Blue Cube this week
Enthusiasm for our newly revealed campus
is likely to be everywhere this week.
We can’t wait to see which celebratory
“hashtag” the students can come up with!
Alice Gast: Thought of the Week
“We must champion women here at Imperial,
and I believe that #ImperialWomen is a key part
of demonstrating our progressive and forward
thinking attitude towards gender equality.
Going forward, we must take every opportunity
to promote the presence and vital work women
do, at every level of Imperial. I can’t be bothered
to deal with that sexism thing right now, though.
That’s just asking for trouble.”
The weekly newsletter of the Faculty Building
Blue News
Provost Post
of the Week
Every week, a member of
our esteemed Provost board
shares their thoughts with
our collaborative, cohesive
community. This week, we
welcome Sam Wichshop,
Vice Provost (Taste) who has
been working extensively on
bringing new delights to our
(and students!) taste buds.
Hello all, I’m delighted to have
my chance at the tiller of this
esteemed column, a vital part of
the weekly organ’ I know we all
hold in such high regard.
I’m even more delighted to
be able to pass on the exciting
news of a brand-new payment
system coming to campus very
soon!
Yes, that’s right folks, I can
exclusively reveal that NoGo will
be making its way into all Taste
Imperial outlets from the start
of the Summer Term.
NoGo allows users to
purchase food, drinks and other
delicious nourishment without
leaving their desk, allowing you
to maximise your efficiency
and fully realise your output
potential.
No longer will you have
to waste countless minutes
trudging down to the Senior
Common Room to purchase
your lunch, no longer will you
have to endure the teeming
hordes of students blocking up
the walkways in their single-
minded stampede to the
canteen.
I’m sure you’re as thrilled by
this development as I am, as I
know that the daily burden of
having your lunch hour ruined
by unplanned encounters with
students has been weighing on
all of us particularly heavily.
NoGo is a revolution in paying
for your lunch – I just ordered
myself a delicious burrito
while writing this very column,
and I never had to leave my
computer!
Technology is truly a
marvellous thing, and it’s only
right that we here at Imperial
College London should
be at the forefront of the
technological revolution in the
lunchtime industry.
Hello all,
Welcome to the newest edition of Blue News, our weekly conglomerate
of informative treats and tidbits for all of you wonderful people working
here in the Faculty Building!
As mentioned in last week’s newsletter, we have now revealed Imperial
Very West to the world, to a rapturous response. Members of the research
faculty across campus have been sending in letters in droves thanking
us for our efforts to move interfering students further away from the vital
work being done on our South Kensington campus.
Now that the initial excitment of the announcement is over, we must
turn our eyes to face the realities of acquiring this new campus. With the
majority of students soon to be based at IVW (as we here in the Building
have taken to calling it), life around South Kensington is going to become
much quieter. We hope this will prove conducive to staff morale, and
allow us to continue to pursue the high standards all of us at Imperial
strive to achieve.
The new campus also has the added bonus of being located extremely
close to the internationally-famous Heathrow airport, making it our most
accessible campus ever for all of our beloved international students.
This will allow us to expand our international intake several times over,
creating a larger student community who can support one another, as
well as cementing our reputation as a leader in the field of diversity and
true multi-nationalism.
In unrelated news, the brilliant boys in the Finance Department have
issued a new set of forecasts for our upcoming revenue streams, and
they’re looking decidedly positive. To celebrate, we’ll be providing a
small treat to reward everyone for all of their hard work – keep your eyes
peeled over the next week for your complimentary doughnut!
With our financial future secure, our gaze now turns to how best to
continue our unprecendented expansion. Hot tub on the fourth floor,
anyone?
Have a productive, cohesive, collaborative and happy day!

