46 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.03.2015 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 47
FELIX 13.03.2015
CANCER
VIRGO
This week you realize that
your maintenance loan has
been severely depleted and as
a result you decide to sell your
underwear online to creepy
Imperial men; however as a
a man, you have to purchase
some women’s underwear and
rub your essence on them. You
manage to pay off your student
loan in a week and a half.
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
Thisweekyoudecidetogoto
thecouncilmeetingforWeeks,
hopingthatmaybesomeonewill
findthetransparencythatthe
Collegeseemstohavemisplaced;
however,afterthefirstitemhas
haditsyearlongpresentation,
mostofthecouncilmembers
diefromsheerboredom.Weeks
isturnedintoajacketpotato
buffet.
This week after a long week of
working at the labs you go to
bed and start to have strange
lucid dreams about your lab
supervisor and how you elope
together with your pet pig. You
subsequently wake up and start
to slide around on your sheets
due to the sheer volume of
cum you have produced during
this wet dream.
Error 404 humour not found:
restart system again and insert
funny horoscope at later date.
This week you decide to spend
some proper time getting to
know Luke Armitage over
some sports thing; however
you unfortunately encounter 5
snakes. Luckily Luke is able to
outrun 80% of them with you;
however the Tom Wheeler of
snakes catches up with him
and you have to amputate his
leg to save him.
This week you receive an
offer from what you assume is
Columbia University; however
when you use the plane tickets
they sent you, it turns out was
actually the South American
country, and that the whole
thing was actually an offer to
be a drug mule. On the bright
side, you now have a kilo of
cocaine up your ass.
This week you decide to step up
your election campaign game
by giving out free pizza bases;
however in an unexpected
turn of events, your opposition
has spiked them with E.coli
causing everyone to shit them
selves around campus. Only
two people are able to vote due
to them not being hospitalized,
and they vote for RON.
This week you go to the Union
council meeting, and in an
attempt to spice things up,
you decide that voting will
be replaced by nude mud
wrestling. You fail to foresee
how enthusiastic Skilippa
Phett is, and as a result a large
amount of the Union’s budget
is now being spent on male
escorts.
This week you get in a lot of
trouble in Halls due to your
unnecessary raising of alarms
at 3:30am. It seems that setting
the fire alarm off and rushing
everyone out of building in
order for them to check out
your superhot mixtape is not
appreciated by anyone.
This week you decide to go to
Varsity in order to support
sports or something. On the
way to the Stoop you drink a
whole box of country manor
wine and subsequently put
a pensioner in a headlock.
Needless to say the police do
not allow you to attend.
This week the results for the
elected positions are released.
You assume due to your
amazing election video of
you lip syncing to a shit song
you’ll win; however when the
results are released, it seems
that everyone voted for RON,
even your mum. The rugby
captain’s dick assumes your
position instead.
This week you don’t know
what to do with your life now
that the fishcake recipe has
finished. You thank the writer
of the horoscopes for his dank
recipes, and despite them
maybe not always being funny
you hope that one day they’ll
print another series of recipes.
Nah fam.
FRIDAY 6th March
Sorry I didn’t write in the diary last week: things had escalated to a different level. I
only just escaped about of Cougar lady’s sex dungeon and I still have a crippling limp,
and it’s extremely painful to sit down – I can’t tell if I have a haemorrhoid or if part
of my bum tube is just falling out. Frankly I’m too scared to check.
I think I’ve learnt my lesson about meeting girls off the Internet. Instead I think
I will only date girls off J-swipe (the Jewish version of tinder), but I’m not Jewish
so we’ll see how that works out; it’s ok though, I’ve put myself down as ‘willing to
convert’
Luckily it’s also my birthday tomorrow so hopefully someone will have pity sex with me.
Crossing my fingers for Dorothy.
SATURDAY 7th Mrch
For fucks sake no one turned up my party at Metric - they all went to Kris
Kraye’s re-election bash. I’m not a certain though but I think most of the guests
were strippers. Was weird though, they were all dressed like Margret Thatcher
and were simultaneously of Asian decent – they refused to speak to me unless I
pretended to be a coal miner..
SUNDAY 8th March
I’ve started my year of being 19 waking up on a boat on the Themes and I have
no idea how it happened. It wasn’t a normal boat either, I’m pretty sure it was a
decorative one from a pirate themed kid’s play area – either way I’m surprised it
stayed afloat. I lost my phone and had to call for help, the coast guard didn’t believe
me when I said I lived in London and I got sent to Scotland Yard as an illegal
immigrant suspect.
They made me spend the night in a holding cell while they called the uni to see if
I was legit.
They called Kris... I’m not sure what he said but they didn’t seem pleased, I’m pretty
sure he got me deported – mother fucker
MONDAY 9th March
It turns out Kris told the MET I wasn’t a member of the university and that I was
probably ‘one of those Jihadi Jon types’ so they decided to send me to back to my
home country, which he told them was the Netherlands.
He left me a note:
‘sorry mate, not actually sure who you are and they wont let me into the Union, I
Diary Of A Fresher aged 18 3/4
don’t think they know I work here, I had to make a judgement call. Hope it all goes well, I’m
actually quite jealous that you get to meet Peter Pan – lots of love and your welfare in mind
K.Kraye’
They sent me off in a cargo crate, the kind they use to ship livestock, I know this because
a shared my crate with a goat – fuck DPW
TUESDAY 10th March
I’m still in the crate, not sure where I am but the goat seems to have gotten used to me,
well at least it’s stopped trying to mate with me. I cried a little when I realised this was the
most action I’ve received all year.
In lighter news, my bottom is feeling a lot better and I’ve named the goat Dorothy to make
me feel less lonely.
WEDNESDAY 11th March
Don’t know how it happened but I woke up on a riverbank, specifically Dorothy trying to
eat my hair woke me up on a riverbank. I was so fucking confused because everyone was
speaking English and I could still see the Shard.
People gave me looks when I took the tube with Dorothy but I felt bad letting her go.
When I got back to my hall no one had noticed I was missing. At least I know why I was
on the Themes in the first place, apparently I was trying to find the salmon from a couple
weeks ago – which makes sense, I’ve dreamed about it most nights since.
THURSDAY 12th March
Dorothy wont leave me so I had to sneak her into the library, it was easy though because I
told security that she was my seeing eye goat and they believed me.
Saw Kris there with Dorothy (the human one) there, I was skulking away when I called out
for my goat and human Dorothy turned. Kris hugged me hello and whispered something about
soft pizza bases in my ear.
We had a chat about how difficult it is to get a job, I don’t know why I was talking to him,
something about his uneasy smile seemed to calm me down.
Heand Dorothy (the human one) sat really close to each other as we talked, I’m not sure but
I think he was touching her up – god I miss her. I tried to stroke my goat to get even but
she bit me quite badly.
Kris had to take me to A&E
Turns out he was put in charge of my deportation - figures.
Over the past 20th
century
there have been few truly
great political interviews:
David Frost vs. Richard M. Nixon
for his betrayal of the American
people; George Sylvester Viereck’s
portrayal of Adolf Hitler, pre his
rise to power; and now I, Monothan
Jasters, hope to be added to that list
with my in-depth-fly-on-the-wall-
Gonzo-Journalism-self-proclaimed
masterpiece interview with the leader
of the newly formed, and now most
popular political party: Chris Kaye.
Chris stormed to victory as leader
of the Welfare party earlier this
week, in a result that exceeded all
expectations. The Welfare party was
formed by Kaye shortly before he
left Imperial College Union, after his
seventeenth consecutive sabbatical
year.
The Welfare party, although
right-wing in nature, is primarily
concerned with healthy pizza bases,
decreasing sanitary product prices
and more photos of the Queen
present in public spaces.
I am invited to interview him at
his apartment in Chelsea, featuring,
an art-deco (whatever that means)
design, and reportedly costing over
$5,000,000 due to the success of his
audiobook of a popular erotic novel
that has just been made into a film.
I step out of the red velvet lined
elevator to be greeted by his door,
adorned with a large oddly phallic
brass doorknocker with the initials
C.K.
Just as I lean in with both hands
to use the knocker in order to alert
him to my presence, he appears at
the door. As the door swings open, a
gaggle of giggling women spill out,
and Chris waves to them as they leave.
He then spots me hanging awkwardly
in the corridor. “Hello mate, sorry
about that, my mid-morning “plans”
overran!” He then proceeds to laugh
at his own innuendo, flapping his
hands mid-air before gesturing for
me to come inside.
I proceed into his apartment: the
most striking furnishing in the room
is that of a 6 foot marble statue of the
man himself, again with the heavy
emphasis on the phallus. He notices
my wandering gaze, and laughs again.
“Would you believe me if I said that
it was based on a plaster cast? It cost
me nothing to get made as Vivian
Westwood said she was just happy
enough to see it!”
I try and splutter out some sort of
response to such a statement, but
before I know it he’s pressed a glass
of whiskey into one hand and a cigar
into the other.
We proceed into his living room
area where he invites me to sit on
a stool, which is a heavily detailed
replica of his face – assumedly
a trophy of his strong campaign
against Cameron for the re-
legalization of face-sitting in the UK
porn industry.
I start the conversation asking
about his plans now he is Prime
Minster; what does he plan to turn
his attention to first?
“I’m actually glad you asked me
that. Every month I plan to donate a
third of my sperm to the local sperm
bank – I think such genes like mine
should not be limited to my current
plethora of lovers. Everyone should
be able to have a part of Kaye.”
He then goes onto talk about the
successes he has had this year: “In the
recent OBE award announcements,
they have taken Rolf Harris’ one and
given it to me for my work in the
tampon industry.”
“There’s also the talk of a possible
knighthood as king of the tampons,
but that is just a rumour the Daily
Mail spread.”
I ask him about his relationship
with the media: his own reports
regularly state he contributes to the
media where appropriate, but what
exactly does that entail?
“Well,” he begins, before leaning
in, “I have somewhat of a symbiotic
relationship with the press; they
make me a cult phenomenon, and
in return, I feed them gossip about
the opposing party. They love it, and
print whatever lies they think are the
funniest.”
He sits back in his chair, before
winking at this now nervous reporter.
“The media has made me what I
am today, and for that, I am always
grateful.”
Hangman interviews the leader of the Welfare party
After his surprise ascension to
the post, the ‘joke’ candidate
in this year’s Big Elections
has turned out to be “the most
successful Union President ever.”
This claim has been reflected in
student satisfaction surveys, with
the new President achieving record
levels of popularity.
57% of respondees to the survey
(commissioned and carried out by
the President himself) said they
thought the President was “alright”,
while a further 22% agreed that he
was “a total lad”.
Rumours that the survey was
confined exclusively to a sports
club mailing list are yet to be
substantiated.
Despite this apparent success, it
has taken sometime to reach this
point. Following on from their
shock election, beating out the then-
favourite for the title, the candidate
had what one observer called “an
inauspicious start” by turning up
five hours late for the job, having
spent the previous night “on the
lash.”
However, their actions since then
have proven highly popular.
The first policy to be successfully
rolled out across campus was 70
pence pints in all Union bars, a
Troll candidate becomes “Best President
ever”
policy for which the candidate had
come under intense scrutiny for
their perceived lack of financial
acumen.
After an initial drop in income, all
bars are now reporting dramatically
increased profits as a direct result of
increased attendance.
“568’s been full every night of the
week,” said one anonymous member
of bar staff. “We had to start
watering down the alcohol to avoid
running out, but then the president
found out so he fired all of the bar
managers and had them replaced
with members of the rugby team.”
The new managerial staff have
since re-rebranded CSP Wednesdays
as “Sports Night”, and imposed a
tiered entry fee system based on
“how fit” attendees are.
“We always hear how we can’t
scrap entry fees,” one manager said,
“so I thought why not make the most
of it, and let all the fit birds in for
free?”
The new President’s policies have
also extended beyond the realm
of the bars, with his enforced
introduction of a Page 3 to Felix to
“make up for those pussies at the Sun
not printing tits anymore” leading
to record levels of readership for the
newspaper.
Just before Hangman went to
print, another new policy (now
officially renamed “Presidential
Edicts”) was announced: all mailing
lists are now exclusively “for banter”.
A small team of volunteers will be
appointed to monitor all electronic
communications, with strict
(alcoholic) fines for all those whose
“chat” is deemed to be lacking.
With such an unprecedented level
of success in just a few days, it looks
to be a very exciting year for the
Union Presidency.

