50 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.03.2015 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 51
FELIX 13.03.2015
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
Ellie Johnstone does some quality
control on hiking across the Channel
Fellwanderers Hit France
Bright and early at 05:20
on Saturday 7th
March, 12
Fellwanderers met at Beit
to go on a daywalk to France! It
was a slightly more adventurous
destination than our usual Sunday
daywalks to the South Downs.
We set off for the drive down to
Dover to get the ferry, with a slight
detour around Trafalgar Square due
to ‘questionable’ navigational skills…
Arriving at the ferry port we went
through passport control and after
a long delay finally got on the ferry.
We set off towards France leaving the
white cliffs of Dover behind us for
the journey across the channel. An
hour and a half later, we were driving
off the ferry into Calais (thankfully
remembering to drive on the right
side of the road) and drove down the
coast for 30 mins to get to our walk
destination.
We were going to be walking in the
‘Les Deux Caps’ national park, which
offers beautiful coastal walking,
forests and rolling hills. We drove
to the town of Boulogne-Sur-Mer
to start our walk, which is a fishing
town. After finding some extremely
dodgy minibus parking we set off in
beautiful French sunshine!
The first part of the walk turned
out to be ever so slightly less beautiful
than expected, with the GR (main
hiking trail) taking us through what
was termed a ‘post-apocalyptic’
industrial fishing harbour. Not to
be put off, we deemed it a ‘cultural
experience’ and carried on. The next
part of the trail took us through
brambles, an abandoned train track
and a concrete beach. More culture.
We always try to make sure people
have experiences they wouldn’t
normally enjoy…
Thankfully the walk then improved
exponentially, and within 10 minutes
we were walking along the cliff with
beautiful views of the sea to our
right, green hills to our left and lots
of sun! We stopped for lunch with a
great view, taking advantage of the
lovely weather. We then carried on
following a narrow trail which took us
further down the coast.
After passing through a small
village we emerged onto a beautiful
expanse of beach that seemed to
stretch on forever. With the bright
sunshine it almost felt warm enough
to go for a swim! (Almost...) From
here we walked through some sand
dunes and into a forest with a small
footbridge over a river.
After following the path through
the forest for a while we then began
to head back to Boulogne via some
tracks through big green fields. We
got a great view of a viaduct to our
right and the sea to our left. We then
continued back into the town in the
early evening sunshine and walked
along the harbour-front promenade
back to the minibuses.
After an all-important wine and
cheese stop in a supermarket we set
off back to Calais to get the ferry
home with an amazing sunset sky
over the sea to the left. The colours
were really spectacular!
Arriving at the ferry port we
experienced the most disappointing
café ever (it was literally a vending
machine) before boarding the ferry.
A few people managed to get a bit of
sleep as by this point we had all been
awake for over 16 hours! We got back
to the Union just after 11pm, all very
tired but very happy with the day.
Hopefully we’ll all be able to go again
next year!
Gospel Choir make national final
Ndidi Iwumene on the teams at University Gospel Choir of the Year
Singing in the rain
Picturethis…You’reonthefifthfloorofthe
library.It’sgettinghotinhere,butyou’ve
alreadytakenoffalmostallclothes.Throat
parchedyougotofillyourwaterbottle,but
thenearestisatLondonBridge.Youhaveno
moneyonyou–becauseyouspentitallon
sportsnight.Theonlyoptionistotrekthe10-
milejourneytakingover3hours.
Thismaysoundhighlyimprobable,yet
thisisthedailychallengefacedbymany
peoplelivinginTabora,asmallcommunity
inTanzania.TheclimateofTaborameans
pitifulannualrainfall,andwaterscarcityis
oneofthegreatestproblemsfacedbythelocal
community.
Overthepast6yearsRaincatcherImperial,a
student-ledcharity,havefocusedouractivities
inthearea.Workingintimatelywiththelocal
non-governmentalorganisationCaritas,
webuildrainwater-harvestingsystemsand
provideessentialwaterandsanitationtraining
forcommunities.
Eachyear,2tripsaremadeconsistentwith
achievingtheaimsoftheorganisation.An
initial2-weeksurveyingtripatthebeginning
oftheEasterholidaysgathersvitalinformation
aboutresources,needsandcapacitiesofthe
area’stownsandvillages.Followedupbyan
8-weekstayinsummerduringwhichrainwater
tanksarebuiltandatargetedcommunity
capacityprogrammeisundertaken.Weplacea
greatdealofemphasisonsustainability–local
materialsareused,localskillsareacquired,
andlocalpeoplearehighlyinvolved.
Thispastsummer,webuilta50,000L
rainwaterharvestingtankataschoolinthe
villageTumbi.Alsoatthisschoolwetaught
700studentsthe“Raincatchersong”.The
messageofthesongisclear,translatedfrom
Swahiliitreads;
“Everyonelikesgoodwater;especiallywhen
youseehowcleanitis;Cleanwaterwillprotect
you;Itwillprotectyoufromillnesses.”
BeforetravellingtoTabora,weorganise
fundraisingeventsandapplyforgrants
throughouttheacademicyeartofacilitate
ourwork.Workprovidingfundamental
necessities,likehelping700studentswho
arenowprovidedwithcleanwaterand
understandthisimportantsanitationissue.
Thisyear,ourannualfundraisingeventis
‘WaterWalk’,heldonthe22nd
ofMarch,in
conjunctionwithUNWorldWaterDay.The
themeforthisyear’sWorldWaterDayiswater
andsustainabledevelopment–theethos
behindRaincatcherImperial.Participants
willgetatasteforwhatthedailywater
collectiontrekfeelslike.Carrying10liters
ofwater,10milesacrosscentralLondon.All
ourfundraisingeventsareopentoall,soget
involvedwithyourfriends,family,neighbours
andpets!Walkforwater,volunteerforwater.
FollowRaincatcherImperialonFacebooktofind
outmoreabout#WorldWaterDay,#WaterWalk
andourupcomingevents.Letusknowwhatis
watertoyoubyusinghashtag#Wateris.
QUEENIE TSE
C&S WRITER
Imperial College Gospel Choir
(ICGC) have done it again! For
the fourth time they’ve made it
to the finals of University Gospel
Choir of the year (UGCY), the UK’s
biggest inter-university competition
showcasing the very best of the
student gospel music scene.
There isn’t a more lively
competition to attend, forget the
“Pitch Perfect Competition”! If the
amazing vocals, uplifting songs and
vivacious choreo don’t get you up on
your feet dancing then surely nothing
can! This year marks the 5th
year of
the UGCY annual competition, which
aims to bring together talented and
diverse individuals from 8 different
Universities. On March 14th
2015
roughly 1000 supporters will gather
in the Hippodrome (Golders Green,
London) to watch over 250 students,
featured in 8 dazzling performances,
battle it out to be crowned the UK’s
best university gospel choir.
MOBO award winner Rachael Kerr
will be hosting the show, and she’ll
be joined by Gospel music gurus and
returning judges Andrea Encinas,
Mark De-Lisser and Stephanie
Oyerinde. This year, new judge John
Fisher will also be joining the panel.
The returning champions, Revival
Gospel Choir from the University of
Nottingham is a strong contender
and is largest of the choirs taking
part. They routinely perform to
audiences of more than 400 people
and their winning performance last
year gave viewers “goosebumps”. But
fear not, it definitely won’t be a one-
choir show. The calibre of the other
University choirs is quite remarkable.
Take Coventry Gospel Rhythms
for instance; not only were they
crowned runners up in 2014 they
also competed in the BBC’s Song of
Praise: Gospel choir of the year, last
September. But we also can’t forget
how talented Leicester University
Voices is; they first appeared in
UGCY in 2013 and blew the audience
away with an original and theatrical
performance. De Monfort University
Student Choir are the new kids on the
block being only six months old, so
they’ve done exceptionally well to get
to the final. Could they be the dark
horse?
It’s difficult to say when Queen
Mary University Unite Choir could
easily steal the show. They’re a small
but mighty bunch who two years ago
performed in the first ever Gospel
Proms. Surrey University Gospel
Choir returns this year for the third
time in even greater numbers, they’re
definitely one to watch. That leaves
Kingston University Gospel Choir,
who being a relatively new choir are
UGCY finalists for the first time.
They are unique in the sense that
their performances compromise
more than singing, they are also a
performing arts society so expect
them to certainly diversify the show.
The biggest question that remains
is… what has Imperial got to offer?
Well, ICGC was established 8 years
ago and is still going strong today.
This year the choir is smaller in
numbers but the quality of singers
is undeniably higher than ever
before. Their most recent Christmas
show The Night Christ Was Born
was testament to this and their
performances in Imperial’s biggest
cultural shows: Afrogala and East
Raincatcher Imperial . Photo: Creative Commons
Meets West have left audiences
roaring with cheers. ICGC stands a
great chance of claiming the trophy
this year, especially considering the
creative arrangement and dynamics
of the six-minute medley they will
showcase on the night. If they were to
win the title it would be an incredible
achievement for such a gifted group.
Imperial life is indisputably fast-
paced and crammed with coursework,
exams and lab reports (though
geologists would probably disagree)
so winning such a prestigious music
award would prove Imperial students
do have other interests outside
Central Library. All jokes aside
though, the show is promised to be
unforgettable.
C&S Editorial:
All Change!
BEN HOWITT
SECTION EDITOR
We’re now a way past the‘weeks of weeks’that
happened in the early part of this term.RAG
week (both IC and ICSM) were huge successes;
Artsfest saw its biggest attendance ever; Student
Volunteering Week plastered everyone and anyone
with handwritten postcards to say thank you...the
list goes on.
This week we’re hearing from Ellie Johnstone
again,this time about The Fellwanderers’day trip to
France–only slightly more successful than the RAG
Jailbreak.
After that we have the incredible Gospel Choir,who
have reached the national final of University Gospel
Choir of the year.If you can’t make the date but are
dying to see ICGC perform,keep March 17th
free
and attend their Easter Show in Metric! Tickets are
available at ugcy.co.uk, or you can contact them on
twitter (@imperial_gospel), Instagram (icgospelchoir),
and Facebook (Imperial College Gospel Choir).
Finally, Raincatcher Imperial come back to the
section for the third time this year to tell us about the
upcoming ‘Water Walk’.
Next week the RCSU and RSMU are running a week
of welfare activities,called‘Treat Yo’Self’all around
campus (so perhaps the weeks of weeks aren’t quite
over),which I highly recommend checking out if you
have the time.There’s going to be a bouncy castle
and everything.
If your club or society has done something great,
you’ve started something new,or if you just really
like the Union,it’d be amazing to hear from you.Get
in touch at felix.clubsandsocieties@ic.ac.uk.
Hack’s Corner:
Fly on the Mezzanine Wall
-Elections are finishing up this evening,and we
are about to find out who’ll be putting the Union
through its paces next year.
-Council were presented with a plan to create
a Technocology managmment group.Those
presenting the paper are now in contact with the
DPCS to make further plans.
-Council were also presented with the College’s draft
timetabling policy.
-Club Budgeting is in its final stages.CSPB will meet
next Tuesday to talk about appeals.
What’s On:
RCSU Welfare Week
Mon: free candy floss from wel-fairies
lunchtime,Queen’s Lawn
Tue: an obstacle course with a difference (the
difference is beer goggles)
12:00,Dalby Court
Thu: bike checks with Dr.Bike
Queen’s Lawn
yoga and meditation sessions
12:00-13:00,in Union Activity Spaces 1&2
Fri: BOUNCY CASTLE!
Literally everywhere.But mainly Queen’s Lawn.
Photo: Ellie Johnstone
The daywalkers pause to look out onto the Channel. Photo: Ceci Bretal
Imperial’s Gospel Choir have now reached the final four years running.
Photo: Creative Commons
Coventry Gospel Rhythms competed in Songs of Praise last year.. Photo:
Creative Commons
"what was
termed
a ‘post-
apocalyptic’
industrial
fishing
harbour"

