THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 55
FELIX 13.03.2015
54 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.03.2015
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
Formula One 2015: A preview of the season
Formula One’s annual winter
testing concluded with a four
day event at the Circuit de
Catalunya near Barcelona. The next
time that the cars will be seen on
track is for the first race of the season
in Melbourne, Australia, in a week’s
time but which team is in the best
shape to stand atop the rostrum
come Sunday 15th?
Ten teams will line up on the
grid for the opening event at the
Albert Park but only nine took
advantage of the winter testing
opportunity with Manor Marussia
F1, formerly Marussia F1, failing to
attend any sessions after falling into
administration in late 2014. After
an attempt to run a modification
of last year’s car was denied, rushed
redesign is expected to leave the
team extremely uncompetitive as
in previous seasons. Notably Force
India almost missed the testing
altogether; only to arrive half way
through the third and final test as a
result of “cash-flow issues” that will
likely stunt the development process.
They do, however, still possess the
Mercedes engine which will at least
make them competitive in a straight
line.
Ferrari appear to have made great
strides in the engine department
– significantly closing the gap to
Mercedes whilst leaving Renault
behind. This was apparent after the
first test in which Ferrari and Sauber
regularly topped the time sheets
although the subsequent tests suggest
that both still have some catching up
to do to their main respective rivals.
McLaren’s partnership with Honda,
reunited after parting in 1992, has
been cause for optimism amongst
the team although the on-track
performances are in stark contrast
to this. The car did not appear
particularly competitive at any of
the tests whilst repeatedly breaking
down. A high speed crash that left
Fernando Alonso hospitalised during
the second test was also cause for
concern. The only glimmer of hope
for a good start to the season was the
101 laps managed on the second day
of the final test by Jenson Button,
although it is highly likely that
either car will see the chequered flag
at the season opener.
In another season dominated by
engine performance, the Renault
powered cars of Red Bull and Toro
Rosso seem to be lagging behind the
field. Despite being one of the most
attractive cars of 2015, the latest
offering from Toro Rosso has been
consistently near the bottom of the
timing sheets. The story with the
sister team, Red Bull, is not much
better with any aerodynamic tricks,
hidden by the exotic camouflage
paint job sported throughout
testing, negated by the severely
underpowered engine. Comfort can
be taken from the fact that the power
unit is significantly more reliable
this year than last.
The domination of Mercedes is
Henry Lambley tells Felix what he is expecting after the winter testing period
likely to continue into the new
season with Mercedes powered cars
vying for the top prizes. Lotus’ move
away from Renault power looks set
to move them into the middle of
the pack after a dismal 2014 whilst
Williams will look to consolidate
their place as the second best team
based on testing lap times. Rather
ominously, the works Mercedes car
looks unbeatable in the hands of
World Champion Lewis Hamilton
and team mate Nico Rosberg. The
reliability issues of last year seem to
be a thing of the past after managing
578 laps in the first test at Jerez
alone and consistently managing
over 100 laps per day at the other
events. Although focussing on long
run performance and reliability, they
still managed to be a second per lap
faster than any other team.
2015 looks set to be a rerun of last
years intra-team rivalry with the rest
of the field fighting for best of the
rest.
Mercedes look set to build on their dominance of last season Photo: Mercedes AMG Petronas
Henry Lambley's predictions for this season's Constructor's Champion-
ship (right), versus the final results from last season (left)
IC end Cross Country season raking in the silverware
Photo: IC Cross Country
Matt Douthwaite reports on the culmination of the season in Bushy Park
On Wednesday 25th February
a 20 strong team of
Imperial athletes from the
Cross Country Club arrived at the
stunning Bushy Park for the sixth
and final London College League
Race of the year. The stakes were
high, with Chris Thomas and Alex
Mundell in with a shot at the Men’s
and Women’s individual trophies
respectively, and the Men’s First
team in hot contention with Brunel
and King’s for a spot in the top three.
Knowing the best five of six races
counted, Imperial had responded
well for the final showdown,
bringing 5 of those on the BUCS A
Team and reserves in the Men’s and
two in the Women’s. In particular
Chris Olley was hoping to maintain
his 100% win record (albeit his first
race since October).
The race (8km for guys and 4km
for girls) was run around the edge
of the park amongst the deer on
very flat paths for a cross country
event. This meant the start was
blisteringly fast start with Olley,
Thomas and a lot of competition
shooting down the opening straight
at sub 5 min/mile pace. Such a fast
race is very tough test of mental
strength and experience in judging
your pace. Too fast at the start
and you’ll burn out, too slow and
others will get away from you. Most
generally go for the former, with
a lot of grimacing faces spotted
coming past at the end of the first
lap.
The high pace was maintained
for most the whole way round and
Sarah Johnson was first home for
Imperial placing 3rd in the Ladies
Race, closely followed by Mundell in
9th – both impressive performances
following the National XC
Championships and BUCS Indoors
respectively. The big question was
had Mundell done enough to claim
a trophy?
That had to wait though as
the men were approaching the
end of lap two sickeningly fast.
Unfortunately, Olley was in for a
battle for first and with heavy legs
also from the Nat. XC Champs, he
lost out to a St. Mary’s Drone to
finish 2nd. Meanwhile Thomas was
not far behind and finished 7th.
After the race there was much
baking with some exceptional lent-
breaking brownies to celebrate the
great results and of course the team
photo. It was an emotional moment
for Matt Douthwaite, Cloudy
Carnegie, James Ellis and Sophie
Rogers for whom it was their final
ever LCL.
At the awards ceremony there
were some surprises in store. Not
only had Thomas managed to
grab 4th place in the Individual
Men, but Mundell had become
an unbelievable 1st out of all the
Women in the League. Both athletes
had committed to the league and it
was great to see this was rewarded.
Finally it was announced that the
Imperial Men’s team had managed
to whoop Brunel in the final event
and claimed 3rd overall behind UCL
and St. Mary’s (the latter don’t really
count as they’re evil robots, so this
was more like second)!
These brilliant results were highly
celebrated at the evening’s bowling
social, with many a celebratory
drink, some great and awful skills
and a very competitive game of
oldies vs newbies.
Top woman in the London League, Alex Mundell Photo: IC Cross Country
Sound like fun? Why not get down
for track season with the upcoming
London College Athletics Series –
open to all abilities – starting 21st
March. Email run@ic.ac.uk or find
us on Facebook.
Chris Thomas going for a trophy Photo: IC Cross Country
Position 2014 World Championship Start of 2015 Season
1 Mercedes Mercedes
2 Red Bull (Renault) Williams (Mercedes)
3 Williams (Mercedes) Ferrari
4 Ferrari Red Bull (Renault)
5 McLaren (Mercedes) McLaren (Honda)
6 Force India (Mercedes) Lotus (Mercedes)
7 Toro Rosso (Renault) Sauber (Ferrari)
8 Lotus (Renault) Toro Rosso (Renault)
9 Marussia (Ferrari) Force India (Mercedes)
10 Sauber (Ferrari) Marussia (Ferrari)
11 Caterham (Renault)
The lack of details surrounding Fernando Alonso's crash has raised a few
eyebrows Photo: Eurosport

