Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Issue 1601
College send Varsity warning to Medics
IC vs. ICSM has long been a feisty
encounter, especially 2 weeks
before Varsity. As a result, both
teams were eager to claim the mental
boost that comes with winning.
Fortress Harlington provided ideal
conditions for a running game of
rugby, yet another reason why this
was set to be a good match.
The medics were nowhere to be
seen for the first 20 minutes, and
an early penalty for IC got the score
board moving the right way. Shortly
after, a strong “Sonny Bill” from
Skipper Cox allowed Moorby to make
an excellent line break down the
left hand side, finally stepping in
towards the posts to force the 2-on-1
with Durkin on his inside. Terrible
butterfingers meant Durkin dropped
the ball over the line, but luckily for
Almost immediately after the
restart, excellent phase work from
Imperial led to Cox bringing the
backs down the blind side and
making a half break. Again excellent
offloading to Moorby gave him an
unmarked run in from the medic
10-metre line. 17 - 0.
A monster restart from Cox forced
an error from the medic full back,
knocking the ball into touch just
outside their 22. A big lineout
followed with College winning the
ball. The phase play was at too high
a tempo for the defence to deal with.
Durkin subsequently put Hedley in
from close quarters for another try
out wide. 22 - 0.
The next 10 minutes of the game
saw the medics win back the restart
and put considerable pressure on the
another excellent kick by Cox. The
chase meant that the medics were
kept in their 22 and their slow phase
game meant that the IC defence had
plenty of time to reset. This finally
resulted in the medic flanker being
bundled into touch 8 metres out.
One thing was inevitable; the
College maul is unstoppable from
that kind of distance. A maul that
could only be described as clinical,
classy and “unsuitable for minors”
was formed leaving the medic pack
trailing in their wake and seeing
Hedley dot down for his brace, giving
College a 27-0 lead at half-time.
Nobody was ready for what
happened almost directly after half-
time. IC’s very own resident “lion
wrestler” Tom Hedley received the
ball on the IC 22, proceeded to step
both their winger and 13 back inside,
followed by a huge fend on the medic
10 on the halfway line. Carnage. He
then took the outside line, breaking
three more tackles, with only 40
metres and the opposition fullback
left. He turned on the afterburners
to outpace the last man and touch
down under the posts to complete his
hat trick. Insanity. It was a try that
Billy Vunipola could only dream
of scoring. If only Stuart Lancaster
had seen it, I am convinced Hedley
would have been fast tracked to
starting for England this weekend.
No conversion, again. 32 - 0.
It looked like the game could have
Henry Legge reports from Harlington as College thump Medics just a week from
showdown at The Stoop
descended into a farcical score, when
soon after the restart patient play
through 12 phases saw a sublime 25
metre pass from “wide boy” Durkin,
putting Moorby over the white line.
39 - 0.
From there on, the medics enjoyed
a high percentage of possession. IC’s
defence was excellent for the most
part of it, but they did allow the
medics to build a solid maul and
break down the blindside to score
from close quarters.
In summary, it was a good first half
from IC but apart from two moments
of magic, a very scrappy second. It
was a big statement of intent before
varsity, and had College stayed at
that intensity for the full 80 it could
have been even more of a cricket
score.
A special mention must go to Josh
“head in the clouds” O’Donnell who
at one point had a 40 metre free run
in down the wing, however decided
to try and step inside some invisible
opposition, ending up running into
real opposition.
Can the College repeat the success of Varsity in 2013? Photo: Facebook
2013 captain Jack Flanagan holds aloft the JPR Williams Cup
Photo: Facebook
The forwards could provide the key to next week's game Photo: Ian Gillett
The lineout proved to be an important factor in the College's victory last
week. This photo was from Varsity 2013 Photo: Ian Gillett
IC the pack was on top. The ensuing
scrum allowed Durkin to make
amends by stealing the ball and
dotting it down under the posts. Cox
kicked the extras. 10-0.
IC line. Excellent breakdown work
from Michael “worse twin” Radigan
forced the turnover and saw College
win back the ball. Good exit strategy
saw IC back in the medic’s 22 from

