10 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
13.03.2015
Politics Editor Joshua Renken
Politics
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Oh oil, is there nothing you can’t do?
In the last two decades the Middle
East has experienced Sunni and
Shia suppression, the toppling
of dictators, Western intervention,
Western withdrawal and the spread
of fundamentalist terrorism.
The problems in the region are vast,
systemic and complicated. And while
I don’t pretend for a second to fully
understand what is going on, I want
to comment on the West’s foreign
alliances with Saudi Arabia.
Saudi Arabia is the world’s
dominant oil exporter and the only
country named after its ruling royal
family, The House of Saud. It is one
of the least democratic states in
existence and a place where women
are prohibited from driving, voting
or even leaving their house without a
male chaperone.
There are no jury trials in Saudi
Arabia, most trials are held in secret
and courts observe few formalities.
Organizations such as Amnesty
International and Human Rights
Watch have condemned Saudi
Arabia’s human rights record against
women and ethic minorities and
criticised the severe punishments
handed out by the criminal justice
system, which is based on a hardline
and literal form of Shari’ah law.
This oil-rich kingdom’s brutality
is reflected in the number of public
executions that are carried out there.
According to a report by Human
Rights Watch (HRW) the late
Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud,
former King of Saudi Arabia, oversaw
the beheading of 87 individuals, by
sword, in the last year alone.
Many of those killed had
committed non-violent crimes
including drug smuggling, sodomy,
apostasy and even ‘sorcery’. The state
has also tortured and killed critical
journalists.
One particular case in Saudi
Arabia has received a lot of media
attention recently. Raif Badawi is a
writer, activist, blogger and Saudi
national who has openly criticised
his country’s regime for several years.
Convicted of the crime of ‘insulting
Islam’, Badawi has been sentenced
to 1000 lashes, ten years in prison
and a fine. The first 50 lashes were
administered on 9th
January 2015. His
wife, Ensaf Haidar, has said that Raif
will not survive the floggings.
And all this is unlikely to change
any time soon. After the death of
King Abdullah in January his half-
brother, Salman, assumed the throne
to become King and Prime Minister
of Saudi Arabia. King Salman is not
expected to be a reformist in the
country and has vowed to continue
the “correct” policy of his predecessor,
stating that democracy “should not be
imposed in Saudi Arabia”.
In early February Prince Charles
met with King Salman during a six
day tour of the Middle East, where
they “exchanged cordial talks and
reviewed bilateral relations” between
the countries.
To be clear, this is our heir to the
British monarchy meeting with
the leader of an Islamic state that
sanctions the execution of prisoners
by beheading with a sword in public.
This is simply barbaric. It is a
medieval, ultra-conservative system,
underpinned by the most extreme
interpretation of Islam, Wahhabism.
Just days after King Abdullah’s
death, President Barack Obama
took a trip to Saudi Arabia to pay
his respects and cement ties with
King Salman. During the trip
Obama did not even raise the issue
of the country’s human rights
abuses and backward attitudes to
gender equality. A few days later
the president was in India giving
a speech urging the country to be
more progressive about women’s
rights. This kind of double standard
approach to foreign relations on the
world stage is shameful.
That the British and American
governments cosy up to the Saudis
in full knowledge of the appalling
circumstances in which many of its
citizens endure is a disgrace that
has been criminally under reported
Barack Obama met with King Salman to pay his respects to the former King and Prime Minister of Saudi Arabia, Abdullah bin Abdulaziz Al Saud after his death in January Photo: itv
Joshua Renken comments on the relationship between the West and
Saudi Arabia
for years. That the UK and US do
this while lecturing other nations
about democracy and human rights
just adds an extra layer of naked
hypocrisy to the situation.
So why does this happen? Put
simply: oil, trade and political
stability. Large and powerful
countries such as Saudi Arabia – the
world’s petrol station – can get away
with atrocities that less influential
countries could not because of their
global significance. That’s the way
things seem to go. We saw it in the
failures of the League of Nations, we
see it now in the Middle East, and we
will regrettably see it in the future.
That said, I’m not necessarily trying
to pin the blame on ‘evil’ Western
leaders. I get it. The alternative to
upholding one’s principles in all
circumstances is far messier. In the
current financial climate no one is
prepared to let their economy take
a hit by imposing trade sanctions.
Money doesn’t talk. It screams.
Saudi Arabia is the largest and
most important producer in the
Organization of Petroleum Exporting
Countries (OPEC), the bloc that
controls almost half of the world’s
oil. The UK does not buy oil from
the Saudis, but Saudi Arabia is the
UK’s primary trading partner in the
Middle East and our largest arms
buyer, with joint ventures between
British and Saudi companies worth
tens of billions of pounds each year.
The US however imports hundreds of
thousands of barrels of oil from Saudi
Arabia every day.
Since the UK would never make
meaningful strides to address the
repulsive Saudi Arabian government
without agreement from the US –
who are not prepared to see a spike
in oil import prices – there will be no
bold action from either country.
Countries such as Saudi Arabia are
considered criminal governments one
minute and trading partners the next,
which makes Western governments
guilty by tacit consent. It is insincere
foreign policy that leads me to
wonder, “Oh oil, is there nothing you
can’t do?”. Our ongoing relationship
with this vile government
demonstrates that economic interests
dictate principles. It proves that we
are only as morally upstanding as our
national wallet will allow, and right
now our international relations are
abounding with hypocrisy.
I just look forward to the day where
the UK, US and other democratic
nations no longer need to trade
or buy oil from countries such as
Saudi Arabia, so that we can find the
backbone to stand up to the heads of
terror states and severe all ties with
these thugs. That moment can’t come
soon enough.

