24 March 1999
Albums
dEUS
The Ideal Crash I
Perfect collision with Mozart.
Singles
Remote Control - Starfucker
Sleazy pop song with lyrics like 'vaseline, you're on your
hands and knees' and 'leather straps but you're still at
school / back up against the disco wall'. Pretty damn
good. The B-side Frail is a dark, dramatic tunc, which I
think's better than the A-side. A close contender for sin-
gle of the week.
Ultrasound - Floodlit World
Nice song, mainstream-sounding, bound to do well in
the charts, but nothing special. The singer's slightly sob-
bing vocals can annoy, but the female backing adds a
nice twist. Comes with an interesting cover of The
Beatles' Getting Befferwhich begins to make up for the
dull title track, but not quite.
Bows - Big Wings
Singer sounds like the one from Massive Attack. Slightly
more intelligent song than the other singles this week
with lots of interesting sounds and harmonies going on.
Not bad.
Roxette - Wish I Could Fly
Well look who it is! Roxette try to get back in the charts
but still sound exactly like they did in the 80s. Naff. Ultra-
cheesy house remix for the B-side.
Medal - Possibility
Mellow weepy song, sounding a bit like Robbie
d
L-US was formed in 1991 by the lead singer and
guitarist Tom Barman plus three other mem-
bers who have since left the band. Over the
few years there have been a few upheavals with the
band's line up but has now settled down to Tom, the
only original member left, and five others including
the violinist Klaas Janzoons who gives dEUS their fairly
distinctive sound.
The album opens with a track called Put The Freaks
Up Front and staying on the abnormal theme there are
other tracks such as Everybody's Weird. The lyrics
throughout the record are fairly melancholic and appear
to tell a story, just take a listen to One Advice, Space
where Tom Barman sings 'Wasted and wounded, this
ain't know way to die/one man's cold turkey is another
man's high'. Bleak stuff indeed.
Instant Street is the first single from The Ideal Crash
and was released last month. It is definitely the poppl-
est effort on the LP, and beautifully incorporates a laid-
back acoustic guitar sound that captures the very
essence of Americana in the verses. However when you
get to the chorus it takes a sharp turn towards a melan-
cholic atmosphere and the track finally ends with a dis-
cordant Status Quo-like (don't let that put you off!)
semi-psychedelic wash out.
Nearly all the tracks begin with this initial soft
approach, making the use a strumming acoustic guitar,
then raising the tone into epic-like proportions. Just take
a listen to Sister Dew or Dream Sequence #1. .
There are albums that come along and at times
their barrenness can be a complete turn off initially,
however on this particular record your patience will be
rewarded as the masterful beauty contained on at
Williams' No Regrets, but not as tuneful. Track 3 is a nice
hip-hop style remix but it's not worth getting just for
that. Bad.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Eminem - HI! My Name Is Slim Shady
l i f e
Fantastic! Trashy, throw away pop we all love. Great tune
from rapper Eminem. With lines like T can't decide
least half of the record is recognised after a few listens.
Undoubtedly there are a couple of mediocre efforts
thrown in with the quality tracks, but these also grow
on you with further listens. For dEUS fans who liked In
A Bar, Under The Sea I think this LP will be a great deal
more commercial to your cars, but even the die-hards
will eventually be converted to dEUS's more mature
sound. The Ideal Crash is the ideal dEUS record.H
Jason
C O M P E T I T I O N T I M E !
which Spice girl I want to impregnate,' how can you go
wrong? Just listen to the little comments in the back-
ground. Bound to get lots of airplay. Single of the
week!
Liz Horsman - Heavy High
Soulful little ditty with some nice guitar work. A bit
'Sheryl Crow' but I'm not going to throw it out just yet.
The B-sides are good. She doesn't mind taking some
risks with the non-album tracks and it pays off.
Luna - Superfreaky Memories
The usual slightly weird indie-rock from Beggar's Ban-
quet. This has the potential to be moving, but in the
end is a little too formulaic to be brilliant. You get the
feeling you've heard it somewhere before.
Add N to X - Metal Fingers in my Body
Pretty cool electronic rock from the French crew. Sounds
like Air, maybe not so poppy. B-sides are weird but
entertaining in a messed up way. Very nice.
Deadly Snakes - Culebras de Muerte
Hardcore rap on the Tommy Boy label. Very atmospheric
with a big boomy bass line and intense lyrics. Definitely
worth checking out if you're a fan of the genre. JS
Tom
Here's your chance to get hold of an early Easter pre-
sent - something to lift the gloom of Impending exam-
ination/thesis stress!
There arc a whole load of dEUS goodies to be won
including designer dEUS shirts, t-shirts, every dEUS
album and loads of dEUS videos and posters!
All you have to do is answer this blatantly simple ques-
tion:
Which European country do dEUS come from?
Just send your answers to:
Wild Promotions (dEUS)
Suite 204
The Old Gramaphone Works
326 Kensal road
LondonW10 SBZ

