24 March 1999 Sport 39
SEASON RV1EW: BASKETBALL
This year has not been one of the most
successful years the basketball club has
had. This, however, is due to the fact that
the club's standards have been rising
continuously over the last few years.
Men's Ists
After a very successful first round
for the BUSA London Division the end of
which found us at the top of the table for
the first time ever, our performance
started to drop. However, we easily
made it past Greenwich to the last 16
beating them 71-58, only to get elimi-
nated by Oxford Brookes, who were
eventually third in the competition.
In the UL Cup, after a very easy first
round against LBS, we won two tough
matches against King's and against UCL
and made it to the final. There, after a
very good match we lost the Cup to LSE
64-57.
Men's 2nds
It took us quite long to start playing
some decent basketball, but eventually
It happened. Playing in the Premier Divi-
sion of the UL League against the first
teams of the other London Colleges, we
fought most of our matches and were
finally ranked fourth. In the UL Cup we
progressed two rounds but at the end
fell to LSE (again...). The fact that we
managed to preserve two competitive
teams at a quite high level of competi-
tion is a great success for our club, given
that we are the only College in London
capable of doing so.
Women
Our women's team faced a great
deal of problems this year, mainly due to
the lack of interest at the beginning of
the year and by some of the players dur-
ing the year. A couple of injuries later
came to add to that.. The commitment
of 5-6 girls, but mainly of Sandrine Bot-
tinelli and Stephanie Vounou was what
kept the team together and now it
seems to be paying off. Finishing 6th (as
opposed to 1st and 2nd the two previous
years) in the UL League is not a failure
given those circumstances. In BUSA we
made It to the Shield where we lost to
Bristol. The very good news is that at the
end of the year the number of players
increased and almost all of them will be
at College next year. This is indeed a very
promising young team.
Little by little our club has managed
to represent Imperial in the best possi-
ble way both in ULU and in BUSA and
this tradition is about to be continued
next year because we are full of people
who love basketball and who love rep-
resenting their College!
SEASON REVIEW: CYCLING
Highs and Lows
The past few weeks have seen mixed for-
tunes for the cycling club. O n Sunday
28th Feb, Tarik, Hedley and Colin took
part in the Kingston Wheelers 14 mile
time trial. With opponents such as pre-
vious Tour de France yellow jersey holder
Sean Yates and current National Hill climb
champion Jim Henderson on the start
sheet, the competition looked tough on
paper. Hedley excelled himself by taking
3 rd place, only 27 sees behind eventual
winner Henderson. Tarik came In 12th
and Colin in 41st, with the trio missing
out narrowly on the team prize. The fol-
lowing weekend saw Hedley, Tarik and
their Great Britain Duathlon squad buddy
jon taking 1st, 2nd and 3rd in the Thames
Turbo Evans Classic Duathlon, In which
competitors had to run 5k, cycle 22kand
run a final 3k. These races were being
used as a build up to the BUSA team
time trial, BUSA MTB champs and the
Powerman Guernsey Duathlon, which
is the National middle distance duathlon.
O n the night of 11th March, however,
these plans were thwarted in one care-
less moment. Colin and Tarik were
knocked off their bikes when a hapless
motorist flung open her car door as they
were going past at 25 mph. Tarik got up
relatively unscathed, with a badly
sprained ankle and a bruised wrist. Colin
was less fortunate and suffered a fracture
across the cheek bone and a badly lac-
erated nose. At the time of writing, he
remains in Kingston hospital where he Is
undergoing surgery to pin the bones In
place. The driver was charged on the
spot when the police arrived and hope-
fully the extensive damages will be cov-
ered by her Insurance company. All of us
In the cycling club wish Colin all the best
on his way to a full recovery and urge
everyone who rides In London to bear
this story in mind next time they cycle
past parked cars. D O N T TRUST THE DRI-
VERS TO SEE YOU.
BOAT CLUB
Ladies Head
Down River
Saturday 13th March was a windy, sunny
day for the 287 crews competing in the
Women's Head of the River Race
between Chiswick and Putney. The
course is four and a quarter miles long,
and run in reverse of the Oxford vs.
Cambridge Boat Race.
IC had two entries with good start-
ing positions (determined by last years
finishing order). The first 8 began 4th,
the first crew off not to be loaded with
internationals, and the second 8 began
29th. Both crews had a good row. The
first 8 slipped from 4th to 10th, finishing
ahead of Cambridge but behind UL, a
respectable result, though disappointing
to have dropped 6 places. The second
8 performed fantastically, finishing 18th
and overtaking 2 crews. This is the best
result and IC second 8 has had for years,
and they were unlucky not to win the
senior 3 pennant, coming second to a
Cambridge lightweight crew.
These results were especially pleas-
ing as '98-'99 is a difficult year for the
boat club, with no 'home' as the new
boat house is being built. Also, the year
began with an inexperienced squad that
has come on leaps and bounds due to
hard work, commitment and determi-
nation. Congratulations to everyone who
took part, and good luck to the boys
who will competed in the Mens Head of
the River last week.
RUGBY
Surprise,surprise; IC
can play Rugby
A strong confident medics side were
well beaten two weeks ago by a deter-
mined IC team whose skills and pace
surprised the home team. Within 3 min-
utes of the start the heavier pack had
been pushed off their own ball by ICand
the ball was spun out for the left wing
Andrew Mays to score an early try. Min-
utes later Chris Dickinson had kicked a
penalty and then followed that with a try
and conversion and the Medics never
really recovered.
A try from the Medic's outside half
just before the interval and one by the
forwards about five minutes Into the
second half brought the score to within
one point but did not dent the spirit of
IC. Two more penalty goals and a try by
Dave Gol won the game for Imperial Col-
lege.
Ferocious tackling by the visitors
and a high penalty count for infringe-
ments in rucks had denied ICMS conti-
nuity. The ball was usually spilled in
contact when the Medics tried to use
their backs and IC forwards were quicker
to the breakdown either winning
turnover ball or forcing their opponents
to concede a penalty while trying to
retain possession.
Slick handling, pace and determined
support running enabled IC to make
the most of their chances and to secure
a well deserved victory.
Peterjoyce
MOUNTAIN BIKING
IC MTBers make their mark at BUSA
BUSA Mountain Bike Championships
Newnham Park, Plymouth, March 12th
-14th
First off, I gotta say how far we've come.
A year on we're bigger than ever and
that's thanks to the people who ride
with us. So many jibbers and so many
excuses but the hardcore are always out
on the trails.
Bike dialling took up Friday morning
before we sectioned the downhill course
and nailed all the technical stuff. The
course was a real tough technical one
with bombholes, steep verts, log Jumps
and a huge pair of doubles at the finish.
A few pedally traverses linked the tech-
nicals and sapped the power from your
legs. However it rained all night and by
morning the course was a quagmire.
After the first round Seb was up in
the top 20. Scott took to cyclocross and
ran down the course finishing up in the
top 30. All five IC riders finished in the top
200 and managed to qualify for the sec-
ond run. Awesome.
The second and final runs were all
faster, especially Si who lost a full 2 min-
utes to move within a shot of the big
boys. Mechanicals stopped Scott and
Seb rising up the standings any further
Hey, we were looking good after tlx- first
round and respect to everyone fot qual-
ifying. DH is becoming a lot more seri-
ous, less lard and more training and
we'll see IC boys stomping all over the
podium. You gotta have a dream.
Sunday was Cross Country. Scott our
only serious rider In the championship
race. 16 miles through the mud, the guy
deserves a medal for Just making it
round. However a storming first two laps
and a solid run in to the finish brought
him home before five of the six Birm-
ingham Uni lads, which is all we care
about. 'Nuff said.
Thanks to all the riders for a fantas-
tic effort this weekend. We did ourselves
proud and made a masslye improve-
ment on last year. Thanks to STOIC for
the handycam. Thanks Coventry for let-
ting us burn the ramp. Birmingham - we
caned ya.
Tom T

