18 felix Friday 13 February 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 13 February 2009 felix
Arts
Prepare for total entertainment
Visual synaesthetics by the hottest international VJs? A three hour film pondering the fundamental
absurdness of existence? Nah. Give me old-school entertainment any day, says Emilie Beauchamp
The Carnival comes to town
Rosie Milton attends the Tate Triennial and attempts to connect the dots in a cavalcade of global art
W
hen I heard that Les
7 Doigts de la Main
(literal translation:
The seven fingers
of the hand) were
in London, I was gladly surprised to
see that this French Canadian circus
company had made it to this side of the
continent!
Well, apparently they had already
been at the Edinburgh Festival in 2007,
creating a commotion with their new
approach to circus, mixing disciplines
and acrobatics in astonishing ways. Les
7 doigts de la main are now in London
until March 14th with their new show,
Traces, which critics have already ac-
claimed, saying this show will make
you drop everything and enrol in the
nearest circus school... Being from
Montreal, but having failed to go see
them in their “hometown”, I was very
excited to finally discover the cause of
all the praise!
Les 7 doigts de la main started in
2002 in Montreal from a mix of art-
ists graduating from Montreal’s Ecole
Nationale du Cirque and slowly made
their way up the ladder of success. In
this second production of theirs, they
elected to premier five young art-
ists fresh out of school to feature in a
doomsday situation where they are all
stuck in a bunker, with an unknown ca-
tastrophe outside the door.
The idea is to see how they live and
express themselves in what is meant to
be the last hours of their lives, using
creativity as a remedy to annihilation,
so to “leave their traces as best they
can”… They do so by first presenting
themselves to the crowd.
From the beginning, you can see they
use a very interactive and communica-
tive way to convey their message and
exchange with the crowd. We thus
meet Will, Heloise, Brad, Francisco
and Philip. They confess to us stories
of their life, share songs and dance, sal-
sa, hip and hop around the stage with
basketballs and skateboards… Oh, and
they’re also acrobats by the way…
They all have their strengths and
weaknesses and a few lapses could be
observed throughout the performanc-
es, but improvisation and great team
work easily repaired any damage. All
were amazing at hand balancing, tum-
bling and Chinese poles, while other
specializations included the German
wheel and the teeterboard.
The star of the show is without doubt
Heloise Bourgeois, the only girl in the
troop, who used to excel in eques-
trian vaulting, trampoline and dance
amongst other skills. The centerpiece
of the group, she is a mix of sensual
waltz and pure strength, exalting talent
throughout the entire show. But all of
them are worth special mentions, most
of them being also trained in various
side expertises such as classical and
jazz piano, magic tricks, painting and
even the Didgeridoo!
Divided into about 10 scenes, the
show allowed each of the artists to per-
form their acrobatics individually but
also as a group. While all of the scenes
present some form of acrobatics or
tumbling, many feature different types
of contemporary, urban dancing. These
were very artistically interesting, but
howeverweredefinitelynotthestrength
of the performers, some of them look-
ing slightly not at ease. And while it is
understandable that a 120 minute show
with only acrobatics would be totally
exhausting for the performers, I guess
they are so good at it that you just want
more of it and less dancing.
Still, the constant humor and pleas-
antry contained in the skits make every
one of them fascinating. Moreover, the
musicchoicesarebulls-eyeinsyncwith
the performances and the choreogra-
phies; urban, eclectic and dynamic.
Finally, this new wave modern circus
troop really succeeds in this innovative
and more sensitive approach to en-
tertainment, acrobatics and dance. In
short, Traces is an amazing chance to
discover what circus is all about these
days and is definitely a good alterna-
tive to overpriced Cirque du Soleil this
winter. I must confess: while I am still
skeptical about the dancing, I did end
up thinking about joining the nearest
circus school. For half a day at least…
Until March 14th
I
set off on Monday morning for
the Tate Triennial: ‘Altermodern’
as if on an expedition to a remote
place. The Tate Triennial, only 4
events old, is another large-scale
art event or ‘mega-exhibition’ like that
of the Moscow Biennale, the Havana
Biennial or the more well-established
Venice Biennale to name just a few.
Somehow ‘global citizens’ of the art
world manage to make their way to
these destinations but I cannot say
that I am one of them yet. However,
the Tate Triennial presented itself for
participation and possible scrutiny and
so I endeavoured (with excitement) to
be a part of it. For me all it really meant
was to pop up the road and over the
river (I live in Battersea), but I don’t
think there is a single person in Lon-
don who was not aware of the snow-
laden weather on Monday and so for
me, such a short trip meant gearing
myself up like a mountaineer to bat-
tle conditions our London streets are
so unused to. When I arrived it was
with a sense of triumph therefore and
of adventure.
The museum was quiet – a perfect
atmosphere for investigating artworks
with a complex thought process behind
them – although as I shall explain, this
particular event will probably be bet-
ter suited to the hubbub of the general
public. Entering into the more classi-
cally-designed ‘white cube’ space of the
Tate Britain, with its high ceilings and
rooms punctuated with columns, the
architecture struck a dramatic contrast
with the modern (or should I say al-
termodern) artworks, especially in the
first room and the ‘octagonal’ room.
A larger part of the Tate Britain
has been taken over by the Triennial,
hosting the works of 28 artists (from
around the globe). Stepping through
the entrance to the Triennial, we walk
under the words ‘PAŁAC’ in neon
pink, which in Polish means ‘palace’.
This particular introduction invites
you to imagine a fairytale castle, or
perhaps the inside of a fun-house at a
fair, which is more how it appealed to
me. The artist’s intention was to draw
parallels between the neo-classical ar-
chitecture of the galleries and the Pal-
ace of Culture and Science in Warsaw.
The first room had giant shapes in
bold colours, like oversized baby’s
building blocks and all along the walls
were Pascale Marthine Tayou’s masks
with cartoon-like faces painted onto
them, intended as relics of the ‘future-
past’. Entering into the ‘octagonal’
room, we cowered beneath the giant
mushroom cloud of silver pots and
pans of Subodh Gutpa’s ‘Line of Con-
trol’, further adding to this element of
the fantastical, but also succeeding in
making us feel like Lilliputians in this
dramatic space.
Altermodern as part of the globaliz-
ing of art seems to be reaching more
towards that global scale in terms
of the size of the artworks, for in the
next room we found a giant accor-
dion, Rutha Ewan’s ‘Squeeze Jukebox’
– perfectly proportional and with glit-
teringly glossy keys readily prepared
for ‘assistants’ to perform well-known
musical ditties on it at a point in the
day (when the exhibition is open to the
public).
Nicolas Bourriaud is a French art
critic and curator, co-founder of the
Palais de Tokyo in Paris and creator
of ‘altermodern’ – the term and the
collective meaning of the exhibition.
He described the event as starting as
a “dream catcher, a blank space” onto
which the artists could project change
and ‘alter’ the meaning of art today.
Bourriaud suggests that modern art (or
postmodern even) is ‘dead’ and today’s
ever-increasing global reach of art de-
mands a new term and definition of
contemporary art and processes. The
collective effort is clearly important to
this triennial event whose main focus is
travel – the artists breaching space and
time to reach one another through the
global space and creative dimensions.
Bourriaud insists that with the Alter-
modern show, “artists can exchange
at a planetary level for the first time”,
however this notion is somewhat con-
testable, considering the focus of sev-
eral large-scale art festivals the world-
over have addressed segregation in the
art world, as well as attempting to ex-
press a similar intent with the concep-
tualisation of artworks.
The other artworks in the exhibition
range from stream of consciousness
amateur acting films to mechanical
heads gormlessly yet musically com-
municating in harmonious grunts;
liquid slides projected onto the walls
– possibly invoking the club culture of
acid past? It all appears carnivalesque
to me – the bright colours and rotat-
ing panels of Franz Ackermann’s urban
prison-like space, the vibrating plates
on the floor translate Nathanial Mel-
lor’s brainwaves and even the video
‘Giantbum’ about some lost travellers
who find themselves inside the intes-
tines of a giant recalls Rabelais’ ‘Gar-
gantua & Pantagruel’, a significant tale
in literature of the carnivalesque.
Contrasted with this colourful and
bizarre melee of ‘altermodern’ artistic
expression sounds the soft, controlled
voice of Nicolas Bourriaud who is pos-
sibly playing the puppet-master in this
elaborate stage show. Bourriaud him-
self likens the Triennial to a theatrical
performance, describing the unfolding
of events as a “libretto”.
For me the artworks are passionate
and complex, but the meaning is not
expressly clear. The somewhat dry
theory and definition of ‘altermodern’
does not correlate with a sense of the
‘collective’ – after all the artists each
made individual works and the artist
hasworkedasanindividualthroughout
history. Perhaps a few more collabora-
tive works would have put this idea of
a collective across or even an attempt
to make art for art’s sake – the age-old
dictum is one which seems to have
been lost behind the ‘modernisms’ of
time. As I took my final cursory view
around the exhibition space, I suddenly
felt an overwhelming sense of displace-
ment. It did seem as if these artworks
were trying to take you somewhere –
on a journey into the dark secrets of
the mind, but where that path leads is
not somewhere that one can trip down
easily. Yet for a moment I wondered if
there might just be a chance that I am
‘altermodern’, too?
Until April 26th
“the artworks are
passionate and
complex, but the
meaning is not
expressly clear”
After completing Final Fantasy XII for the fortieth time, Janice found herself with a lot of spare time
Between her daughter’s pubescent theatrical gestures and occasional self-impalement, mumsy struggled to keep up with Adam’s ADHD

