travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editor – Dylan Lowe
20 felix Friday 13 February 2009 21
Friday 13 February 2009 felix
T
his Sunday I am lazing in
my bed. And the weekend
after that. Easter holiday?
Revision. Hang out with
mates. Perhaps canoe-
ing somewhere in Devon, but nothing
more adventurous than that.
Or so they think.
Reckon you are off the hook once the
surgeon had snipped off the umbilical
cord? Wrong. Be prepared to spend
your childhood under parental dicta-
torship, and young-adult days fabricat-
ing lies in order to sneak off travelling.
Or at least that is how I would sum up
my life.
And I am fed up. The lies. The esca-
pades under their noses. The gazillion
“don’t do this” and “don’t go there” that
drives me insane. I still love you, mum
and dad, but make me stay in bubble
wrap for the rest of my life? Shoot me
now.
But I am not alone. We are all em-
broiled in this public obsession with
the concept of ‘health and safety’.
I guess I can applaud its merits in
keeping most of us alive and intact. But
the repetitive safety briefings designed
for ten-year-olds? Tedious risk assess-
ments? I cannot help but wonder if our
society has become overprotective, if
not squeamish.
As for us, are we really so imma-
ture and incapable of looking after
ourselves that we need rigid safety
guidelines to keep us in check? Piss on
you, bureaucracy, for questioning our
maturity.
And so is the environment we are
born unto. Our folks, infected with
this ‘social disorder’, would have spent
hours lecturing us on hazard after haz-
ard. That is if they let us venture into
the great unknown in the first place.
With the backdrop of teenage alco-
holism and gang culture, no wonder
parents are too afraid to release their
kids into the wild. Fair enough. Yet they
are nurturing a generation of spoiled
weaklings or, worse still, frustrated
teens turning to alcohol and drugs as
means of escapism.
What modern parents tend to forget
is that growing up is about the expo-
sure to danger, and the experience one
gains from it. Allowing a child to burn
himself, sadistically speaking, is a more
effective way to caution him of the per-
ils of playing with fire than to tell him
so.
Yet parents do have a reason to fear.
Incidents resulting in deaths and in-
juries are, one might argue, miniscule
representations of the bigger picture
– they still happened. For that reason
parents have an obligation to worry.
And quite rightfully so.
There are obviously exceptions.
There wouldn’t be an upsurge in the
‘gap-year culture’ if every parent sought
to imprison his/her children within the
limits of their homes.
Ignore my rant if it doesn’t apply to
you. But for those whose parents would
physically restrain you from a bungee,
or check you into a mental asylum for
ever mentioning “gap year”, a word of
advice: confront them, tell them why it
is time to let go.
As for me, I shall perform the John
Darwin-style disappearing act – canoe-
ing somewhere in Devon this Easter.
Or so they think.
Keila-Joa
Waterfall, Estonia
Scribble your name and that of a crush
onto a padlock, fasten it onto the
bridge and toss the key into the icy riv-
er below. He/she is now yours forever.
Allegedly.
No luck with the ladies? Guys not answering your calls? Forget the love potions. Here are the world’s
answers to all things singleton.
Beating the Valentine’s Day Blues
B
efore I start, I would like
to pay tribute to the two
Australian lads who died
a month ago on the neigh-
bouring Fox Glacier. They
went over the safety line, sure; but did
they deserve the tonne of ice that came
crumbling down and so prematurely
ended their lives? I don’t think so.
I appreciate that not everyone can
find anything spectacular or glorious
about glacier hikes. A colossal lump of
ice suspended in a valley is, after all, a
lump of ice. Shamefully, I once thought
that too. Then, a few lectures on gla-
ciation sprouted a burning desire to go
see the real thing for myself.
The Franz Josef Glacier offered a
solution. Located on the West coast
of New Zealand’s South Island, it was
first scaled by Europeans in 1865. The
Austrian explorer Julius Haast paid
tribute to the Austrian emperor by
naming the glacier after him. Alter-
natively, call it by its Maori name: Ka
Roimata o Hine Hukatere (Tears of the
Avalanche Girl). The glacier is known
as one of the most fast-moving of its
kind, estimated to shift 7 cm per day.
And it is advancing.
Its sheer size is reflected upon its as-
sociate village, which is simplistic and
too miniature for a tourist hot spot.
Standing outside the Franz Josef Gla-
cier Guides HQ, after a sleepless night
in the local YHA infested with rowdy
tourists, my jaws dropped not to yawn
but in surrender to awe. This is no
longer a lump of ice, but nature’s fury
charging down the mountains over
geological timescales.
Geared up, the entourage of hikers
arrived at the glacier’s terminal face by
coach. Growing confident on my fit-
ness level, I joined the fast group and
Kat the guide, a compatriot from Cum-
bria with a degree in geography. Cram-
pons on and off we ascended.
And what an ascent it was. Al-
though not as physically demanding
as I had expected (I wasn’t gasping for
a change), the labyrinth of icy tunnels
and crevasses and ridges was a consist-
ent challenge and did not disappoint.
With Kat hacking away the ice to make
passage in regular intervals, rest was
aplenty; seizing the opportunity cam-
eras snapped and eyes gleamed against
the scenery, before we proceeded to
trample over freshly-carved stairwells.
After a debate over the futility of
heli-hiking (what’s the point hovering
over the glacier?), several Christmas
carols (it was Christmas Eve) and the
cheesy photos at the highest point of
the hike, we descended. Being the fast
track, this section was flat and lacklus-
tre. But being a scramble than a trek,
we resembled the Fellowship fleeing
from the Misty Mountains, the enemy
being an increasingly grumpy stomach
rather than a horde of orcs.
For NZ$140 (£50) the full-day tour
guarantees six hours on the ice – I en-
joyed every second of it. My only moan
was the treacherous 2 km walk across
a dried-up riverbed leading to our
awaiting transport. It gave me cramps.
Only if I had kept my geologist’s hat on,
waltzed among the pebbles gathering
samples and proclaiming Christmas
had come a day early, would I quit wh-
inging. But no, I was too out of breath
for that.
Dylan Lowe braved the cold to climb the ice. Sweet as.
Franz Josef Glacier
Dylan Lowe
Travel Editor
Parents -
Bane of the
Adventurous?
Any prison,
Thailand
Locked up in Thailand for petty
crimes? You love life is not yet cruci-
fied. Find love within your prison and
get married inside its walls. Do make
your prison guard best man or suffer
the consequences.
Kachikally
Crocodile Pool,
Gambia
Take a dip in this algae-filled swamp of
a ‘sacred’ pool and become fertile – not
if the crocs get to your cock first. Ap-
parently they won’t bite and even allow
visitors to stroke them. Proceed at your
own risk.
Hounen Matsuri,
Japan
Traditional music, ceremonious festi-
val, unlimited sake? Anything sexual
at all? Oh wait, a 600-pound wooden
phallus (penis) paraded around the
township of Komaki by horny middle-
aged men. Touch it if you still want
romance.
Lovapalooza,The
Philippines
Desperate for a snog? Head to Manila
for an annual simultaneous-kissing
event. It began as a Guiness record at-
tempt five years ago, where 5,347 cou-
ples locked lips for ten seconds. The
kissfest now boasts a record for ‘most
number of simultaneously kissing cou-
ples’ (6,124).
It’s coming towards us! Arrgghh! Well, it won’t reach us for another epoch
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food
Food Editors – Afonso Campos & Rosie Grayburn
Afonso Campos
Food Editor
The Titans outeat
the Teletubbies
pork sandwhiches and buffalo chicken
wings. I am not usually attracted to
this genre of food, but Bodean’s has
this incredible pull on me. It definitely
makes my chest hair darker just at the
thought. It’s quite brilliant.
A nine person group is hard to seat
in a space as small as Bodean’s and as a
result, we were split into two different
back-to-back booths. Four on one table
and five on the other. Along with other
felix writers, I was in the four person
table, and what a table it was going to
become throughout the evening.
The waiter managed to mess up all
our orders and apologetically brought
each of us an extra half chicken on top
of sausages, spare ribs, pulled pork,
coleslaw and a mountain of french
fries. At this moment, the war began.
We saw the extra food as a calling,
embraced our manhood and decided
to outeat the five person table. Our
friends now became our opponents.
We were no longer a bunch of felix
writers, but a group with the common
goal to test the extent of our shared
testosterone content.
We became the Titans, and our
weakling adversaries became the Tel-
etubbies. Even if you never have never
read any Greek mythology or fried
your brain with mindless, infantile tel-
evision, you know how easily a Titan
could trump a Teletubby. And we did.
We came. We saw. We ate. And then
we ate some more. By the end of the
evening, we were beating our chests
triumphantly and screaming loudly on
the streets of Fulham. Our oponents
walked home dejected, lost.
I
t started abruptly and without
any consideration for St Au-
gustine’s theological principle
of just war. There was no warn-
ing and certainly none of the jus
ad bellum criteria for the beginning of
any war were met. The war was un-
precedented in proportion. My help-
less oponents could barely trust their
vision when the proverbial hammer-
heads and spears commenced flying
past them, shutting their hearts with a
fear that would scare even the bravest
of souls.
I take it all of this means very little to
you, and am even less certain that you
are familiar with the theory of war of
the 1600s. Let’s put things into context.
I am a male and like the typical male at
Imperial, my closest friends also share
this problematic chromosome issue.
As such, we have this inexplicable de-
sire to prove to all XY’s that we are the
typical alpha males. The easiest way to
fuel this desire is obviously to outeat
anyone in sight.
After a lengthy discussion with a
group of friends as to where to have
dinner, we succumbed to Bodean’s.
When I say succumbed, I actually
mean we were drawn to the place like it
was a humongous magnet. If you live
anywhere close to SW6, you will have
at the very least heard of it. Were there
a typically american smoke house in
Heaven, Bodean’s would be it. It is like
the angels felt pity for us mere mortals
and decided to prize us with their most
valuable posession... in Fulham.
One might find it weird that I should
be so excited about spare ribs, pulled
Vapiano in the arpeggios
every sense of the word. Spread over
the Middle East, the United States and
Europe, it’s a German take on an Ital-
ian bar.
I arrived expecting another version of
Pizza Express, so I was pretty confused
when I got handed my very own Vapi-
ano ‘credit card’. The concept is easy
once you get the hang of it: you browse
the counters, order and scan your card
on a black box, carry the food to your
table, eat, drink, hand the card back at
the exit and pay with your real credit
card. It’s really an upscale canteen with
a twist. When you order pizza, you get
a buzzer which goes off when ready.
Now it may sound strange to hear that
there is plenty of staff when you are
the one who has to order the food and
carry your drinks; but that’s the point
of the place, the emphasis on interac-
tivity. If you’re scouting for a romantic
restaurant to share an intimate chat,
this probably isn’t the best place. How-
ever, if you want a lively spot where
there will be plenty to discuss about on
a first date, this isn’t a bad idea.
You mainly get to chose from dif-
ferent groups of pastas and pizzas,
though there is a salad and antipasto
Vapiano HHHKK
19-21 Great Portland St, W1
020 7268 0080
Best: The environment; 10% off
for students
Worst: Not exactly the best of
food for the
Price: £20/25 per head
bar. Prices range from £5.50-8.50. If
you’re special about you’re food, you
may like the fact that you can specify
which ingredients you want, and how
much of them go into your food: spelt
or normal pasta? more or less salt? you
get the idea. We got the antipasti and
salad to share. The plate was large
and varied, with pickled aubergines,
parmesan, mozzarella and a range of
cured meats. They were all acceptable,
but an easy fix whose quality wasn’t
notable. The pasta we ordered was a
disappointment. It was cooked ac-
cording to timers, but the staff should
take the time to adjust them, because
they were far from being al dente and
were frankly quite stodgy. The sauces
were ok, the arrabiata was spicy, but
not out of this world. Dessert was bet-
ter, but then again a decent Tiramisu
at an Italian restaurant is a must. At
least their selection of wines redeemed
the food, and my glasses of Valpolicella
diluted my initial dissatisfaction with
the place.
Vapiano is not for the likes of
everybody, it is not a culinary
experience, but it does put an original
and fun spin on dining.
Just off Oxford Circus, where MASH
used to be, is Vapiano. It means ‘go-
ing softly’ in Italian, which is a bit odd,
because it actually is a fast-food res-
taurant. Despite being a lively place,
spread over two floors, the décor lacks
originality: it looks like its come out of
an IKEA catalogue. A mix of pale col-
ours and red give off warm vibes, and
the seating caters for different moods:
high stools or loungy sofas. Lining the
back is a glass enclosed space where
you can watch the staff prepare your
food. You can’t reserve (unless it’s for
party get-together), but given the vast
surface area, there really isn’t a need
to. It’s an international franchise in
Rosie Grayburn visits an intriguingly unusual dining spot
2 Salmon fillets
Rice
Balsamic vinegar
2 Cinnamon sticks
Salt / Ground pepper
1 Large Lemon
This recipe is not merely complicated but will give the idea to a parent or
a date that you have put some thought into what you are serving them,
obviously propelling you to great heights.
Preheat the oven to 180C.
Place the two salmon fillets in the centre of a oven-proof glass tray and
fill it up with balsamic vinegar to half the height of the salmon. Cut some
very thin lemon slices and place them on top of the fillet. Finish up with
some pepper and salt. Place in the oven for 20 minutes.
While the salmon is in the oven, cook the rice in a large pan with the two
cinnamon sticks inside.
When both things are fully prepared, remove the salmon from its bal-
samic bath and place it next to the rice on a shiny white plate. Serve and
enjoy a ridiculously simple but tasty meal.
SALMON IN BALSAMIC VINEGAR
Even if your date is mind-numbing, you can always talk about how you want to grow your own herbs too
RECIPE BY AFONSO CAMPOS

