film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 13 February 2009 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 felix Friday 13 February 2009
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
Wacky not tacky...
Mobra presents our lacrimoso 4
Months 3 Weeks 2 Days (2008). Anoth-
er simple plot – a young girl needs an
abortion in 1987 communist Romania
where it is strongly prohibited, so she
gets one illegally. I struggled to con-
tain 4 3 2 inside my head, I couldn’t,
it carved its way into my heart. This
one hurts, you are gonna feel it. From
start to finish this film gives no respite.
It lulls you in with what feels like the
most tedious half-hour of your life, you
really begin to notice that this bore has
no soundtrack whatsoever. Whilst the
tasks being performed by Otilia (An-
amaria Marinca) for her friend Gabita
(Laura Vasiliu) are meager, buying cig-
arettes, booking a hotel room, some-
thing dark lurks beneath these appar-
ently meaningless labours. In the 25th
minute Otillia meets Domnu’ Bebe
(Vlad Ivanov), a back-street abortion-
ist with a penchant for psychological
torture. To be frank, he scares the liv-
ing shit out of me; his presence hangs
over the girls, a leering devil. It’s at
this point that 4 3 2 begins to pin you
to the ground and unsheathes its ice-
cold knife. As the film progresses and
Gabita nears her abortion, the weight
on your chest grows heavier and no
matter how much you wriggle and
squirm it begins to cut your flesh. Pick
a level of misandry, it’s here. From the
trivial but annoying “my boyfriend just
doesn’t understand”, to the significantly
more agonising “so you don’t have all
the money, eh, well you’ll just have to
sweeten the deal”, this movie delivers
lashings of man-hate. Writer/director
Cristian Mungiu has excelled, the cam-
era shots are simple and slow, adding
to the feeling of an invisible observer.
Throughout the movie Otillia stands
tall, her sacrifices for Gabita are end-
less, although a touch of disgust begins
to curl her upper-lip towards the end
of the ordeal. Otillia is a rock who re-
sists the ocean but is still scarred by
time, Bebe’s evil has tainted her. This
is a powerful production, but I can’t
say I’d watch it again, I’m too much of
a coward.
So there’s your choice of fuck-ups,
good luck, and don’t let them ruin your
sex life.
Note from Editor: I realise that re-
views of both these movies were print-
ed in the film section last year, but once
again I couldn’t say ‘no’ to printing
something written by Bad Taste – he
actually responded to my appeal and I
hope you join me in saying ‘kudos’ to
you Bad Taste. Now tell us your name.
For the Lovers and Haters of Valentine’s Day
I
t is that time of the year once
again: the day where greeting
card companies churn out thou-
sands of different cards which
say everything you wish to say to
people you love and people that don’t
have any love (yes – you can get Val-
entine’s cards for single people now).
Valentine’s Day divides people into two
categories: Lovers and Haters, splitting
Stefan Carpanu
There’s something undeniably like-
able in the quirkiness of The Wack-
ness, something which has eluded
many teen-related, (romantic) com-
edies of late. What makes it even
more extraordinary is that although
some drugs change hands, it’s not a
film that you can only watch if you’re
high and weirdly enough it goes be-
yond showcasing private parts in or-
der to be amusing.
Fact is, the comedy genre is a
tough genre. It’s perhaps more mer-
ciless than drama or action, for a bad
comedy is nothing but a bad com-
edy, while bad drama or action films
tend to be inherently funny. So how
is it that The Wackness didn’t pop
up on many radars last year and this
charming, if a tad familiar story, lies
mostly unseen and unheard of? This
is even more surprising considering
that it boasts a fairly familiar cast, in-
cluding Ben Kingsley, Famke Janssen,
Mary-Kate Olsen, Olivia Thirlby and
the unrecognisable (ex) child-star
Josh Peck.
Labelled as a coming-of-age story,
the film is centred around Luke Sha-
piro and something like a summer of
love – with less girl-on-girl action,
and a lot of old-school hip-hop. Luke
The Wackness HHHHK
Director: Jonathan Levine
Writer: Jonathan Levine
Cast: Josh Peck,
	Ben Kingsley,
	Olivia Thirlby The human penis is bigger, in propor-
tion to body size and in absolute terms,
than any other primate. Humanity has
a sex obsession. But there is a price to
pay for pleasure, sexual dysfunction is
rife, sex is laced with power and abuse.
Here are two films about slightly unu-
sual, but very real, sexual dilemmas.
Paramount Vantage presents our
furioso Black Snake Moan (2008).
Let’s start with the drawbacks. This
film lacks a little in the scripting, and
the plot isn’t exactly complex: Deep
Southern, traumatised, skinny, white
girl fucks too much, to whom big ol’
black man teaches error of ways. Not
to be taken seriously, this feature lacks
depth; it strains for a gravity it doesn’t
understand. Particularly undermined
by its stereotyping, hypocrisy and sym-
bolism, the tale is dispossessed of real-
ity, leaving it cold to the touch. But this
film ain’t for the head, stop thinking,
just live it. Coil up around the killer
soundtrack, to just wander and roam
over the vibrancy of the picture. Black
Snake Moan is brought to life by some
superb acting, first and foremost from
our broken protagonist.
Slim right down, eat only food of no
nutritional value throughout the pro-
duction and live a little as Rae (Chris-
tina Ricci). Be the sultry eyes and the
jutting jaw that echo the obstinacy of
a Bible Belt upbringing. You just ain’t
right gal. Child abuse has lead to nym-
phomania, bouts of Satre-esk nausea
couple body to a foiled control ad-
diction. Rip yourself so that no man
can break you, welcome to Rae. After
a wholesome night of drugs and de-
bauchery, Rae is finally beat up and
dumped on the roadside. Enter the
aptly named Lazarus (Samuel L. Jack-
son), a lost ex-bluesman whose wife
aborted his child and left him for his
brother. Laz scrapes up the road-kill
and takes her home to mend up.
Upon finding out whom and what
Rae is, he implements the classic com-
bo’ of tough love and the chaining to a
cast-iron radiator. But ignore the sto-
ryline, Jackson is in the zone. He holds
Lazarus together, picking through his
character’s flaws to find a dark seam of
cool; the man is strong and bold, tem-
pered by a god-fearing humility. Over-
all the acting in this movie is fantastic;
we even see a passable performance
by Justin Timberlake as Ronnie, Rae’s
longstanding boyfriend. Although this,
I fear, is down to Ronnie being a piti-
ful snivel of a character, something our
“Cry me a River” star can relate to.
So take this one as it comes, a shal-
low teenage pout of a film with a soul-
ful sound, thoroughly enjoyable.
Bad Taste’s corner
Bad Taste
Ricci has a knack for playing very disturbing girls, this is no exception.
This teen comedy from the young, new talent Jonathan Levine,
will satisfy all comedy lovers (and those looking for a bit more).
Regardless of where you stand, Jonathan Dakin has decided to suggest films for both Lovers and Haters –
films that sum up love in all its entirety as well as films that have absolutely no love in them whatsoever.
Josh Peck has grown up... and become a marijuana-dealing hipster.
Black Snake Moan
Director: Craig Brewer
Writer: Craig Brewer
Cast: Samuel L. Jackson,
Cristina Ricci,
Justin Timberlake
Competition Winner
Forthosewhocan’tremember,acou-
ple months ago we asked you about the
film equivalent of the Ig-Noble. The
prize promised was a DVD of Pineap-
ple Express. Congratulations to
Hazim Ghani
who got the answer right – it is indeed
the Golden Raspberry Award. Now
that the DVD has arrived at the office,
I’mhappytotellHazimthathecanpick
up his prize from the felix office.
Sorry for the delay in resolving the
competition but Sony Entertainment
were late with the delivery of the DVD.
4 Months 3 Weeks 2 Days
Director: Cristian Mungiu
Writer: Cristian Mungiu
Cast: Anamaria Marinca,
Laura Visiliu,
Vlad Ivanov
the population of the world into either
a pulpy, smiley, lovey-dovey mush or
a hard, fierce and embittered slice of
vengeance.
Lovers are those who love Valen-
tines Day: they take their girlfriends
or boyfriends out and wine-and-dine
them and treat them well and believe
in fate and the power of love… and all
that sap.
Whereas Haters very much hate this
made-by-greeting-card-companies
day and everything it stands for as
it promotes the idea that unless you
have someone, you are no one. And of
course we know that is not true, but
Haters would say that Lovers want to
try to make them feel like they are los-
ers because they don’t have a signifi-
cant other.
Regardless of where you stand, this
Film felix editor has decided to sug-
gest films for both Lovers and Haters
– films that sum up love in all its en-
tirety and spin the belief that everyone
is destined for someone else, as well as
films that have absolutely no love in
them whatsoever – sometimes even
promoting the hatred of love. And it
was quite hard to find films like that,
but I managed to do it.
So whether you are a Lover or a Hat-
er, kick back, relax and watch films that
suit your mood: either snuggling up to
someone you love or getting drunk by
yourself and throwing bottles at the
screen.
I know which one I will be doing to-
morrow, now then, where has that bot-
tle of Jack Daniels gone?
For Lovers
An Affair To Remember
Starring Carey Grant and Deborah
Kerr, this film is the inspiration behind
the classic Sleepless In Seattle (another
recommendation for all you Lovers out
there). Set on a cruise ship travelling
from Europe, a singer and an unem-
ployed playboy meet and begin to fall
in love. The catch? They are both en-
gaged to their other partners, so they
decide to give each other until Valen-
tine’s Day (which is two months away)
to break up with their other lovers, get
professional jobs and then meet on top
of the Empire State Building. Every-
thing goes to plan until a tragic acci-
dent intervenes…
A film that is guaranteed to make
women sob relentlessly (and as a man
I do not understand why), so men – if
you want your woman crying into your
chest (and you win bonus points for
comforting her and pretending to un-
derstand why she is crying) then this is
a must-see.
Pretty Woman
What woman doesn’t love the idea of a
prostitute being taken from the streets
and made up to look like royalty? Ju-
lia Roberts and Richard Gere star as
people from two different worlds who
ultimately fall in love. The part that
women seem to love is the bit when
she goes into a posh shop and is told
to leave for being too run down, only
to come back and tell the manager she
isn’t going to spend her money there:
you will be applauding and screaming
in delight!
For those of you who question the
idea of a love film about a prostitute,
just try to pretend it is a fairytale rath-
er then reality, because after all: how
many hookers look like Julia Roberts
(and fall in love with the men who pay
them to have sex)?
You’ve Got Mail
Joe Fox is a successful bookstore owner
and Kathleen Kelly has a small chil-
dren’s bookshop. So when his huge
chain of Fox Books moves into her
neighbourhood and her business starts
to goes under, they obviously hate each
other. But neither of them know that
they are actually in love with one an-
other, as they have been exchanging
love-letters over the Internet. How will
it end? Well considering the fact it is
in this section I think it is obvious that
there is no murderous rampage ending
to this film, so don’t worry! Tom Hanks
and Meg Ryan sparkle in a memora-
ble and sometimes touching rom-com
that will melt your heart and make you
wish that everyone you met in a chat
room wasn’t just a disgusting pervert
or paedophile.
Sex And The City: The Movie
Oh dear… Where do I begin? This two
and half-hour ball-breaker is definitely
one for the ladies. I’m not sure there
is any point writing a synopsis for this
as every woman reading this article
has probably seen it anyway. But will
that stop them from re-watching it? I
doubt it. But for the benefit of those of
you who haven’t had the pleasure (or
pain) of viewing it, the Sex And The
City movie is all about Carrie and her
friends trying to hold their relation-
ships together. Some relationships
end, others are re-ignited. Some end
well, others not so well. But the mes-
sage to take home from this is that men
are only there to provide you with a
bigger wardrobe, children and/or sex.
But there is a wedding, so the film does
promote love… doesn’t it?
The Wedding Singer
Everyone can enjoy this hilarious com-
edy starring Adam Sandler and Drew
Barrymore. An unlucky-in-love wed-
ding singer finally finds the woman
of his dreams – but she is about to be
marry a complete knob. Not only this
film very funny, but also romantic and
soppy. Funny bits include when he gets
drunkatawedding,theBoyGeorgeim-
personator and the rapping Grandma.
Romantic bits include the bit when she
dances with an overweight child, and
the ending on the aeroplane. This is a
movie that both men and women can
watch together without feeling secretly
resentful that one or the other got their
own way and is forcing you see some-
thing you don’t want to… Whoops –
maybe I am bringing up sore points for
some of you reading this…
For Haters
Valentine
A serial killer dressed as cupid fires ar-
rows into the hearts of his victims. If
you hate Valentine’s Day with a passion
then watch this film as it murders love
with a hatchet. Who will survive a de-
mented cupid? A cast of extremely sexy
women makes this film even better, as
Bond beauty Denise Richards leads the
cast of ladies on the run from the killer
who has decided that they will all be
next. A typical horror with some very
grisly scenes (including a face being
impaled onto a shard of glass), this film
was made with people who hate Val-
entine’s Day in mind – so you will be
secretly rooting for Cupid to claim his
victims. Just make sure you don’t take
a leaf from his book and get revenge on
former lovers. It is just a movie! Don’t
try it at home no matter how scorned
you feel! Buy a punching bag instead!
Kill Bill (1&2)
Okay, I know the film starts with a
wedding and there are hints of love in
between massacre, but on the whole
this is a film about revenge. Revenge
against a former lover who killed all
of The Bride’s friends and family on
her wedding day, shooting her in the
head and leaving her to die. Does your
love-life sound so bad now? I thought
not. And that is why Kill Bill is here,
because The Bride goes on a whirlwind
rampage of revenge to kill Bill. But she
leaves him until last – picking off oth-
ers who took part in her (almost) de-
mise. Does she kill Bill? Well the title
would be wrong if she didn’t, but the
journey to that point is extremely fun
and gory – butchering many people in
horrible ways. Samurai sword anyone?
Die Hard With A Vengeance
No love. Just action and brotherhood-
male bonding over the activities of a
deranged, German terrorist called Si-
mon. And Simon says that trains will
explode, vaults will be broken into and
John McClane (Bruce Willis) will kill
many people.
A very cleverly plotted and execut-
ed film, which many say is the best
Die Hard movie of them all, mainly
because Zeus (Samuel L. Jackson) is
dragged into the antics and has to stay
to play the games set by Simon. But
why is McClane involved? Is it because
he is a cop… or is it something more
personal? Lots of explosions, gunfire
and death mean that you will not be
thinking about whatever stupid day it
is… good!
The Usual Suspects
Often deemed one of the best films
ever made and currently number 22
on IMDB’s top films of all time, this
is a thriller/gangster/crime film about
everything except love. Cleverly weav-
ing a story about a crime with a plot
about the criminals themselves, the
film twists and turns, exploding into
an unforgettable climax.
Kevin Spacey chews the scenery in
his Academy Award-winning role,
stealing every scene he is in from an
all-star cast. Love it or hate it, this
is a film you can sink into and enjoy,
mainly because there is no love story!
Just bad men committing bad deeds
and ending everything badly. You have
got to appreciate this – it is one of the
cleverest films ever, even if it does drag
slightly in the middle.
Single White Female
Allie, a young and beautiful woman is
betrayed by her cheating boyfriend, so
kicks him out and advertises for a new
roommate. Hedy, who replaces him,
at first seems perfect, but then turns
out to be a psycho stalker. This film is
brilliantly dark and disturbing, and al-
though it does include love, it is stalker
love between women and it is love of
a darker nature, as Hedy is a psycho-
path. Brilliant moments include a sti-
letto heel and someone’s eye (ouch!)
and a chase through a basement with a
screwdriver. You have to be truly twist-
ed to enjoy this film, and that is why
I thought all of you haters of love out
there would appreciate it.
Grease
Grease certainly is the word- and this
musical classic is extremely romantic.
Who could resist sexy, hunk Danny or
virginal, beauty Sandy? Everyone get
up and do the hand-jive, baby, because
this is one film that says that people
from two different high school cliques
can fall in love despite peer pressure.
On a different note: I have my own
theory about the ending. A car flying
into the clouds? It is a metaphor. Two
words: car-crash. They didn’t make it-
as they drove off into the sunset a lorry
hit and killed them both. But at least
now they can drive Greased Lighting
around the clouds in heaven forever
and ever…
Blade
A half-human, half-vampire hunts and
kills vampires. That is it really. Just lots
of guns, swords and blood-soaked ac-
tion. There is no love at all, only very
sexy women who throw themselves
at Blade (including his own mother…
yuck… but saying that she is one hot
honey). Can Blade stop a crazy vampire
from taking over the world and killing
and enslaving all of humanity?
The best bits of this film include co-
agulating heads, the smoulderingly at-
tractive women and the death of many
vampires. Blood, gore, sex… Blade has
it all… And best of all there is no love
plot, as Blade is one cold killer and uses
women for one thing and one thing
only. And we all know what that is.
is playing out all the usual teenager
acts, from being isolated and hav-
ing problems at home, to listening to
music and selling marijuana. One of
his customers happens to be Dr. Jef-
frey Squires, a psychiatrist endowed
with a few depressions and a delight-
ful step-daughter called Stephanie, to
whom Luke is naturally attracted. The
ensuing mix of romance and friend-
ship shapes up for an enjoyable ninety
minutes, thanks to likable characters,
authentic atmosphere, appropriate
music and a well-written script.
What makes The Wackness a good
film is how well the actors inhabit
their characters and how smoothly all
the aforementioned elements com-
plement each other to create a great
viewing experience. There is a distinct
feeling that Luke is in no-man’s-land,
looking to build and shape his values
and the soundtrack plays an impor-
tant part in defining both him and his
world. Despite the fact that I am not
a hip-hop fan, I appreciate how rep-
resentative and influential it can be,
and its fit with the nature of the film
was so good, that I was taken in by it.
In the end though, what elevates The
Wackness is the kindness and sincer-
ity of the story and its protagonists.
I may have a positive bias towards
the more classic-style of teenage com-
edy, whether we’re talking about The
Breakfast Club, Say Anything or The
Last American Virgin, but there’s
nothing blander than a lacklustre and
unimaginative teen-com, such as St.
Elmo’s Fire or various “original” and
obnoxious newer attempts, say Sex
Drive. Still, do give The Wackness a
shot, chances are there is some truth
to my allegations.

