333
Friday 13 February 2009 felix
32 felix Friday 13 February 2009
Clubs & Societies Is your club cooler than the cat that
got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs & Socs Editor - Alice Rowlands
What do we really want from the
opposite sex?
W
ith Valentine’s day
tomorrow, Every
Nation Christian
Society Last Night
ran an event called
“Understanding the Opposite sex”.
Why would a Christian society be do-
ing this?
Well, we like to think that if Jesus
were here, he’d sit you down like a good
older brother and tell you all about the
birds, bees and explain those weird hu-
mans out there who look like you with
funny bits attached.
A big part of the push for this event
was a survey, which you might have
been accosted with in the past week.
The aim was to survey 50 men and 50
women, we ended up with around 70
of each sex. Said survey had the below
questions, the answers of which at the
time of writing, were to be used in a
game show at the event last night. And
here are the answers, your guide to
what the opposite sex thinks. (“What
did Christians ever do for us?” I hear
you ask?, THIS!) Read on, you might
learn something.
Interestingly enough, 5% of men sur-
veyed said that love was the most im-
portant element in a relationship, while
the closest women came to that was
Friendship, with a negligible amount
suggesting love.
A quick look at the answers that one
sex gave but the other didn’t, shows
Jealousy, Betrayal, and “A Third Per-
son” among women’s answers. Some
say at least three of these are just dif-
ferent ways of saying cheating, some
men say it makes it seem like women
are slightly paranoid, but perhaps that’s
just their prior experience talking.
The men’s answers included differ-
ing expectations, selfishness, inability
to compromise and lack of sex. Mak-
ing it sound like men are scared that
the woman won’t want to do what they
want to. Who knows where they get
these ideas? Might be experience all
over again.
One of the questions on the “Under-
standing the Opposite sex” posters was
“Is it even possible?”. To which many
answered an emphatic “No!”. Someone
even grafittied on one of the posters to
that effect (thanks for the feedback).
And aside from knowing (or not)
what the other sex thinks, it appears
that both Men and Women agree
largely on what it takes to build a rela-
tionship. So the question remains, why
is there still this belief, based on ex-
perience, that getting on with the op-
posite sex in close quarters is so hard?
Perhaps knowing and doing are two
different things.
Perhaps Jesus, in older brother mode,
would have something to say to move
us from knowing to being able to do.
And ultimately, that’s what last night
was trying to find out.
More on that next week. In the
meantime, you’ve got your map to
what the object of your affections
might be thinking. May it come in use-
ful tomorrow.
Every Nation Christian look into what the students of Imperial think about relationships and the opposite
sex. Tosin Ajayi leads us through the weird and wonderful answers the students had to give
Note: If an answer was given by only one person, it is not included,
although ones that tickled us do get special mentions.
While some might say that the prevalence of looks was to be expected, Personal-
ity seems equally important (either that or you men lied) and while some may
argue that Boobs, Face, Ass, Hair, Eyes etc. come under looks, they were each said
with enough specificity (it’s a word, I looked it up) to warrant separate mentions.
Special Mentions go to : “No Man bits” & “Ability to get legs behind head”
Men, it’s official. If you’re funny, you’re in there. Dust off that old book of one-
liner chat up lines. Romance, the age-old forerunner, might be truly dead, or at
least gasping on a respirator somewhere.
Special Mention goes to: Big nose
“She take my Money! Now I’m in need” seems to sum up a lot of men’s feelings
about what women are after. Hats off to the prophet that is Kanye West, speaking
for 17% of men everywhere. Besides that, below the seemingly superficial surface,
it appears that there might be enough men at Imperial who actually know what it
is Imperial women are looking for.
Special mention goes to: “Someone with Handcuffs”
Ladies and gentlemen, we have a winner! Women apparently think men are shal-
low. And a quick glance back to question 1 shows ... oh, they’re right.
Special mention goes to: Someone just as messed up as they are
Here, there was a startling similarity between men and women, with the top three
answers being the same for both sexes. After these, it appears that the remaining
answers that both men and women agree on have a similar prevalence in both
sexes.
Special mentions go to: Men – Believable lies, Women – Keeping secrets, secret
relationship.
Question
1
Question
2
Questions
3
and
4
Special mentions go to: Men – Change of Sexual Preference, Eating my food;
Women - Different salaries
Email Hannah on dpew@imperial.ac.uk
Email Nigel on advice@imperial.ac.uk
Welfare
Welfare Editor – Hannah Theodorou
How to tell when those post-Christmas blues might indicate the beginnings of anxiety or depression.
Feeling under the weather?
It’s winter and the weather is cold and
wet. Christmas and New Year are over,
and there’s a lot of work to do in this
long spring term. It’s normal to some-
times feel down-hearted under these
circumstances. And it’s understand-
able not to want to get out of bed some
mornings! (Recognise yourself here?)
Most people feel like this from time
to time. However, if you’ve been feel-
ing miserable for several weeks, if you
don’t seem to be able to enjoy anything
and have lost interest in your course
and your social life, and if this feeling
doesn’t seem to be shifting, it’s possi-
ble that you might be depressed. De-
pression is common within the student
population, as it is within the popula-
tion in general. And it’s possible – and
important – to do something about it.
Some more questions. Are you eat-
ing much less or much more than usu-
al? Do you feel tired for much of the
time? Are you having difficulty getting
off to sleep, or do you wake up several
times during the night, or unusually
early, feeling tired and worrying? Are
you having difficulty concentrating in
lectures, or when you’re studying? Are
you wanting to avoid contact with your
friends? Are you feeling particularly
critical of yourself? Is it a struggle to
actually think, to work out what you
have to do, or to make decisions?
If you’re experiencing some of these
difficulties, it’s important to talk to
someone about it: depression can be a
downward spiral involving – for some
– feeling that it’s not worth carrying on
with the course, or indeed with your
life. Clearly, it’s vital to interrupt this
pattern. Although the last thing you
might want to do is to talk to someone
about how you’re feeling, it’s impor-
tant that you do. You might be imagin-
ing that you’re the only person in the
world feeling like this, and not coping,
but there are certainly other students
around who will be feeling the same
way, yet not wanting to let anyone
know about it. College might not seem
to be a place where it feels OK to admit
to not coping.
It’s useful to consider the broader
context in order to understand some
people’s experience of depression. Life
for some students has become signifi-
cantly more stressful over the past few
years; you might have to work to sup-
port yourself through College and the
cost of accommodation is high. This is
the context within which you have to
navigate the demanding workload. Are
you feeling disappointed that your ex-
perience at College isn’t turning out to
be what you had hoped for and expect-
ed? Are you feeling homesick? Perhaps
you’re a long way from home which
might be in a different country. If
you’re a mature student, are you having
to juggle the responsibilities of child-
care and domestic tasks along with
the academic challenge of returning
to education after a period in employ-
ment? If you’re slipping behind with
course work and missing an increas-
ing number of lectures, it’s important
to acknowledge this. Don’t bury your
head in the sand. Talk to your personal
tutor, senior tutor, postgraduate tu-
tor, or someone else you feel you can
approach in your department. If you
have slipped a long way behind, talk to
someone anyway so that you can work
out a course of action to attend to your
situation.
Who else can you contact if you’re
feeling low? You could talk with a coun-
sellor in the College’s Student Counsel-
ling Service, or with a doctor or prac-
tice nurse in Imperial College Health
Centre. There are also counsellors and
psychotherapists in the Health Centre
who can be consulted after referral via
a doctor or practice nurse.
Information about the Student
Counselling Service is at: www.impe-
rial.ac.uk/counselling. To arrange an
appointment, email counselling@im-
perial.ac.uk or phone 020 7594 9637.
Information about Imperial College
Health Centre is at www.imperialcol-
legehealthcentre.co.uk. The Health
Centre’s website is extensive, including
a section about exam stress.
London Nightline – the confidential
telephone helpline offering listening,
support and information to students
in London – is available 6pm to 8am
during term time, telephone 020 7631
0101. You can also contact Nightline
via email at listening@nightline.org.uk
or via Skype at www.nightline.org.uk
www.studentdepression.org has
further information about depression
including: how depression works, tack-
ling depression, getting support and
help, real student stories. Desperate
right now? Worried about someone?
David Allman
Student Counsellor
Get on your bike
A decent D-lock is the ideal way to deter serious bike thieves
With the ever-increasing popular-
ity of cycling, the South Kensington
campus has seen a marked increase
in the number of bikes parked on site
every week. Unfortunately we still see
a number of thefts from the campus.
The bikes that have been stolen are of-
ten those that haven’t been locked up,
ones with insufficient bike locks and
those parked in insecure areas.
When it comes to buying bike locks
there are many different products on
the market and price is not necessarily
a reliable indicator of quality. The most
important factor is how long the prod-
uct can resist attack.
* You should look for products that
have been tested against attack. Check
out www.soldsecure.com for certified
locks, or ask your local bike shop for
a recommendation. Check the packag-
ing for more information.
* Invest in a quality lock. Hardened
steel D-shaped locks are recommended
as the minimum standard. It is worth
spending proportionately more on a
lock for a more expensive bike.
For more information go to
crimereduction.homeoffice.gov.uk.
Subsidised Bike
Locks for Sale
Imperial College Security
have purchased attack
tested bike locks and are
selling them at the sub-
sidised rate of £25. They
are available at the Secu-
rity Office, Level 1 Sher-
field Building with a per-
sonal cheque made out
to Imperial College Lon-
don during office open-
ing hours.

