3
Friday 13 February 2009 felix
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2 felix Friday 13 February 2009
News
News Editor – Kadhim Shubber
felix was brought to you by:
felix 1,424
Friday 13/02/09
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London
SW7 2BB. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest
Road, Derriford, Plymouth. Registered newspaper
ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2009.
LOLCATZ
of
the
WEEK
Editor in Chief: Jovan Nedić
Copy Editors
Louise Etheridge
Jonathan Lloyd-Williams
Zoë Dobell
Sasha Nicoletti
Dina Ismail
Daria Nakariakova
Politics Editors:
James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
Science Editors
Mićo Tatalović
Daniel Burrows
Arts Editors
Caz Knight
David Wan
Emily Wilson
International Editor
Hassan Joudi
Raphael Houdmont
What’s On Editors
Rachel D’oliviero
Lily Topham
Travel Editor
Dylan Lowe
Nightlife Editor
Catherine Jones
Puzzles Guru
George Charles Murdoch
Clubs and Socs Editor
Alice Rowlands
Sports Editors
Jack Cornish
Mustapher Botchway
Photography
Sami Michaels
Tom Roberts
Business Editor
Luke Dhanoa
Film Editors
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Jonathan Dakin
Food Editors
Rosie Grayburn
Afonso Campos
Technology Editor
Richard Lai
Music Editors
Peter Sinclair
James Houghton
Alex Ashford
Fashion Editor
Dan Paw
Coffee Break Editor
Ravi Pall
Deputy Editor: Kadhim Shubber Associate Editor: Gilead Amit
An error was made in last weeks issue of felix [Issue 1422] in the
article entitled “Sabbs take Snow Day”. The article read that the
DPEW and DPCS were nowhere to be seen when in fact the DPCS
Lily Topham was in the Student Activity Centre or in meetings for the
whole day.
The article should have read DPFS, as Christian Carter, who lives in
Southside, was nowhere to be seen.
felix apologises for the error made and giving out the wrong im-
pression about the DPCS.
Nominations open
With five sabbatical positions open this year, Monday’s opening
of nominations marks the beginning of 2009’s Union Elections
The yearly process of electing Union
sabbatical positions is to commence,
once again, next week. The nomina-
tion window for Union Sabbatical and
Student Trustee positions opens on
Monday the 16th of February. 2009
will be the first year that five sabbati-
cal positions are to be filled. Previous
years have seen only four with Deputy
President for Education and Welfare
being split into two roles, Deputy Pres-
ident for (you guessed it) Education
and Deputy President for (you guessed
right again) Welfare.
Other positions available for the next
academic year include Deputy Presi-
dent for Finances and Services, Deputy
President for Clubs and Societies, Felix
Editor and four Student Trustees. But
if you feel like sitting on top of the pile,
the prestigious position of Imperial
College Union President is also open
to nomination. Elected Sabbaticals will
take a paid year out of their studies to
become integral parts of the Union.
Any current student of Imperial Col-
lege can nominate themselves for any
of these nine positions. If you’re in-
terested in running, simply log onto
www.union.ac.uk/vote and nominate
yourself. Once confirmed as a nomi-
nee, you will need 20 other current
students to ‘second’. These may be your
friends or otherwise, but once you
have 20 ‘seconds’ from 20 people who
think you worthy of running, you can
be confirmed as a candidate for one of
the positions available.
The window for nominations lasts
roughly two weeks and will close on
Sunday 1st March. Candidates then
have around two weeks to campaign
across campus, or as some previ-
ous candidates have chosen, not to.
A campaign will involve producing a
manifesto by Friday the 6th of March,
and attending official Union Hustings
within the two weeks. Hustings are a
chance for candidates to argue their
case why they’d be ideal for the posi-
tion, and hence why the student body
should vote for each of them. Hustings
is also a chance for these voters to ask
the candidates the burning questions
that they may have.
Voters can decide on their choices
from the relevant candidate exposure
through felix, Live! (cgcu.live.net), stoic
tv and on-campus presence. On 13th of
March, when candidate’s faces will be
firmly stuck in our subconscious and
our bellies full of free Haribo, the vot-
ing window opens. Five days are given,
and every Imperial student should
have voted by 17th of March. Imperial
College do not have to wait too long
for the results, and will be in marginal
suspense for only a day as results are
announced on the 18th of March.
Early indications show that many of
the nominees are looking to take the
natural step up from non-Sabattical
positions this year within faculty un-
ions such as RCSU and CGCU. Cur-
rent CSC Chairs are also said to be
considering running for positions.
Early nominee Charles Murdoch has
been reported to be mulling over the
decision to run for all five sabbatical
positions this year. College bookmak-
ers give him early odds of winning
any of these positions 1-799 and 1-11
chance of being thrown out of College
by the end of the year anyway.
If you want to stand for any of
the positions, nominations open on
Monday, and felix will be guiding
you through each Sabbatical posi-
tion next week. For information, and
where to put yourself forward, log
onto www.union.ac.uk/elections09.
A quick revisit of previous rectors
Afonso Campos and Jovan Nedić take you back in time and explore Imperial’s rectors over the last
100 years. Thanks go to College for providing pictures and information.
Dan Wan
The student ‘news’paper of
Imperial College London
Issue 1,399
Friday 7 March 2008
felixonline.co.uk
felix
Celebrating
celebrity
Bottle returns to IC
Page 20
Page 18
Pages 44 & 45
A Geek Idol –
The Results
Inside
Good luck!
Felix employs C&G Hit Squad to pie winning Sabbatical Election
candidates. If you’re wondering where the other two are, see page 3
Terrorism and the
global economy
Pages 4 to 7
The winners of last years Sabbatical election getting hit by the C&G
Hit Squad during RAG Week
Union seeking feedback on
clubs & societies provision
Imperial College Union are continu-
ing their series of surveys on student
opinion by turning their attentions to
clubs and societies. The Union cur-
rently provides support in the run-
ning of over 300 different clubs with
recently added clubs including Balloon
Making.
According to the Union over 12,000
memberships have been purchased
this year, already surpassing last year’s
total of 12,280. Yet these member-
ships are only held by just over half
the student population of Imperial,
which begs the question, ‘Why don’t
the other half of Imperial want to be
a member of a club or society?’ The
survey looks to find the reasons for
this as well as collating more detailed
information about the opinions of
current club members and also club
officers.
The results will help the Union im-
prove the services offered to the clubs
and their members as well as highlight-
ing areas where non-members can be
encouraged to get involved.
You can take part in the survey by
going to www.imperialcollegeunion.
org/survey. Two randomly selected
people who complete the survey will
win an iPod Nano!
Henry T. Bovey [1908-1910]
The first rector of Imperial College was unsure
whether or not to take office given his deterio-
rating health. Upon accepting his appointment
in 1908 the severity of the situation led to his
resignation.
He was educated at Cambridge where he be-
came a talented structural engineer. His promi-
nence led him to become the Chair of Engi-
neering at McGill University in Canada. He was
remembered for his incredible vision.
Sir Alfred Keogh [1910-1922]
Keogh studied at Queen’s College Galway. As a
surgeon, he became appointed Director General
of the Army Medical Service until taking office at
Imperial College.
Given his progressive views on the role of wom-
en in academia, he was instrumental in creating a
women’s association for students and staff at Im-
perial College.
In 1967 one of the College’s residence halls was
named after him.
Sir Thomas H. Holland [1922-1929]
Sir Thomas Holland was awarded a Scholar-
ship to study at the Royal College of Science,
now a constituent of Imperial College, where
he graduated from with a degree in Geology.
He was a great driving force behind the asso-
ciation of Imperial College with the University
of London.
The Staff and postgraduate bar on Campus,
The Holland Club, remains as a tribute to his
memory.
Sir Henry T. Tizard [1929-1942]
Tizard became Rector of Imperial in 1929 and was
influential in shaping the College of today. He rec-
ognised the need for expansion purchasing land at
Harlington for use as a sports ground and helped
secure Silwood Park as the College’s field station.
He was also instrumental in creating today’s South
Kensington Campus. Outspoken and warm with a
caustic wit, he is remembered for spending nights
at the College during the war, playing snooker and
billiards, and chatting to members of staff.
Sir Richard Southwell [1942-1948]
In 1942 he joined Imperial College as Rector, re-
tiring in 1948. Whilst at Imperial he continued
his research interests in the Engineering sci-
ences, but also gave time to students. Given his
dedication it was only natural that Selkirk Hall, a
new student residence was named after him.
Sir Roderic M. Hill [1948-1954]
Air Chief Marshall Sir Roderic Hill Rector of Impe-
rial in 1948 upon his retirement from the RAF and
gave great consideration to the sciences of which
he knew little.
Charming and energetic, he saw the need for
students to gain a rounded education, introduc-
ing the music recitals and arts lectures still held at
lunch times at South Kensington Campus. Hill was
appointed to a post his father had also held, Vice
Chancellor of London University, in 1953.
Sir Patrick Linstead [1954-1966]
During Linstead’s tenure much of the campus
was rebuilt and in the early 1960s, the Empire
was giving way to the new Commonwealth.
This caused him to consider changing Impe-
rial’s name, but was implored not to by former
students. He foresaw Imperial’s eventual depar-
ture from the University of London in July 2007,
writing that Imperial’s ‘importance in the educa-
tional scene is not reflected in the practices and
procedures of the university’.
The Rt Hon. Lord Flowers [1973-1985]
Appointed in 1973 Flowers held the post until 1985.
He was a founder member of the Social Demo-
cratic Party. Two halls of residence at Silwood Park
Campus have been named after him and his wife,
Mary, who played a great part in maintaining the
very close relationship that the Flowers had with
students and staff during their time at the College.
The year 2000 saw the opening of a multidiscipli-
nary life sciences research facility named the Flow-
ers Building.
Sir Eric A. Ash [1985-1993]
Sir Eric Ash came to Britain to escape Nazi Ger-
many in 1938 and came to study at Imperial Col-
lege. Ash became Rector of Imperial in 1985,
retiring in 1993. One of the legacies of his time
was the expansion of Imperial into the realm of
medicine with the merger of St Mary’s Hospi-
tal Medical School with the College in 1988. He
felt that bringing in medical students was also a
way of raising the number of women students,
something he felt was very necessary.
The Lord Oxburgh [1993-2000]
He created the Imperial College School of Medicine
through mergers with the National Heart and Lung
Institute (1995), the Charing Cross and Westmin-
ster Medical School and the Royal Postgraduate
Medical School (1997) and the Kennedy Institute
of Rheumatology (2000). He was made a life peer
in 1999 as Lord Oxburgh of Liverpool and is active
in the House of Lords on Science issues as Chair-
man of the Select Committee on Science.
Sir Richard Sykes [2001-2008]
Sir Richard Sykes was Rector of Imperial College London from January 2001 to June
2008. Many saw him as a businessman, streamlining a lot of the management services
in Imperial, which included abolishing the old City and Guilds College and Royal Col-
lege of Science to create a Faculty of Engineering and Faculty of Natural and Life Sci-
ences, much to the annoyance of prior students.
However the business attitude did have its advantages as Imperial rose to 5th in the
World as well as ensuring that the College was financially secure for years to come.
One of the biggest shortcomings of his time however, was the falling student satis-
faction level, something that many believe is the reason for Imperial not performing
better.
Sir Owen Saunders [1966-1967]
Saunders joined Imperial as Lecturer in the Depart-
ment of Mechanical Engineering in 1932. Saunders
was the Dean of the City and Guilds College and
Pro Rector between 1964–66.
He became Acting Rector following the sudden
death of Sir Patrick Linstead in 1966. He went on to
become Vice Chancellor of the University of Lon-
don in 1967.
The Rt Hon. Lord Penney [1967-1973]
Although Penney was a successful leader, he
felt this was a difficult time for university admin-
istration. He did not leave any personal papers,
deciding to burn his collection shortly before he
died. Once finished at Imperial, Penney worked
on the development of the combined Allied and
British atomic bombs. He continued to work in
the nuclear industry after the war and became
a board member of the newly formed United
Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority.
TURN OVER TO
MEET THE NEWEST
RECTOR

