felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Emily Potter
Sheffield
here we
come!
Imperial women’s futsal team beat stiff
opposition to progress to March’s BUCS
Championships 2009
An inconvenient truth
James Brown
The 31st of January started out like any
other day in the world of international
football. But by 5pm GMT, barely-
credible reports were filtering in to
UEFA, FIFA and James Skeen concern-
ing the spectacular upset of an RSM
victory over the World famous Impe-
rial College 7th team, more commonly
known to the sporting world as “The
Untouchables”. Below is the captain’s
account of the bizarre events that oc-
curred on the day that shook the foot-
ball establishment to the core…
The game was held at Fortress Har-
lington, where IC 7s were undefeated
all season (and still are in home fix-
tures) but as they were the only Imperi-
al team playing there that day they had
to take public transport rather than the
customary coach. Sadly this proved too
much for striker Ian Welch-Phillips.
After waking up late he managed to
miss his stop and arrived ridiculously
late. By the time he was on the pitch
we were 2-nil down due to my rather
uninspired choice of a 3-5-1 formation
and the absence of centre backs Greg
Tainter and Chris Tennant who had
made prior arrangements to attend a
Cheeky Girls concert (the tickets ac-
quired no doubt with RSM money).
Twenty minutes in, the game was
shaping up to be an English Ther-
mopylae: Our vastly outnumbered
but far more skilled/disciplined/good-
looking boys were struggling to hold
off the mighty RSM war-machine. In
open play they were dominating with
only my electric pace and stunning
naturally ability holding back a tide of
RSM attacks.
At this stage we changed to a 4-4-2
formation with the defence working
together well. Unfortunately the rest of
the team seemed rather lethargic and
unwilling to chase the ball down giving
RSM plenty of time on the ball. The no-
table exception to the rule was Wynne
Evans, who delivered a rip-roaring tour
de force performance in midfield and
ran a total of 28.42 miles in the game as
confirmed by post-game analysis.
Kiran Lal, our sixth team ringer
(mwah hah ha) was finally coaxed out
of the centre circle just after half time.
He immediately proceeded to head
home one a strong contender for goal
of the season from a thundering Asim
cross. At this stage I felt a surge of con-
fidence but try as we might, we were
unable to get our passing game going
and RSM returned to dominance. Par-
ticularly worrying was their number 8,
who was quite obviously a ringer from
a higher RSM team. Even I barely got
away with a second nutmeg against
him and decided not to repeat the trick
more than a few times more.
In the last few minutes a rogue sand
particle blew across the pitch into my
eye. In a temporary moment of hesita-
tion I was caught unawares and lobbed
by their striker (who I’ve seen playing
for Millwall before). He proceeded to
also lob our keeper Ryan Apicella, who
was faultless all game, apart from his
consistent major errors.
Despite the score-line I don’t think
we played particularly badly and it was
RSM that won the game, not us that
lost it (unless you look at the score-
line). Mitun Patel, Xavier Scott and
Anthony Petane were solid at the back
and Azat Tatygulov and Henry Bal-
ston were persistent up front despite
their lack of service. A special mention
should go to me for my consistent rais-
ing of the bar in footballing quality and
it seems only a matter of time before
Sir Alex sits up and takes notice. The
7ths retired to our spiritual home (the
union) and reflected on the game with
quiet contemplation and a half-pint of
shandy or two.
I would like to highlight my oppos-
ing view to Mr Botchway with regards
to RSM/Medic teams. As was made
abundantly clear on that Saturday
they do indeed have important places
in University football; the ones a few
spots below us in the league… WEIII!!!
Football
Imperial College Men’s 1st XI 1
Royal School of Mines 7th XI 3
After a less than ideal outcome in the
first round of the Women’s BUCS Fut-
sal qualifiers, it was with a mix of ap-
prehension and determination that the
IC Futsal team travelled to Brighton for
their remaining group matches, know-
ing that only victories would send them
to the BUCS Championships.
Bournemouth University were the
first opponents. In what was a match
to decide the 3rd placed team in the
group, the victors would be rewarded
with a playoff against Buckinghamshire
New University, with the losers having
the less than appealing prospect of a
playoff against Brunel.
IC began well with some crisp pass-
ing coupled with a disciplined defence,
holding their 2-2 formation perfectly.
Although Bournemouth started the
day in the coveted 3rd place, they were
no match for Yoke Thye and Maria En-
vall up front as the first goal arrived,
courtesy of well-executed kick-in set
piece.
With support from Dehydys Pimen-
tel and Laura in defence, and the some-
what vociferous Gui Barbosa coaching
from the sidelines, Maria finished a
lovely move with a powerful drive into
the bottom corner to put IC ahead.
As the second half wore on and
Bournemouth became increasingly
desperate for a goal, a brief lapse in
defence saw a shot blocked on the line
from 1m out as IC goalkeeper Emily
Potter managed to react in time to
push the ball away and keep IC ahead.
However, Bournemouth’s increas-
ing offensive operations eventually left
them exposed at the back for IC to seal
their victory, with Maria adding anoth-
er goal leaving next to no chance for a
comeback. True to form a 2-0 win was
secured, and IC finished 3rd in Group
A, avoiding Brunel.
Fresh from their first ever futsal win,
and confident of keeping another clean
sheet, IC then took on Bucks New Uni.
The Bucks team were a lot more physi-
cal than Bournemouth, but IC adapted
their style and passed around the Bucks
players effectively, with another force-
ful drive by Maria securing a 1-0 lead
going into the half-time break.
Bucks had seen many attacking po-
sitions in the first half but had yet to
capitalise on them, and this inspired
them to come out all guns blazing in
the second half. Not to be deterred, a
few saves from Emily and some great
1v1 play from both Laura and Dehydys
kept the ball out of the IC net.
A free kick was cynically gained by
Bucks just outside the IC area, and
with Emily’s line of sight blocked by a
rather large opposition forward, IC did
well to clear the ball. With Gui calling
timeouts for IC, a few key plays were
worked on to find that elusive second
goal. With Dehydys running into space
on the right, long balls sliced through
the Bucks formations, and eventu-
ally the second goal came, as IC kept
possession of the ball and worked an
opening for Yoke to finish past the on-
rushing keeper.
Unsatisfied however, the best move
of the day was to be reserved for the
icing on the Imperial cake. From the
deep left of defence, Laura took a pin-
point kick-in, high up field to Maria,
who was in an advanced position on
the right of the Bucks area.
Another pin-point pass followed, as
Maria volleyed the ball in front of the
Bucks keeper to Yoke, who added the
finishing touch with a side-foot volley
at the far post to emphatically seal the
win.
Happy to sit back and defend for the
remaining time, Lily Low was brought
on to introduce some fresh legs and
watertight defending, and together IC
kept a ferocious Bucks team at bay un-
til the final whistle.
Imperial Women’s Futsal team can
now look forward to the BUCS finals in
March, where they’ll compete against
7 other teams for the title of BUCS Fut-
sal Champions 2008/2009!

