4 felix Friday 13 February 2009 5
Friday 13 February 2009 felix
Everyone, meet the
new Rector
Sir Roy Anderson FRS is the 14th in a long line of illustrious
and, quite often, ground-breaking rectors of Imperial College
London. Like a few of his predecessors, Sir Roy was a student
himself at Imperial back in 1960’s, and felix asked Sir Roy
what it was like back then and about the changes that have
occurred since. As he points out, Jovan Nedić and Tom
Roberts are no John Humphrys or Jeremy Paxmans, but we
gave it our best shot!
The Union and other facilities
felix
During your recent visit to the Union, you were heard saying that the Union Bar is exactly as you
remember it. What are your views on the rest of the building?
Rector
It’s extraordinary about the Union Bar, almost as if it hasn’t been touched! But the rest of the build-
ing is jaded, however the office space is improved. I hear that work is being done on the gym, which
was a dreadful place back in my time with very primitive equipment. Now we have Ethos which is the
best university sports centre I’ve seen, better than most of the ones professional sports club have in
London.
felix
Will Ethos remain free then next year?
Rector
Yes of course. The local residence fees are not fixed, and the objectives are then a sensible business
decision as you’ve created a world class facility that will attract local residence who will pay significant
sums of money to be a member of that club, so you then use then support the club on the basis of that
income which then makes it free to students.
His time as a student
Rector
I arrived in October to stay in Falmouth Hall to study Zoology. Imperial was a very different place back
then, number one. The student and staff population were predominantly UK and coming back to this
campus, what strikes me now is how hugely international the place is, and also how much the gender
balance has changed which is mainly due to the medical school, but even in subjects such as engineer-
ing the number of females has increased.
But I think also the social side is a lot more sophisticated than it used to be. In my student days, and
this may reflect hugely on me more than anything else, but it was about bars and it was the Union Bar
predominantly. I was a very keen rugby player, as well as athletics, but rugby took out most of my week,
with Monday evening, Wednesday afternoon, Thursday lunchtime and Saturday afternoon all taken up
by it. We also had a fixture list that included teams who were 1sts or 2nds from the top London clubs,
such as London Irish and London Welsh, so it was a very good fixture list. We used to put out 10 teams
a week and postgraduates were recruited in certain departments for their rugby ability.
felix
So back then they did have a similar scheme to what Oxford and Cambridge have now, where they
bring in players for various sports?
Rector
It wasn’t quite as crude as that. They had to have the academic qualifications first before they could
play. But the other club that I was highly involved in was with the exploration society who organised
trips to the Amazon and such like.
Now the social side, because the gender balance was so horrendous, it very much involved going to
one of the other colleges. Queen Elizabeth’s College was up in Kensington at the time that had a much
greater proportion of female students than at Imperial back then, so the social life was much better
outside the College than in, unless of course you were part of one of the sports teams. What strikes me
now are the vast number of clubs and societies that are available, much more than in my day.
The changing face of Imperial
College and Accommodation
felix
You have already mentioned that when you came back to Imperial
you noticed a lot of change. What would you say is the biggest
change that has happened since your time?
Rector
Probably the quality of the physical build and the environment. I
think Sir Richard and prior to that Lord Oxburgh, did a lot to have
major new capitol build projects in term of Sir Alexander Fleming
building for example. And there is a very trivial reason why we are
able to do that and that is the endowment fund that was set up.
Touch wood, and with a bit of luck, we’ll be able to sustain the major
capitol builds through the current economic crisis.
felix
Eastside is due to finish next term, how is that going?
Rector
We are actually ahead of schedule. A lot of lessons were learnt from
Southside too.
felix
Are the rent prices going to be in line with Southside then?
Rector
Those decisions haven’t been fully taken yet, but at the moment it’s
on target for cost and should be finished ahead of schedule.
felix
Is the accommodation going to be the same standard as South-
side then?
Rector
Slightly better.
felix
So you could say that there would then be a natural increase in
price?
Rector
Umm no, don’t lead me into that, I’m too experienced with the press
with the likes of John Humphrys and Paxmans of this world. I don’t
yet, the decisions haven’t been made and clearly the economic cri-
sis and pressures on students will influence us.
The Rector and his legacy
felix
Each Rector has managed to leave behind some legacy once they had finished. Your predecessor, Sir
Richard Sykes, seemed to focus on the business side of things which saw the Imperial management
structure restructured as well as seeing Imperial rise to 5th in the world. However, student welfare
took a big hit with many commenting on the low student satisfaction levels every year. What do you
plan to do to improve this?
Rector
Well first of all let’s look at the student satisfaction ratings as scientists. In a sample size of 180 and a
student population of 12,000 using your knowledge of statistics would you believe that? It wasn’t even
a random sample it was a submitted sample! So that survey that is done is probably meaningless. Now
I’ve spoken to Jenny Morgan about it, and what I hope I’ve encouraged Jenny to do because we are
very happy to pay for that, is that I want a proper survey of Imperial students which is a large sample
and have structured interviews as well as random questions so that we can find out how to improve
the student experience here. To be honest I think your experience is better than mine because the facili-
ties you have here are better, the gymnasium is one example, but I also think of the library which is 24
hours seven days a week, boy would I have liked that! I am committed to improving the quality of the
student experience.
We are an international business, we are in the worlds top ten, and as one of those who are attracting
the world’s best students we have to provide a facility that is of that quality. We’re also in a nice bit of
London too, with Hyde Park next door and museums within walking distance, it is a bit expensive, but
it is a damn sight better then where the London School of Economics and University College London
are. This place has the attractions that would rival Oxford and Cambridge easily in terms of theatres
and museums and so on. So all that one needs to do is to focus on our local environment here, and try
and make that as good as possible. You’ve got to have a focus for the college, in by day it used to be
Beit Quadrangle, but now it’s around the Queen’s Tower and I want to alter that whole environment to
make it much more student friendly. I want to put in incubator structures so that students can see the
interface between scientific knowledge and training and generating spin-off companies. So focusing on
this environment is a legacy that I want to leave behind, which such structures as the new £300 million
Faculty of Engineering building.
Second issue, and this is a difficult one, in a sense that we are as good as the quality of our staff and
students, on a research front we are as good as the quality of our staff and our postgraduate students,
and one needs to make that a slightly less pressurised, more space environment to think an innovate.
I’m so conscious with my own career as well as other scientists, but having time to think where you
are not constantly pressurised with performance matrix with such things as ‘You’ve got to get 10 pa-
pers published’ or ‘You need to get three research grants’. So the only way we are going to rise up
the league table and displace Oxford and Cambridge is to focus on quality of the publications that we
produce. One of my tasks are to try and facilitate this.
felix
So would you say that you are actively seeking to climb above Oxford and Cambridge?
Rector
Oxford is certainly doable.
felix
Not Cambridge?
Rector
Cambridge is very good. The reason we have a chance of doing it is a very odd one. Imperial’s structure
is very much like a business, when we decide to do something it is done and we can respond to exter-
nal pressure much more rapidly. Oxford is a series of autonomous colleges with their own endowment,
so if the college decides to do something and the college can’t agree, no money can be spent.
To summarise your question of legacy, I would say: to improve the quality of the environment, to really
pay attention to the quality of the student experience, to create more time for our academic staff who
are a real strength of this place and to be original and thoughts that nobody else has thought of with
the time and space to develop those ideas with the emphasis on quality not quantity. To enhance even
further the spin out rate of biotechnology companies from Imperial because I do quite sincerely believe
that Britain coming out of this recession, you got to replace the financial services sector to a degree
and biotechnology company generation is one of our major options. There are a lot of things that one
would like to do.
FindoutnextweekwhatSirRoyAndersonreallythinks
about government spending policy on research and
development. He also makes his views clear about
fees at universities and we find out what he would
like Imperial’s work to focus on in the future. All of
this and more in next week’s issue of felix.
“The social side involved going
to other campuses. Queen
Elizabeth’s College had a far
greater proportion of female
students.”
“It’s extraordinary about the
Union Bar, almost as if it hasn’t
been touched!”
“The only way to displace Oxford
and Cambridge is to focus on
quality”
Sir Roy Anderson appearing in
felix back in 1970

