comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 13 February 2009 felix
Comment
6 felix Friday 13 February 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
T
wo rather important
events occurred in pre-
vious weeks. Obviously
there were a multitude of
events, some trivial, oth-
ers historic, but two have been on my
mind. First event; provincial elections
were held in Iraq, my country of birth,
without disruption or death. I don’t
think you will begrudge me if I label this
event historic. Second event; I received
an Iraqi passport, ‘brand new’ but all
the same carrying the wear and tear of
a nation struggling to regain its feet (not
to mention the fact that my name was
spelt wrong, Henry Marsden indeed my
name isn’t ‘Kadhim Shubber’
, it’s plainly
misspelt on my passport ‘Khadhim’).
But that slight matter aside, it would
seem that these two events have coin-
cided and conspired to give my mother
ammunition in her fight to persuade
me to travel back to Iraq. The issue
has cropped up from time to time and
the combined retorts of “I don’t want
to be asked awkward questions about
the Iraqi customs stamp in my British
passport when I travel to the U.S.” and
“FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, I DON’T
WANT TO DIE!!!” usually admonished
her sufficiently to drop the subject.
Now you see my dilemma, the untime-
ly coincidence of luck, democracy and
direct flights from London to Baghdad
(oh and some stuff like ‘the ‘surge’ or
the Sunni awakening or something like
that) have neutralized my arguments.
Shouldn’t I want to return to the
country of my birth? I still have fam-
ily living in Baghdad and Erbil (in the
Kurdish north) and although many of
them fled after the American invasion
in 2003 (I should know, I helped them
write the letters, visa applications and
personal statements that gave them
somewhere to go) there are still many
Shubber family members to meet and
greet. My mother and perhaps to an
extent my father (who didn’t spend
a great deal of time ‘living’ in Iraq,
his youth spent in an English board-
ing school and then a large portion of
the 80s serving as a medic in the Iraqi
army) envisage a sort of homecoming;
an opportunity for me to reconnect
with my ancestral roots.
But the regrettably still dangerous
trip to Baghdad, to the Dora area, to
the house backing onto the River Tigris
where my family spent a few hopeful
years before the punishing bombs of
the first Gulf War began to fall, could
never feel like a homecoming for me.
Belonging is surely a comforting feel-
ing but, at least geographically and
nationally, I have never felt the warm
support of belonging. I am ethnically
an Arab, but I have never felt kinship
with other Arabs and my Iraqi nation-
ality has never been more than a back-
story. I grew up in Northern Ireland,
but I was always sufficiently different,
sufficiently tanned and sufficiently
not Protestant or Catholic to truly
feel Northern Irish (not that there are
many people who feel ‘Northern Irish’,
most choose instead Irish or British
and I couldn’t lay a claim to either with
a straight face). I was born Muslim but
the only crowd that I might belong to
as a result of this are hypocrites; I fast
each year during Ramadan but pass me
a shoe, four shots of Jaegermeister and
a pint of Guinness and my faux piety
will be exposed. Now my family lives
in Eastbourne, on the South coast of
England. This small town is a home but
then I will always be drawn towards my
family regardless of their location.
So neither English, nor Irish or Brit-
ish and only nominally Iraqi and Mus-
lim; what then should we think of the
man without a home? There are two
natural directions we might move off
in from here, either a glorious denun-
ciation of the nationstate or a pathetic
plea for citizenship of a suitable coun-
try (the Editor tells me that I would
make a good Serbian). But in truth and
in summation, it couldn’t matter less
to me. I know of people who would
‘die for their country’ and perhaps
kill; neither dying nor killing hold any
appeal for me, and so I regard myself
lucky for not having a country. I have
never found any benefit in nationalistic
pride and I haven’t felt shortchanged
for not having it. I imagine that it will
be strange to tell my parents that I re-
ject the nationality that they bestowed
upon me. I imagine my mother will
not be happy (she’s Kurdish and Kurds
are very patriotic, try for yourself, tell
a Kurd that a unified Iraq is the only
way forward; I take no responsibility
for personal injury) but I think that
something will prevent me from tell-
ing her. Ah yes, that voice in the back
of my head shouting “FOR THE LOVE
OF GOD, I DON’T WANT TO DIE!!!”
Kadhim Shubber doesn’t want to go ‘home’
W
hen did staying in
the library until the
early hours of the
morning consti-
tute a satisfactory
night? Why do I now feel guilty about
surfing away weeks of my life on face-
book and youtube? Why do I suddenly
feel compelled to do some sort of aca-
demic work? Where has all this fuck-
ing responsibility come from?
The daily questions I ask myself, and
most probably others, now and again.
Between these Scrubs-style moments
of subconscience, I march on, not en-
tirely comfortably, with my daily life as
a 2nd year.
Many of the excitements of being at
university have shrivelled up with the
unavoidable passing of time. The thrill
of coming to university for the very
first time, followed by the anxious-
ness in meeting new people and living
away from home. The vague sense of
Dan Wan’s youth has given way to drudgery
“The streets
where I spent my
teenagehood are
changing and I’m
resentful as they
slip further from
recognition”
“The trip to my
home before the
bombs of the Gulf
War began to fall
could never feel
like a homecoming
for me. ”
Afonso Campos says something nice... eventually
“‘Gola shoes are
the true mark
of the wannabe
fashionista who
fails epically at
being cool”
Iraqi passport Direct flight from London OMG I’m in Baghdad!
+ =
regret after sleeping into the afternoon
and missing a day’s worth of lectures.
The huge sense of relief of not failing
the year, and then having a worry-free
summer with your mates from back
home. What about becoming a second
year, and finding your own house in
London, having a ‘housewarming’ par-
ty and losing a wall in your new home.
But is Fulham my ‘home’, and Wat-
ford only my ‘hometown’? Why do I
feel like a visitor when I walk down my
local high street, not being able to feel
the celestial hug of familiarity?
This all rained down on me when I
walked past what was Virgin Megas-
tore. Its replacement was a derelict
two floors within a bustling shopping
mall; boarded up, with only a single
Zavvi “Closing Down” poster in a dark
window, crestfallenly displaying its
past identity. Further up, Woolworths,
home of questionable pick’n’mix now
just a façade of bare metal poles and
chipboard sheets. Then, rows of small-
er shops and newsagents no longer in
business.
I have carved out this new world
for myself, which didn’t even involve
some of the biggest stores in Watford
firstly, in the case of Virgin Megastore,
changing its name, and secondly, clos-
ing down.
The streets where I spent my teen-
agehood are changing without me, and
I’m resentful as it slips further and fur-
ther from recognition. I am still tech-
nically in my teenagehood at 19, but
why are these minor changes of scen-
ery (the same ones that I would have
been excited about when I was 16) af-
fecting me so detrimentally?
I am a mere 20 miles from my ‘home-
town’, and this fact only greatly expands
the guilt I feel about having been swept
away by this new life in the City. All
that serves as a constant reminder of
the first 18 years of my life is my poor
pronunciation of any word containing
a double ‘t’ sound, and my desktop
background of Watford FC winning the
Championship play-off final in 2006.
I’ve got to the point where I’m fac-
ing up to my newfound responsibilities
and worries. It is all self-inflicted and
hence I cannot, and will not complain.
I am the one that decided to take up
positions within felix and stoic tv that
would pile on the stress as well as give
me hours of enjoyment and company.
No one else forced me to pick the hard-
est humanities course there was avail-
able. Most importantly, though, no
one else in the world is telling me to
feel like I should, and need, to do well
for myself. Telling me to get out of this
University with a CV that after read-
ing, CEOs in years to come will state
I that am a “well-rounded individual”.
So it is only me who piles the pressure
upon my own shoulders.
In a year, I’ll probably be looking for a
job, or at least something to pay off the
25 grand I’ve paid for this experience.
But I swear I was sitting in my Sixth
Form common room in Watford with
the sole thought running through my
mind, “I wonder how many cottaging
references I can make in this Ode To
A Nightingale analysis essay?” So when
the fuck did everything change?
I’m not sure anyone can answer that,
but I’ve got to a stage within my three
year University experience that has
fallen into a routine worthy of Ground-
hog Day. A routine though stressfully
busy, gives enough time for the mind
to settle and reflect on the last year and
a half of my life.
What I have felt this week is an in-
evitability for everyone. It will come
in different forms at different times of
people’s lives. Despite this reflection
though, I know I’m still a Watford boy
at heart, but one that’s doing just about
all right for himself.
W
hen you travel
abroad, I take it
you are polite, re-
spect local custom,
venture to speak
the language once in a while to order
crappy local food, and attempt to feign
some sort of respect towards any-
one with whom you might be in close
quarters. I do, and so do most people
with that remarkable trait that is social
awareness. Unfortunately a lot of my
Portuguese countrymen, and Iberians
in general do not.
It’s like pure anarchy with the Por-
tuguese and the Spanish. You never
know what novel way they will find to
disrupt your otherwise normal day. I
don’t inherently dislike them; it’s just
that many of them commit cardinal
sins that make my skull rapidly col-
lapse around my ever-expanding brain.
These sins come in behavioral and
aesthetic forms with several variations
that are situation dependent. I know it
may sound obnoxious and rude, but I
swear I can tell an Iberian tourist a mile
away. More often than not they are
wearing brightly coloured Gola shoes
(little known fact: Camden was set up
with the two exclusive purposes of sell-
ing Golas and eyebrow piercings to the
Iberians). These are the true mark of
the wannabe fashionista who fails epi-
cally at anything resembling cool. The
bad haircut syndrome is also typically
Iberian as documented extensively by
reputable publications like National
Geographic and The Onion. It can also
be guaranteed that if you see someone
sporting a mullet with a dreadlock
hanging out the back like a decompos-
ing hair extension and an oversized
backpack, this someone has certainly
been summoned from the relatively
small Catolonian city of Lleida by the
Ministry For The Preservation of Irri-
tating Tourists. Perhaps the most irri-
tating trait is that they walk backwards
on tube platforms while grunting loud-
ly at each other. You need a keen eye
to observe this crab-like movement,
but do look out for it next time you
are in the tube and you are likely to be
rewarded with a display of behaviour
that is bound to become etched in your
memory for perpetuity.
Now, on to slash the Yanks.
While American tourists do not get
on my nerves as much, I assume they
get on yours so the following memoir
might be of satisfaction to read. I re-
member the instance when coming
back from a delightful evening spent
in the South Bank. I had had a most
pleasant dinner with friends followed
by a sound play by Charlie Kaufman
and the Coen brothers, narrated by a
bunch of A-list celebrities and Meryl
Streep. On the journey back home,
an American girl decides to strike up
conversation and mention that she is
from Michigan. As a gesture of com-
mon courtesy my friend engaged in
some mindless conversation with said
girl and happened to disclose the sup-
posedly unexciting fact that one of our
very close friends hailed from Michi-
gan also. Nothing could have led me
to foresee the now unsurprising words
that were about to come out of her
mouth.
“Oh, my, gawd! No effing way! Do
you know Dave?”.
On hearing this, my friend proceeded
to roundhouse kick her face in, like, to-
tally casually.
It is not hard to avoid the insanity
and the droves of unsightly tourists
though. All you need is some precious
knowledge as now shared by yours
truly. The Armageddon is pretty much
known to be contained to the micro-
state of awful Queensway. Unless
you’re a pikey wanting to ice-skate at
3pm on a Thursday, brandishing a bot-
tle or a can of Blackthorn, there’s re-
ally no reason why you should ever go
there. For some incredibly strange and
odd reason they are attracted to that
general area and vicinity like football
players are attracted to Louis Vuitton
suitcases. It is deranged and illogical,
but so true.
It’s useless refuting existing empiri-
cal evidence. I have previously tried
keeping stereotypes from cursing my
troubled mind, but I have long given
up on such ludicrous efforts. I would
be most pleased if this comment piece
had led me to some sort of epiphany or
contained some fable-like fundamental
maxim, but alas it does not.
The only thing that you may safely
conclude from my nonsensical drivel is
that 1) I am Portuguese; 2) still slightly
bitter that Spain is bigger and better; 3)
Upset I never won a Green Card lot-
tery; 4) wish I had been born Spanish
or American.
Gilead Amit takes it upon himself to rewrite Disney
“If Snow White and
the Seven Dwarves
were set in the
21st Century, what
would the dwarves
be called?”
F
or the past few weeks, as
those so favoured as to en-
joy my company on a regular
basis will know, my mind has
been occupied with a ques-
tion of paramount importance. This
unwonted intensity of thought has led
my forehead to resemble the carefully
ploughed acres of Gordon Ramsay’s
frontal lobe, and has meant that my
nails have been chewed clean to the
wrist. The issue that has been causing
the cogs in my mind to revolve at these
superluminary velocities is a simple
one. If the story of Snow White and
the Seven Dwarves were to be updated
to the 21st Century, what would be ap-
propriate names for the raven-haired
beauty’s diminuitive companions?
Much head-scratching has followed,
and after prolonged consultation with
my flatmate, my girlfriend and my lab
partner, I was politely advised to give
up searching and sit quietly in a pad-
ded room until the coloured spots fad-
ed from the inside of my eyeballs. Af-
ter cajoling them into letting me have
a sheet of paper and a blunt pencil, I
was finally able to produce the follow-
ing line-up: Sexy, Bitchy, Needy, Kinky,
OCD, Sleazy and Chomsky.
In what could, if we extend the recog-
nized and well-understood boundaries
currently in place, be called my mind,
the appropriately-anagrammable OCD
fills the tiny shoes of the genial, patri-
archal Doc, while Chomsky would
replace the charismatic and loveable
Dopey. I somehow feel that the two
share the same wide-eyed innocence
and the same joie de vivre, not to men-
tion a similar firm grasp on reality.
If the popular fable were to be updat-
ed, however, the setting would have to
be changed. No more hidden cottages
or craggy cliffs: the story cries out for
a different location. My lengthy cogita-
tionsfinallywashedmeupontheshores
of the following conclusion: the tale of
Snow White could best be told to a 21st
Century audience through the back-
drop of the Big Brother household.
It is the perfect fit – one attractive
woman and seven men with amusing
physical idiosyncrasies attempting to
live together under the same roof. I see
Sexy and Kinky spending a great deal
of time with Snow White in the Mas-
ter Bedroom, with Sleazy occasion-
ally sticking his head round the door
to breathe heavily and salivate before
darting back in. Meanwhile, Needy and
OCD curl up together for comfort on
the floor as Bitchy and Chomsky stride
around the house making everyone feel
uncomfortable and out of place.
As exciting as the show would be
(and I gladly renounce all copyright
claims to any prospective producers),
my ultimate conclusion was this: no
such update is necessary. The story
of Snow White, as recounted through
the enchanted frames of Walt Disney’s
1937 classic, has survived the decades.
I offer as evidence an evening last
year when I found myself in front of
a computer screen with two of my
friends, surfing YouTube with the wild
intensity common to those of us who
tread the midnight tightrope. The three
of us, living up to our reputations as
students, were in a particularly cynical
mood. We sneered at the unelectable
optimism of Senator Obama, mocked
Richard Dawkins for his excessive
moderation and brutally unweaved
each and every one of the idealistic
memories of youth.
“How about that ridiculous scene in
Snow White,” I drawled. “You know,
that one where the animals are clean-
ing up the house.” My companions
sneered appreciatively.
“God, that was revolting,” said one.
“Find it for me – I want to see if it’s as
saccharine as I remember.”
A few typing noises and mouse clicks
brought up a full screen version of that
scene on our communal computer. We
sat back in our chairs, prepared to raise
our most damning eyebrows and Ha
our most disparaging Has.
The scene began. At the sight of the
first chipmunk putting away a teacup
our iron resolve began to thaw. The deer
cleaning the furniture with his tail saw
my haughty lip uncurl and the proud
furrows in my brow disappear. By the
timethesquirrelswerebrushingthedust
under the carpet and the stag was being
used as a laundry stand, my companions
were whistling along to the tune as I
wept uncontrollably at the keyboard.
The YouTube video played to its con-
clusion, and the monitor threw its light
on three moist-eyed university stu-
dents staring into the distance at their
rediscovered childhood. Different
childhoods, obviously. A spot of syn-
tactical license to ease the monotony.
That moment stands out in the al-
bum of my memory like a pop-up card.
The fact that three particuarly hard-
hearted students with artificially low
sentiment barriers should melt so com-
pletely over a scene like that has given
me an entirely new respect for Disney.
Or Gisney – whichever spelling most
closely resembles the flamboyant capi-
tal letter that dominates the logo.
I am a tremendous fan of Disney.
On alternate weekends I form part of
a secretive but well-meaning congre-
gation of addicts who meet in obscure
corners of the city to exchange Disney
trivia and watch an occasional DVD.
Meet us at Cannon Street Station on
the last Tuesday of every month, wear-
ing a green chrysanthemum and carry-
ing a copy of the Racing Express.
There is no doubt in my mind that if
I were to compile a list of all the Disney
aficionados at Imperial it would easily
eclipse this piece in length as well as
in originality and humorous content.
Everyone is a Disney fan, and I chal-
lenge all naysayers to sit through any
of the masterpieces from 1937 to 1996
and not be simultaneously charmed,
moved, amused, delighted, and over-
whelmed by your inner child (or chil-
dren. Leave me alone – my syntactical
license doesn’t expire till 2012).
Or if not, at least let me know which
dwarves you think I left out.

