8 felix Friday 13 February 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Different class investigates the link between rap culture and youth crime
Letters
Dear felix,
‘Kadhim Shubber’ (if that even is his
real name) may have lost faith in mu-
seums (RE: Felix, 6th Feb) but some
of us have certainly not lost faith in
COPYRIGHT LAWS, intellectual
property rights and general decency
in NOT plagiarising ideas from others
(some may say, betters) around us! I
am outraged!
In his column, Mr. Shubber (hence-
forth referred to as ‘the condemned’),
quoted a section of theory from
a now infamous Facebook group;
“Physics doesn’t exist, its all gnomes”
(http://www.facebook.com/group.
php?gid=2217915679&ref=ts) – word
for word. Now it just so happens that
I created this group and penned the
EXACT phrase he plagiarised from
said group. The condemned did write
said quote with no thought (well, I say
no thought – his brain may have slowly
ticked over the thought but quickly
dispelled it – like a river of vomit be-
ing damned by a build up of largely
unchewed pieces of sweetcorn) to not
only the laws of copyright (which in fact
probably don’t apply to facebook) but
also to politeness, courteousness and
acknowledging that perhaps someone
is more intelligent than himself! Even
a quick internet search reveals more of
the condemned’s misquotes, poor re-
porting and general unproffesionalism.
For someone who is even the deputy
editor of the paper, this is inexcusable!
One feels he should perhaps spend
more time learning to be a journalist
and practising his penmanship than
harassing small children and Sir Isaac
Newton at the Science Museum.
“Frankly, Ladies and Gentlemen, we
are doomed...” (The Condemned, Felix
#1423) is a phrase that easily comes to
mind! To be fair to the condemned;
he is in fact spreading the word and
publicising ‘Gnome Theory’ – a no-
ble cause in itself. Too few are aware
that the main physics principles can
be explained away by the existence of
tiny gnomes and their interactions (see
aforementioned Facebook group). A
man so intent on mentioning (if not
referencing) this theory at least de-
serves recognition, despite this deep
(deep, deep) down longing being hid-
den in utter drivel. I must commend
a man who looks to further scientific
thought (especially at this university)
and am glad he has brought further
attention to the fledgling theory. Per-
haps he may like to complete a proper
report on the theory in recompense?
In conclusion it seems that though
journalism is on the down – perhaps
‘Gnome Theory’ is on the up and thus
mynetemotionissatisfaction. Weneed
“They start
kicking him in
the face, all
the while I sit
watching unable
to move”
VARSITY 2009
Get your ticket today!
Imperial College vs Imperial Medicals
Wednesday 25 February
JPR Williams Cup Match
at Richmond Athletic Association Ground
19.30 kick off
More rugby, football, hockey and lacrosse
at Harlington from 12.00
Waterpolo, badminton, netball, basketball
and squash at Ethos from 12.00
Tickets £7 / £10
Available online from www.imperialcollegeunion.org
For more info visit www.imperial.ac.uk/sports
more people, like the condemned, to
think beyond the molecules, atoms and
electrons that seem absolute and dive
into (though thought unconventional)
theories. As a final thought, I would
also like to set the challenge to see who
can find where this quote is from: “The
Trustee Board requires members that
are hard working, strong-willed and
most importantly that have a vision
for the Union.” (... suppose I’d better
reference it though... Kadhim Shubber,
17/02/08 .... oh bugger...).
I await your (correctly referenced,
though probably poorly written) reply
with eager anticipation,
Yours sincerely,
Henry Marsden
Dear Henry Marsden,
Of course I quoted the theory “word
for word”, how else does one quote scien-
tific theory? But I apologise for not in-
cluding a bibliography. However, pla-
giarism is a serious accusation and I
reject it. While I did use the language of
another author it was not my intention,
nor was it the result, that it was rep-
resented as my original work. “Gnome
Theory” is widely known (as you say,
the Facebook group is now infamous)
and so it was unnecessary to explic-
itly reference it . In any case the joke
An outraged
gnome
An outraged
business school
student
that the Science Museum would teach
Gnome Theory instead of real Physics
was obvious.
The rest of your complaint is poorly
constructed ad hominem dribble and
that you criticize other people’s work as
“poorly written” is laughable in light of
your letter.
Deputy Editor,
Kadhim Shubber
Dear felix,
I am disgusted by the likeness Mr
Shubber draws between Business
School students and 12-year olds in his
article of February 6th.
Perhaps he is envious of the signifi-
cant funding attracted by the Business
School, the landmark Lord Foster archi-
tecture, or (and perhaps this is more on
his rung of the ladder) the beer and wine
offered by the Tanaka Building cafe.
It appears to be much more likely,
however, that his fear of the unknown
in fact leads he himself to be the 12-
year old; intimidated by the older, more
responsible and well-dressed students
that make up the Business School, who
study a subject completely outside the
comfort zone provided by the natural
sciences.
I also suggest that this infantilism
manifests itself in the comment “I
don’t know if there were any Business
School students there but I didn’t see
any Blackberrys”, as it is only natural for
someone of such immaturity to resent
a symbol of adult communication (al-
though I would also assume that he will
be upgrading his cup-and-string device
at some point in the near future...)
I attach two previous exam papers. If
these are indeed pitched to the stand-
ard of an average 12-year old, I am sure
they will not take Mr Shubber much
time at all to complete.
Regards,
Lauren
Dear Lauren,
The Tanaka Building café serves wine
and beer? Brb.
Deputy Editor,
Kadhim Shubber
P.S. I apologise for demeaning your
academic efforts. Those exam papers
were bloody difficult and anybody who
passed those exams obviously possesses
an impressive intellect.
I
n this dream I am sitting on a
train, the district line I think,
and I don’t recognise where it
is heading. Across from me sit
three men, familiar to me but
I couldn’t say who they are. Without
warning, they stand and head to the
end of the carriage where they grab a
middle-eastern man. They throw him
to the floor and start kicking him in the
face, all the while I sit watching, feeling
compelled to help the man but unable
to move. The train stops at a station and
I get out, changing to the next carriage.
As the violence continues I stand at the
adjoining window and look through.
What this dream means is open to a
wide variety of interpretations. Many
would see the analogy with the conflict
in the Gaza Strip: the middle-eastern
man representing the beleaguered Pal-
estinians. However, I see a more subtle
explanation. My inability to quell the
violence, my total impotence in the
carriage, reminded me of another story
in the news, something that may have
passed you by.
Three weeks ago a boy, 15 years old,
was stabbed to death in East London.
Seems like a familiar story. He was
the first teenager to die of knife crime
this year, his death echoing the terri-
ble pattern of violence that plagued
the capital last year. In all, 28 teenag-
ers died of knife wounds in London
alone between January and December.
The media should be applauded for
its publishing of articles and editori-
als on this issue, raising the profile of
a problem which only affects a small
number of us. However, for exactly
this reason, the public seems to have
become desensitised to what are some
of the worse crimes committed in our
time. No child deserves to suffer at
the hands of such gratuitous violence,
regardless of perceived affiliations to
“gang culture”. I too started to switch
off, developing a passivity similar to
that which I exhibited in my dream. I
understand this is wrong. As a com-
munity, something needs to be done to
dispel the perception among teenagers
that knives present a solution to often
petty problems.
The boy who died two weeks ago was
called Steven Lewis. I didn’t know him
or his family. However the place where
he was attacked, fell and bled to death
in a road outside a church in Plaistow,
is more familiar. It is the place where
my parents were married, an area
where I spent much of my childhood
kicking footballs and generally making
a nuisance of myself. I’m not going to
paint a picture that growing up in East
London was idyllic, far from it; there
were fights and scraps, vandalism and
dissent, but never once was anyone I
knew stabbed. No one even owned a
knife. If you had an issue with some-
one, you would fight and the winner
was “proven correct”. This may seem
perverse to the more cultured among
you, but at least no one died. Back
then there weren’t any gangs of “feral
youths”, as a certain politician recently
put it, just groups of mates looking
for a bit of excitement. For these rea-
sons, I find what happens in London
now to be completely alien to the city
where I grew up. In the time between
something has changed, the mental-
ity of boys has been altered, and now
terms like “respect” and “turf-wars” are
the norm in media reporting. We must
remind ourselves this is Plaistow not
Compton.
You may be quick to point the ac-
cusing finger at “Gangster-rap”. How-
ever, it is easy to forget that it is not
the music that breaks the law but the
boys who listen to it. By their interpre-
tation and imitation, they may com-
mit these crimes and this could well
be the problem. However, I am by no
means encouraging the curtailment of
freedom of expression, Rap represents
a diversity in music that we should
embrace. It is clear that what is neces-
sary is renewed communication with
the disaffected youth who look to Rap
for answers to their problems. It is my
opinion that youth knife crime can be
reduced by direct engagement with
teenage boys. It must be communi-
cated that when an artist writes about
being attacked, shot, stabbed, they are
not endorsing the action, but warning
people from it. As anyone can sympa-
thise, teenagers all suffer at one stage
from the bruising of egos as they make
mistakes and learn important life les-
sons. Perhaps it’s through gangs and
knives they find a way of earning “re-
spect” and minimising embarrassment
when disputes arise. Yet it must be em-
phasised that if youths understand in
clear, and probably graphic terms, that
knives are tools of cowards and should
be shunned, we can avoid patronising
and deflating the fragile egos of the
youths involved.
I find it likely that it is the media who
played the main role in changing the
streets of my youth to the gangland
that seems to exist today. Messages
from music and culture in general have
been misunderstood and distorted
leading to the problem we see today.
A new message must be communi-
cated now, to remedy this and end the
senseless killing of the city’s youth. It is
a hard task, something I admit I have
insufficiently addressed in this article.
But through dialogue and affirming
the right values, whilst maintaining
the egos of the young men at risk, it
is possible for the spree of killings we
have witnessed to no longer need be
ignored.
How responsible is rap culture for youth gang culture?
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

