Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 13 February 2009
Science
Science Editor – Mićo Tatalović
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 13 February 2009 felix
Female sexual fantasy, masturbation,
pornographic images, promiscuity,
sexual coercion…It sounds like some-
thing you would encounter in an adult
video store, but actually all of these
terms are featured in literature on the
evolution of human sexuality. This in-
triguing field of evolutionary biology
and psychology dwells upon our obses-
sions with sex and various peculiarities
associated with human practice of sex.
It does this in order to understand bet-
ter just how big a role sex has played
in our evolution, and just how much of
what we do is down to what our ances-
tors have been selected to do by forces
of sexual selection.
Attitudes towards sex differ spatially
and temporally; in various cultures
and in different historical time peri-
ods. Current, relatively liberal views
of human sexuality in the west allow
many of our tendencies to emerge
from the taboo vaults into the main-
stream – e.g. film, media, advertising
– and also allow scientists to probe the
meaning of and possible reasons for
these tendencies. Sexual health is an
important feature of modern day life:
with many couples having problems
conceiving, and with many sexually
transmitted epidemics such as HIV,
knowing how to deal with these issues
is an important medical task. Recent
breakthroughs such as the produc-
tion of sperm cells out of adult bone
marrow stem cells and the develop-
ment of an HPV vaccine which can
prevent cervical cancer caused by the
virus (some research even suggests a
link between oral sex and throat can-
cer caused by HPV virus) raise hope
for future medical interventions to
treat infertility and STDs. However,
apart from the medical implications,
our sexuality has much more to offer
to people who dare to ask the ques-
tion ‘Why?’ Why do we enjoy sex so
much? Why are people jealous of their
sexual partners and why do we dislike
infidelity so much? Why is the penis
shaped the way it is? Why do women
experience amazing orgasms? Why do
we waste time masturbating?
One of the main premises of re-
search on human sexuality is that men
can increase their biological fitness
(i.e. number of children, therefore
genes produced) by having sex with as
many women as possible. At the same
time women can increase their fit-
ness by having sex with the best qual-
ity men (men with the best or most
The science of human sexuality
compatible genes). This central part
of sexual selection theory gives rise
to inter-sexual conflict: men should
be promiscuous, but women should
as well. However, men will try to pre-
vent cuckoldry because if this hap-
pens, they end up raising other men’s
children at their own expense. Women
will also want to keep their partner’s
attention regardless of whether the
children were conceived with some-
one else. In a nutshell then: men want
to be promiscuous yet want women to
be faithful; women want men to think
that they are faithful so that these men
will dedicate their care to them and
their children, yet women still want
to be promiscuous in order to get the
best genes for their children.
In order for such a state of affairs to
evolve, women must have been pro-
miscuous during our evolutionary
history: men can only be unfaithful
if they have someone to be unfaithful
with. Yet we cannot go back in time,
so scientists, using various question-
naires, have tried to quantify women’s
present propensity to be promiscu-
ous. It turns out that women are quite
promiscuous; up to 30% of women re-
port having had sex with two or more
men within 24h. This in turn leads to
a rather high percentage of children
whose biological father is different to
their mother’s husband: it is estimated
that 2-30% of children are not fathered
by the man who thinks he is the father
(usually mother’s husband). Naturally,
if evolution has favoured promiscuity
in women so that they can give birth
to the fittest children then there was a
conflict with men’s evolutionary inter-
ests, which would have them care only
for their own children and avoid being
cuckolded in the first place. Indeed,
many studies have found that fathers
take better care of and develop a better
relationship with children that resem-
ble them more. Also, blue-eyed men
prefer blue-eyed women as mates,
which may be an evolved strategy of
paternity assurance: if a blue-eyed fe-
male partner sleeps with a non-blue-
eyed man her children will not have
blue eyes, this will then be an obvious
indication for the blue-eyed man that
he has been cuckolded (if he is the fa-
ther, all of the children will have blue
eyes). Furthermore, infanticide rates
are higher for stepfathers than biologi-
cal fathers again supporting the idea
that men have evolved to avoid cuck-
oldry and if this fails to then avoid tak-
ing care of other men’s children.
Women increase their sexual fanta-
sies of having sex with other men dur-
ing ovulation; the time they are most
likely to conceive. At this time, women
also rate more masculine men as more
attractive- a preference not present at
other times of the month. Presumably,
more masculine features such as facial
symmetry, deep voice and body mus-
culature reflect good genes. Women
can distinguish attractiveness by men’s
voices, smell of their sweat and looks.
One recent study identified a molecule
from men’s sweat that is responsible
for getting women aroused and excit-
ed: androstadienone . This seems to be
the first firm evidence for the existence
of pheromones in humans; something
perfume and deodorant companies
have been trying to cash in on for some
time now (think of Axe effect and the
recent Lynx adverts). But, as nature has
it, men have evolved an ability to rec-
ognize when their partners are at this,
for men, risky time periods. Although
women have concealed ovulation, a
rarity among other apes and monkeys,
men seemed to be able to detect it in
women’s smell. When asked to rate at-
tractiveness of women sweat scents,
men rated ovulating women’s scents
as more attractive. This could benefit
men by cuing them in on potential ex-
tra-pair copulations as well as on the
fact that their partner might be up to
mischievous things. Indeed, men rate
their partners as much more attractive
when they are ovulating, even though
they are not conscious of this differ-
ence in their opinion of how sexy their
partners are.
The arms race of tactic, contra-tac-
tic evolution is a trademark of sexual
selection and inter-sexual conflict in
most species that use sex for repro-
duction, including humans. Women
may have evolved the clitoris and or-
gasms in order to choose whose sperm
to accept, that is, in order to subcon-
sciously choose the father of their
children even after having sex with
more than one man during ovulation.
This so-called ‘cryptic female choice’
allows a woman to fool her partner
into thinking that he is the father,
whilst the truth is somewhat different.
Women have more simultaneous or-
gasms with more attractive and more
symmetrical men (proximate cues of
good genes); simultaneous orgasms
seem to help to get the sperm closer
to the egg by a physiological action of
the cervix which dips into the depos-
ited sperm and brings it deeper into
the woman’s body. So, female orgasms
may be an evolved feature allowing
women a post-coital choice in the fa-
ther for their children. Perhaps this is
why men get so upset when they find
out that their partner has been faking
orgasms with them....
Apartfromthecrypticfemalechoice,
men can also have a say in how their
sperm fare in the face of the competi-
tion for the limited resource; women’s
ovum. Men may have evolved penises
such that their morphology allows
them, when having sex, to extract the
sperm of rival men and get their own
sperm as close to an ovum as possible.
Some research suggests that the pe-
nis, shaped as it is with coronal ridges
and a frenulum, extracts significantly
larger amount of previously deposited
sperm than a smooth penis-like model
of similar size. The fact that humans
have a large penis and testes compared
to less promiscuous gorillas (but not as
large as highly promiscuous bonobos)
suggests that there is an intermediate
degree of sperm competition taking
place in humans. Sperm competition
is predicted to evolve when a female
mates with more than one male in a
short period of time; in humans, this
time period is 2-9 days (longevity of
sperm once ejaculated). Again, some
studies suggest that many women
(up to 30%) do engage in sequential
sex with different partners in such
short time periods, thereby allowing
potential for sperm competition in
humans to evolve. Many women fan-
tasise about sex with men other than
their current partner and with more
than one man and are more likely to
engage in risky sexual behaviours dur-
ing ovulation. Men’s jealousy, appetite
for sexual variety and fantasies of sex
with more than one woman can all be
interpreted as adaptations in response
to promiscuous behaviour in women.
Interestingly, individual differences in
human sex drives may be dictated by
our genes.
In an environment where sexual
competition continues post-copula-
tion, to ensure their competitiveness,
it pays for men to evolve adaptive
mechanisms in sperm competition. In
humans, the perception of a high risk
of sperm competition may increase
sexual arousal which in turn increases
the volume and quality of sperm ejac-
ulated. Seeing other men copulating
would be perceived as a risk of sperm
competition: the more men, the higher
the risk. Internet pornography sites
contain more images of one woman
with two or more men than the other
way around; men also report such im-
ages to be more arousing. Some even
interpret the popularity of swinging
and ‘dogging’ as a by-product of an
evolved tendency to be aroused by
women having sex with other men in
order to ‘gear up’ for the sperm com-
petition ahead. Men may even have
evolved behavioural adaptations to
sperm competition pressure: copula-
tion that takes place after prolonged
periods spent separated from one’s
partner or after arguments (situa-
tions in which there is a potentially
increased chance of female infidelity)
are more vigorous with deeper and
faster thrusting movements; both of
which may result in more of the rival’s
sperm being removed while one’s own
sperm is brought closer to the egg.
Rape may be biologically yet another
adaptation evolved in men to increase
their number of sexual partners. It is
important to separate biology from is-
sues of morality: many make the falla-
cious assumption that evolved behav-
iours must be morally acceptable, but
this is not so. Between 10 and 17% of
women experience rape by their hus-
band, while about 9% of women are
raped by their partners in long-term
relationships. This type of rape, forced
in-pair copulation (FIPC), may be an-
other anti-cuckoldry adaptation and
a sperm competition tactic allowing
men to compensate for their partner’s
infidelity and ensure they are invest-
ing in their own children. Research
supports the hypothesis that FIPC
occurs more often when the woman
in the pair is unfaithful and when the
man is generally more jealous, show-
ing many mate-retention behaviours
(such as holding hands, not introduc-
ing a partner to his male friends etc.).
‘While the damaging practice of rape
is often tolerated in couples, there
has traditionally been a strong taboo
against masturbation, which doesn’t
hurt anyone and may even be evolu-
tionarily adaptive: masturbation by
men may be a tactic to get rid of old,
slow sperm and so better prepare for
sperm competition if the opportunity
arises. The quality of masturbatory
sperm ejaculates is lower than that of
the copulatory ejaculates and this fact
may be used to increase the success of
artificial inseminations.
Research on the evolution of human
sexuality is full of fascinating and elu-
cidating ideas: cryptic female choice,
sperm competition, pheromones… All
of these have been widely documented
in various animal species, and now
more and more research suggests that
sexual selection also played important
role in human evolution: it may well
have shaped many aspects of our mor-
phology, physiology, psychology and
behaviour. Even the biggest evolution-
ary riddle, altruism (helping others
at an expense to oneself), may have
evolved by means of sexual selection.
Recent paper shows evidence that hu-
mans are more altruistic towards more
attractive members of the opposite sex
and that we find more altruistic peo-
ple of the opposite sex more attractive:
thus helping others may have been
beneficial because it brought us more
attractive, better quality mates. Study
of sex in humans can explain various
“Sexual selection
theory gives
rise to inter-
sexual conflict:
men should be
promiscuous,
but women
should as well.”
“This intriguing
field of
evolutionary
biology and
psychology
dwells upon our
obsessions with
sex”
Now do you see why you should keep your eyes closed when kissing?
Even in x-ray, it’s still obvious that you’re a chav. Like the photo? Find it in this term’s issue of I,science which can be found in the library

What does the scheme entail?
! Undergraduates/Postgraduates undertaking a 3 week placement in June/July
in a school/college
! Working alongside experienced teachers and assisting in classroom teaching
! Groups of up to 10 students can be placed in one school
! Placements arranged by Exscitec
What are the benefits of the scheme?
" Receive a £600 tax free bursary for completing the 15 day placement
" Receive a free CRB Disclosure check
" Have something different for your CV
" Develop new transferable skills and communication experience
" Gain first hand experience of what a career in teaching involves
Support secondary school Maths, Physics or Chemistry in London
For more information or to apply contact Sarah Cooper: Pre-requisites : A- Levels in Maths, Physics or Chemistry
sarah.cooper@exscitec.com
01730 235683
Links : www.tda.gov.uk / www.imperial.ac.uk/outreach / www.exscitec.com
Student Associates Scheme (SAS)
Student Associates Scheme (SAS)
The majority of placements are in the London Region – Placements outside
London can be accommodated by request
aspects of our biology, psychology and
sociology. From altruism to rape, evo-
lution through sexual selection may
have shaped our behaviours; from
those that make us proud of being a
human down to those that we are most
ashamed of.
Mićo Tatalović
Science Editor

