12 felix Friday 13 February 2009
Felix Whitton
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This week, instead of trotting out
some half-arsed “science of love”
bullshit, we’re going to delve into the
murky world of evolutionary psychol-
ogy. Yes, this is the science that brings
us ground-breaking new insights into
human behaviour from looking at our
evolutionary history.
Or not. Because most of it, sadly, is
contentious, outdated and based on ex-
trapolations from what our Pleistocene
savanna-dwelling ancestors might have
done. (This doesn’t stop the press from
jumping on any story which purports
to shed “fascinating new insights” into
why humans wipe their arses a certain
way).
You may have read on Monday about
how “science [has found] the secret of
a hot kiss” (according to The Times).
A new study from Lafayette College
in Pennsylvania has shown that hor-
mone levels change before and after
kissing someone you love. Hold the
front page! More specifically, the team
tested two hormones – cortisol, a
stress hormone, and oxytocin, which
has been linked to social bonding. Un-
surprisingly they found that kissing
reduced cortisol levels in both sexes,
and increased oxytocin (but only in
men).
Cue acres of newsprint devoted to
the wonders of kissing – from The
Times waxing lyrical about Shake-
speare, to The Telegraph’s more sub-
dued revelation that according to a
2007 British study, “brain and heart
activity sparked by passionate kissing
[...] is less intense than the stimulation
produced by eating chocolate”. All very
well, but hardly ground-breaking. The
rather pitiful nature of the study (test-
ed on a paltry 15 couples) is summed
up by author Professor Wendy Hill;
“This study shows kissing is much
more complex and causes hormonal
changes and things we never thought
occurred.” Well I never.
A second piece of news which
brought a little joy into my life was a
study published in the venerable jour-
nal Science linking colour to human
cognition. The researchers found that
red can enhance memory, and blue
triggers creativity. So, when faced with
a red screen students would think of
practical used for a brick (building a
house, for example), whereas a blue
screen would send them into fantasti-
cal visions of paperweights and, best
of all, “pet scratching posts”.
Ok, so I may be poking fun a little
bit. After all, the research made it into
Science, something I never have (and
likely never will). My gripe is with the
supposed academics who take these
simplistic findings and say things like,
and I quote, “Red is truly a good Val-
entine’s colour, making men consider
women more sexually attractive than
other colours do.” This from a Profes-
sor Andrew Elliot, a “leader in the field
of colour psychology”.
Now, let me stop you for a second
here. Read over that last quote again;
The nonsense behind
the science of human
sexuality
Can science really tell us anything useful about love and sexuality?
The eco-science column
Biofuels have low green rating, but
Imperial shows support
Wind and solar energy are the most
environmentally friendly alternative
fuel options, whilst biofuel crops and
carbon capture may not be worth
the effort, according to Dr Mark Z.
Jacobson of Stanford University. His
research, published in this month’s En-
ergy and Environmental Science jour-
nal, coincides with the announcement
of a new multimillion pound biofuel
development project funded by the
Biotechnology and Biological Sciences
Research Council (BBSRC), involving
scientists from Imperial College.
Jacobson assessed each major al-
ternative energy source, as if it were
to power every vehicle in the US. He
looked at factors such as impact on
global warming and human health,
space requirements and sustainability.
The winner in all areas was wind pow-
er, which if used to run the entire US
vehicle fleet, would reduce carbon and
air pollution emissions by 99%. The
vehicles would all be electric, therefore
removing exhaust pollution, saving
over 15,000 lives a year from air pol-
lution related deaths in the US alone.
The Stanford team estimated that an
area of 3km squared would be enough
land to contain all the wind turbines
required.
However, the rating system, the first
quantitative, scientific evaluation of al-
ternative energy sources, found biofu-
els, nuclear power and coal with carbon
Appearances can be deceiving – biofuels have a high environmental impact
capture to rank high on environmental
impact. Jacobson comments ‘some
energy alternatives that have been pro-
posed are just downright awful’, and
with regards to biofuels he warns ‘Eth-
anol-based biofuels will actually cause
more harm to human health, wildlife,
water supply and land use than current
fossil fuels’. He has calculated that the
land required for enough biofuel to
power the US vehicle fleet would be 30
times that for wind turbines. Air pol-
lution and carbon emissions would not
be cut substantially.
Meanwhile, scientists from Imperial
College’s Life Sciences Department
are part of a new venture for biofuel
development, the Sustainable Bioen-
ergy Centre. The BBSRC have just an-
nounced funding for the centre, which
at £27m is the biggest ever public in-
vestment in bioenergy. They believe
bioenergy to be a significant source of
‘clean, low carbon and secure energy’
and the biofuel sector has the poten-
tial to provide thousands of new ‘green
collar’ jobs.
Dr Thorsten Hamann is one of Impe-
rial’s scientists involved in the Centre,
and has a different take on the feasibil-
ity of biofuels. He believes a mixture of
energy supplies is required to replace
our current fossil fuel reliance, and
cars cannot be run exclusively on wind
generated electricity. ‘Wind farms
look fantastic on paper, but I don’t see
the potential to use wind to power the
world. We don’t have the technology
yet to power cars on electricity. Cur-
rent electric cars have to be recharged
every night and the life-span of the
battery is unknown. We already have
the technology for biofuel run cars,
and the infrastructure for a liquid fuel
transport system.’
As for the space issue, he assures that
the biofuel plants developed by the
Sustainable Bioenergy Centre will be
intended for land unsuitable for edible
crop agriculture. For the time being,
our priority should be to move away
from fossil fuels, and crop based fuels
are ‘significantly better’, considering
they are a renewable source.
Dr Hamann believes in the distant
future, electricity may be the solution
to power transport, ‘but for the next
20 to 30 years, we are looking at liquid
Olivia Sharp
based fuel.’
The sustainable bioenergy centre is
a virtual collaboration between a large
number of research institutions. The
focus is on generation of bioenergy and
transport biofuels from woody bio-
mass and waste materials. Researchers
will assess the economic and environ-
mental life cycle of potential biomass
materials.
does it seem an obvious link to the re-
search? Or is it (and indulge my cyni-
cism for one second here) perhaps due
to a certain upcoming romantic ‘holi-
day’ and Prof Elliot’s desire for some
sneaky publicity? I’ll let you decide...
And to finish; listen, I implore you,
to the latest Guardian Science Weekly
podcast to have a good old chuckle at
a laughable evo-psychologist in action,
promoting her new book about the
statistics behind love (quel chance!).
Earth-shattering advice includes: Dat-
ing! Be yourself; Men! Ask questions
and don’t say anything sleazy; Wom-
en! Men prefer blondes because they
could spot them from afar back in’t
days of yore; Sex! Yes, you guessed it,
men think about it a lot; Reader! Don’t
buy the book.

