14 felix Friday 13 February 2009 15
Friday 13 February 2009 felix
Fancy a shower while you’re out and about? Use a fountain!
RAG is awesome, but why bother?
Imperial College Union RAG Week
is nearly upon us. RAG, standing for
Raising and Giving is a traditional
university activity where by students
partake in a variety of crazy activities
to raise as much money as possible for
chosen charities. This year the RAG
team has organised a range of activities
and events so turn up get involved and
have some fun!
RAG originates from the Victorian
era when students took time from
their studies to collect rags to clothe
the poor. It is also possible that the
RAG collecters “ragged” ie. badgered
or pestered passers by until they made
a donation. From the old times to new
there is still the same question - why
give?
Here I think the answer is that peo-
ple should give money to charity be-
cause they can. As privileged people
who attend a top university, we have
it easy; we’re all employed, all housed
and apart from that maths coursework
sitting on your desk have relatively lit-
tle to worry about.
Despite the common publicised ‘stu-
dents have a difficult life’ there are and
will be increasing more people who
have a much more difficult life. Think
of the homeless man asking for change
at the tube stop or the young child liv-
ing with substance misusing parents.
These people find themselves a situa-
tion they find hard to change and are
often blameless for. Charities are by
their nature setup to deal with these
social problems. They help to pro-
mote the work done by volunteers and
professionals in a structured organisa-
tion. These services cannot be found
anywhere else. This is because they
are not profitable and the government
doesn’t deem them necessary. And yet
these services must be supported as
they help some of the most vulnerable
members of society.
Despite this need funding for the
third sector has decreased and accord-
ing to the philanthropy website The-
BigGive.com the funding deficit could
reach £2.3bn this year. While the re-
cession doesn’t mean that its the end of
the world for the charity sector, close
to 2m people are now unemployed and
with Shelter recently reporting 75,000
people facing repossession the situa-
tion isn’t great.
So people give because they can and
I like to think everyone gets something
back from their donations. Apart from
the warm fuzzy feeling, all donations
do make a difference. Charities have
much lower overhead than businesses
RAG Week is next week! RAG Chair, Jon Downing, tells felix about the charities, events and traditions.
and are more likely to make a larger
change in the community. People
choosing to give something back is ul-
timately how communties thrive.
If you would like any more informa-
tion or would like to take part as a vol-
unteer please e-mail rag@ic.ac.uk
Or, if you would like to nominate a
charity for next year visit the RAG
website (www.union.ic.ac.uk/rag) and
fill in the form under the charities
section.
Jon Downing
RAG Chair
Slogan: none.
Work remit: The Rainbow Trust Children’s Charity pro-
vides practical and emotional support to families who
have a child with a life threatening or terminal illness. Each
year 1,000 families gain support.
They own two respite houses in Surrey and Northum-
berland which provide a break for the whole family, al-
lowing them to spend precious time together as a family
away from a hospital environment. The respite houses are
well equipped with play rooms and a swimming pool.
In addition Rainbow Trust’s Family Support Workers
join the family in their own home and are there to provide
whatever practical support is needed. They may attend
hospital appointments with parents, sit by the bedside of
the sick child to give parents a break and take worried sib-
lings out for the day.
It costs £3 million to keep the Rainbow Trust respite
houses open every year - a more than worth while cause.
Slogan: ‘Believe in the Children’
Work remit: The charity Barnardos initially started as an
orphanage run by Thomas Barnardo. He believed that
children and young people should be free from poverty,
abuse and discrimination. He pledged to support the
abused, the vulnerable, the forgotten and the neglected,
to stand up for them and bring out the best in each child.
In 1867 he started the Ragged shool and by the time he
died in 1905 the charity had 96 care home and cared for
8,500 children.
Barnardos today still have the same remit as when it
started. They still work to support children in all sectors
of society, currently running around 400 projects through-
out the UK. These range from project dealing with child
poverty, education and young careers to dealing with do-
mestic violence and sexual abuse of children. The Duch-
ess of Cornwall, Camilla Parker Bowles, is the president of
Barnardos and acts a figurehead to the charity promoting
their work throughout England.
The RAG Mag is a tradition of RAG Week hosting all manor of playful jokes and witty puns. Old ‘retro’ RAG Mags will be on throughout RAG Week with the real guy popping his head
up a couple week later. Here you’ll be able to find all the usual banter and long with a summary of how RAG Week went with photos. Send your RAG week photos to rag@ic.ac.uk.
Mean while keep yourself amused with some of these jokes:
How many students does it take to change a light bulb?
Imperial Students: Five. Two to design a nuclear powered bulb that never needs replacing, two to write the computer program that operates the switch and one to insert the bulb.
Nottingham: Don’t change it. They shoot at lights round here, look at the last one.
Plymouth: Six - One to change it and five to campaign to make lightbulb changing a new degree subject.
Cardiff: 5001 One to fit the bulb and five thousand to petition the government for the electrification of Wales.
Advice for leavers:
You don’t get ideas for drinks from local tramps
A £3 bottle of wine is no longer “pretty good stuff”
“I just can’t drink the way I used to” replaces “I’m never going to drink that much again”
You get out of bed in the morning even if its raining
The bank manager doesn’t write you threatening letters
Informative TV no longer includes Richard & Judy.
Monday Night 16th: RCSU Ball
Wednesday 18th Daytime: RAG RAID
Wednesday 18th Evening
Friday 20th Evening
The Royal College of Science is kicking off RAG with a charity ball
at one of the worlds most exclusive night clubs, MAYA. Maya is the
‘Official Best New Club 2008’ and a member of a group known as
‘The World’s Finest Clubs’ of which only the elite clubs and bars in
the world are part of. The interior mixes exotic and eastern elements
with a strong New York vibe. Think bespoke furnishings, industrial
ceilings, dark rich wooden flooring, potted palm trees, and tucked
away lounge areas - all seductively illuminated by beaming, backlit
walls.
With an electric atmosphere and masses of FREE DRINKS its not
to be missed. Better yet all the proceeds are going to charity. Oh I
forgot to mention there’s £5,000 behind the bar! So there’s loads of
free drinks!
Tickets are £5 when bought advance from the union website
(http://www.imperialcollegeunion.org/rcsu-351) or £10 purchased
on the door.
RAG RAID 12pm from Union Quad:Embark on an adventure! Invade
London with a list of challenges in one hand and a collecting bucket
in the other! Trek across London and complete the tasks to win priz-
es. Challenge examples include – Go swimming in a fountain or Find
Jovan Nedic and his boys and challenge them to down a pint. Make
up a team (approx 4 people) – collect your free t-shirt and collecting
bucket from 12pm on Wednesday 18th. Dressing up is guaranteed to
get you more money and thus more prizes! There are limited places
for this event and the people who go always have a great day! Get
involved!
RAG RAID after Party fun and games in the union with Arts Fest:
The union and RAG have managed to secure laser quest in the quad
on Wednesday of RAG Week! Pit your sports team against another
sports team, perhaps challenge the your first team, they may be bet-
ter on the pitch but are they better at laser quest? Entry is £1 to RAG
and it all goes to charity! Also keep your eyes open for RAG face
painting and shot girls! Arts fest is on as well take some time to
check out the village fete in the union dinning hall.
High jinks in a phone box as students take part in RAG RAID activities around London
CGCU Slave Auction: Wanted – Your Money. Many of the varied
and diverse leaders of the college unions clubs and societies chairs,
including the president herself and the sabbs will be on sale in this
charity bid auction. Punters are encouraged to come up with an orig-
inal suggestion to accompany their bid. Once bought the slaves will
be encouraged to complete their tasks within a month - all money
will go to charity! Last year Steven Brown was sold to the football
club for a full body wax, EESoc bought some slaves to do some gar-
dening and many union members were sold for a certain run from
Harrods to the union!
ICU RFC Charity Pub Crawl: Starting at 7.30 - 8 from the union the
ICU RFC plus others will be pub crawling around South Ken with
charity pubs! See if you can keep up!
Imperial RAG is joining forces with RVC RAG at Phibbers, North Lon-
don for their event ‘Dress to Impress!’. Needless to say RVC have a
high proportion of women so for those of you bored with the Impe-
rial crowd this is an event not to miss.Buy tickets from the union
website (www.imperialcollegeunion.org/rag-281) or from RAG stalls
throughout the week
RAG Store Sales: Watch out for RAG in the JCR on Tuesday and
Thursday!
RCSU Hit Squad: This year RCSU has taken the Hit Squad from
CGCU. Pop in to their office off the walk way to arrange a cream pie
in the face for someone special.
Queen’s Tower Tours: We have managed to open up to Queen’s
Tower from 11am – 2pm every day of RAG week. This is an activity
rarely available to students, from here you receive a fantastic view
across London!
Friday 20th Evening
Barnardos The Rainbow Trust
Slogan: ‘Help the Homeless’
Work remit: Shelter deals with all aspects of hous-
ing and homelessness.
In the first instance they give advice to households
facing eviction or repossession and all other factors
that stem from the possible loss of a place to live.
This includes advice for young people, legal advice,
how to pay for accommodation whether renting or
looking to buy.
On top of this Shelter is active in campaigning for
change to implement sustainable long-term solu-
tions for the housing sector.
They are actively involved in research and policy
and how to implement such policy to maximum
effect.
Recently Radiohead donated their song Videotape
to Shelter. The song is being played on their current
advert - House of Cards, which is depicts the fragility
of the housing situation.
Shelter
RAG MAG

