eVoting
SABBATICAL ELECTIONS 09
Nominations open Monday 16 Febr
For more information and to stand: imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Monday
Monday mornings are quite possibly the worst
invention I ever heard of, but the world insists
on keeping them, so at 7am I reluctantly get out
of bed. I’m one of the Sabbaticals that chose not
to live in halls (it’s not compulsory and with the
increasing pressure of finding all the first years
a place in halls it’s no bad thing). Work officially
starts at 10am which is lovely but you do need
to stay late quite often so it balances out.
First thing I’ve got a meeting with the Head of
Commercial Services, this is a regular meeting
once a month where we discuss the latest
issues with commercial services, ranging from
gym access to water availability. I bring to his
attention anything students are worried about
and our opinion is always taken very seriously
– such as when we said the SCR needs longer
opening hours – it was done. After that meeting
I whiz over to the Union Building project meeting
where all the contractors, architects, plumbers,
systems people and so on meet with the project
manager to discuss the weeks schedule and iron
out any bumps. Then I’ve got a couple of free
hours allowing me email catch up and time to
sign off a moderate pile of cheques (anything
over a thousand pounds needs to be co-signed
by the President) for things like the Building
Project and stock for the shops and bars. In
the afternoon I have to attend an exercise as
a member of the Senior Emergency Response
Group. This group of Senior College staff get
called in at any time of the day or night to
respond to emergency situations (in reality once
every 50 years), but the last time was 7/7. So as
President you get to have a go at pretending to
be James Bond twice a year on exercise, but in
reality hopefully you won’t have to do it for real.
I finish off the day with Union Council.
Tuesday
Today I only have an hour to catch up on the
latest emails and make a few phone calls to
tie up any loose ends before I’ve got to head
off to get to Cambridge for 12noon in time for
an Aldwych Group meeting; we have these
roughly once a month. The Aldwych group is
made up of all of the Unions of the Russell
Group Universities and we meet at a different
Students’ Union every time. At these meetings
we share best practice on a whole range of
things – like swapping ideas on widening
participation or lobbying the government on the
up and coming funding review for tuition fees.
It’s really good to know what the other Unions
are up to – often policies will work well in more
than one Union. The other meeting I have about
once a month is ULU Senate, this is like our
Council where the ULU Sabbatical Officers report
on what they’ve been up to (usually not a lot)
and papers are brought by the different Unions,
in the same way that Imperial Students and
reps might bring a paper to our Union Council.
Even though the College has officially left the
University of London, there are still students
that have chosen to keep the UoL degree rather
than an Imperial one and those students are still
represented by ULU and we are still very closely
linked through sport and so the Imperial voice is
still hugely important.
Wednesday
On Wednesday I’m back in the office and have
about an hour to catch up on emails and clear
up the most recent crisis before I head off to a
meeting with the Rector. I have regular meetings
with the Rector (once a month) which is great.
All of the big issues get raised through him
and our views are taken very seriously and
often acted on almost immediately if they are
reasonable. In the afternoon I have time to
write a paper for College Council. They meet
five times a year and the President is a member.
Ultimately the President is responsible for the
Union’s Finances to the College Council and any
changes to our constitution have to be approved
by them (formality due to the Education Act 94
– usually just a rubber stamping exercise.) Then
later Jov, Felix Editor, rings me up for a quote on
the latest issues, this time the security breach
on the Union’s online files. He’ll often ask for a
quote whether it is within the Union, College or
even externally (like those ridiculous national
ID cards!) Later on Stoic drops by and asks for
a very quick interview after the recent paper at
Union Council passed which created another
Sabbatical role and I’m very pleased to oblige
but it can only take thirty seconds because
I need to run off to have a meeting with the
Student Adviser.
Thursday
It’s a 9am start and Hannah and I have a
meeting with the Pro Rector (Education) and
College Secretary. We meet with them once a
month to discuss major education issues – like
student survey results we also recieve guidance
from the College Secretary on things that are
contentious. They always bring things to our
attention that they would like our help on too.
Later in the morning I need to email the Union
Court Chair. The Union Court is relatively new
and was brought in at the same time as the
Trustee Board in the governance review two
years ago. Whenever there’s confusion over the
constitution and regulations we can ask court
to write an interpretation for us. When we have
student disciplinary the Court will select the
panel and they also select the returning officer
and elections committee for the main elections.
This ensures absolutely no bias on those people
who are selected. If there is an appeal over a
Union disciplinary then it goes to Court too. In
the afternoon I have time to go through this
months management accounts which takes
a good hour or so but it’s worthwhile going
through to see if the Union is overspending
anywhere and to make sure our members are
getting the best possible services from us. I find
myself with a light afternoon and reinvigorate
my research into student discounts and the
NUS card. There are instances when Imperial
students miss out on discounts because they
don’t have an NUS card (very annoying!!) This
is going to take some serious letter writing!
Later that evening we have Representation and
Welfare Board which Hannah chairs, I run across
to High Street Ken to buy the cake that Hannah
promised she would bring to her committee
members after seeing a pitiful collection of the
college biscuits she’s been hoarding that she
was going to pass off instead (minus the special
chocolate ones that she’s keeping locked in the
drawer for emergencies!)
At last it’s Friday!
I have meetings with CAG and RAG as they’re
both Presidential committees and I try to give
them as much support as possible. CAG is taking
part in this very exciting pilot scheme with an
organisation called FoodWorks and I meet with
their director as well to discuss fun things like
insurance and health and safety. Later in the day
I start collecting papers and getting things ready
for the Trustee Board, this is the sovereign body
of the Union, they have a very light fingered
touch but are ultimately legally responsible if it
all goes wrong, so they ensure that the decisions
we make don’t have massive implications on
risk. No longer are all the Exec members liable
to be sued for seven years after they’ve left the
post, now it’s the Trustees. And the externals
bring in a wealth of experience from different
areas such as finance and law. Later on I can
catch with emails before the weekend and I can
go through the applications for funding from
the Harlington Trust before giving my feedback
to the rest of the Harlington Trust Committee
(it’s made up of the Pro Rector (Education), a
past Union President and the current Union
President). We get several applications a month,
usually for new equipment for clubs. We have
~£50k to award each year to deserving clubs
that really need some help. Later I pop over to
the HR department to discuss the latest staffing
issues. It’s quite scary as President that you
do oversee all of the staffing in the Union, not
something that can be discussed so that’s a part
of the job that students don’t get to hear about
because of our lovely staff student protocol. But
don’t be scared by that – everyone at HR is very
helpful and guides you through everything step
by step and most of the day to day things are
handled by the general manager anyway – that’s
one of the perks of being the president – you get
to delegate!
No week is the same and there are always
plenty of surprises to keep you on your toes. But
the difference you can make that benefits the
lives of students makes it the most rewarding
job you can ever expect to have
A week in the life of the President...
No two days the same.
STAND
& DELIVER
uary 00:01 - Sunday 1 March 23:59
Monday
Despite my alarm being set for 8am, a fondness
for my snooze button means I wake again
with a start at 9.15am- I’m supposed to be at
work by 10 so it’s a toss-up between make-
up application and breakfast. The toast loses
out because I’ve got the first of the week’s
meetings at 11am which means breakfast of
coffee and College biscuits. Yum. After a frantic
rush from Evelyn Gardens (one of the perks of
the job is ‘free’ accommodation in an Imperial
Halls of Residence of your choice), I run to my
meeting where we’re reviewing our welfare
provision in the College and identifying areas
for improvement. I add my views, scribble down
some action points and then head to my office
an hour and a half later for some email catch-
up, phone calls and lunch from the Union. The
afternoon consists of a couple more one-on-one
meetings about security and our Environmental
Policy, 20 more emails to write and a slight panic
about the welfare campaign that’s supposed to
be running next week. I grab the promotional
stationery catalogue and a cup of tea and start
browsing…
This evening is Union council, which happens
once a month. This is where we debate about
and pass policies affecting Imperial students,
highlighting what students want us to be
prioritizing. One of the decisions made this year
was to split my position in two, meaning the
Deputy President (Education and Welfare) will
cease to exist, replaced instead with a Deputy
President (Education) and Deputy President
(Welfare). My successors need not fear- I’ve got
a military-style training programme planned so
they can hit the ground running when I depart for
good on July 31st….
Tuesday
Today’s meetings have more of an education
focus, with Science Studies Committee
followed by a meeting to discuss Assessment
and Feedback, something which we’re not
scoring as highly in student surveys as we
like. The preparation for these meetings can
be immense, and I’m glad I got most of the
leg-work done last week. This is followed by a
lunchtime presentation on the new visa rules.
This year my brain has turned into a veritable
sponge, absorbing all sorts of education and
welfare-related information and tit-bits. Some
of it is certainly more useful than others, but if
you want opening hours for local doctors, our
policy on student withdrawals or our student
satisfaction score on the NSS please feel free
to ask!
Tonight I’m on the first of my many halls visits.
I head off with a junk food-loaded bag on my
back to quiz the students about what they really
love and hate about living there so I can let the
Head of Accommodation services know what the
students think when I meet her next week. I get
back to the office to find an email from one of
the wardens asking if I am available next week
to be on the interview panel for their subwarden
selection. I found conducting interviews nerve-
wracking when I first started but now I rather
enjoy grilling the candidates. It’s also a chance
to compare which wardens have the nicest flats
and most importantly, who orders in the nicest
food (Thai wins so far!). However, tonight it’s
a Union dinner of fish and chips, followed by a
pack of some biscuits left over from an earlier
meeting in College. For a change.
Wednesday
After the success of SHAG week, I’ve arranged
with the Terrence Higgins Trust to come in and
offer Chlamydia screening to more Imperial
students. After some initial trepidation, this
has been growing in popularity. Jov, the Felix
editor rings me up and asks the dreaded
question: ‘So, Hannah, where’s that page on
welfare you promised me?’. Hmmm…. It hasn’t
been forgotten as such, just pushed out of the
forefront of my mind by eight more pressing
priorities. ‘It’ll be with you in 2 hours’, I say,
glancing at the clock and staring at the 2 lines
I’ve written so far. Then a student knocks on my
door- they’ve had problems paying their tuition
fees and need some support and advice. The
article glares at me from my computer screen,
but I turn my back and we devise a plan of
action that means a few phone calls to some
College Departments. As the student leaves,
with instructions to put the finer details down
in an email to me, I turn back to the screen and
stare at the cursor until I’m distracted by an
urgent email until I am rudely interrupted by
my phone. It’s Jov ringing to tell me he’s almost
given up and has filled half the page with an
advert already. Argh! With half an hour until
Safer Neighbourhoods to go, I frantically tap
away until something half resembling an article
is winging its way to his inbox at two minutes
to six. I run to the Sherfield where the Head of
Security has luckily supplied some sandwiches
and biscuits (hooray!) to get us through the next
two hours of crime statistics and giving local
police their priorities. Despite the best efforts
of the locals to get them to focus on removing
beggars from the South Kensington area, our
suggestion to tackle bike thefts from the campus
wins the vote. My work is done. Unfortunately,
six of their beloved pooches were struck down
by pavement cyclists last year, so the police will
also be issuing fines to those of you they catch.
I’m tired of feeling like I’m not on top of
things,so I head back to the Union to catch up
on a load of work. It’s sports night and I can
hear inebriated students lobbing skiffs around
the Quad outside, but I plough on through
urgent emails and write some of the papers for
tomorrow’s Union meeting. I am turfed out by
the stewards at the end of the night, who offer
me a lift home.
Thursday
Amazingly, I only have one meeting scheduled
today. This is dangerous, because somehow at
least 2 more unscheduled ones will manage to
find their way into my diary by the end of the
day. It’s also lucky, because I have only written
half of the papers for tonight’s Representation
and Welfare Board meeting which I chair.
In between bashing out documents on the
computer I email people who were supposed
who have submitted something already. Ideally
the papers should have been up a few days ago
for everyone’s perusal, but unless I sat down
at the weekend and did them with a cup of tea
it’s a rare occurrence- there’s nothing like an
impending deadline to kick start a student into
action. It’s crisps for dinner plus some cake while
all the welfare and academic reps come together
to discuss issues that have come up in recent
College meetings, as well as some of the other
problems Imperial students have encountered as
well as allocating money to campaigns students
and societies want to run.
I’ve been asked to review a few documents by
the College and because it’s 2-for-4 at Ask ,
the Medic’s Union President and I head off for
a working dinner round the corner. Three hours
later, forty pages of annotated policies covered
in highlighter and a couple of glasses of wine
down I feel like I’m back to square one. I think
it’s definitely time for bed.
Friday
Uh-oh. Today is a Graduate School’s meeting.
The printer seems to have messed up so I had
only half of the thirty-six papers waiting in my
pigeon hole. I’ve only just noticed whilst sitting
in another meeting about Careers and I’m
forwarding the missing ones from my iPhone
to Union reception in the vain hope they’ll have
time to print them in the next half an hour. I hear
nothing back and realize the receptionist must
be on lunch. Oh well, I read them a week ago
and hope I can dredge up what they’re talking
about from memory.
Phew, after the 10th examiner’s report (where
someone external from College comments on
how well we’re conducting our assessments) I
seem to have got away with it. Until I’m asked
my opinion on Paper Liii. Paper Liii… I hide my
panic with a smile and say none of the student
reps had any comments or objections. I assume
we didn’t or either myself or one of my reps
would have discussed it last week- wouldn’t
we? As we move onto paper M, I gulp down my
gourmet tea and the chocolate coated biscuits
and breathe a sigh of relief. Because tomorrow,
after a lie-in, I will pull on my boots and jacket
and amble down King’s Road to spend my hard-
earned cash. The weekend vanishes in a flurry of
food, sleep, a reluctant gym visit and shopping,
ready to start all over again the following
Monday.
This job can be as easy or hard as you make
it. The majority of the time I love it, and often
feel disappointment when you realize you’ve
only got a year to achieve all of your aims.
As you can tell from above, I often sign up to
more than I can manage, with a lot of my days
fuelled by stress and sugar alone. However, it’s
more than worth it when you get an email from
a student thanking you for your efforts or lie
in bed knowing that through your persistence
(and diplomacy!) you’ve made something about
students’ lives at Imperial that bit better, even
if they don’t always directly know it. And that’s
what it’s all about which is why, if given the
opportunity, I’d never go back and click on
‘Withdraw from election’. Not for all the biscuits
in the world.
A week in the life of the
Deputy President (Education & Welfare)...
The secret life of a
biscuit addict.
Look online
for the other ‘Week
in the life of’ articles.
Next week - DPCS,
DPFS &
Felix Editor

