17 May 1999
Reviews & Competition
Film 11
Mighty j o e Younjg
Mighty Joe Young
Edel/ Hollywood Records
E
xploring the remote Pangani
Mountains in Central Africa,
zoologist Gregg O'Hara comes
upon an incredible discovery - a
rather large gorilla - all fifteen foot of
him! Though dangerous when pro-
voked, the gorilla is tame in the
hands of Jill, the twenty-one year old
orphan who raised him and called
him...er...Joe.
Thus sets the scene for this movie,
and the soundtrack is superb. It is com-
posed by oscar winning c o m p o s e r
James Horner and is the follow up to
the Titanic soundtrack, the biggest ins-
tumental album in history. Fortunately,
this soundtrack spares us the novel
vocal talents of Celine Dion. As you'd
expect from a poignant film, the
soundtrack reflects the clashing moods
with a wide variety of tunes spanning
the emotional spectrum. From the
sombre and dark, to the happier side
of life in the mountains with a fifteen
foot gorilla. It's available n o w from
Edel/Hollywood records.
A big gorilla & Charllze Theron. What a combo.
The Trip
Shifty Disco
T
his albumn is Channel 4's cyber
off-spring from the eight part
series of the same name. This
wonderful soundtrack features twen-
ty-one underground tracks from Luke
Slater, Plastikman and Mogwai (to
name but a few) and is the perfect
musical post-club chill out. Its magic
lies in the fact that you can almost
feel yourself being trasported
through space. If you liked the series
on TV, then you'll love this soundtrack
- an excellent accompaniment to an
excellent series. D
Gurminder
Win tickets to Best Laid Plans with the
KENSINGTON
Best Laid Plans is an unashamedly indie
thriller that's more twisty than a slinky
crossed with....something else that's very
twlsty-turny. It stars hot young things
Reese Witherspoon (Pleasantville) and
Alessandro Nivola (/ Want You), struggling
to escape from their local drug boss. Suf-
fice to say, Nlvola's cunning plan of
escape goes spectacularly pear shaped...
To win a pair of tickets, wrap your
brain around the following question:
What movie links Nivola with the stars
of Pulp Fiction and Rumble Fish ?
Just email your answer to film.felix
©ic.ac.uk before Wednesday evening,
and the first five names out of the virtual
hat will win a pair of tickets.
Masses of you identified Practical Magic
as the movie that links Nicole Kidman
with Sandra Bullock. The winners were:
Catrln Jones, Sufyan Samsuddln,
Theodore Hong, Caroline Soubry,
Chaiwut Gamonpllas, Patty Llao,
Serene Teo, Roshan Gunasekara,
Tim Howard, Claire Bland
The winners of the An Ideal Husband
soundtrack competition, who all spotted
that Cate Blanchett won a BAFTA for her
role in Elizabeth, were:
Adam Bettinson, Wayne Cheung,
Leonora Lang, Sandor dejasay,
Pete Daplyn, Markjelinek, Bob Stevens,
Sheyi Claxton, N Tangsangiumvlsal
Blade
Over-stylised, hyper-violent and brainless?
Undoubtedly - but goddamit, it's fun. Wes-
ley Snipes is the eponymous half-human,
half-vampire hero, who strides the earth
clad in body armour and trenchcoat, hunt-
ing down and killing the un-dead, via the
traditional silver, stake-through-the-heart
and swordplay. Bram Stoker it certainly
isn't, but the skin-deep plotting is easily
balanced by some amazing visuals. Wit-
ness a non-stop ride of amazingly fast and
brilliantly choreographed action, that's
simultaneously sexy, scary and comical (in
an absurdist kind of way). Admittedly, it
looses a certain something when trans-
ferred to the small screen (spontaneous
rounds of applause aren't quite as impres-
sive in your living room) but it's still a per-
fect Saturday-night-in movie (friends, beer,
copious quantities of pizza and snacks -
you get the picture).
Rounders
Combine high-tension poker, stars Matt
Damon and Ed Norton and noir-meister
John Dahl in the director's chair, and you
should have a damn fine movie, right?
Sadly, no - you're left with Rounders, a
deeply disappointing movie, where the
outcome is never really in doubt. The real
problem, however, is that despite the
fact that the lead is a utterly despicable
character, we're forced to like him, sim-
ply because he's Matt Damon. Conse-
quently, the movie is left with a deep
seated identity crisis, that's hardly
enlivened bythethrill-a-minute spectator
sport that is...er...cards.
Renin
A quite extraordinary ensemble cast -
Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, Johnathan
Pryce, Sean Bean and Natasha McElhone
- combine to produce a thriller that harks
back to the seventies styllngs of The
Trench Connection and The Manchurian
Candidate. Sadly, however, director
Frankenheimer clearly believes that the
cast is so good that they don't actually
need fleshed out characters, and conse-
quently the script just lolls from one high-
octane set-piece to the next. On the other
hand, when they do arrive, the action
sequences (and the car chases in partic-
ular) are so brilliantly shot that they very
nearly make up for the low quality of the
script...but not quite.
Dave

