12 Games 17 May 1999
Actua ice Hockey 2 (PSX, PC)
Gremlin
*•••
One Line Summary:
Heavily clad boys with sticks smack rub-
ber discs - on ice.
Whats it all about:
Heavily clad boys with sticks smack rub-
ber discs - on ice. Honestly that's it. It
might also have the odd punch-up on
the ice, the occasional slamming of the
opponent into the plexiglass so hard
that it shatters but ice hockey is one for
the big guys and girls.
Good Graphics:
The PSX version goes for a close in,
blood and guts on sticks rabidly fast and
smooth option. Though it is possible to
move to a camera slightly further out of
the way the resolution on the PSX means
that the puck starts to look a little less disc
like - It doesn't slow down though.
The PC version with its 3D card acceler-
ation can afford to take the camera fur-
ther back without losing resolution and
with a decent combination of processor
and graphics card the graphics flow like
quicksilver - whatever that really looks
like.
Seraphim Sounds:
Both versions are liberally sprinkled with
the sounds of sticks clashing, body on
body crunches, organ music intervals
and skates swishing when players
change direction. The PSX commentary
starts to annoy after five minutes but at
least it doesn't torture with CD stutter -
There is no commentary team ....having
....problems ....saying ....more ....than
...one ...word ...at ...a ...time. Musicwise
Mogwai provide the background tunes
- underground notes for a underground
sport.
Great Gameplay:
Do smart weapons miss their target?
Two modes of play, Standard - with five
a side and all the rules, or Arcade - three
a side on a close and claustraphobic
rink. Standard is fun but Arcade is best
for two player fast fun action, here the
game only pauses for breath after goals
or major gougeing. 31 Teams to choose
from and with 70 odd games (including
playoffs) before silverware can be won.
There is an awful low of gameplay to be
found skidding on the ice. There is even
the chance to boost the team mid sea-
son with a series of roster swaps. The PSX
version has the advantage of proper
controllers.
Sex and Violence:
Violence and lots of it. Though unlike the
local ice rink the injuries don't involve
sliced fingers and fractured tibias - must
be all that padding.
Best Bit:
The fighting sequences - if the action has
been a bit niggly for a while the players
can be made to drop sticks and go for
fisticuffs on ice. Win the fight and get
sent off for a five min penalty - lose it and
the player gets the penalty to recover
from unconsciousness. Cant wait to see
Petit and Cantona kick each other off the
pitch in Actua Soccer 4.
Worst Bit:
The delay between events on the PSX
version, skipping them just blanks the
screen for a few seconds as it loads.
Polished Product:
Both PC and PSX versions shine like a
couple of shiny silver discs. The Actua
team have done their usual high quality
job - nothing else would be accepted or
expected from these guys
Who will like It:
Sports fiends generally, PSX owners wait-
ing for a good two player game, UG's
with too much time on there hands over
the holidays. Fighting game fanatics (just
for the fisticuff action).
Gary 5.
"HOCKE'
PlayStation,
Son of Jason decides that a new mask is needed for Friday the 13th the
next generation
Suddenly both sides turned on the Newcastle U supporter on the Rink
The Goalkeeper decides that having children is a useful thing and misses
the save.
Competition Corner
Actua Ice Hockey 2
The answer is puck and luckily no one actually got it wrong.
The winner of a PC copy of Actua Ice Hockey 2 is...(drum roll)
...Catherine Luther (Civil Eng)
Ability Office
The answers were word processor, spreadsheet, database and drawing package,
t/ootftn see so'many people were paying attention in class. The winner of ttae -
boxed Ability office set is...(another drum roll please)
...Sid Datta(Mech Eng 3)
I have emailed the winners to tell them how to collect their prizes.
Age of Empires I and Expansion Pack Fun for all
What can you do while waiting for Age of Empires II this autumn? Get a good tan
- too dangerous. Get a job and earn some money - be serious? Get a Girlfriend or
Boyfriend and while away the weeks experencing Rex the Runt style adventures -
too difficult and possibly illegal (the Rex the Runt bits anyway). Stay in and play com-
puter games till you suffer from extreme light sensitivity - now thats more like It.
We at felix towers are offering a copy of Age of Empires and expansion pack to
the first person out of the virtual hat who can answer the following question.
What clothing Innovation is usually attributed to the Celtic civilization?
Email (fellx@lc.ac.uk) or hand in the answes in person to the office by Wednesday.

