14
Albums
SUEDE
Head Music
Music
• • • •
Y
ou've been in the public eye for
going on ten years, you're four
albums to the good, there's
been personnel changes, new relation-
ships have been forged, old relation-
ships have been strained and some
destroyed, you've had tabloid covered
dalliances with the odd artificial stimu-
lant or two. You must have a lot of new
experiences to speak about? Errr, not
quite your Honor. Lyrically we find
Suede feel at home in leather.
Suede on Head Music the same as
ever; third-person narratives galore,
urban soliloquies, veiled drug refer-
ences, etc Brett Anderson has
described the lyrics as been colder,
more clean cut, more precise and con-
cise In context than on previous songs.
Now there's an excuse for being bone-
idle if ever I heard one. Altogether now
The cat sat on the mat. O h wonderful
Chris, so concise, so clear in meaning.
And musically? It's the same old song
but with a different beat.... They haven't
just ripped off others but themselves as
well. She off Coming Up is now called
Can't Get Enough and the penultimate
track He's Gone is a reinterpretation of
Asphalt World, the penultimate track off
Dog Man Star. They've even filched
from Suzi Quatro; Elephant Man is, I kid
you not, the bastard progeny of Devil
Gate Drive. So the album stinks like a
bachelor pad after a night on curry and
lager? Well no, because the old Suede
were just magnificent. Electricity rocks
like a, errrm, really rocky thing and the
ballad Down is simply irresistible.
Production duties this time around
have gone to the Happy Mondays' erst-
while cohort Steve Osborne and Brett
et al have gone and got all funky on yer
ass, boy! She's In Fashion, Savoir Faire
and Asbestos being particularly slinky
affairs. However, the final track Crack in
the Union Jack provides Brett with an
opportunity to do a sensitive solo ditty
and he fails miserably; the song being
either a woefully inept social observa-
tion or possibly a clandestine drug ref-
erence,- old habits die hard it seems.0
Chris
FUZZBIRD
Pulling The Wings Off Small Boys • *V2
Practice makes perfect.
T
o start, what a wonderful title!
Except if you actually did try and
pull the wings off small boys,
cos that'd just be sick. And boys, small
or otherwise, tend not to have wings.
Anyway, has anyone heard of Fuzzbird?
I hadn't before this but I did find out
that they've released an EP called Mot
and they've had material played on The
Jon Peel Show.
On the fllpside of the coin every-
one's heard of Gomez, haven't they?
Fuzzbird are in that same mould but
they're just that little bit less original,
the little bit that means practically no one
knows who they are. That aside, there
are a couple of tasty numbers on here
starting at the very beginning with a
very Shed Seven inspired track called
My World (they are both from Yorkshire),
and ending with Hard Like A Girl and
Wings. The rest of the material is Grunge-
lite as is the flavour in these modern
times we live in.
I get the feeling that some of these
songs haven't been properly thought
out and developed. Some of them
sound like the guitar riff is an after-
thought and Fuzzbird want people to
love their quirky, significant lyrics. It's
not gonna win any prizes for breaking
ground or musicianship and I think if
they concentrate on playing the music
more than the (sometimes cringingly
cliched) lyrics, then they might be onto
a winner. Nice cover on the CD, though.
m
Christian
JOI
One And One Is OneJ
T
he debut album from the, as
they claim, original Asian break-
beat fusionists. However, there
appears to be a lot more than just
breakbeats on this album with some
drum and bass and a generally confus-
ing mixture of themes and styles, with
the Indian themes and instruments
totally overwhelming. The album dis-
plays a cultural theme that doesn't
doesn't really go in hand with these
'hard' beats.
One of the better tracks that you
may want to listen to is Massive and is
about the only track that represents any
true likeliness to breakbeat. It starts off
quite well with strong drums and a
heavy beat. There's minimal vocals in
the form of Joi massive repeated over
and over, and the semi-opratic highs
breaking the roughness is nice. The
album is quite diverse in content, with
the cultural influence and dabs of break-
beat and even a touch of jungle on ESY-
SHJ. The production is very good and the
album does get stronger as you listen to
the later tracks, but that's only if you can
bear the first half. CI Asad
17 May 1999
RADIATOR
R
emember Generator being the
Essential Choon a while back?
No, well I'm pleased to say that
this is more of the same rock-dance
fusion stylee. That's a good thing, by
the way. Radiator are three sharply
dressed guys in ultra-dark glasses,
exuding attitude by the bucketful and
seemingly with a crap sleeve designer
because the album cover has the same
design as the single, only in a different
colour.
The lead singer has that raw singing
voice of the likes of Gary Stringer and
Eddie Vedder and the sort that Liam
Gallagher can only hope for. There's
energy in the beat and those massive
guitar licks that has you tapping your
foot before you know what's happen-
ing. The guitars are distorted, but not too
much in that annoying tinny sort of way.
There's a vast amount of synth work in
the album that in this case contributes
greatly to the whole rough-edged
sound. And that's what makes the music
so appealing - the rough around the
edges, lo-fi production. If Radiator had
chosen to smooth the CD out and over
produced it, then most definitely it
would have lost what makes the band's
overall sound. Don't get mc wrong, it's
not a crap job, quite the opposite in fact,
but if you're expecting a glistening and
silky sound forget it.
the CD is so good that there isn't a
duff track on it. From the alternative
rock catchiness of Generator to the
almost ambient Untitled Love Song and
the acoustic intimacy of Feel to the pure
energy of Whole Inside, the entire
album will keep you entertained right up
to the end. Their style is their own, too.
So many bands today fall into the trap
of familiarity that leads to a dull, lifeless
sound that all too often is obviously a
result of not listening to a range of
music. Radiator haven't done that. They
know what styles of music it is that they
like the sound of and the direction in
which their music is progressing, which
is becoming increasingly rare In a mar-
ket lead by manufactured 'popstars' and
artists in the music industry simply for
the money. El
Christian

