17 May 1999 Music 15
Albums
REEF
R
ides gets off to a suitably rock-
ing start with the rip roaring
New Bird. Deeply distorted bass
holds sway while Gary (vocals) does the
business with his extremely gravely and
distinctive voice. It all calms down a bit
after that without the first single from
the album I've Cot Something to Say-
doubtless you have heard this already
but suffice to say it's a charmingly crisp
and sweet song that lifts you up nicely.
As for the rest, there arc some
Hey guys, the camera's over here.
weaker songs. Metro is one - the song
never really grabbed me - even with
repeated listening it didn't click the way
most of Reef's best work does. Sweety
is another track that doesn't quite hit the
spot for me. Electronic influences start to
show which just seem to have been put
in for their own sake - and the track suf-
fers for it. And there are too many
naaaaas! (Listen and you will under-
stand). Love Feeder has no real climax,
it just meanders along, not really engag-
ing the listener at any point. And some
pointless strings don't help.
But don't worry - there are a couple
of gems in amongst the rest. Reef get
funky with Wandering, a homesick song
with an addictive main riff weaving its
way thorough the tune. Hiding reminded
me of classic Simon and Garfunklc, com-
plete with some hand clapping. It noo-
dles along nicely, building all the time
into a great primal display of vocal talent
from Gary. Undone and Sober, a darker
song than most of the album - a lot of
anger is expressed in this song - and a
determination to make things better in
the future. Who You Arenas a decidedly
punky edge - this is a take no prisoners
song. Something to get psyched up to.
It also includes a great line about fabour
that I will leave you to discover. Right at
the end of the album Electric Sunday gets
mixed in - simply an acoustic guitar,
some doo from Gary and an organ.
It is enough of a change from pre-
vious efforts? Probably not. Do they still
rock? Yep. Does Gary have one of the
most incredible voices in the UK scene?
U-huh. Should you buy it? Well, be ready
for a brace of weak tracks - but the good
just about outweighs the bad. EH
Joel
DAWN OF THE REPLICANTS
Wrong Town, Wrong Planet, 3 Hours Late
THE FALL
The Marshall Suite
Should have checked the
timetable lads.
A
hhh the DotR effect. Who can
say how this merry 'collective'
of Scots will change guitar
music in the UK - which seems to have
been taking a bit of a battering of late
with the efforts of a certain Mr. Slim and
the rest of the beatmasters. If nothing
else DotR certainly have an incredible
output of music- recording 6 EPs and an
album in ten months. Luckily for us the
quality matches up to the quantity.
The picks of the bunch? Any track
with the line 'She's a dancer on the
Marie Celeste, but that's OK I feel like
Eliot Ness' has got to be good. So Rule
the Roost gets in by default - it's also got
a rousing, evil chorus that just demands
attention. A charming little ditty towards
the end of the album is Howlin' in the
dark-a yummy crisp little piece of home
produced jamming that works just fine.
My final choice is Jack Fanny's Gym
which stats off like Deep Purple classic
rock, quickly spirals down into a dark
deep hole and then leaps out into a
psychadelic funky world right at the end.
This is what the 'Replicants are all
about, changes. Each track seems to be
something entirely different by its end -
so you never know what's round the
corner. I hope larger acclaim is just
around the corner for these boys. E3
Joel
I
f ever there was an incentive not to
drink or do drugs it's Mark E. Smith.
Have you seen him? Most definite-
ly on a par with Shane McGowan and
Shaun Ryder in the fried stakes. The
Fall can still put out some belters,
though. To call The Marshall Suite punk
pub rock is slightly misleading but it's
the most apt description so call it that I
shall, if a lot more polished round the
edges. The production is very tight and
clean, centring mainly on the distinc-
tively slurred voice of the afore men-
tioned front man but still balanced for
all the other instruments. We've got a
real Led Zeppelin style rhythm section
on (Jung Nev's) Antidotes a la Kashmir
along with a searing guitar, canny lyrics
on F-'oldln'- Money and a laid-back feel
to Birthday Song.
I was a little surprised at the depth
of The Marshall Suitebecause I'd never
heard The Fall before and I didn't quite
know what to expect. Maybe that's why
I was surprised in a good way, and if
you've never heard them before try
having a listen to this. But remember
kids, just say 'No'. CI Christian
LUNA
The Days of Our Nights
T
his is Luna's sixth album. They
must have a fan base some-
where, otherwise they wouldn't
have bothered making six albums. If
you arc in this inconspicuous minority,
this album will not disappoint. It con-
tains enough songs of substance to
entertain current fans, but I'm sceptical
it will bring in new ones - it certainly
didn't hook me.
There is a distinct lack of originality.
Ihis unthrcalcning indie-folk seems to
come from an endless pit at Beggar's
Banquet, who churn out this stuff every
week. There must be a dozen other
bands that sound virtually identical,
pouring out their hearts with bittersweet
angst.
The lyrics are good (if a bit surreal),
but singer Dean Wareham's voice
(remember him from Galaxie BOO?
Thought not) is not powerful enough to
give them the depth they deserve. I lis
breathy muttering lacks substance and,
while giving a mellow character to some
of the songs, it gets a bit much over all
twelve tracks. It seems to have no vari-
ation at all. Just the same relentless tone
again and again.
Luna commits many musical crimes.
Dodgy samples crop up all over the
place. They are probably intended to
sound quirky, but end up plain comical,
the rhythm in Four Thousand Days
sounds like someone has just hit the
'salsa' button on an eighties synthe-
siser. They've been around for far too
long to let them get away with things
like that.
It's not all bad. SupcrfreakyMemo-
ries, released as a single last month, is
a poignant ballad. You can't help being
carried away by the soulful cello and
shuffly rhythm. It's one song where the
vocals arc just perfect, and the song
stands out head and shoulders above
the rest of the album.
But their worst Crime must be to do
an appalling cover of Sweet Child O'
Mine, reducing a classic rock song to
empty and pointless dirge. For this they
cannot be forgiven, and I'm deducting
a whole star for this alone.
You need a lot of patience to begin
to appreciate Luna. Throughout the
whole album I wanted them to give me
that little bit more, that extra something
to lift the album off its plateau of medi-
ocrity and to tempt me into wanting
more. Disappointingly, they failed. CI
Tom

