17 May 1999 Music 17
Singles Round-up
R
ight then, this is part two of the
singles round-up following o n
from last week. Christian'll steer
you through some stuff that's still out
there if you look for it and Ed'll bring
you full circle and up to date. See you
on the other side.
Is One Brief Moment the theme for
the new Bond movie, The World Is Not
Enough? It sounds very Bondish to me,-
all cavernous orchestral sounds and
swirly mysticism. Natacha Atlas and David
Arnold provide a very Eastern flavour,
which comes as a nice surprise in the
whole Bond style. The B-side is You Only
Live Twice, the signature melody you
may recognise from a single by a certain
Robbie Williams.
Ooh, a very Mexican bandito feel
with a stripped down sound and twiddly
guitars. The Ride (Part 2) is only three
minutes long but I got a tad bored with
Calexlco after two because it started to
plod. The three B-sides are all mixes of
the same song which is enjoyable in a
'sitting round the camp fire under the
stars in the desert' kind of way. The last
mix reminded me of Hank Marvin!
All the information on Cube's sleeve
and CD was in mirror writing which was
a royal pain in the arse but Scrounger
Freddy Fresh featuring Fatboy Slim.
He's a musical slag, isn't he? He's got a
million things on the go at once, spread-
ing himself round. I hope Zoe knows
what she's letting herself in for. Apart
from the ridiculous title, Badder Badder
Schwlng Is a cracker of a tune, if not sur-
prisingly similar to the Fatboy's current
offering. The B-sides are a Spanish rap-
stylee tune and a track that's either been
lifted from a 70s cop show or a porno;
it's still cool though.
Another offering from the second
rate indie boys, Gene. Fill Her Up is
upbeat for a change but Martin Rossiter
still sounds like he wants to be Morrissey
and he doesn't succeed in my book,
unless you count depressing me. There's
also only the title track on this, which is
poor. They must have some other tunes
knocking about that they could have put
on here.
He's a strange fish, Moby. He used
to be all heavy metal, then techno, then
was lo-fi-tastic. Not original, granted,
though it has a raw edge that appeals
and the chorus is melodic and grating at
the same time. Weird, huh?
heavy again, now this. He's got a sam-
ple of The Landfordaires who sound like
a barbershop quartet, but it gels
extremely well with the beat and melody
of Run On The B-sides are a moody-yet-
ambient instrumental followed by a
moody-yet-slightly-less-ambient instru-
mental. Uplifting nevertheless.
A distinct west coast USA sound
erring on the heavy side of things during
the verses is the order of the day here.
Bright and breezy vocals on Wiser con-
tribute to an apple-pie chorus akin to
music in that oh-so contrived AOR vein.
Many guitar bands are using big beat
drum sounds to give their music an edge
and Soundproof are no exception. A
thoroughly unexpected release, perfect
for the coming summer months.
Stony Sleep throw up a passable sin-
gle that's a fusion of Placebo meets Bush
meets Moist (remember them Beavis
and Butthead fans?). Using the Seattle
tradition of soft, quiet verse and angst-
ridden, punchy chorus Khartoum treads
the well-trodden path. The second track
has some Korn-ish drums to lift it above
the mediocre, but the whole thing reeks
of unoriginality.
There's a very homegrown feel to
the sleeve of this 7" and I liked it. These
People has got the whole garage thing
going on but with a soft lilting female
voice, distorted guitars and decidedly
primitive production. Think indie and
then par it down to proper lo-fi quality
and you've got Spraydog. And that's the
real indie music. CI
Christian
First of the latest releases comes
from Penthouse. Crashing in with a non-
stop barrage of noise and testosterone,
Creeper's Reef eventually settles down
into the rhythmic pounding of guitars
and drums that the latest teenage tear-
away in Neighbours will play on the Cof-
fee Shop jukebox, much to the chagrin
of Harold, no doubt.
Super Bowl Sundae is a distinctly
Hispanic concoction of hip-hop, percus-
sive dub and reggae beats, with some
chilled-out rapping over the top. Ozoma-
Iti are about as cool as the Fun Lovin'
Criminals think they are.
Carrot Rope signifies that Pavement
are back from, erm, wherever they've
been and are on good form with this
track of wah-wah infused balladry. How-
ever, excepting that annoying American
vocal twang, they're still too much like
The Beatles to be classed as original.
Just some random and very quiet
noises really. What Labradford are saying
on E luxo so is unclear. Probably some
pre-milienial babble about the futility of
our own existence, but it really is just
some random and very quiet noises.
After all the Nazi, 1960's, Indian and
posh-kid accusations thrown at Crispian
Mills and his merry band, Kula Shaker
should have returned with a classic
album that headed off in a completely
new direction to silence all those critics.
But they just went and gave us the same
stuff, only slower and not as good. Which
is what Shower Your Love is.
Stop the Press! The Llama Farmers
Get The Keys And Go. Probably not actu-
ally llama farmers, unless the foothills of
the Andes have changed drastically since
my geography A-level. Pretty much what
you'd expect of late '90's indie/hard rock
bands that sometimes brings fame but
usually brings nowt.
The Soundtrack O f Our Lives? Hmm.
That's surprising. I thought Avenger Hill
Street Blues was by Ocean Colour Scene
until the voices proved otherwise. As did
a deep and distant influence from The
Monkees hiding somewhere in there.
Maybe these are The Monkees.
The first taster from the Super Furry
Animals' third album comes twelve
months after the release of Ice Hockey
Hair, one of the most ingenious songs of
last year. Northern Lltes is clearly not up
to that high standard but is still highly
enjoyable with its Latin-American beats
chugging along throughout.
Obviously given its surrounding con-
text of animation and adult humour,
there is much to like about Simultaneous
- the second slice from the Chef Aid
album. The title refers to the Chef's sex-
ual preference (i.e. everyone at once)
and the lyrics are full of the expected
double entendres. However, as a song
on its own, it doesn't'stand up.
Cyclefly are indie punk rockers with
both a female and male singer. Although
potentially really good, there is little to
separate Supergod from the rest of the
genre.
The standard strummy indie fare
from Silverchair with the vocals equal
parts Damon Albarn and Thorn Yorke.
Ana's Song (Open Fire) is on the verge
of being good but hasn't quite got what
it takes. CI
Ed}

