Prize Draws
every week
FANCY A MEAL FOR TWO AT LUIGI MALONE'S?
OR EVEN A TWO PERSON TENT WORTH £60
Read on to find out how...
Alexandra Palace is one of the premier venues in London which, is one of the reasons why
Twentieth Century Fox recently used it for a re-launch party of the Star Wars Trilogy. Set in 196 acres
of parkland the Palace enjoys panoramic views of London's skyline as well as an outdoor drinking
terrace. The Palm Court, a splendid Victorian conservatory with high domed glass roofs, exotic palm
trees, majestic sphinx and water fountains, provides an ideal reception area and place to enjoy your
complimentary champagne, accompanied with some light jazz.
The huge Great Hall with over 6,500 sq. metres of partying space, not to mention its antique organ,
famous Rose Window and attractive decoration, also has a 25 metre high ceiling. This will allow you
to enjoy a full indoor funfair. The following rides will be free to ball goers throughout the night, a
BIG WHEEL, CLASSIC HORSE CAROUSEL and of course the DODGEMS
Your ticket will include, a full 3-Course gourmet dinner with Vegetarian and Halal options
available, accompanied with half a bottle of wine per person. Also, a Live Abba Tribute Band
followed by a raging disco until 2am is sure to pack the huge dancefloor to the end.
Two different coach companies have been booked, who are both liable if anything goes wrong, to
get you there from College and then back to either South Kensington or Trafalgar Square, whatever
your preference.
The Summer Ball offers everyone the chance to buy as
many tickets as they would like. Tables are for 10
people, which we encourage you to sort out now by
offering all groups of 10 or more who have tickets by I
the 25th May, the chance to win the meal and tent. I
This event is the opportunity for us all to see out the
end of the academic year as it should be done, in style.
The Summer Ball Team looks forward to seeing you all
3t Alexandra Palace for what will be the largest
Summer Ball ever to take place in London.
Great Hall
Bigger than a
Football Pitch
Over 12,000
Watts of Music
Power
Win a very large quantity ofJelly Bellys,
and a classic dispenser!
Now open to all!
Free Indoor
Funfair All Night
That's right, the beautiful antique2
pictured
below, filled with hundreds of grams of Jelly
Bellys, can be yours to love and cherish.
And the best part is, you'll be helping
refugees from Kosovo at the same
time.
Donate £1 to the Kosovo Fund
(there is a jar on the Union front desk)
and enter your name on the sheet pro-
vided for your chance to win! The
result of the draw will be announced
in Felix sometime later this term.
Terms and Conditions
1 The m i n i m u m donation is £1, but there is n o max-
imum...
2 Felix d o e s not g u a r a n t e e t h e prize is a n
antique.
3 Felix d o e s not guarantee it still operates,
and will not accept responsibility for lost
coinage.
4 Felix d o e s not guarantee y o u will like Jelly
Bellys, but w e do.
5 Felix doesn't guarantee m u c h really, does
it?
6 O p e n to IC students and friendly staff w h o
read Felix.
TWO FREE TICKETS
WIN BACK THE PRICE OF YOUR TICKET, PRIZE DRAW
FOR A L L TICKETHOLDERS BY FRIDAY 21 ST MAY

