17 May 1999 Sport 23
YES, IT'S YOUR FAVOURITE AND MINE, INTERDEPARTMENTAL FOOTBALL!
Chemistry produce inconclusive result
Chemistry
Biochemistry..
This fixture has been a long time in the
planning and eventually two scratch sides
squared up in Hyde Park at 1:30. The
match kicked off with chemistry initially
dominating the play. Most of their attack-
ing oppotunities came from Toni who
frequently fed Carlos and Andy the ball.
The first goal for chemistry came as
Toni released Carlos, his cross/shot was
fumbled into the net by the biochem
keeper. In the wake of the goal the
defence held tight against a number of
lofted passes and Biochemistry corners
as the play became more even. Having
turned up with only eight players it was
one of the loan signings that set up the
second chemistry goal with a break
down the left and cross for Andy to vol-
ley the ball in for 2-0. The play continued
with Biochem attacks becoming increas-
ingly more difficult to defend as more
players were pushed forward.
Biochems had two chances to halve
the lead; a header from a corner and a
long drive which the keeper fumbled.
The first half finished 3-0 after a corner
was headed in at the near post by Car-
los. There were two more chances in the
half. Carlos shot wide after being
released by Toni and a drive by Simon for
Biochem was blocked by Dave. The
chemistry defence looked increasingly
shaky as Jamil lofted balls to Alex and
Simon on Biochems left. Chemistry fin-
ished the half 3-0 up but with a flattering
lead on balance of play, however, given
that they played with ten men against
eleven from the first goal the lead was
probably deserved. Defending was
helped by the fact that Biochem played
all corners short and only attacked on
one flank.
The second half proved a different
story as the rest of Biochems team
turned up. The situation of ten versus
eleven persisted with Peter and Kelechi
orchestrating most of Biochems attacks,
the shooting was wayward as most
chances went over or wide. Most of the
goal kicks taken by Xavier reached the
opposition defence but came straight
back. Biochem began to capitalise on
the numeric advantage by using the full
width of the pitch dragging Chemistrys
defenders out of position. Their first
goal finally came as Peter powered
through several tackles to release their
designated goalhanger who easily fin-
ished sidefooting past Xavier.
Biochem struck again almost at once.
Dave won the ball from Peter and
spinted forward but overplayed the ball.
The outstanding player of the second
half, Simon, cleared from defence and
the ensuing mix up allowed the ball to
break and be volleyed past Xavier.
Biochem pressed increasingly for the
equaliser and were rewarded when
Simon burst forward unmarked to drive
from twenty yards.
Two goals were then disalowed as
the height and width of the goal came
into question. A near post header by the
irrepressable Peter and a drive over the
goalkeepers hands were claimed but no
agreement could be reached.
Eventually an eleven all setup was
established but it was too late for Chem-
istry to grab a winner. In reality Chem-
istry were let off the hook by the
Biochem strikers not taking their early
chances, but felt they deserved the draw
as they had never played before as a
team and were a man down throughout
the match.
Thanks to all those who played on
both sides.
Dave Robinson (unbiased chemistry
captain)
From the Sidelines
About two weeks ago, this part of SW Lon-
don was basking in the warmth of what
looked to be an early start to the summer.
But then something terrible happened
that would alter the weather for the rest
of the year. The cricket season began.
It seems unbelieveable that you can
gaurentee that if the weather is nice, as
soon as someone suggests cricket, the
clouds begin to gather in anticipation of
the crack of leather on willow. And so it
was to prove when England began their
warm up campaign taking on the mighty
Kent side at Canterbury. Since the start
of the World Cup warm up matches, I
have yet to see in the results at least one
match not affected by teh weather, and,
of course, the dreaded Duckworth-Lewis
system. Lor those who don't know, this
is a complex system of calculating revised
targets and over rates designed to make
it fairer to both teams. There does seem
to be, however, an alarminging number
of games in which the side batting sec-
ond scores more runs in fewer overs,
but still loses. That's just not cricket.
Which brings me to my main point.
Whatever you think of cricket, take some
time to stop and watch some of the in
progress World Cup. It won't be back in
England for about 30 years, and it is shap-
ing up to become what the orgainsers
hope it to be - a carnival of cricket.
over £10.
just pop down to tower records on
kensington high st. and produce
your Union card at the counter.
kensington : 0171 938 3511
www.towerrecords.co.uk

