17 May 1999 News 3
In brief...
Jubilee Line Opens
The Jubilee Line extension, which links
the Millenium Dome site and Canary
Wharf to the rest of the Underground
network, finally opens this week. How-
ever, only North Greenwich, West Ham,
Canning Town and Stratford stations
(where the extension Joins the Central
and District lines) will be operational.
One striking feature of the new sta-
tions is the introduction of 'Platform
Edge Doors' between the platform and
the track, to improve safety. The remain-
ing stations are planned to open over
the next few months, with the whole line
due to be operational by this Autumn.
Library Opens on Sunday
The central library will be open on Sun-
days from now on, between 1 pm and
7pm. The new opening hours took effect
last week, and will continue until 20
June (including that Sunday). The deci-
sion to open the library on Sundays
comes after numerous requests from
students, with the funding for extra staff
being supplied by the College. ID cards
must be carried, as the library will not be
open to members of the public and Day
Tickets will not be issued. The level of
service should be similar to that pro-
vided on weekday evenings, with staff
only being on duty at the issue desk.
Clayponds' Village Hall'
The proposals for Clayponds' 'village
hall' are to be discussed later this month
at a meeting of the Rector's Committee
on Student Residences. The meeting,
which will take place on 24 May, will
hopefully produce a plan on how and
when the hall will be built. Currently, it
is unclear where the money for the pro-
ject is coming from, with an increase in
rents rumoured to be one suggestion.
Another possibility is that one of Impe-
rial's trusts may help fund the project.
SCR Renaissance
The Senior Common Room (SCR) is to be
renovated, probably in a similar fashion
to the new Junior Common Room. Mr
Ian Caldwell, Director of Estates,
explained that designs had been drawn
up "to provide better facilities for staff".
The proposals for the SCR include more
cash-points, two new shops, and a larger
newsagent. At this stage the plans are
very provisional, with no dates currently
under discussion, and the entire pro-
ject is still waiting for funding
confirmation.
Last Wednesday saw the Royal Albert Hall host this year's Postgraduate Awards Day,
where students received their masters, doctorates, and diplomas from the Rector.
Photos Jonas
The Pit Stop Challenge
Friday, 28 May 1999,11.00am-5.00pm,
Beit Quad
/ \ A n d ^ r s ^ n
/ % ^ T j : You are invited to experience the pressure of the
J. jkh. L . O n S U l T i n C j Pit Stop using a real Formula One Williams ear...
. • ' 'lit
All you need to do is to enter your name, college and
four team members on the application form and
return it to the Union Office before Friday, 21 May.
Just pick up an application form at the Student Union.
What it takes: - ability to work under pressure
- ability to work within a team
- ability to display a good sense of humour!
www.ac.com
Prizes BBQ Bar Scalextric

