17 May 1999 Columns 7
Presidential Talk-Back
F
or the second time I'm reporting
back about progress made by the
Union. By far the most important
issue, which I expect Felix has already run
with, is the London Transport Discount
Scheme. After much scepticism, London
Transport has proven that c o m m o n
sense prevails. During the year the
extension of the scheme to mature stu-
dents seemed near impossible, but sta-
tistics, a lot of work and the letters that
you wrote have helped sway their
unfounded opinion of mature students.
For LT to also extend the scheme to
weekly travel cards and to allow Imper-
ial to issue the cards through the Union
as a trial is unbelievable. With this rate
of change, if London trains aren't also
included in the scheme by the end of
next year, I'll eat my Pat.
For all of those needing to study, as
of last week the library is now open on
Sundays from 1pm
to 7pm. Although David Hellard,
the service is under-
standably limited, it
is an essential step
forward and a sign
that the College 1
might actually be I
starting to under- I
stand that students'
needs don't fall into j|
their stereotypical jj
image of 'the aver- I
age student'.
Clayponds Village B
Hall is finally on the jj
College's agenda. I
have been assured that in the next meet-
ing of the Rector's Committee on Student
Residences, the official College propos-
als of how to fund the building of the hall
will be presented as a paper. The IC Trust
has also been
ICU President rumoured to be giv-
ing a large amount
ff; to Ihe project. If you
are on the trust's
board, please think of
what you have given
<HJ money to previously
*r and consider how rel-
evant the applica-
tions have been to
. " |o Ihe ne'-d [oi a
social area in which
students can escape
academia, something
the average student
in another universities doubts happens
at all in IC.
I or those of you who don't know,
there is a Waterstoncs on our campus.
Although this 'service' hasn't been adver-
tised anywhere yet, they specialise in
academic books, specifically relating to
our courses. Their opening hours have
now been extended from 9-6 to 9-7 on
all weekdays.
I have already spoken to some peo-
ple who want to know if they have
received any money from the access
fund. Nearly all of the applications have
been processed and the College is
merely waiting for the finance division to
print out the cheques. If however you
are desperate to find out whether you
have qualified for any money, please
email June Woodward
(J.woodward@lc.ac.uk).
Just a reminder that posts are still
open for next year's Union Officers, the
forms are opposite the Union Office and
they will be elected on 28 May at the
Annual General Meeting in dBs.
m Westminster Eye - Hamish Common
J
ust passing through Imperial at the
moment, so here's my first and final
column of the year for all of you who
missed me from the last two years. The cri-
sis in Kosovo has been been running on
or near the front pages for the past SO days
or so, since NATO started bombing in Ser-
bia. Of course the crisis in Kosovo has
been simmering away for the past few
hundred years, and has roots in old reli-
gious divides and imperialist ambitions in
eastern Europe. Residents of the British
Isles, islands on the north-west extremity of
Europe, have previously had little cause to
worry about the politics and murder of
the Balkans, as it has rarely affected us.
This view is a long way from the truth.
You may remember from history lessons
that it was a Bosnian Serb, the student
Gavrilo Princip, who shot the Archduke
Ferdinand of Austria, the immediate after-
math of which was the First World War. If
one were to draw out the logic, and
assume the rise of the the Nazi Party in Ger-
many resulted from the unsuccessful post-
war Weimar Republic, and that the Nazis
precipitated the Second World War, then
this unknown student sits at the root of the
most momentous - and evil - events in
recent world history.
The centre of gravity of Europe has and
will continue to move steadily east as the
various countries behind the fallen Iron Cur-
tain make their bids to join the EU and
NATO. Poland, Hungary and the Czech
Republic have now joined the command
structure and the all-important Article 5
states that an attack on these countries is
an attack on all the others. Germany's
move of its capital from Bonn to Berlin
pushes the centre of attention in Europe's
most important country (sorry, but it is) hun-
dreds of miles to the east. Perhaps it is no
wonder that the UK and France, left out at
the western end, have made attempts to
set up a stronger European military capac-
ity. Yet most of us struggle to name many
eastern countries, let alone describe their
geography and politics.
The present Kosovo crisis is simply the
latest manifestation of the centuries old
problem. The Balkans sit on a tempera-
mental and violent part of Europe, only a
few short miles away from centres of
Islamic and Judaic power. A little nearer lies
Rome, whose influence over Europe in
previous centuries was not much less than
in the days of the Roman Empire. Add to
that the Orthodox faith, and its Russian, Ser-
bian and Greek denominations, and you
have the recipe for prolonged and bloody
confrontation. The Russians, plus many
other countries in the neighbourhood, feel
a Slavic unity with the Serbs, and national-
ist politicians have not been slow on the
uptake. Islamic countries have kept quiet,
not knowing whether to criticise NATO for
going on the rampage, or to support it for
doing it on Muslims' behalf. Italy has only
the Adriatic separating it from the conflict,
and Italians are wary of the war, not least
with the American protagonists' popularity
in the doldrums after a US Marine fighter,
pilot killed 20 people in the ski-lift tragedy.
The original Yugoslav break-up saw our
modern, dynamic European nations fall
into ancient trenches, with Germany plug-
ging for recognition of Croatia, and the UK
and France supporting Serbia for a while.
The original peace-keeping mission, run by
the United Nations, failed disastrously in its
attempt to stop more killing, sending a
powerful reminder as to what the UN was
and was not capable of. It took an uncom-
promising message from NATO to force
them to the negotiating table. Slobodan
Milosovic. who many credit the whole
responsibility for the break-up of Yugoslavia,
was a required negotiator and NATO knew
they had to have his support to get a deal.
Kosovo was left off the cards.
Milosovic's wish to re-integrate Kosovo
into a 'Greater Serbia' has its routes in the
mythical tales of Prince Lazar, who hero-
ically died on the fields of Kosovo protect-
ing the Serbian peoples (unfortunately he
lost and Serbia was dominated by the Turks
for a few centuries, but it is a testament to
the skill of Serbian politicians that they
have made a defeat into such a national-
ist celebration). Milosovic removed the
autonomy granted to Kosovo by Tito, who
was skillful in balancing nationalist pres-
sures while keeping Yugoslavia united. Ser-
bians argue that Kosovo was previously
theirs, and that the 'recent' influx of Mus-
lims of Albanian descent is no fault of
theirs. It is with these arguments that
Milosovic has been able to force his way
into Kosovo and 're-align' the ethnic bal-
ance. There is something ironic in the
Serbs' comparison of the NATO bombing
to the Nazis when a clearer comparison
could be found in their ethnic cleansing
and extermination. There is little doubt
that this latest surge in ethnic cleansing had
been planned for months, and Serbia's
negotiating tactics in Rambouillet stood
as a testament to it. The bombing provided
them with the opportunity to blame NATO
for it.
The NATO countries have had their
share of troubles in the bombing too. In
the United States, their constitution effec-
tively prohibits war without Congress's
approval, with its members looking to the
media and their constituents first, and mil-
itary thinking second. The success of the
Gulf War is still considered to have been
attributed to the air supremacy secured by
the Allies, when it was the ground war •
(made considerably easier by being fought
on a large flat desert) that won it. Clinton
is further ensnared by the political fallout
from any American deaths, and conse-
quently orders US planes to fly high, so as
not to get shot down - which means they
can't see their targets properly. So they
occasionally miss and shoot up tractors or
embassies. Rivalries between the services
and a distrust of 'foreign' intelligence -
even when obtained from allied countries
like ours - create communication break-
downs which lead to disasters. Apparently
when the USAF F-117 came down over Ser-
bia, the loudest laughs came from the US
Navy and Army, who thought the USAF
were far too arrogant anyway. A ground
invasion is easily possible: It would take sev-
eral divisions - perhaps 100,000 men and
losses up to 20% - NATO sources suggest.
This is the only way Serbia could be
crushed. An independent or autonomous
Kosovo against Serbian wishes would
require similar military manpower and
losses, statistics the military provided before
the bombing began. Otherwise it's a humil-
iating climbdown, agreement with a Russ-
ian-sponsored peace plan, possibly
involving the UN, which was originally
snubbed.
What a pity they didn't think about that
in the first place.

