R S M
Yet another copydate for FELIX arrives and
Colin Palmer is looking at me in a pleading,
soulful manner, which means it's time to put
quill to papyrus and give birth to a Mines
article.
Since the last article, the last two Freshers'
Dinners have 'occurred'. There was a good
number of freshers staying for the yards and
games after the Met and Mat Sci Dinner and
the Min Res Eng was, as is usually the case,
inimitable. For those not in Mines, it would be
a good idea to ask the stupefied guildsmen
and scientists who were present at the after-
dinner bash, as to just how good it was.
There is going to be a Rag Collection on
Saturday 3 November (ie tomorrow), so fall
out of bed and crawl to the Union Office at
9:30 in the morning. Be there!
On Friday 9 November, there is going to be
an Aussie Barnight in the Union Bar (where
else?) - wear your shorts, Aussie tee shirts
and hats with corks.
The following day sees the Lord Mayor's
Procession, in which Mines has a float. Lots
of people are needed to help put the float
together - if you are interested see Andy
Lewis or Bernie Pryor via the Union Office.
Those putting a lot of effort into it will stand a
better chance of having a place on the float
itself. The Lord Mayor himself has interests in
the mining world and last Tuesday three
miners, Bernie Pryor, Andy Lewis and Pete
Gilligan (of the Texan beard) were invited a
press reception at the Clothworkers Hall in
the City. Along with the other selected guests
(such as Goldfields, Walt Disney, China,
Costains etc) they met the ladies and
gentlemen of Fleet Street and had there fill of
free drinks (lucky sodsl). This may account
for the sightings on Tuesday of three
individuals in mining gear wandering around
Mines looking (and acting) rather the worse
for wear.
On Sunday 11 November there will be a
Raft Race. Bearers are going to be needed.
Further details later. There is an RSM UGM
on Tuesday 13 November at 12:30pm in G20.
Turn up for this and throw things at Bernie,
Simon and Trev.
In the evening Chaps Club are holding
Ragerama, a fete in aid of Rag which will start
at 6:30pm in the Union Lower Lounge.
FOREIGN STUDENTS TRIPS
We have been invited to send two
representatives to another two international
weeks, in St Etienne, France and Loeben,
Austria. The dates are 9-16 December so if
you want to go skiing or drinking wine, see
Mlkey Lee (Geol 1, and perveyor of imported
literature). The BAD NEWS is that our very
own Foreign Students Week runs from 9-16
December as well and is regarded very highly
in Europe (honest).
MINING AND METALLURGICAL SOCIETY
Squadron Leader Peter Bamford implores
me to tell you chaps that there is a Min and
Met Soc lecture 'Communications Within the
Mining Industry' on Monday 5 November by
Mike West, an ex-RSM wallah who is Editorial
Director of the Mining Journal. So scramble
and get up to the Mining Lecture Theatre at
6pm next Monday.
PEDAL CAR CLUB
Results of last year's 24hr Bristol Pedal Car
Race (yes, I thought it's a bit late as well).
Mines team came 18th with 884 laps.
That's it! Now you can get back to reading
letters about the occupation (what?) and the
Rag Mag.
R C S
Despite a rather poor turnout of only about
thirty people, Saturday's 'Underwater
Company' Rag stunt managed to raise £550
(enough to buy a radio hearing-aid and
change one child's life, so that even Barney's
piano playing is music to his radio ears). Had
we managed to rally sixty, ninety or even one
hundred and twenty people, we could
possibly widen the horizon of up to four
children a week. Whether you enjoy conkers
or not, please come to the RCSU at 9:30 on
Saturday, and we'll make it two hearing aids.
The Physics Dinner was very successful,
with some good after-dinner speeches by Dr
New and Dr Morgan (against whom Mr
McCabe has put out a contract). Questions as
to the significance of the pink bow around
Theta and the arrival of a rather delicate
porcelain rose were answered by the rumour
that Sean O'Boyle is becoming a romantic.
If any of you went to any of the Freshers'
Dinners remember that you can come to the
disco after the Life Sciences Dinner tonight.
Sunday sees another Rag float building
session in the RCSU and we will hopefully be
finishing the construction and painting the
armour.
Jim wants a little more help on Wednesday
so that broadsheet can be finished a little
earlier than 1am. So if you can type, write,
draw or just make coffee and be friendly
come to the RCSU Wednesday afternoon.
Finally, the Smoking Concert is on 14
November and we still need sketches and
help on the production side. See Rich Archer,
Chem 2, if you're interested.
Steve Tyson
CITY AND GUILDS
This is a fairly short article this week as
there was not much happening last week. The
Aero Freshers' Dinner was enjoyed by all
those who attended and our dinners will be
finished by the time you read this. The events
coming up are:
SATURDAY 3 NOVEMBER: Guilds are going
to Oxford St to measure it in a variety of
Guilds' units such as a BO, a Spanner, a Bolt,
a Scarf and the latest unit derived by the
research workers of Guilds, the Megaoo ie Jo
x 10''. We will be meeting in the Guilds' Office
at 9:30am to collect the cans and measures,
f UNDA" 4 NOVEMBER: The Brighton run.
the.coaches leave at 9:15am promptly from
Beit Arch, so be there on time. The cars leave
Hyde Park at 8:00am and BO will leave about
8:20am. Guilds will be out there in pyjamas to
see her off. If you are up early enough to
come to the BO garage at 6:30 onwards to
help polish her. There still might be tickets for
the coach so come to the Guilds Office.
S A T U R D A Y 10 N O V E M B E R : L o r d
Mayors/Guilds Show.
See you at Brighton.
BRYAN
C&GU Publicity Officer
ICWA
Have you ever felt like a cup of coffee, tea or
orange squash? Do y o u hate vending
machine attempts? Well women, take
advantage of the ICWA lounge. It's open all
day with newspapers and magazines. You do
of course, have to make your own drink, but
everything you need is there except cups, but
I'm sure you've all got spare mugs. The room
has just received new chairs and apart from
the colour,they're very nice.
Well, since I've started writing this article,
I'll take the opportunity to remind you that
tickets for the ICWA ball will be on sale from
the ICWA lounge each lunchtime. This will be
a very enjoyable event with a meal, Frankie
Armstrong (a folk singer), a dance band and a
disco and bar extension open until 2pm.
There will be an ICWA general meeting on
Tuesday 13 November at 1pm in the ICWA
lounge, at which elections will take place for
the following posts: Deputy President,
Publicity Officer, Entertainments Officer,
Overseas Representative, Post Graduate
R e p r e s e n t a t i v e , C i t y a n d G u i l d s
Representative and representatives for the
Chemistry. Life Sciences, Physics and Mines
departments.
Any woman interested should find a
proposer and two seconders and sign the
nomination papers on the noticeboard
outside the Union Office. The papers will go
up on Tuesday 30 October and come down
on Monday 12 November at 5:30pm.
Also we are arranging a trip to see the
London Contemporary Ballet at Sadlers
Wells Theatre on Thursday 6 December. If
anyone is interested could you let me know
by putting a letter in the ICWA pigeon hole in
the Union Office. For more than ten people,
tickets will be £1.50 for students and £2.50for
other adults. The programme is 'Scene Shift',
'Eos' and 'Clover Kingdom'.
13

