ZIMBABWE
On 11 November I965, UDI was declared by
Ian Smith. Ever since that time his regime has
brought more torture and suffering to the
black people of Zimbabwe. The so-called
'internal settlement' of 3 March I978 has not
lessened the problem, in fact it has escalated.
Over 95% of the country is now under martial
law.
Bishop Muzorewa's puppet government
have caused the murder of thousands of
people in Zimbabwe and in the neighbouring
countries. The Mozambican government is at
this moment having extreme difficulty with
the massive influx of refugees fleeing
Zimbabwe, and also having to defend itself
from the invading forces.
At the time when the British press had a
large coverage about the Patriotic Front
leaders refusing to go to a cocktail party with
the c o m m i t t e e at L a n c a s t e r H o u s e ,
Muzorewa's forces were bombing a refugee
camp in Moazmbique (which only managed
to get four lines in the Guardian).
This is the first in an occasional series of
articles on the subject of hitch-hiking which I
hope might prove to be of use and interest to
some people. It is mainly a personal view, but
I have drawn some of my information from
books written on the subject (eg 'Let's G o
Europe').
In this article I'd like to answer a few
arguments used by people who think that
hitch-hiking is in some way wrong or too
unreliable as a means of getting from A to B.
'It's a Form of Begging'
I really object to the view that if you can't
afford to travel by conventional means, you
shouldn't travel at all. The hitch-hiker cannot
in any way force drivers to give him a lift;
they'll only give you a iift if they have room in
the vehicle and they want some company.
Thankfully there are also those who feel a
social responsibility to give lifts. It doesn't put
them out much and some drivers, especially
truckers and salesmen, are glad of the
company. Two examples spring to mind, a
driver who had left the motorway at every
interchange in search of hitcher, before he
found me, because he was bored out of his
mind and another van driver who stopped for
me because,«as he said: "I knew it was time to
find somebody to talk to because I was
starting to tell myself jokes." I reckon hitch-
hikers perform a public service by helping
truck drivers to stay awake on long motorway
runs.
'It's Slow and Unreliable'
Of course it can be; there is no way that you
can guarantee that you'll get where you want
to within a certain time limit, but then public
transport is fallible too. There's an element of
luck in the lifts you get, although this can be
reduced to reasonable probabilities if you are
Carrington's proposals offer no solution to
•the problem:
1. A n election in two months time is
ridiculous! How can you have a democratic
election when there is not enough time for the
voters to be registered? This is how
Muzorewa was 'elected'.
2. Another proposal is for a British governor
to oversee the transitional period. The PF
want a six person committee which consists
of three PF members, t w o V A N C (Muzorewa's
party) members and»one white. A much more
democratic basis surely!
3. Carrington also wants British troops to take
over the security forces. The PF want United
Nations troops to do this job. Which of the
two is likely to be the more unbiased?
4. The lifting of sanctions. At first sight this
appears rather trivial since we've all heard of
the Oilgate scandal etc. But sanctions have
caused some problems. The army is not as
mobile as it likes and the lifting of sanctions
by Britain (the decision date is 14 November)
in the right place at the right time (more
details about the right places and times in the
next article). Maybe I'm lucky but several
times I've left the Union Bar when it shut on a
Friday lunchtime and hitched to Swansea in
time for the pubs evening opening time.
'It's not Safe'
For single women it probably isb't, there
are still quite a few 'fast drivers' (in both
senses of the phrase) around. For men it's a
lot easier (although I was propositioned once
I got out of that car V E R Y quick).
Hitching in pairs is safer for women, but
slower because some drivers either cannot
(because of lack of space) or will not pick up
more than one person at a time. There's
always the problem of maniacal drivers who
put your safety at stake by their abominable
driving; if you feel really frightened just
pretend you're about to be sick al I over the car
they soon slow down or let you out.
'Only Tramps and Long-haired Degenerates
Hitch-hike'
Far from it. The main classes of people 'on
the road' are:
1. Servicemen
They stay in uniform and generally get lifts
very quickly.
2. 'Trade Drivers'
They carry red 'trade plates' used for
temporary registration of vehicles, which
gives them preference amongst fellow
drivers.
3. Students
The college scarf can act like the old school
tie, because there are quite a lot of people
who have cars now but used to hitch in their
student days (an ex-IC student once took me
twenty miles out of his way).
4. Tramps and long-haired degenerates.
Hitch-hiking can be great fun; you meet all
sorts of people and you get to places you may
not have been able to afford to visit otherwise.
Enough of this romanticising about life on the
road....next week more useful information:
general principles of hitch-hiking, choosing
your routes and how to get lifts.
Gilly Anchors
would cause the rest of the world to lift their
sanctions, with the inevitability of arms being
sent to support a government which uses
martial law to suppress the majority of the
people. Apartheid has not ceased because
Muzorewa came to power. He is just a puppet.
The atrocities have increased and are still
going on at this moment.
There will be a march on 11
November from Speakers
Corner at 1:30pm. Your
support is needed.
Jan
Czernuszka
PWP
(and they AflE permanently working)
Monday's drawn-out meeting of I C U
Permanent Working Party was attended by a
number of observers, mainly Dep Reps (for
discussion on wastage of heat and paper in
the Union, and in the College in general) and
Union Officers, putting their cases for a
Union place in Hall for next year's incumbent.
The first topic proved less contentious and
it seems likely that recommendations for
double-sided printing and closer controls of
'extra copies' will be circulated, together with
(another) concerted campaign to cut heating
and lighting costs this winter.
The Union Hall places controversy raged
as bitterly as ever - the main difficulty
appearing to be how one defined 'essential'
and 'helpful'. One valid point is that stripping
Sabbatical Officers of their free House/Hall
place would involve substantial remuneration
and/or payment of rent.
Further (and it is to be hoped final)
discussion is planned for next week. See
Gary Dearmer at Council Sherry if you are
involved.
Mick Berry
'Token non-aligned
CHRISTMAS
HALL
DINNER
Tuesday 11
December
See P A T in the Union Office. Bookings
open at 11:00 am Monday, November
12th. C l o s i n g date - M o n d a y ,
D e c e m b e r 3 r d . Price - £ 3 . 7 0 .
15

