Review — Collins English Dictionary
This book is symptomatic of the current on-
going situation in the americanisation of the
English language. The title itself contains two
misnomers: it is neither specifically English
or a dictionary. It <s in fact a small
encyclopedia since it contains in its 162,000
entries, geographical details of now defunct
counties such as Denbighshire and short
biographies of authors such as John Le
Carre. A s to the supposed purpose of a
dictionary that r' listing and defining words
of a particular la.iguage, it fails to a certain
extent, since it tries to encompass all the
varieties of English which now exist in the
world and in particular the American
language.
It is indeed curious that the list of special
consultants included at the beginning of *he
book does not list a specialist in 'American
English'. Does one presume that English
scholars consider American and English to
be identical - from the dictionary entries it
appears that this is so. Of particular note are
the phrases 'no way' and 'guidelines' which
are good American and good German (kline
weg and rechts linien respectively) but bad
English. Similarly, that invidious word
'situation' which has crept into everything
from politics (international situation) to
tennis (duce situation) is listed as if there was
nothing wrong with these usages. Identical
remarks can be applied to those words
ending in -ize or -ization. The editors have
failed to realise that English and American,
while they have a similar vocabulary, have a
different structure so that they should be
treated as separate languages and not
lumped into one hotch-potch.
Does then this dictionary have anything to
offer the English reader? The answer is yes in
two different ways. Firstly those words which
it quaintly calls 'taboo slang' are defined with
their proper and ancillary meanings. This is
valuable since it records the use of our own
everyday spoken language; which has not
been done until very recently. This is
demonstrated by the fact that very few
specific origins are given in the dictionary for
these words.
The second valuable function of this
dictionary is its admirable non-euthemistic
definitions of political terms. Words and
phrases such as liquidate, final solution,
eliminate, etc.. are given their proper
meaning in their political usage, ie the murder
of inconvenient individuals for political
reasons. The dictionary will have performed
an immensely valuable function if those
interested in politics, not only outside the
college, took the meaning of these words and
some others to heart.
To conclude: the dictionary is excellent
value at eight pounds and ninety-five pence;
it is clearly and accurately printed. But
remember when using it that it is a dictionary
of two languages and treat it accordingly.
Frank
James
ICCU BOOKWEEK 1979
THE
ITALIAN
CONNECTION
I find some strange correspondence in my
pigeon hole sometimes but a letter I received
last week takes a bit of beating. It was from
the Director of a University College in Padua
(after extensive enquiries around the Union
Office, I discovered this was somewhere in
Italy) and I quote from it:
"....Now as they are very serious boys we
would like to put them in touch with your
students of engineering and matematical
physics so that they can either exchange
correspondence or exchange one another
staying visits..."
Somebody should correct me if I am wrong
but I take this as meaning that the students at
this Italian College want pen-friends. Here
then, is your chance to discuss Quantum
Physics in Italian, to have meaningful
discussions on how engineers can save the
city of Venice or perhaps even have the
opportunity of a cheap holiday in Italy next
summer. H o w can y o u miss this chance!
In order that I don't become inundated with
enquiries about this Italian connection here's
the address to write to:
Giancarlo Granello,
Collegio Universitario,
. Gregorianum,
Padova,
Italy.
The buck has successfully been passed...
Gary Nichols
ICU AAO
Why bother with Jesus? This is the theme
of this year's Bookweek, which begins o n .
Monday 5 November. What is Bookweek, you
may ask? A few words of explanation are in
order. It is run by Christians in College who
feel that, all too often, people today are being
confronted by cults who claim that Jesus is
but one way to God, that He was just one of
many prophets. But we as Christians believe
that He is the only way, for He Himself said, "I
am the way and the truth and the life. No-one
comes to the Father except through me."
(John 14.6)
Through Bookweek, we hope to be able to
talk openly to people, especially our non-
Christian friends, about our faith, and also to
enable people to consider further His
wonderful offer of salvation, through reading.
The main book for this week is "Why Bother
With Jesus?", by Michael Green, Rector of St
Aldates' Church in Oxford. This is a lively
discussion on why we should take Jesus
seriously, and is well worth getting. Two
other books we would like you to read are
'The Case Against Christ' and 'Evidence for
the Resurrection'. Copies of these will be on
sale on bookstalls throughout the College.
There will also be available other Christian
books, Bibles and tracts. The latter will be
free of charge. *
Finally, I would like to tell you about some
other events being held during Bookweek. At
6:30pm on Tuesday 6 November, there will be
a thirty minute film entitled, 'A Day With Cliff
Richard', in room 342 Mech Eng. Many of you
will of course know that Cliff is a Christian
and an active witness for the Lord. On
Thursday 8 November, Sandy Millar, from
Holy Trinity, Brompton, will be giving a talk
on 'Why Bother With Jesus?'. This will be at
1:30pm in the Senior C o m m o n Room, Union
Building. Incidentally Holy Trinity, Brompton
is a lively Anglican church just a Few minutes'
walk from Southside, and is well worth a visit.
Don't forget Bookweek is between 5-9
November.
Why Bother With Jesus?
Is Jesus of Nazaretn a historical figure or
just a myth? Is he the Son of God, or was he
just a good man?
B e g i n n i n g with the q u e s t i o n " W h y
bother?", Michael Green, the Rector of a
large, lively church in Oxford, outlines man's
need of Jesus in relation to aspects of Jesus'
life and teaching. The chapters are concise
and thought-provoking. Two particularly
interesting ones are 'Bother Because He is
Real', where some historical evidence for
Jesus' existence is set out and 'Bother
Because He Conquered Death', where Jesus'
alleged resurrection is discussed: the empty
tomb, the resurrection appearances to his
followers, their changed lives, and the rise of
the Christian Church. The verdict: Jesus did
rise from the dead.
Writing in a conversational style, Green
quotes well-known people as examples of
how Jesus can change a man's life, giving
fulfilment of a kind not previously
experienced.
This book is especially relevant to you if
you are beginning to seriously consider
Jesus' amazing claims about himself, for
example that he was the long awaited
'Messiah'
Available from Christian Union bookstalls
around college in the week 5-9 November,
'Why Bother With Jesus' is published by
Hodder and will cost 60p. e-^flVJCl
Guy
16

