The film stars Peter O'Toole as Lord Chelmsford, who is trying to gain
prestige by conquering the Zulus. He has previously starred in
'Lawrence of Arabia', 'Goodbye Mr Chips' and.'How to Steal a Million'.
Burt Lancaster plays Colonel A W Durnford, a hardened officer who has
been in Africa for seventeen years. Lancaster's many film credits
include 'The Train' and 'Birdman of Alcatraz'. Sid Birtle Frere, the high
commissioner is played by John Mills, well-known for his roles in 'Oh
What a Lovely War', 'Young Winston' and 'The Thirty Nine Steps'.
The film leaves one with the feeling that it is quite good, but only
because there are no major faults to criticize. Being based closely on
fact, the film is almost a documentary; it doesn't dwell on the characters
of the people. There is a bit of tension, but no satisfactory climax,
despite the moderately lavish budget. The film lacks personal feelings,
but not action. The acting is brilliant, especially Peter O'Toole who
offsets the background of the hopelessness of the war to good effect.
Lancaster and Mills play their parts well, but the script allows them to
put virtually no character into the people they were portraying. It
seemed like a lot of little boys sharing their skills and running off to war
with no depth of feeling.
Technically, the film was quite well produced but there was some
misleading perspective in the run-up to tbe battle scences, when it
seemed that the two armies were closer than they really were.
It is, however, an enjoyable film, ideal for educating twelve year olds
on the Boer Wars or even for providing entertainment for IC students.
R&B EXTRAVAGANZA
ELECTRIC BALLROOM
Five bands for £2.50, what an evening it
promised to be. I arrived early, intending to
drink some beer and get a good place near
the front. First on stage were the Bogey Boys,
w h o s o u n d e d like an Irish G e o r g e
Thorogood, and played a superb version of
J J Cale's 'Cocaine'.
Next were Red Beans and Rice, with a
singer who sounded very much like Wilson
Pickett, and played soul music the way it used
to be played before disco came along anc
screwed it up. The guitarist of the Little
Roosters used to be in Cock Sparrer and it
showed, but only slightly. They played an
energetic set ably assisted by Blast Furnace,
guesting on harp (that's harmonica to you
lot!).
"Boogie on your back, boogie on your
feet...." The blues-wailing sound of Lew
Lewis Reformer cut through my drunken
haze, the interplay between guitar and
harmonica, over a steady bass and drums,
made for an excellent sound, both of old
blues numbers and the band's own material.
Having seen the Inmates in a pub, about a
month ago, I was very disappointed. They
seemed to have lost something, including
many of theirstronger numbers. The Rumour
brass section aided them on a number of
songs, but somehow it still didn't sound right
Anyway, by the end of the gig, I was
t h o r o u g h l y k n a c k e r e d , and although
disappointed with the Inmates, Id been
introduced to some really good bands, so.
check out Red Beans and Rice if you like
good soul music, and of course Lew Lewis
Reformer, I enjoyed most of it, and it seemed
to me that everybody else did.
SID BAYLIUS
Some of the 30,000 Zulu warriors
The calm before the storm
The height ol the Battle Research and review by
ot Isandlhwana M a ,
T Freeman
Marie-Theresa Weech
Jeremy Nunns
STREET LIGHT SHINE LP
by the Shirts
The Shirts are a six-piece band from Noo
Yawk City. They have not received a great
deal of media recognition in this country, but
you may know their lead singer, Annie
Golden, from her appearance in the film
version of 'Hair'.
Their first album, ingeniously entitled 'The
Shirts', was in my opinion, one of the best
debut albums of 1978. Not only did it contain
some great pop music, but it was packaged in
a cleverly designed record sleeve portraying
an empty shirt playing a guitar!
The cover of their second LP, 'Street Light
Shine' is not nearly so exciting, in fact, you
could say it's rather dull. Indeed, the whole
album seems to suffer from the same thing
that marred the Shirts' live performances in
London earlier this year; an acute lack of
personality.
Beginning life as a folk band in the early
seventies, the Shirts didn't receive any real
recognition until 1977, as part of the 'new
wave'. On Street Light Shine, the band refuse
to allow either type of music to influence their
material, preferring it to remain blandly pop-
orientated.
But evert so, they still don't appear to be at
ease with their own songs and tend to adopt a
different disguise for each track, as on 'Love
is a Fiction', where they do an excellent
impersonation of the Doolies, or the Rachel
Sweetish 'Can't Cry Anymore'.
But despite its obvious failings, the album
is made worthwhile J»y two great tracks,
Laugh and Walk Away' and 'Starts with a
Handshake', where the Shirts display what
they do best; fast, bouncy pop. It's a pity that
these songs will probably remain forever
hidden on an otherwise unexceptional
album.
Maz
PHOTOSOC
IC Photographic Society will be holding a lecture
entitled 'Now You See it - Now You Don't' on
Tuesday 6 November in RSM 303, to be given by Mr
D P Hodgkinson, MPS.
The purpose of the lecture, as Mr Hodgkinson
states, is to demonstrate in a practical manner the
advantages of a polarizing filter to obtain improved
colour rendering in the finished product, be it print
or transparency and particularly in relation to open
air and landscape photography. Many
transparencies will be shown in sequential pairs,
showing the with and without effect.
Needless to say, this promises to bC* an
exceptionally interesting lecture -1 trust you will be
there.
GERMAN EXHANGE SCHOLARSHIP
One Scholarship Ii ottered tor the 1980-81 session
through the German Academic Exchange Service.
The Scholarship is tenable at any West German
University. There is no restriction on the field ol
study. The minimum basic value of the award Is IM
850 per month lor ten months, plus allowances lor
books, travel expenses, health insurance, and
Incidental expenses. No academic fees will be
payable. A student married before he or she takes
up the award will be paid an additional allowance of
IM 200 per month.
The Imperial College nominee will be a student of
high academic ability with a good knowledge of the
German language and mutt be of British nationality.
Applications on a special form obtainable Irom the
Scholarships Otllce, Room 319, Sherfield Building,
should be submitted by 1 February 1980.
BALLS, PADS AND BATS
Would anybody knowing the whereabouts of any
items of IC Cricket Club's kit please get in touch
with Neil Price Mech Eng 3 through the internal
mail.
Also, any cricketer who is interested in buying a
long sleeved or sleeveless cricket sweater in
Imperial colours could they give their names to
Martin EllacoW, Min Tech 2 or Weeks Hall, within the
next week, incicating which type of sweater they
would prefer. Sleeveless £11 and long sleeved £15
18

