SPORT
In the absence of the Times, and with the
continuing ITV strike, reports and screenings
of some of the premier football matches have
been badly missed. I therefore feel it my duty
to inform all FELIX readers of Saturday's epic
U L U cup-tie between IC 2nd XI and U C 2nd
XI.
After a ragged first ten minutes, IC settled
down and began to play the ball about. Soon
the IC pressure began to tell, and we forced
five consecutive corners. Dave Dean then had
an excellent shot-on-the-turn well saved. A
free-kick made the U C goalkeeper perform a
mid-air juggling act with the ball, but still we
could not score. U C later made several
sustained attacks, but with veteran Chris
Beer reinforcing the defence, we held firm.
Half-time came with the deadlock unbroken.
Both teams now began to play with more
aggression a n d determination. A l Lenczner
made several brave runs, but still no goals
came. A couple of U C breakaways produced
good chances, but IC persevered with their
attack. A late corner fell for Dave Dean,
whose shot was cleared off the line, and
seconds later, goalkeeper Al Betts, pulled out
an 'elastic-armed' save to deny U C . The game
ended as a 0-0 draw, to be replayed
tomorrow.
I trust this report will satisfy those who were.
unable to obtain tickets for the game.
Giles Breton
IC 4th» vs Holloway 3rds
This last week has seen IC 4ths first
competitive matches of the season. Both
coincidently against the same team. O n
Wednesday, away to R H C 3rds, in appalling
conditions, their pitch being the size of a
gnat's arse, with contours reminiscent of a
gravel pit, we could only manage a 4-3 win.
ICRFC 1sts 19
Royal Holloway 1sts 3
I C R F C Ists travelled to Egham on Saturday
and accomplished a satisfying victory over
last season's Gutteridge C u p winners, Royal
Holloway.
The match started at a furious pace and
Royal Holloway quickly scored with a penalty
from inside IC's 22 metre line. From this point
in time, the IC pack began to play much better
and Royal Holloway were increasingly placed
on the defence. Finally this pressure paid off
and after swift passing from the IC
threequarters R a y ( O l d M a n again!)
Parkinson went over for a try beneath the goal
posts. Steve Doloney increased the lead with
the conversion.
RUGBY
IC 3rds vs Wimbledon 4ths
14 : 3
IC just managed to round up a side to play
'the dons', but it meant the inclusion of the IC
first team skipper at full back. Despite this
setback, IC were convident of a win, because
all the pack were playing positions which
they were used to playing in - unlike the week
before when there was a winger playing
hooker, a number eight playing prop and a
flanker playing second row and of course the
inevitable footballer playing centre.
Neil Price
Last Saturday IC Vth XI beat L S E IVth XI, 3-
2, in the preliminary round of the U L U Cup. In
a scrappy, wr,|-ccntested match, which saw
them 2-0 down at half-time, IC showed that
they have the playing ability to match their
determination.
L S E might argue that a draw would have
been a fair result; but the outcome was just.
No team that squanders a 2-0 lead deserves to
win a cup tie.
Skip
University College Hospital 1 IC Ists 4
IC travelled to Shenley without their
recognised centre-forward and with a dismal
record which gave little hope of victory.
However, IC settled down first and began to
dominate the early stages. Dick Veenam and
Andy Haralampous went close as IC
pressured the home defence. But IC found it
difficult to score until Graham Rickard
cunningly played a low corner to lan
Stevenson standing unmarked on the edge of
the box, whose shot blasted through the
crowded penalty area and into the net.
Adrian Clarke and Kev Buckley running
tirelessly in midfield had taken over and
Buckley provided the final pass for goal
number four. He put Andy Haralampous clear
with only the goalkeeper to beat. His shot hit
the goalkeeper's legs, but he volleyed the
looping rebound off the goalpost to complete
the scoring and settle the issue beyond
doubt.
Team: Betts-Gamble, Reeve, Kenrik,
C u r r a n - C l a r k e , B u c k l e y , H a r a l a m p o u s ,
Stevenson-Veenam, Rickard.
The Geordie Goalscorer
STRANGE BEHAVIOUR ON ELEC ENG
ROOF
Here it is at last! T h e H A M S O C article,
proving I'm not completely illiterate.
For those of you wondering why IC
students should form a pig-breeding society,
rest assured it is nothing of the sort, only
R A D S O C with an up-to-date title. So what's
R A D S O C , H A M S O C or whatever, you ask?
Well, we're a bunch of nutters (or dedicated
enthusiasts, if you prefer) who spend
Wednesday afternoons in a hut on the
electrical engineering roof. Having dragged
ourselves up there, we have two radio
transmitter/receivers with which we inflict
ourselves on the airwaves. To transmit you
need a licence, but listening is a great pastime
in itself, and if you want to, we will help you
get your licence.
VERY LATE NEWS SEE PAGE 18
It is the 1870s. The British Empire is reaching its height under the
reign of Queen Victoria and the policies of the Prime Minister, Benjamin
Disraeli, are daily increasing Britain's wealth and lands. However, in
Central South Africa, Lord Chelmsford, commander in chief of Her
Majesty's forces (played by Peter O T o o l e ) together with the newly
appointed High Commissioner, Sir Henry Bartle Frere (played by John
Mills) see the greatest threat to Britain's rule as the Zulus whose
kingdom borders Natal. The Zulu warriors, feared by British and Boers
alike, are highly trained and organised. They obey their ruler, King
Cetshwayo (played by Simon Sabella) without question and his rule is
autocratic and absolute. He would defend his right to rule under Zulu
law with eloquence, for he is a highly intelligent man but, also if
necessary with force. Chelmsfored and Bartle Frere send messages to
London continually each asking more urgently for more troops to
defend Natal. In London, the Colonial Office refuses their requests all
through the summer of 1878, but eventually, on recognising that the
three week communication delay between Natal and London could be
disastrous, troops are sent out in the December of 1878 as a
precautionary measure. The troops arrive and Chelmsford and Frere
immediately contrive an ultimatum to give to the Zulu king, which they
know the Zulus cannot accept. It commits Britain to war, directly in
conflict with London's instructions; which were to make peace with the
black tribes, to gain support against the Boers. Thus began a war which
Chelmsford and Frere confidently think will be brief and conclusive in
bringing the Zulus to heel. A war that is to become exceedingly bloody
and one of the few defeats Britain had in its colonial wars. It was
tragically misdirected and extracting a terrible price in both wealth and
lives. Zulu Dawn is an epic film, produced in the centenary year of the
war, that charts the devastation caused by Lord Chelmsford's
ultimatum.
| JEZ
WILL
I PUT
TOGETHER
f THIS
\ WEEKEND
lan Morse
Maz
Mary Freeman
Roger Stotesbury
Pat Leggett
Marie-Therese
Dave Fuller
John Clark CREDITS
Chris Webb
Paul Johnson
Many Perkins
Simon Chandler
Jeremy Nunns
& Ace paste-up artist Margaret
FELIX is published by the Acting Editor, on behalf of
the Imperial College Publications Board. FELIX Is
printed on the Union premises in Prince Consort
Road, London SW7.
Acting Editor: C R Palmer
FELIX ISSN 0140-0711. Registered at the Post
Office. Copyright FELIX 1979.
9

