WHY WE SHOULD OPPOSE
CUTS IN EDUCATION
In recent weeks there has been much talk in
IC and FELIX over government policy on
education. Criticism of the action of ICU has
consisted of poor reporting and bigoted
letters in FELIX. However, to be fair, opposers
of these cuts have failed to fully publicize the
facli, and more importantly, show the
immoral basis of current policy. I hope to
correct this. Firstly however, I would like to
draw attention to two examples of FELIX'S
biased attitude to the fight against the cuts.
1.19 October FELIX front page: The 'narrow
majority' of fifteen was on the vote on Chris
Webb's amendment to the occupation
motion. The actual vote on the occupation
motion gave a majority of over fifty, hardly
narrow. If people wanted to vote against the
motion, they should have had enough faith in
their beliefs to act.
2. 26 October FELIX front page: The nasty
cartoon associated with an article on the
Rector's speech at commemoration day -
obviously directed against those opposing
the cuts. Students fighting the cuts will be cut
themselves?
A fuller presentation of the facts is available
on the back page of 26 October FELIX, and in
the last Exec News.
Some things are blatantly obvious from
these policies. Firstly, a racialist policy has
been operated in education, and this will be
escalated. This is an insult to other countries,
p a r t i c u l a r l y the u n d e r d e v e l o p e d , a n d
assumes that overseas students area burden.
On the contrary, they enrich our lives and
provide useful social, political and economic
ties, forging trading links with our country. It
is obvious the education of overseas students
is an immense help to underdeveloped
countries and current policy evidently says,
"We don't want you!"
reduction in nursery expenditure is in
contradiction, to the Tory manifesto. This
government also promised to maintain
essential services, but how the proposed
reductions will not eventually close courses,
education establishments and ultimately
reduce standards and opportunities is
beyond me. Presumably education is a non-
essential service? Try telling that to the
millions of children and parents involved in
schools and colleges!
So the government reneges on promises,
and acts through selfish and bigoted instinct,
instead of commonsense. In a democracy,
the only thing we can do to change such
policy is protest, demonstrate and publicize
I 1 1 1 1 •
1 j. • m
Photo by Chris Webb
The Commemoration Day protest inside the
Albert Hall
It is to be noted that these two worst
examples are both on the front page. Perhaps
FELIX can publish opinions outside the
reporting columns in future?
Some Facts
1. £55million reduction in central government
expenditure on education.
2. £l50million reduction in local government
expenditure on education.
3. 60% increase in overseas students fees,
1977-78, 30% increase in overseas students
fees, 1979-80.
4. The near certainty that the government will
charge overseas students the mythical full
cost for the year 1980-81, £2,550.
5. The cut in nursery education of 32%.
6. £60million available to send bright pupils to
independent schools from 1981.
Secondly, expenditure on education
available to everyone is being decreased,
while increasing expenditure on the more
academically capable. Such a policy destroys
a b a s i c p r i n c i p l e of c o m p r e h e n s i v e
education, that a person should be able to
achieve their full potential in whichever field
they are capabler. Such a policy decreases
opportunities for many, while increasing
them for the few. It will be socially devisive,
and result in envy and hatred, at a time when it
is blatantly obvious that many of our
problems are due to the inability to
communicate with each other
Thirdly, education is being cut when it
should be expanded We face problems of
high unemployment and increased leisure
time c a u s e d by the m i c r o p r o c e s s o r
revolution and one of the most obvious ways
for people to use time creatively is by learning
skills and pursuing interests, otherwise not
open to them.
It has been said frequently that any action
to protest against these p o l i c i e s is
a u t o m a t i c a l l y a c o n f r o n t a t i o n with a
government, elected by a large majority. So it
is, but no mention was made of such cuts
during the general election, indeed the
Photo by Paul Johnson
The 'Funeral March' makes its way to the
Albert Hall
the facts. We are in the process of creating an
education system based on privilege, racism
and envy. It is a fundamental right of an
individual to an education reflecting his
aspirations and abilities. It is the job of
everyone concerned about education to stop
the policies and reverse them. I urge every
person this college to get out and act now,
before it's too late!
Forthcoming Actions
Monday 5 November: Demonstration. Meet
Polytechnic of Central London (Baker St
Tube) 1pm
Wednesday 7 November: Day of Action.
Lobbying of MPs Meet U L U , Malet St (off
Tottenham Court Road). 1pm
Write to your M P letting him know you intend
lo lobby him
Philip
Cole
6

