ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 JUNE
10
met Jennifer Louise Martin in
the food hall at Selfridges. To
get there I had to walk through
the cosmetics hall. hrough
the haze of perfume, immacu-
late girls stared out with twinkling
eyes, watching my progress as I picked
my way though counters stacked with
foundation, mascara and lipsticks. I
had wondered whether Jennifer was
setting herself up to make a point. As it
emerged, she is far too straightforward
for intricate ploys.
Jennifer has just ﬁnished her ﬁrst solo
show in London at the Strand Gallery.
Her rich textured paintings depict glam-
our models plucked from the pages of
magazines. he images are as layered
conceptually as they are in paint, laced
with subtext and questions about the
illusory nature of perfection and the af-
ﬂiction of beauty.
Meredith homas: Can I start of by
asking how you got into art?
Jennifer Louise Martin: I went to St
Martins for a foundation in 1999, then
I actually did a psychology and neuro-
science degree for three years. After
that I went back to St Martins in 2005.
I really loved St Martins and my foun-
dation course is really what got me into
oil painting. I fell in love with paint and
ever since then I never stopped doing
it. In between the years I was studying
psychology. I always tried to continue
my art, but painting fell by the way-
side because I didn’t have the time. I
didn’t really have the space or studio to
paint. I did a bit of fashion and made my
own clothes. I was always creative but I
went back to paining when I graduated
university. I became much more artis-
tic having really missed my painting. I
taught myself quite a lot because I had
to keep it going.
M: How would you say that your study
of psychology has informed that work
you do?
J: It deﬁnitely informs the work I do,
because I am interested in the psyche
of the female mind. How women per-
ceive beauty, how women think about
it and try and obtain it... What does this
actually mean to women? hese are the
questions I am interested in. here is a
whole market out there, makeup, plastic
surgery,allthesethingthatwomenthink
about, spend money on. he psychology
behind beauty really informs my work,
from a women’s point of view.
M: How long had you been painting
before these shows came up?
J: It would be about ten years on-and-
oﬀ. I’ve done a lot of residencies where
I have gone and lived and painted in a
studio, then shown my work at the end.
Since about 2005 I have been interested
in female faces and portraits from maga-
zines and photographs. Its been a theme
for a long time.
M: So how did that develop?
J: It started when I went to Los Angeles.
hat inspired me a lot because, obvious-
ly, you’ve got the whole plastic surgery
culture and the theme of beauty is really
prominent. My painting style changed
quite a bit there, it became a bit more
photorealistic. You can see the faces and
features are more prominent, the lips
and the eyes.
M: I want to get into this idea of beau-
ty a bit more. Do you see beauty in the
models that you paint?
J: Yeah, but the images I choose, are a
huge part of the process. It takes me a
long time to ﬁnd a picture to work from.
I will scour through heaps of magazines
and it would be something about the
image that captures me, either the face,
the structural features, or just the way
the photograph is taken, the colour or
the composition. Mainly it is because I
will ﬁnd that person beautiful.
M: So is it the person or the photo-
graph?
J: Not the person, the face! So probably
the photography, the way that they have
been shot or how it looks to me. It could
be the way the photograph is taken,
you’re right, it could be that.
M: Do you ever get the same reaction
to something in life?
J: I do get that. It has happened a cou-
ple of times where I have actually ap-
proached someone in a restaurant or at
work where their face has just popped
out at me and I have asked to paint
them. his happened recently. She had
such eye catching features that I ap-
proached her in a restaurant. hat’s the
ﬁrst time I’ve done that. She is now my
next sitter. I will do studies from life and
then I take a picture and work from that.
Sothistime,withthespeciﬁcsubjectI’m
working from my own photograph.
You know It could be an object that is
beautiful. For me it just happens to be
faces. It could stem back from years ago;
I wanted to be a model when I was about
eleven.
M: his is probably too simplistic a
question but, do you think we are too
beauty obsessed in this society?
J: Oh, totally yeah. And you could argue
that I am too.
M: If you’re changing your approach
to painting a real person, is that going
to change the way you react and re-
spond, because you are not seeing the
subject through the lens of another
photographer?
J: I think it will do,because it’s more ﬁrst-
hand isn’t it? he fact that I have taken
the photo means it’s all a bit closer to my
own hand. But what will happen is that
it will be a much more natural picture,
because there is no lighting, no staging.
So we’ll see how the painting turns out.
It will be diﬀerent.
M: How do you start a painting?
J: I look at the image for quite a long
time. I will absorb the colours straight
away, I will immediately know my col-
our palette. As you can see I use a lot
of tones of the same colour. I like to add
depth to give the image some kind of
story, it adds a personality to the model,
there is a story behind her, sort of para-
lysed by perfection. You can see they
are pensive, or thinking. here is this
kind oﬀ destructive self. hat is what I
am thinking while I am painting which
is why you get this challenging aspect to
the painting.
M: So there is an element of empa-
thising with the subject, even through
so many layers of paint and another
persons lens?
Beauty and the beholder’s eye
MeredithThomasinterviewsJenniferLouiseMartinonthemalegaze
I

