ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 JUNE 11
J: Absolutely! What is she really think-
ing? What does she really fee? Does she
like people staring at her? Doe she like
walking out of home and seeing a mil-
lion cameras? I’m thinking about how it
would be for her to be in the subject of
the gaze.
M: How do you deal with that con-
flict? On the one hand, with you
painting,youarebuyingintothiscon-
cept totally and on the other you are
trying to challenge it.
J: I am trying to challenge it. One thing is
that these women get totally airbrushed,
so there are these hidden lies that I try
and reveal in my painting, just through
the use of paint.Because paint,being the
material that it is, reveals something that
a photograph wouldn’t. And that is why
I like painting these subjects.
I challenge it because I know that
there is this airbrushed trickery directed
towards the public. And they buy into it,
especially girls. It’s not really the truth.
I’m trying to relay something of the
truth.
M: How do you resolve the fact that
you clearly do have a sense of beauty,
so it has a truth for you and yet you
are looking for the more fundamen-
tal levels of truth. And how does that
conflict resolve itself ?
J: here are a couple of pieces in the
recent show, Paralysed by Perfection.
It’s about this struggle for perfection,
which is a personal thing I have as well.
One of the things I actually did was to
text the subconscious thoughts as I was
painting. houghts about how it wasn’t
perfect. You will see some severe imper-
fections in my work, the eyes missing
or some things scrubbed out because.
I create layers and layers all the time. I
want people to see those layers because
I want to get the message across that
beauty isn’t this perfect ideal, it doesn’t
actually exist. And the reality is that im-
perfections are what make you perfect.
Which has taken me a long time, about
six years to come to realise in my work.
Hence this show that I have just done.
hat is how I have been recently think-
ing about it. hat is the message I have
been trying to get through.
M: So when someone buys one of
your painting and takes it home, and
its hanging on their wall what are you
hoping that their response to it is?
J: Some people do think some of them
are quite horrifying, which used to get to
me a bit because I don’t make paintings
to horrify people. [hey are] deﬁnitely
not decorative, but I want [people] who
buy my work to have something to gaze
at and think about. he people who buy
[my art] say that the more they look at it
the more it changes and the more they
see in it and the more they fall in love
with it. his epitomises that idea of the
women in their house, which the more
that they are around the more they fall
in love with it [the painting]. [hen there
is] that whole idea of beauty: when you
are not beautiful, but you hang out with
someone that is what happens – you get
to know them and who they are.
M: Why do you think beauty is so im-
portant to us as a society?
J: It goes back to Adam and Eve. It’s
the way that we attract people for sex.
Also celebrities and the media have a lot
to do with it. hese girls, they want to
look like their idols. We are too scared
to age naturally too. It’s about keeping
that youth.
M: Do you think it all relates to eroti-
cism?Isthereapureaestheticbeauty?
J: Do I think that there is an aesthetic
to strive for? No, I think it’s totally indi-
vidual. I think women should age natu-
rally and embrace that. I don’t think you
should try and change yourself. Unless
it is something that aﬀected you in-
ner self so much that, it was something
you were genuinely unhappy about. But
when people go and do it on a whim… It
has become and obsession.
M: How do you respond to the fact
that these cultural ideals of beauty
seem to change so much between dif-
ferent societies and ages?
J: I ﬁnd that really fascinating. I was with
my friend a couple of weeks ago and
she is from Ghanian culture. he idea
of beauty in that culture is completely
diﬀerent to the one that I was brought
up with. Even from a ﬁgure aspect, what
men ﬁnd attractive in a women body...
Is amazing that you can get so locked
into what your culture is thinking, the
patterns that become all you believe is
beautiful. Which again, is something
I have tried to tackle in my work, by
choosing muses who are quite quirky.
Back in the day in 2006 I painted Kate
Moss. I wouldn’t decide to paint her at
all now. You do get a lot of models now
that are considered quite ugly. So there
is a ﬁne line and I like that.
M: Have you changed the models
that you paint because society has
changed that way that they are seen
or have you have changed the way you
see them?
J: I think probably more society, be-
cause that’s why I’m ﬁnding them more
in magazines. It’s the scouts that are
changing it and changing other people’s
too.
M: What do you understand the Gaze
to be?
J: I have taken it to be the stare of some-
one else’s eyes ﬁxated on something, or
someone. In this case the model. My
boyfriend can’t believe how I will gaze at
women in real life, and say I would really
like to paint her. He doesn’t understand
it. It almost comes across as more sexual
than he would look at a women. But in a
totally diﬀerent way…
M: If you could change society
through your work how would you
seek to influence the way both men
and women perceive beauty?
J: I think, for both sexes the one thing
I would try and get across through my
work is that beauty is not perfect. here
is no ideals and it is the imperfections
that make someone beautiful.
M: Do you feel it has been harder try-
ing to break though in that art world
as a women?
J: I have never ever looked at it that way
but I am doing a course at the moment
where I am in an open studio with 15
other painters and most of us, I think
the majority, are female. here are about
four guys. But hearing them speak it has
dawned on me that it is very male habit
in the art world. Men have a big voice
and women sometimes don’t get heard.
I don’t think it holds me back in any
way. he whole feminist art movement
is obviously very interesting. But it’s not
really an issue. I think it’s evening out a
lot more. It’s a lot diﬀerent than it used
to be. You have the Tracy Emins of this
world…
M: Would you ever paint a male mod-
el?
J: Yeah, I’ve had a lot of people ask me..
I’ve never painted a male. hat’s not to
say I wouldn’t one day. here’s only ever
one man that I’ve seen and thought, yes,
I could paint him. here is something
that just doesn’t inspire me as much. It is
to do with sensuality. A lot of the models
have the voluptuous lips, but it is a lot to
do with makeup as well. I think that is
probably why. I do choose images where
the women is quite made up because it is
the mask over the original beauty under-
neath. I try to deconstruct that through
the paint. But it is also the colour as well.
With the male I just wouldn’t get that.
But now that I am painting a girl who
has no make up on it could lead to a
male, who knows.
M: What would you tell the eleven
year old Jennifer who wants to be a
model?
J - Once, a friend on the train got scout-
ed and I didn’t… It would be exactly that.
Just because you are not the one scouted
to be a model, it doesn’t mean you are
not good enough or you are not beau-
tiful. It’s because they are looking for a
certain type of look, a skin, feature. You
become just an objects. People think
that being perceived as beautiful is a
good thing, but actually. I think some-
times it can be a total affliction. So I
made a painting about that. She has no
eye which means she cannot feel people
staring and the affliction a beauty.

