Let’s Talk About Homestuck
Maciej Matuszewski looks at a truely innovative webcomic
I am an avid follower of many web-
comics – both of those with stan-
dalone strips and those with longer
running storylines. I have, however,
found that for the most part, apart
from the means of distribution, they
don’t diﬀer all that much from their
print counterparts. Despite the many
creators out there producing brilliant
work, there are very few who have
attempted to utilise the internet as a
creative medium to its full potential.
One of the few who, in my opinion,
has, is Andrew Hussie, creator of
Homestuck.
From its ﬁrst pages Homestuck ap-
pears to be fairly standard fare. he
ﬁrst page introduces us to one of our
protagonists – John Egbert – as he ea-
gerly awaits the arrival of a birthday
present – the beta version of a Sims-
like game called Sburb. he artwork is
simple – some might even say crude
– and the story is told mainly through
chat logs of the protagonists’ instant
messenger conversations. It isn’t long,
however, before the comic’s more ex-
perimental and, shall we say, eccen-
tric qualities begin to manifest them-
selves. Much of the early storyline was
heavily based on reader’s suggestions,
which, combined with Hussie’s own
brand of highly anarchic humour
means that there is nothing that is too
bizarre for this webcomic.
It is diﬃcult to give even a bare
outline of the plot. Coming in at over
6000 pages, and almost 100,000 words
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 JUNE
12
longer than War and Peace, this cer-
tainly isn’t a quick read. It is also one
of the densest and most convoluted
stories that I have ever read. here are
dozens of primary characters, the sto-
ry is heavily reliant on time travel and
the action takes place in at least four
diﬀerent alternate universes. hat’s
not to mention the numerous fourth
wall breaks and moments of author in-
sertion. While in other works I might
be tempted to call all of this gim-
micky and excessive, in Homestuck it
all comes together to work incredibly
well. PBS has compared Homestuck to
James Joyce’s Ulyssees, in how, while
at times seemingly impenetrable, it
is still deeply rewarding. Hussie is a
highly skilled writer and manages to
use this complexity to create a story
that is not deep, engrossing, funny
and ﬁlled with engaging characters
but also one that is unlike anything
that you have ever seen before.
All of this is helped by how Hus-
sie is not afraid to play with his me-
dium. here is often experimenta-
tion with new art styles and from
the very beginning heavy use was
made of animated gif panels. Later
on these evolved into minutes long
ﬂash animations (Homestuck cur-
rently includes over three hours of
full animation) and even short inter-
active games. here have been some
25 oﬃcial music albums inspired by
the comic and Hussie is currently
working on a full adventure game set
in the same universe as the comic –
the Kickstarter for which raised over
three times its $700,000 target.
I will admit that this certainly won’t
be everyone’s cup of tea. It requires a
substantial investment of time to get
into and some might, perhaps quite
rightly, view it as pretentious and full
of itself. It is, however, something
completely unique and I believe that it
deserves praise for that if for nothing
else. he comic is currently on hia-
tus while Hussie works on the afore-
mentioned game so this is the perfect
chance to catch up.
Homestuck, along with Hussie’s earlier
work, may be read for free at mspain-
tadventures.com .

