Imperial alumnus and parliamentary science advisor Chan-
dy Nath talks about her other life life as lead singer and
songwriter with steampunk/fusion band Sunday Driver, and
traces her influences back to Phoenix magazine’s founder
HG Wells.
Phoenix: What’s it like being a scientist and a musician,
is it difficult to switch between the two?
Sunday Driver: That bit’s not actually that difficult, it’s re-
ally easy to just switch, I think because I’ve been doing both
for so long. But the difficult bit is finding the creative space,
so when everything gets busy at once it’s really difficult to
decide whether to think about music or think about science
and sometimes they push each other out.
P: And is it difficult to find the time to devote to music?
SD: It has been in the past. When I was a research scientist
it was really difficult, because you can’t choose your timings
with research. I guess the job I’ve ended up in... it lends itself
much more to allowing the space. Parliamentary recess is
exactly when the festival season starts. But it can be a bit of
a nightmare, it’s very hard to explain to people that you’re
going to miss a meeting because you’ve got a gig.
P: Do you think your science inspires your music?
SD: Yes, totally. A lot of my early songs were actually in-
spired by things I did because of science. I’m not actually
sure if I’d ever have started doing music if I didn’t do sci-
ence, it’s symbiotic. My first postdoc was as a glaciologist
and I spent four or five months in the Antarctic: that was
when I really started writing my own songs, really decided I
wanted to form a band. I kind of took a vow to myself... it’s
quite funny, I loved being in the Antarctic but the work itself
was so dull, it was so monotonous, and I just swore to my-
self that when I got back I’d surround myself with noise and
colour and people and sounds, because you hear the same
sounds over and over again, the pop of explosives in the ice
and the chugging of the snowmobile and the sound of the
shovel on snow... a hundred days with three blokes, even as
a female physicist I wasn’t prepared for that. I didn’t hear a
female voice for three months, I think that might be partly
why I started singing to myself!
P: And do you think it works the other way round?
SD: It’s a more subtle thing, it’s more that the creativity and
the performance gives me a lot more conviction, more con-
fidence in what I’m saying. I think that if I’ve stood up on a
stage and I’ve gigged to a thousand people, I can definitely
write a report about nuclear security. So, yeah, it’s a con-
fidence thing really. And I think the science helps with the
music, partly because I’m so desperate to get away from it!
By the time I get to band practice, it’s such a massive relief.
Sometimes I leave work really stressed, and then after half an
hour of singing practice I feel in a completely different place.
So yes, it helps me focus on everything else.
P: When you were at Imperial, were you in any of the
musical or creative societies?
SD: Well no, it’s funny but actually I wasn’t involved in any-
thing musical at the time. I did creative things, but not as part
of clubs. I tried to write poetry, drew pictures... one of the
things I did get into at Imperial was playing the piano. There
was a gorgeous grand piano in the Mechanical Engineering
building that anyone could go along and play, I used to drag
friends along and make them sit in an empty lecture theatre
and play to me for an evening, it was magical. I’d love to
know if it’s still there, because I loved that piano
P: Did you know about Phoenix?
SD: I have to admit I didn’t at the time. But I’d have loved
to know about it, because HG Wells is linked to the whole
steampunk thing which is a big inspiration for the band. And
one of the not-so-good things about Imperial was the absence
of any kind of arts or humanities, I really missed that. When
I was at Oxford I hung out with people who were doing hu-
manities, it’s really good to interact with people with differ-
ent mindsets, it opens your mind up a little bit.
P: If you had the opportunity, would you give up your
day job to be a musician full-time?
SD: No, if I had the opportunity, I would do science, but
I’d do it on my terms. In some ways it would be nice to try
escaping from the routine. But in other ways I think it’s
what’s allowed me to do what I’ve done: Sunday Driver is
completely creative, we’re not governed by any need to ap-
peal to a market, we just write the songs and make the music
that comes to us. We’ve all had opportunities at one time or
another to make that transition, and we’ve chosen not to. It
used to tear me up a lot more, but now I’m really happy with
the balance I’ve got.That’s one of the reasons I left research.
I don’t think I could have done research and been a singer,
which is a shame, but it doesn’t allow you to have another
passion.
P: When Sunday Driver started out, did you intention-
ally set out to create such a diverse band, in terms of the
different cultural and musical backgrounds you all have?
SD: Well, I always wanted to do that. I don’t really think the
other people in the band were that bothered, they just wanted
to make beautiful music, and because of the sorts of peo-
ple we were, and our backgrounds, it ended up being really
diverse. And that was always what I wanted, so I probably
steered it in that direction, by bringing random tabla players
along to band practices and forcing band members to play
instruments they’d never heard of.
P: What about the steampunk influence?
SD: We never set out to be a steampunk band, but the steam-
punk scene has adopted us to some extent over the past few
years, because the last couple of albums we’ve done have
very much drawn on the interface between the Victorians
and the British Raj, And steampunk’s very scientific. That’s
something that really appeals to me, because I think a lot of
the wonder and the passion the Victorians had about science
was one of the best things about that time, just the amount
of excitement that science inspired, things like the Royal In-
stitution and the Great Exhibition in the 1850s, and I like to
take myself back to that era to be excited about science again
sometimes.
P: What advice would you give Imperial students with an
interest in music or art?
SD: Totally go for it. I’d say anything is possible, and I really
think you don’t have to choose between music and science,
Don’t push yourself into categories because you think that’s
what you are or that’s what people want. Try everything. If
you’re into world fusion, make sure you listen to heavy rock.
If you’re into heavy rock, make sure you go to the ballet. It’s
about throwing different forms of art — different sounds —
at yourself from all angles. And have fun with it really!
EAST
MEETS
WEST SUNDAY DRIVER
FOLLOWING IN HG WELLS’
STEAMPUNK FOOTSTEPS
My first postdoc was in
the Antarctic. I didn’t
hear a female voice for
three months, I think
that might be why I
started singing...
”
“
Steampunk’s very
scientific...the wonder
and passion the
Victorians had about
science was one of the
best things about that
time
“ PHOENIX
8

