SCIENCE ARTS PHOENIX
Fearless people Women in art Rising once again
Therearesomepeoplewhohave
no fear. That’s a really strange
thought.Thisweek,ScienceEdi-
tor Laurence Pope explores the
possibilities of being fearless.
A special four pages of Arts this
week. An amazing, in depth,
interview with an artist about
beauty and its perceptions is a
highlight.
Well here it is. Back once more
istheexplosionofartistictalent
at Imperial. 36 pages of writing,
painting, and interviews in this
year’s arts annual.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>> 7 >>10 >>15
FRIDAY 07 JUNE
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Riaz Agahi, Mark England, Ross Gray,
Simon Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Matt Colvin Travel Editor
Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Illustrators
Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen Corrections and clarifications: Last week, in an article about the Summer Elections, Callum Kirk was referred to as RAG Secretary when he is actually RAG Treasurer. Two week’s ago an article
referred to a “campus” being built. This has since been changed online to “facility” to better reflect what is being built. The word “campus” was used for ease of communication and not to be misleading.
LOLCATZ OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Oh Gee a
Point Average
while ago some universi-
ties announced the pos-
sibility of using a UK GPA
instead of the traditional
grading system that we
use. This is an interesting idea, and one
thatisworthyofdebate.TheCollegewill
atsomepointultimatelyhavetochoose
whether or not they switch. Imperial are
a cautious lot: College tend to wait un-
til something is tried and tested rather
than dive straight in. Maybe it’s the sci-
entist mind set. Of course, this is both
good and bad – it depends on the situ-
ation and context. Here, it will just give
more time to mull over the idea. If many
other UK universities switch, Imperial
will start having serious discussions. If
this ever does become a big topic, the
upper management of College would
be wise to consult with students and
staff. The forgotten victims of examina-
tions are often the lecturers and PhD
students that have to mark the papers.
It’s unlikely they will be keen to support
a proposal that makes each piece of
assessment critical and therefore puts
them under a lot of extra strain.
In essence, I think the current system
is fine as it is. It allows people to give
exact marks if they want and employ-
ers to ask for exact scores if they are so
inclined. That little buffer in the current
system is great for markers, students,
and employers. You’ll always have the
grey area of overlap where 59 and 61
aren’t too different from each other –
but that is fixable by someone saying
on a CV that they were that close. It
does cause a problem if you are not al-
lowed to apply for a job unless you have
a 2:1, but a GPA doesn’t fix that really.
Interestingly, the GPA will essentially
break up the grades into smaller sub
grades. It’s like if you had low 2:1, mid
2:1 and high 2:1 on the degree instead
of just 2:1.
So, will employers start asking for
higher grades? Probably not. If they
wanted to, they could already say that
nobody with less than a first or 65%
should apply (and check transcripts to
see if people lie). If they ask for a grade
it will be the same range as before, just
under a different name. They will want
rounded people with loads of interests
and who fit into their ethos and all that
other stuff.
Employers understand that wiggle
room is needed, as grades are not 100%
spot on. Bad day in the exam hall and
that could be a knock to your aver-
age; labs are marked by humans who
may make mistakes or be a bit erratic
in marking (in a standard human way),
and so on and so forth. It boils down to
the fact that marking is not as exact as
you wish it would be. Employers went
to university themselves (that person
interviewing you was a student once)
and so know all of this. If they do not
understand, then universities should
inform them.
Will people start getting tactical with
options? Hell yes, but they do that al-
ready. Only those that truly love their
subject chose options based on inter-
est, the rest just go with what’s the
‘easiest’ option. There is also the danger
of grade inflation. With people aiming
for what used to be a high 2:1 there is a
temptation for universities to keep stu-
dents happy and to rise up the league
tables by giving out higher grades. Of
course with a system like this people
will be more stressed out and worried.
Theywillwanttogetcertaingradesthat
have smaller margins of error. This gets
circular in a way: again, you have the
issue of someone having e.g. 63% and
65% possibly getting a different clas-
sification. Just like before the lines are
blurry, but now there’s a bigger blur to
sharp ratio. This is why, in all likelihood,
employers will still want the 2:1 equiva-
lent and above. They need to draw a
line somewhere, why change that line’s
positionfornorealreason?Youpossibly
get people who are 3% ‘better’, but is
that really ‘better’ at the job you will give
them? More motivated? Better at work-
ing in a team? Some other business
jargon? Nope. That’s why you interview
them and look at their cover letter, CV,
and experience.
A

