Dr Dave Clements is an astrophysicist
in Imperial’s physics department and
is involved in several ESA and NASA
observational projects including the
Planck mission. He also writes short
fiction, and his hard science fiction sto-
ries have appeared in various publica-
tions including Analog Magazine and
Nature Futures (see story on page 14).
Phoenix: Where do you get your
ideas, and are they inspired by your
science?
Dave Clements: Where you get your
ideas is one of the cliché questions peo-
ple get asked, especially if you’re writ-
ing science fiction. The answer is, ideas
are everywhere. It’s not that people
writing science fiction are particularly
good at ideas — it’s taking an idea, a
concept, and turning it into a story that’s
the hard thing. Some of it is inspired by
my research, some of it isn’t. So for ex-
ample, there’s a story I had published in
Analog that’s set around a neutron star,
I don’t actually do any work on neutron
stars but the basic concept of the story
came while I was sitting in a seminar
on neutron stars. But another one is the
story I had published in Nature, Last
of The Guerilla Gardeners, that arose
from an art-science collaboration with
Vanessa Harden from the Royal Col-
lege of Art, who did an exhibit on gue-
rilla gardening.
P: Do you find that being a writer,
being a creative person, affects the
research you do?
DC: Research is creative. The creative
muscles used in research and in writing
are much the same, you’re just pushing
them in a different direction, that’s the
way I feel it. You can say things in fic-
tion that you can’t say in research, and
vice versa. I think one of the things
that motivates me, at least in the hard
science fiction that I write, is that I’m
trying to put a human scale, or human
interaction into what I do research on.
Because I’m an extragalactic astrono-
mer, that makes putting it on a human
scale rather difficult. But showing
somehow that the vast distances, the
vast gulfs of time involved, comparing
those to a human span — that’s what
I try to do. And also, at some level,
reflect the — how do I say it without
sounding depressing? — the insignifi-
cance of us on cosmological scales.
P: What inspired you to first start
writing?
DC: Reading. I guess the first thing I
wrote that could be described as science
fiction was when I was about nine or ten
at school. It’s always been there in the
background at some level. Sometimes it
gets more attention, and now that I’ve
got a reasonably secure position here,
I’m writing more.
P: If you had the opportunity, would
you give up your day job to be a writ-
er full-time?
DC: I’ve thought about that. In the un-
likely event that I do get some level
of success with novel-writing, I think
I would still want some connection to
the real science. The two feed off each
other, in my mind at least.
P: Which writers do you most ad-
mire, or aspire to be like?
DC: Who I admire and who I’d like to
be like are somewhat different ques-
tions. There are writers out there, like
William Gibson, or China Miéville,
SCIENCE MEETS LITERATURE
DAVE CLEMENTS ON SCIENCE FICTION AND FACT
Research is creative.
The creative muscles
used in research and
writing are much
the same, you’re just
pushing them in a
different direction
“ 21
PHOENIX

