AND YOU ARE NO SAINT
I’m Shoaib Rizvi, a 3rd year medical student at Imperial. I am no miracle and you are no saint is a mixed media self
portrait created by combining different doodles I made throughout the year. It is an introspective look at my experiences
with two different worlds and how they come together in my mind.”
I
AM
NO
MIRACLE by Shoaib Rizvi
eing a bar of
soap is far
from a glam-
orous life. My
home is a dish
encrusted with
slime from my
predecessors,
placed next to
a bath covered
soap
Emilie penned the above for a friend’s band. Emilie was a fellow
cupcake worshipper, particularly of the hummingbird variety. She
was oft-clad in colourful tights; a niche she dominated firmly push-
ing me out early on. I’m convinced words were what rushed through
her veins, often spilling out as a well put-together blog post, Felix
article or who knows what else. One memory which sticks is from an
ecology lecture, where we were asked to think up of an analogy for
scramble competition. On the spot, without a moment’s hesitation,
Emilie created a scene of women fighting in the Boxing Day sales.
This mistress of metaphor is sorely missed by oh-so-many and her
sweet-kindness will not be forgotten.” – J. Humphries
PHOENIX
30 31
PHOENIX
by Emilie Sylvia Stammers
in grimy tide marks. My companions
include the forlorn-looking sponge, the
snooty shower gel and the toothbrush,
who appears to be in a state of perma-
nent shock. I can’t say I’m surprised:
the human mouth must be a disgusting
place, if their feet are anything to go by.
The only bathroom implement worse
off than me or the toothbrush is the toi-
let paper. No wonder he always looks
so pale. He doesn’t talk to us much. I
wish he did, because that might shut the
shower gel up. He’s always lording it
over us because he cost more and appar-
ently smells nicer. But am I the one who
contains chemicals blamed for causing
cancer? No! That shut him up nicely.
Humans are stupidly obsessed with
being thin, I noticed the other night as
one of them peered into the toothpaste-
spattered mirror to examine herself.
Us bars of soap get thinner with every
passing use, but this is far from a good
thing. It means we’re dying. Once we
get too thin, we are thrown into the bin
which lives underneath the sink, to join
the empty bottles and bits of wet cotton
wool. I’m not sure what happens after
that, but I have heard rumours to do
with burial and burning.
I try to escape from the sweaty grip
of human hands by exuding a slippery
foam, but they are not deterred. They
simply grip me more firmly and con-
tinue to clean themselves. That’s surely
the worst part of being a bar of soap, but
they’re merciless. Damn, here comes
one now.
Not shower time already, surely?
Crap.
B

