unionpage
imperialcollegeunion.org
Sign up for our pilot SkillsWorkshops
Imperial College Union will be
launching a volunteer accreditation
scheme in the autumn to support our
volunteers to develop key skills that
will assist them in their volunteer
roles.
Part of the programme will include
six skills based workshops, four of
which must be participated in to
achieve an accredited award.
We will be piloting the below
workshops in late June and would like to invite students to participate in them, providing feedback on how they could
be improved. For volunteers who would like to participate in the programme from the autumn, they can include any
workshops attended now towards their accreditation.
All students will be given a £10 Union Shop voucher for each workshop attended in acknowledgement of their time.
Introduction to…Planning & Organisation skills Thursday 20 June, 12:15 – 14:00, Beit Quad
Introduction to…Communication skills Friday 21 June, 12:15 – 14:00, Beit Quad
Introduction to…EffectiveTeamWorking skills Tuesday 25 June 17:30 - 19:15, Beit Quad
If you would like to attend any of these workshops, please e-mail Nick Snow, Student Development Manager (n.snow@
imperial.ac.uk) specifying the workshop you would like to attend. Places are limited.
EVENTSTHISWEEK
imperialcollegeunion.org/stressless
BOXFIT
Thursday 13 June, 12:00-12:45
and 16:00-17:00
Free
Queen’s Lawn
BoxFit is a great form of exercise,
a high intensity workout and a
fantastic way to lose weight. It
helps develop your overall strength
as well as balance and dynamic
ﬂexibility, also improving stamina
and coordination. A great way to
get all that frustrating stress out of
your system.
In case of bad weather BoxFit will
be held in Court 5, Ethos.
Union Survey - closesWednesday 12 June
The Union Survey is your chance to let us know what you think about
the many services that we run and provide. The survey only takes a few
minutes to complete and helps us undertsand how to make your Union
better for you.
Take the survey online at imperialcollegeunion.org/survey and you could
win one of the following prizes:
• An iPad Mini (WiFi 16GB Black)
• 2 x £20 Union Shop vouchers
• £50 of Summer Ball drink tokens!
This is the third Union Survey we have run and already we have made big
changes as a result of your feedback. Our ‘You said, We did’ campaign
highlights the changes we have made. Some of those changes include:
• Introduced great monthly drinks offers our bars
• Started selling healthy snacks in the newsagent
• Improved the speed of eActivities by moving it to a new, faster, server
• Launched new nights in Metric including our new indie night Indigo
• Started hosting sexual health clinics on campus with free STI testing
• Introduced new monthly offers in the shop on stationery and clothing
• Regular visits to other campuses including Hammersmith and Silwood
• Launched a new, easier to use, comments and complaints procedure
• Started our Stress Less campaign
DON’T FORGET,THE UNION SURVEY CLOSESTHISWEDNESDAY!
This really does help us to improve everything we do, so help us keep
improving for you. We will be selecting winners at random for the prize
draw and announcing them online.
imperialcollegeunion.org/survey
Forfiveminutesofyourtime
youcouldwinan
ipadmini
&moregreatprizes!

