FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 07 JUNE
20
You’re gonna be populaire
John Park Film Editor
Populaire
Director: Régis Roinsard
Screenwriters: Régis Roinsard,
Daniel Presley, Romain Compingt
Starring: Romain Duris, Déborah
François, Bérénice Bejo, Shaun
Benson
Back in the day, it was every woman’s
dream to become a secretary; to as-
sist and travel with powerful men, ﬁl-
ing away important papers, typing up
documents, taking calls and receiv-
ing messages etc. It was the best job
any woman could ever dream of, and
it would appear this trend was also in
style in 1950s France.
Rose Pamphyle (François) is a very
ordinary grocer’s daughter who longs
to work in the city instead of being
stuck in her cold and distant fa-
ther’s market for the rest of her life.
She travels to Normandy, ﬁlled with
dreams all women of that era had, but
with very little experience to qualify
for the role, it’s obvious she is way out
of her league when she sees a long
line of bossy well-dressed know-it-
alls applying for the exact same job.
he boss is Louis Échard (Duris),
a charismatic insurance salesman,
who takes one look at Rose and deter-
mines correctly that she’s an absolute
disaster when it comes to being a sec-
retary. But then he sees her clicking
away at a typewriter. he incredible
speed at which she types, even when
she’s only using her index ﬁngers, is
something Louis notices instantly,
and he decides he can do something
with her amazing talent. And so af-
ter a brief misunderstanding where
she assumes he wants sex out of her,
begins their hardcore training for a
speed typing competition. She ﬁrst
needs to use all her ten ﬁngers cor-
rectly, and then she’s given numerous
classic novels to type out word for
word.
It boasts a wacky, farce-like prem-
ise, every bit as eccentric as the best
French comedies, and with its eﬀec-
tive period mood, and light colour-
ful touches here and there, the ﬁlm
is incredibly successful in setting
this up as an entirely believable and
convincing scenario. It’s incredibly
entertaining, and never before has
speed typing been seriously seen as
Purging all of that useless
knowledge after exams
a competitive sport. When the vari-
ous “races” get going, the regional,
national, and eventually the interna-
tional one, they are as tense as any
race you can imagine. he thunder-
ing noise as the women furiously
press down on their typewriters’ key-
boards, the surprisingly large crowd
cheering and roaring their endless
support, the sliding of every type-
writer as they ﬁnish a line, and the
changing over of the bits of paper, it’s
on a much bigger scale than what’s
originally anticipated. It’s clearly a
big deal in the Populaire universe,
and the audience has no difficulty go-
ing along with the craze.
What ﬁnally happens between
the two leads is hardly an element
of surprise, nor is the overall re-
sult of the competitions. François
and Duris have a natural charming
chemistry, and their sugary-sweet
dynamic is a part of what makes this
highly watchable. Duris, as likable
and amusing as ever with his icy cold
exterior although actually warm and
frothy inside, provides the perfect
counterpart for François’ clumsy,
quirky and adorable village girl. he
process of developing their romance
cleverly touches on some more seri-
ous issues using its supporting cast
to make the most of the well-rounded
ensemble. he Artist’s Bérénice Bejo
takes on the most prominent subplot,
as Louis’ childhood sweetheart who
may or may not have had something
between them. World War II and
its aftermath is also an issue talked
about here, something that further
enriches the characters here.
Although everything is very well
dressed up to look grand, pretty and
perfect, the ﬁlm is not afraid to hint
at various underlying sadness and
challenges each character needs to
overcome to make their relationship
work. For her, there’s the quickly
growing fame that surrounds her tal-
ent, one that gradually steals her away
from having a normal life. Whereas
for him, he has pressure from his
family to be a better, more cut-throat
and successful businessman, as well
as trouble opening up his feelings.
Switching comfortably back and
forth between well-measured come-
dy as well as engaging human drama
that nicely strike a balance, here is
an easily enjoyable, highly reward-
ing feel-good movie experience that
deals with the most unexpected
“sport”. And for anyone who wants
to argue that this isn’t a proper event,
watch and experience the sheer raw
intensity involved with what goes
into the world of speed-typing.
Will this truly be “the last”?
John Park Film Editor
The Last Exorcism Part II
Director: Ed Gass-Donnelly
Screenwriters: Damien Chazelle, Ed
Gass-Donnelly
Starring: Ashley Bell, Julia Garner,
Spencer Treat Clark
he last Last Exorcism certainly was
not the “last” as it is followed by
this pretty disastrous sequel that is
somehow trying to bridge a gap for
a potential third entry to turn the
franchise into a trilogy – because
any mildly successful horror series
must at least have three.
Once again we have the same girl
who’s being pursued by a relentless
demon that is determined to pos-
sess an innocent, pure body so that
it can have its wicked, supernatural
ways. Yes, Nell (Bell) is having diffi-
culties running away from her trou-
bled past, in which she was forced
into a part of a creepy satanic cult
that ended with a botched exorcism
(aren’t they always?) followed by a
twisted, demented birthing ceremo-
ny in the middle of a huge bonﬁre.
Ending with a cliﬀhanger (always a
safe choice), we thought we would
never have to hear from them again,
putting a sensible ﬁnish to a surpris-
ingly good horror ﬁlm.
And yet trying to milk the fran-
chise for as much cash as possible,
here’s the sequel, in which very little
happens, and one that is frustrat-
ingly toned down when it comes to
the shock factor. Having moved into
a home for lost/traumatised girls (all
of them automatically turning into a
long list of victims), Nell is settling
in working away diligently as a hotel
chambermaid although it’s not long
until the usual frightening occur-
rences start haunting her. You know,
the usual bumpy things, twisty body
contortion movements, frothy sei-
zures, demonic voices, weird eye
colouring/movements etc.
he ﬁrst instalment was an ex-
cellent use of the handheld-camera
technique, but with this follow-up,
the style is completely gone and
lost, falling back to the old standard
way of ﬁlming without ever provid-
ing something else for the audience
to enjoy. he scares are all very ge-
neric and a lot of them without much
memorable impact. here are a few
eﬀective moments, ones that really
ought to have been present more
consistently throughout.
It’s unclear to see just where the
ﬁlm is headed and when it does end
up in its big ﬁnal showdown, (yes,
yet another botched exorcism, what
else?) you’re in for a big disappoint-
ment. As a complete unimaginative
rehash minus the stylistic push, it all
feels tedious and repetitive, one you
wouldn’t feel like enduring. It’s no
fun when there’s a complete lack of
mystery as to what is happening – as
from the previous ﬁlm we’ve learned
all there is to know about this om-
nipotent evil force.
Bell doesn’t seem to have any dif-
ﬁculty slipping back into her break-
out role, although everyone else
around her stands around rather
awkwardly equipped only with their
clunky dialogue to fend for them-
selves. Bell’s purely innocent and
completely clueless nature is always
fun to watch as we sense that she’s
been marked for all sorts of bad
things even from the very start. As
Nell completely falls apart thanks
to the demon, this gives Bell a real
chance to show oﬀ her talent and she
shows that she really belongs in bet-
ter ﬁlms.
Perhaps if another sequel is given
the go-ahead signal, it will allow the
franchise a chance to stir things up
and go all-out for a truly shocking
ﬁnish. After all, this Part II ends on
a cliﬀhanger with much potential,
one that could surely be developed
further, venturing into more dar-
ing territory that might certainly be
worth a look, unlike this dull, pedes-
trian piece of work.

