TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
Maximilian Eggl
techology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Maximilian Eggl
oogle I/O has tradition-
ally, for the past few years
at least, been an event
where Google unveils the
newest and shiniest ver-
sion of Android to the world. Although
open source, Android is developed in-
house with little known to the outside
world save through the usual rumours
and leaks. It’s been no diﬀerent this
year. Prior to Google I/O, there has
been signs of a new version of Android,
version 4.3 and widely believed to be a
new iteration of Jelly Bean showing up
in server logs. he talk of the grapevine
was that this version would be unveiled
during the I/O event.
It wasn’t.
here was no mention of it in the key-
note, although there were cryptic refer-
ences to it by engineers making pres-
entations. However, given what was
mentioned in the keynote itself, we
may glean some information towards
Google’s intentions.
Google unveiled a
number of new services
it oﬀers for Android
during the event. First
of all, it unveiled the
Google Play Music All
Access service, which is
a Spotify-esque service
that allows unlimited
streaming of any music
in Google Play’s library for
a ﬁxed monthly fee. his is built
on top of the already excellent Mu-
sic service which allows you to upload
20 000 songs to the cloud for stream-
ing anywhere. Google also launched
the Google Play Game Services, its
answer to Apple’s Game Centre by al-
FRIDAY 07 JUNE
22
G
lowing you to play games that sup-
ports cloud saves, matchmaking, and
leaderboards. Google also unveiled
the “Google Editions” of a couple of
high-end phones on the market right
now that will run the stock Android
experience without any manufacturer
skins: the Samsung Galaxy S4 and the
HTC One. Google+, the ﬂedgling so-
cial network, also received a massive
update with its Hangouts chat service
replacing the aging Google Talk ser-
vice to compete with the likes of mes-
saging services like WhatsApp. A re-
designed version of Google Maps was
Updating Android without updating!
A slew of new features for Android revealed at Google I/O 2013!
The News Bubble
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to date with the
newest, weirdest and most futuristic things around.
Mind guided Heli
Using a non-invasive cap, researchers from the University of Minnesota
have managed to harness the power of the mind. The participants of the ex-
periment had to navigate a helicopter through an obstacle course only using
their thoughts. This success, among others, will aid in the goal to allow those
that are paralysed to use machines that one day may help them to walk.
Project Haswell
Intel has now released a new generation of processors named Haswell. These,
according to the firm, are capable of a 15% better performance as well as 50%
more active-use battery life than its predecessors. This is achieved by plac-
ing a voltage regulator directly into the chip. Also it will allow tablet/laptop
combinations to be much thinner,as it will not need as much cooling as the
Ivy Bridge version. Intel will hope that the Haswell processors will allow it to
break into the mobile market, where ARM has been dominating so far.
Charger attack
You can now hack an iPhone with a charger... great! This feat, achieved by
a team from the Georgia Institute of Technology, means that iOS is more
vulnerable than previously thought. Using a widely available BeagleBoard
Computer, costing roughly £30, the charger easily installed a virus into the
gadget. While at this moment this method of stealing your data is not really
a problem, if Apple do not patch this up, you should beware how you charge
your phone!
Android, Windows 8, Morph!!
At this years Computex convention in Taipei, Taiwan, Acer has now unveiled
a laptop that runs both Android Jelly Bean as well as Windows 8. This is prob-
ably a move to tap into the phablet/laptop-tablet market, and thus boost the
ailing tech company’s fortunes. I however don’t really see the appeal in this.
I mean what is Jelly Bean going to do on your laptop that it can’t do on your
mobile phone? Unless Acer has somehow modified Android, not much.
Windows 8 Start Button, OMGG!
YAY! Also released at Computex the new update to Windows 8, 8.1 and for-
merly known as Windows Blue, will once again reintroduce the iconic start
button, whose omission was a big talking point when Windows 8 first came
out. Now Microsoft has bowed to popular demand, and what we all loved is
back. This move as well others seem to indicate the Redmond giant’s focus on
the “desktop” environment, emphasising that it is similar to Windows 7, in a
bid to encourage more people to upgrade to the new OS.
On A Personal Note
Once again some personal news. Recently, after being disillusioned by my lack
of purpose in life post-examination, I decided to Google myself, just for shits
and giggles. Funnily enough I came upon a BlackBerry forum, that seemed
to really erm enjoy my BlackBerry article (“CrackBerry or CrapBerry”). Once
the forum members had dissected title and scoffing at the bad attempt at hu-
mour, skipping over actually reading the article, they then decided to have a
go at Felix as a whole. Eek. However some of these users seemed to somehow
seemed to miss that Felix was a student newspaper, instead assuming that it
was some lonely individual who had a strange obsession with Imperial Col-
lege London. If you wanna have a look at extreme FanBoism as well as tell tale
symptons to avoid just head over to that forum!
http://forums.crackberry.com/news-rumors-f40/yet-another-new-article-crackberry-crapberry-769412/
Google Play
Music All Ac-
cess; service
that allows
unlimited
streaming Tech editor
also in the works.
here is a common theme to the
new features: they run on existing
(well, newer ones at least) versions
of Android without needing an up-
date. Android updates has always
been a sticking point in the Android
ecosystem, causing Fragmentation
(TM) and other nasties. By not an-
nouncing a new version of Android
while revealing a slew of new An-
droid features, it is likely that Google
was attempting to show that they can
add new features to Android with-
out updating the underlying version
of Android itself. We ﬁrst saw these
eﬀorts when Google applications on
Android such as Gmail began to be
”
“
There is a
common
theme to the
new features:
no update!
updated from the Google Play store
without needing a new version of
Android. Google I/O continues this
eﬀort by decoupling some of the
applications from the An-
droid core. It is likely that
this will continue in the
near future.
Another reason could
be due to the increas-
ing consumerisation of
the Google I/O event.
he event was originally
envisioned to be a plat-
form for Google to reach
out to developers. he in-
creasing prominence of Android in
recent years have caused consumer
attention to increase for the event,
threatening to derail it from its de-
veloper roots. his could be an at-
tempt to shift the event back to its
original focus, and perhaps create
another event just for consumers. If
that is the case, then we may yet see
another event to announce a new
version of Android down the road.
he current rumours, which should
be taken with a pinch of salt, points
to early June for this.
Of course, all of the above is sim-
ply speculation – Google may have
intended to show Android 4.3 at
the I/O event but it simply failed to
materialise due to some last minute
problems. We may never know. It is,
however, nice to see that Google can
in fact update Android without up-
dating Android.
Yong Wen Chua

