An otherworldly tutor
Sanchit Sharma struggleswithtaminghistitans,inaReusreview
ver wanted to build a bor-
ing wasteland of a planet
into a thriving world? Or
control giants that can
inﬂuence the planet on a
large scale? “Dammit, ocean giant, I
said one space to the left!” Okay, com-
mand giants; they’re a bit imprecise.
“Come back forest giant, I need you
over here!” he silly things. Anyway,
forget Black & White, four giants is
much more fun than one creature that
doesn’t even have complete control
over the topography!
Reus is a god/puzzle game in which
you must use your four giants (Swamp,
Forest, Mountain and Ocean) to inﬂu-
ence the ecosystem enough to create
human life on your surface – since
you’re the planet, for some reason. By
helping the humans complete their
projects you may impress them enough
for them to send your giants ambas-
sadors, which will increase their pow-
ers. However, you must be wary; if the
humans get too greedy they may wage
war against each other, or even start at-
tacking your giants!
he gameplay is quite simple. he
giants each have a major power which
will change the landscape (creating
whatever environment they are named
after), and creating mountains and
oceans inﬂuences the terrain to either
side as well, inﬂuencing what type of
settlement is formed and therefore
what types of projects the settlement
will try to undertake. In addition to
this, each giant can place both objects
(minerals, plants, animals) onto the
surface and aspects onto objects.
Where things start getting more
complicated is the interaction be-
tween these objects. Each object has
one or more synergies which activate
if a certain condition is met, which can
lead to situations where simple objects
produce more resources than more
advanced ones. Successfully taking ad-
vantage of these synergies is the key to
unlocking the more diﬃcult projects.
he overall goal of the game is to un-
lock all the achievements. It is played
out in games ranging from half an hour
to two hours long (you can, of course,
pause or save at any time) in which you
try to develop humans in the right way
to unlock the remaining achievements,
thus allowing humans to try harder
projects in later games.
he game as a whole is a lot of fun in
the early stages, but can get tedious if
you’ve played it a lot. Trying to get the
right combination of synergies to com-
plete harder projects can be a real pain,
as often the resources required are so
high that you must completely rede-
sign everything within the settlement
borders in order to ensure that they get
enough resources.
his is augmented not only by the
cooldown on giant powers, but also by
the fact that resources that have been
newly built do not get used immedi-
ately. hey must become ‘in use’, which
takes a little while. Projects always re-
quire resources in use and so this non-
immediate use can really be annoying
in certain situations!
Overall, this is a very enjoyable game,
attempting to unlock as many new
synergies and objects as possible, and
occasionally just helping a settlement
wipe out everyone else for the hell of
it! It can also be surprisingly fun to
simply watch the people in one of your
settlements talk about stuﬀ – inventing
your own conversations for the sym-
bols that come up in their speech bub-
bles. But don’t be surprised if it doesn’t
last you a long time, unless you’re the
kind of person that really gets into puz-
zle games. Reus is available from their
own website or a number of other re-
tailers including Steam and GOG for
£6.99/$9.99.
E
GAMES
FRIDAY 07 JUNE 23
Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Time, Dr. Freeman? Is it really that time again?
Another year, another smorgasbord of games and games-related... stuff. There’s only two weeks left of
Felix this year, and so I’ve two notes for you:
Firstly, send in all your stuff you still want the whole wide world to see! We want to know how you prefer
to kill your Sims, or why you like to roleplay on LoL.
Secondly, imma need a successor. There’s a hat, a ceremony and everything! Get your hustle on!
It looks like the planet has
little cat-ears! Squeeeee!
Hey, I can see your
house from here!

