FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
FRIDAY 07 JUNE
Best position? On Albertopolis
Tim Arbabzadah talks to ex-Imperial student and TEDx organiser
Kadhim Shubber about organising TEDxAlbertopolis
Job Description
Sondrel is looking for new or recent graduates who are interested in pursuing a career in
microelectronics. The current roles will provide the candidates with training from some of
Sondrel's highly skilled engineers in a variety of disciplines across IC design. Not only will the
roles be technically challenging as Sondrel engineers work on some of the largest designs in the
latest technologies, but they will provide experience of working alongside some of the best
engineers in the industry and throughout the world.
Desired Skills & Experience
x An Electronic Engineering or Physics related degree
x Ability to challenge and problem solve
x Capable of communicating and working as part of a team
x Some travel to Europe, China and the US may be required at times.
Company Description
Sondrel was established in 2002 and provides world-class, tailored, independent design services
and consultancy for the global semiconductor industry. The company offers a highly flexible
approach, from fixed or temporary engineering resource to full silicon supply and design centre
setup. Sondrel has staffed offices in the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Sweden, Israel and China
and has a strong, global network of partners including tier one EDA suppliers, foundries and IP
suppliers. Sondrel won the Queens Award for Enterprise 2009.
Additional Information
Type:
Full-time
Experience:
Entry level
Functions:
Engineering, Management
Industries:
Semiconductors
Compensation:
Competitive
EDxImperialCollege was
a must see event. It had so
much on oﬀer (you even
got your own lanyard) and
must have hit home with
the audience: it was trending on Twit-
ter. Considering it contained absolute-
ly zero Justin Bieber performances,
that’s pretty special. Former Felix Edi-
tor/physics student Kadhim Shubber
kindly took some time out to answer
some questions. He is co-organising
possibly one of the largest ever TEDx
events, right on our doorsteps at the
Royal Albert Hall. he team organis-
ing TEDxAlbertopolis is almost en-
tirely made up of Imperial alumni, and
Kadhim described them as “a dream.
he most intelligent, interesting and
eﬀective people you could hope to
work with.”
Tim Arbabzadah: You organised
TEDxImperialCollege, what made
you want to organise another TEDx
event?
Kadhim Shubber: We had far more
people who wanted to attend TEDx-
ImperialCollege than we could ac-
commodate. here was such a huge
demand in this community for another
TEDx event and we felt that there was
more to say, and more stories to ex-
plore in this area.
TA: If there were anything you could
have done diﬀerently at the last
event, what would it have been?
KS: When you organise an event, you
are in a unique position to see all the
niggles and ﬂaws. here are lots of
things that I thought could have been
a little bit better, but on the whole I
think it was a great event that people
enjoyed and I wouldn’t want to point
to one thing or another.
TA: he Royal Albert Hall is the ven-
ue, how did that idea come about?
KS: he Royal Albert Hall is Alber-
topolis’ auditorium. Its full name is the
“Royal Albert Hall of Arts and Scienc-
es”, making it the perfect place to ex-
plore the Arts, Sciences and their role
in modern society. We are incredibly
lucky to be able to organise TEDxAl-
bertopolis at the Royal Albert Hall.
TA:Is this the biggest ever TEDx
event?
KS: I don’t know, but I haven’t heard
of any that are bigger. TEDx events are
about spreading ideas and connecting
people. he size isn’t hugely important.
TA: It’s TEDxAlbertopolis. What is
Albertopolis?
KS: Albertopolis is the informal name
for the area from the Royal Albert Hall
down to South Kensington station,
including all the museums and other
institutions in this neighbourhood.
It’s basically a Victorian “Tech City”,
founded on the proﬁts of he Great
Exhibition of 1851 as a place where
scientiﬁc innovation and creative de-
sign work hand in hand.
TA: What is the theme of this year’s
event?
KS: We aren’t giving away the theme
just yet, but it’s no secret that we’ll fo-
cus on the place how art and science ﬁt
together in the modern world.
TA: Are there any big name speakers
we will get to see?
KS: We’ve chosen all of our speak-
ers because we think they have a re-
ally interesting perspective to share
and a compelling story to tell. We’ve
got many more to announce, but
we’ve already announced Dame Sally
Davies, the Chief Medical Oﬃcer for
England and Emeritus Professor at
Imperial; David Braben FREng, CEO
of the Frontier Developments and a
cofounder of the Raspberry Pi Foun-
dation; Nicholas McCarthy, the ﬁrst
one-handed pianist graduate from
the Royal College of Music; and John
Halpern, cryptic crossword setter for
he Guardian, he Times, The Finan-
cial Times and he Telegraph.
TA: Who would be your dream
speaker to invite?
KS: I feel incredibly privileged to be
working with the speakers we’ve al-
ready been able to announce. I think
this is pretty much a dream line-up. (I
hope you agree!)
TEDxAlbertopo-
lis is on the 23rd
September, tick-
ets can be bought
by going to roy-
alalberthall.com.
Find out more at
TEDxAlbertopo-
lis.com
With all the attention focusing on the Royal Albert
Hall’s starring role in TEDxAlbertopolis, it’s worth
returning to the humble beginnings leading up to
this event. Held on the 24th of March in the distinct
environs of the Great Hall, TEDxImperialCollege in-
vited a range of speakers to deliver lectures on the
theme of the Great Exhibition of 1851. Topics of the
day included instant spray-on fabric and a project to
resurrect the world’s first modern computer, with the
subjects proving wholly memorable – for the world
and not just for those attending with some of these
talks reaching thousands via the modern day magic
of YouTube.
I was lucky enough to be seated on the reputable
Social Media Sofa at the back of the auditorium, pro-
viding just about the best view of the action going on
below. Live blogging proved a just about surmount-
able challenge, with the sheer number of eminently
quotable ideas and concepts from eminently quot-
able individuals arriving like a swarm of commuters
at a busy station, clashing at the ticket barrier of my
live update system.
I’m under the distinct impression that even more
can be expected from the upcoming event at the Roy-
al Albert Hall. And though obviously things won’t be
the same without the Social Media Sofa in the back,
I’m sure that the range of speakers and incredible lo-
cation will lead this to be an event that will inspire
an incredible amount of attention; not least plenty of
trending on Twitter.
Matt Colvin
A Great Exhibition
T

