ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Saints Alive @ The National Gallery - A series of large-scale kinetic sculptures by Micha
Landy bring a contemporary twist to the lives of the saints. An unusual choose as col-
laboratorforsuchatraditionalinstitution hisworkismoretheproductofjunkyardsand
fleamarketsthanstudiosorgalleries.Now-November24
Regime Change Begins at Home @ Willliam Morris Gallery - This quirky exhibition of
paintings by David Mabb championing the history of political protest is a great excuse
tovisitanupandcominggalleryrecentlyawardedtheArtFundPrizeforMuseumofthe
Year,winningacool£100000.Now-June30
Patrick Caulfield @ Tate Britian - Described as a survey of Gary Hume’s work, relatively
shortlyafterhisdeaththisshowoffersagreatopportunityto acquaintyourselfwiththe
occasionallyiconicbutoftenovershadowsmodernartist. His masteryofcolour,graphic
eleganceandwitissuitedtoawiderangeoftastes.Now-September1
The Cripple of Irishmen @ Noel Coward Theatre - The next show in the opening salvo
from Michael Grandage’s new theatre company is guaranteed to draw a crowd with a
certainboywizardstaring. Howeverifpastexampleareaguidetoexpectationthisplay
withpackaqualitycomicandemotivepunch. June8-August18
Whywork?Instead,doodlealllecturelongandthensendusyourdrawingsto
arts.felix@ic.ac.uk.This colourfuldoodlewasdrawnbyIoannaKalogeraki.
FRIDAY 07 JUNE
8
From Nick Ross’ recent comments
about rape, to the on-going campaign
against ‘Page 3’
, it seems that barely a
day goes past without a reminder of the
constant need for feminism. A couple of
months ago a new website was started
that provides yet more evidence for
feminism’s role in society. ‘100% Men’
aims to reveal ‘corners of the world
where women have yet to tread’
, expos-
ing places where female representation
is sorely lacking. However, while it may
not seem surprising that there has nev-
er been a female president of the Royal
Society, or that male MPs outnumber
female ones 4:1, under representation
of women extends far into some sur-
prising facets of life.
he artistic world, which is often held
up as an egalitarian beacon of hope,
is also guilty of preferring men over
women, especially within the visual
arts. he Tate Modern may have just
opened a retrospective of the Lebanese
abstract artist Saloua Raouda Choucair,
but in the Tate Britain’s lauded new re-
hang, which they describe as ‘a circuit
of Tate Britain’s unparalleled collection,
from beginning to end’
, less than 8% of
the works are by female artists. Women
make up over 60% of art students, but
only contribute to 30% of the works
displayed in London’s galleries. So, with
such a disparity, it is surely fair to ask:
“where are the women?”
his is a question that is familiar
to the Guerrilla Girls, a collective of
feminist activists who combat sexism
in the art world through humour and
hard-hitting visuals. Founded in 1985,
following the MoMA’s exhibition An
International Survey of Recent Painting
and Culture, in which only 13 of the 169
artists were women, they have become
known for their distinctive visual style.
Taking on the names of dead female
artists and dressing up in gorilla masks,
they descend upon art galleries, leaving
a trail of evidence of discrimination in
their wake. One of their most famous
posters is from 1989, and asks the ques-
tion ‘do women have to be naked to get
into the Met?’
, prompted by the fact that
less than 5% of the artists in the Met’s
modern section were women, but 85%
of the nudes were. In a recent recount
they found that – despite more than 20
years of activism, during which muse-
um curators promised to display more
art by women and minority artists – the
percentage of female artists had actu-
ally decreased. But why is this the case?
Why are the major museums so reluc-
tant to display works by women artists?
Could the disparity be down to the
‘Male Gaze’? First described by femi-
nist ﬁlm theorist Laura Mulvey in 1975,
it describes the idea that in ﬁlm – and
indeed, within any visual art form – we
are looking from the perspective of a
heterosexual male. hey are in control
of the camera, the ones holding the
brush, and therefore it is through their
eyes that we see the work.
he case has been made that the fe-
male form is more visually appealing
and, although it could be argued that
this is only due to how entrenched the
gaze is in society, perhaps this is why
there are so few female artists; lacking
‘the gaze’
, they ﬁnd it more diﬃcult to
make work that is appealing to viewers.
his could also explain the dispropor-
tionate number of female nudes – they
are simply more appealing. Just as the
camera lingers on a woman’s curves, so
too does the artistic canon linger on the
nudes of Titian, Manet, and Klimt.
Such an explanation is simple and
concise;unfortunatelyitisalsomisguid-
ed. here is no shortage of female artists
exploring their own form, and yet it is
rare that we get to see these portrayals.
It can be seen in the work of Nan Gol-
din, whose puﬀy bruised face stares out
of photos, acting as a documentation of
her abuse. It can be seen in the work of
Tracey Emin, whose exploration of her
rape and sexuality is bold and brave.
And it can be seen in the work of Han-
nah Wilke, whose brutal posthumous
collection Intra-Venus documents her
slow death from lymphoma. his work
is seldom seen in galleries, and is even
rarer in art history classes.
he women in these works are too
real, too exposed for the general pub-
lic. hey have not been sanitised, their
curves are not immortalised in soft col-
ours. his view is captured by Martha
Rosler in her 1977 video performance
Vital Statistics of a Citizen, Simply Ob-
tained, in which Rosler gradually strips,
and her measurements are taken by a
team of male scientists. It is a represen-
tation of an art world in which women
exist only as objects, as a series of meas-
urements, rather than living, breathing
people.
hese women have taken control of
their own bodies, refusing to simply
be objects on canvas, and yet they are
all too often attacked for being ‘self ab-
sorbed’
, their work seen as little more
than a vanity project. It is a similar
view that many people have towards
performance art, a medium that has a
long history of brilliant female artists.
From Yoko Ono and Laurie Ander-
son, to Carolee Schneemann and Ma-
rina Abramović, there is no shortage of
women creating witty, self-aware art-
works; and yet, for many, performance
art is seen as ‘non-art’
.
Such an attitude has also been taken
against the art forms historically domi-
nated by women. Pottery, needlework,
and textiles have traditionally been con-
Where are the
female artists?
Fred Fyles Writer
Guerrilla girls going ape
How many
female artists
can you name?
Left
to
right:
Yoko
Ono,
Frida
Carlo.
Laurie
An-
derson,
Tracy
Emin,
Yayoi
Kasama,
Bridget
Riley,
Nan
Goldin

