Letters
Harbouring a
grudge?
Dear Editor'
It is time for me to stand up for my principles
and write concerning the behaviour of one of the
College wardens. I have been reluctant to do so
over the past three months as the warden
concerned is a member of the academic staff of
my department and as such could have an
influence over my exam results.
The warden concerned is Joe Cartwright of
Willis-Jackson House, Evelyn Gardens. M r
Cartwright was appointed warden at the end of
the last academic year when I was Union
President and as a result I was involved in the
decision. A t the time I was very vocal i n
supporting M r Cartwright's appointment. In fact
you might say I swayed the panel's decision from
turning Willis-Jackson House over to the
deserving and very capable warden in Holbein
House next door. 1 believed that M r Cartwright
would be a very capable and involved warden,
the students would like h i m and, by the sounds
of his suggestions for organising events and social
interaction, he would be an asset to the residence
system.
It is with some embarrassment that I must
apologise to the other members of that panel for
misleading them.
At one point this year I had the pleasure of
wandering around Willis-Jackson House. I
inititally gained access through the main door
which did not shut properly. The sub-warden
told me that Joe was in his flat, even though I
knew he was in another part of the country. A s
a matter of fact M r Cartwright spends most
weekends i n the South Midlands. I was
readmitted by the same sub-warden through a
door with a missing 'break glass in case of fire'
lock. The lock was an absolute disgrace. Two of
the fire exits were blocked by bikes and a bed.
The above is shadowed into insignificance
compared with the inconvenience to which he
put a number of his students over the Easter
vacation. A t Easter the whole of Willis-Jackson
House was .turned over to an outside company
meaning that all the students had to move out,
whether they were staying in College over the
vacation or not. M r Cartwright informed his
residents when they found out about the
situation that the position had been forced on
them by the wardens sub-committee and that he
was doing all he could to rectify the position.
Why, if this was the case, did I know that W-J
House was to be turned over to the company in
January before the wardens sub-committee met?
W h y d o neither the minutes or the
representatives of that committee remember this
decision being made? Why, if this was the case,
did wardens make a decision which is specifically
a matter for SRC.
I believe M r Cartwright is telling porkies.
Perhaps M r Cartwright would like to write back
and correct the following story if he can find fault
in it.
From what I can tell, M r Cartwright rang up
the Accommodation Office i n January as the
forms were being distributed to his residents
asking them if they wished to stay in hall over
Easter. In this telephone conversation he offered
to hand over his whole house for external renting,
hence leaving him completely free to fly off to
South Africa at Easter w h i c h w o u l d
inconvenience his students considerably. When
his students came to ask their warden for help
with their problem he invented a story about the
warden's sub-committee to cover his back.
Mr Cartwright's free flat could accommodate
eight students and is hence worth around
1320,000 to the residence committee. Considering
that M r Cartwright appears to be more trouble
than he's worth I suggest the residence
committee now realise that sum of money before
we get stuck with a useless warden who lives off
the students.
Sydney Harbour-Bridge.,
Insufferable
Dear Bill,
Dylan James is a classic example of an
insufferable, brainwashed adolescent, on a high
from attention seeking and, at present, digging
his o w n grave.
His views are typical of a certain brand of
religious fanatic who believes that you're damned
if you're not one of his lot, and takes every
opportunity to tell vou about it.
He is making a mockery of the Christian faith
with his petty bickering about politics a n d
Christianity. Since I'm sceptical about any kind
of religion anyway, I find his views particularly
amusing. A n d his all-time classic was actually
admitting that he was converted by a U S tele-
evangelist... has he told his parents?
Also most enjoyable is the slagging that his
critics get, 'they're obviously not Christians', he
says. By saying that kind of thing it makes me
wonder if he is a Christian. H o w does he know
anyway?
A n d as for signing off 'yours in Christ', you've
got a cheek, M r James - it's just an umbrella for
your ego trip. 'Free will is a central part of
Christianity, and we should choose to follow
Christ' you say. May I point out that this
statement is two-faced when placed with your
arguments and does not make any sense anyway.
Free will is part of life, M r James; tr^s right is not
just confined to Christianity. Why should we
choose Christ anyway? Throughout history
people like you have distorted the original ideas
so much that I wouldn't go near it, but that's my
opinion and I wouldn't like to offend any
Christians reading this.
'Abolish the welfare state' he says. He clearly
does not know what he's talking about and this
is substantiated by a remark that charities should
replace it! Perhaps he should set up a charity so
that we can reimburse ourselves for the housing
benefits that we are to lose. Would everyone like
to chip in and pay off my overdraft? Well, how
about it? Dig deep M r James!
A n d if there are any Christian Socialists out
there, M r James has gallantly laid down a
challenge to debate, how courageously open
minded of him; he won't mind me writing this
letter.
I hope you read this M r James, because you've
got a lot to learn about politics, Christianity, life
and other people's feelings.
Y o u r s Rupert Seldon, Civ Eng 1.
Bigots
Dear Bill,
Whatever Ole Lie and Bill Bailey, or anyone
else, may think of the London School of
Economic's Students' Union's decision to elect
Winston Silcott as their Honorary President
(FELIX 835), it is no excuse for their bigoted,
ignorant and unthinking letter.
Many people would agree that 'racism' is a
much misused word, but it would not be out of
place to describe their letter as out-and-out rascist
propaganda. They sav 'Black', by which we
assume they mean Afro-Caribean, people commit
more crimes than do whites. This is only true,
if y o u also consider h o w poor a n d
underpriveliged much of Britain's Afro-Carribean
community are. Poor people, people who are
treated as outsiders or parasites on society, must
feel ghettoised; and why, as thev must feel,
should such people respect laws and rules which
seem designed to keep them down?
Their claim that by arming the police and
hanging (and boiling) criminals will lead to some
kind of law-abiding Utopia is patently ridiculous.
Many people, including many policemen, feel
that arming the police would be dangerous.
Hanging is barbaric, condemned bv civilised
people all over the world; and, when a mistake
is made, it is irrevocable.
Let us not forget that the police and the judicial
system are there to serve the people—not the
other w a y a r o u n d . P C Blakelock d i e d
unnecessarily doing his job, but his death was
as much the fault of the society which produces
ghettos like Broadwater Farm, as the fault of what
bigots would call the 'murderous Tottenham
Tribesmen'. It is not James Nathan who should
grow up, it's all of us.
Y o u r s faithfully,
Mike Hadivin,
lason Lander,
Cyril Wong
Philip Cribbon.
Welsh
Dear Bill,
In any institution which consists of members
from many nationalities, it behoves any
publication purporting to air views, report news
etc within it to rise above the vulgar ridiculing ,
of any group of people. This is why the 'Dear
Marge' letter of the last issue was so offensive
to Welsh people like myself.
Had such a piece been intended to lampoon a
more vociferous section of the College, I suspect
that it would never have been considered for
publication, and rightly so. Broaden your minds
a little, please!
However I exepct such humour would appeal
to narrow-minded fascists like Bill Bailey and Co.
who were correspondents in your last issue. Their
letter was full of the twisted logic common to
extremists and should be treated with the
contempt it deserves.
Y o u r s ,
Geraint Williams.
Page 2 FELIX May 19 1989

