Felix
Editorial
S n a c k b a r
The Union's decision this week to reduce the portion size in the snackbar
still further is typical of the warped money grabbing attitude which the
Union administration has adopted throughout the year.
It is outrageous that the Union should consider profit margins more
important than providing students with a reasonable quantity of food at
a reasonable price.
Now it is no longer possible to buy a meal in the snackbar and eat it
without feeling hungry afterwards. No wonder the staff are embarrassed
about having to serve the new slim-line portions.
The Union Deputy President's argument, that the snackbar has been
making a loss because portions have been too large, is typical of the
twisted logic of a man so engulfed in red tape that he has disappeared
into his own bureaucratic back passage.
It does not take much intelligence to realise that the real reason the
snackbar is not making a profit is because it has lost most of its customers.
Just compare the massive queues of last year with the empty tables of
this year. Ask yourself why the Union bought two tills at the start of the
year to cope with the expected demand and now finds it can easily manage
with only one? •
Students do not eat in the snackbar because it is not good value for
money. Despite the good quality of the food, they need filling meals at
a reasonable price. Customers will not spend money on a meal which will
leave them feeling hungry afterwards.
The financial problems of the snackbar will solve themselves when
students perceive the snackbar to be good value for money. When this
happens students will start eating at the snackbar as regularly as they
have done in the past.
Industrial Relations C o m m i t t e e
Rupert Clayton deserves a pat on the back for organising an advertising
gathering campaign for the Union publications. Hopefully, the 1,400 letters
/which are about to be sent off will bring in a significant quantity of revenue
which will enable the standards of the publications to be improved.
F E L I X
Next week's FELIX will be produced by Union President Nigel Baker.
C r e d i t s
Oodles of thanks to: Stef, the news team: Adam Harrington, Liz Warren
and Nick Merriam; Jason Lander, Doug King for the Rag feature, Andy
Garside, Artdy Clarke and Sumit Guha, Steve Meyfroidt and Susan Appleby
for the music page, Sez Wilkinson, Rose, Dean, Eric, special thanks to
Liz, Jason, Mike and Stef for staying up until 4am collating last week,
the guy from filmsoc, this week's collators and everyone I have forgotten.
Staff meeting today 1.30pm.
S m a l l a d s
W M N t HNS ttfo? N
PE.VJ -too [AM-il KtW
I S F t t U r J t r NOrJe
"TOO V J E U
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Football team based in
Sherfield is looking for new
opposition to thrash or just grind
into the dust! A n y teams,
whether they be students or
staff, who think they could offer
some resistance please contact M r
Eddie Briscoe i n the Telex Office
to arrange a match.
• Selkirk Tizard Halls require
assistant subwardens. These two
posts offer no salary but do
attract free college
accommodation. They will start
in October 1989, but will require
some preparation before that
time. They require diligent
people skilled in pastoral, social
and disciplinary matters. If vou
wish to apply, get your
application forms from the
Accommodation Office. The
closing date is May 26th.
• Anyone going on the Frontier
Tanzania Expedition please
contact Simon Nuttall in Civ Eng
III. Wendy and Steve needn't
bother.
• Keyboard lessons: Rock, blues,
improvisation, MIDI.
Hammersmith/Clapham (24-track
studio with modern kevboard)
first Vi hour free. Isabel 498 0781.
FOR SALE & WANTED
• Bike wanted: Men's racer, will
consider anything. Phone Rose
on 3515 (FELIX).
• For sale: Bergmaus laser 70BC
rucksack. A s new £60. Contact A
Daglish, C h e m 3.
• For sale: Lightweight camera
tripod. Unused with box. £15.
Contact A Daglish, Chem 3.
• For sale: Olympus O M 1 0 with
standard lens, Vivitar telephoto
lens, range of Cokin filters, cable
release, plus strong case and
small tripod. Excellent condition,
must be seen. £160 o.n.o.
Contact Rose on 3515 (FELIX
Office).
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• Summer—Fulham Broadway
tube. 4 large double rooms with
ensuite bathrooms. Fullv fitted
kitchenette w/m. £100 pw, per
room (incl). Phone 384 2389 (this
is the correct number).
PERSONAL
• Phallixword: Hail Otis! But
what price a svnonvm?—The Last
Main Block.
• Phallixword: Help, the
supernatural, kerringbowls are on
the move again. Thunder T L M B .
• Phallixword: Eek, Eek, Eek,
Yroom, g-doink, g-doink, ga-
doink. Do you relate thunder?
S e l k i r k a n d T i z a r d H a l l s
R e q u i r e A s s i s t a n t S u b w a r d e n s
These two posts offer no salary but do attract free College
accommodation.
They will start in October 1989, but will require some preparation
before that time.
They require diligent people skilled in pastoral, social and disciplinary
matters.
// you wish to apply, get your application forms from the
Accommodation Office.
The Closing date is May 26th
Page 4 FELIX May 19 1989

