Feature
The Palestinian Story-
The geography of Palestine has been
redefined by conquest after
conquest, and each successive
empire has engraved its mark. You
can see the remains of Roman
pillars; Bvzantine and Crusaders
forts; Saracen palaces and mosques;
and C h r i s t i a n churches. A n d
surrounding the entire O l d City, a
Turkish wall built by the Ottomans
during their 4(X)-year reign.
When C o d sent Abraham out of
Lr to seek the promised land,
A b r a h a m left what was then
Mesopotamia and is now Iraq. He
discovered the land of Canaan—
today the state of Israel.
I he boundaries of today's Israel
outline much the same territory as
that settled in by the tribes of Joshua
after they seized the land from the
Canaanites 3,(XX) vears ago.
A century ago, vicious anti-
Semitism was sweeping Russia and
I urope. and out of that came a
movement to create a Jewish home
in the ancient land of Zion (which
means 'the hill in Jerusalem'). The
movement was called Zionism. It's
author, a Hungarian journalist
named Theodre Her/I. Herzl asked
the lurks for part ot Palestine and
She British for Cyprus. For a time,
the British offered to resettle the
Jews in what is now Uganda, but
even as Herzl s search went on,
many Jews were already heading for
Palestine.
In the years that followed, Jewish
settlements sprouted up throughout
the land. By 1914 there were 100,000
Jews in Palestine. In 1917, the
Balfour Declaration was approved,
endorsing a national homeland for
the lews in Palestine.
Palestinians demonstrated against
the Declaration and British support
lor a Jewish homeland. After all,
thev then represented some 90% of
the population there. Yet the Balfour
Declaration had, in effect, called
them intruders—'The existing non-
lew ish communities in Palestine'.
The Palestinians lived under
British rule for thirty years, from the
end of the first world war in 1918.
Bv 1920, there were almost forty
Zionist colonies in Palestine. Behind
the British military shield, Jewish
immigration continued to build. So,
too, did Palestinian frustration, until
finally, in 1936, the outrage against
Britain's one-sided pro-Zionist
policy crystallised in the Arabs' first
armed rebellion. The fighting
between Palestinians and the British
lasted for three years, from 1936 to
1939. Faced with the prospect of wounded.
World War II, Britain unleashed its
full military power against the
Palestinians, and smashed their
revolt. Some 3,000 Palestinians
d i e d : fifteen thousand were
Britain disbanded all political
organisations and exiled the political
leadership. They systematically
disarmed the Palestinian population
and armed the Jewish population.
The Biblical Claim to Palestine
The original inhabitants ot Palestine were the
Canaanites, 3,000 years ago. Today's
Palestinians claim to be descendants ot the
Canaanites which, they say, gives them
historical precedence over the Jews who occupy
the country.
But the Israelis believe that their right to
Palestine is laid down the book of Genesis.
According to Genisis, God presented Abrham
with the land ot the Canaanites;
',4s an everlasting possession I will give you and
your descendants after you the land in which you are
now aliens, all the land of Canaan, and I will be God
to your descendants."
The Palestinians argue that Palestine has been
ruled by Muslims for several hundred years and
that it is a Muslim land. Their argument is
backed up by the Quoran;
"Abraham was neither a Jew nor yet a Christian; he
was full of honour, a Muslim, and not among those
who equate partners with God"
The Palestinians, defenseless and
politically weak, now had to
contend with Jewish determination.
In 1947 the United Nations
'partition' of Palestine gave control
of 55% of the land to the Jews who
occupied only 5.5% of the country.
H u n d r e d s of thousands of
Palestinians were driven from their
homes, creating a new generation of
misery. The fact that the
Palestinian's exodus went largely
unnoticed by the world was further
proof of the terrible isolation and
powerlessness these people
suffered.
The exodus was intensified by the
1948 massacre in Deir-Yassin, part
of a deliberate campaign to terrorise
the Palestinians. Two hundred and
fifty were slaughtered; women were
raped and shot; bodies were
mutilated and stuffed down wells.
Many people left their villages
without fighting because they were
afraid that what happened in Deir-
Yassin was to be repeated.
About one month later, on the
same day, British rule officially
ended and Israel became a state.
Between 1948 and 1950 Israel
systematically destroyed 379 of 475
villages. H o w many were evicted,
how many just fled, will never be
k n o w n . ' But over 700,000
Palestinians have been made
homeless finding their way to
refugee camps in Jordan, Gaza,
Syria and Lebanon.
Peaceful methods having failed,
the Palestinian Liberation
Organisation (PLO) was formed in
1948 to draw attention to the plight
of the Palestinians. P L O guerrilas
launched attacks against Israel and
other targets, but by 1967 the
Palestinians had lost control of the
remaining parts of Palestine.
The Israelis continued bulldozing
and blowing up Palestinian homes.
According to human rights groups,
an estimated 1,300 houses were
dynamited in between 1967 and
1988. Since conquering the West
Bank and Gaza 21 years ago, Israel
has deported 1,232 people, some of
whom were activists, but many
were teachers, doctors, lawyers or
journalists.
Forty one years ago, it was the
children of Palestine who lost their
land. N o w it's their grand children.
Three generations without a home.
The time has come, they believe, to
regain their honour and thus
provide overall justice to all the
people of three major religions.
Mav 19 1989 FELIX Page u

