fFEATURE
Has fCCC got a
T E R M I N A L I L L N E S S ?
So the computing project should have been handed in by now
should it? Well, even if it you haven't done it you can't be
bothered. The cobwebs lie in the terminal rooms, and dust
gathers.. Now is the time for FELIX to go behind the scenes in
IC's very own temple of technology, the Imperial College
Compter Centre.
IF YOU PASS the FELIX office to get to the
Union Snack Bar at lunch times you may
have noticed a change in number of people
inside. Every day at 12.30pm thousands of
Chemical Engineers, Physicists, and
Electrical Engineers have been handing in
letters complaining about ICCC (the
Imperial College Computing Centre). They
say that if they had wanted to do a degree in
computing then they would have done a
degree in computing. They don't want to
spend all day messing around in CEDIT
watching the internals of ICCC churning
round in front of their eyes—they want a
decent editor, a decent screen, and therefore
a chance to get on with the job instead of
spending all day looking through a NOS 2.1
reference guide.
Monolith
So where did this monolith that is ICCC
come from? The centre was born in 1964
when the college got an IBM 7090 as a gift (in
a Christmas cracker?). In 1969 the centre got
its first CDC manufactured processor, a
CDC 6600 , and ICCC has been with CDC
ever since. Currently the centre has a CDC
Cyber 174 bought in 1983, and a CDC Cyber
170/855 bought in 1975. No-one would deny
that these are powerful machines. However,
this must be put into the context of the
centre providing a service to a very large
proportion of IC, giving the backbone for
teaching and research in a large number of
maths-based disciplines. The 170/855 for
instance, is short of memory.
Not all computing at IC is done by ICCC
by any means. There are vast numbers of
microcomputers scattered throughout the
College, and many departments run
minicomputers of their own. (A
minicomputer is much larger than a micro
but not nearly as large as 'mainframes' such
as the computers at ICCC.) In particular the
Department of Computing provides almost
everything it needs itself. It is very interesting
to compare the ease of use of ICCC (or not)
with, say, the S-VAX which is used by
undergradutes in DoC. Machines of the
same type as the the S-VAX provide good
value for money and are run by many
academic institutions across the country,
and therefore there is a vast library of good
programs already written for them.
User-friendly?
Most of the time that is spent at a
computer terminal is spent in the editor. On
the S-VAX you can see what you are editing
on the screen all the time. If you want to
delete a line you move the cursor to that line
using arrow keys, type 'D' to delete, and it's
gone. On ICCC, you list a bit of program,
then mess around a while. Now you've got to
list a bit more, because you've forgotten
where you are or what you've changed since
you last listed it. (Not that you can see the
last listing that you did—it scrolled off the top
of the screen three minutes ago.) This takes
ages because ICCC sends data to you very
slowly. Why does it send data very slowly?
Because it thinks that you are a printer. And
it thinks that you are giving it information on
punched cards (which were invented in the
19th century by the way). Made a mistake?
Deleted the wrong bit of code? On ICCC
that's just tough isn't it. On the S-VAX just
type 'U' to undo the last command, and that
priceless routine can be resurrected.
If we want to use jargon we might say that
ICCC is not user-friendly. User-hostile may
be more precise. The system is superb for
people who need to invert matrices with
trillions of elements, but for ordinary mortals
who happen to be undergraduates in the
Chemistry Department it has about as much
charm as having a ferret shoved down your
jeans.
Virtue
So when are things going to improve?
ICCC and their CDC machines certainly
seem to have been left behind in some
7CCC nerve centre-beam me up Scottyi
10 Wednesday 19 June 1985 FEUX

