FEATURED
regards. Well there is some very good
news—this summer a bumper memory
upgrade (paid for by the winnings of a top
secret consortium which used the MINITAB
statistical package to predict horse races)
will mean that the machines can support
'virtual memory'. This swaps programs and
data in and out of the processor in such a way
that the machine can appear to handle more
work than at first seems possible. And then
CEDIT will be thrown in the in bin where it
belongs and a screen editor installed instead.
Those arrow keys which have lain dormant
for so many years will actually come into use.
Many of the terminals currently running at
about 30-40 characters per second will be
upgraded to eight times that speed, which
will remove many of those annoying delays
when the screen is filling up. And all of this
before the beginning of the Autumn term.
VAX for the
memory
More significantly perhaps is the news that
ICCC is thinking of buying a VAX 8600. This
is a recently announced machine which can
handle a respectable numbers of terminals in
a very user-friendly way. This would be
bought for the teaching of Computing Aided
Design, and as this requiries a lot of
computing power it seems that initially it
won't be used for anything else. However,
STOP PRESS ICCC's first voice recognition
once people use a machine like the 8600 they
realise what a difference in productivity a
decent system will bring. In the future it may
well be that two networks are run in parallel.
One would be a number crunching system
consisting of the current CDC machines
which would be used mainly for research
where real data is being processed in large
quantities. The other would be a less
equipment!
powerful but still useful network of new
machines like the VAX 8600, which would
allow greater productivity through increased
ease of use. This second network would be
used mostly by (contented?) undergrad-
uates. Then maybe Chemistry 3 would be
able to get on with their course instead of
wondering how to unblock the printer
queue.
PhoeTfix
The literary magazine of ICU
Available from the bookshop, ICU
office and libraries for only 30p
Logistix Recruitment Limited
148 King Street, Hammersmith, London W6 0QU
Telephone 01-741 8511-7
Graduates &
Post Graduates
COMPUTER SCIENCE/ELECTRONICS/
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
Since 1978, our company has assisted large
numbers of I.C. graduates find employment in the
computer industry. We specialise in recruiting for
small, expanding companies working on real time
projects utilising mini and micro computers.
Currently, we are looking for people interested in
Artificial Intelligence, Compiler Writing,
Communications Software, UNIX Systems,
V.L.S.I., Software Development Environments
and local Area Networks.
Make sure that you start your career off in the right
direction by contacting one of our consultants and
benefit from their free advice and counselling.
FEUX Wednesday 19 June 1985 11

