In the early seventies, when the North Sea
Oil Industry was first established, it was
heavily dependant on American
technology. This technology was not
necessarily suitable for use in the North
Sea, so to help the industry the Science
and Engineering Research Council (SERC)
set up a Marine Technology Directorate to
co-ordinate research in the United
Kingdom. With the aid of funding from the
Directorate seven Marine Technology
Centres have been established.
The London Centre for Marine
Technology was set up in 1976 and is
essentially a joint project between Imperial
College and University College London.
These two colleges play an equally
important role in the Centre's activities,
with other colleges in the London are
becoming increasingly involved. The
Centre has two important functions: to
obtain a greater understanding of the
fundamental aspects of concrete and steel
offshore structures, and to provide further
education for undergraduates. To achieve
these aims, expertise from a number of
disciplines, including Civil Engineering,
Mechanical Engineering, Metallurgy,
Aeronautics, and Mineral Resources is
required. The existence of a Centre for
Marine Technology provides a way of co-
ordinating these research activities
throughout the colleges. The Centre is
keen to attract funding from industry, and
at present many of the research subjects
are generated by consultation between
academic staff and industry. There is an
Industrial Steering Committee which
provides advice and management, but the
Centre is maintaining its long term
fundamental research as well as being
involved in short term projects.
The marine technology research funded
by the SERC in the United Kingdom is
currently moving into a new era with the
setting up of twelve nationally co-ordinated
research programmes. Each of these
'managed programmes' will represent the
whole of the SERC funded research into
that particular subject. There will be
'management agent' for each programme
who will be responsible for representing
the views of the academics to the steering
committee.
All twelve of the programmes will follow
a similar organisational pattern. One
example is 'Concrete Offshore in the
Nineties' (COIN), which is headed by
Professor J Dougill from Imperial College.
This programme consists of twelve
individual projects, six of which are to be
based at Imperial College and six
elsewhere. The SERC is providing 50% of
the funding, but the rest has had to be
found from other sources. For this
particular project there is a steering
committee which includes representatives
from industry and the Department of
Energy.
The Centre also runs seminars and
short courses which are aimed at people
already working who need education
about new technologies. These help to
disseminate the findings of the research as
well as increasing links with industry.
The discovery of natural gas and oil
beneath the bed of the North Sea and
other areas on the Continental Shelf was
important for the United Kingdom. To
enable the valuable resources to be tapped
quickly, economically and safely new
technology was needed. Work carried out
at the London Centre for Marine
Techonology has played an important role
ir the developments so far, and will
continue to do so in the future.
At present the London Centre is
working closely with industry to develop
methods of designing new types of
platforms needed to produce offshore oil
and gas in deeper waters. The Centre is
also involved in a number of major
programmes which are looking at topics
including the fatigue and fracture of steel,
buckling of steel structures, concrete and
concrete structures, fluid loading due to
waves and currents, and others. Another
important area of work which is based at
Imperial College is aimed at recovering
other offshore minerals. For example,
ocean floor mining of deep sea sediment
to obtain manganese nodules, or the
mining of coal which can be found much
nearer the surface than oil.
The Hutton Tension Leg Platform
The Hutton Tension Leg Platform,
shown in the figures, was installed in July
1984 by Conoco, and represents a major
advance in the design of oil production
platforms of the North Sea. It is the first of
a new genration of floating oil production
platforms, and many aspects of the new
technologies used in its design and
construction benefitted from research
carried out at the London Centre. The
Tension Leg Platform is essentially a
floating structure stabilised and held in
position by groups of vertical tethers. This
compares with conventional offshore
structures which are typically of the
'gravity type', resting on the seabed under
their own weight. The major advantage of
this new system is that marginal oilfields in
deep water can be developed at relatively
low increase in cost with depth. The
system can also be re-used several times
with only minor costs for disconnection
and reinstallation. The aim is to develop
this conception further to exploit oilfields
that have already been disscovered in
deep water.
Offshore Concrete
Concrete is already widely used in
offshore structures and this use is likely to
be further extended in the future. One of
the Centre's major research programmes
which is based at Imperial College is
looking into the use of concrete offshore.
Existing offshore concrete structures
include underwater oil storage and
concrete gravity platforms in the North
Seas, and in the future there is the
20 Wednesday 19 June 1985 FEUX

