The freedom of the press is not a freedom to
publish any rubbish that comes your way.
But it sometimes carries with it a
responsibility to publish the unpalatable
truth. A lot of people will criticize me for
publishing a map of the tunnels this week,
and say that it is irresponsible. I reject this
entirely. The map should bring home to the
College authorities how lousy campus
security is. This is not to criticize the security
guards themselves. Most of them do a very
good job, and deserve our admiration. But
their superiors get the guards to watch over
locked doors on ground-level. They cannot
know who enters and leaves by means of the
College underground. Did it even occur to
the authorities that the ten microcomputers
stolen this year from Aero/Chem Eng might
have been removed via the tunnels?
No. U p to now the College has
conveniently ignored the existence of the
tunnels . Now they can no longer do so. It will
be intersting to see how they react.
Computers
'The College is not as good as it ought to be'.
One of its main failings is the Computer
Centre facility (see pages 10 and 11). It is
ridiculous that Imperial College, one*of the
world's leading scientific institutions, should
have such poor central computing capability.
The Control Data machines are old-
fashioned, user-hostile and have an operating
system so non-standard, that co-operation
with other colleges throughout the world is
hampered. The College must act quickly to
put the situation right.
- ••
Catering
M r Northey is interviewed on page 5. When
speaking to him informally, it is obvious that
he has a lot of good ideas for the refectory. He
seems reluctant to see them in print
though—you won't find any specific plans in
the interview. To be successful he is going to
have to sound out student opinions about
their refectory requirements, and how they
correspond to his plans. To this end he
deserves our co-operation.
Teaching Standards
What is the role of a University—under-
graduate teaching or research? The glib
answer is to say both, and further to say that
they are eminently compatible.
But there are those in the College,
particularly some Heads of Department, who
do not seem to care very much about
undergraduate teaching. In fact, Prof Bruce
M c A Sayers, Dean of City and Guilds, Head
of Computing and sometime Head of Elect
Eng, has told his academic staff that they
W I L L NOT BE P R O M O T E D on the quality
of their teaching. They will only get
promotion on the quality of their research.
There is no career incentive to lecture well.
Sayers has had a great deal of success in
attracting research contracts to his
department, and he is probably a good
person to have in charge from a research
point of view.
This doesn't necessarily make him a good
H e a d o f D e p a r t m e n t f r o m t h e
undergraduates' point of view, though. A
good Head of Department should be just as
concerned about teaching as he is about
research.
Students' complaints about teaching
standards throughout the College seem to fall
on deaf ears.
Next Year
Next year's sabbaticals are not going to have
an easy time. Most of their problems will be
financial. They must address the question of
ex-subvention income. They must get the
Bookshop back on its feet, even if it means
making unpopular or painful decisions. The
Bookshop cannot and must not be allowed to
continue losing money. M a k e no
mistake—when a shop with a turnover of
£350,000 a year makes a loss, there is
something seriously wrong. A n d I don't
believe that shop-lifting can account for it all.
If the shop continues like this, it will have to
be closed down.
FELIX
I hope that you have enjoyed F E L I X this
year. I have certainly enjoyed producing it
each week. I've been criticised on the one
hand for not making F E L I X a copy of the
last three years', and on the other hand for
preserving a formula that has been used for
the last three years. You can't win, can you?
After four years at the Imperial College of
Science and Technology, you must forgive
me for being a little disillusioned, both with
the College and the Union.
Year after year, both muddle along, more
or less side-by-side. The same problems, the
same questions crop up again and again. And
the same old solutions are suggested—it's
only rarely that something gets done. Where
are the dynamic go-ahead people with new
ideas and sparkling enthusiasm? They don't
seem to be in the Sherfield building or the
Beit building.
No. The College is rather like an aged aunt.
She gets rather older and rather fatter and
considerably madder every year. But one's
affection for her doesn't cease. One loves her
for her faults and tetchiness as much as for
her endearing qualities. And so it is with
Imperial College.
To those of you who, like me, are leaving
College this week, and to those of you whose
sentence is still to run, may I wish you all the
very best of luck in the future.
Acknowledgements Many thanks are due to
the following for their help throughout the
year: Maz Fellows, Grenville Manuel, Hugh
Stiles, Dave Jones, Chris Martin, Jon Jones,
John Burgess, Judith Hackney, Sarah Kirk,
Nigel Atkinson, Alan Barnett, Peter Hobbis,
Pete Coleman, Hugh Southey, Patrick Coll,
Peter Rodgers, Rich Archer, Phillip Milne,
Rosemary Ivor-Jones, Tony Churchill, Ian
Bull, Eric Darbyshire, Dave Parry, Diane
Love, Tony Spencer, Ajay Kapadia, Richard
Weissenberg, Luke Boucher, J Martin
Taylor, and to anyone else who I've missed
out.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union. Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
Back Row: Grenville Manuel, Jon Jones, John Burgess, David Rowe, Hugh Stiles.
Patrick Coll, Dave Jones
Middle Row: J Martin Taylor, Sarah Kirk, Judith Hackney, Chris Martin, Peter
Hobbis, Hugh Southey
Front Row: Nigel Atkinson
2 Wednesday 19 June 1985 FEUX

