prospect of offshore windmills, floating
airports or concrete liquify natural gas
carriers. This trend is towards more and
larger concrete structures exposed to
deeper and more severe sea waters, also a
good understanding of the behaviour of
concrete under these conditions is of the
utmost importance. The direction of the
research programme is towards improving
the understanding of the material and the
development of future offshore
applications.
The impact of an accidentally dropped
object can cause damage to a concrete oil
producing platform which is difficult and
dangerous to locate and inspect. In
recorded incidents, objects weighing as
much as nineteen tonnes have been
dropped onto structures. Although
damage is often only superficial, it can
sometimes be more serious. One of the
projects at Imperial is looking at how to
guard against a specific accident. For
example, underwater oil storage tanks
have domed roofs which are particularly
vulnerable to accidental impact, and their
resistance to damage is being investigated.
Concrete structures are fairly durable in
the North Sea, but the harsh environment
undoubtedly has a damaging effect on
them. Another project at Imperial is
studying ways to quantify this effect and
find ways to improve the resistance to
degradation. The durability of concrete in
the sea depends on its low permeability,
and it has recently been discovered that
on immersion in sea-water some concretes
exhibit a significant reduction in
permeability. The reason for this is that on
immersion the concrete grows a protective
'surface-skin'. During tests, 25mm thick
samples of two of the most permeable
mortars showed a reduction in
permeability of 45% after only two weeks.
After three months of sea water
exposure the layer could be as thick as
100 micro meters. Initial tests have shown
that the permeability reducing phenomena
have a considerable effect upon the
absorption capacity of concrete even after
drying out. which would be important in in
tidal and splash zones. The next phase of
the research will be looking at the
development of methods to deliberately
enhance the permeability reducing
phenomena, which could ultimately lead to
impermeable and hence far more durable
concrete.
Small Scale Model Testing
One of the fundamental problems
encountered in model testing of offshore
structures in wave tanks, is that of
extrapolating small-scale laboratory data to
full scale. A project based at Imperial
College is hoping to overcome this
problem, and the results should provide
useful information to aid design of offshore
structures for the North Sea.
Because of a scale effect the flow
induced by waves past small diameter
tubes, such as those used to construct
small scale model offshore structures, is
not the same as that around a typical 2m
diameter tubular member of a steel
platform. There exists a certain critical
level beyond which the fluid loads behave
differently. Full scale structures are in the
post-critical range where as most small-
scale measurements to date have been in
the sub-critical range. There is no reliable
way to extrapolate small scale data to full
scale, and tests on exisiting structures in
the open sea cannot be systematic enough
to provide any help. To try and over come
this problem large-scale experiment have
been conducted at the giant Delta flume at
the Delft Hydraulics Laboratory in
Holland. The flume measures 230m by 5m
with a depth of 7m, and regular and
irregular waves of heights up to 2m can be
generated. The tests which have been
carried out on a 0.5m diameter cylinder,
represent some of the closest to full scale
that have been carried out in laboratory
conditions. The results should be useful
for the design of new offshore structures
and will also provide guidelines for future
model testing.
Fatigue
In the North Sea the wave climate is more
severe than in almost any other area of
the world where offshore platforms have
been installed. As a result of this fatique
cracks can develop in structure during its
operation, and it is important that they do
not grow to a significant size. There is a
major research programme studying
fatigue in offshore structures based at
University College, and an underwater
non-destructive test cente has been
established there. The work involves
corrosion fatique test on welded steel joint
and threaded connectors, which are the
areas where fatigue most frequently
occurs. Alongside this area more
fundamental studies on the behaviour of
high strength steels exposed to the marine
environment, one major advance resulting
from this work has been the development
of techniques that allow significant cracks
in offshore structures to be detected and
measured both in air and underwater.
The production of oil from small fields in
deep water poses considerable problems.
At University College there is a research
programmme which is investigating the
use of a number of novel systems in this
situation. The tension leg platform, the
guyed tower and various ship or barge
based floating production systems are
amongst the possibilities being considered.
The London £entre for Marine
Technology has made an important
contribution to the development of North
Sea Oil Industry, as well as in the recovery
of other valuable offshore resources. For
the future, research in this areas will
continue to be important as the
requirements for offshore structures
change to meet new conditions.
EXEC PISS UP
Wednesday 19th June
UNION BAR
6pm until lam FREE ENTRY
ABSOLUTELY NOTHING TO DO WITH CLIVE DEWEY
FELIX Wednesday 19 June 1985 21

