Tinker
Here are the answers to the unsolved puzzles.
First the golf puzzle:
Hove
,*j>
* SrnoKe
Since the distance between the two foci of an ellipse via any
point is the same for all points on the perimeter, we need not
worry about the green, since the distance walked there is fixed.
To minimise the remaining distance then, the Mathematician
must imagine larger and larger ellipses for which the two tees
are foci. When the ellipse is large enough to just touch the edge
of the green, the point of contact marks the spot where he must
leave his bag.
The number puzzle was ridiculously straightforward. Simply
count the number of letters in the English spelling of the
preceding number. Hence:
23, 11, 6, 3, 5, 4, 4, 4
The biscuit dunking problem is quite delightful, though a little
long-winded. In the three dunk problem the way to minimise the
distance R'min in is to dunk the biscuit such that the edge
of the cup, at the second dip,
is half-way along the straight
edge incurred by the first dip.
That way, one edge of the cut is
brought as close as possible
to the centre of the biscuit.
Then the new FUm (R'min) may
be c o m p u t e d f r o m t h e
recursion formula.
H A L F w a y p e i t f T
Unfortunately this method is
inferior to the simple strategy
of cutting top and bottom
from the biscuit with the first
two cuts.
Of the three likely looking ways of solving the four dunk
problem:
The last is marginally the best.
Thanks for puzzling...bye!
Reasons to be Cheerful
~ j and poetry, something that has in college. If you know anything
f{ g e V 8 I
I t n e v e r
been tried before. There is a m u s i n g a b o u t your w a r d e n ,
only a limited amount.though, that lecturer etc. then tell someone in the
FELIX is the student newspaper of the current FELIX staff can do. We FELIX office.
Imperial College Union and as such need your ideas if we are to change.
it should reflect student views, Why not come and work on FELIX? i i
interests etc. Next year FELIX will You'll certainly be welcome in the V 9 I U G
attempt to be your newspaper. If you office.
support FELIX it won't be dominated If you are a final year student you
by a few hacks. It needs your U •• m n r n II Q m a y b e i r r i t a t e d t n a t
y°u
won'tbe a t
support, though. FELIX has to come n U III U I U U o college to see these changes in
out every Friday. As a result, if the FELIX. Don't worry-for only £9 you
hacks are the only people to have FELIX next year will be amusing, can have next year's FELIX mailed to
contributed they have their articles There is no point in trying to report you anywhere in the U K . It's an
printed. Why not drop into the office on rag events in the manner of the excellent way of keeping in touch
any Friday or Monday and tell us Times Higher Education Supple- with college. All you need do is fill in
what you think is right and wrong ment. FELIX next year will have a the form below and send it with a
with FELIX. It's your newspaper so regular diary column covering cheque to the FELIX office,
use it. anything humourous that happens
] I j~"~ ~ '"Please return to: The FELIX Office, Beit Arch, Prince"'
I II II U V d I I V c | consort Road, London, SW7 2BB I
FELIX has barely changed in the last | 1
enclose a cheque for £9 made payable to 'Imperial I
few years. The articles are on the , College Union Publications Board (FELIX)'
same subjects and presented in the | Nams
same manner as they were three .
years ago! Recently things have | Address I
started to change, however there is a . i
long way to go. FELIX next year, for I I
example v> Hi include pieces of prose I • . . . . • • * ; I
FELIX Wednesday 19 June 1985 25

