Internal Services
Committee
Alan Rose
1. The Past
The ISC (Unionspeak - see above) is a
relatively new committee; it has had two
chairmen in the past. One of them is called
'Hugh Southey' and the other one is called
' J M T (Unionspeak - see below).
The former chairman loves to be praised
by sabbaticals, he is going to become a
sabbatical of sorts himself, he appears to see
M r Mooney as the personifiction of absolute
evil, he likes to talk about refectories.
The latter chairman (sometimes called
'Martin Taylor') simply likes to talk - a lot.
He has proclaimed ISC a committee without
tangible responsibility, ICU's (Unionspeak -
Imperial College Union) ultimate talking
shop. Fine words from ICU's ultimate
talking head. His main contribution this year
seems to have been provided a service himself
(albeit serving only a small number of
students) ie. court jester to the sabbaticals. It
was heartwarming to see the sparkle restored
to the President's eyes and a smile lighting up
his little face, at what must have been, after
all, difficult times for him, as the ISC
chairman revealed delightfully scatter-
brained schemes like pumping raw sewage
through M r Northey's kitchens.
2.The Purpose
The area of concern of the committee is, by
definition, services provided for students at
this college. Thus, the committee must
address itself to the issuqs indigenous to all
such services whether they are run by the
college or run by the union. With regards to
college-run services, the role of chairman
must be to co-ordinate opinion, to be in
touch with student representatives on
relevant college committees and to ensure
that the problem areas are identified and the
students case is represented. T h e
responsibility for student-run services is
more direct insofar as the committee must be
concerned with improvements to services.
Existing services need constant examination:
Are they performing satisfactorily?
Can they be improved?
Where the possibility of providing a new
service exists, questions like:
Is there sufficient demand for it?
C O U L D IT L O S E T H E U N I O N M O N E Y ?
3.The future
The most significant issue of the
forthcoming year is likely to be ICU's future
in National Student Purchasing Consortia.
My predecessor believes that the NSSO
(Unionspeak - (National Student Services
Organisation) will alter its membership rules
in such a way that IC may participate. This is
indeed a possibility given that their present
rules exclude such notables as U L U
(Unionspeak - University of London Union),
whether any changes made would be broad
enough to include all student unions not
affiliated to N U S (Unionspeak - National
Union of Students) is another matter. In any
case I feel that some form of London-based
purchasing consortium is a concept worthy
of consideration throughout L o n d o n
Colleges whether or not it is viewed only as a
contingency plan. I trust that the incoming
sabbaticals will take the opportunity this
summer to talk turkey with other colleges
union officers after certain delegates kindly
blocked all debate on the subject at the last
G U C (Unionspeak - Gathering of Unrealistic
Cretins).
Meanwhile, several ideas for new services
have been proposed, these include a
photobooth, a photocopier, a second cash
dispenser, contraceptive dispensers for the
bars and a 'coffee-room' style alternative for
students who do not wish to drink in the bars.
Some of these proposals have been bobbing
along on the crest of a wave of hot air for
quite some time and must be either adopted
or killed as soon as possible.
The concept of student-run bar has been
raised again recently. It is certainly an
attractive idea, especially after noting figures
for student run bars at other colleges. For
example, at Q M C (Unionspeak - Queen
Mary College) their bar makes a substantial
profit for the union whilst having a turnover
approximately equal to one third of the bar
turnover here and with beer prices starting at
around 50p per pint. However, unlike the
college-run refectory, which the union snack
bar replaced which was an unwanted cash
drain, the bars at this college send bulging
sacks of zlotys Sherfield-ward and any
refectory manager would be reluctant, to say
the least, to lose this monopoly.
4.And Finally
I feel I must apologise to Martin Taylor if
he perceives any part of the above to be a
personal attack on him. What I have written
is based purely on what I have observed this
year. He has had, as he says, other
commitments this year and I am reliably
informed that he has made a good job of
being Felix Business Manager in the face of
adverse circumstances. He also has a valid
point when he speaks in his long awaited
annual report of 'personality clashes'
between himself and certain sabbatical
officers. At times it seemed that even if he had
taken out his wallet and offered to buy every
member of the committee a drink, they would
still have told him to bugger off. Still, I feel
that he could be even funnier if the union
would buy him a funny hat with bells on and
a pair of curly-toed shoes, although it may
well be that the best candidate for next year's
court jester lies within the sabbaticals
themselves....
Alan Rose - Internal Sevices Committee
Chairman Elect.
BOOKSHOP NEWS
Lecturers, I must now start thinking about
ordering your recommended titles for the
coming Academic year. So could you let me
have details of the books and drawing
equipment/on the Bookshop Forms, they
should be available through your department
if not come to me and I will give you some.
NEW TITLES
Partial Differential Equations for
Scientists and Engineers 3/ed Dr
Geoffrey Stephenson Longman £6.95
Published July 1985.
The text, which assumes only that the
reader has followed a good basic first year
Ancillary mathematics course, is self
contained, this new edition contains a new
chapter on numerical methods. Copies may
be ordered in advance of publication date at
the Bookshop.
I could do with some more sponsors or
odd coins for the London to Brighton Bike
ride in aid of the British Heart Foundation.
Dave Parry is saving hard, rumour has it that
he has put off buying a new iron until later.
Road Atlas of Great Britain Ordance
Survey Temple Press £7.95.
Travellers Britain Data File Geographia
£4.95.
Concise Science Dictionary Oxford UP
£12.95.
Chambers Concise 20th Century
Dictionary Chambers £7.95.
Penguin Book of the Car Anthony Curtis
Penguin £5.95.
Pass the Port Again Christian Brann £2.95.
On Reflection Richie Benaud Fontana
£2.95.
How to Watch Cricket John Arlott
Fontana £1.95.
The Dark Arena Marion Puzo Pan £1.95.
The Time of the Hunters Moon Victoria
Holt Fontana £1.95.
Killing Time William S Brady Fontana £0.85
Outlaws William S Brady Fontana £1.00.
Instant Menu Translator Foulsham £1.75.
Richard's Bicycle Book Richard
Ballantine Pan £2.95.
FELIX Wednesday 19 June 1985 31

