Letters
Not a
single
excuse
•
Dear Sir,
I would like to comment on the I C U policy
for the appointment of student wardens for
Evelyn Gardens. The adverts for any such
post state that a married warden is preferred,
indicating that a single one would still be
considered. However, in practice a single
person would not get taken on under any
circumstances, as it is felt that they would not
be able to handle the job. For a mixed house,
there are definite advantages of having
married wardens, but for a male-only house
there appears to be no justification for it. To
say that a single person could not handle the
job, whereas a married one could is totally
ridiculous. In my experience as a (single)
warden of the Fremantle Hall for the past
eighteen months (a hall with more students
than any of the Evelyn Gardens houses), I
have never found being single a
disadvantage, as the amount of time spent
running the hall would put severe pressure on
any partner.
Also one of the main arguments for having
student wardens (as opposed to staff ones as
in the halls) is that they are not as remote
from the students. However, married
wardens are liable to be more remote than
single ones.
Finally, restricting the wardenships to
married students severely limits the choice
when appointing new wardens. I certainly
know of several very able single
postgraduates who, as wardens, would
devote the energy and enthusiasm to the job
that the residents deserve. However, my
experience of present married wardens is that
they have very little interest in really getting
involved with students. I believe that until the
Union changes its policy in the appointment
of wardens we will continue to get second-
rate wardens like the ones we presently have
running the student houses.
Yours faithfully,
Nick James
Warden, Fremantle Hotel
Ring out
the old...
Dear Sir,
Having seen the various letters and articles
printed in F E L I X over the last few weeks I
feel that I ought to set some matters straight.
Last January I asked the C C U / M S C heads
for their next year estimates. Myself, Ian Bull
and Ken Weale (ICU HST) had already
pointed out that we could not expect much of
an increase from College at all. However
when the estimates from the various sections
arrived it became clear that we were going to
be looking for a large increase.
In the end we faced an expected deficit of
£24k. We did not have as much money as last
year fo give to the MSCs and CCUs.
Therefore U F C came to the conclusion that
we ought to start trying to make clubs more
equal. Two areas immediately came to mind;
subscriptions and travel subsidies. On
inspection it was seen that the amount of
money the members of a club contributed
compared to that the Union gave varied
enormously. U F C is therefore attempting to
bring all into line.
The Union was to spend about £32k on
travel subsidy next year. Again levels of
subsidy varied enormously and U F C agreed
to make the travel subsidy standard.
Tours were"originally seen as subsidised
holidays but it is now clear that some, at least,
are necessary for the operation of an active
club.
Previously we had asked some clubs to
justify their continued receipt of Union
funds. This was done to see how much value
these clubs provided. Next year the situation
will not be as bad as this, but no doubt, futher
cuts will have to be made and at some point in
the future (sooner rather than later) a club is
going to be cut out from IC Union funds in
order that the rest may survive.
Yours faithfully,
Dave Parry
...ring in
the new
Dear Sir,
I would like to, if I may, take up a bit 0/ space
to remind clubs and societies that wish to
have a stall at Freshers' Fair next term, that
their application forms must be returned to
me by the end of this week. Any club which
returns its form after the end of term cannot
be guaranteed a space, and will be charged
£10 for their stall. And as for those clubs who
turn up on the day without having asked for a
stall...
Yours faithfully,
Dave Kingston
ICU Deputy President Elect
Rag madness
Dear Sir,
With the forthcoming production of our
Imperial Rag Mag after a year's absence I
think the Union should seriously look at the
whole concept. The main aim of a Rag Mag is
to raise money for charity yet the Imperial
offering has consistently failed to do so. The
Union has laid great emphasis on the printing
quality of our publication yet there is great
resistence to a realistic price being charged.
The result is a Rag Mag which is unlikely to
break even and incurs more cost due to the
method of sale. In the past there were selling
trips to one college, which frequently cost
nearly all of the money collected. This year
saw the development of Rag Mag selling
tours, instigated by RCSU. While the trips
cost less per Rag Mag sold this cost is still
significant and the practice leads to Rag
being associated with clique rather than the
whole student body.
If Rag is to raise money for charity via our
annual Rag Mag there are two obvious
requirements. The price of the publication
should be sufficient to cover the full
production cost with a significant sum
remaining and this expected revenue should
be based on a realistic selling target. I see little
point in printing thousands of Rag Mags
which will sit in boxes for years to come. Let's
have a Rag that works for charity, rather than
pandering to the ego's of those involved.
Yours faithfully,
Nigel Atkinson
An Irishman
writes...
Dear Sir,
I have just read the article 'Not a single
human being' in F E L I X 705 and while I agree
with much of it, sadly it ignored a most
interesting type of student whose
contribution to the quality of life at this
College has been inestimable—let's call him
Patrick.
Typically Patrick was educated in a
Christian Brothers School in a small market
town somewhere in Northern Ireland before
arriving at Imperial College where he
proceeded to take the College and Union by
storm.
Neither his smalltown up-bringing and its
sole electoral doctrine of'vote early and vote
often' nor his sometimes musical, most times
incomprehensible brogue seemed able to halt
his inexorable progress towards the upper
echelons of the Union.
Patrick's only weakness is drink, his only
enemy the police, and his only fault staying at
College too long. A veritable human being
indeed.
Yours faithfully,
John Bull,
The Other Island
4 Wednesday 19 June 1985 FELIX

