16 December 1998 Columns 11
The New List Power
E
lectronic mailing lists are a conve-
nient and valuable form of com-
munication between like-minded
people. A 'list' allows a member to tell
the other members of events or opinions
relevant to the subject of the list, thus
possibly opening up a discussion. There
were days when the mere idea of being
on a list was exciting, as for running
one, that was outright prestigious. Today,
almost everybody's running a list or two,
or are they? What are the repercussions
of this new-found 'list power'? A list
requires a central account, an email
address, to which members address their
emails. Furthermore, at that address a
software program needs to be set up to
send out incoming messages to the
members. In the old days, to run a list,
you had to get thc central account, then
you had to either set up some software
or write your own software to do the
mailing-out of messages. Then, once the
list is launched and people (mostly
ftiends at first) have joined up, you
needed to draw up a constitution and
define the list's etiquette. You also had
to decide who would have the 'execu-
tive' power of removing someone from
the list. Why all this bureaucracy?
Because it was such a 'power' thing!
Whether you should do all of the
above by 'populist' means or by
'absolute' means was the subject of
intense debate on many a list's 'traffic'.
You see, if John were the Ahmed
absolutist-type 'list man-
ager', he would argue that since it was
he who started the list, he has thc right
to exclude those he deems unwelcome
in it and to decide thc list's stand on
issues. I am not depriving people of any
human rights, or treating them less
equally, John would say. Go and start
your own list if you don't like mine, he
would beckon knowing full well that it is
quite difficult to start a list. I lelen, a 'com-
mon' list member would respond by say-
ing that after joining the list she has
become a virtual partner with the man-
ager. The list is what it is because of her
and other members like her, she would
say. Cue intense debate and possible
flame wars. Most lists share a pattern;
thc 'founding fathers' draw up more or
less the rules of the list and effectively
control it by consensus among them.
But watch out if those guys fall out!
Many a 'war' for control of a list has
erupted!
Well, things have changed, first it
was free email address hosting: usa.net,
hotmail, yahoo, netscape, and so on.
Now it is free list hosting: egroups,
onelist, and coollist. You log on to one
of these sites, and within minutes you're
ready to launch your own list. Your
friendly, free, list service providers are
doing all thc technical work. And this
time, it is cleat, it is acknowledged; you
Shihab o w n
"1 C
'isl
* "1 i s m c a n s
if you don't like some-
one's 'contributions' you remove them
and this time no feelings of self-doubt or
others doubting your integrity can be
too strong. If anyone is not happy they
can go on lo create their own list, and
this time you mean It. It is free and open
for all. You are not providing a special
'service' to which people are entitled by
virtue of your humane responsibility of
reaching out to them. You arc seizing an
opportunity to network with other peo-
ple and volunteering your time to man-
age that effort.
There is a downside to this revolu-
tion: fragmentation. Keen underwater
photographers would join a 1000-strong
world-wide underwatet photography list,
despite getting flooded with emails from
photographers all around Ihe globe, sim-
ply because it is the only specialist list of
its kind. Now a London underwater pho-
tographer can have his own UK list.
Another chap may think the UK list is too
London-centred and start his own York-
shire Underwater Photography list. Pretty
soon you may begin to wonder why you
need a list service if you're only mailing
about ten other people! Indeed, this
new 'list power' is taking away from the
real power of mailing lists; communicat-
ing with large numbers of people, most
of whom you don't know.
One of the facilities I found power-
ful in the one of thc services (egroups)
was that of polling members of a list. As
a member of a list, you can poll the list
members on any subject of your choice.
Of course, it is up to them to lake part,
and they can choose not to. I lowever
the possibilities of using the polling
results arc very interesting. Imagine a
poll conducted on the fore-mentioned
1000-strong underwater photography list
on recommended cameras plus acces-
sories. Imagine thc marketing potential
of selling specialised products to these
people. Of course, nothing's new here,
you could have always done that before,
but now it is ever more convenient.
Ihe internet continues its march of
empowering users not only with infor-
mation but with free web pages, email
accounts, and now lists. All of this so far
is at Ihe expense of the sponsors, keep-
ing in mind that a lot of these free-ser-
vice companies are in it for thi- long
term rewards. I don't think the freebies
that users are currently getting will stop
soon. Meanwhile, companies are col-
lecting huge databases of who their
users are, their email addresses, their
interests and activities, and so on. But
let's not get too cynical, a lot of what is
happening on the internet is fantastic,
too good to be true in some ways. The
new list power is one such happening.
Let's communicate!
Hipczrial College Sports Cfcmflt
Christinas and New (/gar
Opening Times
Monday 21 December 1998 7.00am - 8.00pm Monday
Tuesday 22 December 1998 7.00am - 8.00pm Tuesday
Wednesday 23 December 1998 7.00am - 8.00pm Wednesday
Thursday 24 December 1998 Closed Thursday
Friday 25 December 1998 Closed Friday
Saturday 26 December 1998 Closed Saturday
Sunday 27 December 1998 10.00am - 4.00pm Sunday
T H E S P O R T S C E N T R E S T A F F W I S H Y O U A H E A L T H Y
28 December 1998
29 December 1998
30 December 1998
31 December 1998
1 January 1999
2 January 1999
3 January 1999
10.00am - 4.00pm
10.00am-4.00pm
10.00am-4.00pm
Closed
Closed
9.00am - 5.00pm
9.00am - 5.00pm
C H R I S T M A S A N D A S P O R T Y N E W Y E A R !

