16 December 1998 Arts 13
1998 TURNER PRIZE EXHIBITION
Tate Gallery
Established in 1984, the £20,000 Turner Prize is by definition awarded to a British artist under 50 for an outstanding recent exhibition or pre-
sentation of their work. This prestigious annual event of contemporary art is always surrounded by scandal, hype and controversy, fuelling
tremendous public curiosity. Previous winners include Howard I lodgkin, Gilbert & George, Anish Kapoor, Rachel Whiteread and Damien Hirst
- all now established household names. The judges announced the results earlier this month with trench fashion designer Agnes B present-
ing the prize, but why not decide for yourself?
Cathy de Monchaux<i96o)
Her sculptures arc fascinating,
exploring elegant motifs with challeng-
ing originality. With unusual combina-
tions of media such as btass, leather and
chalk, de Monchaux creates intricate,
organic designs with incredible texture
and visual impact. Each metal mount is
loaded with sexual connotations, from
subtle lilies and shells, to explicit repre-
sentations of female genitalia in rusty
shades of pink. I ler central installation,
entitled Never Forget the Power oFTears
(pictured right) covers the gallery floor
and is a symmetrical arrangement of
polished lead slab 'tombs', with a 'back-
bone' of pulsating Venus flytrap hearts.
i i !
mm
£99
Tacita Dean <i965)
Through her three submitted pieces,
Dean displays a talent for draughts-
manship as well as film directing. The
Roaring Forties: Seven Boards in Seven
Days (detail pictured right) is a movie
script drawn on a sequence of eight-
foot-square blackboards. Lach atmos-
pheric, ultimately amusing chalk sketch
captures a dynamic instant duting an
adventure on stormy seas, leaving the
observer to imagine the interlinking sce-
nario. The slow motion video Ocllert is
shot at a thermal spa, with mature naked
women wandering, chatting and show-
ering in the rejuvenating water - a
engaging evocation of time passing.
Disappearance at Sea (pictured above)
is a visually hypnotic film of a lighthouse.
As the search lamp rotates, the glass
lenses produce a dazzling kaleidoscopic
effect.
Sam Taylor-Wood C1967)
Her Five Revolutionary Seconds
series, complete with soundtrack, (detail
pictured left) utilises a special revolving
camera which scans a complete 360°
panoramic view of an interior, capturing
incidents of human interacions. This
inventive technique is visually polished
and perfectly stages, although the
poses are perhaps overly artificial. How-
ever the distorted perspective and
impressive dimensions of the elongated
photos, which measure some ten
metres in width, arc certainly thought-
provoking. The three screen projection
Atlantic centres around a couple on
the verge of a break-up, rowing in a
crowded restaurant. She elabotatcs on
the complexity of dysfunctional rela-
tionships by concentrating on a pait of
fidgeting male hands and a frustrated,
teary-eyed female face. Thc nervous
body language alludes to the acute
emotional turmoil.
I IAD.
•:MWm
Chris Ofili (1968)
PRIZE WINNER
The token shortlisted male, he was
thc bookie's runaway favourite at 5-4.
I lis critically acclaimed solo exhibition at
thc Serpentine was reviewed in issue
1123 of Felix. Ofili's unique canvasses
arc an explosive riot of acrylics, glitter,
collages... and resin coated elephant
dung collected from fondon Zoo, which
he humourously describes as "ready-
made". His references include pornog-
raphy, hiphop, black culture, African
history and psychedelia. Comic strips
also influenced the painting The Ado-
ration oF Captain Shit and thc Legend of
the Black Stars (pictured left) depicting
a superhero and his intergallactic back-
ing group ambushed by eager fans.
MS Until 10th January
Nearest tube: Pimlico
Admission: £1.50
Opening hours: daily 10am - 5.50pm

