14 Arts 16 December 1998
CHOICE: NEW PLAYS BY NEW WRITERS
Royal Court Theatre
I
write this with a stomach which feels
as if it's full of wriggling eels and a
head which feels like it's been tram-
pled by a herd of wildebeest, but a dead-
line is a deadline. My condition has
nothing whatsoever to do with these
two plays I saw and everything to do with
a heavy drinking session last night.
That's the excuses out of the way.
now for the review. B22 is a first play by
Ranjit Khutan, founder and editor of The
Spyce News, the newsletter for Birming-
ham's black and Asian gay community.
He is twenty-two and the play is set in
B22, an imaginary postcode in Birming-
ham. The two characters in the play,
who are also twenty-two, meet at twenty
to ten. Do you sense a common theme?
Very subtle, don't you think? Anyway,
twenty-two is Khutan's lucky number.
The play is about two friends meeting up
for the first time since a brief encounter
three years previously. One has been at
university, the other is now lined up for
an arranged marriage. So what's the
point? Well, the play tries to open a real
can of worms - gay issues, arranged
marriages, useless arty degrees, the caste
system in Pakistani society etc. etc.
The script has a real axe to grind but
it is well written for a first piay. There are
several nice touches, such as a moment
when a mobile phone rings - the audi-
ence shuffles in collective embarrass-
ment for the criminal. Then to everyone's
relief, one of the actors pulls out the
offending article and it turns out to be
part of the plot. The script is not helped
by schoolboy-like acting from the 'back-
from-u n iversity-d iscovered-l-was-gay'
character and the male-male kiss at the
end shocks no one as it is seen coming
from the first seconds of the play.
Much better was About The Boy, the
story of Trev, an awkward teenager, Kev,
his hard-nosed derivative trading brother
(pictured left together) and Nev, their
widowed father. An outstanding perfor-
mance from Lee Ingleby as teenaged
Trev stands out in a witty production that
had the whole theatre in stitches. Christo-
pher Ettridge plays the loser father who
reads railway timetables on the phone for
a living. He epitomises a mid-life crisis
stricken figure whom we pray we will
never become.
Between the laughs a tragic storyline
gradually builds and builds until the emo-
tional climax seems to ambush you from
nowhere. For a twenty-year-old, Ed Hime
has an exceptional grasp of how to write.
Seemingly spurious unexplained details
in the staging, effects and plot gradually
reveal their significance as the play pro-
ceeds. One example is the plaster-cast
which Trev seems to put on and take off
his arm for no apparent reason. Later we
discover that he breaks his arm saving his
father from a mugger, making the audi-
ence realise which sections have been in
flashback and which sections are 'now'.
There is too much good stuff in this play
to write about. If you only see one play
outside the mainstream this year (what's
left of it) see this one. You won't be dis-
appointed and there is another play
thrown in to make sure you get your
money's worth.
lain
A
normal Tuesday night for Pascale
and Ingrid would start off with
good intentions of practical write-
ups and reviewing lecture notes.
Inevitably, these intentions soon ebb
away as we get drawn to Le Scandale
with the promise of cheap booze and
cheesy music. But last week was differ-
ent. We cunningly managed to avoid
the usual routine by arranging to do
something cultural instead. So Pascale
swapped her platforms for penny-loafers
and Ingrid her drinking habits for man-
ners as we went on our merry way to the
Royal Court Theatre.
The four plays that we
were due to see were
v
'new plays by new play
writers' ranging from ages
^ ^ ^ m 16-26. Namely Sarah Barr
flB^flj (22) (apparently she won't
I get out of bed for less
I than £3.50), Richard Obcrg
I (23) (charming, good-look-
II ing and from Hull!), Alice
Wood (16) (the youngest
of the four) and Simon
Stephens (26) (a guy with
an unhealthy interest in
football, who lives with his
irlie, a man called Terry
and a cat).
The first play that we
saw was called In The Fam-
ily; this was Ingrid's partic-
ular favourite and was all about the
reactions of three relatives to the death
of a family member. Aiden McAndel
(Paul) and Amelia Lowdell (Teresa) play
brother and sister from a poor limb of the
family living in Ireland and Sarah Churm
(Gabby) the richer counterpart. The actors
especially Amelia and Aiden expressed
brilliantly the strong emotions of both
love and hate toward their cousin. More
than this, we cannot say, for the play was
quite short yet still gripping. We both
found ourselves drawn into it to the
extent that when it was finished it was
almost a shock.
On a lighter note, the second play
Trade also showed the diversity of atti-
tudes toward life held by members of the
same family. The acting was generally
good and Annabelle Apsion gave a par-
ticularly amusing performance as a
menopausal caf owner/mother of two.
Actor Paul Chequer (pictured left in full
swing) treated Pascale to the novelty of
a near full monty and Ingrid fancied her
chances with the lecherous yet poetic
pool owner (Danny Webb).
The interval left us both feeling
somewhat intimidated following a humil-
iating experience with some 'proper'
journalists. Temptation nearly got the
better of us when we were presented
with copious amounts of free wine. Nev-
ertheless, we struggled along in our vain
attempt to appear cultured and made our
way back into the auditorium.
The next play When Brains Don't
Countwas similar to the first in the sense
that it was relatively short and only had
three characters in it. this took us back
to our years at school because it was
about skiving class and adolescent inse-
curities. Despite the fact that we at first
felt some association with the subject
matter, we were disappointed that the
script did not do the story-line justice.
There were funny moments and the act-
ing was good but it was really too short
for either of us to form a strong opinion.
By this time, our legs were squashed,
the seats felt like concrete and we were
becoming increasingly aware of the
strange man sitting next to Ingrid. How-
ever, the battle for culture had not yet
been won, for there was one more play
to go. Pascale thought that this was by
far the most involving. Ingrid thought
that this was by far the longest. Bluebird
named after the Nissan driven by the
principle character in this play was like a
series of short but amusing role-plays.
This play is based upon how seemingly
comical encounters between a taxi driver
and his 'fares' take on a more sinister
note as the story develops and we learn
more about the driver's traumatic past.
The play is cleverly written yet it becomes
quite monotonous toward the end as the
story line gets repetitive and weak. Basi-
cally, by this stage we had had culture
over-load.
In retrospect, we were both glad to
have had our theatre 'experience'. Along
with excruciating leg cramp, we were
left with the memories of a performance
that was lacking in some parts and enter-
taining in others. We would recommend
it to those of you who are regular the-
atregoers and/or aspiring playwrights.
So go ahead, do as we have done and
venture into the vast wilderness of cul-
ture - you just might like it!
Pascale & Ingrid
The 1998 Young Writer's Festival is running until 19th December
Nearest tube: Leicester Square
Performance times: daily 7.15pm and 9pm, tickets: concessions £5 (1 Op standing benches)

