18
GUBlieS 16 December 1998
Combat Flight Simulator (PC)
Microsoft
In a continuation of their flight simulator
series Microsoft has released Combat
Flight Simulator. At first glance it seems
nothing has changed from the original,
however there is one significant differ-
ence. Yup, you can now kick ass when
you fly! Unlike its predecessor, where
you have to study the manual just to
work out how to get the plane off the
ground, I managed to take off success-
fully with only a little help. Microsoft
have realised that the average games
player doesn't want to spend hours work-
ing out how to start the game!
So what does the game offer? Sur-
prisingly, for a flight simulation it offers
a significant amount. The game has five
modes. Free flight is where you can prac-
tice flying and shooting without anyone
else getting in the way. Quick combat
starts the game in the air where you
take on a series of aircraft - you can set
the skill of the other pilots and the type
of aircraft. Single mission is where you
choose a 'real' mission from a list and
complete it. Campaigns are where you
have to fly a series of missions chosen
from either the Battle of Britain or Battle
over Europe. Oh, and there is the usual
network features allowing multiple play-
ers to fight it out. The game comes with
software to allow you to play in the MSN
gaming zone against other WWII air aces.
In terms of graphics it has improved
significantly from Flight Simulator as 16-
bit colour graphics are supported. The
degree of realism is impressive, consid-
ering that virtually all aspects have been
considered, such as haze, fog, light glare
and even tracer from both friendly and
enemy machine guns. It even has
famous landmarks, which will guide you
when you're lost, as there is no
map feature in the plane. But is the
Jamc? any good? I he answer is yes
and no. Considering all these cool
• • • features it takes a lot of skill and
illpower to master the art of
shi lOting another plane down. You
can put this down to the fact that
|
f
j the weapons at your disposal arc
machine guns, cannons and a
rocket launcher or two if you're
lucky. So if you're into high tech-
\ |
H H H H H H H H
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
If
nology weapons such as laser targeting,
or fire and forget missiles then this game
isn't for you! Along with the graphics, the
sound is lush too. Piug your soundcard
into your stereo, turn up the volume and
it sounds like you're in a plane. There is
even a pilot radio so you can either have
an American, English or, if you download
a patch, a German voice informing you
how badly you are doing. So what else
Is left to baffle the senses? Yup, Microsoft
has made the game compatible with the
force feedback Sidewinder (the £ 1 0 0
version) which will let you feel the G
forces whilst pulling tight turns!
(and firing the weapons produces
satisfying recoil - Games Ed.)
I personally am not a fan of
flight sims, but I was pleasantly
surprised how the game has
solved the old problem of sims. If
you make the game too detailed
only a few dedicated souls would
ever play it, make it too simple
and the game won't last longer
than a week. By allowing the user
to control the amount of realism (G
forces, wind shear, glare and ice
forming on the wings are all user
controlled) you can play as a com-
plete beginner or as a veteran flight
sim pilot, this game should be to
everyone's taste but the main prob-
lem is the cost. The quoted price is £44.99
which is steep for a PC game, but it is in
some ways justified considering the
detail of the planes and simulation (there
is also a £ 1 0 rebate if you already own
the latest flight Sim from Microsoft).
If you've got a 3 Dfx card in your PC
and want a new game which uses it
apart from Quake then MS Combat sim-
ulator would certainly be a good buy.
Otherwise I would suggest beefing up
your PC and then buying the game.
Beel
Populous - The Beginning (PC)
Bullfrog
for those of you who came in late, Pop-
ulous has something of a heritage in
computer gaming circles. It was a game
in which you were a god, worshipped
from afar by a tribe. You had to use your
powers to overwhelm a neighbouring
tribe, controlled by a rival god, and con-
quer a (square) area. It was innovative
in its time, but very remote and ulti-
mately really rather samey. It spawned
two sequels (Populous2 and a game
called Powermonger), and a few inferior
imitators.
'Populous-The Beginning' is the lat-
est revision of the original Populous con-
cept - and it's a damned fine one, taking
elements of games as diverse as
Command & Conquer and Civi-
lization. Instead of a remote
god, you control a shaman. This
shaman is the focal point of the
tribe, worshipped by the tribes-
men. When not worshipping,
these tribesmen can be ordered
to build huts of various types,
train to become warriors and
priests and generally get on with
increasing your tribe by non-vio-
lent means.
The gamcplay (which in Populous
tended to be rather linear - get manna,
cast spell, get manna, cast spcl! and so
on) has been expanded. Besides send-
ing your armed warriors off to knock
seven shades of shit out of your ene-
mies, you can despatch priests to convert
them, or increase your tribe by casting
spells at the wildmen who creep around
your village. The spherical game area
also vastly increases your options.
Instead of building a land bridge from
one corner of the world to the other (as
in the original Populous), you can set off
to attack your enemies by balloon or
ship. Of course the same options are
open to your enemies, which means
that you have to be focused on devel-
opments both in your raiding parties and
in your village. There is also an increas-
ing amount of reliance on lateral think-
ing - why lead a raiding party at your
opponent's village when you could sneak
round the back and achieve your objec-
tive that way?
There are some very neat touches,
both in terms of gameplay and graphics.
In the original game you could cast spells
anywhere in the game area. In 'Popu-
lous-The Beginning' each spell can only
be cast within a certain range of the
shaman, which means that, unless you
want to rely on brute force to
crush your opponent, you have
to take your shaman along with
you. This in turn puts her
(anothet nice touch - the
shaman is female) in danger of
being killed herself. Don't fret
too much, as she will (eventu-
ally) be reincarnated; but you
will have to play a certain
amount of the game without
her, which can get a bit hairy.
The graphics arc fluid and
well-defined, even without a 3D accel-
erator card, and the control system sim-
ple to use. There's also a rather
impressive opening sequence, which
sets up the game nicely. I haven't yet
seen the ending sequence - contact me
in about six months time.
I desperately wanted to dislike this
game (partly because our beloved
Games Ed likes it, and partly because I
always thought the original Populous
overrated), but I can't. There may be
some out there who think that Populous
is getting a bit long in the tooth now -
disagree. I think it's just come of age.
Danny

