16 December 1998 Games 19
Close Combat 3 - The Russian Front (PC)
Microsoft
The Germans and Russians had a hard
time battling against each in World War
II, conducting warfare in the most
extreme conditions - deep mud in spring
and autumn, boiling heat in the summer
and freezing cold in thc winter. Luckily
for you, Close Combat 3 re-creates the
campaign on your PC, in thc comfort of
your own home. This may be the only
comfort you get from the game though...
H Taking the role of either nation,
j j j one can opt for single 'historical'
!!'• • J
lli' more aiduous cam-
..v ; Miens i t \ ;i •,(!
select your troops from a central
pool and fight from 1941 to 1945
with troops, tanks and support units
available at that time - so no Tiger
tanks for Barbarossa, This combined
with the promotion idea, allowing
you to command more troops the
more missions you complete, adds
purpose to thc campaigns. Warfare is
conducted from the top-down perspec-
tive tinged with a little 3D isometry, set-
ting the scene fot what could be a good
real-time strategy game - although thc
game-play unfortunately does not live up
to its potential. At least we can blame
Microsoft...
The background map graphics are
plain yet satisfactory, but thc units arc a
little small which leads to confusion as to
which are yours. If you 'zoom' in to try
to rectify this problem you arc confronted
with thc nightmare of blocky low-reso-
lution graphics (Aaarrgh!). Gunfire
exchange is surprisingly lame consider-
ing the brutality of the real war, although
«1* "
you do get to hear the death cries of
wounded soldiers in both German and
Russian - or tnglish if you prefer.
Altogether, the game bases itself
strongly on the strategic approach, with-
out immersing the player in the atmos-
phere of chaotic madness found in real
war, and on this it falters. If you're a
patient die-hard strategy fan, or are look-
ing for a history lesson, you may be
more sympathetic.
Viv
Music (PSX)
Codemasters
Music is not a game. You should be clear
about this from the start. It is the most
serious piece of software I have ever
experienced on the Playstation. In
essence it is a music and video creation
system, complete with a 16 track edit-
ing and mixing system twinned with
a 3-D video generator.
There is a vast array of samples to
choose from including vocals, per-
cussion, kickdrums and loads more.
All the samples are placed under five
headings of ambient, drum and bass,
house, techno and trip hop. I found
the huge selection overwhelming at
first, leading to a great deal of testing
of which sounds mixed together well,
however at times samples you would
expect to find under a certain cate-
gory are not there at all. for example,
under trip hop I went to look for some
smart chilled out vocals and instead I
found a choice of extremely full sounds,
much more like house.
If you are of the more creative per-
suasion there is a riff creator which is
linked to a library of over 3000 stored
sounds and samples, and it allows you to
mould each sound into your own par-
ticular flavour. The riff creator was
extremely annoying and not at all user
friendly, and I wouldn't be surprised
if you damaged your playstation
through sheer frustration of not cre-
ating the riff just the way you would
like it.
The loading of the sounds was a
little slow and in terms of longevity,
I would give this a very short shelf life.
It claims to be a must for any budding
producer, but I don't see how any-
thing you create on thc playstation
can be transferred to a CD or com-
putet, which seems to defeat the whole
purpose of buying this piece of soft-
ware If you've got about 35 quid lying
around and don't know what to do with
it, then go out and buy this, but for most
of the rest of you just stay well clear.
Jason
Get online - and win a Playstation !
(Well five PlayStations, just read on, log on and win one)
in a competition organized and run by
virtual careers office
If you want to pack your Christmas stocking with more action
than Jackie Chan's pyjamas then we've got a kicking compe-
tition for you - Gradunet and FriendFactory are giving away five
Sony PlayStations to the lucky winners plus 50 fab runner-up
prizes of either a Friend Factory yo-yo or a Gradunet T-shirt.
To enter the competition, join free on the FriendFactory web-
site (www.Friendfactory.co.uk) then fill in the competition
entry card on Gradunct (www.gradunct.co.uk). If your name
is pulled out of the virtual hat on Monday 11th January 1999
then you'll be thumb-dancing your way to games-heaven with
the world's favourite console.
Entry details:
Once registered on FriendFactory you will have a new Friend-
Factory email address. Simply enter this address into the com-
petition card on Gradunct and name three game titles for the
playstation. Competition closes on January 10th 1999.
Only one entry per person. Terms and conditions apply.
ActuaSoccer 3
Oh dear oh dear, what has gone wrong
here then. Gremlin's Actua scries was
doing so well. Soccer looks good, taking
a different viewing angle from most of
the competition. Fhe ptoblem is that
this view is too far away to control the
players accurately. Ihe dodgy goal-
keeper is also a problem.

