20
Games 16 December 1998
Once again the time has come for the game gurus at Felix to sit down and plough
through the vast array of PC, PSX and N64 (ahem vast array Nintendo) games that
have arisen in 1998 and come up with the top five games for each genre. So just
relax and reminisce about those late hours of hardcore gaming...
Riven
(Adventure-Puzzle)
Riven is one of thc most visually stunning
games ever made, and the level of inter-
action with the game's characters is
higher and more realistic compared to
the host of Myst-clones. Your job is to
enter an unstable Utopia created by a
maniac, solve a series of tough puzzles,
and save your sweetheart Catherine
before the world collapses. You will need
every ounce
of your intel-
lect and an
e x t r e m e l y
i n q u i s i t i v e
mind to save
the day in
this game.
Descent Freespace:
The Great War
(Simulator)
Get ready for more gut-wrenching, stom-
ach-churning action as you burst from
subterranean caverns into freezing
space, zapping agile enemy fighters and
colossal motherships out of thc night.
Unlike the Wing Commander series, tree-
space has managed to steer clear of
excessk e storylines and poor acting in its
cut scenes. In addition, the graphics are
superb, just watch the armour plating
peel off from the enemy ship when your
torpedoes hit home.
Starcraft (Strategy)
Did the most talked-about game of the
year live up to the hype? A definite yes!
For the first time. Blizzard has put three
races in a real-time strategy game, each
lined up with totally unique units. A mul-
titude of battle tactics ate required as you
take on the ravenous wormy Zergs, the
mysterious and powerful Protoss and
good old Terrans. Not only are the cam-
paigns well linked by a strong plot, the
sight of a Zerg Spore Colony exploding
in a pool of slime is simply awesome!
(Shooter)
You are Gordon I reeman, who has acci-
dentally stumbled upon a secret gov-
ernment experiment involving aliens ala
X-Files. Iherefore. trying to be a hero, you
attempt to stop it. but they have other
plans lor you. I rom here begins a long
chase as you, armed with an Impressive
arsenal of weapons, battle against the
aliens and human commandoes. What
makes this game really stand out is the
high resolution graphics, which do not
blur out even when viewed close up,
** • •;: y-% • ..._„„'
unlike in Quake II orjedi Knight.
FIFA: Road to World
Cup 98 (Sports)
You thunder down the pitch likejurgen
klinsman, dribble past four defenders
with the flair of Ronaldo and finish thc
run with a well-aimed bicycle kick. Impos-
sible? Not in FIFA 98, if you can master
the controls that is. Player simulation is
marvellous as you see players acting real-
istically like scratching their heads or
panting after a run. Even the crowd
cheers the way you want. Throw in vet-
erans Gray and Motsons' lively com-
mentary and you will have the best
soccer game this year in your hand.
Ronny
:
-S;:
SSSS:SssSSSSS:SM.SSSSSSSJ.S.SSiSssssSss- S^MM SSSS:
«
Asteroids (PSX)
Activision
Asteroids eh. Vector graphics and ten
pence off your parents. Dark dirty seaside
arcades. Minutes and minutes of fun
before those green asteroids mashed
your ship into fragments.
Zipping forward to the late 90s,
Activision have decided to update those
lines and turn them into pseudo 3-D
graphics on brightly painted backdrops.
Not only do you have to worry about the
Asteroids, but this time they've brought
some of their mates from the pub,
regenerating crystals, flaming comets as
well as the nasty bullet spitting LJFOs.
Nostalgia aside the game will last
longest on the two player game Linfor-
Heretic II (PC)
Activision
tunately you can't shoot each other, but
you can fight it out for who gets to pick
up the power ups - it normally ends in
one player smacking straight into a rogue
asteroid.
With some shops offering money
off vouchers you could manage to pick
up a classic for less than £20. Do it and
tell me where the hidden asteroids level
is, oh go on.
Corvus (the hero from the first in this
series) has finally made it home. Unfor-
tunately home has become a plague
infested flea pit and everything from rat
size upwards wants to chew strips off
him.
So begins this rather special 3rd per-
son 3-D shooter. Based upon a much
improved Quake2 engine, the hero can
be made to run, jump, roll and crouch,
all with impressive animation. Wait too
long and Cotvus looks behind to see
what's up. All very impessive but what we
want are kick ass weapons, fortunately
Corvus carries both offensive and defen-
sive weapons (and yes for all of you that
like turning baddies into chickens they
have retained the morph-ovum spell -
especially gratifying in the multiplayer
mode).
With thc choice of action, action-
adventure or an excellent multiplayer
option thc fun won't be over by Boxing
day. just make sure the turkey sand-
wiches are on tap and you will be
whooping ass all the way to next year.
Activision Xmas Competition
Those nice guys and girls at Activision and Bcatwax have got together and arc offer- To win these fabulous prizes just come into the Felix office between 12 and 1 pm
ing some rather neat ptizes. There are copies of Sin (reviewed in Issue It 24), Heretic today. The first people lo say the magic phrase "Come and see my Christmas Log"
II (both for the PC), and Asteroids for the PSX. There are also runner-up prizes of T- will choose their prize.
shirts and yo-yo's. Have a good Xmas Everyone - Games Ed
•

