16 December 1998
Grand Tourismo
(Racer)
If old goldenspecs is the reason to own
a N64 then it is this game that was
responsible for masses of PlayStations
and dual shock controllers walking off the
shelves and into homes everywhere. 166
different cars to drive, forward, rear and
four-wheel handling, as realistic as you
can get not using a steering wheel. I his
Goldeneye
(Shooter)
The film was good. It introduced a new
Bond, a new era. The game, which is only
available for the N64 (much to the annoy-
ance of the PC and Playstation faithful),
is better. In fact it is quite superb. Upon
its release it was hailed as the pinnacle
of the first-person adventure shooter
genre, if not the pinnacle of the entire
games market, and to this day there
have been few games to challenge for
its title...
Generally speaking, Goldencye
bowls you over not by any single aspect
of its amazing game-play, but rather the
professionalism and quality that endorses
its every detail.
Each mission asks you to perform
certain tasks that will not only require the
pummelling of enemy guards but also
the use of stealth and initiative. The
huge variety of weapons comes com-
plete with an aiming sight, and in some
cases this is telescopic, allowing you to
pick off targets from a distance and with
was and still is the driver's driving game.
With all this handling you would expect
comprimise in the graphics or perhaps
the sound. Oh no, not in this simulation,
the graphics are crisper than the chips at
the bottom of the packet, the sounds of
the engines arc almost sexual, and for
once the soundtrack matches the game
with Garbage and Ash contributions urg-
ing you onto faster lap times. 11 '98
might feature faster cars but racing Nis-
san Bluebirds against Dodge Vipers is
much more satisfying.
(3-D Platformer)
Dark dank urban settings. Extreme ultra-
violent executions. Set in honour ridden
17th Century Japan you are set on a path
of assassination, evasion, and postal
deliveries where the least of your worries
arc dogs called woofie. Excellent
scenery, smoothly animated fight scenes
- the all out lunge will sec you impailcd
like a cocktail sausage on some pike-
man's pole - and spooky sound can lead
to some very late nights. Even better
news is the Tcnchu 2 project. Bloodier
and bigger. Let's hope they've sorted
the controls out.
one shot to the head. Drive tanks, res-
cue the Bond girl, infiltrate enemy bases,
visit the jungle - the whole film plot is
here.
Needless to say, the multi-player
mode is excellent and it's great fun
trouncing your mates into a bloody pulp,
using any of the characters and
weapons, il could well make you go out
and buy the console for this game alone.
After all, that's what happened to
myself...
Fl World Grand Prix
(Racer)
l ollowlng the drivers and teams of the
1997 season, you can drive a single race,
against a pal, against the clock or for an
entire season. What makes this simula-
tion rule above all others are the unbe-
lievable graphics and the wonderfully
realistic car handling. Grab a steering
wheel and there's no stopping you...
Tomb Raider 3
(3-D Platformer)
Well what more needs to be added on
this subject. It is still the best general 3-
D platformer, with just the right balance
between the athletic timed run and
jumps, the puzzle element, and the pure
reaction shooting parts. Tomb raider 3 is
not a revolutionary jump and as the old
maxim goes 'if it works - don't fix if. I hey
have tinkered slightly with the graphics
engine, put in some nice graphical
effects and allowed Lara a few more
slinky moves but it is still the queen of the
street, the Jungle, and pretty much every
historical site where big dangerous crea-
tures hang out.
Point Blank
(Big Gun Game)
The most legal fun you can have with a
gun (especially an over sized plastic pis-
tol). A console copy of an excellent arcade
game. With the standard Time Crisis gun
all that is missing is the recoil. There are
two ways around this. Either go out and
purchase the new recoil gun (a gun with
a rumble pack inside) or get a reletivc or
flatmate to hit your hands hard.
Banjo Kazooie
(3-D Platformer)
Honey bear and bird respectively. Banjo
and kazooic star in this colourful and
cute 3D platform-adventure game.
Boasting a huge world to explore, numer-
ous baddies to stomp on and some puz-
zle solving loo. this is one fantasy
adventure that'll last.
Turok 2
(Shooter)
\ 3D shooter with a difference, lurok 2
sees you setting off to save the Earth
Futurecop LAPD
(3-D Platformer)
Not another platform game you all
scream at me. Yep. lenchu had stealth,
lomb raider has its puzzles. lulurcCop
has its heavy weapons and its two-player
options. Better living though heavier fire-
power would be its motto as the Police
robot pacifies street riots using mini
guns, rockets and mortar rounds. Lots of
blood, lots ol special graphics and lots of
fun. Gary 5.
from ghastly aliens and monstrous
dinosaurs. Graphics are lush, weapons
arc plentiful and enemies have advanced
Al and will hide or run if attacked. Also
the levels are bigger than Wolverhamp-
ton and Dudley put together. Unfortu-
nately lo play the game in (he best
possible graphics mode you will need the
nintendo memory pack. But like buying
a rumble pack for Goldeneye you just will
not regret it.
1080° Snowboarding
(Sports)
At last there is a decent snowboarding
sim to shout about. Compete against the
console or another player in a race to
reach the bottom of the slope;, and while;
you're at it take your opponents out (not
all that sporting but very ge>od fun), do
some fancy tricks (useful for impressing
your parents and young relatives during
the>se long Xmas evenings) or just mar-
vel at the graphics!
Viv

