22
Not The News 1 6 D e c e m b e r 1 9 9 8
Threat of Air Strikes Still Strong
Last Tuesday Imperial came within one
hour of a major military attack against the
Sheep Maintenance department. After
weeks of failed negotiations Imperial
College High Command (ICHC) ordered
a full-scale attack on the Terrace building.
The attack was only called off 47mins
before the appointed time when Dr G of
Sheep Main wrote a letter to the chief
high commander of ICHC, agreeing to let
ICHC inspectors onto the 5th floor of
the Terrace building.
ICHC believes that the 5th floor may
house documents that could be used in
an anti-ICHC manner. There have been
repeated reports from undercover ICHC
operatives working inside Sheep Main
that a group is being formed with the
intention of taking control of Imperial.
ICHC believe that this group is under
the control of Dr Pratt, part-time Sheep
Main lecturer, part-time egomaniac.
Dr Pratt has for a long time been of
concern to ICHC; he has been trying to
raise his profile within the college
through a series of propaganda cam-
paigns. Although these have been largely
unsuccessful, he has gained a small
group of hardcore followers, albeit ones
on Dr Pratt's payroll.
On 29 December last year Dr Pratt
tried to take control of the Maths depart-
ment, to bring it under Sheep Main High
Command (SMHC) jurisdiction. Taking
advantage of the lax security over Win-
terval, he launched the Sheep Main 1st
and 4th tank regiments against the Hux-
ley building at 2am and succeeded in tak-
ing control of the lower two floors.
ICHC quickly launched air strikes
against the Terrace building, cutting off
supplies to Dr Pratt's front line and forc-
ing him to surrender. Under the terms of
the surrender Sheep Main should have
allowed ICHC inspectors access to the 5th
floor so that it could make sure Sheep
Main was not withholding any patent
that could be used by ICI IC to fund Impe-
rial's activities.
Dr G and the head of department,
both oppose this since, they argue, ICHC
already controls 90% of Sheep Main's aca-
demic activity, and thus should not need
more access. They say the real reason for
the demands is to undermine Sheep
Main's command structure, with the even-
tual objective being the removal of the
present SMHC and their replacement by
a puppet command controlled by ICHC.
fhey also denied any association with Dr
Pratt and said they were going to "kick his
head in" that afternoon.
ICHC say that their only concern is
the well-being of college and all its mem-
bers, pointing out that Sheep Main has
repeatedly flaunted college rules by tak-
ing over smaller departments unable to
defend themselves and several times
breaching interdepartmental rules.
Sheep Main's reply to this is that
they have only taken over departments
that are academically related and arc
thus able to benefit from a merger. And
the only rules that they have broken arc
ones set down by ICHC with the express
purpose of advancing ICHC's command
over the academic departments.
Other departments are split over the
issue. Some of the bigger departments
have moved away from the official col-
lege line to defend SMHC's stance; per-
haps fearful of their own position should
ICHC become too powerful. Most depart-
ments, in particular the smaller ones,
have backed ICHC and offered military
assistance should il be necessary.
It seems that for now the threat of
military action has gone, but only time
will show whether it will return. ICHC
will remain wary of Dr Pratt and his activ-
ities, while Sheep Main will continue to
resist ICHC intervention.
Derek Found in West London
By Ross Newell
A new area of London was discovered on
Tuesday. The new area, situated between
Chelsea and Westminster, is thought
never to have been walked on by a
human foot. It had previously been
blocked from view by a large wall. I low-
ever the wall was knocked down last
week in order to build a new car park,
and behind it the new land was discov-
ered. The land, provisionally called Derek,
covers about 4,000 hectares. Gynaecol-
ogists believe this area may contain pre-
historic flora and fauna that has not been
seen since before modern man. There is
even speculation this area may contain
dinosaurs. The authorities have already
issued warnings not to enter Derek until
more is known about the indigenous
wildlife.
A team of Britain's finest Gynaecol-
ogists and some foreigners are being
prepared to entet the region to do some
serious scientific stuff. While the team is
inside they will perform a thorough study
of all the wildlife found.
The lead member of the expedition
was going to be Dr G of Sheep Main, but
unfortunately he was called away to save
twenty astronauts in orbit around Jupiter
from asphyxiation using only a Spitfire
plane and a Sony Walkman. Instead Dr
Pratt elected himself leader of the group.
Suggestions were made that the wall
should be rebuilt while Dr Pratt is inside,
however this proposal was rejected on
the grounds that there would be no one
left to kick in the head if one was piss*d
off.
Derek is currently covered in jungle
and thus almost impenetrable. Heavy
cutting equipment has been moved in to
try and clear a path through the area so
that experts can study it in a pristine
state. The team of gynaecologists will set
up base camp just outside the Houses of
Parliament and enter the area in groups
of three, each equipped with provisions
to last at least three days, as well as a
specimen bag, walkie talkie, shovel,
machete, and a five person camera crew
complete with 500kg of gear.
The groups will move rapidly towards
the centre of the area to set up a Princess
Diana memorial that can be used to raise
money to fund the rest of the expedition.
Once the memorial is in place they will
start by making a basic geographical sur-
vey of the area to establish whether
there are oil deposits for their sponsors
to exploit.
Once the preliminary preparations
have been completed the group will
start on the main purpose of the expe-
dition, to study the fauna and flora in this
untouched area of great scientific value.
Derek will be split into 4 sections, with
each section studied by separate team.
Dr Pratt will command the operation
from outside Derek to avoid dangerous
animals, fie will enter Derek only to be
at the scene of any major discoveries
attended by a TV crew.
On such occasions he will explain at
length how he found the discovery and
will go on to explain how this proves any
and every theory that he has ever
thought up including; Dr Pratt's theory of
relativity, evolution, the uncertainty prin-
ciple and Christianity. He will finish up by
explaining what a wonderful person he
is and how the world would fall apart if
it weren't for his continued presence. He
will then have his head kicked in by the
producer of the TV crew.
The research team will be given two
weeks to make a thorough study of the
area before it is burnt and cleared to
make way for commercial developments.
The government is discussing what to do
with the land with several major inter-
national firms hoping to build a Princess
Diana industrial estate. The sale of the
land will raise over ElOOmillion for the
treasury.
An eight part documentary following
the exploration of the area will be
screened over the next few weeks. The
documentary could follow the trials and
tribulations of the group as they battle
with the difficult scientific task that they
have been given. It may show the battle
against the authorities in an attempt to
gain more funding and time, but is more
likely to focus on the divorces of a pair
of scientists who were found in close
contact during an excursion into Derek.

