16 December 1998 F i C t J O f l " * 2 3
Orange Flying Things...
"Aaargh", exclaimed Bob, "It's those damned flying
orange things again." It was a new sport and it pissed
Bob off. I hey were really noisy, and came in at around
head height, never actually hitting you, but they never
failed to make him jump out of his skin. And you know
how hard it is to get back into your skin.
Bob was on his way to see Oli. Oil was a great friend
but had recently stopped coming out on the piss so
much and Bob wanted to find out why. "How is a man
meant to get pissed and make a fool of himself on the
dance floor if you can't rely on a friend to carry you
home!" thought Bob as he narrowly missed stepping in
some dog shit on the pavement.
When he arrived at Oli's there was a horrible stench,
but this was normal because Oli lived in a condemned
abattoir. The firm that owned it had gone bust and just
shut all the doors; Oli was always finding a new carcass
as he explored around the vast depot. Bob crawled
under a fence, pulled at a door and, when it finally
yielded, made his way in. Oli's front room had many
strange things in it, not least a crystal chandelier. When
Bob had asked where it came from he had shrugged,
"I always 'ad it" he'd said. The room was clean and the
odour less strong but still apparent, waiting to catch you
as you went into the corridor beyond, from there you
could see onto the main floor of the abattoir, one storey
below, where many beasts, plump and tcady for slaugh-
ter, must have lowed their last. A lost orange thing was
floating around the vast room; Bob smiled and went to
get Oli's 'doorbell': A 12 bore that he kept by his front
door. Bob shouldered it as he walked towards the bal-
cony. He leant over and started to track the orange thing
as it drifted randomly about. He clipped off the safety
catch then continued to track. Bob felt good to be able
to end one of these infuriating things, he savoured the
moment. Then he squeezed the trigger, Blam, the
sound echoed around thc vast, deserted room; bits of
orange spread started to fall down to the ground
below. Then there was a shout, "Hey there, Bob? Yeah
it is." Bob looked for the owner of the
voice, Oli. He saw him at the far end of
the corridor. "I've been sorely tempted
to do that myself, but I knew how much
you hate them and I thought you'd be
round soon."
"Yep well 'ere I am. Where you
been recently, I've been missing you
down the Three Crowns" Bob said three
as is if the crowns were free.
"Yeah well I've been busy lately,
I'm setting something up here you
know."
"Well no, actually, cause I haven't
spoken to you cause you've not been
down the crown 'ave you."
"Fair point there, but come down
'ere and I'll show you."
Bob followed him down a man-
hole that he had never noticed before.
He came to the bottom of a ladder
and looked around for Oli. He could sec
nothing. There was a loud thump and
a scream, then silence. Thc smell here
was worse than ever, but then Bob
realised that he had lost control of his
bladder, he smiled, it was warm and he
was prepared, his incontinence pants
had arrived last week from the ad in the
back of thc Mail. "Oli you twat, quit arsing around, and
show me what you have been up to."
"Damn, I thought I'd have fooled you."
"Well maybe you did for a minute" Bob kept quiet
about the accident; he would nip off to thc loo when
it began to cool down.
"OK, back up the ladder then and on to the garage."
"You what? You btought mc down here just to try
and scare me?"
"Well yeah, but is that not OK?"
"You're an arse!" The pair arrived at the door to the
garage, which used to be a lorry loading port. Bob
paused to let Oli open the door, he did not trust him
not to haye planned another elaborate practical joke,
but Oli went sttaight in. Bob followed, not knowing what
to expect.
There was the normal garage clutter, tools spread
out over every horizontal surface, newspaper spread out
covered in drips of paint and oil. The dominating fea-
ture of the room, however, was a large shape in the
centre of thc room with a huge heavy blue tarpaulin
draped over it. The shape looked like a great fish, but
surely not.
"Well?" said Bob
"Give us a hand with the tarpaulin." The pair strug-
gled to pull off the blue wrap. It seemed to be a fish
with wheels, a big fibrcglass fish with wheels. "What the
ffffu...?"
"Mobile fish and chips" cut in Oli; "I can start mak-
ing some money at last."
"Oh..." thought Bob, "I was expecting something a
little more exciting, really. Anyway what's wrong with
carrying on nicking stuff like you were."
"You know me too well, this is all part of a plan, I
am tired of nicking ftom houses and little corner shops,
I want one last robbery then I can retire."
"Retire? It's not like you work for a living anyway."
"Well you know what I mean."
"Do I?
"Just being able to own a house, do what I want
and not having to worry about the next bill."
"What bills?! You live in a condemned abattoir, the
electricity comes from the factory next door, water
direct from thc mains underneath and you don't have
a phone."
"There are other things, and I need to eat, and go
out on thc piss as you said earlier.'
"Yeah OK, but how Is a chip van shaped like a fish
going to help?"
"I am going to steal all thc drain covers, manhole
covers, and hydrants in fondon."
"How can you retire on cast iron?"
"Don't you see? It will be such a hazard with all
those holes in the ground that thc council will be des-
perate! Then I will hold all the covers ransom."
"You nutter, how much for?"
"That depends, half a million to lots more, depends
on demand."
"Demand?"
"Yeah, if lots of accidents happen and it gets a lot
of press coverage then I can expect loads."
"Wow, but why thc chip van?"
"I can park above a drain, sell chips and nick thc
cover."
"You can't do both at once."
'That's why I am telling you!"
Bob and Oli are both in jail. They share a cell and
a four year sentence. They were thc laughing stock of
thc press for about a week; after they asked for a ran-
som it took the police a day to track them down. The
fish, the police said in a press report, had been spot-
led round fondon and they were about to be collared
for operating without a license anyway.
Last week, due to popular demand, the govern-
ment issued all prison inmates an orange flying thing.
HairsaloN
C U T 8c B L O W D R Y
B Y O U R T O P S T Y L I S T S
£ 2 0 L A O I E S
£ 1 7 M E N
Normal Price £35
A C C E S S V I S A M A S T E R C A R D C A S H C H E Q U E S
(
Still the best student offer!'
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW7 3ES
(I Minute walkfrom
South Kensington Tube)
Telephone 0171 823 8968

