24
Feature 16 December 1998 16 December 1998
Feature 25
i n A m s t e r d a m
In the interests of journalism, and under the pretence of exploring European
culture, Ed Sexton and nameless others set out for the famous Dutch city...
5.15pm Took mushrooms, it appears, a couple of hours ago.
I am experiencing astonishingly \i\id hallucinations. Light
seems no longer merely that which illuminates things around
us. It is li\ ing, breathing, pulsating, bringing on its own inter-
pretation to things. I cannot judge the distance from my eyes
to this page. The music is making the light between me anc
the paper dance at 150bpm.
So begins, and possibk ends, a hedonistic weekend
in Amsterdam. Stepping out of Centraal Station on a Fri-
da\ esening and across Prins Hendrikkade. the icy wind
hits us moments before the trams. Make no mistake - to
sur\i\e in this citv one must understand two things; trams j
and bicvcles. There is a ridiculous number of both of *
these emironmentallv friendly vehicles, and none of
them stop for dazed tourists stuck in the middle of the4
road.
We find our fellow journalist in Coffeeshop 222, on
OudezijdsYoorburgwal, in the red light district. Normally we'd
In consideration of coffeeshops
Most people think coffeeshops are just smoking dens. Some of
them, particularly the ones around the red light district, fulfil this
stereotvpe adequately. Wander further afield, however, and
\ ou'll find an enormous diversity in decor and attitude. In the first
instance, thev are genuinely pleasant cafes, serving good espres-
sos, hot chocolate, milk shakes, fruit drinks and often a selection
of hot and cold snacks. Some of them are well lit, with light pas-
tel colours and a Parisian cafe feel to them. Some of them are
dark, filled with deep music and spotlights, and look more like
clubs than cafes. All of them are friendly establishments where
locals and drugs-war refugees alike can smoke dope, exchange
stories, make new friends or simply chill-out.
There are a few basic rules of etiquette that, if followed, will
separate you from an average tourist, firstly, if you are passing
time in a coffeeshop without buying any dope, it is polite to buy
some drinks every so often. Don't smoke on the streets - many
Dutch people still resent legalisation, and smoking is generally con-
fined to recognised coffeeshops or private residences. The locals
don't appreciate loud, hysterical tourists, especially in Ihe more
chilled establishments, so try to keep the giggling fits undet con-
trol. Coffeeshops are usually quite small and friendly, so be pre-
pared to share a table; you'll be chatting with them in minutes
anyway.
Around the red light district...
After spending a few pleasant hours in De Dampkring and The Grasshopper, and meet-
ing the final two members of the team, a quick tour of the red light district seemed in order.
Based around two canals, Oudezijds Voorburgwal and Oudezijds Achtcrburgwal, this area
does not deserve its reputation as Amsterdam's central attraction. No Dutch people go
there and I've never liked it myself. Still, in the interests of journalism, we set out, walk-
ing past scantily-clad women bathed in a seedy red glow, and dark figures continually whis-
pering "L, speed, coke" in your ear. If there's one bad trip in this city, you can find it here.
At night the con men are out in abundance, playing off the paranoia of stoned tourists for
thc sake of a few guilders. Never go around Nieuwmarkt on your own at nighl, and it's
best to avoid it altogether if you're under thc influence. Amsterdam can seem quite threat-
ening at night, but it really is no more dodgy than London - being stoned in a dark strange
city will always be difficult to handle.
3o nowhere near the place, but it has the advantage of
aeing next to our abode, the recently opened Bulldog hos-
gtel. Paul flew in to the city earlier in the day, and has clearly
I been sitting in the green leather seats for some time. We
ater discover that he has been following the Cannabis
Cup, which finished earlier that day, and has foolishly
ught and smoked the winning weed. Poor man - it'll
be some time before we get sense out of him.
Thc princely sum of f60 (about £20) gets us two
nights in a clean dorm, surrounded by the winter con-
signment of backpackers, inter-railers and general
wasters from around the world. More will be joining
our merry band soon, but for now the only course of
action is to set out for De Dampkring, and the delights
that await within.
The place is heaving with Americans enjoying the last
few hours of this year's Cannabis Cup, but we find our way
) the bar, and by 1 Jgrammes of Jack Herrcr.
Onto the mushrooms...
It was a mistake. I knew it was a mistake. Playing with
psychadelic dtugs is never a great idea, let alone when,
you've been smoking the finest skunk in the world f o r 1
twenty-four hours and have only a vague idea which way
north is. We were somewhere on Lcidsestraat on the)
edge of a canal when the drugs began to take hold. I
remember saying something like "the pavement's flow-
ing; maybe you should navigate..." And suddenly there
was a terrible roar all around us and the sky was full wit
what looked like huge yellow fangs... it was a tram.
Gonzo Journalism aside, Dr Who's Mushroom shop (on|g
Kerkstraat) can provide an afternoon of entertainment
Apart from the illegality of it, taking mushrooms and other^§
drugs in England is always going to be dangerous - you never
know exactly what you're getting. If you must indulge, try t
fitBSiSfOBS)
WINNER HIGKT1MES CANNABIS CUP PRESENTS:
i f
S P E C I A L M E N U
11'" ANNUAL HIGHTIMES
man « » . ~ i HASHISH •
C A N N A B I S C U P 1 9 8 8
wa. mc. JOINTS nam
•IQW.'.. "
. . •
u u m -
ftSEBB MSB fiVJtttAfitt tn
B8WKBHOf*tt£PtttM£R
1' •
Ur ? If
L-
i
-j it)
•f
lAS-
Top Five Coffeeshops
De Dampkring
Handboogstraat, off Spui, 20 minutes walk south from Centraal Station. A home
for Americans and Dutch, selling top quality grass and hash. The decor is colour-
ful and Asian, with an orange plastic tree being the main focus of the interior.
Fairly lively with reggae and rock being the main music styles.
Global Chillage
kerkstraat, off Leidsestraat, 10 minutes walk south from Dc Dampkring. Very
much a chill-out place and a favourite among backpackers. I can't comment
on the standard of cannabis, but the coffee is very good. There's usually a DJ
mixing trance and techno, and the regulars are described by thc 1995 High Times
Cannabis Cup guide as 'higher-consciousness techno-hippies'.
Greenhouse
Tolstraat, way down south (you'll need a good map to find it). Winner of the
1998 Cannabis Cup, it also won best gtass. That's all I know about it. but it's
probably worth a visit.
Homegrown Fantasy
Nieuwezijds Voorburgwal, 10 minutes south of Centraal Station. A very small
and naturally lit coffeeshop, and extremely easy to miss if you aren't looking
for it. There are tables on the pavement in the summer, and a good selection
of food and drink inside. Definitely a daytime place, as it closes at 10pm most
days. The othet good thing about Homegrown is that it has one of the widest
selections of grass in Amsterdam, and the owners know what they are talking
about.
Siberie
Brouwersgracht. off Singel, 10 minutes north of Homegrown Fantasy. A very
arty abode, with a varied and friendly clientele, and a good selection of grass
and hash. You'll find mothers and businessmen and women here, as well as
journalists and students.
Dutch mushrooms - they ate carefully grown in incubators, so
quality conttol is not a problem. They even have mushrooms
with the 'type' of trip written on the box; do you like 'social and
colourful', or is 'strong visual' more up your street? A lack of
English writing on the box is a good sign - it shows that locals
use them.
I entetcd the bar, on thc corner of Dam Square, with
Pete, to meet Paul and Jon. That was the plan. When I
enteted, though, when I pushed thc door ajar I was thrown,
fand was there, in the middle of it. The intensity of thc
outs was extraordinary. I never located their soutcc, I pre-
sume it was a spotlight, but intense ted light was seeping
from Jon and Paul's faces. Jon showed mc his hand, which
was shimmering from the sheet magnitude of colour and
detail it contained. A burning red star was slowly pulsat-
ing on his palm, with dark lines meandering across it, like
sunspots or old gnarled fingers...
Culture
There's more to life than drugs, and Amsterdam is no exception.
It is a centtc for art and culture, and there are some places you
really must visit, such as the Rijksmuseum and van Gogh Museum.
I won't bore you with details - thc Time Out Amsterdam Guide is
an excellent companion for the cultutal city tour. A walk around
the city is in itself an eye-opener, revealing a mixture of architecture
styles of great beauty. Wander around the streets and canals north
of Waterlooplein and east of Nieuwmarkt, and you'll find 'picture
postcard1
Amsterdam - quiet narrow canals, with houses leaning
inward at dangerous angles. The flower market on Singcl can be
passed on your way back to thc att market on Spui, both ate worth
a look in.
Things you really must see;
O Thc flower market on Singel (by Muntplein).
© The cathedral on Singel (just up from the flower market).
© The att matket on Spui (possibly Sundays only).
O The van Gogh Museum.
© The Hash Marihuana Hemp Museum.
0 The Rijksmuseum.
© The hologram shop on Grimburgwal.
© Conscious Dreams, a 'smart' shop on kerkstraat.
Getting there
.V", }f*~*
^ . w - n ' W - '
Coaches go twice daily from Victoria Coach Station and cost £40-50, taking about twelve hours
to get to Amstetdam.
Eurostar ttains (leaving from Waterloo) go to Brussels, from where there is a connection to Ams-
terdam. A return ticket (youth fare) is between £80 and £90. The journey takes about six houts.
Cheap Easyjet flights (anything from £50 to £100) leave from Luton, taking about forty minutes.
Most hostels in Amsterdam cost atound £10 a night, but it is advisable to book in advance,
especially during holiday seasons.
Things you will need; Time Out Amsterdam Guide (£9.99, or borrow it from a library), a decent
map, warm wind-proof clothes, food (supermarkets aren't very common in Amsterdam, and
eating out can get vety expensive), a torch (for navigating around your dormitory at 3am when
everyone else is in bed), £50 spending money in guilders (or Euros) for a typical weekend (most
cash machines in Amsterdam accept Delta and Visa).

