28
Feature 16 December 1998
Nietzsche's Ghost on the Cross
y^-^^B frit-cii u h
>fi w i l | i e i m
Nietzsche
1844- 1900
Nietzsche's works have been said to have had an influ-
ence on contemporary history, to have been the inspi-
ration of Nazism. This was somehow predicted by
Nietzsche himself, who wrote;
"I know my fate. One day my name will be
associated with the memory of something
tremendous... I am no man, I am dynamite"
fro/17 Ecce Homo
What lies behind the mysterious aphorisms of this
man, who ended his days in complete madness?
Among the most important features of his thoughts
is the need for the common human being to be over-
come, so that a new breed of 'demi-god' men can take
their place. All the old virtues must be overcome;
compassion, piety, love for the weak ones. The new
men must be fully aware of themselves and their
potential, they must pursue continuous self improve-
ment and achieve power.
"What is good? Everything that rises the sense
of power, the will of fulfilment of the human
being. What is bad? Everything that comes out
of weakness. What is happiness? To feel that
the power is growing, that one resistance lias
been overcome"
from Antichrist prefaction
According to these statements, during his life Niet-
zsche fought the most powerful aspect of European cul-
ture, whose roots have influenced us for millennia -
Christianity.
Nietzsche's philosophy is essentially egoistic - but
this word must be considered in its original Greek
meaning; "Myself and not anything else, as the fulcrum
of everything." Nietzsche therefore refuses every kind
of 'superimposed' form of morality:
"There are no moral phenomena, but only
moral interpretation of phenomena"
from Beyond Good and Evil
He underlines that the human being must love this
world and not live thinking of heaven:
"The Christian resolve to find the world ugly
and bad has made the world ugly and bad."
Christianity, according to him, is an illness which dri-
ves us to some form of paranoia, it makes us spend
hours praying to an ill-defined God, it teaches us that
if we cannot achieve something, or even when we can,
it is just because of the will of God. Christianity says
that God must be at the centre of our minds, of our
hopes, of our lives and that God loves most the weak
by Matteo Floris
and poor, and dislikes the strong. Nietzsche wishes for
a recovery from this 'illness':
"What is the seal of attained freedom? No
longer being ashamed in front of oneself" and
"I call Christianity the one great curse, the
great intrinsic depravity, the one great instinct
for revenge for which no expedient is suffi-
ciently poisonous, subterranean, petty - I call
the one mortal blemish of mankind."
These ideas somehow recall Feuerbach's thoughts:
God is the puppet made of all the frustrations and
manias of men. Man has put in this illusion all the
virtues that he cannot achieve; being good, being
omnipotent, being immortal. The only cure is to throw
away this puppet: Men can improve themselves only
if they care about themselves, not about God. There
is a link here with Marxism; "Religion is the opium of
the people".
Both Marx and Feuerbach's ideas came from the
same 19th century Hegelian philosophy. Nietzsche is
somehow different: He doesn't call for a socialist soci-
ety as Marx and Feuerbach did; in fact his philosophy
is totally adverse to concepts such as mass, community
and sociality. His hero, the wandering Zarathustra of his
masterpiece "Thus spoke Zarathustra", is a wise hermit
who has learned from nature and wants to teach men
how the common human being can be improved. His
complete hate of doctrine (and the brainwashing that
sometimes follows it) is revealed in the part of "Thus
spoke Zarathustra" where some disciples want to fol-
low the prophet in order to learn more. Zarathustra,
however, says
"if you want to improve, now that I taught you
something, you must learn how to hate me.
After you will have achieved this, we can get
well again. This is because I wantyou to be the
teachers ofyourself, there must be no guide for
you, not even myself"
- a clear attack to the figure of Jesus.
Nietzsche docs not regard Jesus as a charlatan who
wanted to cheat and trap men in Christianity, but sees
in him a guide who tried to teach something to human-
ity (as Zarathustra did); a guide who never pretended
that the focal point in being a Christian was the need
to continuously worship Christ. In his view, men should
not worship Jesus, they should improve and become
super-humans as he was. It is humanity who has mis-
understood, and made an idol of a demi-god who had
just found his personal wayto 'superiority1
. Why did this
happen? Probably because
"madness is rare in individuals - but in groups,
parties, nations and ages it is the rule"
from Beyond Good and Evil
In his opinion, the Church (which is an 'organised wor-
shipping society') is hence made of charlatans who are
ready to manipulate consciences in order to become
richer and more powerful:
"Vicious is every thought against nature. The
most vicious is the priest: everything he teaches
is against nature"
from Law against Christianity
If I were to analyse these ideas, first of all I would
say that Nietzsche could hardly have been the inspira-
tion for Nazism. Although ideas of power taken by a
new breed of men are present in it, Nietzsche's phi-
losophy calls for complete individualism and refuses any
kind of external influence on the single human being.
This obviously does not match with the complete faith
and obedience that was typical of the Nazis towards
Adolf Hitler.
In my view, Nietzsche underlines the need for
men to improve, to look inside themselves and to
solve their problems using their own resources, with-
out the need for external help - hence the hatred for
Christianity (in which the focus of the mind is God), the
hate for socialism (in which the focus of the mind is on
the mass, not on the individual), the need to become
different, stronger, completely self-confident, brave in
front of everything:
"When you look inside the abyss, the abyss
looks into you."
There is a need to recover from this 'Christian I
I
I
-
"If the Christian dogmas of a revengeful God,
universal sinfulness, election by divine grace
and the danger of eternal damnation were
true, it would be a sign of weak-mindedness
and lack of character not to become a priest,
apostle or hermit and, in fear and trembling,
to work solely on one's salvation; it would be
senseless to lose sight of one's eternal advan-
tage for the sake of temporal comfort. If we
may assume that these things are at any rate
believed true, then the everyday Christian cuts
a miserable figure; he is a man who really can-
not count to three, and who precisely on
account of his spiritual imbecility does not
deserve to be punished so harshly as Chris-
tianity promises to punish him."
No matter how much we agree or disagree with
Nietzsche, nobody can deny that his thoughts are intel-
lectually challenging with respect to everything we
believe is right and fair.
Is it possible for a Christian to share some of Niet-
zsche's views on the need for self-improvement with-
out 'external help'? I think so, as long as Christianity
is considered a struggle against man's selfish and
weak nature and not a comfortable refuge from human
miseries. It is a battle that the fellows must fight
within themselves. Confession with a priest, compas-
sion towards a weak personality, prayers to God in
order to obtain help must be banned in completing this
task. In my view, Christians should raise themselves
alone and let nobody else, neither a priest nor Jesus,
do that.

