32 Music 16 December 1998
uve
MASSIVE ATTACK
London Arena
What is it with popstars and shades?
• 've never been quite able to get my head around
I the Massive Attack live experience. Although I
I can't argue with their musical brilliance, the envi-
ronment of the live experience always seems alien to
the music Massive Attack perform. In their own words,
Mezzanine, their last album, fitted into that section of
life when you're too tired to party, but too awake to
sleep - chill out time. So a friday night in Docklands
with a six-thirty to eleven o'clock time schedule and fif-
teen thousand people didn't quite seem right.
On arrival, however, things seemed to look up.
Although in true student style I missed the support acts,
the light and sound system was excellent, and there
seemed to be more gear being, smoked than was
seized at Backbeat last Tuesday. Nevertheless, some
aspects of the environment were extremely strange.
How come the average age in this place is way above
thirty?? What are all these people wearing suits for?? And
where thc fuck has this fifty year old man in front of
me got his sexy purple and brown jumper from??
Then thc music started, and with Angel (the one
from the Adidas advert) Massive Attack blew me away.
Rather than just performing the track as on the
album, Massive Attack belted out a new improved ver-
sion, with unabashed emotion and even more incred-
ible dynamics. The rolling bassline boomed around
the arena and the eerie vocals began to possess my
mind. With each crescendo, the effect increased further
and as the guitar began to swell and distort, I began
to understand why no arena is too big for Massive
Attack. I
Massive Attack continued with a mix ol eloctrenica
and natural instruments so perfect that I was listi -i lii g
in awe. In the two hour set all the classics came out.
from Blue Lines, their first album, Iht crowd was
blessed with One Love, Hymn //. >m ihe PA] Win o/and
thc superb Safe From Flarm, possibly my favourite Mas-
sive Attack live track: Tricky or no Tricky. Again, as in
their last tour, Protection didn't feature on thc set-list,
but the encore version of Eurochild with interactive
crowd light show more than made up for it.
Another often-controversial point with Massive
Attack live is the performance of Unfinished Sympathy,
considered by many to be the greatest dance tune ever.
You see, since Shara Nelson and the band parted com-
pany thc replacement vocalists have never been able
to come up with thc goods on this timeless classic. Fri-
(lay's iyiioini.il IIH- hoo! on hr,
•,ioi\ Hie new
range ami si rated • , i the original voice
were occasionally uddod il in in ipi ">ved ihe Hack further.
So I w,i< i ' • 11\ nigtil chill out
i " 1
H i ' 11. im.! pM ,p|i Wcsh i \ttack
couMnTbe 'have :
iiiyh; iw \'-, y l!<wy anyarena
big enouyn to lii i.ho whokr of in venal ; olho. yn
then son w ni, ,, i| , • i i • M i l p 0 ihe
arena to the musk .
I think I now UP i I md M,i . • an the
greatest band in the world ever. By miles E3
James
SPACE + STRAW
Brixton Academy
This Is Straw
B
ristoi-based Straw comprise a
vocalist, organist/backing vocal-
ist, bassist and guilarisl and for
i IO .o W;' ()|
look, each
wore labelled LH a neon street sign
bchiR iavc been together
i' ii Just • ivs i ,i • "4F and haw only been
yi MiKo Ayyfti by! nn\o so iai
supported the Soah<>i i now
Space. Given this rail
did expect a bit of arrogant
but no, li'i v kepi in':
lM.il If! ,l • :k •,!•.,,, |i Hi
got on with the job.
Iheir opening back Wakr ( p was
punchy, catchy instantly likeable indie
: .• • l should have got the crowd
iii' i ing f,tr Hi' in than il did. Iheir forth-
t omni' i i ii ii iplane Song followed
hiy I Moo' hint will
i I! be sure to get them
rjjfeed Hi. highlight for me was
a', through thc set - Anthem for thc
ll-lsloem, dedicated lo those with
low self-esteem, which was a teal uplift-
ing "feel-good" song. It was difficult to
see how anyone could feel bad after lis-
tening to that.
Straw finished with We Don't Belong
which combined the occasional poppi-
ness of the Lightning Seeds with the
somboliy ol kn:iio|yy,f.j .yyr v y y -n , ,
.'..ionalfv barker! In ' n y r n ' s W< ! i.'// R: n />.
You drum riff. Ihis was indeed a high
point with thc initially unresponsive
crowd having been won over by the
sheer effort and high quality material.
Straw put 100 percent into every one of
the forty-five minutes of their stage time,
showing a level of confidence and pro-
fessionalism beiying their short time
together. Their organist Duck informs
me that they hope to be getting their
own shows together in the early part of
next year - Happy New Year indeed!
Space came on the stage to the
tune of Something Stupid (franks, Nancy
Sinatra) and performed their set in front
of a large video screen accompanied by
video foolage of, amongst other things,
cornfields, planets, satellites and Elvis
Presley. Much of thc early material was
non-single tracks and was sutprisingly
lost on all bar a small minority al the
front. However the dazzling lights and
video screen did keep people enter-
tained. The accompanying light show
was spectacular too proving that Space
really have come of age in terms of pre-
sentation as well as music.
Thc first song to provoke much audi-
ence reaction was the hugely popular
The Ballad oF Tom Jones. Space were
accompanied by a pre-recorded Cerys
from Catatonia (bearing a somewhat
uncanny resemblance to Red Dwarfs
Holly) on the video screen. Apart from
The Ballad oF Tom Jones, the singles
from the albums Spiders and Tin Planet
were kept until the latter part of the set.
I rontman Tommy Scott filled the bits
between songs with weli-worn and pre-
rehearsed statements that made it all
look a bit stale, while the rest of the
band kept to the backgtound.
Latet when the singles started rolling
things did improve - the sociopathic
Female of the Species being one of the
highlights of the night. Space then ded-
icated The Unluckiest Man in the World
to Prince Charles and Avenging Angels
turned into one large singalong. The
recent cover of The Animals We Gotta
Get out of this Place was similarly well
received.
It wasn't until the lattet half of both
sets that the majority of the crowd
unfolded their arms, stopped politely
tapping one foot and generally got into
the spirit of things, after all, they had paid
for these tickets (unlike myself). Overall
a pretty average performance by Space
and Straw are definite names for thc
future. El
Katherine

