16 December 1998 Music 33
BJORK
The London Palladium
11 re's Bjork t r y i n g h e r
h a r d e s t n o t t o l o o k like a
p a g a J r t ^ n t f b d d e s s
I
t has been a busy summer for Bjork,
playing 42 concerts over five conti-
nents, and it is the last leg of this
tout which brings Bjork back to London.
The reason for the tour is Homogenic,
Bjork's third and most accomplished
album to date. It rose above most of its
competition with its innovative mixture
of classical string arrangements and
muljj-texturcd beats, which perfectly
complimented Bjork's extraordinary
vocal and song writing talents. Part of
ihe i, asm lor Iter continuing success
.
*
•
• •' o. iirincnl Minounding her
musk tsdU1
lo Ihe compam she keeps,
pi ople on thi (oreironl oi experimen-
tal music like Alec Empire and Howie B.
Tonight is no exception with first
support coming from ji-ziq, a one man
noise machine, whose pounding music
encouragingly made a group of men in
frojflt put their hands over their ears for
its duration. Next on came Magga Slfna,
•another impish Icelandic singei, with a
Ifrackmg band that included a slide <
tarisl and bonpo playei. As she: pl.u '0 a
frantic violin and stomped around lite
stage in pink party dress anc sparkling
lighls, she obvious (ompailsons with
Hjorl in I ho Sugan ul» era How. i
tonight the seated audience was not in
the mood for their brand of pop-rock
music, and there was only one Nordic
diva who could satiate them.
Sticking close to her description of
HomoQenic, strings and beats, Bjork's
accompaniment came from the Icelandic
String Octet and Mark Bell of LFO, who
co-produced most of the songs on the
album, and operated a mass of gadgetry
to produce the samples and rhythms
that make up Bjork's songs, following
these onstage came Bjork, looking like
some kind of pagan ice goddess, bare-
foot in a long sleeved dress with pleated
wings and white face makeup. The
seething beats kick in for the first song
Hunter, and the backdrop begins to pul-
sate in an eerie red light. As Bjork sings
"I'm the hunter" and the String Octet
strike up the powerful theme, it's clear
that the intensive tour has only served to
shatpen their performances. This is fol-
lowed by two songs taken from Debut,
the delicate Come to Me, and the ever
Ui lightful tonus as a Bay are both ron
doled iailliliillvand lully bei icliling iiom
ti ie rich string accompaniment. Thc frag-
ile Beauty of the music is sustained
through an Icelandic version of You've
been Flirting Again, and the dense
orchestral forest of Isobel, before it
plunges back into the darker more vivid
sounds of Homogcnic Immature and
/ ivc Years are followed by a blinding ver-
sion of Bachcrlorcttc, where Bjork's soar-
ing vocals and lush strings lifted the
auditorium tar from the cold London
November night outside. When the song
ends, she asks in her kooky Icelandic
accent, if people would mind standing
up, which is followed by a general migra-
tion to the front of the theatre, from here
onwards Bjork can do no wrong, skip-
ping, shuffling and dancing through her
back-catalogue of excellent songs, includ-
ing a particularly line version of The
Anchor Song, and her new single, the
remixed Alarm Call. The set peaks with
\oga where thc Octet are used to their
full potential, creating a whirling vortex
of sound into which Bjork wails "State of
emergency, how beautiful to be," and il
is a magnificent end to a superb night of
music. H
Phil
ASIAN DUB FOUNDATION
Shepherds Bush Empire
Asian Dub Foundation
caught on camera doing
their funky stuff
Y
ou have probably heard all the hype aboul
ADPs phenomenal live performances, and il
you just go out and listen to their album Rail s
Revenge you II gel the whole live feel in your own
bedroom. I laving never soon AI >
l in
I was expecting an exhilarating full or onsiat.yhi, i r
c .
1 was not disappointed. Ihc\ del erul thc goods
without any trouble.
Silting upstairs w
a
s not the ITH i' I ideal I» ilion to
experience the power and energy of ADF and as you
would expect no one could remain seated, with some
over zealous fans doing their moves in the aisles to the
annoyance of security. After an obscure and convinc-
ingly off beat set from Soul Coughing, Asian Dub foun-
dation made their entrance, and the reception they
received was incredible. The familiar keyboard riff intro
to the drum 'n' bass / reggae mayhem of Charge
descended onto the adoring masses and the whole
place erupted while Chandrasonic wreaked havoc with
the crowd, using his guitar to raise the pace. The lead
singer, Deeder, who has previously been rapping with
The State of Bengal was his usual energetic self, jump-
ing around all over the stage, and urging the audience
on with Intermittent political statements calling for
'unity'. Occasionally the guy doing the samples would
come out from behind his array of equipmenl and
demonstrate his bhangra dancing, with Deedcr rapping
and jumping around him like a crazed lunatic.
Thc crowning moments of thc night were Buzzin'
and Naxalite, with free Satpal Ram up their with them.
Then ,<ere 9 I backs a couple of times when Chan-
diasoi mistimed Ihe sampled intro lo a
coupl< of the songs, leading to a rollicking from Deeder.
Mi soiled ' : r i out in no tiriio lie nest track off Rafi's
Rr vi nge is by lap 'Culture Move' and unfortunately they
didn't play it (probably due to the fact that they needed
Navigator rapping on it, and he wasn't there on the
night). Although this put a dampener on the night, ADI
truly showed that they have plenty to say (you can prob-
abk count o i n o u i lingers th* ir.mberol other bands
which can boast this claim), and they hay an all
encompas' . y
the gathered crowd lifling theatmosph' i
< above many
gigs I have seen in ttie past.
M;l |usi y 1
hi •
,
Band last w e d nc . « < i i bit ol
praisi 11u:v get In thi > oiosol Ihe lampcrer, 'II\"i i
buy lis II ii i old wiiii III . ill I'n hi !(( i HI
Jason

