16 December 1998
BECK
Ti
Beck checks for lice.
he album is called Mutations and Beck certain-
ly must have been in an altered state of mind
when he wrote it. All the tracks were written
whilst he was on tour for his massive album, Odelay
and it's cleat that these sort of things must have a pret-
ty big effect on him.
Gone is the characteristic cacophony of samples
vying for your attention and attacking your brain. In are
more mellow lyrics and disguised beats. Don't get me
wrong, this album has rhythm but it's not Beck's trade-
mark style. In songs such as Cold Brains and Tropicalia
we heat Beck producing work sounding pretty similar
to the Eels, which works really well. It puts across the
mind-numbing boredom that comes with being on
the road with lyrics like, 'No thoughts, no mind, To rot
behind' and the apparent disgust with which he views
the metropolis' of America, 'All the streets, They reek
of ttopical charms...Where tourists snore and decay.'
It seems that Beck has taken a step back and con-
centrated more on the message of his work and its con-
tent, whilst producing some truly great songs for this
album. He has surpassed himself in the blinding tune
that is Diamond Bollocks. This is classic Beck with the
hatdet beats and monumental musical flair with which
he puts a tune togethet. I lalf way through the track,
because he is just so good, he takes a time out and
inserts 10 seconds of bird song. Superb. It's flashpoints
ike this that make Beck appealing today. Ftesh-ness,
innovation and a touch of eccentricity is so rarely found
around these musical parts nowadays.
On the other hand, this album could also be seen
as patchy but Beck himslef admits that this album is
effectively a scrapbook of songs written befote his
next majot release sometime next year. I lowever, if you
really want to see another side of this genius then I rec-
ommend this album, "those of you that would rather
save your money for something important this winter,
like heating, then wait. If you don't mind sleeping in the
entire contents of your wardrobe to stay warm then buy
this album. H
Simon
FAITH NO MORE
Who Cares A Lot?
Mike Patton (Left) Is challenged to down the chill sauce In one.
W
hen I got this album to review I was ecstatic! faith No More were my
heroes of adolescence. I couldn't believe it when I read the one line in
NME, 'Faith No More have split up.' I lere is a collection of their best
songs all on one CD. I would hate to be the guy who had to select these fifteen
'greatest' songs from the Faith No More back catalogue, but whoever it was has
done well. This compilation provides a well-rounded view of the band's different
phases and styles through the years. This is nol easy, because each of FNM's
albums is dramatically different. I his is partly to do with the arrival and departure
of several band members following the band's legendary in-fighting which makes
the Gallaghers seem cute and cuddly by comparison. Even Courtney Love fronted
the band briefly in 1983, and it's a shame no recordings were made at this time.
The compilation starts, naturally enough with the anthemic We Care A Lot with
original singer Chuck Mosely sounding hoarse and shouty. Mike Patton took over
the vocals for the rest of their career, and his arrival started a period which had some;
of their most commercial songs. This was when the band gained most success, espe-
cially when their single Epic reached the US top 10.
The next three songs, Midlife Crisis, Small Victory, and the darkly cynical Easy
all come off the album Angel Dust, recorded when the band was probably at its
most fragmented, especially with Mike Patton often putting his project Mr Bungle
before his FNM duties. Guitarist 'Big' Jim Martin left soon after the album was
released, and the next album King For A Day... Fool For A lifetime showed a huge
difference in musical style without Martin's influence; being much more basic, head-
down rocking but with more production polish than earlier recordings.
The final few songs are from the ironically titled Album oFthe Year, released in
1997. This has them becoming more conventional, although never losing that FNM
magic.
Overall, Who Cares A Lot? is, a great collection from a great band. It offers an
excellent introduction if you haven't heard much FNM before, but the older fans
will probably find it more useful to buy the re-released back catalogue, now all on
mid-price, to fill in the gaps in their collection.
It is almost impossible to sum up a seventeen year career with one album. Any
band that can survive through all the trials and tribulations that being in a music
band entails and come out the other side deserves credit. As I said, it's difficult to
condense into one album but this seems to have done the job quite well. CI
Tom

