36 Music 16 December 1998
Tha Bomb!
! A C T I C O I irr ric THP VP A D A M H imp r?OT A I pi inn oc Ti-lP X / C A D D
A | I T U C CCOTOVITIAI TI IMCC r»C OO
/Album o f t h e Y e a r
Tue nis&lvaafion of Uur/t WW
One of the most anticipated albums of the year finally
drops, and thc first thing I noticed was that, like fellow
Jersey native Queen Latifah, this is an album that is part
hip hop and part out-and-out R&B, with some songs
being a mixture of both. Thc accent is tathet on R&B
with a pinch of hip hop... be warned.
The album is based loosely around some class-room
skits, questioning the meaning of love, the different
forms of which are the main subject matter of this
album. The set kicks off into the harsh ragga-influ-
enced tones of "Lost Ones", which is softened with the
sung chorus. Throughout the album, where you would
expect a guest rapper or singer to appear, Lauryn Hill
takes care of it herself, switching effortlessly from one
form to the other. The sparse beat of "Lost Ones"
allows L-Boogie to display her thoughts, and some say
that this barrage is aimed at Wyclef (who is noticeably
absent on this album, as are the rest of the Refugee
Camp), although she has denied this.
A song such as "Ex-factor" begins with a Wu-Tang
sample, but this is soon forgotten as the song builds
up and the chorus "care for me, care for mc, i know you
care for me, there for mc, there for me, said you'd be
there for me, cry for me, cry for me, you said you'd die
for me, give to me, give to me, why won't you live for
me" is so touching and heartfelt, and as the song ends
with an elegant guitar solo, you can't help but feel for
her.
Her parenthood is obvious on "To Zion" where her
voice soars as she sings happily about her love for her
son over a string laden track. Thc way she sings here
is so moving that you can't help but sec how her son
has changed her life, and he is the main focus for her.
The single "Doo wop (That Thing)" is one lhat is likely
to do well in the pop charts without being a straight up
pop song as it contains a message warning men and
women to watch out for thc opposing sex. Thc amal-
gamation of the rapped verses followed by the sugary
singing of the hook over a track full of horns and that
simply nagging piano leads to a result that will be
huge everywhere: on the radio, in the club, worldwide.
Great to see something like this. Lauryn showing peo-
ple what is happening without them realizing it.
There are many other good songs. "The Misedu-
cation of Lauryn Hill" could be a look at herself, "forgive
Them Father" with the chorus "forgive them father, for
they know not what they do" could be an enlightened
look, or can come off preachy. Retro-soul is combined
with a distinct 90s feel, breathing new life into songs
like "EveryGhetto, Every City". "Superstar" is another
quality R&B/rap combination without sounding cliche.
The hook "Come on baby, light my fire/Everything you
drop is so tired/Music is supposed to inspire/How
come we ain't getting no higher?" is a poignant look
at the state of music nowadays. Even though Lauryn
crafts an album to her high standards, she latches on
"Can't Take My Eyes Off Of You" at the end, although
hidden, it is easily found and is in a similar vein to "killing
Me Softly", in that it will have major commercial rota-
tion. Even so, this album is a glimpse into the mind of
Lauryn Hill, a very personal look at times, and while it
does not extend thc boundaries of hip hop or R&B, it
is a great collection of songs featuring her unique
voice that cats have been fiending for since day one.
The wait is over.
Roni
Whats up boys and girls, its the last issue of this year,
but don't worry we will return in thc new year to con-
tine giving you your shot of R&B and hip hop. The years
been pretty hectic and thcres been plenty going on in
98.
Just wanna give props to all the people who've
helped us out, and wish everyone whos reading this a
very Merry Christamas and Happy New Year, keep It
Real!
Milen
1999 canu you fucking believe it!!!!!
Phat Selection of '98
Sweetheart- JD feat. Mariah
For the video, A
, ;:• ^;
Sexy Cinderafa - Lyden Da^||^i||:;;; ::jj
U i c k e d s l o w t u r n
Gone Till November - Wyclef Jean f©8Kl|i^te|^an-
nibus & Destinv's Child |
Vie Boy Is Mine -Brandy & Monica
A Rose Is
5&:h
BWl^t^\ \\:<? Sk,life
The bo\s represent willfiheir smooth vocals

