38 Music 16 December 1998
Albums Of The Year
ome mi at 1998 wasn't too hot
a year In the tropical paradise that Is the
album world. There hasn't really been
an album that has < ood
say, Ihe • /ear.
; i. ;; . •pi '
: • C:
• • : : */'C , . ' •
Over, you re tiusn wftn casn (ria nan anu you ct
•ig to remln . st of
1998, you could do a lot worse than buying
the f recommended albums. Merry
Christmas and a Drunken New Year!
Dennis
1. The Good Will Out - Embrace
2. Bring It On - Gomez
3. Isola- Kent
4. Day After Day - Ballroom
5. Almost Here - Unbelievable Truth
|Turkey. The Tamperer featuring Maya
Jason
1. Raffs Revenge-Asian Dub foundation
2. Moon Safari - Air
3. Colours-Adam r
4. Isola - Kent
5. We Rock Hard - freestylers
Turkey. Said and Done - Boyzone
EMBRACE
TfflfeGood Will Out
The Good Will Out is a touching album crammed with at least seven or eight
pure gems ofwhich Retread, I higher Sights and That's All Changed Forever ate prob-
ably the best. The only lulls on the emotional plane come ironically in the more hedo-
nistic numbers. It's not that they can't pull them off, it's just that other bands that
begin with the letter O would probably be able to be more fierce about it. I low-
ever, this is splitting hairs. This is a shamelessly optimistic album that is both musi-
cally grand and lyrically beautiful. Journalists, cast aside your cool attitudes. Cynics,
open your hearts. Fellow people, open your ears. Embrace Embrace and rejoice!
(Felix 1119)
AIR
Moon Safari
If you're looking for a sublime, laid back excursion into the realms of toned
down ambience captured within the space of forty four minutes, look no further.
Air have blended together an astonishing array of mellowed down grooves and
sweet melodies to create a masterpiece of drugged out magic.
Starting off with a subdued bass led groove and staying clear of anything more
complex or potentially mind-scrambling, they make use of moogs, organs, bass,
strings and effortlessly smooth vocals. Sit back, relax and close your eyes
(Felix 1105)
Jamie
1. Cruelty and the Beast - Cradle of Filth
2. Pulkas - Pulkas
3. The Haunted - The Haunted
4. Something's Gotta Give - Agnostic Front
5. Garage Inc. - Metallica
Turkey. Splceworld - The Spice Girls
Ahmed
1. The Space Between Us -
Craig Armstrong
2. Decksanddrumsandrockandroll
Propellerheads
3. Isola - Kent
4. Psyence Fiction - U.N.K.L.E.
5. NYC Live - Portishead
Chris
1. Deserter's Songs - Mercury Rev
2. Good Morning Spider - Sparklehorse
3. Moon Safari - Air
4. More You Becomes You - Plush
5. Mutations - Beck
Turkey. Supposed Former Infatuation
Junkie - Alanis Morrissette

