40
Reviews
Film
Rush Hour * * • *
Starring : Jackie Chan, Chris Tucker, Tom Wilkinson
Director: Brett Ratner
16 December 1998
T
he ideal action hero needs to
embody three, very disparate, ele-
ments: he needs to be hard as
nails (obviously); he needs to be charis-
matic enough to make you forget how
paper thin the plot is; and he needs to
be really funny. Many stars have tried to
capture all three, but few have suc-
ceeded - Arnie isn't funny, Mel Gibson
isn't hard enough, Harrison ford's too
nice, Van Damme can't act. The list
goes on.
New fine Pictures have, however,
come up with a new solution to this age
old problem. Because by fusing together
the best bits of Chan (a legend in Hong
kong action movies) and Tucker (the DJ
with the annoying voice in The Fifth Ele-
ment), you can create the perfect action
hero. In other words, don't let Jackie
Chan actually say anything (which, con-
sidering he still doesn't seem too sure of
his English, is not necessarily a bad thing),
thus allowing Chris Tucker free reign to
wise-crack at will - and in return, allow
Chan the freedom to kick the badguys
senseless in his customarily brilliant fash-
ion. Plus, of course, there are no hyper-
inflationary wage packets involved, and
Its not size that matters - Its what you do with It that counts.
no hideously expensive set-piece stunts.
On paper, it's a neat faultless solution.
In practice, however, there are a few
drawbacks to this plan, as Rush Hour
turns out to be a Chris luckcr movie. Con-
sequently, Chan seems muted when it
comes to the fight scenes, and whilst
some of the moves he pulls are still
amazing, there's not the edge-of-your-
seat reality, coupled with a great sense
of humour, that normally highlights his
work. It's too Hollywood; too staged.
On the other hand, it's still a very
refreshing break from the current crop of
high-octane world-in-jeopardy actioners.
At points, the pair do seem to bounce off
each other with a teal sense of friend-
ship, and both ate (in completely differ-
ing ways) hugely likable. And whilst
Tucker's banter may have more than a
passing resemblance to mid-eighties
Eddie Murphy, he still shows thc comic
flare that first brought him fame on the
stand-up citcuit. Moreover, even if Chan
does seem a little restrained at times, he
still displays the balletic sense of flowing
movement and timing that has made
him a star. Witness the lessons he gives
Tucker on how to disarm someone. Or
the way he manages to bypass the entire
FBI in order to get into the Chinese Con-
sulate. Simply stunning.
Most importantly, however. Rush
Hour has that one key ingredient that
Hollywood seems to have forgotten
recently - its great fun. Recent block-
busters have been visually impressive,
but have lacked that element of sheer
entertainment that made the original
Lethal Weapon and the Indiana Jones
franchise into hits. What more can you
ask for? •
Dave
The Acid House * * •
Starring : Ewen Bremner, Martin Clunes, Alex Howden, Stephen McCole, Kevin McKidd
Director: Paul McGuigan
This picture tells you absolutely nothing about the film. Clever, huh?
T
hink of frainspotting. Think of its
author, Irvine Welsh. Think of run-
down Edinburgh estates. Think of
extraordinary use of fu** and c u " . Think
of very strong Scottish accents. Think of
a cool Britpop soundttack. If you choose
not to think, I'll go ahead and tell you.
"The Acid House" is based on the best-
selling collection of short stotics of the
same name written by Irvine Welsh.
Three stories were picked from the col-
lection and adapted for the screen by
Welsh himself, resulting in three forty-
minutes films showing one after the
other.
The first, The Oranton Star Cause, is
about the happenings of a terrible day
for Stephen McCole. The day of doom
starts off with his football team, Granton
Stat, dumping him for a quicker lad. The
bad news quickly builds up, leaving
McCole absolutely dumfounded, and fol-
lowing the traditional course of action on
such occasions - drowning his sorrows in
a pub. Then along comes a bearded fel-
low by the name of God who proceeds
to speak his mind... At once thought-pro-
voking and funny, this story is excellent.
The second is entitled A Soft Touch.
It is about kevin Mckidd (tommy in
Trainspotting) who is (can you guess?) a
soft touch - easily taken advantage of,
muzzled, and outright bullied. I'd much
rather you discovered for yourself who
his tormentors are, rather than spoil your
chance to properly enjoy the movie. I
kept wondering as thc film developed
how this affecting tale would climax -
but, perhaps somewhat symbolically, the
denouement was beyond anything I'd
suspected.
The third film is entitled The Acid
House, after which the collection is
named. It is a very vivid, very colourful
journey into the various sensations and
feelings associated with taking acid. But
this time, there is a nice twist. Ewen
Bremner (Trainspotting's Spud) takes a
supet acid pill which knocks him uncon-
scious and transports him into the body
of a newborn baby in an ambulance
nearby. Likewise, the baby's mind goes
into the big boy's body. Cue hilarious
consequences. God alone knows what
the message of this piece is supposed to
be.
Anyway, this three-in-one deal is
enjoyable, thought-provoking, and funny.
Thc soundtrack is not, I think, as ground-
breaking as the Trainspotting one.
though there are some specially-written
tracks. Although The Acid House's open-
ing on New Year's Day will undoubtedly
be surrounded by massive hype, it's prob-
ably no less than it desetves. O
Ahmed

