16 December 1998 Film
Reviews & Competitions
The Mask of zorro * *
Anthony Hopkins, Catherine Zeta Jones
You try walking down Brompton Road dressed like that...
Starring : Antonio Banderas,
Director: Martin Campbell
L
unge, parry and reposte, for it is
time for Zorro; defender of the
weak, and avenger of wrong
doing, the hero who marks his territory
with a flashy Z. Flash words are definite-
ly needed, since Hollywood is picking
from the bottom of the barrel for super-
heroes to adapt for the big screen.
The first part of the Mask of Zorro
sets up this whole elaborate plot where
Hopkins is discovered to be the true
Zorro. His life is then destroyed when his
wife is killed by the current Spanish gov-
ernor of the region, played by Stuart Wil-
son, who then takes Hopkins' baby
daughter to bring up as his own, letting
our hero rot it jail for 20 years. This part
of the film is fascinating and the film's
expectations start to rise. Hopkins is
totally believable as the ageing Zorro; his
nobility and debonair attitude combined
with calculated revenge, brings tremen-
dous weight and depth to the character.
Twenty years later the governor
returns to Mexico, with Hopkins' daugh-
ter, intent on buying Mexico's indepen-
dence. When Banderas is introduced as
the new Zorro, trained by Hopkins (who
has, of course, escaped), the film starts
Dead Man's Curve
Christmas stands for many things. Being
force fed by your mother; being forced
to endure your grandparents,- going to
any lengths to avoid the Queen's
speech; turkey risotto. But most of all,
Christmas means presents.
So, thanks to those delightful people
at Beatwax Promotions, we've got stacks
of prizes to give away. Rrst-up is Dead
Man's Curve. This indie-thriller has won
great acclaim in the US, and stars
Scream's Matthew Lillard as a College
freshman who takes one-upmanship a
little too far...
To bag movie telated goodies,
including t-shirts, bottle openers and a
signed posters, then simply tell me:
Which member of the Scream cast
starred in The Wedding Singer?
Answers should be emailed to
film.felix@ic.ac.uk, and must be received
by Thursday evening. All prizewinners
will be notified by email on Friday.
to mix the darker story line with what
must be said as slapstick comedy. This
may be due to thc many television
remakes of Zorro, which has given thc
character a humourous side, but it does-
n't work when the film's foundation has
been built on a foreboding story line.
Director Martin Campbell (Tomor-
row Never Dies) does well to restrain the
action - however this restraint vanishes
as the film just deteriorates into a typical
A Life Less Ordinary
This time around, we've got copies of the
video, novel and screenplay to give away
to one lucky punter, to tie in (belatedly)
with the video release of Danny Boyle's
underrated follow-up to Trainspotting.
This time, all I want to know is :
In which US TV series did Ewan
McGregor make a notable guest
appearance?
Once again, answers should be emailed
to film.felix@ic.ac.uk. If you get stuck, I
suggest looking at thc Internet Movie
Database, www.uk.imdb.com. It's great.
Hollywood ending with a huge explosive
finale. The sword scenes are coordinated
extremely well and the knife edge excite-
ment holds well even though both Hop-
kins and Banderas were fencing novices.
The Mask of Zorro was a bit of a dis-
appointment as it started well, frequently
reminding me of those old Clint tast-
wood westerns, but then it just plunges
into mediocrity. O
Magpie
The Game
Our final set of prizes are related to
David I incher's follow-up to Seven. Whilst
it might not have the same sick tension,
The Game certainly has enough surprises
to keep even Sherlock Holmes on the
edge of his seat. Starring Michael Dou-
glas as a multi-millionaire who has every-
thing, the plot starts to get interesting
when he gets a strange birthday present
from his wayward brother Scan Penn: a
live-action game that consumes his life,
from there on, things statt to get more
than a little peculiar...
It's recently been released on video,
and would undoubtedly make a lovely
Christmas present.... although I'd keep
it away from granny if she's got a weak
heart. Don't say I didn't warn you.
To win a copy of the video, tell me:
Which recent Hitchcock update did
Michael Douglas also star in?
All entries must reach film.felix@ic.ac.uk
by Thursday evening. Merry Christmas.
Meeting
People
is Easy
••*••
B
and documcntatics usually rep-
resent the most self-serving, self-
reverential form of film-making
in existence. Meeting People, howev-
er, is something quite different. Grant
Gee (who directed the No Surprises
video) has produced a film that can
only be adequately described by the
word masterpiece. It blew me away.
Radiohead are one of those bands
who, whilst you may like their music,
you always fear may be completely up
their own arses in real life. A bunch of
pretentious twats, if you will. Meeting
People, however, gives them a chance
to show their true colours, as it follows
the band through twelve months
around the release of OK Computer.
Gee captures dozens of live gigs and
seemingly hundreds of interviews - but
never interviews them himself. This
allows their ttue reaction to fame to
become appatent, as they interact with
the (frequently idiotic) local journalists.
The masterstroke, however, is the
way Gee deals with Thorn Yorke. Whilst
the rest of thc band spend the fitst half
of thc film coming across as a perfectly
normal bunch of blokes, Yorkc hangs
around in the background, seemingly
trying to avoid the cametas. Then, sud-
denly, the director turns the-focus on
him. Thc film immediately becomes a
portrait of someone who can only be
described as a pained genius. He can't
believe the fame - can't believe they
deserve it - and constantly feats the
backlash that will hit when everyone
comes to their senses. Then, when he
starts to write new music...Wow.
I'm not a huge Radiohead fan - but
the moment I left the cinema I went
straight home and put OK Computer on
repeat. It's an amazing film. Anyone
who even vaguely likes their music sim-
ply must see it. D
Dave
Christmas Clearout
Thanks to those lovely people at Beatwax Promotions

