44
Sport 16 December 1998
IStXV
University College of St Mark
& St John 18 - 7 IC
Spirits and expectations were running
high for the rugby club to gain promo-
tion this year. After winning our league
convincingly (six from six with a +259
points difference) we needed a play-off
win to make it to the Southern First Divi-
sion. We were drawn away against a
teacher-training poly from Plymouth,
which meant a 9 o'clock departure from
South Ken (except for our late comers -
Chris Eubank and John Barnes).
Out arrival in Plymouth was behind
schedule, which gave us under thirty
minutes to change and warm up. A
"Mexican Raah" that was instigated by
our newly elected vice-captain - Pharaoh
- tried to switch us on early. Unfortu-
nately it wasn't enough.
After kick-off and the first few rucks we
soon realised the increase in the level of
our opposition. The pack managed to
take the game to them, which resulted
in a couple of early penalty chances that
proved very close, but the awkward wind
did nothing to help Chris Dickinson's
boot. Martin made use of the wind to
R u g b y
SPONSORED BY UniLever
2nd XV
play most of the first half in our half,
resulting in a well worked blind-side try
for the opposition. Suddenly at 8-0 down
we had to up a gear and started to play
our kind of rugby. Deep in our own half
Dave Hogg released a perfect miss ball
which found a huge gap for Dave Gol,
in turn putting the full-back, Chris Dick-
inson, in position to give Segun a try scot-
ing opportunity he wasn't going to
refuse. The converted try saw IC come
back 8-7.
The next ten minutes were to be crucial,
as going ahead before half time was all
IC wanted. The forwards gave it their all.
The scrums started to come together as
IC pushed the opponents back on sev-
eral occasions. The will to win started to
come. This was proven by our second
row, with Will Sterns accepting a more
than healthy helping of shoe pie. A cou-
ple of good runs from IC's blind-side
flanker, Nippy, was to no avail, as he still
insists in passing it to the other side.
The Club Captain should know our own
colours by now! Half time arrived, and
with IC only one point down, belief was
still high - although a lot of work would
still be required in the last forty minutes
to bring victory their way.
Thc second half started in a blaze of
glory, with IC pushing the southerners
back injo their five-metre line. However,
sloppy play gave them a penalty, which
was kicked to touch, casing thc pressure.
After a blatant piece of obstruction by IC's
no 6, we conceded a penalty close to the
half-way line. Repeated backchat from
the players resulted in the ref marching
us back onto our line. The penalty kick
was taken and they went further ahead.
This was the turning point of the game,
as IC never managed to regain form and
conceded two further cores over the
next twenty minutes.
With time running out, IC battled on with
some aggressive play from Dan Uiguzi
and Willis. However, it was not to be, and
the game finished 18-7 against IC. The
opportunity of promotion was missed
and IC will have to tty again next season,
where a home fixture will give the clear
advantage. At thc end of the day nobody
is bitter - they come out with a teaching
diploma and 10K for the rest of their
career, whilst ourselves, well...
IC 15-20 St Marks, St Johns
& Some farmers
After stamina sapping four hour ride
we were ready for action. During the
one minute before play wc shook our
bones in the salty sea air. Twenty min-
utes of persistent probing tested the
depth of our defence. Eventually the
Plymouth seamen spurted through a
tight gap to score between thc uprights.
The score at half time was 10-0.
Fluid ball skills at the start of the second
half resulted in deep penettation of the
barrage of fishy men, with Jan diving
between the posts to score the first
mouth-watering try. Ten minutes later
and ten more points deeper down, we
created a shower of flowing rugby,
allowing flo to go down on the brown
goal. Dick Seepings shot from the sctum
and was all ovet thc opposition scrum-
half. Towards thc end of the second
period Bully's gash was re-opened and
he was blood-binned. Substitutions
caused the backs to rearrange their posi-
tions. The backs then called a six two
nine, providing Flo with the opening to
bend in behind thc pins and ram home
our final climactic effort.
Unfortunately, victory, the ultimate
honey-pot, was unobtainable, so we
had to settle for second-best. ARSE!
16th December
17th December
18th December
19th December
20th December
21st December
22nd December
23rd December
27th December
28th December
29th December
30th December
2 for 1 Squash between 7-12 noon & 2-5pm. (Play 2 slots for the price of one.)
2 for 1 Sauna, so bring a friend for free.
- 2 for 1 20/20/20 (12.10pm), New Body (5.45pm), Tone & Stretch (6.45pm).
2 for 1 Step class 6.30pm today. 2 for 1 Squash between 7-12 noon & 2-5pm. (Play 2 slots
for the price of one.)
2 for 1 swim & 2 for 1 Sauna today. Enjoy a swim or Sauna today for the price of one.
Swim or G y m today and use the Sauna for free after.
2 for 1 Squash all day today. (2 slots for the price of one.)
2 for 1 Swim today, so bring a friend or partner for that last minute Christmas swim free.
2 for 1 Swim today.
Use the facilities today and receive 1 free Swim or Sauna voucher valid until 3/1/99.
2 for 1 Sauna today, so bring along a friend for free.
2 for 1 Squash all day. (2 slots for the price of one.)
Swim/Gym today and receive a free
IMPERIAL COLLEGE SPORTS CENTRE

