16 December 1998 Sport 45
Ladies Hockey
IC II 0 - 0 UCH
(0-1 after penalty flicks)
After having established a full team for
this all important BUSA playoff game,
with even the possibility of substitutes,
the lis were utterly shafted by a series of
"can't be arsed to play"-it is.
So, reduced to a team of 8, we set
off late to meet the opposition. On the
way Alice steadfastly refused to go In
goal, so after a lot of well apllied pres-
sure, Annmarie was forced in goal for
her debut perofrmance.
In the meantime, the opposition
had a full team and theier coach was the
umpire. Sound unfair?
IC created tons of chances, but the
fat lucky bastards kept kicking It away.
They could run but kept forgetting the
all important factor - i.e. the ball.
Full time came and went really
quickly and the IC troopers were faced
with the possibiltiy of penalty flicks. Ann-
marie, the debut goalie, was a star, sav-
ing several of their crappy attempts.
Under intense pressure the flicks went
to sudden death, but unfortunatley their
goalie smelt too bad and IC were put off,
losing after a storming effort.
We did, however, get revenge when
Diane, the sly one, managed to surup-
ticiously pinch their balls.
We had a great match and defi-
niteley should have won.
Cycling
Months of hard training paid off with
record breaking results for the roadies at
the cycling club.
At the BUSA Hill Climb, in condi-
tions more suited to the boat club 12th,
25th and 48th positions were achieved
repsectively by Hedley, Tarik and Colin
respectively.
A few weeks later they were abck in
action at the fastes track in the world,
the Manchester velodrome. Pitted
against the likes of Ross Muir, and ath-
lete supported by Chris Boardman, Hed-
ley only just qualified for the quarters of
the 4K pursuit in 5 mins highlighting
the fact that the standard was higher
than at the nationals. He achieved an
eventual 6th place. Chris put in solid per-
formances setting a personal bets in
the Team Pursuit and Tairk rode to top
20 placings in the kilo and pursuit.
Next up are the BUSA team time trial
and MTB championships, where
strength in depth is a key requirement.
We therfore urge those keen in partici-
pating to contact us at Hedley.Skel-
ton@ic.ac.uk.
Keep an eye out for our new website!
IC Hockey
IC 2 - 4 GKT
The most crucial game of the season so
far and we lost.
For the first ten minutes we totally
dominated the game, but only man-
aged to convert one of our many
clearences which was put away by 11 +
from one of our many short corners.
falling asleep at the most impor-
tant moments seems to be one of the
few faults the defence has. However,
today it was comatose as the equaliser
was knocked in in the softest fashion.
Second ahlf and we were raring to go.
But they scored twice while we slept.
We got one back, but then they
regained their two goal lead. With only
2 minutes to go eight local kids decided
to start a fight with 22 players holding
their sticks. Intelligence I think was a bit
lacking on their part but as one player
pointed out, "They were abused chil-
dren". Oh well, we're through to the
BUSA shield which we will win.
Merry Christ-
mas from the
Sports team
Netball
Royal Vets 38 - 38 IC(2/12/98)
Kings 36- 14 IC(9/12/98)
On Wednesday 2nd, Imperial took on
the Vets at home. We fought hard with
the last quarter turning into a real bat-
tle. Vicki flew across the court picking
up a huge graze on her leg and was
shortly followed in less dramatic style by
Abi. Despite the carnage, Imperial, who
were trailing right up to the last minute,
got it back to draw the match 38 all.
Last week, the girls took on Kings in the
BUSA playoffs. A win would have
secured a place in the national finals.
Fortunatley, we wanted a place in the
shield so we lost 36-14. Backhanders in
brown envelopes were not needed as
the umpiring was somewhat dubious
(maybe they got the borwn envelopes?
- Gus). Blood was shed again, this time
by Rachel and Paula and entertainment
was provided by the Kings centre, with
her frog-like leaps.
Attention all IC girls!
From January 1999. Netball coaching
will take place on Thursday lunchtimes
12-2pm at the Prince's Gardens court. All
abilities welcome. For more info, email
netball@ic.ac.uk
Football
2nd XI
IC 1-1 ICSM II
Saturday 5th December
This was the 7th league game of the sea-
son for IC seconds and makes it 6 wins
and 1 draw without loss. This unbeaten
run places us firmly at the top of the divi-
sion 2 league table. In a recent edition
of the London Student Newspaper, ICSM
2 were predicted as favourites for pro-
motion in division 2.
However, looking at IC seconds
league record to date you would have to
be a fool not to see that we will be
league champions.
The game against ICSM 2 began 45
minutes later than the scheduled kick off
time of 2:15pm. Punctual IC seconds
were present at the ICSM ground at
2:00pm but ICSM were nowhere in sight.
Finally they did arrive and we sportingly
decided to play the game and not take
a walkover.
Despite key absences from the line-
up the first half saw characteristic second
team dominance. IC seconds created a
number of chances but the game
remained scoreless until Martin Arch-
bold tucked away Dave Hinslewoods
shot which the keeper parried. At the half
time interval the score remained 1-0 to
the seconds. The second half proved a
different picture as ICSM laid siege to the
IC goal finally equalising mid way
through the half. This half will be best
remembered for the football which spat
off pieces of leather every time it was
kicked and for Felix nearly sending one
of the ICSM players into orbit. All things
considered, the final score was a fair
reflection and we look forward to play-
ing ICSM again on Wednesday.
4th XI
IC IV 2 - 0 RHUL IV
Saturday 5th December
Randomness is bad, and we were very
random. But, then again, we were good
enough to win and beat the Holloway
Peasants. After meeting in the Quad we
had nine players, no referee and no
transport. As if by magic a coach
appeared and we managed to start the
game with as many as ten players. Hol-
loway always used to be strong but that
seems to have changed, especially with
Holloway firsts facing the prospect of rel-
egation from the ULU Premier Division.
The quality of football we played
with our ten men in the first half was sub-
lime; never in my five years have I known
a Fourth XI play such entertaining, skilful
football. One move started with Steve
winning the ball on the right flank, then
ensuring we kept possession we played
it back through our defence, then across
the midficld and back to the right wing.
A near perfect cross was then headed
narrowly wide by one of our strikers. It
would have been the goal of the season
at any level.
When our eleventh man turned up
we relaxed slightly until half-time, but
then our inspirational Captain, tiliot "The
Rugga-buggar" Newsome arrived fol-
lowing a seven hour journey (That's com-
mitment for you). Thus after a reshuffle
we dominated the second half and with
ease went on to win 2-0. The first goal
came from a Taylor corner that Nima
turned in at the back post. And another
quality move resulted in Nima, again,
calmly slotting home from 15 yards.
All in all another professional per-
formance from the Fourths which, of
course, bodes well for the future.
Skiing
The second race of the IC kings league
campaign was held in more clement
weather than required for skiing on the
28th of March.
The race happenings were very good for
both the teams and on a purely sporting
point of view, reflect two quality entries
(both teams).
The first team came 7th, only narrowly
beaten by a team from Kent in the play-
offs for 1 -4th and 5-8th.
After this, all was lost or rather just
the races. I take a break from the first
team here but will later reveal impotant
d'oh very important information about
some of our members (mentioning no
names Gareth Hall and Sarah Llizabeth
Hughes), and why we did not do as well
as we might have.
But first to congratulate the second
team for a very good performance plac-
ing them 10th overall. 30 teams were
present including many 1st teams beaten
by our seconds. Note that UCL came
way down the list (haha) and ICSM came
a few places above IC firsts (again) Back
to the proper reporting of back pages...
It was found out that 2 of our members
had been sleeping together on the back
seat of a car on the way. We had sus-
pected something before but never
thought they would push their laziness
that far. It was then discovered that they
actually lived in the same house or at
least they were planning on going home
together. But you may say this is none of
the ski clubs business.
Any one interested in skiing or writ-
ing for felix please contact ski@ic.ac.uk
as we are talented at neither, (except
maybe skiing) Careth Hall (ICracer)

