46
Spori 16 December 1998
Football
RSM 1 St XI
IC 1st XI 4-1 RSM
The agony and the ecstasy
It has been a memorable week for all
involved in RSM first eleven football.
Last Wednesday they took part in the first
all IC premiership clash (even referee
James Vallance was an IC student) for
over six years, as IC firsts entertained the
RSM massive on neutral ground.
It was a bitterly cold afternoon at
Harlington although both sides were full
ofpassion as they knew the importance
of this grudge match. RSM also knew
they needed the points before the Christ-
mas break, otherwise real trouble
loomed large on the horizon.
Right from the whistle it was the
RSM who were making the play although
IC were looking particularly dangerous
on the counter attack. After half an hour
the stalemate was broken from a posi-
tion well within his own half, centre half
Nik Hardingham unleashed a laser like
pass that instantaneously bisected the IC
back line and presented centre forward
Doug Spikes with a golden opurtunity as
he cooly rounded the keeper and drove
the ball home to give RSM a deserved
lead.
Yet in the next five minutes RSM's
inexperience was exposed to the full, as
they not only surrendered their hard
earned lead but fell behind with what
can only be described as an outrageous
faux pas from goalkeeper Mark Dwyer,
who gifted IC a second by managing to
nutmeg himself.
With IC throwing men forward the
RSM defence buckled and RSM went
further behind when a deflected shot
landed at the IC centre forward's feet,
who made no mistake. RSM's misery
was completed when a fourth was
added from the outside the box in the
dying minutes.
So yet another defeat and still no clues
as to when and where this wretched
run would end.
RSM 2 - 1 UCL I
The answer was to come the following
Saturday in a match that has truly put the
cat amongst the premiership pigeons,
when RSM played host to early pre-
miership leaders UCL in a top versus
bottom clash.
With apparently no transport avail-
able, Masefield's band of merry miners
went underground in what was yet again
a pantomime fiasco thanks to London
Transport.
After the match had been reduced
to 40 minutes per half due to light, UCL
were keen to get under way and
lengthen their impressive unbeaten run.
For the first ten minutes it was all hands
on deck for RSM, as a barrage of attacks
put the mines on the ropes and seemed
to emphasize the gap in class. However,
this 10 minutes was all we would see of
the UCL dominance. The RSM penalty
area suddenly turned into an impreg-
nable fortress, patrolled by a miserly
force, who quickly dealt with anything
that was thrown at them, five minutes
later and the offensive cogs started to
turn, at first slowly still frightened to play
against league leaders, but soon the
confidence snowballed and it was RSM
who were running the show.
Chances were beginning to manifest
as the midfield and wingbacks linked
poetically with the forwards. But could
RSM make this count? Sure enough
they did when a punch drunk UCL
defence failed to clear a cross which
eventually Nigel Milner stroked sweetly
Into the corner of the goal.
UCL were now in desperate trou-
ble, although they knew there was still
hope. RSM longed for half-time and the
chance to go into the break one-nill in
front. They completed this objective
with the apparent ease of a veteran
campaigner.
The second half continued where
the first half left off. With the midifcld
overlapping and swamping the UCL goal,
but failing to extend the lead.
This changed with twenty minutes to
go as the midfield sculpted a delightful
second goal in a move that switched
from left to right and left again where
Patrick Verlaine strukc a memorable shot
beyond the flailing keeper.
2-0 to the RSM, but no rest for the
defence. With 10 minutes left, RSM
keeper Nick Perroer commited Hari-Kari
on his debut, giving away an indirect free
kick only six yards from goal. The free
kick was converted with style and now
could RSM hold on?
Yes. At the final whistle there was much
celebration - a fully desrevd three points.
RSM 2nd XI
LSE V 2 - 1 RSM II
From the off RSM Samba Crew knew it
was going to be a tough match. With the
ref. as old as God and wanting to start
the game before we had 11 players out
of the dressing room, we were up
against it. A mixup outside our box led
to the first goal for LSE withing 5 minutes.
Encouragement came with our mide-
field dominating the game from that
moment on. A second goal came after
25 minutes when their skipper found
the corner of the net. It was a cruel blow,
shortly followed by another as Moony's
Knee was bent doubled by an outra-
geous tackle.
Switching majestic to centre forward
proved a major success, running their
defence ragged for the rest of the game.
With our defence all over their attack like
flies on a turd, and the midfield and
attack Ipaying with skills rarely seen in
European football, LSE were pulmelled
into oblivion for the entire second half.
Right winger, Briother Barnett, chargin
forward before cutting infield to curl a
magnificent shot around the keeper. It
should have been the start of a rout, and
moments later a curling free kick from
unbelieveably named Barry Mguigan,
was tipped over the bar. that was to sig-
nal the start of the end for the RSM mas-
sive.
After the final whistle, their French skip-
per told me, "You was robbed, Guv'nor.
You 'ad us on the ropes."
6th XI
ICVI 3 - 2 Heythrop I
On a cold, windy and wet winter's day,
IC sixths arrived at sorry excuse for a
club house to play on a ptich that had a
slope more suited to skiiers than foot-
ballers, but the scene was set for an
epic struggle.
Playing the first half against the slope, we
had the majority of play, superb strikes
coming form Tom "the Doc" Wilson, Big
Alex, Animesh "Rivaldo" Raval and
Richard "Wild Thing" Williams who hit
the post from a corner.
Against the run of play Heythrop score
after handling of the ball in our penalty
area. However, we weren't disheart-
ened as a number of chances were cre-
ated at the other end - just not put
away.
The second half produced infinitely bet-
ter play form us after a spirited half time
talk by the skipper Rob "the Diver" Dav-
enport. The equaliser came form a slick
series of passes right down the length of
the pitch, and a delicate through ball
form Rob, resulted in Tom being outra-
geously fouled in the box. He duly
unleashed a thunderbolt that mean-
dered gently into the corner. All square
and all to play for.
Once again we were caught with our
jocks down as broke to go 2-1 up, not
even Chris "the Hacker" Haynes could
stop them. Suddenly it seemed as if they
might bcome punters in a brothel (scor-
ing at will), but after some inspired play,
Pete (who refereed the first half) scored
from a cracking half-volley.
There then followed an inspired move.
Defending a corner, Raval collected the
ball on the edge of our box and with a
junkie-in-a-pharmacy-like glee, went on
a blistering run, down the pitch until he
carved a glorious ball into the path of
Tom, who finsihed with the coolness of
a snowman's cold bits.
The Sixths are back, making IC proud
with a couple of wins in the league and
in our friendlies, we're starting to show
the form we've promised form the start.
Cricket
Imperial College Union Cricket Club starts their winter nets on January 18th at Lord's.
Would all those inteneding to attend the nets please remember to bring their whites,
and any equipment they have, back after the Christmas vacation. Whites are com-
pulsory at Lord's, so those without may want to stick them on their Christmas lists,
we are intending to tour Barbados this year, with many places still to play for and
with the final squad being selected at the end of the net sessions. I would also
particularly like to invite all medics to join ICUCC this season. ICSM does not enter
a team into ULU and thus all the medics are eligible to play. Indeed many medics
do currently play for ICand are heavily involved with the running of what has been
a very successful club in recent years. Anyone interested in playing for ICUCC who
did not sign up at Fresher's Fair can e-mail me at jca2@ic.ac.uk. Jon Ainsworth

