16 December 1998 News 5
In brief...
Ragmag Back
The ICU Ragmag is back! After some edi-
torial difficulties last year (something
about unacceptably offensive jokes),
there will be a new magazine out for Jan-
uary's RAO week, Drunken Swine '99.
At least, there will be a Ragmag if I
can collect enough material to fill it, and
that's where you come in. Jokes, car-
toons, stories, amusing (short) articles
and the like; The Ragmag has a long tra-
dition of printing anything it can get
away with.
Please send anything to ic_rag-
mag@hotmail.com or drop it into the
RAG office - up the stairs at the back of
dB's, or through the UDH. There should
be a box up outside the office for con-
tributions. The mag will be on sale
throughout RAG week, for of a small
donation. All the proceeds from the
Ragmag go to RAG's five charities; Shel-
ter, Imperial Cancer Research, Avert, Trin-
ity Hospice and IC Community Action
Group.
Lilley visits Consoc
Consoc almost reached the top of the
party hierarchy with their latest guest,
Peter Lillcy. He is the deputy leader of
the opposition and formerly held a posi-
tion as minister for social security.
Lilley made substantive efforts to
convince the audience that a single cur-
rency is not simply an economic project
but a political one and a single currency
may be the instigator of political coali-
tion. He spoke of the economic conse-
quences for the UK and said that we
need not be bullied into a single cur-
rency by virtue of being situated next to
a large trade area working in Euro's,
quoting Canada and America as an
example.
Jerusalem Day
The new BMS building was host to the
'Jerusalem Day' organised by the Islamic
Society on Wednesday 25 November. The
event was aimed at raising awareness and
appreciation of the rich heritage of
Jerusalem as a holy city for Muslims and fol-
lowers of the other monotheistic religions,
and the current changes to the identity of
the city.
It was presented by Mr Alistair Duncan,
freelance photographer and writer. The his-
tory of the city, as seen from its architec-
ture, was characterised by variety and
pluralism, thriving particularly under Mus-
lim rule. The last part of the event was a
talk by Dr Daud Abdullah, senior researcher
at the Palestinian Return Centre. Dr Abdul-
lah gave a summary of the main steps in
the ongoing development of the archi-
tecture, population and identity of the city.
Referee!
New legislation in Birmingham could
spell the end for students' drunken
exploits and bring a new meaning to the
words 'You 're off. West Midlands police
are introducing a yellow card system to
curb inebriated students in the pre Christ-
mas weeks. Any behaviour judged to be
irresponsible will result in a yellow card,
essentially a letter of complaint to the
student's home. If the student is caught
again a red card will result and the Un
versity will be notified. The relationship
between local residents of South Kens-
ington and Imperial College students
could be deemed strained at the least,
but there are hopefully no plans for such
a system to be introduced at Imperial
Minibus Update
Felix would like to clarify some points
concerning the minibus incident on 22
November, as reported in last week's
issue ('Fellwanderers fall victim to
minibus fault', issue 1129). The minibus
in question had in fact been looked over
by a mechanic on the day before the
club hired it, and had passed a road test
performed by the garage. The bus was
thus hired out by the Union in what was
assumed to be a drivable condition.
The exact cause of the accident, in
which "wobbly" steering caused the dri-
ver to lose control and career across the
hard shoulder of the M1, remains
unknown at the time of going to press.
What is known, is that one of the tyres
was flat when the emergency services
arrived at the incident. The insurers are
currently inspecting the bus to find the
cause of the accident. If the steering
was indeed faulty, questions will have to
be raised concerning the competency of
the garage that performed the road test
and inspection before the fellwanderers
set out.
Top Marks From Europe*
According to the lead story in the rep
utable German weekly news magazine
DCY Spiegel, IC comes out extremely
well in a special league table for engi
neering courses. Overall, Imperial was
ranked in joint second place (tying with
Oxford and Cambridge), with the Dutch
university of Eindhoven being awarded
the top position.
In this survey of European Higher
Education institutions which carried the
title Uni-Test Europa, Imperial was par
ticularly successful in the categories ofj
'academic expectations', 'personal con
tacts and advice' and 'access to com-
puters'. The language courses available
were also singled out as especially com
mcndable.
W e i r d W i d e W o r l d
Interesting facts from around the globe
By Andy Brown
Beer Bladder
The greatest volume of beer drunk
before going to the toilet was 45 pints
of various weak lagers by George
Wingfield between 12:15pm and
2:38pm on 22 December 1986. On the
same day he set the record for the
longest urination: 36 minutes 24 sec-
onds in a newsagent's doorway. He
was arrested and charged with a pub-
lic order offence after 17 minutes, but
the police had to wait a wee while
before they could take him back to the
station!
The Beauty Within
"There are far too many pretty women
in the government offices at the
moment, distracting male workers and
lowering busines efficiency with their
pert and yielding tightness. We must
be ever watchful for possible immoral
activities, and it is well know that pretty
women cause unhealthy activities that
lead to insanity, blindness, sickness
and bends. That is why from now on
thorough ugliness must be considered
a deciding factor at all job interviews.
Since the prettier candidate has
already been blessed by God it is only
right that we should hire the uglier
one. After all if we do not choose the
ugly candidates, who will?"-Abdul Aziz,
Chief Minister of the Malaysian State
of Kelantan.
Subliminal messages?
Everyone who read comics as a child will
identify the letters 'zzzz' to mean that
someone is sleeping. However, Bill
Gates & co seem to think that it has a
more sinister meaning. Go into Word,
type in 'zzzz' and do a spellcheck... you
might be surprised by what it turns up!
IC prospects?
All of the following are taken from 11
year old's science papers:
Artificial Insemination:
when the farmer does it to the cow
instead of the bull.
For fainting:
Rub the person's chest or, if a lady, rub
her arm above the hand instead. Or
put the head between the knees of
the nearest medical doctor.
To prevent unwanted pregnancy:
Wear a condominium.
On water:
H 2 0 is hot water, and C 2 0 is cold water"
For drowning:
Climb on top of the person and move
up and down to make artificial
perspiration.
For a nosebleed:
Put the nose much lower than the
body until the heart stops.
Suicide Ring
The coroner concluded that Ronald
Opus died from a shotgun wound to the
head. However, a fraction of a second
earlier he had attempted to kill himself
by throwing himself from the top of a
ten-storey building - but he was shot as
he fell past the ninth storey window.
Suicide? The coroner thought not, as his
attempt would have been thwarted due
to a safety net erected for window clean-
ers. The shotgun was fired from a room
occupied by an elderly couple, where
the husband regularly threatened his
wife wth a shotgun - although he swore
that it was never loaded. He got so
upset that he pulled the trigger, but
completely missed his wife and shot
Opus through the window. If one
intends to kill someone, but accidentaly
kills someone else instead then, theo-
rectically one is still guilty - he had mur-
dered Opus.
Further investigation found a wit-
ness who saw the couple's son loading
the gun about six weeks earlier after his
mother cut off his financial support.
Knowing his father's habit of using the
gun threateningly, he loaded it in the
hope that his father would shoot his
mother, thus making himself responsi-
ble for the death of Ronald Opus. How-
ever, the son became depressed over
the failure of his attempt to engineer his
mother's death so he threw himself
from the top of a ten-storey building,
only to be shot in the head with a shot-
gun as he fell past the ninth floor. A
case of suicide was recorded.
Sex Shop Scandal
The owner of a sex shop in Rouen,
trance, placed a list of debtors in his
shop window - all accounts were settled
within two days.

