Letters & Small Ads 16 December 1998
STA a Step Too Far?
Dear Felix,
I am writing with regards to the article by
David Roberts in your 7/12/98 issue of Felix
entitled: "STA to be Superceeded".
From this article, I was struck by the
described dealings between the College
and the Students' Union. My arguments
will take a more basic legal approach, as
the simple concept of a union does not
seem to suffice.
It is clear that the union is having dif-
ficulties with the college's financial deal-
ings. I must highlight several key items to
the union and college alike:
1) The union represents the interests
of this college's students.
2) Students are customers of the uni-
versity- not part of the university's hierar-
chy (LEA's are sponsors, and fees paid are
still for provision of a service).
3) The college is not part of the civil
service, and is therefore legally treated as
any other organisation/corporation: char-
itable or not.
4) The union is an integral part of the
university and is there to ensure, as
elected by students, that the service pro-
vided meets the service advertised by the
college, and indeed the University of Lon-
don.
5) By no means is the College legally
entitled to allow external organisations to
have commercial practice on campus
without the agreement of its customers,
the students. This is a breach of contract
as the provision of a service we all sign for
each year is that of being provided with
an academic course and academic-related
services - not for on-site commercial facil-
ities. These may only be provided with the
agreement of the customer (student) as
a ratification of the initial contract for pro-
vision of a service.
5b) Assuming the academic service is
argued to include these commercial ser-
vices, it is still necessary for the customers
to agree to a change, as a such change
is not stipulated in thc original service
provided by the college and signed for by
each and every one of us.
6) Each student in college has the
right to sue the college for not providing
the service signed for (in this case, the use
of STA, or the inclusion of a non-agreed
change in service) - or the union may do
so on behalf of the student community.
Yours truly,
Ashley Fterrenschmidt-Mollet (Aero)
It's great that there are people who care
enough to contribute like this, but I feel
that the Union probably know their legal
rights. - Ed
Gayed: "Time... to Resign"
Dear Felix,
I have just attended last nights meeting
of thc ICU Council [8 December - Ed],
where we discussed the possibility of CCU
clubs coming under the administrative
control of CSCs rather than their respec-
tive CCUs. Without going into the details
of such a proposal it seems such a move
would affect about 3 or 4 dubs from each
of RCSU, C&GU and RSMU, it would also
affect about 25 ICSMU clubs. You might
think therefore that representatives from
each of the CCUs would be present, and
they were with one glaring exception,
ICSMU.
Not one of the elected ICSMU rep-
resentatives was there, including thc sab-
batical president Wade Gayed. It is out-
rageous that someone who is paid to
represent thc students of the Medical
School should not turn up to a meeting
of such importance or at least manage to
send a representative from the Union (or
have they all resigned?). Perhaps they
were all at the ULU Medical Council meet-
ing being held that evening at St. Mary's?
To my amazement I then returned to
Mary's to find myself one of only three
ICSM representatives present at this meet-
ing.
Unfortunately for thc students of
ICSM, this is not a one off fuck up, it is just
the latest in a long line of botches includ-
ing poorly run elections, hustings that
don't happen beacuase they haven't been
advertised, highly tespected members of
the exec resigning in disgust at the way
the union is run, and sorely needed finan-
cial reserves that are lost in ill thought out
social events. This is compounded by the
fact that there has been no General Meet-
ing held this term for the President and his
committee to be held acccountable for
their actions. In fact it would seem that
the President is more accountable to the
Medical School hierachy than the stu-
dents he represents.
Teething problems' is a much used
phrase used to try and explain these prob-
lems, but the fact is that the President
inherited a strong Union ftom last year
and a good committee elected to serve
this year. The President has now been in
his job for six months and if there are
teething problems then il is time he
stopped acting like a second rate social
secretary and started acting like a sab-
batical president and worked his butt off
trying to sort them out rather than relying
on feeble excuses. If he has tried and
failed to overcome these problems, then
perhaps it is time to admit defeat and
resign, rather than let the cutrent state of
affairs continue.
Perhaps il is now time to see some
action.
Yours sincerely,
Andy King
Words Lost for Linux
Dear Ed
I recently asked you to put a sentence in
Felix's In Brief Section drawing attention
to a new society at Imperial, the Linux
User's Group. You said there wasn't any
space, but there must be a good inch or
so of empty space on Page 4 of this
week's Felix [Issue 1129 - Ed],
cheers,
Marc (Computing 4)
Fair point, but please note that 1) a news
page Is for news, not free publicity and
2) as far as I am aware, this group isn't
an ICU society. Anyway, I hope this free
publicity, and that below, helps. - Ed
Deadline for letters for
Issue 1131 is 12 noon
Wednesday 6 January.
Letters may be edited for length, but
will not be altered in any other way.
Letters need not be signed, but a
swipe card must be shown when
submitting anonymous letters.
HEALTH CENTRE OPENING TIMES
Monday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday
8.30am-12pm
1pm-6pm
During Imperial College Vacation the Health Centre shuts at
5pm.
Please note that the Health Centre shuts at 1 pm on Tues-
days and is closed for the rest of the day.
At any time when the Health centte is shut, in the event of a genuine emergency
please telephone Health Centre Reception
(Internal telephone 49375/External line 0171 584 6301)
and follow thc instructions on the answerphone.
Do not come to the Health Centre when it is shut, unless by
prior arrangement with the duty doctor.
Volunteers needed to
help with Christmas
Carnival cloakroom.
Help needed for hour shifts,
all proceeds go to Rag.
Please contact Sarah on ext 58099,
or at sarah.coburn@lc.ac.uk
Linux User Group
Meeting
Every Friday in the Upper
Lounge of Southside
For further information
contact hltang@ic.ac.uk
Sinfonia 21 Resident at IC presents a concert
Friday 29 January 1999, 7.30pm in the Great Hall
Conductor - Stefan Asbury
Britten - Prelude and Fugue
Jonathan Harvey - From Silence
Charles Ives - Three Places in New England
Soprano • Rosemary Hardy
Julian Anderson - Poetry Nearing Silence
Shostakovich - Chamber Symphony
(arr. Barshai)
Booking and information line open from 29th December 0171 594 9359
£10/ (concessions £4)
Imperial College Student Price £3 (Student number must be supplied)

