16 December 1998 Editorial 7
Time's Up for CCUs
There's trouble brewing, make no mis-
take. Mr King's letter on page six shows
that the bubble, which many of us knew
had burst weeks ago, has finally settled
in a soapy mess. Badly constructed
metaphors aside, Mr Gayed must
respond to thc comments and accusa-
tions made as soon as the Spring term
begins. May I suggest that he thinks very
carefully about what he wants to say in
his defence. This is not the same as ask-
ing him to 'consider his position'. I have
no opinion on the subject - I am not a
medic and as such have no right to sug-
gest a course of action. That decision is
for Mr Gayed, and those that elected
him, to make.
It is not only ICSMSU that has to do
some hard thinking, however. May I
suggest that all CCU exec members read
David Hellard's column this week. I think
the message is clear enough - thc CCUs
could be an important and lively part of
student life at IC, but only if they are cor-
rectly managed and don't isolate them-
selves from ICU. Us sabbaticals (well,
Dave and Chris anyway) are here to help.
Use us and thc facilities the Union has
to offer before it's too late. I'm sure this
is an unnecessary reminder, as you
undoubtedly read Dave's column every
week anyway...
How do Drugs Feature
I can assure you that wasn't the idea.
Deadlines are deadlines, however, and
printers are very keen on them. For
some reason drugs seemed so much
easier to write about than museums,
galleries, parks and the like. You can
find out about that stuff in guide books
anyway. I would like to point out that
not all of that feature was written from
personal experience - it was an amal-
gamation of many friends' tales (well,
a few at any rate).
Seriously, though, I don't think peo-
ple realise how easy and relatively cheap
it can be to get out of London for a
weekend. Amsterdam is just one of sev-
eral places you can go to for a weekend
costing £150 or less (not much when you
consider a decent Friday night out in the
West End can cost £20-30). Nearer to
home there's always Edinburgh and
other such cities (Newcastle and Bristol
spring to mind) that are definitely worth
a visit.
Oh, and before you guys in college
start complaining that I am encouraging
the consumption of illicit drugs, consider
this. People are going to take them
whether you like it or not. Now they can
either take substances of uncertain com-
position on or around college premises,
or save up their Dionysian tendencies for
a hedonistic weekend in I lolland where
it's safer and legal. I know which I would
prefer.
Christmas? So soon?!
It seems mere days ago that I was lying
on a cliff in Dorset basking in the week-
end sun on the hottest day of the year.
Moving on from my ever-slowing body
clock, however, is it me or did Christmas
advertising start even earlier this year?
It won't be long before special price
Christmas hampers are sold in the Jan-
uary sales and Easter Eggs come with
free mince pics. Anyway, I hope you all
get your Christmas cards out OK - for
those of you who don't know, the last
date for UK 2nd class post is this Friday
(1st class next Tuesday), so you'd bet-
ter get a move on...
The first years among you are
undoubtedly looking forward to going
home and telling your parents how much
knowledge you've gained, and your
mates how many people you've pulled
(or not, as the case may be). Well, you've
survived a term here. Don't worry, only
eight, eleven or more to go. Those of
you with exams early next term have my
deepest sympathies. Those of you off
skiing for a week (or the Middle East, Mr
I iellard) have my strongest curses. Break
a leg. I mean it.
Thank you and goodbye
I was going to talk about philosophy (re
the Nietzsche feature on page twenty-
eight), but I can't be bothered at
7.30am so it can wait till next term. If
you're offended by it, please don't
come complaining to me. Write a fea-
ture on Thomas Aquinas instead.
Before I go, a few thankyous.
Firstly, thanks to the people who
emailed me regarding the possibility
of using Linux (gosh, that non-Microsoft
opetating system is getting good pub-
licity in these two pages, isn't it?) to tun
the Feltx network. If I can run thc server
on il while keeping NT on the terminals
I'd be very happy. Answers on a post
(or Christmas) card.
I would like to thank all of you who
have been involved with Felix this term
- you've helped make the first eleven
issues this year a damn sight easier
than I expected. Special thanks goes to
Jon Trout, for designing this issue's
cover; Andrew Ofori, for taking care of
news even when there isn't any; Helena
Cochcme, for being determined to fin-
ish the arts pages even if it is past 2am
and, most of all, to David Roberts, for
writing, laying-out and proof-reading
anything and everything, regardless of
the time or his physics degree. Cheers
also to all at MCP Litho for putting up
with my late arrivals every Thursday.
Absolutely no thanks to all those adver-
tisers who handed ads in late / on mac
discs / in the wrong format, but cheers
for paying.
That's it from me. If anyone wants
me, I'm back on 4 January. Merry Christ-
mas, and don't eat all the pies. Ed
S T A F F R E Q U I R E D
W E A R E LOOKING F O R N E W
S T A F F T O W O R K IN T H E ICU S H O P
O H S H E R F I E L D W A L K W A Y
THE JOB IS IDEAL FOR POSTGRADS.
H O E X P E R I E H C E H E C E S S A R Y .
CONTACT THE SHOP ON 4B473
OR CALL IN AND ASK FOR DETAILS

