s Columns 16 December 1998
Right Angles To Reality
Christmas
Y
our starter for ten. Which of the fol-
lowing is the most difficult and
unenviable job in the world: a)
Music reviewer for the RNID magazine b)
Chairman of the Grimsby Tourist Board c)
PR executive charged with mastermind-
ing Rose West's campaign to become
president of the NSPCC ?
Actually, it's a trick question, because
the correct answer is d) Me, Christmas
shopping in HMV, trying to find a Daniel
O'Donnell LP that my grandmother has-
n't got. Those of you with superannuated
female relatives will sympathise with my
plight - a plight so desperate that it makes
options a), b) and c) look as difficult as
being a Parisian guillotine manufacturer
during the French Revolution. Now, nor-
mally, I wouldn't be in this predicament,
but the tragic and somewhat inconve-
niently-timed death - just prior to the
completion of her last book - of Cather-
ine Cookson earlier this year means that
my gift plans for granny have been
thrown into a state of disarray. My par-
ents' recent reneging on their promise
not to install a power shower in her shel-
tered accommodation "for the foresee-
able future" - with the result that bath
cubes have suddenly been rendered
obsolete as a present option - has done
nothing to ease matters. If the truth be
known, I've been hoist by my own
petard. I should have been much more
proactive in broadening my portfolio of
gift ideas for the over 65s whilst I still had
the chance, rather than hoping against
hope that The Spinners might re-form
and record an album of Vera Lynn cov-
ers. But my grandmother is tricky to buy
for - she's at that funny age (70) when
they're too old for water-skiing lessons
but still a bit too young for incontinence
pants. I've been living on borrowed time
ever since I completed her collection of
"charming and whimsical" porcelain West
Country cottages by getting her "No. 57
- Detox Clinic and Health Farm" for her
birthday last year. So unless Ms. Cookson
finishes her novel from beyond the
grave, or Lilliput Lane extend their range
into the nineties, to include "58 - Urine
drenched multi-storey carpark" and "59 -
Secure Training Unit for Young Offend-
ers", that's the way it's going to stay.
I suppose that I could adopt the
strategy that my grandmother employs
when buying Christmas presents for my
brother and myself. It's simplicity itself
and she has used it to good effect every
year since 1982. It consists of striding pur-
posefully into the nearest branch of
Marks and Sparks, accosting the first
male shop assistant one sees and in
ringing tones, reminiscent
of Julia Pargiter out of The
Archers, calling out "Ah, yes young man.
Be good enough to show me the most
hideous V-neck polyester double-knit
sweater that you have in stock. Some-
thing that Val Doonican wouldn't be seen
dead in. Pus-yellow if possible and with
a design that frightens cats. No, no
young man, that won't do at all - that one
would go with jeans. No, that's no good
either. Look it's quite simple for heaven's
sake - they're for my grandsons and I
want to destroy any remaining vestiges
of self-esteem they may have. That one?
Good God that's repulsive - I'll take two".
I shouldn't really complain as times are
hard for the older folk in our society - my
immediate family included - but I can't
help feeling that she's partly responsible
for her current financial condition. Six
horse accumulators rarely come up even
at Chepstow and I just think that the
insurance money she got after her bun-
galow burnt down could have been
more wisely invested. Still, there's no
telling some people.
When the subject of fiscal outlay in
this particular context comes up, it's prac-
tically de riguer amongst us columnists
to express profound cynicism towards
the institution of Christmas, to decry the
commercialisation of the whole affair
and bemoan the gluttony which the fes-
tive season typically entails. Making a
principled stand against the gaudy and
hedonistic binge that Christmas has
undoubtedly become makes us feel
morally cleansed and intellectually supe-
rior. It allows us to feel that our Christmas
is somehow better, more authentic and
less adulterated than that experienced by
the plebs. Ironically, it seems that far
from bringing people together, the fes-
tive season divides the nation into two
opposing camps. On the one hand there
are the people who celebrate "Xmas" by
spending more than the GDP of some
African nations on presents, going carol-
singing and pigging out on turkey with
all the trimmings, and on the other is a
quite different crowd who enjoy a frugal
"yuletide" by going "a-wassailing" and sit-
ting down to roast goose and a selection
of vegetables that are normally reserved
for use in animal fodder, followed by can-
died fruits and a glass of a 'rather decent
port actually'. I'm sure that for every "Ten
Ways to Snog the Co-Worker You Fancy
at the Office Party this Xmas"-type article
in magazines and tabloid newspapers
this year there'll be a Sunday broadsheet
feature on how to "Create Your Own Vic-
torian Christmas" written by an effete
Matt Salter history graduate from the
Home Counties with a
double-barrelled name.
It's true that Victorian scenes of
happy revellers clad in mufflers and
heavy overcoats, going a-wassailing in
the snow with shiny green holiy wreaths
present a most attractive picture of a
bygone Arcadia. However, when you
consider that at the time central heating
was yet to be invented and thus the per-
sons in the scene were forced to wrap
themselves up in that charming way to
avoid hypothermia, and bear in mind
that with infant mortality rates being
what they were in Victorian Britain the
merry-makers concerned were lucky to
have made it past their fifth birthday, the
picture loses some of its rosy glow. On
the whole I find the "if it's old, it must be
better" school of thought deeply irritating
and I'm willing to bet that given the
choice between the over-indulgent, back-
pocket-slapplng ASDA Christmas of the
late twentieth century and the arche-
typal Dickensian yuletide that launched
a thousand Hallmark greetings cards,
Bob Cratchet would at least have to give
the matter careful consideration ("Well
'pon my word Tiny Tim, it do appear that
these modern folks have but little regard
for the birthday of our Lord. I am sore
obliged to confess to feeling mortified as
to the frightful expenditure on victuals,
presents and the like that this modern
Christmas does entail. Contrariwise, I do
hear tell as how in this new era, infant
mortality is all but vanished, that the pox
has been greatly curbed and that every
man's dwelling is warm and dry and
lighted, such that they do more resem-
ble a place fit for habitation by God's chil-
dren and not the mortuary. And what's
more besides, we would not be obliged
to eat stringy goose flesh and this dis-
gusting figgy pudding, neither would it
be incumbent 'pon us to stand around
glowing braziers roasting chestnuts to
keep from freezing to death"). By the
same token it's a mistake to assume that
commercialisation of the festive season
is a phenomenon of the post-war era. It's
a little-known fact, but Santa, the main
man himself, is only pictured wearing red
because of the demands of the market-
ing department of Coca-Cola - before
they ran a Christmas ad campaign fea-
turing the said Mr Glaus in the 1920s, he
was in fact clad in green.
I'm with Bob Cratchct on one thing
though. I don't have anything against fis-
cal and dietary excess per so (and I will
be enjoying plenty of food and drink
this Christmas, never fear) but when
attending someone's birthday party, it is
customary at least to make a token ref-
erence to the guest of honour. As every
infant school child knows, Christmas is
fundamentally about the birth of some-
one who a significant percentage of all
the people born in the last 2000 years
believe was the Son of God. I well
remember the sense of wonder that I felt
on hearing the Christmas story for the
first time (although the moment was
slightly spoiled by my being publicly cen-
sured for remarking, on learning of the
difficulties experienced by Mary and
Joseph when trying to find a place to stay
in Bethlehem, that it was silly of them not
to make a reservation in advance as
hotels are always chock-a-block at Christ-
mas). That feeling of specialncss has
never left me. As this is a column and not
a sermon, I will say no more save to
note that it is now widely considered
unacceptable to use the word "Christ-
mas" when referring to the event. In
America for instance they call it the "hol-
iday season", which considering some of
the other things they've done to the lan-
guage must rate as a lucky escape. But
I was shocked to learn that in Birming-
ham (England, not Alabama) it has been
decreed that Christmas should now be
known as "Winterval" for fear of causing
offence to followers of other belief sys-
tems. Whilst attempts at religious toler-
ance are laudable, this strikes me as
being a bit OTT. I don't feel in the slight-
est bit threatened by Hindus celebrating
Divali, adherents to Judaism having
Hanukkah or Moslems from observing
the festival of Ramadan and I get the
feeling that the motivation behind the
renaming of the festival associated with
the birth of Christ arises more from over-
zealous political correctness than in
response to the real concerns of non-
Christian groups. A close friend of mine,
who is a follower of Islam, is of the same
opinion - you can take things too far. He
and I might not be from the same reli-
gious background, but on this point we
see eye to eye - even if we don't meet
faith to faith.
So let me wish you all the very best
for the holidays. I'm sure we'll all find our
own way to enjoy Christmas, which is
how it should be, but I hope that
amongst all the fun you'd find just a lit-
tle time to join me in raising a glass to
the birthday boy. Incidentally, you'll be
pleased to know that I finally found that
CD for my grandma - "Daniel O'Donnell
and Jimmy Page - Together Again". She'll
hate the music, but love the sweaters
they're wearing.

