ii)Others There have been many elections at various
UGMs throughout the year quite a few of which
have been contested; which is good to see, even if
the contestor is only a joke candidate; because then
the candidates have to fight for their post rather
than blithely sail in.
For some of the elections I placed job descriptions
in FELIX and I think this was quite useful in
attracting people who would not normally have
stood because they would not have known what the
positions entailed.
Discipline
The Union Disciplinary Committee will only have
met once this year which either means you've all
been very well behaved or have been too crafty to be
caught. In the case of thefts from the pinball
machines earlier this year the latter applies despite
attempts at surveillance.
Gestetners and Photocopiers
There have been many times this year when I have
nearly resorted to physical violence with these
machines. Anyone who has been in contact with
either will understand the frustration of trying to
gently coax one of these machines into operating
properly when they are being stubborn. Unfor-
tunately I have many dealings with these machines
in producing papers for meetings and it is amazing
how the administration of the Union clogs up when
they are inoperative. If anyone at IC could produce
an infallible desk top photocopier they'd become
millionaires overnight.
Parking Permits
These are allocated in the first two weeks of the
autumn term and appeals in the third week. Then
there are no more permits available for allocation
unless somebody returns their permits. Try as hard
as I could to explain this, there are some people who
cannot take no for an answer and have to be told to
s - off!
I appreciate the parking problems in London and
the expense of a residents parking permit but
unfortunately we only have a limited number of
parking spaces for offer. Next year the situation will
be worse due to the construction of an automatic
barrier by the Exhibition Road entrance and other
construction work in the College the Union's
allocation has to be reduced by 17 spaces. Half of
these will be returned the following year when some
work is finished but students must be made to
realise the scarcity of parking space before they
bring their cars down to College, preferably with a
note in the Union Handbook and thus only those
with most need for a car will bring them down.
Union Directory
This publication produced by the Hon Sec lists all
the Union's clubs and societies and the names of the
people who run them plus the names of the Union's
officers, the C C U officers and others such as FELIX,
Student Services, etc.
This is an enormous help in guiding people in the
right direction when they ask how they can join a
club or when we want to contact clubs for other
reasons. But the Directory depended on newly
elected club officers to bring/send their names to
the Union Office which I would appeal to you to do
this year for your own benefit as well as ours.
I must thank Mark Smith for having it printed and
folding it before the beginning of term when he was
busy with production of the Freshers' edition of
FELIX.
Exec News and U G M s
This year I have pasted up Exec News in the FELIX
Office and it has been printed as an insert in FELIX.
It was thought originally that this would encourage
more people to come along to U G M s as each person
would be individually notified and also they would
know exactly what business was to be discussed
which would enable them to participate more
actively in the meeting. Unfortunately this has not
always been the case with what must be classed as
the worst ever attended and shortest U G M on
record being held in the Great Hall on May 4 1982.
The attendance was around 30 and the meeting
lasted less than a minute before the quorum was
called, and rightly so! There were factors that
definitely detracted from attendance such as
societies organising meetings at the same time,
having visiting MPs and lab sessions starting before
they should. But on the other hand the meetings
that have been best attended were those discussing
major internal issues such as the Rag Mag, or the
sabbatical hustings and results UGMs.
Steps should be taken in future to ensure that
societies do not organise meetings that clash with
U G M s . Next year's Exec plan to have a large
calendar on which all clubs and societies can place
the date and times of their meetings and I consider
this to be a step in the right direction to having
better attended UGMs.
The problem of content of a U G M is more difficult,
if there is nothing of interest being presented or
being d i s c u s s e d then people will not attend
meetings even if there is nothing else to attend.
Hopefully though the day will never come when a
U G M has nothing to discuss and the record set on
May 4 will stand unbeaten for a long time to come.
Commemoration Ball
After all my panicing this was a very successful
function enjoyed by many ex-students, for most
probably their last major College function. I really
enjoyed organizing the Ball and would like to thank
Jen for working out the seating plan, the wine
waiters, and the heroes who stayed till early hours of
the morning and helped me clear up.
My predecessor Liz Lindsay put in to operation a
plan to get the Blue Book on floppy disc in the
College Publications department, but unfortunately
when I went over with a copy they baulked at the
size. They stated that in the present financial climate
they were short of staff as they could make no new
appointments, and therefore could not spare the
time to type the document onto disc. So I was back
to square one and started to hunt around the
College for other facilities. Eventually I was offered
the use of the word processor facilities in College
Block but I had to find people who would be willing
to do the actual typing in once they had been
trained by a member of the department. Two
volunteers came forward, Fiona Owen and Stephen
Bleazard and I would like to thank them for all the
work they have put in and are still putting in, into
typing up the Blue Book.
Open Door
I enjoyed taking part in the production of the Open
Door programme and seeing behind the scenes in
the B B C .
Most of the credit must go to Nick Morton,
Lawrence Windley and Nick Lambrou who put a
tremendous amount of effort and work into its
production. I must say thank you to Mac and Val of
the B B C for putting up with us and I hope they
enjoyed making it as much as we did.
Insurance
I have made an effort to get as many clubs and
societies inventories updated as possible. This is
essential to ensure that lost or defunct equipment is
no longer insured and also that new items of
equipment are insured, more importantly the latter
which is most common and costs the Union most
money in the event of an accident. This has resulted
in an increase in our premium over the lasi year
and also there have been several major items
bought that have been added to the policy.
Commercial Union, our insurers have this year
refused none of our claims which have been
numerous ranging from £9 for a board game to over
£200 for a set of water polo sweatshirts.
There have been several small claims on our
Endesleigh Block Halls of Residence Policy which
have been settled but unfortunately there was one
for stereo equipment stolen out of a Southside
basement. Due to there being access to many
people basements are high risk areas for theft and
therefore are not covered and people place their
belongings there at their own risk. Bear this in mind
if you wish to store possessions over the summer
vacation.
Vans
We have a fleet of four transits for use by clubs and
societies and also for private hire. Unfortunately this
year we have been plagued with breakdowns
resulting in large repair bills and also loss of
revenue while the vans are off the road. Thus the
Transport Account is not as healthy as it could be.
Accidents have also eaten away at our no-claims
bonus which has dwindled the account further.
Hopefully now that the vans have had major
overhauls we should be able to pull in some income
which will be needed for the future when a van
needs replacing.
Sports Day
This year for the first time Sports Day was organised
by the Athletics Clubs Committee rather than the
C C U s as in the past. This proved to be a step in the
right direction with many people taking part on the
day, ranging from good athletes to people just
taking part for fun. Overall the day was a great
success and credit must go to Kev Reeve, Lesley
Horrocks, Mary Harrington and Jane Hillyer for ail
the effort they put into organising the event. All the
winners will be presented with medals at the A G M
together with trophies for the best all-round male
and female athletes.
Most of the Sports Day trophies were stolen in
1980 and I have been replacing them this year using
the money received from the insurers. Nearly all the
trophies have been replaced but unfortunately it is
not possible to engrave the names of the past
winners as this would be far too expensive, in most
cases more than the actual cost of the trophy. All
that remains to be done is to have photographs
taken of the trophies for our records in case they are
stolen or lost.
Rag
This year Rag has almost come to a standstill beset
by problems inherited from previous years. A lot of
groundwork has been done to clear up the mess and
set a firm base from which to move forward in the
coming years although slowly at first, still being
shackled by having no licences. There are various
ideas afoot to collect on charities licences and also
Rag Week itself will be moved to the second term to
give the committees more time to organise bigger
and better events.
Although there are no collections going on at
present at the time of writing the Rag Fete is coming
up and I am sure it will be very successful if the
amount of work put in by the Rag Chairman Ronan
MacDonald is anything to go by. He also deserves
credit for taking on the sinking ship that Rag was
and setting it on the right course for future success.
Cologne
In February Jezebel the motorized mascot of RCS, a
1916 Dennis Fire engine went over to Cologne to
take part in its famous Karnival together with about
20 R C S students and myself. Jezebel took part in
two c a r n i v a l s ; o n e of w h i c h was t e l e v i s e d
throughout Europe. Everyone enjoyed the weekend
tremendously and it is a memory of this year that
will stand out. I hope RCS Motor Club will continue
to participate in the Karnival in future years!
I've greatly enjoyed my year as Hon Sec, though
it's been very hard work at times, it's been an
experience that I wouldn't have missed.
I would like to thank Nick, a President with
incredible patience, one who it has been a pleasure
to work with and drink to excess with.
Also Barney for his raspberries, roller skating
sessions, conker fights, gin and tonics, curries and
every time he stopped playing the flute.
I couldn't forget Christine who has done an
incredible job at the same time as revising for her
finals.
Last but definitely not least I would like to thank
Jen, Pat and Jo three wonderful people without
whom I couldn't have made it through the year. .
Marco Ledwold
Honorary Secretary
1981/2

