A Science Student's
Discomfort
by Tim Larcombe
Have you ever in your studies of science asked
yourself any of the following questions? Why
am I here? What is this I'm studying? What's
the purpose of this lab report? What is the
lecturer saying? W h y is he saying it? Where did
it come from? W h y should I believe it? W h y is
it so difficult to learn? W h y are science
students as they are? H o w do I relate science
• to the world? Is it valid or a big con trick? Is it
the truth? Is it the absolute truth? — God's
truth if you like. If you haven't asked any of
these questions, stop here.
If they have crossed your mind, have you
got satisfactory a n s w e r s to t h e m ? T h e s e
questions have constantly arisen in this, my
first year at College. They didn't arise before at
school, because I did other things apart from
science — therefore I didn't have to feel
comfortable with it. But as we know things are
different now.
I believe the root of these questions lies in
the fact that I could not put science and
technology in a context relating to the whole
world. True, you see manifestations of science
and technology everywhere but that does not
explain what they are.
After a lot of sou! searching such a context
s u d d e n l y d a w n e d o n me. It may not be
completely true but I think it has elements of
truth in it. Also I think it answers some of those
questions and makes me feel happier with
what I'm doing. The purpose of this piece of
writing is to describe that context. It is not
researched, studies or anything like that and in
describing it I may not fully justify what I say,
but it is my gut reaction. I want to convey and
so please bear in mind these qualifications.
M y aim is to share.
Firstly, science. What is it and is it true? I
now view it as mankind's attempt to describe
nature; to quantify nature; to understand
nature; to answer one of the eternal questions:
" W h e r e a m I ? " ; p o s s i b l y an a t t e m p t to
manipulate nature. F o r instance Nature says
"There is a quantity" — of grass perhaps, or
anything. It is man who counts the blades of
grass. Nature says "If this thing whizzes round
too fast it will break". M a n says that the
centrifugal force will stress the shaft beyond its
shear strength and it will fracture in a certain
way. He makes his measurement, does his
maths and predicts what will happen and why
on the basis of past experience.
Nature doesn't have to explain why things
happen in the order they do — man does —
entropy he calls it.
So that's what it is. Science is the abstract
description of nature. Science is one of man's
inventions to understand the universe.
But is science true? M y answer is yes and no
—how convenient! It is true that it seems to
work consistently, but it is not the absolute
truth. If that were the case then it would be the
one and only description, totally different.
However, having said that, let us not forget
that the inventors of science, the people who
d e s c r i b e , w e r e the l i k e s of P y t h a g o r a s ,
Gallileo, Newton, Einstein — geniuses and
thousands of other "sub-geniuses" following
on. These people were "one in a million" and
their work merits great respect.
What about the study of technology? In this
c o n t e x t it b e c o m e s an a b s t r a c t i o n of an
abstraction. M a n inventing uses of science
which he invented to describe nature, and the
beautiful thing is that it works—things do
happen as predicted—space shuttles.
If one views science in this way, effectively
you are removing yourself from involvement
and seeing it for what it is, which is much more
comfortable. What are the implications of this?
I do not pretend to have thought these things
through thoroughly but let our imaginations
wander. B y removing yourself from involve-
ment and seeing things for what they are, are
you not widening your capacity for creativity
a n d l a t e r a l t h i n k i n g ? D o y o u feel that
technology is sometimes used solely because
one knows how to do it and that knowledge is
given as justification for its use? I also wonder
that if science was taught in this context rather
than being battered into you ("You'd better
believe it or else you won't pass."), perhaps the
awful b a r r i e r s between science a n d arts
wouldn't exist.
Viewed in this light, I think science and
technology will become easier to accept, learn
and use, given what it is. N o w get back to
lectures and revision and your future. H o w do
you feel? G o o d luck with your exams?
Travel Insurance
This perennial role as harbinger of d o o m and gloom is not something I
approach with great delight, but as part of preventative welfare it seems
useful if only to catch one or two of you who may go abroad this summer
without adequate insurance cover, particularly those relating to possible
medical expenses. The following, rather bizarre as well as cautionary list,
is a random sample from the claims settled by one insurance company
during the past year.
USA
appendectomy
meningitis
major heart attack*
back trouble
Netherlands
fall*
Austria
Fractured femur
Greece
fractured clavicle
Switzerland
fractured back and arm
Hong Kong
ear infection
.Japan
stomach operation
Trinidad
funeral
Canada
fractured leg
£3,360
£2,900
£20,000
£3,600
£850
£1,800
£1,800
£2,400
£1,400
£1,450
£1,000
£3,000
France
gall bladder £2,400
Germany
£2,400
fractured hip £2,400
appendectomy £1,200
Italy
£3,680
knocked over by a car £3,680
Egypt
£2,160
stomach upset £2,160
Iran
£5,500
limb injury, with amputation £5,500
Algeria
£1,470
car crash £1,470
Saudia Arabia
£6,000
hit by rocks* £6,000
Kenya
£1,200
appendectomy* £1,200
India
£5,000
ulcerative colitis* £5,000
Brazil
insect bites £900
Visits to a doctor and routine medication can cost around £75 in North
America and from £30 to £60 in Europe.
If you are visiting another E E C country you can get medical treatment
on exactly the same terms as its own insured people, so long as you meet
certain requirements and apply for the appropriate form ( E l 11, for which
you need to fill in leaflet SA30, obtainable from any D H S S office or
Student Services). To be eligible you need to be a U K national, a national
of another E E C country, a stateless person or a refugee, and also to be
either under 19yrs or to have been insured as an employed person at
some time during the last two tax years. Unfortunately this leaves some
people, including many students, without recourse to any free medical
treatment in the E E C . Even those who are covered will benefit from extra
insurance since some countries still require individuals to pay quite a
substantial contribution. In France and Belgium for example patients
must pay around 25% of all treatment costs.
In addition there are reciprocal health care arrangements with Austria,
Bulgaria, the Channel Islands, Czechoslovakia, German Democratic
Republic, Hungary, Malta, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal,
Rumania, Sweden, U S S R and Yugoslavia. D H S S leaflet S A 3 0 gives
details of the free services available to any traveller with a U K passport
and/or N H S card. Hospital treatment is usually free, but not necessarily
medicine, dental treatment or treatment at a doctor's surgery.
Most insurance companies have increased the medical expenses limit
dramatically in the last year or so without an equivalent increase in
premiums. It's not easy to give any general guidelines to the most
economical schemes since they tend to vary considerably according to
the type and duration of cover required, but it is well worth comparing
policies; one may be best for a two week trip to Europe while another
may be more economical for six weeks in N o r t h America. W e do have
some examples which can be looked through at this office, including
some of those arranged by the main banks, such as NatWest. W e also
have Endsleigh's application forms; although they specialise in student
insurance they are not necessarily the most advantageous.
If you are already covered by a work camp abroad, in a group or
package travel arrangement it is advisable to obtain precise details since
certain risks may not be included, or not sufficiently covered. Most
insurance policy application forms only contain a brief summary of the
cover provided, so when arranging your own it is also advisable to inspect
the full policy, with all the conditions and exclusions which apply, prior to
purchase.
Student Services Office, 15 Princes Gardens.
•3 Queen tickets, 6hr concert, Milton
Keynes, June 5, £9ono. Contact S.
Halbard via Chem 1 letter-racks.
•Squash rackets: Classic 003, £12ea.
Contact D.V. Molesworth, 370-1817,
MRE racks, Sports Centre, Squash
Club noticeboard.
•Stereo music centre and speakers,
Sanyo G2711 super. Excellent condi-
tion, £95ono. Apply 222-4754 (eves) or
Cilia Collis, Health Centre, ext 4209.
•Found: blue pullover after Silwood
Ball. Write to C. Fuller, Physics 2.
•Single room available for female
student in flat of 7 (3 male, 3 female) in
Hamlet Gdns next year. £17.50pw,
gas and electricity extra. Contact
Erica Fuller, Physics 1.
•Cosina 200mm 13.5 M42 fit lens, with
case £35. Excellent condition. Contact
S. Carter, Chem Eng 3.
• B i c y c l e , gents, 3 gears, perfect
mechanics but looks a little untidy—
doesn't catch thieve's eyes! £27ono.
Contact Glen Sansom, 312 Falmouth
hall, 589-9207/9217.
•2 car seats—head rests, reclining, tilt
forward, mustard coloured cloth, new
c o n d i t i o n , £ 4 2 o n o . Contact Glen
Sansom, 312 Falmouth Hall, 589-9207.
•Queen tickets at Milton Keynes, Sat
June 5, six hour concert and includes
Teardrop Explodes. Contact Q.P.
Granger, RSM letter-racks or 373-
4092 evenings.
Page 4 FELIX, May 21, 1982

