TECHNOLOGY
FELIX
10
Tips and hacks
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 october 2011
Mmm... Ice Cream Sandwich
Earlier this week, Android and Samsung held a
joint event to announce some news we’ve been
waiting on for a while. Why the joint event? Sam-
sung’s Galaxy Nexus will be the first phone to
ship with Android 4.0 – Ice Cream Sandwich. The
Galaxy Nexus is a behemoth of a device, with a
4.65” HD display. But other than that, it’s pretty
much what you’d expect from a top end smart-
phone. The main selling point, as seems to be
increasingly the case with flagship phones, is
the new operating system at its heart. Ice Cream
Sandwich brings with it a slew of new features,
including a lot of UI overhaul. Much of it we’ve
seen elsewhere, but some things do stand out.
Android Beam for example, which uses NFC to al-
low you to tap your phone with another to share
anything from contacts to directions. Together,
I’m sure this combination will do nothing to hurt
Android’s popularity.
Bitcoin, the decentralized ‘cryptocurrency’ fa-
voured by anarchists and drug dealers for its pri-
vacy, has suffered a minor crash in value that has
taken it from a value of $30 per coin to parity with
the USD. Some commentators expect the value
to slide further, reflecting a return to reality after
a heady year of press attention. Each coin repre-
sents an extremely large number and is calculated
in a computationally intensive process that limits
the chance of the market being flooded; with the
power required to produce more coins increasing
regularly and their value at current levels, it is be-
coming uneconomic to make more. All of this isn’t
a death knell for the currency, yet the massive
rate fluctuation is probably going to cause new
investors to steer clear of the coins. Indeed, it is
hard to see major investors going after Bitcoins
as a serious investment - with no clear ‘issuing
bank’ or fiscal policy and less purchasing power
than the US dollar, traditional investors are likely
to see Bitcoins as a no-go zone for now. Where
the Bitcoin goes from here isn’t very clear, with
some seeing this crash as a mere phase in the
longer process of establishing the legitimacy of
the currency. One thing remains certain, unless
the Bitcoin world builds more of a connection to
the physical world of goods and services, it’s un-
likely to become more than a niche currency for
the mildly paranoid or the tad criminal.
Bitcoin suffers devaluation
As I’m sure many of you know, Research In
Motion last week suffered its biggest ever
service disruption, with millions of customers
across the globe affected. Users lost access to
push email, BlackBerry Messenger, Facebook
and Twitter applications, and even in some
cases their internet access. For a company that
built its reputation on many of those features,
and indeed, the stability and reliability of
those services, I’m sure it’s a week the execu-
tives would rather forget.
While over here there were probably many
people rejoicing that the “riot-inducing” mes-
saging service was down, the consumers were
left wondering why. Even now, BlackBerry
have not exactly been forthcoming on the
details, saying only that their failover, well,
failed. That is, for some reason their main
server network was down and their backup
infrastructure didn’t manage to take over
properly. Along with that, all we do know is
that the problem occurred at their datacentre
in Slough.
There is speculation abound on the internet,
as always, as to why this happened in the first
place. Some say the cause was an update to
the original server (in which case a manual
switchover should have taken place), some
say it was a bug in one server. Whatever the
cause, Research In Motion claim the failover
switch had been tested, but it seems not rig-
orously enough. Regardless, the issue here is
clearly that of not enough redundancy.
While this is speculation, it doesn’t seem
The BlackBerry Crumble
unreasonable to assume that this failover
switch and this network of servers in Slough
are of utmost importance given the number of
BlackBerry users that were affected in the first
instance. Hence, it would make sense to have
not just one set of backup servers, but two or
more. Indeed, it has been said in the past that
maintaining scalability of their infrastructure
has not been Research In Motion’s top prior-
ity. This would be fine if their customer base
was sticking around a fairly stable figure, but
that’s not the case. While their share prices
may have been dropping recently, their market
share in UK mobile handsets has been on the
rise, and last year they had a massive increase
in year-on-year sales. The fact that they’ve
just released a new fleet of devices is unlikely
to reverse that either.
But let’s say that this was unavoidable, that
no matter what, the datacentre was always
going to fail. Then we still have the issue of
why the problems spread across the world and
lasted for a few days. At the time of the fail-
ure, emails weren’t being pushed to devices,
BlackBerry Messenger wasn’t working, etc.
So it seems, with nothing to lose, they may as
well have ‘disconnected’ the centre, whatever
that involved, wired up the backup server as
the active one, and started again.
Perhaps the problem could be pinpointed
to the backlog. Considering that these serv-
ers apparently serve Europe, the Middle East
and Africa, even a few minutes of downtime
would cause a massive backlog, which may
have been too much for the secondary servers
to cope with. Maybe that server then crashed,
and all traffic was rerouted to another datacen-
tre. Which then crashed. And so on. But again,
this seems unlikely, considering the time de-
lays between each affected region. Whatever
the cause, it’s clear the company needs to
re-evaluate its infrastructure. If this were to
happen globally on the BlackBerry Enterprise
Servers, I think the company would struggle
to recover.
However, I don’t want this to seem like
an attack on BlackBerry. I love the devices,
and actually wasn’t that angry during the
outage. But many were, and just because I
wasn’t enraged doesn’t mean I don’t believe it
should’ve have happened. At least, on a posi-
tive note, they were slightly better at keeping
customers informed than they were at working
on the problem. Also, they are offering reim-
bursements in the guise of free apps to every-
one, which is better than nothing.
Chris Bowers
Dennis Ritchie - An Unsung Hero
The world has lost two giants of technology in
as many weeks. The news that Dennis Ritchie
died on 12 October, aged 70, after enduring
cancer and heart disease for several years, elic-
ited a quieter response than that for Steve Jobs.
Ritchie was the creator of the C programming
language and one of the co-inventors of the
UNIX operating system, which means we’re
living in a world Ritchie helped to invent.
“When Steve Jobs died last week, there
was a huge outcry, and that was very moving
and justified”, said Rob Pike, a colleague of
Ritchie’s, speaking to Wired. “But Dennis had
a bigger effect, and the public doesn’t even
know who he is.”
Pretty much all of the daily interactions
we have with technology owe something to
Ritchie’s creations 40 years ago. The internet
is built on UNIX, from the server farms be-
hind Google and Amazon to the router through
which you’re locally connected. Your TV
probably runs an operating system based on
UNIX. As does your Mac, your iPhone, your
iPad - OS X and iOS are built on a UNIX vari-
ant - and of course any Linux machine.
Then there’s C, the language in which UNIX
– and a vast amount of other software from the
core of Windows to MATLAB – is written.
And when software isn’t written in C there’s
a very good chance it’s written in a language
descended from, or heavily influenced by,
Ritchie’s creation, whether C++, Java, or C#.
UNIX was developed by Ritchie and Ken
Thompson at AT&T’s Bell Labs in the 60s af-
ter the project they had been working on – an
ambitious multi-user operating system known
as Multics – was dropped by the company for
being too complex. Young, idealistic, and stub-
born, Ritchie and Thompson decided to build
a simpler, streamlined version of the operating
system by themselves: Unics – or UNIX – a
pun on Multics, was soon born.
C was designed by Ritchie initially as a
means to an end in developing his new operat-
ing system, but its versatility and ability to be
compiled to different computer architectures
quickly made it an enormously useful tool. The
C Programming Language, the book Ritchie
wrote with Brian Kernighan, setting out the
standard definition of the C language, has be-
come a classic.
Due to its official status as a telecoms mo-
nopoly, AT&T was at first unable to enter the
computer industry and thus unable to market
this new operating system it suddenly had its
hands on. So Ritchie and Thompson simply
gave their creations away to friends and col-
leagues in universities, who used them to teach
a generation of programmers, engineers, and
computer scientists.
Even more crucially, Ritchie’s initial free
dissemination of UNIX and C led to the free
software movement. When AT&T eventually
wriggled itself into a position where it could
make money from UNIX, MIT researcher
Richard Stallman started making a free version
of UNIX under the GNU (Gnu’s Not UNIX)
umbrella. GNU – along with its Linux kernel
and myriad satellite utilities – is at the core of
everything open source.
It’s so easy to forget about the countless, un-
sleeping machines behind the slickness of to-
day’s interactions with technology, but Ritchie
lives on in the hearts of most of them. Now’s
a good time to spare a thought both for them
and him.
Douglas Heaven

