POLITICS
FELIX
12 FRIDAY 21 october 2011
A
s we picked our way
through the tents outside
St Paul’s Cathedral this
Monday one thing was
clear: anarchists are not
an easy bunch to organise. Not a surprise,
perhaps, but add to this a passionate be-
lief in not telling others what to do, and
suddenly you find yourself voting about
whether to vote…
We visited the makeshift campsite for a
couple of hours, waiting for the General
Assembly at 7pm. The meeting didn’t
get under way for another half hour
while some organisers politely asked the
crowds to take a seat by the cathedral’s
imposing steps. The whole effort was
like herding cats but where the cats are
dead. Throughout the meeting, organis-
ers repeated and repeated how everything
was “just a suggestion”. But while this
disorganisation was all rather cute and
harmless, it slightly undermines the mes-
sage that people in this country ought to
hear – our economy needs change.
These protests are for a reason – the
world’s economy is still in a mess. Banks
and global financial institutions are pow-
erless to solve this crisis. Governments
are even more impotent. How much of
this can really be a surprise? We have
more or less the same economic system
today as that which brought the economy
to its knees just three years ago; we built
an engine that we didn’t know how to fix
and no-one has come up with anything
different.
In 2008 policy makers could at least
plead naivety; who could have seen the
sudden collapse of the world’s largest
banks? And who could have known the
full effect of this on our interconnected
companies and countries?
Well actually Joseph Stiglitz, that’s
who. This professor of economics and
Nobel laureate was our Cassandra. He
was preaching long before the housing
bubble and credit default swaps of the
inherent dangers posed by lax legisla-
tion and misaligned incentives. His 2010
book Freefall, recently updated, is his
victory lap. But more than “I told you
so”, Stiglitz offers a way out of the mire.
Politicians would do well to head his ad-
vice. For all their vague talk about “jus-
tice”, the St Paul’s protestors could too.
Stiglitz lays the blame for the crisis
squarely at the feet of free markets and
their ideologue proponents. Key to the
collapse of the financial system was the
problem of externalities, he argues. Ex-
ternalities are by-products of business
for which there is no market mechanism
to account - sometimes positive, some-
times negative. If I own a bee farm and
an orchard sets up next door, the orchard
benefits significantly from my bees’ pol-
lination without affecting me. But should
the orchard owners not pay for this privi-
lege? This is an externality - the market
provides no way of paying me. A nega-
tive externality would be global warm-
ing - harm is caused by business but not
in a way penalised by the markets.
Stiglitz argues that banks, with their
light touch regulations, posed huge neg-
ative externalities on the economy as a
whole in a number of ways: the misun-
derstanding of risk, performance related
pay and implicit government subsidy.
Before making a loan, banks need to un-
derstand the risk associated with the bor-
rower defaulting and adjust the interest
rate accordingly. But to further decrease
risk, banks started to package loans to-
gether with assumption that the more
loans one had, the more the risk was
spread out. This was fine, provided de-
faults weren’t correlated. But when house
prices started to fall across the country,
defaults became very correlated indeed.
Because many of these loans had been
packaged together in highly complex
ways, banks suddenly realised that they
couldn’t really tell which loans were safe
and which weren’t. They also couldn’t
trust the safety of other banks and so
stopped lending to each other, resulting
in the credit crunch. Stiglitz’s verdict is
clear - commercial banks shouldn’t be al-
lowed to create products they don’t fully
understand. As US Treasury Secretary
Henry Paulson quipped, “the only use-
ful financial innovation in recent decades
has been the cash machine”.
Performance related pay was aban-
doned by most professions when it
became clear that it rewarded quantity,
not quality and encouraged short term
results. These are precisely the prob-
lems plaguing modern banking. Bo-
nuses are paid for gains but pay is not
docked for losses, promoting excessive
risk taking as bankers just couldn’t
lose. Mortgage vendors were rewarded
according to the number of mortgages
issued, not their quality, leading to the
phenomenon of “liar loans” for which
borrowers required no proof of income.
Even after the Crunch, the flow of bo-
nuses continued, making a mockery of
the claim that they were performance
based.
The economics of occupation
Rory Fenton and Kadhim Shubber on the latest protest in London
Julian Assange addressing eager protestors at St Paul’s Cathedral. Where’s Julian?
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
But perhaps the strongest externality
was the implicit guarantee that the gov-
ernment would always save the biggest
banks to protect the rest of the economy.
This safety net enabled banks to take
much greater risk at much lower interest
rates - a subsidy of billions of dollars,
greatly distorting the market. When the
bailouts were received, very little was
loaned on to small and medium sized
business, the risks of speculation were
still too tempting.
Unlike some of London’s protesters,
Stiglitz is no communist and recog-
nises the importance of markets - the
key is regulation. As the world sits on
the brink of what may well be a double
dip recession, here are his suggestions
for policy changes to make a difference:
1. Separate commercial banks from
investment banks - banks shouldn’t be
taking huge risks with ordinary house-
holds’ money.
2. Require banks to keep some of
the mortgages they sell on their books
to ensure they have a vested interest on
providing loans to those how can afford
them.
3. Give share holders greater say
over executive pay and stop payments
in stock options - they encourage short-
term thinking.
4. Require bailout funds to go to
small and medium sized business. Much
of it is their money, after all.
This is Stiglitz’s manifesto for
change. As protesters endure the biting
winds outside St Paul’s, they could do
worse than adopt it too. Free markets
have failed but markets can still work
within sensible rules. But this isn’t the
whole story. The protestors are also
campaigning against the erosion of our
democracy, in which government rules
in the corporate interest rather than the
public interest (the trickle-down myth
used to pretend that the two are one and
the same), and they are also protesting
the enormous inequality in our society.
2008 should have been our wakeup
call. Instead policy-makers decided that
it was just part of the normal capitalistic
boom and bust. It’s clear that there has
been a much deeper shift. We need to
re-evaluate how we run our society, and
to whose advantage the current system
is geared. Failure to change in 2008
brought around the current difficulties.
The world cannot afford to make the
same mistake twice.
Market Failure
Risky business
Bankers on benefits
What’s to be done?
Performance related pay
and other oxymorons
Kadhim Shubber
“Banks and global
financial institutions
are powerless to
solve this crisis”

