POLITICS
FELIX 13
FRIDAY 21 October 2011
Saturday saw a global day of occupation
and protest in 951 cities across 82 coun-
tries, making this day one of the most
widespread days of resistance ever seen.
Apart from Rome, they were also entire-
ly peaceful. This was no random event
but part of a global tide of uprising that
began in the Arab spring and has swept
across Europe and America. Although
you may question the link between the
protests in the Middle East and appar-
ent Western democracies two common
features have ran through them all: high
unemployment combined with increas-
ing difficulty to live on low wages and
a feeling that the general public have no
control over their governance.
These two themes were the main con-
stituents of a manifesto published ahead
of the actions on Saturday that aimed to
voice the reasons behind these protests.
In a style true to the movement the mani-
festo was produced over four months in
consultation with the people involved
in the movements in Britain, Egypt, Tu-
nisia, Germany, Spain, the USA, Israel
& The Palestinian Territories, Brazil,
Mexico, Uruguay, Argentina, India and
Australia. It highlighted how, whether
it be Mubarak, the IMF, multinational
banks or the G8/20, we are all dictated
by a few people to whom we never gave
permission. In the words of the Indian
eco-feminist Vandana Shiva, we demand
replacing the G8 with the whole of hu-
manity – the G7 billion. The manifesto
states that more than ever before our
lives - including jobs, education, health
and environment – are shaped by cor-
porations, banks, markets and financial
crises.
Although the manifesto attempts to
accurately portray the global movement
each country and region has taken partic-
ular emphasis on parts that are important
to them. The Middle East is obviously
focussed on dictatorships whilst Japan
had a Fukushima element to the Tokyo
occupation. Italy and Spain have empha-
sised political corruption and America
and the UK tend to have centred on in-
equality. The most common of threads
though is that we are born equal, and
should be treated so.
In the largest UK demonstration – Oc-
cupy London Stock Exchange (still on-
going at time of writing) – has occupied
the space outside St. Paul’s Cathedral
with up to 5000 people, after a high court
injunction was imposed on the original
target of the neighbouring and privately
owned Paternoster Square. And not sur-
prisingly inequality is a strong theme as
inequality in the UK is only second to
the US out of Western states. A banner
displaying the slogan of Occupy Wall
Street – we are the 99% - highlights how
in the UK 1% of the population have ac-
crued a third of the wealth.
Placards and conversations echoed this
sentiment. A placard stated ‘I have no
job but now I have an occupation’which
agreed with the feelings of a surprising
number of young unemployed graduates
I spoke to who feel they were sold a lie
about education. After all that time and
money they are left as part of the ever
rising youth unemployment. One par-
ticular protester, educated to masters’
level, questioned our state’s derision
of the poor and acceptance of the rich.
“Currently I am living on £53 a week
job seeker’s allowance to pay food, bills
and other costs in London. This is barely
enough to even survive but yet the law
says this is how much you need to live
on. However they have decided no max-
imum to live on, people receive million
pound bonuses, where is the equality?”
This feeling of injustice is now evolv-
ing into an attempt to create a new de-
mocracy, one where everyone partici-
pates and decisions made at least have
a chance of representing the majority of
people. The whole protest in St Paul’s
works as horizontally as possible. Ev-
eryone has a say in small groups with
a spokesperson sent to give feedback to
the whole occupation in what is called a
general assembly. The common feeling
is that this protest is there to stay; people
are planning to camp or make return vis-
its. The persistence and growth of this
movement across the world is giving
constant strength and support. Normally
protests are dismissed in the few hours
afterwards, the people ignored. How-
ever, by staging a permanent protest
this becomes increasingly difficult and
there’s a chance our voices may finally
break through.
As one middle aged occupier described
how the current way our society func-
tions “constantly degrades” him, others
mimicked the Zapatista’s of Mexico in
declaring “Ya basta! (Enough!)”
Last Friday, after a week of revelations
over wrongdoing in his affairs, the De-
fence Secretary, Dr Liam Fox, announced
his resignation to the Prime Minister.
The first Tory cabinet minister to resign
has been replaced by Philip Hammond,
whose Transport brief is now to be ful-
filled by Treasury minister Justine Green-
ing.
Dr Fox has been under a great deal of
pressure to resign after it was discovered
he had been granting inappropriate ac-
cess to both himself and the Ministry of
Defence to Adam Werritty, a friend and
lobbyist. Mr Werritty accompanied the
defence minister on a number of official
trips, including visits to foreign diplomats
and military figures. He also styled him-
self as an ‘Advisor to Rt. Hon. Dr. Liam
Fox MP’ on business cards, despite hav-
ing no official role in the Government.
Dr Fox apologised to the House of
Commons on the 10th of October for
his actions, but this was not enough to
quench the controversy over his position,
and he ultimately resigned on the 14th.
The Prime Minister expressed his regret
in seeing Dr Fox leave the Cabinet, while
Labour’s shadow defence secretary, Jim
Murphy stated, ‘It was inconceivable that
once a minister had been seen to break
their own code of conduct on so many
occasions that he could survive’.
At the time of writing, the Cabinet Of-
fice report on the extent of the relation-
ship between Dr Fox and Mr Werritty in
Government is yet to be fully released.
Mr Werritty has been interviewed by
civil servants as part of a Cabinet Office
Enquiry, with Whitehall officials said to
be alarmed with the details uncovered.
The Enquiry has already confirmed that
Liam Fox did indeed breach the minis-
terial code. However, the final report is
expected to find that he did not benefit
financially.
The cunning of Dr Fox
Reporting on the last calamitous cabinet days of the Defence Secretary
Gazing into the soul of the 99%
Philip Kent
Luke Seldon
“Everyone has a say
in small groups”
A whirlwind of business cards and political bust ups for Dr Liam Fox

