BUSINESS
FELIX
14
Business Editors: Nina Kearsey
Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 OCTOBER 2011
There was a global economic meltdown in
2008. World governments have since spent
their time running through plans A-Z to try
and reboot economies, but so far any recovery
has been wiped out by other problems such
as the crisis in the Eurozone. The problem of
what to do with the levels of debt has been
puzzling politicians all over the world. Big
players, including Ben Bernanke, Chairman
of the Federal Reserve, and Sir Mervyn King,
Governor of the Bank of England, seem to
think Quantitative Easing (QE) is the solution.
In buying government bonds, the central
bank raises the price of the assets bought and
reduces their yield. The aim of QE is to in-
crease the excess reserves of banks so if ev-
erything goes belly up and debt is defaulted,
the bank has enough cash (or liquid assets) to
cover their back. So although the process in-
creases the rate of inflation, the normal citizen
does not get any access to the new money; it’s
used to save the same people who caused the
mess in the first place. Prices go up but with
pay packets frozen debts are no easier to deal
with.
The problem is deciding when to stop. How
much money can be printed before the situ-
ation spirals out of control? Because it’s not
just inflation QE will affect, it will also lead
the weakening of a nation’s currency, which
is especially problematic in an export based
economy (it becomes more expensive for you
to buy goods from outside, and cheaper for
others to buy yours). As soon as the “good
times” return QE needs to be reversed and
banks will need to buy back the assets other-
wise the problems could very quickly get out
of control.
The recent party conferences produced
some interesting alternatives, such as that
proposed by the current chancellor George
Osborne. Although the now famous Plan-G
(G for graphene) stole the headlines, a £50mn
investment into R&D is unlikely to save the
Rajvinder Virdee
Whether ‘tis nobler in the mind to suffer
The slings and arrows of outrageous fortune,
Or to take arms against a sea of troubles,
And by opposing end them?
QE, or not QE, that is the question
economy. More interesting was the mention
of Credit Easing. The real difference with this
alternate kind of Easing is that the Average Joe
may actually see some benefit of the process.
Instead of a central bank, e.g. the BoE, buying
bonds in banks, the aim is to buy corporate
bonds. Whilst no one has quite yet decided
what an English version of Credit Easing
might be, it would seem that banks will be
encouraged to bundle together the loans and
overdrafts of small companies which would
then be bought by the BoE. This should in
theory ease cash flow for small companies and
help them stay liquid through the recovery.
Another problem with QE that has recently
been uncovered is the pension ‘black hole’.
Pension fund liabilities stretch long into the
future, usually linked to long-term bond
yields. QE lowers bond yields and so this
would seem a problem, and it is. In fact it’s
a big problem. When the BoE’s first round of
QE was finished, resulting in £200bn worth of
bonds bought, it was estimated that the pen-
Ben Bernanke, Chairman of the Federal Reserve, and Sir Mervyn King, Govenor of the
Bank of England, ponder possible solutions to the worsening financial situation.
SPECIAL REPORT: Quantitative Easing
Two of our top contributors summarise the situation and pass comment. Rajvinder Virdee
introduces us to the policy in the context of the worsening global financial situation and ex-
plains its effects on the man-on-the-street. Then, in the second part of our special, Shiang-Jin
Chin delves into the reasoning behind this measure, and discusses some of the broader impli-
cations in terms of British economic policy.
Your new BUSINESS editors bring you a special report into Quantitative Easing
Letter from the Editors
The news in finance and the economy does not
endear itself to an ‘everyman’ readership. Obtuse
language, subtle argument and the inescapable
requirement to resort to mathematics and sta-
tistics define a small subset of Business read-
ers from the many that filter through the headline
pages of our broadsheets and other newspapers.
But whether understood or not, the financial situa-
tion of the UK, the Eurozone and overseas (albeit
mostly in a westerly direction), has begun to im-
pact on readers of Arts and Business alike. Infla-
tion and interest rates are tangible, and now, more
than being felt, they will hurt: inflation in the UK
rose above 5% this September, spurred mainly by
increasing energy prices, while interest is flatlining
at a tenth of that, and rumours it could be cut to
as little as 0.25%.
With the pragmatism of scientists we may look
to solve these economic woes. More than their so-
lution however, it is the mechanism by which these
issues are tackled that we should consider. We
have to create the conditions in which a solution
can be achieved: namely, by fostering debate. And
as debate begins with information, we are here to
inform. Read our section, tell us what you like and
what you don’t; tell us what you agree with, dis-
agree with, and why. We’ve an advantage in know-
ing our readers to be smart and mathematically
adept. We know you can understand; all we really
need is your interest.
– The Business Editors
sion deficit of FTSE 350 companies increased
by £70bn. Now the BoE has committed to yet
more QE, it has estimated another increase of
£25bn in the deficit will occur. And these are
conservative estimates. To cover the deficit,
employers will have to use more of their own
money to pay off pensions resulting in lower
capital expenditure being pumped into the
economy. These new facts seem to make QE
seem less and less attractive.
It’s hard to say if QE is working or not with
so many problems going on at the same time
in world economies. In light of the pensions
issue it seems we are seeing the bad effects of
£200 billion, but the benefits of just £130bn.
Most of the central banks love the idea of QE,
but it’s not completely apparent why. Instead
perhaps George Osborne should be praised
for having the guts to say he is going to try
something else. Credit Easing seems fairer,
and will inject money into the economy where
it is hurting the most: on the High Streets, in
shopping centres, and in people’s pockets, not
just the bonus packets of bankers as QE does.
So, to QE or not QE? It would seem that per-
haps QE should not be the way forward. It’s
been tried for three years, and although it may
have helped prevent a double-dip recession, it
is no way to promote economic growth. If the
question were reduced down to picking teams
as in the school playground - sorry Ben, but
let’s go with George.

