The launch of the QE2
FELIX Friday 21 OCTOBER 2011 15
BUSINESS
Legend has it that, as for all faithful
Muslims, the day came when the good
King Musa of Mali announced to his
people that he would be leaving Mali
for the Hajj, the pilgrimage to Mecca.
The announcement, though praised by
the wise and respected by all his sub-
jects, came with fear, as the trip from
Niani to Mecca was long and perilous.
Wishing to ease their king’s trip,
the people of Mali helped with the ar-
rangements of the royal caravan. When
it finally departed, the royal party was
something to be seen: more than a thou-
sand courtiers attended King Musa,
accompanied by their servants and be-
longings and carried on myriads of cam-
els in a procession so long it was said to
take more than two days to see it pass
by. Among their effects, King Musa
had taken with him the royal treasury
of Mali, which, according to the legend,
consisted in such a wealth in gold that
it required no less than a hundred el-
ephants to be carried.
After a peaceful journey through the
Sahara, the royal party reached Egypt,
where caliph Al-Nasir received King
Musa warily in Cairo; his spies had told
him that the king’s wealth was so fabu-
lous he could have bought the whole
of Egypt. However, the Caliph needn’t
have feared, as Cairo’s most capable
merchants were on his side.
According to the legend, whilst Al-
Nasir and Musa entertained themselves
in staring contests to determine who
should vow to whom first, Musa’s royal
If central banks could instigate growth
by simply printing more money, they
would have done so a long time ago.
A recent Bank of England (BoE) re-
search report attests to the theory that
cash injections are inflationary: while
the Quantitative Easing (QE) package
of £200bn had an initial macroeco-
nomic impact of 1.5-2%, it was quickly
followed by an increase in Consumer
Price Index (CPI, the key index for in-
flation) of about 1.5%. Inflation may
help reduce unemployment according
to Keynesian doctrine, but it will not
benefit the underlying economy in the
long term.
So why would the BoE, with the
benefit of hindsight in these statistics
on the first QE program, still press for-
ward with a second round of Quantita-
tive Easing “QE2”, creating £75bn of
electronic money with which to buy gilt
(UK government bonds)?
For one thing, the negative effect of
the first QE package - inflation - appears
to be far smaller than what would be ex-
pected: although the BoE had injected
the capital equivalent of 14% of the
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) into the
economy, inflation accounted for by the
QE so far has maxed at 1.5% - small in
comparison to the money injected.
Besides, since reaching its peak in
January 2010, the growth of the broad
money aggregate M4 (an estimate of the
entire supply of money within an econ-
omy) has been stagnant; it has even de-
clined. Given the velocity of circulation
of money went unchanged, this suggests
that the country may soon be facing de-
flationary pressures instead of an infla-
tionary ones. In the face of deflation QE
might not be so bad an idea after all.
Secondly, whether originally intended
or not, QE2 will buy more time for the
coalition government - for George Os-
borne’s fiscal consolidation plan and
austerity measures to begin to work.
Despite the coalition government’s
freezing of spending, cutting of civil
servant jobs, and reducing of social
welfare payments, the UK economy, as
measured by GDP, has grown slower
than expected. This will hurt the growth
of tax revenue, and delay Osborne’s
timetable for deficit reduction. QE2
can help here in two ways: by creat-
ing a positive impact on GDP growth
in short time horizon, and by helping to
inflate the economy, thus reducing the
cost of any tax reductions implemented.
Additionally, by lowering the yield on
10-year government bonds through
QE2, the BoE will manage to reduce the
borrowing cost for the coalition govern-
ment, at a time when interest payment
for government debt already accounts
for 7% of the budget expenditure.
Whatever the problems with QE it
would therefore seem that unless more
public sector jobs are to be shed, sig-
Shiang-Jin Chin
household visited Cairo’s bazaar to buy
for their master all the luxuries on offer.
Upon realizing that the fabled wealth of
King Musa was no tale, the merchants
promptly discovered that what no Egyp-
tian would have paid more than 3 dinar
for, Musa’s subjects would buy for 30.
They increased their prices by so much
for the Malians that upon leaving Cairo
towards Mecca the king’s wealth had all
but vanished, left in hands of the happy
few bazaar merchants.
These merchants, suddenly rich and
lacking of any good incentive to save
or bury their new fortunes, simply in-
creased their consumption proportion-
ally. But their interests clashed: they all
wanted to buy then same fine things and
the market became saturated with de-
mand. They discovered that they could
not get all they wanted without bidding
up the prices and soon Cairo’s real es-
tate, food and commodity market prices
had doubled, reaching levels hitherto
unknown. Such are the risks of QE.
In 1752 the Scottish Philosopher Da-
vid Hume came up with an explanation
for the mechanism by which the Egyp-
tian economy could have equilibriated
following this cash injection: Hume’s
price-specie-flow mechanism.
Crucially, medieval Egypt was not an
isolated community, but traded actively
with countries in Europe, Asia and Af-
rica. After King Musa left, it found itself
flooded with gold, and this lead to in-
ternal inflation. However, foreign goods
were still as cheap as before, and hav-
ing more gold, Egypt could steeply in-
crease its imports. Concurrently, Egyp-
tian goods being so expensive, exports
would have ceased. This would then
lead to a decrease in the gold income
due to exports, and, imports being paid
in gold, to an effective export of Egypt’s
gold; the balance of payments would
Mansa –Emperor– Musa of Mali (1312-1337, bottom right), holding one of the golden nuggets Mali was so fa-
mous for during the Middle Ages
David Hume (1711-1776), Scot-
tish Philosopher and Economist
Whilst QE2 is being launched, Cameron happily counts how many more are
going to be needed. This is cagely received by an ageing Osborne and King.
nificant reductions to the funding for
schools and hospitals are made, or sup-
port cut off for those reliant on public
pension schemes and social benefits, the
burden caused by repayments must be
shared. In launching the QE2 the BoE is
simply making this decision for us.
The Economy in History
The Cautionary Tale of Mansa Musa of Mali
Panta rei; money too
thus become (very) negative.
Then, as more and more gold was
taken abroad, Egyptian inflation would
have to come to an end and bazaar mer-
chants would begin to feel their pock-
ets empty. Unable to bid up their prices
internally, price deflation would follow.
However, Hume continued, since Egyp-
tian prices were then set to deflate, at
some point their goods would again be-
come attractive exports that foreigners
would pay for in gold. So, after a time,
an equilibrium would be reached, and
the balance of payments be restored.
Incidentally, a great deal of king Mu-
sa’s gold ended up in Italian merchants
hands, where it helped finance the early
Italian Renaissance.
Beñat Gurrutxaga-Lerma
Nina Kearsey

