FELIX
18
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Sam Horti
Tim Arbabzadah
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 october 2011
T
he question of what hap-
pens to us after we die is
one that has troubled us
as a species for thousands
of years, and to this day
many among us still wrestle daily with
our own doubt and confusion over the
matter. The posthumously themed won-
derings of religious movements and
philosophers alike have produced many
weird and wonderful ideas filled with
fantasy and creativity. The conspicu-
ously man-made nature of the afterlife
as displayed in modern religions isn’t
something that I feel it would be worth-
while to investigate at great length,
mainly because of the fact that it is so
palpable that the term “flogging a dead
horse” comes to mind. The grubby fin-
gerprints of mankind are present wher-
ever you look.
To give a brief example, I would in-
vite you to call to mind a fundamental
belief that many religious people will
espouse; specifically the idea that your
own immaterial soul (whatever that
means) leaves your body to travel onto
the afterlife after your body has expired.
The religions of our time do not seem to
have quite the required imagination to
free their minds of the earthly shackles
that bind them, and therefore we are left
with a post mortem experience which
may evoke fear or joy in highly devel-
oped primates, but would have no ef-
fect on an immaterial soul. The eternal
fires of hell proclaimed in the gospels
can be extinguished when you realise
that a soul has no skin to feel the pain
of a burn, and I’m afraid the promised
virgins in the Islamic Jannah (paradise)
are going to have to remain distinctly
unsatisfied for obvious reasons.
What the concept of an eternal heav-
en gives many people is hope of a better
existence. By simply doing good on the
earth and acting in accordance with the
teachings of your chosen celestial lead-
er, you can achieve perfection after you
pass away. Leaving aside the implica-
tions this has for morality (what would
happen without the promise of heav-
en?), I would like to ask those of you
who hope for an afterlife a simple ques-
tion. Would you enjoy heaven? When-
ever I have asked myself this question,
the answer is always a resounding no.
Heaven would quite simply be hell to
me.
What heaven gives us is the offer of a
never-ending existence, and personally,
I do not wish to exist for eternity. The
thought of being trapped behind the
bars of being is to me a horrifying one,
however great my existence might turn
out to be. After all, after my “soul” has
spent 20 million years inside the pearly
gates, I think it may struggle to find
something to do for fun. As If anyone
tells you that they wish to exist forever
then it is safe to say that infinity is not a
concept they have firmly grasped. Oth-
erwise, it must be accepted that they
wish to inhabit a realm from which
there is no escape, a realm which they
desire so strongly that they are willing
to pay the measly entry fee of their free-
dom, surely one of the most important
things a “soul” possesses.
Of course this offer that heaven gives
you, and that God gives you, is not an
offer at all. It is an insistence. An insist-
ence that you must spend your timeless
stay endlessly praising and worshiping
the ever-watching big brother. Worst of
all, alongside the limitless grovelling
comes a further requirement – that you
must enjoy yourself in the process. This
idea, that you have no choice but to
have fun whilst you submit completely
and selflessly to an unelected dictator,
is something that I find indescribably
nauseating and very creepy. As Chris-
topher Hitchens so wonderfully puts it,
it would be akin to living in a “celestial
North Korea”. The difference being of
course, as Hitchens himself points out
is that “at least you can fucking die and
leave North Korea”. Taking part in this
everlasting horror show isn’t something
that I could possibly wish on my worst
enemy, let alone myself.
As I see it, not having an afterlife is
by far and away the most attractive op-
tion. Living life as if there is nothing
more to come is surely the most ful-
The Heaven of Hell
Sam Horti
You’d think they would have got around to installing an escalator by now
As this year’s cohort of new graduates
eases itself away from university life,
many will either be beginning or continu-
ing in their new careers. However, it is
important to realise that unemployment
remains an ever present issue for gradu-
ates. Unemployment finds itself at its
highest total since 1994, with just over
two and a half million people finding
themselves out of work – a significant
proportion being newly graduated stu-
dents. Despite these solemn figures, it is
good to take a step back and realise that
Imperial degrees remain highly sought
after, and that we must not lose focus
on what this university has to offer other
than study.
The university experience has become
internship-focused as of late, with un-
dergraduates – from first year onwards
– relentlessly applying for summer place-
ments. The tenacity and drive of said stu-
dents towards securing a career must be
admired, but at what cost does it come?
There are those who can balance the
hunt for a suitable internship alongside
academic work, social and sporting activ-
ities. However, there are also those who
will struggle with the balance that such
a schedule demands. It is necessary
for these individuals to realise that not
all aspects of the university experience
need to be juggled at once.
Internships provide a good deal of expe-
rience in the ‘real world’, with the prom-
ise of a salary providing students with a
significant incentive (especially with the
spectre of student loans awaiting grad-
uates). However, they are by no means
the be all and end all. Despite the lat-
est unemployment figures leading to the
perception that internships will give you
a head start, employers will also be im-
pressed by a dedication to college life,
or relevant experience towards the line of
work you take interest in – not necessar-
ily the first class honours you achieved.
It is important to remember that not
every aspect of university leads towards
your future after graduation. This is why
the comments such as those made this
week by the Arts & Entertainment Board
on the issue of bar night policy must be
admired. The fact that club chairs have
a common goal towards the improvement
of social events is a testament to the
thriving extra-curricular side of Imperial
that is often overlooked by many. Gain
relevant experience for the future if you
are able, but make sure to find this not
only in the workplace, but elsewhere too.
FELIX
The path to graduation:
not all about internships
filling and productive way to live, and
even the religious pay attention to this
fact. I do not know a religious person
that honestly conducts themselves as
if this earth is some sort of trial, one
big cosmic joke to which the punch
line comes in the form of slavery to the
almighty God who so graciously gave
us life in the first place. Only once you
fully realise that this life is the only one
that you’re going to get are you able to
look upon the face of true freedom and
embrace your ultimate independence.
“ ”
Taking part in this
everlasting horror show
isn’t something that I could
possibly wish on my worst
enemy, let alone myself.
Want to stop
obnoxiously titled
comment pieces
like the one
opposite going
in?
Why not write for us then!
Send your submissions in to:
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

