FELIX Friday 21 october 2011 19
COMMENT
I
don’t know if you’ve heard, but
there’s an exhibition on at the
V&A at the moment. You know,
that nice building on the other
side of Exhibition road – the
one that has “art” and “design” in it. If
you’re a fresher, and you haven’t paid it
a visit yet, that’s fair enough. I do sug-
gest you go at some point in your next
three (or four) years – it’s just across the
street, and you’d be surprised at how
refreshing a bit of “something that isn’t
science” can be. If you’re not a fresher,
and you haven’t been yet, go – if only
to ogle at/try and chat up one of the fit
art students taking notes at the latest
exhibition (also it’s a refreshing change
from Imperial).
I was at the V&A at the weekend – not
for the above reasons – for their new ex-
hibition on postmodernism. Before you
stop reading this in disgust, let me just
say two things: this is not a review of
the exhibition, because I know next to
nothing about art, and what the fuck is
postmodernism? Your guess is as good
as mine, mate.
Maybe the exhibition could pro-
vide an answer? The main thing I got
out of wandering through weirdly lit,
high-ceilinged rooms for an hour and
a half was this: No-one effing knows
what postmodernism is. Apparently,
you can ask fifty different people who
Tim Arbabzadah
Indy Leclercq
Would I be THIS hot with glasses? Meh.
Postmodernism... wait, don’t run away!
are knowledgeable about this kind of
thing and you’ll get fifty different an-
swers. Fifty different “valid” answers. It
makes my physicist brain start twitch-
ing nervously; which is, apparently, the
whole point. So, there’s a word describ-
ing something that everyone (read: art
boffins) can relate to but that no-one can
really define. Honestly, as far as intel-
lectual abstraction and weird concepts
go, quantum mechanics has nothing on
postmodernism.
One way of approaching it, I’m told, is
by using modernism as a starting point.
Everything that modernism stands for,
postmodernism wants to subvert, de-
stroy, and turn on its head.
This was pretty evident at the exhi-
bition, with posters, paintings, clothes
and various household items that most
people would call ‘weird’ but are appar-
ently just ‘postmodern’. You can make a
prefab garage with elements of classical
Greek architecture, encase a turntable
and some speakers in industrial con-
crete, or make a chair that only a one-
legged dwarf would be able to fit into
and call all of it postmodern.
You can also make Blade Runner, or
form Kraftwerk: yep, that’s postmod-
ern too. All the weird fashion trends in
the eighties? Bizarre buildings? About
five hundred weird teapots? The word
you’re looking for starts with a ‘p’ and
D
o you wear glasses? It
seems like a decent pro-
portion of the popula-
tion do. If my unscien-
tific, empirical study of
looking around sometimes (leave the
hardcore, well researched science for
lectures) and thinking, “shit, a lot of
people wear glasses” (I’m all eloquent
like that, my parents are very proud)
counts for anything then I have de-
finitive evidence that a non negligible
number of the population wear glasses.
It seems that a lot of people don’t have
20/20 vision. As a side note, that’s a
phrase that I find odd. Anyone who
has good eyes says they have that; but
I thought it was only those with perfect
vision. I guess it’s like the way every-
one over 5ft10 tells you that they’re
6ft.
I think a guy I used to get the train to
school with put it elegantly one cold,
rainy morning when he said: “Having
crap eyes would be well annoying”. At
the time, my eyes weren’t yet “crap”,
so I smirked along with him, laughing
at those inferior specimens of humani-
ty. Then, when I was about 17, it turned
out I needed glasses. Karma’s a bitch.
Now I move on to my dilemma and
why I turned to contact lenses. My
eyesight is not great, but it’s just about
good enough to be able to function
without glasses from a visual stand-
point, although perhaps socially it’s
another story. For example, I know
that things that are blurry shouldn’t be
blurry. I can see that the sign has writ-
ing on it, but I can’t read the writing.
My eyes are such a tease.
Sometimes, I think I’d prefer it if
there was no hope of seeing someone’s
face clearly from a short distance, rath-
er than sharp focus being just about
out of my reach. So, my eyes exist in
an irritating in-between zone. If they
were a bit worse I would resign myself
to the fact that I just don’t have great
eyesight, and if they were slightly bet-
ter I wouldn’t even notice. It’s basi-
cally the optical equivalent of being
in the Friend Zone with that girl/guy
you really like. Thinking about it, the
ultimate all or nothing, win or lose,
glory or failure solution to both prob-
lems probably involves copious con-
sumption of alcohol. I’ve heard horror
stories about LASER eye surgery. If I
ever have that then I’m going medieval
in terms of anesthetic – just in case.
Putting contrived analogies aside for
a second, there is another solution to
the bad eyes that doesn’t involve glass-
es. During the summer, I actually man-
aged to achieve one of the things I had
planned: I tried contact lenses. Saying
that, I did do it right at the end of the
summer, so it’s only a partial victory
for pro-activeness.
Why would I do such a thing when
my current glasses work fine and are
hipsterlicious? I can feel my bespec-
tacled brothers and sisters reading in
disgust, thinking I’m a vain sell out.
Partially true, but also it’s just nice to
not have to carry around glasses and
feel lost if you don’t have them.
I’m not going to say that they have
immediately revolutionized my life.
Mainly because, at the minute, it takes
ends with an ‘n’.
I’m going to attract the ire of many ar-
tistically-inclined people here but to be
honest, it seems to me that while there
may be some justification for it, most
artists and designers just ran out of con-
ventional ideas, took a lot of drugs and
made a bunch of weird “subversive”
shit and sold it for a lot of money. Fair
play to them – even though the whole
thing collapsed under its own weight
when people realised they were paying
$50,000 for a weirdly-shaped coffee
maker.
I do think some postmodernist con-
cepts are relevant to today’s society,
though. Modernism is definitely dead;
there are no more ideals of machine-like
perfection, no more utopias, and fast-
paced art (and society) isn’t based on
reason and scientific thought any more.
Now, superficial style is everything,
art is more about meaning than artistic
skill and the things you see in galleries,
like everything else, are all meant to be
“consumed”.
In conclusi- wait a minute. It makes
sense now: postmodernism is basically
The X Factor.
an extended period of humming the
Rocky theme tune for me to pluck up
the courage to put them in. Also, I
don’t trust myself to be able to remove
them while drunk; wearing them on a
night out is therefore not yet an option.
Hopefully, practice makes perfect.
They do, however, have one trump
card: at first, every time you are wear-
ing them, you think about how awe-
some it is that everything is now essen-
tially in HD without the aid of glasses.
My contact lenses do seem to want to
remind me of this fact, by starting to
go intermittently blurry after I’ve worn
them for a few consecutive hours.
The take home message is this: book
an appointment and try contact lenses.
If you’re squeamish about touching
your eye, don’t worry, a lot of people
are, you’ll get over it. Once you do you
will feel like an absolute boss. Besides,
during the start of term, when work is
at a relative minimum, it is the best
time to take the plunge.
Wait, that last sentence was transfer-
rable advice.
It was either this, or use a picture of Kraftwerk. We figured this wasn’t as
scary

