HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
2 Friday 21 OcTOBER 2011
What’s on
Lolcats of teh week
Charity Week
There are 52 weeks in the year, but only one is Charity
Week. Imperial College ISoc invites you to participate
in the biggest, most exciting and most insane week
at Imperial.
Battle Of The Societies kicks off the week. Expect
hilarious answers and some healthy inter-society com-
petition. During the week, keep an eye out for Char-
ity Week stalls, selling all sorts from milkshakes to
cupcakes. Street, Campus and Tube collections are
an infamous part of Charity Week. Get dressed, get
set… collect!
Ending the jam-packed week is the Charity Week
Dinner. This year the event will be held at the Royal
College of Music! Get dressed for a beautiful evening.
Are you up for a challenge? Then join in on a 54-
mile bike marathon from London to Brighton and feel
the burn! For the girls, we have the 4th annual Smoky
Not Smudgy! This is our ladies-only pampering day.
You are cordially invited to get even more beautiful for
charity.
To join in the fun and find out more, check out the
‘Imperial College Charity Week 2011’ page on Face-
book or follow us on Twitter on @ImperialCW or simply
pick up a bucket from one of our stalls around campus
and go collecting-wild!
The Charity Week buzz is just getting started, are
you ready? Our Arts Editors, not content with bringing
you a whole four pages last week, have
upped the ante to an unholy degree and
have produced a frankly massive five.
They’re pretty mad.
In other news, a handful of individuals
have sent in their opinions on a variety
of issues. While this might not sound too
thrilling, there are six whole pages of rants
and reflections awaiting your perusal.
There’ll be something to suit your tastes,
however outlandish. Big applause all
round, you dedicated lunatics.
PICK OF THE WEEK
Arts and Comment bring out the
big guns in an epic struggle
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2011.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alexandra Nowbar Reporters Katy Bettany Alexander Karapetian Navid Nabijou Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Features
Editors Katherine Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editors Indy Leclercq David Wilson Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Business Editors Beñat
Gurrutxaga Lerma Nina Kearsey Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Mena Music Editors Iñigo Martinez
de Rituerto Stephen Smith Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors Matt Allinson James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Food Editors
Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim Kadhim Shubber Puzzles Captain James Hook Photography Editor
Miles Robertson Copy Editors Zainab Ali Carol Ann Cheah Nina Kearsey Philip Kent Ben Moffatt Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor Ian Wei Simon Worthington
CLASSIFIEDS
Looking for an accurate representation of the Felix office? Think again
Decent sized room in a shared house available in
Hammersmith.
Five minute walk from Barons Court tube station
and a 20 minute cycle to Imperial.
Rent: £82 per week.
Email pr1010@imperial.ac.uk if interested.

