COMMENT
FELIX
20 Friday 21 october 2011
Comment Editors: Sam Horti
Tim Arbabzadah
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Y
ou know, it amazes me
sometimes, the levels
of objectionable shit I
see every day without
feeling the need to write
about it here. The Christian Union’s
latest poster, for instance, which adver-
tised with glee a speaker who is said
to “put the fear of God up atheists”,
using the same reassuring tones that
Crusades-era religious believers were
so good at employing. And yet – no
column on it. I just couldn’t summon
the will to invent new defecation-based
swears that adequately captured the
barrel-scraping depths to which those
shit-gargling evangelists had stooped.
Maybe, I thought, I was getting old. I
was mellowing.
Then a friend of mine forwarded
a link to a Felix article. And after I’d
blacked out with incandescent rage
and laid waste to a small segment of
West Kensington, I found myself with
a desire to write. The article in question
features in last week’s Felix, discuss-
ing the merits of the Jeremy Kyle show
with all the thoughtfulness and under-
standing of a Tory social policy.
As a piece of writing, it makes about
as much sense as the opinions it clum-
sily attempts to shit out onto the page.
Starting off appearing to criticise the
much-maligned talk show for the way
it treats its guests and so on, by the end
of the article the author is praising it
for being such. “It may well be ‘human
bear-baiting’”, he writes, barely visible
on top of his stack of high horses, “but
to be honest it’s funnier than a penguin
Angry Geek
Your meat offends me, deal with it
Low Class versus No Class - Jeremy
Kyle and Felix TV
playing a banjo.” Well, as long as it’s
funny.
It’s probably worth mentioning that
the Jeremy Kyle show is not the best
television show around. Remember,
though, that the production team heav-
ily cherrypick their guests to maximise
whatever effect they’re going for that
week. The one solitary piece of fac-
tual information in the Felix article
explained how some episodes focus on
sob stories, others attempting to ‘re-
solve’ conflict - generally through pok-
ing the guests until one of them snaps
on camera. Once you’ve got the right
guests, the rest is left up to Jeremy him-
self, a man with slightly less charisma
than a dead monitor lizard, and equally
cold-blooded.
Don’t be fooled by the fact that the
show appears to appeal to people ‘be-
low you’, though. The entire show is
designed to make you think it’s tar-
geting someone less classy than you.
That’s the show’s selling point: that
when you watch it, you get to feel su-
perior. Even the Felix article manages
to deduce this with the limited number
of brain cells seemingly available to
the author, noting in conclusion that
“it does wonders for your ego to know
that you will never be as shit a person
as they are”, although this fact is noted
without the appropriate level of irony.
It’s no surprise though. Most of this
article was written on autopilot, spew-
ing out lines repeated so often they’ve
lost all meaning. It’s like Racist Fuck-
wit Bingo. “Leeching off the govern-
ment.” Tick. “Too damn lazy to get a
I
was eating my lunch in the JCR
(two-bean goulash YUM! :D)
and this random guy just comes
and sits down next to me and
starts devouring a greasy
stinky burger. I asked him if he mind-
ed moving because I find the stench of
cooked meat to be nauseating. As you
may have guessed, I’m a vegan. When
I see people eating meat, cheese, cake
or any other food that has come from
animals, I just feel sick. I’m not one of
those in-your-face vegans, but I have
my right to ask someone to move if
they’re going to offend my beliefs.
The guy rudely told me to f**k off, so
I just moved to another table. I wasn’t
going to stoop to his level so I just
walked away. Always ignore a bully ;)
Anyway, I’m not here to preach, I
just want to explain my views. If you
eat stuff that comes from animals, you
are wrong. I’m sorry, but you are. You
can defend your actions as much as
you like by saying that animals don’t
have emotions or can’t feel pain, but
they have rights and you are abusing
them. Don’t worry, I’m not saying that
you can’t eat meat because everyone
has freedom, but you have to know
deep-down that what you are doing is
immoral.
No-one has asked animals if they
can eat their meat or drink their milk.
I don’t go around eating people’s ba-
bies because that would be frowned
on and I would go to prison, but it’s
no different to eating animals. The
other day I was on my uncle’s farm
when some chicks were hatching and
I just couldn’t understand why any-
one would want to murder those little
cuties. When you look in their eyes
there is something there, like an unex-
plainable connection. I think the baby
chickens have just as much a soul
as we do – along with loads of other
animals.
Some people argue that eating the
eggs of chickens (or ducks, or other
birds) doesn’t harm them in anyway,
job.” Tick. “They need educating”.
House! What do I win, George? Oh, it’s
a fundamental misunderstanding of the
foundation of equality that modern so-
ciety is built on. Hooray!
I’m tired. I’m tired of bullshit like
this, and having to excuse my own
fucking institution when talking to oth-
er people. That friend that sent me the
article? He goes to Aberdeen Univer-
sity. The only reason he saw this article
was because it got linked to on a major
Internet forum that decried it as hor-
rific and insulting - which it is. While
it thrills me to have something to be so
riled by, and it pleases me that Felix
can still print student opinion no matter
how moronic, I think it’s time for some
of us to take a step back and actually re-
examine the world we’re living in.
I don’t expect people who are edu-
cated enough to study at Imperial,
and interested enough to sign up for
a course based on science, reason and
intellect, to be writing in their student
paper espousing the merits of inequal-
ity and holier-than-thou fuckwittery. I
know I detest almost every single one
of you fuckers, but I do that anyway.
That’s a baseline. You don’t have to
aspire towards that goal by being the
biggest horse cock you can possibly be.
So maybe next week we could have a
TV section about actual television, and
I’ll try and have a comment column
about how funny it is when geologists
pretend they’re actually doing science.
That way, no-one has to be sterilised.
but if you think about it, it’s sort of
stealing. No-one has asked the chick-
en if you can take her eggs and I read
this article once that said that they
have tested chicken’s stress levels af-
ter stealing their eggs and it goes up!
I don’t think I could eat an omelette
knowing that there is a stressed chick-
en on my hands.
Anyway, that’s my little piece over.
Like I say, I have opinions and I’m
not expecting you to read my articles
if you don’t like them, so there is no
need to post nasty comments about my
articles on the Felix website. I don’t
mind constructive criticism, but I
won’t read your abusive comments :)
Gurl With Opinions
Apparently he likes to lick things clean. This is an innuendo-free caption

