COMMENT
Yes – Alexander Karapetian No – Alexandra Nowbar
W
e shouldn’t be so quick to react
negatively towards the recent
intention to change towards
the American style system of
having a Grade Point Average
(GPA) by UCL. Students under the UK classifica-
tion system are often under great pressures to attain
a degree with 2:1 or above, with those not doing
so risking slipping completely under the radar of
potential employers.
TheAmerican system awards degrees with grades
worked out from the average of the results of all
courses taken. The grades are numerically represen-
tative of performance, more so than simply ‘’2:1’’,
where one could be within the range of 60% to 69%,
a large difference in academic performance. The
system also allows for ranking within a cohort, of-
fering honours such as Salutatorian and Valedicto-
rian for the second highest and highest respectively.
I disagree with such rankings, however, since this
would discourage student cooperation and would
increase competition, adding another pressure to
the myriad already present in typical university life.
Aspects such as a numerical GPA can be used
to the student’s advantage when looking for a job.
Under the American system, since students associ-
ate their degree modules with majors and minors,
one could recalculate their GPA using only classes
within the major (e.g. for very specific job applica-
tions relevant to the major or to look more attractive
by eliminating minors which may bring the aver-
age down). Applying this kind of system in the UK
would provide pros and cons in a threefold manner.
Firstly, it would allow for employers to get a bet-
ter feel for how well a student performed over their
degree course on average. They would be able to
distinguish between a borderline and comfortable
first, useful in pruning the 70 from the 90 per cents.
The disadvantage to this is that an average student
who endeavoured tirelessly to bag a first with 70%
or so will not be able to consider themselves safely
in the same league as those in the 90s. Perhaps this
is the right way forward though.
The second element to consider if this system
were widely implemented in the UK is that employ-
ers would then be compelled to consider a GPA as
criteria for selection, rather than simply the top two
degree classifications. By setting the bar reason-
ably, one would hope this could prevent the unlucky
students who narrowly miss a 2:1 from feeling like
their degree was a waste of time. Also, those who
would normally obtain third class honours could
still be taken into consideration, since reshuffling
modules in the calculation could allow the blow of
a low GPA score to be somewhat softened.
Lastly, one factor pushing UCL to consider the
switch to GPAstyle scoring is grade inflation. Does
a first from 2010 carry the same weight as one from
1994? Are students getting better/exams getting
easier? That’s another discussion in itself, but it
should be noted that with a GPA system using class
ranking, grade inflation is eliminated. It is particu-
larly evident that an increasing amount of British
students are leaving for American universities. In
the US, students can keep their options open by
way of choosing minor courses alongside their ma-
jors. Although this can be said to exist in the UK,
the choices are severely limited in comparison. A
student would not have to choose their major until
the end of the second year in the US.
One could argue that costs remain a significant
factor deterring students from the American uni-
versities. However, it remains a little known fact
that many British students will qualify for help
as the British are relatively less well off than the
Americans. A student with family income of
£32,000 ($60,000) or below will have zero to pay
towards fees, accommodation and even an annual
flight back home. Students with a family income
at the UK threshold for aid from grants (£37,425)
will still only have to pay a few hundred pounds,
and those with incomes up to £64,000 still receive
aid from US universities. While the US certainly
has more elite universities in the world’s top 20,
the UK’s strong position for such a smaller coun-
try and population in world rankings must not be
overlooked. The US degrees last longer, and UK
students can be said to study a more focused cur-
riculum with the added intensity of a shorter space
of time.
Although my personal opinion remains against
implementing the GPA system in the UK since I
appreciate the prestige associated with first class
degrees and feel many benefit from the masked
percentages and employment securities attached to
the current system, I do believe the American style
system has its merits and could be the key to a pro-
gressive, internationally unified university system.
I
’m here to advocate the British university
system. It should be a walk in the park –
Hyde, not Central. And yes, that was about
as hilarious as Gurl With Opinion’s article
from last week was profound. She (or the
troll) informs us that boys are magnetized by their
confidence. I imagine boys reading her pearls of
wisdom will be sceptical about this presumption
and perhaps wonder why a girl so confident would
not reveal her identity. But that aside (wouldn’t
want to make too much of a fuss in case it was a
troll), I expect my side of the argument to be easy
to the point of thinking I could get away with any
old ramble. However, there’s been too much daft
writing of late so I will make an effort to present
a strong case that focuses on undergraduate study.
The first hurdle to consider is the obvious fi-
nancial burden of studying in the US: a minimum
of 4 years’ study for an undergraduate degree at
around £30,000 per year. That’s a lot to fork out
without the help of a loan. That’s not to say a stu-
dent wouldn’t get a government loan, it’s just that
the US Department of Education want the money
back at a rate of 3.4%. Yes, that’s a preferential
rate when compared to ordinary loans but back in
Blighty the rate, which used to be 0%, is currently
a meagre 1.5%. These British handouts may not
be sustainable, especially with our current level
of graduate unemployment, but in the current eco-
nomic climate I might venture that student loans
are water under the bridge. For the sake of the issue
in hand (and my mental health) we won’t worry
about any of that.
In my naivety, I’d expect the next hurdle for a
high school graduate to be what subject to do but
not on your nanny. We may not be fond of our ob-
ligation to choose a subject of undergraduate study
in sixth form, but far better to decide then than to
float around university aimlessly taking random
classes. In the US a student commonly would not
have to declare their “major” until the end of their
third “semester” and even then a large proportion
of students change their minds! At Harvard Uni-
versity, for example, a third of undergraduates
change their fields after this declaration. Think
how much time these students must be wasting.
The well-defined pathways in the British higher
education system help students maintain focus.
And undergraduate students are known to be sus-
ceptible to indecision and easy distraction; more
choice is not necessarily a good thing. At Imperial,
people can, and do, change courses, but only very
occasionally. Perhaps this is because we aren’t be-
ing bombarded with temptation from a wide range
of classes.
I hope no one gives me nonsense about the
Americans thus becoming more cultured and well-
rounded because ultimately a student can’t really
be a jack of all trades; whether it’s before or after
university, we will all have to settle down and pick
a career path. In theory there is nothing wrong with
doing a minor but I feel that our system of hav-
ing some optional modules within a course is more
logical; there, a science student could take an Eng-
lish minor or an art class and because these would
still be worth credits (i.e. doing well matters) they
would take equal priority to studying for the major.
I believe other interests really ought to be pursued
externally.
Speaking of other interests, I imagine the sport-
ier British student might envy Americans because
of their college level sports. Americans have defi-
nitely tilted the balance in favour of promoting
sport but I suspect they have gone too far. It is
sometimes said that achievements on the field can
outweigh academic achievements on admission to
some American universities. There is a great deal
of pressure on universities in the US for their sport
teams to do well, so one can understand why they
recruit in this way. But that’s not all. The real scan-
dal is the escalation of sponsorship of in college
football (American football) and the reported cor-
ruption. So let’s not be too jealous, I’m convinced
that us ‘Brits’ don’t adopt the same obsession with
winning and thus cheat or break the rules.
UCL deciding to offer GPAs as an alternative
to the degree classification disappointed me, ini-
tially because I’m a patriot so I’d rather fix any
purported issues within the current system than
adopt the American way, but also in part because
the continual monitoring reeks of primary and sec-
ondary education. So-called grade inflation can be
countered by simply relaying one’s actual marks
and this is not unheard of in the job market.
If Gurl With Opinions is speaking her ridiculous
mind,IfiguredI’dbetterspeakmyslightlymoresensi-
bleone,lestpeoplelosefaithinwomankindaltogether.
Sadly, I’m not sure much can be done to redeem her.
Could the American university system
work here?
FELIX Friday 21 october 2011 21
“
”
… the American style
system has its merits
and could be the
key to a progressive,
internationally unified
university system
“ ”
The well-defined
pathways in the British
higher education
system help students
maintain focus

