COMMENT
FELIX
22 Friday 21 october 2011
Comment Editors: Sam Horti
Tim Arbabzadah
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
E
quality is based on the
mathematical equation. x =
x, y = y, there’s no 2 ways
about it. It has to be the
same quantity, size, value
etc. When applied to people, it refers
to the state of being equal, especially in
status, rights and opportunities. What it
does not take into consideration is the
difference between people, their role in
the world, their characteristics – their
individuality. It turns human beings into
numbers and equations, in order to suit
the logistics, to make it easy for law-
makers. On the other hand, fairness in-
volves taking into consideration a per-
son’s needs, his/her background – his/
her individuality. It treats human beings
as more than just numbers and equa-
tions, it treats them as individuals with
emotions, beliefs and morals.
Take the famous battle of the sexes.
Men and women are not the same, they
are different: they have different emo-
tional and physical needs, different
Mahfooz Hasan
Did you know I once saw John Cleese
in a curry house?
When Equality is Unfair
ways of thinking, different way of doing
things etc. Providing them with equal
resources and treating them as equals
is at times unfair. For example, giving
both men and women one month paren-
tal leave is unfair. A woman needs to go
through a great deal more during preg-
nancy, child-birth, and after the child
is born. Egalitarianism would suggest
an equal time off for both parents, but
anyone with any sort of logical think-
ing would agree that women should be
given a longer maternal leave than men
get for paternal leave. Equality can at
times be unfair, and to exercise a fair
system one must look at the individual-
ity of a person, rather than just looking
at people as numbers and equations.
Let’s look at a more controversial
example: wages. Almost everywhere
you will see that employees of the same
grade are paid equal salary. For exam-
ple, all sales assistants in a supermarket
will be paid x amount of money, so as
to comply with equality laws, and at
T
his one sentence can kick-
off a near-endless conver-
sation of who saw who,
where and doing what.
Like them or loathe them,
celebrities do get people talking. Off
the top of my head, I can’t think of
any other use they might have. Every
day it gets easier to gossip – not just
because of The News of the World’s
standard journalistic practices – but
also because of the sheer abundance
of celebrities in our society today.
The only celebrities I had when I
was growing were Eric Cantona, Kon-
nie Huq and Leonardo from the Su-
perhero Mutant Ninja Turtles. Now
there are more celebrities than there
are particles in the universe. Part of
the reason for this is that the entry re-
quirements for becoming a celebrity
have been severely lowered. Instead
of being a great athlete; successful
musician or actor; or a superhero role-
model, celebrity status is endowed on
anyone who has been on half an epi-
sode of X-Factor or Big Brother. Hon-
orary celebrity status is even granted
to the siblings of celebrities, regard-
less of their talent, or lack thereof.
While I do worry that this is rais-
ing a culture of entitlement and that
fame is an ends unto itself, I can go
about my daily life more or less nor-
mally. Celebrities are other people.
What really concerns me is where this
trend is heading. Another reason why
we have so many celebrities today is
that yesterday’s celebrities (providing
they haven’t slipped into the limbo
of obscurity) are still around, mix-
ing with the celebrities of today. The
celebrities of tomorrow will have to
mingle with both of these earlier spe-
cies, while more continue to be made.
The Earth can only support so many
people: it will positively groan under
so many egos.
If the cult of celebrity continues to
grow at this rate, I predict that there
will come a point where everything
flips. It’ll happen when there are more
celebrities than “normal” people. By
virtue of their rarity, the normal peo-
ple will be the new celebrities. For a
while, more traditional celebrities will
continue to be pumped out, elevating
the status of the “normals” who are
left. Suddenly, celebrity magazines
will begin pandering to them, so that
the celebrities can find out how dress,
eat and exercise like a ‘normal’ per-
son.
That’s only the tip of the pendulum
though. Once TV producers cotton on
to the reversed social order, they’ll
start making shows where celebrities
are turned into ordinary people. The
prizes would br grandiose: one million
pounds! – removed from your estate.
Then the biographies and tabloid con-
fessionals would come out, the truth
in first edition. Celebrities will admit
to all the drugs they haven’t taken, all
the people they haven’t slept with, all
the outrageous behaviour that they
might have exaggerated a teeny bit.
The greatest revelation will be that
first glace this appears to be fair and
just. But if we consider the individual-
ity of the persons working in that post,
we see that the output varies from per-
son to person. Not everyone is equally
motivated, equally skilled or equally
honest – not everyone has the same
characteristics. An employee who puts
forth double the effort, and sells double
the quantity of stock is paid the same as
an employee who puts in a luck-lustre
effort and couldn’t care less about how
many products the shop is selling. In
hindsight, surely, that looks like a poor
deal for the employee who actually
wants to work.
Conventional wisdom suggests that
unequal salary would cause friction and
jealousy in workplace, but in truth an
equal salary system is worse. It infuri-
ates the hard-working employees, who
feel aggrieved that colleagues that are
putting in less effort are paid the same
salary. It can bother them so much that
they eventually slack off themselves.
Research shows that this breeds
more envy, and produces lower morale
amongst employees than there would
be in an unequal wage environment.
Furthermore, an equal salary means
there is no longer a monetary incentive
to exceed in your job. Employees also
perceive the equal wage system as less
fair, and this perception will lead to de-
creased efficiency in the workplace.
Of course, there are times when
equality is fair. For example, men and
women should be given equal opportu-
nities to pursue a good education and a
career of their choice. But perhaps we
should not be so fixated on the ideol-
ogy that equality solves discriminatory
problems. Perhaps discrimination at
certain times provides the solution for
some of the problems; discrimination
based on people’s work ethic, their ef-
fort and their honesty. Equality at times
is unfair, and we should seek to be a
society that aspires to be fair, not to be
equal.
Charlie Sheen is actually a practicing
Methodist.
I can’t imagine what will happen af-
ter this great reversal, nor can I think
of a way that it can be avoided. Celeb-
rity begets more celebrity. They feed
on the fuel of interest, and can only
die when that fuel is exhausted. But
we’ll never stop talking about celebri-
ties. How do I know? I don’t even care
for them and I’ve spent the whole of
this article talking about them!
Rhys Davies
I’m going to show her my Ohhh face
I would like to make it clear
that this article is not a vent
for my disappointment at
being the one person in the
UK not to have their phone
hacked by The News of the
World. Although, I am quite
insulted at not being hacked.
Don’t you know who I am?

