COMMENT
FELIX Friday 21 october 2011 23
T
his is an irrelevant time of
the year for this article. As
usual, my timing is wrong
(must set a reminder to be
in sync with the rest of the
herd). Thoughts and hopes of gradu-
ation begin to emanate at about early
May to late June, sparkly spring seems
to set in motion a chain of celebration.
Then, reality hits: you still have to get
through those exams.
Without much smugness (but a bit
of an irritating smirk), the exams have
been completed. A flurry of revision
tape recordings completed, trying out
every accent possible to make enzymes’
mechanisms and odd bits of biochemis-
try sound as exciting as possible, hoping
the subconscious would absorb facts.
To say I hate my squeaky voice would
be an understatement. I’ve had enough
of listening to myself, and so will you
by the end of this article.
Reminiscing about revision and ex-
ams is fun: in hindsight you can laugh
off the laws of thermodynamics on the
bathroom door, and the diagrams of
molecules and mechanisms on the ceil-
ing so that every morning DNA heli-
case was staring at you. Biochemistry
was, for me, basically two years spent
studying proteins, and one year in the
Management School, to deal with the
trauma.
I graduated in 2010. Let it be simpli-
fied … graduation is an anti-climax.
Faye Hemsley
Anum Farooq
Is the Imperial stereotype true?
My life after graduation
Suddenly, you venture out in the big,
wide world to try and figure out life, not
unlike Bambi. Yet, there are no more
hoops to jump through, no more do
this coursework or pass that exam; no
more levels of this academic adventure,
or that fluorescent light bulb moment.
The chains that reined in the horse are
removed, and suddenly … whoosh. The
horse doesn’t know where to go. Why
isn’t there someone telling you what to
do!?
After Imperial, everything is easy -
working, mastering, projecting. That’s
why being an alumnus and being in-
volved in gazillion different projects is
the norm. Or perhaps, some of us are
those strange species of workaholics
who are actually addicted to (and might
I add in confession, get an adrenalin
rush out of) working, projecting, and
hobbying (as well as opinionating).
With your shiny degree, you would
think you know a lot, have seen a lot,
and damn the world – you’re going to
make it through. Eventually, you mature
and actually grow up. For real this time.
As you realise, there is so much to
learn, and not enough hours in the day
to get everything done, but despite ev-
erything you still make time for the im-
portant stuff. You also learn to handle
ironing: smooth and without creases.
In retrospect, if I had to do my degree
all over again, I would be fearless, take
part in a lot more activities, branch out
S
o it’s two weeks in, and
things aren’t going as you
planned. It isn’t exactly
how it was sold to you.
Sure, you’ve been out
most nights, met a million people you
can’t remember, been a bit of a tour-
ist and burnt a few meals. But you’ve
also missed more 9am lectures than
you made it to, piled up a mountain of
work, and have come to realise that you
are no longer one of the elite. Yes, you,
the geek extraordinaire with a billion A
levels, are average. You’ve finally met
a group of like-minded people, and all
it’s done is deflate your ego. You’re just
a fish in a very large pond, more like a
lake actually, maybe the Serpentine in
Hyde Park now you mention it.
You’ve walked past the library (to
find something to eat after you’ve
somehow burnt your spag bol), and
noticed the pale, hopeless faces of the
masses already stacked inside. Why are
they all still working at 1am? Do they
know something you don’t? Why didn’t
they tell you it would be so hard? Sud-
denly, you miss your mum, the dog and
even the batty old neighbour next door.
Relax. In two more weeks you won’t
remember this freak out. You’ll feel
like you’ve known your new friends
your whole life, and won’t know how
you ever lived without them. The li-
brary will become your new haunting
ground – so many floors to socialise
on, it’s a good job it’s open twenty-four
hours. Right now, everything is new.
You’re settling in. Hold off on that
tuition fee refund request. Look just
a little closer, and you’ll see things
differently. Those people stacked in
there? They’re on Facebook; their
flat-mate forgot to call for Sky Broad-
band. Their faces are hopeless be-
cause they’re more hung-over than
they ever imagined possible. It was
their society social last night, and the
night before that it was a house party
of an acquaintance. Everyone eats in
the library café, not because they’re
chained to the library, but because in
the middle of South Ken, it’s a pret-
ty cheap option. See how easily that
dreary image dissolves? Now it seems
Imperial really is just like any other
Uni.
Sure I probably shouldn’t write
anything disparaging about Imperial;
you’ve only just started and it’s intimi-
dating enough without listening to a
disillusioned third year. But I decided,
as with most things in life, that honesty
is the best policy. University is over-
whelming, but it’s also the best thing
you will ever do in your life. Yes we’ve
all heard the myths about Imperial. We
all know the stereotype. Let’s take a
moment to look at it anyway. Imagine
him:
1. He’s painfully introverted. Then
why is everyone walking around in
and actually enjoy my time at Imperial.
In fact, I should’ve regularly gone to
Mindy Lee’s art workshops in Blythe,
and been more proactive on the History
of Art humanities course in the twenti-
eth century liaison at UCL, as well as
communicating with fellow humans a
LOT more. Shyness gets you nowhere,
neither does awkwardness, neither does
geekiness for that matter.
When you start your degree, and
throughout it, just remember a little
fact: you’re still a baby. Focus on your
studies and appreciate that your parents
and lecturers care about you. In the real
world, you’ll grow up fast enough.
In a bittersweet way, graduating is a
process in the coming of age ceremo-
nies. Welcome to the real world, inde-
pendence, toughness, explorations and
the make-a-difference-to-the-world-
especially-now-Mother-Teresa-is-no-
longer-with-us feeling. Don’t forget
you’re a citizen of our society - define
it and make positive ripples in the pond,
before you explore the ocean as a grown
up. Even if you still sleep with the light
on.
groups? Surely they’d all be friendless?
Why is Queen’s Lawn always hum-
ming with chatter? Even in summer
term when exam timetables demand we
are our most anti-social?
2. He’s Einstein bright. That Keeno
from the front row of your lectures
won’t get grades any higher than yours.
Promise. It’s just how he rolls.
3. He’s definitely male. You’re not re-
ally reading this article then, because I
can’t be from Imperial if I’m a girl, and
I can’t be a girl if I’m from Imperial.
Obviously.
Imperial-schmerial. The stereotype is
largely myth, but that won’t stop us all
from propagating it. The truth though,
is that Imperial is up there with the best.
It’s going to work as hard for you over
your lifetime as you do for it in those
four short undergraduate years. It’s
worth working hard at having fun here.
Congratulations on arriving/returning
for 2011/2012. Make it count!
Keep your gowns on if you’re unemployed. Thug life

