Artists descend as Regent’s Par
FELIX
26
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal Mena
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 OCTOBER 2011
Picture the scene: Regent’s Park on a sunny Satur-
day afternoon. Families are out, the squirrels are be-
ing pretty inquisitive and the pedal boats on the lake
are politely bumping into each other. In the middle
of it all, a sprawling white structure with a pretty
weird wooden entrance, out of which snakes a long
queue. Next to it sits the entrance for people who al-
ready have tickets - little groups of stylishly dressed
(to not use the word arty) people filter into the airy
white tent in pretty excited fashion.
Welcome to Frieze art fair.
I have slowly been discovering the world of con-
temporary art over the past couple of years, and
trying (but generally failing) to “get” it. I thought
that going to Frieze, and seeing how the art world
works for myself, might help the process somewhat
– it would also be a chance to see the very bleeding
edge in contemporary art and see what artists are up
to at the moment. If you’re still wondering what it is,
Frieze art fair is an annual event that brings together
the biggest galleries and collectors in the world to
showcase (and sell) the latest contemporary art.
Why is it such a big deal?
For starters, it’s pretty big. Walking in, you get
an impression of bustle, and a sort of unfocused
purpose – everyone is walking around, observing
the artworks (and each other), emitting an opinion,
taking pictures. In fact, to the layman, that is what
sets it apart from any old museum exhibition at first
glance: people are snapping away at the things they
like, and the interest in some pieces is tangible.
The sheer size of the place gets to you after a
arts editors, I began wandering around.
Describing what I saw would take a catalogue,
or rather more simply, a camera. There was so
much on display, spanning so many artistic influ-
ences, sub-genres and mediums of expression, that
it would be impossible to sum it up.
Posters, sculptures, videos, collages…the (in)
famous boat (exemplifying “ready-made art”,
apparently), the shadow-of-a-banana-that-is-sup-
posed-to-look-like-a-wine-bottle or even a pair of
turntables playing random static in a loop were all
“art”, and it was all for sale.
I enjoyed it a lot, though. Stepping through the
entrance was like entering a parallel world, where
the usual rules don’t apply. For contemporary art-
ists, it’s all about capturing an idea, drawing at-
tention to something that is usually overlooked, or
seeing something from a different angle. This can
lead to the creation of pieces that can either strike
a strong chord with the viewer or that just seem
very silly. The beauty of an event on the scale of
Frieze is that there will almost always be a piece
for everyone (check out our favourites on these
pages).
I’m still not sure I “get” contemporary art – but
Frieze has made me eager to see more.
Personally, one of my favourite pieces was ‘So-
“I’m still not sure I ‘get’
contemporary art - but
Frieze has made me eager
to see more”
Indy Leclercq
A Saturday afternoon in the park
lar Catastrophe’ by Jennifer Allora and Guillermo
Calzadilla a collaborative duo who represented
the USA at this year’s Venice biennale. A collage
of broken solar cells on canvas, arranged to form a
geometric pattern, it was very striking visually but
also served as a reminder that while progress has
been made, solar panels have been touted as a big
source of renewable energy for a while without
there having been that much concrete progress.
Trouser presses and biros are not friends
Frieze Art Fair 101: A novice’s impressions
Carsten Nikolai’s work deals with the
underlying randomness of life, and the
beauty that it can occasionally give rise to.
His work on grids, published in a book that
can only be described as art, is fascinating
and beautiful. Grid Index is the product of
long research into the codes that rule over
the production of grids and patterns. The
unpredictability is what I find most appeal-
ing – a grid with a regular patter develops
areas of absolute but wonderful madness.
Also at Frieze was a series of works
called ‘batterie random dot’, made in
2011. Glass plates with positive and nega-
tive transparent prints of entirely random
dots were placed on top of each other.
Only some dots are visible from the top
and therefore, the rest of the work remains
an unsolvable mystery.
I am not entirely sure why the works of
Carsten Nikolai appeal so to my aesthetic
tastes. Perhaps because their simplicity
is deceptive - one is first drawn in by the
elegance and perfection, and only later be-
gins to understand the concealed mean-
ing.
Carsten Nikolai
That’s strange, Google Maps says this is Starbucks
Commissioned specially for Frieze Art Fair, Elena Bajo’s piece ‘The Pervasive Element’ was carefully planned and executed to engaging
result. A long piece of cardboard, which was placed on the grounds of Regent’s Park during the construction of the massive tent that was
to house Freize, was picked up by the artist and rolled up. It contained the imprinted footsteps of the workers who had walked over it in
that period. In a way, ‘The Pervasive Element’ was a time capsule; it captured not only a moment in time, but also a sentiment that was
certainly no longer present at Frieze by the time the VIPs rolled around. A beautifully edited and collaged newspaper detailing the installa-
tion was handed out to the public – a free and very special souvenir (you even had to pay for water at Frieze).
Elena Bajo at D + T Project
Idris Khan at Victoria Miro Gallery
I really loved the piece by Khan at Victoria Miro. It con-
sisted of photographs of musical scores, which had then
been layered over one another to create a blurred effect.
Khan simulates the lives of musicians using their musical
scores. For example, he created a piece in 2005, using
Beethoven’s sonatas, in which their layered photographs
eventually created a wall of almost total blackness, sym-
bolising Beethoven’s deafness. Khan also borrows from
books, as well as using his own words, to create works
that perhaps bring different aspects of the original work
to light. Unfortunately, there were few pieces by him at
Frieze, but what was exhibited certainly made the cut.
ARTS
while. Picking up a map at the entrance, it doesn’t
seem that big; when you realize that in an hour
you’ve only seen 5 galleries out of the 173 present-
ing work, the fact that it’s set over four days makes
sense. The fair is laid out as a series of stands (which
cover about 20 square meters on average), all num-
bered and set up in neat rows. Despite the orderli-
ness, it’s all a bit daunting to the neophyte. Armed
with recommendations from your ever-dependable

