rk Friezes over
FELIX Friday 21 OCTOBER 2011 27
ARTS
Frieze Art Fair - the 21st century’s an-
swer to the Field of the Cloth of Gold
– pitched up in Regent’s Park last
week for its ninth year. Drawing gal-
leries from not just the major art hubs
but from the world over, they come
to present the best of their wares – a
shopping opportunity for a (predomi-
nantly Russian) few, for the rest of us,
a chance to bask in an abundance of
the foremost in contemporary art.
It’s the meeting of diverse minds
that makes Frieze unique. Individual
galleries bring their own eclectic col-
lections, adding to the broader tapes-
try of the occasion. From the irrever-
ent humour of Elmgreen & Dragset’s
life-like baby asleep in its cot outside
a hotel room door (complete with “do
not disturb” sign hanging from the
handle) to the more cynical humour
of Michael St John’s Bathroom Wall
Stall, a collage of corporate distaste
and pop culture (scrawled with an
unintentionally Frankie Boyle-esque
‘haunted pussy’), Freize touches ev-
ery shade in the spectrum. And even
beyond into the darker extreme, the
pure cynicism of Andra Ursuta’s de-
flated, semen-spattered, Crush, crip-
plingly detailed complete with wispy
pubes has a fascinating gloom that
makes it hard to look away from.
If that could be described as sub-
lime, then Takeshi Murata’s psyche-
delic Popeye Zoetrope was certainly
ridiculous. His acid-trip trompe l’oeil
of tens of Day-Glo Popeye figurines
spinning in a box of dimensions
that shift as you view it from differ-
ent angles was about as close as the
art world gets to legal LSD. Slightly
less colourful was Rashid Rana’s mo-
saic of a busy South Asian junction
made up entirely of postage stamp-
sized monochrome pictures of itself
at different times of day. The notion
of small snapshots, moments in time,
building to create a deeper, inherent
story indulged the latent physicist in
me.
Taking a step back from the works
themselves, it’s intriguing to observe
the personalities of the different pop-up
galleries, and more so the trends in taste
between nationalities. Contributors from
London and New York dominate and
collectively illustrate the differences in
artistic palate either side of the pond.
The Modern Institute of Glasgow
presented a selection of Jeremy Del-
ler’s reverential posters that combined
punchy Carmen Miranda colours with
a clean-cut, quintessentially British
design, in homage to Keith Moon,
Paul Gascoigne and the Happy Mon-
days, amongst others.
The whole affair is something for
the eyes to savour, much sweeter than
the sum of its parts, that stretches well
beyond just the installations. For the
moments when bouts of Stendahl’s
kick in, the array of edible treats that
awaits is sure to bring even the most
weary of gallery-trawler round (Cu-
rator Sarah McCrory on the topic of
whether she had her eye on anything:
“a nice lunch at Hix”) and in the un-
likely event you find nothing to your
tastes, the people-watching justifies
the entry fee alone.
For the few hours I pounded the
So, I was rather surprised at the incredible abundance of what can only be described as cartoony drawings. Some are
quite pretty, but most of them look identical and are thus ultimately forgettable. At Jack Hanley gallery NY for example,
everything was a cartoon. There were some nice things – Chris Johansson’s line of colourfully dressed people, Simon
Evans’ interpretation of the constellations…
There were even small books on offer, containing the illustrations of various artists. I wanted one – they were kind of
sweet – but I did not spend three pounds on them which may or may not mean something. In spite of their undeniable
appeal, they only served to further the notion that those drawings were more like illustrations, which I would be happy to
encounter in any novel, but which have to be truly wonderful if they are to be classed as Art.
Cartoony drawings? Are they Art? In any case, why the hell were there so many of them?
Time flies like an arrow; fruit floats like a Turner Prize winner
Benetton ads before the age of colour photography
Being Earl’s body double was tiring work They thought the complete Stairway to Heaven was a bit too expensive
Ryaaaaaaaaan, that’s the last time I lend you my glue
Frieze floor, I wouldn’t have guessed
that we were waist-deep in a reces-
sion, except possibly for Michael
Landy’s contraption that shreds your
credit cards and gives you a felt-pen
spirograph in return. It’s a lavish spec-
tacle that offers the chance to bathe
in the works of those who will no
doubt fill the art history textbooks of
the near future. Regrettably, if you’re
reading this, the Frieze tent will have
been packed up for this year and the
gallerists will back flown off back to
their respective corners of the globe.
I realize it’s all very well saying this
now, but do bear Frieze in mind this
time next year. Whether an art-fan, an-
thropologist or occasional celeb-spot-
ter, Frieze, like hijacking a supermar-
ket trolley, is just one of those things
that all of us should do at least once.
James Richards at Rodep Gallery
Amongst the influx of Middle Eastern and Turkish galler-
ies to Frieze Art Fair, Rodeo Gallery (Istanbul) stood out
with a beautiful stand. James Richards’ work, which con-
sisted of two wall hangings made from little rubber badg-
es, each carrying the words ‘The Best Of – The Worst Of’
simultaneously and interchangeably. One of the beauties
of modern art, of all art really, is that you can ascribe what-
ever meaning you want to it. I took this piece to be about
the interchangeable nature of most things in life – gath-
ered up neatly into two blue and yellow wall hangings.
Will Prince

