FELIX
28
Poem for the Week
ARTS
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal Mena
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 October 2011
29/09/11
by Osas Omoigiade
Ohh Facebook why did you change
Why couldn’t you remain the same
It seems you’re always trying to alter your face
Though it ends with things being out of place?
I remember your first facial just last fall
Left us feeling cheated, exposed, not pleased at
all
And now you do it again – we’re not sure who to
trust
If things keep on this way, we may just turn to
........ +
Why pay for tickets, when you can
get them for free?
Comedy night at the Hoop & Troy, South Kensington
This month Henning Wehn (radio 4 & 5live, Stewart
Lee’s comedy veichle, Edinburgh above and beyond)
and Tez Ilyas (BBC New Act of the year finalist, com-
edy store king gong winner) headline a comedy night
just around the corner from your beloved Imperial
College!
Next Time I’ll Sing To You
The play that launched Michael Caine’s career in
1963 is revived for the 40th birthday season. Press
night Friday 11th November.
There are many more shows,
events, concerts etc that you can
go to for FREEEEEEE! You just
have to write a short review for
them after you go. Email us to
contribute!
Felix Arts is constantly looking for new poets. If you
want to see your work appearing here, do get in
touch. Additionally, those interested in joining Po-
etry Society, contact Osas, at osamudiamen.omoi-
giade09@imperial.ac.uk
Fabulous Fusion
Arrives in London
Imperial is no stranger to big events; you’d
have to have had your head in the sand to not
know what East Meets West is. Now an Imperi-
al postgraduate hopes to bring her experiences
from her previous university to break the mould
with a spectacle that goes above and beyond
anything that has come before.
Led by Angela Udemba, Fusion@London
hopes to bring together the best creative talent
in dance, music and fashion from universities
across London. Calling on students from Im-
perial, Kings and UCL, it plans to combine
the different forms of culture to developing a
novel, holistic experience, all in aid of Cancer
Research UK.
Fusion originally came into being seven
years ago at the University of York and has
since gone from success to success. It was
whilst studying here that Angela first came
across the concept and she admits that she was
surprised to find nothing comparable on her ar-
rival to London. “When I came to Imperial and
I looked to join societies I assumed there must
be something like Fusion because it’s London.
I looked around and there was nothing. A lot
of societies have their own smaller events but
nothing really infuses loads of other societies
and especially nothing integrates other univer-
sities”
And so with a spark in her eye, a little deter-
mination and a desire to give something back
to the charity that sponsors her own doctoral
studies, Angela conceived Fusion@London.
Whilst related to its Northern cousin, Angela
promises something leaner, meaner and more
metropolitan. “London Fusion fuses three dif-
ferent universities, that’s the one major differ-
ence, whereas York was just York. London’s a
lot bigger. We’re looking to book headline acts,
celebrity artists and comperes.”
Coinciding with London Fashion Week 2012,
Fusion intends to serve a little slice of the cat-
walk in its own unique serving style, “In York
they showcase mostly High Street fashion
stores, like Hugo Boss, Mango, River Island,
places like that. We’re still focused on show-
casing student talent; most of our designers
come from London College of Fashion, Central
Saint Martin’s so in that sense we’ve also in-
volved those two universities.”
The grand scale of Fusion gives the perform-
ers the opportunity to work with world-class
artists and designers, something that filters
down to create a world-class show for the rest
of us. “The unique structure of Fusion gives a
more enriching experience than university soci-
eties could provide on their own, stretching be-
yond the boundaries of their own institution,”
Fusion committee member and UCL student
Charlotte told Felix. “It’s a great opportunity to
expand your horizons.”
With hip hop, belly, ballet, contemporary, lyr-
ical dance, burlesque and much more, Fusion
hopes to choreograph a spectacle that leads the
audience with it, keeping them in its thrall at
every turn. Angela hopes that Fusion can have
a unity and continuity that has been lacking in
similar events, where individual clubs and so-
cieties tended to contribute scenes in a piece-
meal, disjointed manner.
Felix paid a visit to the auditions earlier this
week, to test the air amongst the potential con-
tributors. The atmosphere was dense with tin-
gling excitement (possibly heightened by the
stress of auditioning) and a buoyant optimism
hung in the air that this was something only
possible in London.
We spoke to Azel, a student who’d recently
joined UCL from Leicester, who told us that
she doubted a similar project could take place
anywhere else. “It definitely wouldn’t have
happened in other cities. In smaller towns
universities are more insular and there’s less
conflict in London between unis.”
All this however does come with risks. His-
torically intercollegiate events have tended to
miss the bar; one needn’t think too far back
to recall the phenomenal success of the ICL-
KCL-Goldsmith’s joint Summer Ball last year
and the black hole it created in Union financ-
es. But the human investment that has gone
into Fusion suggests this could be amongst
the first to buck the trend. Never before have
students been invited to collectively create the
event rather than pay their entry fee and prop
up the bar.
Fusion launches later this month with
their Halloween Masquerade Ball at the
Café de Paris, Piccadilly, on the October
31. £9 tickets (£12 for non-students).
Go to fusionatlondon.com for more de-
tails.
The farmer wants his chickens back
Following huge success at the University of York, the
fashion and dance project hits the London Universities
Will Prince
In the face of stricter drinking rules, the Medics had to think of alternative intiations

