3
FELIX Friday 21 october 2011
NEWS
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
CGCU President suspended from post
‘Largest ever’ Graduation
believed that Kwan had violated the Pro-
tocol, assuming Point 29, which states
the purpose of the investigation to be “to
establish facts”. Point 34 from Section E
grants the Union President permission to
suspend “any defendant officer in relation
to whom [he] is the relevant authority”.
The Staff/Student Protocol is a docu-
ment which governs the relationship be-
tween the Union, its officers and staff. It
is designed to protect the democratic struc-
ture of the Union from staff interference
and, in this case, protect staff from public
criticism by officers. As a result, meetings
discussing staff matters are held in closed
forums and student media cannot directly
comment on the performance of a member
of staff. Controversy arose due to ambigui-
ties regarding the interpretation of the reg-
ulations. Kwan had referred to the member
of staff in question directly but in a private
forum, specifically by email.
The policy also prohibits direct interac-
tion between students and staff where it
would involve criticism of work perfor-
mance, as this may be considered a form
of harassment. A case of constructive dis-
missal could ensue if a member of staff
feels the need to resign after they believe
the Union or any of its officers has ha-
rassed them. If the media were to attack
a member of staff explicitly about their
performance, the Union could have to face
the costly repercussions, namely an em-
Communications were in ‘potential violation’ of Staff/Student Protocol
Imperial’s largest ever Commemora-
tion Day took place on Wednesday as
2,200 undergraduates received their
degrees in science, engineering and
medicine. The ceremonies, watched
by around 6,000 friends and family
members at the Royal Albert Hall,
also marked the first time on stage for
the new Chair of the College’s Court
and Council, Eliza Manningham-
Buller, who congratulated each new
graduate.
The former Director-General of the
Security Service, Baroness Manning-
ham-Buller, said, “Commemoration
Day is a fantastic event, as it marks
the achievements of so many people at
Imperial. It will be a particular plea-
sure for me to see the pride on the fac-
es of the students’ family and friends,
and to be involved in a day which the
new graduates will remember for a
long time.”
Three members of former staff also
Sophia David received Imperial College Medals for
their longstanding contributions to the
College. Mrs Susan Hartman, former
Assistant Secretary to the Faculty
of Medicine, was honoured for long
standing support of one of the medi-
cal schools that merged with Imperial,
Professor Bob Schroter for his contri-
butions to student activities, notably
the Imperial College Boat Club, as
well as his academic research, and
lastly, Dr Anna Thomas-Betts for her
work in academic and student welfare
over 45 years.
Rector’s medals were also awarded,
which acknowledge excellence in
teaching and pastoral care. This year’s
recipients are Dr Martyn Boutelle for
excellence in pastoral care; Dr Lor-
raine Craig and Dr Emma Watson for
supporting the student experience;
Professor Sandra Shefelbine and Mr
Zen Makuch for outstanding contribu-
tions to teaching excellence; and Dr
Jane Saffell for outstanding innova-
tion in teaching.
Jacky Kwan, President of the City &
Guilds College Union (CGCU) was sus-
pended from his position for two days
last week following a complaint lodged
by a member of staff regarding comments
made by Mr Kwan about the handling of
Union finances. Imperial College Union
President Scott Heath launched an investi-
gation into the offending communications
on Wednesday 12 October, causing Kwan
to be removed from his role temporarily
pending the investigation.
The communications in question were
claimed to violate the Staff/Student Pro-
tocol, for which an investigation can take
up to fourteen days. In this case, Kwan
returned to his duties after just two days
after Heath closed the investigation with a
punishment as per the Union’s Disciplin-
ary Policy. Commenting on the situation,
Heath mentioned that there was a “poten-
tial violation” of the aforementioned pro-
tocol and that it was his “job to establish
the facts and work out a solution”, citing
the reason for suspension as to “prevent
contact between [Kwan] and the aggrieved
whilst [ I ] looked at the communications”.
Regulation Seven of the Constitution,
Section D, Point 28, the policy in called
into play, relates to investigations on mis-
conduct between staff and students. Heath
Graduates gather outside the
Royal Albert Hall
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Alexander Karapetian
CGCU President Jacky Kwan was suspended from his post for two days
ployment tribunal.
The protocol does indicate that com-
menting against the performance of a
Union department or division itself is
permitted. However, Jacky expressed his
concerns about Union finance to a mem-
ber of staff directly. It is up to interpreta-
tion whether his frustrated tone could be
construed as directed to the individual.
The CGCU President received messag-
es of support from his committee and fac-
ulty students when his suspension became
known, many of whom believe the actions
were unwarranted. Jacky is known to have
commented on the speed of the payment
system, having previously taken a position
as Vice President of Finance and Activi-
ties for the CGCU. In dispute was whether
the comments, maintained as constructive
criticism, were inappropriate when direct-
ed towards a member of staff.
The frustration appears to stem from
payments requested 6 weeks ago with
alleged little indication for reasons for
delay. The faculty obtained approval for
their grant in August last year with the
funds being transferred this week. The
CGCU President was particularly focused
towards the arrival of a shipment of year-
books required for Commemoration Day,
which occurred on Wednesday 19 Octo-
ber. Jacky personally ensured the arrival of
the books, paying for them himself.
Kwan said “despite my suspension be-
ing lifted on Friday afternoon, I am pur-
suing the matter with the Union Court”,
pointing out his main motivation being
to “serve the engineering students as fully
as possible”. “I would like to thank the
CGCU committee and officers under my
management group for being so kind and
supportive”, he added. “I am grateful for
their trust in me as leader of the CGCU”.
Patrick Pang (CGCU Vice President of
Finance and Activities) stood in temporar-
ily during Kwan’s brief suspension. Kwan
returned to his duties on Friday 14 October
and is free to continue executing his repre-
sentative rights as CGCU President.
Aemun Reza
“Kwan received
messages of support
from his committee”
Jonathan Peek

