Poetry for the Week
Some T. S. Eliot for your dreary
Friday morning. You know it makes
sense...
Cousin Nancy
Miss Nancy Ellicott
Strode across the hills and broke them,
Rode across the hills and broke them—
The barren New England hills—
Riding to hounds
Over the cow-pasture.
Miss Nancy Ellicott smoked
And danced all the modern dances;
And her aunts were not quite sure how they felt
about it,
But they knew that it was modern.
Upon the glazen shelves kept watch
Matthew and Waldo, guardians of the faith,
The army of unalterable law.
The National Gallery opens late on Friday
evenings. It is the perfect moment to visit, the
rooms being relatively empty and peaceful.
This is very conducive to a careful, and thus
more interesting viewing of the National Gal-
lery’s splendid collection. However there are
few students, excepting those who focus solely
on Art of course, who know how to look at a
painting in order to get the most out of it. We
understand little about the myths and fables
that are the subject of many paintings, less
about technique, and even less about symbol-
ism. Without basic knowledge, going to a gal-
lery can become a torturous journey into a land
of boredom.
Luckily, Art Shots is here to help. On the sec-
ond Friday of every month, Rose Balston leads
a group of approximately fifteen people around
one section of the National Gallery’s collec-
tion. Having lived and studied in Italy for four
years, Rose wanted to share her knowledge of
Italian art with the general public. The National
Gallery, with its enviable collection, was the
perfect place to start. She runs many art tours,
catering to different levels of interest and ex-
pertise. Art Shots in particular is a tour aimed
exclusively at young students and professionals
who perhaps do not have the time to visit mu-
seums on a regular basis, but still want a deeper
understanding of art.
Rose concentrates on four or five works
from a particular period, allotting time to each,
which, on our own we probably would not. Ap-
proximately twenty minutes were dedicated
to each painting on the tour of the Florentine
Renaissance that took place last Friday. The
tour itself commenced with a short history of
Florence, as it stood just before, as well as dur-
ing the Renaissance. Not only did this place the
works of art into historical context, it was also
rife with compelling, little known details. Then,
the tour commenced in earnest, with the group
huddled around a painting about which Rose
gave an enthralling lecture. At first, everyone
was shy about answering the questions posed
but by the second painting, Rose had succeeded
in drawing answers from us all.
The symbolism in each work of art was
heavily drawn upon, and in most cases, the
individual was compelled to find an answer
before Rose finally explained in detail. This
was remarkably useful, because it taught us to
find the symbols on our own, a skill which can
then be practiced on any normal visit to a mu-
seum. Symbolism is intricately related to the
myths and legends upon which most paintings
from the Renaissance are based on. The group
thus became acquainted with Ancient Roman,
Greek and religious stories, some of which are
commonly known, but many of which we only
have a vague idea about. There was also dis-
cussion on the innovative techniques, which
started and developed during the Renaissance.
It was fascinating to find out for example, that
most painters of that period were also amateur
mathematicians, who used mathematics to
achieve perfection of form and composition.
Art Shots is not just a cultural activity. There
is an important social component to the eve-
ning. Drinks beforehand are at six, in the Na-
tional Gallery café, where one can chat to Rose
and her collaborators. Then, the tour of the
galleries is followed by dinner in either a Soho
pub, or one of two private members clubs. Dis-
cussions that began during the tour are contin-
ued throughout the meal. As the whole affair
begins quite early, it is perfectly possible to
continue on to bars and clubs afterwards and
not miss a Friday night if one is worried by that
prospect. Furthermore, the price of dinner is
not included in the tour price, so one can leave
directly after the tour, at a very reasonable hour,
boasting about their newly acquired, slightly
obscure, knowledge.
Although the price of the tours is possibly a
bit steep, at £20 for an hour and fifteen minutes,
they are well worth it. In order to learn quite
simply, how to look at art, it is only necessary
to attend once. If I returned to the National Gal-
lery today, to the Florentine Renaissance sec-
tion in particular, I would without a doubt find
myself understanding far more than before last
Friday.
Alex Horne is something of a mystery to me. He’s
little known except by regular explorers of the
comedy circuit and yet seems to have the phone-
book of an A-list celebrity comedian. Here’s
a man whose shows pull in the likes of Tim
Minchin, Harry Hill and Jimmy Carr to name but
a few, and yet who himself is rarely seen on TV
or heard on radio. But if there were any question
marks hanging over his comic credentials, his
Section does more than answer them.
The Horne Section is a musical mash-up caba-
ret extraordinaire, where maestro Alex Horne
invites comedians and other entertainers alike to
work their art with the able, and optional, assis-
tance of his several-piece band. Never flustered
by the spontaneous suggestions of the audience,
they flex their embrasures and plectrum-fingers
in the opening moments, asking for a rhythm,
key and two well known tunes, before seamlessly
melding it all together in a flurry of musical tal-
ent.
With a loose structure around proceedings,
the Horne Section guarantees to throw up some-
thing unique, in the main due to its invitational
bill. Fresh from a stint on the Edinburgh Fringe,
where the show was one of the most lauded, the
Criterion Theatre is a slightly more restrictive
setting than that of the Spiegeltent, which had
the much more relaxed and comfortable feel of
a comedy-club-cum-garden-party. The product is
nevertheless of the same high quality, most of the
acts are worth seeing on their own merits - Tim
Minchin, Josie Long and Beardyman are all ap-
pearing in tomorrow’s show alone.
Starting late in central London, the Horne Sec-
tion puts a nice icing on the cake of a Saturday
night, allowing punters to grease their own funny
bones before they get tickled at the Criterion,
and how. Little compares to the Horne Section
and anything that does falls a long way short
of this paradoxically polished yet spontaneous
production.
The Horne Section runs every Saturday
at the Criterion on Piccadilly until Novem-
ber 26
Shots of Art
Want to get your Horne on?
Eva Rosenthal
The National Gallery in a way you’ve never seen before
What do you think Venus and Mars have just finished? Rose can tell you.
Eva Rosenthal
Most people come for the ginger beard
Hysteria
As she laughed I was aware of becoming involved in
her laughter and being part of it, until her teeth were
only accidental stars with a talent for squad-drill. I
was drawn in by short gasps, inhaled at each mo-
mentary recovery, lost finally in the dark caverns of
her throat, bruised by the ripple of unseen muscles.
An elderly waiter with trembling hands was hurriedly
spreading a pink and white checked cloth over the
rusty green iron table, saying: “If the lady and gen-
tleman wish to take their tea in the garden, if the
lady and gentleman wish to take their tea in the gar-
den...” I decided that if the shaking of her breasts
could be stopped, some of the fragments of the af-
ternoon might be collected, and I concentrated my
attention with careful subtlety to this end.
Morning at the Window
They are rattling breakfast plates in basement
kitchens,
And along the trampled edges of the street
I am aware of the damp souls of house-
maids
Sprouting despondently at area gates.
The brown waves of fog toss up to me
Twisted faces from the bottom of the street,
And tear from a passer-by with muddy skirts
An aimless smile that hovers in the air
And vanishes along the level of the roofs.
FELIX
30
ARTS
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal Mena
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 October 2011

