MUSIC
FELIX
32 Friday 21 October 2011
music.felix@gmail.com
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Slow Club
Paradise
2011
When it comes to Twitter, musicians usually have one
of two personalities:
1) No personality – SINGLE OUT NOW!!! *yawn*
2) Uber-kick-ass insight into their awesome psyche –
“DEAR LORD RYAN GOSLING GET ON MY FACE”.
Slow Club’s Rebecca Taylor falls into the later catego-
ry (indeed, the second example is one of her tweets).
Her Twitter account is a massive middle finger to the
twee image that their first album constructed. Without
turning this review into a convoluted love letter to her,
there is a girl you’d want to hang out with more than
one who tweets: “Why isn’t my bbm working I’m trying
to send a picture of my dick (shaped bruise) to my
friend Stacey this is an OUTRAGE”
Slow Club’s second album, Paradise, is less a
‘middle finger’ and more a ‘slightly cheeky two-fin-
gered salute’ to their aforementioned twee image.
Bandmate Charles Watson has been relegated to
guitar and backing vocals, and while they still write
upbeat indie-folk love songs, there’s more texture,
complexity, and humanity. If their first album is a
sweet stickman drawing, their second is more like
the dense palette that adorns its album cover.
Underpinning all of this is Rebecca Taylor. The same
girl who tweets, “100 PINTS OF WINE PLEASE BAR
KEEP”, also writes beautiful phrases like “A chauffeur-
driven dream” and sings them with the sensitivity of
a neutrino detector (Zing!) . Which makes her pretty
awesome in my books. Oh dear, I’ve turned this review
into a convoluted love letter after all.
If you get bored this weekend, drink 100 pints of wine
and tweet me from the hospital @kadhimshubber.
Better still, photoshop a picture of Ryan Gosling sitting
on Taylor’s face and tweet her @SLOWCLUBREBECCA.
Music Editors: Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
T
ally Hall is a slightly quirky five-
piece band, named after a shopping
arcade in Michigan, with the final
line-up was completed while they
were studying at the University
of Michigan. It consists of Rob Cantor (guitar,
yellow tie), Joe Hawley (guitar, red tie), Zubin
Sedghi (bass, blue tie),Andrew Horowitz (keys,
green tie) and Ross Federman (drums, grey tie)
with them swapping around vocal duties, and
occasionally doing some excellent vocal har-
monies. About the whole tie colour thing, basi-
cally, when on stage, they always wear match-
ing shirts and trousers (recently with a dapper
waistcoat) and a tie of the colour listed.
Their debut album Marvin’s Marvelous Me-
chanical Museum, named after a museum in
the real life Tally Hall, was an incredibly solid
offering – if you ask me, every song is good.
There really aren’t any duds or, even worse, the
dreaded “album filler tracks”. You know the
ones I mean, the songs that couldn’t be blander
if they tried; usually, the name is even some-
thing dull and instantly forgettable. Thankfully,
there’s none of that irritation on Marvin’s.This is
possibly because they are songs that have been
honed, perfected, recorded and re-recorded over
a number of years. It may sound obvious, but
to me the difference between the demo versions
and the album versions shows what an expen-
sive, professional studio does to the sound.
In terms of genre, the songs on Marvin’s are
really a mixed bag. The band themselves de-
scribed the sound as “wonky rock”, due to the
often comical, upbeat lyrical style and music.
They manage to write light-hearted songs that
are both enjoyable musically and lyrically,
while maintaining enough credibility for you to
take the heavier songs seriously. It’s difficult for
me to pick out favourites, as I love them all, so
I’ll try to choose a range of styles.
‘Just Apathy’, a prize-winning song (literal-
ly), is brilliantly arranged: starting off as a quiet
piano ballad and building up, before returning
to the piano at the very end. ‘Two Wuv’, the
catchy song about their love for the Olsen twins,
includes some lovely harmonies at the end.
Staying with the theme of more recognizable
They have the gall
Tim Arbabzadah welcomes you to Tally Hall...
ed songs; the enjoyment and personalities just
don’t quite ooze out in the sound. Perhaps, be-
cause I had looked up videos of them perform-
ing the songs live before the release, the album
felt dated by the time I heard it. Good and Evil
is still littered with top-notch songs, right from
the start in fact. ‘Never Meant To Know’ is a
dreamy song that’s also my mantra around revi-
sion time. ‘Cannibal’, ‘Misery Fell’ and ‘You’
all deserve a mention. The later being the al-
most solo piano offering from Andrew, a great
geeky love song – something we can all relate
to. Pushed to choose a favourite track from the
album, I’d say ‘Turn the Lights Off’.
To sum up, Tally Hall is an amazing band
with two great albums. If you poke about on
YouTube you can also find some great hid-
den gems, including their comedy skits. ‘Just
A Friend’, a cover of the Biz Markie song, is
a fan favourite. Joe shows off his beatboxing
skills, while Zubin practices his soul singing
voice – that he later uses for ‘To Be With You’.
Check them out, and thank me later, as I have
had to miss out a lot.
‘indy’ style, ‘Greener’ is a song about a failing
relationship and envy. Okay, I know, but it’s not
as emo as that sounds; and even if it is, the lyrics
are good enough to not be lame or cringey.
On the more off-the-wall side there is ‘Wel-
come to Tally Hall’, a song introducing the
band. It’s not just an oddity that’s only good
once, it’s a legitimately great song in it’s own
right. The part where they introduce each mem-
ber, his instrument and tie colour is a classic
verse. Then there’s the line “I might rap like an
English chap” rapped, in an attempted upper-
class English accent.
The band’s second studio album is Good
and Evil and was released earlier this year on
Quack! Media. First off, it’s definitely a more
mature album. There’s much less wackiness in
the songs, which I guess has its merits. It defi-
nitely feels like they set out to make an album
with an underlying theme, rather than just a col-
lection of songs.
It’s a great album, but there is something
missing that was present on Marvin’s: the sense
of fun; the mix of serious songs and light-heart-
Be sure not to miss...
Coltrane nephew, Brainfeeder honcho and seasoned
beatsmith Flying Lotus has been conspiring with audio-
visual masterminds AntiVJ for a special three-of-a-kind
spectacular to be performed exclusively in Los Angeles,
Paris and London town. Following his tour for astral jazz
masterpiece, Cosmogramma, last year – the envelope
can now only fall off the cliff. Blending the mind bending
beats of hip-hop so severely extrapolated with the reti-
nal manipulations of the most innovative live visual col-
lective around, Saturday’s show is bound to rearrange
more than a few synaptic connections in the audience.
Imagine what the Amazon would sound like in the dead
of night after our planet’s orbit had fallen into a strange
attractor and try asking the birds for their opinion. Kut-
mah and Martyn to blow out the after party.
Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Flying Lotus & AntiVJ
The Roundhouse, Chalk Farm
Saturday 22, October
Someone put the crayons in the wash with the ties
Tim Hecker’s latest outpouring, Ravedeath,
1972, wraps around the billows of an organ
in a church in Reykjavik. Sampled and recon-
figured, casting a brume of disbelief, its song
is suspended like a gasp in deep sleep. The
sounds disintegrate like a snowball melting in
your hand. Each remaining echo slipping down
a liquefied trace collecting on the underside.
The organ huffing a mounting pressure like
auroral emissions dispersing into the firmament.
threat of electrocution a constant haunt.
Dust rises from the floor, unable to rest, vi-
brating to the tune the pipes. Floating back
down as the singing subdues (“No Drums”),
a firm hand, exhausted, releasing its grip. A
neurotic memory surfaces from the id (“Ha-
tred of Music I”). The abrasive recollection
unleashing a flurry of mistaken opinions and
failed approaches. An ominous perspective of
introversion takes hold, ruminant (“In the Air
I”).
The air halts. A cloud drops.
Crackles seep through the aural blanket, dust
piercing the atmosphere (“In the Fog II”). You
hear pipes shedding particles of oxidised metal,
bellowing upwards with a gust of sound. The
room can’t fit it all. It begs to come out (“The
Piano Drop”). It wouldn’t be hard to imagine
the stained glass of the church bending to ac-
commodate the volume, the space beckoned
for increasingly insufficient. Perhaps a hairline
crack appearing here and there, but careful to
maintain the splendour of the coloured salts;
bending slivers of light like an eel in water, the
Piano drops in Iceland
Iñigo Martinez de Rituerto

