FELIX Friday 21 october 2011 33
MUSIC
S
ecret Garden Party is an uncon-
ventional festival, slicker or slack-
er than your average depending on
preference. While the music policy
is slightly questionable, it’s diffi-
cult to not be drawn in by the festival’s Won-
derland-like aesthetic.
Set around a lake in the Cambridgeshire
countryside, the festival area is decorated with
enchanting lights and quirky sculptures. There
are a lot of spots that lend themselves to sim-
ply lying down and chilling out. There’s also an
impressive selection of “stuff” to wander in and
out of, ranging from theatrical performances to
mud wrestling to mini science fairs.
The festival harbours an ambiance of mel-
lowed permissiveness, not quite as all con-
suming as the organisers’ crackpot ramblings
would have you imagine, but certainly more
so than other festivals. Seemingly insignifi-
cant additions like being able to swim in the
lake without the bother of some abrasive safety
warning make this all the more noticeable.
Fittingly, for the unrushed dynamic, the mu-
sical acts this year weren’t the type to get you
frantically arranging meeting times. Of course
Can you keep a Secret?
cus Nasty. Besides this, the general trend was
middle-of-the-road indie-folk by day, distinctly
inaccessible techno by night.
In short, going to Secret Garden Party is like
ordering a Sunday roast and only being served
the trimmings. It’s good fun - but come next
year if you can find a picturesque lake that
doesn’t cost £160 to hang around for a week-
end, go with that.
this itself wasn’t an issue; in fact it’s very re-
freshing to go to a festival where there’s no
pressure to see a performance. However, rather
than ‘up and coming’ many of the artists were
more ‘down and going’. The ‘big’ names that
did perform – Blondie and Alabama 3 – man-
aged decent sets despite poor sound quality on
the main stage. A few favourites put on a great
show: XXXY, Mosca, Dark Sky and Mar-
Been spending Friday nights, living in a hipster’s paradise
Kina Grannis is a California-based American
singer-songwriter and YouTube sensation. She
began performing to her stuffed animals from
the age of four, before progressing to her video
camera, and finally to people. This month, she is
on the European leg of her world tour. She also
plans on touring Southeast Asia and Australia
later in the year.
In 2008, she won the ‘Doritos Crash the Super
Bowl’ contest, and signed onto Interscope Re-
cords. A year later, she left the record label in
order to pursue her musical vision as an inde-
pendent artist. Her new album, Stairwells, was
released in April of this year. The album name is
a reference to her college days, when she often
sat in secluded stairwells to make music. Kina
describes her style as a happy medium between
pop, folk and indie. Her elegant vocals and the
unique charm she brings to her music set her
apart from other guitar-playing singer-songwrit-
ers.
She recently played her first London show to a
sold-out audience at the Monto Water Rats. The
venue was small and intimate – perfect for her
solo acoustic guitar set. The opening act was fel-
low YouTuber Imaginary Friend, whose haunt-
ing vocals and simple guitar accompaniment
were well-received.
Kina’s performance began with her walking
barefoot onstage to cheers and applause from
her fans (or, as she affectionately calls them, her
‘kinerds’). She opened with ‘World in Front of
Kina finished the show with her audience
singing along to the excellent ‘Message From
Your Heart’, the song that won her the Super
Bowl contest. She ended the evening with a
meet and greet for her kinerds, many of them
walking away clutching several signed copies of
Stairwells.
Kina Grannis returns to London later this
month to play the last show on her European
tour before flying back to America.
Me’, the first track on Stairwells, and a fitting
first song to play on her London debut. In be-
tween jokes, anecdotes and guitar-tuning, she
played fan favourites, such as ‘Valentine’, ‘The
One You Say Goodnight To’ and ‘Cambridge’.
The audience was also treated to interesting
renditions of ‘Oops I Did it Again’ and Coo-
lio’s ‘Gangsta’s Paradise’, the latter of which
involved certain amounts of rapping (a slightly
surreal experience).
There’s nothing more hardcore punk than having a
creed to live by. The straight-edge subculture – an
abstention from drugs, promiscuous sex, and often
hair – was a creed of sorts, inspired by the anti-
hedonistic stance of 1980s bands such as Minor
Threat, and many bands have adopted the stance
of political revolutionaries.
But Refused (1991-1998), a hardcore punk band
from Sweden, wrote manifestos. A typical liner note
proclaims “the art produced by Refused is a weap-
on in the service of the struggle and an inseparable
part of it”.
Their final press release, announcing their split,
begins: “Just like the political theorists and philoso-
phers...we also managed with a sort of self-fulfilling
prophecy. A manifestation of an idea to a concrete
action”. But they believed in their own pretensions,
they backed every word of their cod-theoretical cant
with an intensity of songwriting and performance
that made you believe it too.
Refused started out on This Just Might Be The
Truth (1994) as a good European version of The Na-
tion of Ulysses. Like their American counterparts,
theirs was a punk that had roots in the protest song:
Songs to Fan the Flames of Discontent (1996) which
took its name from a 1909 songbook from the In-
dustrial Workers of the World.
But it is for The Shape of Punk to Come (1998) that
they truly matter. A few years ago Kerrang! ranked
this album at #13 on their “50 Most Influential Al-
bums of All Time”. Yeah, who cares about Kerrang!
and who cares about lists? Few people noticed The
Shape of Punk to Come when it came out – it lives
instead, as it’s title proclaimed it would, in the hard-
core scene of today.
Refused songs are full of complex rhythms and
stomach-lurching dynamics. In The Shape of Punk to
Come they also play around with electronica and jazz
and the kind of studio production that normally kills
a band of this persuasion. Here it’s done so artfully,
fitted so well to the songs, and without loss of inten-
sity, that it lifts this record atmospheres above the
angry, shouty street-punk kids they’d grown from.
But most importantly, Refused could write pop
hooks worthy of ABBA. Take ‘Summer Holidays vs
Punk Routine’ from their last album: sandwiched be-
tween churning guitars, you’re hit by a euphoric rush
more uplifting than anything you’ll find in Ibiza.
Refused broke up in 1998, bitter, disenchanted,
and tired. True to their grounded roots, they played
their last show in the basement of a friend’s house.
When the police raided the party and shut the band
down, they saw it as a liberation.
A few mp3s can downloaded from www.burningheart.
com/refused/index.html but you should buy The
Shape of Punk to Come immediately.
Punk Planet by
Douglas Heaven
This week: Refused
Kina Grannis in London
Ah man, that was dog’s mess that I just stepped in. I just got these boots, time to
turn to the Fashion page... AGAIN
Mimi Li
Daniel Oppeheimer is critical of the Secret Garden Party

