34
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
James Simpson
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 October 2011
It being less than four years since I left second-
ary education, I was very interested in watching
‘Educating Essex’— Channel 4’s documentary
set in Passmores School, an ordinary secondary
in Essex. I am happy to say that I was hooked as
soon as I tuned in.
The fly-on-the-wall nature of the programme
means that you really get a feel for what the
school is like. The show stays impartial at all
times: you see both the good and the bad and you
aren’t distracted by hasty conclusions or incessant
moralising by the producers. There is a real sense
that we are seeing what Passmores is really like.
Each episode focuses on only one or two groups
of pupils which allows their stories to be exam-
ined in full. Difficult issues aren’t shied away
from — with, amongst other problems, teenage
pregnancy and bullying being explored. Even the
most troublesome and disruptive pupils aren’t
demonised. Care is taken to show both sides of
the story and commentary from both pupils and
staff shows how the current situation developed.
Particularly poignant is the case of Vinnie, whose
Pick of the week
Friday | 1945 - 2030 | BBC3
Merlin
Magical drama. Get high before watching (look, we
don’t actually condone this, alright? – Ed).
Saturday | 2100 - 2330 | Channel 4
The Hurt Locker
Oscar-winning thriller following a bomb disposal
team in Iraq.
Sunday | 2100 - 2200 | Channel 4
The Secret Millionaire
A millionaire entrepreneur spends a week living
undercover in one of Edinburgh’s shitholes look-
ing for charities worthy of his donations.
Monday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC1
Young Apprentice
Britain’s most obnoxious sixteen-year-olds make
mummy and daddy proud whilst making the rest of
us feel physically sick.
Tuesday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC2
Code Breakers: Bletchley Park’s Lost Heroes
Keeley Hawes (phwoaaar, I would) narrates the
story of two forgotten codebreakers whos work
led to several major breakthroughs during WWII.
Wednesday | 2200 - 2230 | BBC2
Rab C. Nesbitt
Outrageous Scottish sitcom that will make you
laugh, laugh more, and then recoil in disgust.
Thursday | 2100 - 2200 | BBC1
Hidden
The last in the series. Philip Glenister is a MAS-
SIVE LAD.
J
eff Lindsay’s book ‘Darkly
Dreaming Dexter’ (which I’m
told is very good) is the basis
for Showtime’s multi award
winning program Dexter. The
protagonist, who gives the show its
name, is cunning, brutal and funny.
By day he’s a blood spatter analyst for
Miami Metro Police Department. By
night, a serial killer. What sets Dexter
apart from other protagonists is that he’s
a normal human - he makes mistakes:
he’s no Jack Bauer or Michael Schofield
(24 and Prison Break, respectively).
We are first introduced to our lead
as he gives a sinister sounding mono-
logue backed by equally chilling music
(written by Daniel Licht) whilst driv-
ing through the night towards his first
victim. The viewers are immediately
informed that Dexter is a killer first and
foremost; demonstrated only a few min-
utes later where we see him beginning
to clinically cut up his prey.
As the first season develops we learn
more about Dexter and the writers be-
gin to reveal why he is as he is; why he
carries his so called “dark passenger”;
his homicidal inner voice, if you like.
This alter ego is put to good use when
challenged by the “ice-truck killer” -
an unknown assailant who captures his
victims (all prostitutes), mutilates them
and then leaves them literally bloodless
for the police to find. As the plot thick-
ens, the killer leaves clues for Dexter, to
lure him in and to ‘play’ with him. The
challenge is unduly accepted by our fa-
vourite serial killer with some gripping
consequences.
Dexter manages to be captivating,
mysterious, sad and brutally dark at the
same time. It’s definitely worth watch-
ing.
behaviour and quality of schoolwork has dramati-
cally deteriorated since his parents separated. His
heartfelt conversations with his favourite teacher,
Miss Conway, were a particular highlight.
The stars of ‘Educating Essex’, however, are
clearly the teachers. The programme’s master-
stroke is not just restricting their screentime to in-
teractions with pupils. You get to see banter in the
school office; senior staff messing around at their
regular meetings and the head teacher, Mr God-
dard, jumping out from behind a door to scare his
deputy, Mr Drew.You get to see that these are real
people and this leads you to care for them. This is
certainly helped by their clear desire to help their
pupils. As Mr Goddard says, the school’s aim is
that “nobody leaves without enough qualifica-
tions for the next step in their lives”. It’s clear that
the staff do everything they can to achieve this
and it’s uplifting to see when they succeed.
In the first episode Mr Drew tells a pupil that
she “will never, ever come up against people who
are as calm and patient as we are, for the rest of
your life”. With all that he has to put up with, all
the while remaining calm and focused on his duty
of care, you can certainly believe him. This pro-
gramme is the perfect antidote to all the newspa-
per scare stories about the collapse of the educa-
tion system. If even a few schools work as hard
as this for their pupils I think that we’re going to
be alright.
This is inspiring, well above average television.
I strongly urge you all to watch the remaining
episodes and catch up on what you might have
missed online.
We’re still
looking for new
writers - email
tv.felix@ic.ac.uk
“The perfect antidote to
newspaper scare stories
about the collapse of the
education system”
Maciej Matuszewski
Fly-on-the-wall documentary shows true colours of the state system
Educating Essex ‘not as bad as it sounds’
Dexter is my ‘favourite’ psychotic serial killer
George Barnett turns his pen to a less provocative subject
TELEVISION
(Nice try, give it another month or so – Ed.)
Essex girls - can’t beat ‘em can you? Pity. (Thin ice, right there – Ed.)
Jeremy of the week
Dexter, smug and blood-splattered - we’ve all been there
FELIX
Cannye geet me a wee drinkeh laad? – Rab C

