GAMES
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
DLC – To pay, or not to pay?
S
o, a little over a week ago Valve brought
out a fairly large update for their flag-
ship game Team Fortress 2. So what?
Ignoring the fact that TF2 is now over
four years old and still receiving con-
tent updates which it celebrated this time last year
when microtransactions were first introduced into
the game - the MANN-conomy Update (I’m not
making this up). Amongst other things the update
allowed players to purchase in-game weapons and
purely cosmetic add-ons for the nine classes with
real-world cash. The update was initially received
with mixed reviews – ‘buying your way to victory’
and ‘Valve’s sold us out’ were two of the many
complaints angry fans put forward, whilst oth-
ers maintained that nothing was on sale (at least,
game-changing wise) that couldn’t be found by
penniless schmucks. One year on, and everything’s
(mostly) settled down.
“The answer is far from a
simple yes or no - it almost
fully depends on how it’s
implemented”
For me, this raised a question – are microtrans-
actions and, alongside them, DLC (Download-
able Content) a good or a bad thing for gaming
as a whole? The answer is far from a simple ‘Yes,
it’s the perfect next step’ or ‘No, I’d rather jump
in a pool full of broken glass’. It almost fully de-
pends upon how it’s implemented. Not fully? No.
Quite possibly I’m nostalgic about the times when
you bought a game and you got everything in one
go, and now, paying extra for content that should
have come with the product in the first darn place?
Microtransactions and DLC: a bright idea or a big mistake? Laurence Pope decides
Hmm.
In all fairness Valve has managed to implement mi-
crotransactions and distribute DLC in the best way
possible. Most of their products (TF2, L4D1 and 2,
Portal 2) have and continue to receive free large up-
dates that throw in a lot of extra content: extra maps
and campaigns for the L4D series; new challenges
for Portal 2; and new weapons for TF2 – the sort of
stuff most other game companies would charge for.
To date, only TF2 and Portal 2 feature micro transac-
tions, though the Portal 2 ‘store’flopped rather miser-
ably.
The TF2 ‘store’was implemented remarkably well,
however. All weapons and most cosmetic items are
findable in-game through a random drop system,
craftable through another menu, and there’s even an
in-game trading/ bartering system so technically one
doesn’t have to use the store to gain an advantage. In
practice though weapons are a little harder to come
by, but the point still stands – no money has to be
spent in order to find everything that has any signifi-
cant impact in battles. It’s by no means perfect, but
Gabe Newell and the TF2 team have yet to go down
the Bobby Kotick route.
To give Valve extra credit, not all the money they
earn stays with them. Valve introduced a scheme al-
lowing modellers and mappers to submit their weap-
ons, cosmetic items and maps to them. The best ones
get implemented into the game, and 25% of the pro-
ceeds go to their creators. Big bucks can and have
been made – after one update, one creator received
a cheque for – wait for it – $47,000. If that’s not re-
warding one’s fans, I don’t know what is.
Now that’s enough about a half-decent way to
implement DLC and micro transactions. The im-
mediate case that springs to mind regarding a poor
(read: disgusting) way to do DLC is neatly illustrated
by Bioshock 2. The problem? After the first ‘DLC
download’ was released, it was discovered that the
content delivered had actually been on the disc the
Gaming in Reverse – Because old gold is the best gold
Welcome to Gaming in Reverse, where every week
we use The Power of Writing to reverse time on a
game series or remake. We’re flipping history to
pretend the newest games are the oldest games!
Can we prove that older is actually sometimes bet-
ter?
Final Fantasy: Because IX
is obviously the best one
We thought it was crazy when Square Enix swag-
gered into the crowded ring of Japanese RPGs with
its debut entry Final Fantasy XIII. With one beau-
tiful but flawed game it had thrown the gauntlet
down at its own feet, challenging itself to make 12
semi-sequels, through commercial success or fail-
ure, to reach an ultimate Final Fantasy that would
live up to the name.
If its fourth sequel Final Fantasy IX is anything
to go by, then it will be an easy triumph. By taking
daring risks with the stagnant JRPG formula, the
creators have proved themselves to be heroes wor-
thy of their self-imposed quest.
Fans will remember that where Final Fantasy XIII
had a glossy sheen of High-Definition polish, Final
Fantasy XII instead revelled in its matte textures
and an earthy look that suited its world so well.
But we hadn’t seen anything yet. Sure, Final Fan-
tasy XII was richly drawn with subtle texture work,
gaming’s equivalent of painterly brush strokes, Fi-
nal Fantasy IX instead celebrates fine art itself with
gorgeous, hand-painted backdrops. It simply boy-
cotts the loss that comes when concept art is trans-
lated into polygons.
And yet they’ve lost none of the drama. Despite
fears that the rigid hand-drawn backdrops would
take away from the trademark flamboyance of Fi-
nal Fantasy’s story scenes, the whole adventure is
instead given the air of a performance. Plot now
unfolds on fixed sets, and without the luxury of
dynamic angles and motion-blur zooms, the bur-
den of entertainment is left to well-written dialogue
and charmingly theatrical movements. Final Fan-
tasy X’s blunders, voice-acting as a whole having
been completely excised, deemed unfit for the job
of carrying this magical adventure is completely
scrapped. In its place is witty, and sometimes touch-
ing, on-screen dialogue that is a simple delight for
being written in pixels and read in the mind – and
it’s all the better for it.
In fact, pretty much all of it is. For all these the-
atrical, literary, and visual delights FF IX is still a
great game with secret items to be discovered and
tense battles to be fought. By stripping away the
modern gleam and glitz Squaresoft (as it is now
called) has made a world that feels lived-in, a story
that feels crafted and characters that feel cared for.
It is a wonderful tale, one that, if something cata-
clysmic should happen, we’d even be content to
call our last taste of the series.
This would be a worthy Final Fantasy.
If you have an idea for a Gaming in
Reverse or any games article for that
matter, then get in touch! Wedon’t bite!
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Omar Hafeez-Bore
whole time. The DLC download was not content – it
was a key. You had already bought the extra content
2K were charging you for.
Later, 2K Games commented on the locked con-
tent, claiming it was ‘necessary to maintain consis-
tency between all players regardless of whether they
purchase the DLC or not.’ This paper thin rationale/
dirty lie cut little ice with the rightly put-out gaming
community. You do not do DLC like this.
But, for this to be a marginally balanced argument
one has to look on the other side of the fence. You
need to worm into the heads of the game developers
and see it from their point of view. DLC and micro-
transactions allow developers to create new maps,
weapons, campaigns, or what have you, without
needing to initiate a long and expensive game devel-
opment cycle. It’s cheaper to make compared to a full
game, and they make a fair amount of money from it.
TF2’s store does so well that Valve was able to make
TF2 free to play and still pump out profitable updates.
One does need to remember that game companies
are, at the end of the day, businesses out to make mon-
ey. That’s what a business does, and from this point of
view DLC and microtransactions are simply a logical
step forward. Fans will buy new content, helping to
fill the coffers of the afforementioned companies.
But is it the best way forward? To commit the argu-
ment of moderation, everything needs to be balanced.
DLC and microtransactions can enrich a game, pro-
vided they’re fairly priced and offer sufficient con-
tent. On the other hand, it’s no substitute for new
games; too much DLC stifles creativity. Overuse has
the potential to make comapnies lazy, wallowing in
old products to earn them money. Like technology,
games need to keep inovating and testing new things
out.
Valve has shown that innovation, DLC and micro-
transactions can walk hand in hand. They are able to
offer huge content packs for free, which in turn en-
dears them to their customers, keeping them loyal –
and keeping them buying. But I’ll be honest here; as
I said at the start, I’ll never fully come round to
the idea of paying extra for something that really
should have come with the initial product.
Four years old and still going strong
2K’s DLC disaster - how NOT to treat your
customers
FELIX
36 Friday 21 OcTOBER 2011

