W
hich girl, provided
she has already sat-
isfied all primary
concerns (food,
water, shelter etc.)
doesn’t dream of a clothing collection on
the scale of, say, Blair Waldorf or Car-
rie Bradshaw? And within those ladies’
swoon-inducing wardrobes, which does
not contain their essential Louis Vuitton
Neverfull (or equivalent – Chanel 2.55,
Céline Luggage, Fendi Baguette… The
list goes on) in which they tote the latest
issue of Vogue, make-up, Blackberry,
Smythson diary and discreetly packed
sanitary products and prophylactics? In
other words, a girl’s bag is never simply
a practical object; a mere container. It’s
like the greatest personal assistant you
could imagine, an ever-present silent
character in a girl’s life that knows you
and your habits so reliably that it is im-
possible to live without. It’s your best
friend, a scandalous lover, your secret
accomplice.
And yet, when pitted against a lowly
Primark pleather atrocity, a girl’s pref-
FASHION
FELIX Friday 21 october 2011 37
Fashion Editors: Saskia Verhagen
Alice Yang
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
ADesigner Horcrux
handbag, do we lose some sense of our-
selves? If so, something’s going wrong.
I realised my demise when, strolling
down the fashionable Boulevard de la
Croisette in Cannes, rather than check-
ing out some bronzed Adonis sunning
himself on his yacht, I found myself
eyeing up the arm-candy the most styl-
ish women of Cannes were toting. The
thought of the fabulously assured way
one woman carried herself would never
leave me until I might be able to buy
that kind of fabulosity in the form of
her gorgeous vintage Louis Vuitton Epi
Saint Jacques. And the fashion merry-
go-round turns around again. And it
will carry on turning for all you fashion
freaks like me, unless we set ourselves
a drastic (but affordable) quota, for we
must not let our plastic/leather/pleather
‘frenemies’ eat away at what remains of
our fashion-infested souls.
Maybe remind me again of this reso-
lution the next time Phoebe Philo cre-
ates another drool-worthy Cèline tote.
At least my soul will have somewhere
pretty to live…
erence to the latest overdraft-busting
Prada Saffiano tote still yields the inevi-
table questions from parents, boyfriends
and most unfortunately, jealous friends.
Do they not serve an equal purpose?
No, alas, the answer delves much deep-
er than the mere fabric from which our
bags are made.
The bags we carry are a sign of status,
and a great bag is a marker of fashion
kudos and respect. “Respect for what?”
I hear all you doubters cry. And here’s
the ugly truth, ladies: respect for your-
self. Was J.K. Rowling right about Hor-
cruxes, the vessels Voldemort chose as
meaningful objects in his life in which
to keep fragments of his soul? Is the de-
signer handbag a modern-day woman’s
equivalent to a Horcrux – a lifeless ob-
ject which we (unknowingly) perfuse
with the very essence of ourselves?
And, having chosen as our vessel a bag
whose assault on our Visa/Mastercard
bill is somewhere on par with a Crucia-
tus curse, have we not sold a fragment
of our soul to the fashion industry?
Deprived of the logo-embossed leather
I
rather like shoes, which is a
problem because buying shoes
is usually the low point of any
shopping trip, especially for
men. I guess we buy fewer shoes
and don’t spend as much money on
them, and thus as inferior customers
get massively inferior treatment in shoe
shops.
Your average ‘Office’ will stash the
men away into one corner to be buf-
feted left and right while we look at our
meagre, drab footwear selection by staff
members carrying myriad boxes back
to the exquisitely more profitable and
fairer sex. Worse still are shoe shops
that coldly point gentlemen up a flight
of hidden stairs to, what is at first sight
an abandoned attic. The music – which
provides a youthful, fresh and lively
party atmosphere to the ladies section
downstairs – imbues the men’s section
with the ambience of a nightclub too
early in the evening: the punters, semi-
embarrassed at turning up to such a de-
serted establishment, awkwardly stake
out their spot and trying not to make
eye-contact.
So far thus had been my shoe shop-
ping experience two weekends back, I
AMan’s Shoe Haven
I went in, it was full of people and the
music was up, but somehow I wasn’t
beaten back by the sensation of anarchic
violence that had been present in every
other busy shoe shop I’d been in that
day. A staff member said “Hello,” with
a merciful absence of that “Can I help
you?” bullshit. I found a pair of train-
ers that I quite liked. They brought me
a pair that fit. I liked them. They gave
me a 10% student discount (non-NUS,
massively, massively lacking from oth-
er retailers ) and… brace yourselves…
a canvas bag to take them home in.
Like seriously you know how Of-
fice and Topman give you those paper
bags that fall apart and kill your hands
and generally make your life hell by
the time you’ve gotten two tube trains
home on a Saturday early evening.
Not so with these guys, despite being
was out looking for a pair of weather
proof hi-top trainers for day to day
casual wear in the lab and out to the
pub and gigs. Budget: up to £80. Not a
tough ask by any stretch of the imagi-
nation, but after several big-chain shoe
stores I was so un-inspired that I was
beginning to wonder if I even needed to
replace my hole riddled, rapidly decay-
ing Reeboks.
This was a sorry state of affairs, my
last shoe shopping attempt had been
with my girlfriend and I’d wound up in
such a terrible mood we nearly broke up
(happily to say we’re still together and,
after a veritably geological time period,
the woman in Schuh eventually brought
out the correct size pair of vans that I
now own); if I had another awful shoe
shopping trip I may have had to give up
entirely on shoes and fashion footwear
out of rags.
Luckily I found Offspring on 60 Neal
Street (although if it’s more convenient
for you, they have one on Camden high
street). I had never heard of it before
but the window looked promising. In
front of my weary eyes was shop full
of nothing but beautiful trainers of all
varieties.
Federica Amato and Saskia Verhagen discuss the curse of the designer handbag
Matthew Allinson tackles the hell of the High Street and finds heaven at Offspring
cheaper than competitors they gave me
a proper bag I can use again.
I know the quality of the bag is a
weird point to get all excited about but
I mean, trainers are all pretty much the
same wherever you buy them from but
I have so much time for seriously good
customer service at no extra cost, and
the proper bag is a tangible example of
how these guys provided it.
Offspring made me realise I don’t hate
shoe shopping – I just hate most shoe
shops. All I ever wanted was a wide se-
lection of trainers to choose from and
to be treated like a human being while I
made my choice. If, like me, you share
these modest demands, I highly recom-
mend you try these guys out.
“They brought me a
pair that fit. I liked
them”
Handbags – probably the best place to keep your sleeping pills
Who needs shoes? I use reinforced bin bags – deal with it

