FOOD
FELIX
38
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 october 2011
London is filled with loads of cafés, which, let’s
face it, look almost the same and offer very simi-
lar products. That’s why it’s completely OK to
feel sick of them. There is, however, a place in
London where you can have your coffee or tea
like you’ve never have before. It’s small, it’s
cozy, it’s friendly, it’s “Betty Blythe”. Named
after the Hollywood starlet, “Betty Blythe” is a
beautiful, vintage teashop and fine food pantry
in west London – just 10 minutes walking from
Hammersmith Station.
Betty Blythe offers a complete selection of cof-
fees and teas, as well as a wide range of fresh
pastries, muffins and cakes. The highlight of a
visitor’s experience in my opinion is the maca-
roons. They look fresh and they taste fresh; hav-
ing just the right size they match incredibly with
a morning or afternoon tea without being too
sweet. The counter is full with beautifully made
cakes and colourful treats and the staff look very
keen to help you choose!
Betty Blythe is also a wonderful spot for an el-
egant hen-do or a birthday party offering pretty
decor and delicious food. You can choose be-
Food Bites
Michael Krestas
Vintage and glamorous Betty
Cluster Bombs
I have recently tried the new Kellogg’s Special K
Honey Clusters and although I did not have many
expectations (I usually expect low fat cereals to
be plain and boring), they have become my first
choice for breakfast. This is because they are
crunchy, sweet, and healthy. For sure, they are
much better than any other variations of Kellogg’s
Special K, but the downside is that they are expen-
sive when not on offer. George Trigeorgis
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
“I want to keep fighting because it is the only
thing that keeps me out of the hamburger
joints. If I don’t fight, I’ll eat this planet.” Take
this George Foreman quote, replace ‘fight’
with ‘study’ and ‘hamburger joints’ with ‘By-
ron’ and it’s instantly applicable to me. Well,
sort of. OK, not really, but I still really like
Byron.
For the unenlightened, Byron is a hamburger
restaurant chain that was set up in 2007, with
seventeen restaurants currently scattered about
central and greater London, two of which are
almost on Imperial’s doorstep (one opposite
Gloucester Road station, the other a few min-
utes walk from South Kensington station).
They all sport a clean, minimalistic look, but
at the same time none of their restaurants have
never felt cold, simply because they’re always
bustling with life. Or maybe I’ve always been
far too focused on the delicious food to ever
take notice.
Byron’s menu isn’t exhaustive by any means,
but by GOD do they focus their attention well.
If you’ve never been a fan of hamburgers
simply because no place seems to get them
right, try here. No soggy salad, no overload
of cheese, buns that actually complement the
meal rather than exist as a source of carbohy-
drates...
Am I getting the message across that I really
rather like this place? The classic cheese is the
crowning jewel; six ounces of freshly ground
beef (cooked, obviously) with a slice of ched-
dar (or the cheese of your choice) and just the
right amount of veggies to keep me sufficient-
Byron means Burger
Laurence Pope ly hooked and drooling all over my keyboard.
Outside of the Heaven-sent hamburgers are
a modest number of main and side salads,
which, whilst crunchy and better than most,
pale in comparison to their meatier main
course brethren. The choice for vegetarians is
somewhat limited however – there’s a veggie
burger (made with grilled Portobello mush-
room), and one of the salads is meat-free (the
buffalo mozzarella and lentil), but beyond that
you’re rather limited in choice.
If you like either of those then you’re in for
a treat, but slightly pickier vegetarians may
very well want to give Byron a miss. Obligate
carnivores on the other hand will not be disap-
pointed.
The dessert menu is small as well, but does
contain some very nice after-dinner treats to
indulge yourself with. Unfortunately light sor-
bets or fruit salads are missing from the menu;
often after a large meal the last thing you want
to eat is a rich chocolate brownie or cream-
laden banana split.
Something small and sweet to end the meal
with would round it off nicely, possibly ac-
companied by a glass of wine – of which there
is a respectable selection.
I could try and go on about meat texture,
subtle flavours and whatnot, but at the end of
the day I’m no food buff. Let me put it sim-
ply – I know what I like, and I like Byron. So
will you.
tween the main café and the downstairs tearoom
– for a more private space.
Betty Blythe is the absolute vintage and glam-
orous get-together place for you girls to meet,
chit-chat, have your party and gossip (now I’m
being rude!). For you guys I have one thing to
say: the food there is too good to get stopped by
the girlie tone of the café. Take your girlfriend,
sister or mother – although that’s just sad – and
have a try; you won’t regret it!
73 Blythe Rd. Brook Green, London W14
0HP
Tel: 0207 602 1177
Email: darling@bettyblythe.co.uk
Open 8am till 6pm ish
Different to the coconut-based macaroons from
America, the French version ‘Macarons’ have a
smother surface and are of a sandwich design.
These tasty treats have been bringing delight to
foodies in London and Betty Blythe looks forward
to welcoming you to try them for yourself.
Go and soak up some French glamour as well
as the new range of Ganache Macarons which
come in a range of flavours; from Bramley Apple to
Ginger Bread to Peanut Butter & Jam flavour and
many more! I am addicted. Michael Krestas
He’s a Macaron Lover
There is always space for you to
review any new products you have
tried. Simply, send us an email at
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Don’t forget to send your speciality to food.felix@imperial.ac.uk for the
Imperial Food Awards. Deadline is on Friday 21 October at 00:00.
I suddenly have an incredible urge to travel back in time...
I’m not a vegetarian, I swear!

