FELIX
40
TRAVEL
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 OCTOBER 2011
India is certainly famous for its delicious tea,
so it’s surprising that when most people ‘do
India’ they’re usually referring to the dusty
north as opposed to the plusher south. Mun-
nar is a gem in the heart of Kerala, nestled
in the Western Ghats, and is home to some
of the most breath-taking mountain and plan-
tation scenery the country has to offer. After
surviving a treacherous bus ride up windy
hills I was lucky enough to catch some of the
sights on offer.
Wishing you were here
ner you’ll be just fine. And even in my case,
the afternoon swims in waterfalls, friendly
waves from tea pickers and the freedom of
an absolute must, and the daily rental fee is as
low as a standard tuk-tuk ride anyway. And
of course, don’t skip on the freshly brewed
chai.
All in all Munnar turned out to be one of
my favourite destinations in India, especially
after the hustle and bustle of the dusty, tem-
pley north. It’s a brilliant place to unwind,
and a great portal to the rest of ‘God’s own
country’; it’s a place where not even the tor-
rential downpour of the thick monsoon can
bring down your spirits.
“...afternoon swims in
waterfalls, friendly waves
from tea pickers and
freedom of the road”
Chris Richardson
Escaping India’s dusty north for some much needed rest
and recovery in the plush green scenery of Kerala
Munnar: your cup of chai
Get there: Gospel Oak/Hampstead (Overground),
or Kentish Town (Northern line)
See: One of the best skyline views of London
Eat: Amazing gastropub fare at The Bull and Last
Cost: £10-20 for a meal, or £2-7 for nibbles
Visit Parliament Hill this Saturday to browse one
of the most picturesque weekly farmers’ markets
in London and for stunning views of the capital’s
landmarks. Situated on a corner of Hampstead
Heath, which covers 800 acres of grassland, this
is the perfect place for a chilled evening out in one
of the most beautiful parts of North London.
‘Banks of the Yamuna’ by Rajesh Kuman Singh
Unbeatable mountain views from Tea Castle, ten kilometres outside of Munnar
The town itself is a little scruffy, offer-
ing the usual array of delicious Indian cui-
sine and cocktail of tablets to keep the runs
at bay. While it serves as the perfect hub for
necessities, the true beauties of Munnar lie
in the outskirts. Instead of succumbing to the
dreaded tuk-tuk drivers, I decided to rent my-
self a motorbike and head for the scenery.
The sights on show were nothing less than
fantastic: I spent the day venturing further
and further afield, zipping by luscious lakes,
plush plantations and wild elephants, occa-
sionally stopping to take a snap or two. High-
ly recommended is the ride to Top Station,
about thirty kilometres out of town, where
you can pick up a tasty thali and admire the
Ghats and gaze into the neighbouring state of
Tamil Nadu.
Motorbiking might evoke images of cruis-
ing in the sun, but be warned – the ride is
not for the faint hearted. Blissfully forgetting
about the altitude and the monsoon I opted to
wear beach gear, only to be caught by torren-
tial downpour. The slippy roads would have
been tolerable had I not also neglected the
setting sun; needless to say, the ride home in
the dark was a slow one. To add to the thrills
I tried to convince myself that I was a main
character from a zombie movie.
But as long as you’re not a complete span-
Travel on your doorstep
Stunning skylines from Parliament Hill
Planning a trip to Munnar? I stayed at a wonderful hotel
called Tea Castle, nestled ten kilometres out of town. The ho-
tel offers peaceful serenity and unbeatable views of the sur-
rounding mountains and tea fields from its brilliant bedroom
balconies. The staff were very helpful when it came to organ-
ising day trips, and the top-notch Keralan cuisine dished up
at the classy rooftop restaurant always went down a treat. To
find out more visit TeaCastle.in or contact the Editor.
Planning a trip to Kerala (or anywhere in India)? Contact
Kerala Holidays, who offer tailor-made custom packages for
groups of any size, that start and end at the airport and in-
clude everything in between. Awarded as the Best In-Bound
Tour Operator by the Kerala Government, and with a friendly
staff who know the ins and outs of the country, it’s no wonder
they’re attracting holidaymakers and celebrities alike. Visit
KeralaHolidays.com to find out more.
Planning a trip? Here’s some useful India travel tips from the Felix Travel team!
Endless seas of emerald green will entertain you for eons
“See it all by serendipity”
the road made it totally worthwhile. I could
go on about every little site to see, but the
best way to see it all is by serendipity, the
backpacker’s best friend. But motorbiking is

