you to join us at club Heaven on November 22,
where the contagious energy of the famed Buraka
Som Sistema will play live in what promises to
be a great night of high temperature, strong beats
and the hip breaking kuduro dancing. Tickets are
£15 online (with extra booking fee cost), show
starts at 19:00.
After receiving a positive response from in-
terested members, every Monday and Thursday
from 13:00-14:00 , there will be portuguese
group classes given by native speaking com-
mittee members. If interested in knowing more
details, please email portugue@imperial.ac.uk.
Locations will vary, so make sure you join the
mailing list for updates.
Join us on Facebook for updates (Portuguese
Speaking Society – Imperial College London) or
send us an email if interested to join our mailing
list, a specific event or just to say hi. Spread the
word, because PortSoc is ready to be launched
and you might just be the fun spirit we are wait-
ing to meet!
Até breve!
protection of the Israelites in the Sinai desert
and is referred to as “Z’man Simchateinu”, the
time of our rejoicing. It is indeed amongst the
most joyous festivals in the Jewish calendar.
Today, it was a joy and a privilege to be able
to celebrate Succot at Imperial. To be given
the opportunity to celebrate at our university,
throughout the day and to share it with the rest
of the student body was unprecedented and su-
perb.
On top of it all, the joy of the penultimate day
of Succot couldn’t have been greater, with the
return home of Israeli Defense Forces soldier,
Gilad Shalit, with whom our thoughts were
throughout the day.
This is the first event that Interfaith has co-
hosted this year and it hopes to be the first of
many to come. Imperial Interfaith and Chap-
laincy are hosting a workshop on Wednesday
26 October at 14:30 entitled ‘How to do Dia-
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 21 OCTOBER 2011 41
Imperial College in the Succah! Fellwanderers
Intelligence Report
Date: 14/10/11 - 16/10/11
Destination: Snowdonia, Cymru
Day 1: Friday
18:17 – Mobile Command Unit (MCU) departs from
Secret Headquarters near Chiswick
18:20 – MCU refuels
18:30 – MCU attempts to collect agents Evans &
Harris and fails to make contact
20:20 – MCU drives past standard Imperial 15
seater of unknown allegiance, commences hand
waving operations regardless
21:00 – Checkpoint 2: purchasing and consump-
tion of fish and chips, naan bread and cat curry
22:00 – MCU passes by “Star City” near Birming-
ham; driver was distracted during process by de-
scription of “really cool colourful shiny spinny thing”
23:10 – MCU enters hostile territory AKA Wales,
signs now twice as big as they need to be
00:17 – MCU experienced a near miss with an un-
precedented threat disguised as a sheep
00:37 – MCU arrives at Imperial hut, before both
minibuses
00:45 – Fire successfully lit to warm hut for fresh-
ers
00:56 – Crew of MCU are smug with beer next to
fire, while freshers languish in minibuses
Day 2: Saturday
07:52- Quartermaster MacAuley gets up to pre-
pare breakfast and lunch for assault on Snowdon
summit
09:15- Minibus arrives at Pen y Pass, assault on
Snowdon begins
10:10- Fellwanderers split into 2 companies: first,
larger group scrambling up Crib Goch and the sec-
ond, smaller group going via the Pyg Track. MCU
supervises the Crib Goch company
11:28 – Crib Goch company (CGC) spots mountain
rescue helicopter, hopes it is not waiting for one of
the CGC members to fall off
12:00 – Helicopter air lifts somebody, not in CGC,
to safety
14:08 – CGC reaches summit of Snowdon
18:00 – All Fellwanderers back in hut, including
groups who travelled back via Pen y Pass
18:05 – Evening provisions served: “pasta & red
wine sauce”
21:30 – Cmdr Rumer blames new recruits for
drinking his litre of spiced rum, which he achieved
alone
21:45 – Cmdr Rumer spills crisps over floor
21:45 – Cmdr Rumer doesn’t want to sleep in a
different room in case someone wears his clothes
Day 3: Sunday
07:55 – All rise, cleaning of the hut commences
09:08 – All transports depart from hut
09:31 – Bus arrives near bottom of Tryfan, con-
sumption of sausage rolls
09:42 – Entire group begins up the Devil’s Kitchen
12:27 – Lunch on top of glyder fawr
14:02 – Reach second summit
16:46 – Return to transports, depart for London
20:17 – Minibus 2 stops for dinner in Rugby
00:10 – Minibus 2 arrives at Beit Quad
logue’. This is a chance to learn simple and
transferable skills to engage in dialogue with
people holding different views. The workshop
will be led by staff from Interact and Three
Faiths Forum. The following two weeks (No-
vember 2 and November 9) will give a chance
to engage in dialogue on topics chosen by the
group. On November 18 there will be an open
dialogue session at the Victoria and Albert Mu-
seum on burial customs too. For more informa-
tion and to book a place visit www.imperial.
ac.uk/chaplaincy.
Throughout the whole day, there was a tre-
mendous effort by all the Interfaith and Jew-
ish committee members, a massive thank you
to everyone who helped organise the event and
came down to celebrate their own customs or to
learn about other religions. However, we would
like to say a very special thanks to the Jewish
Society Interfaith Representative.
On Tuesday 18 October, Interfaith and the IC
Jewish Society set up a Succah on campus, for
the first time ever in the university’s history. It
was undoubtedly a great success.
The week-long Jewish festival of Succot,
(singular: “Succah”), is named after the sym-
bolic wilderness shelters or temporary huts
dwelt in by the Israelites whilst in the wilder-
ness of the Sinai Desert, after they were freed
from slavery in Egypt and before entering the
Promised Land, forty years later.
These temporary shelters are dwelt in again,
every year, from the 15th to the 21st day of the
Jewish year. The commandment “to dwell” in
the succah is fulfilled by spending as much
time as possible inside, including eating one’s
meals, as well as sleeping in the succah, if pos-
sible and weather and health permitting.
The Succah must have at least three walls and
a rooftop made of thatch or branches that pro-
vide shade, but also allow you to see the stars. It
is traditionally decorated with autumnal fruits
as a reference to the end of the harvesting sea-
son and with Judaic themes, as well as the four
key species - a palm branch, three branches of
myrtle, two willow branches (the lulav) and
a citron (the etrog). Although each represents
a different type of person, all four species are
taken and bound together to symbolize that the
mitzvah, or “good deed”, of Sukkot unites us
all.
Though on the one hand, dwelling in the sim-
plicity of the Succah reminds us of the frailty
and transience of life, it reminds us of God’ s
Estamos de volta!
Who hasn’t heard of the amazing Portuguese
cuisine? Of the famous Brazilian carnival? Of the
fast-growing Angolan economy? Yes, between
footballers, hot weather and welcoming, fun
people, Portuguese speaking countries have had
their fair share in leaving cultural marks
around the world – and now, we’re
ready to do the same at Imperial.
Starting small but enthusiastic,
we’re not only looking out for
those who see this society as a
reminder of home, but for anyone
wishing to learn more about our
cultures and love for mingling.
With an events calendar already
established for this term, don’t be fooled
by quantity, because we are best at making
up for it in quality time spent between friends!
The first event of the year has already been a
success! Teaming up with the King’s College
Portuguese & Brazilian society, members of
the IC Portuguese Speaking Society went on a
pubcrawl between Vauxhall and Stockwell. The
pubcrawl was a great success, highlighted by the
break in social drinking to watch the Portugal-
Iceland match, an important qualification for the
2012 UEFA cup. Rest assured, Portugal won by
a stunning 5-3, and at the time of writing cur-
rently sits atop the Group H qualifications,
although tied point-wise with Den-
mark. But enough of the football.
Anyone is welcome to join our
first dinner in Stockwell on Octo-
ber 28, where a growing Portu-
guese community brings to us
dishes that will make anyone fall
in love and ask for more. Meeting
point will be Vauxhall tube station at
20:00, where we will then head over to
O Campino, where we’ll enjoy a menu that in-
cludes starters, a main course, a drink and coffee
for £8.
If you prefer a proper night out, we propose
Ines Vaz
PortSoc arrive at Imperial College
Interfaith make history after celebrating Jewish festival on campus
Andrea Levy
Sayinthen Vivekanantham
Interfaith Committee 2011-2012, left to right: Cornelius Ng (Cath Soc Rep), Mustafa
Khan (AB Soc Rep), Sayinthen Vivekanantham (President), Sukhraj Takhar (Sikh Soc
Rep), Dodie Levene (Jewish Soc Rep)

