FELIX
42
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 october 2011
HANGMAN
The Hangman Blackboard
Hello Union,
Could you do me a favour? Train
your bar staff to recognise who
was there first. You know, like all
other bars do. While you’re at it,
stop going to the very edge of the
bar to serve the dicks who just
walk there. How about they walk
up choose an order and tell people
okay 1,2,3,4 – then people at least
know they aren’t in bar limbo.
Dear Union,
Guess what? At big events like Graduation, loads
of people are going to be around. Therefore, loads
of people will be trying to get drinks. It’s almost
like that might mean more bar staff would be a
good idea for these, fucking obviously, special
occasions. Probably also worth mentioning that
serving people is task 1, task 2 is stacking cups/
tying receipts with a rubber band.
Hey people at the Union,
‘Can I pay on my card?’ No, you CAN
fuck off and die though.
P.S. Those 4 people you vaguely
knew, who asked you to get one for
them ‘while you’re being served’
don’t actually like you. It’s nothing
personal, it’s just you’re a cunt. Oh,
wait, it is personal. Sucks to be you.
After the amazing success of the Hangman Notice Board last week
(errr Library have stopped giving out receipts... you’re fucking wel-
come). Hangman has decided, apart from referring to Hangman in the
third person like a despot, to show you his blackboard. What? How
could that possibly be an innuendo? Why would your mind go there?
Anyway, let me whip out my chalk stick and spread my dust over you.
Here it is, under this filler text. Why a blackboard? We’re old school.
Dear people standing at the bar,
I know it’s an exciting moment when a
hot girl/guy/Colonel Gaddafi stands next
to you, but stop trying to subtly look at
them out of the corner of your eye. All
that happens is you end up tilting your
head and spilling your pint, you pervert.
Drunken mate
of the week sub-
missions please
Send them to:
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Make sure they
don’t mind, too
much. We’re seri-
ously about to go
through Facebook

