FELIX Friday 21 october 2011 43
Horoscopes*
Scorpio
Not happy with this week’s horoscopes?
You twisted fuck. How hard is it to
offend you? If you think you’ve got what
it takes, come down to the Felix office
and have a go. Sucking Hangman’s cock
is an obligatory part of the initiation
ceremony. Unless you’re not a medic.
Then you’re just a time waster.
Aries
Do you really have to recline your seat
for a 2 hr flight? Like those extra 10o
of horizontalness improve your comfort
more than they reduce mine. You anti-
social bastard. You probably masturbate
in front of your children while playing
The Sims.You sick, anally retented fuck.
Taurus
In a moment of charitable goodwill, you
adopt a pet from the Battersea Dog’s
Home. You rush home and spread some
peanut butter over your balls. Woofy
starts to lick them... it’s nice, it tickles.
It pinches. Hard. Harder. Harder still.
Argh! Just like Hitler, you’ve lost a ball.
Gemini
You’re about to transfer from MPhil to
PhD. You still need to do those GSEPS
courses. Where would you be without
that Myers Personality Test? How did
you manage to get your UG degree
without it? You jammy sod. Thanks
GSEPS, you really saved me there. Not.
Cancer
Camping outside St Paul’s for three
days, yeh, that’s gonna change the sys-
tem. You anarchistic dickfucks. You
want an equal distribution of wealth?
Then stop being a bunch of precious hip-
pies, put things into perspective. Get a
decent job. There’s AIDS in Africa FFS.
Leo
Don’t you just love it when your flat-
mate cooks a delicious roast chicken?
Ah, the way the grease from the bird
makes a lubricant for your Cock (ged-
dit?), your chicken cock. Lovely. Actu-
ally, chickens don’t have dicks, but still,
it kinda works. Right? Well, since when
were you the foreskin master?
Virgo
You receive a remote controlled heli-
copter. After an unfortunate penis-re-
lated incident, you take your new toy
to the stats lecture. You attempt to land
the machine on the lecturer’s combover,
only for the fucker in the back row to fly
his one over and missile you. Bollocks.
Libra
Not happy with this week’s articles?
Ooooh, well why not write a comment
on the Felix website that no one will
read or give a shit about. You Guardian
reading retard. Some articles are meant
to provoke, stir debate. Don’t get
offended so easily, you sensitive ponce.
Sagittarius
I want to ram bamboo strips under your
fingernails and then rip them out. I want
to tear off your toes one by one. And
then I want to lick your testicles...
... I think I might have Daddy issues...
perhaps I should go on some sort of TV
show... ideas?
Capricorn
You develop a new laugh where
you can’t stop snorting. It’s bloody
unattractive. It’s enough that you
already look like a pig, do you really
have to sound like one as well? What
next, you’re gonna grow a goatee? I
mean, you already sound like a cunt...
Aquarius
What’s long, pink and hard in the
morning? No, it isn’t the FT crossword.
It’s your erect cock getting excited over
the financial deprivation of those smelly
Cancer people that hypocritically go to
Starbucks mid-protest. Those fucking
double-skinny-latte drinking socialists.
Pisces
You end up listening to the “award win-
ning” IC Radio. With 5 listeners, they
were hitting record numbers. But the
music was shit. Really shit. They went
back to 4 listeners: the Felix editor, their
1 friend, the rector, and the generally
grumpy security guy in Beit quad.
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
‘Shit, turns out
it was Gene
Simmons, oh
my Gawwwd’
says camp NTC
spokesman.
HANGMAN
Every Second, Third and Fourth Year is currently applying for a
job. Use this cover letter like I use your mother – shamelessly:
Dear Sir/Madam,
I am perfectly suited to this job in every way possible. In fact, scratch
that, I’m perfectly suited to EVERY job in the world EVER. Have you
seen that I go to Imperial? Oh yeah, also have you seen my predicted
grade. 2-motherfucking-1. Yeah, there is no way in hell I could ever have
just predicted myself that grade with no basing.
I have leadership skills. As we know, everyone in a company must have
leadership skills. No, these aren’t gained by being good at a certain role
and over time becoming more confident because of increase proficiency.
They are gained by being the TEAM LEADER in a group exercise for my
degree. Okay, so we basically just sat around and all contributed but I
lead that contribution. This is definitely true by the way. There is no way
that I could exaggerate my role in the task, even though I know that, bar-
ring finding out what group I was in and checking, there is no way for
you to check if I am lying.
I also have excellent comunikation scills. I am basically an orator of
Pliny the Younger levels (Note – obscure references are good. It’s best to
make the interviewer feel like an idiot. For bonus points slip in a cheeky
‘have you read his letters’). I think it is best for me to just tell you how
good I am at communicating. As we both know, it is better for me to tell
you what I am like, as opposed to show you what I am like. Why would I
do that?
Biggest weakness? Well, I think I am sometimes just too much of a
perfectionist, you know. I bet that’s a response you never hear. Wait,
that’s actually a positive isn’t it. Turns out, even my worst qualities are
straight up awesome. Pushed to say another weakness, it’s definitely
dreamy guys/the pussyting.
Teamworking? I already told you I am a great, natural-born leader.
I’m basically the modern day Julius Caesar. This may imply that I would
be bad at working in a team, as I will be a massive dickhead and start
bossing people about like I’m trying out for The Apprentice. Please do not
point this out.
Yours sincerely/Yours faithfully – What? You don’t know which one is
supposed to go here do you. Figure it out. I’m not doing all the work for
you.
‘Insert name here’
Send this shit off to anyone who will hire me
*Think swearing is vulgar? Well it’s not, you cunt.

