Perhaps the most worrying fact is that
it is children from disadvantaged back-
grounds who are least likely to end up
in a STEM-related profession. And with
only 10% of teachers even prepared to
consider teaching in a disadvantaged
school, it isn’t hard to see why. Student
experiences of their own schools only
accentuate the problem, with our sec-
ond year recounting the many times he
saw teachers “get torn to shreds by the
... the mob.”
But all of this has a knock-on effect
as, according to the Department for
Education (DfE), 2009 saw around half
of all schools enter no pupils at all for
any separate sciences at GCSE level.
Deprived areas are most affected by this
trend, because these are the schools that
fail to attract good teachers of STEM
subjects, and are consequently more
likely to stop teaching those subjects
altogether. This has a direct effect on
the type of students who end up study-
ing STEM subjects at university, with
Imperial in particular attracting fewer
and fewer students from lower socio-
economic backgrounds.
Teach First is an independent charity
focused on delivering far-reaching so-
better job satisfaction, security, lifestyle
or long holidays?” And, whilst the aver-
age starting salary of a teacher is below
Imperial’s graduate average, it is still
possible to progress rapidly in to posi-
tions of leadership within schools, with
salary scales for head teachers in inner
London schools reaching upwards of
£100,000. Additionally, Britain isn’t the
only country struggling with a lack of
STEM teachers – lots of British STEM
graduates end up immigrating to Aus-
tralia or New Zealand to teach. But
the most important thing, according to
Carlos, is that “teaching is a vocational
thing, and if you love what you do then
money shouldn’t really come into it”.
a good middle ground, since there is no
obligation to stay in teaching after the
two year programme, thus keeping your
options wide open. As third year physi-
cist Elwin Carlos points out, “Teach
First is creating a movement for change,
innovation and inspiration, not just in
the classroom, but in the boardroom, the
government and across society”.
Salary is undeniably a leading reason
why graduates tend to stay away from
teaching, and to students for whom
salary is the biggest consideration, ca-
reers in banking or consultancy might
look more attractive. However, as Hunt
points out, “are those jobs going to give
you a chance to change people’s lives,
cial change by addressing educational
disadvantage – driving up standards
and raising aspirations in schools fac-
ing challenging circumstances. They
have their sights set on Imperial Col-
lege to help combat the so-called
“STEM challenge”.
Over the last nine years, Teach First
has been strengthening their connec-
tions with Imperial, and has taken on
89 Imperial graduates into the Teach
First Leadership Development Pro-
gramme (LDP). This year Teach First
aims to recruit around 1000 graduates
and experienced professionals to the
LDP, with just under half of all recruits
coming from a STEM background.
Teach First currently have three stu-
dent brand managers at Imperial: stu-
dents who promote awareness of Teach
First across campus, whether through
promoting events, shout-outs in lec-
tures or working with staff.
Felix got in touch with these brand
managers, and asked them about their
experiences.
Douglas Hunt, a fourth year chemist,
was drawn into what he describes as
an “innovative graduate programme”
after getting involved in teaching with
the Student Associates Scheme (a now-
terminated scheme in which students
spent fifteen days in schools as teaching
assistants). He acknowledges that many
students might not think of teaching as a
lifelong career, but Teach First provides
FEATURE
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
features.felix@gmail.com
C
an you think of any reason
why an Imperial student
might want to become
a teacher?” “They got a
third class, maybe?” This
response from a second year mathema-
tician may well sum up the opinions
of some Imperial students, and indeed
a section of society’s wider opinion of
the profession. We’ve all heard the age-
old adage, “if you can’t do; teach”. And,
with the starting salary for teaching be-
ing significantly lower than the average
starting salary for Imperial graduates,
not to mention challenging classroom
conditions, it isn’t hard to imagine why
the UK faces its largest shortage of
Science, Technology, Engineering and
Maths (STEM) teachers. “You’d be at
the bottom of society. You’d be in your
crappy Smart car and everyone would
be looking at you”, the mathematician
continues. This week we challenge
some of the misconceptions surround-
ing teaching, and ask why more Impe-
rial graduates don’t generally consider
teaching as an acceptable career option.
Firstly, why is Britain’s lack of STEM
teachers such a problem? According to
Teach First, a charity that directs high
calibre graduates towards teaching dis-
advantaged children, “46% of employ-
ers are concerned that they will not be
able to fill posts in their organisations
that require graduate or higher level
STEM qualifications”. In order to tack-
le the STEM professional shortage, one
needs to understand just why there is
such a low uptake of STEM graduates
into teaching or STEM careers gener-
ally. And with the UK’s international
ranking in Science and Maths compul-
sory education steadily declining in re-
cent years, it has never been more im-
portant to address the issue.
“You’d be at the
bottom of society.
Everyone would be
looking at you”
The unused green chalk looks on enviously at his academically superior comrade
Matthew Colvin
WHY SHOULD
YOU GO INTO
TEACHING?
Teach First
6 FELIX
Friday 21 OCTOBER 2011
Academia: over on the other side
Of course, there is one group of Imperial students who will certainly end
up teaching, though they might consider it a mere aside to their primary
vocation. Academics, whether they love it or hate it, spend large amounts
of their time teaching. Some might regard this as a drop in the ocean
when compared to the demands of research work, but such a view is
misguided; aspirant lecturers should be careful not to underestimate the
primacy teaching will assume in their work.
Certainly there are big differences between the classroom and the lec-
ture theatre. The material is more advanced, while students are (for the
most part) easier to handle. Putting ideas across is a lot more straight-
forward when your audience is actually interested.
In some respects, then, teaching at university level is a more detached
affair. Students are largely expected to be self-motivated and to take
responsibility for their own work. Because of this, the necessary skills
differ from school teaching, with a greater emphasis on command of the
subject, as opposed to engagement with pupils.
Many academics rate teaching very highly. One anonymous lecturer
told Felix: “teaching is one of the main perks of the job.” Another inter-
estingly noted that “it is a commonly observed fact in the academic com-
munity that engaging in teaching while doing research ... often enhances
that research.” So the two certainly are not mutually opposing interests.
Katy Bettany, Matt Colvin, Navid Nabijou and
Deepka Rana investigate Imperial’s preconceptions
with a profession keen to take on some of the
country’s top science graduates
“Teach First is trying
to create a move-
ment for change and
innovation”

