FEATURE
Teach First is by no means the only
pathway for Imperial graduates into
teaching. YELP is an organisation
aimed at reducing inequality in pri-
mary and secondary education, with
the stated aim to remove the (cur-
rently strong) correlation between
affluence and academic achievement.
Formed in 2007, the organisation
already has links to Oxford, LSE,
King’s and Queen Mary.
This year, it has set up connections
with Imperial, with Teach First pro-
viding the preliminary training. Its
activities centre mainly around one-
to-one tutoring with struggling stu-
dents, committment typically being
an hour a week.
So, all things considered, why
should you go into teaching? Maybe
you genuinely do want to help others.
Maybe you enjoy the thrill of con-
veying understanding. Maybe you
want to keep your knowledge fresh;
nothing sharpens your skills more
than an interrogative student.
Probably, you won’t be appreciated
as much or as often as you might like,
but as long as you’re not too thin-
skinned, that shouldn’t be a problem.
So even if you didn’t get a third, it
might be worth a think.
“The great thing about Teach First is
that over half of those who do it enjoy
it so much that they continue teaching
full-time, and if you are, indeed, con-
cerned about pay, the LDP is an amaz-
ing opportunity for what is essentially
paid work experience. The skills you
pick up and lessons you learn whilst
being on the Teach First scheme really
do make you vastly more employable.
Put simply, graduates who can engage,
manage and inspire a class of young
people can handle pretty well any situa-
tion in any industry.”
Teach First will be holding a Milk-
round Presentation on Monday 24 Oc-
tober in the Reed Lecture Theatre in the
Sherfield Building.
Other Schemes
7
FELIX Friday 21 october 2011
(Left to right) Teach First Brand Managers Emma Gould, Elwin Carlos and Douglas Hunt
The
figures By Veronika McQuadeova
Number crunching isn’t just for the classroom
as these teaching related statistics reveal

