SCIENCE
FELIX
8
Sleep deprived doctors
find potential cure
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 21 october 2011
A preliminary study published in Annals of Surgery
recently suggests that modafinil, an analeptic drug,
can help sleep-deprived doctors to improve their
cognitive process, but not their clinical psychomotor
performance.
Cognitive processes — mental tasks — are critical
for various aspects of the medical profession, such
as making the right decision under time pressure.
Clinical psychomotor skills are involved with the sur-
gical skills and other procedural tasks.
The nature of the medical profession is inherently
unpredictable, demanding and inflexible; doctors of-
ten find themselves deprived of sleep because of the
extended working hours demanded of them.
The link between fatigue and impaired working per-
formance is well established. Therefore, doctors who
have been working for long periods without sleep
pose a safety risk to both themselves and their pa-
tients because they are more likely to commit medi-
cal errors and make poor judgments than if they were
well rested.
Hence, this study was designed to find out whether
certain drugs can be used to resolve the problems of
fatigued and sleep-deprived doctors.
The study, carried out as a randomised controlled
trial, looked at the effects of Modafinil on the perfor-
mance of 39 healthy male doctors who have been
deprived of sleep for one night. 20 of the doctors
were given Modafinil while the other 19 were given
a placebo.
A series of tests were then carried out to assess
the cognitive processes of the doctors and their
clinical psychomotor skills. Interestingly, those that
were given the modafinil drugs performed better in
the psychological tests than the placebo group. The
modafinil group also behaved less-impulsively in the
decision-making tests; showed a better result in the
working memory and planning tests; and were more
responsive to changing demands. This indicates that
they had greater mental flexibility.
On the other hand, the placebo group was expect-
ed to perform sub-optimally in the surgical motor skill
tasks under conditions of fatigue as a previous study
found that these tasks are susceptible to the ef-
fects of fatigue. It is worth noting, however, that the
modafinil group performed the same as the placebo
group in this task showing that modafinil administra-
tion did not improve psychomotor performance. It is
thought that little demand is placed on higher-cogni-
tive centres to carry out the surgical skills. Therefore
an improved cognitive process has no advantage for
doctors performing surgical tasks.
The researchers stress that until further investi-
gations are done that the use of pharmacological
enhancement in the workplace cannot be recom-
mended. A larger sample size, long term study and
different characteristics of the sample have yet to be
done to confirm the findings of the study.
The investigation only involves the effects of one
dose of modafinil over a short period of time. In addi-
tion, the participants were only young doctors and no
older participants were included. Therefore, before
a sound conclusion about the benefits of modafinil
to the sleep-deprived doctors can be drawn, further
researches are needed. There are also challenging
ethical considerations that have to be taken into ac-
count very carefully.
Until then, perhaps, a good-quality sleep is the
best solution. Farhan Abdullah
Climate change and global warming caused by
greenhouse gas emissions have important im-
plications on re-shaping Earth’s landscape. An-
imal species can suffer dramatic consequences,
possibly even extinction, from these changes.
Scientists have been studying how climate
change affects the habitat of frogs, and in what
ways changes to their habitat conditions could
lead to the risk of extinction of some spe-
cies and the consequent loss of biodiversity
amongst the amphibians.
In the study, scientists from the University of
Evora in Portugal and the Brown University in
Rhode Island, US, used a model that attempts
to predict the geographical movements of 15
different species of amphibians in the western
coast of US up to the year 2100, under two dif-
ferent greenhouse gas emission scenarios – one
moderate and one more extreme. The models,
based on weather data of the same region be-
tween 1961 and 1990, analysed the geographi-
cal distribution of the different species and
predicted for each of them the possible range
of movements (technically defined as “shifts”)
that the species could undergo because of the
modifications to climate conditions.
In their work, published this year in the inter-
national journal Ecology Letters, Regan Early
and Dov F. Sax observed that there can be dis-
continuities in the path of frogs’ movements.
These discontinuities are called gaps and con-
sist of particularly hostile geographical regions
that block the migration from one place, whose
climate becomes hostile for the survival of the
species, to another place where a more suitable
climate exists. These regions could be physi-
cal barriers such as mountains. “For example,
[one frog species] may be unable to shift into
its full potential future range because climate
variability after 2050 causes the landscape
connecting northern California and Southern
Oregon to become climatically suitable only
transiently”, explain the scientists. In simple
words, if the species wants to move it should do
it very quickly, otherwise the region will be not
accessible anymore and a gap will block future
movements. Scientists claimed that gaps in the
climate-path or range shifts of a species could
seriously endanger its survival in the long term
up to 2100.
But not all hope is lost for the frogs. The
scientists discovered two factors that can de-
termine the ability of the frogs to emigrate to
places with more suitable climatic conditions,
in either greenhouse emission scenario: spread-
ing the population in a certain territory (defined
as dispersal), and the frog’s ability to persist in
a certain geographic area for a short time, even
in non favourable climatic conditions (called
persistence). The better the species is at these
two things, the better their chances of survival
will be. The most surprising discovery was that
particularly persistence ability up to one decade
would be the most favourable factor to expand
the range shift of a species in a scenario where
local climate fluctuations and variability occur.
Other scientists have argued some limitations
of the study, in particular regarding the assump-
tion that the species’ distribution is in equilib-
rium with its environment, and the assumption
that species cannot live in the future in climatic
conditions which are different from those they
are used to live. For instance scientists suggest-
ed that in the Pleistocene (from 2,588,000 to
11,700 years ago) some amphibians could live
under climatic conditions that were very differ-
ent from those in which they live nowadays.
Although adaptation of the species is a fur-
ther important factor to be investigated, the pre-
sent study gives some guidelines which may be
useful in order to conserve the biodiversity of
species. For example, we could promote move-
ments along certain territories by assisting or
increasing populations that naturally establish
themselves in the territories or mitigating the
impacts of climate changes using irrigations to
improve habitat quality. In the case when gaps
are present in the climate-path, we could even
consider whether to use or not the controversial
strategy of “managed relocation” or assisted
migration of some species into more suitable
habitats.
“Further refinement and application of cli-
mate-path analysis […] would improve our
ability to forecast species’ responses to climate
change and inform our use of alternative con-
servation strategies”, comment the two scien-
tists in their work. In other words, if we can
understand where they would like to move, we
could help them do it.
Antonio Torrisi
Frogs’ habitats affected
This frog is WELL DENCHHHHHHH... They should name it Judi
Graphene based electronics
Graphene is a unique material that promises to
revolutionise electronics. Consisting of a two di-
mensional hexagonal lattice of carbon molecules
(effectively a single layer of graphite) it is the
thinnest, strongest and most conductive material
ever discovered. As such it could lead to the de-
velopment of flexible computer displays, lighter
airplanes and faster Internet connections. The
government has recently recognised the promise
of this material, with Chancellor George Osborne
promising £50m for graphene research.
Now a team of scientists from the University of
Manchester, including Professor Andre Geim and
Professor Kostya Novoselov, who were awarded
last year’s Nobel Prize in Physics for their work in
developing a method to produce the material, have
announced that they are one step closer to fulfill-
ing graphene’s full potential. Writing in Nature
Physics earlier this month the team has described
how graphene had previously not exhibited An-
derson localization, an effect common to many
conductors in which they act as insulators at low
temperatures. However, by creating a structure of
alternating layers of graphene and boron nitrate,
nicknamed the “graphene ‘Big Mac’ ”, the team
was able to cut down on external potentials affect-
ing the graphene and observe the effect.
The lead author of the Nature article, Dr Leonid
Ponomarenko, has said “creating the multilayer
structure has allowed us to isolate graphene from
any negative influences of the environment and
control graphene’s electronic properties in a way
it was impossible before.”
Professor Geim added that “Leaving the new
physics we report aside, technologically important
is our demonstration that graphene encapsulated
within boron nitride offers the best and most ad-
vanced platform for future graphene electronics. It
solves several nasty issues about graphene’s sta-
bility and quality that were hanging for long time
as dark clouds over the future road for graphene
electronics.We did this on a small scale but the ex-
perience shows that everything with graphene can
be scaled up.” He hopes that in the coming months
scientists will be able to use this research to create
new and improved models of graphene transistors.
Maciej Matuszewski
Survival guidelines as frogs migrate due to climate change

