SCIENCE
FELIX 9
Friday 21 october 2011
Cloaking with carbon nanotubes
During the 17th and 18th centuries, Eu-
rope and North America experienced
much severer winters than we do now
– people could frequently walk or even
skate across a frozen Thames. This pe-
riod is called the Little Ice Age, though
unlike true ice ages, it had its origins
in the waning strength of our sun and
it was only experienced in isolated re-
gions with a minor global temperature
change. Whereas the millennial changes
in the sun were responsible for this pe-
riod, a team of scientists from the Met
Office, Oxford and Imperial have attrib-
uted current cool winters to the smaller
11 year solar cycle.
Visible and infra-red light do not vary
much during solar cycles, meaning the
direct temperature change is small.
However the fluctuation of the UV light
is much greater. UV radiation is both
absorbed by ozone and helps to create
it; this process is what warms the mid-
dle of the atmosphere where the ozone
is concentrated. The team of scientists
used recent measurements of the UV
radiation, which showed an even larger
UV change than previously expected, to
drive a climate model. They found that
the recent decrease in solar UV caused
cooling in Northern Europe and south-
ern North America during winter, whilst
northern North America and southern
Europe warmed in the model, which
agreed with real life.
The model showed that these sur-
face changes were linked to the direct
cooling of the middle atmosphere by a
network of dynamical adjustments that
weakened the Northern Hemisphere
westerly winds at the bottom of the
atmosphere. This causes the observed
temperature changes, for example: by
blowing less warm oceanic air from the
Atlantic onto Northern Europe the cli-
mate to cool.
This work demonstrates that the 11
year cycle in the sun’s strength can
have noticeable effects on our winters
and could have considerably contrib-
uted to the last two severe winters here.
However, one of the research’s authors,
Adam Scaife, highlights how “This
isn’t the sole driver of winter climate
over our region, but it is a significant
factor and understanding it is important
for seasonal to decadal forecasting”. It
should also be noted, that like the Little
Ice Age, the overall global temperature
change during the cycle was small, as
the regional changes mentioned cancel
each other out - meaning it has no effect
on global climate change.
By recreating the naturally occurring
effect of a mirage in the lab, research-
ers have hit upon a way to create
cloaking devices that work for visible
light, effectively making objects in-
visible when viewed from certain an-
gles. Now, let’s just try to get through
this without mentioning Harry Potter.
A mirage – like you often see on the
surface of roads in the heat – occurs
because light moves slightly faster
through a medium when it’s hotter
and, therefore, less dense. The dif-
ference in temperature between the
air near a hot road surface and the air
higher up makes light bend on its way
to your eyes. When deflected in this
way, light travelling from something
above the road – the sky, in a typical
desert mirage – can reach you from
the angle of the road surface, creating
an odd visual effect.
Dr. Ali Aliev and colleagues at the
Nanotech Institute at the University
of Dallas, Texas, have recreated this
effect by using electrically heated
sheets of carbon nanotubes. These
wafer-thin sheets – around 20 mi-
crometers thick – prove to be very
effective at heating a surrounding me-
dium, creating steep mirage-inducing
temperature gradients near their sur-
face. Due to the temperature inertia of
the nanotube sheets, the temperature
gradient can also be easily modulated
resulting in different degrees of de-
flection for the light hitting the gra-
dient.
The researchers explored the mi-
rage effect by measuring the angular
deflection of a laser beam directed
parallel to the sheet’s surface. They
found that deflection works for light
in the UV to infrared range, a signifi-
cantly greater range than for previous
cloaking techniques. Carbon nanotube
sheets are particularly good at produc-
ing light deflection because of their
exceptionally high thermal interaction
with surrounding media, caused in
turn by the high internal surface area
and high thermal conductivity of the
individual nanotubes.
Aliev and colleagues also compared
the deﬂection of light across different
media, finding, for example, that the
deflection angle in helium is much
smaller than in air or argon, which
is consistent with the low refractive
index and high thermal diffusivity
of helium. Overall, however, larger
angles of deflection are produced in
the higher density of a liquid than a
gas, making the cloaking effect more
pronounced in water than air, for in-
stance. On the other hand, the higher
density of a liquid increases the heat
capacity of system and correspond-
ingly reduces the obtainable rate for
temperature modulation and, thus, an-
gle of deflection.
The most obvious application of this
kind of technology is in cloaking de-
vices for submarines and other stealth
vehicles. Unsurprisingly, the work
was partly funded by an Ofﬁce of Na-
val Research MURI grant and an Air
Force Ofﬁce of Scientiﬁc Research
grant. But Aliev has also shown, in a
paper published last year in Nano Let-
ters, that modulating the temperature
of the same carbon nanotube sheets
produces sound waves. He has sug-
gested this aspect could have useful
applications in sonar technology for
deep-sea exploration – and, of course,
for finding those invisible subma-
rines. On the other hand, it might also
be possible to make these sheets into
loudspeakers, as Chinese research-
ers demonstrated two years ago by
making a speaker out of a flag (look
for “carbon nanotube speaker” on
YouTube). It appears we now have a
whole new potential for loud clothing.
Aliev and colleagues published their
latest results last week in the journal
Nanotechnology.
Douglas Heaven
Making up roughly 20% of the air we
breathe in, oxygen is one of the most
abundant elements on Earth. It is used
by all forms of life for respiration, which
provides the energy organisms use to
grow, repair and live. However, it has
not always been in such plentiful supply.
Initially, when the Earth ﬁnished form-
ing (I say ﬁnished, it is actually constant-
ly changing and adapting) 3.5 billion
years ago, the surface was a blistered
mass of volcanoes spewing magma and
gas out into the open. There occurred an
event, named the Great Oxidation Event
which resulted in oxygen of the atmos-
phere and the beginning of air as we
know it now. Most ﬁgures indicated this
to have occurred c2.5 billion years ago
and there has been much speculation as
to what caused this event, which eventu-
ally lead to the development of life on
Earth.
Most commonly, the starting point for
oxygen generation is sulphur from vol-
canoes.At the time, most submarine vol-
canoes produced gas with low sulphur
content, but as the global sea level began
to drop, more of the Earth’s was exposed
to the surface and the exposed volca-
noes produced gas with a much higher
sulphur content, particularly sulphur di-
oxide. The gases eventually dissolved in
seawater and broke down forming bub-
bles of oxygen in the water, which we
know can be used to sustain life – most
ﬁsh and marine wildlife uses the oxygen
dissolved in water in order to respire.
By analysing rock strata from around
this era, paleochemists found that a cer-
tain isotope of sulphur (Δ33S) indicated
a lack of oxygen in the atmosphere. This
isotope disappeared around the time of
the Great Oxidation Event and the emer-
gence of the O2 molecule radically al-
tered the redox-based biochemical pro-
cesses beforehand. Further analysis of
the data showed that the trigger for this
isotope may have been the redox ratio
between the two sulphur-based gases
released by volcanoes – sulphur dioxide
(SO2) and hydrogen sulphide (H2S).
A higher ratio of SO2/H2S produces
signiﬁcantly more of the MIF isotope.
As the composition of volcanic gases
changed, there led to more oxidized gas-
es and so lower Δ33S.
Kump and Barley, two geoscientists
from Pennsylvania State University and
the University of Western Australia in
Crawley, respectively, have been analys-
ing data for some time in this ﬁeld – spe-
ciﬁcally using carbon dating techniques.
They argued that subaerial volcanic
gases are more oxidized than submarine
ones and proposed an increasing impact
from subaerial volcanoes would have
resulted in increasingly oxidizing vol-
canic emissions. However, some ques-
tion their results, saying that the ﬂuids
from the seaﬂoor that Kump and Barely
used to deﬁne the redox at the time of
the Great Oxidation Event was “poorly
constrained”. Other also argue that it is
not redox conditions altering the SO2/
H2S ratio, but gas pressure.
Further analysis into this phenomenon
requires us to consider various gas equa-
tions in competition, each struggling to
become dominant as the global tempera-
ture and pressure changed. Rather than
bore you with too many more ﬁgures
and equations, it is easier to describe that
during the period 2-3 billion years ago,
global sea levels did fall and a combina-
tion of the changing degassing pressure
and higher proportion of subaerial vol-
canoes led to a higher proportion of both
sulphur dioxide and hydrogen in the air,
as well as amounts of carbon dioxide.
Competing processes of thermochemi-
cal reactions led eventually to domi-
nance of water vapour and ultimately the
fall of sulphur altogether.And with more
oxygen, breeds life.
Pavitar Devgon
Mini ‘little ice age’
periods explained
The prize for identifying Diamond is a smug sense of satisfaction
On the oxidation of Earth’s atmosphere...
Want to write for
Felix Science?
Email us!
Luke Sheldon

