1 F E L I X
BRITISH INTER-UNIVERSITY
C O N F E R E N C E
This Easter an informal Inter-University conference was
held at Southampton University. The purpose of this meeting
was to enable the officers of Students Unions to get together
and discuss the many problems whioh arise in the running of
a University or College Union, and the different ways in deal-
ing with them. An air of spontaneity and free exchange of
information and points of view was maintained throughout ths
conference, and kept up a discussion free from points of order,
points of information and debating trioks, whioh seem some-
what to mar other student gatherings.
Of the many topios discussed, one of particular interest
was the problem of introducing overseas students to British
University life and helping them to settle down. It was
generally agreed that overseas freshers' receptions are a bad
thing, as i t makes the student feel oonspicious, and does not
help to integrate him'into the community. Similar sentiments
were expressed about the existance of "NationalisfClubs,
which, owing to their "oliquish" tendency draw freshers into
a small oommuty of his own oountrymen, and do not introduce
his to the student body in general.
The be3t approach to this was presented by Nottingham
University whore each overseas fresher i s met by one English
host who accompanies him for the first fortnight of the sess-
ion. First he helps the fresher with general problems (e.g.
currency), and then introduces him informally to university
life by showing him around the union, inviting him to ooffee
parties etc., so that he n i l l meet people quickly and soon
find his feet. This will prevent the fresher from retiring
into his shell and wishing to meet only people from his own
oountry.
We would be interested to reoieve the opinions of over-
seas students on these points of view.
The problem of maintaining a decent standard of behaviour
in a new Union building was mentioned. Other unions who have
recently opened new premises had found that making an appeal
in their newspapers when the buildings had been opened, and
unobtrusive verbal approaches to bad offenders, had proved
sufficient. Any system of fining was strongly deprecated.
During the discussion on Religious and politioal Societies,
their existence was agreed to j
provided that the nana of the
Union waj never allowed to be-
come associated with oontrovssw
sial views which these sooieties
may express. Of the twenty Unions
which attended the meeting, five
give no financial aid to such
sooieties, and moat unions have
similar rules to I.C.U. far their
formation.
It is interesting to note
that I.C. Bar i s the only Union
Bar in the oountry to open on
Sundays, and that several unions
restrict union facilities during
vacations and on Sundays, when
some are not even allowed their
athletic grounds.
Nearly a l l the twenty unions present at the oonfsreoos
publish a newspaper. All, except FELIX, have union subsidy.
H °
m
m TO
) OH I I t) 1
(Monday) \ ]•
_i —
t b o u c b i w t c w e
The Touohstone weekend on Hay 5th-6th was on the topic
of 'Bohioide and the Death Penalty'. *he Guest Speaker ,
Mr. C.R. Hewitt, gave one of the most intereting talks heard
in many a long day. Only the clook noticed that he talked
for two hours instead of onei The normal procedure of
splitting the group into small discussion groups went by the
board in our eagerness to hear more from Mr. Hewitt.
The weather was kind, spring was obviously sprung and
5ilwood and the countryside were very pleasant. Sitting on
the lawn on Sunday afternoon only one diehard wanted to
Hang the lot!'
The next Touohstone is on 2nd Jane.
W H O DUNNIT?
Whilst t'other night at Ayrton Hall
I* Guildmen held their Annual Ball,
A miniature man in brazen manner
Forcibly removed the spanner
We cannot bear to see such fool*
As Engineers without their tools,
And so we sent the damned thing back
We're sorry that it's broken "Jack".
A poem similar to this appeared with a large part of the
Guilds Spanner in the Beit 'Quadrangle. The slight alteration
is the elimination of the name of the University Boxing Cham-
pion who fears to be associated with the dastardly deed.
>
> h> .^-i imi i
n i t t
T E R P S I C H O R E A N A C T I V I T I E S
Th* last fortnight has seen three dances of completely
different nature organised by the three constituent colleges.
Th* Engineers Ball was the most ambitious affai-, being
preceded by a dinner. One of the best aspects of this, was '
that a l l the dancers were present at the beginning, and the
arrival of couples when i t had 'warmed up' was avoided. The
lavish dinner farmed a compulsory warming up.
Ths Country House Ball is unique, The Royal College of
Solano* being the only one with an out of town residence. The
damning In itself was oonfinod to a small hall, and after
considering the inconvenience of transport to Silwood Park,
the small numbers able to attend, and the difficulties of
catering, on* is not surprised that ths atmosphere was a
little subdued. Ths early morning view of the quiet country-
aids was ample recompense.
Unlike th* larger Colleges with mare funds for entertain-
ment, ths Royal School of Mines had to content itself with a
•ussar Dsns* on a Saturday evening. This was the usual type,
and ths only item of Interest was th* cabaret, whioh In a
sober oondition was entertaining enough, and hence shows flesh
proBis* far th* next osmivsl.
I N T E R N A T I O N A L F I X T U R E
Are you looking far something to do during toe vac? If
yen would like a cheap holiday abroad and i f you are prepared
to l i v * rough-do asm* manual labour, you could do a very worth-
while Job. Th* united Natios Association i s asking for volu-
nteers to help refugees In Austrian camps to build their own
houses. The work consists of carrying bricks, mixing cement
sad fitting up new houses and flats. Regular hours are worked,
sat that* are opportunities at weekends and in ths evenings
to so* the oountry snd meat people. Food and accomodation
are provided free. Ton are asked to stay far sttleast a fort-
sight, longer i f possible. Party travel there and back i s
TfSSI SII at the v*K7 oheapest rata of OX return. Porshsr
•stalls ana sspJIastion foraw can he obtained from the United,
•ation* Student Association, 25 Charles Street, London W. 1.

