F E L I X
3
F e l i x
The Imperial College Newspaper
C i r c u l a t i o n 1200 Editor: BILL HUDSOH
"Hall Dinner" is becoming one of the best attended of
the Collage functions: So muoh so that early bookings are
nearly always neoessary. Its rise in popularity ia beoause
the original principles of this dinner are being violated.
when Sir.Richard Southwell introduced this Dinner into
the College life, his aim was to emulate the dinners held in
the Oxford and Cambridge colleges,and he hoped that this in-
formal get-together would promote friendship and mutual
understanding between the staff and students of the oollege.
At all times a stress was laid on informality^ though tone
was given to the meal by requiring those attending to wear
lounge suits,, The loyal toast Was the only one of the evening.
Looking.back on recant Hall Dinners we find that some
students of the College ara using this as a means of holding
a cheap olub dinner in addition to their annual one, and at
times a pleasant evening has been, spoilt by their bad manner
and mob behaviour. •
The staff are also using this dinner as a means of enter-
taining their friends and business aquaintanoes cheaply.
The division between staff and students became particularly
notioable when the idea of booking places"-at the table was
introduced. Ibis system can only be deprecated as i t makes
i t impossible for anyone attending the dinner to break
into the cliquish groups.
At one time it was the system that before port, anyone
who wished could change his place, thereby facilitating the
making of sew friendships. This ia never suggested any longer,
mainly beoause the various groups prefer not to mix. It is
also embarrassing now beoause of the numerous after dinner
toasts, and one can never be certain when the-chairman is
going to propose yet another, and ends own guests will have
to toast 'our distinguished guests'.
This dinner ia most enjoyable and an important social
amenity of the oollege life. It is hoped that in the future
they will be a function where staff, students and their guests
•set on a social footing.
M O T O R C L U B R U N
On Sunday,6th. Hay, the newly formed R.O.S. Motor Club
held their inaugural rally. The fifteen entries of motorcars
and motorcycles assnbled outside the Beit Building, and in b
brilliant sunshine the first man was away at 12p.m.
The initial route followed the A4 to Old Windsor and
henoe via.lanes through Ripley and feat Horaley to Ranmore
C
o
m
m
o
n where the first control point was situated and lunch
was eaten. After lunch, the oonpetitors were given a aeries
of grid references to visit from which the olue to theoseoond
control was obtained. In the third and final section of the
rally the competitors were required to solve four navigational
problems which lead then to the finish at Ayrton Hall.
Twelve of the fifteen entries completed the course
The winners were: 1 St. B.Powell (C.4 G.) oar
2nd. A.Goodings(R.C.S.) motorcycle
First pre-war oar to complete the course:
Oldest oar to complete the omrse : I.M.
I. Duff (0.&
JOBS FOE THE BOYS
REQUIRES
KEW BLOOD
Volunteer* required
f o r training as :
Editor
Advertising Manager
s o c i a l Editor
Sports Editor
Sub-Editor
.y to eurrent
* through rao*
HOG BITES STUDENT DURING LARK IN PARK: A Miner and a Guildaman
set out for a training run in Ravensoourt Park after sunset
when the park was closed. Obviously unfit, they could not
accelerate sufficiently when approached by a Polios mastiff.
This worthy animal pinned the Guildsman to the ground by his
shoulder until ita flat-footed master arrived to.explain the
folly of training after a heavy supper. The A.C.C. will be
relieved to hear that no court action has ensued.
SPANNER RETURNED: The larger portion of the spanner, whioh had
been in the manganate stained hands of R.C.S., was left looked
in the notice boardin the Beit Archway an Wednesday night. It
waa accompanied by a card draped in black cloth. Previously
the dimensions of the said tool had been taken for checking
with the dimensions of the notice board and for possible
future mass production.
W
H
O W
R
O
T
E O
N THE TRACTION ENGINE?: Someac . crawled paint
over the Mines engine, now parked behind E 3
1
. in a dismantled
state. "Scrap iron, please remove" ran the leb>. d. Miners are
so lethargic that they havn't bothered to wipe i t off.
JEZEBEL: The R.C.S. Fire Engine, will be christened at the
next Union meeting. A bucket of beer will probably be used for
this purpose and it is hoped to have television newsreel cameras
present. Any similarity to the christening of 'Clementine' i s
purely coincidental.
HIDE PARK ATTRACTIONS:
Week before last:
Last week:
Next week:
Week after next:
Methodist Youth Rally
St. John's Ambulance Brigade
Sheep Dog Trials
Field Cup
A combination of all four would be even more interesting.
BEATING THE BOUNDS: As dawn broke over Silwood Park last Sat-
urday morning, a group of revellers, using a band cart as a
chariot, and ringing<a bell vigorously,' beat the bounds to
scare away the evil spirits. Shortly after an early cuckoo
was heard.
TO SERVE A D
E
M
A
N
D
, a new bus route has been introduced to
take students away from the Island'sight! Rente 270 goes
to Kew Gardens for the summer and Twickenham for winter.
LECTURE THEATRES W
e have the hardest benches. A letter from
Keith Prowse's of theatre seat fame addressed to the Imperial
College of Entertainments, Prince Consort Road, has reached
ua. W
e can offer them blook bookings i f they want them.
W
.
U
.
S
. CARNIVAL. Comment by Bedford lady, watching pro-
oeseion of decorated floats - "What about I.C.?* W
e must do
something about entering a float next year. The I.C. fortune-
teller was present but he had to-pay a visit to bis rival on
the field before opening his tent to those venturing on the
Parachute Jump and landing at his door.
At the R.C.S. Maths, and Pays. Soc. Dinner last Monday,
Dr. Lloyd who is Hon Treas. of R.C.S. union, remarked that
free reading Felix he had conoluded that students regarded
themselves as a ""ooozy lecherous, Bohemian lot". W
e are not,
to he quite honest, particularly surprised that he should
think so, but he is being rather reckless with public opinion
to actually say ao since only a short tine before he had to stand
up as the A.G.M. to present the accounts.
I suppose that as the new monster of tachnologioal Eduo-)
atice expands and swallows 3, Kensington (assuming it has
enough leotuiwa, students and taxpayers to feed off) the
neighbouring secretarial ooUejes will get pushed out of
eyeing distance. It is a rather peculiar ooinoidenoe that
the London College of Secretaries, which stands onTFine nets
Oenwiaaion Holy Ground and thus has been guaranteed immunity
happens to have all the beet lookers.
£ IMPERIAL COLLEGE DANCING CLUB
Annual Dance §
The Ayrton Hall
m
Friday, 25th May, 1956
i Dancing 9 p.m. - 2 am.
nCKETS-TODAY THE UNION AT 12 NOON
i

