Win a
Holiday in
New Zealand
Felix has teamed up with Stray, New Zealand’s leading backpacker bus network,
and the award winning accommodation group, Beyond Backpackers, to give one
lucky reader an unforgettable experience, down under
One Felix reader will win 10 nights accom-
modation in New Zealand staying in any of
the world class Beyond Backpacker’s four
locations, plus two Stray bus passes to see
the best of New Zealand at their leisure.
The Stray bus passes ensure the winner
gets a guided tour around the best attrac-
tions in the North Island, both on and off the
beaten track. The winner will visit Paihia,
the gateway to the Bay of Islands, where
they can take part in sailing, horse trek-
king, and dolphin swimming. They will also
visit; Raglan surf beach, Waitomo caves
where they can try black water rafting,
the Coromandel to experience Hot Water
Beach, Rotorua where they will gain an
understanding of the Maori culture and see
geothermal activity, and Lake Taupo for a
spot of fishing.
Stray is New Zealand's fastest growing
backpacker bus network - designed for
travellers who want to get off the beaten
track and really experience New Zealand.
Stray offers customers a choice of 20 travel
passes which are totally flexible so that you
can 'get on' and 'get off' anywhere along the
way. Stray’s itineraries incorporate the best
of what New Zealand has to offer, from the
famous attractions to the not so famous but
quintessentially Kiwi activities!
The Beyond Backpacker group offers
visitors the best hostel facilities in all New
Zealand’s hot spots including: Auckland
Central Backpackers in Auckland, Pipi
Patch Lodge in the Bay of Islands, Hot Rock
Backpackers in Rotorua, and Discovery
Lodge in Queenstown.
Each Beyond Backpackers hostel has its
own unique characteristics which reflect
the local area and Beyond Backpackers’
philosophy of providing travellers with
‘More Than Just A Bed’. This means visitors
can expect great standards and a fantastic
range of facilities including; bars, travel
and adventure booking, employment assist-
ance, internet access, Sky TV, and location
specific extras like swimming pools, spas,
mineral hot pools and more.
Both the accommodation and transport
pass are valid for two years, so even if you
are not planning to go Down Under for a
year or two, you should enter to be in to win
a New Zealand experience of a lifetime.
Visit www.gobeyond.co.nz and www.
straytravel.com for further details.
To enter simply answer the following
questions, bring this page into the Felix
office, West basement, Beit Quad, or email
felix@imperial.ac.uk:
What is the name of New Zealand’s
leading backpacker bus network?
What is Beyond Backpackers’ philoso-
phy?
Tie Breaker Question – describe your
ideal holiday in New Zealand (no longer
than 10 words).
The Felix editoral team will judge the best
entry. Entry deadline – 12pm Tuesday 4th
October 2005. Non-students and Felix con-
tributors are ineligible (sorry).
Terms and Conditions
The winner’s passes and accommodation
are valid for two years, from the date the
winner is notified
Flights are NOT included as part of the
prize
The prize can not be exchanged for cash
and is non-refundable
Bookings are subject to availability

