Two Moon Junction
Bye bye wimpish eighties heroes you have been
forgotten. Slimy lizard Gordon Gekko of Wall Street
and Micky Rourke's pretty boy from 9'A Weeks heed
the words: the dollar is no longer sexy and stripey
shirts and bonds are a bore. Okay, so this was always
true but when Zaman King, the maker of 9% Weeks
casts a rough hunk of meat as the lead in his latest
film you can bet that the New-Age Nineties are
nervously starting to dawn.
Two Moon Junction takes sex back out of the city,
brings it down from the penthouse heights and lays
it down gently to graze (and rut) in the plains of
America's South. The timeless South where another
Southern Belle, April (Sherilyn Fen), is reaching the
season of her life where all good girls of the oldest
families must put on their grandma's wedding dress
and marry the boy next door: Mr Average-Preppy
'Chad' (Martin Hewitt). But wait-the circus has come
to town and I'll be darned if riding in with it, in the
truck with his fightin' dog, it isn't the cockiest,
craziest sonofabitch straight out of April's wildest
shower-room fantasy-latter-day Norse-god Perry
(Richard Tyson). Stepping down from the rubber and
chrome and straight out of a Levi's ad he's a rough-
cut, long-haired bad boy dripping sex. Spitting out
gravelling sounds through the swigs of Bourbon he's
a cowboy-cum-philosopher. He's got an allergy to
shirts and a gravity to women so when April takes her
little sisters to the circus for a ride she starts to
imagine she might quite like a ride herself.
At this point we all remember the reason we're here
and the director obligingly throws reality out of the
script-room window. Next scene Perry pops around
uninvited (?) to April's massive mansion for a casual
shower. April is somewhat surprised at this and tells
him to 'Get out!'. But Perry knows and we know that
what she really means is 'Get out of the shower, strip
my clothes off and teach me all about sex'. This he
obligingly does, even thinking to tape the whole thing
Newington Green
entry £2-3, food under £5.
An evening at the Jazz Cafe involves being blasted
off your feet or out of your seat by some of the best
jazz that London can offer. The Cafe is intimate (that
is small) with the jazz band in the front room (where
conversation is impossible) and piped to the back
room.
The bands change nightly, although old favourites
play there regularly, and range from trios to septets
(probably the maximum number of people physically
possible on the stage). The jazz itself covers the whole
range from modern to and fusion, so if you have any
particular likes or dislikes it's worth checking their
listings in Time Out. The place is uncomfortably
crowded at weekends but pleasantly packed for
atmosphere in the remainder of the week.
The Cafe is good: appetising vegetarian and vegan
food with all main dishes under a fiver. You can book
a table and listen to the jazz in more comfort, but you
have to eat, and they won't hold the table after
8.30pm; otherwise it's unlikely you'll find somewhere
to sit after about 8 o'clock. House wine is around £5
for her further study later on.
From here on in you get what you paid for—
something for the ladies and something of course for
the men. As an unexpected bonus some of the dead
a bottle and they have about ten different bottled
beers on offer, as well as more expensive named
wines.
October sees the Cafes 1000th performance, so
this would be a night to avoid unless you enjoy
suffocating, and also a Jazz Against Apartheid
evening and a photographic exhibition.
Getting there from College is relatively easy. A
number 73 bus takes you to the door. Getting home
may be more of a problem unless you catch the last
73, but there is a new nightbus service that will get
you as far as Trafalgar Square. To get in costs £2-3,
although there are student concessions (mind you, the
monthly programme implied these were for NUS
students only!) and there is a temptation to drink a
lot of wine. It's not a cheap evening out, but it does
beat sitting in the local pub listening to the juke box.
Uz W
pan love lines of bland sincerity wrinkle on the
transatlantic flight (as ever) and spike some of the
silliest moments with the chance for a laugh. The rest
is hairy chests and pliant beasts: enjoyable smut.
K 9
There's an old Indian saying: "Man who jogs in Hyde
Park gets dogshit on trainers". By analogy with this
intuitive maxim one might also venture: "Man who
watches formula film gets bullshit in face". And a very
appropriate analogy it would be for the latest
droppings from the 'Man-and-best-friend-beast' stable
K9. The unfortunate distinction remains that in public
parks throughout the country people are trying, for the
sake of their communities' health, to clean up these
canine deposits. The film industry, in contrast, is still
happily crapping away to the offence of viewers'
sensibilities. So for those with an interest in the man-
made environment or students of canine stools here
is an analysis of the latest outbreak of this cinematic
disease.
James Belushi is the unfortunate 'star' trying not
to soil himself as he plays maverick narcotics cop
Thomas Dooley. Dooley is too wacky and dangerous
to take on a human partner but the scriptwriter soon
delivers him a package deal. Dooley's ideal new
partner is equally full of crap and just as unafraid to
spread it around in public, coming in the form of a
German Shephard dog by the name of Jerry Lee (what
else?). After a shaky start together they catch the cut-
out baddies and risk their futures in the films.
The moral of this story then: "In public parks and
cinemas both, be careful where you tread!'
MAC
Page 13
The Jazz Cafe

