THE
DELATOR
COLUMN
by Paul Shanley
Insist on your right to pass through the manual gate at Underground
Stations, says Paul Shanley
Snookered
Barrier Methods
•
the sort you buy from newsagents. The second
method requires two video recorders and a blank
videotape. With these three items, you need never pay
your fare again.
That is why the barriers don't work. That is why
they don't justify the massive investment that London
Regional Transport has placed in them. But so what;
they aren't doing anyone any harm, are they? Well,
the truth is, they might not have done yet, but it's only
a matter of time.
A recent independent safety report carried out by
an agency working for the LRT watchdog The
Passenger Complaints Authority revealed that during
certain types of power failure, the barriers close
shut-not open, thereby trapping commuters within
the closed confines of station exits.
Furthermore, at certain stations contained within
the limits of the Circle Line, the number of barriers in
use is less than is necessary to allow a rapid and safe
flow of passengers through the automatic gates. In
the rush hour, it is not uncommon for the queue of
travellers to spill right down the stairs and onto the
platform.
These two faults are more than inconvenient-they
are potential death traps. If, God forbid, another Kings
Cross happens, the station staff will not be able to
clear commuters away in time.
There are also a number of peripheral arguments as
to why the introduction of the gates was ill-conceived.
They are virtually impossible to use by blind people
with guide dogs, disabled people and people carrying
a lot of luggage to name but a few. LRT maintain that
station staff are on hand to help wherever necessary.
This isn't always true, and in any case, those
mentioned above shouldn't need to seek help.
The London Evening Standard has been
campaigning for the abolition of these death traps.
They advocate that travellers should insist on the right
to use the manual gate whenever leaving a station
equipped with automatic barriers. This is a view I
support. South Kensington Station-the nearest one
to College that has these barriers installed-seems
intent on making commuters use them. Last month
I spent fifteen minutes arguing with a jobsworth at
the station to let me use the manual gate. In this time,
he let five other people pass through ahead of me,
because their tickets were the old type that didn't fit
in the new machines-why was I any different?
When you travel by Tube into College—or anywhere
else for that matter-insist on your right to pass
through the manual gate. It is only in this way that
LRT can be brought to their senses.
Against mounting pressure from its customers,
London Regional Transport is continuing with its
campaign to equip all London Underground stations
with automatic ticket barriers. At a time when the
authority should be concentrating on more pressing
matters, such as better security for its staff, more
reliable services and much safer travel for its late-
night commuters (particularly on the quieter routes
such as the Northern Line), it sees fit to continue with
this course of action.
Automatic barriers were introduced to combat the
ever increasing problem of fare evasion. Something
needed to be done. With LRT losing more and more
money each year, it was left up to the fare-paying
passengers to subsidise those travelling free.
Unfortunately, this particular nut has been cracked
with a very large and potentially dangerous
sledgehammer.
To address the problem of using the machines as
a tool to catch the fare-evaders is to realise that they
don't perform this task adequately. A distant cousin
of the ticket barrier was introduced at about the same
time-the all-singing, all-dancing ticket machine.
These differ greatly from their predecessors-they
issue return tickets, they issue child tickets and they
issue one-day travelcards. Fare evasion has never
been so easy. The most common way to fiddle is to
buy a child ticket and use that. There is no-one to stop
you buying the ticket, because you've got it out of
a machine. There is no-one to collect your ticket at
the other end, because it is collected by a machine.
Okay, that leaves the third problem-ticket
inspectors. There is less chance of finding one of
these on the Tube than there is of spotting Lord Lucan
riding Shergar. Since the introduction of the barriers,
I have been asked to produce a ticket only once by
an inspector. This happened a fortnight ago late at
night on Victoria Station. I was just about to admit
to myself that LRT had changed their ways when I
was approached by a second man. He informed me
that the 'inspector' was Jeremy Beadle and had I
spotted the hidden camera.
There are two lesser documented methods of not
paying which I won't describe in too much detail. The
first involves careful use of a one-day travelcard-
Snooker's governing body, the WPBSA, finds itself
desperately in need of sponsors for two of its ranking
tournaments this year, with the current season
already underway. Maybe this would be a good time
for the association to examine the reasons behind this
instead of desperately rallying around to attract likely
candidates.
The problem is the vast amount of money required
to cover such an event. Unless a company's name is
•synonymous with the tournament—such as
Embassy's endorsement of the world championships,
the £1/4m or so outlay represents poor value for
money.
It all stems back to the domination of the game by
accountants and leisure groups in the early 80s. At
one time, if a player didn't belong to Matchroom,
Framework or one of the other professional
management companies, then they had little chance
of getting anywhere in the game.
Certainly, the continuing argument between Barry
Page 14
Hearne and the WPBSA has done nothing to improve
its image-an image that has been shaken by
allegations of drug-taking, match-rigging and off-baize
disrepute by some of the more boisterous players.
The Football League introduced a ruling a few years
ago banning the ownership of more than one club by
an individual. Snooker could do well to consider this
proposal in their own game. Even if they don't take
as radical a step as this, they could at least limit the
number of full-time professionals that a manager or
group can control at any one time. This would restrict
the bully-boy tactics of certain managers in
threatening to withdraw all their players from a
tournament if their conditions were not met.
The away from the table antics of the Higgins',
Whites and Stevens' of this world are not what is
rapidly bringing the game into a state of disorder and
chaos. The real hooligans are the men in suits who
occupy the back rows of arenas with management
contracts in one hand and a chequebook in the other.
Trading
Places
The successor to John Smith, present College
Secretary has been appointed. The new supremo,
Angus Fraser, is to be known as the Managing
Director of Imperial College. I look forward to any
other changes that may be brought in, to accompany
such an appointment.
With the apparent need for Imperial to create such
a post, it will surely not be long before Imperial College
Holdings pic is trading on the stock exchange floor.
Who will benefit from such a share offer? Why, the
students of Imperial College of course. The
opportunity to participate in this flotation is one that
will be regarded with dubious optimism. For a
company to be unleashed onto, and sold to, the people
who already own it leaves a very bitter taste. It is hard
to imagine who could conceive such an idea....

