President's
bit
Welcome to the first edition of FELIX and to the Union
page. Every week (with the consent of the Editor)
there'll be news and views from the sabbaticals in the
Union Office along with reports and important
announcements.
During this first week you'll find me around the
Union Building night and day so please come up and
say hello.
Free Rides
After the events on Monday and Friday this week
there will be free transport home for women in the
Union minibuses. This doesn't however mean that
we'll take you back home to Glasgow or Dublin! This
service is provided at most major events but
volunteers are always required to drive the vans.
Willing volunteers with a good knowledge of London
please come and see me.
Deputy
Dai
Info
Union Cards are available all week in the SCR except
Tuesday afternoon due to the Freshers Fair.
Work
If you fancy earning some extra money we always
Crash Pad
The Union will be operating a crash pad in the Brown
and Green Committee rooms on the top floor of the
Union Building from Sat 30th September through to
Sun 8th October, excluding Monday and Friday
nights. The rooms will be available from 9am to 9pm,
girls in the Green, boys in the Brown. Bedding will not
be provided so please bring a sleeping bag. This
service is strictly for those people who cannot find
accommodation, not for those who are too lazy or too
drunk to go home.
Parking Permits
Applications for parking permits are available from the
Union Office. The deadline for applications is Friday
6th October 5.30pm. Information on who has been
awarded permits will be available on Monday 9th
October along with the permits. A full list of those
awarded permits will appear in FELIX in Friday 13th
October. The permits are in short supply so don't
apply unless you really need one.
Rape Alarms
These are available free of charge from the Union
Office on production of your Union card.
have vacancies for people who want to work in the
Snack Bar and Union Bar, also this week we need
people to dispense Union Cards.
Clubs & Societies
Could all club chairpersons please supply me with
access lists for their rooms, if they have not already
done so, as last year's lists are now invalid. Could all
keyholders please come to see me immediately.
The Great Pot Noodle Giveaway
Tomorrow at the Freshers' Fair and all week in the
SCR, you can pick up your free sample Pot Noodle.
Numbers are limited to strictly one per person, so be
sure to get there early.
Union General Meetings
The first of these will be held on Thursday at 1 pm in
the JCR. Come along and find out what it's all about.
Temporary Membership
Over the summer a number of foreign colleges
purchased temporary membership of the Union. This
idea was passed at a Governing Body Meeting last
year.
The temporary members have all been issued with
a black and orange/red ID card which bears the name
of the student, the name of the college, a photo of
the student and the expiry date of the card.
As temporary members they are entitled to use all
the facilities a full student member can apart from the
library facilities. They cannot represent the clubs or
societies in matches but they are entitled to join these
clubs and societies. In fact you'll probably see many
of them at the Freshers' Fair.
This note has been put in FELIX following problems
at the Sports Centre where some students have been
charged the full rate for admission. These students
are now members of this college and should be treated
as such.
UNION
GENERAL MEETING
THE FIRST UGM
OF THE YEAR
1pm
Thursday 5th October
Junior Common Room
Come along and find out what it's
all about!!
-FREE-
RAPE ALARMS
For all female IC students
See Michelle in the
Union Office
Ozone friendly!
Refills also available
Tiddlywink
Tomorrow sees the start of the Rag year with the
traditional Tiddlywinking down Oxford street.
Tiddlywinks is conventionally done in pairs, one
person fiddling winks while the other collects. After
picking up you cans and tiddlywinks from your CCU
office or the snack bar everyone assembles at Marble
Arch. From there we all set off along Oxford street,
down Regent street ending up at Eros. After the usual
feativities around Eros Everyone ends up in the Pub.
Tiddlywinks is traditionally done for Action Aid and
we usually make around £2500-£3000. Action Aid
run self help programes in the third world and the
money from Tiddywinks is normally spent on an
individual project. Phil Robershaw from Action Aid will
be coming to the first Rag meeting to explain more
as to where the money goes. If you are interested
please turn up, 12:35 this lunchtime in the Union
lounge.
Page 15
CITY & GUILDS COLLEGE UNION
WELCOMES (back) A L L THOSE IN
Mech Eng, Elec Eng, Chem Eng, Aero, Civ Eng,
Computing and the Management School
EVENTS FOR THIS AND NEXT WEEK:
MONDAY 2nd (TODAY)
Freshers' UGM 2.30pm Mech Eng 220. Your chance to meet us and be 'Entertained by' us.
TUESDAY 3rd (TOMORROW)
Afternoon: See our stands at the Freshers' Fair and come and have a chat. Queen's Lawn
from 2.30pm
Night: Come to the first Christmas Party of 1989. JCR Sherfield Building from 8.00pm.
THURSDAY 5th
Come ice-skating (fall over, drink) with us at the Queen's Ice Rink. Meet in Southside Bar
6.30pm.
SATURDAY 7th
After the Tiddlywinks come for a burger at the Bar-B-Que. Princes Gardens from 5.30pm
THEN...Come on one of the toughest pub crawls around. If possible we'll do the "Guild's
Baker's Dozen" (weather and time permitting).
MONDAY 9th
Guilds Freshers' Bar Night...Sing and be Merry with the accompaniment of Boat Races and
Yards of Ale.
TUESDAY 10th
Mech Eng Freshers' Buffet. Great Egg Race between Aero/Elec/Civ/Staff
WEDNESDAY 11th
Chem Eng Freshers' Buffet
THURSDAY 12th
Aero Eng Freshers' Buffet. Great Egg Race between Mech/DoC/Chem/Guilds
EVERYBODY is welcome to come to the junctions, irrespective of course, year or CCU. If you want to know more
about any ojthe events don't hesitiate to come into the office and ask, or give us a ring on int 3521.
Bring your copy of 'Spanner' to the meeting and win an amazing prize (possibly)

