Sailing
At the end of last term a hand-picked squad of Sailing
Club members gathered outside Beit Arch to be rushed
away (eventually) to Coleraine (Nl) for the Old
Bushmills International Distillery Trip. This involved
tasting whisky and then pretending to canoe the
minibus back to the tents. The morning after, we
found that the locals had organised a 24-hour dinghy
race as well, so as we were there, we split into two
teams, jumped into a couple of boats and set off into
the breeze.
The first team got a good start and set off round
the course only to be caught up by the seconds in a
mad orgy of glory-lust that left both boats tearing
round the course at a remarkable speed. The wind
soon fell away to nothing and the firsts, with Richard
at the helm, gradually crawled away whilst Liam, hero
of these pages, went for a swim. By morning the firsts
had clawed their way up to second and were now
gaining on the leader, whilst the seconds, in ninth
place overall, were immediately behind both the other
university teams; Edinburgh and Manchester.
In the final few hours the wind broke up and the
firsts unluckily missed all the good gusts and were
unable to close in on their prey, the final positions'
remained unchanged.
Water Polo
We all like pleasure. Some of us even like pain!
Whichever you get a kick from, come and join in with
us. We've got both simultaneously in boundless
quantities.
Every Monday and Friday evening, from 6.30pm,
the Swimming and Water Polo Club gets together for
a training session. All levels of ability are welcome to
join in, from doggy-paddlers to would-be 'Matt
Blondi's'. And if you think swimming to time
schedules sounds painful, you'd be wrong! Great fun
is had by all who come along.
If you've still got any energy left, from 7.30pm
Water Polo is played. It's a fast, furious and
exhilarating team sport (for those of you who don't
already know) and can be played by both the ladies
and the men on (comparatively) equal terms.
So don't be shy. 'Get yer kit off and join in! There
can't be any other way of keeping/getting fit that's
so much fun.
Monday and Friday evenings from 6.30pm at
the IC Leisure Centre.
Science Fiction
Righty-ho then, this is the welcome all! to icsf, the
Imperial College Science Fiction Society.
In case you miss us at Freshers' Fair, the first film
of the year is BeetleJuice, an excellent modern horror
movie which frightens, when at all, through
personalities rather than special effects. This will be
screened on Tuesday 10th October at 7pm sharp (we
really mean this dear hearts) in MechEng 220, which
can be found by going to the main entrance to College
in Exhibition Road, entering and then turning left.
Membership is £1.50, which lets you into this film free
and all the rest of this year's films for 50p, with other
society events at reduced rates, or even free!
If this film is not up your street (uncultured lout) or
should you be busy that night (what could be more
Page 16
fun than this?), but you're still interested in icsf's
events, you can get on our mailing list by seeing us
at Freshers' Fair or alternatively you can contact
Amanda Baker, Physics 2, or icsf itself through the
Union Office, or come to one of the library meetings
on Thursday lunchtimes at 1pm.
The library, our pride and joy, is situated down the
stairs in the South West corner of Beit Quad. It really
is a sight for sore eyes, to lovers of SF/F in any of its
generes. Borrowing is easy and free to members, and
the library functions as a nexus for many social events
on and off the SF theme.
Drop in, we'd love to eat you!
The Mad Hatter.
Wing
Chun
Imagine yourself walking home at night, when a
stranger approaches you and asks for some money.
He is keeping his right hand in his jacket pocket. What
would you do?
In China, hundreds of years ago, if somebody was
to mug or attack you there would have been no army
or police force to protect you. You had to defend
yourself. For this reason the Chinese developed
Martial Arts (Kung Fu in Chinese) as a form of self-
defence. Wing Chun is a style of Kung Fu from
southern China. It is the only Martial Art (bar one) to
have been developed by a woman-the Buddhist nun
Ng Mui. She developed a system of close quarter
combat that is efficient and economic in motion.
Realising that a woman cannot compete with a man
for strength she based her system on speed and skill
to overcome an opponents strength and size. Ng Mui
taught her system to a talented young female student,
Yim Wing Chun, after whom the system is named.
Wing Chun is an effective self defence system that
can be learnt in a relatively short period of time. It is
not a sport-when you are fighting for your life it is
not a game. Wing Chun can teach the weak to
overcome the strong and one person can defeat many.
Wing Chun will enable you to learn many possible
responses to a situation and although your response
may not be perfect, you stand a much better chance
if you have trained in Wing Chun Kung Fu.
News
The Club had a very active summer and while many
members of the College were holidaying in the sun,
a hard core of committed practitioners continued to
train in night classes run by the Club.
Our annual awards were held at the end of the
summer term, with trophies being awarded for skilled
fighters. In April Moy Yat, one of Yip Man's disciples,
visited Imperial College and gave an impromptu
seminar. He was extremely impressed with the
standard of Kung Fu here.
We held film shows and on August 27th we headed
out to Herfordshire for the Summer Camp '89. This
included an assault course complete with ambush
attacks, a detailed discussion of first and second
forms, a question and answer session on dummy
techniques and a barbeque. All this activity was
accompanied by music from Laki. The Camp's spirit
continued over to the next day's training at Imperial
College, where a table fighting competition was held.
Most recently we have held a reunion to allow old
members of the Club to come and see how their Kung
Fu family is progressing and to show that even if they
had forgotten us, we hadn't forgotten them.
For those of you coming back from holiday, you will
be amazed to seethe progress your Kung Fu brothers
and sisters have made. This progress and all the
events this summer have only been possible because
of the endless enthusiasm and top class instruction
provided by Sifu Sid Sofos, who we are very
priveleged to have as our chief instructor.
Old or new members wishing to train or view
training sessions you will find us in the Union
Gym in Beit Quad at the following times:
Advanced
Mondays 7.30-9.30pm Thursdays 8.30-10.30pm
Beginners
Wednesdays 1.30-2.30pm Fridays 4.30-6pm

