FeliX
By the time you read this, if you ever get round to it
during Freshers' Week, you will have been
welcomed/welcomed back more times than I could
possibly do justice to. I should only like to add my
welcome and a few words of advice.
I know too many people who did not make the most
of their Freshers' week; they all regretted it. This is
your best chance to meet people before they
hermetically seal themselves in their social shells. Go
to the Ents events this week and go to the Freshers'
Fair. If you do nothing else all week you will still have
made some friends.
I can offer no better advice than to enjoy your time
at Imperial. Ignore the Rector's twaddle, which he will
inevitably spout at the Freshers' reception, about
making the most of London as a cultural centre: most
of us can't afford to attend concerts and opera. Try
looking further afield than just IC however. The
University of London Union offers some worthwhile
clubs and events, which are very cheap.
Enough of the advice; mine is as much a pile of
opinionated rubbish as anyone else's. On to more
serious matters. This week's news covers a story on
the possiblity of fees chargeable to students. The
whole idea has yet to be formally considered by the
heads of Universities, but it must inevitably happen.
I say this with regret because the reason for the move
will not be a hard-line approach by the Committee of
Vice Chancellors and Principals; it will be financial
pressure brought to bear by the Government's tight-
fisted funding of higher education. If Britain's
Universities are not funded sufficiently they will have
no choice but to increase fees and charge them to
students. It should be noted that the Government has
not promised to fund the fee increases fully—
sholarships are usually for the few: I wonder how long
it will be before corruption spreads and they are only
for the wealthy with highly paid accountants and
children brought up on scholarship exams? The idea
stinks but then so do the rest of this Government's
'bright ideas' on education. (Before ConSoc come
wingeing, chargeable fees are an idea originated by
Kenneth Baker and his sidekick Jackson; so they are
Government ideas.)
Closer to home I have to admit to some amusement
at the motion to be considered at Thursday's UGM.
Have its authors gone mad? Even if IC Union did
'demand' that the College did not hand over names
and addresses to the Poll Tax register, the College
could not possibly comply. They may be open to
negotiation on most matters, but when asked to break
the law, the College is bound to refuse. The demand
is as constructive as asking the College to ban Polish
students from the College. The debate should be
worthwhile, however, since it will allow the Union to
formulate some policy on Poll Tax, now that we have
a clearer view of what it entails.
The Rector is a conniving git. I hear he claims that
he is worried for the safety of Chinese students. This
is why he cannot give much from his personal
allowance to help them. If he did, the logic
(somehow?) goes, he would endanger the future of
Chinese students at IC and their families in mainland
China. More twaddle, Eric! The real logic says that if
FELIX
Having got that lot off my chest I should like to grovel
humbly for people to help produce FELIX. We have
a dedicated staff of enthusiastic students, but we
always need help. If you fancy laying a page out or
writing an article, why not pop into the FELIX office?
We are in the far left hand corner of Beit Quad as you
enter from the archway; the kettle is always on and
we've usually got time for a chat, even if you have
no real idea what you want to do.
Credits
This issue would have been impossible were it not for
the help of Liz Warren. Liz has pasted up a huge
amount of this issue and she has my most sincere
thanks. Rose and Andrew have been fantastic as well.
They've put a lot of time and patience into typesetting
and printing FELIX: they've even put up with me as
well! Thanks also to Jason Lander for the Science and
the laughs; MAC for reviews; Chris Leahy for the
music feature; Jackie Scott and Yve Posner for the
Welfare feature; Pippa Salmon for helping me rip off
the Fair Guide; Syd for general help; Steve for
proofing; Chris Edwards for inspiration on the cover;
Fiona for the ciggies and the anonymous sources, who
shall remain forever so.
he pays up it will make for a bad image of IC in the
eyes of the Chinese Government. This would lead to
a reduction in numbers or a cut-off of Chinese
students coming to IC, and they are the ones who are
currently paying huge fees to the College. Put another
way; if the Rector coughs up, the College's income
from overseas students falls. Simple when it all comes
down to money isn't it?
Is there an event your club or society would like
to publicise in FELIX this term?
Pleasefillin.the following details carefully and drop this coupon into the FELIX
Office in Beit Quad.
Title of event
Time
Venue
Organised by
Entry submitted by
We are also trying to compile a comprehensive list of regular weekly events and also a section for
forthcoming events (i.e. within the next month), please pop into the FELIX Office in Beit Quad and
collect a form.
Deadline
Deadline for clubs and letters, small ads and what's
on will be 5.30pm today. I'm sorry but it's too late
for anything else this week-next issue is on Friday.
Next copy deadline will be 5.30pm Monday 9th
October for all submissions.
Staff Meeting
There will be a staff meeting at 1 pm today to discuss
Freshers' Fair and the next issue, please feel free to
come along-the beers are on me.
Dave
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 3515).
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711
Union Snack Bar
needs friendly, good-natured students to
work on a part-time basis. Pay is at
the standard Union rate of £2.40 per
hour.
Contact ICU Deputy President, Dave
Williams in the Union Office or Snack
Bar Manager Ian Richardson for more
details.
Page 17

