College plans Nightline eviction
Imperial College plans to oust West London Nightline
from its present IC site to provide more student
accommodation. The counselling service run by
students is currently in Princes Gardens.
The decision to change the college's support from
provision of accommodation to a cash grant, like
those provided by other London colleges, was taken
at a meeting of the College Management and Planning
Group over the summer. The proposal was approved
by last year's Union President, Nigel Baker, and by
Don Adlington, the College Student Counsellor.
Nightline have been offered one year in which to find
alternative accommodation.
The Chairman of the Nightline Steering Committee,
Ann Conlan of Kings College, who received
notification of the decision last week, said that she
was 'very disturbed' by it. She said that the
committee had discussed the accommodation
arrangements at its last meeting in April and were very
happy that IC provided accommodation. She felt this
should continue as it provided continuity and added
that she would be calling an emergency meeting of
the committee to discuss the matter.
College Assistant Finance Officer, Malcolm
Aldridge, said that as Imperial had provided the
accommodation for the past 8 or 9 years, it was felt
that it was 'time someone else took a turn'. He
pointed out that the rooms involved would be released
into the college accommodation system and that there
was 'no intention to precipitate the demise of
Nightline'.
The Rector, Professor Eric Ash, admitted that there
might be some problems with the upheaval but said
that since IC had been 'taking the major load it seems
reasonable for the load to be taken by someone else'.
Professor Ash added that he felt it was 'worthwhile
continuing to support Nightline' since he felt 'it's the
sort of thing where one phone call could be critical'.
The level of financial support from each college is
approximately 30 pence per student.
College Tutor David Goodgame said he would be
raising the matter at the next Union Welfare
Committee and said that his concern was whether
students would suffer from the move. He felt that as.
the service was used by students they should be
involved in the decision.
Union President, Neil McCluskey, quoted the
average cost of a call to Nightline as £5 and said that
he felt this was rather on the expensive side if the call
was merely for information. He pointed out that in
addition to the colleges' contributions, each student
union also contributed to the service's running costs.
The current contribution from Imperial College Union
is £700 per year.
Mr McCluskey went on to say that he 'really didn't
know enough about the situation to comment' and
said that 'I've been here five years and I've never used
Nightline. Maybe that's an indicator in itself. He felt
the question of Nightline's existence should be
discussed in the light of the fact that organisations
such as the Samaritans existed and that perhaps the
money would be better spent supporting a student
service within the Samaritans.
Chinese students still suffering
Chinese students at Imperial have found themselves
out of pocket following their efforts to keep in touch
with friends and relatives in mainland China during last
June's student uprisings.
The students spent over £2000 pounds on faxes
and gestures of support. Last year's IC Union
President, Nigel Baker, verbally agreed to help with
some of the costs and the Chinese Students Scholars'
Assosiation has presented a claim for £470 to the
Union.
This year's Union President, Neil McCluskey , has
received an offer of £200 from the Rector's Personal
Allowance, which is granted by College to dispose at
his own discretion. The Rector has also suggested
that an appeal be launched and will be making a
personal donation.
Mr McCluskey said that he was 'pretty
disappointed' and that he 'did expect the Rector to
contribute the whole sum'. He said that as the sum
had been borne by one student, he would be taking
a claim to the first Council of term to ask for the
release of the remaining money. This would then be
reimbursed by any money raised from an appeal. He
pointed out that the Union had already made a
contribution to the students in the form of free
transport and publicity.
He welcomed the idea of an appeal to help raise
money to assist Chinese students who were
experiencing hardship and also to publicise the plight
of the students and the progress of events in China.
Suggestions for the appeal include collecting whilst
Union Cards were issued, publishing features in FELIX
on the background to the situation and the special
difficulties being faced by Chinese students and
organising a fund-raising event of some kind.
Students may pay £50,000 fees
University heads are to consider charging students full
fees after a meeting last week. The new scheme could
mean a fees bill of up to £50,000 to a five year
medical student.
The Committee of Vice Chancellors and Principals
(CVCP) decided to consider the option of full fees at
a meeting last Thursday after a reinforcement of the
Government's aim to double the number of students
in higher education in 25 years. A spokesman from
the CVCP told FELIX that they were 'looking at all the
possible options that there were.' Thursday's
meeting, which passed the motion to consider full fees
in further discussions, was a non-decision making one.
The idea of charging full fees is to be considered
with a scheme of scholarships from the Government's
funding of higher education, which the CVCP hopes
would meet all or part of the cost.
As a member of the CVCP, the Rector, Professor
Eric Ash, told FELIX that the meeting was 'divided.'
He added that the majority in favour of the move was
'not very big.' Professor Ash voted against the
motion, which he felt did not gain much enthusiasm
from the Department of Education and Science and
the Secretary of State for Education, John
MacGregor.
Universities are currently able to charge students
for fees above their local education authority grant
since there is no provision in the law to prevent them.
The Royal College of Art in South Kensington is
charging incoming postgraduate students £110 per
year for fees. A spokesman told FELIX that the
CVCP's decision was 'of interest' to the RCA, but
added that the proposal was 'vague.'
If the CVCP decide to charge full fees for courses,
science students could be faced with a bill of £6000
per year of study, with no guarantee of funding from
the Government.
Page 3

