Southside p h o n e
thefts
A spate of theft over the Summer cleared Southside
Hall of almost half its newly installed telephones. Ten
out of the 24 telephones in Selkirk and Tizard Halls
were stolen the day after they were fitted. Each of
the telephones is worth about £30.
Warden John Hassard said that he did not know
who the culprits were and said they could have been
Summer Accommodation Centre residents, students
or outsiders. He said that there had been no thefts of
telephones during 88-89 when the old system was
in place.
The stolen phones were all replaced within a day
and the cost of the new phones will be borne by the
College Telephone Account. The cost of any further
stolen phones will be met by the hall.
The new phones replaced the old system, which Dr
Hassard described as 'appalling and dangerous'. He
pointed out that if the phones were damaged it was
not only inconvenient but also dangerous in the event
of a fire. The phones have now been secured.
Birdathon
Silwood Park Natural History Society are taking part
in a Birdathon against Oxford University on October
28. The 24 hour competition will raise money for the
International Council for Bird Preservation.
Teams in the contest will be required to list the
species of birds they spot over a 24 hour period in
Norfolk, Suffolk and Cambridgeshire. Anybody
wishing to sponsor competitors should contact Mark
Johnson at Silwood Park (cheques payable to ICBP.)
College
appoints new
Secretary
Imperial College has appointed a successor to College
Secretary, John Smith. The newly formed post of
Managing Director, which replaces Mr Smith has been
filled by Mr Angus Fraser
Mr Fraser is a Cambridge graduate who has worked
in a number of areas in industry including Mercantile
Credit Company Ltd and Chloride Group Pic. He will
take office on November 1, with the assistance of Mr
Smith until the end of the calendar year.
Poll tax goes
to UGM
A motion on Poll Tax has been submitted for
Thursday's Freshers' UGM. The motion, proposed by
Edgar Denny and seconded by R. Banmerjee, instructs
the IC Union executive to write a letter to the College
demanding that they do not hand over names and
addresses to the Poll Tax register.
The motion notes that the College Registrar has
stated that he can be required to provide a full list of
students' names and addresses to any poll tax
registration officer who requests it. It goes on to claim
that 'to defeat this tax we must be prepared to break
the law.'
The Freshers' UGM will be held in the Junior
Common Room, Sherfield at 1pm on Thursday.
Scholarships
Final year undergraduates should hurry if they wish
to study cheaply in the USA next year. The Kennedy
Scholarship at Harvard and MIT and the Frank Knox
Fellowship for Harvard have a closing date of October
18 and 23 respectively.
The Kennedy Scholarship covers tuition, travel and
health service fees as well as an allowance of
$ 10,000 for the year. Further details and application
forms are available from room 314 Sherfield.
Social careers
Community Care and Insight magazines are holding
a Careers Convention on October 17 and 18 at the
Kensington Exhibition Centre.
The fair will play host to employers from various
aspects of social work including childcare and work
with the elderly and disabled. A free CV service will
be available with further information on social work.
The fair will be open 9-6.30 each day.
Early health
Imperial College's Health Centre is to hold earlier open
clinics for a trial period this year. The clinic will be open
from 8.30-1 Oam for people without an appointment,
with a few appointments available each day from
1-2pm.
The standard length of appointments has been
reduced from 15 to ten minutes, although patients
may ask for double appointments if they wish. Health
Centre Director, Dr Raanan Gillon told FELIX 'Our
objective is to try and reduce waiting times.'
ULU TRAVEL
• L o w c o s t w o r l d w i d e flights • S p e c i a l fares for students
• Expert a d v i c e f o r independent travellers
it Tours, short breaks & s k i holidays • G r o u p b o o k i n g s
if Over 70 o f f i c e s w o r l d w i d e
From
ULU Travel
Sherfield Building
Imperial College
London SW7 3 ;E3
01-581 1022 Intercontinental
01-581 8233 European
m
lABTAl
79525
ULU TRAVEL
OLD ROYALISTS ASSOCIATION IN THE UK
SOCIAL EVENING
on Saturday October 21st 1989
7pm to 12.30am
Sherfield Building
Imperial College of Science & Technology
Exhibition Road SW7
BAR • DISCO * BUFFET • RAFFLE
Dress Casual
Tickets £10 includes Sri Lankan Dinner
Please ring': Joe Navin 567 2352 or H.A. Karunasekera 853 3207
P I M L I C O
C O N N E C T I O N
TUTORING SCHEME
(Oct. 18th 1989-Feb. 14th 1990)
Like a chance to communicate scientific ideas and help
teachers of Science and Maths in local ILEA Primary and
Secondary schools?
Join the scheme and the student Pimlico Connection Society...
Details from the Humanities Department
Room 313C, Mech Eng
Room 439/440 Mech Eng
and at FRESHERS' FAIR

