In a last desperate bid to unscramble the government's higher education policy FELIX
asked Kenneth Bryliantine, Minister of State for Quoting Statistics and Blaming the
Last Labour Government at the Department of Education and Science, to explain.
Minister Speaks Out
'Firstly let me say this, I personally did myself go
to University. Well do I remember my five happy years
studying Applied Mediterranean Studies at Oxford -
the balls, sailing every weekend and, of course,
regular meals at high table. Let it not be said that I,
Ken Bryliantine, do not understand the plight of the
modern student.
'The Prime Minister, and I, of course, agree with her
completely and wholeheartedly, feel that now the
government has solved all the country's ills, it is time
to pass on our knowledge to the next generation
whether they like it or not.
'The foremost, fundamental, principle aim of our
education policy is to bring education into the really-
real real world of 1989.
'Obviously it is unreasonable to expect all these
Doctors and Professors to understand the
complexities of our grand master plan but
fundamentally we aim to introduce market forces. For
too long Universities have been operating a closed
shop: for too long they have insisted, unreasonably,
on only allowing those who are good at a subject to
study it. In the incredibly-real real world of 1989 this
is obviously ridiculous .
'We will create new entrance requirements based
not on what you know but on what you can afford!
Degrees will be rewarded to the highest bidder. We
will create a new Utopia of equality!
'Just look at America. Where else can a man with
the IQ of a tomato buy himself enough qualifications
to become Vice President? Where else can decent
god-fearing religious fundamentalists dictate what is
to be taught? Where else but the Unified States of
America? Britain! A brave new Britain of tomorrow's
Victorian values.
'We want students to become more resourceful.
That is why grants are so small-it is to encourage
inventiveness and entrepreneurship. Students must
take on jobs, several jobs each, to make ends meet.
It is an ideal opportunity to learn about the importance
of money and even if they have to drop out, they will
have learnt one important fact central to our
philosophy: poor people lose.
'Just think whafa great advance student loans will
be. What better way is there to learn about debt than
to spend your student life permanently in the red? It's
brilliant-Nigel Lawson told me so.
'Now, I know, and I am sincerely sincere in this, that
you Imperial students have special problems. I know
that we only provide £19 to cover rent and I know
about the cost of housing in South Kensington—I
myself personally own three blocks of flats. But just
think what this little extra impossibility will do for your
powers of entrepreneurship.
'This Government's science policy is frequently
attacked by politically motivated pinkos who claim we
do not provide enough cash. This is totally and utterly
wrong: we have a minister for science, the Rt Hon....
Thingy. A high profile job! But you must understand
that in the really very real real world of not quite but
coming up to 1992 we just cannot afford it.
'Science CAN do without funding: did Einstein have
funding when he discovered Evolution-did he? Of
course not! We propose a whole new form of
sponsorship: the Rothmann's Cancer Research Fund,
The Macdonald's Nutritional Study Centre, The
Ronald Reagan Memorial Laser Laboratory. What a
world of possibilities lies open ahead of us.
'With the assistance of sensible students like
yourselves we may soon achieve our goals. And we
must not forget that the majority of students are
happier, more energetic and prettier-in real terms-
than under the last Labour Government.
'Keep up the good work!'
Since this article was written Mr. Bryliantine
has been promoted. His replacement in the post,
John McNobody, has vowed to continue with his
predecessor's policies 'but with a Scots accent'.
BRITISH RAIL
We have lots of great jobs in all branches
of engineering, research and general
management.
Find out more from your Careers Service,
come and see me at the Careers Fair on
2 November or contact me now:—
Tim Steven,
Fl. 15, Room 11,
Southern House,
British Rail (Southern),
Wellesley Grove,
Croydon CR9 1DY
Tel: 01-666 6872

