Free money for students! Interested? Read on!
Get what's
coming to you
Every year many people, including students, fail to
claim their full entitlement to state benefits, because
they do not know what they can claim or how to go
about claiming it. Imperial College Union Welfare is
running a 'Benefits and Rights' Information desk in the
JCR, on 12th-13th October between 11.30am and
3pm. Experts on Housing and Social Security Benefits
will be among the people present. Come along for
information on the Benefits which you are entitled to,
how to go about claiming them and how to get the
maximum possible Benefit. Housing Benefit specialists.
will be available, with plenty of HB forms which they
can help you to fill in and will probably be able to
accept your claim forms then and there. If you want
to hand in your forms then you will need to bring
certain things with you: an official notification of your
term dates (College should have sent you one of
these, or you can get them from Registry in Sherfield),
your Education Grant Award Certificate, a copy of
your Deed of Covenant if you get one, a copy of a
recent bank statement, proof of your rent, and a copy
of your tenancy agreement. If you have trouble getting
any of this information then come along to the JCR
and find out where to get it, or what to do if you can't
get it!
OVERSEAS STUDENTS:
Do you want a secure British education? If you are an
Overseas Student, this may not be as simple as it
sounds. Overseas Students run into all sorts of
problems while studying in this country. On Friday
13th October Cathy Presland of UKCOSA (UK Council
for Overseas Students Affairs) will be at the
information desk in the JCR to answer questions on
m
benefits, accommodation problems and visas.
UKCOSA is an organisation set up to promote and
protect the interests of overseas students. It provides
advice, training and publications concerning issues
faced daily by students from abroad.
HOW TO AVOID HOMELESSNESS
Renting a flat is not as straightforward as it may at
first appear. Not only do you have to find
accommodation which you can afford (which isn't
much fun, as anyone who has had to do it will know!),
but you have to make sure of your rights to avoid
eviction, raising of your rent and many other
frightening possibilities. If you want to find out more
about your rights as a tenant, then specialists will be
in the JCR on both Benefits and Rights Days to answer
all your questions, and to help you make sure that your
period of tenancy is problem free.
SURVIVING!
There are many other situations which may arise
when it is important for you to know your rights. What
happens if your new Walkman chews up its first tape,
you find a slug in your lettuce, or your next door
neighbour keeps you awake all night with loud music?
These are examples of some of the areas which the
'Benefits and Rights' Campaign aims to address. As
well as the specialists on Benefits, Legal Rights etc.
the Union Welfare Adviser, Yve Posner, will be
available and is able to answer most of the questions
you might come up with! If you can't make it to the
JCR on the 12th or 13th, she is available in her office,
above the Union office, between 12.30pm and
5.30pm weekdays.
There may be some extra £££££'s
in the benefit system for you
FAXFILE
• Do you know what your rights are as a tenant?
Did you know that most tenants cannot be evicted
without a court order or that your landlord has a legal
duty to carry out repairs whatever your contract says?
Also, it is possible to get your deposit back even
though your landlord is refusing to repay it-you just
need to go about things the right way.
Do you know where to go to get housing advice?
Every Local Authority has a Tenancy Relations Officer
and a Housing Advice Department there to help you.
• Do students pay Income Tax? Well, you can earn
up to £2,785 in the current tax year before you have
to start paying tax.
• Legal Advice? Do you know where to get free legal
advice? Do you know what the Green Card Scheme
is or fixed free advice? In London there are a large
number of Law Centres where it is possible to get
completely free legal advice from a qualified solicitor.
There are also other ways of getting reduced cost
advice.
• Overseas students? Do you know what benefits you
can claim? Many overseas students are unable to
claim certain benefits.
Are you allowed to work in the UK? If you look in
your passport you should be able to check your visa
regarding this? Most overseas students are restricted
from working but their wives can usually work
without having to get a work permit.
• Did you know that most British and EEC students
can claim Housing Benefit? An undergraduate with
only a student grant and paying rent of £60 per week
can get up to £27.40 per week Housing Benefit.
A postgraduate with a SERC grant can get up to
£15.27 towards £60 per week rent.
• Prescription charges? Dental charges? Sight tests?
Glasses?
-Prescription charges are now £2.80 per item
-All NHS dental treatment is charged for unless
you are under 20. A simple check-up and clean
can cost £10.
-Sight tests are now £10 unless you are under 19
and the cheapest pair of glasses can set you back
£15-£20.
BUT all students are eligible to claim help towards
these charges and many qualify for completely free
treatment.
• Are you a student with dependant children under
18? If so then you can claim Child Benefit for them -
it's currently £7.25 per week per child.
Single parents can also claim One Parent Benefit,
currently £5.20 per week for the eldest child.
If your partner is working you might be able to claim
Family Credit (this varies according to income).
For more information on benefits and rights
contact Union Welfare Adviser, Yve Posner, via
the Union Office or come to the Benefits & Rights
Days on 12th-13th October.
Union Welfare Officer Jackie Scott demonstrates the best way
to get your Housing Benefit
Page 6

