Whatever you may have read in the press, the recent meeting of the British Association for the
Advancement ofScience was not all sensible lectures and serious seminars, every so often itjust
got very silly. This was one ofthose occasions, a competition to write up a scientific paper, Crick
and Watson's 1953 announcement of the famous double-helix struture ofDNA, in the style of
particular newspapers. Below, you willfindNarmada de Silva's winning entry and two of the
runners up. A report on the BAAS proper will appear on Friday.
FINANCIAL TIMES—Narmada de Silva
Phosphate diester groups
set to claim market lead
A structure for the salt of Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid
(DNA) has been proposed by J.D.Watson and
F.C.H.Crick of the Medical Research Council Unit for
the Study of the Molecular Structure of Biological
Systems (MRCUSMSBS), the Cambridge-based
Cavendish Laboratory announced yesterday.
This is based on trans-atlantic collaboration with the
National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis (NFIP)
supporting much of the research, hence a possible
take-over bid for the Wellcome Foundation cannot be
ruled out.
The novel structure has two right-hand helical
chains of phosphor diester groups with opposing atom
sequences centered around a common axis. The
structure is an open one with a high water content,
but the forthcoming privatisation may result in a
stream-lining of the molecule as water becomes less
freely available and the structure becomes more
compact, in accordance with the prevalent market
trends.
As seen from the price at the close of trading
yesterday BOC shareholders have been quick to
realize the importance of hydrogen-bond joints
between .single bases in each chain. These pairings
of purine and pyrimidine are not freely determined but
one chain sequence will define the other, reflecting
the current restrictions in manufacturing industry.
The Dow Jones index is steady at present but the
possible replication mechanisms are being keenly
explored and observation of the price of Rank Xerox
may give an indication of when a suitable copying
process for this genetic material had been achieved.
THE SUN—Fran Tattersall
Mystery chemical
Our eggheads crack it
Two scientists in Britain are the WINNERS of a weird
competition. This is the race to work out the design
of a MYSTERIOUS CHEMICAL called DNA. DNA is
part of every human body from Thatcher's to Sam
Fox's but NOBODY KNEW WHAT IT WAS LIKE... 'til
now!! In Cambridge, brainy Englishman Francis Crick
and Yankee helper Jim Watson have beaten American
Labs to it! And today we've got complicated scientific
papers to PROVE it! They've even built a model of the
. chemical, it looks like a GIANT CORKSCREW, but this
is A LOT BIGGER than the real thing.
You and I may not understand the jargon of
'molecular biology' as the subject is called. But it's
good to know that the boffins are finding out more
and more about how our bodies work, and this shows
BRITAIN is one of the BEST when it comes to BRAINS.
What do they get as a prize for their hard work? Hearty
congratulations from failed scientists elsewhere. And
who knows, maybe another NOBEL PRIZE for the
British?
THE SUN—Mark Weatherall
British boffins'
breakthrough
Nature article shows the way
The scientific world was STUNNED this week by
outstanding British boffins Francis Crick and James
'Jim' Watson. Whizzkids Watson and Crick, working
in Cambridge's world-famous Cavendish Laboratory,
CRACKED a problem that has taxed top scientists for
years. In their paper in the highly respected journal
Nature they solve the structure of mystery substance
Deoxyribose Nucleic Acid, DNA.
•They beat American Nobel Prize winner Linus
Pauling to the discovery.
• They dismiss other people's work.
• They EXPLAIN just how they found the right
answer.
Scientists think DNA may be the stuff that makes
us what we are. Now these courageous Cambridge
workers have shown the way scientists everywhere
are FRANTICALLY changing their ideas about DNA.
Odd couple, balding Crick and boyish Watson
worked DAY AND NIGHT for two years. Now their
results are out, they plan to step up the pace and stay
ONE STEP AHEAD of the competition.
• Has Japan gone Green? This depends on who you
believe. At a recent government inspired conference
in Tokyo, the massed ranks of the great and the good
including the heads of the World Bank, the United
Nations Environment Programme and the World
Meteorological Organisation praised the Japanese
contribution to environmental protection.
Elsewhere various non governmental organisations
including Friends of the Earth attacked Japanese
involvement in mass deforestation. Meanwhile, the
Tokyo Government has announced the provision over
three years of $2,250 million in overseas
environmental aid.
• Legislation, just introduced by the Indian
Parliament, will make AIDS an officially notifiable
disease. The bill requires regional health authorities
to coordinate the counseling and treatment of those
infected by HIV. It also imposes criminal penalties on
HIV infected people who knowingly donate blood or
organs. The Delhi Government has set aside $10
million for the scheme which could require the
country's 1450 registered sufferers to be rounded up
and placed in special centres: centres which have yet
to be built.
In Europe, British and French health officials have
differed a decision over whether to cut short a trial
of the anti AIDS drug AZT despite the apparent
success of US based trials. The Europeans claimed
that the American evidence was insufficient.
• Exxon, the accident prone oil company, have
officially called off cleaning up operations for the
Alaska oil slick despite the fact that many miles of
coastline remain badly affected. Alaskan State
Governor Steve Cowper announced that the state,
unlike the oil company, will continue with the work
and forward at least part of the $21 million bill to
Exxon.
Exxon denies it is pulling out, saying that it has
already spent $1,000 million and is leaving behind a
crew of 300 to help. According to the latest figures,
since the spillage the oil slick has killed over 34,000
birds and almost 1000 otters.
• Bones thought to belong to the infamous Nazi
doctor Josef Mengele have been taken to West
Germany for DNA fingerprinting. Mengele's relatives
hope that the tests will dispel doubts that he is still
alive and well and hiding in Latin America. They may
not be so lucky; according to state prosecutor Hans
Klein, the bones are ten years old and were buried for
seven, any remaining traces of DNA may be too small
to detect.
• More bones, this time belonging to American
Indians. The Smithsonian Institute have agreed to
release 18,600 sets of Indian bones to their
descendants. They have, however, hit a problem with
redistribution: Indian tribes tended to move about and
bones found in one territory may not belong to the
ancestors of the current inhabitants. To try and
resolve the problem the Institute has proposed a
$2.25 million research project involving
anthropologists and forensic scientists to try and
match tribes and bones.
Page 7

