Bob Speer previews Paul Davies' forthcoming lecture
The birth of the cosmos
Wednesday October 4th at 12.30pm in the Great Hall
Sherfield is certainly a date to put in your diaries and
serious devotees are advised to get there early!
Author of 17 books and well known science
populariser Paul Davies will be on hand lecturing and
talking to all afficionados from about Noon onwards
in the Great Hall. His theme will be "The Birth of the
Cosmos".
"Like many compelling images, it may turn out to
be a mirage, but for the first time in the history of
science we can form a conception of what a complete
scientific theory of the world will look like."
A new theory of the universe is emerging from
recent discoveries in fundamental physics and
cosmology. Some scientists now believe that all of
nature is ultimately under the control of a single
superforce, which weaves together space, time and
matter into a unified field theory. Bringing together the
frontiers of high energy particle physics and
cosmology, the superforce explains what caused the
big bang that gave birth to the universe, and how the
foundations for the cosmic structures we now see
were forged in the microseconds that followed. It also
suggests a bizarre new idea-that space and time are
in reality eleven-dimensional, with the unseen
dimensions of space masquerading as nuclear and
electromagnetic forces.
Speaking with clarity and elegance Paul Davies,
recently described in the New York Times as "one of
the most adept science writers on either side of the
Atlantic", relates the story of these awesome new
advances:
Paul Davies, himself a research scientist in this
subject area, believes that we might soon realise
man's age-old dream-a unified theory of all
existence.
Paul Davies is Professor of Theoretical Physics at
the University of Newcastle upon Tyne. He holds a
doctorate from the University of London where he
spent eight years as a lecturer in mathematics. His
reseach has ranged across much of fundamental
physics and cosmology, and he has acquired an
international reputation as a science populariser—
Other Worlds, The Runaway Universe, The Edge
of Infinity and God and the New Physics received
world-wide acclaim. He also writes regularly for The
Guardian, The Economist and a number of science
periodicals, and frequently contributes to television
and radio broadcasts.
We understand that the IC Bookshop will be
arranging a display of Paul Davies' books in the Lobby
of the Great Hall after the lecture and there should be
plenty of opportunity for book signing.
A guide to London's secondhand music shops
Cheap Cutsby Chris Leahy
Being poor students we all love a bargain. However,
for those of us who cannot exist without spending
next week's rent on black vinyl or silver CD, the
challenge of undercutting Virgin's Megadeal on this
week's chart becomes as much a necessity as a
pleasure. So where in this great metropolis, the very
hub of the music 'biz', does J. Student go to get
quality music at cheapo prices?
Let's face it, unless you really want Singalonga Max
Vol V or Hooked on Classics for a bargain fiver, the
sales held by the major chainstores are pretty useless
for picking up real bargains. Virgin Megastore and
HMV on Oxford Street and Tower Records at
Piccadilly Circus all claim to be the biggest/best record
store in the known universe and can on occassions
be useful for information on new releases. However,
for that limited edition pink vinyl EP needed to
complete a cherished collection or just to obtain a few
cheap records it is necessary to go and root around
London's second-hand record shops.
Page 8
By far the biggest 'chain' is Notting Hill Record,
Tape and Video Exchange which has four branches
at Notting Hill Gate and can also be found in Goldhawk
Road, Shepherds Bush and Camden Town. As
indicted by the name, they buy and sell records, tapes,
CDs, videos (music and film, including those 'adult'
movies which I've heard about but never seen) and
also have branches for books and musical
instruments. They will buy anything whatsoever and
resell it at the going rate, periodically reducing the
price until someone buys it. So you can watch your
coveted item get cheaper until you can afford it, or
until some bastard buys it before you. Records start
at £6, CDs at £10, but there is also a department for
real rarities and a bargain basement (Singalonga Max
50p).
In central London, Reckless Records in Berwick
Street is always worth visiting, as it tends to get
recent material almost on release (unwanted review
copies mostly) and is a little cheaper than the
competition (LPs £5, CDs £8.50). Runaway Records
in Neal Street, Covent Garden recently opened and
is a welcome addition despite its erratic opening
hours. Just by Leicester Square tube is Steve's
Sounds, which is not exactly second-hand but the
prices are and they always seem to have some
reduced stock.
Further out of town are Ruthless Records on
Putney High Street and Honest John's (although I'll
bet he isn't) on Portobello Road. This article would be
incomplete without a mention for Camden Market
and its plethora of bootleggers. Their wares range
from last night's big gig in London to the likes of Led
Zeppelin's US tour of 1975. Expect to pay around £4
for a sixty minute cassette and always insist on
hearing the quality first.
Other genres are also well represented. For jazz try
Dobell's on Tower Street (WC2) and James Asman
(New Row). He is a respected critic and his staff are
always helpful and comprehensively knowledgeable.
Classical music is best sought at Farringdon
Records on Cheapside or Holborn. The very
atmosphere of the place will convert your tastes and
there are so many budget price recordings that you
are spoilt for choice. Also worth a visit is Charing
Cross Records at Cambridge Circus.
So, a selection for the vinyl junkies to look for. There
are many more, especially in Soho, but you can find
those for yourself whilst seeking that last elusive piece
of plastic.

