Reviews
Superman III Now playing Warner West
End and most ABCs.
Three is the lucky number. We've had
Rocky III, Friday 13th III and Star Wars
III; we are in the age of the sequel. When
studios can no longer afford the services of
title writers and ad-men to convince you
that a new title is really old familiar
ground, more of the same, we get a surfeit
of sequels. So having come straight out with
it, and not tried to dress mutton up as lamb,
the punter hopes to see something new,
unfortunately the same tired old plot is
ground out again.
So I'm please to say that Superman III
does contain some exciting surprises.
Having disposed of terrestrial and extra-
terrestrial foes in human form, what can
there be left for our man of steel to
confront? Yep, right first time, wheel out
the psychotic cybernaut, a machine with a
highly developed instinct for self-
preservation and some other pretty
Clark Kent getting ready for work,
disgusting habits.There are also a number of
human baddies bent on beating his brains
out.Chief nasty is Robert Vaughn who is
acting as Ross Webster, a man who is so
rich that he doesn't wear the same pair of
socks twice! He wants to take over the
world for no particularly good reason,
except that he can then forget about tax
lawyers. Our erstwhile man from UNCLE
obviously enjoyed his role as villain.
Pamela Stephenson plays his over-
burdened mistress Lorelei Ambrosia, a neat
little part played with nice timing by one of
our best comediennes.
Apart from Lorelei and the perennial
Lois Lane, another attractive distraction
for Superman to cope with is Lana Lang
played by Annette O'Toole. I'm sure her
turn at stardom is not far away.
Page l O H H H M n H M M
Is it a bird? Is it a plane? Is it a hairpiece?
For me though, Richard Pryor stole the
show, for all the gadgetry, jiggery pokery
and special effects and despite a fairly
modest role one felt that the rest of the cast
were playing off him, taking their'leads
from this brilliant comic. The delicacy
which he brought to his most manic
moments was delightful. Rescued from the
obscurity of fhe dole queue by an
unexpected ability to talk to computers he
is swept along by the pace of events he
creates.
On a tongue in cheek scale, this film sits
somewhere between Bond and Batman,
effective but not self-indulgent. Perhaps the
only criticism that could be levelled at the
film is the pace which drags a bit in places,
and the apocalyptic a la Bond climax was
rather a damp squib but carping aside this
is a marvelous film, brought to life by the
comic talents of Richard Pryor and the
undoubted hunkyness of Christopher
Reeve.
With a month or two's running behind it,
Monty Python's Meaning of Life, on
general release, isn't exactly a recent
release. If you haven't seen it yet you
probably haven't the slightest intention of
going, but in case there are some waverers
out there may I be allowed a word of
explanation.
The Meaning of Life is possibly the first
film aimed at the fish market, after all, there
are more fish than people. It has been
playing at packed houses at Smithfield.
Thus it cdhfains some scenes which might
be disturbing for non-aquatic life-forms. If
you can swallow this basic premise, the rest
is easy enough to cope with. The film takes
the form of a series of sketches which are
roughly hung round the skeleton of the
journey from the cradle to the grave. It
evolved as a series of sketches and a few
links were thrown in for good measure, a
format familiar to devotees of the television
series.I found the sketches savagely funny
and in quite appallingly bad taste,and have
no hesitation in recommending it to anyone
of hardy constitution.
Last and by all means least we come to
National Lampoon's Class Reunion (15)
directed by Michael Miller. Playing in a
double bill with Young Doctors in Love it
makes that title appear a paragon of wit
and good taste.
Class Reunion has little to do with
-Animal House, retaining few of the
original cast and none of the affectionate
humour. It is an attempt at a horror spoof.
One of the class is planning revenge for past
abuse by his classmates and traps them in
the school and sets about picking them off
one by one.
A promising idea, but it simply doesn't
work. The tedious overdone stereotype
became impossible to believe in and as the
killer gets stuck into his programme of
revenge, you hope that he will indeed
succeed in wiping out the rest of the cast
without further delay and bring the whole
tawdry tale to a swift conclusion. To say
that it was without humour would be an
exaggertaion, but so would be saying that
anyone actually laughed. Only to be taken
if in an advanced state of alcoholic
paralysis.
Lee Paddon
Graham Chapman in heaven.
\ Felix

