OF
CHEAPSKATE
'Ah me, What am I to do now?' thought
Smarty Saylor aloud to himself as he lay
awake in his bed. In two days time he would
be both unemployed and homeless, for then
it would be July the 1st. Instead of being the
famous and influential FELIX Editor, he
once was, he would return to being an
ordinary person.
'I'll have to get a job, I suppose,' he
muttered, though he quailed at the
thought. 'And a roof over my head. It
might be easier if I wasn't such a
whining ninny, but no-one in their right
mind would have anything to do with
me.'
Smarty felt the beginnings of a hangover
throbbing in his skull. His eyes rolled like
gritty marbles and the room—his for such a
short time now—began to gyrate around
him. Faces familiar and strange swam
before his eyes. 'That third pint of ginger
beer I had last night was one too many,' he
groaned as he sank into a faint.
'Abracadabra.' Smarty was rudely
awakened by Arthur Michael, the Good but
Not Very Helpful Fairy. Smarty rubbed his
eyes in amazement, but the apparition
showed no signs of disappearing. His room
and cosy bed we*e gone! Instead he was
lying on the floor of an unfamiliar office.
'Where am I?' he whined plaintively.
Arthur Michael, for his part, was not
having a very good day. Life as a Fairy on
Baron Weed's staff was bad enough without
having to deal with whining, ineffectual
ninnies at this time in the morning.
'You're in the land of Cheapskate, ducky,
eveyone knows that'. The fairy tried the
magic word once more.
'Agotablacbra,' he pronounced with a
negligent wave of the hand. Nothing
happened.
'Oh, how am I expected to do this on my
Felix • • H H B H H M R H H H H H H H H I
By
Juvenal
own?' he whimpered with a little stamp of
his foot.
'If only I had aids!' He stood one arm
akimbo as, with a jaunty flick of the hips,
he went on. 'I simply must turn these two
into ones, you know, but it can be very
hard, especially if they don't want to go.' He
eyed Smarty with a new interest.
Smarty, evading his stare, loftily
announced, Two into one wont' go.' He was
confident when dealing with such small
numbers.
'Oh, I don't know about that,' mused
Arthur.
'I'm thinking of putting five into the double
rooms in the Linstead extension.'
'Lauwerys' Arthur tired another magic
word.
'Can you find a room for me?' begged
Smarty. 'I've just arrived in your Land of
Cheapskate and I really need somewhere to
stay. Only you can help me.'
Arthur kicked Smarty in the private parts.
(He had a surprisingly hard kick for a fairy.)
'Let that be a lesson to you,' he shrilled. 'I've
got far more important things to do than
help ordinary people. Why, only this
afternoon I've got to get ready and look my
best for Lady Marigold's garden party.
NIGEL!!!' he shreked, 'What have you done
with my hairspray?'
Composing himself he added, 'The
Baron's sidekick, John Secretary, will be
there and one has to suck up to him if one
wants to get on in the Baron's staff,' he
finished with a knowing glance.
'But you're paid to help ordinary people,'
squeaked Smarty in a funny high voice as he
writhed on the floor.
Arthur looked at him suffering and a
strange glet..Ti came into his eye.
'Well, there's Evelyn Gardens, they've got
ever so many rooms there. Though, of
course, you might have to share. And then
there are the silverfish, and the odd
cockroach, the plumbing...of course, if
you'd like to stay here...' he minced over to
Smarty and helped him to his feet.
'Evelyn Gardens,' Smarty groaned
through gritted teeth and staggered out of
the office as fast as his weakened legs could
carry him.
Where will Arthur Michael put his foot
next?
Will John Secretary mind?
Which insects and vermin will Smarty
find in Evelyn Gardens?
Is John Thole the most overpaid,
pompous, stuck-up, employee of Imperial
College?
Find out in the next thrilling episode of
'The Baron of Cheapskate'.
inburgh
estival
Fringe
Dramsoc are previewing one of the four
plays they are taking to the Edinburgh
Fringe this year.
Between Time and Timbuktu will be
performed in the Union Building tomorrow
(Saturday) at 8:00pm, admission is free.
The play, a late '60s TV film by Kurt
Vonnegut Jr, is a tongue-in-cheek, science-
fiction odyssey.
A poet, Stoney Stevenson, wins a
competition and the prize is a astronaut
training crash course, and time-warp trip
through the 'Chronosynclastic Infundi-
bulum'. He sees '60s visions of the future:
over-population, religious persecution, state
oppression, suspended animation and
terrorism.
i t L -
The directors, Mike Thackray and Colin
Cooper, have transformed these dated
'world problems' into a very funny play for
the '80s. Dramsoc's usual technical skills
combine with excellent character acting to
produce an hour packed with excitement.
The other plays Dramsoc will be
perfoming at the Fringe are: What do you
say before you say goodbye by Melody
Shahan, about sex politics; Songs, Sonets
and Satyre by John Donne and co, a
dramatic anthology of metaphysical verse,
and Purple Forest Extravaganza a
collection of music, mime and drama,
featuring Twelve Cubic Feet and Melting
Moments.
If you are in Edinburgh in August or
September they are performing under the
name 'Beit Theatre' at St John's Church,
West End, right on Princes Street.
Colin Cooper
ff

