Michael Arthur
Michael Arthur asked me to consider very carefully the
manner in which I treated the summer lettings story (ie not
put it in) because he was concerned that any adverse publicity
the scheme received would be detrimental to the scheme's
performance next year. He also impressed on me that the only
people to suffer from the schemes poor performance would
be students themselves. The fact is that Michael Arthur
couldn't give a toss about ordinary students, he is far more
concerned about the impression he gives to his bosses in
College. Students and the problems they face have been
bottom on his list of priorities ever since he ceased to be
employed by the Union. He regards ordinary students with
contempt and has as little to do with them as possible. The
only reason Student Services work effectively is because of
the fantastic staff he has; I don't know how they can bear to
work with him. He is the most arrogant and unhelpful
College official it has been my misfortunate to come across.
Awards
It seems ludicrous that Andy Grimshaw should receive a
Union award for doing sod all for the Union while my
predecessor, Martin Taylor, received nothing at all for doing
a difficult job exceptionally well. As well as being FELIX
Editor, Martin brought the Union a great deal of prestige by
captaining an enormously successful University Challenge
team.
Stephen Goulder, perhaps the most corrupt and self-
seeking President we have ever had, was very lucky to have
mild-mannered Martin as FELIX Editor. I would have given
Steve a far harder time. It is childish, if not downwright
ungrateful of Steve not to have given Martin an award.
FELIX
Freshers' FELIX
Freshers' FELIX will be published on Monday 3 October.
Copy deadline will be Friday 9 September.
Credits
Carl Burgess, DavidRowe, Paul Griffin, Dave Parry, Patrick
Coll, Steve Goulder, Peter Rodgers, Diane Love, Nick
Shackley, Lee Paddon, Michael McKenna, Phil Nathan, Sean
Davis, Gareth Fish and Helen McCookerybook for the letters
and Editorial logos.
A special thanks to my predecessor Martin Taylor for
staying away from the FELIX Office.
Pallab Ghosh
This year's Exec are a bunch of alcoholics and are
frequently seen going off to the local wine bar.
The Exec consist of President Gayer Levis
Deputy President Pristine Toddler and Hon Sec
Porn Diaries, who enjoys working under two
women.
Also going along with the Exec are Steel Goolies,
the ever present hanger-on; Phallus Ghoulash,
Beano Editor 1972-82; Soon Humping, this year's
RCS Hon Sec and Ulysses.
Being people of great power and pomposity they
like playing tricks on menials. When they arrive
they give the wine waiter the following instructions.
1. The person drinking water is not to sit'next to
people drinking vodka or coke.
2. The person drinking wine is not to sit next to
the people drinking milk or whiskey.
3. The person drinking beer is not to sit next to
the people drinking whiskey or vodka.
4. The person drinking milk is not to sit next to
the people drinking water or coke.
5. The person drinking vodka is not to sit next to
the people drinking water or coke.
6. The person drinking whiskey is not to sit next
to the people drinking milk or vodka.
7. Steel won't drink alcohol but likes watching
Porn.
8. Gayer and Ulysses drink alcohol.
9. Gayer has to sit next to Phallus who must sit
next to the person who drinks water.
10. The person who drinks milk must sit next to
Gayer.
11. Steel Goolies and Phallus makes a nice
couple but this has nothing to do with it.
12. Pristine is after Porn's body so asks to sit next
to him, but at least one seat away from the person
who drinks beer.
13. The person who drinks wine is not to sit next
to Steel.
14. Soon is sitting next to the person who drinks
whiskey.
From the above instructions, the wine waiter has
to work out who is sitting where and who is
drinking what. Can you help him? Good drinking!
A puzzle by my good friend Achilles, who said
I'd be a heel if I didn't put it in.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince Consort Rd, SW7
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSoutheyCopyrightFEUX1983

