Guilds
Romp
Home
City and Guilds Union com-
pleted a marathon pedal round
Britain on Thursday 21 July to
raise £10,000 for a lifeboat
engine for the RNLI. The non-
stop pedal around the coast of
the British Isles took a record
252 hours.
The Guilds Pedal Car was due
to arrive at Charing Cross at
7:00am to a media reception. In
an effort to break the record for
man powered circumnavigation
of Britain, enthusiastic Guilds-
men pedaled furiously overnight
and arrived at the deserted
station at 2:30 in the morning.
Rather than wait five hours in
the cold for the press to arrive
the exhausted pedal car team
went to Imperial College to
snatch a few hours of much
needed sleep. They later re-
turned to Charing Cross to the
awaiting newsmen and photo-
graphers.
Tim Bell holding up traffic
Tim Bell, of Chem Eng 3, last
year's Chairman of the Guilds
Pedal Car Club organised the
event. The club were unable to
design a pedal car sturdy enough
to make the whole trip so a car
was obtained externally. The
body of the car was made from a
special high technology aircraft
complex, chosen for its remark-
ably high strength to weight
ratio. The car often reached
speeds of up to 60mph and was
frequently stopped by police
officers who mistook it for an
electrically powered vehicle.
The event was enormously
successful receiving nationwide
media coverage. Guilds are now
well on their way to raising the
£10,000 required for a lifeboat
engine.
Backslapping
and
Backstabbing
The final meeting of ICU Council this year proved to be both an
occasion for self-congratulation and petty backbiting. Engraved pots
and Honorary Life Membership were awarded for exceptional service
to the Union to Mike Prosser, Publications Board Chairman; Nick
Pyne, U G M Chairman and former Welfare Officer; John McCallion,
non-sabbatical Deputy President, and this year's President Stephen
Goulder. Other officers to receive Honorary Life Membership were
Andy Grimshaw, Jonathan Miller, Ian Bull, Simon Rodan, Colin
Butter and Matthew Tonks. All were nominated by Stephen Goulder.
Martin Taylor, this year's FELIX Editor and last year's Captain of
the University Challenge team received no appreciation for his work
in the Union.
Et tu Et tu Et tu
Charles Fuller, acting President of RCSU, received the Dave
Chance Memorial Award, on behalf of RCSU. The award is a baby's
dummy presented annually to the individual causing the most trouble
for Council over the year. This year the whole of RCSU was awarded
the D C M A by an overwnelming majority in recognition of its many
cock-ups and misdemeanours. Charles Fuller accepted the dummy
for RCSIT
in characteristic bad grace, refusing to suck it.
Elections to College committees then ensued. The usual difficulty
encountered in persuading people to stand for College committees of
little or no importance such as the Refectory, Residence, Admissions
Policy and Safety Committees were overcome only after much verbal
arm twisting. However when there were freebies and decent parties in
prospect, there was no shortage of candidates. Bar Committee and
Wine Committee were hotly contested. John Passmore and Dave
Parry were selected from a strong field for Bar Committee after a
show of single transferable hands, all candidates professing a great
interest in and knowledge of beer. Wine Committee saw a contest
between Hugh (T know nothing about wine') Stiles, Chris (T know all
about wine from being in the Officers' Mess') Cranshaw and Pallab
(T'm an expert after visiting Stephen Goulder's office regularly)
Ghosh. Expert questions on vintages were provided by Stephen
Goulder, and Chris Cranshaw was elected after getting most of the
answers right.
Nick Pyne proposed that the Union should continue to provide
compressed air powered whistles to all comers (provided they are
female). Mines President Chris Cranshaw said that he too wanted a
rape alarm on the grounds of sex equality (wishful thinking?-Ed). The
meeting voted in favour of Nick Pyne's proposal, with President-elect
Gaynor Lewis making a tactful abstention.
Mem
Andy's
Cock-up
Andy Grimshaw, ex ICU Hon.
Sec. failed to keep the ICU vans
insured during the final four
months of his sabbatical year.
This error was discovered by
Sean Davis, ICU Hon Sec, a
week after he had taken over
office. By this time all of the ICU
vans were out on tour with
various clubs and societies.
Sean said that it was very
fortunate that no van had been
involved in an accident since
February. Had there been any
accidents, the Union could well
have been faced with enormo
repair bills which would have
severely affected the transport
budget.
The reason for the lack of
cover seams to be that Andy was
attempting to negotiate a better
deal with Endsleigh Insurance to
insure the Transit vans. How-
ever, the discussions became
rather prolonged and Andy
made no attempt to get cover in
the interim, leaving the vans
uninsured.
More
Vicious
Tory
Cuts
The governing council of Queen
Elizabeth College, Chelsea
College and Kings College have
approved documents stating an
intention to merge the three
colleges into one institution
based at the Kings College site
on the Strand.
ULU President Chris Sale said
that full integration will take five
to ten years. The acquisition of
properties neighbouring Kings
College still remains as a
stumbling block to the merger.
The long term aim is to sell
off the QEC and Chelsea sites
and obtain a substantial reduc-
tion in student numbers. Steps
have already been taken to bring
together teaching at Q E C and
Kings. Physics is taught to
undergraduates at both sites.
However the bussing involved
has caused anger amongst the
students and is bitterly opposeu
by ULU.
Felix Page 3

