Postgraduates—Time for a Reaction
Up to this point, his logic is impeccable
All the undergraduates having left college for
the summer vacation, the casual observer
may come to the conclusion that the
academic world winds down for the duration
of the holidays with even the most dedicated
members of staff taking a least a fortnight's
holiday or pottering off to a 'conference' in a
suitably hot location. However, upon closer
inspection that stranger would notice huddles
of strange-looking people cloistered near
coffee machines and refectories enjoying a
drink without having to put up with those
awful undergraduates forming long queues
and blocking the corridors. A close inspection
is indeed necessary since postgraduates are an
anonymous breed involving themselves in the
College, as a whole, as little as possible and
always looking suitably preoccupied. Yet it is
that very anonymity that has led people in
general, and College in particular, to assume
that supervisors are always interested, theses
are all being written and that demonstrators
are always present. As any postgraduate will
tell you this is not the case.
INCOMPLETE
Imperial College is a major centre for
research in the fields of science and
engineering and as such attracts a higher
proportion of postgraduates than other
London colleges and provincial universities; it
is comparable, in this respect, with Oxford
and Cambridge. At IC out of a total of 149
postgraduates who commence PhDs 49 fail to
complete them within the three years
specified. This, which can effectively be
considered a failure rate, compares with ten
to fifteen incomplete theses for Oxbridgefora
similar intake. Thus IC has nearly three
times the rate of incomplete work than
Oxbridge colleges with whom we are
competing for those wealthy foreign students.
Indeed Collegefindsthe idea of postgraduates
from abroad paying fees so attractive that it
wants to turn Weeks Hall into a postgraduate
only hall thus guaranteeing them accommo-
dation for their first year something they are
still unable to do with undergraduates.
CONCERN
Perhaps these students would care to note
that London University, concerned about the
situation, suggested that PhDs should be
awarded just for three yeas of advanced
research whereas at present that research
must be original. IC rightly rejected this idea;
it is simply attempting to paper over the ever
widening cracks without getting to grips with
the real problems. It is quite surprising that
London University would consider such a
proposition and it would hardly enhance IC's
reputation as a 'centre of excellence'. It is the
real problems that must be identified
page a mmmummmmmmmmam
In the postgraduate issue of FELIX of two
years ago the Postgraduate Affairs Officer of
the time (Doug Armstrong) and Nick Morton
(then ICU President) wrote an article
suggesting possible problems that might
arise.
They asked postgraduates to respond to
/. Overrunning the three years.
2. Incomplete experimental work at the writing up
stage.
3. Is selection a problem?
4. Failure of supervisors to examine the progress of
projects frequently enough.
5. Supervision and the problems with supervisors.
They asked postgraduates to respond to
the article and using the results of their
response they intended to precipitate some
action on the matter from College. They got
no response whatsoever. It was quite clear
that, at the time, postgraduates were simply
not interested in attempting to solve their
problems. They were prepared just to keep
plodding on in their now traditional,
anonymous fashion.
Since postgraduates fail to respond to such
initiatives it is necessary for anyone
concerning themselves with the subject to
seek out information from individuals—
notably past postgraduate affairs officers—to
hear what conclusions their own experience
has led them to. A major problem is poor
supervision. The difficulties related to
supervision are the lack of a person to whom
one can complain, lack of someone with
authority to take action, and the possiblity of
irreparably damaging the relationship
between student and supervisor which is
necessary for a successful completion. One
possible course of action, although it is by no
means a solution to all the aspects of this
problem, is to have two supervisors. This
should lead to a greater degree ofsupervision,
and certainly reduces the threat of having a
particularly bad supervisor for the whole
three years. Royal Holloway College use this
system for their postgraduates and although
comparison is difficult it seems to be an
effective one.
SUPERVISION
Supervision is not the only problem which
arose in discussion. Often, the research itself
is poorly defined—students can spend time
working on topics that are irrelevant to the
subject because they are unsure of what the
actual research subject is; the project should
be defined specifically from the start. This
would also help the student ensure that the
research will be original and that the topic
has not, nor is being, researched, elsewhere.
It will also help to decide whether three years
is too long or not long enough for the volume
of work specified and appropriate action can
be taken at a much earlier stage.
It is however necessary for postgraduates in
general to respond, to act and to intervene.
Any academic affairs officer,for both under-
graduates and postgraduates needs feedback
to enable him to go to a meeting with
facts—not just personal opinions that can be
dismissed as such. When this happens
changes—however slowly—can be made.
College an 1
University of London are clearly
worried about the situation; it is therefore a
prime time to act and seek suitable change.
Any change will come from the post-
graduates themselves since it is they who
know the problems and experienced the
difficulties. If no feedback is forthcoming
then problems will remain and the blame will
rest quite clearly—with postgraduates.
N Shackley, Chem Eng 2
• H H H H H M H H i Felix

