Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
As part of this campaign, we are putting on a range of activities and events
to help students find ways to manage stress and pressure, from Monday
13 – Friday 17 March. We want to see students at Imperial College London
stretched, not broken.
As well as offering free massages at three campuses over the week, there are
opportunities to try yoga, relaxation and mindfulness.
The Listening Post located on the Queen’s Lawn is a place students can go if
they need help or advice, staffed by the Advice Centre between 12:00 - 14:00
all week.
Events include:
A Massage Sessions
AYogaTaster Sessions
A Relaxation Sessions
A Listening Posts
For a full range of the activities being offered and more details check out:
imperialcollegeunion.org/under-pressure
Under Pressure? Take a break
Friday 10 March
Coming soon - Enterprise Week, Monday 20 - Friday 24 March
Enterprise Week is a whole week of events designed to showcase
enterprising student intiatives across college. Join A.C.T. Now! Althea
Imperial, and the Venture Catalyst Challenge in their final events of the year
are showcasing the amazing talent of student entrepreneurs at Imperial.
Events include...
A.C.T. Now! Social Enterprise Showcase
The Union’s social enterprise support programme, A.C.T. Now! is kicking off
Enterprise Week on Monday 20 March, 17:30 - 19:30, showcasing student
social enterprise intiatives and with your help awarded £1,500 to our fantastic
teams!This is a live crowd-funding event where every £5.00 ticket sold will
be pledged directly to the enterprise of your choice, and match funded by
us. We’ll be hearing pitches from student entrepreneurs LearnforLife, IRIS,
Symbiota and City Giving.
Althea Imperial 2017
This programme is designed to inspire the top female students at Imperial
College London to develop their entrepreneurial spirit and leadership skills.
Join the finalists onTuesday 21 March, 18:00 - 21:00 and see who is awarded
the top prize of £10,000!
Venture Catalyst Challenge
A showcase for early-stage, commercial technologies at Imperial.You’ll hear
from a selection of the most exciting technology and science ventures from
Imperial Enterprise Lab.This years finalists will be pitching for the win on
Thursday 23 March, 18:00 - 20:00.
For more information and a full list of events, check out
www.imperialenterpriselab.com.

