Friday 10 March 2017 19
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials
felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
Saad Ahmed gives his recommendations on which games to play if you just want to relax,
enjoy yourself and not drive yourself crazy because of bullshit random number generators
Games to feel good
Truck Simulator | Or any
simulator
When you first hear about it, Truck Simulator
sounds like a pretty boring game. You’re a
truck driver and your job is to make deliver-
ies from one city to another. You’re not even
supposed to drive crazily; you’re supposed
to obey the traffic laws and you actually get
penalties for each one you violate. In spite of
all this, it’s actually really fun and satisfying,
and because the gameplay is so chill, it makes
you feel pretty chill too. Any simulator game
can be played to get this feeling of enjoyment,
even Goat Simulator! (Much lauded for its
accurate representations of goats)
Animal Crossing | Any one
The main gist of any Animal Crossing game
is that players move into a new town and
spend their days building up relationships with
villagers, harvesting fruit, fishing, catching
bugs, decorating their house, and tackling any
of the almost innumerable other activities that
comprise one’s Animal Crossing life. It doesn’t
sound like a to-do list that would necessarily
make for the most enthralling game, but that’s
exactly what it amounts to. There’s something
about the relaxing rhythm of each activity that
keeps you coming back for more, bolstered by
the subtle yet effective way the game incentiv-
izes you to keep playing, keep collecting, and
generally keep on ticking.
Pokémon | All games after
2003
Pokémon is a largely popular franchise and
when you first look at it, it’s hard not to see
why. The games are filled with all sorts of col-
ourful, cute and cool looking creatures which
you can capture, befriend and battle with. The
eternal quest to catch them all is a sure and
fast way to get addicted and with no drastic
elements like death or destruction, the kid-
friendly games are a nice way to relax in your
down time. As a recommendation, only play
the games released after 2003 because that’s
when they really refined their gameplay; also
because the original games do not age well.
Just Cause 2 | The multiplayer
one
Just Cause 2 isn’t exactly the most relaxing
game. It has large maps and a huge variety of
quests to complete. The free multiplayer mod
however is just insane and open-ended fun.
There are no goals, no tasks, and no missions.
You spawn on the map in a complete free fall,
with as many as a thousand other players
enjoying a giant sandbox of crazy. Join a race
or a destruction derby, steal a plane and land
it on a highway—with your buddy riding up
top. Or just run around like a madman and
shoot everyone in sight. If you ask yourself,
“What am I supposed to do now?” you’re
playing it wrong.
Undertale | Pacifist Path
This indie game made its appearance in
2015 and was an instant hit. I definitely recom-
mend it if you want to wind down but only on
the condition you do a pacifist run. When you
play the game this way, it’s fun and endearing.
You’re a little girl in a world of monsters and
you befriend them, interact with them and get
to learn about all their quirks and backstories.
It’s quite unlike any other RPG where you com-
pliment and talk your way out of fights instead
of taking part in them. That is of course, unless
you choose the genocide route where the
game is much shorter, and you literally feel like
Satan once you’re done.
Little Inferno | For Pyromaniacs
The point of this game is to just burn things
in different ways and combinations; that’s
literally it. It’s been described as a game
with few objectives to complete and no way
to lose. When you start burning things you
become hypnotised as the realistic fire effects
consume everything in sight. Every once in a
while burnt objects will drop coins, which you
can use to purchase bigger and better items to
burn. It’s basically a game to soothe your inner
nine-year-old.
\\ Nintendo
\\ Toby Fox
\\ Tomorrow Corporation
\\ Avalanche Studios
\\ Game Freak
Life is tough and stressful, and often involves putting in way too much effort for very little gain. This is why a lot of people play video games, where virtual achievements
can make you feel good (for not doing much at all). Having said that many video games can actually be quite gruelling, making you stress out and forcing you to put in
maximum effort. Often, this can actually be more physically tiring and taxing than taking an exam in the Great Hall. But these are not the games we’re going to be looking
at today. In the spirit of self-care and without further ado, I’m going to highlight some games which are not only fun to play but also extremely relaxing.
\\ SCS Software

