12 felixonline.co.uk/culture culture.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 10 March 2017 Friday 10 March 2017 13
culture.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/culture
felix C U L T U R E
felix
C U L T U R E
\\ Jet Tone Productions
\\ Pine District LLC
As we all learnt from Don Draper in the Season One finale of Mad
Men, nostalgia ‘literally means “the pain from an old wound”’. It
doesn’t quite, but no matter. What marks nostalgia off from other
painful emotions, is the sense of enjoyment that we derive from it;
while we might mourn for what has come before, we can still enjoy
our memories of it. Nostalgia is the emotion that is at the heart of
Wong-Kar Wai’s masterpiece In the Mood for Love, which is suffused
with the heady aroma of the past. Exploring the platonic relationship
between a man and a woman living in Hong Kong in the
1960s, everything about the film is designed to conjure up
memories and emotions, from the stirring string theme to
the beautiful cheongsam that Maggie Cheung’s charac-
ter wears. Even the film’s original Chinese title, “The Age
of Blossoms” has a double meaning, referring to fleeting
beauty and love. Watch this film, and allow yourself to revel
in nostalgic melancholy.
In the Mood for Love (2000)
Frances Ha (2012)
If there’s one scene that encompasses the exuberant joie-de-
vivre present in Noah Baumbach’s Frances Ha, it’s the titular
character – played brilliantly by Greta Gerwig, who also
co-wrote the screenplay – running and dancing along a Manhat-
tan street to David Bowie’s ‘Modern Love’. Any film that features
Gerwig dancing is ripe for self-care – see the recently-released
20th
Century Women – but Frances Ha manages to balance a sense
of wonder with the grim reality of adulthood. Gerwig plays Frances,
a contemporary dancer who is unable to make her passion into a
paying career, and whose relationship with best friend Sophie
is strained. When Sophie moves out of the apartment they
share, it is the catalyst for a series of house-swaps for Frances,
and signals the beginning of a new part of their friendship.
Certain scenes stick in my mind, such as Frances trying to find
a ‘new Sophie’ and making them play-fight in Central Park, but
what makes Frances Ha so enjoyable and watchable is Baum-
bach’s ability to temper Gerwig’s innate sweetness and prevent
it from becoming cloying.
\\ AllStar
Annie Hall (1977)
break-up. Allen is known for his off-beat humour, but Annie Hall delivers up
one of his most complex screenplays, with individual gags – whose subject
matter ranges from growing up in Coney Island to the work of Marshall
McLuhan – coming together to form an intricate whole. Annie Hall is a love
letter to New York City, to comedy, but most of all, to Keaton, whose pres-
ence is a luminous beacon throughout.
While Annie Hall might not be the best of Woody
Allen’s extensive filmography – I’d argue that that
honour should go to Manhattan – nothing can cheer
me up quite like watching Diane Keaton absolutely
steal every scene she’s in. Keaton plays Annie Hall,
while Allen plays Alvie Singer, and the film explores
the formation of their relationship, and their subsequent
Fred Fyles recommends the best films for some indulgent viewing. From New York-based
comedies, to Cantonese stories of unrequited love, these four films should leave anyone
feeling a bit better after a couple of hours. So go on – treat yo’self!
The best picks for some cinematic self-care
\\ Festival de Cannes
It is impossible for me to watch Carol – Todd Haynes’ story of two
women falling in love in the 1950s – without a huge smile on my face.
The film is ground-breaking in the fact that it allows its two leads –
Carol Aird (Cate Blanchett) and Therese Belivet (Rooney Mara) – to
have a happy ending, but more than that, Haynes and scriptwriter
Phyllis Nagy have created a love story that really makes you root for
the characters involved. Beginning in media res, we know that
Carol and Therese will find each other, and this knowledge
imparts significance to every glance, gesture, and touch
between the two. More than a simple love story, Carol tells
the tale of two people trying to bridge the gap that society has
placed between them, and takes us along for the ride.
Carol (2015)
Going to the cinema in the middle of
thedayistheperfectformofself-care
– indulgent, self-focussed, relaxing –
as Culture Editor Fred Fyles realised
when he went along to a midday
sceening of Jacques Rivette’s Celine
and Julie Go Boating. Here, he
encourages you to skip lectures,
head down to your local cinema,
and settle in for a midday treat
I
n Jacques Rivette’s 1974
new wave classic, Celine
and Julie Go Boating,
there exists the perfect
metaphor for going to
the cinema in the middle
of the day: the plot revolves
around two women playing
magical games in a Paris-
turned-playground; towards
the second half of the film,
they discover a mysterious
house, into which they
repeatedly disappear, only
to return several hours later,
dazed, with no memory of
what has happened.
For me, Celine and Julie
Go Boating is a case of life
imitating art: after finishing a
screening that had started at
midday, I emerged into the
bright spring sunshine, just as
confused as Celine coming
out of the walled-off mansion.
The film had sucked me into
its peculiar rhythms, which
– over its three-hour runtime
– had ebbed and flowed, and
being confronted by the real
world was like taking a cold
shower: a sharp shock, but
completely refreshing.
This screening kindled in
me two things: firstly, an
appreciation of film that has
continued ever since; and sec-
ondly, the magic of daytime
cinema. Going to the cinema
is, anytime of the day, a form
of self-care; an act that says
to the world ‘I am going to
spend this time on myself’. But
going during the day has an
extra buzz to it – it feels a
bit naughty, like you’ve been
skipping school, and coming
out of the cinema while
everyone is still working at
their desks feels wonderfully
indulgent.
In my mind, self-care is one
end of a spectrum of coping
mechanisms which stretches
all the way to self-medication.
While self-care might be the
acceptable face of dealing
with stress – all scented
candles, relaxing baths, and
calorific food – self-medi-
cation, often with drugs or
alcohol, seems to represent
the ‘bad’ way of handling our
problems. Where does the
cinema fit onto this scale? To
me, it seems to fall some-
where in-between: while it’s
not quite the same as down-
ing brandy sours, going to the
cinema is more heady and
powerful than other forms of
self-care.
Like with drinks and drugs,
to a large extent going to the
cinema involves active con-
sumption. There is, of course,
the whole ritual of purchasing
the ticket – and those of us
who obsessively frequent
the same cinema will often
choose the same seat – but to
visit the cinema is to make an
active choice; a choice to sit,
in a darkened room, along-
side fellow cinema-lovers, for
the sole purpose of watching
a film.
The very best films will
from yourself. But while the
cinema can act as a distrac-
tion, it is far from mindless:
to get the most out of a film,
you need to focus on it com-
pletely; step away from your
surroundings, and immerse
yourself in the screen.
Going to the cinema is
still my most regular form
of self-care. To me, it serves
as a statement: I am telling
myself ‘it’s ok, you might
have exams coming up, or
revision you’re meant to do,
but for the next few hours
you’re going to spend this
time on yourself’. But unlike,
say, a Netflix binge, going to
the cinema never leaves me
feeling deflated: annoyed,
maybe, that I’ve spent money
on a shit film, but never unful-
filled. Whether it’s a cheesy
blockbuster, or an astringent
Danish flick, the cinema never
leaves me feeling empty.
For those of you who wish
to follow me on this path to
cinematic enlightenment, I
have a few words of advice:
first of all, get to know your
cheapest local cinemas. If you
want to go more than once
a week, things can add up
pretty quickly, but knowing
that the BFI offers under-26s
£3 last-minute tickets, or that
ICA members can have £3
tickets during the day, really
takes the pressure of your
student loans.
Secondly, try and keep an
open mind: if you’re feeling
down, you might instantly
reach for the latest feel-good
release, but there is catharsis
to be found in emotional
cinema, and sometimes
having a good cry in the dark
can do wonders for your
mental health (don’t go too
far though: Shoah isn’t that
great for self-care).
Finally, and most impor-
tantly, embrace going by
yourself. Many people I know
would never go to the cinema
by themselves, but think about
it: you’re going to be sitting
in a dark room, with ideally
nobody talking – there is
never a more appropriate
place to go by yourself. While
it might be great to go with
friends, don’t let their availa-
bility limit what you go and
see. Remember: you’re going
to the cinema for yourself, so
practice saying ‘ticket for one,
please’ in front of the mirror,
and get on down to a midday
screening!
\\ Going to the
cinema is, anytime
of the day, a form
of self-care; an act
that says to the
world ‘I am going
to spend this time
on myself’ \\
The magic healing power of daytime cinema
intoxicate you. In a sort of
reverse-mindfulness, they will
transport you away from your
cinema, with its frayed seats
and sticky floors; away from
your deadlines, looming on
the horizon; away from your
phone, and its constant ping-
ing of emails and texts; and
– most importantly – away
\\ BFI

