In addition to the closure of most of the major fur
outlets, a large number of small stores have fallen:
Sacks and Brendler in East Anglia (after 40 years),
Glyn and Leinhart in Sheffield, and Faulkes Furs in
Birmingham (after 62 years).
The reason for these massive closures: LYNX, the
leading organisation against the fur trade. Their
advertising campaign has been strong and dramatic,
even offensive, but this is exactly what the general
public is supposed to think. Posters appear in red and
black, to show the sick and bloody truth of the fur
trade. The once glamourous market is now dead.
Many people reading this article will have seen
LYNX'S famous 'Dumb Animals' commercial of the
fashion show during which a fur coat disgorges blood
over a horrified audience. This and all the other LYNX
advertising has made fur perhaps the most
controversial and often debated animal welfare issue.
Recent surveys by LYNX have shown that more than
70% of the population are opposed to the killing of
animals simply for fur. LYNX'S campaign has an
international reputation for its peaceful, non-violent
work for animals. It is actively campaigning within
parliament to update laws that affect fur bearing
animals.
The Law is an ass! Why in this country, where we
have banned the use of the steel leg-hold trap, do we
still import fur from countries that are using this
barbaric device? In 1982, no fewer than 28,000 Lynx
were trapped for the fur trade in Canada alone. As the
larger cats are becoming scarce, the hunt turns its
attention to the smaller species, the Ocelot, Margay,
Lynx, and Geoffroy's Cat. In 1984 the skins of more
than 13,000 Geoffroy's Cats were imported into
France from Bolivia, while West Germany imported
16,890 Leopard skins from China. Fortunately, West
Germany has proposed protection for these smaller
cats in the future.
Last Summer, LYNX investigators visited the
Swalesmoor Mink Factory just outside Halifax. They
discovered appalling conditions and lax security. Dead
Mink were left lying in cages. The fur trade is trying
to prevent such evidence from ever being revealed.
The LYNX investigators, along with key personnel
have now received writs of trespass. LYNX is being
sued for financial damages, although no damage was
done to the property, and now faces substantial legal
costs. A report has been sent to the Ministry of
Agriculture, who licence all mink factories in the U.K.,
and their response is awaited.
In North America, the Coyote, a wild creature, is
hunted for its pelt. Bullets are not used to kill the
animals, because this damages the fur so there are
two main practices of killing once the creature has
been trapped: repeated bludgeoning of the head, and
a practice called 'suffocation', where the trapper
stands on the animal's vital organs, usually for 14-15
minutes, until the animal is dead.
Last year alone, more than 300,000 coyotes were
among the 20 million wild animals trapped for their
fur. A full length coyote skin coat can be bought in
London for between £4,500 and £7,000. Even in
Britain, an estimated 100,000 red foxes are illegally
trapped or snared for their fur.
Page 10
Traps are indiscriminate. Swans, Deer and
domestic pets are regularly caught and
discarded as 'trash' by the hunters. In
America, it was discovered that the traps
caught more than ten times as many
'unwanted' animals and birds than they did
Coyotes. These creatures included
Bobcats, Golden Eagles and Sheep. The
steel jaws used in these traps have been
condemned by American scientists and
neurologists as 'primitive, uncivilised and
inflicting maximum pain.' Some animals
have been known to gnaw off their limbs in
an attempt to escape.

