An old story of what can happen is that of the sea
otter, hunted and killed for its very smooth fur. It has
been said that there are approximately 800 million
hairs in each pelt. Its troubles were at a peak when
the Chinese Mandarins were introduced to this richest
of pelts by Russian hunters. This led to entire herds
being wiped out, the population of Otters falling from
150,000 in 1740 to just over 1000 in 1911. A treaty
was then signed by representatives from the United
States, Great Britain (for Canada), Russia, and Japan.
The Otters were given complete protection, and
thankfully, their numbers have now recovered
somewhat. Sadly, it now faces other threats from
entanglement in fishermen's nets, and oil spills.
LYNX is even opposing the wearing of fake fur,
saying that glamourising fur in any way is wrong.
Their attitude is that furs are beautiful-but only on
their rightful owners, the fur- bearing animals. After
high-lighting the fact that OXFAM had been selling
second hand furs, LYNX has persuaded them not to
accept donations of fur, and all stocks of fur were
withdrawn on March 1st this year.
Many of those women who own a fur coat, now
refuse to wear them. Models are paid extra for the
social stigma of wearing Mink coats, and many refuse
even to wear one. This effect is not international as
yet, and only The Netherlands has been affected as
much as Britain, although fur is at last struggling to
stay in fashion in the United States, which accounts
for about a third of the $6 Billion market. LYNX has
opened an office in Los Angeles, and is planning to
start a similar publicity campaign in Western Europe,
using its 'Rich Bitch. Poor Bitch' posters.
In Kenya, hundreds of thousands of pounds of illegal
wildlife products are being destroyed. Recently, a
bonfire was lit to destroy over three tons of ivory,
whilst in Brazil, thousands of furs from illegally killed
endangered species were incinerated. This removes
the items from circulation, with the view that the
items have no monetary value anyway. LYNX will be
holding its own ceremonial bonfire of fur coats later
in the year.
' < • : h .
If you don't w;
and killed in Ii-L'-hoh traps
I! 11!o n *
don't
animal
a fur
tori iiiee. L Y N X
Among the anti-fur trade's supporters are Paul &
Linda McCartney, Richard Adams, Richard Briers, Liza
Minnelli, Elton John, Kate O'Mara, David Bailey, Neil
Kinnock, David Owen, Hayley Mills, Andrew Bowden
MP, Ron Davies MP, Tony Banks MP, The Princess
Catherine Aga Khan, Richard Ryder, Phil Cool, Big Fun,
and the Bishops of Salisbury, Edinburgh and Bangor.
Several Lord Mayors have expressed support for the
ending of the use of fur on ceremonial robes. These
include the Mayors from Birmingham, Bristol,
Manchester, Bradford, Cardiff, Swansea, and the Lord
Provost of Inverclyde.
If you would like to become a member of LYNX and
support the campaign to end the cruelties of the fur
trade, please contact LYNX for further details, by
writing to : LYNX, P.O.Box 300, Nottingham, NG1
5HN (telephone 0602 413052), or go along to their
shop at 79, Long Acre, Covent Garden. You will also
receive a quarterly news letter and 10% discount on
all merchandise orders, of which there is a very large
and fashionable selection. There are student
membership rates available, so take your Union card
along with you.
Page 11

