Jason Lander ploughs through this year's news.
A cynic's guide to Imp<
This has been the year that saw the introduction of
the Poll tax and student loans and the abolition of
student housing benefit. It saw the FELIX editor
describing the Rector as a 'conniving git' and a union
election being won by a cartoon. In short, a lot has
happened.
The storm which swept across Southern England
in late January caused £10,000 worth of damage to
the College. Winds in excess of 100 miles per hour,
tore branches from trees and ripped slates from roofs.
In one incident, a lump of lead six foot by two, blown
off the Union Building, landed near the Albert Hall. In
the country as a whole, the storm claimed more than
twenty lives.
accommodation. The College denied everything then
promptly made a number of improvements.
Anyone entering the FELIX office in mid November
was likely to be dragged across the room and forced
to look at pictures of 'Ample Annie.' This, and other
'interesting' research material went to make the
infamous pornography issue, another stage in Dave
Smedley's campaign to become the most offensive
FELIX editor in history.
As far as Professor Richards, the Dean of St. Mary's
was concerned, he had been 100% successful.
Professor Richards rounded up every copy of FELIX
sent to the Paddington site and consigned the lot to
the bin, earning himself the title of Mary's
(twice), the sports centre and assorted halls of
residence, relieving them of tens of thousand pounds
worth of cash, cheques and equipment. One
enterprising criminal obtained a television by falsely
claiming it as a raffle prize.
Security has been lax. On one night in mid February,
two students in the guise of the 'Pink Panther
Society', set out to prove how insecure the Union
Building was. The students, Doug King and Mylan
Lester, broke into various rooms within the building
and plastered them with posters proclaiming their
presence. The two were subsequently interviewed by
the constabulary but not charged.
Another group to find themselves entangled with
In October, a student suffering from malaria was
kept waiting for medical assistance for over three
hours following a breakdown in communications
within the College Health Service. It took almost an
hour to contact Tessa Addenbrooke, the doctor on
duty and a further three hours before she turned up.
By this time, the student had already been taken to
hospital. Dr Addenbrooke had initially decided that the
case was not serious enough to warrant her attention.
The student recovered quickly and was released
from hospital within a few days. The affair was,
according to Ranaan Gillan, the Director of the College
Heath Service, a very definite 'cock up.'
The issue of health reared its sickly head again at
the end of the spring term when FELIX run a story
headlined 'Day Nursery is a Health Hazard.' The story
alleged that the children in the College run nursery
were being kept in damp, mouldy and dangerous
Page 12
Whitehouse. Other would be members of the moral
majority were equally annoyed. One, when told that
the cover was deliberately printed so that the pictures
were faint, is alleged to have replied 'Yes, but if you
look really close...'
Places like this attract a certain type of tourist. Over
the year, Imperial College received a number of visits
from the great and the good. Margaret Thatcher also
popped in, as did her South Korean counterpart, Roh
Tae Woo while the Royals were represented by
Princess Anne. There are also reports of a flying tour
by an obscure and irrelevant Scotsman believed to be
the Education Secretary.
CRIME AND PUNISHMENT
It has been a bad year for theft. The criminal element
have visited, among others, the Radio Ham Society,
the Rugby club, the Union Office, the Union Bar
the law were the Afro-Caribbean society (Afroc). Their
disco held in the JCR, was stopped early after reports
of violence and 'professional' drug peddling. After this
fiasco, the college decided to ban the society from
holding further events on college premises and
informed the Students Union of this fact.
Unfortunately, the Union did not get round to telling
Afroc until ten days before their next planned event.
The event, a Jazz night, had to be cancelled, a
cancellation which cost the Union £ 1200 in publicity
and bands' fees. Afroc chairman, David Cornwall,
threatened the Union officer responsible for the delay,
Deputy President Dave Williams, with legal action.
mperial College has a reputation for drunken and
boorish behaviour, a reputation which the Chemical
Engineering Department and the Southwell drinking
club, the Diggers, both tried to live up to.
Students AND staff at the Chemical Engineering
rial College 1989/90
Departmental Dinner behaved in what was descibed
as a 'compromising manner' in front of their guest
speaker. A spokeswoman for the Chemical
Engineering Society told FELIX 'I didn't enjoy the
evening as much as last year.' The later Diggers do
culminated in someone urinating over the table and
a £100 bill for broken crockery.
Earlier in the year, a student was taken to hospital
following a fight in the Union bar. The three students
involved were taken before the College Disciplinary
Committee but escaped criminal prosecution. The
Union now has a policy of calling in the Police in the
event of a disturbance.
One person who did not avoid the courts was
former FELIX editor Bill Goodwin. Bill started a new
career as a cause celebre after he refused to reveal
a source. He subsequently featured in court cases as
high up as the House of Lords, the BBC Nine o'clock
News, a number of newspaper editorials and the
'Megalomedia' cartoon strip in the Guardian. This did
not, however, stop him being found guilty and fined
£5000.
THE CONNIVING GITS
Professor Eric Ash, the Rector of Imperial College,
received two prestigious accolades during the year.
In January, HRH the Queen tapped him on the
shoulder with an offensive weapon magically
transforming him into Sir Eric. Earlier, in October,
FELIX Editor Dave Smedley awarded him the FELIX
'conniving git' award over his reaction to events in
China. He went on to win it another twice more.
The Tiananmen Square massacre last year shocked
many people, not least IC's large Chinese community.
These students found themselves badly out of pocket
after spending over £2000 on contacting relatives and
sending messages of support. IC Union agreed to help
finance this and was eventually presented with a bill
for £470. The soon-to-be Sir Eric sent just £200. Neil
McCluskey, ICU president, had expected the Rector
to provide the difference and it was felt in some
quarters that Professor Ash had been pandering to the
Chinese regime. The College is always reluctant to
lose overseas student fees.
In November, Sir Eric was joined in Sherfield by the
College's new Managing Director, Angus Fraser. Mr
Fraser, who had worked extensively in Industry before
coming to IC, took over from retiring College Secretary
John Smith and quickly undertook a shake up of the
College Bureaucracy which left some people very
shaken indeed.
There was much conniving in the epic saga of the
Bookstore. The Bookstore, which used to be owned
jointly by the Student's Union and the College, was
transferred wholly to the Union during the Summer
and left in the hands of Dave Peacock, the Union
Manager. The first FELIX of the year (18th August)
carried the report of his discovery that, because of a
huge out-of-date book stockpile, the Bookstore was
£75 000 further in the red than had previously been
thought.
The following week, Dave received another nasty
surprise when, after the Union had refurbished the
shop, the college quadrupled the rent. It took a month
of negotiations to persuade them to back down. In the
following six months, the Bookstore made a profit of
£36000, all of which went back to the Union.
The next target for 'rationalisation' was the Careers
Advisory Service (CAS). Sir Eric has descibed the CAS
as 'overfunded and over-resourced' and, in recent
years, its budget had been slashed. One member of
staff had already had to stop finding jobs for students
and start finding a job for herself. Another was in
danger of following her, leaving the CAS with just one
full time member of staff. Sir Eric had planned that
the service would be run by postgraduates working
part time. Unfortunately for the good knight, the FELIX
conniving affairs correspondent heard about his plans
and promptly printed them on the front page.
ICU stepped in, agreeing to pay for a part time
careers advisor and a compromise was reached. The
service will now employ two full time staff members
with postgraduate assistants. Russ Clark, College
Careers Officer, said 'we're not entirely happy with
the situation but we'll have to live with it.'
College and Union clashed again over the Harlington
sports ground. To raise money, the sports ground
itself is being steadily dug up for gravel extraction, the
extra cash going into a trust fund. In December, the
trust administrators had agreed that the trust money
should go towards new sporting facilities including an
astroturf pitch.
It was a this point that Sir Eric and Angus Fraser
arrived with an alternative plan. The money was to
be taken from the Union and spent on a new hall of
residence. Unfortunately, the Rector's plan was
rejected by everyone from the Union President to the
grounds trustees. Sir Eric retaliated by suggesting that
there should be a referendum to let the students
decide. This never happened and there is still no sign
of the astroturf - no score draw.
Private sector scheming thrived at Imperial
Biotechnology (IBT). IBT, formerly part of the college,
was sold to an Austrailian firm last year. In January,
the new owners decided that the enterprise was too
costly and threatened to cut seven staff. The IC trade
unions did not take kindly to this, and took industrial
action.
Students and hall wardens too found themselves
at odds with the conniving classes. A little under two
years ago, it was decided to set up an extra security
lodge at one of the entrances to the Southside Halls.
Eighteen months later, it was decided that this was
too expensive. Three months after this, it was decided
it wasn't. Southside is promised its security lodge
'soon'. Meanwhile, the thefts continued.
That is not to say that, when they tried, the college
could not keep people out of the halls. Among the
people locked out of Southside this year was the
warden, Dr John Hassard. Dr Hassard fell victim to
an ingenious security scheme in which the locks on
the hall are changed yearly. The scheme would have
worked if someone had not handed out the wrong
keys.
Page 13

