NO PLACE LIKE HOME
The cost of living in London, always high, continued
its steady climb towards exorbitant. Students living
in Halls of Residence and College administered head
tenancies next year face unexpected rent rises while
those living in private accommodation will lose their
right to housing benefit.
One of the main planks of Neil McCluskey's 1989
Election Campaign was that, under him, Hall rents
would not rise. As election promises go, this one
should have been easy to keep. Under an agreement
reached between the College and Christine Taig, one
of Neil's predecessors, Hall rents were to stay at their
89/90 levels over 90/91. This SHOULD have
happened whether Neil had been elected or not. The
emphasis there is on 'should', the College, claiming
that they were short of cash, reneged on the
agreement. Rents will go up by just under 5%, which
was slightly above the then rate of inflation.
A 5% rise is nothing when compared with what the
residents of Hamlet Gardens head tenancy will be
facing. Senior Assistant Finance Officer, Malcolm
Aldridge claimed that rents there would have increase
by 20% to balance the books. These figures were
disputed by Matthew Bridgewater, student manager
of the tenancy, who argued the true figure was closer
to 10%.
Even allowing for Malcolm's arithmetic
Page 14
inconsistencies, the books were in sore need of
balancing. The Summer Letting Scheme made a huge
loss and it is rumoured that the Olave house may be
lumbered on the account, despite claims by the
college that it would be separately financed. The hall,
which was brought by the College at a time when
interest rates were low and house prices were rising,
rapidly became a liability when the 'economic miracle'
miraculously disappeared. Undeterred, the College has
launched an appeal fund, part of which will be used
to build yet another hall.
With the halls becoming more and more expensive
to keep, the College is having to resort to strong-arm
tactics to force recalcitrant students to pay their bills.
Quite simply, debtors will not be allowed to continue
their degrees: no cash, no course.
It is not just students in College-run accommodation
who will have to pay significantly more. This was the
year in which rates were abolished and the poll tax
introduced. From September, the vast majority of
students will be unable to claim Housing Benefit,
effectively doubling their rents. Despite this, most
private sector landlords will be charging more next
year. It is tempting to say that the students who spent
one night in their own cardboard city on the college
walkway were training for next year. In truth, they
were raising money for London's genuinely homeless.
THE GENTLE ART OF POLITICS
Imperial College Union could be described as having
all the political conviction of the SDP, but even it had
to act when the government started to introduce
Student Loans. The idea of replacing grants with a
system of low interest loans was first mooted by the
then Education Secretary Kenneth Baker. Baker gave
the task of working out how such a scheme could be
run to the chartered accountancy firm, Price
Waterhouse, and it was their report which was used
as the basis for the Student Loans Bill.
This year's ICU anti-loans campaign started early
in the October. The Union, while keeping its usual
disdainful distance from the National Union of
Students, became involved in a number of NUS
marches and the lobbying of MPs. Price Waterhouse,
for their sins, were banned from the College Careers
Fair. The effect of this was somewhat diminished
when Imperial College nothing-to- do-with-the-Union-
thank-you Conservative Society took it upon
themselves to override the Union and invite the firm
to give a presentation anyway.
The loans scheme was officially announced in the
Queen's Speech in November, and the announcement
was followed by a series of NUS marches. These, ICU
refused to officially support, a decision Union
President, Neil McCluskey, clearly felt had been
vindicated when the first ended in violence and
fourteen arrests. The second march, the following
week was more successful with an estimated twenty
thousand students attending a rally in Glasgow.
The anti-loans lobby returned from their Christmas
holidays to what they thought was good news. The
major high street banks, which were to be heavily
involved in the scheme, had given in to student
pressure and pulled out. But the celebrations were
short lived. The government immediately announced
its intention to continue with its plans and to set up
their own 'Student Loans Company'.
The Student Loans Bill became law in April and the
scheme will be phased in from September.
Possibly emboldened by this flirtation with proper
politics, ICU threw its weight behind a plan to put up
Pro College candidates in May's local elections. 35%
of the electorate in the Knightsbridge ward of the
borough of Westminster are students and, the
organisers of the scheme felt that if they could
motivate them enough to vote, then the college could
gain useful influence with the council. They couldn't,
they didn't and the candidates lost.
In fact, IC did have some influence with
neighbouring Kensington and Chelsea council. Bryan
Levitt, a local councillor and IC's director of
Undergraduate studies, made history when he
organised the councils plan to be the first in the
country to use the so-called 'queer bashers charter',
the famous clause 28.
IC's own home grown right wingers, ConSoc,
landed themselves in trouble during the long running
ambulance dispute. They were behind a plan to put
up posters reading 'Support the Ambulancemen, Let
the patients die.' Apparently, they thought this was
funny. In just one day, ICU received no less than four
separate complaints and the posters were torn down.
Overleaf left: Triumph Herald damaged in storm
Overleaf right: Princess Anne visits College
Left: The Poll Tax demonstration
Above right: Paul Shanley, next year's ICU Pre
Bottom left: Deputy President candidate in ICU

