BLESSED UNIONS
This is probably the third year in succession that FELIX
has run the 'Imperial College Union to merge with St
Mary's Hospital Medical School Student Union' story.
This union of Unions has been through more false
starts than a Cortina on a damp morning. It now looks
as if the open hostility between last year's presidents
has given way to a good working relationship and, at
long last, an agreement. The agreement is that things
should stay largely as they are.
Maybe unionisation is contagious. St Mary's Union
this year played host to the first meeting of the
National Association of Medical Students (NAMS).
NAMS could best be described as conglomeration of
26 medical school student unions, working together.
It is the first time that the medical schools have
formed such political links.
Financially, ICU itself would seem to be doing a
passable impression of a black hole. The Union Snack
Bar has made a loss of over £12000 while the Union
run bookstore, while no longer making a loss, will not
be paying dividends for at least two years.
Despite this, the Union has managed to produce a
surplus equal to a quarter of its £450,000 grant from
the College. The College was so impressed by this that
it has lowered the grant by £10,000.
This surplus is due, at least in part, to Dave
Peacock, Union Manager for the last three years and
the man largely responsible for changing the fortunes
of the bookshop. His job would come high on
anyone's list of thankless tasks and, just three weeks
ago, he tendered his resignation.
In addition to the grant and the profits from the
various outlets, the Union has assorted other ways
of pulling in the cash. One such money spinner is the
Careers Fair. The money raised is distributed by the
Industrial Relations Committee which consists of a
chairman, the three union office sabbaticals and the
presidents of the CCUs. Coincidentally, this year, a
significant proportion of this money is going on
computer equipment for the union office and the
CCUs.
That part of the Union responsible for raising money
for OTHER PEOPLE, Rag have had a typical rag year,
following their time honoured traditions. The year
started with the traditional tiddlywinking down Oxford
Street and the London wide game of monopoly. It
continued with Rag Week and the traditional beer
festival and slave auction, finishing traditionally with
Keele University banning the Rag Mag on the grounds
that it was a sexist, racist, ableist and obscene
publication.
On the subject of obscenity in the Union, next
year's President will be Paul Shanley. Mr Shanley beat
three other candidates by apparently claiming not to
have paid his tube fair. He will be joined in the Union
Office by Hon. Sec. Murray Williamson and, on his
second attempt, Deputy President Ben Turner.
Mr Turner was originally the only candidate for the
post, and became the first ever would be sabbatical
to lose to New Election, splendidly represented in
FELIX by Jessica Rabbit. He then stood again, this
time against two flesh and blood candidates and won.
Dave Smedley's successor as FELIX Editor is Chris
Stapleton. Mr Stapleton had only one opponent,
ConSoc plant Thomas Wyatt, and won by an
overwhelming margin.
The year ended, appropriately, with the Great
Imperial Debate. Speakers from IC past and present,
including Nina Temple of the British Communist Party
and Trevor Phillips of London weekend Television, met
to argue over whether or not Imperial College should
be razed to the ground. The answer was a definite
YES.
Page 15

