Film
A Tale of Springtime
This is the first film in the series Tales of the Four
Seasons directed by Eric Rohmer. A Tale of Springtime
is a rather tepid exploration of the ever-Rohmerian
theme of relationships. Jeane is a philosophy teacher
who has two apartments, but feels she has no home.
She befriends a young girl (Natasha) at a party and
is invited to stay with her for a few days. Natasha lives
in a massive apartment where her divorced,
womanising father drops by every now and then. He
in turn lives with his girlfriend, Eve, only slightly older
than Natasha herself. Their lives are thus ready to be
complicated, and dilemmas presented. Natasha does
everything in her power to eliminate the obnoxious
L'Atalante
Eve, and tries to hook Jeanne up with her father (Igor,
would you believe). Igor tells that he is ready to drop
Eve and put his seduction plan into gear. Jeanne
rejects him, etc, etc.
The film leaves you cold because it is neither clever
or witty enough (as this kind of middle-class French
film invariably tries to be) nor is it charming enough
to move the viewer. By the end the characters have
probably moved on, or even 'learnt something', but
you can't help thinking as you leave the cinema: so
what?
I.H.
Film
This the restored version of Jean Vigo's 1934 release,
which at the time was heavily cut and proved to be
a commercial failure. The new print has added eight
minutes to the originally 81 minute film, giving
Artificial Eye (the backers of the new print) an excuse
for a re-release.
The film is basically a 'warm' "Study of four
characters aboard a barge travelling up and down the
canals of France. The captain (Jean Daste) marries a
peasant girl (wonderfully played by Dita Paris) who
longs to escape the boredom of village life. Also
aboard the ship is an eccentric, grizzled mate (Michel
Simon) and a boy.
Page 16
The film is a little hard-going at the beginning but
one is very quickly seduced by the charm Vigo has
invested in his characters. There are some brilliant
scenes, particularly when Dita Paris is in the mate's
filthy room which is full of little pieces of treasure he
has collected from around the world through his entire
life. In another scene the haggard mate single-
handedly beats himself in an example of what he calls
'Freaco-Roman wrestling'.
If you think you can handle an old, black and white,
French film one evening, look out for this one. It's
good.
I.H.
Music
Mozart
Shostakovich
Dvorak
Violin—G Kremer
Conductor—J Tate
The programme opened with Mozart's Adagio and
Fugue in C minor. Originally developed for two pianos,
this is a highly technically accomplished composition
and displays a seriousness not usually associated with
Mozart. The LSO string sections provided a polished
performance which prepared the audience for the next
piece.
Shostakovich's second Violin Concerto was
composed in 1967. As with much of his later work,
it is shot through with disquiet and resignation, the
orchestra providing a bleak and melancholy
background to the soloist. Gidon Kremer's playing
was electrifying, swooping between the necessary
changes in tone and pace with apparent ease. His full,
strong sound dominated the orchestra, and indeed
their playing was almost irrelevant, so totally
compelling was this performance. Kremer himself
seemed overwhelmed by the occasion, and it was a
nice touch to see the soloist calling upon the audience
to acknowledge the orchestra before taking the
justified rapturous applause for his own performance.
The second half of the programme began
disappointingly. Jeffrey Tate, who is principal
conductor at the Royal Opera, Covent Garden,
obviously wanted to bring out the lyrical and fluid side
of Dvorak's seventh symphony. Unfortunately this led
to the first movement being so fluid it could have been
wrung out and hung out to dry. The playing lacked
the sharpness needed to give shape to the piece. The
second movement was simply massacred. Starting
with the emphasis on subtlety, the contrast between
the extended quiet passages and the introduction of
the brass section was completely lost. Later this was
reversed as loud passages began so loudly there was
nowhere left for them to go and the orchestra ended
up straining themselves trying to achieve more and
more force.
In the third movement, the piece at last began to
take shape, with some excellent, crisp playing. This
was certainly forced on the orchestra by the speed
at which Tate took the movement, leaving the
audience as well as the players breathless. However
Tate's interpretation redeemed itself in the final
movement, where the orchestra was finally allowed
to show the delicate touch and sensibility of which
it is more than capable.
London is blessed with a wealth of orchestras of
many types, but for my preference, the London
Symphony Orchestra is the best in London at the
moment, even if some guest conductors get less than
sparkling performances out of them, and the Barbican
Hall is an excellent showcase for their talents.
Liz Warren.
LSO

