Stanley and Iris
Film
Starring Robert de Niro and Jane Fonda as the title
characters, Stanley and Iris is basically a good old
fashioned love story-but don't let that put you off.
It is a mature story of two people trying to rebuild their
lives after a series of misfortunes and how they learn
to help each other.
Stanley is one of the twenty per cent of Americans
who are illiterate. He is ashamed of this and pretends
that he can reaa and write just like anybody else. Until
one day he is found out...
Iris lost her beloved husband eight months ago. He
had been ill for a long time, so his death was hardly
a surprise but she still grieves for him and finds it hard
to let go.
Iris is the one who realises that Stanley is
iiliterate—suddenly all his little peculiarities, like
refusing to sign for his shoes that had been resoled
or not wanting to read a fortune cookie, make sense.
Ashamed at having been found out and angry
because his boss fired him when he realised the
implications-a cook unable to read could pick up the
wrong tin: roach powder instead of seasoning salt-
Stanley avoids Iris for a while until a run of bad luck
culminating in the death of his father leads him to try
to learn to read.
The film is very sympathetic-the appeal is in the
simplicity and honesty both of the script and the
filming. The audience is given an insight into what it
feels like to be illiterate-all the things you cannot do
that most people take for granted: you can't sign your
name for a cheque - 'it makes you wonder if you have
a name if you can't write it'; you can't read signposts
to find your way, or read where a bus is going.
The film explores the issue of illiteracy with
commendable sensitivity but it is not just made as a
comment on society, it is also good entertainment.
A fine film to watch when you're in the mood for an
old fashioned romantic movie with an extra twist to
the basic plot.
J.L.Wright
Temptation
Theatre
It's hard to believe how the premiere of a fledgling
eastern european democracy, Czechoslovakia, can
have written such a zany nightmarish comedy as
Temptation, now being performed at the Westminster
Theatre. Vaclav Havel, playwright turned politician,
presents us with a political allegory paralleling
clandestine dabblings in the occult with a belief in
freedom of speech and the individual's right to
choose. It's hardly surprising then that the play was
banned in Havel's native country until Christmas last
year.
Dr Henry Forster (Aden Gillet), a promising young
doctor at a research institute, is approached by a
leprechaun-like devil (Sylvester McCoy) who coaxes
him into believing he has enough magical power to
seduce a young secretary. In fact, he succeeds in
wooing her, not through magic, but merely by
spouting forth a proliferation of democratic ideas
induced by his discussions with the unnervingly
eccentric 'devil'. But when the director of the institute
gets wind of Forster's 'plotting', Forster accuses his
laid-back girlfriend (Rula Lenska) of shopping him to
the authorities, with agonizing consequences. In
short, Havel is showing us how easily one can fall prey
to the 'bureaucratic system,' not just in communist
Czechoslovakia, but the whole world over.
What makes the production so enjoyable is a
combination of stylised movement and visual gags
that add an element of dynamic comedy to an
otherwise serious piece of theatre. Full use is made
of stage smoke, vibrant costumes, an excellent score
and a cast whose oddball caricatures add grotesque
overtones to the sombre all-dominating bureaucracy.
Strangely enthralling, but make sure you digest the
programme notes beforehand.
Adrian Pagan
Theatre
Gasping
Like him or hate him, Ben Elton has to be one of the
comic phenomena of the late eighties, but sadly his
brand of humour is not at all suited to the stage. In
this, his first play, Elton focusses his beady eye on
corporate lifestyles and ethics, lampooning all the
greed and superficiality that big business breeds. As
usual, his observations are spot on and his ingenious
use of metaphors (like 'this machine sucks so much,
it's like a hyperactive rentboy') are often very funny,
but laboured sexual innuendo and joke overkill make
one think that Elton's message would have exerted
far more clout if the subject matter were delivered by
the man himself in a fifteen minute cabaret slot.
Hugh Laurie plays the crawling upwardly mobile
Philip who hatches a plan to privatise oxygen, much
on the same lines as bottled water, and produces a
machine called 'Suck and Blow' (oo - er). Initially this
is a huge success but when the scheme turns out to
have a devastating effect on the environment (very
nineties) Philip reneges leading to a black, yet
inneffectual conclusion. The ever popular Hugh Laurie,
despite some interesting yogaesque positions, is much
the same as seen on TV whilst the rest of the cast
including Bernard Hill (excellent in Boys from the
Blackstuff) are desperately unimaginative and
lacklustre, as is the score.
But pretentious arty criticism aside, by the sound
of it most of the audience appreciated the plethora
of gags and one out of the three friends I went with
thought the show was 'brilliant'. One warning though,
if you do go, take a portable fan: the Theatre Royal
Haymarket is rather hot and stuffy. An uncanny
counterpoint to a play about fresh air.
Adrian Pagan
Film
Revenge
You can tell this film was from the same Director as
Top Gun. He manages to get a totally irrelevant jet
sequence into the beginning of the film. Unfortunately
the jet is just about the only thing about the film that
moves fast.
Kevin Costner plays a just retired American fighter
pilot and (surprise, surprise) Vietnam veteran. After
his retirement party, he packs his bags and dog and
sets off to pay a visit to an old friend in Mexico. The
old friend, Tibbey, turns out to be an old man with a
young wife and criminal empire. Pilot falls in love with
wife. Wife is frustrated, so she copulates with pilot.
Tibbey finds out, brutally beats both. Pilot sets out
for revenge. That's it. Somehow the producers
manage to string out the flimsy plot of the original
novella into 2 hrs. 9 mins of mind numbing boredom.
The basic story is too hackneyed and unoriginal to
sustain much interest and the subsidiary characters,
who are largely irrelevant, are never developed enough
to become interesting. Added to this already dire
situation are the problems the good actors have, trying
to deliver serious lines that provoke astonished
laughter from the audience. Totally failing in its
attempt to produce a modern western, it doesn't really
fall into any recognisable genre, and will thus fail to
find an audience. This is just as well, because it is truly
dire.
Adam T.
Page 17

