Catch Me...If You Can
If your school were about to close, would you fight
to save it? Well neither would all but one student at
St Cloud's Cathedral High. Melissa the school
president is trying to raise the $200,000 required to
save the school by selling apple pies and raffle tickets.
The situation seems hopeless until the school rebel,
Dylan Malone, offers to raise the money by gambling
it on illegal car races.
Here come one of the many improbable twists in
a very dreamy story. The racer they are going to bet
on is none other than Dylan himself. From here on the
story follows the typical story line of success followed
by failure and finally triumphing against all the odds.
In addition, the nerd is particularly well played, being
a bit different from most nerds that you may have
seen. He is the stereotypical nerd to all appearances,
but manages to add a little extra to the part in terms
of character.
H.G. Wells has a lot to answer for!
Light-years away the Martians, three foot tall with
heads that bulge like a huge zit on their heads, are
attacking a planetary system and things are not going
well. One ship is lost and wanders into the vicinity of
Earth which happens to be broadcasting 'War of the
Worlds', thirty years after the original hoax. They
mistake this for a real invasion and so rush in to help
with the wondrous victory.
They pick their night well, for it is Halloween, the
night of ghosts, goblins and Martians. Being mistaken
for out-of-town kids, they are prevented from blowing
up their first target (a house) by being taken on a trick-
or-treat ride by a woman who grabs them by antennae
that look remarkably like wooden spoons.
But all is not well in the little town of Big Been, Illinois.
The farmers collective, now owned by a group of
mean businessmen who want to take advantage of
the new off-ramp, are repossessing all the farmers'
land. One of the farmers tries to take advantage of
the aliens landing to take pictures, hoping to sell them
and so save his farm.
There then follows a story of mistaken identities and
Notebook
Whatever impression you may get from the title of this
film—it's wrong.
Despite its generalised title, Notebook on Cities and
Clothes is basically a documentary about Johju
Yamamoto-his life and opinions and much of the film
centres around a fashion show he is putting on. (Just
for those of you who don't know Yohju Yamamoto
is a Japanese fashion designer.)
The first couple of minutes of the film are quite
interesting-a voice philosophising about the word
'identity' (a concept which fails totally to be
developed during the course of the film), but that's
about as far as it goes. The rest of the film is taken
up with Yamamoto's feelings on people and cities and
his life and work.
The fact that Wim Wenders (the director) was asked
to do this film by the Georges Pompidou Arts Centre
should really be enough to scare you off. He was
pretty sceptical about the idea at first-with good
reason-it's a pity he did agree to do the film.
Page 18
fumbling attempts by the Martians to destroy vital
Earth installations. The action comes thick and fast,
as does the humour, produceing responses ranging
from chuckles to bounding hysterics form the
audience.
Perhaps the best example of both is when they try
to destroy a silo using their heat ray. Little do they
know that it's a silo for corn, not missiles. As it
warms-up they notice a strange rumbling noise and
too late they switch the ray off. With a mighty roar
the top blows off and out pours a mountain of
popcorn, very appropriate for a cinema. Lying under
tonnes of popcorn one of them discovers that you can
eat it and when another asks how they are going to
get out you hear a munching noise as they tunnel
through.
The costumes and effects are very well done, the
Martians faces are cute with little stubby noses and
shiny eyes, the lips did have a nasty habit of not
matching what they were saying, a bit like a spaghetti
western. Most of the space scenes were the classic
convoy set-up but at last they have used models that
resemble something conceivable, not the impossible
oil Cities
The race scenes, that take up about half of the film
are reasonably well filmed, with some nice camera
angles and the action is well portrayed without being
over dramatic.
Dylan is a very self confident character and his
swaggering gait is often comical, although I expect
it was not meant to be. If you have a teenage sister
she may well come out with a slight crush, but don't
let her hopes get too high as I am afraid he is married.
There is a fantastical twist in the tail of the film. Not
wanting to ruin the film, I won't divulge it, but I will
say that it involves the school principle and fast cars.
Overall I feel that the film is aimed at a slightly
younger market, which it's PG rating suggests. So if
you have a young teenage brother or sister then
recommend it to them, but stay clear yourself.
Ian Hodge.
Film
contortion that they often use.
It must be very hard to decide how to portray aliens
but in this case they have decided to give them human
personalities, the flash cool lieutenant and the brainy
scientist (complete with German accent!) are the best
of the bunch. As for the humans, they produce
passable performances with the notible exception of
the young daughter of the sheriff. She has a wonderful
face and the expression as she says goodbye to the
aliens and their metallic cat are very convincing.
Suspense is maintained by the Enforcer Drone that
is trying to kill them for being failures. It chases them
around, seeking them out, shooting at them and being
generally very unfriendly.
It's very enjoyable and well worth seeing, although
you may have to use the excuse that you are taking
you kid brother or sister, just to keep up the pretense
that you're an adult.
The best part for me was the ending. All I'll say is
that horse dung is NOT the best fertiliser in the
Universe.
Ian Hodge.
Film
& Clothes
A large part of it was filmed with a video camera
which means the picture quality is rather poor-low
resolution especially when projected onto a large
cinema screen. In fact the film in general fails to
exploit any of the advantages of the big screen-it
would have probably been better as a TV
documentary-always supposing you were interested
in the subject.
Wenders is exceedingly fond of imagery-he refers
to Yamamoto's team of workers as 'guardian angels'
and the theme of a small TV is recurrent throughout
the film.
If you know of Yamamoto and are interested in his
opinions and neuroses then maybe this film is for
you-otherwise forget it. The film totally fails to
capture the attention; after half an hour I was
watching the clock. It may cater for a small specialised
audience but as a film for the entertainment of the
general public it is a complete failure.
J L Wright.
Spaced Invaders

