Back to the Future III
From out of the west they came, with the speed of
light, a cloud of dust and a hearty 'Hi-
Yo...DeLoreon!?'. Marty McFly and Doc Emmet
Brown ride again!
In the last of the trilogy of Back to the Future films,
Marty McFly, the intrepid time traveller is sent back
to the days of the Wild West, 1885. Doc and Marty
are united in 1955 but Doc (the 1985 version) is now
living in 1885. He manages to send Marty a letter
telling him of where his is and a map of where he hid
the DeLoreon more than seventy years ago. Doc is
more than happy living in the Wild West so he wants
Marty to head back to the future and disassemble the
time machine. However on finding the DeLoreon the
1955 Doc and Marty also discover a photograph of
Doc's tombstone showing he died on September 7
1885—only seven days after the Doc sent the letter
to Marty..
Obviously Marty must travel back in time to rescue
the Doc from this deadly fate.
This he manages to do and arrives with five days
to spare. A few hundred red indians and a cavalry
troop later, Marty is taken in by Seamus McFly, also
played by Michael J Fox, and his family. When asked
his name Marty replies 'Er...Eastwood, Clint
Eastwood.' Most of the comedy in the film revolves
around this point. Can you imagine Michael J Fox as
Clint Eastwood?
A confrontation with Burford 'Mad Dog' Tanner-
a distant relative of Biff-beckons next as Marty and
Doc try desperately to fix the DeLoreon that was
damaged on it journey. Will they manage it in time?
To make matters worse, the Doc loses his heart to
a certain Miss Clara Clayton-the new school Ma'am.
Things look bleak for even Clint Eastwood.
The plot is confusing in the beginning as there are
two Docs to contend with, one in 1955 and one in
1885. But all soon becomes clear even if you have
missed the first two films. For those who have seen
the earlier films, the loose ends created in Back to the
Future II are tied up neatly, leaving one completely
satisfied.
Like the previous film, Back to the Future III is
packed with action, comedy and drama and this time
allows Christopher Lloyd to shine a different light-
he is the real start of the film. The writers have
provided a good vehicle for him.
Overall an enjoyable film and a fitting end to Marty
McFly's adventures, with some surprises on the way.
J L Wright.
Treasure Island
Robert Louis Stevenson's famous story has been
resurrected again. This time they tried to produce the
definitive version. When you consider the quality and
experience of the actors involved it should have been
brilliant, but what a disappointment.
Firstly the dialogue is straight from a Sunday
afternoon matinee with far too much pirate talk.
Phrases like 'Ah Jim-lad' and 'shiver-me-timbers' fly
around and make the film very dated.
Secondly the initial acting is diabolical. Exaggerated
gestures and laboured conversations make the first
twenty minutes a chore not a pleasure.
Finally there is nothing new added to the story. It's
very commendable to be faithful to the original but
there must always be room to change.
It's not all gloom and doom. The quality of the
actors finally breaks through the director's constraints
with Jim Hawkins played by Christian Bale (the boy
from Empire of the Sun) producing the best
performance. Charlton Heston as Long John Silver
also produces a more than adequate performance but
nothing more than you would have expected.
A major disappointment is the small size of the role
given to Oliver Reed and the fact that he was given
the part of Captain Billy Bones, a drunkard old sea-
salt. He is a fine and talented actor and giving him the
role of a drunk can do nothing for his popular image
or self-esteem.
Towards the end the film defiantly picks its feet up
and runs. Despite the fact that I knew the ending I
was still engrossed by the twists and turns that keep
you guessing until the very end.
One part of the film that deserves credit is the
camera work, the ocean scenes are very well done
as is the filming of the island. Also the costumes and
make-up are very good, giving an authentic feel to the
film.
Definitely room for improvement but not a complete
flop.
Ian Hodge.
Bye Bye Blues
Daisy Cooper and her husband, Teddy, are stationed
in India. Their life is a happy until Teddy is transferred
to Singapore and Daisy returns to lllington with her
two children.
Unfortunately the army has timed things badly,
Singapore falls to the Japanese shortly after Teddy
arrives. Daisy has no idea if he is dead or alive.
Running short of money, she tries her hand as a
part-time singer. Unfortunately she has a fine voice
but is a no-hoper when it come to the piano. With the
aid of Max she improves, but finds that their
relationship is becoming more than professional. With
the success of the band she faces a dilemma as they
are about to set off on a tour. Does she stay with her
children or go and earn desperately needed money?
The money wins.
Max's intentions become less honourable and
without a word from her husband in two years what
is she to do?
Throughout the film there are occasional songs that
reveal what a wonderful voice Daisy, played by
Rebecca Jenkins, has. It is clear and sharp and raises
this film above the mediocrity that is the norm for
musical films.
The acting is also very good, Rebecca Jenkins and
Robyn Steven who plays her young daughter have
both won awards and deservedly so. There is real
compassion and feeling and you are left guessing until
the end who she chooses: Teddy or Max.
Worth a look and "When I Sing" is the best song I
have heard in a film.
Ian Hodge.
Page 19

