Miss Firecracker
Film
The Miss Firecracker contest is held in Yazoo City,
Mississippi during a carnival for the Fourth of July
celebrations. This year is Cannelle's (Holly Hunter) last
chance to enter the beauty/talent contest and she is
pinning all her hopes on winning, hoping to emulate
her cousin Elain (Mary Steenburgen) who was Miss
Firecracker in 1972.
Orphaned at the age of eight, Cannelle was sent to
live with her aunt Ronelle and her cousins Elain and
Delmount (Tim Robbins). Her aunt has long since died
and her cousins moved away but for this year's
contest Elain is coming back to give a speech for the
Miss Firecracker contest. 'My Life as a Beauty'. No
one knows where Delmount is now after his release
earlier in the year from an mental asylum. He also
arrives back at this time intending to sell their house.
This merely inspires Cannelle with even more with the
need to win the contest so she can leave the town
in a blaze of glory.
With the help and encouragement of Mac Sam, her
gypsy boyfriend who is with the carnival, and Popeye,
a seamstress who learned her trade as a child, sewing
outfits for bullfrogs, Canelle sets off on her bid to win
the contest.
The film centres around Cannelle's hopes for the
contest. She is hyperactive and gets very excited
about getting through to the finals but very upset
when she thinks she hasn't made it. She also seems
Comics
A new comic from the same stable as 2000AD and
Crisis is bound to be an exciting event in the British
Comics industry. Revolver is targeted at people from
their mid-teens to their twenties and it walks the
midground between the other two Fleetway
publications, not as realistic as Crisis but not as
fantastic as 2000AD. The first issue contains seven
different strips in its 52 pages.
Purple Days is the most Crisis-Wke of the strips,
based on the life story of Jimmi Hendrix. The story
is not told chronologically, but leaps around different
times in his life, making odd connections to try and
describe the influences that formed his life.
Dare is a new version of that old favorite Dan Dare,
Pilot Of The Future. 'Old' is the word, as he is in
retirement, manipulated for advertising and receiving
news of the suicide of an old friend Jocelyn Peabody.
Drawn in a simple stylised fashion, as opposed to the
Page 20
very childish for someone approaching 25 years of
age-maybe the result of being the youngest and
living all her life in a small southern town.
Elain seems to be very concerned about her sister
and willing to do all she can to help. She announces
that she has left her husband who adores her but
whom she seems to despise. But she does like the
style of life which money can buy...
Delmount is very fond of his young cousin but
cannot understand why this contest means so much
to Cannelle. He is given to philosophising and is
disgusted with many things in the world, including
beauty contests.
The film is fairly good at characterisation, the appeal
of the character of Cannelle is her childishness but
sometimes it can get a little irritating. The characters
are unusual, in fact there is not a little caricaturisation
in some of them-Popeye hears voices through her
eyes, Aunt Ronelle had her pituitary gland replaced
by that of a monkey's and long hair sprouted all over
her body.
At times the film seems to drag and you find
yourself wondering about more interesting aspects of
the story than this beauty contest. Having said that
Miss Firecracker is partially redeemed by an excellent
ending and if a light evening's entertainment is all
you're looking for then this may do.
J L Wright.
beautiful painted artwork of Purple Days, at this early
stage all that can be said is intriguing...
Pinhead Nation is a bizarre two page spread, based
on the news stories telling of pinhead aliens landing
in Russia.
Happenstance and Kismet tells of the meeting
between Lucius Kismet and Monty Happenstance in
a pub in a tale involving deeds, space warps and
ludicrous volumes of alcohol.
Rogan Gosh tells of a Karmanaut tricked by the
Soma Swami and forced to reincarnate himself as a
curry about to be consumed by a lager lout. Probably
makes more sense if read when stoned.
Dire Streets is all about life in a student flat. Includes
the immortal line 'Well...it was nothing...its
just...well..he says I've given him The Clap!'
Nine Inches to The Mile takes us on a guided tour
of the structure of the Universe. Totally weird and
bound to annoy physicists.
Although its large number of short strips gives a
slightly disjointed feel to Revolver, it is a worthy
addition to the marketplace and goes a step further
in creating a new mainstream for comics away from
the superheroic antics of DC/Marvel.
Marvel UK have also launched a new comic - The
Knights of Pendragon. Basically a spin off from a
Marvel US comic Excalibur, set in Britain, it lifts
several of the main characters (Captain Britain,
Commander Dai Thomas, CID and Alysande and
Alistaire Stuart of Her Majesty's Weird Happenings
Organisation (WHO).
The story is an ecologically based one, with
environmentally unfriendly people being brutally
murdered, a whaler torn to death with a harpoon and
people choking to death on Hamburgers. The
publishers have even tried to prove their green
credibility by printing it on Scangloss, a paper which
uses half as many trees and needs less chlorine
bleaching than normal paper.
Its well written with some great one-liners - 'I've
flown all the way from Wales, into a strong headwind,
without a plane, so don't annoy me.' although
occasionally the environmental message is laid on a
bit thick. It fits in nicely with the style of Excalibur,
with Dai Thomas dwelling on the death of his wife.
Gary Erskine's pencils are good, capturing the
characters well, making good use of visual humour
and the Alan Davis cover were a nice touch. The
Captain Britain link is so tenuous one suspects that
it is solely there to guarantee sales in the US. The plot
is left sufficiently obscure to leave one keen to buy
the next issue. Well worth a look.
Revolver and. The Knights of Pendragon are both
available now in Newsagents and specialty comic
shops.
Adam T.

