The Crucible
Arthur Miller's play The Crucible is a very good play.
It is also very difficult to stage well. There are certain
crucial scenes that would become laughable if not
played by good actors. The National have not made
things any easier for themselves by staging it on the
huge, revolving Olivier stage, as it is a play that can
work best in a smaller, more claustrophobic
atmosphere.
It tells of the Witch hunts in Salem, Massachusetts
in the year 1692. The accusations of a number of
young girls caught dancing in the woods lead to the
hanging of many of the townsfolk as the frenzy of the
people runs out of control. The play was written by
Miller after his participation in the House Un-American
Activities Committee hearings in the 1950's. The
emotion he witnessed during the communist hunts
gave him the inspiration for a play about witch hunts.
An emotional play it is indeed, leading us through
superstition and fear in the human psyche as well as
a look at the nature of good and evil. It is a story of
a community not a small group of people, and so we
have more of an ensemble piece than a play which
can be carried by any one good actor. Although the
story of John Proctor provides the framework of the
play, his story becomes subsidiary to the greater
tragedy of the community. The cast deliver. Individual
characters are brought out well without any one
standing out from the rest and dominating the stage,
allowing a real sense of community to develop.
Theatre
They play out their tale against the background of
a set which increases with size. At the initiation of
the hunts the people are bigger than the scenery, but
by the end they are dominated by the huge, imposing
gallows structure, with a threatening noose hanging
silhouetted against the breaking dawn. In this way,
the increasing atmosphere of helplessness is
conveyed as the hunts become bigger than any of the
people.
Atmospheric, powerful, frightening, moving and
most of all enjoyable, the National have put on a
superb production of a superb play. If you wish to see
anything at the national at the moment, see this!
The Crucible is showing in the Royal National
Theatre's Olivier Theatre on the South Bank. Student
Standby's cost £5.00.
Adam T.
Anna Christie
Theatre Theatre
The first time that Greta Garbo spoke on the silver
screen was when she played the title role in the 1930
version of Anna Christie.
'Gimmie a visky - ginger ale on the side, and don't
be stingy baby' was the celebrated opener she
delivered in her seductive, guttural voice that assured
her a triumphant passage from silent films to 'talkies'.
This latest stage production, set in-the-round at the
Young Vic, is a celebration of author Eugene O'Neill's
skill for painting a vivid picture of twenties New
England. Anna Christie (Natasha Richardson),
relinquished by her father (John Woodvine) at the age
of five to mid-western relatives, pays him a visit
fifteen years later. She, sick of a being 'abused' by
men shelters with him on his barge and immediately
falls in love with the sea and then with a seaman. He
however, is deeply fearful and distrustful of the
oceans, having lost most of his family at sea, and is
given to frequently cursing 'that 'ole devil sea'
whenever fate intervenes in his simple existence.
O'Neill's characters' naturalistic inarticulacies give rise
to a large amount of melodrama especially in the
second half when Anna, her father and her lover
struggle to voice their real feelings.
Although the melodrama can induce spurts of
embarrassed laughter from members of the audience,
the overall effect is one of humanity and social
realism, making the fatalistic conclusion entirely
believable. Natasha Richardson [A Month in the
Country, Gothic) sporting a flawless Brooklyn accent
turns in a strong performance and John Woodvine
(You'll recognise him when you see him) is superb as
Anna's colourful and idiosyncratic father. Incidentally,
the programme is one of the most interesting I've read
in a long time, darlings.
Adrian Pagan,
The Illusion
Crucial to good theatre is the ability to draw audiences
into the play in such a way that they forget that they
are watching actors on a stage. This, like all rules, can
be broken. Temptation made the auditorium and the
stage one, to apply its message to us. The Illusion
makes no attempt whatsoever to make us forget we
are in the theatre. From the moment the curtain rises
to a rather primitive, if amusing, puppet show, to the
closing moments when the backstage is revealed one
is constantly reminded that one is sitting in The Old
Vic, London.
The main part of the play is an illusion, shown by
a mage to a traveller to tell of the life of an errant son,
driven away by his father's callousness. At intervals
throughout the play these two crop up again and
again, sitting in some fake stalls, peering through the
roof of a mock up Old Vic. The illusions themselves
are overplayed caricatures. There are no props, the
actors merely miming to the appropriate sound
effects, all played for comic effect.
The thrust of the plot is a simple tale of love and
jealousy, of crime and escape. The characterisations
of the sexes are very similar to the other play of
Corneille that has been performed at The Old Vic, The
Liar (FELIX 854), with the cheating and hypocritical
men, and the more idealistic women.
This, though, is largely irrelevant to the overall
meaning of the play. The is about theatre and
theatricals. It is about and by Playwrights and actors.
Somewhat incestuous perhaps, but enjoyable none
the less. In fact, to coin a phrase, darlings, marvellous
just wasn't the word! A treat for thesbians and
theatre-lovers everywhere.
The Illusion is showing at the Old Vic, Waterloo
Road, SE1. The Box-Office is on 071-928-7616.
Adam T.
Page 21

