FELIX investigates codemaking and codebreaking...
Cryptography
4,000 years ago a master scribe writing near the Nile
sketched hieroglyphics that told the story of his Lord's
life. He used some unusual hieroglyphic symbols,
intending to impart dignity and authority to his writing.
The scribe incorporated one of the essential elements
of cryptography; it is the oldest text known to include
a substitution.
As the Egyptian civilisation continued, the
substitutions grew more complicated and more
contrived. In its first 3,000 years, cryptography arose
independently in many places and in most of them it
died with the civilisation. In some places it survived,
embedded in literature, to be elaborated still further
by later civilisations.
Vatsayana's famous textbook of erotics, the
Kama-Sutra, lists secret writing as the 45th of the
64 arts, or yogas, that women should know and
practice.
The Spartans established the first system of military
cryptography in the 5th century BC. Lacedaemonian
generals exchanged messages by winding narrow
ribbons of parchment around cylindrical staffs. The
system was called the skytale. Messages were
written onto the parchment lengthwise and the ribbon
unwound, scrambling the letters. The idea was that
deciphering the message needed an identical staff.
This reordering is known as Transposition
Encipherment and is one of the two basic principles
of modern cryptography.
Many methods were found to relay the message.
One of the more bizarre was to tattoo it onto a slave's
head; then once the slave's hair had grown back, to
send him to the recipient. Crude and slow this may
sound, but even as late as World War I, it was
common practice to send spies into enemy territory
with messages written in invisible ink on their skins.
More scientific cryptograms were devised by the
early Greeks; one method was to substitute numbers
for letters from an alphabet-square. The substitution
of one letter for another was a favourite device of the
Romans. This is an example of the second main
principle of modern cryptography, Substitution
Encipherment. Caesar had a very poor cryptographic
imagination and used a system of shift substitution
where D represents A, E represents B etc.
In the 1790's a simple cipher machine was invented
by Thomas Jefferson. It was made from a long
cylinder made from 36 independant narrower
cylinders, mounted on an axis and with a jumbled
alphabet inscribed upon each. The message to be sent
is divided into 36 letter sections and the cylinders
aligned so that the message can be read along a line
running the length of the larger cylinder. The
characters from another, previously specified line can
then be sent as the encrypted message. This was a
very clever machine in its day, but now with the
statistical information available thesedays, such a
code can easily be broken.
A cipher for secrecy in telegraphy that was used
in the Boer War carries the name of Lyon Playfair, as
in the Lyon Playfair Library here at Imperial College.
The cipher was actually invented by his friend Charles
Page 22
DETAILS O F ENIGMA M E C H A N I S M
R l M N E
o o.o „ „
0 0 6 0 0 0
0 0 0 0 0 0
O O O O O t j o O
O O O O O O
Wheatstone, a man with a remarkably fertile mind.
Wheatstone constructed an electric telegraph,
invented the concertina, studied underwater
telegraphy and produced some of the first
stereoscopic drawings. He discussed phonetics and
hypothetical speaking machines and popularised the
method for measuring electrical resistance accurately,
now known as the Wheatstone bridge.
Lyon Playfair, the first Baron Playfair of St Andrews,
was deputy Speaker of the House of Commons and,
among his many achievements, he helped lay the
foundations for modern sanitation. Both Playfair and
Wheatstone were short and bespectacled and they
were frequently mistaken for one another-once even
by Lady Wheatstone.
Wheatstone and Playfair amused themselves on
Sundays by solving the enciphered personal messages
in the London Times. The correspondance of an
Oxford student with his young lady in London was
easily deciphered. The student proposed an
elopement. Wheatstone inserted an advertisement in
the same cipher remonstrating with her. There
followed a frantic, 'Dear Charlie: write no more. Our
cipher is discovered!' and then silence.
In 1854, Playfair demonstrated what he called
'Wheatstone's newly-discovered symmetrical
cipher' to Prince Albert and Lord Palmerston. The
system worked by substituting pairs of letters and
couid beat the usual deciphering methods which were
based upon single letter frequency analysis.
The most frequent letters in English are E (12%) and
T (9%). The most frequent English pairs or diagraphs
are TH (3% %) and HE (2'/2 %). There are, of course,
26 letters in the English alphabet, compared with 676
diagraphs. The Playfair cipher was regarded as
unbreakable. It was simple and practical: no tables or
apparatus were required only a keyword, easily
remembered and easily changed. Its simplicity made
it ideal as a field cipher.
At a dinner with Prince Albert, Playfair suggested
it be used in the impending Crimean War and Britain's
War Office finally adopted it as the British Army's field
system during the Boer War.
The vast use of secret communications in the First
World War lead to the British Type X Mklll Cypher
machine and its German equivalent and prehaps the
most famous of all encryption machines, the Enigma
Machine.
Both these machines were products of by the new
age of electricity and mechanisation and both relied
on a single simple device, widely used in
cryptography: the wired codewheel or rotor.
Embedded around the circumference of each face
of the rotor are 26 evenly spaced electrical contacts.
Each contact is connected at random by a wire to a
contact on the opposite face.
With the rotor stationary, say, a letter T can be
mapped to the letter Q. When the rotor clicks forward
on step, the letter is mapped to an entirely different
letter.
A second rotor shifts a step after the first rotor has
completed its revolution. Several other rotors can be
added to the machine.
nonsense
The Enigma cipher was invented by Arthur
Scherbius in 1923, but not patented until 1928. It
used three rotors and 6 separate plug connections,
offering more than 5.2 x 10 encoding positions.
The Enigma differed from the original rotor
conception in two important ways. The last rotor
reflected incoming electrical signals back through the
system, generating a new letter. If this was fed into
another machine with the same combination of rotors,
the original letter would be produced. Hence one
machine could act as both encoder and decoder.
Added security was given by the use of gears to make
the rotor progression irregular.
As Hitler began rearming Germany, the Wehrmacht
began supplying their expanding forces with the
Enigma. During World War II the portable glowlamp
Enigma, battery powered, served as the top German
system. Signal officers believed it to be secure. The
only disadvantage was that it did not print out a
message but lit up individual letters. Fast operation
required three men. One to enter a message, another
to call out the letters as they lit up and a third to write
down the resulting code.
Eventually, the allies obtained one of the Enigma
machines. Working with what was then the latest
computing equipment at Bletchley, the brilliant
mathematician Alan Turin and his team broke the
code. This breakthrough was one of Churchill's best
kept secrets.
By decoding German signals Hitler's spies
parachuting into England were detected and captured.
Their reports were then falsified as a means of
confusing Hitler.
Since every effort was being made not to alert Hitler
to the collapse of Enigma, information gathered could
not be used overtly. A strange example arose in naval
warfare. If the rate of interception of ships increased
unaccountably fears about Enigma would have been
raised. In order to overcome this, spotter planes were
sent to the known positions on ships, 'accidentally'
finding them.
In the late 1930's the British introduced the Type
X Mk III Cipher Machine, developed by Air
Commodore Oswyn Lywood. This used five drums
rather than Enigma's three and had the advantage of
printing the resulting code on paper. The drums were
rotated by the operator as he typed thus adding the
extra complexity needed to defeat German attempts
to crack the cipher.
Enigma and it's predecessors were essentially
mechanically based but the advent of small, cheap
and powerful electronic computers has led to
software based cryptograms that even the most
ingenious analyst cannot break.
The Enigma, possibly the most famous cipher machine in history, on display in the Science Museum
Paae 23

