Gather ye round, good citizens, for the Phallix players present..
The Knights of Cheapsfc
The drums rolled, the trumpets sounded. Rave
Beandick, accompanied by Charlie, the Cheapskate
Chaplain, made his way slowly to the chopping block.
Charlie twirled his cane, and administered the last
rites. Jolly Hockey Sticks stepped forward to proclaim
the charges.
'Let it be known,' she cried,' that although I had
nothing to do with this, dearies, it is my solemn duty
to confront the accused with the charge of medium-
to-highish treason. Whereupon, the party of the first
part being not party to the sherry party henceforth to
be known as the party of the second part, did
knowingly and wilfully enter into hard labour upon the
citizens spit roast, hereafter to be known as the labour
party; and whereas the first party in conjunction with
the labour party was partly party to the second party's
party, we find him guilty of attempted jenocide.'
'I think that's pretty clear, dearies,' She smiled.
'Well, partly,' said Beandick.
'Hear, hear,' cried Dai Incompetent, who was
writing a treatise along similar lines.
'Silence,' bellowed Fiona Knickerless, citizen's
herald, 'Pray silence for the Lord High Executioner.'
The Lord High Executioner raised his chopper and
prepared to chop.
'Come on Beandick, give us some head,' shrieked
Bigun, Jolly Hockey-Sticks' lady in waiting/and she'd
been waiting a bloody long time for this...
'Listen,' said Beandick, 'I can do you a very good
deal on second hand choppers. I'll throw in a couple
of citizens' parchment pads for nothing. I won't even
take my cut.'
'Not bloody likely,' groaned the Lord High
Executioner, expertly positioning his chopper for the
first swing. Whack! The blade cut cleanly through.
There was a deathly silence.
'Sherry anyone?' said Jolly Hockey-Sticks.
Sir Derek Dash was watching from high in Surefield
Fortress. His only thought was simple. T wish I had
a chopper that big,' he mused. Suddenly he realised
how pointless his wishes were, as Mad Dash entered.
Ah Mad Dash! What a princess she had been. How
Sir Derek regretted that fateful day, when he had first
kissed her and she had promptly turned into a frog.
Or was it a toad? He could never quite remember the
difference.
'The meeting's about to start,' said Mad Dash. 'Sir
Fraser, Grand Financier, is already here, and trying to
get his value for money. He's eaten an entire bowl of
peanuts at the bar.'
Stop him,' shrieked Sir Derek,' that's the budget for
the citizens' dormitories, he's scoffing!'
Sir Fraser stalked in, 'Ok, so where's the new table
I ordered?' he said.
'It's in the bored room,' said Sir Derek. Sir Derek
was somewhat ashamed of his new table. Somehow,
'The Knights of the Semicircular Table,' just didn't
sound right. Cutbacks seemed to be everywhere
nowadays. At least they could still afford to hold the
annual Jousting Tournament organised by the
barbarians from the HUB. (Nobody knew much about
the people of the HUB, they came and went, but HUB
was forever.)
The Bored Meeting was due to start. The Knights
of the Semicircular table had assembled to discuss the
past year. Blancmange, the citizens' Bar Knight was
there, Neil McColostomy, the Cheap Knight Out was
too. Prof Dicks, the Knight of the Long Knives was
Page 24
there to represent the bloodletters. Sir Charge of the
Accommodation Office was standing in for the Knight
of Passion and the Knight on the Tiles, who were both
unavoidably detained. The Sleepless Knight had
dropped off in the corner and the rather trendy Next
Knight had still not turned up.
'Let me take you back,' said Sir Derek,' to the start
of the year '
McColostomy stepped into his new hut. Jolly
Hockey-Sticks was waiting for him with a pile of
parchment-work. 'The job's quite easy, dearie' she
said, 'as long as you do as you're told, dearie. We're
having a sherry party to celebrate the new chief
citizens; you're invited. We're meeting in the inner
temple after lunch.'
Dai Incompetent woke up. The world was spinning
round him. He felt Fairly III. 'Get off,' she screamed.
Incompetent just grunted and staggered to his feet.
It was time for some incompetence.
Rave Beandick was waiting in the citizens' hut.
'Where is Dai Incompetent?' he moaned. 'We've got
a meeting about the Citizens' Manuscript Store at
midday. We've still got ten copies of the dead sea
scrolls to shift, and I haven't even started to sell the
ones signed by the author. After all that fuss over the
last batch of Turin shrouds in the citizens sporty store,
I refuse to close this one as well. We are talking
takeover here, my son.'
Dai Incompetent stumbled in, swayed and rushed
out again.
'I give up!' said Beandick, holding his head in his
hands.
Elsewhere, Rushed Clerk was talking to a citizen.
'Of course, now, in the 16th century, there isn't much
call for accountants,' he was saying. 'I can, however,
offer you something in a similar line. The pay's good
and promotion is purely upon merit. There's a great
future in clubbing old ladies over the head, and
stealing their money. Banditry's a thriving profession,
and you'll still be using all those skills you gained in
your course in rock smashing.'
Clerk's job was to find jobs for the useless, the
gormless and the jobless. It was tough work, but so
far he had resisted the temptation to invent
management consultancy. Times were hard. Sir Derek
had just decided to close the Jobbe Shoppe down. Sir
Derek's Manuscript, Wetjerk, needed more gold, and
the fearsome creature from the HUB was demanding
to be fed.
The citizens just didn't need proper jobs, thought
Sir Derek. He'd survived for years without one. Life,
he argued, was all about the basics: an apron, a liking
for running around with one trouser leg rolled up and
a silly handshake. If those young citizens didn't like
it, well tough! There were plenty of jobs for
decorators; they could all go and do that instead.
Decorators! Sir Derek thought back to his speech
to the young citizens. He had given them a lesson in
painting their cells. Magnolia went wonderfully with
the green mould.
Suddenly the door slammed open. 'Sir Derek, Sir
Derek, we regret to have to report an incident.' It was
Gaff Peeved, the captain of the guard.
'It was a black man, I saw him,' murmured Merry
Terry, his second in command. Merry Terry had spent
many years working for the metropolitan guards, and
he knew what a guilty black man looked like,
especially if he had an Irish accent. Merry Terry had
spent his entire life trying to arrest a man called Nelson
O'Flynn. He hadn't actually done anything, but Merry
was pretty sure there was no smoke without fire. He
knew, he smoked 30 cigarettes a day (quite an
achievement, considering they hadn't even been
invented in the 16th century.)
'We have reason to believe,' said Peeved, 'that the
aforementioned individual may have been relieving the
citizens of their goods.' Gaff paused to refresh his
memory from his notebook. 'I was proceeding in an
easterly direction along the Surefield dirt track when
I ...sorry, wrong black man.'
Gaff resumed. 'The miscreant is believed to have
first sneaked past our guards, by cunningly tricking
them into falling asleep. We believe the robbery took
place between 12 0,clock midday and 12 O'clock
midnight. The thieving scoundrel was unable to steal
anything more than the entire west wing, thanks to
the vigilance of our guards. We hope to have the rotter
banged to rights soon. We'll catch him with the
cement on his hands still, no doubt.'
'Don't trouble me with such trivialities,' said the
Baron, waving Gaff and Merry away. 'I must have
time to think.'
Sir Derek thought. He began to connive about the
jousting fields at Gravlington. The gold extraction had
been going badly . All they'd found was sand, but that
worked out bk, since Sir Fraser had managed to sell
it to some arab friends at even Moor profit. The
problem was Sir Derek didn't know what to spend the
money on; a new suit of armour; a new set of candles
for the banquet hall or a new dungeon for the citizens.
Meanwhile in the Phallix Office, Smuggly was
drooling over some highly illuminated manuscripts.
'Gadzooks,' he said 'look at the coffers on that!
They're as big as dinner plates.' Smuggly had decided
to produce a special edition of Phallix, dealing with
the grubbier specimens of illuminated manuscripts. He
had sent out his menial, Dung Kink, to collect the
filthiest specimens he could find. Dung was
particularly pleased with the copy of Sub Constructus,
a manuscript for the jollier man. Dung felt that he had
done such a good job for Cheapskate, that he decided
to stand for Chief Citizen, and walked outside to
announce the fact to his citizen friends.
No sooner had Dung walked out than Athens
RitzBiscuit, the Witch Finder General, jumped out from
behind a bush. 'Witch,' he screamed inanely. 'The
Devil's spawn.' He started to quote wildly from the
bible. 'And the number of the beast shall be issue
850,' he read. 'And it shall be printed in a faint hue
of orange, so the Lord's children shall not see the sins,
unless they look really, really closely.'
Smuggly stormed out of the Phallix Office. 'Will you
shut up,' he shouted, wiping the blood from his hands.
'I've scuffed the bloody pentagram, and the virgin's
gone off.'
'Get ye hence,' shrieked RitzBiscuit, rapidly marking
out a cross upon his chest. 'I believe in God the single
parent, the illegitimate son and the spooky ghosty.'
RitzBiscuit had been working on the reformist bible.
'Be gone,' boomed Smuggly, 'for I will conjure from
the depths of hell, the most hideous creature and he
will defeat you.' Smuggly clapped his hands. There
was a flash.
'Bloody tubes,' moaned the creature as it stumbled
from the smoke. It was Shan FareDodger, who had
just finished writing another 'Deluder Column,' for
Phallix.
Whoosh! A great gust of wind blew RitzBiscuit
away. 'Nice one,' said FareDodger, as the wind
gripped him too. Smuggly was safely within his
portable pentagram. A huge storm seized Cheapskate
and tore the roof off. Three weeks later, Gaff Peeved
noted the whole affair and decided to send out a
description of the offending black cloud.
The wind blew so hard it woke up the Baron, who
had been exhausted by the effort of all this
reminiscing. 'That's all off the record, of course,' he
said, certain that he had said something incriminating.
The Knights were all playing a game of cards in
another corner of the room. 'Black Jack!' shrieked Neil
McColostomy, the Cheap Knight Out.
'Where'sthe knave?'screamed Peeved, rushing in...
Page 25

