An alcoholic is a person for whom one drink is too many and a hundred is not enough. Liz
Warren explains why and investigates the incidence of alcoholism at Imperial College.
It could be you.
There are probably between 350 and 400 students
at Imperial College who are alcoholics. This is about
six percent of the student population, or more than
one in twenty. Think about it: it's over ten people in
each year of Physics, four per year in a course like
Aeronautics. And that's just if you consider the
national average. With its culture of excessive
drinking, Imperial perhaps has even more heavy
drinkers than average and that might mean more
alcoholics.
What is an alcoholic?
Consider the popular conception of an alcoholic. It is
the sad old man sleeping in his cardboard box at
Lincoln's Inn Fields, clutching his bottle of cheap
sherry bought with this week's giro. Or it is the errant
genius liberally dosing his wit and brilliance while he
either squanders his talents or produces a
masterpiece.
The truth is that he, or indeed she, is more likely
to be your doctor, your bank manager, perhaps your
brother or your best friend, or the person sitting next
to you in the lecture theatre. Or it could be you.
Alcoholism is no respecter of age or class or sex or
race. You don't have to be rolling drunk from the
moment you wake up until you get thrown out of the
pub at closing time to be an alcoholic. You don't even
have to drink very much, although your chances of
developing alcohol related health problems are much
greater if you do.
There are different ideas about exactly what
alcoholism is. Contrary to a popular misconception,
which is hopefully dying out, alcoholics are not weak
willed people who drink because they have no moral
fibre. Alcoholism is a disease, much like one of those
other unmentionable diseases, cancer. It is a
progressive illness: if an alcoholic goes on drinking,
they will become progressively worse. It is not a
disease which can ever be fully cured, but it can be
arrested. Most alcoholics suffer from both a physical
dependence or craving for alcohol and a mental
obsession with their drinking.
Each individual's drinking can be seen as one part
of a continuum ranging from safe drinking to harmful
drinking. The alcoholic has crossed over a line where
they can no longer control their drinking and where
it begins to affect the whole of their life. Drinking can
lead to them losing their jobs, their friends and their
families. These are the roots of the popular image of
an alcoholic: the down and out who has lost
everything, except his desire to drink. Alcoholics do
not start as down and outs, they become that way
because losing control of their drinking makes them
lose control of their lives.
Alcoholics are frequently in trouble with the police
because of their actions when drunk, because they
will steal or cheat to obtain the next drink. Equally,
alcoholics can spend years behaving to the outsider
and even to those quite close to them as if they have
no problem whatsoever.
Alcoholism is also linked to many other diseases
which are caused by excessive alcohol consumption,
such as cirrhosis of the liver and high blood pressure.
Women, drinkers face an increased risk of cirrhosis
of the liver, obesity , anaemia and malnutrition
compared to men. A study amongst UK Civil Servants
Twenty key questions
Each individual must decide for themselves whether they are an alcoholic. This can be meant in both
the sense of someone who is physically dependent on alcohol or someone who is not physically
dependent but finds that drinking is adversely affecting their life. Alcoholics Anonymous have devised
a list of twenty questions which can help people decide if they have a problem.
1. Is drinking making your home life unhappy?
2. Does your drinking make you careless of your family's or friends' welfare?
3. Have you ever tried to stop drinking for a week or so but only lasted for a couple of days?
4. Is drinking affecting your reputation?
5. Do you drink to escape from worries or trouble?
6. Do you drink alone?
7. Have you lost time from work due to drinking?
8. Has your ambition decreased since drinking?
9. Has your efficiency decreased since drinking?
10. Is drinking jeopardising your job or business?
11. Have you ever felt remorse after drinking?
12. Are you in financial difficulties as a result of drinking?
13. Do you turn to or seek an inferior environment when drinking?
14. Do you crave a drink at a definite time daily?
15. Does drinking cause you to have difficulty sleeping?
16. Do you want a drink the next morning?
17. Do you drink to build up your self confidence?
18. Have you ever had complete loss of memory as a result of drinking (blackouts)?
19. Has your doctor ever treated you for drinking?
20. Have you ever been in hospital or prison because of drinking?
Add up how many questions you answered yes to and turn over
Page 31

