found that heavier drinkers had twice the mortality
rate after ten years than light drinkers.
Work currently being carried out at St Mary's
Hospital suggests that alcoholism may be hereditary.
It could be linked to a gene, which, if activated, causes
alcohol to be converted into a strongly addictive
substance. The biochemical basis for alcoholism is
thus being uncovered and lends weight to the theory
that it is a 'real' illness, not a moral problem.
Once someone has become a 'problem drinker', it
is extremely unlikely that they will ever be able to drink
'normally' or socially again. Organisations exist to help
heavy drinkers cut down, but for those who cannot
control their drinking, usually the only answer is to cut
out alcohol altogether, with the help of organisations
like Alcoholics Anonymous.
How widespread is alcoholism?
The figures quoted at the beginning of this article are
only a rough estimate. It is nearly impossible to
accurately gauge how many alcoholics there are since
so many remain untreated or unrecognised. Surveys
quoted by the National Association of Health
Authorities suggest that 6% of the men and 1% of
women nationally are drinking at dangerous levels
Imore than 50 and 35 units of alcohol per week
respectively).
They also cite mortality rates due to alcohol as being
between 8,000 and 40,000 per year. The uncertainty
arises because although alcohol is associated with
many types of physical ill health, only about 3,000
death certificates per year mention alcohol as a
primary cause of death. These figures mean that
alcohol misuse is one of the major causes of
premature death.
Several researchers have carried out work into
patterns of drinking amongst students. A survey
carried out at Nottingham University into student
drinking patterns asked students whether they ever
felt they were unable to control their drinking. 7% said
they felt the could not control their drinking and a
frightening 20% said they had suffered blackouts or
shaking hands, both strong indicators of alcoholic
behaviour. Interestingly in this study the proportions
for men and women who felt their drinking was out
of control were almost identical, although the number
of self confessed heavy drinkers was much higher
amongst men than women, in line with the national
figures.
A survey amongst students at a London medical
school suggested that although drinking amongst
male students matched that for the general
population, female students drank much more heavily.
Again nearly 20% of the students felt that they might
have a drinking problem and had appeared to do so
from their responses to a section in the survey
designed to test for alcohol abuse. Over half felt their
drinking had affected their academic performance at
some time.
All these results suggest that alcohol has a
particularly devastating effect on students, most likely
because of the nature of student social life. Reasons
for drinking almost always seem to centre around peer
pressure and the prominence of drinking at social
events, something Imperial College is no stranger to.
The welfare survey carried out at IC last year bears
out these results although it was not directly
concerned with alcoholism. The number of heavy
drinkers was roughly 25% of men and 15% of
women. About 15% of the drinkers said they drank
every night while over a quarter drank more than five
times a week.
There is every reason to suppose that students at
IC are as at risk as students elsewhere.
The social costs of alcoholism.
Alcoholism affects not only the individual concerned
but the society in which they live. The economic costs
Page 32
of alcohol abuse in society amount to £1.9 billion
(1986).
The social cost to industry, in terms of time lost
through illness, unemployment and premature death,
is the bulk of this total, £1.6 billion. The burden on
the National Health service is estimated at about £115
million.
The cost of alcohol related road accidents is over
£100 million, whilst criminal activities, including both
traffic offences and drink related court cases, costs
the country about £40 million. Not all these costs can
be attributed to alcoholics, but they do give evidence
of the scale of the problem.
The most disturbing cost is the expenditure in
response to alcohol related problems by national
bodies and in research. This is less than £1 million,
or 0.05% of the cost to the country. Given the
success of groups such as Alcoholics Anonymous in
curing alcoholism, a little more expenditure in this area
might reduce the cost to industry in particular.
The effect of alcoholism on the workplace mainly
manifests itself in declining standards of work, lower
output, excessive absenteeism, higher levels of sick
leave, an increased number of accidents and strained
relationships with fellow workers. Employers face the
problem of both recognising alcoholics and dealing
with them. Problems can be exacerbated because
management, union officials and fellow workers often
believe that a person's health problem is a private
matter.
Union Officials and fellow workers can often believe
that they are acting with the best of intentions by
covering up cases of problem drinking for members
and fellow employees. Management also ignore
breaches of discipline until they have allowed the
situation to deteriorate to such a degree that severe
disciplinary action becomes inevitable, frequently
resulting in dismissal. This is destructive for both the
employee and the employer. However, there are
feelings that more companies are beginning to take
an enlightened attitude and deal with alcoholic
employees more responsibly.
You may think that this article doesn't apply to you.
It may do. Try the questionnaire. The results may
shock you. Alcoholism is more widespread than most
people think. But alcoholism is only a disease, which
can be arrested. With help, it needn't be a problem.
And the answers
According to Alcoholics Anonymous: if you answered yes to one of the questions, there is a
definite warning that you may be an alcoholic. If you answered yes to two questions, the
chances are that you are an alcoholic, if you answered yes to three or more you are definitely an
alcoholic.
This may seem very extreme, but AA claim that their experience of dealing with recovering
alcoholics has shown them that this is all it takes.
No-one else can convince someone that they are an alcoholic if they don't want to accept it.
Equally, it may be difficult for the families and friends of alcoholics to accept that someone they
know is more than a 'heavy drinker'.
If you are worried by the amount you drink and the answers you've given to these questions
you can get help from: Alcoholics Anonymous. The aim of all A A groups is to give up alcohol
entirely and develop an alcohol-free life. Tel. 071 352 3001 Drinkwatchers. Drinkwatchers help
heavy drinkers reduce their consumption to sensible levels. It is not intended for those who are
dependent upon alcohol and wish to abstain totally. Tel. 071 381 3155 The College Health
Centre is available on internal 3099.
If you are concerned for someone else, you can get help from: Al-Anon Family Groups. These
self help groups are for the families and close associates of problem drinkers. The aim is to
relieve the pressure of living with the drinker by sharing experiences and giving support. You can
join whether or not the problem drinker is attending an AA group or receiving other help. Tel. 071
403 0888 Alateen. This group is similar to Al-Anon, but it is for the teenaged children of
problem drinkers, who often feel happier with the support of people their own age, and do not
always want to share their experiences with parents or other adults.
Case study—an IC graduate
My name's Susan, I'm an Imperial College graduate
and I'm an alcoholic.
I left Imperial College some time ago with a degree,
plenty of good memories, a lot of friends...and a drink
problem. When I arrived at IC, I didn't have a problem.
My parents had encouraged me to drink in moderation
from about the age of fourteen, so I was fairly aware
of my limits and how to drink sensibly and sociably.
This didn't change for two years as I only drank a little
occasionally. Then I became successively involved
with two socially active groups who did drink a lot.
My drinking patterns altered radically. I acquired a
taste for real ale and, in an effort to prove I was equal
to my male friends I acquired an ability to drink pints
that seems ludicrous looking back. Here is evidence
of the particular pressures which I think IC can exert
to encourage students into alcoholism: so much of the
culture seems to be underlined by a competitiveness
which at its most extreme manifests itself in drinking
competitions and downing yards of ale. A great deal
of social life seemed to revolve around pubs and bars.
Again I was under the impression I could handle my
drinking. This was despite the fact that I was having
blackouts with increasing regularity and that after a
while I was getting into financial difficulties. I also
began to spend more time drinking because I wanted
to escape from my problems. Even after a Christmas
I prefer to forget, when I drank nearly two bottles of
spirits in a week because I was depressed, I still
believed I could control my drinking, merely promising
to myself that I wouldn't ever drink alone. This only
resulted in me finding lots of excuses to spend time
drinking with other people. At one point I was drinking
heavily almost every night. When I realised this it
shocked me enough to cut down a little. But worse
was to come. I was unusually fortunate for a long time
in that I rarely got hangovers, but I began to get them
more often. Then I began to get 'reverse hangovers':
I would wake up feeling fine and then start to feel
worse and worse during the day, including shaking
and feeling sick. It was the point at which I realised
that these were actually alcohol withdrawal
symptoms, that I finally acknowledged I was an
alcoholic. Other things began to fall into place. I
realised that once I had had one drink, I was incapable
of stopping unless there was some external control,
such as being with someone who was only having a
couple of drinks because they were driving. When I
stopped, the pace of my illness began to accelerate
rapidly: I was starting to have cravings at definite
times of the day and I was finding it hard to work
because I was either hung over or in need of a drink.
I acknowledged and faced up to my alcoholism when
I went home to my parents at Easter. On my last night
at home we had gone to the pub. I drank a great deal
too much, partly because I was depressed. The next
day I began to feel ill. On the train back to London I
started shaking and feeling freezing even though the
carriage was warm. That was the point I knew I was
never going to pass my finals if I didn't stop drinking
there and then. I haven't had a drink since. That was
two months ago. Since then I feel in control of my life
for the first time in years, I'm much more emotionally
stable and physically much healthier. I don't know
whether I'll never drink again, but I'm determined to
go through each day with the philosophy that I'm not
going to take that first drink. Imperial College didn't
make me an alcoholic; that was already in my make-
up. But IC certainly propelled me more rapidly into
alcoholism and made it harder for me to see my
problem for longer.
Page 33

