The London club scene is renowned worldwide for its sordid variety—of course, most prospectiv
end up at the well-advertised, refined and trendy joints such as Gossips, or the polished sheen glim
the Hippodrome. For a really good night out, headfor the sleazy slimey squats where the creatur
night creep at dusk and slink away to sleep at dawn.
London clubbing
KitKat
The KitKat is where most beginners go. At such
places the dress code is: the more hair (preferably
coloured more unnaturally than a tube of Smarties)
and the fewer clothes the better, so long as they are
black, or lace, or rubber, or sharp andvery erotic. Here
you will find naked caged dancers, dangling
precariously above the dance floor, luringly pulsating
to the sounds. Other, more introvert, totally naked
women stalk the dancefloor and clear away the
glasses.
The KitKat's crowd changes every few months with
the venue and night, but the regulars are easily
recognised by their hairstyles. You can join them, at
a cost, at the upstairs extension centre (hair only) so
long as the colour you choose clashes with everyone
else. Sadly, most of the stunning ladies are Yugoslavs,
French, German or Italian, and most of the ravishing
men are only interested in the Yugoslavs, French,
etc... It's the place to go on a sex-drive.
The music? No one cares so long as they look wierd
enough. Even Madonna gets an occasional sing.
There's a nice dose of good indie, bad indie, goth punk
and The Cure. Does Robert Smith have shares in these
clubs? There he goes up the stairs, or is he the one
at the bar, on the dancefloor, etc. etc...If you don't
like it, there are enough dark alcoves to occupy
yourself in between.
Once accepted here, you are ready to progress to
the hard-core clubs. These are mostly sordid, slimey,
illegal and the places to be seen at. Due to a high
police presence, especially around King's Cross, they
Page 34
tend to move frequently, so leaflets and word of
mouth are the key to cornering one. Once found,
select your chosen club by the style of dress, which
also implies the style of music. Follow the crowd.
Slimelight
Up at Angel in Slimelight fester another breed. The
only lighting throbs from glowing hair and poached
flesh, simmering in the mud or hanging like albino
kippers in the smoked air. Slimelighters are elitist and
snobs. They sit around regally getting stoned and
tripping and couldn't care less what goes on. The DJ's
noticed this long ago, so play some of the worst,
unidentifiable sounds around. Entry is exorbitant
(members and guests only); clothes are worn but
punks are easy prey for amorous designs as there's
nothing else to do in that closet all night. Strangers
are estranged. If you haven't got green or flourescent
hair, forget it. You'll have a miserable time and may
lose your DM's in the mud.
Wraith
At the same time, Wraith offers the ultimate all night
and the next day travelling commune. As the last Goth
stronghold, it is run illegally in a warehouse and is
often 'interrupted' at 1.30am by the King's Cross
police, and then ends the night in a jail or a
Camberwell flat before migrating to Camden Palace
with the dawn. There's none of that indie-crap here.
Residents either resemble a walking black drapery or
are barely decent enough for a strip parlour. The
regulars even appear from Southend and are easily
identified as the ones still flinging their arms about to
the dodge PA at 7.30am Sunday. Everyone else has
gone to catch the first tube or has passed out in a pool
of the sewage and toxic waste that oozes down the
walls.
Badcat
If you can't stand the pace of dancing from 11pm
Saturday to 2pm Sunday you could always opt for a
paisley-clad bop down at Badcat 'til 3.30am. It used
to be full of the greatest freaks until the indie-boppers
and scallies took over. It's mainly indie-chart, but most
people find something to groove to, if they can cram
themselves onto the dancefloor, or bar, or toilet, or
anywhere. Spats resembles the inside of a mini-metro
in size, and is a steaming jungle.

