Some of the people in club-land
Orientals
'Goth' oriental girls comprise about a fifth of the club
populus, spending all day scuttling around Ken Market
and all night scuttling around the clubs. They are easy
to identify by their lack of height and lack of clothes.
Their heritage seems to deem a skirt unnecessary and
they have an overwhelming urge to cover their bodies
in fishnet, belts, chains, leather, pvc, etc. What do
they use the handcuffs for? To go with the thigh-high
stiletto domination boots, no doubt. They can be seen
dancing to anything they can pace up and down to,
hiding beneath their black and red hair extensions.
Goths
A real one will never admit to it, so call them what
you like-goth, goff, goffick, meathead etc. They
always wear black and always go where they know
they'll be miserable, accumulating glumly in an alcove
to swap make-up and hair tips. It is often difficult to
differentiate male and famale, but generally, the males
are better looking and wear more make-up. They
either avoid or live in Ken Market and are NEVER seen
in daylight for fear of a tan. Contrary to popular belief,
a goth will publicly loath Sisters of Mercy, but still
insist on wearing the t-shirt and recounting Andrew
Eldritch's life details at the merest interest. The
women either follow Victorian traditions or appear
almost completely naked. The more dangly bits the
better.
Drop-outs
In some public circles, it is fashionable to look like
you've been sleeping in a waste-paper bin for the last
month. Particularly common amongst festival goers,
the German Army anorak is in, the more faded the
better, as are tie-dyed leggings under short tassled
skirts, tattered t-shirts finished off with a liberal dose
of DMs or monkey boots. Don't forget the pony-tail
and shaved sides.
Cure-heads (Robert Smith wanna-be's)
All you need for your very own Bob, is one dark spotty
shirt, one pair of Nike trainer-boots, a mop of dark hair,
one black eyeliner and a very smeary red lipstick.
Failing that, a permanent red marker will suffice.
Punks
Thought to be extinct.
Trendies
Often seen clutching a copy of Just Seventeen or
Cosmopolitan, this is a common pest to be exorcised
on sight.
Hippies
Contrary to popular belief, they do not all smell and
have lank, waist-length hair. However, most do insist
on ranting on about Woodstock and T-Rex. Look out
for a profusion of bright embroidered sequined
clothing and tassled headscarves.
Indie-boppers
Centre-parting; shoulder length, well-conditioned
natural hair; loose, graffitied blue-jeans; Nike trainers;
trendie indie-pop t-shirt [Family Cat, Ride); paisley
shirt. Quite harmless and boppy unless they tread on
you.
Scallies
Any member of Inspiral Carpets, Stone Roses etc and
their fans. Mancunian by definition, but always look
out for that mother's-own bowlcut, flares (to assist
aerodynamic flight when stagediving) and hippy-floral
benign grin, even when told to, (rough translation) 'go
away you horrid little scallie'.
Glam-rockers/prats
The one in a stupidly patterned shirt, with flattened,
slightly curling-at-the-ends hair-do which hasn't had
a positive identification since 1975, skin-tight jeans
or even lurex leopard-skins, and enough studs to
qualify for Cruft's terrier class. Another type will
wander around in DefLeppard locks going 'ooh yeah,
baby' and complaining about the demise of Bruce
Springsteen and American Rock. Steer well clear.
Metallers
Similar to glam rockers but strictly blue-denim and
Metallica, Mega-Deth or Iron Maiden t-shirts. Lots of
hair and grease. No musical taste. Best ignored.
Bad Advice
If you're a novice, and even if you're not, start at
KitKat. If the shock doesn't kill you, you're one of
them, and there are enough people to lose yourself.
If not, and you look the part and dance to the right
tracks, you'd better make sure you've got that single
room to return to-who knows what might happen
afterwards.
Are you prepared to enter...the Midnight Zone?
Page 35

