FELIX reporters and photographers describe their experiences and views of Easter's Poll Tax
'riots.' Police brutality amidst apublic uprising against the Poll Tax—who started it all, anyway?
Trafalgar square bashing
On a glorious, sunny day at the end of March, the Anti
Poll Tax rally marched from Kennington Park to
Trafalgar Square.
A good natured diverse, collection of families and
individuals made up the countless numbers of
demonstrators, in high spirits walking to protest about
the crippling tax. The square filled near to capacity
as the masses continued to flood in at 4 o'clock.
Twenty minutes later, a sit down protest outside the
security gates of No. 10 prompted the end of peace
and tranquility in inner London.
The police vainly attempted to remove the sitters.
Disturbance was inevitable, and adding to the distress
of the demonstration, the Riot and Mounted Police
entered into the fray. The black- flag-carrying
Anarchists and the Anarcho Punks were sparked into
violent reaction.
A scaffold clad building near the South African
embassy was taken and used as an offensive
platform. Scaffold joints and poles were removed and
hurled as spears and missiles. Cement and stone was
dislodged and the site office Portakabin 'torched'.
Next door the embassy kindled into flame soon after.
Fire Engines and Brigade men were inexcusably
attacked, although Ambulance workers throughout
the day were left alone.
Many of the marchers had obviously been spoiling
for an excuse to lash out at the police, not just the
Poll Tax. It was, however, the police who
instrumented the start of the trouble. Without the
heavy handed, and surely misguided, attitude of those
in control, the trouble would not have flared and
spread as it did. The officers were ill-informed,
confused and scared. Many of them had been dragged
in from football grounds and the like as the emergency
grew.
The Riot and Mounted Police charged
indiscriminately at the crowds to disperse the
multitudes. Snatch squads raided the front lines of the
protestors, to root out troublemakers; a hopeless task,
with a later stated number of three to three and a half
thousand rioters out of the huge number of innocents.
The Police attempted to restrict entry to the Square
and further progress up Whitehall, pushing protesters
on this side to the Embankment. Many
circumnavigated the blockage to gain entry to
Trafalgar Square, where violence flared in retaliation
for the action against the peaceful protest outside
No.10.
By 5 o'clock, the area north and south of the square
rang out with chants of "Stazi" and "Maggie
Thatcher's boot boys". Shattering glass concentrated
the voices and exclamations of the crowds. As police
moved in on small groups they were rushed by
surrounding crowds.
In a move to disperse the demonstrators from
Trafalgar Square, the police pushed them up Charing
Cross Road. Harassed marchers spread to the
adjacent streets, including St Martins Lane, where
they trashed and looted on there way.
West End tube stations were closed adding to the
difficulties of those who just wanted to get out!
Page 36
Oxford Street was next in the firing line as three to
four thousand people rampaged its length. People
spread to the neighboring roads to the south, taking
the back roads into the heart of the West End which
was ritually smashed. Shopkeepers in Regent Street
claimed two thousand people had run its course. They
were then turned by the police and pushed back to
where they had been pushed from. These were the
'tactics' that not surprisingly failed to clear the streets.
A call for an assault on the Chinese Embassy was
averted by a lightning response from the police
radioing ahead. A fire engine had been on standby,
just in case.
Round in circles the protesters were forced,
navigated by the short sighted will of the police, nearly
every side road was entered and affected. The crowds
were pushed again down Oxford Street, heading east
to Tottenham Court Road where tourist coaches
passed by, their passengers' faces pressed hard
against the windows to attain a clear view.
Eventually, the marchers who remained were
brought back to Trafalgar, the place that they had
desperately been trying to clear. Riot police charged
silent protestors on the steps of St Martins in the
Fields. More considerately, Uniform officers cleared
the steps of the National Gallery.
Bleeding out of the square, people moved again on
Whitehall and No.10, this time attended by thirty
police vans and coaches. Nothing happened!
Rioting continued late in to the evening throughout
the West End. Theatres, cinemas, and restaurants
were barricaded, hoarding their customers
protectively.
Many people had talked of a revolution but nobody
had expected the Battle of Trafalgar in the centre of
our Capital. Shocked and bemused, people wandered
the streets not knowing how it all happened. The
police still have many lessons to learn in their pursuit
of civil order. It can only be hoped that the next time
this kind of event occurs, they do not attempt the
short sharp shock approach, which is more likely to
kill than cure.

