I was talking to an acquaintance last week who, when
I mentioned the Trafalgar riot and the fact that I was
there, looked at me in disgust and said 'Did you
demonstrate!' Surely it is the basic right of an
individual to protest about a matter that they feel is
unfair or that they just disagree with? Why then, do
I feel as though I have violated some major unwritten
code? Do I just sit back and let the powers that be
impose their will on me? Or stand up and say how I
feel? For the first time in my life I took the latter
decision. Now, as I read the papers and watch the
television I am labelled in with the 'hooligans' and
militants of this world.
The aim of the day, that Saturday, was to present
a show of opposition to not only the Poll Tax, but to
the Government and its method of almost dictatorial
governing. The Poll Tax is the first issue that has
affected the population as a whole. The students,
nurses and ambulance men have all had their justified
reasons to march and no less important were they but
this affects me, you, your parents, and if it is allowed
to remain law as it is now, your offspring.
Kennington Park, where the march gathered, was
full to capacity of all cross sections of society;
pensioners in their hundreds, students in their
thousands, the hopeless, the well off, the general
public. After a few speeches, one imploring for a
peaceful end to the day greeted by an all agreeing
cheer, we all set off slowly towards Westminster,
people joining us from all directions of the park. One
couldn't help but grin at the sheer weight of feeling
in the air, people protesting as far as the eye could
see. The atmosphere of a carnival was all pervading;
dobermans in Anti-Poll Tax T-shirts, one guy dressed
as Maggie seemingly oblivious to the jovial hatred
directed at him. It was going to be a fun day out with
a purpose.
As the march traipsed towards the river so the
singing and dancing increased, passing drivers hooting
in support, as the houses of Parliament came into view
so the crowd hissed and booed, venting their anger
at the perpetrators of such an unjust tax. As we
crossed Parliament square into Whitehall we could see
the sea of people ahead of us massing in Trafalgar
Square and what looked like a great ending to a
wonderful day. However it was not to be.
As we approached the entrance to Downing Street
the march was forced to a halt by a huge Police
presence. Channeling us away from the massive
security gate and the masses of backup police behind
them. These gates seemed to symbolize how the
government is. We have been bred into a trap: pay
up or go to jail. We don't care, Conservative voters
pay their Poll Tax. We could gradually feel an ugliness
in the air, face to face confrontations with the Police
seemed to inflame both sides. News filtered down the
march that a sit down protest had started occurring
and the Police had split the march in two.
Suddenly the Police cordon hemming us onto the
pavement fell back in a great wave and we swarmed
across the street. A great cheer went up, it seemed
suddenly as though we had won . Even before
anything had been thrown, a feeling of battle was
everywhere. People started chanting 'Maggie
Thatchers boot boys' and 'you've got to fight for your
rights.' It was extremely tense further towards the
Police cordon. They started to syphon the marchers
who hadn't made it to the square down Horse Guards
Parade, towards the river with the somewhat false
promise of a rally in Hyde Park.
The atmosphere seemed to improve as people
slowly and reluctantly dispersed. I wasn't going to
miss the rally so I worked my way around Scotland
Yard and walked through the Police line stopping
people leaving the square. A lot of people had
managed to get there as it was full. At the time
everyone was milling around, chatting and singing.
The speeches having finished, I walked around ,met
a few friends. A peaceful time.was being had by all.
Suddenly a shout went up from the South side of
the square. I was pushed back by a wave of people,
panicking at the first Police charge. Now fully kitted
out in riot gear, how could a child and pushchair be
any match against this?
Chaos and madness ensued as the Police repeatedly
charged. The crowd started throwing any object they
could lay their hands on; traffic cones, sticks, and
placards. As the Police charged towards the
scaffolding, their aim to bring people down, so the rain
of missiles erupted further, scaffold poles, concrete.
The Police were beaten back at first but then they
charged with horses, carving a swath through the
frightened crowd towards St Martins Lane. Smoke
began to billow from the contractors building, perched
over the square.
How could this be London 1990? It felt like Vietnam
1970: sirens, screaming, the smoke drifting over the
square, the road littered with missiles, and a
dangerous feeling of pure panic. Camera crews were
running all over the place, Police vans were careering
in and out of the square. A Policewomen was hit by
a steel bracket and staggered off bleeding, a group
carrying an unconscious woman, trampled by the
horses, was carried to safety. Why was this
happening? History was repeating itself, the Poll Tax
riots of 1381 ended in a similar way!
We were herded like animals down Northumberland
Avenue. The crush was unbearable, cries of
Hillsborough, Hillsborough' filled the air as we were
pushed against the buildings. A girl in front of me was
hit by a truncheon and called a slag. How can I be
expected to ever respect a Policeman again? If these
are the lengths the Government will go to to impose
their will on us, then God help this country.
A feeling of shock emerged as we reached the
Embankment. Shock and anger at having witnessed
such unwarranted violence, violence against the
Police and violence against the majority who were
peacefully opposing. It shouldn't and needn't have
happened. Democracy is dead. Long live democracy.
Page 37

