Graphology is the interpretation of handwriting. It is the understanding of the psychology that
way we consciously and subconsciously express ourselves to others with pen on paper. As w
psychological science, graphology is treated with scepticism by those who know of it at only a
However, graphology is being used increasingly in business for personnel selection and evalua
as in other areas such as vocational guidance, marriage compatibility and criminology. Ben T
Handwritten CV, please
In 120AD, the Roman historian Suetonius 1 ranquillus
said of Emperor Augustus, 'He does not separate his
words-l do not trust him.' A link between
handwriting and personality had been established, but
it was not until the early nineteenth century that
serious research on the subject began. This was
undertaken by a group of French churchmen who
attempted to examine the link between personality
and the form of letters. The result was simply a
catalogue of signs and rules, with no attempt to
introduce psychological analysis. Their student, Jean
Michon, and his pupil, Jules Jamin, were both branded
'just interpreters of signs'. The art did not develop into
a science until Jamin requested Alfred Binet, the
French physician and psychologist who founded the
modern intelligence test (IQ test), to examine the
reliability of graphology related to psychological
methods of testing character.
German influences entered the field in the late
nineteenth century, with more detailed analysis of the
form of writing than in the symbolism of individual
letters. In 1904, Dr Ludwig Klages determined the
basis of graphology as the study of the speed, spacing
and pressure of the writing, and the intensity and
variation of these facets within a manuscript.
Graphology became a focus of scientific input.
Neurologists studied the physical factors of the act
of writing relating personality types to the interplay
between nerves and muscles. Psychiatrists analysed
the psychomotor function-how writing movements
are affected by emotions. Philosophers linked the
inhibiting force of the Mind and the creative liberalising
elements of the Soul through their projection into the
expressive rhythm and motion of handwriting.
In recent decades, much investigation of the subject
has been undertaken. With the formation of Societies
for Handwriting Psychology, the art has developed
into a scientific forum, with much evidence to support
the validity of graphological analysis.
How does graphology work?
As with most social sciences, there is an accepted
standard. It is clear that, through the complexities of
human nature and a person's adaptation to
surrounding influences, the standard does not actually
exist.
The British 'copybook' standard is that developed
during the 1910's by Marion Richardson, which is
taught in British schools to this day. The copybook
standard of handwriting varies vastly between
countries according to national characteristics and
influences. It also varies within each country at
different times as a result of the differing spirit of the
times. Thus the cursive copybook style of Richardson
is giving way to a modern approach to writing based
on block printing, exemplified by typed text.
What can graphology do? The experienced
graphologist will be able to determine many facets of
personality. These are based under the main headings:
Basic personality eg tendency towards aggression,
sensitivity, self-confidence
Temperament eg emotional control, compulsiveness
Page 38
FIG. 1
FIG. 2

