Intellectual ability eg spontaneity of mental grasp,
learning ability, versatility
Social features eg friendliness, pretentiousness,
dependence on or independence of others
Working qualities eg reliability, initiative, leadership
abilities, discretion
Moral qualities eg integrity, immaturity,
susceptibility to influence.
Dr Max Pulver described the actions of a writer in
filling up a sheet of paper as 'a confrontation with a
problem that becomes symbolic of his own position
in space and time, of his attitude to himself and to
others, and to the past and future, to the spiritual,
social and material worlds'.
To the left lies childhood and the past, to the right
the future, work to be done and fellow creatures.
Upward movement symbolises spiritual and
intellectual things, downward movement tends
towards the subconcious and to practicality and
material things.
The jigsaw puzzle of personality is embodied in the
complexity of handwriting. No single component on
its own should be considered in isolation as truly
indicative of a trait.
An important factor in the assessment of
personality from handwriting is the ability to handle
different aspects of character. The character may be
compared to a tent with many forces tying it down.
A good balance will prevent tensions building up,
which could lead to overstraining and breaking. It will
also prevent a lack of support and stability leading to
collapse.
BOX 1
Zones 3mm upper-intellectual and spiritual limits
3mm middle-social relationships, emotions, practical behaviour
3mm lower-sexual awareness and materialistic concern
Connections garland \JJUJ amiability, softness of nature
arcade fWVdiplomatic courtesy, impenetrability, lying & hypocrisy,
calm and calculating
angular ^Vk/firmness, no compromise, persistance, sulkiness
Letter style linear "7^<
pictorial-
Rhythm-to assess rhythm, imagine tracing the writing with your pen. Rhythmic writing flows
smoothly, in one direction, usually with a high degree of connectedness
Regularity-examine facets such as the degree of consistency of the letter forms. Regularity and
rhythm do not necessarily go hand-in-hand. For example, sample ' A ' is highly rhythmic, but also
highly irregular. This indicates calmness and equilibrium, though coupled with indifference.
How the analysis works
Two rosettes are shown. These display, in a skeletal
and simplified form, the most commonly analysed and
useful features of handwriting (Figure 1) along with
their corresponding psychological implications (Figure
2). The main division lies in the left and right
separation of characteristics that represent,
respectively, tension and release. Ideally, a balance
between features in both halves is sought as this is
indicative of a well-balanced personality, deriving
stability from a counteraction of opposing forces.
The figures are divided into six major sections.
Table 1
Segment Handwriting Psychological
number feature implications
1 Lower zone small Lack of materialism, repressed libido
1A large Materialism, strong libido
2 Pressure Light Limited energy, willpower, forcefulness
2A heavy Strong, energy and vitality, depth of emotion
3 Letter formation neglected Does not keep to standards, obscure
3A careful Conforms, attention to detail
4 Alignment uneven nervousness, lack of consistency of purpose
4A even composure, straightforwardness
5 Regularity irregular lack of control, versatality, unpredictable, lack of discipline
5A regular control, monotony, orderly behaviour
6 speed quick spontaneity, liveliness, impulsiveness
6A slow carefulness, dullness, inertia, steadiness
7 Size large ambition, childishness, tendency to exaggerate
7A small concentration, realism, accuracy
8 Upper zone large spiritual or intellecutal aspirations, aims high and strives upwards
8A small lack of spiritual or intellectual aspirations
9 Middle zone large high degree of self-confidence and social sefl-importance
9A small lack of self-confidence and social self-importance
10 slant right demonstrative, moving cut towards others and future
10A neutral independence
10B left preoccupied with the inner world and the past, defensive
11 Space filled wants to be involved closely with other people and the world
11A empty wants to maintain an exclusive distance from other people and the world
12 Width broad social expansiveness, cosmopolitan outlook, obtrusiveness
12A narrow inhibitions, restrictions, narrow views, resolve
13 Fineness thick sensuality, artistic sense of colour and warmth, personal indulgence
13A thin lack of sensuality, ascetism, critical disposition
14 Letter connections garland amiability, receptiveness, kindness
14A angular hardness, resistance, inability to compromise
15 Letter style pictorial visual minded, move by visual shape and form
15A linear interest in process, structure and movement
16 Lines rising hopefulness, optimism
16A falling fatigue, weariness, pessimism
17 Connectedness connected logical thought procedure, continuity, capacity for seeing thing through
17A disconnected lack of continuity and sense in relationships, distraction, inventiveness
18 Rhythm rhythmic harmonious personality
18A arrhythmic disharmony within the personality, high degree of emotion and passion.
Page 39

