These contain characteristics which indicate control
and lack of control (sections I left and I right
respectively), introversion and extroversion (sections
II left and II right), and lack of joie de vivre and ability
to enjoy life (sections III left and III right). Each major
section can be divided into further segments, using
a variety of handwriting features. Here six features
in each section are used to demonstrate how the
overall picture of the character may be constructed.
To analyse a sample of handwriting, at least 15 lines
of script is needed, preferably on blank paper. In order
to test certain categories, such as how broad the
writing is, it is important that the writer is using a
writing implement with which they feel comfortable.
Each of the features is taken in turn and judged as
to whether the sample indicates tension or release for
that characteristic (or is neutral, for example upright
writing with no slant either way). It is rated from 1
(slight tendency) to 4 (exaggerated) and the section
of the segment corresponding to that score is shaded
in, with the inner section being 1 and the outer section
4. When complete, the shading pattern provides an
insight into the balance and tension with the sample.
Samples are reproduced in Box 2 which are
accompanied by a basic assessment of whether each
feature lies in tension or release for that sample.
Further explanation of certain features can be found
in Box 1, When the degree of tension has been
determined for each section, Table 1 is used to
translate the handwriting feature into a general
personality trait.
The form level of the sample
Another type of analysis is based on the 'Form Level'
of the sample, after the methods of Dr Robert Saudek.
This is a combination of characteristics relating to
speed, spacing and originality. In general, the higher
the standard of writing and spacing, the more positive
will be the interpretation of other factors.
For example, slow copybook handwriting,
projecting little originality or intellectual leaning, will
be written by a monotonous, sterotyped and
unimaginative individual-a follower rather than a
leader; this would merit a poor Form Level indicating
plainness and a mundane character.
A high Form Level might be merited by originality
of letter forms with emphasis on graceful quality,
simplicity and legibility. These are expressive of the
writer's productive ability and intelligent ideas. The
creative and logical thinker will write without
adornment but not to the point of neglect. Neglect of
letter form and also a disorder of spacing point to
disorganisation and intellectual disturbance, such as
confusion in comprehension.
There are several aspects of form which are of
interest to the graphologist. The length of the initial
stroke, if any, is indicative of the degree of inner
preparation that the writer needs before starting a
task. No initial stroke at all is a positive factor in
determining Form Level.
The formation of the personal pronoun T (PPI)
relates to self-image. An enrolled ' I' with curls at both
ends is indicative of greed. A straight 'I', narrow and
simple, is a natural response, for a writer who wishes
to be seen as he/she actually is. A complicated and
enriched PPI expresses feelings of self-worth and is
often an over-compensation for an inferiority complex.
Circle 'i'-dots show immature attitudes, and a false
attempt to project an image of sophistication. The dot
connected to the next letter shows a quick and agile
mind.
Low 't'-bars belong to the inflexible person. High
't'-bars, if touching the stem, indicate ability to lead
and take control, if detached from the stem a
dominance of social interests is indicated. As with the
'i'-dot, when joined to the next letter, the 't'-bar
displays a quick and agile mind.
Lower loops, especially in the letters 'g' and 'y', are
the most important indication of sexual maturity and
imagination. As such, it might be unwise to include
too many examples here which may be seen as
libellous. Suffice to say that the longer the loop the
better! Wide loops, open and to the left, display
contemplation, openness to sensual impressions with
a poetic attitude to the sensual world. If the loop
claws back from the left towards the end of the
stroke, greed and egoism are the order of the day.
The left margin shows how the writer utilises his
resources. Width points to generosity and pride. A
writer whose left margin widens as the the writing
progresses down the page is impulsively motivated
and saves time but at the expense of accuracy. The
writer appreciates new projects as a welcome release
from mundane activities. Such people tend to lose
control. Sometimes a writer will become aware of the
widening margin in the text and will pull himself back
into line with each new paragraph. Thus the impulsive
nature is controlled.
Signatures
Signatures are never analysed without a sample of the
normal handwriting. The general script represents
what the writer is and the signature represents the
image that the writer wishes to project to others.
When the signature and body of the script are alike,
there is little discrepancy between the writer's private
and public life. A signature that is smaller than the
script will show an individual who has a low profile
of modesty, inhibition and shyness.
Similarly, a signature larger than the script exhibits
an image of importance and stature-a desire to be
recognised. Legible signatures indicate a person
willing to honour commitments, being sincere and
reliable, with a good balance of expressiveness in
personality. A completely illegible and complicated
signature is adopted by the vain character who
considers himself superior.
The initial stroke of a signature is often used as a
flamboyant springboard into the rest of the motion.
This shows a need for continuous advancement in
business and social circles, and an active drive and
aggression. When written in one continous
movement, the writer is logically oriented and
unwilling to be interrupted in his thoughts. A heavy
full stop after a signature represents an opinionated
and obstinate attitude. As a final note on signatures,
if the name is cancelled out by a score finishing to the
left, the writer has very low self-esteem, and when
the crossing out is carried out with heavy pressure,
the writer has no desire to carry on with life as it is.
Graphology in the real world
On reflection, one might be dismayed that so much
detailed information might be gleaned from such an
open and commonly used form of personal
communication. It must be stressed that in highly
confidential situations, especially with regard to
personnel selection, graphology is generally used as
a tool only at the short-list stage. It is an aid to
confirming underlying impressions that an interviewer
may have developed, in order to give a more complete
picture of the candidate.
The fact that a graphological analysis does form part
of the selection procedure in many companies is not
in doubt. In small businesses, where the compatibility
of employees is crucial to the success of the
company, graphology has an even more important role
to play. As with all such psychometric tests, though,
graphology is never used as a screening implement
in its own right.
The equilibrium of handwriting and personality is
continually shifting. As the character changes through
learning and response to influences, so the adaptive
process causes subconcious modifications in the
handwriting. These effects are often minimal, but
when accumulated can suddenly reveal a different
person, just as minute shifts in personality ultimately
produce a new person.
It is certainly useful to know when you fill in those
application forms that your writing may well be
examined in detail, that certain hints about your
character may be drawn from this analysis, and that
this may influence the direction that an interviewer
might take. Knowing what tell-tale signs might be
given away by your handwriting can only serve to
prepare you better for the selection process.
The candidate cannot afford to be sceptical about
graphology-it is a science which has academic
support and which possesses enough credibility for
major companies to be serious about its use in
personnel selection. In an increasingly competitive job
market, every possible means to select the best
candidate will be used. Forewarned is forearmed.
BOX 2 SAMPLE A
SAMPLE B
- - c
p
-
Release-number only: tension-denoted by A: neutral- denoted by N
Segment number 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 1 1 12 13 14 15 16 17 18
Sample A N 2 3A 4 5A 6 N N N N 1 1 A 1 2 N 1 4 1 5 A 16N 17 18
Sample 6 N 2 3 4 5 6 N 8 9A 10A N 12 N 14 15 16 17 18
Page 40

