Student dies after falling from top floor.
Southside tragedy
A student living in Tizard Hall died after falling from
the top floor of Southside in the early hours of
Saturday 9th June.
The student, Shourjo Madhab, had been drinking
and was seen climbing along the back of the building
just before the accident. He landed, apparently on his
back, on a second floor gallery over 70ft below. There
were no suspicious circumstances.
Despite the efforts of friends and passers-by who
gave him emergency first-aid, Mr Madhab died in
Westminster hospital two hours later. He is said to
have lost consciousness within seconds of falling.
One half of a double door leading on to the gallery
had to be broken down to allow the stretcher bearing
Mr Madhab to leave. The security guards on duty
had been unable to unlock it although Chief Security
Officer Geoff Reeves claims they had a key. The key
may have jammed.
Mr Madhab had been among some 20 Tizard Hall
residents who had gone out for a meal the previous
evening after which he and three friends returned to
his room to talk. It was then that, despite his friends
protests, Mr Madhab started 'window-walking'. He
had been out and back in once and was standing on
the window ledge when he tried to pull himself up
by his arms. He is believed to have lost his grip. His
friends, one of whom tried to give Mr Madhab mouth-
to-moufh resuscitation, were said to be suffering from
shock.
The coroners inquest into the death began on
Wednesday 13th June and the body was cremated the
following Friday. The ashes will be flown to India.
Obituary
Shourjo
(13.5.71
Shourjo Madhab fell while climbing the ninth storey
of Southside. He died in Westminster Hospital never
having regained consciousness.
Shourjo was in Maths. 1; he had just completed
his dissertation on 'The Farkas Lemma and Duality'.
His supervisor, Dr. 0 . Pretzel, called it highly
original, and Shourjo a first class student. Just ten
minutes before he died, he had a profound discussion
of some Mathematics with a friend: he was
committed, had a brilliant and incisive mind, and
loved the beauty and insight that Maths revealed.
In Hall, Shourjo was one of the dozen or so
Page 4
Tizard Hall Warden, John Hassard, described Mr
Madhab, a 19 year old first year mathematics
undergraduate, as one of the most popular people in
hall. Dr Hassard said that M r Madhab had been
warned about window walking before, but said that
he was 'very headstrong and very strong-willed.' He
added that he was 'much loved and will be much
missed.'
Mr Madhab was said to be a brilliant student and
a gifted mathematician. He came from a cultured and
indispensable people, who made the Hall work. He
made things happen. He was gregarious, organised
and sympathetic; he knew everybody and was close
to many. Next year he was to be a Tizard Hall reapp:
he was a natural choice, and he was looking forward
to it.
We all have a great sense of loss - the loss of a
friend, a brilliant and incisive mind, a warm and
colourful character. Shourjo leaves loving and
extraordinary parents and a large but close circle of
friends. We'll all miss him.
supportive Indian family, living in the Philippines
where his father was the director of a United Nation's
agency.
Ian Gillet, College Safety Officer, told FELIX that
the College were still considering the implications of
the accident. He said that some windows could be
padlocked shut and coated with a reflective film to
keep the rooms cool. He feels, however, that students
should have a 'certain amount of responsibility' for
their actions.
John Hassard
Madhab
-9.6.90)

