Seriously folks, FELIX says 'don't mess with drugs. '
D$H%&£HB3L!GJ%!?
This year saw the first warning sign of drug abuse at
IC for sometime. A sign in Southside bar warned
students of the College's policy on drug abuse upon
its premises. If you are caught, you will be prosecuted.
American students were smoking marijuana in the bar
and the staff were becoming concerned that IC might
lose its licence if the police were to raid the bar. Their
concern is one which I share. Why should drug users
endanger the facilities open to all students? The
question of taking drugs in your own home is another
matter.
The Government's Central Office of Information
(COI) is currently running a campaign against drug
abuse. The horrific tale they portray of teenagers
dying whilst under the influence of drugs is a strong
image designed to shock rather than inform. Few
people are ever told of the actual effects of a drug.
As a well known media celebrity once said, 'Drugs are
great, it's just the morning after...'
Marijuana
Pot, dope, blow, hash; marijuana probably has more
names attached to it than any other drug. It also has
the greatest amount of mystique and hearsay
surrounding it. Many people argue that it's just the
beginning of the road to ruin. They are also the people
who fear that vitamin pills may only be the beginning
of a drug problem. The COI have nurtured this kind
of blinkered thinking in order to mask the true
government policy on the matter: Britain does not
want another drug on the market. Tobacco and
alcohol are already freely available to the general
public, under a strict and costly system of excise and
duties. The manpower cost of administering the
taxation and movement, is just one area the
government would rather avoid. The current argument
would collapse under a legalised system. People
would have to seek out 'hard' drug pushers to buy
drugs more serious than marijuana. The pushers
would move further underground as the'soft' side of
their sales, represented by marijuana, fell through.
Forced to peddle hard drugs only, they would place
themselves at a higher legal risk. (The penalties for
dealing in hard drugs are far higher than those for
selling marijuana.)
So what is all the fuss about?
The effects of cannabis are similar to those of alcohol.
Cannabis, however, is not a depressant. You can get
stoned when you're down as well as when you're up.
Alcohol is a depressant, and the effects of getting
drunk when depressed tend to add to the 'down'
feeling. Cannabis has never been proven to have any
physically addictive effects, whereas alcohol is known
to be physically addictive. The fuss is that we are
subjected to a hard sell for alcohol, in every form of
media possible and yet we are told that cannabis is
an evil of society. The public are being conned in big
way for the sake of a little administrative ease.
Cannabis is great and cheap! A quarter of an ounce
of the stuff will probably cost you £25-30. When you
consider that a sixteenth of an ounce of cannabis is
enough to get most people 'stoned' it works out far
cheaper than alcohol. The problem is that people still
don't find it socially acceptable.
The law still applies a weird kind of logic to
cannabis. Graded as a 'class B' drug, it has far more
lax sentencing for usage. Many people are let off with
a warning but dealers can be given a prison sentence.
You are classified as a dealer if you are carrying a
quarter of an ounce or more of cannabis.
The biggest problem that students at Imperial face is
not being able to find any and not knowing what to
do with it once they've got it. As far as the former
is concerned there is little advice I can offer. What is
worth noting is that people who buy cannabis from
somebody they don't know, in a pub are asking to be
ripped off. Unscrupulous dealers are commonplace in
London and will happily cut cannabis with all manner
of substances, including shoe polish. They will happily
sell you an underweight chunk or a lump of 0X0. The
best place to buy dope is from a friend.
What to do with it.
Although the standard joint is easy enough to
produce, the joys of a bubble pipe are certainly
something worth writing home about (but not
literally.)
Instructions
To make your own FELIX bubble pipe you will need.
1 Demijohn (available from Boots).
1 Large funnel
1 Large foil pie tray
1 packet of Blu Tak (available from ICU Bookstore)
1 needle 3ft of syphon hosing (available from Boots
wine section)
2 pints of water
1 lump of cannabis (approx. one sixteenth of an ounce
between two people)
1 lighter
1. Pierce the foil tray with the needle to form a fine
mesh gauze at its centre.
2. Attach the pie tray to the funnel with part of the
blu tak, making sure you have formed an air-tight seal.
3. Attach a 1 ft length of the hosing to the end of the
funnel.
4. Place the funnel and the rest of the hosing into the
neck of the demijohn, filled half full with water.
5. Seal the hosing and funnel with the remainder of
the blu tak, forming an air-tight seal.
(Note that the hosing from the funnel should be below
the surface of the water. The other section should be
above the surface of the water.)
6. Place the cannabis on the gauze section of the tray
and run a flame over it.
7. Suck the hosing whilst warming the cannabis.
8. Enjoy.
Page 49

