Now we have somefineweather, why not take a break and go on a walk? Every week seve
run dozens ofguided tours around London, each with its own attractions. Toby Jones decided
of the most well known companies, City Walks.
Walks in London
City Walks
The current programme continues unchanged until
January 31 1991. Note: No tours on December 24,
25, 26, or January 1.
All walks are £4 or £3 to students, International
Youth Hostel cardholders and OAPs. A London Card
can be purchased for £7 for two walks; £7 for an all
day ticket; £12 for unlimited walks for two weeks or
£ 17 for unlimited walks for the whole year. City Walks
can be contacted on 071-937 4281.
Ghosts, Ghouls and Graveyards
Every night 9pm outside St Pauls Underground.
Every night a cheerful group sets out from St Pauls
to be haunted with tales of mass burials, victims of
the plague and spirits that won't lie peacefully. I joined
the tour on a clear, cold Wednesday night with eleven
others. This was a medium sized group, sometimes
there are as many as sixty!
We started at St Pauls with a peaceful, ghostly
clergyman, accidentally dispelled when a staircase,
not shown on any plan, was uncovered. Setting a
good pace, we covered Deadman's walk, the last
place condemned men saw before being hanged; the
area where they were cut up in aid of science (some
not quite dead!) and secluded courtyards and
graveyards where certain spirits roam in search of
missing clothing or limbs!
Two hours later we had over-run by fifteen minutes
with only a short stop in a pub to warm up. I was glad
I'd wrapped up. Still, the lively commentary from an
enthusiastic guide and a fairly brisk pace between
Middle Temple, once the headquarters for the powerful religious order of the Knights Templa
frequent stops kept us from freezing up altogether.
I enjoyed this tour immensely and parted good friends
from my fellow phantom-hunters.
The Royal Courts of Justice, which oddly lack the customary statue of 'Blind Justice.
Page 50
The Original Hidden Interiors of Old London.
Every week-day 10.30am outside Temple Under-
ground (except Apr 13, 16; May 7, 28; Aug 27; Dec
24, 25, 26, 31; Jan 1 1991)
As a change from ghosts, I thought I would take a
more factual walk. I almost didn't make it due to
delays on the Underground-a warning to set out in
good time, since many tours start promptly if there
are enough people. This time, on a windy Friday, I had
only two companions plus guide but there can be up
to thirty people.
We started in the grounds of the Middle Temple,
once the head quarters of the Knights Templar, now
one of the training centres for barristers. We were
given a long talk on the history of the surrounding
buildings and how they came to be a law school.
Luckily, the Middle Temple Hall was open, as was the
nearby Templar church. Like all Templar churches it
has a circular nave. Damaged in the war it now has
a wooden roof.
After a short pub stop, we visited the church of St
Clement Danes, where the bells play 'Oranges and
Lemons', before crossing the road to the Royal Courts
of Justice. This is a huge building, built like a
cathedral. Hidden in odd corners there are a few
builder's jokes: for example a cat and dog (the defence
and prosecution) baiting each other round the
magistrates' entrance.
We finished the tour with a short talk inside Sir John
Soane's Museum. This fascinating house has not
changed since Sir Soane died in 1837. It houses his
collection of curios and art treasures including The
Rake's Progress. Allow several more hours or even the
rest of the day for this treasure chest!

