High life in London
O A,
Adam Harrington
The one thing that makes a big, dirty, ugly city like
London bearable is its music. Contemporary rock and
pop venues are expensive and very well publicised.
Whilst classical music is not exactly 'cheap', it is
cheaper and is on every night in a number of places.
So if you are bored with the insistent ratatatatat of
S, A and W and want something more subtle than
Meatloaf, try music that in many cases has been going
strong for over two hundred years.
The Wigmore Hall is located at 36 Wigmore street,
the nearest tube is Bond Street. Ticket office 935
2141. Student standbys can be bought one hour
before the performance - they are the best available
seating at the lowest price (usually £4).
The hall is hidden behind a small porch (in the
drawing). It is a rectangular room decorated in the
1920's style. It is good for chamber music and any
small scale performances.
The South Bank Centre is between Waterloo and
Hungerford bridges on the south bank of the Thames.
The nearest tube is Embankment and involves a walk
over Hungerford bridge. This is not advised late at
night if you are alone. Ticket office 928 3002.
Standbys are sold two hours before the performance.
Prices vary according to the popularity of the
concert-i.e. a programme including Mozart's Eine
Kleine Nachtmusik will be upwards of £5 whilst the
latest horror from Phillip Glass may be £2.
The Royal Festival Hall is a big auditorium for music
on a grand scale. It also hold occaisional poetry
renditions.
The Queen Elizabeth Hall and Purcell Room next
door are for smaller scale works. The Queen Elizabeth
Hall is a nasty cavern of wood and concrete.
The centre is a good venue for most music but the
architecture is gross. The interval cafe is expensive
and the place is always full of trendies or down-and-
outs. The walk across the footbridge is frequently
nerve-wracking.
1'••«-/ m m
Wigmore Hall
Page 52
St Martin's-in-the-Fields in Trafalgar square. The
nearest tube is Charing Cross, but the most
convenient is Embankment, which is only a few yards
distant. Ticket office 839 1930. Concessions for
students are £1 off the full price (£3 to £4) and
lunchtime concerts are free, with a £1 donation
expected.
The church has occasional concerts on Saturday
evenings and rarely on other evenings. Lunchtime
concerts (1.00pm) occur on Mondays and Tuesdays
and sometimes other days.
It is a beautiful 18th century church which
everybody sees when they visit the square. A superb
setting for baroque or early classical music.

