r . Barbican Centre
ftrya/ College of Music
13 tali ico -•>
The Barbican Centre is comprised of a hall (for
music), two theatres and a cinema. This feature is
only concerned with the hall. The nearest tube is
Barbican or Moorgate-leave a good three quarters of
an hour to get there from South Kensington. Ticket
office 938 8891. Student standbys are reduced price
tickets sold less than an hour before the performance
and conform to the same free-market criteria as for
the South Bank Centre. Prices range from £4 to £7.
The hall is as large as the Royal Festival Hall, but
is much more pleasant as it is made of pine wood with
ranks of comfortable and convenient benches rather
than seats. Once again, interval coffee can burn a hole
in your pocket.
The Royal College of Music in Prince consort road-
between Aeronautics and the Mines building, the tall
red brick building out of Transylvania. It puts on free
concerts virtually every night in term time, and
sometimes puts on operas of a high standard, which
cost less than £5 to see.
The quality is good-with occaisional errors (the
performers are students). The music ranges from the
good old fashioned classics to modern stuff like
Webern, Schoenberg and Reich. Term programmes
are available from the RCM reception desk.
Imperial College occasionally puts on free lunch
hour concerts by professional and often world famous
musicians. These are held in the Read theatre at 1.30
on Thursdays, except when the Humanities
department changes it without advertising the fact.
Term programmes are dotted about the college, or
contact the humanities department (Telephone
internal 7059).
Covent Garden Opera House in Covent Garden-
nearest tube of the same name. Ticket office 240
1066/1911, or recorded standby information on 836
6903. This puts on a variety of extremely expensive
operas and ballets. The so-called 'low price standby'
is £10. But it is possible to get restricted view seating
for £1 to £ 4 - y o u see the occasional flash of a tutu
and thats it. I don't much like opera or ballet, so that's
all this place gets.
The Royal Academy of Music in Marylebone Road,
nearest tube is Regents park. Free concerts are held
by students on a fairly regular basis during term time.
Leave in plenty of time to buy a ticket; all student
standbys are sold to the student in person just before
the performance on production of a valid student
union card.
St John's, Smith Square-the nearest tube is
Westminster and involves a 10 minute walk. The bus
service stops closer but tends to be very irregular. It
is quite cheap with concessions costing from £2 to
£5.
It is another beautiful 18th century church rebuilt
after the war. A good setting for all music from the
chamber to the grand, and has concerts virtually every
evening.
St John's, Smith Square
Page 53

