Rhydian Hapgood discusses the consequences ofthe Government's reform ofthe NHS and looks to t
A risky operation
On January 25 1988, the Prime Minister announced
the Government's intention to reform the NHS. The
White Paper 'Working for Patients' was published the
following year, followed by eight working papers. By
the end of 1991, the first NHS Hospital Trusts will be
established, the first GP practice budget holders will
be buying services for their patients, drug budget
schemes will have been implemented, and District
Health Authorities (DMA) will be paying directly for
the work they do for each other. This plethora of
changes raises a number of questions. Why the need
for change? What will be the effects on medical
education? Is this the correct way forward for medical
teaching, practice and research in the UK?
The need for change
There is an increasing disparity between the
contribution to health that modern medicine can
provide and the amount of money available. It is
wrong that, in spite of steady rises in Government
spending, NHS resources are ever more constrained
and waiting lists continue to increase.
The effect on medical education
The White Paper places little emphasis upon medical
education and research. Only a token commitment to
these areas is expressed and the Working Papers give
little additional detail.
Each DHA will be obliged to supply only a baseline
of core services with little restriction upon where
these, or the non-core services, are to be obtained.
A major concern is that hospitals may decide that it
is more cost-effective to provide fewer services in
order to specialise in certain fields, and patients with
a particular condition may not be referred locally.
Undergraduate training depends on the provision of
a wide range of core and complementary services in
teaching centres. It is therefore necessary for
specialists in a correspondingly wide range of
disciplines to be concentrated in these same centres.
Failure to achieve this will mean that students will not
receive the case mix required to produce competent
doctors capable of making informed decisions. With
the referral of patients to geographically distant
locations (perhaps more than one!) students will find
it hard to observe their patients' progress through the
various stages of their illness. Perhaps community
services should be included in opted-out trusts to
provide continuity of care.
Independent hospitals subcontracting to the private
sector will result in students not receiving any
instruction in that particular discipline. In addition,
many medical schools have a clinical course involving
several hospitals, some of which may choose to
assume self-governing status whilst others may not.
These changes would result in fragmentary teaching
programmes. An obvious remedy for this is for a group
of hospitals to opt out together.
The costs Of undergraduate teaching within the
NHS are difficult to dissect from the costs of providing
health care, as both are closely linked. There is much
overlap in the work performed by University and NHS
staff in hospitals and there has been a traditional
'knock-for-knock' arrangement between medical
schools and health authorities, based on a certain
amount of goodwill and flexibility among medical
personnel. A commercial environment would lead to
the disappearance of this relationship and valuable
teaching will be lost. In addition, increasing
concentration on cost-effectiveness may lead to
Page 54
hospitals regarding it as impractical to retain the
additional staff required for teaching. The present
system owes part of its effectiveness to the fact that
it requires virtually no administration: the proposed
identification of the specific costs involved would
require a large administrative input in both the medical
school and the health authority.
No provision is made in the White Paper for the
costs incurred by academic practices in respect of
teaching and research activities. At present, such
practices are permitted to restrict their lists to allow
time for teaching and research. Under the new
proposals, with a substantially greater proportion of
funding coming from capitation fees, academic
practices will have to sacrifice teaching in order to
maintain large enough lists for adequate funding. GPs
in non-academic practices are also likely to have less
time available to teach.
In order to facilitate planning, finding and evaluation
of medical education, joint management between
hospital trusts, DHAs and medical schools is desirable
for main and associated university hospitals and their
districts. The proposed level of university
representation on the relevant committees is
insufficient to ensure that the needs of medical
education and research will be considered fully.
London University trains one third of Britain's
doctors and 28% of the country's dentists. The
Government's argument that 3% higher capitation will
be sufficient to meet the extra costs of operating in
a capital city, where the population has high medical
and social needs, remains unconvincing. Cost-
effective and rapid reimbursement should be available
to cover the treatment of the acute needs of
commuters and visitors to London. The mechanism
by which this will be assured has not been
demonstrated.
Of particular concern to London is the proposed
capital charges. London Teaching Hospitals, through
no fault of their own, are on sites which are extremely
valuable and so the capital charges to be incurred
would be proportionately high. These high costs,
coupled with the high costs of employing labour in
London, would make it very difficult for these
institutions to be financially competitive.
Postgraduate training is at risk. It is difficult to see
how, even by contracting out training, Regional Health
Authorities will be able to ensure that Hospital
Managers will maintain costly supernumerary training
posts. In addition, it is very likely that there will be
fewer Junior posts within the hospital service. For
example, a supervised registrar will take longer to
carry out an operation than will a consultant. Hospitals
will look unfavourably upon this owing to commercial
pressures. Hospitals will probably make most of the
reductions in GP training posts as self-governing trusts
are likely to put their own priorities before those of
national requirements.
Research will be adversely affected. In order to
develop the health service, it must be possible to try
out new ideas and undertake research. Although the
time and resources required may not be cost effective
in the first instance, new methods may be developed
which would eventually prove to be more economical
than existing techniques; the advance of medicine
must not be overly constrained by financial
considerations.
The way forward for the NHS
There is a need for change in the NHS. However, the
proposed changes will, if introduced nationwide, very
seriously disrupt the health service. There is no
evidence that the changes overall will improve the
standard of care, access to care, or its cost
effectiveness. Furthermore, there is no evidence that
forcing teaching hospitals and medical schools to
spend large sums on costing and on billing to replace
the present system of freely given mutual assistance
will improve either patient care or medical education
and research. The Government's proposals are based
on theory rather than on practical experience. We
should urge the Government to accept that their main
proposals, if they are to be introduced, should be done
so as part of a carefully planned programme initially
limited to not more than two regions, and carefully
monitored. They can then be evaluated and modified
before they are introduced more broadly. This
evaluation should take into account that facilities for
the education and training of medical, nursing and
other professions will change, as change is required,
but must identify and foster changes that can be
shown to be beneficial, and modify those that are
shown to be less effective. It is in the interests of the
Government, the Public, the professions and the
students to ensure that the whole of the NHS is not
the subject of a gigantic and costly experiment with
a high risk of failure.

