Council cash
Representatives from Imperial College and Imperial
College Union met with local Conservative councilors
on Thursday 14th June. The meeting, which lasted
two hours, covered a wide range of issues including
the need for a new hall of residence, better sports
facilities, local improvements and problems with the
College day nursery.
The College was represented Caroline Fox of
Registry and John Finley, the warden of Beit Hall
and an unsuccessful candidate in the local elections.
Imperial College Union was represented by President
Neil McCluskey and Tom Yates, one of the organisers
of the Imperial College local election campaign. They
met with Knightsbridge councilors Robert Michaels
and Robert Moreland. Mr McCluskey and Ms Fox
are now putting together a joint plan to be submitted
to the council.
Councillor Michaels also asked about the arts at
IC. According to M r Yates, this came as a surprise
to everyone: he claimed to have been 'gobsmacked'
but believes that it may be possible for the College
Orchestra to obtain a grant to invite a professional
string quartet to give lessons. He is looking for similar
proposals from other art orientated societies.
The meeting fulfilled an promise made during the
local elections, the first to be fought by Imperial
College candidates. The Conservative candidates had
told the organisers of the IC campaign that if the
Conservatives won, as they did, they would try to
represent the College better.
McCluskey
Fails
Imperial College Union President Neil McCluskey
has failed in his attempt to become a member of the
College Management and Planning Group (MPG).
The MPG deals with all aspects of College finances
and was responsible for the controversial decision to
cut back the College Careers Service. It reports
directly to the Rector and has no student
representation. M r McCluskey presented a proposal
to make ICU president a member of M P G at a meeting
of Governing Body held on Tuesday 12th June. This
proposal was rejected.
Serpentine
danger
Warning signs have been erected around the
Serpentine in Hyde Park after traces of potentially
toxic blue-green algae were found. The algae has been
known to cause rashes, diarrhoea, vomiting and fever
and the public have been warned not to swim in the
lake. The increased algal growth has been blamed on
the recent hot weather.
Rose goes
Lesley Rose, who has responsibility for Residence
bills, is to leave Imperial College. She formally
handed in her notice on Thursday 14th June. Mrs
Rose, who had previously worked in the Student
Accommodation Office, told FELIX that she was
leaving for good simply because she had found 'a
better job to go to.'
Typical
The annual President's Dinner, held on Friday 8th
June, ended in drunken debauchery according to
reports reaching the F E L I X office.
FELIX staff fighting their way past the pools of
vomit the following morning report seeing a gaunt
and sickly looking man collapsed in a corner of the
office. He was later identified as former editor Bill
Goodwin. Current FELIX editor Dave Smedley was
not heard from until 5 O'Clock the following day.
A spokesman for the FELIX staff described the affair
as 'bloody typical.'
Union theft
Around £50 cash and a Gucci watch were among
valuables stolen from the Union gym changing rooms
on Monday 11th June. The robbery took place
between 8 and 10pm. The thief was not caught.
Another opportunist thief, who is believed to have
been stealing from Imperial College earlier this year,
has been arrested after trying to rob students at City
University. It was the second time that the man had
been caught at the University. On the first time cheque
books belonging to IC students were recovered but
the man escaped before the police arrived.
He was arrested after being recognised when he
returned to the site for a second time last Thursday.
He subsequently admitted a dozen offences. IC Chief
Security Officer, Geoff Reeves, told FELIX 'we've
got him bang to rights.'
Pownall
taken ill
Roger Pownall, the College Bars' Manager, was
rushed to hospital last Thursday morning suffering
from heart trouble. M r Pownall is 36 and, prior to
the incident, had been very active. The news has
shocked his many friends at college.
Mr Pownall first felt ill while resting in his flat.
He phoned for an ambulance and was admitted to
hospital by 10 am with his heart beating at twice the
normal rate. Rob Northey, Catering and Conferences
manager who is Mr Pownall's boss, visited him last
Thursday night. 'Roger was alright,' M r Northey
said, 'he was bored with having to read his newspaper
six times.'
The hospital requested that Mr Pownall stay in the
Coronary Unit while tests were carried out and he
was discharged the following day. He has gone to
the West Midlands to recover and is expected back
next week.
Chem Eng
pay up
The Chemical Engineering department has finally paid
the £150 it owed to the college for damage done at
February's Chemical Engineering annual dinner.
Professor Wakeham, the head of department, said that
the delay was due to problems getting the Chemical
Engineering Society and the City and Guilds Union
to pay their share.
Barbecue
curse
The curse of the Barbecue continues. Wu Shu Kwan
Kung Fu Society, a collection of people who enjoy
smashing bricks with their bare hands, asked the
Union for any spare bricks left over from the
barbecue. They later returned them on the grounds
that they were indestructible.
Ego bursts
People throughout the Union were not surprised at
all when FELIX Editor Dave Smedley was taken ill
early on Monday morning suffering from a grossly
inflated ego. This condition, known as Hackney's
Syndrome, leads to an insane desire to produce the
biggest FELIX in recorded history. It has caused great
suffering to his nearest and dearest and to the News
Editor who, sitting here the night before the bloody
thing is due to be finished, fervently wishes that the
condition was terminal.
Page 5

