Ian Hodge reveals how little freedom of information we enjoy in Britain...
Secret society
Information is power. If you can control the flow of
information you have the ultimate power. The society
that we live in is one where people are given
information on a 'need to know', not a 'want to know'
basis. There are many ways in which the present
government continues to maintain a society where
information is a highly valued commodity.
The Official Secrets act.
Introduced in 1911, it was rushed through parliament
in half an hour with the threat of war hanging over
the heads of the British population. The act has one
major flaw: Section Two.
Described as a 'catch all' provision, section 2 makes
the disclosure of classified information by a civil
servant, an offence. The crime is punishable by a
sentence of up to two years and/or a fine.
The act has many weaknesses:
• It is does not distinguish between the important and
the trivial. The plans for the latest fighter plane are
treated with the same level of secrecy as the number
of sugars the Prime Minister has in her tea.
• Once the information has been disclosed it is an
offence to pass it on to anybody else. Printing the
information in a newspaper or passing it on to
anybody by word of mouth is illegal. The classic case
is the 'Spycatcher' affair.
• Anyone who receives information that is covered
by the act is committing an offence, unless they can
prove that it was given to them against their wishes.
• Most farcical of all, it is illegal to knowingly allow
people to hand over information covered by the act
on your land.
Under the Official Secrets Act, the Government may
decide what is classified information and prosecute
those who disagree with them.
Reform.
In 1989 the then Home Secretary, Douglas Hurd, put
forward a white paper in a bid to correct some of the
faults in the original act.
Now, the Government has to prove that actual harm
will be caused to 'National Security,' by a disclosure.
The government claims that the changes have
removed the cases where people were liable for
prosecution for revealing irrelevant or meaningless
information. This rarely happened with the original
act. The new version is merely window dressing; it
makes no real attempt to promote freedom of
information.
There are several areas that the white paper
completely fails to address:
• If a senior civil servant or a member of parliament
breaks the law or is incompetent in their job it is illegal
for anybody to reveal the fact even though it is clearly
in the public interest.
• What makes information harmful? The act's
definition of harm is hazy. All that is required is for
there to be a danger of harm being done to the state.
It does not specify what it means by 'harm'. What is
'National Security?' The security of the people or of
the government in power?
• Certain categories of information do not require any
proof of harm. Indeed, the courts are forced to ignore
any evidence that harm has not been done.
Page 56
Famous Prosecutions under the official
secrets include:
1977: Duncan Campbell and Crispin Aubrey
interviewed ex-soldier John Berry. They were
prosecuted and convicted for receiving information
even though the government had expressed its
intention to alter section two so that receiving
information was not an offence.
The soldier received a 6 month sentence while the
two journalists were both conditionally discharged and
ordered to pay costs.
1984: Sarah Tisdall, a clerk in the Foreign Secretary's
private office, was convicted for revealing information
about the arrival of cruise missiles at Greenham
Common. During the prosecution it was
acknowledged that no harm had been caused by the
disclosure but, without the promised alterations to the
act, she was given a sentence of 6 months.
1984: Clive Ponting, a senior civil servant in the
Ministry of Defence, was prosecuted for revealing
information about the sinking of the 'General
Belgrano' during the Falklands conflict. The defence
argued that the disclosure was in the public interest.
The jury agreed with the defence and rejected the
judge's comments that the 'national interest' was
equivalent to the self-interest of the government of
the day. He was unanimously acquitted, and was later
to achieve notoriety within the civil service through
the slang term 'to pont,' meaning to leak information.
The Data Protection Act.
Since November 11th 1987 you have had the right
to see data held about you on any computer system.
The act is a major advance towards freedom of
information but falls well short of what is required.
There are still wide ranges of data that you are not
allowed to see:
1. Data which has been designated National Security
Information. This means that any information that the
government wants to keep quiet can be classified as
'National Security Information', making it an offence
to reveal it.
2. Criminal records.
3. Data held purely for payroll purposes.
4. A credit reference, since you can gain access using
the Consumer Credit Act, 1974.
5. Medical records, except when it is considered to
be in the patient's interest.
How to gain access.
To get a copy of the information that a company holds
about you you must write to them, giving sufficient
detail for them to be able to identify you and for you
to prove your identity. They must provide the
information that you require within forty days or give
a reason for being unable to do so. There are several
reasons why data might be withheld:
• Giving you the information would make them liable
for prosecution under another act.
OR

