• If they decide that it is 'unreasonable' for them to
give you the information.
The data holder can charge you for the service.
Although local authorities tend not to charge, many
private companies will bill you for the maximum £10
fee. In some cases, when the information is held on
a number of separate systems, the bill can be as high
as £60. A charge can be levied on each request with
no guarantee that they hold information about you.
If you are refused information you are not told why,
they may not even have any information at all. The
fee that you have paid may not be returned, making
searching for the information that you require a costly
and frustrating business.
Other Freedom of Information Legislation.
In recent years there have been a number of small
advances towards total freedom of information.
The Local Government (Access to Information) Act
1985 was introduced as a private member's bill by
Robin Squire. It increases the public's rights of access
to council meetings and any associated documents.
The agenda for any meeting of the council or any of
its sub-committees must be available for three clear
days before. Documents that will be discussed at the
meeting and any background information must also
be available. Copies must also be obtainable for a
small fee.
Before the act was introduced it was possible for
councils to withhold information without consulting
the public.
Access to Personal Files Act 1987.
This act allows people access to personal files, such
as social security and housing records, held by local
authorities. It also allows parents access to their
children's school records and students in further
education can also see their files.
Access to Medical Reports Act 1988.
Archie Kirkwood MP introduced another private
member's bill to allow people access to medical
reports requested by insurance companies or
employers. You have the right to inspect, correct and
even withhold the report if you wish, although the
insurance company or employer may not take kindly
to this.
Environmental and Safety Information Act 1988.
With the increase in environmental matters came an
explosion in the amount of information that people
wanted. Before this bill was introduced it was possible
to discover how much waste a company was legally
allowed to discharge but not whether they were
obeying the limit. Under the new bill, public registers
of all enforcement notices must be set up and
maintained.
In addition to this legislation there are plans by the
EEC to introduce an Environmental freedom of
information act which this government backs. It will
go further than our existing laws and should be in
force by January 1993.
Conclusions.
It is noticeable that the legislation for the freedom of
information was introduced through private members
bills. There was no government support. Neil Kinnock
has given a promise to introduce freedom of
information but there is no concerted campaign by the
Labour party in the Commons, at present.
Individual bills have singled out areas that needed
improving. The legislation so far, however, shows a
scattered approach towards a workable freedom of
information act.
The organisations that are campaigning for the
freedom of information have a common goal: a
freedom of information act similar to the ones in
America, Canada and Australia. These acts allow
normal everyday people access to all but the most
secret information.
What is deemed to be too secret for the public to
see? The easiest way around this problem would be
to have nothing that was too secret, nothing that
would damage the country by its disclosure. As the
majority of information that would be withheld under
a freedom of information act would be military if you
removed the need for military secrets then you could
have complete openness.
How much will a freedom of information act cost?
Very little, probably less than it costs for the
government to withhold the information. In Australia
and Canada the cost of running a freedom of
information act comes to about £6.6 million, the
minutest fraction of the money spent on
administration and paperwork. Is this too much to pay
for the right to seek the truth?
The way forward
One major step forward would be to increase the
scope of the Data Protection Act to manual records.
This would increase the range and extent of personal
data that people can inspect and remove the glaring
anomaly that exists at present. In a recent survey it
was found that nearly 50% of people intended to use
the data protection act and about 80 to 90% of people
wanted greater access to information held about
them.
The final goal must be a full freedom of information
act. On its own this will not remove the fact that we
live in a society in which secrecy is inbred. Once this
barrier has been removed and the insanity that results
in reports on cycling proficiency being stamped
'confidential' corrected, then perhaps we will be able
to live in a more open and truthful society.
If you are interested in pushing for freedom of
information then the following organisations will be
the best way to help.
The Campaign for Freedom of Information.
3 Endsleigh Street, London, WC1H ODD.
Tel 278-9686.
National Council for Civil Liberties.
21 Tabard Street, London, SE1 4LA.
Ian Hodge
Page 57

