This year's reviews, layed out in pretty patterns for your perusal.
Reviews Review 89/90
By Toby Jones and Adam Tinworth
Each section (films, books, theatre and miscellaneous) is ordered alphabetically with each review
its issue number. Where possible films are followed by their certificate and books by their author
are no comments for the theatre listing as most of the shows will have closed by now, save a few Na
Theatre, RSC and West End productions.
Films
845 The Abyss (?)
Cross between Alien, The Poseidon Adventure and
Close Encounters of the Third Kind. Better qualities:
it was expensive, the plot is O.T.T.. If you ignore the
incongruities the action never dulls.
851 Back To the Future II (PG)
The classy time travelling DeLorean returns in a
complex time jump plot. Light hearted in the future,
dark in an alternative 1985. Not intellectually
challenging but who cares? A worthy sequel.
842 Bad Taste (?)
Aliens invade seaside town to use inhabitants as
hamburger meat. Bad Taste is a bit of a laugh with
ample chance for the squeamish to wriggle. Is there
a market for such bland films?
866 Bill & Ted's Excellent Adventure (PG)
Two young idiots travel through time to pass their
history exam and found the rock group of tomorrow.
Most of it is funny and effects are pretty good for a
mickey-take of teen adventures.
855 Black Rain (18)
Manhattan cop chases Yakuza thugs in Japan. Plenty
of action while cop steps on police force's toes. Lone
gunfighter ending. Some violent scenes, but mostly
a mainstream thriller not to be missed.
865 Black Rain (?)
Chronicles the life of a family in Hiroshima after the
bomb and how the survivors cope with the memory.
Marvelous attention to detail, b/w images of death
and a strong ending with great impact.
858 Blaze (15)
Romance of stripper with governor as a historical
drama (slightly simplified for the film). Colourful
background for the statesmen's machinations with
great costumes. Not too taxing but enjoyable.
Vietnam vet returns wounded to a country that feels
sorry not proud. Outshines other 'Nam films with
realistic locations and imaginative photography. Tom
Cruse is utterly convincing and is worth seeing.
856 Casualties of War (18)
Vietnam. Young girl is raped, soldier sets on quest for
justice. Mostly predictable characters though tension
mounts nicely but let down by set pieces. Serious flaw
in relegating rape to the sidelines.
853 The Chocolate War (?)
Catholic Boys' school needs funds so sells chocolate!
Power, avarice and sheer malevolence follow in a
study of dictatorship in miniature. Very emotive with
excellent music and performances.
846/853 Cook, Thief, His Wife & Her Lover (18)
Peter Greenaway's themes of death, decay and
corruption combine with food and sex and a simple,
surreal, plot to bombard the senses. Extreme brutality
but not misplaced. Highly disturbing.
842 Cousins (?)
Americanised version of French film Cousin, Cousine.
Two married couples have adulturous affairs in a
'romantic comedy'. Laughs are quite thin on the
ground in a celluloid 'Mills and Boon'.
872 Creator (15)
Peter O'Toole tries to clone his dead wife in back yard
whilst pursued by nymphomaniac 19 year old. Full of
pathetic sentimentalising, neck licking and ear
sucking. Perfect for IC students.
862 Dad (PG)
Mother falls ill, son flies in to restore father's health
then Dad too falls ill. A mix of comedy and drama that
can get too sentimental at times. A bad script
meanders aimlessly. Nice try.
852 Dead Calm (15)
Sex, violence and a happy ending in a glorified chase
on the open waves when a couple stumble upon a
psychopathic killer. The acting is good, the directing
precise but don't rush to see it.
853 The Dream Team (15)
Four inmates run amok in the city whilst their doctor
is in hospital being hunted by bent cops. Their
disabilities are not funny but the humour is natural.
A good comedy, worth seeing.
860 Driving Miss Daisy (U)
Black chauffeur is taken on after lady crashes her car.
Slowly she accepts him and friendship develops.
Gentle and delightfully funny amble though 25 years
of social change with clever period touches.
855 A Dry White Season (15)
Racism and justice in Johannesburg studied through
two families. Stunning realism shows strength of the
black people against terrible adversity. Noteworthy
performances. A moving film leaving us with hope.
854 Earth Girls Are Easy (PG)
Aliens crash in a pool, act like multicoloured gorillas,
cut their hair and fall in love with girl. Hackneyed plot
with wasted potential except for some interesting
details. A formula film rather than SF.
865 The Fabulous Baker Boys (15)
A duet needs something more, so a female singer is
taken on. She revitalises the act, then a relationship
develops. Little plot, ambles pointlessly and
inconclusive.
858 Family Business (15)
Exploration of Father-Son relationship when son gets
caught after returning to crime. Some touching scenes
but relies on the stars too much. Comedy, drama or
tear-jerker? Enjoyable but misses the boat.
842 The Fly II (18)
Sequel to remake of 'B' flick where man/fly mutation
passes on altered genes to son. 'Snuff movie' type
special effects leading to a predictable ending. Sick
bags useful.
852 Ghostbusters II (PG)
The team form up again to rid the city of a river of
supernatural slime. The effects are good (although a
slight lack of ghosts) with funny one- liners. Less plot
than Ghostbusters I but still enjoyable.
Page 59

