864 Glory (15)
The first black regiment fights for the North and
against prejudice amongst the officers. Superb
photography particularly in the battle scenes and a
very moving ending. Remarkably emotional.
869 The Gods Must be Crazy II (PG)
Western culture intrudes on the bush again with
poachers and mercenaries getting tangled up with the
bushmen and rangers. More contrived than the original
but worth going to see.
849 Great Balls of Fire (15)
Chronicle of Jerry Lee Lewis' rise in the Rock V Roll
world. Jars sometimes between scenes but
compensated by enthusiasm which even holds up the
limp ending. Good entertainment but read the book.
871 Harlem Nights (18)
York upsetting gangland boss. Sometimes funny but
not a comedy - stars handle straight parts well. Good
period feel and soundtrack with obscene language.
850 Heathers (15)
Friends? They humiliate anyone who isn't as rich and
pretty as they are. New kid has a solution ... Film takes
good swipes at American stereotypes. Characters
lack ability to hold interest though.
Page 60
858 Honey, I Shrunk the Kids/Tummy Trouble (U)
Machine reduces kids to % inch! Adults make total
fools of themselves while the kids provide the drama
fighting off wild life. Superb effects. A good, if
undemanding film coupled with hilarious cartoon.
8 6 5
The House of Bernada Alba (15)
Widow commits her daughters to eight years of
isolation. They think otherwise but are held by
Bernada's power. Excellent conveyor of emotion, a
powerful drama which makes compulsive viewing.
866 The Hunt for Red October (PG)
In a pre-glasnost era, what would happen if a silent
sub were stolen from the Russians by their own man?
Good contrasts between characters and superb
underwater effects. The suspense lasts throughout.
853 In Country (15)
Different Vietnam film. Graduate must discover more
about her father and come to terms with the legacy
of war. American backdrop is beautiful, photography
superb, dramatically effective. Recommended.
870 An Innocent Man (?)
An American aircraft mechanic is framed by the police
after a mistaken shooting. After serving his sentence,
he gets his revenge. A trivial film with TV-like script,
should please fans of Tom Selleck.
868 Internal Affairs (18)
Cops hunting cops suspected of excessive violence
and drug taking, the film is sprinkled with stereotypes
and cliches. Sufficient twists, however, to keep
interest up 'if you like that sort of thing'
857 Jesus of Montreal (18)
Priests perform play to publicise 'unsuitable'
archaeological evidence. When the play is stopped,
the actors' lives start to mirror their roles. Funny, witty
and an aural treat. A masterpiece.
843 K9 (?)
Dooley is a cop too wacky and dangerous to have
human partner, so is given a police dog by name of
Jerry Lee. Remember, 'Man who watches formula film
gets bullshit in face'.
854 Last Exit to Brooklyn (18)
Dealing with 1950's strike community's problems of
homosexuality, rape and gangs, this is not for those
easily shocked. Such scenes are not toned down and
leave you feeling disturbed.
860 Leningrad Cowboys go America (12)
Road movie as band gig their way down America.
Very deadpan and offbeat humour. Music varies from
traditional Finnish to heavy(ish) metal to country and
western. Will appeal to a weird sense of humour.
869 Leviathan (18)
'Awesome secret', 'desperate struggle', 'deadly
lifeform' and it's underwater. The plot is a has-been
but the set is brilliant and effects adequate. Worth
seeing to relive your favorite 10 films.
857 Lock Up (18)
Model prisoner is put in tough lock-up as governor has
a grudge. Stallone shows off his muscles, builds a car,
gets electrocuted and shoots things. Corny, unoriginal
and badly acted. Avoid at all costs.
867 Look Who's Talking (12)
Baby tries to steer mother into making his choice of
father whilst giving us his thoughts on life. The baby
is the star of course with some great lines. Not an all-
time great but pretty funny.
871 Loverboy (15)
When unhappy Beverly Hills housewives order pizza
with extra anchovies, they get a male prostitute. Only
occasionally funny, the plot is thick and confusing.
Quite frankly don't bother.

