860 Monkey Shines (18)
Student is crippled but has monkey to look after him.
It is intelligent and reads minds so sinister things
ensue. More of a thriller than a horror movie, it's fairly
predictable although original.
866 Monsieur Hire (15)
Watching a girl through a window, he sees something
that will change his life. One feels no sympathy for
either of the characters in this dark and disturbing film.
Interesting but little lasting appeal.
867 Nuns on The Run (12)
Duo end up in a nunnery avoiding their gang and a
girlfriend recovering there. The humour starts with
cross dressing then the gags come thick and fast. Not
sophisticated but very funny and Pythonesque.
846 Old Gringo (15)
Epic. Cast of hundreds. Foreign Location. Orchestral
title music. Meaningless storyline. Journalist in
Mexico caught up in revolution against rich
landowners. Hardly dramatic with annoying narration.
854 Oliver and Company (U)
Typically the characters are animals in this Disney
cartoon, even the singing dogs (who are competent).
Heart rending beginning with kitten washed away but
lack of Disney magic. Will appeal to younger kids.
872 The Package (15)
In the post-Glasnost age, a treaty is about to be signed
ending the nuclear threat. Unfortunately elements of
the army are none too pleased. A thriller lacking in
thrills.
854 Parenthood (15)
871 The Punisher (18)
Family troubles abound in a comedy about children
and fathers. A good funny storyline but some jokes
become cringesome. The effect is spoilt by a weak
ending full of happy-ever-after babies & marriages.
851 Pet Sematary (18)
Stephen King's dead pets come to life with
fluorescent eyes and a rabid temperament. Laughably
predictable yet seat-grippingly frightening (in the last
half hour). Cat shows considerable versatility.
856 Piravi (-)
Indian student is taken by police, his Father and sister
investigate. Tension tries to build up but plot is too
weak. Camerawork is dodgy although scenery is
beautiful. Too long and flags.
864 Plaff! (-)
Comedy about throwing eggs (a bad omen). Effective
in satirising everything, it's either hilariously funny (if
you're Cuban) or embarrassingly juvenile with bad
cinematic gags such as missed cues.
Based on the comic, a cop goes on a punishing
mission avenging the death of his family. Gratuitously
violent with bizarre psychology, it is an impressive film
for its genre. Dakka-Dakka-Aarggh!
850 The Rainbow (15)
Ken Russell takes it easy with weirdness and nudity
for a change in D.H.Lawrence's novel about growing
up. Excellent location shots and above average
performances make this 'arty' film worth a look.
868 Reanimator II (?)
Mad scientists create woman in hysterically
unconvincing lab. Stereotypes abound with deadpan
lines. Disturbing asylum sequence. Badly acted, badly
scripted and absolutely brilliant.
849 The Return of Swamp Thing (12)
869 Pretty Woman (15)
I: '
| ;
I
A revamp of D C s story of an man turned intelligent
plant who risks life and leaf to rescue his love from
evil Dr. The plot's basic but the effects are competent.
Not as good as the comic.
Corporate raider who inadvertently picks up
prostitute. They fall in love in a comic story with
enough variations to keep one grinning. Pretty funny,
pretty engaging, quite good.
A diary sends grandson on voyage through time to
relive grandmother's life. Period detail is imaginatively
shot and a good cast are convincing. A superb
enthralling story of a life and its effects.
Page 61

