865 Roger and Me (15)
Film of a town with no reason to exist since the giant
GM plant closed. Mostly events are tragic but funny
in places. Not a run of the mill American film but work
a look if you can find it.
862 Romero (15)
The story of El Salvador through the eyes of the man
who has become a symbol of hope. A balanced and
moving study of a torn country marred only by the bad
pronunciation and cliched dialogue.
858 Rooftops (15)
866 A Short Film About Love (18)
A post office worker spies on the woman in the
opposite flat. He feels something but only looks until
she pulls him in. Difficult to understand, neither happy
nor sad, yet touching.
867 Society (18)
'Heart warming' tale of kids with problems who meet
in an empty lot for fun. Predictable, love triumphs
through adversity etc, but the dance sequences are
good and city atmosphere caught well. Devotees only.
859 Sea of Love (18)
Downtrodden cop investigates homicide and has
sexy, stormy affair with prime suspect. Mounting
tension is eased by wisecracks leading to an
unexpected but convincing twist.
864 Shadow Makers (PG)
Semi-documentary of the building of the first atomic
bombs with fictional inserts. Only the horror of the
bomb being shown in the last 1/2 hour recommends
a boring film which could have been a dark warning.
Page 62
Alienated youngster takes tape of a strange orgy to
psychiatrist (unfortunately also in the society). A
special effects tour de force ensues. Ludicrous plot
sustained only by early extreme violence.
842 Slaves of New York (?)
Enjoyable and captivating film involving you in the life
of a hat designer with an inferiority complex.
Communicates the unique New York feeling well.
Superb production with wacky camera work.
865 Steel Magnolias (PG)
Six women share friendship through life. Humour
alternates with human stories. Doesn't moralise nor
does it sentimentalise but real life experiences leave
most people with a sniffle.
857 SUR (15)
After five years in prison, a man has changed. Before
going home he wanders streets meeting ghosts from
his past who help him recollect his broken life. A
thought provoking fresh film.
862 Trop Belle Pour Toi (18)
Wife suspects infidelity but seeing plain secretary
relaxes. Affair rocks marriage and friends. A
wonderful mix between parable and comic tragedy
that will lift the soul of all but hardened pessimists.
849 Two Moon Junction (18)
Based on the same idea as 91
A Weeks, the girl wants
the guy even if she is getting married. Camerawork
lets down the film by being far too open but there is
a real story if you can see past the sex.
866 Uncle Buck (12)
A carefree bachelor with a trash-heap of a car looks
after his nephew and two nieces though calamity and
farce. The kids have good lines but John Candy is
either very funny or tiresome.
864 The War of the Roses (15)
bizarre battle between a couple. Frankly unbelievable
situations appear credible. Very funny and very black
it is well worth seeing.
872 We're No Angels (15)
Two convicts escape from a high security prison and
hide in a local monastery. The authorities want them
back, preferably dead. Torn between comedy and
thriller, it only partly succeeds in both.
852 When Harry Met Sally (15)
An eleven year old romance haunts. Can our stars
remain friends out of bed? Or even in it? Answers to
these meaningful questions are never given but it is
funny even if too long at only 1Vi hours.

