862 When I Fall in Love (15)
Follows American football star and offspring through
25 years by altering fashions for each age. Some good
acting but tries for too many targets. We never care
for the characters. Weak and uninspiring.
851 A Winter Tan (?)
Books
847 2000AD
Now in it's twelfth year 2000AD undergoes a major
revamp in Prog650. Bursting with colour and new
stories it aims for the older comic readers that the
media have made such a fuss over.
864 All the Wrong Places - James Fenton
Shows the personal effects of news stories upon this
journalist and how the ideas of the few affect the
masses. Informal and relaxed but you do need some
20C history. Interesting unbiased and truthful.
844 The Bellarosa Connection - Saul Bellow
An extended short story with a single theme of
memory and it's relation to the history of a Jewish
man. Bellow eschews plot in favour of description and
dialogue. His fiction is unforgettable.
Iff 857 Biackeyes - Dennis Potter
A fuller account from which the TV series was taken.
B Writer steals identity of niece for his novels but fact
m starts to imitate fiction. A powerful yet often subtle
(
J message. Highly recommended.
850 The Bogie Man - J.Wagner & A.Grant
Seeking gratification but fearful of the name 'slut', a
holiday maker in Mexico confesses to the camera
whilst revelling in night clubs. Bold and incisive but
lacks content and repeats itself.
870 The Witches (PG)
A witch busting grannie and her witch fearing
grandson stumble upon coven in RSPCC conference.
Aimed at a younger audience, some comic touches
may make it bearable to the adult viewer.
858 Yaaba (PG)
A young boy gives view of the adult world; the
stupidity of society uncomprehended by him. Set
against a backdrop of African landscape, humans are
only animals living close to nature. See it now!
(?) cert not known
(-) no cert
Mental institution escapee thinks he's Bogart. Every
innocent encounter becomes a plot. Then he gets a
gun. Convincing Glaswegian tongue cleverly
contrasted with Bogie's talk. A very adult comic.
855 Demon Lord of Karanda - David Eddings
In an alien land, evil powers capture baby so hero sets
out with sword and friends. Doesn't depend on weird
creatures or places as the story is good in itself.
Strongly recommended series.
856 Fixx - Terence Blacker
Diary of a self made man. Abused as a child abuses
others before becoming a spy. Interesting sub-plots
but ridicules sex and AIDS with no atmosphere or skill.
Not 'overwhelmingly comic' but offensive.
853 How to Analyze Handwriting - Monica
O'Hara
A short simplistic guide to graphology. Only the
summary tables and a section on doodles to
recommend it (unless only sex characteristics interest
you). Good in places but try the library first.
844 In Search of the Crack - Robert Elms
The fun of camaraderie and richness of friendship. The
crack is the wit of the Irish and the nightly quest of
a wide-eyed boy for something more. Better than blind
rebellion, this opens an unseen door.
844 Job Hunting - Alfred Hassack
Aimed at a broad audience the CV section has formats
for non-educated reader. Chapters on interviews and
pop-psychology are commonsense pep-talk.
Dispensable except as a calming check list.
869 The Kill-Off - Jim Thompson
Crime novel where each chapter is written through a
different character, interesting but sometimes
confusing. Week ending to what otherwise is a very
good book. Unusual style best reason to read it.
849 M31 - A family romance - Stephen Wright
'The Occupants' feed on electricity and live in blue
spaceships but there are two cranks on their tail.
Thankfully no intergalactic war/warp drives but
excellent descriptive passages and a tough plot.
844 The Oat and Wheat Bran Health Plan - Dina
Jewell
The promise of a healthy life set out in an endearingly
spunky American way, this deals with research into
fibre and appetizing ways of serving it up. An
interesting substitute for beer and curry.
857 Odyssey around Odysseus - B.Rubens &
O.Taplin
Exploration of Homer's poem giving evidence for and
against the truthfulness of the story. Maintains
interest with short text, attractive diagrams and colour
plates. An easy introduction to mythology.
872 Pyramids - Terry Pratchet
Opinion is divided between Ian Hodge and the rest of
the world who think it's his best book to date. Ian
'thinks' that the subtly humourous approach of
previous books is gone.
844 Second Fiddle - Mary Wesley
Quirky characters in vivid colours set up market stalls
and write books. This exposes the writing of novels
and book reviews! The wit is sharp, the plot intriguing.
Highly recommended.
853 Silent Thunder - Loren D Estlman
Murder and gun smuggling in decaying Detroit. A PI
digs the dirt after the city's wealthiest man is
murdered by his wife. Well written, worth reading and
mostly believable though cramped.
857 Sins of the Mothers - Patricia Angadi
Five characters give contradictory views on each
other and on a prostitute's dreaming of singing opera.
Morality is covered from several angles but without
conclusions. A superb work.
851 The Sprouts of Wrath - Robert Rankin
A floating Olympic Stadium in Birmingham built in a
pentangle? Mysterious forces from a gasometer?
Funny moments but fails to produce wit and content
that is worthy of print. Not a classic but passable.
841 Video Night in Kathmundu - Pico Iyer
Destroys the magic of the mysical east but casts an
intriguing spell of it's own. The perfect armchair
travel, less of an adventure holiday than a personalised
guided tour.
868 Why Men Are the Way They Are - Warren
Farrell
The basic idea is that women make them that way.
Explained by Farrell with various examples such as
'new sexism' and 'female pornography'.
Recommended to men and women but don't take it
too seriously.
865 With Passport and Parasol - Julia Keay
Seven travel-logs of lady explorers showing how
extravagant travel was in Victorian Times. A tendency
to mindless detail makes a reasonable book, not
compelling but not deadly boring.
867 A Woman's Guide to Adultery
The plot snakes though complex male-female
relationships with bitter twists told through the eyes
of one woman. An intimate and interesting book
which is very enjoyable. Recommended reading.
Page 63

