Mass, International Resque + Carter T.U.S.M.
-Oxford venue 8.6.90
Mass were thrash, had two fans and sounded like lots
of other bands, though not as good. A safe option for
an enjoyable first support band. It's a shame, but as
long as they play like a first support band they will
progress no further.
International Resque were confused. They were a
scally band who got wise and decided they needed
a new sound. They collected a host of 'successful
indie' records and copied the style of each one in turn
including sounds of Ned's Atomic Dustbin, Snuff,
Mega City 4, Mudhoney and whatever else it seemed
they could lay their hands on. They even kept their
Bez for posterity, who danced aimlessly with a
'DANCE' placard clutched before him. Good as a
support band but they had nothing new to offer.
Whereas Carter hit the stage and changed
everything: the crowd suddenly livened up. They
started with Rubbish the single and bounded through
their standard set, although spiced up with covers of
Pet Shop Boys Rent and the non - album tracks RSPC
Everything and the alcoholics song Anytime,
Anyplace, Anywhere.
The footballs flew, as is becoming commonplace
with Carter sets; the crowd leapt, danced and
stagedived as is also common at Carter gigs.
After the cataclysmic Perfect Day to Drop Bomb
they left, though soon they were shouted back into
an encore, including Alternative Alf Garnett and
Generation X's King Rocker. They left again and the
police were going to come and arrest us all, so they
teased. The lights came on but still the shouts did not
abate. Some people left, but those who had the
patience to hang around were rewarded with another
encore 'because the police liked them'. They finally
drained us with a song which shouts 'everybody's
happy now' and dies to the screams of 'don't pay the
poll tax, don't pay the poll tax.' What fun.
DEL
Mind Over Four
- The Goddess LP
Have this band nicked every idea from another group?
Well perhaps not on the A side anyway. Set in the
traditional mould of heavy metal, with hard beats and
incomprehensible lyrics, this band goes too far. The
album starts well with Prayer For The Dying, a lively
song with good vocals and music. It's a shame they
don't last until the end of the song. Next, the title track
is better - heavier but more mumbled. Then the album
goes downhill, with two tracks that sound slightly
raw, with words that mean nothing and convey even
less. Post however, picks the A side off the floor with
clearer singing and competant music.
The B side makes it all worthwhile, probably
because here the band sound like much more well
known groups. In fact the first two songs reminded
me of Powerslave sung badly. The apex of the record
must be Autumn's Here which starts slowly before
crashing into heavy bass guitar. This is what they're
good at. The euphoria doesn't last, as we are
subjected to Hell's Bravest Song with some awful
singing. Luckily the group recover with Airplanes;
slow and heavy, it's obviously their forte.
After a few playings, I started to get into this album.
This wasn't difficult as, at 34 minutes for ten songs,
it's really quite short. Reading the lyrics on the sleeve
(you can't understand them otherwise), I found that
they conststed of half formed sentences concerned
mainly with the death of friends and mortality. A
promising band dragged down by meaningless lyrics.
Toby Jones.
Page 6
Carter The Unstoppable
Sex Machine
-Rubbish 12"
Carter are both excellent on record and a manically
brilliant live band, so when they take a live favorite
Rubbish and put it onto vinyl it seems disappointingly
tame. Carter have better songs, so this should have
remained a live classic. But if you haven't heard it live,
it's fab.
The Pet Shop Boys Rent is ritually livened up on the
B side followed by Alternative Alf Garnett, an ironic
singalong classic; each verse finds something
different about today's fucked up society and ends
with a joyous 'if you're happy and you know it clap
you hands'.
A perfect taste of Carter the Unstoppable Sex
Machine.
DEL
t. Af. K-
B52's
-Cosmic Thing LP
The B52s, after only one major chart success have
produced a commercial album to catch and hold the
interest given by the single Love Shack. Where their
previous albums were much more limited in their
appeal, with only a few good tracks, this album has
hit commercial reality and necessity on the head to
give an ever successful 'reliable' album. The album
is very much in the same frame of mind as Love
Shack, mindless fun, but a few tracks, as ever, stand
out above the rest.
The Number One Love Shack, is a classic, a Tainted
Love for the nineties. Roam, the present single, is a
catchy tune: you will find yourself singing along
without hardly noticing it. ChannelZ is full of classic
B52s madness, zest and energy. The album is brought
to a gentle close with a near-indulgent instrumental
track, Follow Your Bliss.
A surefire success, buy it and enjoy it all.
DEL

