The death of two students taking part in drug trials has highlighted the dangers trials canpose.Martin Davies investigates the truth of the matter.
The human guinea pigs
Human Volunteer Drugs Trials (HVDTs) are
increasingly becoming a source of quick cash for debt-
laden students, student nurses and travellers. But the
deaths of two students in the early 1980s, and the
increasing number of unsubstantiated stories of
dubious, poorly supervised tests, have heightened
fears over risks to volunteers.
HVDTs are, at present, the final stage in the testing
of drugs prior to their possible launch on the market.
All drugs have side effects, therefore no drug can ever
'pass' a drug trial. Rather, it is the purpose of the trial
to determine the nature of side effects and whether
these outweigh the potential benefits. Whether this
criterion is met will depend upon the 'treatments'
already on the market, and upon the medical condition
being treated. For example, it is extremely difficult to
bring a new painkiller onto the market because there
are several effective painkillers in existence with
relatively minor side effects. In contrast, cytotoxic
drugs, used for cancer treatment, are often extremely
poisonous: one such group of drugs is related to
mustard gas! But the extremely harsh side effects of
these drugs are tolerated because of the potential
longer term benefits in the treatment of life
threatening cancers.
Medical students at St Mary's will be familiar with
notices asking for human volunteers willing to
participate in clinical testing of drugs, monitoring of
diet, body functions, and many other (often
completely benign) observations. But there is evidence
that an increasing number of non-medical students
and travellers are participating in drugs trials. With tax
free payments of up to £900 for a two week trial on
a specialist unit the inducements are obvious, but the
ever increasing financial pressures on students mean
that the potential abuse of the system as a source of
'money for nothing' is clear.
So what rules and legislation apply to HVDTs? In
1986 the Royal College of Physicians (RCP) prepared
guidance for doctors after the deaths of two students
during trials. These give broad safety standards and
recommend that payment be limited to pocket money
or repayment of loss of earnings. The Association of
Independent Clinical Research Contractors (AICRC) is
a voluntary organisation which represents most of the
large drug testing contractors; it's members choose
to work to strict guidelines governing their practice.
The NUS recently drew up a short guidance
document, after consultation with the ICRC, which
lists fourteen basic requirements that a drugs trial
should meet before any student participates. Other
than general law relating to negligence and medical
practice in general, however, there is no specific
legislation relating to human volunteer drug trials.
It would seem that there are stricter legally binding
controls on animal experiments than on those
involving human beings.
Dr Elizabeth Allen from the Guy's Drugs Research
Unit (GDRU) (perhaps the best known HVDT centre)
is also a representative of the AICRC. She felt that
'legislation wouldn't make it (HVDT) any safer' and
that the AICRC wouldn't be worried by any legislation
that might be introduced, as the guidelines followed
by their members were more than strict enough. The
instructions given to volunteers for a typical drug trial
at GRDU, do show that at GRDU a responsible and
comprehensive set of guidelines is followed and that
excellent medical facilities and qualified staff are
available at all times.
Paae 66
So what's the problem? There seems to be no hard
evidence to suggest that the horror stories about
student having their hearts stopped or bowels highly
pressurised are anything other than myths. A recent
article in The Times (March 29,1990) describing how
'one student had reportedly been paid £2,000 to have
his heart stopped and restarted' is pure speculation.
Despite the introductions of guidelines, there are still
a number of aspects of current HVDT practice which
should be of some concern.
1. The growing pressure to take part in drugs
trials for purely financial reasons. The NUS
guidelines state that 'no financial inducement or
coercion should colour your judgement and payment
must never be offered for risk'. This appears to be
rather naive; if you're rapidly approaching your
overdraft limit plus the £425 loan you've been obliged
to take, it's fair to say that the chance to supplement
this with a tax free payment of £200 might just
'colour your judgement'.
2. The increasing number of non-medical students
participating in HVDTs. Traditionally the medical
schools have been the main source of volunteers. It
can be argued that it's actually quite educational for
a trainee doctor to 'see the needle from the other end'
so to speak, and of course the beer money always
comes in handy. Clearly a medical student will have
a reasonably good idea of what's going on and is more
likely to know when to report any unusual sensations.
But worries that medical students may be adversely
affecting their studies, particularly at exam time,
means that their medical schools are usually aware
fo their participation in the drugs trial. No such
undertaking is made for non-medical students.
Two years ago the Dean of St Mary's Hospital Medical
School specifically requested his students not to take
part in drugs trials during and leading up to exam time.
What about other students at other universities?
Surely this potential problem needs acting upon in
some way?
3. The reliance on the volunteer to fully disclose
their medical history. It is very easy to be high and
mighty about this: 'if you don't tell them then it serves
you bloody well right.' The NUS and AICRC say that
'you must authorise, and they (the contractors) must
request, your permission to assess your past medical
history from your general practitioner'. This is NOT
a commitment to obtain your medical history, only a
granting of permission. So what will happen when
someone eventually does or nearly dies through not
revealing a previous illness. The recent increase in the
number of travellers-from Australia, South Africa
etc-taking part in drugs trials at GDRU, makes it
unlikely that their medical history is going to be
obtained from their GP. And it goes without saying
that financial inducement is bound to colour their
judgements (plane tickets do cost money!).
After reading this, if you still feel that you must or
want to participate in drugs trials, then don't do it at
exam time-you'll be under enough stress, without
worrying about why you've suddenly grown a second
head. Finally, satisfy yourself that at the very least
the following basic requirements are met by the trial:
1. For all students taking part, the study must involve
no more than minimal risk.
2. No financial inducement or coercion should colour
your judgement and payment must never be offered
for risk.
3. There must be close qualified medical supervision
for the whole period of the trial, and not just when
the drugs are administered.
4. Full resuscitation equipment and facilities must be
on hand, with trained staff to use them.
5. Confidentiality must be maintained throughout and
beyond the trial.
6. The organisation should hold full insurance and
compensate without regard to negligence.
7. You must authorise, and they must request, your
permission to assess your past medical history from
your general practitioner. Full records must be
maintained by. the organisation and your GP.
8. Only sign a consent form that you have read in full,
and that gives you the right of withdrawal from the
study at any time without having to give a reason.
9. You should be healthy at the time of the trial and
undergo a full medical examination.
10. Do not witthold any information regarding any
food you may have eaten or drugs you have taken
(this includes common non-prescription medicines and
alcohol).
11. You should report immediately any unusual
sensations you may experience during the trial, and
subsequently to your GP.
12. Leave at least twelve weeks between any trials
you participate in, and inform the company of any
previous trials.
13. Before participating, ask the organisation for proof
of membership of the Association of Independent
Clinical Research Contractors.
14. Always remember that whether the drug is 'tried
and tested' or new on the market, you may
individually suffer adverse reaction.
If any of the above requirements are not met, do not
take part, and report your findings to the NUS who
may be able to warn other students.
Case study
Simon took part in a four day drug trial last July (name
and date changed). The trial was part of the tests
required before the licensing of the slow release tablet
drug Ramitidine, a treatment for stomach and
duodenal ulcers, in the UK. A few days before the trial
Somon and other applicants were screened prior to
selection of volunteers.
Simon was given a full explanation by a Doctor of
the purpose of the trial, what he would be expected
to do, and of the physical and/or psychic effects
which he should or might expect to experience. He
then had a blood sample taken, an electro-cardiogram
recorded, a full medical examination, and provided a
urine sample. He was also asked about his medical
history and finally signed a consent form (with the
right to withdraw from the trial at any time).
After being selected, Simon was asked to report to
the hospital at 6.30pm on the evening before the first
dose. He was not allowed to drink alcohol for 48 hours
before his admission and not allowed to eat or smoke
from 10pm on the evening of the admission until
sometime the following day.
At about 8am on the study day Simon was given
a tablet and intravenous blood samples were then
taken regularly over the next 32 hours. Six days later
he was readmitted and the same procedure was
repeated. A final blood sample was taken on a visit
six days after the second dose.
As well as the restrictions mentioned above, Simon
was asked not to take any other medication-both for
his own safety and to prevent contamination of the
results of the experiment-without first contacting the
doctor in charge of the trial.
The payment for this? A cheque for £300. Needless
to say, for Simon, this was considerably more than
either 'pocket-money' or 'loss of earnings'!
Page 67

