Ken Weale retired as Union Senior Teasurer in September. Colin Palmer investigates the man
behind the job, which he took on 43 years ago...
P r o f i l e — K e n
Issue 87 of FELIX dated 10th February 1956 contains
a profile of Kenneth Edward Weale. Thirty four years
on, Ken is active at Imperial even though he officially
retired last year.
Ken spent his undergraduate days at Aberyswyth
where he obtained a first in Chemistry, and, after a
brief excursion into industry, came to I.C. as a
research student in 1946. Ex-ICU President Alan
'Kitch' Kitchener wrote that Ken's cunning and
methodical brain caused Ken to plan his research
programme with great care. He spent just over two
years doing experimental work, then he performed
superfluous confirmatory experimental work until the
summer, so that he could combine writing his thesis
with spending every day at Lord's or Harlington.
Ken was one of the few members of staff who took
an active interest in Union affairs. In 1956 he became
the Hon. Treasurer of I.C. Union, a post he was to hold
for thirty four years. Ken was also President of the
Cricket Club and a Vice President of the Rugby club.
'Students will be relieved to hear that the Treasurer
is very thrifty:- even Mrs. Robinson (Jen Hardy
Smith's predecessor) claims that it took her five years
to cadge a sherry from him' wrote Kitch.
In his student days Ken gained a purple in both
boxing and rugger. He went with IC Rugger Club to
Delft, some of whose students believed him to be the
hero of the famous old English rugger song Round and
round went the bl—y great wheel.
Perhaps Ken has achieved most notoriety in his
activities as a cricketer, in which capacity he modestly
styled himself 'The Great Doctor'. He batted with a
rare and graceful artistry; his most impressive stroke,
which he frequently brought into play, was a firm
forward push wide of mid-on, which sends the ball
over the slips' heads for two.
In 1956 his bowling prowess was rather an
unknown quantity. The only occasion on which he
was put on to bowl was in a Sunday match, when
he himself was captain.
Kitch writes, 'His alertness of mind, so essential to
a cricketer, was demonstrated when he narrowly
averted a road accident by changing the car he was
driving straight from fourth gear into reverse.'
Page 68
In October 1959 FELIX celebrated Ken's marriage
to Carol Weale by printing a fake obiturary:
'It is with a heavy heart, wet eyes, and a shaking
pen that we bring to your knowledge the sad and
tragic 'death' of one of College's beloved servants -
Dr. Weale. Whether or not his academic work, his
Union book-keeping or his physical exertions on the
cricket field, rugby field, and squash court, brought
him to an untimely end, we shall never know. We offer
our commiserations to all his friends, both within the
bar and without, it is a sad day for I.C. but we must
all go one day. P.S. Please look after him Carol.'
Ken was present at the opening of the Student
Union Bar on the 3rd January 1957. The first pint was
pulled by the Rector Sir Patrick Linstead and was
drunk by the ICU President, Kitchener. Apparently it
contained an overdose of sawdust thanks to all the
last minute work that had been going on.
Kitch recalls that they had difficulty making the door
lock on the bar work, which encouraged them to make
a liberal interpretation of the licensing laws, much to
the delight of the Welsh barman, Dan Lloyd, who
loyally stood guard, 'testing the pumps' as he put it.
The character of Ken Weale is summed up by the
following account of an incident at a Sunday XI game
at Harlington:
The last ball of one over was fielded by Weale and
as the captain (Kitchener) held out his hand for the
ball, Kitch said 'Christ, I don't know who to put on
next.' Weale said, 'I will bowl, Kitchener.' Kitch
astonished at such a ridiculous suggestion said 'We
don't want things to go from bad to worse.' Weale
replied, 'I have the ball and I am going to bowl.'
As skipper Kitch was always able to grasp the
strategic aspects of any situation very quickly, and
as Weale was bigger and stronger, he allowed him to
bowl.
The third ball was cracked smartly in Kitch's
direction at cover point and the batsman called for a
single. This was a suicidal act and so it proved, though
in rather an unexpected way. Kitch's throw was hard
but uncharacteristically astray. The batsman went for
a 2nd, the ball bisected the wicket and awoke the mid-
wicket fielder with a jolt. He hurled the ball at the
bowler's end where Ken Weale, triumphant, removed
the bails for a run out. Eventually IC won the game.
In the beer-up, afterwards, Weale insisted that his
coming-on to bowl was the turning point of the game
and claimed credit for the wicket. It transpired that
the mid-wicket had hurled the ball to the bowler's end,
rather than the wicket keeper, because he wanted to
sting Ken's hands. But Ken Weale came out on top!
A member of every social club and a popular
speaker at any dinner, Ken Weale first knew FELIX as
'a scandal sheet' that was started up in 1950. He
remembers the students' Union as 'a sort of cottage
industry in the Beit Archway,' and recollects the Union
budget being just over £5,500 in 1957. With the
union's a turnover in excess of £2 million, Ken's task
as senior treasurer has increased formidably from the
one he took on to 'make them (the students who
came to ask him) go away. Ken will be sorely missed
as senior treasurer and FELIX wishes him well in his
retirement.
Colin Palmer

