Imperial College
Sold to Mitsubishi
If this was the news you
would hear it first in FELIX
FELIX is the mouthpiece of Imperial
College. In it you will find all the
information that you need to know
about the ins and outs of college life.
Reporting not only on all the news
in quality and style, next year looks
to be a good one for photography and
graphics. This is the benchmark and
central theme that the paper will
aspire to. It is this that sets off the
character and excellence of the
written word contained within.
Amongst the contents you will find
a media page reflecting on the state
of the art, and a preview guide to
what's worth watching and listening
to, in the week to follow. There is so
much dross in the airwaves that
someone has to do some weeding.
As it still seems that nobody gives
a damn about anything until they
stand accused, we will be running
some hot features to boil your blood.
In time old fashion, when the readers
letters begin to dwindle it will be time
to test your attitudes, tolerances, and
morals?! Also, for the news, we will
be attempting to expand the
information field by networking with
other college papers and outside
institutions. Investigations and
campaigns are to appear to keep you
informed about what is really going
on, and to detail what you can do
about contemporary issues.
But don't worry (too much), there'll
be some fun and frolics too, with a
goodie bag of prizes to be won
throughout the year. At the beginning
of the autumn term, there will be a
particularly fun competition to test
your artistic sensibilities. So keep those
eyes peeled.
After all's said and done there will
come a time when you will need to
get a job. To give you an idea of some
of the possibilities open to you we'll
be running some snappy and
alternative job option articles. For the
more mundane jobs you'll have to
listen to the usual companies and read
(and believe) their career's brochures.
In the line of duty will be a regular
roundup of the Union and it's
activities, good and bad. Including, of
course, sports and club articles backed
up by our photographers. Also a place
is assured for some idle accusation,
stirring, and gossip. In fact, just about
anything you want we will try to
include.
Help is always required and
welcomed. You can try your hand at
writing, reporting, interviewing
personalities, and paste-up. Or, just
come into the office and gain friends
instantly by making a fresh brew and
helping to collate on Thursday
evenings. And to earn the undying
respect of the editor, you could
become an early bird by aiding me in
distribution on Friday mornings.
If anybody out there writes a mean
crossword; is a dab hand at
cartooning; or is generally wonderful
at anything, get your arse over to the
FELIX office. You can see me over the
summer during office hours or during
term time. The office is located in the
North Western corner of Beit Quad
and you can telephone on extension
3515 (anonymous contributions
always welcome).
To the Postgrads, I'll hopefully be
providing you with two issues over the
summer. This is dependent upon staff
holidays and the degree of chaos to
be encountered over the next few
months.
The Freshers issue will be out on
Monday the 1st of October and the
deadline for submissions is Monday
the 24th of September. Thanks for
reading, have a good holiday, and see
you next year.
Chris Stapleton.
Summer Print Work: Production of publicity in time for
Freshers Fair requires a deadline of 1st August.
Contact me at the FELIX office or telephone me on
extension 3515.
Clubs and Societies interested in having their summer
events photographed should see me ASAP.

