Adam Tinworth looks at recent issues of some of London's student newspapers...
Hot off the presses or ju
You hold in your hands a student newspaper produced
by a college devoted entirely to science subjects, none
of which are terribly relevant to good journalistic skills.
In fact, a strict training for lab reports can make
features almost unreadable before editing. We are
members of a larger institution, however, which
contains many colleges with literary based courses.
Surely there should be some superb newspapers
knocking about London..
The Cub
Since the merger of Queen Mary's College with
Westfield college, the local students' union has
suffered a number of problems. They have been
troubled with the merger of the two unions, and Cub,
their newspaper, has been on the receiving end. Until
recently it was produced almost exclusively by union
staff and still remains a mouthpiece for union policy.
It has just been relaunched as 'The Cub', to coincide
with the official launch of the new college after over
two terms of existence. The main changes have been
a reduction in page size from tabloid to A4, and the
inclusion of the college logo as part of the masthead.
It's a pity they couldn't actually get the masthead
straight with the text.
Inside the content has changed little. The most
noticeable feature is the poetry corner. Perhaps the
less said about this the better, but the A/lay issue
includes a little gem called 'The girl in the lab',
containing such lines as:
Her head it was like a transformer in a way
And her eyes like two helmholtz coils
Their news section also combines opinion with
what starts off as a fairly standard news story and
often degenerates into a rant from the writer's own
political standpoint. The stories tend to revolve around
external affairs which affect students (loans, poll tax,
etc.), while internal affairs are reduced to a small
The Cub
column, despite the fact that the news includes the
repossession of one of the union minibuses, the
opening of new halls and on-campus drug problems.
The letters page is fairly active, revolving mainly
around homosexuality and 'The Students' Union/Cub
are crap' letters. Editorial replies can take up more
space than the letters themselves. In-jokes are out in
Page 70
force, as are comments about the rugby club. The
Music page is quite impressive, managing to cover a
fair range of both indie and mainstream music. The
reviews page is pitiful, rarely progressing beyond a
page, and consisting of such gripping items as the
Collins Gem 'English Grammar'.
The problem page is somewhat of an oddity. It is
difficult to work out how serious it is meant to be. It
combines hack jokes aka broadsheet with apparently
serious questions about sexually transmitted diseases.
All this said, Cub has shown a marked improvement
over the year, and with another year's work, might
actually get somewhere. At present it comes out
every three to four weeks, with around sixteen pages.
DRAMSOCS FUTURE LOOKS BLEAK
S P O R T S C L U B S
T O L O S E G Y M
PI
PI
University College's student newspaper, PI, has a
problem. UCL's proximity to ULU draws many of the
people who are interested in producing a student
newspaper into London Student. This year's PI is a
case of resurrection. For much of the year nothing was
produced, at least nothing that came to the notice of
the students. Then a concerted effort was made to
put together a new editorial team and start producing
PI on a monthly basis.
The most noticeable feature of PI is that, although
it is 20 pages long, it contains comparatively little.
This is mainly due to a large text size, and an
excessive amount of creative use of white space. It
is divided into sections in a clear way. There is a fair
amount of news, usually consisting of two or three
stories, with some comment and opinions to back the
story up. Not surprisingly, much of the recent news
has involved the loss of UCL union facilities. This
brings up the issue of distribution, as many UCL
students in intercollegiate halls have learnt about the
facility loss through FELIX, rather than through their
own paper. The reason for this is that PI is not
delivered to the departments, but has to be collected
from the union building, an effort which most don't
bother to make. This is a common problem among all
student newspapers in London.
The letters page is filled with three short letters, one
of which complains about the lack of a letters page,
and an obvious space-filling cartoon of 'The Leaning
Monk of Croydon'. Lucky UCL students get a free gift
with their paper-a Teenage Mutant Ninja Sabbaticals
Airship! Just add a smoke filled condom (ribbed, of
course).
PI normally carries a reasonable selection of
features, with the May issue concentrating on NUS
and student politics in general. May also sees an
interview with a Chem Eng student who runs discos
at UCL and a piece about Ludovic Kennedy, who
delivered their Founder's Day Oration. Reviews
occupy a page, covering two films and a play, while
music coverage is almost non-existent. Three Society
reports over two pages and a page filled with ten
smallads complete the inside, while a small listings
page on the back, much of which duplicates material
in the regular 'Whats on at UCL' sheet, covers
forthcoming Union and DramSoc activities.
Oh yes, they've got poetry as well-To The
Unnamed Student...
>
t lukewarm?
"TUB ijji
i t
Casey L
Until recently, King's College, London (KCL, Casey
L, geddit?) had a student newspaper which screamed
Desk Top Publishing at you. They seemed incapable
of using the same typeface for more than one article.
The result was frankly a mess. With the latest issue
though, there are definite signs of improvement.
Someone actually knows how to use their Mac these
days, it seems. It does bear more than a passing
resemblance to PI though...
Appearance aside, news gets a fair crack of the
whip, occupying the first few pages of the
newspaper, although again they are more
information/opinion articles than pure news. Politics
are the major theme, with NUS, ULU, loans and poll
tax all discussed. The style can be a little unusual at
times, with one report of a Kensington UGM written
as something between a football report and superhero
comic. Features are a mixed bag; some are little more
than adverts for clubs while others make fairly
interesting reading, such as the inevitable exam hints
and welfare special.
Adverts are carried with two full pagers for local
eateries gracing issue eight. Reviews and music cover
an average of two to three pages, with a reasonable
coverage of film and theatre, albeit somewhat
selective. Music is covered across a good range.
The back page contains a listing of union bands and
parties. Compared to most of the other papers their
are surprisingly few space fillers, and a reasonable text
size has been used, giving a decent amount to read
in each issue. Unfortunately, it's only monthly (if that)
and can read like one big ents advert at times.
No poetry I'm afraid, but there is a delightful picture
of the entire Taekwondo club.
Egham Sun
The word 'order' is not one that you could easily
apply to Royal Holloway and Bedford New College's
Student Union Newspaper, The Egham SUN {or NSU,
according to the level of toilet humour at the time).
It is difficult to work out exactly how they produce
this journal, but the text appears to be a mix of
typewritten and computer printed articles. Their basic
policy seems to be to take anything they're given and
print it, while filling the spare spaces with cartoons
ripped off from anything going.
To give a breakdown of standard contents would
be impossible, and so the best that can be done is to
quote a couple of articles. RHBNC has just withdrawn
from the NUS. The Egham Sun's coverage of this
consists of an article from the Secretary of the Labour
Club telling them what a mistake they have made. In
the self same issue they cover the closure of the
College Chemistry department with an article called
'Chemistry Downer'-a short news style piece and a
M E W S
^ . S A ^ S f c
Casey L
letter. It's good to see that RHBNC students are kept
so well informed of crucial events around their college.
Much more importance is given to the first part of a
romantic four part serial, 'Domestic Passion'. The
gripping tale of Rafe and Clarissa is so much more
important than the closure of an entire department,
isn't it?
The only regular feature seems to be the two pages
of music. These are actually painful to look at. With
a menagerie of small pieces, photos and reviews
ripped straight from music papers, it looks like it was
pasted up by a partially sighted, drunken idiot.
The Egham Sun is of indeterminate size and comes
out at irregular intervals.
London Student
Otherwise known as the second newspaper of UCL,
London Student comes out fortnightly and has a
sabbatical editor. It is distributed to all the colleges
of the University of London. IC's copies can be found
in the Snack Bar if anyone is interested. London
Student is sited in the ULU building, next to UCL.
Perhaps it's only claim to represent all the colleges of
London is its proximity to the intercollegiate halls
round Russell Square, otherwise it is staffed mainly
by UCL students.
Printed in a tabloid format, London Student consists
of 20 pages and is produced biweekly. London news
spreads over the first three pages, followed by
national news and a news feature. Their news team
seem to struggle somewhat with IC based articles,
having cut one off in mid sentence and misspelt Tom
Yates as Tom Yeats. Written by an English student,
for whom it was more than his wordsworth, perhaps?
The centre pages are devoted to a listings section.
There doesn't seem to be any particular way of
selecting the events that are included in this, a random
selection of film, theatre, music and art have been
used to fill the pages.
The back pages are devoted to sports reports,
making it seem more like an imitation of a national
newspaper. These pages show an unhealthy
obsession with reports from the London University
Swimming Team-acronym LUST. Their Arts and
Music pages have more than a touch of PI about
them-minimum content in maximum space. This is
mainly achieved through the use of huge photographs,
a trick which spreads into the features as well.
MEW mm O N T H E B L O C K
Egham Sun
It seems strange that a science college should be
producing just about the best student newspaper in
London. The only explanation that can be offered is
that students on relevant courses are too fed up with
doing their course work to indulge in the same thing
in their free time. Is FELIX entirely staffed by
disaffected science students?
Page 71

