Shock! Horror! Hang on to your popcorn as Adam Tinworth reveals...,
Space Aliens ate
Last summer the film industry was under the shadow
of the bat. This summer it's...the hat? While not as
over hyped as Batman, Dick Tracy (released July 6)
looks set to be me summer film. Starring Warren
Beatty, Madonna and Al Pacino with a huge number
of cameos, including one by Dustin Hoffman, it is
based on the Thirties' and Forties' comic strip. Tracy
will be up against a wide variety of villains from Flattop
to Pruneface, all to a backing of Stephen Sondheim
music. Madonna herself sings and a tie in album has
been released (See Music Pages). The film sounds
intriguing...
Also likely to be popular are the sequels hitting the
streets. Gremlins II (released July 27) sees the return
of Mogwai and his human owners, who have to
combat a whole new batch of these little beasties, this
time in a tower bearing not a little resemblance to
Trump Towers. Back to the Future III (released July
11) is reviewed on page 19.
The team behind Top Gun are back with Tom Cruise
in Days Of Thunder (released 10 August) which will
be probably be more of the same except with stock
cars. Tom Hanks is still struggling to equal the success
of Big, after the mediocrity of The 'Burbs and Turner
and Hooch. Joe Versus the Volcano (release July 6)
could be it as he teams up with Meg Ryan (When
Harry Met Sally) to escape from a boring urban life and
combat a Pacific volcano. Clint Eastwood will be
striding back onto our screens in White Hunter, Black
Heart (released Sept 21), playing a film-maker gunning
for an elephant. Eastwood also directs and produces.
Well, at least he didn't do an Eddie Murphy and write
it as well. Mr. Murphy himself will be back with us
soon in Another 24 hours.
Woody Allen is playing the writing/acting/directing
game again with Crimes and Misdemeanors (released
July 20th), co-starring Alan Alda (Hawkeye of
M*A*S*H). It's (apparently) about love, reality, faith,
delusions, success, failure, good and evil which gives
him plenty room to manoeuver. Stella (released
September 7th) brings Bette Midler and John
Goodman back to our screens in a touching tale of a
mother' love for her daughter and the self-sacrifice she
endures to give her the life she herself could never
have. It is also a second remake! Sometime in
September we may also see Robin Williams in Cadillac
Man as a womanising Cadillac salesman who ends up
in trouble with an angry husband.
For horror freaks Tremors (released 29 June) is a
traditional monster movie combining science fiction
and humour. The Guardian (released 31 August) is
not, despite the name, the first movie adaptation of
a newspaper, but a tale of a young couple moving to
the country. After employing a nanny to look after
their young son they get caught up in the forces of
evil. This fairly standard horror flick stars Jenny
Seagrove.
While on the theme of children we have Problem
Child (released 7 September). This seems like a
leftover from the flood of baby movies we had about
a year or so {Three Men and a Baby et al.). A suburban
couple adopt a seemingly lovable child who provokes
havoc in their household. Sounds enthralling.
The 'wacky comedies' are coming at us at a fair old
pace. She's Out of Control (released 13 July) tells of
an awkward adolescent girl who suddenly blossoms
into a beautiful young lady. The boys are predictably
delighted but her father, equally predictably, is not.
Crazy People (released 14 September) sees Dudley
Moore bound up the corporate ladder with a unique
idea - truth in advertising (Actually, it may not be so
unique, wasn't How to Get Ahead In Advertising
based on a similar theme?). Daryl Hannah is along for
the ride.
/ Love You To Death (released September) has
Tracey Ullman trying to murder her husband Kevin
Kline with the conspiratorial help of Joan Plowright,
River Pheonix and William Hurt. She tries five times
before being arrested, locked up then released to be
Page 72
views!
forgiven by her husband. Unbelievably this is a true
story.
Cry Baby (released 3 August) is the latest John
Walters oddity, the ultimate juvenile delinquent love
story, proving that kids knew how to be bad before
sex, drug and rock'n'roll. It stars Johnny Depp and
Iggy Pop. Of Spaced Invaders (released 3 August) the
less said the better, save that it is reviewed on page
18.
Shuffling over to drama we find A Reunion (released
July) as a New York Lawyer travels back to Germany .
to find out the fate of his schoolboy friend, after they
were separated by the rise of Hitler. Listen To Me
(Released 6 July West End only) say two students
who are determined to tackle the world their own way
despite personal problems. They live in a world where
brainpower rules and words are the weapons of
choice. Molly Ringwald and Andrew McCarthy are
Fresh Horses (released 29 June). They are indulging
in a passionate, tender, difficult relationship which
defies logic and explosively intertwines their very
different worlds. Pheeew.
Memphis Belle (released 14 September) takes us
into the skies with a B17 bomber on its 25th mission
during the late spring of 1943. Its crew are either
flying to fame or to destruction and the odds are
tipped in favour of destruction.
A couple of the summer's releases will cater for
action adventure fans. A bout of Blind Fury (released
13 July) will be unleased by Rutger Hauer as he goes
on a desperate mission to reunite a 9 year old with
his father. The inevitable quirk is that he's blind! Short
Time (released August) sees a cautious police officer
decide on the eve of his retirement that he is more
use to his family dead than alive. This film stars Matt
Frewer and Terri Garr.
Lastly on the Cinematic front, Disney are re-
releasing Fantasia in September. Take a younger
brother or sister if you must, but go and see this
classic piece of animation.
Remember, most of the films reviewed in FELIX will
only recently have reached the regions, or come out
on video, so see our review of reviews, starting on
page 59.
For those of you in London over the summer,
remember that it's the RSC's last season in The
Barbican and The Pit before the temporary shutdown.
The much acclaimed Singer moves up to the main
Barbican Theatre from the Pit, where it is joined by
Gorky's Barbarians and Moscow Gold, telling of the
rise of Gorbachev. Coriolanus and As You Like It
(reviewed in FELIX) remain. In the Pit, Earwig and A
Dream Of People (directed by Janet Suzman) join
Pericles and The Duchess Of Malfi in repertoire.
The RSC can also be seen in Stratford, as ever, with
the season that will NOT be transferred to London and
on tour with Show Boat and Les Liasons Dangereuses.
Show Boat will travel from Liverpool to Nottingham
over the summer and Les Liasons will visit Glasgow
and Leeds.
Most of the plays at the National reviewed recently
in FELIX will continue to run over the summer. After
The Fall is the second Arthur Miller play to open after
The Crucible. Replacing Sunday In The Park With
George in the Lyttelton will be productions of King
Lear and Richard III, which will then go on tour.
The Glasgow - City Of Culture - events will be
continuing all over the summer, and the Edinburgh
Festival will be taking place in early September.
Late August sees the Greenbelt festival of Music
and Theatre. Bands playing this year include Deacon
Blue, Runrig and Fat and Frantic, and theatre will be
provided by Virginia MacKenna, Polly March and
Milton Jones. Details can be had from the Greenhouse
on 071-700-1335.
Wherever you are in Britain or abroad there will be
cultural events of all types going on. Make the most
of your 'free' time - investigate, explore and enjoy.
Page 73

