STA manager Roy Hughes and Wendy Parks describe experiences of a mini world tour and how to plan one.
Catching the travel bu
It is not inconceivable that in the darkest recesses of
each of Britain's universities there is a meteorological
department with the sole responsibility of ensuring
that during the period leading up to exams the weather
will be extremely hot, sticky and generally not very
conducive to spending hours locked away in a library,
bedroom or wherever else silent sanctuary is to be
found. For most people this is an intolerable situation,
for experienced travellers it is the nearest thing to
purgatory and for others this is the time that the
embryonic idea of 'getting away from it all' takes
serious root.
So what constitutes 'getting away from it all'? For
some people it is nothing more complicated than two
weeks of hedonistic pleasure in a mediterranean
hotspot; for others it is an Inter-Rail pass, a tent and
a stout pair of hiking boots. Some hardy souls,
obviously deeply disturbed by an excess of academia,
beg, steal or borrow the required finances and set off
on a round-the-world ticket (purchased from STA, of
course). A prerequisite for this latter group is a sense
of adventure and/or a degree of temporary insanity.
For all potential travellers the easy part is deciding
to go. Difficulties begin to arise when choosing a
suitable destination (or destinations). I have lost count
of the number of people I have spoken to over the last
two years with STA, who have uttered those near
Walthamstow-ish classic lines; 'I want to go on
holiday but I don't know where'. ('There are people
in the air...they think it's all over...'.) Unfortunately
for me these people usually expect an immediate
solution-as a matter of interest, my usual answer is
'Laos', as I have yet to meet anybody who has
successfully negotiated their way either in or out of
the country. On the other hand there are people who
collect 'sets' of countries; one of our intrepid
consultants in another branch of STA went to the
extremes of visiting Tirana in Albania sometime last
year so he could complete his 'European set'. I have
to admit to being one of these irritating people and
I am, at present, working on a collection of 'One Party
States' which is quite an interesting one as new ones
crop up all the time, while others disappear.
As some indication to where independent travellers
are heading for at the moment, I would tentatively say
(after a quick straw poll in the office) that the most
popular destinations are the perennial favourite, the
USA, and a relative newcomer, Thailand. The latter
is fast becoming the Hawaii of South East Asia, so
it would be advisable to get there before it's too late.
A couple to watch out for in the future could be
Indonesia (especially Sumatra) and a rank outsider The
Maldives; a factor not entirely unconnected to the fact
that they are sinking and it is somewhat of a novelty
to visit islands that might not actually be there in ten
years time. Whatever your final choice of destination,
the next step is usually the most difficult, the pre-
travel preparations.
'SvVAYAMBHUNATH' THE MONKEY T E M P L E .
KATHMAMDU
It was during my student years that I caught the
'travel bug', backpacking around Europe as much as
time and money would allow. Although I then settled
into a teaching job, I longed to travel further afield and
after two years I started making plans for a year's trip.
These plans and the necessary preparations took me
almost six months.
My first task was to decide where I wanted to go.
I read books and brochures which made me want to
go to almost every destination inthe world. Studying
the seasons, I laboriously worked out a round the
world route which avoided the monsoons as much as
possible. I took this route to a few travel agents for
a quote, but when figures in excess of £3,000 were
thrown at me I decided it was time to rethink! I also
became more realistic about just how much of the
world I could see in a year. This became even more
apparent once I had travelled for a while and I realised
that the more countries or towns I tried to visit the
less I actually gained-it was impossible to scrape
below the surface if I was constantly on the move.
I would be travelling alone for three months through
Asia before arriving in Australia to spend Christmas
with friends. As I was unsure at this stage about being
in Asia on my own, I found out about a number of
treks and tours specifically geared towards budget
travellers. While I was busy sorting out my route and
a tour I also had to work through a long list of many
mundane and time consuming procedures: obtaining
a new passport, relevant visas, international driving
licence and YHA card, insurance, making several visits
to the doctor for a series of innoculations and then
equiping myself with a new rucksack, walking boots,
sleeping bag and other necessities.
Meanwhile, the actual trip was falling into place. I
had booked to go on a trek in Northern India in
September and then in November I would go on a tour
from Kathmandu to Bali. All I needed was a flight to
Delhi and then a flight from Bali to Australia, I was
quite impressed how well I'd cut down my flights
although the planning had taken me so long that by
the time I returned to STA to book them the cheapest
fares were already full.
And so for the first three months everything was
rigidly planned. I went on the trek in Northern India
and then travelled overland to Nepal where I spent a
month before joining the tour that was to take me to
Bali in an astounding five weeks...While this tour
offered me security and a hassle free trip, I found it
frustrating travelling through five countries at such
speed and not having any real contact with the people
and their ways of life and so I was quite relieved to
spend another two weeks in Bali on my own after the
tour had finished. During this time I developed a real
love for the island, with its beautiful scenery,
incredibly friendly people and relaxing lifestyle, and
I made the decision to return at some point. It should
be noted that there are two sides to Bali -the southern
tip of the island is to Australia what Benidorm is to
the UK-for people who just want to drink, eat and
surf cheaply it's great, but Kuta is not Bali.
Fortunately, it is easy to get away from the tourist
area and elsewhere in Bali, life continues as it has for
hundreds of years...with a culture that is fascinating
and unique.
I flew on to Australia just before Christmas and
suffered from culture shock for the first time since
leaving home! I spent the next two months visiting
friends and picking fruit to earn some quick money.
I then headed for the bright lights of Sydney, where
Page 76
I bumped into a girl who I'd first met in Bali. Before
long we decided to travel together, with Bali as our
final destination.
We travelled mostly by arranged lifts, as advertised
on hostel noticeboards, and had one adventure after
another. It was by far the best time I had in Australia.
We took a month to travel from Sydney along the
coast to Cairns to see the Great Barrier Reef and then
across the outback to Darwin.
Here we discovered flights to Bali were not as cheap
as we had hoped for but we could fly to Timor for
£250 return. We were also told we could leave the
next day and as we were desperate to leave Australia
by this point we spent the rest of the day rushing
around like demented ants getting injections,
travellers cheques, etc.
The next two months were superb as we travelled
across the lesser known islands of Timor, Sumba,
Fores and Lombok before reaching Bali. Tourists have
yet to reach these islands, which means conditions
are basic, but the people are very friendly and were
always inviting us to their homes and giving us food.
This was sometimes difficult coming to terms with,
in the light of their relative poverty. I loved Indonesia
so much that I ended up spending a further four
months on my own in Timor, Bali and then travelling
on through Java and Sumatra. I was so glad at this
point that I had not booked any onward flights from
Australia before I'd left home as this allowed me to
be more flexible. I eventually made my way up to
Penang from Sumatra and spent a final five weeks in
Thailand before buying a cheap flight back to London
from Kuala Lumpur.
D A N C E R ° ¥ O O
BANGKOK
ON THE, BEACH
AUSTRALIA.
Wherever you want
to go
We'll get you there
for less
Low Cost Flights on Quality
Airlines
Special Fares for Students
Weekend Breaks, Tours &
Group Bookings
Well Travelled Staff to
Guide You
Over 100 Offices
Worldwide
U L U T R A V E L
Sherfield Building
Imperial College
\W
4W
A B T A ULU TRAVEL
Page 77

