Lecturer in biochemistry, Peter Little, describes how Imperial is
A Revolutionary
• Power!ines, VDUs and everyday appliances may
be acting as carcinogens, concludes the US
Environmental Protection Agency. In a report to be
released later this month the EPA will publish results
of a two year survey into the links between extremely
low-frequency electromagnetic radiation and the
occurrence of human cancer. The draft report says
that 'the several studies of leukaemia, lymphoma and
brain cancer in children exposed to magnetic fields
from residential 60Hz electrical power distribution
systems, supported by similar findings in adults, show
a consistent pattern of response'. In a preliminary
draft, these sources were to have been given the
agency's B1 classification which includes chemicals
such as DDT and PCBs. The biological mechanisms
causing cancers by these actions are, as yet,
unknown.
• Two factors contributed to the low number of
fatalities from the Romanian earthquake,
measuring 6.9 on the Richter Scale, on May 30th. The
first is that the epicentre was 90km below the
surface, compared to 3km for the 1988 Armenian
event. The second is that all the fragile buildings prone
to damage in an earthquake had all been demolished
after an earthquake of size 7.2 in 1977, says
Professor Nick Ambraseys of Imperial. Two thousand
people died in 1977 when multi-storey concrete
buildings collapsed after being weakened by an
earthquake in 1940.
• Brazil is on its way to being capable of building
an atomic bomb. The Brazilian Physics Society reports
that once a new uranium-enriching centre is
completed, they could have one seven days and £2
million later. By a happy coincidence, the US
representative to the International Atomic Energy
Agency, Richard Kennedy, was touring Brazil. He
urged Brazil to ratify the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty. Brazilian diplomats retorted that the treaty
was discriminatory and would sign only if it was
changed. The centre is to provide fuel for a submarine
reactor. Kennedy has struck back, criticising Brazil's
role as a major arms exporter to Iraq. Brazil and the
United States look destined not to meet in the World
Cup.
• 'Paintballing' may be having an adverse effect
on ancient woodlands. The 'sport' involves hoards
of war crazed executives land occasional student
groups) trampling vulnerable new growth underfoot.
The Government's watchdog, the Nature
Conservancy Council, is to monitor this mindless
destruction over the next 12 months at a site in
Cambridgeshire. The 100,000 vandals of nature are
putting at risk ash, oak and hazel trees, which have
not yet adapted themselves to the mindless invasion
of would-be James Bonds. A British Paintball
Association Committee member said 'We...play...to
damage'.
Page 78
Revolutions are normally heralded by an explosion at
the palace gates but, occasionally, innumerable small
changes combine quietly together to produce an
equally dramatic qualitative change in our perception
of the world. Biology has just started its second such
revolution in twenty years. Most people did not even
know the first had occurred!
The first revolution occurred in the mid-70s when
we learnt how to isolate single genes from complex
organisms such as the human being and grow them
in pure form-the recombinant DNA revolution. The
next revolution will be the result of a proposal that
was first put forward by a group of molecular
biologists in Europe and the USA, to establish the
structure of all genes in the human being; the Human
Genome Project as it is called. The cost will be huge,
perhaps three billion dollars, spread over 10 years.
Why is this happening, what will it achieve and how
will it be achieved?
The function of DNA
Genes are made of DNA, whose elegant and beautiful
double-helical structure has become a totem of the
new biology. Genes code for proteins in the same way
as tape codes sound or video pictures but instead of
using electrical storage, it uses a sequence of simple
chemicals, the bases.
Bases can be A, G, C or T (the full names are
irrelevant) and DNA stores information in the triplet
genetic code. A small region of DNA could have the
sequence of bases GGATCTTTT, for example. Broken
up into triplets of bases we have GG A, TCT and TTT.
The cell uses this information to put a protein
together.
Proteins are the catalysts of cells. They can
manufacture almost all of the complex organic
molecules needed to 'make a human'. A protein is
made up of a long, specific sequence of amino acids,
20 of which are used in the body, put together in a
unique order. The order determines the biological
properties of the protein and it is this information that
is stored in DNA. So, in our example, GGA codes for
Glycine, TCT for Serine and TTT for Phenylalanine and
the protein will have these amino acids in this order.
So far I hope this is simple to understand. The
problem is that the^e is a vast amount of DNA in each
human cell, 6x10 bases, and only 5% of this is
'genes'. The rest is the space betweengenes. All this
DNA is called the human genome.
How many genes a^e there a human being?
Probably between 10 and 10 , all of which are
present in every cell of our body. Of course, all genes
do not work in al! cells: brain cells are very different
from blood cells which are themselves very different
from sperm cells and these differences are reflected
in the genes that are expressed in the different cell
types.
Genetic Diseases
That the system works at all is the product of three
billion years of evolution, but it is still touch and go.
One per cent of all live births in this country will have
a genetic abnormality that will either kill or result in
requiring medical support, sometimes for life. It is this
that has powered the surge of work on the genetic
basis of development. Genes that are responsible for
life threatening diseases such as cystic fibrosis
(carried by 1 in 20 of the white population of the UK)
sickle cell anemia, phenylketonuria, thalassemia and
Tay Sachs disease, have all been identified and the
defects that cause disease are now becoming
understood. At present, the best we can do is to offer
diagnosis of the condition before a baby is born-
antenatal diagnosis, followed by therapeutic abortion,
if this is requested (it is not always). Perhaps later,
as the normal function of the gene product is
understood, we will be able to offer treatment rather
than this unpleasant method of prevention.
Not all genetic diseases are caused by single gene
defects and a complex of genes interacting together,
perhaps as many as five or six, can lead to, for
example, a predisposition to breast cancer or coronary
heart disease. Unless we have this gigantic picture of
what normal genes look like in humans we cannot
establish what the normal pattern of variation is within
the genes, to decide which may contribute to the
disease. The function and structure of perhaps 5% of
our genes are partly understood. The rest of the genes
are a complete mystery, of unknown structure, of
unknown function and of unknown effect upon
humans.
After the sequence, what next?
What happens when we achieve the goal and
establish the sequence? The quick answer is that then
the work really starts. How do we establish the
function of a gene knowing only the sequence of
amino acids it contains? In principal, the techniques
of genetic engineering and molecular genetics allow
these problems to be answered, but we quickly run
into ethical problems. Genetics is carried out by the
breeding of animals or plants together to examine the
effects of a gene on the offspring. The idea of
breeding humans is repugnant and ethically
unacceptable, so how do we get round this problem?
The obvious answer is to use another species and
since we are ultimately interested in humans, it must
be a vertebrate. The common house mouse is the
preferred animal: rapid to breed, simple to keep and
with a huge store of accumulated information about
its genetics, development and structure. The
sequence of all mouse genes is included in the Human
Genome Project. Since mice have the same amount
of DNA and about the same number of genes as
humans, this doubles the size of the project's huge
task. The genetics community is studying several
other species with equal intensity as the human and
the mouse, in particular the fruit fly, Drosophila
melanogaster; the nematode worm, Caenorhabditis
elegans, the yeast and the common gut-living bacteria
E. coli. Fortunately, these organisms have less DNA
than us-the fly and the worm 1 0 s
bases, yeast
4x107
and E. coli 4x106
.
Sequencing DNA
How will the project be done? Technically, we can
sequence about 600 bases of DNA in one go and the
normal way to sequence DNA is to break a small, say
5000 base, gene randomly into 600 base fragments.
Each of these fragments is then sequenced, choosing
fragments at random. Computers are used to identify
sequences which overlap or are the same, and it is
a relatively simple operation to align lots of sequences
of 600 bases to give one represenative sequence of
the whole 5000 bases. It does mean many regions get
sequenced several times-on average 4-5 and this
may seem a labour intensive method as a
consequence. It is not, because the process of DNA
sequencing is automatable, but the process of
identifying specific 600 base fragments to allow the
\playing its part in. 25 YEARS AGO
science
5000 bases to be sequenced by about 9 unique 600
base pieces, is not and is hugely labour intensive.
Can we do the whole of human DNA like this? The
computational problems alone would be tough, since
3x109
bases would require 5 million 600 base
fragments, all sequenced 4-5 times. This is difficult
but what makes it impossible is that some pieces of
human DNA are found at more than one location in
this chain-they are repeated. One class of this
repeated DNA is about 350 bases long and present
750,000 times. The computer, comparing 600 base
sequences would have no way of knowing which of
the repeats matched which and would get into a
terrible mess.
Some technical help is needed
The way round this is to break the DNA into smaller
pieces. First let us look at chromosomes: there are 46
of these in humans, so we can analyse just one at a
time. This is technically possible. The average
chromosome is about 3x108
which is a reasonable
figure but still too large to sequence directly. So the
next step is to make a 'map' of particular sorts of
sequences along a chromosome, since this map lets
us break the DNA into smaller regions. We can then
construct sets of fragments of DNA each being about
40,000 bases long and partially overlapping to cover
the whole region. We can now sequence these
40,000 base fragments by computerised analysis and
since we know the precise relationship of 40,000
adjacent fragments, we never need worry about the
whole of the human DNA, just the fragments either
side. This is technically tough, but again possible and
is the work that my lab is most involved in. We know
which fragments contain genes that we are already
interested in, so we can overcome the problem that
95% of DNA is not gene and to start with just the bits
we know are interesting. Later we can do the rest and
find totally new genes. That will be the real
excitement!
The future?
We will need large computers and robots, to make
sequences and handle DNA, and very careful work in
our laboratories. The scale of the project will require
international coordination, probably under the Human
Genome Organisation (HUGO), a group of some 300
leading figures in human genetics, myself included.
The future course of the project is gradually becoming
clear even though, as in any big money project,
politics sometimes takes more time than actual work.
If you want to see how this work is actually done, why
not come and see my research team for yourself?
The revolution has started and there was no
explosion at the gates. That doesn't mean it is any
less revolutionary.
The determination of DNA sequence. Each
band on this analysis represents a base.
The sequence is read from the bottom
going from band to band incrementally up
the track. Each group of 4 represents all 4
bases G, A, T and C, and there are about
200 bases on this analysis. Human DNA
would require about 10,000,000 similar
pictures for a complete analysis.
• Transistors have led to an incredible
development in colour television. Developed by
Japanese scientists, the portable set has a screen
7)4" across and weighs 16lbs. Transistors were
required for al! but the high voltage rectifiers and
picture tube in order to pack the electronics into a 10"
cube. Thanks to this, power consumption is kept
down to 30 watts, one tenth of that normally needed.
Another change is the use of one electron gun rather
than three. The single gun presents red, blue and
green colour information sequentially. The set,
developed by the Yaou Electric Company of
Kanagawa, is to be introduced to Japanese and
American buyers shortly.
• Lifts getting you down? The logistics of lifts;
where they go, the number of stops they make and
how many there are have always been within the
domain of architects and engineers. But Miss Helen
Parlow, a research assistant at Imperial, has just
completed a study of these factors on traveller's
waiting times. Most of the lift companies' work deals
with offices, which only require the filling and
emptying of the building in two half hours per day.
Universities and hospitals have different needs, which
has prompted interest in the report from the Ministry
of Health.
• 'Consort', the University of London's research
and training reactor has been officially inaugurated
at Imperial's field station at Silwood Park in Berkshire.
It is water cooled and designed to run at 10OkW. This
compares to the 10kW reactor originally envisaged.
Working closely with Imperial, designers GEC-Simon
Carves began about five years ago. The total cost is
estimated to be about £100,000. It incorporates
many research facilities, notably the large 'bare face'
between the inner tube and concrete shielding.
Access to the face is possible within 24 hours of a
shutdown.
Three years ago the University of London turned
down an offer of a 'Merlin' reactor as a free gift from
the AEI Company.
• Concord, the supersonic airliner, is to carry a
specially designed cosmic ray meter. The monitor,
still in the experimental stage, has been developed by
the Atomic Energy Authority. It will be capable of
detecting all types of rays, including neutrons, present
at the 12 mile level that Concord will be flying. Green,
amber or red lights show depending on the dosage.
Green is safe, amber is a warning light and red is
dangerous. Action on a red light will be to descend
to 9 miles where the density of the atmosphere should
be enough to absorb any dangerous rays, although
this will probably require a return to subsonic speed.
• The Mathematical Association has published
its report on the teaching of mechanics. It is
intended as a guide for teachers, and insists that
mechanics should be taught as part of a mathematics
course rather than in science lessons. But it is feared
that this approach may lead to too much abstraction
and kill interest in the subject. Problems in the physical
world cannot be ignored by students' learning
methods in so-called 'applied mathematics' they say.
The report deals with teaching to pre-university level.
Page 79

