50 YEARS AGO
• The effects upon workers, of blacking-out
windows in factories are being investigated by the
Industrial Health Research Board. Artificial lighting
tolerated under peace-time conditions is no longer
acceptable in present circumstances, with longer
hours being worked. Pre-war practice was mainly
concerned with adequate levels of illumination. Poor
illumination can lead to psychological problems
causing a decrease in output of a factory. When
natural skylights are blacked out, distracting glare and
dazzle can produce an objectionable tunnel effect.
New means of lighting may be designed to conserve
mental and physical reserves.
• The electron microscope in the McLennan
Laboratory at Toronto is now claimed to have a
resolving power of greater than 60 Angstroms. In a
paper last year, the suggested limit was a resolution
of 200 Angstroms. The improvement is a result of the
control of the illuminating beam of electrons, and the
nature of the specimens used.
• Imperial's offer to HM Government of the
services of the Biological Field Station at Slough has
been gratefully accepted. This commitment during the
war will provide research areas for study on insect
infestation of food produce. The Department of
Scientific and Industrial Research now takes all staff
engaged on this project under its own employment
and, with the consent of the College's Governing
Body, secures Professor J W Munro as a consultant.
• With pressures on the economy rising, and
unlikely to fall in the foreseeable future, the utilisation
of waste products is being emphasised by the Salvage
Department. The sixth report of the Select Committee
on National Expenditure recommends the appointment
of a national controller of salvage, supervising the
salvage work of all departments. The Minister of
Supply has made it obligatory for local authorities with
a population of more than 10,000 to arrange for the
efficient collection of salvage.
The collection of waste paper doubled between
November last and April to 9,000 tons. Even banana
stalks have an alternative use as valuable fertilizer.
The household cooked bone can provide one eighth
of its weight in cooked fat and one eighth in glue, with
the rest used as feeding meal for cattle or as bone-
based fertilizer. All these previously discarded
materials are needed.
• 'What a lovely pear' was previously an
overgeneralisation used by fruit farmers describing
their produce. Now all cultivated pear varieties can be
classified using a system by M B Crane and D Lewis.
The characteristics suggested are genetically
controlled and can be used with confidence when the
range of variations is known. They are: leaf-margin,
mid-rib, shoot hairiness and leaf colour.
Page 80
If we were the size of a typical insect the world would appear
completely different. We all need homes to live in, however.
Simon Haslam looks at the more unusual arthropod flat in
the city...
Webs to nests
In the natural world, things that crawl the earth's
surface find a wide variety of homes to live in. Out
of over a million species of animals more than three
quarters are arthropods, that is invertebrates with
jointed legs.
Spiders
Arthropods build an incredibly diverse range of
structures for themselves and spiders are no
exception. One spider weaves a cocoon and hangs
onto its underside when swimming below the water
surface. This traps a small pocket of air allowing the
spider to breathe underwater, very much like a diving
bell. Another spider, the grass spider, spins its web
in such a way that it forms a dry tent-like enclosure.
Money spiders construct large webs in a horizontal
sheet across gorse and grass. The sheets are
supported by vertical strands in which hopping insects
get tangled, later to fall to their dooms in the
hammock.
Termites
Not all arthropods lead such solitary lives, though.
Termites, like ants, are very social creatures. They live
together in large colonies and have different forms for
their various roles within the microcosm. Their castle,
a termitarium, is made from a range of materials
including earth, rotten wood, clay and other debris,
which varies from one species to another. The fabric
of the building is usually bonded together with a
cement of saliva. The structures are so strong that
dynamite has been used to clear them in the past.
The nests can be up to 5m high and 3m in diameter
at the base. They frequently extend a metre or so
underground. This is particularly true in desert regions,
where the nest can be almost entirely subterranean.
In such nests vertical tunnels can go so deep as to
reach the water table, thus enabling the nest to be
kept damp.
In wet environments, termitariums have pitched
roofs to allow the water to drain away. The nest itself
contains a series of chambers interconnected by
tunnels with the central areas being reserved for the
king, queen and young brood.
The Mastotermes darwiniensis termite, which lives
in Northern Australia, is one of the most destructive
insects on the planet. There can be up to a million
termites per nest, which will attack almost anything.
Abandoned farms have been turned to dust in less
than three years!
Wasps
Wasp colonies thrive in nests at a temperature of
26-36°C, some 5-15°C above the temperature
outside. The layering of the nest's structure provides
good insulation, and central heating is generated from
active worker ants and larvae digesting food. Potter
Wasps build mud containers in which they lay eggs
and deposit paralysed insects, in the larder as it were,
for the larvae to feed on later. A variation on the
nursery theme is the female Praying Mantis who lays
her eggs in foam which hardens in air so encapsulating
and protecting the eggs.
Ants
The most common ants' nests are built in the ground,
often under a log or stone. Dedicated worker ants
build the nest, grain by grain. The constructions are
built to last; some nests are more than twenty years
old! The workers shift the brood to other parts of the
nest according to whether the surroundings are dry
or wet, hot or cold in order to give the right conditions
The intricate nest of the wood ant can be more than
a metre high and is built from grass, twigs, soil and
A Hermit crab complete with hoarded shells^ The shells shown are not the customary snail
but are those of cockles and scallops.

