100 YEARS AGO
•
A termitarium, rising out of the ground like ruins of some ancient building.
other debris. Like the termitarium it contains many
living areas, larders and corridors.
Not all nests are ground based. For instance, the
Indian ant, Oecophylla smaragdina, builds nests in
trees. A brigade of worker ants pulls the edges of two
leaves together in order to 'sew' them into a sheet.
Where the gap between leaves is wide, the ants form
chains, holding onto each others legs! The thread is
produced from a grub, held in the mouth of another
ant. The grub produces a silk thread from its lower
lip and this is criss-crossed between the leaves to sew
them together. Eventually, enough silk is present to
form a solid joint.
Bees
The bee is a well known social insect, whose colonies
often contain 60-80,000 individuals. Wild bees
frequently live in a hive, hanging from the branch of
a tree. The hive is composed of hexagonal cells in
combs. The size of the cells varies between species
and can be specialised for certain uses. The bigger
cells are often used for the rearing of drones and the
largest are usually reserved for queen bees. Some
species prefer a more out of the way habitat such as
caves or hollow trees.
Crabs
The tiny, pink-bodied pea crab lives inside the
Common mussel and grabs its food from the mussel's
gills while the aptly named Hermit crab supplements
its own skeleton with empty sea snail and whelk
shells. Nereid worms, which are a type of ragworm,
often live with the Hermit crab for protection.
The Human home
Not all arthropods live in remote or secluded places
like rain forests or damp cellars. The human body is
home to many, otherwise homeless, creatures. There
are often over 2000 mites on one human being, not
that this is something to worry about. Eyelash mites,
which spend their days, as their name suggests, in
the roots of eyelashes, help to keep the lashes clean.
There are other mites living in hair follicles all over the
body. Some mites have strong anchorage spikes on
their feet and powerful jaws to allow them to feed on
soft human skin, often a cause of itching.
On a larger scale, are the blood sucking insects. The
Tsetse fly grips onto a suitable blood donor, inserts
a tube known as the proboscis and feeds until its body
is so distended that it can drink no more.
More revolting still is the habitat of the human blood
fluke. At the larval stage it leaves its first home, the
water snail, and remains in water until it penetrates
the human skin. The fluke works its way into the blood
vessels and grows in the veins. It lays eggs that have
a sharp single spine, which permeate to the bladder
and are passed out. In some cases the eggs may
cause damage by trying to tunnel their way out
through the bladder wail.
In the home, huge armies of creatures, which look
ferocious under the microscope, live in beds, furniture,
carpets and curtains. The booklouse, probably a
distant relative of that well known animal the
bookworm, lives on the mould that grows on damp
books. It belongs to a group of over 1000 species,
the majority of which are winged, living in forest and
woodland on a diet of leaves and bark.
The homes of the arthropods are tremendously
varied. Their ingenuity is often awe inspiring and a
result of many years of evolution and adaptation.
Maybe man could learn something from these so
called 'creepy crawlies.'
• Next Friday will see the lighting of the Natural
History Museum with the use of electricity. The
scheduled function is that of the Society of Arts and
it will allow the authorities to test the effectiveness
of electric lighting in the building. If successful, the
lighting seems likely to be made permanent. At the
British Museum, where electricity is already used,
members of the public have to be excluded for an
interval at dusk, so that the lamps can be lit. This has
not been successful, since the practice has started to
discourage visitors.
• 'Is there coal in the south-east of England?' is
the title of a lecture to be given next week at Mansion
House by Professor T McKenny Hughes FRS. It will
be presided over by the Lord Mayor and supported by
the 'Coal Search Committee'. The Committee
consists of scientific and commercial men, donating
their services free of charge. It was formed with the
aim of locating and finding the extent of coal fields
in the south-east.
• Paris is to have its own University, it was agreed
last week. The General Council of the Paris Faculties
held a meeting at the Sarborne and decided the
University should have five faculties (Protestant
Theology, Law, Medicine, Science and Literature)
with an upper school of Pharmacy. Besides
professional degrees, the University will grant
diplomas of purely scientific studies to native and
foreign students.
• One million square miles of Canada is still
unexplored, estimates Dr G M Dawson in a paper just
published. The area represents between one third and
one quarter of Canadian territory. Dr Dawson believes
that any intrepid explorer must possess sound
geological and botanical knowledge together with a
scientific training to enable him to make 'intelligent
and accurate observations of any natural features or
phenomena with which he may come in contact'.
• The longest glass tube made is now in use as
a water barometer in the Saint Jacques Tower,
Paris. Measuring 12 metres 69 centimetres with a 2
centremetre diameter, the tube forced contractors to
create special openings in the tower to position it.
Measuring and photographic equipment are connected
so that thermometrical reading may also be taken. It
will be useful thanks to its high sensitivity, especially
during thunderstorms.
• Progress in the fight against rabies means that
'the muzzling order' will not be enforced throughout
the country, Mr Chaplin said in the House of
Commons this week. Rabies cases numbered 340 last
year. Collars have been substituted for the muzzle in
areas where rabies has ceased to exist, and there are
no statistics to show the effect of such a universal
imposition. Mr Chaplin anticipates effective control
without resorting to these stringent measures.
Page 81

