Madonna
-I'm Breathless LP
A change in style for Madonna? Ha, understatement
of the decade.
This album, set in the 1930s around the movie Dick
Tracy, should never have been released as an
independent Madonna album; though Madonna injects
all the tracks with her talent and vitality, it still sounds
like the soundtrack to Anniel The further one
progresses with the album, the more one gets the
feeling that the whole thing has been produced
Soup Dragons
-Love God LP
Lovegod is the second LP by the Soup Dragons, Sean
Dickinson & Tribe, preceded by the excellent lifted
single Mother Universe. As with Mother Universe, the
whole album shows a total change in direction, to a
mellow, beat based sound. Though excellent material,
unfortunately, fated to pass the same way as the
single: 'the single? we never heard of it!', you may
say. Exactly my point.
Each track follows the same basic format of ebbing
vocals and guitars over a backing bass and drum
(machine-might as well be) beat. Each track leaves
an impression, but leaves nothing stronger, nothing
demanding or attention seeking; sometimes a line will
infiltrate for its classic value alone, overall each track
in turn washes nicely but effortlessly by.
On the basis of simplicity, dominating attitudes
oscillate somewhere between two extremes, from the
raunchy expressiveness of Drive the Pain or Kiss the
Gun, to the mesmeric mellowness of Softly or
Sweetmeat; appreciation rises and falls between
differing moods.
On a good day, buy the record, catch a crest of the
Soupies and enjoy riding on it.
DEL.
tongue-in-cheek and it is a big joke; but it can't be can
it?
A lot of it sinks into basic 1930s female vocalist
tracks but some cannot go without mention for their
novelty value. The first such track, Hanky Panky, is
as the title suggests about kinky sex, but it takes
some listening to to believe she really is singing 'hanky
panky, I like a bit of spanky' and 'tie my hands behind
my back and ooh I'm in ecstasy'! I'm Going Bananas
is Madonna doing exactly that, but in a very energetic
calypso way. Something to Remember is a classic
Madonna love track which she sings with true felt
emotion. If only it wasn't in the middle of the album...
Now I'm Following You (Parts I and III is a brilliant
waltz around the dancefloor with Madonna; on the
second attempt she adds a dance beat to help it along
and if it didn't have the awful samples from the film's
bits, it could be a classic dance track. Well a novel
one anyway.
Vogue sits uncomfortably on the end, totally out of
place. It may be a good dance track, but thank God
the whole album didn't turn out like that.
The album is good if you like Madonna, or the film
Dick Tracy when it is released. It's very confusing to
know how to take it: seriously?
DEL.
I Like Danny's Hair
-Trapdoor 22.5.90
The hair was everywhere, but who was Danny?
Perhaps he was the obscene 5ft inflatable killer whale
or the giant pink rabbit
They threatened to be brilliant. The raw guitars
devoured the subtle synths and the erotic whale
aroused some obvious pleasure in the singer. A
pounding version of a Doors classic became
monumental, but from then onwards the songs just
got cornier and the technology took over.
Shamelessly, they sang about 'Fatso' and 'Printing'
Che's not a Yankee, he's a printer'?). As the synths
devoured the subtle guitars, the Billy Idol lookalike's
greatest challenge became to start the drum machine
and sequencer in synch, and so, after achieving
success, he dropped his trousers for the delighted
audience.
They destroyed Greased Lightning in a torrent of
blips and echoes, whilst on some tracks the whole
band were redundant. So the maniacs pranced over
the stage or tried asphyxiation by wearing rubber
gloves as hats. Who needs 'live' music when you've
got a digital sampling sequencer?
Great for a cabaret-good all-round non-family
entertainment at it's most sordid-but where's the
music gone?
SJH.
Inspiral Carpets
-Live LP
Scally sensation? Cool as F***?? I was dying to find
out, when prejudice and good taste stopped me in my
tracks.
After pulling out the record sleeve to find, to my
horror, the picture on the right, could you expect me
to continue with the review?
DEL
ill i H ;.vr
Morrissey
-Hulmerist VIDEO
If you hold any interest in Morrissey you'll enjoy the
videos: an overall reflection on Morrissey, his
Manchester humour and devoted fans.
The promo videos are interspersed with clips of his
free Wolverhampton gig from '88; unless of course
you were there yourself, when the video would be
more of a visual momento interspersed with the
promo videos.
Morrissey whilst in The Smiths was a devout non-
believer in video, so a certain naivete is evident,
though overcome with some strong imagery.
Last of the Famous International Playboys, though
an excellent song, is his first and most disappointing
video. Sister I'm a poet is shot from live footage and
emphasises Morrissey's idolised image as fans swarm
the stage to touch, kiss or hold him. Every Day is Like
Sunday has some brutally attacking shots; 'Cruelty
without Beauty' scrawled on a subtle postcard digs
deep. Interesting Drug with its schoolboys in high
heels, shocks but gives no real impression. Suedehead
is a tribute to James Dean, showing Morrissey has
used the videos to express what he wants to see.
Ouija Board, Ouija Board is a manic video around a
sinister but brilliantly expressed song, starring Joan
Simms of Carry On fame. Finally November spawned
a monster is a totally underrated track with a excellent
video. Set in Death Valley, Morrissey takes the
sparsity and void around him and wraps himself in it
to show his angst, captured with some striking
camera shots.
If you enjoy Morrissey, this is a collection he really
seems to enjoy.
DEL
Page 7

