Conniving Git?
Dave Smedley's year as FELIX Editor has made him
the most infamous of all the sabbaticals. Most of you
will have already dissected his character from the
contents of his FELICES, while never meeting the man
himself. But is this fair? Is Dave really vindictive and
scheming, devoid of morality? Well...
Like many before him, his editorship followed a year
as news editor, one of the most torturous of tasks
known to man. After three years at IC playing in the
Physics department, the stress was beginning to swell
and showed in the cigarette intake. Like a genie from
the Arabian Nights, Dave always appears in a puff of
smoke.
Throughout the year this has not improved, despite
the appearance of a subtle 'No Smoking please' sign
in the typesetting area. Indeed, there is trouble in the
air if you catch him without a fag in his mouth.
Maybe one of these troubled periods preceded the
Valentines edition of Broadsheet, for which he was
editor at the time. Was it produced AO or A6 size? No.
It came out in heart shaped format and his name has
been mud ever since.
Speaking of Valentines, Dave has been the first
FELIX editor in a long time who has led a covert
relationship for the better part of the year. The identity
of Smedder's sweetheart remains a mystery to this
very day. Indeed, clues as to the existence of such
a relationship have been few and far between.
Perhaps the largest one was uncovered by one of the
sabbatical candidates back in March. Knocking on the
door of Dave's penthouse love-nest in Selkirk Hall, the
prospective President heard much groaning and
moaning coming from within. Mr Smedley eventually
answered the door looking most disheveled claiming
that the noise had been a steamy item on television.
A cursory glance at the TV Times reveals that
televisual delight was none other than Coronation
Street.
His degree of contempt and disillusionment
concerning the Union and the College has not grown
since taking office, because it was bad enough
already! In that light he has been firm but fair in his
reporting of the cock-ups that always abound. His
hate of committees is paralleled only with his hate of
Dave Williams.
A frustrated photographer, bitter after losing his
artwork from school, he had his big break during the
summer. Mrs Thatcher deigned to grace IC with her
presence, but Dave lost his nerve. Shooting from the
hip, he didn't realise that he had left his Colt 45 in the
office and mistakenly picked up his OM 10 instead.
The result, a blurred photograph and the continuation
of the UK under tyranny. Yes Dave is the man
responsible for the state of edukayshun that resides
today.
Dave could be described as a man with a rapier wit
but only if the rapier concerned was poison tipped.
Every editor has his own preoccupations: his was to
wind up as many people as possible.
This included the staff. Dave's idea of a deadline
for a 4000 word article is 'anytime within the next
ten minutes.' Many a staff member has been spotted
hopping around the room, gibbering after being given
seven pages to write.
The formation of the 'conniving git' award in his
Freshers issue marked the advent of subtle criticism
for the year. The recipient, the then non-Sir Eric Ash,
the rector, made no comment, until it was pointed out
to him several weeks later. Though cringing at each
letter that Sir Eric sent, he played fair and included
them in the letters page for our amusement.
—
•0 mm
Most editors go through a frantic stage (for this to
be put in perspective take your definition of frantic,
add it to the News editors view of frantic, multiply by
10 and you're about half way there). In many it
inspires complete lunacy, schizophrenia, paranoia and
delusions of grandeur (George the III style). The final
straw in Dave's case was the photo-story 'A Fistful
of Parking Permits'. After a postponement of two
weeks and then a couple of all-night developing and
paste-up sessions it was all too much. But for Dave
none of the tell tale signs became apparent.
The bubble did burst though and from it was born
the Pornography special. 'Are You Feeling Yourself
Today' asked the front cover. 'Piss off said the Dean
of St.Mary's, Professor Richards, in a move that
condemned 500 copies of FELIX to incineration.
Dave was not happy. A feature with a message and
a serious approach became the most controversial
product out of the FELIX stables. Though inflaming
the outspoken and misguided views of a number of
groups in college it was also the most sought after.
People came in from miles around to obtain a copy
of the one they missed. 'Excuse me, but I don't seem
to have a copy of Issue 850, have you got any left?'.
Ace columnist, and Dave's collaborator in many
dodgey scams, Paul Shanley, took as much an
exception to the sacrificial burning as Dave. In a move
designed to bring Dr Richards back to earth with his
tail between his legs, Shan phoned first Private Eye
and then some newspapers, including the Evening
Standard. His ignorance of this newspaper was his
downfall as the story they gave was mis-quoted and
turned on it's head. The faxing of the cover, which
had been printed in a subdued hue of orange to limit
image definition, produced a sharp black and white
copy for inspection. This revealed quite unashamedly
one of the biggest orgies since Roman times. Dave
instantly denied encouraging Mr Shanley in this
venture when the paper came out the next day, but
we know better.
—
J
Not content with the volume of letters from readers,
another controversial issue was explored. 'Thatcher's
Girls', a feature on prostitution in issue 868, gave the
bare facts on an issue that is ever contemporary in
a world of ever changing values. This cheap ploy failed
to work, spawning only a few letters, less in fact than
an ordinary book review in the same issue (giving
Dave something else to rant about).
However, the effect was more pronounced than
first appeared. Dave began walking around all the local
phoneboxes. Now the research was over he knew
exactly what to write on his sticky labels to attract
the punters.
Dave encouraged the works of Dave Peacock, the
Union Business Manager, and Ian Richards, the Snack
Bar Manager. The Union office let him get away with
doing the job he was doing, despite wanting a PR man
and not so much of a newspaper man. They did
however realise, far behind the FELIX staff and the
religious societies, that Dave was the Anti-Christ. This
shocking revelation came after the news that nobody
in the Union office was working at all. In fact they had
all been on holiday in Barbados at a wedding. In all
honesty, how could this be true? Such a thought was
unheard of, well, unspoken up until now anyway.
All was sorted out in over zealous celebration at the
President's Dinner. Hugs and kisses on the central
staircase of the Union were much in evidence (£10
or we publish the photographs).
The one major fault in this year's FELIX is the lack
of proof reading in certain Sci Fi Soc articles and the
What's On page, allowing mistakes like PRICKOCON
to slip through.
At this point Dave would like us to say: the last year
has been great and Dave has kept everyone on their
toes. He's been the most professional and
organised of the editors we've worked with. A good
friend aYid an inspiration for us all.
Is that OK Dave, do we get our money now?
Page 83

