FELIX Editor Dave Smedley, exhausted and cynical, gives his view of those wonderful people who've
put up with him all year.
The Staff
The staff in the FELIX Office have been fretting for
weeks, ever since I promised to write an article about
them for this issue. They have a totally unreasonable
mistrust of me. In certain cases, they think I am going
to poke fun at their excessive hair loss, their rather
young age and their eating habits. As any regular
reader of FELIX this year will know, I am totally
trustworthy and would never stoop to the depths of
knocking my fellow workers. Or would I?
One of the biggest stars of this year has to be Adam
Harrington. As news editor, he has not only been short
of a news team, he has often been short of news as
well. Adam has attempted to force Kulture down the
throats of the ignorant masses in the FELIX office by
playing classical music at every opportunity. This has
been much to the distress of the music editor, who
prefers Carter the Unstoppable Sex Machine to
Beethoven. Although I have almost tripped over him
on occasions 'The Weasel,' as our diminutive news
editor has become known, has been irreplaceable and
I owe him more thanks than I am capable of giving
in these few words.
If you look at the photograph on this page, you will
notice one spaced-out individual who does not appear
to be on the same planet as everybody else. Staring
into the distance is one thing Adam Tinworth has been
forced to practice on many occasions this year. As
theatre reviews editor he has seen some appalling
plays as well some good ones, and has now gained
the ability to switch on that glazed look at a moment's
notice. Adam has pasted a vast amount of this issue
and has written a sizeable chunk as well. Although
he is the youngest of the staff, he doesn't act it.
Jeremy Burnell acts this part out perfectly. He has
provided the FELIX Office with a jovial atmosphere,
although his humour does tend to verge on the sick
side. In his attempts to emulate an RCS hack, Jeremy,
or 'Soft-Scoop' as he is usually known, has become
a scavenger of late. He frequently roots around
telephone boxes late at night in the hope that some
distributor will have left a pile of vouchers for some
useful food products. Soft-scoop's latest acquisitions
include a wad of 'buy one get one free' vouchers for
the local Burger King. Jeremy is now the only person
I know capable of eating seven 'Whoppers' in one day.
Apart from stuffing himself silly with fast food,
Jeremy has worked incredibly hard on the money side
of FELIX. Without him, very few bills would have been
paid or sent this year and I would probably have had
a nervous breakdown. I am very grateful for all his help
this year, even if he has got a silly laugh.
Book reviews have appeared this year, courtesy of
Ian Hodge, hereafter referred to by his
nickname/Bodge'. Bodge came to the FELIX office an
innocent fresher, pure as the driven snow. Sexual
innuendo would pass him by, leaving him standing as
the office fell about laughing. Not so now. Bodge now
has a more perverse sense of humour than a jester
in a brothel. I feel FELIX has ruined the touching
naivety which Bodge once had, and which I preferred
to the constant Finbarr Saunders persona that he has
now taken on. Despite all this Ian has been a constant
source of help on FELIX, and has written and pasted
up more than I dare imagine. He has my immense
gratitude for all he has done on FELIX and my
sympathy for deciding to edit the Union Handbook.
Toby Jones has been this year's cinema reviews
editor. With his chatty writing style he has added a
Page 84
great deal to the reviews pages. His filing system is
still a mystery to all but the inner circle of reviewers.
The 'system' seems to go something like, 'take one
desk drawer and a pile of information and photographs
and combine with a liberal sprinkling of chaos.' Along
with Toby's filing has come his eating. Toby's mind
is never far away from the subject of food and when
he'll be eating it next. If you want to spot him on the
photograph, he is the one on the far right, leaning
down to grab an illusionary doughnut on the ground.
Many thanks for your help Tobes, you've been a laugh
and fun to be around.
Beards are an accessory which featured heavily in
the FELIX Office at the beginning of the year. Then
bearded science Editor, Jason Lander, was later
replaced by a similarly bearded Simon Haslam, who
has often rushed in on a Thursday with a science
article, exclaiming 'I'll paste it up this afternoon.'
Jason's beard has since left his chin, along with an
inch wide strip of hair from his head. The top of his
head now resembles a miniature wooded golfing
fairway, which probably explains why I have often felt
like clubbing him. Jason and Simon have provided
some good science coverage and a massive thanks
is again due to both of them. I should mention at this
point that Jason, with the aid of enough coffee to
keep an elephant high for a week, has stayed up for
a large part of the round the clock production of this
issue; he's a hero, albeit a cynical one.
One of the hacks from last year, Liz Warren, has
proven to be another mainstay of this year. Almost
as addicted to caffeine as the aforementioned 'Space'
Lander, Liz has made more cups of coffee and written
more 'instant' features than anyone else in the office.
Best known for her mammoth features, specifically
the pornography one, Liz has the ability to write a
minimum of 1000 words on any topic of conversation
imaginable. She is the kind of person who, when filling
out a form, always has to use the separate sheet of
paper provided. Many thanks are due to her for
steadfast late night pasting and subbing on this issue
especially.
The photographic section of FELIX has expanded
massively this year. With every photographer aspiring
to a job on 'Playboy,' the darkroom has been
continually drained of materials. My theory is that they
are producing dirty pictures in there. Photographers
this year have included Richard Eyers, who has
worked immensely hard on this issue, and Roland
Flowerdew, who produced most of the photographs
for this issue's 'Just 7.'
The subject of Just 7 raises the question of what
drove Music fiend, Sarah, to volunteer. As the office
goth, Sarah has always been the person who made
sure the music pages appeared. Under the manic rule
of 'Dingly' Del, she often saved the day with a quick
paste up. I am very thankful to her and DEL for the
music pages this year, even if DEL has driven me
round the twist on more than one occasion. DEL I hate
you, but thanks.
Darlings! The biggest nutter in the FELIX Office this
year has had to be Adrian Pagan, alias Edna, alias
Fruity, alias 'Darlings.' With his pretentious reviews
he has added that daring dash of suave sophistication
that the FELIX Office has always lacked but never
wanted. Fruit, you've been fun to work with, many
thanks for fashion especially.
And so to the permanent staff. Our printer, Andy
Thompson, has been the hardest working printer I
have known. Working late hours on Thursdays and
overnight during the sabbatical elections, Andy has
neverfailed to amaze me. I admire him both as 'boss'
and fellow worker, and I hope he succeeds in his
intended career as a musician. (I can't be rotten, he
has to print this.)
Both Andy and Rose Atkins have been more like
friends than staff this year. As typesetter operator,
Rose has worked incredibly hard and has still been
able to laugh along with all of us. Her drinking tales
and Spanish holiday recollections have kept us
amused and amazed at the levels of alcohol the human
body can take. I wish her the best of luck in all she
does in the future and just hope that I will remain in
contact with her and Andy after this year.
Finally, Chris Stapleton. A great support and a good
friend, Chris has escaped the net of this article. His
demise, after all, is the prerogative of next year's
staff.

