This is the last editorial of my year as FELIX editor and,
as such, it contains a great deal of my own personal
conclusions and heartfelt regrets, some of which I
have been unprepared to voice before now. I hope that
what I am about to write will not be taken as a
personal attack by anyone, but as a comment upon
their position within the college in a professional
setting.
The Union
I started the year determined to cooperate with the
union. I had seen the unproductive results of past
media campaigns against the body which supposedly
represents the students and I had no wish to repeat
these tragedies.
As the year progressed I began to find it harder and
harder to accept the ineptitude of one sabbatical who
shall remain nameless. A sabbatical should be
someone who sets good examples, I thought. I was
wrong. I had not comprehended who really runs the
students union. The union is not really a representative
of the students. It has a management committee,,
called council, full of students, 90% of whom have
been spineless knobs, not worth the job title they
aspired to for its CV credibility. It has a sovereign
body, the UGM, which is poorly attended and does
very little. In short, the Union has no input from
students. It relies upon discussions around the union
office and the, often unwise, advice of the permanent
staff.
The Union's entire raison d'etre is now just self
fulfillment. Many of the plans for the future involve
expenditure on things 'for the union office.' The
students have become a secondary aspect to that of
the growing number of trading outlets and the needs
of 'the union.' Few ex-sabbaticals would have
envisaged the purchase of a computerised network
for the union office next year, but this will be a major
part of this year's spending. At the same time, clubs
and societies have been pushed into cutting their
budgets. The clubs are where the real students meet
the Union. The end result will be a computerised union
office, which nobody will be able to operate, and an
even greater degree of bureaucracy as students will
be required to enter numbers etc 'for use on the
computer.'
It is about time the union started to think of itself,
once more, as the 'union' rather than 'the union
office.' The sad fact is that I cannot see a great deal
of change forthcoming. The union has been stagnated
by the dogged opinions of those who think they know
better within the union office. Until these mini empire
builders leave there is little hope for progress beyond
the petty power politics which currently prevail. The
best thing that could happen is the abolition of NALGO
amongst the, now divided, staff of the union.
The College
I started my year as FELIX editor with some frank
opinions about the rector. These have not changed.
I am sorry to say that the rector would make a far
better politician than a manager. Every reply he has
written this year has skirted the issue I previously
complained about. This is a crazy college, where the
man who is nominally in charge is really the court
jester.
The entry of Angus Fraser as managing director may
have a long term influence upon the college's poor
organisation and internal communications. And it may
not. Mr Fraser has arrived at Imperial with a fresh
outlook. He wants value for money, he says, which
is more than anyone ever asked for before at IC. I just
wonder how long his initial enthusiasm will last.
Somebody once told me that the problem with
Imperial College is that it is made up of a large number
of independent empires, known as departments. What
may be acceptable in one department may not be in
another. For instance, the mathematics department
is a no smoking zone. There is no clear cut college
wide plan on whether every department should be a
no smoking zone. This would require somebody to tell
the departments to do something, which they would
reject out of hand, on the principle that departments
cannot be preached to. You can recommend a great
deal, but each department will eventually perform its
own wishes, and sod the group decision. Angus Fraser
has to face the task of co-ordinating the heads of
these departments if he is to succeed where others
have tried and failed. His chances are very small. Very
few of the Heads of Departments know much about
management and fewer still know the meaning of the
words 'value for money.'
I shall be interested to see the fruits of Mr Eraser's
attempts in three years, when I believe he will have
given up and left.
Attitudes
Imperial College has an ethos of its very own. This
is probably best summarised by the phrase 'I'm alright
Jack.' Students at Imperial College typify the self-
centred attitude which is usually prevalent in children
rather than adults. Distributing FELIX this year has
taught me more about human nature than ever. I still
remember the days on which, after successfully
battling to hold open the double set of doors at the
entrance to the mechanical engineering building with
a trolley full of FELICES, I was confronted by a student
barging through the opening I had spent five minutes
trying to secure. The people who held doors open for
me were generally staff. The average student seemed
far too wrapped up in themself to even consider
helping me. I cannot see this narrow minded, selfish
attitude abating. My time at Imperial has taught me
to be hard nosed to this kind of person. Maybe this
is IC's idea of a preparation for the real world. I hope
not.
Committees
One breed of creature so prevalent at Imperial is 'Mr
Committee.' Both the college and the union love him.
The best sort of committee in their minds is one which
is guaranteed to last more than 3 hours, involve a
damned heated argument and result in practically no
change. This description fits almost all of the union's
committees and most of the college committees upon
which students are represented.
The academic committees are self sustaining PR
exercises, designed to make you feel better as you
endure some of the worst lecturing techniques
around. They help produce lecturer evaluation
questionnaires, whose results are posted upon
noticeboards. Students are left to decipher their
meaning from a list of numbers and letters (just look
in the chem eng department if you want to see an
example of such a badly presented report.) The end
result of the whole exercise is a set of answers which
the college wanted to hear, from a set of questions
designed to extract such a response. The

