questionnaire never asks 'Did the course kill your
enjoyment of the subject?' No student is ever asked
why they decided not to follow a career related to their
course. The college chooses the questions, and, with
them, the answers.
Cynicism
By now you are probably beginning to bemoan the
cynicism of this old fool. The cynic is the natural
inhabitant of the FELIX Office, however. People who
work on FELIX tend to learn a great deal more about
the college and the union than the average student
and it is this knowledge that fuels a growing degree
of cynicism within them. After a year of reporting
upon the college and the union, I cannot recollect
many examples of something for us all to aspire to.
The rector et al would love me to print those 'good
news' stories which appear in Network, telling of Elsie
Bassett drinking the millionth cup of tea from the
vending machine in QT, as well as other such dull and
banal tales. I refuse to stoop to such depths. There
is no such thing as good news, only news and PR.
Idle gossip
Everybody indulges in a little idle gossip from time to
time. Southside bar is full of it. Imperial College is such
a close knit community that word gets around quickly.
Last week's death in Southside Hall is a case in point.
Within a day of the incident, the security guards were
spreading rumours, 80% of which were utter rubbish.
The frightening part of this is that Chief of Security,
Geoff Reeves, took part in the gossip, disseminating
his own flavour of bullshit. Mr Reeves should already
be in enough trouble since the security guard on duty
when the student fell was unable to open one of the
doors to allow a stretcher through. The spreading of
these rumours merely compounds Mr Reeves' sins.
In the time honored fashion of any college official, Mr
Reeves has already passed the buck by saying that
the security guards had a key, a fact that cannot be
disproved. His arse was covered from day one, since
college officials will always look after each other and
cover up each other's incompetencies in these sort
of circumstances.
This issue
At 88 pages, this issue is now the biggest ever. I
cannot see this record standing for long. Next year's
editor, Chris Stapleton, has an ego which is even
bigger than mine and he has probably planned a 100-
pager already. All this said, I believe this to be the best
issue under my editorship. Every member of staff has
contributed as much time and effort as has been
humanly possible. The issue has been produced by
day and night shifts, with the office running 24 hours
a day for the last ten days. The issue represents more
man hours than I could even begin to calculate.
Although it hardly seems much, I have to thank
Wouter van Hulten for the cover design, which was
printed in the ICU Print Unit, and, specifically, the
following superheroes, many of whom were working
20 hours on, and 4 off, per day: Jeremy Burnell, Jason
Lander, Adam Tinworth, Toby Jones, Liz Warren,
Richard Eyers, and Ian Hodge. Thanks also to all of
the contributors for this issue; there are too many to
mention. The list at the end of this editorial is designed
to be one for the complete year.
Goodbye
Despite my jaundiced views, I have enjoyed my year
as FELIX editor. The year has been all too brief; I just
about seem to have the knack of it now. If anybody
is still looking for the regrets I mentioned earlier, I have
none. This has been a memorable experience, and I
hope it will prove so for Chris next year. Goodbye to
all those people I have known at Imperial and hello
brave new world. Adios!
Dave Smedley, FELIX Editor 1989/90
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 071-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
: Chris Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
Roll 'em cowboys...
Chris Adams, Don Adington, Kaleem N Ahmed, Malcolm Aldridge, The Amazing Flying Gerbil'Machine, Joseph Andrews, John Antoniada, Susan Appleby, Kenan
Ardali, Valeria Arrighi, Rose Atkins, Darren Austin, Azhar, Bad Moon Publicity, Sunny Bains, Alex Ball, Andy Bannister, J Batson, Andy Bell, Sumir Bhardwai, BJ,
Martha Black, Mark Bland, Reggie Blennerhassett, Anna Bodge, Julian Bommer, Adrian Bourne, Simon Bradshaw, Briefly Su, Edna Broadbent, Pete Brookes, Chris
Browne, Anke Bruning, Kenneth Bryliantine, Jeremy Burnell, Jeff Burnett, Adrian Butt, Hal Calamvokis, Michael Carlile, Jo Cartwright, The Caterpillar Cafe Staff,
Alex Challis, Stephen Chisolm, City and Guilds Union, Claire, Phil Clapp, Pete Colins, James Connolly, Tom Coombes, B.A. Costello, Angela Creissen, Richard Crouch,
Mike Dalton, DAN, Nick Danson, Paul Darby, Dave and Tom for The Flocculents, Colin Davidson, Martin Davies, Clare Davis, Niall Davis, Jackie Denial, Derek Chapman
(DEL), Phil Done, Rony Douek, Paul Douek, D Doughramachi, Cath Drake, Chris Edwards, Hugh Eland, Simon Elliot, Dominic and Graham and all from Ents, Bryn
Evans, Richard Eyers, Steve Farrant, Joe Fernley, Roland Flowerdew, Roy Francis, Ian Frith, Frog, Fruit, Dan Ganeshaw, Steve Gargett, Nomtha Gawe, Dr Gerrard,
Sunny Ghaie, Rob Gimeno, Ben Gladwyn, Mark Godfrey, Alastiar Goodall, Kath Goy, Jon Graham, Ralph Greenwell, J.D. Griffiths,-Andrea Grillo, Hamish from Rag,
Rhydian Hapgood, Sydney Harbour-Bridge, Rebecca Hardy, Sarah Harland, Adam Harrington, Simon Haslam, John Hassard, Simon Hawkins, Richard Heap, Su Hendy,
Guy Hilton, Ian Hodge, Liz Holmes, Chris Home, John Hufford, Roy Hughes, I Hussain, Lisa Ingram, Ben Irons, Rufus Issacs, David Ivory, Jake, Jalisi, Jan, Janus,
Fermi Jhooti, Matthew Johnson, Jelly Johnson, Toby Jones, Gwynn Jones, Justine, Kaveh, Ramez Kawar, Craig Kenny, Claire Kerry, Nigel Khakoo, Vinita Khanna,
Shadi Khoroushi, Doug King, Jonathan King, Wendy Kite, Graham Lamlor, Emmajane Lamont, Jason Lander, James Larkins, Laurence, Neil Lavitt, Nick Lay, Chris
Leahy, Mylan Lester, Nathalie Lieske, Graham Little, Dr Peter Little, Louise Lucas, Jim Lucy, Chris M., MAC, Fizz Marsh, Henry Marshed, Rory Masterton, Kevin
McCann, Cath McClay, Neil McCluskey, Nick Merriam, Steve Meyfroidt, Dave Millard, Carrie Miller, Pete Miller, Harshad Mistry, Ajay Mistry, Tom Monk, Mike Mullen,
Richard Murray, Ramin Nakisa, Newman and Woolley for Megalomedia, Michael Newman, Tim Newton-Smith, Fiona Nicholas, Chris Onof, Operatic society, Adrian
Pagan, Colin Palmer, Bruce Parker, Wendy Parks, David Peacock, Gavin Pearson, Sitham Periasamy, Ian Pexton, Phil, Morgan Pimblett, Jon Radcliffe, The Rector,
Liz Rickwood, Athos Ritsperis, Lorraine Rogerson, Ruth, Stuti Sadajpal, Anjali Saini, Pippa Salmon, Dr Mark Saunders, Dick Savage, Jackie Scott, Richard Scott,
Doug Sebastian, Rumit Shah, Paul Shanley, Danny Shiu, Emma Skitt, Stef Smith, Andrew Smith, Ian and Yvonne from the Snackbar, Tony Spenser, STA Travel,
Chris Stapleton, Anna Stebbings, lain Stewart, Stone, Alex at Streets Ahead, Dominic Strowbridge, Sumit, Chris Tamdjidi, Mike Tarry, Anna Teeman, Jay Thakrar,
Hina Thakrar, Andy Thompson, Adam Tinworth, Charles Tomkins, Colin Toombs, Sonia Torrengo, Carolyne Toynbee, Paula Turner, Benjamin Turner, Simon Turner,
Shamil Uwais, Wouter van Hulten, Richard Vaughan, Tim Wadsworth, Andy Waller, Michael Wappelhorst, Vo Ward, Liz Warren, Alistair Webber, Edna Welthorpe,
Wendy, Christie White, Mark Wilde, Dominic Wilkinson, Sez Wilkinson, Murray Williamson, Rachel Wilson, Jo Wright, Tom Yates, as well as the inevitable 'anybody
I've forgotten,' and the anonymous sources, which shall remain forever so.
Page 86

