How do you like your
fur, madam?
Gassed or trapped?
L Y N X
FUR-Once the ultimate fashion accessory, now
considered to be what it is; the cruel death of a large
number of animals. LYNX, the anti fur trading
organisation, started its campaign in 1985, whilst the
fur trade was at a peak. Five years on, after some
'very powerful and critically acclaimed, advertising
campaigns,' sales figures for fur goods in the United
Kingdom have declined by over 75%.
The Department of Trade and Industry has
registered a decline in fur sale from £80 million in
1984 to £11 million in the first half of 1989. The
outlook for fur trading companies looks bleak. There
is no longer a huge demand for mink coats and other
fur goods. This year, Harrods was forced to close its
long running fur department; the last survivor in the
House of Fraser group. Selfridges, the only other major
department store selling furs in London, has yet to
determine its policy on selling fur, although the store
has effectively served notice to quit upon its current
fur concession, Jindo.
Another main fur retailer has also left the U.K. The
Hudson Bay Company, which once auctioned the
skins of millions of animals, has transferred operations
to Helsinki, bringing an end to more than 300 years
of fur trading and trapping in the UK.
40% of Europe's fur is traded through the Hudson Bay
Company, although in recent years there has been a
reduction of the business. It has sold all of its
Canadian trading posts and its Toronto auction house.
The company has held a Royal Charter since the reign
of King Charles II, and it is rumoured that a large
proportion of its shares are still owned by the Royal
family.
One of the largest fur factories in the U.K. is set to
close, after supplying fur manufacturers with skins for
the last 38 years. The reason cited for the closure of
the Hawkyard mink factory in Yorkshire was a
Worldwide over-production of mink skins. The true
reason is a lack of demand, which continues to fall
as the younger generations become more naturally
aware.
£ MILLION SALES OF FUR GOODS MANUFACTURED IN UK
120
100
40
20
i I
J J _
This creature is obviously in severe pain, but so what? The skin will be used to a good cause,
that of the fashion trade, a status symbol for the rich, luxury garments bought at a heavy price
in animal pain and suffering.
1980 81 82 83 84 85 86 87 88
Contrary to popular belief, 92% of all fur comes
from factory-farming methods, where mink and fox
are reared in hundreds of tiny wire cages. Mink are
normally kept in pairs in cages typically 30x9x15
inches. These farms produce pelts which are relatively
cheap, with high consistency and quality, and a large
variety of colours. Variety comes from selective
breeding, which often results in distressing genetic
side effects. The animals are slaughtered before they
are a year old. Methods include gassing, commonly
with car exhaust fumes; lethal injection or
electrocution. Foxes are killed by the use of mouth
(clamp or rod) and anus (rod) electrodes connected
to a portable 12v battery via a step up transformer
producing approximately 200v. This can lead to
prolonged deaths if the battery is not in perfect
condition. To facilitare in the pelting process, the skins
are usually removed whilst the animal is still warm
which prevents bleeding.
Over a ton of protein enriched food goes into the
production of every full length coat. Half of the Finnish
herring catch goes into feeding animals on fur farms,
even though the catch could be better used to help
cure the starvation that is apparent throughout the
World at this time.
Mink farms should legally be surounded by a secure
boundary fence to prevent the escape of potentially
destructive non-native species. Many farms are
insecure and Mink have been photographed after
escaping into the wild. Feral Mink, previously a non-
native species, escaped from fur farms and have now
become well established in mainland Britain. The
eradication of the Feral Mink was eventually given up
by the MAFF (Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Food) in 1970 as it became apparent just how
widespread they had become.
Page 9

