ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Changeling @ The Young Vic – Written by Thomas Middleton when Elizabeth
I was on the throne, this tragi-comedy would, in all likelihood, be given a cold re-
ception by the (apparently) prudish Elizabeth II. The Young Vic’s ‘arty’ production
does little favour to the words but there is much to like in its macabre humour.
From £10. Now - 22 December.
Jinlge Belles @ Resistance Galley – In this group show, Britian’s leading pin-up
artist will be putting thier work on sale. Featuring ivintage oil on canvas, digital
painting ad 3D modelling. 6th December
Christmas Fête @ The Royal College of Art – Students from the RCA will be selling
art and design pieces, which will make for original and, crucially, affordable pre-
sents! There will also be a pop up cafe for those who prefer the immediate pleas-
ures of festive sweets. 6 - 9 December. Visit http://rcachristmasfete.tumblr.com
for more information.
Julius Caesar @ The Donmar Warehouse – Eagerly anticipated, this production of
Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar features an all-female cast hungering for corrupting
power. Tickets from £10 front row (check out Barclays front row offers). 30 No-
vember - 9 February.
Dead reckoning
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle was done by in Giulia Zerbini during
plasticelectronics.
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
10
Death. It is a bit of a downer is it not? We
spend our entire lives trying to escape
the shadow of the reaper, constantly re-
mindedofourownmortality.Theticking
clock, wilting ﬂowers, it all emphasizes
howlittletimewehaveleftonthisplanet.
Butdeathisalsoafascinationforhuman-
ity; we obsess about the idea of what lies
beyond with a kind of morbid curiosity,
and no-one represents this attitude bet-
ter than Richard Harris. An American
art collector, Harris has been collecting
worksrelatedtodeathforthelastdecade,
and now has close to 1500 pieces in his
collectionofmacabrecuriosities.Itisthis
collection which forms the basis of the
Wellcome Collection’s latest exhibition,
entitled Death: A Self-portrait, which is
by turns depressing, horrifying, and up-
lifting.
The exhibition begins with works con-
templating death, a selection of memento
mori exploring the complex relationship
we have with death. Japanese sculptures
of snakes slithering through skulls are
juxtaposed with prints warning against
leading a sinful life. The Victorian idea
of a ‘good death’ is explored here: those
who have lived in a godly, sin-free man-
ner would greet death like a friend, while
those who have been greedy will try
and stave the reaper oﬀ for as long as
possible before succumbing, terriﬁed,
into the abyss. The highlight of this sec-
tion is the selection of exquisite still-life
paintings, including a marvellous piece
by the Dutch painter Adriaen van Utre-
cht. In this work, which is dripping with
symbolism, skulls are placed alongside
blooming ﬂowers, and delicate soap bub-
bles represent the fragility of life.
The exhibition continues to explore
the various facets of death in this way,
presenting it not as a hollow, cadaverous
entity, but rather something very much
alive. Puppets from the US, and Tibetan
woodcuts look at the role of death in
music, focussing on the Danse Macabre,
the artistic idea that death unites all. In
frenzied paintings skeletons of kings ca-
vort with paupers, and corpses jive to
unheard music. Following this humor-
ous interlude we are presented with the
idea of ‘Violent Death’
, a series of works
exploring war and suﬀering. Superb
etchings by Goya show in vivid detail the
torture and abuse faced by the Spanish in
the early stages of Napoleon’s invasion;
alongside Otto Dix’s brutal depictions
of the First World War in his Der Krieg
series, these works present Death as a
warlord, triumphantly overseeing the
massacre of both soldiers and civilians.
The following room focuses on the
relationship between Freud’s theories
of Eros, the life drive, and Thanatos, the
death drive, or the tendency of people to
go towards death and destruction. The
works show the obsession humanity has
withdeath;likefootageofanaccident,we
want to look away, but we just can’t. One
work from around 1900, entitled When
Shall We Meet Again?, portrays a group
of medical students standing around a
ﬂayed cadaver, its skin peeled back and
muscles exposed. It provided an insight
into what had – up until then – been a
closely guarded aspect of medical train-
ing: the dissection of corpses for study.
This dichotomy between the liv-
ing and the dead continues as the next
room explores how the dead are com-
memorated around the world. A beau-
tiful selection of works, which are by
turns wickedly funny and deeply mov-
ing, show how death is approached in
diﬀerent cultures. Vivid photographs
of Day of the Dead celebrations, during
which spirits are welcomed into the af-
terlife, contrast with the set of European
postcards from the early 20th Century,
which show kissing couples metamor-
phosing into grinning skulls. A par-
ticular favourite of mine was the series
of pictures by Marcos Raya, a Mexican
artist who takes vintage portraits and
paints skulls over peoples faces; instead
of seeing a smiling couple at the alter, a
pair of gurning skeletons turns to face
us. They do possess a dark humour, but
also remind us of the inevitable presence
of death in our lives.
This show sets out with the inten-
tion of looking death square in the face,
but death doesn’t have a face, it doesn’t
have a motive; it is simply an event that
everyone observes, but no-one actually
experiences ﬁrst hand. What this collec-
tion actually does is explore humanity’s
attachment to death, and in some sense
the human condition as well, resulting
in a show which may be morbid, but is
ultimately inspiring. On this occasion,
death isn’t necessarily a downer.
At the Wellcome Collection. Until 24th
February. Free entry.
Fred Fyles Writer
Naked charity skydive
goes horribly wrong

