ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER 11
arthquakes in London is a
play that could so easily go
wrong. With (brief) nu-
dity, temporal shifts (the
narrative jumps around
between 1928 and 2525) and philo-
sophical passages on the doomed
nature of man due to his treatment
of the earth, it is tailor made to fulﬁll
every “it’s all symbolic, innit” cliché of
student drama.
It is a great credit to Dramsoc’s pro-
duction of Mike Bartlett’s 2010 play
that it avoids that.
The original production premiered
at the National Theatre, and the
story is built around three sisters,
daughters of renowned Climate sci-
entist Robert Crannock, who is now
a climate change doom monger af-
ter spending his younger days as an
advocate for airline companies and
their expansion. The daughters, Sa-
rah, a Lib Dem cabinet minister in
the Coalition Government, Freya,
a heavily pregnant house wife, and
Jasmine, a hedonistic student who’s
been kicked out of university are es-
tranged from him. The play uses their
family dynamics to cover such wide
ranging issues as the relationship be-
tween government, big business and
science, the wisdom of bringing chil-
dren into a seemingly doomed world,
and our role as humans in destroying
the environment with a hefty dose of
family melodrama thrown in for good
measure.
The original production won plau-
dits for it’s stage design and, though
lacking the resources of the National
Theatre, Dramsoc comes up with an
innovative contraption of their own,
the most prominent feature of which
is a ramped runway that ends up half
way down the Union Concert Hall,
seemingly thrusting the audience into
the action. The staging also allows for
some ‘3D’ stage arrangements with
action taking place in another plane
to what regular theatregoers will be
used to.
The production is technically com-
plex and engaging, and comes across
as a multimedia mashup, with atmos-
pheric lighting that eﬀectively leads
you through what to follow on stage,
impressive sound design that sur-
rounds you and doesn’t stop through-
out the show and video sequences, a
particular stand out being an ultra-
sound of Freya’s unborn child, com-
plementing the action on stage.
The action on stage is slightly men-
tal, with so much going on it’s a credit
to director James Perry that you can
still follow the story. Very often, dif-
ferent scenes overlap and at one point
I counted four taking place at the same
time. You could very easily watch
something else besides the currently
lit scene and the cast do an amazing
job of staying in character even when
the spotlight is not on them.
The large supporting cast do well
playing a variety of roles, helped by
costumes that make it clear when
an actor has moved on and is now
‘someone else’. A particularly striking
Stepford Wives sequence should be
the rhythms and emphases of the
dialogue, missing a lot of the humour
and depth originally intended in the
script. It’s like the actors don’t under-
stand the motivations and thought
processes of characters many years
older than they are. Which leads to
some moments, sometimes whole
scenes, falling ﬂat and seeming one
noted, making the overriding message
of the play one of impending doom.
This the production communicates
eﬀectively, especially when focus-
ing on the character of Freya (Grace
Surman), who gradually gets more
freaked out about having a baby in a
world that her father has predicted
is doomed to destruction, but every
now and then, you do wish for the ac-
Oluwatosin Ajayi reviews DramSoc’s Earthquakes in London
tors to deliver something light to al-
leviate proceedings.
A highly recommended evening out
at the theatre, and a show that you can
pay a compliment without just seem-
ing polite. There is plenty to enjoy and
marvel at and also a lot you might not
get after seeing the play once, but if
you are too cash strapped/busy par-
tying/stuck in the library to go see it
more than once, just tell yourself “It’s
all symbolic innit?” For the rest of
you, see it with friends, you are likely
going to want to dissect it afterwards.
Dramsoc’s Earthquakes in London has
two more performances on Friday the
30th November and Saturday 1st De-
cember. Tickets are £6 on the door.
watched out for.
Of the principal characters, Giulia
Zerbini is a revealing ﬁt as a Whiny
Teenage boy, who has a crucial role
to play in the plot; Roxanne Middle-
ton performs a brilliant and brave
burlesque routine as the hedonistic
Jasmine, and most people at Imperial
will see something prescient in the
idealistic young PhD student played
by Chris Witham, who has his sci-
entiﬁc principles tested and ends up
as a jaded, embittered, cynical and
emotionally distant retired Professor
played by Kristen Farebrother.
An immersive, thought provok-
ing and at times worrying produc-
tion, there is nevertheless a feeling
that some of the cast don’t quite get
Earthshatteringly good
E
Dancing through a Revue
When I attended a run-through of
MTSoc’s new production, Dancing
Through Life, none of them suspected
that I was in fact a theatre critic in dis-
guise. This was probably because I oc-
casionally make a somewhat convinc-
ing keyboard player. So convincing
I’m actually playing in the show next
week. None-the-less I had my critic’s
hat on as I settled down to watch the
performers for the ﬁrst time.
Featuring a diverse range of songs
from Tim Minchin, Wicked and even
High School Musical, this was an am-
bitious project from the start. Made
worse by the fact that most of the cast
are freshers, most of the directors
are new to directing, and most of the
numbers have a completely diﬀerent
production team to the others. Would
the show hold together, let alone hold
up to previous productions?
They begin with the opening num-
bers from the critically acclaimed The
Book of Mormon, which is just about
to hit the West End. Back in March,
MTSoc attempted to put on the whole
musical with just 24 hours notice. For-
tunately they have put more practice
into the songs this time around and
have even managed to synchronise
the miming of pushing buttons with
doorbell sounds – genius! If anything
goes wrong, though, no doubt a cer-
tain keyboard player will be taken
backstage and shot.
It has long been known to the aver-
age Imperial male that this term brings
with it American girls. MTSoc have
cottoned on and are now able to per-
form the fantastically energetic and
girly “OMG You Guys!” from Legally
Blonde: The Musical with fourteen,
yes fourteen, females! This increased
ratio has meant they have not needed
to resort to gay kissing like last year.
Talking of gay kissing, after spend-
ing the summer playing a character
described as ‘James Dean in an old
folks home’, veteran performer Phil
Raymond must be feeling his age with
so many fresh faces surrounding him.
Fortunately, despite his advanced
years, his Top G never fails to send
shivers down my spine as he dem-
onstrates in ‘El Tango de Roxanne’
from Moulin Rouge. Another personal
highlight is listening to ‘I Dreamed a
Dream’ from Les Mis sung beautifully
but without the compromise of having
to spend four minutes looking at Su-
san Boyle’s face.
They suitably end on an emotional
number from Ragtime featuring the
whole cast. From this song it is easy
to see how Alicia Kearns earned
her nickname ‘Sassy F***’. Her silky
smooth alto voice emphatically ends
the show in style.
Last year’s successful revue show
Charming only required a few lyric
changes to make a believable story,
but with such a random assortment of
songs this year I was initially worried
that MTSoc would attempt the same
thing again. I struggled to think of a
situation where Mormons and witches
would go hand in hand but thankfully
they have treated this year’s revue as
a medley of musical theatre numbers
rather than trying to force a contrived
and tenuous story around them.
Seeing the incredible energy (and
cheesy grins) of the new members
makes me wish I had joined MTSoc
back in my ﬁrst year. It’s hard to see
the fun these guys have on stage and
not feel jealous! I am honoured that
they have asked me back to play key-
boards with them now I have gradu-
ated and look forward to sharing the
limelight with them next week.
‘Dancing Through Life’ runs Monday
3rd – Wednesday 5th December in the
Union Concert Hall. Doors open at
7pm, show starts at 7:30pm. It is com-
pletely FREE and donations to ICU
RAG Save the Children will be much
appreciated.
Oh, and, turn to the Centrefold...
Gareth Campbell Writer
Don’t look so
disappointed, a
3rd from Imperial
is still good

