TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Illegal downloading, oldschool
Has the market, giving consumers better deals, reduced illegal torrenting?
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
Next Week
Next week’s issue will be the final issue of Felix and Felix Tech for 2012.
As such, we’re going to end 2012 in style with the reviews of the Gadg-
et Show Live 2012 and the exclusive Nokia Lumia 820 and 920 launch.
The Tech Editor, Jason Parmar, managed to swindle three press passes
to The Gadget Show Live, in the ExCeL today and has taken himself
and two writers to the event to report back to you.
The Tech Editor also got some tickets to the very exclusive and inti-
mate Deadmau5 live show in Southwark by the Shard last night. The
event was for the UK launch of the Nokia Lumias 820 & 920. Read
next weeks issue for his report on the street rave and after party.
17
Jason Parmar Technology Editor
riting the over-
leaf article on
Google Music’s
introduction to
the UK market
reminded me of an interesting ques-
tion that I’ve been asking myself for a
while, “has the progress in the digital
music market, which gives consumers
a better deal, reduced the amount we
illegal download?”
I think that Google and Spotify have
the potential to enjoy a rich future in
the music industry, and I’m sure their
competitors will follow in their foot-
steps in what is now a very fast moving
and dynamic market. However, has all
of this progress actually helped the ef-
ﬁciency of music distribution, helped
consumers, helped the musicians and/
or helped reduce illegal downloading.
Background
Back in the very late 90’s-early nough-
ties, many people, especially young
people, couldn’t always aﬀord to buy
the expensively priced CD’s. So many
took advantage of easy-to-use ille-
gal P2P services such as Napster or
LimeWire (to name just a few). Nap-
ster, which was co-founded in 1999 by
all round badass and Facebook found-
ing President Sean Parker (played by
Justin Timberlake in The Social Net-
work), was the main site of choice for
many and is associated with bringing
“the recording industry to its knees”,
albeit like a slow poison. But one thing
the P2P services did was to encourage
and move people to digital music, and
in doing so, Apple, in 2001, released
the iTunes store and made an absolute
mint for record labels, musicians (to
an extent) and cut costs for consum-
ers. Although some people continued
and took up illegally downloading,
many moved to legal online music
services. One decade on and we’ve
seen a huge increase in uptake of le-
gal downloading and streaming, most
prominently for Spotify here in the
UK and perhaps in the future Google
Music as well as Apple, Amazon, Sony,
Microsoft, YouTube and borderine le-
gal services of Grooveshark & Hypem.
Illegal downloading down?
There are several conﬂicting sources
of illegal music downloading and the
market circulating around the inter-
net. However, one of the most reliable
to consider is that of MusicMetric,
who conducted “one of the most com-
prehensive studies of unauthorized
music downloads to date”. The young
company was founded in 2007 by,
believe it or not, an Imperial College
Physics student in his ﬁnal year with
two friends from Exeter and UCL
(urgh). They actually secured their
ﬁrst ever investment in the Felix Of-
ﬁce where this paper is produced, as
the current CEO, Gregory Mead was
a Felix writer. Moving on, the com-
pany who is regarded as the “world’s
largest music trend data asset” study
reveals that there has been a drop in
unauthorised music downloads in the
UK, US, Canada, Sweden and Nor-
way. These are reductions in illegal
downloading are being strongly linked
with online streaming services such
as Spotify, who as previously stated,
were valued at $3 billion by Goldman
Sachs this month and are predicted to
earn over $1 billion this year world-
wide. My straw polling of Imperial
students (which of course are highly
reliable and accurate) appear to agree
too. Over the last four years I’ve been
here I’ve deﬁnitely noticed an increase
in the amount of people using legal
music services and illegally download-
ing less.
Although there has been a 16%
drop in UK spending in music, com-
pared with 2.6% globally, people’s ac-
cess to music is still increasing and is
evidence that the market has inno-
vated into new revenue and eﬃciency
streams. By oﬀering consumers lower
prices for services that allow them to
listen to even more music, more con-
“
it’s [now] so
easy to oper-
ate within the
bounds of the
law there is no
need to go be-
yond them
veniently and with better interfaces
they have increased their client base.
In addition by doing this online, they
have slashed billions of dollars in dis-
tribution costs that can now be rein-
vested into providing better services
and lower prices for consumers. This
is what Napster over a decade ago
predicted would happen, it just took
longer than expected, with the re-
cording labels lasting an impressively
long time before slowly dying or in-
novating.
President of the American Asso-
ciation of Independent Music (AAIA),
Rich Bengloﬀ, says “providing alterna-
tives to illegal ﬁle sharing and down-
loading is a “no-brainer”” and “pricing
it at a level that is attractive enough
to them that they don’t want to pirate
music”.
Google appear to agree with a rep-
resentative of Google Music saying
“I think [the service] is something
that is hopefully going to make piracy
obsolete because it’s so easy to oper-
ate within the bounds of the law that
there is really no need to go beyond
them”. As does ARIA CEO Dan Rosen
who says “new digital music services
certainly assist with reducing music
piracy” and that “with almost all mu-
sic now being available for free or at
a low cost, there is no justiﬁcation for
any music fan to use pirate sites where
no money go to artists or labels”.
To summarise, there appears to be
an interesting (and very obvious) link
between the market oﬀering com-
petitively priced alternatives to illegal
downloading and then seeing a reduc-
tion in illegal downloading.
Although, not all agree. Some think
aggressive government interventions
are the way forward. That’s certainly
the opinion of Joshua Friedlander who
evaluates data for AAIA, who claims
“there was an immediate increase in
digital music sales (after LimeWire
was removed), so whenever one of
these sites closes, we’re deﬁnitely
moving some people on to the many
legal services that are now available”.
So in truth, it’s a mixture of the two
that’s resulted in a reduction in illegal
downloading, for music at least. The
conclusion I want to make with this
article is that I don’t think it’ll be long,
and I hope it’s not, until we see more
online digital markets move in this di-
rection.
We’re already seeing it, for exam-
ple, with TV and ﬁlm. Netﬂix and
LoveFilm are the two biggest players
at the moment, and their competi-
tion is helping to drive down prices
and increase the ease of usability for
consumers. This has encouraged mil-
lions more people to subscribe to their
services, stop renting from ineﬃcient
tangible based services such as Block-
buster and slightly reduce illegally
downloading. It won’t be long until
the PC games industry follows suit,
with Steam looking to take the lead as
the promising OnLive service unfor-
tunately grew too fast too quickly and
failed (being valued at $1.8 billion and
being sold for under $5 million in the
space of a year). The most interesting
market to follow though, will be that
of the Software giants. Who knows,
in a few years’ time we may all be
not ever have to pay a one-oﬀ fee for
software and instead just pay annual
subscriptions to Microsoft, Apple,
Adobe etc. for the latest software (and
maybe even hardware) instead of re-
lying on cheap student deals or, what
more regularly happens, “borrowing”
a copy from the internet.
Too long, didn’t read (TLDR)
Illegal music downloading is reduc-
ing as prices go down and services
go up (YES capitalism, YES mar-
kets). Other industries should learn
and innovate to prevent and finally
kill illegal downloading.
TV & Film is underway with NetF-
lix and LoveFilm, eBooks are well on
their way, Gaming tried and failed
(poor OnLive) but should keep go-
ing and the Software should start
offering just subscription, high
value-for-money and more efficient
business models to benefit consum-
ers (i.e. Microsoft, Adobe, Apple,
etc).
W
The fallen torrenting giants

