LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Ageing slowly
On the day of writing this I am turning
23, and now probably need to become a
terribly serious individual, or something
like that. I say this because that is what
happens as you get older: you become
all grown up and proper. You use words
like “whom”, have food that has been
“drizzled”witholiveoil,andlistentoBBC
Radio 4. Admittedly, I love things driz-
zled in olive oil, but that’s not exactly my
point. I won’t bore you too much with a
“never let the inner child shrivel and die”
typespiel,butIreallythinkitneedstobe
said. I feel like nowadays a lot of people
just take life, themselves, and every-
thing in between a little bit too seriously.
Birthdays are usually fun, if not spent
feverishly trying to finish and compile
a paper on time (as this one is for me).
However, there is the slightly morbid
sense of “yay, I’m one year older! Uhoh,
I’m ONE YEAR OLDER. I’M SO OLD”.
For me, it’s not too bad... yet. I’ll start
the tantrums about my age when my
NatWest Young Person’s Railcard runs
out. That’s the moment when you know
you’re really an old person. Then again,
I’ve stopped being ID’d when buying al-
cohol, so that’s a bad sign already.
It’s funny how when you get older
you flip round with your younger self.
When you’re younger, it’s cool to write
evrythng lyk dis izn’t it. When you hit
6th form, that’s suddenly really lame.
At the age of about 19, being ID’d is
basically tantamount to the person at
the checkout slapping you in the face
with a baby’s bottle and telling you to
go back home to mummy. The second
21 rolls around, you start trying to talk
loudly about upcoming SATs in a bid to
make someone ask you for proof of age.
Of course, when actually asked, you
always have fake “I was drinking bad
white wine since before you were born
son” indignance.
The strangest thing that happens as
the years roll on is that you lose touch
with your former generation. You for-
get who you used to be. You start be-
ing confused by younger generations
and start to distort and twist memories
of who and what you were at that age.
The amount of people saying “oh, the
youfs are terrible” is a testament to how
you forget what you were like. Perhaps
young people today have become a
bit worse than before. Or, maybe, they
are just as rowdy etc but in a different
way to how you remember being crazy.
What seems like straight up debauch-
ery to you now, may not actually be as
bad as what you did. In fact, it may not
even be that different, but you’re just
misremembering (usually caused by an
affliction know as rose-tinteditis), or you
are unable to draw parallels as their cul-
ture seems so alien. E.g. Common com-
plaint: the kids today spend all their time
messing about with silly, new technol-
ogy, they deserve a good thrashing (and
not in the kinky way). Answer: you were
the exact same as them. It’s just the
technology has changed. What seems
to you to be acceptable technology to
obsess over is just old news to the kids
today. It used to be a TV that everyone
would want, now it’s the latest iPhone.
There’s no way that in a column of
this size I can go into as much depth as
I would like to on this subject; there’s
definitely no way that I can protect my-
self from the internet hatred by arguing
everything in a nuanced and carefully
deconstructing way. Therefore, I will
just ask every single reader of this text
to think about one thing. I’ll assume
you’re all at university: what is the latest
craze that 10 year old kids are in to? Can
you answer it? Remember crazes: pogs,
Pokémon, football stickers, Aliens that
could “mate to produce children” (they
couldn’t by the way)? I can’t say what
it is. Think about what that means: you
are technically out of touch with them.
So next time you think an older per-
son is just out of touch, remember that
we all are in a way. Don’t shout at them
for being ”ancient”, help them regain
touch.I’llleaveyouwiththat,nowIneed
to celebrate my birthday by updating
the website. I’m living like a rock star.
FEATURES TECH SPORT
LCF review End of piracy? Hilarity ensues
It’s always nice when people
tweet at Felix. Well, some-
times it’s nice. Here’s a re-
viewoflastweekendthatwe
were sent via Twitter.
Music piracy is on the
decline now that it’s so
cheap and easy to legally
get songs on a plethora of
different options.
Sport reports are always hi-
larious to read. Sometimes
it’s the nicknames, some-
times it’s the idea that peo-
plecanenjoyit(Triathlon!?).
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>> 6 >> 17 >>37
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross
Gray, Simon Hunter, Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss
Matt Colvin Travel Editor Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief
Annina Sartor Copy Editors Al Norman, Matt Allinson, Christopher Witham Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen, Lizzy Griffiths
Female flatmate wanted. Single room, Greyhound
road, Hammersmith. £160/week excl. bills.
Tidy female, non-smoker flatmate wanted to share a spacious, comfortable
and immaculate 2 bedroom flat on Greyhound road with a very tidy, friendly
and bubbly 3rd year med student. Very easy to get on with!
Single room, newly refurbished to a high standard, fully furnished bedroom
overlooking a quiet park. Includes a shared study area (large desk and swivel
chair!), Kitchen/lounge area and recently redone bathroom.
Local shops (Sainsbury’s, Tesco, Waitrose) 3 mins away, lots of places to eat
along Fulham palace road 5 mins away, 5 mins from CX hospital,8 mins form
Barons Court (District and Piccadilly lines), 10 mins form Hammersmith sta-
tion (District, Circle, Piccadilly and Hammersmith and City lines)
Other local buses include 190, 211, 220, 295, N11, N97, 424, 430, 74, N74
£160/week excluding bills – which will be shared equally between the two
of us.
Available now
For more information or to arrange a viewing, text me on 07952503799, or
email npa10@imperial.ac.uk.

