MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
You Don’t Have To
Call It Music
Pt. 8 free jazz
by Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Jazzhasalwaysbeenalittledifferent.Scatteringthiswayandthat,eachinstrument
wrigglesitswayontothesceneandbearsitallinturn.Yetdespiteallitsquirks,itoften
getstieddownbyitsmelodic,rhythmicandcompositionalstructures.
In1959, Ornette ColemanrecordedTheShapeofJazzToCome,heraldinganew
generationofjazzplayerswhowouldpushtheboundariesofanalreadyunconven-
tional genre. Often teasing a more traditional song structure, his sax began to tear
away at the stave, shredding each note to multiple spectra. The following year’s re-
leaseofFreeJazzwasanaltogetherstrangeraffair.Fromthefirstnote,amaelstrom
unfurls, giving way to wandering passages flowing in parallel between the players.
Thereisajovialfeelingtoit,astheinstrumentsbounceoffeachotherfreely,maintain-
ingonlyaveryloosesenseofcohesion–justenoughtokeepittogether.
John Coltraneisoneofthemosticonicjazzmusiciansofalltime.Fromhispartin
MilesDavis’stimelessKindofBluetohisownstatementsonALoveSupremeandthe
enlightenedAscension,Coltranequicklybecamethemostprominentsaxophonistsof
histime.Spearheadinghardbopandmodaljazz,hisstratosphericmasteryofthein-
strumentledhimtotheunchartedterritoriesoffreejazz.Hisposthumouslyreleased
InterstellarSpace,aduetwith Rashied Ali,wasperhapsthemostchallengingpiece
ofmusicrecordedinhiscareer.Thepairseemtocompletelyabandonanysemblance
ofrhythmormelody.Alibestsumsupthestyle:“Thatpulseisalwaysinmyheadbut
I’mnotalwaysplayingit.Iplayagainstit,aroundit.Imumblejumbleit,shakeitup.”
ThecityofChicagohasalongandbrillianthistoryasameltingpotofbluesandjazz
artists. Founded in ‘65, the Association for the Advancement of Creative Musicians
(AACM)broughttogethersomeofthecity’smostforwardthinkingmusicians.Per-
hapsthemostpopulargrouptoemergefromthecollectivewasThe Art Ensemble
of Chicago,whosesong‘ThemedeYoyo’wasfeaturedinthe‘70filmLesStancesà
Sophie.TheirranksfeaturedtheiconoclastictrumpeterRoscoeMitchell,whoin‘66
recorded the seminal Sound with his sextet, including in its ranks the luminous Ish-
maelWadadaLeoSmith.
Smithwasandremainsatruevisionary.Breakingawayfromthestagnantloftscene
ofthelate60s,hemovedtowardsamoregenerousstylethanhispredecessors.Valu-
ingsilenceasmuchassound,heemphasizesthespacebetweenthenotesasmuchas
thenotesthemselves.Hisplayingisoftencalmanddrawnout,amplifyingsubtleties.
Hisfrustrationwithmetricrhythmsystemsledhimtodevisehisownmethodofcom-
position.Ankhrasmation,ashecallsit,isagraphicalnotationbasedonhisso-called
‘rhythmunits’whichdefinesoundsinproportiontoeachotherratherthanabsolutes,
allowingmoreroomforinterpretationandspontaneouscreativity.
Smith’s creative concerns led him to a long and close collaboration with fellow
AACMmusicianandemblem,AnthonyBraxton.LikeSmith,Braxtonwastodevel-
ophisownnotationalpalette,dabbingcoloursandnumbersamongrupturedstaves.
Sometimesthetitlesthemselveswereanarchaictopographyofshapesandsymbols,
morecloselyresemblingchessmovesthanromanticverse.
In leafy Germany, Peter Brötzmann bears perhaps the most menacing sound to
ever have been carved from a saxophone. The epitome of so-called ‘fire music’, his
cogent tone is a ferocious outburst, if not an utter onslaught – attained from a sin-
gle rasping breath. His cacophonous tendencies and chaotic disposition make him
a force in the free jazz scene, having collaborated with some of its most anarchic
exponents.
BritishguitaristDerek Bailey,whoplayedonNippleswiththePeter Brötzmann
Sextetisprobablythemostradicaljazzguitaristtothisday.Hisnon-idiomaticplay-
ing style is about as unorthodox as you can get with standard tuning, sitting down.
Wriggling his fingers across the fingerboard, plucking the strings with such fervor
theyringineverywhichwayuntiltheyalmostslapeachother.Itsoundsasifhewere
neuroticallydeconstructinghisacousticguitar,splinterbysplinter.Yethestillconsid-
eredhimselfatraditionalguitaristbecauseofhismeticuloustechnique.Onenotable
collaborator is London percussionist Steve Noble is fitting, who takes a similar ap-
proach to the drums, using them as resonating bodies to tease out every nuance of
theirmembranes.
InLondon,EddiePrevostofAMMhasbeenrunningimprovisationworkshopsin
the basement of the Welsh Chapel in Borough every Friday for the last seven years.
ManyofthoseattendingalsoplaygigsinDalston’sCafeOto,ajunctureformanyof
today’sinternationalavantgarde(andmostofthosementionedinthiscolumn).The
Vortex Club down the road and Resonance FM (104.4) have made London a great
placeforexperimentalmusicianstogettogether.
It seems fitting to end this column with a music that remains as defiant as it ever
was.Itsexponentscontinuouslypushtheirinstruments,goingdeeperintothemthan
theirluthierscouldeverhaveconceived.
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
24
ATP Xmas Special
ATP in many ways can be seen as an em-
bodiment of alternative music, often at-
tended by those who know their music,
it never fails to provide a selection of the
ﬁnest alternative music out there, sweep-
ing a wide range of musical genres in
every line up. This quality is coupled with
a spirit of musical fellowship, as often
bandsonthelineupareseenenjoyingthe
sets of their colleagues, and having the
festivalcuratedbyabandorindividualal-
lowsafeelingofconnectiontoanormally
hugely inﬂuential and respected curator.
This sense of intimacy is further added to
by a smaller venue, accommodating only
3000. Having spent a few years based in
Butlins, Minehead, they have returned to
Pontins in Camber Sands, the spiritual
home of the festival, where the ﬁrst 7 or 8
festivals took place. It should also be not-
edthat,aswasalsothecaseinButlins,the
uncomfortable and dehumanising camp-
ing experience is bypassed with comfort-
able chalets, allowing a good night’s sleep
and a place to chill between shows.
Between the return to Camber Sands
and an old favourite in Shellac curating,
thereisasensethat,ifthelabelcouldever
truly apply to an ATP, ‘Nightmare before
Christmas’ is a pretty traditional festival.
All of this, without even really mention-
ing the music paves the way for a pretty
exceptional experience.
The music itself is suitably impressive.
Shellac, of course, are highly respected
and particularly known for their enter-
taining live shows. The rest of their line-
up has the inevitable range of sizes. From
seasoned professionals with huge cult
followings to smaller bands, seemingly
plucked from obscurity by Steve Albini
and co. Naturally, the festival is bookend-
ed by two Shellac sets and in between, 34
bands play. As it would be impossible to
cover everyone involved in the deserved
length, a brief run through of my person-
al favourites will have to suﬃce.
On Friday, a rock/classical/experimen-
tal hybrid is found in the form of Helen
Money’s exquisite cello playing. If her
album is anything to go by, expect pluck-
ing, distortion, a Minutemen cover and
plenty more. Other highlights of the day
includeavant-gardemetalgroupOxbow,
led by intellectual badass Eugene Robin-
son. This is followed Turing Machine,
who play what I would describe as Math-
kraut,andpromisestobeexcellent.Ifthis
isn’t your bag, there’s always one of the
best post-rock bands going, in the form
of Japanese quartet Mono.
Saturday provides straight up rock
from Arcwelder, sure to bring a catchy
tune or two, and the exciting ultra-fast,
punk tinged noise rock of Melt-Banana,
both of which are sure to bring a sense of
fun to the festival. There are also some
hugely inﬂuential bands, with punk in-
stitution Wire and post metal innovators
Neurosis, who are preventing a com-
pletely revamped live show, surely not
to be missed. The night is capped oﬀ by
Zeni Geva, a trio featuring KK Null and
the drummer from Ruins. Their music is
a brutal blend of death metal, hardcore
punk, noise rock and many other genres.
Having seen them earlier this year I can
attest that their live performance has an
energy and ﬂuency that doesn’t disap-
point.
Sunday’s highlights include post-punk
outﬁt Mission of Burma, another band
widely reputed for giving a good perfor-
mance, who have, since their reunion,
featuredShellacbassistBobWeston.This
is complemented nicely by noise rock
duo Gay Witch Abortion. Excitingly,
TheExareplayingwithBrassUnbound,
a collective featuring Mats Gustafsson on
saxophone among others.
If that’s not enough, the go karts are
free!
Competition Time!
Win tickets to see Craig
Charles at the Bloomsbury
Lanes on 15th December.
To be in with a shout of seeing Craig
Charles at the launch of his Funk & Soul
Club CD as well as a copy of the
release, answer this question:
From which north-west town
does Craig hail?
Send us your answers by the
10 December 2012
Riaz Agahi Writer

