”
The Vaccines
turn the Ally
Pally into a
sloshy mess
of hormones
and lager
MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
25
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
AMS album of the week
Deftones: KoiNoYokan
You need a good reason to pay attention to an
alternative rock band releasing their 7th album.
Since their magnum opus, White Pony, Deftones
have become a household name in making
“straight forward” rock songs something bigger.
They’re heavy, catchy, and they know just how
to structure a good song – often using more than
one different chorus or recurring bridge to tell a
farmoreinterestingstory.Thevocalsareversatile,
jumpingfromdistortedtodreamyasrequired.Koi
No Yokan is Deftones giving all this another shot.
“SwerveCity”opensthealbum,instantlyprovingtheystillknowhowtopulloffa
grittyguitarriff.However,bytheverse,it’sclearthatthebandcareaboutmorethan
justguitarleadsandcrashcymbals,asalushatmospherestreamsin.Thiskeepsthe
mix from feeling static or dull, and makes them sound much bigger than a 5 piece.
Much like Diamond Eyes, their 2010 album, there’s a ballad track. Where most
alternative bands fall back to a simplistic chord sequence and uninspired lyrics to
attempt the required atmosphere, Deftones seem to flow into their ballads effort-
lessly. “Entombed” picks up some great electronic sounds to tell a much more se-
rene tale – so serene that you could mistake it for dream pop.
“Tempest” and “Rosemary” are both longer songs bordering 7 minutes, up from
theaverageof4,givingthebandmorerangetoexploreaslower,morecarefulstyle.
“Tempest” is probably the most straight forward song on the album and owes its
lengthtoamoresubtlepaceandthespaciousintro. Thebridgeof“Rosemary”hits
the ballad-like mood again before dropping the heaviest outro on the album.
I can’t find much fault with this new material (except, perhaps, the last track,
which meanders a little too much for its own good), and most fans of their recent
material should agree. Put simply, as alternative rock, nu-metal, or whatever you
like to call this genre goes, Deftones seem to have to delivered as usual – hence,
how much you’ll enjoy this is just down to how much you like their sound. In Japa-
nese, “koi no yokan” is an expression of knowing one will come to love someone
after meeting them (a subtle variation on “love at first sight”). Strong words, but if
you enjoy the band, they might just apply.
Robin Thomas
andering around
the large and
looming Alex-
andra Palace,
simultaneuosly
trying to avoid drunky, lairy forty
year old men who wanted to “ave it
large” while attempting not to trip
over the large number of excited
teenage girls scurrying about, it be-
came blindingly obvious how much
of a big deal The Vaccines have
become. Few bands at the moment
could captivate such a diverse crowd
whilst releasing a new album, which
although not revolutionary, provid-
ed a darker, more sinister step up
from their wide-eyed debut.
Although now stepping out onto a
huge stage as darlings of the main-
stream, The Vaccines still have
punk attitudes somewhere in their
heart. Their choice of seminal Ca-
nadian hardcore band Fucked Up
to be main support for this mas-
sive date confused and scared the
swelling crowds in equal measures.
Their was little continuity between
the Beach Boy guitar pop which
would soon bring the venue to its
knees and the brutal hollerings of a
semi-naked sweaty punk icon but I
enjoyed the surprise nevertheless.
There have been countless articles
predicting that The Vaccines can be
saviours of the guitar, drag modern
indie out of its current rut and give
it a new heart. From my very en-
viable position in the front row, I
could properly appreciate these out-
landish claims. This is the first band
since The Libertines I have wit-
nessed who inspired such devotion.
The ten thousand tickets for this
show sold out in the flash of an eye
and by the number of disappointed
fans outside I think they could have
easily filled another night.
Opening with newie “No Hope”
the cheers, which went up around
me, drowned out Justin’s drawling
chorus celebrating antithapy and
selfishness. As the masses of gleeful
faces settled down, a large number
of hits from the first album What
Did You Expect From The Vaccines
turn the Ally Pally into a sloshy mess
of hormones and spilled lager.
It was, however, one of the best
The Vaccines at the Ally Pally
Mark England find a band who can inspire young and old alike
tracks of the new album Come of Age
that caught my attention. “Teenage
Icon” is a sweet three minute piece
of surf pop perfection. The lyrics
are not deep and it might be slightly
predictable in the formula used, but
boy does it leave you dumbstruck.
The Vaccines show that you do not
have to reinvent the wheel, you just
have to make it look cool and drop
some Strokes-lite fuzz on it.
One of the largest disappoint-
ments of the show was that their
best song to date “Weirdo” was
The Vaccin
The Vacc
turn the A
turn the A
not played at all.
I cannot under-
stand this omis-
sion given as it is
one of the centre-
pieces of their lat-
est album. Maybe
it was deemed too
slow, too heavy
or too creepy and
might ruin the
vibe but I think
they definitely
missed a trick,
especially with a
relatively quick
set. I could so
many people des-
perate to sing out
the lines “I don’t
want to let it go,
You know I am
not a weirdo” but this was not to be
their night.
With an encore of “Bad Mood”,
“Wolf Pack” and “Norgaard” there
are outbreaks of euphoria not wit-
nessed since the summer with The
Stone Roses reunion dates. There
was crowdsurfing galore and cir-
clepits dominated the front section
of the out of control crowd. The
Vaccines have oft been accused of
being a pale pastiche, a 60s retro-
revivalism outfit but the sight of to-
days youth getting their kicks from
fuzzy surf pop rather than soul-less
Minaj pop or fizzy drinks was no
bad thing. Although watching hun-
dreds of pre-pubescent faces sing-
ing back the lines to “Post Break-Up
Sex” in unison was strange to say the
least.
Returning home to London for
this career defining show, the bands
ambition to impress was tangible.
They posed, they crooned, they
rocked out on the stage, and the
thousands packed into this venue
responded with a huge amount of
love. “This is the best fucking night
of my life” howled the ecstatic front-
man and Justin and the gang looked
like they truly belonged up there in
front of all of these people: but what
next? In May of next year The Vac-
cines are due to play at the twenty
thousand capacity O2 Area but are
they ready for headlining major
festivals? It is definitely a possibil-
ity but I think they need a bit more
depth to their repertoire if they were
to storm Glastonbury.
W

