Great Expectations...not so great results
John Park Film Editor
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
The greater the book, the more diﬃcult
it is to adapt into ﬁlm; which is why
“from the best-loved story by Charles
Dickens” doesn’t exactly cement a vote
of conﬁdence to the ﬁlm due to the
enormous challenges it faces. And it’s a
story that’s seen the screen many times
in the past, once most memorably as
a timeless classic in 1946, but the less
that is said about the awful 1998 ver-
sion the better. Newell’s 2012 adapta-
tion can sit quite comfortably between
the two in terms of quality: a reliable
piece with excellent performances but
one that never springs out of its own
mediocrity to make a lasting mark.
Pip is a young orphan boy living with
his angry, abusive older sister (the ex-
cellent Sally Hawkins). Whilst visiting
his parents’ gravesites, he is ambushed
by an escaped convict (Fiennes) who
oﬀers him a chance to live in exchange
for some food, drink, and a ﬁle to grind
away his shackles. Scared out of his
wits, Pip has no problem accepting
this scary man’s oﬀer. The prisoner is
subsequently arrested again by the au-
thorities, and Pip thinks nothing more
on the matter.
Another encounter sees the young
Pip inside the run-down mansion of
Miss Havisham (Carter), who wants
a boy of a similar age to her daughter
Estella to keep the young girl enter-
tained. Miss Havisham insists in stay-
ing locked away at her estate, forever
wearing her wedding dress in memory
of her botched nuptial plans years ago.
Even at an alarmingly young age, Pip
falls head over heels for Estella who is
being groomed by Miss Havisham to
become quite the heartbreaker in the
future, to be used as a twisted vessel of
revenge against the male sex that the
wronged Miss Havisham cunningly
desires.
Knowing that Pip is only destined to
be a blacksmith’s apprentice, he is torn
away from Estella very early on. Years
later he (Irvine) is informed that he has
come into a large fortune thanks to a
mysterious benefactor whose identity
must remain anonymous and is to be-
come a gentleman. Now that he’s got
the money and class, he visits the one
person he could not forget all those
years. Yes, Estella (Grainger) has all
grown up too, but it would appear her
heartbreaking ways have not changed
one bit.
Just why Pip is so hung up on a girl
like this is anyone’s guess, and to say
that it’s all down to her beauty isn’t a
satisfactory enough answer given how
much time is devoted to the two of
them arguing about love with Pip re-
petitively proclaiming his undying feel-
ings for her. There must be something
more, but the ﬁlm fails to look further
into the development of their attrac-
tion. Irvine, still a fresh-face rising star
after War Horse fares a lot better here,
as he has plenty more material and
richer substance to process.
Uptight, proper and a ﬁrst-class bitch
at times, Grainger is highly eﬀective as
the cold and distant Estella, although at
times she is also successful in putting
on the face of longing whenever Pip is
in the picture. She and Irvine make a
fascinating screen duo, and the prickly,
acid-tongued actress provides a nice
contrasting balance to the more sensi-
tive Irvine.
But the two outstanding perfor-
mances come from the two expected
individuals, the crème de la crème of
British acting royalty, Carter and Fi-
ennes. Carter, in a role that suits her
perfectly, fully embraces her dark,
gothic and mysterious Miss Havisham
who is clearly suﬀering from severe
psychological damage. She is so good
in fact in her frighteningly huge and
dirtied white dress, that she gives all
the previous Miss Havishams a run for
their money. Her scenes are always fun
to watch, as she delightfully chews the
scenery, which is why her dramatic end
feels even more tragic. Fiennes does
make a welcome return in the ﬁlm, and
his gritty look works well although his
connection to Pip is not well estab-
Great Expectations
Director: Mike Newell
Screenwriters: David Nicholls,
Charles Dickens (novel)
Starring: Jeremy Irvine, Ralph
Fiennes, Helena Bonham Carter,
Holliday Grainger
John Park Film Editor
Trouble with the Curve
Director: Robert Lorenz
Screenwriter: Randy Brown
Starring: Clint Eastwood, Amy
Adams, Justin Timberlake
Aren’t you tired of this same old for-
mula? Once again, we get an underdog
sports movie (baseball…yawn…) that
carves out its path the minute the lead
character is introduced. Once again,
we see the ageing Clint Eastwood
playing a grumpy man with snarky
outbursts and failing health or to put
more simply, channelling what he did
in Gran Torino. Once again, Amy Ad-
ams ﬁlls the role of a charming, ador-
able female, this time as Eastwood’s
daughter. Once again, singer-turned-
serious-actor Justin Timberlake eases
into the role of a cheeky young love
interest.
There is dysfunctional family drama
as the father and daughter are es-
tranged. She is a career-driven city
girl, seeking the approval of her dis-
tant father. He pushes her away for the
corny, cheesy reasons explained in a
teary exposé given by the usually stern
father. It’s supposed to be all the more
touching as he’s not the kind of guy
to get touchy feely with his emotions.
And also guess what happens when
the uptight city lawyer meets the fun-
loving, free-spirited country boy. She
begins to smile, she begins to laugh,
and fully embraces the country girl
within; because no-one can be happy
working in the city wearing suits all
day hounded by our nasty bosses to
meet all the project deadlines.
But in a strange way, director Lor-
enz, a frequent Eastwood collaborator
in his feature ﬁlm directorial debut,
makes certain aspects work, and even
with all the tiresome narrative pitfalls
the script doesn’t even bother to try
to avoid, there are scenes of genuine
tender-hearted emotions as the actors
fully engage in what they do best with
a sugar-coated, easy-going narrative
that bombards us with optimism, but
the many, many ﬂaws and lazy story-
telling often threaten to jeopardise the
ﬁlm’s good and honest intentions.
Having to deal with declining health
is never an easy task for anyone, es-
pecially for someone who prefers to
be alone in his quiet life. Working as
a baseball scout who refuses to mod-
ernise his ways with computers and
electronic data analysis opting instead
to watch the live games of various
players, Gus (Eastwood) faces a non-
renewal of his scouting contract as
the big bosses aren’t convinced by his
old ways. His stubborn nature won’t
let him do otherwise, and his wor-
ried friend Pete (John Goodman) en-
lists the help of Gus’ daughter Mickey
(Adams) who is also a baseball whizz
herself knowing all sorts of facts and
trivia about the sport. The relation-
ship between the two has never been
easy, with Mickey blaming her father
for her emotional problems that aﬀect
her personal life. Her father’s been
distant. She therefore doesn’t trust
men. Classic soapy story that’s been
done hundreds of times over. Enter
Johnny (Timberlake), a fellow scout,
having nothing but respect for Gus
and a keen pair of eyes for Mickey.
When it comes to dealing with the
baseball aspect of the story, it often
fares worse than the human drama.
Gus knows everything there is to
know. He knows every single kind
of pitching there is in baseball, and
therefore puts him a class above all
the “interweb” (how original)-ob-
sessed suits. And guess who comes
out triumphant in the end. Plus there
are the obligatory build-ups and slow-
motion ﬁnales to really lay everything
on thickly. Subtlety is certainly not
one of the ﬁlm’s features and the end-
ing suﬀers greatly because of it. For a
human/sports drama wanting to be
taken seriously, it takes one too many
easy routes to tie everything up, great-
ly diminishing whatever dramatic im-
pact it could have had, drowning it all
out with too much sap.
But the overall results can be de-
scribed as a heart-warming experi-
ence, thanks mostly to Eastwood
doing what he often does best. His
extreme irritable mood and coldness
towards his own daughter are person-
ality traits that may seem incompre-
hensible at times, but for a man who
doesn’t want to accept the fact that
his body is not the way it’s used to be,
there is a fair amount of sympathy to
be aroused and the ﬁlm cashes in on
every moment to capture his ailing
health. And no matter how heart-
breaking it may be to see Dirty Harry
shed some tears over his dead wife,
was it really essential to have him sing
“You are my sunshine” by her grave-
side?
Due to the many bumps and an-
noying audience-insulting moves
along the way, the overall result seems
underwhelming. But with a cast
this good, performing only to their
strengths and with a guilty-pleasure
element attached to the underdog
story, you’ll almost forgive its sluggish
style with which it chooses to pitch its
story.
lished enough to fully convince.
It has a lot to juggle around, and this
is where the ﬁlm often falls spectacu-
larly apart. There are so many charac-
ters, events and back stories to squeeze
into a tight frame that often these are
glossed over and sometimes in clum-
sy, rushed ﬂashbacks that don’t tell us
enough. And then there’s the ending –
Dickens wrote two versions but with-
out spoiling which route the ﬁlm de-
cides to take, let’s just say it doesn’t end
on the most satisfying note. As often
is the case when books are transferred
onto the screen, a lot is lost in transla-
tion, an aspect not even the excellent
performances or costly production de-
sign can truly salvage.
Clint keeps an eye on his swinging balls..
I DOOOOOOO
You’re not working on any more albums are ya...punk?

