FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
Jason Reitman’s third directorial ef-
fort (after Thank you for Smoking and
my ever-favourite Juno) establishes
him as one of Hollywood’s talents and
also creates another nepotism case
(his father is director Ivan Reitman,
of Ghostbusters and Dave fame, who
also serves as producer for this mov-
ie). He tells the story of Ryan Bingham
(George Clooney), a successful cor-
porate downizer and a motivational
speaker – who motivates people to
live their life independent from rela-
tionships, a lifestyle he enjoys to prac-
tice. Willingly alienated, Ryan’s biggest
ambition is to reach his 10,000,000 air
miles goal. In one of his stops he meets
Alex (Vera Farmiga) an equally cynical
and attractive woman, with whom he
creates a “no strings attached” rela-
tionship, something – initally – ideal
for him.
Ryan’s world starts to fall apart when
the keen, freshly Ivy League graduate,
Natalie (Anna Kendrick is a revelation
here) is hired in the same company as
him and with a breakthrough proposal
she threatens to demolish Ryan’s life-
style for good.
This is a kind of prophetical ﬁlm –
the screenplay is adapted by a 2001
novel by Walter Kim, and was written
in the same year by Sheldon Turner
and was purchased by DreamWorks
in 2003. Then the Reitmans found out
about it, which resulted to its 2009 re-
lease by Paramount, right in the feast
of world ﬁnancial crisis.
No one can deny that Clooney is one
of the ﬁnest American actors – or, bet-
ter, artists. His big range, combined
with his dashing looks, allow him to
portray his character honestly and
gives us the whole emotional journey
from a man who voluntarily isolates
himself to one who is in need of hu-
man contact and back. Ryan is deﬁ-
nitely an unlikable character, an yet we
root for him. He makes scene where
he reaches his initial goal is equally
funny, thought-provoking and sad and
at the end, he seems to be less than the
douche I thought him to be.
Vera Farmiga, his female counter-
part, does more that the job of keep-
ing herself against a strong lead. She
manages to deliver a performance that
makes the audience both love and hate
her, creates the essential anti-heroine
who could be a man’s rising – and
ends up becoming his demise.
The revelation of the ﬁlm, though, is
a certain Kendrick. In the likes of An-
nette Bening, she brings a sassy and
breezy Natalie, full of the – sometimes
This is one scary movie
unreal – ambitions and insecurities of
a girl of her age and education. You
enjoy seeing her rising against her
“mentor” (the scenes they share are
some of the best of the movie) as well
as falling apart.
Some of the best acting, though, oc-
curs by the ﬁred people. Reitman in-
famously used people that have been
ﬁred sometime in their life in order
to deliver a more realistic result. The
scenes where Natalie and Ryan ﬁre
Bob (J.K. Simmons) and where Natalie
ﬁres via videocall Mr. Samuels (Steve
Eastin) are among the most powerful
of the ﬁlm.
The opening scene of the movie,
combined with the song, is an ironic
wink to what America portrays. It gets
you to the point right before the actual
movie begins. The irony of the song
about a country that seemingly oﬀers
everything, and yet it failed its people
so badly.
The choice of the colours of the
movie for the most part – blue and
greyish – reﬂect pretty much Ryan’s
life and psychism. Only in few scenes,
like Ryan and Alex’s meeting and at
the family gathering, the atmosphere
becomes warmer, and you suspect
that the protagonist’s soul gets a simi-
lar eﬀect.
As with Juno, the direction is yet
again fresh and contemporary and
the dialogue is natural and brisk and
there’s where lies a lot of the movie’s
charm. As mentioned above, Reit-
man does not only rely on his leads,
but to the full cast (which includes the
talents of Jason Bateman, Danny Mc-
Bride, Zach Galiﬁanakis, and Melanie
Lynskey) to deliver a strong result.
Finally, the image Reitman creates
for America is far from idyllic. Even
though Natalie is apparently chasing
her piece of the American dream, only
to realise that this is hardly doable,
she does it through the non-ideal way.
There are no pretty, lush valleys or
beautiful, luxurious houses. There are
cold hotel rooms, even colder, wintery
towns and empty oﬃces, ready to get
rid of even more souls.
As the last two years pass by it be-
comes even more painful to watch this
movie, in a way. At its ﬁrst viewing, it
was a movie about someone’s isola-
tion. As our world progresses into a
kind of demise, it becomes, “a scary
movie”. Scary because people like
Ryan Bingham exist and do the job he
does. As someone in the movie said,
it makes me wonder how such people
can sleep at night. But every single
time I watch the ﬁlm the same ques-
tion comes up: How do you ﬁre some-
one like Ryan Bingham?
Despoina Paschou Film Writer
Sir Anthony Hopkins, winner of the
Academy Award for Best Actor for his
portrayal of Hannibal Lector in The
Silence of the Lambs, has labeled the
Academy Awards system ‘disgusting’.
In a recent interview with The Huﬀ-
ington Post, Hopkins voiced his con-
cerns over the sycophantic behaviour
actors are expected to show towards
the Oscar judges if they are to win an
award.
“I’ve been around – I’ve got the Os-
car myself for The Silence of the Lambs
– and having to be nice to people
and to be charming and ﬂirting with
them... oh, come on,” he said, with dis-
dain.
“People go out of their way to ﬂatter
the nominating body and I think it’s
kind of disgusting. That’s always been
against my nature.
“You know, kissing the backside
of the authorities that can make or
break it – I can’t stand all that. I ﬁnd
it nauseating to watch and I think it’s
disgusting to behold. People groveling
around and kissing the backsides of
famous producers and all that.
Anthony’s Anti Academy Awards
The Lord of the Rings and The Hobbit
director Peter Jackson is currently
at loggerheads with animal rights
activist group PETA (People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals) over
alleged animal cruelty during the
ﬁlming of the Tolkien stories’ ﬁlm
franchise.
Jackson has vehemently denied
claims made by animal handlers
within his production team that up
to twenty-seven animals used in the
ﬁlms died as a direct result of neglect.
The handlers, who worked on The
Lord of the Rings trilogy, claim that
the deaths of various horses, goats,
chicken and sheep were due to the
living conditions at the nearby farm
where they were kept, which was al-
legedly full of ‘bluﬀs, sinkholes and
other deathtraps’ – although they ad-
mit that no animals were harmed on
the set itself.
PETA has now taken up the cry,
and is now threatening to protest at
the upcoming New Zealand, UK and
US premieres of The Hobbit: An Un-
expected Journey – having previously
Peter vs PETA
written to Jackson to voice their con-
cerns.
Jackson responded with an open
statement. “The producers of The
Hobbit take the welfare of all ani-
mals very seriously and have always
pursued the highest standard of
care for animals in their charge,” he
stated. “Any incidents that occurred
that were brought to their attention
as regards to this care were immedi-
ately investigated and appropriate ac-
tion taken. This includes hundreds of
thousands of dollars that were spent
on upgrading housing and stable fa-
cilities in early 2011.
“The producers completely reject
the accusations that twenty-seven
animals died due to mistreatment
during the making of the ﬁlms. Ex-
traordinary measures were taken to
make sure that animals were not used
during action sequences or any other
sequence that might create undue
stress for the animals involved.
“Over 55% of all shots using animals
in The Hobbit are in fact computer
generated; this includes horses, po-
nies, rabbits, hedgehogs, birds, deer,
elk, mice, wild boars and wolves.
The American Humane Association
(AHA) was on hand to monitor all
use of animals by the production. No
animals died or were harmed on set
during ﬁlming.
“We regret that some of these ac-
cusations by wranglers who were dis-
missed from the ﬁlm over a year ago
are only now being brought to our
attention. We are currently investi-
gating these new allegations and are
attempting to speak with all parties
involved to establish the truth.”
Kathy Guillermo, the senior vice
president of laboratory investigations
at PETA, said informers on the set of
The Hobbit had been in contact with
the PETA following the organisa-
tion’s previous active roles exposing
animal care issues on other ﬁlm sets.
“We want to send a clear message to
Hollywood that they need to be very
careful when using animals and take
all the precautions that need to be
taken,” she is quoted as saying.
The Hobbit: An Unexpected Jour-
ney, which is the much-anticipated
ﬁrst installment of the Hobbit trilogy,
is scheduled to debut on the 28th
November 2012 in Wellington, New
Zealand, and will open at cinemas in
the UK on the 13th December.
Lucy Wiles Film Editor
“It makes me want to throw up, it re-
ally does. It’s sick-making. I’ve seen it
so many times. I saw it fairly recently,
last year. Some great producer-mogul
and everyone kisses this guy’s back-
side. I think, “What are they doing?
Don’t they have any self respect?’ I
wanted to say, ‘Fuck oﬀ’.”
Despite having said this, Welsh-
born Hopkins, 74, says he has abso-
lutely no plans to retire.
“I don’t ever want to retire. I did a
few years ago. I didn’t actually plan
it, but I thought, ‘Maybe I should just
slow down and call it a day’. My wife
said to me, ‘You do that, you will die.
You can’t retire. It’s your work; it’s
your life. You love working’.
“When men retire – particularly
men – if they get out too early, they
usually die of stress or loneliness or
they drink too much or their hearts
give out. I think a certain amount of
stress in life is good. The stress of just
working, which takes eﬀort – I think it
keeps you going.”
Hopkins is currently tipped for an
Oscar nomination for his portrayal
of Alfred Hitchcock in his new ﬁlm,
Hitchcock, which is to be released in
the UK on February 8th 2013.
Lucy Wiles Film Editor

