SPORT
37
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Triathlon climb Castle Combe
This was the race we’d looked forward
to:theonlyBUCScompetitionthisterm
and a highlight of the calendar. With
ﬁve hundred people competing, it is
the biggest duathlon event in the coun-
try. Hosted at the iconic Castle Combe
race track, athletes get to ﬂy around a
track that has held motoring events for
over 60 years, and holds a great sense of
speed. One blessing of the race is that it
kicks oﬀ at 1:20pm; a civilised time we
were very grateful of after the 8am start
of the Hillingdon Duathlon just weeks
before.
We set oﬀ from uni, managing to
ﬁt nine people – with bags and bikes
– into one minibus. With two people
taking the train, and two more making
their own way there, we had a thirteen
person team. Sam O’Neill and Hendrik
Frentrup deserve a special mention
for driving us to the race and back, so
thanks guys! Due to Lucas Miseikis
turning up nearly an hour late however,
we had to quickly register when we ar-
rived, set our bikes in the transition
zone and have a short warm up. It was
time to get our game faces on for race
start.
Due to torrential rain the previous
week, parts of the course were still wa-
ter logged, and despite the best eﬀorts
of local Bristolians and their buckets,
the water wasn’t going anywhere. This
meant a change in the course, which
didn’t bother me as I had no idea where
we were meant to be going anyway! We
set oﬀ, and it was clear the standard this
year was serious. A pack of runners in
GBR kit took the lead immediately, dis-
appearing oﬀ in to the distance as I was
left in the bottom twenty runners. Just
to tease us, the ﬁrst run consisted of
a mile run out, and a mile back to the
transition zone. This meant that I could
watch all the people running the other
way, already building a substantial lead
while I was still going away from the ﬁn-
ish line. But this was to be expected, I
am a slow runner.
It was then into transition and onto
the bike. With a swift T1 (transition 1)
of 38 seconds, I had already made up a
few places; I am a cyclist after all, and
with the thrill of being on Castle Combe
race track urging me on, I was moving
up the rankings well. The long sweep-
ing corners meant there was no need to
stop pedalling. You would just get your
body low, lean in to the corner, pedal
your heart out and get as close to the
wet white lines at the side of the track as
you dared. Hugh Mackensie (our fast-
est competitor) stormed past me on his
bike, already lapping people, him and
the front runners were 4-5 minutes in
front by now. The sound of a triathlon
bike carving up your right hand side,
the carbon wheels resonating with the
unrelenting speed they are being forced
to spin at. It is a surreal sound, and I
hope one day to hear that noise from
my own bike!
After a death defying hairpin bend to
get into the transition zone again, I was
oﬀ my bike sooner than I would have
liked, and onto the run. I had overtaken
a lot of people including three Imperial
competitors on the bike leg, and knew
it was only a matter of time before they
caught me again on this run. A gruel-
ling ﬁnal 2 miles tests you’re ability to
shift disciplines quickly. The second
run went in a new direction, over the
grass and up a short incline where the
combination of jelly legs and poor grip
caused me to stumble and slip my way
up the course. Eventually we were back
on tarmac (ﬂooded tarmac), and I was
waiting for the ﬁrst Imperial Triathlete
to jog past me and say “Hi Ed” smugly as
they over took. It was Richard Flint. “Hi
Ed” he said predictably as he went by. I
wanted to say something smug back but
between clutching my burning abs and
trying to get enough oxygen in me to
keep going, there wasn’t the time.
With 800m to go, it was Marcus
Bishop’s turn. “Hi Ed” he said, almost
as if they had planned it from the start.
I could see the ﬁnish; I could see the
back of Marcus’s head bobbing away up
the course in front of me. At that point
I decided to man up and locked onto
Marcus’s right ﬂank with 400m to go.
He could hear me behind him and he’d
picked up the pace. 200m to go and we
both broke out into a full sprint up the
ﬁnish line, neither of us wanting to let
it go, but I just had him, pipping him
through the gates by a second. With my
goal achieved, I threw my dignity to the
wind and proceeded to puke up against
the railings four times.
After regrouping with the team – hot
chocolate in hand – we shared race
results and learnt that we had done
exceptionally well. Hugh Mackenzie
did Imperial proud with 12th place, a
sensational achievement. Sam O’Neill
rocked in with a 39th place, closely
followed by Jean-Claude Besse who
despite suﬀering a double puncture in
the bike stage still managed to ﬁnish in
40th. I came 168th. Nothing by the fast
people’s standards but a great success in
my books, because I ﬁnished in the top
half! Other notable ﬁnishes were Hen-
drik Frentrup in 80th and Kees Jan de
Vries in 94th; both competitors new to
the world of triathlons.
Post-race, we headed out for a well-
deserved pub dinner and a pint in Chip-
penham, followed by the incredibly well
received homemade ﬂapjacks Harriet
Nerva had brought. She knows the way
to a man’s heart. Now that the race was
over, everyone’s nerves had gone and
the tense pre-race atmosphere had
lifted. Especially from Sophie Kirk, who
barely said a word before the race due
to worries about her premiere duathlon.
Coming away from today without any
BUCS points is always a disappoint-
ment, but we had a solid race, with a
great team of guys; we showed every-
one that Imperial is becoming a serious
competitor they’ll be looking out for us
at the next event.
Ed Hallet Triathlon Chairman
After a good summer break, the Im-
perial Men’s Cricket Club began gear-
ing up for their Indoor cricket Season.
After some rigorous training sessions,
the team felt conﬁdent heading into
their ﬁrst two games of the season on
the 20th of October against the Uni-
versity of Hertfordshire and Univer-
sity of Essex.
Bowling ﬁrst against Hertfordshire,
the Imperial bowlers at times erred oﬀ
the mark, allowing the Hertfordshire
batsmen a few too many boundaries.
Although Jayanth Ganapathy bowled
tightly and Joe O’ Gorman stemmed
the ﬂow of runs at the end with 2
wickets, the Hertfordshire batsmen
notched up a total of 119.
Chasing 119, the openers got oﬀ to
a good start, scoring 35 in 3 overs. Af-
ter losing two quick wickets, Anmol
Bedi and Jayanth kept the chase well
on track, scoring 30 and 18 respec-
tively. Well poised at 68 in 6 overs,
Vignesh Venkateswaran played a
handy cameo, scoring 24, leaving Im-
perial with 9 runs to score in the last
over. However, with 4 wickets falling
in a very tight ﬁnal over, Imperial felt
short by 5 runs.
In the second game, Imperial, be-
ing put in to bat ﬁrst notched up a re-
spectable total of 131 in 10 overs. The
openers Joe and Vishal Nair provided
a blazing start by racing oﬀ to 52 in
4 overs. Retiring after scoring 25 runs
each, the middle order took over from
the openers, with the captain Jay-
anth steadily keeping the scoreboard
ticking. At 93 in 7 overs, the perfect
platform was set for Anmol to carve
into Sussex’s death bowlers bringing
Imperial to a ﬁnal total of 131.
Defending 131, the Imperial bowl-
ers applied the pressure on the Essex
batsmen from the onset. The eﬀect
was immediate, with 2 wickets fall-
ing in consecutive balls in the second
over. This initiated the Essex collapse,
with the Imperial ﬁelders compli-
menting the bowlers to eﬀect 4 run
outs, eventually bowling Essex out for
80.
With 5 games to go, these games
provided lots of conﬁdence to the Im-
perial team. Learning from their mis-
takes, and by executing precise strat-
egies practiced in training the team
was conﬁdent they could overcome
future hurdles.
The second round of the BUCS in-
door cricket tournament was held on
18th of November. Needing two wins
to remain contenders for a spot at the
top of the ladder, Imperial College
were ﬁxed for two matches against
Royal Holloway and the University of
Westminster.
Imperial won the toss and elected to
bat ﬁrst against Royal Holloway. After
a run-out in the ﬁrst few balls, Mohit
Kulkarni consolidated with 32 runs
and Jayanth held fort at the other end
with 28 runs, leaving Imperial with
a defendable total of 121. Imperial’s
bowlers kept it tight from the start,
putting pressure on Royal Holloway
and leaving spinners Vignesh, with 2
wickets, and Joe to tidy up and lead
Imperial to a convincing win by 76
runs.
Coming oﬀ this, Imperial batted
ﬁrst against a respectable Westmin-
ster bowling attack. Opener Vishal set
the benchmark with a classy 26 fol-
lowed by Mohit why added a further
31 and Jayanth progressing the score
by 27 to bring the ﬁnish up at 5/113
after the 10 overs. Full of conviction
from the ﬁrst win, Imperial’s pace at-
tack started oﬀ solidly with the spin-
ners Vignesh, taking 3 2 wickets, and
Joe, with 2 wickets, mimicking the
initial performance leaving Imperial
with another resounding 49 run win.
Imperial are now placed second on
the ladder, with three tough games
against Middlesex, East London and
Brunel in the ﬁnal round. With the
strength and performance shown to
date, the team is hoping to top the ta-
ble and qualify for the next round!
Indoor Cricket through to 3rd round
Jayanth Ganapathy1st Team Captain

