SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
38
Cardiff, Sunday lunch time. Impe-
rial Fencing Women’s 1st park the
minibus and make their way through
the labyrinth-like venue to find the
fencing piste. On the schedule for
the day are Oxford and Cardiff Uni-
versity, ranked last and middle of the
league respectively. Are the Imperial
girls going to continue their incred-
ible streak of victories?
It all starts with sabre against Ox-
ford. Jing Xiao (Jingles), Emma Hor-
rix and team captain Zoe Robinson
dance up and down the piste, contin-
uously extending the lead until the
score is 45-27 and the match is over.
The epeeists step up next, ready to
extend the lead even further. How-
ever, Oxford isn’t giving up that eas-
ily, and they keep an advantage of a
few hits at the start.
As they reach the end of the first
half, Imperial’s Caitlin Jones and Kat
Young decides that enough is enough
and from there turn it around to
Imperial’s lead, and together with
Charlotte Levin keep it all the way
to 45-37.
With two weapons fenced, Impe-
rial is ahead by 26 hits and the girls
quickly calculate that they need to
score 19 hits in foil to win overall.
Despite Oxford being the clearly
stronger team in the weapon, Zoe,
Charlotte and Alice Mitchell togeth-
er manage to pick point after point,
ending at 23-45 and an aggregate
score of 113-109. One down, one to
go!
Facing a home team is always more
challenging. Cardiff also has differ-
ent strengths than Oxford, and the
weapon order had been reversed.
Starting off with foil, Zoe, Charlotte
and Alice stay on piste and make
every hit count. Similar to the epee
match against Oxford, Cardiff starts
by taking the lead.
But once again, Imperial proves
that they’re top of the league for a
reason, and half way through the
lead has swapped sides and stays like
that until the very end when Impe-
rial loses by a single hit. Ironically,
the epeeists repeated what the foil-
ists just did almost identically: Car-
diff takes the lead at the start, Im-
perial takes it back half way through
but then lose by that single hit that is
an athlete’s worst nightmare.
If there had been any doubts pre-
viously about who would stand vic-
torious at the end of this match, it
quickly faded during sabre. Impe-
rial had to win by 3 hits to secure
the victory, and the sabreurs did not
disappoint; 71 hits later, 45 of which
were Imperial’s and 26 Cardiff’s, the
match was over. Overall the result
was 133-116 and the girls could re-
turn to the minibus in a good mood,
and celebrate all the way back to
London.
Fencers Continue Winning Streak
Charlotte Levin Sports Writer
ICHC Mens 2’s Crush Portsmouth
A dark and windy November evening
saw the men’s 2s head out to Harlington
to take on a formidable Portsmouth 3s.
With our captain Jimmy S, out injured
due to a broken hand, coaching from
the sidelines, ICHC got stuck in straight
from the ﬁrst whistle. To say the ﬁrst
half was a one sided aﬀair would be
harsh on Imperial: it was a master class.
Often this season the IC have start-
ed slow and given their opposition a
chance to establish themselves but
right from the oﬀ IC found themselves
camped deep inside the Portsmouth
half. Playing with a narrow midﬁeld, the
full backs, B.Man and Meat Spin, were
given licence to bomb down both wings
delivering ball after ball into the opposi-
tion D. The IC centre back, Tinkerbell,
found himself playing in his newly in-
vented role of creative defender which
saw him camped deep inside the oppo-
sitions 25 and entrusting Soggy Biscuit
to do any defensive work in his absence.
To try to counteract the IC threat,
Portsmouth started to play 11 in de-
fence. With the 25 packed out, it was
almost impossible for IC to carve out
any sort of shooting opportunity but it
did allow the winning of several short
corners in quick succession. Cummy B,
who on Sunday found his drag ﬂicking
range, stepped up conﬁdently but the
Portsmouth keeper was equal to the
challenge. Following short corner rou-
tines lacked the 2s usual cutting edge
and several chances went begging.
As half time rapidly approached, IC
had nothing to show for their domi-
nance. The 2s were looking for inspi-
ration that even Strap-“Why can I
only score wonder goals”-on couldn’t
provide. It took a fresher of all people
to step up and provide that clinical
touch that IC were missing. Good work
from the power house that is Old Man
Mikey helped to create some space in
the oppositions D and, as a bouncing
ball found its way into the dangerzone,
Fresher Jay-Zed was on hand to riﬂe the
ball home into the roof of the net on the
stroke of half time.
The second half saw desperation
hit Portsmouth and they changed
their system to try to put more pres-
sure on the IC defence. Playing with a
high man, they resorted to aerials and
big hit and hopes from defence but IC
stayed strong and ball after ball was cut
out laying the foundation for more IC
attacks. Whilst the Portsmouth high
men created much more space for IC to
play some champagne hockey (despite
Fresher Alex not knowing where the
side of the pitch was… 3 times…), they
also put the IC defence under increased
pressure. Despite having had nothing
to do for 50 minutes, goalie, Sifter, was
called into action with a reﬂex save at
his near post from a rare Portsmouth
foray into the IC D.
Soon after IC got the second goal they
thoroughly deserved. After peppering
the Portsmouth keeper with numerous
shots, Fresher Jay-Zed got his second
goal of the game after Fresher Mark,
Fresher Tim and Wrong Hole com-
bined to give him the easiest of ﬁnishes.
Just when IC were looking like they
might put 5 or 6 goals away, they went
down to 10 men after Old Man Mikey
shoulder charged a Portsmouth mid-
ﬁelder in the face. Whilst he protested
that it was an accident and he simply
slipped (no one believes him but he did
make it look rather convincing), the
umpire was having none of it and oﬀ
he went for a 10 minute cool down in
the bin. Portsmouth attempted to seize
their opportunity and drive forwards
but all they could muster were two pen-
alty corners, one which was useless and
the other that was saved by Sifter low
to his left.
The ﬁnal whistle soon followed leav-
ing Fresher Jay-Zed stranded just shy of
his hat trick and IC having no regrets
but wishing they had translated their
dominance into a larger score line and
ready to enjoy the Harlington showers.
The 2s will be looking to kick on from
this dominant display of crisp passing
and wondrous stick skills with a busy
schedule ahead of them.
Just to clarify, at no point did Brick-
ney score a goal, but that’s ok because
apparently strikers aren’t meant to
score.
Jonney Clowes Sports Writer
This coming Sunday Imperial College
Hockey Club’s men’s 2nd XI have a LUSL
cup tie against King’s College London’s
1st XI. Our boys are undoubtedly the
underdogs, but even so it was a surprise
for our men’s captain to receive the fol-
lowing email from the KCL captain this
week:
“…it’s regarding our upcoming LUSL
cup fixture with you this Sunday. (As I
said to him) it’s hard for this not to come
across as presumptuous and arrogant
but we played your 1s yesterday and
beat them 4-0 with a weakened squad.
I really don’t want this to sound boastful
as to be honest it was nothing special;
I gave our lads a real bollocking at half
time and it was only towards the end
that we pushed on and put some more
past them. However, without wanting
to slag off your team, I think in all likeli-
hood the result will go the same way this
weekend, especially seeing as we’ll be
back to full strength. I hope this isn’t of-
fensive and if you do or don’t agree then
give me a shout. Cheers”
Yes, undoubtedly arrogant. But there
are two things that strike me about this
email a little more than that.
The first is the assumption that we’d
rather give in than face a tough chal-
lenge. Well you may as well quit your
degree right now if that is your attitude,
as I can tell you that no course at Impe-
rial is easy. Surely this is the crux of a cup
competition; the chance for an upset?
And even if we don’t win, as any sports
person will attest, there is a great deal of
satisfaction in playing a match well, and
improving your performance.
My second observation is that this
email does not demonstrate good
sportsmanship. Sportsmanship is about
attitude and at the very least includes re-
spect for your opposition. I’m proud to
say our response was a little more digni-
fied,andIthinkreflectsthehockeyclub’s
attitude towards our sport:
“Don’t worry, I don’t take this offen-
sively. If you are asking for a walkover
however, then my answer is categori-
cally no. We give everything to the game
and love playing it, so regardless of what
you may think the result may be, we will
compete hard. See you on Sunday.”
So for our men’s 2nd XI, but also for
any other Imperial teams out there this
weekend in the cold (and probably wet)
playing the sports you love, good luck.
And remember, the bigger they are, the
harder they fall.
Maria Parkes Hockey Club Captain
Is Winning Really Everything?

