SPORT
39
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The scene is the town of Battle, East
Sussex, 1066. The forces of King Harold
line up against the invading Norman
forces of William, Duke of Normandy.
It was a tightly fought battle (or so says
the tapestry of Bayeux), tipped by an
arrow through the eye of King Har-
old which in turn rallied the Norman
troops to their famous victory, shaping
the socio-political landscape of Eng-
land, Europe and ultimately, the world.
Fast forward about 946 years later, and
move about 44.1 miles down the A28.
On Wednesday 14th November IC
1s took a plane, two buses and ﬁnally
navigated a 13 mile walk to reach Can-
terbury; the scene of the 2nd round of
the BUCS cup. The 1s had already beat-
en their opposition, Canterbury 2s, at
home (#FortressHarlington) 2-0 in the
league and were in a boisterous mood
having won all 6 matches this season
by 2 goals or more. Having completed
their pilgrimage to the religious capital
of Britain, the 1s were determined to
relive the heady heights of the previous
season by making a David-esque cup
run, although previous results would
suggest they enter the competition as
Goliaths.
The scene was set before kick oﬀ with
the sun glistening oﬀ a layer of cobwebs
that encapsulated every inch of the
Canterbury pitches, bringing a tear to
James ‘Adam Watkin Junior’ Murphy’s
eyes. He then encouraged members of
the team to kneel down and view the
splendid sight from ‘David Attenbor-
ough’ view which was met with warm
reception from approximately every
member of the team. Meanwhile, Can-
terbury 2s were watching confused and,
importantly, underestimating their op-
position. After the brief National Geo-
graphic moment, it was time for foot-
ball.
It was a game of two halves. And two
more halves. And a penalty shoot-out.
The pitch was ﬁrm to hard and took
a while for both teams to get out of the
starting blocks, especially hindering
Imperial’s patented blend of pass and
movefootball.Conversely,Canterbury’s
own brand prison-rules football was a
natural ﬁt for their legion of overpaid
(maybe), undersexed (deﬁnitely) and
generally remedial footballers. Chances
were few and far between shown by the
startling stat that Bjorkstrand did not
miss a chance in the ﬁrst half. A charm-
ing gentleman (number 5) in the oppo-
sition, sporting a tasteful tapestry of his
own on his arm, was helpful in remind-
ing us, at regular intervals, that Sunday
lunches are both delicious, wholesome
and versatile. However, the deadlock
was broken when half time was ap-
proaching. Canterbury lined up for a
free kick on the right touchline which
was whipped in with startling good
fortune, evading the heads of Hill and
Woodhead and also goalkeeper Garner,
who had no interest in claiming it or
saving the resulting shot. It was scuﬀed
back across goal by their penalty expert
(see later, twice), and self-proclaimed
former professional footballer, number
14, who was congratulated by his team
mates for not being shit.
The second half produced a bet-
ter performance from Imperial who,
having concluded that their opposi-
tion were substandard, felt they had
every chance to turn the match around.
James Murphy, when he wasn’t being
distracted by the local ﬂora and fauna,
was in exceptional form. For the next
45 minutes he caused incessant prob-
lems for their left back who had no an-
swers for the questions posed to him,
coincidentally a problem he had also
suﬀered whilst sitting Maths GCSE. Af-
ter captain Woodhead was forced from
the ﬁeld of play with a bum injury, Tim
‘Smithy’ Beasley was put in charge to
lead the resurgent Imperial team. The
introduction of Wedemeyer shortly af-
ter tipped the balance in Imperial's fa-
vour. Justice was done 10 minutes from
time when Amjad ﬁred a long ball, like
the very arrow that punctured the reti-
na of King Harold 946 years before (and
44.1 miles down the A28), and found
Murphy on the right wing. The result-
ant cross found Robinson unmarked at
the back post and his downward header
located the back of the net. The ﬁnal
whistle blew 10 minutes later after an-
other ﬂurry of pressure from the Impe-
rial front line.
The ﬁrst half of extra time was largely
non-eventful, with both teams seem-
ingly content to settle for a nailbiting
shootout. Imperial were winning the
possession battle but neither team
looked set to break the deadlock. That
was, until the second half of extra time.
With 10 minutes to go, a forceful but
legal challenge from Hill, that got 100%
of the ball and approximately 0% of the
man, earned a penalty for Canterbury’s
own Tom Daley. Number 14, fresh
from his ﬁrst half wonder goal, came
to the conclusion that he was the best
penalty taker in their team and strode
up conﬁdently. James Murphy, Imperi-
al's Oracle and resident wildlife expert,
conﬁdently informed Number 14 he
would not score. He didn’t. His scuﬀed
shot down the middle was saved by a
Garner right hand, despite his initial
leftward movement. This resulted in
the whole Canterbury team wondering
why they had let him take it in the ﬁrst
place.
Penalties loomed large and no team
mustered enough strength to get a win-
ner, although if any team looked likely
it was Imperial. Hill made his pres-
ence known on a number of occasions
seemingly winning everything in the
air and inﬂicting collateral damage on
the ground (and resident spiders). For
unknown reasons, Hill was unable to
complete the match.
Having seen the incompetence of
Canterbury’s penalties already, Impe-
rial were conﬁdent of the shootout win.
Wedemeyer, Robinson, Garner, Bea-
sley and Ahmed Cherif (Jnr) put their
names forward, with some more conﬁ-
dent than others. Beasley won the toss
and Imperial took ﬁrst.
Wedemeyer strode to the spot with
German conﬁdence but his eﬀort,
aimed at the top right corner was
both too top and too right. Shortly
afterwards the ﬁrst Canterbury taker
despatched his eﬀort bottom left and
Imperial were 1-0 down. Robinson,
Imperial’s regular spot kicker, also went
top right and left the keeper without a
chance. Canterbury’s number 14 decid-
ed that, despite clearly being rubbish at
penalties, he would make amends for
his previous scuﬀed penalty. He failed
in spectacular style as he repeated his
previous attempt, scuﬃng down the
middle allowing Garner to save with
his right foot. His attempts at blam-
ing the penalty spot for his miss fell
on deaf ears. Garner picked himself
up from goal and retrieved the ball, to
the clear shock of every spectator. De-
spite this, with conﬁdence oozing from
every oriﬁce, and after almost 10 mil-
lion hours of penalty practice, he sent
the keeper the wrong way to give Im-
perial a 2-1 lead. Canterbury promptly
missed another penalty by skewing a
drilled penalty past the left hand post.
Beasley had the chance to give Imperial
a two goal cushion but his penalty to
the keepers left was saved. Canterbury
then drew level at 2-2 with one penalty
to go. Cherif Jnr took his penalty with
his pokerface showing nothing. He sent
the keeper the wrong way and found
the right hand corner of the net leaving
Imperial one penalty away from glory
(the next round). The Canterbury play-
er looked scared by the looming ﬁgure
of Garner and the pressure told. His
tame eﬀort was saved by the left hand
of Garner, sending the Imperial play-
ers into rapture and Murphy into the
nearby forest to look for more interest-
ing Kent wildlife.
Garner was voted man of the match
but everyone grafted well and showed
good character to recover from going
behind for the ﬁrst time this season.
Imperial 1s remain unbeaten after 7
games and hope to have wrapped up
the BUCS league title when they travel
to Canterbury for the last game of the
season.
Conclusions: Henry has shown (ex-
perimentally) that he both saves and
scores penalties, both in vivo and ex
vivo. Despite a strong body of literature
suggesting otherwise (Euro ’96), Marius
Wedermeyer does not.
Storming Success for Equestrian Team
Imperial College Equestrian 1st team
had a great start to the season at Royal
Holloway’s home competition at Way-
side stables near Windsor. Despite
the torrential rain and howling winds
the team prevailed and won, with in-
dividuals placed 1st (Captain Rachel
Gregory), 2nd (Liane Marshallsay),
5th (Andre Wilmes) and 8th (Claudia
Saksida). The team started well with
Liane and Rachel winning on their
horses scoring 0 penalties in the dres-
sage, despite Rachel’s horse spooking
half way through her test, and Claudia
and Andre both did very well achiev-
ing 9 and 15 penalties respectively. At
lunchtime the team was lying in ﬁrst
position but only 3 penalties ahead of
the University of Kent. As the team
were about to show jump, the heavens
opened the wind picked up so several
of the show jumps fell down. After an
extremely long wait Rachel was the
ﬁrst rider of the imperial team and
jumped a clear round. Claudia was the
second to go on her horse and was a
little nervous after the ﬁrst rider on
her horse fell oﬀ but she completed
her round with one refusal. Andre
was third on his horse and jumped a
masterful clear round and ﬁnally Li-
ane also jumped a stylish clear round.
We had an extremely long and anxious
wait while the Royal Holloway captain
calculated the incredibly confusing
scores. Both Rachel and Andre had
won on their jumping horses scoring
0 penalties while Liane and Claudia
scored 6 and 15 respectively, leaving
the team in ﬁrst place.
Riding’s next event is our home
competition on Wednesday 5th De-
cember at Trent Park.
Omar Amjad and
Henry Garner
Sports Writers
Football Conquer The Counties
Rachel Gregory Team Captain

