NEWS
4 FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
Revenge of the hacks
This may be old news to some, but
at the start of term, the databases of
several universities worldwide were
hacked. Called “Project WestWind”
according the manifesto of “Team
Ghost Shell” (http://pastebin.com/
AQWhu8Ek) the system intrusions
were a protest about changes in mod-
ern education, both in terms of ris-
ing tuition fees. They also describe a
change in the usefulness of higher ed-
ucation, stating “…we have ventured
from learning valuable skills that
would normally help us be prepared in
life, to just, simply memorizing large
chunks of text in exchange for good
grades”, something I’m sure some stu-
dents may identify with at time. After
the statement of their cause, Team
Ghost Shell provide a list of links to
the compromised databases, includ-
ing universities such as Harvard, John
Hopkins, and Imperial. Using the only
working link for Imperial takes you to
a page ﬁlled with data from the RCC
Joe Letts Reporter
Underwater club, containing some
names, logins and email addresses of
members and administrators. Why
they picked on RSS Underwater is
unknown, but this does highlight the
need for a stronger focus on informa-
tion security as we increase our daily
reliance on technology.
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Functional Microscopy at the Imperial
Centre for Experimental and Transla-
tional Medicine in the Hammersmith
Campus, set up the online petition.
“This [the actions of the hauliers] was
in response to lobbying by the anti-viv-
isectionist movement. In the UK there
is a still a great deal of fear surround-
ing animal rights extremists. This is
largely unfounded now but lobbying
by groups such as BUAV (British union
of Anti-Vivisectionists) was enough to
make the companies think twice,” he
told Felix.
“Support for animal research in the
UK is still reasonably high (although
this has begun to fall). The actions of
anti-vivisectionist groups have there-
fore had the eﬀect of slowing the rate
and increasing the costs of UK medical
research.”
He hopes the petition will persuade
government to convince hauliers to re-
commence transporting the required
laboratory animals. Aims also include
having the government provide better
“encouragement, advice and protec-
tion” to the companies in question.
Recently, only 1% of the animals
used in laboratory experiments were
imported from outside the UK, how-
ever this small fraction is essential in
research. The 1% from abroad comes
from specialist breeding facilities, gen-
erally found in Europe.
Knowledge of the animals’ speciﬁc
strain is essential in many areas of re-
search and often only certain strains,
such as genetically engineered mice,
are required for experiment. Research-
ers claim that if they unable to get the
required animals the UK will be unable
to stay at the forefront of biomedical
research and, in the long term, new
medical expertise will be damaged and
patients will suﬀer.
Genetically modiﬁed mice, for exam-
ple, are useful in drugs testing and un-
derstanding the mechanics of illness.
A large proportion of research being
damaged includes that into cancer and
Alzheimers.
Former Science Minister (2008-
2010), Lord Drayson has said, “By giv-
ing in to the protesters they [the hauli-
ers] are inadvertently choking oﬀ vital
research into some of the most debili-
tating diseases aﬀecting our society.”
The campaign for resumption of ani-
mal transportation is currently being
supported by Understanding Animal
Research, Speaking of Research and
academics from numerous institutions,
including the Royal Veterinary College.
More explicit support from the institu-
tions themselves is expected in the very
near future.
The government e-petition can be
found at epetitions.direct.gov.uk/peti-
tions/40111
And the campaign’s website is keep-
researchaﬂoat.org
Research halted?
continued from the front page
>>

