“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1533 felixonline.co.uk
30/11/12
SPORT
Elke Wynberg Sports Writer
Having lost a match a few days earlier
during a freak weather storm in the re-
mote countryside, the ICSM Ladies 1st
XI deﬁnitely felt we could use a giant
dose of good luck when we trooped out
to play on Sunday 25 November. The
early morning sunshine and prospect
of playing at Harlington boded well for
our second LUSL match of the season,
but with the loss of several forwards as
well as a key defender (who had been
beaten up by Wednesday’s opposition
with a hockey stick) meant that we all
had butterﬂies in our stomach.
Our opposition had been a league
above us last year… And after having
a ﬂawless season, had been promoted
to an even better league. This was ob-
viously a ﬁrst cause for concern. On
top of this, our presumption that non-
medics have all the time in the world
to train to be hockey gods couldn’t be
avoided, and rumour had it that they
had international-level strikers. Our
fantastically positive captain Rosie
Belcher encouraged everybody to put
on a brave smile, but in reality we were
hideously nervous. Like I said, we could
use some luck… Whether it was a co-
incidence that Rosie managed, for the
ﬁrst time in the season, to win the coin
toss, was a question to be answered by
the ﬁnal score.
From the moment the whistle blew
to mark the start of seventy minutes
of leg-destroying hard work, the whole
ICSM team was focused, determined,
and skilful. Passes were strong and
simple; tackles were made with a real
determination to win; and whenever a
mistake was made, the team pulled to-
gether to help out. And instead of being
distracted by the surprise that we were
actually making UCL look slow and in-
experienced, we continued to keep up
the pace.
However, what we had struggled with
in previous games was achieving a re-
sult from our hard work: after all, the
score at the ﬁnal whistle is what really
matters. But after some superb ball dis-
tribution from central-midﬁeld Char-
lotte Read, striker Alison Kent was just
too skilful to be stopped by the UCL de-
fenders, passing the ball to Kylie – who
placed the ball solidly into the goal. It
goes without saying that the defenders
cheered loudly, our forwards ran back
grinning from ear to ear, the midﬁelders
were jumping up and down – and Anna
Hurley was doing all of the above at the
same time.
With some skilful attacking from the
opposition and a sneakily-placed pass
against the feet of one of our defenders,
UCL had their ﬁrst short corner against
us. The rumours about this team’s skill
ringing in our ears, we fully realised that
a well-rehearsed routine on their part
could land them an equaling goal. Al-
though Sharon “Shazza” Ocansey made
a run out that Usain Bolt would have
been proud of, they messily pushed the
ball passed our club captain and goalie,
Jess Mistry.
Our realisation that we absolutely
were the better, more strong-minded
team that day, made us ﬁght back with
a vengeance. Exclamations of “come
on medics!” echoed around the pitch,
whilst the UCL players simply argued
with the umpires and didn’t talk to each
other. At half time, we were feeling elat-
ed but, as Rosie pointed out, still had a
lot of work to do.
Even though our legs were starting
to feel like they were made of lactic
acid, we started the second half with
an expectation that UCL were going to
be more than slightly angry… So solid
was our eﬀort that Charlotte Lees, who
had played a match the day before and
consequently “couldn’t run properly”
,
played a second half that earned her the
title of MVP. With some initial play in
our D, Jess made a cracking save with
her stick well above her head, and An-
nabel Groome on the right and Roz
Marshall as centre defence worked hard
to clear the ball. Anna made some fan-
tastic runs up the right wing, with for-
wards Alison, Flick, and Kylie all oﬀer-
ing passes so that we could score more
goals and show this team what we’re
made of.
With this incredible team eﬀort, and
the support of our coach Justin from the
sideline, Lees was able to score two per-
fectly placed goals in the second half…
One of them even from lying on the
ground after falling over. Clearly bal-
ance was one of the (few) areas where
UCL did have the advantage.
With the ﬁnal whistle, we all attempt-
ed to contain our excitement at the
result. Every single team member had
put in phenomenal eﬀort, and we had
out-played our opposition fairly and
squarely… At the end of the day, that gi-
ant dose of luck that we’d all hoped for
wasn’t even needed.
Medic Girls Thrash UCL
TaeKwonDo Inauguration Huge Success
The work from countless months of
planning, organisation and training
ﬁnally came together as Imperial
College Union TaeKwonDo (ICUT-
KD) hosted their very own competi-
tion at the Ethos sports hall last Sun-
day. The Imperial College Open 2012
was the kick-start to the competi-
tive year for many university clubs
around the country and also the ﬁrst
TaeKwonDo competition to be held
on Imperial grounds in the history of
the club.
Attracting over 100 competitors
from universities all over the country
travelling from as far away as Shef-
ﬁeld and Southampton, the atmos-
phere in the sports hall on Sunday
morning was full of excitement and
anticipation for the day ahead.
For the ICUTKD team, we knew
that running a competition on top of
competing was not going to be easy;
LiYan Chow Sports writer many of our team having to act as of-
ﬁcials as well as preparing for their
own ﬁghts. However, that did not ap-
pear to faze our 14 ﬁghters, as they
brought back an impressive 12 med-
als.
Within two of the categories, our
members dominated the opposi-
tion, with the gold medals and sil-
ver medals going to members of the
ICUTKD team who fought their way
into the finals. Roy Lambert and
Yemi Williamson-Taylor won gold,
with Kristian McCaul and Nathan-
iel Gallop winning silver medals.
Mabel Lew and Ernest Tan also won
silver medals with Andreas Pan-
teli, Mayghal Vijapura, Christopher
Dancel, LiYan Chow, Ramdisa Agasi
and Mathieu Hu all winning bronze
medals.
However, it was the dedication of
all the volunteers and oﬃcials on
the day which truly encapsulated
the spirit of TaeKwonDo. Without
a doubt, they all went out of their
way to ensure that the competition
as a success. Without them, the day
would not have run as smoothly as it
did. We have to thank the British Stu-
dent TaeKwonDo Federation (BSTF),
the staﬀ at Ethos and Sport Imperial
for all their support and a huge thank
you to all the ﬁrst aiders, photogra-
phers, referees, competitors and in-
structors without whom, Imperial
College Open 2012 would have never
happened.
Finally, we could not have achieved
any of this without the hard work of
our instructor, Master Reza Saberi,
who gave us the encouragement and
conﬁdence to take on this task in
style.
With the Imperial College Open
2012 done and dusted, ICUTKD can
look forward to the next Imperial
College Open 2013!
Go bib or go home
That’s the last
time you push in
front of me in the
Library Café

