FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Just the right Climate
James Beioley reviews the London Climate Forum
he London Climate Fo-
rum, in short, is a fasci-
nating and cutting-edge
forum which anybody in-
terested in climate change
and sustainability, and even those who
aren’t, should endeavour to get in-
volved with.
For those not clued up on this pro-
ject, let me provide a brief summary.
The London Climate Forum is an en-
tirely student-led conference based
within Imperial College, and is the
biggest in London, and quite possibly
the country. It runs over just Saturday
and Sunday, but oﬀers up some seri-
ous clout with its multiple leading
thinkers in the world of sustainability,
all of whom grasp the opportunity to
reach out to the new generation of
green ‘ecowarriors’ in an attempt to
inspire the next big thing(s).
The Forum’s goal? To speak directly
to those who are on the frontier of
the climate agenda whilst entertain-
ing the chance that the solutions we
desperately seek may be nurtured
within its walls. It’s a modest goal to
say the least… and one which was in
full swing this weekend as the Forum
was expertly carried out. This is just
some of those insightful talks which
scratched the surface of our sustain-
able future.
Day One
The ﬁrst day was mostly focused on
the present; what the current climate
is doing, why it is doing this, what
we are currently (mostly not) doing
to mitigate it, and how business is
adapting. Two eminent and, I’m sure
they wouldn’t mind me saying this,
highly outspoken campaigners ﬁlled
the morning, in the form of Tony Juni-
per and Tom Burke, the latter part of
a panel trio who, combined with the
Director of our very own Grantham
Institute, painted a rather desperate
picture of a story we all have unfortu-
nately come to know intimately.
The world is warming, we’re respon-
sible, 6oC is looking increasingly likely,
and, all in all, politicians and society
are doing sweet FA to even try ﬁxing
it, despite science’s wild ﬂapping of
arms and screaming in their collec-
tive faces. Trewin Restorick, CEO of
the Global Action Plan and the third
speaker of the trio bittersweetly de-
livered this when he stated how obvi-
ously blind the UK government is to
be ignoring PWC, a company he sar-
castically described as “known for its
eco-radical behaviour”. That got some
educated laughs.
The Trillion Fund was next on the
agenda, with Michael Stein, Founder
and Director taking the stage, with
exuberance and clear passion. Crowd-
funding is his game and he knows
what he’s doing when it comes to
money in the renewable sphere. He set
the scene with a succinct analysis of
the recent Arab Spring motion: “Has
anybody made the connection with
climate change and the Arab Spring? I
have – it’s the ﬁrst climate revolution”
was his punchline piece, detailing how
burnt-out Russian crops leading to
rising food prices had more than likely
been the trigger for the pouring over
of a boiling pot of repression in the
Middle East.
Michael sees the value in our online
connected world, and has begun uti-
lising it to kickstart renewable projects
worldwide, with the investing public
not only receiving sizable, and more
importantly reliable, returns (10-15%
was oft-quoted) but having the knowl-
edge they had directly helped build a
wind turbine or solar farm somewhere
it is needed; think ‘Kickstarter’ but
with a renewable twist.
Mark Lynas, the infamously contro-
versial but brilliant author of multiple
climate-related books and Guardian
columns combined his views with the
deep technical knowledge of Prof. Da-
vid MacKay of Cambridge, author of
Sustainable Energy: Without the Hot
Air, a book I urge everybody to read,
to produce what was a hysterical but
adept analysis of our future UK en-
ergy mix. Using DECC’s innovative
energy calculator, the two plugged in
various parameters determining how
many solar panels here and how many
EVs there (amongst 40 other options),
with the audience as an opinion poll,
in their attempts to bring 2050 emis-
sions levels to 80% of 1990 records,
the ‘safe’ zone.
They ran over, and we barely got it
ﬁnished, but the hilarity which en-
sued from Mark’s quick and clever
comments and the astounding ambi-
ent knowledge of David provided a
spectacle I, and I believe many oth-
ers, could have watched for hours.
It would seem the only thing that
went truly wrong was the choice not
to include any nuclear in the future
mix, an apparent audience decision
which shocked me and multiple oth-
ers. “Dear God. Why did I allow it?”
Mark later tweeted to me, a sentiment
I wholeheartedly agree with.
Day Two
Sunday was a day where futurists and
‘blue-sky’ thinkers could relish in their
study of trends and solutions for the
coming 30 years, a day for ‘what hap-
pens next’.
The morning keynote set the scene,
as James Cameron (not that one),
Founder and non-executive Chairman
of Climate Change Capital, member
of GE’s ecomagination board, advi-
sor to government and so much more
opened with some powerfully simple
notions. Sustainability is only going to
work if it is beautiful – “nobody ever
feels punished standing in a green and
energy-eﬃcient building”. His follow
up point – green looks good the ma-
jority of the time, even if you subscribe
to the belief that wind turbines are
ugly, and we feel good being around
them. It’s an undeniable truth, and not
something just reserved for the techy
geeks.
Innovation, infrastructure and infor-
mation were his three key in-need-of-
improvement areas, all of them arising
from his work within the UK, but un-
doubtedly applicable many times over
elsewhere. Our infrastructure sucks,
there’s no two ways of saying it, but if
we smarten it up in the endless ways
we could, we could become a leader in
green energy worldwide, almost over-
night.
Right now, though, business regula-
tions just aren’t setup to accommodate
new players in the market, those that
bring innovation to the table and un-
dermine the outdated and bullish ‘Big
Six’. If we can let go of this thinking,
who knows what fantastic new devel-
opments could become the norm. It’s
fairly common to hear that the UK has
no real manufacturing base anymore,
that we eﬀectively make nothing with
a British stamp on it, but James ar-
gues diﬀerently. He picked up on the
automotive industry, our passion for
Formula 1, and our immense techni-
cal prowess in the materials sector. By
combining these powerhouses of busi-
ness in new and sustainable ways, with
those young fresh-faced ideas behind
it, the idea of the UK being dead in the
water on green issues is all but blown
away.
Anne Lise Kjaer went on to describe
our disconnection with improving our
quality of living and instead focusing
on more more more, whilst a talk on
sustainable city planning explained
how green our 2012 Olympics really
set out to be (and subsequently were).
Contaminated land was rejuvenated,
ecologies sustained and innovative
new building techniques such as re-
movable seating ‘wings’ on the Swim-
ming Centre were employed, all within
a surprisingly tight budget. One struc-
ture went as far as being deconstruct-
ed and shipped to Rio for the next
Olympics in a masterclass of recycling
I personally have never seen before.
As the ﬁnal day drew to a close, Jer-
emy Leggett, Professor Nigel Brandon
and Dr Ling Ge tackled the future of
energy mixes and the technology we
could see directing us on a cleaner
path, such as space-age battery stor-
age, Solar Century PV projects and
hydrogen deployment, as well as the
broader cost and social complications
associated.
“You can ask any engineer to design
you a low-carbon energy system and
they could do it today without issue;
it’s just the cost which stops us” was
Nigel’s message to us all, and one that
strikes at the very heart of the prob-
lem. However, it wasn’t left at that,
and as any good climate panel should
it was argued fervently by Jeremy that
it is the social and political willingness
which is truly acting as the ﬁnal nail.
We need more guts, more action and
more aggressive approaches if we are
to bulldoze down the barriers in our
way.
Oh, and Jeremy also compared what
Osborne and his Treasury are doing
right now in their blind love for shale
gas as tantamount to treason... I am in
some ways inclined to agree.
To round it all oﬀ, our resident Pro-
fessor Lord Robert Winston brought a
measure of class unlike any other, and
proceeded to highlight how we must
be cautious of progress if we are to
fully grasp its achievements and drive
our society forwards. He left us with a
sense of there coming a journey ahead,
which will be simultaneously challeng-
ing, depressing, at times catastrophic,
but all the while rewarding, a journey
of which those fully invested in the no-
tion of climate change are the pioneers
striving onwards. It’s a feeling sorely
missing in much of the worldly debate,
and one we as a society desperately re-
quire.
T
FRIDAY 30 NOVEMBER
6
Mark Lynas and David MacKay: just
like Laurel and Hardy, Morecambe
and Wise, Keenan and Kel, you know,
all the famous double acts

