SCIENCE
FELIX
10
Science Editors: James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas
Kelly Oakes, Charlie Harvey
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A Life in Science
by John Gribbin and Michael White
And a few suggestions...
Schrödinger’s lolcat
The Oriental hornet has the unique ability to obtain
energy from the sun, through a special pigment
found in a large yellow stripe on the abdomen. Mol-
ecules of this pigment, Xanthopterin, transform light
into electrical energy through a photo-biochemical
process which allows the hornets to be most active
in the middle of the day. This is especially surprising
as until now, the insects were thought to perform
metabolism in an organ, similar to the human liver,
called the fat body.
John Gribbin made his name with ‘In Search of Sch-
rodinger’s Cat’, an essential read for any aspiring
Physics student. Before this, however, he collabo-
rated with Michael White to produce this early bi-
ography of Stephen Hawking. The book covers his
formative years and the reputation he built as a
cosmologist.
Whilst focusing mainly on Hawking’s career as a
physicist, the authors also manage to convincingly
portray his family life as well as the media frenzy
that surrounded (and in fact still does surround) the
fact that he suffers from Motor-neurone syndrome.
It is often felt that the authors detached them-
selves from the emotional aspect of Hawking’s ill-
ness. However, this actually serves to make the
book a more convincing science biography. Hawking
himself always seeks to downplay his illness so it
is fitting that the authors do not make it the main
focus of the book. Hawking is a remarkable charac-
ter with a sense of humour to match. This biography
portrays the man and his science superbly.
Katya-Yani Vyas
Sir Francis: crime fighter
Thea Cunningham
For those of you familiar with TV crime se-
ries like C.S.I and Dexter, you’ll know that
fingerprinting plays a large part in catching
the wanted. But you might not be aware that
if it weren’t for a man named Francis Galton,
using fingerprints to catch criminals wouldn’t
be possible. In fact, the British psychologist
not only pioneered the use of fingerprinting in
criminal cases, but he also coined the ‘nature
versus nurture’ debate and made serious efforts
to measure brainpower in the 19th and early
20th centuries. This month marks the 100th an-
niversary of his death.
Born on 22 February 1822, Galton was an in-
telligent child. He took a shine to science at an
early age and aged 18, enrolled at Trinity Col-
lege, Cambridge to study medicine, although
he later swapped to mathematical sciences.
Galton was a keen sportsman and traveller, ex-
ploring Egypt, Syria and South Africa. He was
elected a fellow of the Royal Geographical So-
ciety upon his return from the latter.
Much of Galton’s early work focused on hu-
man intelligence. A half-cousin of Charles Dar-
win – they shared the same grandfather, phy-
sician Erasmus Darwin – Galton was inspired
by the Origin of Species, in particular Darwin’s
Friday 14 December 2011
You won’t believe it...
research on domestic breeding. Galton believed
that humans inherited their abilities from their
parents like the animals and plants Darwin de-
scribed. He was an extreme advocate of nature
over nurture, believing genius was genetically
determined. In 1869, he published his first
book, Hereditary Genius, in which he proposed
a method for ranking people’s natural abilities.
Galton’s later book, English Men of Science:
Their Nature and Nurture, published in 1874,
was the result of his study of prominent figures
in England and their education, parentage and
family achievements. In it he proposed that
birth order was correlated with achievement in
later life.
Galton believed individuals with superior
mental and physical capabilities would en-
hance society. He questioned whether the hu-
man race could be improved in a Darwinian
style, by discouraging reproduction between
people with undesirable traits, and instead
favoured mixing between healthy, mentally
strong families. Galton coined the now wide-
ly-known concept ‘eugenics’, which seeks to
improve the human race. His campaign gained
momentum across the UK and America, and
was backed by politicians. It was only after
Hitler and the Nazis exploited the concept in
the twentieth century that the concept gained
negative connotations.
In his later years, Galton became interested
in fingerprinting as a tool to identify racial dif-
ferences, and links between families and intel-
lect. He collected over 8,000 sets of prints and
studied these fastidiously. Galton confirmed the
work of Sir William James Herschel years be-
fore, who had proposed that no two fingerprints
are identical, nor do they change over time. In
1892, Galton published Fingerprints, which
showcased a classification technique that was
later adapted by police forces as a method with
which to convict criminals.
A man of many talents, Galton also dipped
his toes in statistics, coining the concepts of
correlation and standard deviation, and also
found time to invent a test to decipher differen-
tial hearing, and create the world’s first weather
map.
In recognition of his achievements, Galton
was knighted in 1909. By the time of his death
two years later on 17 January 1911, Galton had
published over 300 books and his ideas had fil-
tered into many different fields. A century on
and his ideas still influence forensics, anthro-
pology and statistics. The nature/nurture debate
still prevails, but perhaps most importantly,
Galton uncovered the origins of genius that has
helped modern psychology today.
Thea Cunningham
Imaginary sweets can help you resist the temptation of these sugary treats
Sweet thoughts curb hunger pangs
Want to shed your Christmas bulge but can’t
resist the Quality Streets? Then imagine eating
them, for it could help you in the long run. A
study published in Science over the festive pe-
riod has shown how imagining eating a certain
food can reduce your consumption of that food.
The team at Carnegie Mellon University in
Pennsylvania got their participants to simulate
eating imaginary M&M’s. The more M&M’s
the participants imagined they devoured, the
fewer M&M’s they actually ate when they
were offered a real bowl full of the chocolate
treats afterwards.
“To some extent, merely imagining an expe-
rience is a substitute for the actual experience”,
said team member Joachim Vosgerau. “The dif-
ference between imagining and experiencing
may be smaller than previously assumed.” Of
course, simply thinking about your favourite
food, or any other food for that matter, won’t
keep you from eating it – you will need to re-
peatedly simulate chewing it.
For a long time it’s been widely assumed that
thinking about your favourite fat-laden foods
will make your cravings for them even stron-
ger. The results, then, are likely to bring relief
to New Year dieters trying to stave off thoughts
of roast dinners and turkey sandwiches. As lead
author of the study Carey Morewedge conclud-
ed: “These findings suggest that trying to sup-
press one’s thoughts of desired foods in order
to curb cravings for those foods is a fundamen-
tally flawed strategy.”
But before you head home for your imagi-
nary meal, spare a thought for your blood sugar
levels. Successful self-control requires a great
deal of energy. This energy comes in the form
of glucose, our body’s natural fuel. In 2007, a
social psychologist at Florida State University,
Roy Baumeister, carried out an experiment to
show that people are more likely to lack self-
control when their glucose levels are low.
In the study, Baumeister got his participants,
who had fasted for a couple of hours previous-
ly, to take part in mental tasks, such as focusing
on a film or trying to suppress negative stereo-
types. The students made to exert focused self-
control had significantly lower levels of blood
glucose than those who were not made to.
These tests confirmed that self-control is de-
pendent on glucose, but more importantly, that
our glucose supplies are exhaustible. Baumeis-
ter likened self-control to muscle; it becomes
tired if it’s exerted too much. In much the same
way, controlling our responses to situations
exhausts our body’s supply of glucose. This is
called ‘ego depletion’ and it makes us less able
to carry out other activities demanding self-
control, like resisting those foods that we fancy.
For resolute dieters, thinking about willpow-
er in this way might prove useful. For example,
if you’re exhausted after a long day at work,
chances are you’re not going to have the self-
control to choose a salad over a sandwich. The
only way to reinstate your depleted bodily re-
sources is through rest. So if your diet is wear-
ing you thin, make sure you get a good night’s
sleep and that your energy levels are topped
up. Or better still; try imagining eating your fa-
vourite sweets and treats. Where there’s a will,
there’s a way.

