FELIX 11
SCIENCE
Friday 14 December 2011
Maciej Matuszewski
Sci-fi
Column
As this is the first issue after the Christ-
mas break I’m going to review the Doc-
tor Who Christmas Special. I’ve always
enjoyed the specials but I wasn’t par-
ticularly hopeful for this one after the
previews showed that it would be based
on the Christmas Carol. It seemed like
there was very little that the writers
could add to this classic story and that,
by resorting to copying Dickens, they
had simply run out of ideas.
At first, the episode seemed to confirm
my fears. It begins on Christmas Eve
with a spaceship whose clearly incom-
petent crew has managed to trap it in a
planet’s turbulent atmosphere, which will
shortly destroy it. Fortunately, Amy and
Roy are onboard for their honeymoon
cruise and manage to contact the Doc-
tor. Unfortunately for the viewers they
spend the entire episode in, respectively,
their policewoman and Roman Centu-
rion costumes from last season. While
this is given a plausible explanation as
bit of ‘roleplay’ during one of their first
nights as a married couple it simply looks
ridiculous. I can honestly see no reason
why the show’s creators thought that this
would add anything to the episode.
For some highly contrived reason,
which is explained in one line of dia-
logue, the Doctor can’t just land the
TARDIS inside the spaceship but must
instead persuade the owner of the plan-
et’s weather control device to allow the
spaceship to land safely. When the mi-
serly Kazran Sardick refuses, the Doctor
decides to go back in time to Kazran’s
youth to change him into a better person.
The story, however, quickly picks up
as the Doctor assumes the roles of the
three ghosts from the Christmas Carol
to achieve this task. I was genuinely
surprised by how the writers managed
to give this premise a new twist. It was
particularly ingenious how, inspired by
the ghost of Christmas Yet-to-come,
he brought a young Kazram forward in
time to show him what sort of person
he could become if he wasn’t careful.
This blending of Doctor Who’s usual
science fiction themes and the Dick-
ensian elements gave the story an in-
teresting steampunk feel. Despite their
absurd outfits, I was also happy to see
that the regular companions were given
meaningful roles to play. What ’s more,
the writers refrained from presenting
an easy technobabble solution, with the
ending being very satisfying; flowing
logically from what we had seen.
This was certainly nowhere near the
best Doctor Who episode, with the
early problems being compounded by
an occasional lack of tension and slow
pace. It was, however, still an enjoyable
hour’s viewing and one of the better
things that I saw over Christmas.
Ecologists and environmental scientists
are trying hard to raise public awareness
about environmental problems. I believe
that everyone understands that we live
on a suffering planet which has various
increasing needs and demands, which
is why cities all over the world have set
high targets to reduce carbon emissions
and produce clean energy. However, a
very interesting alternative has started to
evolve. Why not build new “green” cit-
ies from scratch?
Such a city would be called an Eco-
City or a Sustainable City and would
be designed specifically to minimize its
energy, water and food needs, reduce its
pollution and waste of resources, and
be able to supply goods to its inhabit-
ants with minimal reliance on the sur-
rounding countryside. Fortunately, this
relatively new idea is being applied at
the moment in two places, one in China
called Dongtan (near Shanghai), and
one in the United Arab Emirates called
Masdar (17 km from Abu Dhabi).
Plans for Dongtan city started in 2005.
It is located in a corner of Chongming
Island which is going to be connected
with Shanghai by a bridge and a tunnel
link. It will consist of three inter-linked
villages, and all of them will combine
homes, businesses and places for recre-
ation. It will be able to provide housing
for 80,000 people by 2020, and its de-
Building green cities from scratch
We should move to new cities that are designed to be green
signer’s aim is that every one of those
people will be no more than seven min-
utes walk from public transport.
A real breakthrough is that no CO2
emitting cars will be available in either
Dongtan or Masdar with only electric
vehicles allowed. Another benefit is that
electric cars are quiet so thinner materi-
als can be used in building construction
as there will be less noise to drown out.
More than 60 per cent of the whole site
is being allocated to parks and farmland
and they expect an initial 83 per cent
reduction in waste sent to landfills com-
pared to other cities. As great amounts
of rice husks are available in the area,
they will be burned to produce energy
and the releasing CO2
of this burn is go-
ing to be captured and fed into green-
houses.
Ironically, Masdar is located in a
country that is a leading producer of fos-
sil fuels yet it will be one of the most
ecologically healthy cities. Its area will
be 6.5 km2
with a population of around
50,000 people and a total cost of around
22 billions dollars. A light railway line
will provide a transport link to Abu Dha-
bi and nobody will be more than 200m
away from the public transport. A de-
salination plant will provide 8000m3
of
water a day, and 60 per cent of the water
used in Masdar will be recycled.
As you can imagine, in an Eco-City
air-conditioning is not an acceptable
solution to the problem of high tem-
peratures, so scientists and engineers are
focused on insulation and ventilation,
and the maximization of shade. This is
achieved by packing the streets of the
city closer together and by limiting the
maximum height of the buildings to four
or five storeys. Engineers will use thin
walls that react quickly to the sun and a
thin metal layer on the outside to reflect
the heat and stop it from penetrating the
building.
One major difference between Masdar
and typical cities is that the whole city
will be raised with the pedestrian level
free of vehicles and consequently, traffic
noise. The first people to live in Masdar
An artist’s impression of the planned Masdar City in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates, designed to reduce the human impacts of city living
Anastasia Eleftheriou will be students at the Masdar Institute,
which will be a base for sustainable en-
gineering.
I hope that the first Eco-Cities will be
able to inspire others and also enhance
the way that other cities are trying to go
green. In the UK, 10 eco-towns were
about to be built, but because of the
credit crunch and strong local protests
at the proposed sites, further consider-
ations need to be made. It is essential to
mention that life in an Eco-City will be
of a better quality, not only for people’s
bodies, which are going to enjoy the
health benefits, but also for their spirits,
as they will feel closer to mother nature.
Only electric cars, such as the G-Wiz, would be allowed in Masdar

