felix
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Samuel Gibbs
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A
major theme from mobile manu-
facturers at this year’s CES has
been 4G. The new standards
for wireless communication are
meant as an upgrade from cur-
rent third generation (3G) technologies in use
today, and promise higher speeds for users and
better efficiency for telecom companies. Yet is
it worth shelling out for these new handsets,
and if so, what can you expect?
As far as Britain goes, we are going to have
to wait until at least mid-late 2011 before the
government auctions the required spectrum
allocated to 4G, to telephone providers. This
means that even though you may be able to get
your hands on a phone that’s capable of con-
necting to a 4G network, it’s likely that it won’t
get the chance to use them until sometime in
2012 at the earliest.
In addition, it’s worth keeping in mind that
many phone manufacturers have been less than
scrupulous about what they call 4G. There are
quite a few examples of the 4G moniker being
used interchangeably between meaning those
that actually satisfy 4G standards and those
that attain 4G-like speeds. HSPDA+ for ex-
ample is an extension of current 3G tech, but
reaches much higher 4G-like speeds.
If you’re willing to wait a year to benefit from
it, 4G tech could provide you with a seamless
and lightning quick internet experience. Just
don’t expect the battery life to be stellar.
Free App of the Week
iOS - Kindle for iPhone
Amazon’s Kindle app for the iPhone means you’re
never without a good book. Featuring Whisper Sync,
you can keep your place no matter what.
4G or not: does it really mean anything?
Kindle on Android brings Amazon’s eBook might to
Google’s mobile OS, ready for books and magazines.
Just try not to squint too much at the screen.
Android - Kindle for Android
CES 2011 - Las Vegas
Feroz Salam brings you the best from this year’s CES,
the world’s largest consumer electronics exhibition
T
ablets were the name of the game
at this year’s CES, continuing
the trend towards portability over
from last year. In contrast to 2010
however, major manufacturers are
no longer playing second fiddle to Apple, with
the definite emergence of a breed of devices
that could (in several ways) surpass Apple’s
iPad.
Leading the charge is Motorola’s Xoom (pre-
viewed on the next page), featuring a powerful
dual core processor and the highly awaited An-
droid Honeycomb tablet-oriented OS.
It’s not all smooth sailing though, as the
Xoom is facing credible competition from the
likes of RIM, with its business oriented first
foray, the PlayBook, and established players
such as Samsung, who have taken a leaf from
the mobile market and previewed an innovative
but risky, slider-tablet that opens out to a full
QWERTY keyboard.
With nearly 100 tablets announced or pre-
viewed over four days, there’s going to be plen-
ty to choose from, but with promises made by
most tablet manufacturers from 2010 (notably
the Windows 7 tablet debacle) left unfulfilled,
and Apple’s rumoured second generation iPad
on the way, it might be worth waiting to see
some slates hit the stores before setting your
money aside.
Tablets, tablets, tablets
E
very year, the CES exhibition out
in the deserts of Las Vegas prom-
ises an interesting foresight into
the gadgets and technologies that
are going to be big over the year,
and this year was no exception. While this
year’s CES continued where the last exhibition
left off, focusing on handheld and mobile com-
puting platforms (think tablets, tablets, tablets),
there was still plenty of novelty on offer as
manufacturers attempted to pack even more
power into the palm of your hand.
On the mobile front, manufacturers are ob-
viously hoping that this is to be the year that
4G makes it big, with major investments in
next-generation devices from big players in the
market such as LG, Motorola, HTC and Sony.
Android too shows clear signs of consolidating
on its major successes over the previous year,
with the new Android 2.3 (Gingerbread) or An-
droid 2.2 (Froyo) featuring on the vast majority
of devices.
While these high-end devices promise bleed-
ing-edge performance, you might want to wait
a while before investing in a brand spanking
new 4G handset – the public auction for the 4G
spectrum to British mobile operators is only
scheduled to happen in 2011.
Android also made a showing in the bur-
geoning tablet market, with the tablet-oriented
Android 3.0, aka Honeycomb, finally making
a showing on some devices. News on tablets
was dominated by the usual mobile computing
suspects, and the biggest splash was made by
Motorola with their new 10.1 inch Xoom de-
vice. Running Honeycomb, the device packs a
heavy punch in the processor department and is
already setting itself up to be yet another ‘iPad
killer’. Read on for more about the Xoom, and
the other biggest stories that we’ve picked
out from a week chock full of new product
announcements.
12
“There was plenty
of novelty on offer
as manufacturers
attempted to pack even
more power into the
palm of your hand”
Friday 14 January 2011
When I was your age, we only have half
a G! And we didn’t complain either!
It doesn’t matter how great it is, I’m
still going to use it to carry drinks...

