felix
TECHNOLOGY
The Motorola Xoom
Motorola’s Xoom has been winning accolades
from far and wide after it’s launch at CES. Boast-
ing a feature set that puts Apple’s iPad in the
shade, the tablet is a sure sign that tablet manu-
facturers are no longer looking towards Cupertino
for inspiration.
In the processing department, the Xoom (pro-
nounced ‘Zoom’) packs a hefty dual core processor
from NVidia, while it also boasts a crisp 1280 x 800
resolution on a screen that’s slightly larger than the
iPad’s. In terms of multimedia features as well, the
Xoom outdoes the iPad, coming in with two cam-
eras: a front facing 2 MP camera for conferencing
and a 5 MP for better quality photos.
Even more interesting is the promise ofAndroid’s
tablet-oriented incarnation, Honeycomb, on the
device. It’s this combination of leading hardware
and software that’s leading people to call it the next
‘iPad killer’, a mighty title for a product yet to have
a price or launch date.
Top tech to keep your eye on in 2011
Glasses-free 3D TV
3D was a big theme at last year’s CES, as major
players in the television market attempted to con-
vince consumers that 3D should enter the home
in 2010. One of the biggest stumbling blocks of
any such attempt, however, was the fact that most
forms of 3D hawked in Vegas last year depended on
bulky, historically unpopular 3D glasses; a require-
ment that put off most consumers.
This year, manufacturers are going one step fur-
ther and removing this age-old barrier to 3D. LG,
Sony and Toshiba were all out at CES with 3D dis-
plays sans glasses, but the conspicuous absence of
any commercial release dates for these next gen-
eration products is a clear indicator that they are
nowhere near production ready.
With 3DTV not making the sort of market in-
roads the big firms would have liked, glasses-free
3D might be the tonic that the industry needs, but
the consumer has spoken - the burden of proof lies
squarely with the manufacturers.
Slider Tablets
New form factors are rare in technology, but in the
rapidly growing tablet market there’s still huge po-
tential for innovation.
Both Samsung and Asus brought out slider-tab-
lets, ultra-thin screens backed with a QWERTY
keyboard. While build quality is probably going
to be the biggest deciding factor in the success of
these devices, the form factor will probably prove
very popular with those people who have stayed
away from tablets due to the difficulty of getting
any real productive work done on them.
With other manufacturers perfecting the docking
tablet form factor, it remains to be seen whether
customers really want to be burdened with lug-
ging a keyboard around at all times. Weighing in at
nearly a kilo, for example, Samsung’s device might
be competitive in the netbook class, but is signifi-
cantly heavier than any competing pure tablet, a
burden when you just want to watch a film on the
way home from work.
The Motorola Atrix 4G
Motorola continued in the vein of its recent revival,
with its Atrix 4G attracting high praise by those
who saw it at CES. On the face of it, the Atrix is
just another high-end Android smartphone - run-
ning NVidia’s Tegra 2 chip and sporting a crisp 960
x 540 display that gives most other phones in the
category a run for their money.
But what really stands out about the Atrix isn’t
the phone itself, but the accessories that Motorola
is promising to offer with it: a HD Media dock and
a laptop dock. The HD Media dock will allow you
to plug your phone’s display into a television or at-
tach a USB mouse/keyboard to it and use it as a
media hub.
The laptop dock is where the innovation takes
place - a laptop shell that you can slide your phone
into (much like a NES cartridge), that turns your
phone into a full PC running Android, almost per-
fect if you’re in the market for a phone but need the
versatility of a netbook on the side.
13
Friday 14 January 2011

