BUSINESS
FELIX
14
Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Finance Society hosts first
of a kind trading game
News Summary
Big bosses, big bonuses
The public backlash
against large bonuses
for those in the financial
sector is once again at a
high. This comes amidst
news the total compensa-
tion for top bankers could
exceed £7billion this year.
Bob Diamond (pic-
tured), the former president of investment bank
Barclays Capital and newly appointed CEO of the
Barclays Group is in line for a £9million bonus. Mr
Diamond succeeds John Varley, who, compared to
his peers, successfully steered Barclays away from
many pitfalls during the crisis. Diamond has recently
stated that he has not made a decision whether or
not to accept the bonus.
Adding fuel to the fire are Stephen Hester, CEO of
the Royal Bank of Scotland and Eric Daniels, CEO of
the Lloyd’s Banking Group. They are due to receive
a compensation package that could total £2.5mil-
lion and £4million respectively. The government still
holds participations of 41% in Lloyd’s and 81% in
RBS.
Recently the opposition has accused David Cam-
eron of not doing enough to curb bonuses for finance
professionals.
Germans do it better
While in much of Europe economic recovery is not
picking up the previously expected steam, or has in-
deed come to a halt, Germany has bucked this trend
by posting a provisional figure of a 3.6% year-on-year
growth. This is the fastest growth since 1990 and a
stark contrast to a decline of 4.9% in 2009.
The high figure is a product of a spectacular 14.2%
increase in exports and domestic demand, support-
ed by a sharp increase in manufacturing investment
of 22.6%. Households also helped buoy the figure by
an increased spending of half a percent.
On the 29th of November, teams from several
universities from all over the UK competed in
a never before seen trading simulation. The
trading game held at Imperial was part of the
national UK Investment Banking Series, a
competition initiated in 2010 by the Impe-
rial College Finance Society (ICFS) which has
proven to be a great success.
The trading game itself is one of a kind – the
concept and technology are the brainchild of
two Imperial students, Bradley Jones and Phil-
ip Heurich, both mathematicians in their final
and second years respectively. Consequently,
they have founded the trading simulations
and software company Dynamic Simulations,
which aims to take the product they have cre-
ated specifically for the game and bring it to
market. “Having taken part in numerous trad-
ing simulations and comparing those with the
experience of working on a real trading floor
– the contrasts between the two is unavoid-
able. It was at this point we knew there was
a gap in the market”, says Bradley Jones. The
two main differences between the simulation
that featured in the UIBS competition and its
competitors are significant. Firstly, the market
behind each security is dynamic. That is to say
that the prices of the traded instruments can be
influenced by the players’ actions. In this way,
the players really can ‘move the market’. This
is based on an algorithm that takes into account
the underlying trend, the volume currently in
the market and the absolute size of the trade. A
player placing a large order will undoubtedly
move the price of the traded security higher.
The game splits teams into hedge funds and
investment banks and focuses more specifically
on the existing relationship between the two.
Hedge funds need investment banks to perform
operations in the financial markets and invest-
ment banks earn commission by enabling these
positions. This element of interaction between
the teams creates an environment which requires
the use of all forms of communication: shout-
ing across a room, calling on the phone or chat-
ting via the internet – the overall result being the
buzzing atmosphere of a hectic trading floor!
“The focus lies very clearly on simulat-
ing what is called flow trading as opposed to
prop trading. The former is what most gradu-
ates starting at a major investment bank will
be doing in their first years. But interestingly
enough, the simulations currently out there fo-
cus mostly on prop trading” said the other half
of the Dynamic Simulations team, Philip Heu-
rich. What is the real difference between the
two types of trading? Simplified, prop trading
means that you are given a lump sum of money
and buy or sell assets with it; flow trading is
when an entity, such as an Investment Bank, is
creating a market by joining buyers and sellers
and enabling them to trade the quantities they
are looking for. Naturally, it would be of inter-
est to potential future traders in the investment
banking industry to get in contact with the par-
ticular challenges that flow trading poses. The
game hosted by the finance society serves this
exact purposed and provides students up and
down the country the chance to get as close to
the real thing as possible.
After 6 hours and 35 minutes of intense work
on trade deals and analyzing markets, the par-
ticipants were happy to have experienced the
excitement of the floor and have learned what
flow trading is all about. The overall winner
of the UIBS challenge was a hedge fund team
from UCL, winning a grand prize of £1,000.
Our very own Imperial investment bank team
followed to take the runner-up spot and secure
a £500 prize. To win the challenge it takes more
than just the ability to read the markets: com-
munication and networking skills are vital. The
winning teams displayed all the necessary skills
making this type of event a great opportunity for
the recruiting firms to spot talent. The event as a
whole went incredibly smoothly and has helped
Imperial’s Finance Society cement itself as an
innovative, experienced and market-leading
player on a national scale. Smeet Shah, study-
ing Accounting and Finance at the University of
Manchester said, “My dad is a stock broker and
this competition gave me a feel of his work life. I
have played similar trading competitions before
but this was the best of all.”
It is great to see Imperial clubs and societies
actively engaging in collaboration and compe-
tition with other leading UK universities. It is a
competition that the Finance Society certainly
hopes to see running again next year. Imperial,
remember the age old adage of “buy low, sell
high”.
Young traders from across the country gather at Imperial
Everyone quickly alt-tabs Facebook as the photographer approaches
Afonso Campos
Portugal – the next economy to
bite the dust?
The small, maligned, peripheral nation of Portugal is
newsworthy again after managing to borrow €1.25
billion in a bond auction comprising four and ten
year notes. The average yield on the 10 year security
was 6.7%, a welcome decrease from the 7.3% high
the markets were previously pricing.
While Portugal vehemently denies the need for a
bailout, pickings are slim and the country does not
have much room for choice. Some analysts back
Portugal noting the significant differences in the pre-
viously bailed out troubled nations of Greece and
Ireland.
Other analysts, however, believe that Portugal’s
situation is indeed dire and that if the country’s bor-
rowing costs do not decrease it may find itself in a
position where it will be difficult to keep up efforts to
reduce its deficit.
What? You’re breaking up with me?
Friday 14 january 2011

