POLITICS
FELIX
16
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Haiti
Chinese President
Hu Jintao confirmed
the test flight of a
Chinese J-20 stealth
fighter during a
meeting with Robert
Gates, the US De-
fence Secretary. Rob-
ert Gates is on a three day visit to Beijing set amidst
a backdrop of increasing US concerns towards Chi-
na’s rapidly modernising military. America is current-
ly the only country with an operating stealth fighter,
although China and Russia are known to be working
on prototypes. The Chinese stealth fighter is not ex-
pected to be operational until 2017-19. Meanwhile,
the Chinese Defence Minister stressed, in an inter-
view on state television, that Chinese research and
development of weapons posed no threat to any
country.
China
The Organisation of American States have asked
Haiti’s ruling party candidate to withdraw from the
run-off round in the race for the bitterly-contested
presidency, according to a draft obtained by AP.
This threatens to increase tensions in a Haiti devas-
tated by an earthquake last year. The ruling party’s
candidate Jude Celestin narrowly came ahead of pop
singer Michael Martelly in November’s election. Rene
Preval, Haiti’s President, has said that he does not
favour any candidate; however, evidence showing
Jude Celestin has lost must be produced. Most Hai-
tians are increasingly desperate for a solution to the
growing humanitarian crisis and want a strong gov-
ernment to guide Haiti.
Ivory Coast
At least five people have been killed in clashes
between supporters of presidential rivals in Ivory
Coast. The Governor of Abidjan has been quoted as
saying that the dead included three policemen and
two civilians. The violence in Abidjan comes after
a UN Security Council Resolution deploring the vio-
lence in Ivory Coast in the aftermath of November’s
presidential election. Incumbent President Gbagbo
has refused to cede power to Mr Ouattara despite
international pressure. He has also ruled out the for-
mation of a national unity Government with Mr Ouat-
tara. Ivory Coast is divided between the North, which
supports Mr Ouattara, and the South, which supports
Gbagbo, and is becoming increasingly destabilised.
New Year’s Resolutions
Rajat Jain & Joseph Letts consider what 2011 holds for
world leaders. And Nick Clegg...
Well 2010 certainly has been an inter-
esting year for the Italian Prime Min-
ister. Barely surviving several votes of
no confidence throughout the year and
having his coalition partner Gianfran-
co Fini and four other coalition gov-
ernment members step down has done
a terrible number on the stability of his
government and it seems only a matter
of time before things begin to collapse.
And of his New Year’s Resolutions?
Well between trying his best not to be
tried for corruption and tax fraud, try-
ing to win back the love and confidence
of his people, and staying in control
of his country, business empire and
health (he is 74), I’d say he has quite
a busy year ahead. Of course he also
might try to spend the year coaxing his
female ministers to wear tighter shorts
as well. Life really is hard sometimes
isn’t it?
The Deputy Prime Minister and
Leader of the Liberal Democrats has a
tough balancing act to follow. With his
popularity over the past twelve months
rising and falling faster than a G6, the
future of the Liberal Democrats as a
credible party hinges on the success of
the Alternative Vote referendum on the
5th May. Some accuse Clegg sold his
soul to the Conservatives to gain this
referendum. To lose would not only re-
duce the possible Commons gains from
being a popular second preference, but
even possibly eliminate them as first
preference in their traditional Liberal
strongholds. Yet, if Clegg’s war against
the Conservative’s over the referendum
is too successful, it could destroy the
credibility of the coalition completely.
No doubt Clegg is hoping Vince Cable
will think before he speaks during the
next four months.
With his coalition government formal-
ly intact and old corruption charges re-
lating to corporate kickbacks dropped
on the basis of diplomatic immunity, it
looked like this was going to be a good
year for the Pakistani president. As if
Zadari! The assassination of the Gov-
ernor of Pakistan’s Punjab Province,
Salman Taseer, on the 4th of January,
has left Pakistan facing a dangerous
tear in its social fabric. The traditional-
ly Liberal and moderate Pakistan Peo-
ple’s Party, of which both the President
and late Governor belong, must decide
whether to revoke blasphemy laws and
face growing social tensions, riots and
increased militancy. The alternative is
to allow the continued persecution of
Christians and anger Pakistan’s hard-
fought-for Western allies. Asif Ali
Zardari has another extremely tough
year ahead of him.
At the start of every year, the incum-
bent President of the United States
holds a State of the Union speech. Here
he discusses the current position of the
country and what he expects to achieve
in the year ahead, with the next being
on Jan 25th. For 2011 President Obama
has a tough battle ahead after the
change in composition of the House of
Representatives in the 2010 Midterm
Elections, leading to the Democrats
losing the controlling share of seats.
The President also has to deal with the
fallout from the publication of diplo-
matic cables by Wikileaks, and the ef-
fect this might have on the resolution
of American intervention in Afghani-
stan. Also, after the horrific shootings
in Arizona last week, the President and
Government might decide to stir the
ongoing passion-filled debate about
changes to national gun-control laws.
Following the end of the 25-year civil
war with Tamil rebels and the electoral
defeat of Gen. Fonseka, who lead the
campaign to defeat the rebels, 2010
was good for the Sri Lankan president.
But he must spend 2011 integrating the
Tamils. He claims 5000 former rebels
are held in prison camps. Signs are,
however, promising; 100 have been
freed and have claimed they were
treated well and education of former
rebels to help them find jobs and in-
tegrate into society has begun. The
President has also begun talks with
Tamil National Alliance, the main
Tamil party. However, tensions still
exist. With Human Rights groups not
given access to much of the old rebel
stronghold, Wikileaks accusations of
massacres and questions over electoral
fraud, mending Sri Lankan society
will hardly be an easy task.
Who? Eva Mendes? No, Evo Morales
is the President of Bolivia and leader of
the Movement for Socialism party. He
has had a rather arduous 2010. Since
fuel prices were frozen in Bolivia since
2006, citizens have been protected
from the pain of increasing oil prices
for the last 4 years. Unfortunately this
has had the effect of causing a fall in oil
production, an increase in demand and
therefore an increase in oil importation.
With the cost of this hitting the Boliv-
ian government with a $360m bill last
year and possibly a forecasted $660m
this year, President Morales tried to
end the fuel subsidies and increase the
price of petrol by 73% last December.
But this led to bus operator strikes and
trade union protests which caused the
government to quickly rescind the mea-
sure. However, as the new year breaks
into a run this leaves President Morales
with the difficult task of offsetting the
horrendous cost of subsidising fuel and
stimulating the low production levels
of oil without bankrupting either the
national coffers or his people. Bon
chance, matey!
Evo Morales
Mahinda Rajapaksa
Barack Obama
Asif Ali Zardari
Nick Clegg
Silvio Berlusconi
Friday 14 January 2011

