Pro-independence rallies are a daily occurance in Juba, the South’s capital
On Sunday, the Southern region of Af-
rica’s largest country started voting in
a week-long referendum on whether or
not to become the world’s newest coun-
try.
You only have to look at a map of Su-
dan to see how unlikely it was that the
country should have ever been unified.
British and Egyptian colonialists left
their trademark straight lines on much
of its border, creating Africa’s largest
country. The state entered into the lon-
gest civil war in African history just one
year before its independence in 1956.
The war, chiefly between its Muslim
North and Christian/ Animist (a tribal
tradition) South, claimed 2 million lives;
finally ending in 2005 with a peace ac-
cord between the two sides, bringing
with it the promise of a referendum on
Southern independence which began
last Sunday, the results of which are ex-
pected at the end of the month.
Independence has long been a desire
for the country’s South who cite not just
the religious differences with the North
but also that a recent economic boom,
as well as much of international aid,
was centred around the country’s capi-
POLITICS
FELIX 17
ture based voting form will help - two
hands clasped means continued unity,
one hand held up means separation.
Signs are promising; although the
President of Sudan, Omar Al-Bashir, has
warned that the South faces instability if
it separates, he has also said he will ac-
cept the decision and will help the new
state in whatever way they require.
Nevertheless, the international com-
munity will be watching the vote closely.
The UN already has 10,000 peace keep-
ing troops in the country, not including
those in Darfur, and the country’s neigh-
tal Khartoum which lies in the North.
They also feel that the North has being
making disproportionate gains from oil
fields in the South. Squabbling over
the details of the promised referendum
only increased tensions between the
two sides.
Few people doubt that the South will
vote for independence. The required
threshold of a 60% turnout was reached
by Wednesday – no simple task with il-
literacy at over 80% in the South making
communication difficult. Supporters of a
secession hope that the simplified, pic-
“We can abandon the euro if our pro-
posal is refused.” Angela Merkel, the
German chancellor, said to George Pa-
pandreou, the Greece prime minister,
during dinner at the EU summit in Brus-
sels last October. The summit was held
to discuss the euro crisis and a plan to
bail out Ireland. Merkel had demanded
a new legislation stating that bailed-
out countries should lose certain voting
rights in EU councils. Since it is only
Germany that can pay a large amount of
money as a bailout, the country is asked
to bear the greatest burden whenever a
debt crisis happens. Such unfairness has
certainly made the German populace
uncomfortable, but insisting on the loss
of EU council voting rights was opposed
by many other EU governments.
The other reason why Germany sug-
gested that quitting the euro was an op-
tion may be that the bailout of Ireland is
not the end of a sequence of bailout ac-
tions which started with Greece. Spain
and Portugal will soon have the same
debt problem, and they will call for bail-
50% or more.
Eight years ago, Argentina defaulted
on the major part of its sovereign debt
and survived quite well. Many econo-
mists predicted that Argentina’s debt de-
fault would result in currency collapse,
hyperinflation and even greater econom-
ic contraction than it had endured during
its 1999-2002 recession. Instead, after
the 2001-02 debt default and subsequent
devaluation against the dollar (from 1:1
to 3:1), GDP grew at over 8% per annum
over the period 2003-2007 and annual
inflation fell from over 10% per month
in early 2002 to less than 10% per an-
num.”
He thinks that choosing to default and
abandoning the euro are better than sub-
mitting to the ferocious and pro-cyclical
conditionality imposed by Germany and
the International Monetary Fund (IMF)
– cutting its budget deficit by 11%
over three years in return for a €120bn
(£104bn) loan. His opinion is convinc-
ing. In general, devaluation caused by
an increase in the monetary base in a
country makes the country more com-
petitive in terms of exports, which helps
out plans. To make matters worse, even
though the EU, led by Germany, saves
all these countries, an essential problem
has not been resolved. As readers know,
unlike the UK, in the present euro sys-
tem each country which belongs to the
eurozone cannot print euro banknotes to
pay their governmental debts since all
monetary policies, such as issuing euro
banknotes in the Eurozone, are made by
the European Central Bank (ECB), and
therefore, whenever a nation in the euro-
zone hits a fiscal brink, the debt problem
requires the ECB and the EU (particu-
larly Germany) to pay up.
The more serious the euro crisis be-
comes, the more fragile the partnership
among eurozone countries becomes.
Now, we may well consider what the
best solution for the debt problem of
PIIGS (Portugal, Italy, Ireland, Greece
and Spain) is. George Irvin, a colum-
nist of guardian.co.uk, said “Greece
could follow Argentina’s example in
2001-02, and default on the bulk of its
sovereign debt. This would mean aban-
doning the euro, introducing a “new
drachma” and probably devaluing by
The Euro is on life support: will Germany turn it off?
Tomokazu Miyamoto
Rory Fenton
it recover from a recession. Unfortu-
nately, in the eurozone, many countries
which have small-sized economies can-
not benefit from this devaluation. Thus
Iceland, which has its own currency, the
Iceland krona, is in a slightly better eco-
nomic situation than PIIGS. The island
country in the North Atlantic Ocean was
in default in 2008, and the current ac-
count balance was 15% of its GDP, and
then devaluation of krona improved its
export as well as the current account bal-
ance to 3.7% of its GDP in 2009. The
unemployment of Iceland worsened to
8% in 2010, but it is still better than
Spain’s 20%, Ireland’s 14%, Greece’s
12% and Portugal’s 11% in 2010.
Irvin is not the only person who rec-
ommends that Greece should abandon
the euro. Ivan Miklos, the Slovac fi-
nance minister, said “Greece and Portu-
gal would be better off in a long run if
they didn’t share the euro.” Miklos also
said that the economies of the two na-
tions and other southern eurozone coun-
tries were not fit enough for the euro,
pointing out defects in the present euro
system. Petr Necas, the prime minister
of the Czech Republic, said that nobody
could force his country to join the eu-
rozone, and that it was solely up to the
Czechs’ will. According to a poll last
October, nearly 70% of Czech citizens
oppose dropping their own currency.
Describing the merit of controlling their
own currency, he also said that entering
the euro now, or even setting a target
date, would be political and economic
foolishness.
If Greece leaves the euro system, oth-
er nations may follow. If many of them
quit the euro, the currency will disap-
pear. Anyway, the year 2010 was the
turning point for that currency.
Does the Euro measure up?
South Sudan: democracy amidst chaos
bours are preparing reluctantly for the
probable secession; the most turbulent
parts of both Kenya and Uganda are
those that border Sudan and this move is
unlikely to stabilise the area.
The North will not happily lose the
South, the oil fields of which are a lucra-
tive source of revenue. The international
community can play its part here – the
The people of South Sudan look set to determine their own future
forgiveness of some of the country’s
$40 billion debt could ease economic
tensions but the deep problems in the
region will be far from resolved after
the vote, however it falls. But there are
also fears that without the incentive of
appeasing the less socially conservative
South, North Sudan will become an in-
creasingly authoritarian Islamic state.
Picture based voting cards
Is the open palm the Sudanese version of the two-fingered salute?
Friday 14 January 2011

