18
COM M ENT
felix
H
appy New Year folks.
Contractual obligations
mean I must make at least
one joke about not fulfill-
ing resolutions in the first
issue of the year, so here it is right now:
I like my resolutions like I like my awk-
ward man-hugs. Well-meaning initially
and…not drawn out?
I’m not sure where I’m going with
that. This is why we don’t do resolutions
pieces any more. That, and there’s al-
ways someone making a computer mon-
itor joke. Anyone making a joke about
4:3 aspect ratios really needs to take a
long, hard look at where their lives went
wrong.
Anyway, that’s my job description
fulfilled until there’s another big news
story about governments that I have to
roll my eyes at. Let’s talk books. I’ve
been reading ‘Machine Of Death’, a
charming tome about the future and our
death. It’s a collection of short stories all
wrapped around the same premise - that
a machine exists that can tell you the
manner in which you are going to die.
Not when. Not where. Not even specifi-
cally how - a diagnosis of OLD AGE
could be passing away peacefully at the
age of eighty, or it could mean being
bludgeoned to death by a pensioner in a
bus stop queue.
It’s a great premise. It’s a great prem-
ise because of the many things peo-
ple wish they knew in life - the lottery
numbers, the difference between the
two flavours of coffee on offer in Star-
bucks - the manner in which they would
die must surely be on a lot of people’s
lists. It also turns out to be a good way
to bring out interesting ideas in writers.
Everything from medical dramas to high
school frustrations; from the absurdity
of EXHAUSTION FROM SEX WITH
A MINOR as a prediction to the unset-
tling forecast of DESPAIR as the cause
of death.
The poor sod whose coffin I stood
next to earlier this week, reading a poem
out, would’ve had a pretty sorry pre-
diction. AGGRESSIVE INFECTION
FROM HEROIN OVERUSE or some-
thing similar.
I suppose we desire to know how
we’ll die because we think we might be
able to avert it or prevent it. The story’s
crux is that we cannot. Knowing our
fate doesn’t give us the power to change
it, and the happiest stories in the book
revolve around people who accept that
rather than panicking over what might
become of them.
I don’t like funerals, but I’ve had a
steady stream of them over the last few
years. Certainly, family ones became an-
nual events, but there have been depart-
mental ones, and a friend’s too. The chap
who was laid to rest this week had been
sitting at my father’s funeral not so long
ago, reminiscing with me about life and
how unfair it was that someone should
die at that age. Irony is something that is
rarely lost on the universe, I guess.
Many of the stories in ‘Machine of
Death’ reference groups that either pro-
test against the machine, or vehemently
refuse to use them or be tested in any
way. They declare that “life is for living”
and knowledge of their death would
only curse them mentally. I imagine
a lot of people have that feeling when
reading the book; that they wouldn’t use
such a machine if it existed, no matter
how darkly interesting it might be.
Which kind of takes me back around
to the opening, and how I said I didn’t
Angry New Year
want to talk resolutions. A lot of people
seem to obsess over them at this time of
year, which is why we get that familiar
host of commentary on them. I imagine
most of the Felix readership didn’t make
them but feel they should have done;
that perhaps another year has passed
without any obvious self-improvement
or dream-achieving.
Our illustrious comment editor said
that she hoped we might have some pos-
itive messages for the start of the year.
I’m not big on them generally, so here’s
my contribution, seeing as it’s 2011 and
all: self–improvement can start whenev-
er, and your dreams will still be achiev-
able in ten years time. Kiss goodbye to
resolutions for another few months, and
go and enjoy being alive. Laugh at peo-
ple buying sandwiches in Pret. Order a
round of tap water for everyone in the
Union bar. And for Christ’s sake, stop
worrying. Plenty of time to worry about
death and old age another day.
Next week - fuck you all, I hate you.
Worrying about self improvement is a waste of time, so
forget about it, go enjoy yourself, but read this first...
Affordable. It is hardly a glamorous word. It
does not make the heart race nor the mouth
salivate. It implies a sort of glum settlement;
when your shallow pockets deny you your de-
sires, go for ‘affordable’. It is not a word that
springs to one’s mind when thinking about
Imperial College London. Nestled in the regal
South Kensington environment, our universi-
ty, with its history, buildings and international
reputation, is the complete antithesis to the
emotions evoked by the word ‘affordable’.
The new postgraduate halls in Clapham
Junction are certainly not affordable. £235
per week will be attractive to certain students
but the majority will rightly balk at spending
around £12,000 on rent in one year. For com-
parison, an average PhD stipend is around
£15-16,000.
This is not to say that they are bad value for
money, unnecessary or a bad investment for
the College Fund. Griffon Studios is clearly a
high-quality product, there is a market for the
halls – even if it is an exclusive one – and
Felix will support sensible efforts to make Im-
perial richer; as Imperial grows wealthier, so
its students receive a better service.
But the fact that the College Fund and the
Accommodation Service are expecting inter-
national postgraduates to make up the bulk
of residents at Griffon Studios reveals a truth
about Imperial. Namely that overseas stu-
dents, who make up a significant proportion
of our student body, are more demanding of
quality and convenience – and more able to
pay for it – as well as being much less willing
to settle for ‘affordable’.
With a large number of international stu-
dents who rightly demand some bang for
their buck and a disproportionate number of
privately educated home students, are we at
all surprised that Imperial opts for the sort of
glitzy infrastructure that leaps from the page
of a brochure?
Of course not. However, Imperial should not
turn its back on ‘affordable’ entirely. London
is an extremely expensive city in which to at-
tend university and student concern about
rising debt is becoming more and more of an
issue. Extra efforts must be made to ensure
that students from poor and middle-class
backgrounds, and those who do not receive
financial support from their family, are not de-
terred by high-living costs or drowned in part-
time work.
Which means that Imperial must start to
get more comfortable with the word afford-
able. It would be nice if we could all afford
high-quality accommodation but the truth is
that many of us, including international and
privately educated students, quite enjoy hav-
ing that little bit extra in our pockets.
FELIX
Angry Geek
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Imperial needs to learn
that‘affordable’
is not a dirty word
You’re all going to die! Well as soon as Death arrives, which might be a while, there are delays on
the circle line...
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
C omment Editor: Anna Perman
“
“”
Dying from ‘old age’ could be
passing away peacefully at
eighty, or being bludgeoned to
death by a pensioner in a bus
stop queue
Benjamin Kennedy
Friday 14 january 2011

