HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 14 january 2011
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
Lolcats of teh week
National Student Survey
On campus
Life as a simple scribe
Journalist Tim Radford
will speaks at the “Asso-
ciation of British Science
Writers (ABSW) & Impe-
rial” lecture. He will be
talking about his 32-year
career at the Guardian
which has included time
as the letters editor, arts
editor, literary editor and
science editor. Registra-
tion in advance. Contact
events@imperial.ac.uk.
Lunchtime Concert
Michal Cwizewicz (pic-
tured), winner of the
Royal College of Music
Concerto Competition
2010 with John York, on
piano. Free. First come,
first served. Contact An-
drea Robins for further
information.
Sherfield Building, Read Theatre
20 January 13:00-13:45
SAF, G16
19 January 18:00-19:00
Let’s not mince words,you’re hot property.
People,lots of people,want to know
what you think of I
mperial and what your
time here was like.The National Student
Survey (NSS) is a survey of all final year
university students across the UK. It is
your opportunity to rate the quality of
your course and of the teaching that you
received. The results are used in a range
of university league tables and hence
influence prospective students when they
are choosing their university. Don’t let your
vote, so to speak, go to waste. Head to
www.thestudentsurvey.com and tell the
world how good, or bad, Imperial and your
course is.
A glimpse into the
energy future
Dr Fatih Birol, Chief Economist at the International
Energy Agency, will speak about uncertainty in energy
markets and the future of the energy sector until 2035.
Registration in advance online. Contact Gosia Gayer –
g.gayer@imperial.ac.uk – for more information.
Blackett Laboratory, LT1
18 January 18:00–19:00
Union Notice
Union Council
The Union’s Fairtrade status, blighted by much confusion
in the past, will be discussed on Monday with the aim
of finally passing a Fairtrade Policy that will secure its
Fairtrade status in the future. Union President Alex
Kendall will be discussing plans to continue opposing the
Life Sciences Cuts and what direction to move in after
December’s Senate meeting. All students are encouraged
to attend and voice their opinions.
1st Floor, Union Building
Monday 14 January 18:30
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Layout/Design Editor
Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas James Goldsack Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey
Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editor Anna
Perman Alex Nowbar Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Matt Allinson Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Food Editor
Dana Li Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Ravi Pall Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor
Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editors Dylan Lowe Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar
Hannah Thomas Kai Li Loh Ayyub Kamaludin Shruti Mishra Sophie Lambrakis Sharanya Subbu Ritika Gupta Deepka Rana Charles Betts Jan Piotrowski
“How often do you leave a lecture theatre with an understanding of
what you’ve just been taught in the preceding hour?”
Editor

