22 felix
COMMENT
Comment Editor: Anna Perman
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Prince Philip:
My family and
other animals
I
t may be a surprise that you find me
in this pokey newspaper, so let me
elucidate. During the festive season,
I spotted a copy of Felix residing by
one of the house/palace windows. I
flicked through a few pages to be simply
aghast at the clap trap rubbish contained
within, not excluding the hideous speci-
men gurning at me from the centerfold –
isn’t it odd that at a university of mostly
chaps, you have pictures of naked males
in your paper? It’s all rather how’s-your-
father in a queerish way if you ask me. At
Ieast, I think it was a man. But you never
know with scientists.
I asked the footman, Cardell, where this
garbage came from. It transpires his son
is studying entrepreneurship at Imperial.
Aside from the contradiction in terms such
a degree presents (quite how one is sup-
posed to develop maverick, out-of-the-box
thinking by being pontificated to by failed
businessmen is beyond me), I realised that
this was my chance to do something for so-
ciety, as my little cauliflower keeps insist-
ing, and I would bestow you fortunate lot
with my weekly wisdom.
I imagine your holidays were affected by
Heathrow’s decision to close after a pithy
2mm snow drizzle. I hated having to endure
the moaning of all those ghastly foreign-
ers on the television – I mean, couldn’t
BAA just get them to help shift the snow
or shoot the lot? And I can only hope the
plebs at BA soon dismiss Willie Walsh –
that pea-headed, penis-named executive.
This whole country is becoming a tad of an
animal farm, one far darker and more ter-
rifying than anything George Orwell could
fathom
But enough about your holiday. Mine was
horrendous. Some Irish acquaintances vis-
ited, all naturally lacking a native accent.
They were very down – I did point out that
offering free handouts of cheddar to the
poor was never going to prevent the finan-
cial collapse of their country.
And Charlie kept harping on in bufferish
indignation about all that climate change
gibberish. He’s always been a bit thick, not
much of a stickler for science. First he was
talking to plants, next he was saying we will
all die by drowning.
As for his horse-faced wife, she was still
in shock about being poked in the eye by
some lower class yobbos. I was quite glad
about the whole affair, and it’s not the only
place I would have prodded her. She’s quite
the farter, I tell you. If you think the Iraq
war stinks, you know nothing of Camilla’s
posterior. Makes one feel for feel for Tony
Blair – just imagine having to endure sitting
next to a trumpeting John Prescott in all of
those cabinet meetings.
Letters: Life Sciences cuts
Dear Sir,
I recall when I was campaigning against the
education cuts, our union and our newspaper’s
editorial stance was in support of them on the
basis that STEM subjects would be hit less (Fe-
lix. 22/10/10). The message, I felt, was a selfish
one; cut others rather than us and we’re happy.
Even regarding tuition fees I’ve heard so many
people tell me that they won’t be protesting be-
cause it doesn’t affect them personally.
Imagine my surprise when last week’s Fe-
lix went into a panic about the Life Sciences
restructure. It’s shameful that our newspaper
seems happy to watch others suffer cuts but goes
into a frenzy - printing no less than four articles
- criticising the move and the entire front page
dedicated to it, when we ourselves are threat-
ened. If we’re so apathetic, hypocritical and
self-interested, we cannot expect others to sup-
port us. The ruling elite will always try divide-
and-conquer tactics, we must have solidarity.
Regards,
Jakov Marelic
Dear Sir,
Whether one is at a college, school or univer-
sity, there is always bound to be a group of aca-
demia that would go the extra mile far beyond
their call of duty.
The dedication shown by these individuals
towards us students was not only seen at the
lecture theatre. Coming to Imperial College
was my first time being completely independ-
ent and away from home for long periods of
time. I was enchanted by the city that is Lon-
don and drifted away from my main purpose
of coming to London, to study. I barely passed
my first major exam in February as a result of
my fascination towards this city and my lack of
interest in studying.
However, when going through the examina-
tion paper with Dr. Hartley, he reminded me
why I chose Biochemistry in the first place. At
this time, I doubted my abilities in Biochemis-
try but he had faith that if I tried I could do bet-
ter. This belief from another person who barely
knew me, yet was so sure and confident that I
would succeed in Biochemistry definitely gave
me the boost I needed.
The college and I have been privileged with
the presence of this group of scientists who
carry such passion and dedication towards the
sciences. So thank you, to this fine group of
scientists for inspiring and reminding me about
my passion and faith for the sciences.
Varshana Rajasekaran
2nd year Biochemist.
Dear Sir,
We first year biochemists recently held a dis-
cussion of the proposed restructure. This letter
is the product of our collective concerns. These
issues are all the more pressing in light of the
recent vote to maintain the current proposals.
Our primary concern is the redundancy of
16 members of the Life Sciences department.
Together, they account for roughly 25% of all
teaching. We can’t see how standards of teach-
ing will be maintained when those left will un-
derstandably be more concerned about their re-
search than their teaching, let alone improved.
We were told that no plans concerning teach-
ing can be made without a teaching review. Yet
we were also guaranteed that there would be no
change in breadth and depth of the course. To
conduct this from a financial and research per-
spective seems short–sighted and irresponsible.
Not only will future applicants be discouraged
from coming to Imperial, but so will potential
staff and researchers.
We believe that the process lacked transpar-
ency. For example we have not yet received a
copy of the review panel fidings. There was
also a feeling of outrage at the announcement
being on the 3/12 giving little time for con-
structive debate.
Finally, it is discouraging to those of us look-
ing to pursue research and teaching if this is
how top institutions treat some of their best
staff. As one protester put it, ‘today’s students
are tomorrow’s researchers’
First Year Biochemistry Undergraduates
New Year, same old you...
S
elf-improvement can and should be done
at any time. Needing an arbitrary start
date for the “new you” is pretty pathetic
since you were more than aware of your
flaws already, weren’t you? That bit of
flab is nothing new even if you christen it “Christmas
excess”. New Year’s resolutions conveniently allow
you to delay change until the beginning of the fol-
lowing year.
Now, if you made the change at New Year’s and
stuck with it perhaps I could come to terms with the
idea of New Year’s resolutions, but between you, me
and that lamppost, it’s not going to last. The chances
of keeping New Year’s resolutions are slim; it’s often
said that most people have broken theirs by the end
of January. I get a huge kick out of using the word
“slim”, as weight loss is what I really want to whine
about.
Eat less, exercise more. Why do so many wannabe-
fit people try and escape this mantra? When people
say it’s easy to lose weight and get fit, they are lying,
because they are advertising weight loss regimes. It’s
not easy; abs don’t come from nowhere. As with most
things, you would like to wriggle out of the hard work
involved.
But you already know all the advice, e.g. setting
yourself achievable goals. I’m not here to give advice
about weight loss because it’s been in the public do-
main for a long time now. I’m here to tell you to stop
being a namby pamby. (Same as “man up” but not so
overused that people ignore it.)
We’ve all heard that it’s better to “eat little but of-
ten”. The physiological benefit of this approach is
irrelevant here because seemingly rational people
choose to translate this into eating as many meals and
snacks as is socially acceptable in a day. More when
they think no–one is looking. To them, it means “have
as many portions as you want as long as they are all
small”. They seem to miss the point, which is “EAT
LESS, PIGS!”
I suppose knowing what is best for oneself, but
being too lazy and greedy to act upon it, is merely
a part of the human condition. It is human nature
and no–one is perfect, least of all myself. I admit that
short–term pleasures are sweet and doing what’s best
in the long term is a dry, dry prospect in comparison.
However, the important thing is not to lie to your-
self (and others) about what you are actually “re-
solved” to do. The gym at Ethos is an absolute haven
and you have a fair idea of what a healthy balanced
diet consists of, so just get on with it. Bridget Jones
may have been able to get away with it but you can’t.
Alex Nowbar
“I’m not here to
give advice about
weight-loss. I’m
here to tell you to
man up!”
Dear Jakov, the Editorial you refer to merely
warned Imperial students against asking
“What’s the fuss about?” as STEM subjects
are relatively unaffected by the cuts. In ad-
dition, Felix has covered the cuts and student
protests extensively. The issue preceding the
Life Sciences coverage had no less than 5 sto-
ries about the student protests, rising student
debt and the cuts to higher education. Editor.
Friday 14 january 2011

