CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
24
Day the First:
The Day We Didn’t Sleep
On a chilly Winter day (Friday the 17th of
December to be precise), thirteen Fellwander-
ers gathered for the Lake District Winter Tour,
blissfully unaware of the epic three days that
awaited them. It didn’t take long for things to
start going wrong. Our intrepid President, Sir
Jim Carr, blighted by a horrific cough, could
not leave his London residence, so we left the
union at 5pm with one less voice to sing along
to the 5 CDs of Christmas music we had stock-
piled.
As it was Christmas we stopped at a Tesco
which was about the size of Norway and de-
cided to buy, as well as Secret Santa gifts, a
fully-fledged Christmas dinner for Sunday
night. Rumours of frozen pipes at the destina-
tion persuaded us to buy bottles and bottles of
water. Despite the attempts of our new first-in-
command James Allan to reassure us that the
pipes wouldn’t freeze, we collectively decided
that it was better to be prepared, than to die of
thirst.
Bad luck struck us again as we trundled along
the M6; traffic began to form and the minibus
began to lose speed. As we slowed concerns
over our progress were raised. And raised with
just cause, before very long we were ‘driving’
at about walking pace. At 11.30pm the traffic
stopped completely. It was snowing quite heav-
ily and the cars, lorries and national express
buses stuck with us didn’t seem to be too happy
about the halt. Needless to say we Fellwander-
ers stayed true to joy and happiness and lis-
tened to Radio 4’s rendition of The Lord of the
Rings. Others talked, read, or in my case, rolled
over and went to sleep.
On waking some indeterminate time later
(Radio 4 told me that the Hobbits had reached
Mordor) I realised that some intrepid explorers
had left the minibus stronghold to hear rumours
of when we would move again, how bad the
crash ahead was and, inAlex the Grey’s case, to
walk up the M6 to attempt to see the beginning
of the queue. Returning asAlex the White (cov-
ered in snow), he hadn’t seen the end. This, and
the fact someone highlighted the problem that
none of us had crampons, made me roll over
What’s On
Ashura Awareness Week (AAW)
The AhlulBayt Islamic Society will be focussing on
the contemporary problem of the elderly and oft-ne-
glected population during Ashura Awareness Week.
From the 17th of January to the 21st, they will run
a series of stalls, lectures, nursing home visits and
discussion circles in order to develop practical ways
to appreciate and benefit from the experiences, wis-
dom and insight of elderly people and interact with
them on a meaningful basis.
The week also seeks to highlight:
“– the plight of the elderly population
– what we as students can do to learn from the
wealth of experience, wisdom and information from
our parents, grandparents and elders
– the teachings of Islam and other faiths on awak-
ening our responsibility towards our elders”
The main event of the week is a lecture by Sayed
Nahdi Modarresi on Tuesday that includes poetry by
Brother Nouri Sardar. 6pm in G34, SAF.
The most
wonderful time
of the year
While the rest of the country
waited for flights at Heathrow, the
Outdoor Club headed for the Lake
District. Thea Powell reports
and go back to sleep on that very white and
spooky M6. I woke to an even whiter M6 (Lord
of the Rings had finally ended), and rumours
of movement were circulating. It was 3.45am.
We had been stationary for 4 hours. Finally, at
4.30am, on Saturday the 18th of December,
we started to move and there was much rejoic-
ing. For the lorry in front of us, there was more
concern than rejoicing, as the driver had lost
his keys in the snow. Phil Power manoeuvred
the bus around the lorry and after 5 hours spent
staring at the back of it, burning the logo into
our brains, we were happy to be rid of it.
Day the Second (technically):
The Entrance To The Hut
All I know about the rest of the journey to the
hut is that Phil was the first to fall from our
company, and there was much rejoicing (be-
cause he was staying with another group, not
because we don’t like him).
Upon reaching the hut we dumped the shop-
ping, our bags, and debated the choice that
faced us: to sleep or to walk. As it was 7 in the
morning, we had the compulsory porridge, and
as the sweet oats reached our stomach we ex-
perienced a surge of energy and decided to go
for a refreshing morning walked. The route was
decided, walk-able straight from the hut, and
thus we left for the fell called High Spy at 9.30
am, sugar replacing sleep.
After the initial ascent, we found ‘The Mine
of Darkness’. The long, winding corridor with
water dripping on our heads led to a large
opening; a dome of stone reaching high over
our heads in the pitch black. A sudden irratio-
nal fear of goblins struck us and we retreated.
Soon after, we discovered ‘The Cave of Won-
der’. Full of huge icicles, the cave reached high
above us and ice engulfed every surface. The
slippery floor, covered in Moomins (icicle sta-
lagmites), and the ice-adorned walls were qui-
etly beautiful. After slipping around and tak-
ing photos, we finished the ascent to a cloudy,
windy peak and stopped for lunch. It was bit-
terly cold, so lunch was brief and we made our
descent, slowed by slippery mud, rocks and
puddles. But as we descended, the cloud lifted,
unveiling rolling ridges and steep hills and a
gorgeous lake scene below making up for the
bruises that we suffered.
On returning to the hut, we relaxed with some
tasty vegetable stew and a few ales. We were
hit with more bad news however: the pipes had
frozen.
Day the Third:
Great Gable
Sunday morning was marked by cat-like
screeching, or as Joe and Alex liked to call it,
singing. No wonder then, despite the freezing
cold and lack of running water, we were up and
ready so quickly.
We took the minibus to the town of Butter-
mere and made the very wise decision of a field
route, via the icy ascent, to a lake. After skating
and walking on the lake (the thrill of the thick
ice clouding any concerns), we needed to make
a route decision. The sun shone over Scarfell
Pike on the south slope of the mountain Great
Gable, to show us a route which could simply
not be ignored, and there was much rejoicing.
The warm, steep ascent lead us to a beautiful
scene of crystal clear skies to the west, where
we could see the coast and the mountains
around to the north. The lower layer of cloud
sinking below us, with the sun glancing off it,
made us feel on top of the world. We ate and
took some obligatory photos, and began our
descent when damned bad luck had us again.
Apparently the chap on the left is too cool for bea
Healthy Living Week
Healthy Living Week is coming to Imperial from the
24th-28th of January and will help all those students
struggling to keep their New Year’s resolution to go
running every morning or always take the stairs or
to stop eating Big Macs for breakfast, lunch and din-
ner.
Monday – Energia personal trainers and Veg Soci-
ety join forces to run a free nutrition seminar. Free
samples for vegetarians and carnivores.
Tuesday – A specialist bike doctor will be offering
free check-ups all day beside the bike store. There
is also a free spin session at Ethos at 2pm as well
as an organised bike ride leaving from the Queens
Tower at 1pm.
Wednesday – Free Chen Thai-Chi session at Ethos
at 8am followed by free Yoga at 11am. There is also
a wellbeing workshop at 12:15 in Beit Quad.
Thursday – From 8-9am there will be a free Shoot-
Hoops session followed by free climbing sessions
from 1-4pm.
Friday – Fitness Challenge on the Queens Lawn
and in the Queens Tower Rooms. Prizes include:
Sport Imperial Hoodies and tickets to QPR FC home
games
For free classes in Ethos e-mail ethos@imperial.
ac.uk. For climbing sessions contact Victor Rodrigues
v.rodrigues@imperial.ac.uk. For everything else con-
tact Anthony Hennelly a.hennelly@imperial.ac.uk
Sadly Mr. Motivator won’t be coming along to
‘work you out’. Wait a minute... Thank God!
Friday 14 January 2011

