A R T S
FELIX
26
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you see nothing else
this term...
Eleven weeks until the next
holiday, but what should you look
forward to in the meantime?
International mime festival
We’re still looking for reviews of your favourite
books, so get scribbling today. Send 300 to 400
words to arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Blown away by the Soleil
Totem. Avid Inception fans will immediately
think back to the object with which Dom Cobb
differentiates between the real and the imagi-
nary. Did it or did it not stop spinning? That
is the question. For other Londoners, how-
ever, Totem signifies the latest touring Cirque
du Soleil show at the Royal Albert Hall. I was
lucky enough to win a pair of tickets for the
show’s premiere on January 5th and, although
I failed to rub shoulders with the celebrities in
the stalls, I was blown away by the tremendous
performance.
The show is billed as a “fascinating journey
into the evolution of mankind.” Take a scien-
tist who mimics Darwin with his hairy beard, a
few impressively lifelike monkeys, add an Ital-
ian buffoon in extra skimpy swim shorts and
you’ve got the basics of the story. Well, sort
of. But all that doesn’t matter because nobody
honestly goes to the Cirque du Soleil for the
plot. Death defying acrobatics, innovative live
music, eye-catching costumes and very bright
M.A.C. sponsored face make-up; that’s what
it’s all about.
The show begins with an enormous turtle
shell shaped web – complete with amphibian-
like acrobats who throw themselves around
the bars to the approving “oohs” and “aahs”
of the audience – and ‘Mr. Sparkle’, as I liked
to call him, suspended from the ceiling of the
Royal Albert Hall in the sparkly-est, glittery-
est sequined bodysuit I had ever seen. Spinning
away above our heads, with the light bouncing
off his suit all around the vast room, he certain-
ly added a touch of glamour to the occasion.
Oh, it was beautiful.
Highlights - there were many - included a
Native American duo that performed gravity-
defying tricks whilst rotating at around 100
mph on a platform that was, quite simply, too
small to be safe. Think Pocahontas, but on
adrenaline. The motion of hands moving to
cover open mouths was reserved for one of my
favourite acts of the night, the ‘Lovebirds’, a
duo of Canadian trapeze artists who challenged
the norms seen in your standard Russian or
Chinese circus acts. The act plays with clumsy
shapes (that have been rehearsed to perfection)
and transitions that make the duo appear more
Nakotah Raymond Larance as the ‘Hoop Dancer’. Pretty unimaginative name if you ask me...
Dana Li
“Think Pocahontas, but
on adrenaline”
like one single entity – all whilst being sus-
pended high off the ground. At one moment,
the guy even hung from the trapeze with a part
of the body that is not made for hanging: his
neck. No wire suspension, no, none of those
safety precautions at all. I couldn’t believe my
little Chinese eyes.
Compared with such greatness, however,
some acts appeared rather lacklustre. The sci-
entist’s (Greg Kennedy) conic juggling with
nine neon glow balls in a massive funnel man-
aged to emulate physics through patterning, but
was hardly riveting. And the man who bounced
a ping pong ball off his head, shoulders, hands,
toes… yawn.
At the end, the circus acts gather one final
time to perform a dance that has elements of
Bhangra. It was a refreshing approach to bid-
ding adieu and my palms glowed scarlet red
from excessively clapping such a brilliant
premiere. Cirque du Soleil once again revives
the classical circus show and reminds us that,
sometimes, the wonders at which we all marvel
need not be a giant leap in science, but simply
the human body pushing the limits of what we
believe to be possible.
Totem by Cirque du Soleil is on at the Roy-
al Albert Hall until 17th February
Modern British Sculpture
The Wizard of Oz
Imperial’s secret Arts’ students
The blockbuster art show of the term, the RA is
known for its big-hitters and this is an epic retro-
spective of 20th Century British sculpture with
loads of big names.
22nd January-7th April, Royal Academy
A classic story at the National Theatre, directed by
Danny Boyle (Slumdog Millionaire) and co-starring
Benedict Cumberbatc. It had better live up to that
promise.
5th February-17th April, National Theatre
Art, drama, music and dance on campus, look out
for...
East Meets West (30th Jan), Afrogala (5th Feb),
The Vagina Monologues (7th - 11th Feb), Impe-
rial’s own art festival Artsfest 2011 (16th-25th
February), Leosoc exhibition Wreckage (2nd-10th
March), Dramsoc’s A View From the Bridge (2nd-
5th March), ICSM Drama James and the Giant
Peach, MTSoc’s Return to the Forbidden Planet,
Photosoc exhibition (16th-24th March) and many
more besides. Phew...
Frankenstein
Andrew Lloyd Webber, again.
7th February, London Palladium
Perhaps a little off-beat,
but I’m excited about
this year’s rendition of
the annual festival. Not
exclusively mime, there
are also performances
of adult puppetry, acro-
batics, animation and
other ‘physical theatre‘.
15th-30th January, vari-
ous venues.
Daniel Desmarais
Friday 14 January 2011

