FELIX 27
ARTS
The clothes
you’re not
supposed
to wear
The Royal Academy
springs an esoteric jumble
to get you thinking, until
the end of January
High fashion is not like anything you
know or have seen in normal society.
What is its link to the fashion worn by
the ordinary clothes-wearing public? I
have no idea. Images of beautiful women
made bizarre by face paint and freakish
garments as they strut down the catwalk
(which may or may not be underwater/
on fire/an enormous chessboard) are the
manifestation of this incredibly prof-
itable industry. However, the Royal
Academy is not Vogue magazine, and
this show is not a haute-couture runway.
Well thank goodness for that.
The exhibition is split, rather vaguely,
into four areas of fashion, describing
the use of clothes as: personal and cul-
tural storytelling, building as protec-
tion, belonging and confronting (which
deals with conflict) and performing. If
these four sections sound like a good
idea at first, they soon seemed to me
rather arbitrary and difficult to differen-
tiate. This vagueness in the structure of
the whole exhibition might strike you as
kooky eclecticism or, more cynically, as
revealing an underlying lack of direc-
tion.
Each piece is very much a stand-alone
installation, and the incredible range
which is showcased over the sparsely
laid-out galleries means that there are
some excellent nuggets mixed in with a
similar number of boring and unsatisfy-
ing pieces. For me these many lowlights
included a film by Yoko Ono, a ‘wear-
able mosque’, a collection of architec-
tural wigs made using traditional Afri-
can hair braiding and felt uniforms for
every occasion. The ideas sounded inter-
esting and full of potential, but their re-
alisation seemed to lack the excitement
or originality of their themes.
If the list of unfulfilled potential alone
has whetted your appetite, you’ll be
pleased to know that there are plenty of
other ideas swirling around the galleries.
The justification of the exhibit after all is
that just as a great oil painting or sculp-
ture are pieces of art used to communi-
cate themes, ideas and world-views, so
fashion too can also be used for this pur-
pose. This means every wooden dress
and lengthy film installation is about
something more than its aesthetic ap-
peal, and that message is usually spelled
out alongside the piece. But while I ap-
plaud the effort to help people under-
stand how fashion can be art, sometimes
the exhibition went too far. Sometimes
the given interpretation was far-fetched
to the point of ridiculous. How the
lacy red see-through mini-dress and
facemask is an exploration of female
strength – specifically in Joan of Arc – I
will leave to your own imagination.
At other times though, the message is
obvious, or becomes palpably important
as you contemplate something that is
genuinely awe-inspiring and exciting.
The most popular image of the show, fif-
teen gorgeously bright girl’s dresses in
Dutch batik, is a perfect example of this.
So too is the beautiful widow’s dress of
gleaming pins. An explanation on the
label can provide a vital clue as to the
motives of the piece, but the installation
does the rest to inspire through sheer
aesthetic appeal.
Other favourites of mine were the film
installation of laundry workers in Mum-
bai and the life-size cashmere whale
turned into jackets. In a way the eclecti-
cism works in favour of the gallery be-
cause there are original ideas to appeal
to just about anybody.
The pieces that do appeal are excellent
examples from artists who have under-
stood that if an exhibition of fashion, or
rather “anything which could possibly
remind you of clothes”, must be called
art then it must fulfill the same remit and
that is to show, not tell.
Rox Middleton
Little Rich Girls, 2010, Yinka Shonibare MBE, Commissioned by the London College of Fashion and Royal Academy of Arts. photo: Andy Stagg
Alexander McQueen, Autumn Winter 1998: Joan of Arc Susie MacMurray, Widow, 2009 (made of pins and leather)
Photo: Andy Stagg. Courtesy Royal Academy of Arts, London
Photo: Andy Stagg
Photo: Susie MacMurray
Friday 14 January 2011

