GAMES
FELIX
Friday 14 JANUARY 2011
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
behind the scenery a little ‘peephole’ appears so
you can still see what’s going on without ruining
the visuals – it’s clear that a lot of effort has been
put in to make the game easy to play. SouthEnd
have also been very careful to make sure that il-
omilo never becomes disorientating – as Ilo and
Milo stand on opposite sides of the same plat-
form with a general ignorance of any applicable
laws of physics, it’s a testament to the design
that the human brain can still even understand
who is where and what needs to be moved how.
The game is also gorgeous to look at; the sur-
roundings to each level are packed with other
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Effing Meteors
jiggmin.com
In this abstract action game, you control a (deep
breath, physicists) ‘gravity well’ with which you can
trap meteors and send them hurtling towards plan-
ets in balls of fire. The aim of the game is simple:
wipe out as many species as you can. Each species
behaves differently and you must adjust your tactics
accordingly to beat them.
As the game continues in this fashion you’ll encoun-
ter aliens, missile-shooting snails and oversized, ra-
dioactive dinosaurs. Mindless destruction turns out
to be a lot of fun, and the game’s unique visual style
looks great. You can spend five minutes of half an
hour here and still have an enjoyable time!
D
espite sounding like the name
of the trendiest new cocktail to
hit London bars, or perhaps the
location of the latest hit tour-
ist spot in the Balkans, ilomilo
is in fact the latest arcade game from Swedish
game house SouthEnd Interactive. Ilo and Milo
are the protagonists: little egg-shaped blobs of
fur (with inevitable cute little faces and arms,
of course) that somehow keep losing each
other amongst the crazy floating world they
inhabit. The player’s task is simple: reunite
them! You control one of the pair at a time,
moving around, picking up blocks and switch-
ing between to the other at will. Action takes
place on floating levels of cubes suspended in
crazy, cute worlds where gravity and physics
are seemingly disregarded in favour of gravity-
reversing trapdoors, a strange creature addicted
to apples and a little man who rides a beetle. Or
possibly a flying dog.
Puzzles make up the core of the game and
thankfully it’s the thing that ilomilo does best.
Ilo and Milo will often appear on different
platforms and at different angles to each other,
and helping them to meet can only be achieved
through a subtle use of the moveable blocks
and the physics-defying ‘carpets’ that swap the
little protagonists between different sides of the
cubes they’re standing on. Working out what to
do to reunite the two titular characters is a lot
of fun, and it’s certainly satisfying when a well-
formulated plan comes to fruition. However,
even though it’s doesn’t take long to figure out
what to do, the levels can still take a fair while
to complete – mainly due to having to go back
and forth to move blocks – which sometimes
gets a tiny bit tedious.
It’s clear that particular attention has been
paid to helping players to grasp what’s going on
and understand new concepts, which is some-
thing that makes ilomilo a particularly relaxing
(rather than the usual frustrating) puzzle game.
The level design is exemplary as it introduces
new concepts in a fantastically intuitive way
that stops new blocks and the gravity-bending
levels from getting too confusing. Someone
who catches on quickly will definitely find the
first chapter a bit of a slow start, but the levels
get more difficult later on and the bonus levels,
which are unlocked after collecting enough of
the mini-lookalikes in the story levels, provide
a serious challenge simply through their scale
even for an experienced puzzler. Later lev-
els are also kept fresh by the addition of new
blocks and ‘enemies’, and these aren’t just
gimmicks – the new elements are used well and
often to great effect.
Indeed, the level design is just one reason that
ilomilo is a technically excellent title. The con-
trols are very intuitive and only very rarely do
either Ilo or Milo end up doing something that
the player didn’t intend. The camera, which is
often a neglected or rushed element particularly
in 3D arcade titles, does the job very well. It’s
also the little details: when the camera moves
Simon Worthington reviews new puzzle game ilomilo
28
Vector Rush
newgrounds.com/portal/view/558659
I’ve never taken acid, but if I did I’m pretty sure this is
what it would look like. Your first reaction on entering
this 3D tunnel game will most likely be to scream,
but after you’ve calmed down and regained control
of your bowels this game turns into an adrenaline-
pumping trippy monster that is actually incredibly en-
joyable. Collect blue rings for extra lives!
But for all the great elements to ilomilo, there
are unfortunately some bad ones. There is the
classic ‘deep and emotional’ indie-style plot
which remains completely detached from the
gameplay, and its effect on the game is so small
as to be virtually pointless. Co-op multiplayer
also makes an appearance; each player controls
either llo or Milo but only one is ‘active’ at
any time, in a similar way to the single-player
game. With no way to control both simulta-
neously, all this mode really eliminates is the
need to physically pass the controller around.
Combine this with the fact that there are no
new co-op levels – the single player chapters
are simply recycled – and you end up with a co-
op mode that is entirely a waste of time.
Co-op also partly fails because there is sim-
ply no replay value to ilomilo. The puzzles
aren’t really fun to complete again since most
of the satisfaction is derived from not knowing
what to do to solve the puzzle. There are bo-
nus items to collect, but it’s perfectly possible
to get them all the first time you enter a level.
Indeed, this is certainly a strong point – you
can’t break the levels and no matter how many
blocks you shuffle around the puzzle will al-
ways remain solvable.
It cannot be denied that ilomilo is a joy to
play. Completing puzzles is irrefutably fun
and there’s a certain attraction that keeps you
playing all the way to the end, with the game’s
technical excellence and cute visuals doing
their most to both help you along and not get in
your way. It’s a truth that anyone could pick up
this charming arcade title and, despite its flaws,
they would almost certainly enjoy it.
ilomilo is available now from SouthEnd
Interactive and Microsoft Games Studios
from the Xbox Live Marketplace for 800
Microsoft Points and on Windows Phone 7
for £3.99.
floating oddities, like a child’s toy windmill,
clock towers and even fish, all sewn together
in a patchwork style that is very reminiscent
of LittleBigPlanet. More critically, in keeping
with the ilomilo ethic, the artwork never gets
in the way of the puzzles; the different blocks
and things in the level are on the whole distin-
guishable from each other. It’s simply there for
when you’re ready to tilt the analogue sticks
back and take a good long look at the world,
at which point of course, it comes into its own
and fits with the rest of the game perfectly.
Cute but still smart
“
been
n
ng on
g on
ome-
ome
axing
axing
game.
game.
duces
uces
”
bloc
bloc
way
way
It
It
play
play
and
an
play
d’s toy windmill,
d’s toy windmill,
“Working out what to
do to reunite the two
titular characters is a lot
of fun, and it’s certainly
satisfying when a well-
formulated plan comes
to fruition.”

