FOOD
FELIX
FRIDAY 14 january 2011
30
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
An edible adventure...
Gastronomical News
Dana says:
Those of us who are more perceptive will have no-
ticed this logo on their Starbucks cups. For me, it
resembles Ursula of Little Mermaid fame with her
tentacles reaching caudally to who-knows-what. The
official word is that Starbucks has amended their
logo in time for their 40th anniversary. The truth
(I speculate) is that Starbucks have removed their
white lettering so that it can no longer be defaced by
protesters to reveal a widely-used expletive.
I
eat. Shocking stuff, you may be think-
ing, but it gives me a certain problem.
Fortunately I have no life-threatening
difficulties – I am not allergic to nuts,
wheat or milk. I am allergic to Gillian
McKeith, but that is another story. What you
should perhaps know is that I am tall. I also
take a not-extravagant amount of exercise.
Point is, I burn off a lot of calories. That, com-
bined with my predilection for boredom, means
that eating the same meal three times in three
days was not something that was going to last
long. A former French flatmate – well, half
French half American, not a good combina-
tion in this case – was derisive at the idea that
this was possible even once. However, I was
hungry and wanted to avoid eating the one kilo
packets of chicken or beef pasta which Sains-
bury’s amusingly label as ‘serves 4’.
What was the solution? Learn to cook. Well,
at least a bit. I had a degree to do, and although
I wanted to fuel myself so that I could do it, so
that I could ride and walk around and so that
I could maintain the adipose covering of my
otherwise-chiselled eight-pack, it could not be
too time consuming. Cue a stream of Delia, Ni-
gella, Elizabeth David, Nigel Slater. This is all
sort-of fine and I am sure they have tested them
all out and they all work and so on but despite
doing a PhD in chemistry, following recipes
somehow never massively appealed. I mean,
what if I do not get the right result? What if I
do not like it? What if it is not enough or does
not keep? More importantly than any of those,
however, what if the flavour is uninspiring?
This became a double-problem. I describe
above the insulation on my Adonis-like solar
plexus. Well, there was a time when this in-
sulation would have put the greenest flower
children to shame on the scale of house in-
sulation and so something had to be done. I
tried typical dieting, but it was hopeless, I was
thinking about food all the time and eating just
as much as I otherwise would have. So, I cut
out as much as I could of cream, ice cream,
chocolate and so on. I replaced them with oth-
er things that were not so calorific and started
to learn to like them. Not easy, but worth it.
The good thing about that approach was that
I could still enjoy flavour. So, I did. I found
recipes that seemed all right, but were lacking
a certain something. I changed them. This has
lead, perhaps inevitably, to now four original
recipes for different types of cake. The ideas
are not necessarily original – one of them is
chocolate – but it is my recipe. I extended this
to other dishes, and now I have a recipe for La-
sagne that I can give to Italians without finding
unexpected dis-membered bedfellows the next
morning. Some of it is self-indulgent, apart
from the cakes and the cocktail. I do not do a
‘Smoothie’ of any kind – sounds too much like
a description of the technique of someone who
gives good fellatio. Instead what I have is fruit
whizz, which is far better for you and does not
cost more than your tube fare to make.
I have never been to catering school, nor am I
likely to, but if you find you want to up or down
the calories on your plate, my advice is have
more fun with your food. Bun fight?
When food has no meaning and gets you down, call for Uncle Sam (Furse that is, not the pointing chap with the hat...)
Samuel Furse rediscovers the pleasures of food
• ½ a clove of garlic, chopped
• sea salt and freshly ground black pepper
• 3 handfuls fresh basil, leaves picked and chopped
• a handful of pine nuts, very lightly toasted
• a good handful of freshly grated Parmesan cheese
• extra virgin olive oil
• a small squeeze of lemon juice
Pound the garlic with a little pinch of salt and the
basil leaves in a pestle and mortar, or pulse in a
food processor. Add a bit more garlic if you like, but
I usually stick to ½ a clove. Add the pine nuts to the
mixture and pound again. Turn out into a bowl and
add half the Parmesan. Stir gently and add olive oil
until the sauce binds and becomes all oozy.
Season to taste, then add most of the remaining
cheese. Pour in some more oil and taste again.
Keep adding a bit more cheese or oil until you are
happy with the taste and consistency. You may like
to add a squeeze of lemon juice at the end to give it
a little twang, but it’s not essential.
D.I.Y. Pesto
JustinPoliachik/flickr
Black Cherry and
Almond Cake By Samuel Furse
155g butter; 10g walnut oil (butter is fine
instead); 3 eggs; 135mL Amaretto; 165g
white self-raising flour (SRF); 110g sug-
ar; 98g St Dalfour black cherry preserve.
•Add the butter, oil and sugar into a bowl,
and warm gently in a microwave so the
butter melts.
•Ensuring that the bowl and contents are
not too hot, stir towards homogeneity
then add the Amaretto and mix in.
•Break the eggs into the mixture and stir
vigorously until homogenous.
•Add the Black Cherry preserve and mix
in. (You may find cherry jam more con-
venient to source. However, it is sweeter
than the St Dalfour, so alter the amount
accordingly. St Dalfour has 52g/sugar
per 100 g. Bonne mamman jams tend
to have 60g/100 g so around 85g of jam
would work, however the fruit flavours
will not be as aromatic.
•Add flour and mix well. (You can replace
20-30 g of the SRF with plain white flour
for a thicker texture. This will make the
cake easier to hold with a cup of tea)
•Mix a bit longer, until it is homogenous
(saving for the pieces of fruit).
•Pour into a greased 8” x 3” loaf tin; level.
•Heat in a fan assisted oven at 175°C for
50min. Allow 24 h under cover at room
temperature before serving.

