FOOD
FELIX FRIDAY 14 JANUARY 2011 31
Chocolate, bananas and whipped cream. God I could eat waffles all day...
H
ave you ever tried Sain-
bury’s Belgian Waffles?
They glow a certain
shade of yellow that re-
minds me of the Mer-
cedes Benz SLK320 in sunshine yellow.
God knows just how many additives
they employed for you to ‘Taste the Dif-
ference’.
These had put me off waffles for life.
Until a standard post-night out stroll
through South Kensington in the subze-
ro climate, and suffering from late night
munchies. A dilemma, indeed. That’s
until the warm, sultry aroma teased me
to look up. Like a heavenly being come
to enlighten me, it smiled. It was the
God of waffles, Wafflemeister.
Why am I waffling? Because these
waffles are worth the waffle.
Wafflemeister’s secret recipe traces its
roots back to a family in Liege, Belgium
in 1950 (see the family photos in store
for nostalgia). Today, it is still largely
unchanged from the original, ensuring
that all ingredients used are natural,
GM-free with no preservatives. And if
you think that there is some large fac-
tory up north churning out these waffles
on an assembly line, think again. The
dough (not batter!) is freshly prepared in
Belgium and frozen into balls before be-
ing imported directly to all three stores
in London (apart from South Kensing-
ton, Wafflemeister is also found in Em-
bankment and Portobello Road). Once
in store, the dough (complete with sugar
pellets) is pressed out in the waffle iron
so that the waffle you receive is warm
and like no other before it. Toppings.
They can also come with toppings, so
please take your pick. Chocolate fudge,
whipped cream, marshmallows, maybe
some strawberries, blueberries or even
some banana? There’s always the option
to be lazy however and opt for the pre-
made Wafflemeister favourites such as
my favourite: Go Bananas! Wafflemeis-
ter also serves freshly made gelato that
hits all the satisfaction points. News in:
savoury waffles will also be made avail-
able from February, for those hungry
stomachs in need of a brunch or munch.
I could go on.
I’ll let you into a secret, though. The
creator of Wafflemeister, Alex Troullier,
first thought up the idea whilst study-
ing his MBA at our very own Imperial
College Business School. Ever walked
out of Bond Street station and wonder
what that sweet, almost sickly, smell is?
Waffles, at the Belgian Food Company.
Originally the owner in 1999, Alex
was able to sell BFC on before he even
graduated. He made a career in finance
before deciding in 2009, to return to his
waffles. Wafflemeister officially opened
their first branch in Embankment, and
South Kensington and Portobello Road
closely followed in 2010.
I spoke to Alex to tell us more…
How did you come up with the idea of
a waffle business in 1999?
I have always been very passionate about
gourmet food and desserts. Back in 1999
it was impossible to find a freshly made
waffle virtually anywhere in London. So
I decided to set-up a business that would
make them fresh in-store daily and add-
ed other delicious toppings and gelato to
go with it.
Had you any experience dealing with
your own business prior to this, con-
sidering it was a big step to take? And
what was it like to balance the studies
and BFC?
Luckily I had some previous experience
from running my own company prior to
joining the MBA programme. That did
help considerably in setting up BFC and
avoiding some of the pitfalls that come
with a start-up. It was difficult to bal-
ance both work and the MBA but you
somehow make it work by just adding
more hours to the day. I had a great work
group and business partners. That did
help tremendously.
Do you have any tips for anyone want-
ing to start their own business?
It is not easy. Be prepared to work very,
very hard and only do it if you are ex-
tremely passionate about what it is you
want to do. Write an exhaustive business
plan. Ask for help and free advice where
and whenever possible. Try getting dis-
counts all the time. Focus on execution
and always listen to your customer.
What was the reason behind you re-
turning to the waffles?
I love good food and after spending
nearly 10 years in finance I wanted to
get back to something that I was more
passionate about.
After opening three stores in London,
what are your plans for Wafflemeister
in 2011?
We want to focus on growing local trade
Kowtow to the master...
Wafflemeister is in the house!
With a motto like ‘I waffle therefore I am’, what’s not to love? By Dana Li
and our catering events business. We
will add 1 or 2 stores to our UK portfolio
this year and are also researching plans
for opening a store in the US.
So there you have it. Walk in. Grab a
seat. Watch your waffle evolve from
a frozen ball of dough into a golden-
brown wonder. This is no ordinary waf-
fle, this is a Wafflemeister waffle.
Imperial College students are able to
enjoy a 15% discount at the South Kens-
ington branch for the whole of this term
(until 25th March) and with the stores
open 10AM until midnight, and deliv-
ery to all SW7 addresses from 6-11PM,
dessert just got even sweeter. Minimum
spend for delivery is £10.
Wafflemeister (South Kensington) is at
26 Cromwell Place, London SW7 2LD
(next to the bus-stop).
Other stores: Embankment Stn, Lon-
don WC2N 6NS and 137 Portobello
Road, London W11 2DY
Katie Tang

