TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 14 JANUARY 2011
32
TravelEditor: Dylan Lowe
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wishing You Were Here
Stick to the plan
STA Travel is one of the world’s largest travel or-
ganisations for students and young people. Their
various branches offer travel consultancy services
on an appointment basis, where a knowledgeable
employee will help you plan your trip.
They’re a great first point of contact for flights and
even insurance, but bold adventurers should be
wary of being sucked into buying the accommoda-
tion and guided tours that can detract from the trav-
elling experience.
Their latest great offers include return flights to:
Cairo, Egypt from £299
Bangkok, Thailand from £415
Rio, Brazil from £569
Melbourne, Australia from £589
Auckland, New Zealand from £715
Or if you can stretch your watch and your wallet, why
not customise a Round The World package tailored
to your route plan? Prices start at £729.
Visit statravel.co.uk to find out more!
Travel Deals of the Week
Lethargic Laos by Chris Richardson
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Planning a trip and want some advice from expe-
rienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to share
with Imperial? Send us a tweet with #FelixTravel or
drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
L
ike a good respectable self-reform-
ist, you decreed upon yourself the
commandments that are your reso-
lutions for 2011. One of which in-
cludes the desire to ‘travel more’.
With a destination picked and dates decided but
yet to arrive, you perch on your seat counting
the milli-seconds before you take off.
Except travel plans are more akin to a real-
istic portrayal of a puppy in 101 Dalmatians:
conceived in a fit of festivity, abandoned before
the Christmas decorations come off, dust-clad
and forgotten before maturity - and certainly
never been taken out for a walk.
Sceptical I may sound, there are actually
ways - trial-and-error-ed ones in fact - to make
sure that you don’t give up on your plans mid-
way, to give you enough motivation to plan and
execute the travelling from start to finish. Give
them a try - the difference could be between
spending a Sunday afternoon observing either
beach-dwelling hot chicks/guys or a Hollyoaks
Omnibus.
Steady dosage wins the trip
This is sadly how many exciting travel plans
meet their pitfall: all the glamour, exoticness
of visiting a dream location are extinguished,
their appeal sinking like an obese whale until,
eventually, it fades into obscurity.
So you’ve come up with a destination.You’ve
given it a set of dates. What there’s all to do is
planning, and enduring the period between the
dormant stage and the designated time of trav-
elling. Which is most likely the period when
these trips find themselves abandoned, ne-
glected, forgotten and unmissed because, well,
you’ve lost interest.
What often happens is that you’ve overdone
the hype during the planning stage. When you
do too much planning in one obesely over-
bearing effort to get absolutely everything
scheduled, you exhaust all the excitement and
motivation essential to maintain the level of en-
thusiasm during the limbo state of anticipation.
Try dissecting your holiday planning into dif-
ferent aspects - transport, accommodation, ac-
tivities, entertainment - and approaching them
in stages. That way you’ll give yourself consis-
tent dosages of eagerness, keeping you as de-
termined when stepping out of home as when
the trip idea first occurred to you.
Unleash your inner
Indiana Jones
A choice of location is never sufficient - the
greater purpose always lies with the action you
You have sworn on your grandma’s life you’ll travel more
in 2011 – now keep that promise. Dylan Lowe offers tips
on staying faithful to your travel plans
wish to partake, whether it’s skiing, hurling
tomatoes at each other, finding spirituality in
a coffee shop, or letting your genitals swagger
amidst your fellow naked-runners.
Pick a to-do that is potentially memorable;
throw in elements of adventure, adrenaline,
unpredictability, rarity and there you have it,
a promise of participation too good - and too
shameful - to turn your back on.
Never hitchhiked before? Practise clenching
your fist into a thumbs-up position and off you
go. Adamant you can traverse an entire country
solely by cycling? Go lubricate your chains.
Think you’re fearless and can hurl yourself off
anywhere attached to only a cord or parachute?
Do it - I dare you.
Reverse psychology works here too: the more
pledges you make, the harder you’ll find back-
ing out courtesy of peer pressure. Now, no one
likes to the called a coward or chicken - right
Marty McFly?
Connections, connections...
Praise be to Mark Zuckerberg and his near-
complete digital colonisation schemes - if only
we prank Bin Laden into getting Facebook -
ponds and landmasses are negligible obstacles
when it comes down to communication. Simi-
larly, technological wonders like Skype and
Twitter allow acquaintances to be made and
kept regardless of the mileage between separa-
tions.
So use that to your advantage.
Get to know the place even before you get
there by rounding up people you know who are
familiar with your destination, mobilising your
friends, family and relatives who may be there
at your time of visit, and commence the chin-
wag. Psych them up with anticipation of seeing
you, in turn allowing them to psych you up to
an adventure with some hospitable ground.
Or why not let enter into your life fragments
of your heart’s desired location? With Imperial
College’s fame as one of the most multi-cultur-
al institutions in the UK, chances are six-de-
grees of separation will bless you with a con-
nection or two in your destination-of-choice.
Literary tourist
A common origin of inspiration for travel
ideas: the bookshelves stacked full with ultra-
marine spines and their orangey counterparts.
Predictably, delving into a Lonely Planet or
Rough Guide is probably seldom the starting
point of travel preparations.
Though some people swear by that, they’d
sooner conduct intercourse with a duck than
use a travel guidebook.
Loather of where-to-go’s or not, literature
is an ideal means of beginning your research
on your destination, which, in particular for
countries and continents you have yet to be
physically introduced to, is sometimes a life-
and-death essentiality. If you so wholeheart-
edly despise being held by the leash, fret not
still - there are many other forms of literature
at your disposal.
Highly likely is that every inch of the globe
has been written about at least once, whether
in fictional or non-fictional accounts, depicting
current affairs or history, focusing on natural
habits or human population. Choose a field of
your interest and seek a book on a similar sub-
ject of your planned destination - guaranteed
to prolong your fascination into outliving your
impatience.
A good place to start the literary treasure hunt
is your loyal Lonely Planet and Rough Guide,
which generally include a to-read list for its
reported destinations. Alternatively browse
for travel blogs - perhaps quality is not always
ensured, but once in a while do some genuine
gems crop up. Also try online travel publica-
tions like MatadorNetwork and BootsNAll.
Her promise to bungee jump off Mount Everest was proving hard to organise...

