FELIX Friday 14 JANUARY 2011 33
At the mere mention of the place certain thoughts spring to mind. Chris
Richardson decided it would be the perfect Christmas revision getaway
Festive antics in Amsterdam
A
msterdam: when the
word is spoken bells im-
mediately begin to ring.
It’s one of those places
that’s on everyone’s to-
do list, whether the intentions be noble
or otherwise. Following a whimsical
conversation many sleepy Sundays ago
we decided that it would be the perfect
pre-Christmas destination, a place to un-
wind and soak up some cultural delights.
My sincere condolences to those who
were stranded indefinitely over the fes-
tive season, who may have had impor-
tant places to be, unlike us. We were a
few of the lucky ones who managed to
make it overseas without issues, which
was probably the only time in history
where a budget airline has been spot on.
With return flights from budget airlines
costing less than train tickets home,
there’s really no excuse to not travel.
We arrived to a snow-shrouded city,
greeted with crisp frozen canals while
accordions chirped in the background
of the conversations that flowed. Hav-
ing been tipped off by several people,
including a couple at the airport, we
headed for the city’s resident St. Chris-
topher’s Inn. I’m not sure about their in-
ternational reputation but we were told
this one was reliable enough. Located
bang in the centre just off Dam Square,
this gem had a bar and nightclub down-
stairs, with lots of things offered to hos-
tel customers at discount rates.
The rooms have had extensive paint-
ing work from some big local names
as well as some international artists: it
hardly gives an ambient honeymoon feel
but for our purposes it more than suf-
ficed. As always, haggling was in order
and I managed to save us a total of 150
Euros: result! After dumping our back-
packs we did what anyone else would
do and decided to hit up our first cof-
feeshop.
Naturally we had recommendations
for these too, so headed for Hill Street
Blues to tick it off the list. We bumped
into a very upstanding gentleman en-
route, who offered to take us to said
coffeeshop. Despite our protests that we
could see said coffeeshop right in front
of us, he insisted that we follow him into
the adjacent alleyway, presumably for a
better time of some description. We re-
fused and marched onward, only to be
greeted inside the coffeeshop by a local
policeman. In cute attire and in flawless
English he asked us what the man out-
side had said to us, then proceeded with
a smile and a wink to wish us a happy
time in Amsterdam. A far cry from the
typical run-in with a policeman in the
motherland, not that I’m a regular or
anything.
I’m assuming that since at least one
Imperial hall of residence is taking its
freshers to Amsterdam that we’re not
going to dance around the subject of
marijuana. Equally it won’t dominate
this article, and shouldn’t dominate your
time if and when you visit. It’s quite sur-
real though, and I’d really recommend
looking up the laws surrounding soft
drugs. They seem to have a policy that
works, with lower marijuana consump-
tion than many other destinations, and a
police force that can better spend their
time on bigger issues.
Being coffeeshop virgins we ap-
proached the lovely lady over the coun-
ter, an expat who was more than happy
to help. We were presented with a menu
offering several varieties and asked what
type of sensation we were seeking and
recommended some types. This is ‘prob-
ably’ better than the system over here,
which presumably involves accepting
the bag with debatable contents from a
dodgy fellow in a trench coat. As is cus-
tom we purchased drinks with our order,
listened to some music, and as conversa-
tions ceased to flow we departed leaving
a small tip on our way out.
Floating around the city, there are a
few noticeable things. For starters, the
lack of the louts that have become oh-
so protocol in this country. Or perhaps
they just like to be in my proximity on a
night out, I don’t know. The other more
prominent feature of the city is the archi-
tecture: skinny buildings arising from a
dreaded width tax, tilting forward over
from piss. I personally blame god for
ill-equipping us with a tiny bladder:
evidently when designing he didn’t con-
sider the possibilities of cinema or long
bus journeys.
I should probably enlighten you as to
the origins of these fun facts of the city.
Sandemans New Europe Tours (neweu-
ropetours.eu) offer free walking tours of
several major European cities, Amster-
dam included. The idea is that follow-
ing the walking tour you pay what you
think the tour is worth. Be generous,
mind: tour guides have to buy tickets
from an employer so must make back at
least that just to break even. We saw the
real ins and outs of the city and I added
countless fun facts to my booming rep-
ertoire – I’d really recommend it.
We befriended our guide Tina, and
one evening she volunteered to take us
into the depths of the red light district.
Thankfully my girlfriend and I broke
that taboo back in Thailand so a man-
datory stroll through that side of town
was both interesting and informative.
For instance, the presence of the church
slap bang in the centre of the district:
some would say this is a little odd, but
economically this makes perfect sense.
Back in the day, sailors from lands afar
would stopover to spend their hard-
earned cash on gambling and prostitutes,
and would of course have to repent their
sins. Luckily the nearby church offered
that service, and also started doing a ‘re-
pent in advance’ scheme: the revenue
from such an empire can be seen on the
several swanky extensions on the build-
ing.
I always try to draw in something more
sombre on my trips, and the Anne Frank
House is definitely one of the more posi-
tive such places that I’ve visited. While
it is certainly terrible to contemplate the
fate of those hiding in the secret annex,
Otto Frank’s legacy can be seen through
the museum’s positive efforts to combat
modern day anti-Semitism and similar
issues, rather than dwelling on the un-
changeable past alone.
All in all a fantastic trip, and my only
criticism of the Dutch would be the to-
tal lack of inventiveness when naming
things: the Old Church, New Church,
National Monument? It all seems a little
newspeak to me, but hey. The Dutch are
certainly a liberal and forward-thinking
people who have a great perspective or
two to share with us.
the canals to aid merchants in shifting
stock inside without smashing windows.
Tourists love to piss all over the city,
or so I’m told. In retaliation the nooks
and crannies of many buildings now
come equipped with ‘pee deflectors’,
to discourage urinating in such a fash-
ion. This devalues the attractiveness
of buildings but at least saves them
“Tourists love to piss
all over the city...
I personally blame
god”
Who cycles along a snow-saturated road after a coffeeshop visit? Natural selection at work...
That ambient, crimson glow. Inviting, isn’t it?
Prefer the photo above? You’re a bad, bad woman

