Scorpio
This week was really shit. I mean you’re
just sitting there in Reynolds, having a
quiet bucket of puke with some mates,
when these bloody journalists come in,
write an article about your balls or some-
thing and then claim that you only need
AAB for your course!!! Outrageous.
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
35
felix
Horoscopes
Aries
This week, you return to London to find
that your flat has been taken over byAus-
tralian refugees fleeing the flood. You let
them stay but constantly make snide ref-
erences to the Ashes. It takes two weeks
for you to realise that cricket is shit and
you’re being an absolute douche...
Taurus
This week, you see a puddle on the side
of the road. With childish joy you jump
feet first into the puddle, hoping to make
a massive splash. Instead you wake up
in your bed, pissing everywhere and to-
tally ruining your chances of seeing that
boy-who-stayed-over ever again.
Gemini
This week, you’re not paying any
attention to the person that you’re having
sex with. You’re trying to solve that
coding problem that’s been annoying
you. You carefully reach for your laptop
without the person noticing.You succeed.
Coding done. Sex done. Best night ever...
Cancer
In some hypothetical week in the future,
you wake up at 6am and head in for your
8am lecture. You then spend your 1-hour
lunchbreak queuing in the JCR. You’re
angry and late for lectures, but, more than
anything, you’re impressed... Imperial
actually managed to get more shit.
Leo
This week, you become a billionaire and
fuck Gisele every day for the rest of your
life. Which is really bad news for the
economy and Gisele because there are a
whole load of Leos out there and as you
all know, horoscope predictions are 100%
guaranteed to happen for everyone.
Virgo
This week, you get fed-up with the
printers on campus telling you to “print
safely”. The next time you use the printer,
you jam your hand into the mechanism
and, as it churns your bone to mush,
scream “take that you fucking pleb!”
before laughing maniacally.
Libra
This week, you are psyched. Shit bro!
You’ve been revising loooooads! You
ARE ON THAT SHIT. You’ve got it
nailed. This is going to be a walk in the
park. You are the Mohammed Ali of ex-
ams, you are... oh dear, you are stuck on a
bus and the exam began 5 minutes ago...
Sagittarius
It was meant to be a good Christmas
break. But the trains were cancelled
because of some fucking snow, made
worse by those smug happy cunts loving
their shitty “snow days”. Xmas alone in
smokey London. Happy sodding new
year - someone even shat on my pillow.
Capricorn
This week you’re travelling along the
hyperspace intergalaxy freeway, to see
that ex-girlfriend, the one that got away.
Suddenly the engines fail and you plunge
into a black hole. You receive a message
before you pass the event horizon: “Can’t
wait to see you, I miss you”. God damn!
Aquarius
This week, you cook your first ever
meal. It’s been 4 years since you started
uni and you’ve finally cooked your
first plate of pasta. It’s understandably
over cooked and, unimpressed with the
experience, you resort to subsisting off
your own toenails... Ah student life!
Pisces
This week you take a shit on your
housemate’s pillow. No seriously, this
week has been that boring. Obviously
he’s not impressed but HEY! THERE
WAS NOTHING LEFT ON IPLAYER
AND I NEED SOMETHING TO
FUCKING DO!
“Wife instantly regrets
husband’s Grohlmas present”
DRUNKEN MATE OF THE WEEK
To be fair, he’s made it back home safely and has ended up in bed instead of over the toilet. Well played sir!
You’ve successfully avoided soiling your clothes or ending up in a national newspaper. If you can work on your
drunken chat up lines and pass out next to a girl, then you’ll have truly earned your stripes!!!
Friday 14 JANUARY 2011

