NEWS
FELIX
4
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Investments
Money for Singapore Medical
School
Imperial’s new Singaporean medical school; a part-
nership between Imperial and the Nanyang Techno-
logical University, has this month received a gift of
$150 million from the Lee Foundation.
The school, newly named the Lee Kong Chian
School of Medicine after the Lee Foundation’s found-
er, philanthropist and business leader Tan Sri Dato
Lee Kong Chian, will see half of the money going di-
rectly to students from poorer backgrounds.
The medical school, whose creation was an-
nounced August last year, will receive the money in
order to create two endowment funds. $75 million
will go towards a fund designed to provide scholar-
ships and bursaries. The other half of the money will
be used to further research and advance education
at the new school. The school will also receive $250
million from the Singapore Government.
The Lee Foundation was founded in 1952, princi-
pally to further medical education and help the fi-
nancially disadvantaged. The NTU Board of Trustees
praised Tan Sri Dato Lee, revealing:
‘Tan Sri Dato Lee Kong Chian had a vision to use
his wealth not for personal betterment but to improve
society as a whole. His selflessness and generosity
will be an inspiration to the students of this medical
school named after him’.
Indeed, the medical school is expected to both fur-
ther Singapore’s medical education and healthcare
system, and create multidisciplinary research op-
portunities for both NTU and Imperial, for example
in biomedical engineering, translational and clinical
research, and health services research. Any break-
throughs subsequently made would ‘not only directly
benefit Singaporeans but will also contribute to the
well-being of the wider regional and global commu-
nity’, a speculation made by the chairman of the
school’s temporary Governing Board, Mr Lim Chuan
Poh.
The school will initiate a new style of medical edu-
cation in Singapore, combining a science-based ap-
proach with ‘e-Learning’, a style familiar to Imperial’s
own medical students. NTU’s strength in engineering
will be used to utilise technological advances in the
field of medicine. The school, which will accept 50
students in 2013, will undoubtedly help ensure the
successful future of healthcare in Singapore, as well
as, according to the Lee Foundation, ‘provide assis-
tance to bright and needy medical students who can
pursue their life’s mission’.
Katherine Bettany
The long-term future of student accommoda-
tion in the Evelyn Gardens area is currently un-
der review, with the high cost of necessary re-
furbishment likely to mean the closure of halls
such as Fisher. The uncertainty comes as Impe-
rial is reviewing all areas of its accommodation
provision including the wardening system and
an investigation by Facilities Management into
state of repair of all halls. The Director of Com-
mercial Services, Jane Neary, stressed that the
College is committed to providing accommo-
dation for 1st year students and that the halls
would remain open for the foreseeable future,
until they could be replaced.
The halls at Evelyn Gardens are considered
to be in need of a radical refurbishment, since
August 127 ceilings in Fisher and other halls
have required repair. Mrs. Neary said, “The
problem [with the halls at Evelyn Gardens] is
the condition of the buildings. These buildings
have had no financial investment for as long as
anyone can remember. At some stage we have
to make economic decisions about whether
[they] are viable.”
Professor Martin Head, the Warden at Fisher
Hall, said: “The hall is […] in need of proper
refurbishment. The other halls [at Evelyn Gar-
dens] are all in comparatively much better con-
dition.” However, Jane Neary denied that Fish-
er Hall was sub-standard saying: “It’s not that
[the hall isn’t] good enough, it’s completely
legal, they’re all completely legal. […] We’ve
done all the urgent work.”
In July, Imperial and the Wellcome Trust sub-
mitted a joint planning application for Fisher
Hall. The application sets out plans to convert
the hall, which has 156 beds, into 28 housing
units for elderly care and says “the need for
student accommodation [at Evelyn Gardens]
has been reduced as new halls of residence
have been created […] at Princes Gardens”. A
single standard room at Fisher is currently ei-
ther £95 or £108 per week. The cheapest single
room at Eastside – one of the new halls referred
to in the statement – is £168 per week, rising
to £227 per week for a “deluxe” single room.
Mrs. Neary dismissed concerns that this ques-
tioned the College’s commitment to affordable
housing saying, “Planning application speak
and what we do is completely different”, also
reassuring that “we’re going to do what’s right
for students.”
Professor Head said that the College’s actions
were understandable: “Obviously I would prefer
for Fisher to stay open as a hall, as the students
Uncertain future for
Evelyn Gardens
are a great bunch of people to look after, but I
also understand that the lease on the building
is finite so eventually it will have to change its
function.” He added “I personally am in favour
of retaining ‘budget’ accommodation such as
Fisher, to maintain the range of choices current-
ly available to prospective [Imperial] students.”
Union President Alex Kendall questioned
the motives behind the planning application:
“I think that the College does take affordabil-
ity seriously, but this decision does seem to be
driven by cost-cutting. Fisher Hall is in urgent
need of refurbishment and Imperial are less
likely to lose money if it is sold on rather than
retained as student accommodation.”
However, John Anderson, the Chief Execu-
tive Officer of the College Fund, said that the
expiry of the leasehold on Fisher Hall meant
that Imperial had to consider its options. The
leasehold expires in 38 years, after which it
reverts back to the freeholders, the Wellcome
Trust. He explained that Imperial needs to con-
sider the value of the property as the expiry
date grows closer. “The College is going to be
looking at an 8-figure sum to refurbish Fisher
Hall to achieve the standard of other halls. To
my mind, it simply doesn’t make sense to in-
vest that much money into a property for which
the lease expires in 38 years.”
The idea of converting Fisher Hall into prop-
erty for elderly care use is, according to Mr
Anderson, a much wiser choice as the property
would generate a considerable return. He add-
ed that this would mean that the College would
find itself in a much better position when the
leasehold expires, both financially and in rela-
tion to the freeholder.
The College Fund and Commercial Services
are currently searching for new sites for ac-
commodation that would allow them to convert
the Evelyn Gardens halls. Mrs. Neary said that
she was looking at sites on the outer edge of
zone two which would allow the Accommoda-
tion service to provide similar prices to those
currently charged in halls at Evelyn Gardens.
She said that there would be a move away
from shared accommodation but emphasised
that it was important to have student input on
the matter: “Going forward, I don’t think stu-
dents want twin or triple rooms. The reasons
they take them is because the [price] is right.”
She argued that ultimately, the question to ask
students is: “Would you prefer to live on the
outskirts of zone two and come in or would you
like to share a room on campus? “
Mr Anderson said that the College would not
be seeking a solution through private halls of
residence and added that it would not be easy
to find an alternative site, meaning that it is un-
likely that any changes will happen in the near
future: “In an ideal world, it would be great to
find a site similar to Princes Gardens, in terms
of atmosphere and community, where we could
provide lower cost accommodation on a sig-
nificant scale and move away from the current
usage of the buildings such as those at Evelyn
Gardens […] Unfortunately they rarely come
forward in West London.” Unless they do, he
said, it is unlikely that much will happen to
change the status quo.
Planning application proposes conversion of Fisher Hall to
care homes for the elderly
No changes until
alternate halls are found
Kadhim Shubber
Veronika McQuadeova
Is there anything more beautiful than Fisher Hall at night? Yes...
Friday 14 january 2011

