FELIX 5
NEWS
New postgraduate halls
at Clapham Junction
£235 per week for a room at Griffon Studios
Outdoor Club accident
raises safety fears
New halls in Clapham Junction are set
to open to postgraduates in the next
academic year. Griffon Studios, which
charges £235 per week for high-quality
studio apartments, is the product of a
joint venture between the Imperial Col-
lege Fund and the property developer
Berkeley First. The halls on Winstanley
Road, which include a 24-hour “con-
cierge service” and a free on-site “fit-
ness gym”, will house 452 postgradu-
ates from October 2011, expanding to
566 the following year.
John Anderson, the Chief Executive
Officer of the College Fund, said that the
project was part of the College’s long-
term strategy to grow its endowment
fund. “We’ve got around 5,500 post-
graduates, most of whom are currently
renting in the private market, either
with private landlords or private halls. It
makes financial sense, where the funda-
mentals of the market support it, for us
to offer an alternative to these students.”
The College Fund has committed to
invest up to £7 million into Winstanley
2, the Special Purpose Vehicle – or sub-
sidiary company – created to develop the
site. MrAnderson told Felix that the Col-
lege fund expects “a 15% return per an-
num on the equity invested by the Fund.”
The Graduate Schools Association
(GSA), which represents postgraduate
students at Imperial, said that the price
of the studios was “a bit steep”. GSA
Chair Deena Blumenkratz told Felix
that there needed to be an extra effort to
build the community at Griffon Studios
to justify the cost but that the promise
of “a wide range of social, sporting and
cultural events throughout the year”
gave her “high hopes” for the new halls.
She added that the GSA would be carry-
ing out a survey “to find out if postgrad-
uate students think the accommodation
is affordable.”
Mr Anderson defended the high-cost
of the studios saying, “We’re offering
a high-quality product at the upper end
of the price scale – although we believe
that we’re offering a lower-than-market
price for that product.” He said that the
new halls were upmarket because of the
College Fund’s partnership with Berke-
ley and because he believed that it was
the right quality of accommodation for
Imperial postgraduates: “We have gone
down this route, firstly, because […]
the landowners Berkeley […] are in-
volved in high-quality accommodation
and, secondly, because we’ve identified
that this is an appropriate level of qual-
ity for Imperial postgraduate students.”
However, he denied that the halls were
beyond the needs of Imperial students:
“It’s not luxurious, certainly not, but we
are interested in giving postgraduate stu-
dents the best experience possible while
they’re at Imperial.”
He went on to say that providing more
affordable postgraduate accommodation
wasn’t currently possible, arguing that
the correct conditions “simply aren’t
satisfied in West London at the mo-
ment”. He denied that there was a de-
mand for lower-quality, low-cost post-
graduate accommodation: “If I could
find a low-cost site, with a low-cost de-
veloper within easy commuting distance
of South Kensington and I felt there was
a strong demand for lower-quality, low-
cost postgraduate accommodation then
of course I would love to do that”
The Director of Commercial Services,
Jane Neary, said that the pricing of the
rooms was a matter for the College Fund
and emphasised that the project was a
business venture: “This is a business
opportunity for the College Fund. I’m
assisting the fund and future students
to provide a suitable design, suitable
services and to meet [students’] needs
when they arrive.” She added that the
prices had been benchmarked against
those in the private sector.
She conceded that PhD students from
the UK would be unlikely to take up
accommodation at the new halls for a
number of reasons, including the cost
and the greater independence of home
PhD students. She said, “[The end
user] will be international students.
The people who were really interested
at the postgraduate open day were the
international postgraduates. [For home
postgraduates] there’s probably a sense
of the cost. They are probably a little
happier in knowing what areas to live in
[and need] less support.”
Mr Anderson argued that the halls
offered international postgraduate stu-
dents peace of mind when it came to
housing: “The £235 price tag is not sim-
ply for the bricks and mortar. It’s also
for the amenities, the community spirit
and for peace of mind. We know that
international postgraduate students can
sometimes get burnt in the private rental
market.”
The College Fund has entered into a
15-year rental guarantee agreement with
Berkeley First, which is worth approxi-
mately £6.25 million per year in 2011.
This means that it has committed to fill
97% of the studios at £232 per week. Mr
Anderson said that the College would
seek to fill the rooms with postgraduates
from other London universities if they
were unable to attract enough Imperial
postgraduates. He added, however, that
it would likely be at a “higher price than
for Imperial students.”
A club trip took a turn for the worse last
November when a member of the Out-
door Club fell 100ft while climbing in
the Lake District. The injured student
was winter climbing on the slopes of
Helvellyn, the third highest peak in Eng-
land, with a small group of other Impe-
rial students on the 27th of November
when the incident occurred.
A passerby was able to contact Patter-
dale Mountain Rescue and the student,
who had suffered a broken femur, was
airlifted to safety by a Royal Navy Sea
King helicopter to a hospital in White-
haven.
A spokesperson for Imperial College
Union (ICU) confirmed the incident,
praising the action that the group took:
“The incident occurred… while climb-
ing a winter grade II snow slope. During
the climb the student in question took a
fall, sliding down the slope and coming
to a halt. When the incident occurred the
group dealt with it appropriately, render-
ing help from other people climbing in
the area and calling the local mountain
rescue team… ICU are grateful to the
others climbing in the area that day, and
the volunteers of the Patterdale Moun-
tain Rescue Team for their assistance.
All reporting procedures were followed
correctly.”
The spokesman added that “the group
were skilled, experienced and equipped
appropriately for the conditions and ac-
tivities being undertaken.”
However, an eyewitness to the in-
cident disputes this claim. Rebecca
Waugh, the individual who contacted
Mountain Rescue, criticised the climb-
ers in a forum post on ukclimbing.com,
claiming that the group was “completely
unprepared for a day out on the hill”.
She listed multiple complaints about
the group such as there being “no suit-
ably experienced or qualified leader, no
charged up mobile phones, no decent
head torches, unsuitable footwear, bro-
ken crampons hanging off their belt-
loops, unsuitable clothing incorrectly
fitting harnesses and no emergency shel-
ter”.
She also described seeing the student
fall from “the top of Helvelyn Head
Wall onto the rocks below” and how
they feared that the student had died:
“[we made our way] to what we thought
would be a dead body.”
When contacted by Felix about her
post, Ms. Waugh was keen to state that
the complaints were not “a dig at the
club or the persons in general” but in-
stead aimed to highlight “the unique
position that University clubs find them-
selves in”.
She went on to argue that said clubs
suffer from “skill shortages due to a
number of factors such as age and ex-
perience of members, skill drain result-
ing from members leaving after a few
years, financial constraints and a lack of
knowledge with regards to the correct
usage of kit, clothing and equipment.”
The ICU spokesman responded to
these claims, stating that “members of
the public are entitled to their own opin-
ions and are free to post their views on
online forums.”
Robin Jones, Chairman of the Outdoor
Club, declined to comment on either the
incident or the claims against the indi-
viduals involved.
This type of situation is not unheard of
amongst Imperial’s societies. In Febru-
ary 2010, Felix reported on a member of
Imperial College Mountaineering Club
who also fell 100ft while climbing in
North Wales.
Tom Welch
Matthew Colvin
I think the sheep are watching us...
The showroom beside the Queens Tower: the perfect place to crash if
you’re studying late in the library
Kadhim Shubber
“We know that international postgraduate
students can sometimes get burnt in the
private rental market.”
Friday 14 january 2011

