NEWS
FELIX
6
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The movement to stop the Life Sciences Cuts
suffered a setback on the 15th December, as
Imperial College Senate rejected the Imperial
College Union paper that called for a halt to
the restructure. The Senate, which is made up
of senior members of College management, in-
cluding the Rector, failed to support the paper
to the disappointment of students who assem-
bled outside the meeting at the Rector’s house.
However pressure has continued to build as
Mustafa Djamgoz, a Professor of Cancer Bi-
ology at Imperial and Chair of the Science
Council at the College of Medicine, warned
that the cuts could cause “long-term damage”
and Union President Alex Kendall told Impe-
rial College Union Council that he felt that the
Department was “lying” about the effect of the
cuts on teaching.
In his harshest criticism yet of the restruc-
ture, Alex Kendall said that the Department
were being underhand by not being forthcom-
ing with evidence for the restructure and that
“if they have evidence [that shows that teach-
ing will be unaffected] but they don’t send it
to you, then they’re lying”. He also said that
the Department have no plan regarding teach-
ing and that they are “just making it up as they
go along”. The Department has previously said
that it will carry out a teaching review this
month, following the restructure. The Head
of the Life Sciences Department Professor Ian
Owens was unavailable for comment.
Around 160 students held a noisy but peace-
ful protest outside the Senate meeting. Many
wore red monkey masks and chanted “Save our
plants!” as members of the Senate arrived for
the meeting. There was light security outside
the meeting but they were content to simply
watch from a distance. Professor Owens did
not face the students outside the Rector’s house
and was not present at the meeting. A number
of staff observed from the back of the crowd,
including some who are directly affected by
the cuts.
Despite the protest, however, College Sen-
ate was supportive of the cuts and rejected the
Union paper calling for them to be halted. Only
7 members of the Senate supported the paper
including the College Tutor Mrs Margaret Cun-
ningham, Dr W Thomas Pike and Dr Krysia
Broda from the Faculty of Engineering, Dr Tim
Albrecht from the Faculty of Natural Sciences
and Dr Michael McGarvey from the Faculty of
Medicine. The crowd booed and jeered when
the result was received via text from Alex Ken-
dall and threatened that they would make their
dissatisfaction obvious when the National Stu-
dent Survey came around. Kendall expressed
his frustration at the outcome saying, “The
meeting was a massive disappointment. Most
people in the room avoided the issue outright.
The Senate is supposed to be concerned with
education but there was little sign of that at the
meeting.” He promised to continue to cam-
paign against the cuts warning, “there are still
many opportunities to fight these changes and
we’re not going to give up.” He expressed his
gratitude to the students at the protest saying
that he was “incredibly moved to see that many
people out in the rain, campaigning to defend
teaching at Imperial.”
More recently, Kendall produced a list of steps
the Union can take in pressing the issue further.
These include: putting pressure on the depart-
ment to release a plan detailing how the teach-
ing hours of the lost staff will be replaced; taking
part in the forthcoming departmental teaching
review; scrutinising the changes made to the
final year Biology and Biochemistry courses;
generating wider awareness about the handling
of the restructure and the angry response of the
students. The restructure was the subject of a
recent article in national magazine Private Eye.
The Department has defended its decision
arguing that there is a pressing need to ad-
dress its deficit. Imperial College London re-
moved £635,000 in funding this year as part
of its College-wide decision to withdraw the
so-called ‘Flexibility Margin’. The aim is to
“encourage Departments develop alternative
plans for financial sustainability”. As a result
the Department of Life Sciences has a £1.5 mil-
lion deficit for the period 2010/2011. The De-
partment claims that “the proposals would lead
to a significant improvement in [its] financial
position” in a time period of approximately two
years. It was revealed in December that Impe-
rial’s operating surplus, or profit, for 2010 was
£41.3 million, compared with £16.7 million in
2009 and £27.1 million in 2008.
However yet more academics have come out
against the cuts in what is a growing sign of
discontent amongst both affected and unaf-
fected staff. Professor Mustafa Djamgoz joins
public criticism from Emeritus Professor John
Mansfield and Dr Pietro Spanu in a letter to Ian
Owens that has been made public. In it Profes-
sor Djamgoz says that “many of those ‘remain-
ing […] are unhappy with what’s happening”.
He explains his initial reluctance to air his dis-
content publicly but says, “I have thought a lot
about the […] restructuring. There are many
things that just do not add up”.
Academics from other institutions have
also joined the chorus of criticism aimed at
the department. Regius Professor of Botany
and Head of Plant Sciences at University of
Glasgow, Professor Mike Blatt, slammed the
restructure in a letter to Ian Owens and Mag-
gie Dallman, writing that it “does not conform
with any obvious policy of supporting aca-
demic excellence and international competi-
tiveness, nor does it show evidence of strategic
long-term vision, and it appears certain to send
all the wrong messages to both staff and stu-
dents alike. In short, it is virtually guaranteed
to undermine the reputation and therefore the
future of Imperial College”. Additionally The
Director of the John Innes Centre, Professor
Dale Sanders, criticized the cuts saying that
they would “exacerbate the shortage of well-
educated and motivated graduates”.
Academics from a range of universities in-
cluding Edinburgh, UCL, Durham, Glasgow,
York, Reading, Lancaster, St Andrews, Oxford
and Cambridge have signed the online petition
which now has over 1700 signatures. One of
the signatories, Dr John P. Carr of the Cam-
bridge Plant Sciences Department, described
the cuts as “tantamount to intellectual vandal-
ism” and called it a “ridiculous step for one of
the world’s major research universities”. He
expressed his anger about the issue saying,
“students have basically been tricked into do-
ing courses and PhDs that they wouldn’t have
done if they had known about the restructure”.
From a research point of view, he added, “Im-
perial’s action is absurd when both the Royal
Society and the Biotechnology and Biologi-
cal Sciences Research Council (BBSRC) feel
that [crop science] research is vital for UK
and world food security.” The Royal Soci-
Union President
promises to
continue Life
Sciences fight
Who says protests need to be all about violence a
a party. And yes, before you ask, he did play Rage
Awards
New Years Honours
Three past and present Imperial College London staff
have been recognised in the Queen’s New Year’s
Honours List for 2011.
Linda Jones – Faculty Projects Manager (Natural
Sciences) and Operations Manager (Department of
Physics).
Lindsay Green – Administrative Director at the Medi-
cal Research Council’s Clinical Sciences Centre.
David Gentry – the former Safety Manager in the Fac-
ulty of Natural Sciences.
They all received a Member of the Order of the British
Empire (MBE) for services to Science.
Several Imperial Alumni were also recognised with
Honours:
Knighthood
Sir Ron Kerr, St Mary’s
School for Medicine, for
services to Healthcare
OBE
Victor Leverett, BSc
Physics 1966, for ser-
vices to the Defence
Industry
Andrew Goldberg, St
Mary’s 1994, for ser-
vices to Medicine
CBE
Professor Hugh Godfray, PHd Biology 1982, for ser-
vices to Science
Peter Head, Arup, BSc Civil Engineering 1969, for
services to Civil Engineering and to the environment
Professor Stephen Holgate, Medicine 1971, for ser-
vices to Clinical Science
Jenny Body, Aeronautics 1975, for services to the
Aerospace Industry and to Engineering
MBE
Dr Elizabeth Hall, St Mary’s 1961, for services to
Healthcare and to the community in Colchester, Es-
sex.
David Mitchell-Baker, Engineering 1959, for servic-
es to the community in Mid-Surrey.
Ms Dorothy Fairburn, Wye Natural Sciences 1973,
for services to Rural Affairs in the Yorkshire and
Humber Region.
The Honours list has, in the past, often been marred
with controversy. Famously in 2006, Michael Win-
ner turned down an OBE stating “I’m very glad that
they recognise my considerable skills as a toilet
cleaner, but when you look at the rubbish who are
getting these awards and the absolute non-service
they have given to the nation other than financing or
working for political parties, you say, ‘What company
am I in?”
However, this year the more questionable tips
for knighthood failed to make the grade. Sir Simon
Cowell did not happen, despite rumours that he
would be honoured for his charity fundraising for
victims of the Haiti earthquake earlier this year. And
Bruce Forsyth will have to be happy remaining as a
CBE for now.
Charles Betts
Sir Ron Kerr
Kadhim Shubber
Parts of this article were originally published
on www.felixonline.co.uk on the 15th of De-
cember.
Kadhim Shubber
Friday 14 january 2011

