FELIX 7
NEWS
and anarchy? Throw some Bose speakers into the mix and, hey!, you’ve got yourself
e Against The Machine...
Excessive drinking clampdown
enforced at Reynolds bar
Imperial College Union (ICU) at-
tempted to contain the fallout in an of-
ficial statement, stating that they “do not
condone the excessive consumption on
alcohol”. Indeed, in the student agree-
ments introduced this year, which all
medical students sign, students agree
to “understand that inappropriate use of
drugs or alcohol is totally unacceptable
in the medical profession.” However,
David Smith, President of ICSMSU,
conceded that some students do drink
excessively, saying, “excesses come
from a minority of students, mainly
men’s sports clubs”. However he point-
ed out that the problem was not confined
to the medical school: “Excessive drink-
ing is a feature of certain clubs across
[all of] Imperial.” He also sought to
clarify that the orange buckets provided
are purely precautionary.
In light of the negative press attention,
ICSMSU has been forced to create a
strategy to curb excessive drinking and
is set to enforce tougher guidelines on
the student body. Alcohol will no lon-
ger be served to a student who “seems
too drunk or [is] unwilling to drink
anymore”. In the reviewed guidelines,
students deemed too drunk will be re-
moved from the premises and jugs of
alcohol will no longer be served. Most
importantly, a ‘bar steering’ group has
been set up to collect student input into
the future of the Reynolds. In addition,
several campaigns will be run in con-
junction with ICU, to remind students
of the implication of excessive drinking
with regards to both their health and fu-
ture careers.
Smith has sought to reassure ICSMSU
Clubs and Societies following the first
bar steering group, which he admitted
“went a lot worse than expected”, in a
message to ICSMSU Club & Society
Chairs, Treasurers and Secretaries. He
went on to explain that the Charing Cross
Campus Dean, Professor Peter Taylor
demanded that “each club has a sober
steward so that if the bouncers have to
kick someone out, then you have some-
one who can take them home. They are
also responsible for any vomit in your
area.” Smith conceded that he realizes
that people will be disappointed, but he
states that “this is the best we could do”.
Many of the guidelines will be en-
forced at the discretion of the stewards
on site. However Smith confirmed that
they had been enforced successfully at
the first Sports Night of the new term
last Wednesday.
Members of the Christian Medic Fel-
lowship (CMF) – the only group to be
portrayed positively in the article – play
a significant role in the stewardship of
the site. The role of CMF at sports has
been questioned, however – the ICMSU
confirmed that CMF’s role was only
to steward and not to clean up vomit,
as the article suggested. In an official
statement circulated to the captains of
various clubs and societies, students are
reminded that it is “the responsibility of
the individual clubs [to clean up] rather
than leaving it to the stewards”.
In addition to addressing the issue of
excessive drinking, the security of both
the student body and the Reynolds bar
has been thrown into question, with
many students questioning how report-
ers gained access to the bar. Up until
now, access to the Reynolds bar, situated
behind Charing Cross Hospital, Ham-
mersmith has been fairly open, with ID
rarely checked at the door or bar. In a
publication produced by the ICSMSU
about bar policy, it was detailed that stu-
dents must now produce their college ID
and sign in to gain access to the build-
ing, as well as presenting valid ID at the
bar. It is rumoured that Campus Dean
Professor Taylor, suggested introducing
CCTV cameras at Reynolds. He did not
deny the rumours.
The ICSMSU believes that the re-
porters “obtained much of his informa-
tion from student Facebook accounts”.
In order to prevent similar embarrass-
ments in the future, as well as maintain-
ing the security of its students, students
will be reminded to be careful about
what they broadcast in the public do-
main.
With ICSMSU desperate to avoid
similar negative press coverage in the
future, it is clear that both the attitudes
of a minority of ICSM students and the
way the Reynolds is run will be subject
to considerable change. If the measures
detailed by ICSMSU are unsuccessful
however, the future of the Reynolds bar
remains unclear.
...Continued from Front Page
Well at least they didn’t throw any fire extinguishers at anybody...
ety released a report in October 2009 which
called for universities to “reverse the decline in
subjects such as agronomy, plant physiology,
pathology and general botany, soil science, en-
vironmental microbiology, weed science and
entomology.” In December, the Plant and Mi-
crobial Sciences section announced that they
had “sequenced the genome of a major fungal
disease that affects barley”. Professor Janet Al-
len, the BBSRC Director of Research said, “It
is testament to the excellence of UK bioscience
research that these scientists have managed
to publish this world-class research despite
the difficulties of studying the organisms in
question.” In its final outcome document, the
Review Panel that undertook the restructure
consultation recognized “the potential strategic
importance of plant science research activity”
but felt that there wasn’t a “sufficient critical
mass of high impact research activity […] in
the plant sciences area upon which to base an
independent academic unit”
The University and College Union (UCU)
have indicated that it will be challenging the
legal basis of the cuts. Students have called for
Professor Owens to resign. He is rumoured to be
taking a two-year sabbatical once the restructure
is complete, but this has not yet been confirmed.
The National Student Survey, which started
this month, polls students for their views con-
cerning their course. If the angry, impassioned
protests of last term are anything to go by, the
Life Sciences Department can expect some
fairly candid remarks from its students. As one
of them recently commented on Facebook: “I
can’t believe there is only 1024 characters avail-
able to write about the ‘negative aspects’of your
course/university, there is so much to say.”
“The Department
has defended its
decision arguing
that there is a
pressing need
to address its
deficit”
Correction
In the article entitled:
“Staff and students rail
against job cuts” (Issue
1477 – 10/12/10) it was
incorrectly asserted that
16 academics were be-
ing made redundant. It
should have said 14. Felix
apologises for this typo.
Editor
Friday 14 january 2011

