P A R A D I S E E N O W
A PERSONAL VIET OP THE GUILD'S CARNIVAL*
"Oh, i t ' s simply wonderful" said
a pretty girl, leaning on the arm of a
rather grim-looking gentleman who was
inexpertly clutching a wooden cutlass.
She was admiring this year's decoration)
for the Guild's Carnival - "Pirates
Paradise". And wonderful they were,
too - certainly, that Concert Hall has
never before been so expertly disguised
and turned so realistically into some-
thing other than i t s real, forbidding,
self.
For the benefit of those so un-
lucky as not to have seen this trans-
formation, perhaps I had better explain.
The entire Conoert Hall had been turned
into the foredeck of a pirate galleon
the stage forming the quarterdeck.
The wooden floor of the hall was the
only unchanged feature that could be
recognised, serving as the actual deck
of the ship. Looking over the scuppers
of this Imperial Galleon, one could see
islands and a most sanguine sunset on
the port quarter. Mermaids draped
themselves around in poses reminiscent
of some soap advertisement and to com-
plete the effect, a flimsy muslin roof
hid the clinical lights and roof of the
erstwhile Hall from view. Fortunately
the realistic sea was realistically
oalm and no-one was realistically sea-
sick.
The construction of a large and
efficient bar on the landing outside
the entrance to the Concert Hall was
a very welcome feature and prevented
incidents interfering with the revels,
In the Upper Dining Hall the cats
were busy around the jazz band and
when the Jive Competition began i t
was really something to see (some of
the men were good too! 1
CABARET
Every Carnival has a cabaret, of
oourse. A Carnival Cabaret may be def-
ined as follows: "A piece of entertain-
ment which worries the life out of i t s
producer, scares the life out of those
taking part, and is shouted down by the
audi enow an the night*- unless you-take
special precautions. This cabaret had
two special features - talent and Mike
Newaon. This is not to say, of oourse,
that Mr. Newson is not talented - who
doubts this?, but he made a spectacular
Master of Ceremonies in a genuine
"Treasure Island* type outfit, whioh
looked much better when he played the
clarinet; so natural did he look that
one felt that a l l pirates must have
played clarinets as a matter of course
- and he could handle the audience.
The other and more striking
feature of this entertainment was the
talent. Derek Bayliss, the producer,
had drawn widely in Guilds for both
cast and material, with 'the result
that he managed to produce something
very like a short review.
Ignoring some loutish R.C.S.
interruptions, i t is safe to say
that there were no spontaneous out-
bursts from the audience - they
listened to the cabaret, and enjoyed
listening, which is a great tribute
to i t s producer and his oast.
As to the material provided for
our entertainment - there ware two,
and only two, weak spots; firstly the
•Dreadful Night" sketch whioh, waa so
old that the audience spoilt i t by
supplying the punch line and secondly
a rather curious Quatermass sketch (?)
- this appeared to puzzle those taking
part as much as the audience, so
everyone felt at home. One oan only
wish that the end-product of a l l our
am experiments could be as interesting,
a l l the same.
Personally speaking, I would vote
as the best sketch that in which a very
polished (and slightly slimy?) Guilds-
man, armed only with his charm and a
telephone, persuaded a rather blase
young lady to come to the carnival -
in pyjamas: "to save time" he explain-
ed.
Derek Bayliss avoided that bug-
bear of the cabaret producer - a flat
last sketch - by providing a very
original version of an Irving Berlin
song. This also served to f i l l the
stage with Guildsmen and these, led
by their President - Dava Clark -
gave the audienoe a rousing Boom-
alaka as a final offering.
FOOD
The writer would like to make a
personal plea for better arrangements
of the food in future - i t waa vary
difficult for anyone not in the front
line to get as much as a smell of a
s-udwioh - smaller tables and a mora
open arrangement of the existing
tables would have been better - also,
somewhere to sit would have been ap-
preciated on the other hand, maybe
I'm just getting old and less push-
f u l l .
Remarks about other carnival
cabarets are invideous - they are not
intended as major works of art - but
to be enjoyed at the moment they are
given and no longer.
An example of the excellent flats*

