4
Circolatksn 1
5
O
O
E D I T O R
M.R.HONrTR.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE
Edittvdat Comment
I an shocked, but perhaps not so
surprised, that members of this College
oan pour out gallons of ink of vitriolic
strength over another publication's
alleged misdemeanours, but when i t comes
to a serious issue - and I am thinking
of the N.U.S, questions, for example,
they are silent. This reflects what
has been termed "the infantile mentality*
jf scientists, when there is someone
to hound or jibe, the College ( or its
noisier elements) is happy, but whan
there is an important issue for serious
consideration, i t is lost, simply because
there i s a eer'oas lack of grey matter
One or two of the letters I receive
would never get into "The Children's
Newspaper" - let alone this publication,
which is supposed to reflect the views
of an important, adult section of the
population. By all means write to
"Felix" - air you views and grouses, but
remember that yoa are in a priviledged
position as University students - Just
show that you are worth I t .
At the last meeting of the Refectory
Committee:, the question of queues in
the various eating establishments around
this College was raised. It was surp-
rising and heartening, to see the amount
of effort and though that is expended
to deal with this problem. The idea
of "staggering* lecture times near the
lunch hour was proposed and, while this
might wall ease the situation on three
days a weak, during the long General
Studies lunch-hour, this will have no
real affect. Mr. Mooney proposes to
out down the choice of dishes, with a
view to speeding up service - a rather
unfortunate method, but i f i t works,
perhaps some people may think i t worth
i t . Whatever the cure, oan anyone but
agree, that i t i s uncivilised to sit
eating while others hover around you,
eagerly waiting for you to vacate your
seat?
Regular readers of this publication
may notice that Nelson is not with us
any more. This i s due to the attitude
of soas College people who try and
oonvinae us and themselves that they are
above being mentioned in a "rag like
Felix*. They not only misunderstand
Kelson's Column, baa also misunderstand
Collage l i f e . What goes on at Collage
is never private; Nelson, by tradition
was not a auakrakar, but a ooanaatafter
on some of the more aanslng aspects of
the union. It i s a pity that retrlbut
ion should have fallen so heavily on
tot shoulders.
It is rumoured that the Photo-
graphic Editor is being driven mad (and
threatens to resign). It is also
rumoured, this time from a reliable
source, that this is due to his roar
(No.50 Old Hostel) being cluttered up
by uncollected orders and handbags.-
It would be greatly appreciated i f
both ware removed as soon as possible
and prevent the suicide rate at I.C.
going ap.
Those who enjoyed the L.C. pro-
duction last sera of the adaptation by
Miles Mallascn of the "Miser" may be
interested in a double-billof Moliere's
plays which he has also adapted, and.
which opened at the Old Tie last Wed-
nesday: these are TARTUFFE and SGAHAR-
ELLB, in the anas style as the Miser and
star Malleson himself with Pauline Jame-
son and Derek Francis.
There is a spate of plays i n London
at the moment dealing with the seamier
side of life i n New York, Paris, London
and other well-known oentres of viae:
but in A TASTE OF HONEY - which opened
at Wyndhaa's Theatre last Tuesday, the
spotlight is turned on Salford, Lanes.,
and this proves equally revealing.
This show has been running successfully
at the Theatre Royal, Stratford, E.
For c^ra-goers,^Dvoraks RUSSALKAta
being produced forftie^firat time this
season at the Sadler's Wells Theatre
next Wednesday, and will have a&total
of four performances this month.
At the R.F.H. on March 2nd. is
a jazz concert with Johnny DankwortK
and Humphrey Lyttleton: soloists are
to be announced later.
This year the Shakespeare Kumi lal
Theatre is oelebrating its 100th. anniv-
ersary, and its repertoire, beginning
Ji'd waxth knowing
on April 7th. will include OTHEELO, ALL'S
WELL THAT ENDS WELL, A MIDSUMMER NIGHTS
DREAM, CORIOIANUS and KING LEAR. Among
the company are Dame Edith Evans, S i r
Laurence Olivier, Charles Laughton,
Mary Ure and Sam Wanamaker.
The box-office is now open for
the visit of the Coaedie Francais* to
the Princes Theatre on March 16th.,
where incidentally the D'fiyly Carte
Opera Company i s playing Gilbert and
Sullivan operas until then. The visit
opens with Feydeaus Le DINDON, which
is fallowed by Moliere's LBS FEMMBS
SAVANTES and LES FOURBIERBS DE SCAPBC.
Shows finishing shortly include
THE TUNNEL OF LOVE with Brian Reece
at the Appollo, which finishes tomorrow;
BROUHAHA, starring Peter Sellers, at the
Aldwyoh which finishes the week after
next; HOLIDAY ON ICE at the Empire Fool,
also tomorrow,and WHERE'S CHARLEY? with
Norman Wisdom at the Palace Theatre,
which closes next weekend.
Turning to Silas, Ingmar Bergman's
WILD STRAWBERRIES, mentioned in this
column last term, is being withdrawn
from "the Academy Cinema next Thursday,
and i s being replaced by Jean Reniar'e
LA..GRAHDE ILLUSION, starring Jean Gab in,
Pierre Fresnay and Eric von Stroheim (a
formidable oastl) With this will be shown
MARCH TO ALDERMASTCS.
VIP
Next week U.L.U. will be a Very
International Place, there is going
to be an International Festival- from
Thursday until Saturday (Feb. 18th -
20th).
Jean Cranston, U.L.U. Vice Presi-
dent, has taken over the organisation
of the V.I.F. this year. When I last
met Jean she was full of ideas, which,
i f executed, should make this Festival
the best ever!
There are going to be stands re-
presenting many of the countries from
which London University Students come.
Here is the chance to learn about
other Students from abroad who are
keen to talk about their homelands.
The International Concert was so
popular last year that there are to be
two performances next week. On Sat-
urday evening the Dance, with i t s
Cabaret, is planned as the nliasT to
the Festival.
If you are a foreign Student your-
self, why not go along 'to the V.I.P.
and see i f your own country is repre-
sented truly.
Anyone going to U.L.U. next snek
will not be-able to anas the Til.P. so
why don't you go along especially for
the Festival.
RADFORD.
Han. Sao. I.C. International
Relations Club.
GEOFF BPATT
Geoff Bratt, who will lead the I.p.
expedition to the Apolobambo range of
the South American Andes this summer,
is filling in the time between handing
in his Ph.D. thesis last October and
sailing for Peru i n next June by explor-
ing with Eric Shipton i n Patagonia.
Writing from the expedition'' s base on
the.shoraas of Lake argentine- on Christ-
mas Day'he rhapsodises over the glaciers
and icebergs on the lake, but says that
because the relief ship has not arrived
there will be no goodies for Christmas
dinner and celebrations will have to be
limited to drinking gin, which fortunately
is plentiful.
The Imperial College of Science
and Technology has appointed Miss
Sylvia Crowe, President of the
Institute of Landscape Architects,
as landscape consultant in connection
with the development of the College's
central site in South Kensington.

