8 •mix
• W H t
EDITED BY K.W. LUDLAM.
SKI CLUB
•Yes, sir, it's £12 wihtout Ski
hire, Boot hire, Sleepers on the journeyj
travel or accomodation. Then you will
find there are a few extras like Ski S
School " That was the Travel Agent.
The next day I discovered we had a Ski
Club of our own. The Imperial College
Ski Club conducted a tour and I was
welcome. It catered for beginners, and
trained then to be experts. Sounded good.
Cheap too. An all inclusive price of £31
with a few extras like .... Kitzbuhel
was the queen of the Austrian resorts,
we were told.
The day arrived, Dec 21st., We
played bridge on the train to Dover,
were sea-sick on the boat, and the* made
ourselves as comfort able"'as possible'an
the bunks of the continental train. The
next afternoon we arrived. I stepped off
the train and promptly eat down. "Hey,
you're not allowed to ski here" someone
yelled.
Having hired our equipment after a
good meal, we set off "home". It was a
pension half a mile out of town. "Mot
as bad as last year" said one of the
senior members. Carrying- the skis
was a nuisance. They refused to stay
together, and dug holes i n your shoulder.
Putting them on was even worse. The
instructor showed us how, but after put-
ting on one, the other slid forward
about 4 feet, just out of reach. Ging-
erly I stood up, put one foot forward
and slipped. "Don't s i t down" shouted
the instructor. Sit down, HaHa...i The
ski was s t i l l out of reach.
In the afternoon we went up the
slope, stepping sideways to keep the skis
parallel to the contour. Then we came
whiszing down, a l l three feet of i t . We
had at last learned how to ski. After
school we went up the small l i f t . After
a l l , l i t t l e kids of four and five were
coming down. We got to the top and look
ed down. The slope was axles long. And
steep. We put the skis on our damaged
shoulders and walked dean.
After a week we were experts. We
were going up' and down the l i f t s like
jetereni, , In fact i f we weren't perpet-
ually covered in anew, no <ne would have
notioed the difference. There ware s t i l l
frequent calls of "Don't s i t down" but
we hardly noticed. The snow was soft,
and falling was almost a Godsend. It
meant three seconds of rest.
Then i t happened. The greatest
curse of them a l l . It was tragedy in the
aiddle of the Austrian winter. It rain-
ed. Overnight the show froze. The oen
oentres of gravity were sore. Even the
soft dunlopillo of the dive could not
console them.
The day we left i t feasnowing. Great
chunks of i t . Never mindl Maybe i t
will s t i l l be there next year,
From S.K. Praaanik, Captain, Ski Club.
SWIMMING
Last Friday, I.C. entertained
Oxford Dolphins, and after a close
match, I.C. won 37-27, winning the
final two relays. In an exalting
polo eaten afterward*, I.C. ware held
to a 5-5 draw.
In the swimming, I.C. ware well
served by their University trio of
Harford, Loveaan, and Shorey, who won
an event apiece, but their record
strives ware unfortunately not Salt*
as good as Oxford's and so despite
individual wins by the above three,
I.C. were only leading by 2 points
when the final two relays came to be
decided. Here, however, contrary to
expectations, the superior fitness of
the I.C. team showed itself, and they
took both relays to win the match com-
fortably. In the polo I.C., aftea-
being 3 goals in the rear at one
stage, were fortunate to pull up, and
draw 5-5. Basham, was I.C.'s best
player, scoring a fine hat-trick.
In the U.X. League the night before
I.C. put up a pathetic display and were
defeated by Kings by 7-2. This defeat
practically ruined I.C.'s chance* of
winning the League. However the
seoond team had an easy 2-0 victory over
Northern Polytechnic and are grisly
established i n 2nd place i n this div-
ision. The third teaa are also play-
ing well, and at present have a clear
lead at the top of Div. IV.
SOCCER
On Saturday week the 1 s t teaa
ease Its annual trip to Brighton and,
far the first time, managed to show
its supremacy over Varndean G.S. with
a 4-1 win. Last Saturday at Barling-
ton the 1st XI were very unlucky not
to beat top of the League Westminster,
but oaae away with a point in a 2-2
draw. The goals were scared by centre
forward Coups who has 27 to his name
this season, but the honours i n this
matoh go to a l l the tesa members who
gave such a fine and spirited display.
The League record so far:-
P. W. D. L. G.F. G.A. Pte.
8 3 2 3 25 27 8
The 2nd and 3rd XI'• playing very
well on Saturday week beat N.E.C and
L.S.TS. II 6-0 and 9-2, respectively,
but the 3rd H could not hold a strong
Battersea team last Saturday and went
under 2-0. On the same day, the
4th XI beat Institute of Education £-3
and the 5th XI beat Chelsea II la a
very close game.
"SUPPORT REQUIRED"
On Saturday. February 21 at the
College is playing Kings (the holders
for the past 3 seasons) i n the final
of the U.L. Cup at Motspur Park.
Coaches will be leaving College at
1p.a. on this occasion and further
details oan be found on the Union
Notice Board. Also stand tickets
can be obtained from Club officials
for a very small fee.
C R O S S C O U N T S * .
The past fortnight has been a
fairly successful time for the Cross
Country Club. Our first team has
finished second in two tough races while
the seoond teaa has won three Batches,
one of them by a huge margin.
On January 31st the first team
were running at Hayes against Metro-
politan Police and a United Hospitals
team. The Hospitals proved too strong
for us, but we easily defeated the
Police, the scores being Hospitals
43 points, I.C. 67 points, Police 135
points. The first I.C. runner was
Jaeger in 3rd place, then came
Bernard (5), Brown (8), Gilbert (10),
Clifton (11) and Barber (13)".
The following Saturday the first
team were at Hempstead for the big
•Hampstead Match" against 10 other
teams. The result was an easy win
for Oxford Tortoises (40 points) but
I.C. took second place with 128 points,
beating Southampton, Nottingham, Bristol
Leicester, and all the London Colleges.
John Collins ran extremely well to
f i n i s h second, then came Larkum (13)»
Briggs (19), Jaeger (24), Brown (25),
and Clifton (45). The return to
fitness of Dave Briggs i s very welcome.
On January 28th our second team
went to Brentwood School, and just
managed to win by 38 points,to 42.
It i s probable that the winning mar-
gin would have been greater had not two
of our runners gone off oourse. The
race was won by M
"
. Barber, who is just
starting racing again after an injury.
A regrettable result of this race was
that Paul Anton sustained an injury
which may prevent him racing for the
rest of the season.
The following Wednesday our seoond
team defeated Bancroft's School, Mike
Barber and Roger Landbeck took 1st
and 3rd places respectively. The con-
ditions on this course were atrocious;
there was deep mud, frozen hard, yet
greasy sad slippery on M i top.
Last Saturday the second team
had i t s biggest win of the season, when
Pearl Assurance were defeated by 12
points to 33. We had 8 men, Pearl had
4» and their 4 men occupied positions
3, 8, 10 and 12. The race was won by
Warren, who was closely followed by
Clare (2), Sandcs (4), James ( 5 ) ,
Haynent (6) and Thomas(7).
HELP REQUIRED
Please note: The 11th Annual Hyde
Park Road Relay will be held on
Saturday, February 28th, starting at
3 p.m. at the West End of Rotten Row.
We are expecting a record entry of
than 50 teams.
Volunteers are urgently required
to help with the work which must be .'lone
before, during, and after the race;
please contact Dave Briggs or sign on
C.C. notioeboard.
UL SOCCER FINAL-. Kh. KINGS MOTSPUR PARK SATURDAY FEBRUARY 2 1 *
Published by F E L I X B O A R D , Imperial College Onion, S.W.7 Frintcd by W E S T L O N D O N O F F S E T CO.. 307a Telephone Place, W.14 TeL F U X 7969

