3 October 1997 MUSIC
ALBUMS
FIIMUEY Q U A Y E
Maverick A Strike • * •
Finley shows
everyone exactly-
how to dance to
his music.
'"' J
" When an album's songwnting credits
include the late great Bob Marley and
^~Zm when the protagonist's nephew is some-
M> one known as Tricky, you have to start lis-
tening. An album full of some of the most laid-back
cool in the world appears under the name of Maverick
A Strike by Finley Quaye. Here is a man with a curiosly
interssting voice; he sounds like a ninety-year old
crone that's just swallowed a whole cannister of
Helium but he fits in over the hypnotic reggae-influ-
enced music quite nicely. The classic cut here has to
be Sunday Shining (the one co-written with Marley) in
which the simplest of riffs catches your immediate
attention. There are the more sample-driven and
dance-y tracks too like Supreme I Preme which has a
hard (yet still very cool) backbeatcoupled with some
strange effect on the vocals.
Even After Ail gets back to the whole man-with-a-
strange-voice-but-nice-melody thing with aplomb and
then there's Red Rolled And Seen, a track with a very
funky outro. Falling brings in a quieter element to the
proceedings with its simple bassline and vocals which
is punctuated momentarily with swathes of strings.
A fine album and one deserving all of its recent credit
in the press. Alok H
C D R O M
D-Code...
Contains music tracks from
Lionrock, Republica and others, a
large quiz and a graphical music
program, intended to let you write
similar music. You can't access this
'Arcade of Sound' until you've got
all the questions in the quiz cor-
rect. This is because the disk was
released by the National Drugs
Helpline, and they want you to find
out all about the dangers of drugs.
The graphics are truly stunning
- obviously a huge amount of work
has gone into its chaotic, MTV-
style presentation. There is always
something moving, silly games to
keep you amused and even the
'right-on' D) voiceover, which
would normally be irritating, is
amusing for its surreal comments.
This is a good job, as the ques-
tions are predictably facile and
there's an awful lot of them. It also
requires you to run your monitor in
256 colour mode. Jeremy
Pick up your free copy of D-Code
at the Felix Office L
T
S
Portishead - All Mine
Truly terrifying stuff. You'll be shocked to learn
that All Mine is straight out of a Sixties spy
thriller, Beth Gibbons playing the siren luring you
onto the rocks of a bourbon and ice, before
being drowned by your sorrows. Cowboys, pre-
viously limited to a 5000 copy release, is also
included here and sounds like an 'alien seduc-
tion' scene from Star Trek (can you imagine
Beth with green skin?) - it's trip-hop Jim, but not
as we know it.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Prolapse - Autocade
The Best Live Band in Britain are back with this
single from their new album, The Italian Flag. In
a bid for populist appeal, they've dropped their
trademark edginess for an early Lush sound, and
created a gorgeous, rushing anthem to the spir-
it of '92. Which is fine if you like that kind of
thing. It's quite a relief that we also get a decent
argument between Mick and Linda (Testation)
and some 'Lab-ish meanderings (Pro-Loop) to
show they haven't really gone all fluffy on us.
U2 - Popheart Live EP
Four tracks recorded in Rotterdam and
Fdmonton, led by Please, over seven minutes of
cut-up ramblings from Bono that is dull with a
capital DUH. Trading on past glories (Wriere the
Streets have no Name, With or Without You)
does them no favours either. Great songs, sure,
but we've heard them before.
The Sundays - Summertime
A fine tune for a sunny, love-filled day. Sadly, my
personal life sucks and the weather's turned
right nasty, so it loses most of it's appeal.
Belle and Sebastian - Lazy Line Painter fane
Almost everything about Belle and Sebastian is
brilliant. The themes of the songs, from empty
lives in grey, industrial unemployment capitals,
to dreams of escape, freedom and sexual
ambivalence. The music, both gentle guitar and
insistent Wurlitzer fighting for control. The feel-
ing that Dusty Springfield would have killed for
these songs thirty years ago. And for these
things I love Belle and Sebastian. But the voices
an over-excited Eddi Reader, and a terminally
uncertain Ricky Ross, his voice quavering as
another harmony is missed. Many have argued
this is part of their charm. Having seen them
supporting Tindersticks last year, I promise you
that this is part of the reason they are crap
China Drum - Somewhere £/se
Where once there was punk fuelled energy,
there is now bog-standard rock. Where they had
Husker Du inspired melodies, rubbed red raw
with passion, there is now a bland wash of over-
produced sound. They've got the new album
(Self-Made Maniac) to convince me they still
matter, then I'm giving up.
Warm Jets - Hurricane EP
It's terribly dangerous to hail a band as 'the
new Pixies' t's just too much to live up to, and
they'll more than likely end up bein crap ut
let's consider the facts. Behemoth bass lines.
Pop thrills galore, without the loss ofaw ilful
sense of experimentalism. A tremendously cool
lead guitarist (who looks and sounds like joey
Santiago). Songs that make my heart soar, my
face flush and my feet twitch, something only
ever achieved by a) a lethal cocktail of drink
and drugs, or b) The Pixies. I think you may
begin to grasp my point. If Hurricane doesn't
have you bouncing off the walls, you must bum
your copy of Surfer Rosa immediately.
The Pecadiloes - Initial Transmissions EP
To make a Pecadiloes EP first take an angst
statement, for example "I want to kill you",
"You send shivers dowm my spine", "I feel
cold, I feel naked", "My goldfish died last
night", and repeat a different one over and
over again on top of the same tedious tune.
Hey presto an EP!
Idha - Sweet September Rain
If rumour is correct Idha only got her record
contract because her boyfriend (Andy Bell) was
in Creations biggest act at the time (Ride).
Surely Alan McGee and Co. can get rid of her
and live of the profits from the next Oasis
album? The record is one of those sub eurovi-
sion happy soft songs where you keep expect-
ing Serge Gainsbourge to make a guest appear-
ance on backing vocals.
Sleeper - She's a good girl
My god this is bad, from the Texasesque
vocals (Ta Louise!) viathe plodding tune (Ta
Sleeperblokes!) through the false ending
and final fade to quiet I hate this song with a
passion you can only dream of.
Norm &. Ben E]

