NEWS 3 October 1997
London Fashion week
brings new style to IC
The Queen's Lawn played host to a myriad of
stars from the fashion world this week as the hip
and trendy congregated in South Kensington for
London Fashion Week. Of those designers exhibit-
ing their wears, many did so within the confines of
Imperial College, and so, no sooner had the
examination tents been dismantled, than new and
more extravagant models were erected to house
the collections of some of the most innovative
British designers.
Designers as diverse as John Rocher and
Alexander McQueen were seen to peruse the IC
concourse and a gaggle of incredibly skinny girls
also found their way to the Queen's Lawn.
However, actually managing to obtain tickets to
the highly popular catwalk shows proved a hope-
less task for many people.
I was lucky enough to attend the exhibition of
J.&. M. Davison. The collection was aimed at the
minimalist in all of us, with the emphasis firmly on
texture and tailoring. Initially, Pastel colours were
teamed with cool creams to provide a somewhat
ethereal atmosphere as scruffy haired models
paraded down the catwalk. Stylish creations in
black, brown and navy provided 'the classics' with
the boost they have been hankering for for a long
time. The most unusual colour combinations,
however came towards the end of the show,
when turquoise broidreanglais was worn with
vibrant cerise lycra, a partnership which served to
enhance the already childlike qualities of the pre-
pubescent looking models.
Silk knits coupled with Chinese silk or with
embroidered chiffon layered over satin, later
added that currently popular oriental feel. Skirts
were slinky, loosely figure hugging and knee
length, while dresses skimmed the bottom and
trousers hung loosely from the hips. The 'big
knickers' which have become a feature in many
collections during the last six months also reared
their, some would say, ugly head here, this time
vaguely camouflaged under tiny translucent
Seventies smock dresses.
The make up remained simple throughout the
show, so as not to up stage what the press and
public had really come to see, with the current
trend for glowing cheeks and sun-kissed skin
meticulously adhered to.
Over all the show was deemed a success by
all and nothing but praise was heard for the hus-
band and wife design team.
Kelly Robinson
Water-halls
from front page
with the situation in a "well-
organised fashion" despite the dan-
ger involved due to live wires and
cables. Although power had been
shut off to the levels affected, the
extent to which the water had
spread was not realised until later
when a shower room was inspect-
ed for water damage and the
flourescent light was found to be
flickering on and off. Pipes and cir-
cuitry that ran through the walls
were heating up and cold water
came out boiling due to heat dissi-
pation from power lines. Room
681 had power cut to it complete-
ly after shift engineers inspected it
and found the wires in the light
switch had almost burnt through
due to a probable short-circuit and
could have caused a serious fire.
The engineers also found a battery
room flooded and were met by a
"wall of water" when they opened
the door.
Southside Bar was closed and
cordoned off for several days and a
large amount of repairs had to be
completed before it opened again.
The lounge above the bar was
closed for longer as there were
worries about the amount of water
the building had absorbed from the
pipe - acroprops were put into
place to support the ceiling beams
and pillars of the lounge. Most of
the wood in the building that
absorbed water warped and
swelled, in some cases so much
that doors were not able to open or
close properly at all.
A cleaner informed us that the
carpets took at least a week to dry
out even when they used vacuum
cleaners designed to suck up water
and had to resort to using blankets
and sheets from beds.
Another small flood occurred
on the 25th of September to a dif-
ferent pipe on Southside, a hot
water supply pipe, but it was con-
trolled and cleared up within min-
utes. Apparently, the plumber
knew the pipe would probably
burst but went to lunch instead of
repairing it.
Phyz
Junior Enterprise Society
A new student venture which manages and
performs projects for companies and
organisations in Britain and abroad.
If you have the ambition, imagination
and motivation to help to run one of the
first Junior Enterprises in Britain, come
and find out more about us:
• at our stall at the Societies Fair on
Tuesday 7th October.
• at the Introductory Meeting on
Tuesday 14th October at lpm in room
770 Mech. Eng
• by e-mail on scitsl@icac.uk.

