DIARY FELIX FRIDAY OCTOBER 6TH 1995 . ELEVEN
Exploration
Society
Explosoc cordially invites you to slip inside
its sleeping bag!*
IC Hidden Garhwal Expedition: Porters
crossing the Parbali River, Indian Himalaya
The Exploration Society will meet for
the first time this year on Thursday 12th
October at 12:30pm in Biology W 2 / 3
(underneath Beit Archway). This
introduction to the society is entitled
'Exploration at I . C . It will include talks by
Professor Schroter (I.C. Exploration Board),
Shane Winser (Royal Geographical Society)
Subwarden Wanted for
Fisher Hall
Applications are invited for the position of
Subwarden in Fisher Hall
We are looking for a friendly,
resourceful and responsible individual to
assist the Warden in the day to day running
of Fischer Hall, in return for rent-free
accommodation that would be suitable for a
single person.
Application forms are available from the
student accommodation office and should
be returned to Dr R.J. Murphy, Department
of Biology, by 5pm on Thursday 12 October
1995.
and the Explosoc committee on how these
organisations can help students plan and
accomplish expeditions around the world.
Absolutely everyone is welcome and
admission is free.
Imperial College is unique in having an
Exploration Board, a body able to provide
expedition funding, equipment and advice.
A student expedition organised via the
Exploration Board is given the priviledge of
bearing the college name, a considerable
boon when approaching media companies
and potential sponsors.
All expeditions require detailed research
in their initial stages. Imperial is very well
situated in this respect since the Royal
Geographical Society, Alpine Club and the
London museums are all near to college and
have useful resources.
Explosoc offers you the opportunity to
hear funny and exciting talks by talented and
experienced explorers. It also provides a
forum - or platform, if you prefer - for
immense inter sexual exchange and copious
amounts of social intercourse. And if you're
hungry for more you can spice up your own
c.v. and be dead impressive at future
interviews by becoming Explosoc's
Exploration Reporter; the post involves
operating alongside the committee
(themselves I.C. students) by producing
reports of each Explosoc gathering for Felix -
please contact the committee if you're
interested.
For more information about Explosoc
please contact the committee or see us at our
first lecture:
Asa Atherton (Chairman), Biology U G ,
0181 847 3292. Phil Wickens (Secretary),
Biology P G , 0181 847 3292. Jim Evans
(Treasurer), Mech. Eng. P G , 0181 870
0792. Mark Evans (Liaison Officer), Mech.
Eng. P G , 0181 870 0792
Careers
There are two careers lectures this week in
the Clore lecture theatre (Huxley 213), at
1-1.50pm.
Tuesday 10th October: "Graduate Study in
the U K " by Andrzej Skapski, Chemistry
Department
Thursday 12th October: "Making Successful
Applications" by Genevieve Tennant,
Personal Executive at J Henry Schroder & Co
Ltd.
All undergraduates and postgraduates are
welcome to attend.
"The job market and other options" is an
interactive workshop run on the Wednesday
11th October from 2.00 - 4.00pm in Huxley
room 344. Sign up in the careers office.
"Heavily influenced by the Z Z Top song
'Sleeping Bag'.
IC Hidden Garhwal Expedition: Nomadic
Herdsman in the Indian Himalaya (Parbali
Valley)
For further information and advice come
to the careers office, room 310 Sherfield
open from 10.00 to 5.15pm Monday to
Friday.
Campaign for Human
Rights
Israel Halperin, Secretary of the
Campaigns will address an open meeting,
answer questions and recieve suggestions at
5.15pm, Tuesday October 10th, Blackett
Laboratory, room 536. Professor TWB Kibble
FRS will be in the chair.
The present campaign is an International
Campaign for Human Dignity.

