thft»*ni>
shepherds, bush tropire
M74
6 o tober
: A 2 ' i ] > m
A AWU'c;
C14.50-CHSJ5K»«?J2
hb;fe:|^AVrAu: y-
' A A A A A A O A
Ki'H A A A A O ' A v A
shepherds bush empire
•13 October A
ihentpy?
brixtqm academy
€3 e J l B l i i i
£}Q~017f924 9999
echolvllv
albums: compilationSt,nt„
Music compilations are a double-edged sword.
For example, compare and discuss tower of
song: the songs of Leonard Cohen and rare on
air: volume 2.
On the face of it the songs of Leonard
Cohen would seem to be an excellent place to
start for 'compilation heaven'. Critically
acclaimed songs from a reasonably unknown
artist are popularly reinterpreted by mainstream
stars such as Elton John, Bono, Tori Amos, Sting,
Peter Gabriel and Billy Joel. BILLYJOEL! Yes
you now start to see that other edge biting - you
get the mostridiculousparing of song and singer
If matador
are cool it's
because
no-one has
heard of
them.
- and the worst of this situation is that the Billy
Joel version of 'Light as a Breeze' is one of the
better covers on the record. More proble-
matically Sting manages to sing 'Sisters of
Mercy' at a different speed to the backing
instruments of the Chieftains, which is
somewhat off-putting, and then we have to
endure Bono talking, rather than singing,
'Hallelujah'. Maybe the problem is that
everyone's trying to be clever; too clever for the
songs of Leonard Cohen obviously.
In complete contrast the subtitle to Rare on
Air: volume 2 is "live sessionsfromKCRW's
morning becomes eclectic" - people you've
probably not heard of (excluding those you have
such as Tanya Donelly of Belly and the
Cranberries) singing live on KCPcW, a
Californian radio station.
The rest of the collection
certainly fulfils that subtitle; as track
after track roll on with understated
bands playing their most understated
songs. Bettie Serveert slowdive through
'Palomine' with the controlled despair
that has become their trademark and
Lou Barlow of Sebadoh beautifully
apologises his way through 'Beautiful
Friend'. JJ Cale andWorld Party briefly
break through the atmosphere and
inject some vigour before the likes of
Joni Mitchell bring it down again.
Overall though the pace is
perhaps a little too slow. The excellent
Volume 1 was ifanythingmore obscure
in terms of artists but it managed to
avoid getting trapped in the eddies of
moodiness. Still for those who are
discerning, Rare On Air is still a world
away from the deadening thud of
Leonard Cohen's songs being mauled.
gig: matador records european tour part 2*
Some say that Matador Records are the coolest
record label on the face of the planet. Ofcourse
most people don't actually express a preference,
not actually having heard of Matador Records or
anything, and that's the point. If Matador are
cool it's because no-one has heard of them or the
waves of obscure and downrightlo-fi bands they
release records for.
Take the first part of their European tour
which gave us Chavez, the Amps and the mighty
Guided By Voices. The Amps (headed by Kim
Deal of the Breeders) 'stole' the show and
despite the fact that GBV headlined, a
significant section of the crowd vanished after
Deal and co hadfinishedplaying.
Part two contained such notables as Railroad
Jerk and Helium, with Bailter Space headlining.
Not many Billboards top 100 hits in that line-up
you'd imagine, correctly. And yet because
Matador Records are cool, there were some
great sounds.
The implausibly named Railroad Jerk
opened proceedings with a wave of a guitar
stolenfromthe Jon Spencer Blues Explosion
(incidentally another Matador band, but you
knew that anyway because you've not heard of
Jon Spencer have you?). Something borrowed
from the blues and added to the present, they
played funky stuff and even managed to get a
harmonica in on the act.
Helium were next, with frontsperson Mary
Timony's particular blend of womyn-voodoo-
kitsch marking out a territory all of its own.
Bailter Space swirled on for over a
n hour of
droning and trance-inducing riffing. Sometimes
there were melodies to hang on to, othertimes
the audience was left to fall down a seemingly
bottomless pit of disfocuss. But all the time,
Bailter Space operated with wide grins slashed
across their faces. Being cool never meant not
enjoying yourself

