m
august 5th
f
° g g
august 4th
Pills: 2 Paludrine, 2 Nurofen (better!), 3
erythromycin, 2 imodium, 5 El Habiby fast
acting throat lozenges
Cairo is rather oddly positioned on the scale of
development. It may be the gateway to the
Arab world, the colourful hub where the
Mediterranean meets Africa meets the Middle
East, but it's also managed to pick up all that is
bad about the Western world. I guess it was
inevitable that McDonald's would be here.
Overgrazing land in the Amazon basin to
destroy the local economy of lower Egypt is
probably quite cool in these days of global .
communication.
But I really cannot deal with Cairo suffering
from the awful screech of Western crime meets
materialism in the car alarm. Ihave ho
objections to being woken up at 5:30am by the
call to prayer.1
1 may not leel particularly ; !
/
strongly that Allah \va Akbar! at that time in /
the morning, but the sound of it echoing round
the city is a beautiful ethereal thing. However, I
deeply resent getting roused from my Slumbers
by the wail of someone's oversensitive Peugeot.
Still, that was at noon, so I suppose I didn't
suffer that badly. I lay in bed perusing the
assortment of little bottles on the table beside
me. Began to wonder how many calories a pill
has, perhaps that explains why I wasn't at all
hungry yesterday. Rather belatedly start to read
all the little instmction booklets they come
with, absentmindedly at first, and then with
increasing fear. If I were to come down with all
the side effects this little collection can inflict, I
wouldhave blured vision, drowsiness,
headaches, stomach and gut upsets, and
constipation. Also am a little concerned as to
the composition of the harmless looking little
throat lozenges I picked up yesterday. A t the
time I was more concerned that the chemist I
got them from was called 'El Gomurrhea
Pharmacie'. Decide I had better stay in bed.
12:30pm Stop panicking and realise I feel much
better than yesterday. Get up and go shopping.
Have rather an amusing time at the Khan el
Khalili bazaar. 'Hey! You want something
special for the lovely lady? I have good price!
Come and see my real papyrus. Is good quality
just for you! Is made by Tutankhamun 2000
years ago!' I buy a rug. It's very nice.
Pills: 2 Paludrine, 0 Nurofen (hurrah!), 3
erythromycin, 0 imodium (very good), 8 El
Habiby fast acting throat lozenges
Got up early today and went riding. Here the
locals have given up fleecing goats in favour of
fleecing tourists. Find a stable owner who wants
a to charge a mere fortnight's salary to let us
ride up to Cheops. All of a sudden I find myself
on a massive Arab stallion galloping across the
desert. It's not every day you get to act out
Lawrence of Arabia, although I would have
been able to get into the atmosphere a bit
better had my horse not been named after
Freddie Mercury. View over the pyramids from
a rise Vz mile away is breamtaking, but my
inner thighs are sore for the next two days.
It's Simon's turn to get ill today: he describes it
as 'feeling somewhat billions'. I don't
understand this, but a bit of further explanation
and it appears that it's the sensation you get in
your stomach when you've just drunk six pints
of very fizzy lager. Sounds a bit unpleasant.
Encounter a wedding party on the way back:
cars tcxrting their horns, people whooping and
yelling. The procession moves down the street
ledbv a bunch of bridesmaids in scarlet and
blacfe, chanting and singing to the beat of a
wizened old lady drumming. She's carried up
on shoulders, and her arms move so fast they
are a blur. Somewhat incongrously, they arc
followed by six blokes in dinner dress wearing
shiny red bow ties.
Despite the fart that I too am feeling a little
bilious now, we stagger out lor some falafel.
6 pence a go: bargain.
4:30 am I wonder if vomit is a cultural thing. A t
home, it seems to be based around carrots, no
matter what you've eaten. N o w it's a rather
alarming a shade of green.
Cairo:
car alarms and
weddings and
freddie
mercury

