FOUR . FELIX FRIDAY OCTOBER 6TH 1 9 9 5 FEATURES
S a n d w i c h politics: T h e b e s t
David finds himself stuck between the extra thick cut
prices of the local Sarnie Stalls, wondering if perhaps
they've bitten off more than they can chew
Settling into college life involves (ir)regulating one's
eating habits in one way or another. Like it or not,
unless you are a budding Master Chef, sooner or
later you will find the pleasure and instant
satisfaction offered to you by the ubiquitous
sandwich.
The Catering department, controller of all the
main alimentary outlets on campus other than
DaVinci's and the Union Bar, is responsible for
providing such foodstuffs to the College populace.
To the impoverished student, now tackling
larger debts than ever, a good deal on cheap food
should therefore be of prime interest. It seems
strange then that Catering do not reflect this
necessity. A quick comparison of the local private
shops, scattered around the page, to the College run
joints shows a surprisingly small difference (if any)
in service, and certainly in price. Considering the
fact that Catering outlets do not have to bear the
overheads laid on those shops one would expect
them to be cheaper. At the very least because they
should be non-profit making service providers,
profits should either be reinvested in the outlet
itself, or go towards subsidising the items they sell to
students..Neither of these is the case at present.
Strict price controls imposed by Catering
management ensure that all outlets have profit as
their prime goal. In the case of the SCR (Senior
Common Room) and the M D H (Main Dining Hall)
this is understandable as their combined loss for
94/95 was in excess of £187,000. However, both
the Queens Tower Snack Bar (QT) and the
S o u t h s i d e S h o p A reluctant last resort for lazy
starving students. Prices are reasonable for the area(£1.10 to £1.50 for
yer average sandwich!) A student shop? You could've fooled me!
"...Milk's cheaper at Harrods", I've heard.
H a r t s Although a little far (Next to Gloucester road or
South Ken tube stations) Harts offer a large range of sandwiches
matching those in the Q T and Southside Shop both in price and
in quality. For those who like to take a little exercise before
lunch. (Open 24 hours)
G r e e n f i e l d s Imperial students enjoying a bite at
Greenfields, the cosmopolitan sandwich bar on Exhibition Road near
South Ken Station. A secret-ish spot guarded by its clientele. High
quality food, fair to expensive prices though.
FEATURES
FELIX FRIDAY OCTOBER 6TH 1 9 9 5 . FIVE
t h i n g s i n c e Sliced B r e a d ?
Priced the same as the Southside Shop, despite its rather
more student centred location (less chance of naughty ousiders
getting a cheap eat!) Generally in appalling disrepair, no reasonable
justification for the prices.
QT
Southside Shop made tidy profits during that same
period (£58,145 and £22,036 respectively). The
Southside Bar came a close second at £51,327 profit
for 94/95 (Figures from Monthly Catering Accounts
JULY 1995). These are net-profit figures quoted
after all other refurbishment costs/administrative
fees, etc... have been deducted from the takings.
One cannot help but ask whether these profits
might be better put to use subsidising the cost of
student purchases, and in the very least improving
the quality of areas such as the JCR. Instead they are
poured into the abyss created by the losses Catering
incurs due to the SCR and M D H . Happily it has
been recognised that the bulk of the aforementioned
losses are due to the appalling situation these outlets
are in.
John Foster, Catering Manager: "Staff currently
enjoy high wages and long holidays... comparable to
academic level." M r Foster also mentioned a high
rate of sickness amongst staff; this means contract
workers have to be hired regularly and at premium
rates to cover for the regular absences. "We wouldn't
put the prices up if we didn't have to", he
maintained, " we're here for the students, but we
have to break even".
Students, the predominant customer-base, are as
usual the hardest hit. If Catering is to control the
monopoly of food outlets on Campus surely it
should ensure that, in places such as the QT,
subsidies are made available to students. There is no
reason for staff and students to support this
department if nothing is ever given back, either in
terms of price or by refurbishing the surroundings
and improving their quality.
The shadow of the Imperal College Students
Union's imminent move to the Sherfield Building
(see news in brief) has given rise to rumours that
Catering may devolve its responsibilities to Union
Catering which will then take control of all food
outlets on the South Kensington Campus Premises.
If this is so, Union Catering would have to maintain
its high standards while streamlining the operation it
inherits to ensure long term benefits to students,
staff and the Union are guaranteed.
S a n d W I C h S h O P A n earthy shop, tucked away
on Gloucester Road. Another secret bargain joint. Again, prices
competitive with College outlets, with the added special half-
price sandwich deal after 4.00pm. Great vegetable samosas and
real chips too!

