FEATURES FELIX FRIDAY OCTOBER 6TH 1 9 9 5 . SEVEN
READING TO REFRESH
Tired of wading through textbooks for that vital solution? Why
not try relaxing with the Haldane Collection...
Last year Felix published a witty alternative
guide to the Central Library, complete with
map. As this showed incontrovertibly that
the most memorable feature of the Haldane
Collection are the "cool music bit", NME,
the newspapers, and the Audio-Visual Room,
this account of the College's Humanities and
recreational library will take up the story
from there.
The Haldane collection is situated on
level one of the Imperial College and Science
Museum libraries, and lends most of its stock
(books, maps, printed music and sound
recordings) on the IC and S M L ticket. It has
two primary functions - to support the teach-
include Auto Car and Motor, Radio Times,
Newsweek, Private Eye, Plays and Players,
and Which. Newspapers are held for one
week, and one of our most frequently asked
enquiries is where back issues can be found.
Here are some of the many answers to this. A
complete run of the Times (mostly in micro-
form) can be seen by Science Museum library
staff on level 3 of the IC and Science
Museum, and the Financial Times from 1993
onwards (updated quarterly) can be consult-
ed on C D - R O M in the Electronic
Information Services, level 2. Other newspa-
pers and periodicals are held in nearby public
libraries; the Haldane holds copies of the
ing of the Humanities Programme
other academic activity, and to
provide material for all members
of the College to read or listen to
in those increasingly precious
leisure moments. As the purpose
of this article is to emphasise the
latter function ("all work and no
play..." - those who can't com-
plete the quotation can look it up
in the Oxford Dictionary of .. \ U !
English Proverbs), academic fea-
tures will be mentioned only in
passing. These include the afore-
mentioned Audio-Visual
Collection, which the alternative
guide found to be "alas... for College purpos-
es only". You are of course welcome to pick
up a handout or come and ask about itl
The range of the Haldane's 40,000 vol-
umes is wide. Subjects covered in the great-
est depth are mostly those in which courses
are taught, such as history, politics, philoso-
phy and literature, as well as art and music.
Travel and biography are well represented,
and other subjects covered include sport,
humour, popular medicine, car manuals, psy-
chology, feminism, crime, law, language and
consumer issues. There is a good collection of
current fiction, which is one of the more pop-
ular sections of the library; we now have a
second copy of John Grisham's The
Chamber, but there are still queues, so you
are strongly encouraged to reserve early!
Daily newspapers and some sixty period-
icals of general interest are taken. The latter
Kensington and Westminster location lists.
World Wide Web is becoming increas-
ingly useful for news and other information.
For example, if someone else is using the cur-
rent FT, selective information from it, includ-
ing the top story and technology report can
be seen on the web. If you wish to get a list-
ing of, for example, the weeks' science pro-
grammes without scrutinising every page of
the Radio Times, the BBC schedules of tele-
vision and radio programmes provide a quick
overview. Ask the Haldane staff to demon-
strate, or try it yourself on the PC cluster
(level two).
The Music collection is both popular and
classical. In the popular section, besides
NME and other magazines, there are cas-
settes and CDs. the "Jazz, Folk and Pop" col-
lection is dominated by rock and its develop-
ments. These recordings are purchased by IC
Union and selected by student buyers elect-
ed each year. This year we are fortunate to
have buyers already (if no-one is elected,
nothing is bought) and your suggestions will
be welcome. You may give these directly to
the buyers, Sarah White and Matt Crompton
in I C U , or fill in a library recommendation
form which the staff will forward to them.
All CDs, by the way, popular or classical are
charged at 50p per issue (which compares
very favourably with many public libraries).
The classical section of the Music library
consists of books, periodicals such as Opera,
printed music including vocal scores, minia-
ture scores, chamber music parts, and record-
ings on C D and cassette. These are
of interest to both the new and
more experienced listener. There
are favourites such as Vivaldi's
Four Seasons and Pavarotti albums,
a good stock of standard repertoire
and works well beyond — lesser
known works, the avant garde, and
early music, for example. A wide
selection of language courses on
cassette are also held in the Music
library.
Reading and listening are of course
not the only services provided. The
Haldane staff (Jane Agnew, Anna
Bozic, and myself) are glad to
answer your enquiries or to refer queries spe-
cialised beyond the scope of Haldane else-
where. Nearby libraries which Imperial
College students may consult for reference
include the Royal Geographical Society,
Royal College of Music and National Sound
Archive.
Finally the Haldane puts on exhibitions
and cultural events. This term it is marking
the Purcell tercentenary with an informal
exhibition and with a recital of Purcell
recordings from the National Sound Archive
by Timothy Day, Curator of Western Art
Music at the Archive, and broadcaster on
Radio 3, on Tuesday 14 November at 5:30pm
speak (admission free). Next term we hope
to have a well-known science fiction writer to
speak. Watch for announcements in the
library, on the walkways, in IC Reporter.

