Need to clear your head?
Philippa Skett on the new imaging technique that is sweaping labs nationwide
D
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The slimy world of Hagfish Haute Couture
Science Writer
FRIDAY 03 MAY
10
www.nature.com/news/see-through-brains-clarify-connections-1.12768
o you ever ﬁnd your-
self walking along the
street, daydreaming
away, and then sud-
denly wonder what if
people around you could hear what
you were thinking? What if complete
strangers could see into your head,
listen to your thoughts and leave no
stone of your conscience unturned?
With the recent advances in tissue im-
aging, your brain can now be as trans-
parent as a gold ﬁsh bowl, but relax-
your secrets will still remain safe for
the foreseeable future.
A new technique developed by a
team in Stanford University in Amer-
ica, known as CLARITY, holds the
key to giving us the clearest insight
yet into the structure of the brain. It is
centred on the application of a deter-
gent known as SDS to tissue to make
both transparent and chemically per-
meable. SDS removes lipid molecules
that usually make tissue opaque by
stopping light passing through, leav-
ing tissues clearer than ever seen be-
fore and ready for further treatment.
With previous attempts at strip-
ping away lipid molecules resulting in
protein damage, CLARITY smoothly
overcame this by also infusing the tis-
sue with acrylamide, the same plastic
used to make false nails. The acryla-
mide is heated and is transformed into
a type of brain scaﬀolding, holding
all the important proteins and other
biomolecules in place as the lipids are
then stripped away.
This leaves an immaculately trans-
parent organ, which can be stained
or treated with molecular markers
to show diﬀerent cell types and their
functions. Whole signalling pathways
can be visually mapped – useful for
identifying possible structural causes
for neurological malfunctions.
CLARITY is not suitable for living
tissue but for deceased samples, and
will be useful for preserving delicate
specimens such as organs suﬀering
from rare or particularly damaging
diseases. Whole libraries of preserved
brains could be made to display vari-
ous progressions of neurodevelop-
ment or model rare or incurable
diseases. Instead of books you could
borrow these transparent brains,
study them then bring them back. As
grisly as that may sound, it could in-
ﬁnitely aid neurological research and
bring us one step closer to ﬁguring out
crucial cures for disorders.
The brain has always been a mys-
tery to humans both biologically and
philosophically – although it was
Descartes who identiﬁed thought as
synonymous with existence with his
famous quote “I think, therefore I am,”
little else has been agreed on since.
The translation between experience,
memory storage, and recall is still
not understood; computers may code
their memory in binary digits but the
brain’s coding of our thoughts is still
a mystery. Until this crucial code is
cracked, even the most intricate map
of our mind on a cellular level will still
not reveal those secrets we don’t want
to share. We may be able to see the cir-
cuit board, but we will still be unable
to decipher the ﬁles.
So unless the blueprint of our brain
can be fully understood and not just
mapped in a whirl of rainbow colours,
those daydreams will still remain
yours. Strangers in the street need not
ever know just what you are think-
ing, unless you are inclined to go up
to them and tell them so yourself. No
amount of transparent tissue is go-
ing to change that – at least, not for
a while yet.
DOI :10.1038/496151a
Clothes are important to anyone;
whether you’re an avid fashionista or
more of the practical sort, we all need
clothes. However, the materials mak-
ing up our clothes may be straying
from the ordinary to the extraordinary
in the not so distant future. The new
source of the fabric for your brand
new dress or coat could be swimming
at the deep, dark depths of our ocean
ﬂoor.
The majority of the fabrics we rely
on today are oil-based polymers,
which basically means that the mate-
rials are petroleum based. With our
ever decreasing supplies of petroleum
the demand for alternatives to these
products is high... enter the hagﬁsh.
Research led by Atsuko Negishi at
the University of Guelph in Canada
has suggested that hagﬁsh slime could
be used to create a super stretchy, ly-
cra-like fabric.
The team managed to collect this
slime from the hagﬁsh and realised
that it could be treated and then spun
into threads much like silk.
This does seem a bit odd and grue-
some, but it really is very logical to put
these materials that nature provides to
good use.
Hagﬁsh are ancient, bottom-dwell-
Lucy Hagger
ing animals that have been around for
over 300 million years. If you’ve done
some evolutionary biology in your
time, you should deﬁnitely remem-
ber these weird and slimey creatures.
It has been known for some time that
when these strange, eel-like animals
are approached or attacked they re-
lease copious amounts of sticky slime
as a deterrent.
The slime contains mucous and
huge amounts of certain protein ﬁbers
belonging to the family intermediate
ﬁlaments. These ﬁlaments are great
for making fabrics as they can be de-
formed and stretched to shapes and
sizes very diﬀerent to their original
form.
But don’t go rushing out to the near-
est high street for the latest fashion in
hagﬁsh slime. The researchers aren’t
quite ready to produce full on items
of clothing, but they intend to pursue
this concept further to hopefully cre-
ate the basis for more environmentally
friendly fabrics of the future.
Images taken of neurons within the brain
using the CLARITY technique
Would you trust a robot to operate on
your brain? Why not? Robotic neuro-
surgery can provide a less painful, less
dangerous and less invasive alterna-
tive to traditional open methods.
Under the guidance of Professor
Lord Darzi and Professor Yang at the
Hamlyn Centre for Robotic Surgery
here at Imperial College London, aca-
demics are pioneering a truly revolu-
tionary approach to neurosurgery us-
ing keyhole techniques.
Keyhole surgery is performed
through unconventionally small inci-
sions using a light source, a camera
and a television monitor and is at
the moment used to carry out surgi-
cal procedures in the abdomen or the
pelvis.
However, Imperial academics have
recognised the potential for this con-
cept to be applied to the brain, and are
in the midst of developing a robotic
platform for keyhole neurosurgery.
This approach is extremely promising,
with advantages including reducing
the length of the incision, reducing
the size of the bone ﬂap and reducing
exposure and manipulation of healthy
brain tissue.
The ultimate goal of the robotic
platform is to “integrate advances in
endoscopy, image guidance and ar-
ticulated instruments to enhance the
feasibility, safety and eﬀectiveness of
operations”, says Hani Marcus, a Clini-
cal Fellow in the Hamlyn Centre.
The use of robots to perform sur-
gery has its roots in the use of a modi-
ﬁed Puma 560 industrial robot in 1985
to guide a brain biopsy.
More recently the da Vinci robot, a
telesurgical system whereby the sur-
geon remotely controls the robots ac-
tions, has allowed surgeons to perform
operations that were previously con-
sidered too diﬃcult to safely perform
through keyhole approaches, such as
the treatment of prostate cancer.
Other developments include the i-
snake, a snake-like device which can
wiggle its way through to inaccessible
areas and Acrobot's robot for hip re-
placement surgery.
Dr Brittain of the UK Medicines and
Healthcare Products Regulatory Au-
thority says "it is inevitable that within
the next 10 years, we won't be putting
the surgeons hand in a patient’s body
anymore." Are intelligent robotics re-
ally the future for surgery?
Intelligent Robots to take
over the operating theatre?
Science Writer
Sophie Shina
http://bouncingideas.wordpress.com
Alternatively, you could just
wear this guy as a scarf

