What you missed in Science
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
FRIDAY 03 MAY
Felix Science recaps what went on in the world outside revision and the library
Viruses have been getting out of hand
this Easter, with the H7N9 outbreak
reaching 104 in humans throughout
China and 21 lives being claimed by
this strain of avian inﬂuenza virus.
Although there is no evidence of sus-
tained human-to-human spread so
far, with China being the epicentre of
both the outbreaks and a busy hub for
airline traﬃc, it may be only a matter
of time before this bird ﬂu takes to the
skies – literally, it could be coming to
an airport near you.
In more positive news, new pro-
tein on the scene, CD33, a little-
known regulator protein, has been
found to prevent support cells clear-
ing toxic plaques that result in Alzhei-
mer’s disease.
Suppression of such a protein may
contribute to future treatments for
the disease. Not only that: a new liver
hormone called betatrophin has been
discovered that encourages growth of
insulin-secreting cells, which could
be manipulated for future diabetes
treatment development. High-ﬁves
all round for the immunologists out
there.
And lastly, we celebrated the 60th
anniversary of the Double Helix, with
the original paper describing the DNA
structure being published in Nature
on the 25th of April, 1953. If any mol-
ecule deserves a birthday party, DNA
is it. mRNA, the smaller, more active
yet unloved sibling of DNA celebrates
its birthday sometime in October,
but it seemed that no-one even cared
enough to record the date properly,
so this was probably the only biomol-
ecule birthday worth watching out for
this year.
DOI: 10.1016/j.neuron.2013.04.014
NASA have had a busy Easter break-
in the past month, their probe on
NASA’s Cassini spacecraft spotted a
hurricane on Saturn two thousand
kilometres wide, alongside capturing
photos for the ﬁrst time of meteor-
oids crashing into Saturn’s rings. A
top month for NASA; not so much for
Saturn.
Theoretical physicists got busy
measuring antigravity, leaving us pon-
dering if anti-matter atoms fall up,
whilst pesky pyrrole molecules were
also seen to be making the rules up as
they go along.
The impact of quantum laws of
physics has been seen to now exert
eﬀects at a molecular level, with pyr-
roles moving over metal surfaces in
a manner contradictory to classical
physics. It was initially thought that
zero-point energy – residual, unde-
tectable energy in the quantum world
that means nothing is perfectly still –
did not apply to whole molecules, but
pyrroles deﬁed this in recent tests in
the Cavendish Laboratory in Cam-
bridge. Back to the drawing board
guys!
And ﬁnally, someone spotted what
looked like a penis drawn by the Mars
exploration rovers Spirit and Oppor-
tunity whilst looking for water on the
red planet.
Although this was claimed to be a
complete accident, anyone who has
ever come within a mile radius of Im-
perial knows that scientists never re-
ally grow up. We are all kids at heart,
just with access to lasers, chemicals
and the odd bio-hazardous bacterial
strain.
Somewhere out there, an astrophys-
icist is quietly chuckling to himself, af-
ter completing the ultimate doodle in
this solar system.
Chemists have been taking imagery
to a new level this Easter, with them
deciding that there is no such thing as
“too small,” when it comes to viewing
scale, if nothing else.
X-ray single-crystal diﬀraction, that
molecular structure determination
method that we all know and love, saw
a revamp at the beginning of April.
Scientists from both Japan and
Finland established a new protocol
for the method to no longer require
crystallisation of the target molecule
before analysis. Molecules can now be
as small as 80ng for studying by this
diﬀraction method, so if you have that
speck you have been dying to identify
handy, now is your chance.
STAM, or Saturated Transient Ab-
sorption Microscopy, also hit the
chemical scene towards the end of last
month. This new imag-
ing system, using three
laser beams, allows for
super-resolution opti-
cal microscopy, and overcomes the is-
sue of the diﬀraction limit that hinders
usual light microscopy.
Images are generated using STAM
by comparing the contrast between
excited and ground state electrons in
molecules when excited upon illumi-
nation instead, making it possible to
study nanomaterials, again if nothing
else, in much greater detail.
Rice University also found out this
month that when squeezing the liquid
phase of silicone, it gets surprisingly
stiﬀ when repeatedly and gently com-
pressed, although polymer scientist
Rafael Verduzco declined to comment
on whether or not such research was
inspired by more intimate moments
he has had outside the lab.
In conventional silicones, polymer
chains are usually randomly orien-
tated that allow for a return to their
usual state after compression. In liq-
uid phase silicone, it was found that
the chains are organised in rod shaped
coils and are initially randomly ori-
entated. Repeated compression leads
to them rotating and pointing in the
same direction however, contributing
to the stiﬀness.
With silicone being a biocompatible
material, incorporating this new in-
formation back into the bedroom may
occur within the foreseeable future,
if some adventurous biologists fancy
getting on board too.
I don’t want to speciﬁcally suggest
penis-related ideas, but if the self-
stiﬀening silicone glove ﬁts...
DOI: 10.1038/nature11990
DOI: 10.1038/nphoton.2013.97
DOI: 10.1038/ncomms2772
Biology
Physics
Chemistry
DOI: 10.1002/anie.201302289
http://latino.foxnews.com/latino/news/2013/04/25/penis-graffiti-discovered-on-mars/
http://news.rice.edu/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/0429_VERDUZCO-1-web.jpg
http://blogs.biomedcentral.com
One large penis for man, one
giant erection for mankind
Felix Science can confirm this is
exactly what the inside of an implant
looks like
The high-flying H5M9 virus

