ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SpinLondon@TheOldTrumanBrewery-Fortheirredeemablehipstersamongyou.This
weekend boast the even of year. The world fist ‘urban centred’ bicycle show features
emergingcyclefashionbrands&creativetalent,talks,screenings,demonstrations,Cycle-
ArtInstallations,andlivemusic.May03
Souzou @ Wellcome Collection - This show feature `outsider art’ from Japan. This genre
of art is often produced by self-taught artist on the fringes of society, in mental institu-
tions on social welfare support. The show promises to question assumptions about the
formandtheverynatureofart.28March-30June
Intersections @ The Studio Building - Alexander James’ extraordinary photography fea-
tured beautifully composed still lives. Remarkably each picture is shot with the subject
submerged in water tanks. The delicate watery beauty he captures lends a similar sense
toclassicaloilpaintings.23rdApril-24thMay
Me you or the other person @ GV Art - The exhibition feature sculptural reflection on
the figure by three contomporary, female artists. In keeping with GV Arts’ enduring
ethostheworksallfeaturerefrencestomedicalandscientific themes. WorksbyEleanor
Crook,KatharineDowsonandPascalePollierareondisply.Now-May18
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This popped up in the Physics common room. Who
elsehasbeenworkinghardonrevision?
FRIDAY 03 MAY
12
We all fucking love science, but it has
to be admitted that, frankly, it can get
achingly dull. How many times have
you heard the words, “after a month
and a half of protocol optimisation, my
experiment has failed again! Isn’t this so
FUN?” That’s right, never.
Despite this, you don’t have to look
too far to rediscover the lighter side of
science. At Imperial an initiative, Ar-
tifact, has been set up by students to
encourage the creation of artistic works
inspired by science and technology. At
a recent meeting, I met Raphael Kim, a
design interaction student at the Royal
College of Arts. Ever since, I have been
probing him with questions about his
work.
Just as science proposes questions
about the world, Raphael has taken this
notion and added the twist of asking sci-
entiﬁc questions through the medium
of design.
A BSc in biotechnology and a year
spent scrutinising proteins in Switzer-
land are not circumstances unfamiliar
to many Imperial students. How about
taking scientiﬁc questions out of a re-
search setting and answering them in
a context unrestricted by commercial
proﬁteering or the pressure of saving
lives?
Partly inspired by the Citizen Science
concept resulting from his previous
lab project and some DIY aspects of
synthetic biology, Raphael explores the
less obvious links between science and
design.
Take a glass of water, extract micro-
scopic organisms called rotifers, and
design. The Gene Hunting Device ex-
ploits the phenomenon of horizontal
gene transfer, which allows rotifers to
incorporate pieces of DNA from their
environment into their genome. Intro-
ducing a gene encoding a ﬂuorescent
protein and when it encounters a gene
being hunted for (sort of like a switch),
the rotifer glows (much like a LED bulb)
to indicate that the target DNA is in the
environment.
As Raphael’s work is based on scien-
tiﬁc phenomena, I wondered whether
the design aspect set him free from the
scientiﬁc laws which make research so
frustratingly exact.
“I guess starting a project with a scien-
tiﬁc hypothesis is something ingrained
in me.” He says, “but you also need to
think about visual and aesthetic aspects
to communicate scientiﬁc elements.
Microbes are not usually visible to the
naked eye - but if you are undertaking a
design project, it may force you to focus
on the visual language of how microbes
could be depicted. How do you show
something that is normally invisible to
us in a way that is thought-provoking?”
If the biosensing principles of the
Gene Hunting Device are slightly too
scientiﬁc for your design liking try Space
Bacteria based on a scientiﬁcally unlim-
ited ‘what if’ concept.
We already exploit micro-organisms
naturally found in extreme conditions,
but earthly extremes are no match for
those found in space. Generated with
the help of designer Jae Yeop Kim, the
next idea involves genetically modify
bacteria taken from human bodies us-
ing synthetic biology techniques before
farming them on Mars. The result is to
see how they would evolve and survive,
and how useful they could be back here
on Earth.
“You have to forget about the limita-
tions when you start a project, and keep
an open mind” says Raphael.
“Science dictates that it is unlikely for
bacteria to grow in large colonies on
Mars. We explored this with an assump-
tion that we may ﬁnd a way around the
problem of harsh Martian conditions.
Once we were unchained from these re-
strictions, it was really about designing
for a possible future and allowing the
audience to ﬁnish our story. For what
purpose do we want to send bacteria to
Mars, and what are the potential social
and cultural implications of creating ag-
riculture beyond our planet?”
As we hear about scientiﬁc and arts
funding cuts, I wondered how diﬃcult it
was for a designer to carry out such pro-
jects. It turns out the creativity mould-
ing his work extends further than just
shaping it’s substance and style.
“Petri dishes were bought from a
school supplier, a cheap oven (incuba-
tor) from Argos, and agar powder from
a Chinese restaurant in Soho. Once
transferred to liquid medium, bacteria
were collected using a DIY centrifuge. I
had made several variations of these –
some from salad spinners, egg whisks
and a small electric drill,” he explains
of his project Tangible, which uses the
bacteria to form the shapes of objects
resembling those found in daily life.
By giving the usually invisible bacteria
an unavoidable physical presence, the
viewer is made to think about how we
interact with them and how diﬀerent
this is when we remember that bacteria
are living organisms capable of modify-
ing designs we interact with everyday.
I was glad to hear that working with
science from a diﬀerent perspective
didn’t completely exclude Raphael from
the world of research.
“I think it is fair to say that the scien-
tiﬁc community consists of a variety of
characters who are and are not open to
integrating with artists and designers.
You can always drop a polite email to
a researcher you are interested in. You
may not get an immediate response, but
it is mostly a matter of perseverance.”
Designer genes
Lily Le Writer
Library cafe
improves catering

