ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Time to tie up Bowie
FRIDAY 03 MAY 13
avid Bowie is more than
just pop star. He is a
multi-instrumentalist,
artist, mime artist, ac-
tor, lyricist, poet and
record producer. Drawing on all sec-
tors of the art world and modern life
for inspiration, his intellectual songs
and ﬂamboyant image combine the
familiar and the alien and have be-
come stitched into the fabric of con-
temporary culture. He is not just one
man, but at least ﬁve; from Major Tom
to the Thin White Duke, Bowie has
continuously reinvented himself with
glorious eccentricity. His sensational
career is currently being celebrated at
the V&A by exhibiting the ﬁrst David
Bowie retrospective.
The exhibition has the appearance
of a labyrinth, with walls adorned
with sketches, hand-written lyrics,
photographs and other artefacts
from Bowie’s career. As a Brixton art
student, David Robert Jones aspired
to be a pop star, yet felt restricted by
the lack of ambition from the mem-
bers of his various jazz bands. He
toiled with the idea that it would be
easier to pretend to be someone else,
and influenced by the mine artist
Lindsay Kemp, one of the most the-
atrical pop stars the world has ever
seen came into existence. His first
hit Space Oddity is a fine example of
Bowie’s ability to tap into a cultural
fascination, intuitively releasing this
single in 1969, before the moon-
landing.
Back in the exhibition, around the
corner, the stage is set for the illus-
trious glam rocker from Mars, Ziggy
Stardust, Bowie’s most recognizable
alter ego. A mannequin wears one
of his gorgeous quilted jumpsuits
by Freddie Burretti. This suit is in-
spired by the ‘ready for action’ look
of the droogs’ uniforms from Stan-
ley Kubrick’s A Clockwork Orange.
Yet, to distance this costume from
ultraviolence of the gang members,
it is made from colourful and heavily
patterned, floral fabric. Wearing this
bizarre suit, with his red hair, red
boots and mismatched eyes, Bowie
really did look like he was not from
this planet. The backdrop shows
footage of his first appearance on
Top of the Pops, as Ziggy Stardust
And The Spiders From Mars who
debut with the eponymous Starman.
In addition to music and image,
his over-confident persona was un-
precedented. During the same per-
formance he put his arm around his
guitarist Mick Ronson. At a time,
when homosexuality had only re-
cently been legalized, this was a very
daring move and abides with his ide-
ology of ‘be whoever you want to be.’
The exhibit encompasses sixty of
the most flamboyant costumes I have
ever seen. Image and persona are of
the upmost importance to Bowie, so
he was heavily involved in the de-
sign of each outfit, aswell as album
artwork and stage sets. The avant-
garde and vibrant style of Japanese
designer Kansai Yamamoto perfectly
complemented Bowie’s theatrical
persona. He created the lavish en-
sembles for the 1973 Aladdin Sane
tour; a cape adorned with the kanji
letters for “one who spits out words
in a fiery manner”, a knitted asym-
metric bodysuit, and the most ec-
centric ‘Rites of Spring’ costume of
black and white striped vinyl, which
opens the exhibition.
Other key costumes on display
include the wonderful Union Jacket
coat by Alexander McQueen, Thin
White Duke ensembles by Ola Hud-
son and a number of skinny suits
with boxy shoulders to accentuate
his tiny figure.
Truth be told, Bowie is as wonder-
ful at acting as he is at singing and
song-writing. To commemorate
some of the fascinating characters
he has played, a miniature cinema
is in place, projecting clips of him
in action. The diversity of his roles
is impressive; from the antagonistic
Jareth the Goblin King in Labyrinth
(1986), to the inventor Nikola Telsa
in The Prestige (2006). In 1980-81,
he also starred in the Broadway pro-
duction of The Elephant Man, in
which he used his ability to mimic
voices to portray Joseph Merrick’s
facial deformity simply through his
manner of speech.
Within the depths of the V&A, the
labyrinth opens up into a huge ex-
hibition space, with projections of
Bowie’s live shows against the walls.
The most magical of these shows
was the final song Rock ‘N’ Roll Sui-
cide of the Aladdin Sane tour at the
Hammersmith Apollo. When he
announces that ‘this is final show
we’ll ever do’, before killing off Ziggy
Stardust. Bowie seems more like an
omniscient deity, than a man, call-
ing down: “Gimme your hand cause
you’re wonderful.”
Evidence of Bowie’s immense in-
fluence can be seen everywhere in
the music, fashion, theatre and art
world. His love of the bizarre and
encouragement to express yourself
freely is so universaly appealing. It is
not difficult to comprehend how he
has risen to a god-like status within
our contemporary culture.
David Bowie is run at the V&A until
August 2013. Tickets: £14 (conces-
sions available)
Jemma Pilcher visits the shrine of a pop deity
D
Berlin walls
have years
Meredith Thomas Arts Editor
Berlin is a city that weeps with history.
Decades after uniﬁcation it has a skyline
like a broken jaw. Buildings conspicuous
by their absence are found next to bul-
let riddled vestiges of the Wiemar years.
Soviet space-age architectural excesses
and grim utilitarian atrocities now sit
alongside shining glass temples to mod-
ern capitalism.
The city boasts a gunmetal solid art
heritage, or be it a timeline with gaping
holes; resulting from the creative re-
pression of National Socialism and later
soviet communism. Yet, the years after
uniﬁcation saw a catastrophic explosion
of creative activities. Graﬃti became
permanently associated with the fall of
the Berlin wall and the subsequent char-
acter of the city.
This rich and terrible past drew Le-
oSoc’s annual tour to the city over East-
er. Berlin did not disappoint. The group
found the city smothered in a thick
blanket of snow lending a frigid, oppres-
sive atmosphere our explorations.
The city and its troubled past and
present were reﬂected again and again.
A graﬃti artist explained the contem-
porary battles between Turkish immi-
grants and skinhead gangs, between
the relentless march of gentriﬁcation
and anarchist squatters, all played out
on walls through slogan and counter-
slogan.
Das Berlinische Galerie featured the
tortured attempts of censored artists in
the 30s to protest. Das Neues Museum
rebuild from a bombed out shell dis-
played the Egyptian antiquities acquired
during Germany’s colonial past.
We saw bulldozers poised to puncture
a preserved section of the Berlin wall
(Eastside Gallery) to allow road access
for a media company’s new oﬃces. As
we left the protests failed and the cater-
pillar tracks were crunching over snow,
history still being made.
Still better
than Blackett

