The Fault in Our Stars
Freud was the ﬁrst to identify the du-
alistic principle of Love and Death,
personiﬁed in the Greek gods Eros and
Thanatos, as a key component of the
human psyche. In his description, the
ﬁrst is the drive for reproduction, the
positive instinct of preservation and
creation of life; but human beings also
display an opposed destructive instinct
towards others and sometimes them-
selves. Attempting to explain our every
actions in these terms may be reduc-
tive; but in John Green’s fourth novel,
The Fault In Our Stars, love and death
become real forces, and their painful
clash is the central theme of the book.
The story is told by Hazel Grace Lan-
caster, who is sixteen years old and has
lung cancer, or in her words, “lungs
that suck at being lungs”. She carries
around with her a little steel cart with
an oxygen tank and is not very good at
going up stairs. Hazel knows she is go-
ing to die. At Cancer Support Group,
among a crowd of other teenagers, she
meets Augustus Waters, a charismatic
ex-basketball player who has lost a
leg to osteosarcoma and is now NEC
(No Evidence of Cancer), and likes to
indulge in metaphorically charged be-
haviour such as holding an unlit ciga-
rette in his mouth.
Hazel and Augustus’ story begins
here and is told masterfully by Green.
His witty, genuine humour is alter-
nated to sad, tragic moments in an
articulate counterpoint. The prose is
never predictable or descending into
cheap sentimentalism, a testimony
to the author’s skill as a writer; to his
insight and understanding as a hu-
man being. Perhaps the characters are
unrealistically smart and well-spoken;
but this novel is truly a pleasure to read
through.
Hazel lends her favourite book, by
Dutch author Peter Van Houten, to
Augustus and he becomes fascinated
by it as well. It is about a young girl dy-
ing of cancer, and ends abruptly in the
middle of a sentence. The unknown
fate of all the story’s characters is Ha-
zel’s obsession, so Augustus decides
to get in touch with the author who
agrees to speak about the book, pro-
vided it is in person. Augustus then
uses the “wish” that a foundation for
terminally ill children oﬀers him, to ﬂy
to Holland with Hazel to meet him.
The two protagonists arrive in Am-
sterdam where Van Houten turns out
to be an odd, embittered man, who
rudely sends them away. We are left
to follow Hazel and Augustus in Am-
sterdam. In Anne Frank’s house, they
kiss to the sound of applause from
the crowd. Here as in the rest of the
novel, we are all the time exposed to
their reﬂections upon illness and life,
death and remembrance, spoken in a
manner that is real and raw, with true,
dry sentiment. At the end of the trip,
Augustus reveals to Hazel that his can-
cer is back and has spread through his
body: “The lining of my chest, my left
hip, my liver, everywhere. Everywhere.
That word hung in the air awhile. We
both knew what it meant.”
The complex relationship between
love and death emerges continuously
throughout the book and particularly
after Augustus’ revelation. As the two
teenagers fall in love the ephemeral
quality of their respective lives forces
them to dedicate a lot of thought to
things that most of us (let alone most
of us at the age of sixteen) light-heart-
edly ignore: how hard it is to love and
be loved knowing that all that will be
left are scars; how inadvertently ri-
diculous we are in acting as immortal
beings allowing ourselves to use words
such as “forever” and “always”; yet how
inevitable and necessary it is to do so.
The sentence: “That’s the thing about
pain: it demands to be felt.” is quoted
several times; in the same way, death
demands for its towering presence to
be acknowledged.
The conﬁdent Augustus is shown is
his last days in all his fragility amidst
the ﬂatly grotesque ugliness of illness.
Green depicts him dazed by narcotics
and lying in a pool of his own urine
in his bed, or vomiting on himself.
The sincerity of the storyteller only
strengthens the romance, in its almost
painful humanity. Death accelerates
time and in the end what’s left is for
Hazel is the gratitude for “a forever
within the numbered days”. A read I
recommend, powerful and touching.
John Green is an American writer
of young ﬁction. He has won several
prizes for his books, and The Fault In
Our Stars has received much criti-
cal appraisal. Green and his brother
Hank, have an entertaining YouTube
channel called Vlogbrothers, where
they exchange their geeky video cor-
respondence and through which they
have amassed an impressive horde of
followers – the Nerdﬁghters (nerdﬁght-
ers.ning.com). You can ﬁnd out more
about the brothers at hankgreen.com.
Coming in at 114 pages long, Siddhar-
tha is by far the easiest book to read
by a Nobel Prize winning author. The
guy I borrowed my copy oﬀ managed
to read the whole thing in a particu-
larly slow ﬂight back from Jordan. I
had only vaguely heard of either the
book or the author before having the
paper-back thrust into my hands,
but it bore the trusted sign of being
a “Penguin Modern Classic,” with its
tasteful but artsy cover; so I ﬁgured
I’d give it a go.
Intensely spiritual throughout, Sid-
dhartha tells the story of the epony-
mous character on his journey from
being an irritating stuck-up brat to
being a sage and wise old man in India
at the time of the Buddha. The son of
a Brahmin, Siddhartha feels that as a
teen he has already learnt all that the
Brahmins of his town can teach him,
and with his long suﬀering buddy
Govinda in tow; sets out to discover
the world by hanging out with vari-
ous spiritual groups. He gets bored of
them, decides to trade it all in for a life
of luxury, realises that such a life has
corrupted him, and then ﬁnds peace
living a simple life as an old man.
Beﬁtting of a book about a preten-
tious, irritating kid; the narrative style
can at times be dense and overly poet-
ic. The characters refer to themselves
in the third person with an alarming
frequency and the ﬂorid otherworldly
dialogue was a source of occasionally
intense frustration.
Upon overcoming the initial annoy-
ance of the writing style, the eﬀect of
it is to set the reader up as a dispas-
sionate observer; I found myself going
along with Siddhartha in his journey
but not becoming overly involved in
each scenario individually. As a re-
sult the overall feeling one takes away
from the book is that it is a lesson be-
ing taught to you, as opposed to the
reader learning themselves directly
from the shared experience between
the protagonists and the reader. The
downside of this is that moments that
are extremely emotional for Siddhar-
tha feel passive and detached – there
is a passage in the ﬁnal third where, as
Herman Hesse’s Siddhartha
Matt Allinson Writer
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 03 MAY
14
Alejandro Torrado Pacheco Writer
an old man, he experiences deep loss
and abandonment, yet when reading
it I felt disturbingly little. The overall
result of this is in keeping with the
main aim of the book – once Sid-
dhartha recovers, we learn how these
events have aﬀected his view on the
world, and helped him come closer to
achieving Nirvana; which is all fair
and good, but I still prefer my novels
to have a bit more emotional bite.
This isn’t saying that Siddhartha
isn’t the classic that the well-qualiﬁed
editors at Penguin seem to think it
is. Despite lacking grit and realism
that makes you feel ‘there’ and in the
story, the combination of emotional
distance from the story teller and the
ridiculously poetic, but ultimately
beautiful language instead give the
reader the experience of looking at a
great work of art, whilst the meaning
of the painting is explained to you by
a friendly expert.
And what meaning: perhaps the
greatest success of this book is that
its message is how to live a simple
life and ﬁnd happiness and reward in
your own existence. If a short book
is hard to read and ultimately has
an unpleasant story (Conrad’s Heart
of Darkness springs immediately to
mind) then by the end of it the reader
is left wondering why they bothered.
Siddhartha, for all its petty annoy-
ances, leaves the reader feeling that
their life has been aﬃrmed, and in
awe of the skill of the author for get-
ting so much content crammed into
such a short book.
If you have a long ﬂight soon, or
want a pocket sized paperback to car-
ry with you on commutes, you can’t
go far wrong with Siddhartha.

