FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
20 FRIDAY 03 MAY
Samuel Page Film Writer
Robot & Frank is the ﬁlm of an elderly,
deteriorating gentleman, and the Ro-
bot, a technological care assistant, giv-
en to him by his son. The ﬁlm focuses
on the relationship between the pair, a
more mismatched couple it is hard to
imagine: a cranky, lonely old man and
a blank faced, obliging machine. Frank
Langella gives a brilliant performance
as Frank; completely understated but
complex and aﬀecting. As an elderly
man suﬀering from spells of memory
loss, the viewer is never quite sure how
much of an act he is putting on, either
to hide his illness or to play it up. The
character has a delicious penchant for
mischief and is far from your typical
sweet old man. His past as a cat burglar
is ﬁnely sketched but proves the driv-
ing force for the plot along with much
of the humour of the ﬁlm, which whilst
rarely laugh-out-loud gives the ﬁlm a
lightness of touch that counterbalanc-
es the sadness at its heart. This is a ﬁlm
of dysfunctional relationships with Ro-
bot taking the position of Frank’s help-
er, friend, perhaps even the son that he
missed out on. The viewer is frequently
asked to consider if Robot can be con-
sidered as a friend: can he be viewed as
Robot & Frank
Director: Jake Schreier
Screenwriter: Christopher D. Ford
Starring: Frank Langella, Peter
Sarsgaard, Liv Tyler, James Marsden,
Susan Sarandon
The old man and the machine
a real person? As the story develops,
the themes of memory and identity
become more pronounced, particu-
larly when contrasted between human
and robot. Robot will never forget any-
thing unless his memory is completely
erased by his user, whilst Frank peri-
odically forgets his own children yet is
too stubborn to accept help.
Despite these topics which are ex-
plored the ﬁlm largely avoids feeling
like science-ﬁction, especially with
regards to the plot. We get only brief
glimpses into a world of futuristic cars
and video calling. Indeed, the ﬁlm is
set in ‘the near future’, not a particu-
lar year, such that the viewer doesn’t
feel like they are displaced in time. The
character of Robot is a success: believ-
ably clunky yet pleasingly hi-tech. As
half of the titular double act it was
fundamental that the audience could
believe that Robot might exist, which
is helped hugely by the personality that
Peter Sarsgaard gives him, as it be-
comes clear that Robot can make his
own judgements, and can choose how
to help Frank. Or can he? Often, Robot
is the source of comedy as his naivety
in particular is exposed. That Robot
can have his straight-laced program-
ming somewhat bent by Frank helps
with accepting him, rather than some
complete automaton. This central rela-
tionship progresses realistically, even if
it takes unexpected directions.
Indeed, Robot is a far more interest-
ing character than the human char-
acters that surround Frank, and is,
perhaps signiﬁcantly, given more de-
velopment than Frank’s superﬁcial and
somewhat boring children, portrayed
by James Marsden and Liv Tyler. The
scenes focusing on these characters
slow the ﬁlm, with Tyler being par-
ticularly annoying. Susan Sarandon,
as a potential companion/love interest
for Frank is better served as a librar-
ian in a future when books have be-
come ‘retro-cool’, which positions her
in a changing world where she doesn’t
quite ﬁt, like Frank. Although it is very
rare that both Frank and Robot are
not on screen, when one or the other
is absent you are keen to get back to
watching Robot and Frank, which the
ﬁlm largely obliges us with. Enough is
made of their relationship that despite
the ﬁlm’s relatively short running time
it does not feel like an opportunity
missed. The ﬁlm is well structured and
well-paced, with the story being told at
a good pace until the close which with
a late, sly but logical development ends
somewhat ambiguously – not in terms
of plot but regarding the emotions of
the central characters. As a perfectly
formed oddity, this ﬁlm could quite
easily be overlooked by those seeking
more spectacular thrills, or even more
dramatic performances, but this is a
ﬁlm which should be seen, even if it is
hard to deﬁne.
The return of the Evil Dead
Evil Dead
Director: Fede Alvarez
Screenwriter: Fede Alvarez, Rodo
Sayagues
Starring: Jane Levy, Shiloh
Fernandez, Lou Taylor Pucci, Jessica
Lucas, Elizabeth Blackmore
Simon Boyd Film Writer
The original Evil Dead was one of
the classic video nasties. Made for
$350,000 (1000th of the budget of di-
rector Sam Raimi’s later ﬁlm Spider-
Man 3), it has become a cult classic and
staple of the horror genre. It’s a splat-
ter-ﬁlled mess of black comedy, genu-
ine terror and low-budget creepiness. It
still scares and combines over-the-top
set pieces with wit, strong characters
and the all important shock factor;
there’s something about the pre-CGI
eﬀects that give it a tangible ickiness.
The story has become a huge horror
trope now, a group of young attractive
twenty-somethings go to a cabin in
the woods to party. One of them ﬁnds
a creepy looking book and reads from
it, this unleashes a demon which pos-
sesses one of the members and chaos
ensues.
Its production is as famous as the
ﬁlm. The actors described it as one of
the worst experiences they had ever
had. Opaque contact lenses meant that
when the demons were attacking (with
real weapons) they couldn’t even see
what they were doing. Bruce Campell
(as career-deﬁning Ash) twisted his
ankle during production, and legend
goes Sam Raimi kept poking it with a
stick to keep continuity.
Original director Raimi hand-picked
Fede Alvarez for the remake, and al-
though not directly involved, gave his
approval. It takes place 30 years after
the original, and there was an eﬀort to
avoid using too much CGI and rely on
“magic tricks and illusion tricks”. But
does it work? Will it get lost in a sea of
other pitiful remakes or go some way
to capture the magic of the original?
It’s always a good sign when there
are three huge guys cowering at the
entrance to the cinema screen, daring
each other to go in ﬁrst. The ﬁlm post-
ers boldly claim that it’s “the most ter-
rifying ﬁlm you will ever experience”
and it has a long way to go to reach the
cult status of the 1983 classic.
In short, it’s nowhere near as good
as the original. It lacks the wit and
humour of Raimi’s version, and barely
even alludes to the touches that set the
original apart. It takes itself a little too
seriously at times, only really letting its
hair down at the end, and doesn’t re-
ally try and ﬁx the problems that the
original had.
There is another problem in remak-
ing this ﬁlm, due to the 2012 Josh Whe-
don epic The Cabin in the Woods. For
those who haven’t seen it (and if you
haven’t I urge you to), it was a meta-
horror ﬁlm that completely blew apart
this very horror trope. Like Wes Cra-
ven’s Scream did to slashers, it showed
just how archetypal such ﬁlms had
become and almost dared them to up
their game and change what they did.
It made you re-think the whole genre.
Without the many black comic
touches, Evil Dead almost slips into
being pedestrian and “just another
cabin in the woods” ﬁlm. Whedon’s
ﬁlm showed us what was wrong with
the genre, and Evil Dead doesn’t really
try to change things.
Despite all this, overall I liked it.
The story has been changed slightly,
the cabin serves as a remote building
to help an addict go cold turkey. This
not only actually gives a decent reason
why people would stay at such a creepy
spot, but also twists the plot slightly.
As things begin to get increasingly
weird and the addict character gets
possessed, the others just assume it is
the side eﬀect to withdrawal.
One thing to say about it is that it is
an incredibly well made ﬁlm; ﬁrst-time
director Alvarez knows how to capture
the mood of a scene and picks some
excellent shots. CGI is largely ignored
and this really makes an improvement
(take note ﬁlm directors!). Everything
looks incredible and the tension is held
really well. The gore is pitch perfect,
the blood may start a bit slower than
the original but by the end there are
gallons of it.
It’s also both creepy AND scary. It
makes you jump, but by racking up the
fear instead of relying on cheap scares.
I did laugh out loud a couple of times
as well, there’s something about a brief
moment of comedy in between horri-
fying scenes which can get big laughs.
All in all, I’d say it was a good ﬁlm,
and an excellent one for a ﬁrst-time di-
rector. Don’t go in expecting a darkly
black comedy like Raimi’s stuﬀ, and
deﬁnitely don’t go in if you are squeam-
ish. It is a really well-made ﬁlm, with
some great touches, some surprises
and some nice nods to the original. I’d
be interested to see what Alvarez does
next, give him an original script with a
bit of a spark to it and I think he could
deliver something really special. He
hasn’t quite hit it this time, but it’s a
damn good eﬀort.

