SCIENCE ARTS FILM
Easter science Bowie is back A Stark Return
What has been going on in the
science world over summer?
Felix Science looks into the bi-
ology, chemistry, physics, and
penis drawing going on.
David Bowie has had a long
career that’s even worthy of
its own exhibition at the V&A.
DoesZiggystillleavetheminhis
Stardust?
He’s back, and this time, well,
it’s the same as the last, but
come on Robert Downey Jr is
worth it... Even if he is essen-
tially playing himself.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
NEWS
2
>> 11 >>13 >>22
FRIDAY 03 MAY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Prowling: Joe Letts Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen
Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti
Comment Editors George Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark
England, Ross Gray, Simon Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Boss
Matt Colvin Travel Editor Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief
Annina Sartor Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen
LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
MARQUEE WATCH
There is a Marquee on Queen’s Lawn...
The results for the Big Elections 2013
were announced at the end of last term.
The turnout was the second highest
that Imperial College Union has ever
received.
David Goldsmith, this year’s RAG
Chair, will be Union President, after be-
ing elected with 2395 votes in the 4th
Round. Yasmin Edwards will be the
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
after being elected in the third round
with 1897 votes. Deputy President
(Welfare) will be Marissa Lewis, who
was elected in the 4th Round with 1806
votes. Deputy President (Education)
will be Jonathan London, who received
3384 votes, and the Deputy President
(Finance & Services) will be Kieron Cre-
agh, who was elected with 2914 votes.
The closest race by far was for Felix Edi-
Artist’s impression shown above tor. In the ﬁrst round of voting, Joe Letts
received 1793 votes and Will Prince re-
ceived 1780 votes. When the votes were
transfered from other candidates Joe
Letts eventually won with 1848 votes
to Will Prince’s 1822. This meant that
Joe Letts was elected as next year’s Fe-
lix Editor. Will Prince was banned from
campaigning and told to take all mate-
rial used for the campaigning down for
a period towards the end of elections.
This was because of an email sent to
thousands of students reminding them
to vote and signed oﬀ as his campaign
team. Will Prince maintains that he did
not want the email to be sent.
There were also many other positions,
such as the Student Trustees, who sit on
the Trustee Board. This year’s Council
Chair Michael Foster was elected to
one of the positions. The other went to
Bukki Adedapo.
The ISCMSU President was between
Steve Tran and Dariush Hassanzadeh-
Baboli. In the ﬁrst round Steve Tran
was elected with 698 votes. The other
Constituent Union Presidents were
also elected. Lejon Chau is next year’s
CGCU President and Plabon Saha is
next year’s RCSU President.
Union awards open
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Union Award nominations for this
year have opened. Any student can
nominate another student for their
contributions to the Union. This can
be with their contributions to a club
or society or other work. There are
four levels of recognition, which from
Fellowship with Distinction to Un-
ion Colours. The nominations will
be open until Friday 31 May through
eActivities. After this the Awards
Committee will have to decide on who
deserves what.
Election results announced
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Next year’s sabbatical team will be...
Next year’s Felix bossman

