FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
FRIDAY 03 MAY
Cruiiiiiiis-eeeeeee
John Park Film Editor
Oblivion
Director: Joseph Kosinski
Screenwriters: Joseph Kosinski, Karl
Gajdusek, Michael DeBruyn
Starring: Tom Cruise, Olga
Kurylenko, Andrea Riseborough,
Morgan Freeman, Melissa Leo
Opening with an information-heavy
monologue detailing how basically
Earth got destroyed by nasty aliens and
that he’s the only one of few people still
left on the planet, it isn’t diﬃcult to
see just where Oblivion is headed. And
we fear that it’s not due to end up in a
happy place any time soon. As is the
case with many science-ﬁction ﬁlms,
humans don’t exactly fare well, in the
beginning at least, and the mention of
“memory-wipe” further complicates
things and puts a darker spin on an al-
ready ambiguous set-up.
Even though Joseph Kosinski’s
$120-million sci-ﬁ blockbuster looks
like your typical post-apocalyptic,
big-budget shambles, there is a much
more potent underlying background
story that is happening to Cruise’s Jack.
What he thinks he knows, his dreams,
his memories, are all jumbled in his
head, as he is frequently plagued by
visions of a woman (Kurylenko) who
is not his partner. Jack has been left
behind with Vicki (Riseborough), and
the two are tasked with overseeing the
ﬁnal few operations left on Earth be-
fore they can safely escape to Titan, the
largest moon of Saturn.
But just why is he unsure of all the
commands that is being given to him
by the creepy Sally (Leo)? Why does
Vicki fail to share in his curiosity?
Where are these supposed “Scavs” who
destroyed humanity? And just who is
this woman he’s seeing in front of the
Empire State Building? Plus why is he
being followed by someone wearing
what can only be described as a Darth
Vader suit?
All legitimate questions, all of them
properly addressed to, but not with-
out Kosinski taking his time in taking
us through the harsh, barren lands of
what once was our planet. It’s beautiful
yet unsettling at the same time, as the
sweeping cinematography wonderfully
captures all the details in many single
long takes.
The cast all do an excellent job in
bringing to life the deep imbeded love
story that is wrapped around all the
sci-ﬁ madness. Headlining the whole
project, Cruise is as usual a reliable
lead with a touch of instability and cu-
riosity to make his character work. Of
the two women, the one faring better is
Riseborough, who ends up as a tragic
heroine in this twisted tale and it’s her
highly eﬀective cold, steel-like qual-
ity that brings out the overall sadness
in the narrative. And once again Leo
proves she only has to open her mouth
to send chills down our spine. “How are
you all doing this beautiful morning?”
“Are you an eﬀective team?” both seem
like harmless greeting questions, but
with Leo’s delivery, you can instantly
tell there is something a lot more sinis-
ter happening. And it’s always good to
see Morgan Freeman pop up in a ﬁlm
to provide his voice of exposition for
some calm, chilled out explanation on
what the hell is going on.
A healthy portion of the production
budget seems to have been spent on
building the spotless sets; all cold and
silver on the edges, smooth and shiny
on the exterior, so perfect in a way that
makes us doubt the cleanliness of it all.
Fans of kinetic sci-ﬁ action will also
no doubt get their fair share as Jack
pilots a funny looking bubbly plane,
often hunted by nasty drones which
have ﬁerce speed, high ﬁre-power and
persistence.
The ﬁlm’s main weakness comes
when it has to wrap things up. Instead
of taking the logical route, it forces an
awkward, senseless happy ending, one
that doesn’t do the rest of the ﬁlm jus-
tice. With so many holes punched into
the plot to make the Hollywood end-
ing ﬁt, it undermines all the hard work
and build-up the ﬁlm has put together
previously.
Minus the ﬁnal 10 minutes or so,
Oblivion is an often thought-provoking
piece, one that also makes sure every-
thing looks perfect, as well as the right
amount of fun delivered.

