FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 03 MAY
22
Tony Stark will return
John Park Film Editor
Iron Man 3
Director: Shane Black
Screenwriters: Drew Pearce, Shane
Black
Starring: Robert Downey Jr.,
Gwyneth Paltrow, Don Cheadle, Guy
Pearce, Ben Kingsley, James Badge
Dale, Rebecca Hall
It would be safe to assume that after
the events of Avengers Assemble, our
Iron Man Tony Stark (Downey Jr.) is
quite capable of handling almost an-
ything that comes his way. He fought
alien robots, ﬂew oﬀ a nuclear bomb
out of the earth’s atmosphere, and
quite literally came back from the
dead. And yet here is another sequel
in which Stark is really, really about
to meet his match. Every superhero
ﬁlm promises somewhat of an up-
grade when it comes to antagonists,
inventing one badass villain after
another. Here the billionaire playboy
philanthropist squares oﬀ against an
army of ﬁre-breathing (yes, really),
explosive human bombs who also
have the ability to regenerate.
Suﬀering from post-traumatic
stress disorder after saving the world
by rescuing New York City, Stark is
solely focused on his work, ie making
more and more Iron Man suits (these
all come in very handy later), an un-
healthy obsessive behaviour that has
his loyal girlfriend Pepper Potts (Pal-
trow) worried. But soon they’re both
given something to worry about as
Stark’s arrogant, philandering past
catches up with him. Both interna-
tional terrorist the Mandarin (King-
sley) and genius inventor Aldrich
Killian (Pearce) seem to be gunning
for his downfall, and in a spectacular
scene that really does hit the screen
quite suddenly, Tony Stark’s coast-
house is no more.
Stuck at a complete loss both in
terms of resources (Stark puts to-
gether his very own low-budget suit
using supplies from a convenience
store, which contributes to one of the
ﬁlm’s best scenes) and spirits, we see
Stark reach rock bottom which sets
things up nicely for chronicling how
he gets back up on his feet. But in-
stead we become stuck with a clum-
sily written jargon-full script that
would have suited a police procedur-
al more than anything else, of how
Stark puts the conspiracy pieces to-
gether. The trouble is, the overall plot
is no way near as complex as it thinks
it is, and instead of focusing on Stark
himself, the ﬁlm is too preoccupied
in juggling the large ensemble cast
that really could have lost a couple of
characters.
Among the wasted are Cheadle, as
Tony’s trusted friend inside the Pen-
tagon, who only sporadically shines
towards the end; Hall, Stark’s ex-
conquest who has troubling informa-
tion on her boss Killian, although ul-
timately serving very little purpose,
which is almost an insult to just how
talented Hall is as an actress; Dale
seems to have fun with his pure-evil,
psychotic villain’s sidekick role, even
though he too, is given a quick, anti-
climatic write-oﬀ.
Part of what made Iron Man so
popular in the ﬁrst place was down
to Downey Jr. himself and that he’s
still in the central role is still worth
the entrance price alone. He’s still got
the cool, suave and intelligent sides
intact, as are his lighter, humourous
quips. He is given more to explore
here, most notably the superhero’s
obvious vulnerability that surfaces.
And whilst in the previous two in-
stallments he had Paltrow’s sassy
CEO to exchange banter with, here
he spends most of his time paired up
with a kid (Simpkins) who likes to
invent a few things of his own. The
dynamic and chemistry aren’t quite
as fun as when Downey Jr. was with
Paltrow, but the boy opens up an in-
teresting angle for Tony Stark to re-
late to, and who doesn’t like seeing
his snarky comments aimed at an in-
nocent boy?
The two main villains have plenty
of time to shine, with Pearce and
Kingsley more than apt for their
roles. Pearce, having a strange knack
for playing over the top villainous
roles (Lawless, Prometheus) and still
coming oﬀ rather well with very lit-
tle or no embarrassment at all, once
again repeats his forte here as a man
with a personal vendetta against
Stark himself. But the real highlight
is no doubt Kingsley: and to reveal
too much of his character would be
to ruin him role altogether – but all
that can safely be said is that he’s not
at all who you think he is. And it’s
Kingsley with his mighty talent that
actually provides the most laughs
with his hysterical character. Never
before have we seen someone like
this in a superhero movie wanting to
be taken semi-seriously, but his in-
volvement certainly elevates the en-
joyment factor of the ﬁlm in the most
unexpected way.
As with any “Part Threes”, the di-
rector does go overboard with all the
action scenes – they have to be big-
ger, louder and more bombastic than
they were. The explosions here are
certainly those things, but doesn’t
make them any more enjoyable in any
sense. They appear more chaotic, and
in shambles, which is why no longer
how much they stretch on for, there
is little fun to be had overall. But as
a ﬁnale bonus, a certain actress is
given a rare chance to shine in a brief
action ﬂash, only to have her entire
scene undermined by how quickly
everything wraps up with a lazy
voiceover.
Having already amassed an amaz-
ing total of almost $200 million in a
single weekend in the international
market, audiences are clearly still
interested in whatever story Stark
has to tell. He has fared well even be-
fore the rest of the Avengers entered
the picture, although the quality of
his latest outing shows otherwise.
Downey Jr.’s contract is reportedly up
after this third ﬁlm. Let’s pray, for the
sake of Tony Stark’s future, that he
signs up for as many sequels as possi-
ble – as whatever the ﬁlm’s quality is,
we can be sure of one thing: Downey
Jr. will always be on top of his game.

