TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
Maximilian Eggl
techology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Maximilian Eggl
When it comes to new technology, it
can often feel impossible to keep up
with the Joneses. As soon as you’ve
saved up enough money for one gadget,
another brand spanking new one will
come along and steal its ‘must-have’
crown.
From televisions to tablets, scanners
to speakers – with this never-ending
stream of new technology, how is it
possible to take advantage of the latest,
coolest, most innovative products on
the market without being in danger of
bankrupting yourself?
Luckily, there are ways to cut back
on how much you’re spending on tech
without compromising a desire for the
very best. Here are just a few pointers
on how to save money and have enough
left over to spend on those gadgets you
really want!
Sell your cast-offs
If you’re guilty of keeping old phones,
computers and USB sticks for the
sake of it, then you’re missing many a
money-making trick! Instead of stick-
ing them in the kitchen drawer and
never giving them a second thought,
put them on eBay or even flog them
at a boot-sale. You might not get that
much money for them (naturally the
older they are, the less people will be
willing to pay) but surely it’s still bet-
ter than nothing? By using old tech-
nology as a way of subsidising the new,
you’ll feel less guilty about having a
fast turnover.
Tools like MoneySavingExpert’s
Mobile Valuer can even give you an
idea of how much your current tech is
worth.
FRIDAY 03 MAY
24
Tricks of the Trade: Saving on Tech
The News Bubble
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to date with the
newest, weirdest and most futuristic things around.
Curved TV
LG Electronics have now released the first curved OLED TV for the public to
purchase. The fact that it costs 15 million won (£8,725) which is not exactly
cheap, and is only availabe in South Korea means that you will probably not
be seeing it any time soon. However when it does finally become a bit more
affordable as well as globally available, it will promise to bring that ‘Imax’
feeling right to yout own living room!
Twitter All Mighty
Recently hackers took over the Fox News Twitter account and declared that
Obama had been assassinated. While this was (obviously) not true, the Amer-
ican stock market plunged after word reached investors of this bogus news.
The Dow soon recovered, but this just proves what a power social networks
and unprotected accounts have accumulated.
First Web Page
Cern is recreating the first ever web page to celebrate the 20th birthday of
the internet. The aim is to allow younger generations an insight into the plat-
tform that now dominates their life.
The Instagram Act
The goverment is now considering the Instagram Act. This legislation, which
makes new provisions on orphan works (works where the authors cannot
be easily identified), easing their licensing and allowing companies easier
access for their use. This is not a big step away from online pictures as well,
and, as they do fall under the orphan work category, they may be used by
anyone. Thus anyone who is heavily involved in social networks, upload-
ing pictures on a regular basis should be warned. You may be seeing these
pictures more often than you like.
Facebook Home
Facebook has released a modified Facebook “wrap-around” for Android,
which basically creates a Facebook OS. Your Facebook notifactions, mes-
sages etc. are directly on your phone and as such Facebook will always be
open for you to use and peruse. However some have wondered at the privacy
(as always with Facebook), as it seems that Home sends data to Facebook at
all times about non-relevant things. Only install if you are a Facebook Junkie
and don’t care about your privacy!
Tweeting From your Glasses
Yes, Google Glass has been around for a while now, and people who won
Google’s contest can even test them out. Now the interweb is abound with
rumours of a dedicated Twitter app for the shiny new gadget. This certainly is
interesting as well as good new for Google, as it not only implies a consumer
interest for Glass, but also a will to support it fr om other companies. It knows
that the more apps are optimized for the device the more likely its success
will be. However this makes those annoying pictures of food, cluttering the
internet, even more easy to take....sigh.
Tech Editor
Maximilian Eggl Tech Editor
”
“
Instead of
sticking your
old tech in the
kitchen draw-
er, put them
on eBay
Consider refurbished items
Refurbished items suﬀer from a ter-
rible misconception. Instead of being
a straight-forward second-hand prod-
uct (which people assume to be dam-
aged, scratched and used as a result)
they are often restored and revamped
to look as good as new. If you’re on
the hunt for a new-ish product from
brands like Apple or Dell, it would be
well worth checking out their refurbs;
you could end up saving up to 30%
on tablets or laptops simply by going
down this route.
Search for discounts online
It might seem like a no brainer, but
you’d be surprised how many people
miss out on a bargain by forgetting to
look for vouchers online. For students
especially, simply being at university
is all you need to be entitled to some
money oﬀ. It’s not just restaurants and
fashion either, there are some excel-
lent student discounts to be had on
technology, so have a look at voucher
websites like MyVoucherCodes to see if
you could save on everyday stuﬀ like
broadband rates and printer ink.
Avoid expensive repairs
If your laptop or PC has fallen foul to
a virus in the past, you’ll know how
soul destroying it can be – if it were to
happen again, you’d probably be will-
ing to pay the earth rather than lose
your entire music collection. But is it
really worth spending hundreds and
hundreds of pounds on a tech-ex-
pert? It’s likely you won’t be the only
person to have had the same issue, so
why not look at forums and technol-
ogy websites to see if you can ﬁgure
out a solution yourself? It might take
time and seem like more hassle than
it’s worth, but if it saves you a bucket
load of cash in the process, we reckon
it’ll be time well spent.
Now get out there!
If you’re desperate to get your hands
on a new bit of kit, try implement-
ing just a few of the aforementioned
money saving ideas – you might be
surprised at how much you could
save, and just how much you might
be able to aﬀord in the long run.
”
“”
”
On the hunt
for a new-ish
product?
Check out
Refurbs!

