Heads... or tails...?
Ross Webster giveshisspoiler-freereviewofBioshock:Infinite
he long wait is ﬁnally
over. After being teased
for way over a year, the
third game of the Bio-
shock franchise is out. I
dedicated a good chunk of my life to
the game already, so I think I’m in a
good enough place to review it.
I’m going to skip my usual spiel
about the history of the series, and
just jump into the city of Columbia –
the location of Bioshock: Infinite’s sto-
ry. You are Booker DeWitt, a former
Pinkerton agent (Pinkertons is a real-
life detective agency) who amassed a
lot of gambling debt. Given the op-
tion to wipe the slate clean by retriv-
ing a girl from the city of Columbia,
you jump at the chance, and you start
playing Booker just as you’re on your
way to the city.
If you’ve played either of the previ-
ous titles (Bioshock, and Bioshock 2)
you’ll understand how the game aims
to have you immersed in the world
around you. Despite the prequels be-
ing dark and grimy, the levels still had
character, with signs of recent life all
around you, in the tight underwater
conﬁnes of Rapture. Infinite not only
takes a leaf from this book, but turns
the whole page over. No longer stuck
in the claustrophobic and abandoned
world of Rapture, you are catapulted
in the vibrant and living world of Co-
lumbia, the city above the clouds.
Kids are playing in the street, cou-
ples lay down in the grass with their
picnic set – this is a world that, in-
stead of simply using audio recordings
to create the history and personality,
uses the inhabitants to charm you.
As soon as you emerge in Columbia,
you’re presented with one of the main
themes of the game. This time, there
is no industrialist who builds a city to
drive his capitalist views, instead you
have a prophet who created a haven in
the clouds, to save his devotees from
the sodom below.
Soon, you’re faced with vigors (the
new term for plasmids), the com-
edy duo and of course, racism. Taste-
ful, historically accurate racism, but
still, I’m surprised how they got this
through the censors.
You soon ﬁnd your ward, Elizabeth,
and then it’s the.... uh.... simple... task
of getting back to the surface. Thank-
fully, Elizabeth has the ability to open
‘tears’ (rhymes with bears, not beers)
into other dimensions, allowing you to
bring in automated turrets, weapons,
allies, etc to the ﬁght. Luckily, you’re
not the only thorn in the prophet’s
backside, as a rebellion, led by a group
known as the Vox Populi, is wreaking
havoc across Columbia.
Combat is the same as Bioshock 2 –
left click ﬁres your weapon, and right
click uses your plas.. vigor (dammit,
every time). There’s a wide selection
of weapons and plasmids to suit your
playstyle, along with upgrades to both,
so that’s all ﬁne and dandy. Travel in
Columbia is a bit of an issue, when
it’s made up of ﬂoating platforms.
You can’t really have a lot of associ-
ated risk, each time you want to move
around, so you use the skyline instead.
Imagine railway tracks that ﬂoat in the
air, and you luckily picked up a set of
train wheels right at the start. Oh, that
reminds me – melee is back and is as
brutal as ever – this time, you get to
smash faces in with your skyhook, and
if you’re feeling particularly stressed
out, you can execute your opponents
in beautiful visceral detail.
Many people feared that you would
be having to rescue Elizabeth again
and again, a la clichéd escort mode,
but she can take care of herself, and
spends her free time rummaging
through rubbish to give you extra
ammo and money. In fact, she puts
way more eﬀort into this relationship
that you do.
Further aﬃrming Webster’s First
Law of Gaming, adding hats makes
everything better. You’ve got four in-
ventory slots that can have diﬀerent
types of clothing, that all grant diﬀer-
ent traits and abilities. Think of them
as the new tonics.
There’s not much more to say about
the game, without me mentioning spe-
ciﬁc areas, moments, fabulous hats, or
parts of the storyline. Trust me when I
say that you’ll want to enjoy your time
T
GAMES
FRIDAY 03 MAY 25
Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Dear Mr Ryan,
What makes a person kind? Why do
some people reach out and help others
even if they do not know them well,
whilst others do not reach out even
upon being asked? I don’t understand
what creates this diﬀerence in people;
is it a question of a diﬀerence in nature
and nurture?” -Jill
Dear Jill,
No-one is born good, and no-one
is born evil. Instead, we are all born
greedy. From birth till death, the hu-
man race is an animalistic force. Ever-
consuming, its hunger never satiated,
not a thought of conservation crosses
its mind as it depletes the world around
it. Evolution has forced this situation.
Nature teaches us to only care for
those who share our genes - the goal
being to propagate ad infinitum. Soci-
ety brought guilt and kindness to men.
Both traits are seen as a sign of weak-
ness by the parasite. “A free meal.” they
say, as they take food with one hand,
and hold a dagger in the other.
Today, children are taught by bloated
and corrupt governments, that they
should be kind, and that they should
help others. The men in the church
teach children to kneel, and to treat
others as they would want to be treated
themselves. Neither teach children the
irony of the real world, and the perils of
naivety and sloth.
The world has changed since our
ancestors left their caves, but not by
much. Those who oﬀer help to others,
do it not from the goodness of their
own hearts – their motives are cloaked
behind their smile and outstretched
hands.
Regard the beggar on the street. Na-
ture is forcing him to live. Nurture is
making him expectant of aid. It is not
nature’s fault that he has no job, and is
a leech on society. That is the fault of
nuture.
Why would someone oﬀer aid to this
man? Political gain? More power in the
shadows? Of course, many will claim
that they do it, because they feel like a
Random acts of kindness – from the desk of Ryan
Andrew Ryan Every day I’m splicin’ better person afterwards, or that their
god commands it. If someone believes
that their god is going to reward them
for handing out a blanket, then they are
the one requiring help.
Maybe there are selﬂess people with-
in this world, but they wil be too busy
dreaming about their altruistic utopia,
to ever act.
Thanks Mr Ryan! If you have any
questions for Mr Ryan, please do not
hesitate to email felix.games@impe-
rial.ac.uk with the title “Ask Andrew”,
and we’ll pass them along to his peo-
ple.
working through Columbia on your
own, rather than having me spoil eve-
rything for you. I see something new
each time, and the detail put into the
world is incredible.
I truly love everything that Bioshock:
Infinite has to oﬀer, and I cannot rec-
ommend it highly enough. I would
wait for your exams to be over ﬁrst
though – I don’t want to be held re-
sponsible for any more failing grades.
Chin up, they’ll be over soon.
See, much better.
Beaten to death by
quantum mechanics?
Sounds like exam season

