HANGMAN hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 03 MAY
26
Rap Lyrics of
the Week
“And it’s frustratin to look at every
day, like watchin’ a porno on 56K”
Wow. Really, you’re going with that
as the simile there? Isn’t there a
load better things to say than that
surely? You really would think that
before recording this and putting
it out there you would stop, listen,
and realise it’s going to make you
sound like a massive nerd.
Immortal Technique:
“Harlem Renaissance”
Do people laugh at you all the
time?
Really?
Well you’re probably funny
(looking).
Anyway... Send stuff in: felix@
imperial.ac.uk
Snapshat
Photos you will get
1. Various in-jokes from your friends.
Most likely just the ﬁrst thing they see
when they’re bored.
2. Strange, awkward attempted ﬂirts.
Of course there will also be the creepy
guy who sends you some weird, ﬂirty
messages that are completely unwant-
ed. Much like an unwanted Facebook
inbox message, it’s a cautious game
pretending that you didn’t see any
photos from people you don’t want to
talk to. The secret to Facebook by the
way is stealth. If you just put on a well
place email notiﬁcation, you can read
it in your emails and then draft a reply.
Then, when you send it, it looks like
you’ve just managed to come up with
some witty oﬀ the cuﬀ remark, when
really it’s a carefully honed, thought-
out message. Secret to Snapchat: “Oh,
shit, yeah, I must have been distracted
and didn’t see that photo of how hairy
your knee is.
3. Photos at about 1am from a drunk
friend that you know deﬁnitely now
fancies you. Think of it as basically
a step above drunk texting. As if it
needed to get any worse, now you
send a photo. Oh well, at least the evi-
dence deletes itself after being brieﬂy
imprinted on your retina.
4. A classic “me with my mouth open
with a penis crudely drawn onto the
picture”. Inventive.
5. Very soon, probably, some kind of
spam. Along the lines of “date people
now! Singles in your area.”
6. An irritating amount of selﬁes.
Hopefully without the arm still in
shot.
7. None that you think: wow, I really
wish this was on Facebook so I could
see it again and again...
Photos you probably won’t
get
1. Any form of actual sexting. No re-
ally you probably won’t. In fact, a
study of 1 trillion people found that
0.0000000000000000000000001%
of all photos sent are actual-
ly people stripping oﬀ. Of these
0.000000000000001% were women.
Essentially, it’s like one of those dating
agencies that says that it is in trouble
as there are “too many sexy singles
desperate for a date in your area”. Most
of the naked photos were men send-
ing it to their mate as a joke. Admit-
tedly, this study was just entirely made
up on the spot just now, but the point
still completely stands 100%. No, wait:
1000%.
Anyway, what would even be the
point. By the time you’ve unzipped
your ﬂies your snap has already been
deleted. Unless you have some kind of
superhuman masturbatory technique
(which, as you are at Imperial let’s as-
sume you probably do/will develop
over the exam season) you’re probably
going to be a bit slower than about 10
seconds. If you want to do that why
not just use the regular webcam? If
they are also making themselves a bit
more comfortable it’ll be pretty hard
to actually ﬁlm you (as is presumably
your worry). The morale of the story:
just use a webcam people. So much
easier.
Everyone uses wishes they used Snapchat for sexting
You just send a quick photo of yourself and it appears for a few seconds then deletes. Amazing! Noth-
ing can go wrong! Except if someone just takes a photo of their screen as you have no way of knowing
they did that and no way of deleting the photo. Well, now you’re paranoid, read the photos you will and
probably won’t receive on Snapchat.
If Einstein were a student today he’d probably be sending this to all the Physics LADS. And, of course, the classic torso shot.
Great selfie here
Wiley: “Heatwave”
“I wanna see an ice cream van on
the road”
What are you ten? That’s definitely
not gangsta to want to see an ice
cream van, unless it’s some amaz-
ingly convoluted terminology that
actually somehow means some-
thing selling drugs. It’s not though.
You just want a 99p, which prob-
ably costs like £1.20 nowadays.
Fucking inflation.

