unionpage
imperialcollegeunion.org
Imperial College Union has a free sexual health clinic run by theTerrence
HigginsTrust, onThursday 9 May, 11:00 – 16:00.This clinic will offer
chlamydia, gonorrhoea, and rapid HIV testing, condoms, and advice. The
clinic is open and free to all students regardless of age, gender, study type
or country of origin.
To book a slot, please come to East Wing Basement in Beit Quad from
10:30 where slots will be allocated on a ﬁrst-come, ﬁrst-served basis. We
will release extra slots at 13:00 for those unable to attend at 10:30.
For more information please contact our Representation Coordinator, Zoe
Richardson (z.richardson@imperial.ac.uk).
Free Sexual Health Clinic next
week
Nominations open now for
The UnionAwards
The Union Awards serve as recognition for individuals who have made great
contributions to the Union and their fellow students during the academic
year. The Awards have been tradition for a long number of years, and the
tradition continues this year. If you know anyone who deserves some
recognition for their involvement in the Union, nominate them for an Award!
There are four awards for students: Union Colour, Outstanding Service
Award, Imperial College Union Fellowship and Imperial College Union
Fellowship with Distinction. Recipients are presented with their Awards at
the Union Awards ceremony on the 13 June.
Nominations are open online until Friday 31 May through eActivities
(eactivities.union.ic.ac.uk). Help someone get the recognition they deserve
for their contribution to the Union.
imperialcollegeunion.org/unionawards
Ease the exam stress with
Stress Less
We know that exam time can be very stressful, so much so that you list it
as your biggest single issue as a student at this time of year. Stress Less is
a range of events and activities aimed at giving you a moment to destress
during revision and exam time.
From a petting zoo and bouncy castles on the Queen’s Lawn, to free open
air lunchtime exercise classes, we can help get rid of your exam stress.
Also, look out for our destressing masseuses giving quick relaxation hand
and back massages in the library. We want you to also share your great
revision tips with your fellow students using #icustressless.
imperialcollegeunion.org/stressless
Idea Days 2013 - help us make
your Union better
Our Idea Days are designed to get your input on the Union’s draft Strategic
Plan, so that we can create a ﬁnal plan for the organisation to work from for
the next three years. We will be asking for your opinions on a wide range of
issues to ﬁnd out what’s important to you as a student at Imperial College,
and how we can help you get the best of your experience, both during and
after your time here.
Our ﬁrst Idea Day is onWednesday 15 May, Sherﬁeld Foyer, South
Kensington campus. Details of Idea Days on other campuses will be
coming soon.
In the mean time, you can give your feedback online on each of our
Strategic Themes. All comments we receive will help us inform our
Strategic Plan and ensure that it fully caters for all of our members.
imperialcollegeunion.org/strategy
Idea D
ays 20
13

