SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 03 MAY
30
Friday, 18.00. Set oﬀ from College
in the minibuses. Painstakingly pre-
pared genre-based mix tape 1 out of
6 ‘Reggae’ wobbling out from Transit
subwoofer to minimal enthusiasm
from backseat passengers – requests
for Kraftwerk’s ‘Tour de France’
soundtrack pouring in thick and fast
from Sioni. Halfway along the A40 in
gridlocked traﬃc, we realise we’ve left
Cyprien behind. After a quick phone
call, he forgives us and tells us to keep
going so we batter on. This remark-
able change from everything going to
plan to everything going tits up, only
to revert back to going to plan some
time afterwards would set the pace (at
about 45 km/h) for the weekend.
Saturday, 02:00. Arrive at moun-
tain hut in the middle of nowhere,
Wales. After being warned of ‘low
outside temperature’ by the van’s
sweetly humanitarian dashboard dis-
play, we could conﬁrm for ourselves
that it was right nippy in that hut.
After what felt like lying down on a
wooden board for about four hours
being woken up periodically by some
smut or other from Will and BTB in
the Presidential Suite, we got up to
put Lycra on, eat hot bacon & beans
and get outside in what turned out to
be glorious sunshine. The ﬁrst day of
riding was one of the best rides I’ve
ever been on – and I think all others
could say the same. 65 miles of curv-
ing, smooth roads up some of Britain’s
best climbing roads in perfect cycling
weather – sun out, no wind. I’m told
the MTBers also had an amazing time
walking through the ice up the tallest
mountain in Wales with bikes on their
backs. But then, I guess what goes up
a mountain gets to come down pretty
quickly – so fair enough. That even-
ing, due to a packed-out pub in a lit-
tle Welsh railway village (the only one
for miles around), we had hot steak &
ale pies on an ice-cold picnic bench
outside. The waitress kindly turned
a blind eye to us using the placemats
as arse-mats, an action which for me
deserves a Michelin star in itself. Get
back to hut, 2 lads sick into bog after
perilous descent down trapdoor lad-
der (oﬀ beer? Too much beer?) and a
good night’s sleep for more riding in
the morning.
The second day was to see things go-
ing pretty far from the original plan.
Roadies jumped at the chance to be
able to do a real A-to-B étape, taking
in 60 miles of big hills via Lake Bala
before arriving at the Coed-y-Brenin
Trail Centre where we would meet our
knobbly-tyred brothers with the mini-
buses to head back to London. About
15 miles from the ﬁnish in waning
daylight and gathering cold, unfortu-
nate events and the kindness of stran-
gers would change the face of the Cy-
cling Club, for at least a week or two.
A crash involving a fractured carbon
fork (!) on a cattle grid would leave the
injured Tom, a broken bike and about
7 or 8 lads huddled on bleak Welsh
moorland while me and Dan race after
a Welsh man in his car we spotted a
On the 20th April, Imperial’s Ultimate
Frisbee team − the discDoctors − took
to the ﬁelds in Nottingham to com-
pete against the country’s top clubs
at Outdoor Nationals, the highlight of
the competitive calendar for universi-
ty Ultimate. Battling it out across two
days of intense competition, the team
found their feet after a sluggish start to
secure an impressive third place in the
tournament’s second division.
Having endured subzero conditions
to earn their spot in the competition
at the south-east regional qualiﬁers in
March, the team was surprised to be
greeted by warm sun and little wind to
speak of − ideal conditions for quick
and competitive Ultimate. After a dis-
appointing loss to Newcastle in the
opening game, Imperial soon got over
their early jitters to brush past a spir-
ited Bristol team. With intense man-
marking in defence combined with
incisive and ﬂowing attacking play
− particularly from David Pryce and
Stephan Rossbauer − the team put on
a ruthless display, recording a convinc-
ing 13−7 victory.
The ﬁnal group game saw Imperial
take on a well-drilled Nottingham out-
ﬁt in their most physical encounter so
far. The game even saw the team’s ﬁrst
casualty of the tournament, as Ash-
ley Hemingway tore two ligaments
competing for the disc, leaving him
on crutches for the remainder of the
weekend after a hasty trip to A&E.
Despite losing out narrowly in a hard-
fought contest, the discDoctors had
done enough to secure second place in
the group after other results fell kind-
ly. This left old foes Portsmouth, who
Imperial had recently edged past in a
tense encounter during regional quali-
ﬁers, standing in the way of a place in
Sunday’s quarter-ﬁnals.
Now in their fourth game of the day,
Imperial really started to come into
their own against an opponent that
struggled to keep up with the pace
of the game. The discDoctors raced
to an early lead, thanks in part to an
unstoppable performance from James
Threadgill, and displayed calm and
clinical eﬃciency in attack to ﬁnish
with a 9−5 win. Battered, bruised and
− in some cases − broken, the team had
booked their place in the top eight.
As the wind picked up on Sunday
morning, Imperial adapted well to the
new conditions in their quarter-ﬁnal
against a Glasgow team that was so far
undefeated in the competition. Blis-
tering pace from captain Phil Sandwell
and a towering performance from
Matthew Okenyi helped the team se-
cure an 11−6 victory, and left them
just one win away from a coveted place
in the ﬁnals. With the team’s momen-
tum gathering, however, they ﬁnally
met their match in the form of a ruth-
lessly organised Limerick side. The
Irish team employed a zonal marking
system that put a lot of pressure on
Imperial’s throws in the increasingly
breezy conditions. Despite hard work
from Pryce and Rossbauer, and James
Ward’s unending commitment to put-
ting his body on the line in defence,
Limerick’s tactical prowess proved too
much for the team. The Irish side went
on to lose narrowly to Nottingham in
the ﬁnals.
Imperial had little time to dwell on
this disappointment as they faced up
to St Andrews in the 3−4 play-oﬀ. The
bagpipe accompaniment provided
by their Scottish opponents lent the
ﬁnal game of the weekend a suitable
element of grandeur, and both teams
seemed determined to ﬁnish the tour-
nament on a high. Although St An-
drews drew ahead as the game wore
discDoctors scoop podium finish at Nationals
Cycling through the pain
SportsWriter
Ed Parker
few miles down the road. Upon tell-
ing him what had happened, the kind
old man drove back up the mountain
to rescue Tom (and Josh for company)
to drive them to the Trail Centre in
order to be ‘transferred’ via Iain’s car
to the hospital. We all owe him for
doing what he did, and I owe Josh for
this story: the 80-something year old
would complain about the sun in his
eyes only to reject Josh’s oﬀer for the
use of his cycling shades in favour of
his own Tom Cruise-style Aviators.
Just goes to prove, you’re never too old
to look daft.
The rest of us set oﬀ, leaving the bro-
ken bike on top of the mountain to be
collected/worried about later. The de-
lay of the crash had seen it get darker
and the batteries on our GPS run out.
Confusing Welsh town names and
wiggly roads meant we soon got lost.
We stumbled upon a house. Asked
for directions, a man obliged, we
set oﬀ. As I was turning the cranks
round their ﬁrst revolution on the way
home, the chain snapped clean down
through a link. After swearing had
stopped and the air had de-misted, I
went back to the house to ask the man
for a lift. Again, credit to the generos-
ity of old Welsh blokes, he drove me
the 5 miles (with my bike safely in the
back of his car and the other lads in
convoy) to the trail centre. In the car,
he told me his name was David Lloyd
George. Maybe he was having me on.
Maybe he wasn’t. A couple of hours
and several stitches later, Tom was
safely out of hospital and we had the
minibuses stoked up to go take him –
and the rest of us – home.
Monday, 02:30. Back parking the
minibuses behind the library in an
eerie Sunday-night-feeling campus.
All in all, a fantastic trip combining
the best of cycling and going to the
pub, despite the crash it was amaz-
ing watching the solidarity of the
club come through in tough circum-
stances and credit is due to everyone
there. Feeling of relief. But then, as if it
wasn’t inevitable enough: “shit, we’ve
left Mihai!”
James Dixon Sports Writer
on, another remarkable display from
Threadgill (who only seemed to get
faster as the weekend went on), com-
bined with several diving blocks from
Rossbauer, helped Imperial draw level
and eventually edge their way onto the
podium in a sudden-death ﬁnish.
While the tense encounter had
brought the weekend to a ﬁttingly
dramatic conclusion, the aches and
bruises are likely to last well into the
summer.
Imperial’s Ultimate team ends the season on a high in Nottingham
Andrew Moss
Catch me if you can: James
Threadgill competes for the disc.

