More student cuts
Men’s cuts £22 (normally £35)
Women’s cut and rough dry £28
Women’s cut and salon finish
blow-dry £38 (normally £55)
FRESH Hairdressers has been
offering high quality, fashionable
haircuts for over 20 years. All of
our haircuts are by highly experi-
enced stylists, NOT trainees.
TO GET A GREAT HAIRCUT
1) You don’t have to spend a lot of
money at expensive trendy salons
2) You don’t have to spend hours
as a Guinea pig at a training school
3) You don’t have to be butchered
at some cheap Barbers
4) You don’t have to wait till you go
back home
Come to FRESH, ask for a student
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
near South Kensington
discount and bring your student ID
we look forward to seeing you.
We use only the best products,
Wella, Moroccan Oil, L’Oreal, and
KMS and offer free coffee and
herbal teas.
To book an appointment call 0207
823 8968.
Tuesday to Saturdays 9.30 to 5.30
We are only 70 metres from South
Kensington tube station.
www.freshhairdressers.co.uk
NEWS
3
FRIDAY 03 MAY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Secret filming ProjectNepalruntheLondonMarathon
has also increased student awareness,
many of whom may not have realised
that animal testing occurs in College
or what it entails. A glance at College
social media pages also demonstrates
the fury of some of the public who have
fully supported the BUAV campaign
against Imperial and sport anti-animal
testing banners.
Imperial has released an oﬃcial re-
sponsetotheallegations:“...Onlyasmall
percentage of medical and biological re-
search involves the use of animals. That
part remains vital, however, to further
the development of treatments or cures
for medical conditions that blight or de-
stroy the lives of humans – and animals.
Imperial College’s policy on the use of
animals in research is that animals may
only be used in research programmes
where their use is shown to be essential.
Scientists and staﬀ at Imperial work
hard to ensure that animals are kept
and cared for using the highest stand-
ards of husbandry, thereby causing
least pain or distress.” College has also
commissioned an independent inves-
tigation into the allegations chaired by
Professor Steve Brown, Director of the
MRC Mammalian Genetics Unit, Har-
well which describes itself as “An in-
ternational centre for mouse genetics”
.
The BUAV have claimed that the MRC
fund research at Imperial and that this
could aﬀect the independence of the
review. Professor Brown is an advocate
were clearly in breach of their licences.
The use of live animals in scientiﬁc
experimentation is regulated by the
1986 Animals (Scientiﬁc Procedures)
Act. The act (which has recently been
revised to accommodate the European
Directive 2010/63/EU on the Protec-
tion of Animals Used for Scientiﬁc
Purposes) declares that an individual
cannot use a regulated procedure on
an animal unless they have a personal
license, a project license and are carry-
ing out their experiment in a licensed
institution. The licences are provided
by the Home Oﬃce, which enforces the
act and sets the limits of each project
according to its categorised severity.
However, the BUAV are claiming that
the video footage shows Imperial re-
searchers who do not understand the
limits of the licence and that others
wilfully disregard their licence, causing
further pain and suﬀering to their test
subjects.
Imperial is not the ﬁrst university that
has been investigated by the BUAV, in
1998 a ten-month undercover investi-
gation into the use of marmosets was
ﬁlmed and released publicly in 2002.
At the time the university in question
(which was not Imperial) was not legal-
ly charged with any misdeeds however
it was noted that at least one project
licence had been exceeded and a later
court found that the Home Secretary
had miscategorised the severity of the
experiment licence.
Regardless of the allegations of ne-
glect and abuse of the animals under
their care, the video footage does raise
questions concerning how College ap-
proaches the training of new research-
ers experimenting on animals and how
active College’s animal welfare oﬃcers
are in spotting and reporting dangers
to animal safety. This media coverage
for the use of mice in medical research
and sees mouse as a way of discovering
the connection between genetics and
disease in humans, with whom mice
have 99% of DNA in common. Impe-
rial has also alerted the Home Oﬃce
to the BUAV allegations and has con-
tacted all College staﬀ with personal or
project licences and reminded them of
Imperial’s policies on animal welfare in
laboratories.
While Imperial has responded to the
allegations the BUAV is still petitioning
for the removal of College’s establish-
ment licence for the use of live animals
in research. Frustrated with College’s
decision to ask Professor Brown to head
an investigation the BUAV and their
supporters (including Imperial gradu-
ate Brian May) are also petitioning for
a ‘wholly independent’ inquiry into the
allegations and possibly the wider im-
plications of the animal testing licens-
ing system in place. The BUAV have
delivered a letter to the Home Oﬃce,
which was signed by MPs from all par-
ties, calling for an enquiry that is inde-
pendent of Imperial, the Home Oﬃce,
and any institution funding or support-
ing research there.
How Imperial’s teaching and research
will be aﬀected by the upcoming inves-
tigation is yet to be understood howev-
er the allegations have certainly brought
ideas concerning animal testing back
into the mainstream community.
continued from the front page
>>
Summer is approaching and at Impe-
rial this means internships, work and
UROP… but not for the Project Nepal
team. The team of 18 will be heading
to the Tanahun District conveniently
during monsoon season to build an
extension onto an existing school in
dire need of extra space. Living on
local food and water, sleeping on the
ﬂoor and manual labour would deter
most, however the group is passion-
ate about helping the poverty stricken
children in this rural part of Nepal. I’m
sure the spectacular Himalayan back-
drop won’t hurt either. Throughout
this academic year they have raised
nearly all their fundraising target in-
cluding collecting £246 at this month’s
London marathon in Saris, elephant
and teletubby costumes!
If you would like to get involved in
Project Nepal next year, find us at the
Fresher’s Fair.
Miresh Mistry Reporter
Imperial Fourth in Complete University League Table
Imperial College London have come
fourth in the 2014 Complete Univer-
sity Guide league table. This is the
same spot that Imperial occupied
last year. Cambridge (pictured) came
top, with Oxford second and LSE
third.
In the subject tables, Imperial was
also near the top; every subject was
at very least in the top 10. There were
ﬁve subjects that were second in
their respective tables (Aero, Chem.
Eng, Computing, EEE, Mech Eng),
two subjects in third (Biology and
Civil Engineering), three subjects
in fourth (General Engineering – a
course not oﬀered at Imperial but
it could have been an amalgamation
of subjects, Materials, Physics), and
ﬁnally two subjects that came sixth
(Chemistry and Medicine).
It was compiled by using nine
metrics, which were similar to what
other league tables use. These in-
cluded student satisfaction, research,
entry standards, staﬀ to student ra-
tios, spending on academic services,
spending on facilities, good honours
degrees, graduate prospects, com-
pletion data, and how green the uni-
versity is.
Imperial was second for Graduate
Prospects, with LSE at the top spot.
Although for green issues, on the
other hand, Imperial were much fur-
ther down the table: Imperial were
close to the bottom in this parameter.
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Hopefully the elephant
costume will mean they
never forget equations
for exams
Image: © BUAV
Images BUAV are
claiming show animal
neglect at Imperial

