Issue 1545
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
03/05/13
@SportFelix
Friday 22nd March brought more ex-
citement than the usual end-of-term
celebrations for 48 of Imperial’s snow
enthusiasts: we were heading to the
French Alps for our Easter ski trip.
BUSC Main Event, organised annually
by the British University Snowsports
Council, is a week full of competi-
tions, après events and drunken antics
attended by 1,500 students from the
UK, and this year – hosted in Alpe
D’Huez – promised to be as crazy as
ever.
The long coach journey passed sur-
prisingly quickly with the combined
eﬀect of alcohol, high spirits and sleep
deprivation/induction, and soon we
were in the resort, stocking up on
pasta and cheap booze for the week
ahead. Craving release from the con-
ﬁnes of reclining seats, we unleashed
our wild sides with our ﬁrst fancy
dress theme: animals. From the con-
ventional slightly slutty leopard print
to a penguin complete with a star-
tlingly realistic blacked-up face, we
gathered around our watering hole to
enjoy games of Arrogance and 20+1
(and less conventional variations). In
what would prove to be a theme for
the week, we were chased from our
room with noise complaints from an-
gry French residents/BUSC reps, and
ﬂed into the night to seek the relative
safety of the town’s bars.
Despite night-time disturbances
from the furious and incoherent
penguin, most of the group was up
fresh-faced and buzzing for ﬁrst lifts
on our ﬁrst day tearing up the slopes.
The Gods of Pow had looked favour-
ably on us: fresh powder at Easter is
a rare treat, and what powder it was!
Our skis and boards were barely taint-
ed with slush or ice all week, and the
snow at the top of the mountain was
as perfect as the view. We toasted the
ﬁrst day’s success at the Après-bar,
where we could be found most eve-
nings enjoying vin chaud – a pursuit
even more enjoyable in the sunshine
of the following days.
Evenings merged into nights with
more drinking, drinking games and
fancy dress. There were some truly
inspired costume ideas for Wednes-
day night’s bad taste theme at the
midweek party, where a rogue priest
and his disciples spent much of the
evening drumming up support for
their society. We also dominated the
bar on the last night with displays of
nudity that most Metric-goers could
only dream of. Night-time entertain-
ment never ﬁnished when the bars
did, though. Expeditions to the only
kebab shop in town open at 3am were
numerous, while back at the hotel at-
tempts to dampen spirits by reps and
weary roommates alike were met with
serious resistance. Alcohol and adren-
aline can often bring out the best in
people, though not in the case of one
half of the notorious John duo, whose
keenness to get the ﬁrst lift one morn-
ing began with putting his ski boots on
at 4am.
As well as busting Imperial’s repu-
tation for being boring by winning
the prize for most noise complaints,
we put up an impressive show for the
serious competition side of the week
too, with competitors representing
the club in many ski and all snow-
board disciplines. Resident Irish ba-
dass John even managed to nail the
freestyle event with fresh stitches in
his shin! Thanks to some spectacularly
gnarly tricks from the current (John)
and future (Mikkel) Presidents, Im-
perial had two top-10 ﬁnishes in the
Shred and Butter competition, and
top-20 ﬁnishes in the Slopestlye. We
also stole the show at the Red Bull
1976 Winter Olympics Games revival,
where dark horse Will performed a
back-ﬂip on blades, securing the team
3rd place for ‘initiative’. The national-
level standard meant that competition
was incredibly ﬁerce, and though we
didn’t place in the racing this year, we
had a strong turnout and hope to build
on the progress that race captain Mi-
Fresh powder in the Arcs
chael has been tirelessly working for at
next year’s event.
As the rest of the week raced by, ac-
quaintances became friends; tomato
pasta was usurped by meat/cheese
fondue; snowploughing skis became
parallel; library-induced pale faces
were replaced by peeling goggle tans/
burns; and ridiculous quotes became
in-jokes (cue ‘I’m so horned out like’).
Before we knew it, we were scrub-
bing away the last beer stains from
our rooms and reluctantly dragging
our sweat and snow-drenched luggage
back to the bus. The journey home
was a subdued aﬀair, though fortu-
nately certain emotional group mem-
bers managed to hold back previously
shed tears for the sad inevitability of
leaving the mountains. We will be
back next year, les Alpes: absence only
makes the heart grow fonder.
Lizzy Griffiths Sports Writer Ross Henrys
Toby Marshman
Ross Henrys

