FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
FRIDAY 03 MAY
The real cost of our cheap clothing
s a new term dawns we
know we won’t be the
only ones indulging in
a little online shopping
procrastination. We are
often reminded to think about where
the various elements of our life come
from, our food, our energy, but what
about our clothes? At a time when
your moral and ethical values are seri-
ously questioned if you are seen buy-
ing anything other than free range,
organic super eggs we very rarely
question shopping at chains like Pri-
mark of H&M. Well, who can blame
us when we can buy all our shoes for
under a tenner, right? Maybe not.
Due to all of us being such diligent
students who barely have time to leave
the library let alone pick up a newspa-
per, many may not be aware of a disas-
ter that took place over the course of
last week. On Wednesday 24th April,
a building containing three garment
factories collapsed near the centre of
the Dhaka the capital city of Bangla-
desh. The building, which has been
undergoing renovation, had been told
to close after large cracks appeared
the day before the disaster. Despite
this, the garment factories opened
as normal with employees being told
they would lose their jobs unless they
arrived at work as usual. Due to this,
some 377 people, of the 3000 people
inside the building at the time of the
collapse, are known to have died and
hundreds are still missing.
As shocking and awful as this trag-
edy is, the more shocking thing to
learn is that this is just another event
in a series of catastrophes that mar
the Bangladeshi textile industry. Just
6 months ago another factory caught
ﬁre killing 123 people and leaving an-
other 150 injured.
The growth of the textile industry
has sometimes been compared to the
Industrial revolution and it is true
that it has provided jobs, especially
for Bangladeshi women, but at what
cost?
An online Bangladeshi news source
bdnews24.com published an article
last week titled “Despite disasters,
Bangladesh works for retailers”. It de-
tails that despite industrial disasters
in the garment industry, there were
few signs that safety issues and other
questionable labour conditions are
having any eﬀect on major Western
retailers, their shareholders and the
consumers. Ready-made garments
make up 80% of Bangladesh’s total ex-
ports, which makes it harder for the
country to take a stand against West-
ern exploits.
About 18 months before the previ-
ous big tragedy in Bangladesh - a ﬁre
in November in a textile factory that
killed 112 people - shareholders at
Wal-Mart Stores Inc had the oppor-
tunity to weigh in on the safety ques-
tion. By a nearly 50-to-1 margin, they
rejected a proposal to require suppli-
ers to report annually on safety issues
at their factories. In arguing against
the proposal, Wal-Mart’s manage-
ment made its reasoning clear: Hav-
ing suppliers compile such reports
“could ultimately lead to higher costs
for Walmart and higher prices for our
customers. This would not be in the
best interests of Walmart’s sharehold-
ers and customers and would place
Walmart at a competitive disadvan-
tage,” the company said in proxy ma-
terials. (Source: bdnews24.com)
This sends a clear message from
these companies. End of the day, it’s
a simply calculation that has hardly
been swayed by industrial disasters.
Cheaper products appeal to shoppers
and the taints from these incidents are
manageable through PR stunts. Take
Primark for example. After it was
revealed that Rana Plaza contained
one of its suppliers, the company was
quick to take a PR stand and “review
its commitments constantly to ensure
they met the needs of the victims as
the tragedy continues to unfold”. Their
move to pay compensation to some
of the victims only came after several
protests outside its store on Oxford
Street.
The share prices for these companies
stay perfectly intact as news of these
kinds of disasters fade away from peo-
ple’s minds. The world’s court system
stands idly on the sidelines as well. In
2005, a lawsuit ﬁled in California state
court on behalf of factory workers in
Bangladesh, China, Indonesia and
other countries accusing Wal-Mart of
failing to address substandard work-
ing conditions in suppliers’ factories.
The case was ultimately dismissed and
no US lawsuits have been ﬁled against
Wal-Mart since then on similar mat-
ters.
There have been pressures from ac-
tivists regarding working conditions
in garment factories but it has simply
been a case of the little person trying
to stand up to big companies. Com-
panies often resist eﬀorts to force a
deeper discussion about the tradeoﬀs
between worker safety and product
costs.
Before Wal-Mart invited sharehold-
ers to this year’s annual meeting, to
take place June 7, the board of direc-
tors rebuﬀed another eﬀort to force a
shareholder vote on workplace safety
issues. According to documents ﬁled
with the US Securities and Exchange
Commission, a shareholder presented
a proposal to require the company to
report on its progress for assessing
risks to human rights in its opera-
tions and supply chain. But Wal-Mart
said the proposal was so similar to the
one that failed in 2011, and that it al-
ready addresses the request through
its standards for suppliers, that it did
not merit reconsideration. The SEC
approved its decision to reject the re-
quest for a shareholder vote.
A common thought to most peo-
ple buying the clothes produced in
these factories is what can I do? Being
students it may be diﬃcult to always
consider where and how our clothes
are being produced. It is even harder,
towards the end of a long term when
the student loan has run out and the
laundry pile is building up. One can’t
surely be blamed for running to Pri-
mark to stock up on essentials like
socks. It is not always feasible to avoid
the high street bargains. But until it is,
you could donate at least something
to RCSU RAG’s fund for the victims
of the Bangladesh textile factory col-
lapse, even if it’s just the cost of a
Primark t-shirt. All the money raised
is going towards Save the Children’s
Emergency fund and will be used to
support children who were either in-
jured in the collapse or who lost their
parents. This will allow some help to
the victims and raise awareness of the
conditions that most of our clothes
are produced in.
We know it is not possible to always
shop ethically produced clothing, but
hopefully being a little more informed
will help you know when you can.
It only takes 2 minutes to donate.
Donate at www.rcsu.org.uk/donate
Food Co-op launching at Imperial
Plabon Saha and Imogen Smith ontherecentdisasterinBangladesh
Imperial’s ﬁrst food co-operative is
starting next week! If you are looking
for aﬀordable food that beneﬁts the
producers and the planet then look
no further! The aim of the co-op is
to provide the Imperial College com-
munity with a one-stop shop for ethi-
cally sourced goods. We all know, and
particularly during exam times, that
eating well can be diﬃcult; even Sains-
bury’s on Cromwell Road seems like a
trek to another land. We aim to give
you a more ethical, and more conveni-
ent alternative. Our goods, sourced
through a co-operative supplier, are all
Fairtrade, grown in Britain or organic
(if not a combination of all three)!
If you think all of this ethical good-
ness comes at a premium, think again.
The beauty of the co-op model is that
we don’t make a proﬁt; we keep pric-
es low for you. We sell goods at cost
price, which makes our prices similar
to regular supermarket lines (but our
products are much better for the en-
vironment and the people who have
produced the food).
Our ordering system is regular and
ﬂexible, so you can order speciﬁc
products directly from us, including:
wholefoods, gluten free foods and
products that cater for vegetarians
and vegans.
Our launch event is on Thursday
9th May in the Sherﬁeld Foyer all
day long, so come and see the range
of products we have! The commu-
nity sets to beneﬁt from this scheme,
so please do get involved if you want
to help make positive change to our
shopping and eating habits. Join our
Facebook group, and promote the co-
op to your friends! If you’re interested
in volunteering with us then please do
email coop@imperial.ac.uk.
A
Thomas Lim Writer

