FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
6 FRIDAY 03 MAY
Venture Catalyst Challenge ‘1
ave you ever looked
at the entrepreneurial
activities oﬀered by
universities such as
Harvard (The Harvard
innovation Lab), MIT
($100K Entrepreneurship Competi-
tion) and Stanford (The BASES $150K
challenge) and wondered why Impe-
rial doesn’t have more of this kind of
stuﬀ going on?
America has historically been ahead
of the game when it comes to embed-
ding enterprise into their academic
institutions. However with start-ups
currently the talk of London town,
that looks set to change.
Over the past year Google Cam-
pus has roared to life and Old Street
roundout is now more commonly ref-
ered to as ‘Silicon Roundabout.’ And
despite East London getting the big-
gest slice of the entrprenurship cake
at the moment, Imperial seems to be
jumping on the enterprise bandwag-
gon by putting commercial innova-
tion at the heart of the new Imperial
West campus. Could it be that Tech
H
Caroline Wood and Pedro Silva Pereira on Imperial’s start-up scene
City sprawls from East to West in time
for Imperial’s new campus to open in
2016?
Last year a group of forward think-
ing students at Imperial noticed this
growing trend and decided to do
something about it. Throughout the
summer break, a group of people pas-
sionate about entrepreneurship were
hatching plans to transform the enter-
prise scene at Imperial.
ICStartup – a collaboration between
Imperial Entrepreneurs, Imperial In-
novations and Imperial Hub – was
formed, bringing together exper-
tise, experience and passion from all
corners of campus. Combining the
student enthusiasm of the Imperial
Entreprenurs society, the experience,
network and resources of Imperial
Innovations, and social enterprise
expertese of Imperial Hub the foun-
dations were laid in place for student
start-up activities at Imperial to ﬂour-
ish.
During this past academic year
ICStarup has created a shared work-
ing space in the Union for students
“I’m an atheist and I’m interested in
meditation.” Last year I had a number
of conversations with people who all
began with this comment. It is too
small a sample from which to inter-
pret the changing nature of atheism
or if there is an increasing interest in
meditation. (And anyway all of these
comments may have arisen from the
realisation ‘OMG, it’s the vicar, quick
what can I talk about?’)
But these conversations did get me
thinking. Meditation is part of my
religious experience. But I know that
Buddhists and some Quakers practice
meditation but describe themselves as
atheists. I had learnt about Buddhist
meditation from sharing a weekly
time of silence at the Royal College of
Art with a Buddhist monk. From him
I had learnt of ‘mindfulness’. He used
it to describe the practice of paying
conscious attention to sensory, cog-
nitive and emotional experience. The
technique was to become aware, or
‘mindful’, of sensations or feelings but
without getting caught up in them.
With all this ‘in mind’ I came across
the work of Jon Kabat-Zinn, Pro-
fesor of Medicine Emeritus at the
University of Massachusetts Medi-
cal School. Kabat-Zinn had noticed
positive results in clinical trials using
mindfulness meditation with patients
suﬀering from depression. Professor
Mark Williams, a psychiatrist at Ox-
ford University, used this research to
develop a mindfulness meditation for
stress reduction and to improve men-
tal wellbeing.
This seemed to be the kind of medi-
tation that has an evidence base and
does not require a religious belief.
It also promoted emotional health.
Recent research in psychology has
demonstrated the two-way links be-
tween our emotions and our bodies.
For example, if we feel sad our bodies
will reﬂect that sadness in the way we
walk and sit. Conversely, if we are not
feeling sad but adopt a sad, slumped,
posture we will then very quickly start
to feel sad.
Kabat-Zinn and others also used
MRI scans to show that upsetting
emotions can be seen clearly in the
right pre-frontal cortex. Positive emo-
tions on the other hand show up more
clearly in the left pre-frontal cortex.
The ratio of electrical activity between
one side of the pre-frontal cortex gives
a picture of a person’s emotional state.
Kabat-Zinn explored this in relation
to mindfulness meditation. He taught
a group of bio-tech workers the medi-
tation practice. After eight weeks of
meditation practice the participants
became more energised and less
prone to low mood. It was also found
that this state was maintained even
when participants were reminded of
memories and music that were linked
to sad personal memories. It appeared
that with meditation training peo-
ple were able to accept the negative
personal memories but without be-
ing overwhelmed by them. The other
outcome was that the participants also
developed measurably stronger im-
mune systems.
This evidence based approach to
meditation seemed like a good re-
sponse to those who wanted to learn
meditation but who did not want a
religious practice. Using Mark Wil-
liams’ book as a basis the Chaplaincy
started oﬀering mindfulness medita-
tion in October. Over two terms we
have found that this is something that
people ﬁnd helpful in the realities of
daily life. This includes those with
philosophical world view (atheism,
humanism, materialism) and those
with a traditional or personal religious
world view.
The simplest way to describe mind-
fulness is through a simple exercise.
Raise one arm above your head. Close
your eyes. Slowly lower your arm. As
your arm descends track the diﬀerent
sensations that occur. You might be
able to notice what you are thinking,
or the emotions you are feeling. So
a short 3-5 minute mediation lets us
notice the range of our personal sen-
sory, cognitive and emotional data.
So you might notice ‘eyes feeling tired
from a day in front a screen, niggling
anxiety about unﬁnished tasks, trying
to remember if there is anything in
the fridge for dinner, and an anticipa-
tion about…’). It is important not to
judge the data – it is just what is be-
ing thought, sense and felt at this mo-
ment. There is a positive element of
self-acceptance that comes with prac-
tice. And there is the sense of calm.
This is the season in the university
for increased stress and anxiety. Small
amounts of meditation practice can
make a diﬀerence – and by this I mean
5-10 minutes daily. It is described as
a practice – for good reason. But it
does not take long to start showing
beneﬁts.
Whatever your worldview ‘Mind-
fulness Meditation’ takes place in the
Chaplaincy Centre in Beit Quad every
Tuesday 1-1:45pm. For those want-
ing a particular religious framework
for meditation we have Buddhist and
Christian meditation each week, and
we can link you up with someone to
talk about Hindu meditation.
On Thursday 9th May join us for
‘How to be Mindful in a Digital Age’ a
talk by the Venerable Narayan Prasad
Rijal, a Buddhist teacher who is also
a lecturer in Physics at Tribhuvan
University, Nepal. This event is being
hosted by students from the Buddhist
meditation group and by the Chap-
laincy from 7-8pm in the Pippard Lec-
ture Theatre, followed by discussion
and refreshments. More details of all
events www.imperial.ac.uk/chaplain-
cy
Meditating through exam stress
Andrew WillsonCollege Chaplain
to work on start-up projects, put on
talks, run workshops, and even a
hackathon.
The culmination of this collabora-
tion led to the biggest start-up chal-
lenge that Imperial has ever held.
With £30,000 of funding up for grabs
and the chance to access free expert
advice, the competition attracted over
200 students, staﬀ and alumni want-
ing to turn their academic knowledge
into a commercial reality. Pedro Silva
Pereira reports on the competition
(see next page.)

