FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
FRIDAY 03 MAY
13 & ICStartup: just the start
reativity. When you en-
ter school, the ultimate
price you are paying
is not the tuition fees,
but your unique expe-
riences, revolutionary
ideas and well “stupid thoughts”. By
providing standard education, our
world is able to put us in nice boxes,
good to manage and move around.
However, we should not forget man
did not create a wheel because he
went to the school of wheels or har-
ness electricity because he was the
best student of physics. Man did
what he did because of its creative
inventiveness, rebellious ideas and
imagination.
At the beginning of the year Impe-
rial Innovations launched the Ven-
ture Catalyst Challenge ‘13 (VCC)
as part of the student business ac-
celerator ICStartup. Over 100 suc-
cessful applicants spent the next two
months developing their very early
stage ideas into viable businesses via
a series of sessions focused around
the Business Model Canvas.
ICStartup decided to challenge
Imperial students to put their best
ideas to down to practice in its Ven-
ture Catalyst Challenge ’13. The
format was simple: write an idea,
develop a business model, pitch it to
a panel of known entrepreneurs and
business people and get the chance
of winning from £500 to £30.000
pounds to develop a working pro-
totype. From the initial period of
registration in early January to the
big finale on the 14th of March, 200
teams of students put their brains
to work coming up with ideas as
elaborate as a satellite vehicle and as
simple as...oh wait, this is Imperial –
none of the ideas were simple.
During the 6 week period ICStarup
provided free business Masterclass-
es from Lean expert Rob Fitzpatrick,
who advised students how to turn an
initial idea into a feasible business
model. Rob Fitzpatrick also brought
in thought leaders and founders in-
cluding Devin Hunt, Tom Samadol,
Daniel Tenner and Jordan Schlipf. In
addition, optional sessions ranged
from finding appropriate financ-
ing to delivering the perfect pitch
to idea generation sessions, startup
weekends, hackathons and inspira-
tional talks from start-up CEOs.
The event reached its peak at the
Grand Finale, where 7 finalist teams
gave their Dragon’s Den style pitch
to an audience of over 150 people,
including investors from Index Ven-
tures, Hoxton Ventures, Opus Cor-
porate Finance, Arts Alliance and
Bethnal Green Ventures, as well rep-
resentatives from the department
for Business Innovation and Skills
and the Dean of the faculty of Engi-
neering at Imperial.
Entries in the Innovate category
ranged from a consumer device for
filtering lactose from milk (62% of
the global population is lactose in-
tolerant) to safe nuclear powered
batteries that can last for years. En-
tries in the Prove category included
lab equipment that can remotely
alert the scientist at specific stages
of experiments, style deliveries for
men, an API to allow developers to
add real world rewards to their apps,
cloud based practice management
software for dentists and the overall
winner ClickMechanic which takes
the stress out of car repairs with up-
front quotes and mobile mechanics.
ClickMechanic received £30,000 in
the form of a convertible loan, office
space and a mentor to guide them
through the summer. Winners in the
Innovate category received between
£500 and £1000 to test the market or
build an initial prototype with more
available upon positive traction.
The awards ceronomy was fol-
lowed by the usual “disruptive” and
independent debates of some satis-
fied, drowsy and slightly alcohol-
ised last surviving participants and
friends.
As Rob Fitzpatrick so eloquently
put it in is final speech, most of the
times people will not have all the
skills to put their ideas to practice.
However, that doesn’t matter. You
can learn hat you need to know
along the way. Getting out there and
just making a start on something is
all you really need to make it hap-
pen! His suggestion: host a “burger
night” for people who are interested
in enterprise! Meet people, share
ideas and make it happen!
Be ‘stupid’ again!
Pedro Silva Pereira Writer
C
What’s next for ICStartup?
ICStartup is planning to build upon
the success of the Venture Catalyst
Challenge ‘13 and deliver bigger, bet-
ter and more exciting events next year.
It’s clear that this is a great time to
get involved in the start-up commu-
nity but if you still need a little more
convincing about why to give it a go
then read on for our “top 10 reasons
to throw your books on the floor, storm
out of the library and start your own
buisness.
”
10 great reasons to throw your books on the floor, storm out of
the library and start your own business
1. You’ll get to hangout in Shoreditch and switch the library cafe for cute independent coffee shops
2. Bill Gates did it
3. When people ask you what you do you can legitimately say “I’m my own boss” And that’s swag
4. Suddenly your geeky technical skills will become sexy
5. NO. MORE. INTERNSHIP. APPLICATIONS.
6. You’ll meet cool people and make great new friends
7. You’ll learn something more relavent to real life than the half-life of thorium-232 or the momentum of particle z
8. You can work on something you love. All day. Every day.
9. You won’t need to feel guilty for going to the pub. Sociallising = networking = contacts = opportunities!
10. It will be fun.

