FELIX
10
In brief
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Charlie Harvey
Kelly Oakes
Thea Cunningham
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 20 may 2011
Wrinkles on the moon
Almost everyone thinks that it is possible to get a
rough idea of a person’s age by looking for wrinkles
on their face, but did you know that this principle
can also be applied to the moon? Scientists from
the California Institute of Technology have put to-
gether maps charting the slopes and roughness
of the moon’s surface. By studying the roughness
at a range of different scales, from metres to kilo-
metres, the researchers were able to put together
a complete picture of the ups and downs of the
moon’s surface. But they are not just doing this
for fun, the map can be used to work out how cer-
tain lunar features were created. “Old and young
craters have different roughness properties, they
are rougher on some scales and smoother on oth-
ers.” said Meg Rosenburg, the first author of the
paper in which the map was revealed. For example,
young craters tend to stand out because they have
not yet been smoothed by constant meteorite bom-
bardment. “It is remarkable that the moon exhibits
a great range of topographic character: at the ex-
tremes, surfaces roughened by the accumulation of
craters over billions of years can be near regions
smoothed and resurfaced by more recent volcanic
activity” said Oded Aharonson, Rosenburg’s super-
visor at the California Institute of Technology. Simi-
lar techniques can be used to study the processes
behind the surface features of other bodies in the
solar system, such as asteroids and even planets.
Kelly Oakes
Everyone has heard plenty of apocalyptic
predictions for the future of our planet, from
coastal flooding and in-land droughts to dev-
astating changes in temperatures. Worryingly,
one of the most severe threats is the more-or-
less unpredictable effects of climate change on
vital food crops. A recent study in the journal
Science negates the need for predictions by us-
ing actual cause and effect and prompting agri-
culture itself to turn over a new leaf.
David Lobell, co-author of the paper, be-
lieves that climate change is “not something
we have to anticipate. It’s something we have
to learn from and deal with right now.”
Annual global temperatures have increased
by more than 0.4 °C since 1980. Such small
changes may seem insignificant but can have
massive effects on finely tuned plants. To
gauge these effects the study recorded yields
between 1980-2008 of corn, rice, wheat and
soya beans. These crops supply 75% of the
calories consumed by the global population.
Temperature and precipitation changes out-
side of the normal seasonal variations were re-
corded and related to changes in crop produc-
tion. Results indicate that warming accounted
for 3.8% and 5.5% losses in corn and wheat
respectively, whereas rice and soybean yields
remained the same.
Intriguingly, the trends vary massively be-
tween regions, with the United States and
Canada suffering no climate linked decrease
in food production, whereas in low latitude
regions, an increase of 1°C has lead to a 10%
increase in yields. There are some positive ef-
fects of global warming as increased CO2
and
CH4
in the atmosphere can boost plant produc-
tivity, however in the future such benefits may
be overthrown by damage to plants caused by
the increased temperatures.
Lobell aims to look at areas with the biggest
temperature change, where agricultural adap-
tations are needed the most.
Climate change causing crop calamaties
Katie Tomlinson
As a biologist, I do not mind telling you that
it is hard to find practical applications for be-
havioural studies of animals. I can get incred-
ibly excited about how animals can move as a
group, reacting to their environment without a
particular leader guiding them. The way they
achieve this is fascinating. But useful? I would
have trouble arguing that one.
So when Dr Frantisek Stepanek gave a
‘Friends of Imperial’ Lecture last Tuesday
called ‘Swarm Robots - the Future of Drug De-
livery’, I was fascinated. Dr Stepanek has been
applying the biological concepts of swarms
to a rather unlikely beast: nano-scale robots.
Using the ways in which swarming animals
communicate in order for the entire group to
find source of food, Dr Stepanek has built na-
no-robots (i.e. very, very small!) which could
move through the body to a particular point, to
deliver drugs to a certain region. Sounds a bit
creepy, right?
But these are not robots in the way we usu-
ally think of them. They are a chemical com-
pound housed in a tiny package that has been
built to break down only when and where the
designer wants it to. Dr Stepanek explained to
the audience just how they can create these ro-
bots to get around the problems with current
drug therapies. Drug delivery systems have to
be tiny to move around the body, so nano-scale
systems are perfect for this function. However,
there are challenges in working on the nano-
scale. The forces acting on the particles are
very different to those that engineers are used
to. Dr Stepanek, as an expert in particle engi-
neering, explained these ‘harsh laws of the mi-
cro world’and how researchers can manipulate
them. By building up nano-scale components
around a chemical, he can modify exactly how
they are stored to suit the desired outcome pre-
cisely.
Dr Stepanek explained how there were cer-
tain chemical compounds that could be useful
drugs, but are very unstable and so administer-
ing them in pill form would be pointless. They
would break down before they could have any
effect. But a nano-robot could move through
the body with the parts of the compound kept
separate until they get to their destination in
the body. Then, the robot would allow the parts
to mix, creating the compound so it could get
to work. This suggests that using nanotech de-
livery methods, many drugs which are current-
ly unusable could be available for treatments.
Once the nano-robot has been built, recep-
tors can be added to its surface, so that the
contents will only be released when the robot
plugs into a certain cell type. Normally, the ac-
tive ingredient in a pill has much poorer speci-
ficity, affecting every cell in the body, not just
the ones which are causing the problem. This
is usually relatively harmless, but in the case of
treatments like chemotherapy, it can be harm-
ful. Using nano-robots, on the other hand, will
not release a drug until it meets a certain cell
type. This way, in the case of a treatment like
chemotherapy, the drug could only be released
when it gets to cancer cells, making the debili-
tating side effects of the treatment less severe.
But building just the one robot is not much
good. To get any kind of effect on the body,
there needs to be thousands of them, each re-
leasing a tiny bit of the drug. This is where
using the concepts of swarm behaviour could
improve how the robots work. In the same
way that animals can release a signal to other
members of its swarm to indicate they have
found a food source, a nano-robot could re-
lease a chemical signal to other robots once it
finds its target cell, attracting the entire group
to a particular site. This way, instead of the
effects being distributed over the entire body,
the swarm’s effect could be targeted to a sin-
gle place, making drug delivery more efficient,
and more effective.
Anna Perman
My Chemical Robots
“You don’t look a day over 4 billion years, dear...”
Nanorobots would be able to target certain cells, bypassing toxic side effects
Targeted treatments possible with swarming nanorobots
25 May 2011 5.30pm
Lecture Theatre G16, Sir Alexander Fleming Building
In the fourth Peter Lindsay Memorial Lecture, Pro-
fessor Dame Joceyln Bell Burnell introduces the
pulsing radio stars she discovered as a postgradu-
ate student at Cambridge. The discovery of pulsars
opened up a whole new branch of astrophysics and
gained her supervisors a Nobel Prize in 1974.
The pursuit of pulsars
“[Climate change] is
something we have to
learn from and deal with
right now”

