FELIX 11
SCIENCE
Friday 20 may 2011
Abnormalities in two proteins work to-
gether to damage brain cells, causing
the symptoms associated with Alzheim-
er’s disease, it is reported this week.
The findings, published in Neurobi-
ology of Aging this week, are part of a
wider study into the role that mitochon-
drial dysfunction has on the develop-
ment of brain diseases such as Alzheim-
er’s, Huntington’s and Parkinson’s.
Mitochondria are often referred to as
the ‘powerhouses’ of the cell, as they
are responsible for producing the ener-
gy needed for life. They perform a num-
ber of vital functions, so when they go
wrong the damage that ensues is often
fatal for the cell. It is this form of dam-
age that scientists suspect occurs in the
diseased brain and means the nerve cells
fail to function properly.
The defective forms of the two pro-
teins, amyloid beta and tau, have been
known to cause damage to brain cells
for many years. However, the knowl-
edge that they conspire to affect the
mitochondria provides a focus for sci-
entists looking to unravel the precise
way in which these proteins are linked
to Alzheimer’s.
Alzheimer’s currently affects over
400,000 people in the UK alone and
the disease is not on the decline. It is
hoped that, as these cellular changes
occur before symptoms are noticeable,
they could provide an opportunity for
earlier diagnosis. “By the time the cells
are dead, it is too late to do much”,
said author of the study, Professor Gail
Johnson. By identifying these early in-
dicators changes in the brain could be
recognised decades before any memory
loss is experienced.
The researchers also hope that in-
creasing our knowledge of how mi-
tochondrial changes influence the de-
velopment of Alzheimer’s will also
uncover new ways to treat the disease.
The complexity of brain diseases makes
it likely that new possibilities for inter-
vention will become apparent as more
is understood about the precise way in
which the mitochondria work.
Might a mitochondrion be connected with Alzheimer’s?
Chloe McIvor
The month of May reeks of exam stress.
It is the time of year where historically
we start to panic when we realise that
that whole series of lectures that you
thought were superfluous, were not,
despite that fact that going would have
meant missing Jeremy Kyle, The Weak-
est Link, or worst of all, Lovejoy. Panic
ensues, along with reams of photocopy-
ing of notes, and the process of cram-
ming is begun in earnest.
Virtually any stressful event triggers a
vast array of neuronal and biochemical
responses, which prepares one to cope
with the stressful event, which can be
anything from exams, an alarming twist
in Neighbours, even to worrying about
what happened to that My Little Pony
DVD that your friend borrowed last
week. But could this stress be having an
adverse effect on your body?
In response to these stressful stimuli,
the body takes action. The hypothala-
mus in the brain releases two hormones,
in the form of corticotropin-releasing
hormone (CRH) and arginine-vasopres-
sin (AVP). It is these two chemical mes-
sengers that course through the brain on
their respective pathways, and result in
the effects we see on the body. While
AVP plays an important role, it is CRH
that is most interesting.
CRH plays two roles important roles
in the body’s response to stress. One of
these roles is in stimulating the release
of adrenaline, which engages the fight-
or-flight response, priming the body
for action, and subsequently increasing
heart rate, breathing, and alertness. Si-
multaneously, the adrenal gland releases
the messenger cortisol, which then races
off, speeding up the body’s metabolism.
Cortisol is really interesting, and
while its related compound Cortisone is
frequently found in anti-inflammatory
drugs that treat skin rashes and asthma,
it can also suppress the immune system
and reduce inflammation within the
body. It is this latter function of cor-
tisol that is pertinent to our search to
see how the body is affected by stress
as it presents an interesting dichotomy:
I can’t stress this strongly enough
George Wigmore
If the exams themselves weren’t bad enough, the stress they cause could kill you
while cortisol speeds up metabolism, it
can also have a detrimental effect on our
health.
While the story linking stress and
health starts a long time before the 20th
century, we pick it up in 1998, when
Gailen D. Marshall and colleagues from
the Houston Medical School (Universi-
ty of Texas), studied the effects of exam
stress on 16 healthy medical students.
Marshall’s group looked specifically at
cytokines, the signalling proteins se-
creted by particular cells in the nervous
system. When the body reacts to stress,
besides from just releasing cortisol and
adrenaline, it also results in elevated
levels of cytokines. Crucially, these
cytokines act as messengers between
the brain and immune system, help-
ing to regulate the immune response.
The study found that psychologically
stressful situations, and the subsequent
release of cortisol, can shift the produc-
tion of cytokines from the type which
enhances the body’s immune response,
to another type which favours antibody
response. It is these antibodies that are
used by the immune system to identify
and destroy foreign bacteria and virus-
es. This crucial change weakens the im-
mune system and increases the chance
of viral infections and other ailments.
But it gets worse. There you were
thinking that stress will only give you a
bad cold, and that all your issues could
be solved with a little convenient tissue
pack, with added ‘anti-viral protection’
and a little bit of balm to sooth your sore
nose. Well, you were wrong, as stress al-
most literally makes us age faster.
In the body cellular ageing is judged
by the length of the end-caps which
protect DNA. Known as telomeres, ev-
ery time a cell divides, they shorten by
a small amount. By the time a cell has
divided between 40 and 60 times, its
telomeres reach a critical length, and
the cell stops dividing, preventing the
development of cancer, and damage to
DNA. When looking at the links be-
tween telomere length and stress, Elissa
Epel from the Department of Psychia-
try, University of California, found that
stress makes us age faster, as high levels
of stress resulted in shortening of telo-
meres.
So, what to do? Not only does stress
make us ill, but it is also killing us
slowly but surely, eradicating the ends
of our DNA, and make our cells age
prematurely. While panicking about this
would only make the situation worse,
the best thing to do is to chill out, buy a
new My Little Pony DVD, and tell your-
self that it will all be okay in the end.
Cellular changes occur years before the symptoms of Alzheimer’s set in
Stress weakens your immune system and makes your cells age faster (no wonder he looks worried)

