FELIX
12
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Charlie Harvey
Kelly Oakes
Thea Cunningham
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 20 may 2011
Dr Stanley Siegelman
Suha Bachir interviews this hugely influential radiologist
W
hen I was told I
would be under-
taking my medical
elective course at
the very hospital
Dr House graduated from, I was over
the moon. The famous Johns Hopkins
Hospital has not only seen the work of
no less than 33 Nobel Laureates, it has
also been voted best US hospital for
twenty years in a row. When I first saw
the hospital, I must admit, I thought it
was more enchanted castle than hospi-
tal. Having read up about the many in-
fluential physicians and scientists from
Hopkins, I was desperate to find out if
it was possible to follow in their foot-
steps, so when I came across Professor
Siegelman, a very influential radiolo-
gist at Johns Hopkins, I jumped at the
chance to interview him. Throughout
his career he has taught, edited a lead-
ing medical journal and made scientific
discoveries as well as treating patients.
I was keen to find out the secrets of his
success in combining medicine, science
and teaching.
Professor Stanley Siegelman has been
awarded numerous accolades including
the Gold Medal from the Radiological
Society of North America (RSNA) and
George J. Stuart Award for Medical Stu-
dent Teaching.
Having written and co-written nu-
merous books and over 350 scientific
papers, he has helped pioneer huge ad-
vances in imaging. In 1977 Professor
Siegelman directed Johns Hopkins’ first
body Computed Tomography (CT) pro-
gram that subsequently went on to be an
extremely important diagnostic tool and
used world-wide.
Professor Siegelman has trained some
world famous radiologists including Dr
Elias Zerhouni, former director of the
National Institutes of Health, and has
guided and nurtured the careers of hun-
dreds and still continues to do so today.
What made you choose Radiology?
In medical school most of my fellow
classmates knew what they wanted to
go into. I had a problem because so
many different things fascinated me;
I found it hard to choose. At first psy-
chiatry interested me, but then I became
interested in cardiology and gastroen-
terology also. I therefore postponed my
decision and joined an army Hospital
where I spent three years doing internal
medicine. I wanted to go into a field in
which I could be a true expert in and
at that time there was not that much
to know about in radiology, especially
since we did not have MRI or CT scans.
After my training, however, things were
very different.
Being the editor of the journal ‘Ra-
diology’ and being the director of di-
agnostic radiology while managing to
teach sounds like a tough schedule, so
how do you manage to juggle it all?
There were crossover benefits between
my clinical and editorial activities. Be-
ing editor of ‘Radiology’ and being
aware of what would go into the sci-
entific literature a few months ahead
of time helped me communicate with
students and residents to keep things
exciting by staying at the cutting
edge of science. Having credentials in
chest, gastrointestinal, cardiovascular
and musculoskeletal radiology really
helped me when I was editor. Addi-
tionally having my editorial offices
right across the street was great since
I could still lecture the residents while
maintaining my clinical work. It was
ideal because teaching has always been
important to me.
Could you please give a brief timeline
of your academic life?
Interestingly, my life can be divided into
twelve year segments. When I was 17,
I finished high school; The second 12
years was after college and my intern-
ship at the army; The third 12 years I
was the Director of Diagnostic Radiol-
ogy, during which time I developed the
clinical programmes at Johns Hopkins;
After those 12 years I was then made
the Director of Radiology at Johns Hop-
kins; I then carried on as editor of Ra-
diology for 12 years; The final twelve
years, which brings us until today, I was
running the residency program, and I
must say I still like clinical radiology,
the practise of it has improved a lot.
When we are given the task of interpret-
ing the results of patients we have an
information system that lets us know all
we need about the patient. Before there
was a problem since there was no ac-
cess to old films. Technology has helped
radiology become more efficient and
exciting.
Who were the main people who en-
couraged you most in your career?
I would say that in the earlier days of
radiology, particularly in the 1950s, de-
partments were not as large and not as
complex. The chairman was a very im-
portant person as he had his hand in the
day-to-day running of the department
and his decisions were vital. The chair-
man, Dr Harold Jacobson, influenced
me most. He was very inspiring and
knew and pushed everyone to do their
utmost. Dr Jacobson loved to teach. We
would have daily conferences and when
I was a resident he invited me to give
some teaching courses on musculoskel-
etal radiology. One of his strengths was
that he broadcasted only favourable
things about people and whenever he
had a good resident he would let people
know, and I suppose that is what helped
me a lot.
What do you think makes a good
mentor?
If I were to name a society of the best
mentors I would call it the Isaac Bar-
row society. Isaac Barrow was a very
good teacher, and had many good ideas
which probably led to the formation
of calculus. In the 17th century it was
hard to get support for oneself if one
wanted to do research, so people had to
be sponsored by dukes and royalty. At
Cambridge University there is a schol-
arship fund called the ‘Lucasian schol-
arship of Mathematics’. Isaac Barrow
was awarded this prestigious scholar-
ship, but he then gave it up to one of his
students who he thought would benefit
more from this scholarship than him.
This great student was Sir Isaac New-
ton who was then able to continue his
research without having to worry about
living expenses. Isaac Barrow therefore
enabled his prodigy to continue his ca-
reer. My mentor, Dr Harold Jacobson
always said that his aim was to train
people better than him, and I always
kept this in mind.
What do you think makes a good Ra-
diologist?
Firstly they have to have a good eye
and be able to check abnormalities
in an imagined study and correlate
it with their knowledge and with the
clinical history so a certain pattern of
disease has a different meaning; say
for example in an immuno-suppressed
patient, a radiologist has to be good
at integrating the findings and have a
solid knowledge of the clinical basis. I
also think a good radiologist has a very
good memory.
How does the next generation of sci-
entists need to prepare for the future
of science?
They have to pick an area of interest,
not rush their training and maybe take
an extra year to do research and be
knowledgeable about the background,
history and techniques. When they are
in the field they should make an assess-
ment of what is there that we do know
and should know. An important theme
is what we can take from the bench to
the bedside.
What is the best advice you would
give to students who are trying to de-
cide their career path?
My best advice would be that I give to
the residents is four words ‘GO FOR
THE JOY’. Find out what things warm
your heart the most, gets you excited
and makes you feel really good. That
is much more important than the salary
that you earn. Different people find dif-
ferent things inspiring. Try to get to the
stage where you think, “I can’t believe
I get paid to do this job, since it’s more
like play!
“Teaching has always
been important to
me”
Most people will probably agree that
turning on a light is usually given little
thought. A simple flick of a switch and
the darkness of the night is effectively
eliminated.
For a staggering 1.4 billion people
across the globe, this simple step does
not apply. The reason: No access to
electricity, and therefore no means to
produce light other than by open fire,
oil, gas or kerosene. On top of unaf-
fordable cost, these light sources bear a
variety of effects potentially damaging
to health.
There is a group of students from Im-
perial College who hope to be able to
solve the problem of rural electrification
in developing countries. Having founded
the non-profit organisation e.quinox, this
group plans to develop a “blue print” so-
lution for affordable and safe electricity.
The students’ model relies on a central-
ised power generation hub, the so-called
“Energy Kiosk”, and decentralised en-
ergy distribution via battery boxes. The
battery boxes contain the same 230 V
A/C output as any ordinary socket and
can be recharged after depletion. Re-
cipients of e.quinox’s solution can not
only use the battery for lighting, but are
also able to charge their mobile phones
or power small radios. This will help a
growing market, current figures suggest
that there are 84m smartphones in Af-
rica, a figure that has doubled in the last
three years. This power source allows
e.quinox’s customers, currently in three
different Rwandan villages, to run their
own businesses and thereby contribut-
ing to the empowerment of the country’s
economy, a key element to effectively
reduce poverty across the globe.
e.quinox is currently competing in
the JP Morgan Give-It-Away contest
to secure US$50,000 for future proj-
ects. The competition can only be won
through votes from YOU, so give Im-
perial students your support by going
to www.e.quinox.org/vote and select-
ing e.quinox as the organisation of your
choice. Then share this link with all
your friends and family! If you would
like to find out more about e.quinox’s
work, visit www.e.quinox.org.
Vote for Imperial
students in JP
Morgan contest
David Haber
Joanis Holzigel

