FELIX 13
POLITICS
FRIDAY 20 MAY 2011
Liberté, égalité... infidélité?
France woke up on Sunday morning to
widespread shock and disbelief: Dominique
Strauss-Kahn, had been arrested in New York
City during the night, on allegations that he
had raped a chamber maid in Manhattan.
Mr. Strauss-Kahn, 62, is the head of the
International Monetary Fund (IMF) and was
seen, until last week, as the likeliest contender
for the Parti Socialiste (French Socialist Party)
to face the unpopular incumbent, Nicolas Sar-
kozy in next year’s Presidential elections.
He was arrested on board a Paris-bound Air
France flight 10 minutes before take-off and
was taken into custody at the Harlem Special
Victims Unit, where he remained until Monday
morning. He was subsequently transferred to
Manhattan Criminal Court, where he was de-
nied a US$1 million bail on fears that he might
flee to France. He was then transferred to “The
Tomb”, otherwise known as Rikers Island,
New York’s main jail complex.
The alleged victim, a 32-year old woman
from the Bronx, identified him during a po-
lice lineup. She claims that he came out of his
bathroom naked, ran after her, attempted to
forcibly have sex with her, and forced her to
perform oral sex on him.
Benjamin Brafman, Strauss-Kahn’s attor-
ney and one of the most famous lawyers in
the United States (he has previously defended
Michael Jackson and Jay-Z and is dubbed “the
man to have on speed-dial when you’re in real-
ly big trouble”) stated that his client “denied all
charges against him”, and that he would “clear
his good name”. After the court hearing and
the denial of bail, Mr. Brafman told reporters:
“The battle has just begun”.
Following the announcement of his arrest,
reactions from political leaders in France and
in Europe quickly emerged. Both members
of the Parti Socialiste and Nicolas Sarkozy’s
UMP reacted with sympathy, expressing “sad-
ness, shock and bewilderment”. Others ex-
pressed their belief that the affair might in fact
be a “setup” relating to Strauss-Kahn political
influence and power. Contrasting with most
responses, Bernard Debré, another member
of UMP, called Strauss-Kahn a “sex offend-
er”, and said that his arrest had “humiliated
France”. Marine Le Pen, President of the Front
National, France’s main far-right party said
that ‘[she] wasn’t surprised”.
It has been long known that DSK (as we
call him in France) is a ladies’ man. In 2008,
he was accused of using his influence at the
IMF to coerce one of his employees (who
was married at the time) into engaging in an
affair with him. He was cleared of charges
of harassment and abuse of power and later
apologised for what he called “a serious er-
ror of judgment”. His private life had never
had any consequence on his career until now
and many French politicians before him had
had affairs, which never seemed to bother the
public opinion.
As head of the IMF, DSK has had a pivotal
role in bailing out countries such as Ireland and
Portugal. The institution, which had a marginal
role before the crisis of 2008, emerged as one
of the most important and influential actors of
global economy under his leadership, and he
was widely praised for giving more power to
emerging countries and changing the IMF’s
image to that of an institution that helps coun-
tries in difficulty instead of starving them. At
the time of his arrest, he was due to meet Ger-
man Chancellor Angela Merkel in Berlin in or-
der to convince her to support another bailout
for Greece.
Many questions remain unanswered regard-
ing his arrest and the crimes he has allegedly
committed. According to initial statements
from the NYPD, the alleged assault occurred at
1pm, in DSK’s room at the Sofitel New York.
Following this, reports came in that he had al-
ready checked out of the hotel and was having
lunch with his daughter at the time of the al-
leged assault, after which the NYPD stated that
the assault had in fact occurred at noon. Police
are still trying to determine whether DSK left
the hotel in a hurry, and have also collected
DNA from the alleged crime scene.
In France, photos of DSK wearing handcuffs
during his transfer to Manhattan Criminal
Court shocked people and since the denial of
bail, criticism has emerged in French media re-
garding the handling of the case by American
justice. Some have denounced the “perp walk”
(intentional parading of a suspect) he was sub-
jected to as “humiliating” and “unfair”, as he is
still presumed innocent.
Strauss-Kahn was expected to resign from
his post as Managing Director of the IMF in
order to stand in his party’s primary elections
(scheduled in late June), during which mem-
bers of the Party choose the Socialist Presiden-
tial Candidate. Many believed he was the only
candidate who could modernise France, and in
spite of his previous affairs, he was expected
to win by a landslide and then defeat Nicolas
Sarkozy in May 2012.
This scandal, however, has probably ended
his political career earlier than expected.
Nicolas Khadivi
The world beyond
College walls
USA
A mass grave was uncovered in the city of Deraa,
the centre of protests in recent weeks. 13 bodies
were found by residents last week. The bodies include
5 members of one family, including 3 children. Pro
regime news sources confirmed the existence of 5
of the bodies but the government itself has flatly de-
nied the reports. The discovery comes after weeks of
pro- democracy protests which began in Syria on the
19th of March, following similar movements across
the Middle East and North Africa. The regime’s crack-
down on the protests has killed at least 500 people,
lining the streets of Deraa with tanks.
Syria
Arnold Schwarzenegger has admitted to fathering
a child with a member of his household staff. In
a letter to the Los Angeles Times, the retired gov-
ernor and actor admitted to having an affair with
a long serving member of staff ten years ago. The
announcement goes some way to explaining his re-
cently announced divorce with his wife of 25 years,
Maria Shriver. In a remorseful letter, the one time
Mr Universe also said that he did not tell his wife of
the affair until after leaving political office.
Ireland
The Queen has paid an historic visit to the Republic
of Ireland. This is the first time a British monarch
has visited the country since it became independent
in 1922. The visit is seen by many as a sign of vastly
improved relations between the island republic and
its former colonial rulers. The trip has caused con-
troversy with some republican groups in the country
who view the Queen’s presence as insensitive to the
island’s history. As well as mounting poorly attended
protests, dissidents also planted two devices; one
a hoax and the other a viable pipe bomb on a bus
to Dublin. The Queen will pay tribute to the 50,000
Irish soldiers who died in the First World War and
lay a wreath commemorating Irish republicans who
fought against British rule.
IMF chief arrest leaves French politics in turmoil
Dominique Strauss-Kahn is paraded before the press by police

