FELIX
14
Tips & Hacks
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 20 may 2011
BillMonitor
If you feel like you’re being gouged by your mobile
carrier you may want to head on over to www.bill-
monitor.com to find out how bad the situation re-
ally is and what your alternatives are. The website,
‘built by mathematicians in Oxford’ (clearly superior
to say, mathematicians in London), pulls usage and
billing data from your online billing account and at-
tempts to find you a mobile plan better than the
one you’re already on. The website boasts that it’s
‘the only mobile comparison site approved by Of-
com’, and features some neat graphics to show you
exactly where you can rack up the savings on your
bill. According to the figures on the website, 75% of
us pay up to £200/year more than we really have to
for our phones, sizeable savings for only 5 minutes
of your time.
Vodafone has made a somewhat halfhearted push
towards getting you to use your mobile as a debit
card with the launch of 500 Union Jack bedecked
cabs that have been running across London since
the 4th
of May.
Not only will the cabs allow you to express your pa-
triotic sentiments in these post-Royal Wedding times
but if you’re a Vodafone customer you will also be
able to pay your fare by texting a special number at
the end of your journey. The fare will be added on to
your monthly bill, which means that fumbling hope-
lessly outside a cashpoint at one in the morning
should soon be a thing of the past. If, you know, you
manage to spot one of the 500 cabs in a city as big
as London. With all major operators throwing their
weight behind NFC technology, which will allow you to
wave certain phones in front of a terminal to pay, this
seems to be little more than a neat gimmick. Enjoy
it, but don’t count on it.
Cabs from last night
If iPads and eReaders don’t make the journey
into university feel futuristic enough, meet
their hair-raisingly modern companion, the
driverless car.
Nothing more than a pipe dream for decades,
Google has spent the last few months showing
off it’s fleet of driverless Prii (that, shockingly
enough, is the ‘official’ plural of Prius). The
cars can wheel through a complicated maze of
cones in a parking lot at a remarkable 50mph,
and have had thousands of miles of practice on
California’s state highways. With reports that a
Google engineer has actually been testing the
car on his daily commute to work and similar
experiments happening at Mercedes and Volk-
swagen, it’s definitely more a question of when
rather than whether these robotic chauffeurs
hit the road.
Expectedly, Google would rather this be
sooner than later, and news emerged late last
week that the company has quietly been push-
ing for legalisation of these vehicles on state
highways in Nevada. With a little bit of fore-
sight, they are also pushing for laws prohibit-
ing texting while driving to be revoked, seeing
as their vision of the future doesn’t involve
anyone actually doing much driving.
It’s not all about the decadence of a voice-
activated, GPS-driven hybrid, though. Vehicle
manufacturers have for a long time argued that
AI driven cars will allow for much better traf-
fic management, fewer accidents and savings
on gas bills.
There’s still a lot that has to be ironed out
before getting these cars out to the showrooms;
the legal ramifications are massive. Will
drunken driving still pose the danger it used
to? Should the legal ‘driving’ age be lowered
drastically? Would you trust your car to pick
your child up from school by itself? It’s excit-
ing and scary in equal measure, and it’s about
to become very real.
Jake Lea-Wilson
Driverless cars on the way
Google pushing for legalisation in the US
Never
leave your
charger
behind
again
There’s not much to say about the Scosche
IPUSBM except that it’s one of the most use-
ful things you can carry if you’re an iPhone,
iPod or iPad user. About the size of a £2 coin,
the mini marvel is a hardy USB to iDevice
cable, which unfolds to about 13cm long. The
clever design of the IPUSBM means that both
the USB and the dock connectors are protected
when collapsed, meaning you can sling it in a
pocket without having to worry about it break-
ing or the connectors scratching anything. You
can even attach it to a keychain with the built-
in eyelet. Brilliant.
Feroz Salam
Samuel Gibbs
If you’ve ever been caught short without an
iPod cable, or want a compact one for travel-
ling, at the same price as an officialApple cable
(£15), the Scosche is well worth considering.
A car that goes where you want to go without you having to drive it? Basically Google have invented the taxi, whoopdee doo...
“Will drunken driving
still pose the danger it
used to?”

