the problem and eventually it was set-
tled to use an up and coming data stor-
age called Laserdisc. These discs were
the size of vinyl records and looked like
the CDs we use today. The information
was encoded on the discs and the com-
puter along with laserdisc player and
Domesday discs were sold as a package
for around £5000. At the time this was
the same price as a decent car so few
schools could afford the package. A few
libraries and LEAs bought the system
but it was far from a wide distribution.
FELIX Friday 20 may 2011 15
TECHNOLOGY
“What good was a
digital archive that
only lasted just over
a decade when the
original Domesday
books had lasted
over nine hundred
years?”
I
n 1986 the BBC launched an
ambitious campaign to repeat
the Domesday Book collection
of data in the 11th Century. The
information was thought lost, a
victim to digital obsolescence which is
when a form of data storage becomes
unreadable due to outdated technol-
ogy. Through the perseverance and
hard work of many at the BBC and The
National Archives, the data gathered
by over 1 million people has now been
made public again after 25 years.
In 1086 William the Conqueror com-
missioned a survey of the people of
England with particular attention to
the land and resources owned by resi-
dents. It was an attempt to work out the
extent of taxes that he could charge in
direct correlation to the amount of land
that the citizens owned. The two huge
Domesday books took a year to com-
plete and William had died before they
were finished. Today though, they are
described by historians as one of the
most important artefacts of the Middle
Ages. The books give insight into daily
life for the English as well as important
population distribution statistics.
Obviously this is a topic most talked
about in school history lessons but it’s
valid amongst the technology pages be-
cause in 1983 an ambitious television
producer, Peter Armstrong, at the BBC
decided it would be a great idea to repeat
the data collection ideas of William the
Conqueror but with a technological twist.
Instead of a traditional modern age
census this would contain photographs,
accurate local area, town and city de-
scriptions as well as accounts of the
daily lives of people from all around
the country. It was treated as national
campaign and was taken up rapidly by
local education authorities, schools, col-
leges and many individuals and families
nationwide. Imperial College’s own
lecturer Gareth Mitchell was in second-
ary school at the time and vividly recalls
being asked back by his primary school
as he was one of the only people that
knew how to program the BBC micro-
computer with their information.
A mammoth task
Armstrong, whose idea the whole thing
was, recruited leading technological
minds to the BBC including George
North, head of innovation. Overall they
had more than 16GB of data (a stagger-
ing amount back then) in the form of 1
inch tapes of photographs (in full HD),
programmed documents on disks creat-
ed by the BBC Model B microcomputer
from schools all around the country and
many papers related to census data and
news.
It took two years of consultation, hard
work and the finest minds to digitise the
information. In 1986 the most preva-
lent way of transferring information
between computers was the 5 ¼ inch
floppy disc and unfortunately they were
only capable of carrying a maximum 1.2
MB of information. North battled with
People became angry that the informa-
tion they had so painstakingly collected
couldn’t be seen easily. As time passed
the project was continually referenced
as a prime example of digital obsoles-
cence. It was only accessible by fewer
and fewer machines each year. By 2002
there were barely a handful of machines
capable of reading the discs left in the
world. What good was a digital archive
that only lasted just over a decade when
the original Domesday books had lasted
over nine hundred years?
Several efforts were made to restore
the discs but ended in failure due to
lack of budgets or arguments over the
way the project should be represented.
Computer clubs maintained that the
most important factor of the restoration
should be the meticulous recreation of
BBC microcomputers exactly as they
were created. Archivists argued that the
data was the most important thing and it
should be extracted for use on any mod-
ern computer.
Saved at last
Eventually another producer at the
BBC, Alex Mansfield, was inspired to
retrieve the data and make it available to
the public through the internet. He got
back in touch with George North, who
felt that he had “unfinished business”
with the project so was all too happy
to start the lengthy process of data re-
trieval. The original 1 inch tapes were
found and scanned, the laserdiscs were
converted to a new digital format that
could be read by more machines and the
map of the UK which held the locations
of all the data was resurrected. It took
a lot of patience to recreate the technol-
ogy of 1986 but eventually it paid off.
Online future
The obvious question is how can we
guarantee that this won’t happen again?
The most important thing when it comes
to data preservation and archiving is
selecting a safe environment and suit-
ably sustainable conditions surrounding
the data. I’m not referring to the direct
atmospheric conditions, although this
is important, but to the monetary and
political situations of the company that
retains the information.
The BBC is subject to fashions and
budget cuts and wasn’t able to keep
updating the data onto new storage for-
mats and it was hence almost lost for-
ever. That’s why they have approached
the National Archives in Kew to main-
tain the data. The National Archives are
funded directly by the government and
thus are a lot more stable. They have
over 11 million categories in their cata-
logue which doesn’t sound like much
but as an example the First World War,
just one item in the catalogue, has over
35km of linear corridors full of informa-
tion. They know how to keep informa-
tion safe. Tim Gollins, head of Digital
Preservation at the National Archives
told me why it will work this time
around. “It doesn’t matter how good
the technology is, it matters where the
data is. It’s in HTML on the web and
the probability is that we’ll be able to
read this is in many years time as the
technology is ubiquitous, this is why it
will be safer.”
The BBC has now launched its own
Domesday website at www.bbc.co.uk/
domesday and is fully searchable by
postcode. Furthermore there are op-
tions to update the information and
upload more photos and writings to be
preserved for the future (hopefully more
successfully this time).
Can we simply ‘Ctrl+S’ our past?
Jake Lea-Wilson explores the challenges that lie behind
‘futureproofing’ our history

