FELIX
16
COM M ENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 20 may 2011
I
hope ope you all had a nice break
over Easter. I certainly hope it
was better than mine. Foolishly,
I fell ill.
It began with a bit of a runny
nose and I thought it was nothing. Then
I started running a temperature and I
just could not catch my breath. By the
third day, I felt like death with a hang-
over. Reluctantly, I dragged myself to
the doctor’s while my family painted
crosses on the front door. I thought it
was a bad case of pneumonia. I was
wrong. It was much worse than that – it
was Mnemonia.
Mnemonia is a strange and curious
disease. Medical students are at an in-
creased risk of contracting it but it can
affect anyone with a lot to learn and
limited neural space. There is usually
a spike around this time of year when
revising students are frantically packing
their minds with odd phrases and silly
ditties far faster than is considered safe,
or normal. Occasionally, it has proved
fatal.
When most people get a chest infec-
tion, they complain of a hacking cough.
I instead developed an acronym cough.
Every five minutes, I would splutter out
anything from AIDS to Y2K. At times, I
was horribly, horribly infectious – other
times, I was just an annoying computer
glitch.
This was a minor inconvenience.
My main complaint was my inability
to speak in anything other than catchy
mnemonics. It started out innocuous
enough; when asked what I wanted to
eat, responding with, “My Very Early
Morning Jam Sandwich Usually Needs
Pepper,” earned me a slightly eclectic
but still edible breakfast.
However, when I was stopped for di-
rection by some tourists, they took my
reply, “Some Lovers Try Positions That
They Can’t Handle,” as a rather person-
al slur against them, rather than a way
of remembering the bones of the wrist.
I could see they were getting angry so I
tried to explain. “Oh, Oh, Oh, To Touch
And Feel Virgin Girls’ Vaginas. Such
Heaven,” also fell foul. To cut a long
story short, a rare sequela of Mnemonia
is an increased risk of black eyes.
This saw me journey to A&E. Staffed
by doctors, the matured form of the
medical student, I thought someone
might understand my plight. After all,
this was one of those quirky, fine-print
diseases you only ever read about in
books. My giddy anticipation unfortu-
nately made my mouth run. “Richard Of
York Gave Battle In Vain! Every Good
Boy Deserves a Favour! Bad Beer Rots
Our Young Guts But Vodka Goes Well!”
Naturally, they thought I was either
drunk or mad or both, as any sane per-
son might reason. They promptly gave
me a cold shower, a sprinkling of elec-
tro-convulsive therapy and fumigated
my uterus, just for good measure. This
failed to treat the Mnemonia but I was
much more careful about speaking now,
so they deemed me cured.
In the past, sufferers of Mnemo-
nia were cast out from society, left to
wander in the wilderness. They were
Memory overload
checked occasionally to see if they
were spouting any particularly relevant
prophecies – you would be surprised
at the number of doomsdays we have
avoided thanks to the Mnemonites.
But this is the twenty-first century
– we have journeyed far from those
days of superstition and orthopaedic
surgery. My problem was that I was
bursting with too many mnemonics –
my brainstem was being strangled by
aides-mémoire. Somehow, I had to get
the excess mnemonics off and out of my
frontal cortex. One last mnemonic came
to mind. Kiss – Keep It Simple, Stupid.
So I self-medicated by hitting my
head against a brick wall until all the
dangerous knowledge came out and I
felt empty again. The ironic thing was
this was very similar to how I felt before
I started learning those damn mnemon-
ics to start with.
Cramming for exams can give you infectious habits
Rhys Davies
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
Mwhahahaha, puny human, that mask won’t save you!
“
y
y
t.
t.
I
“
k won’t save you!
”
Mnemonia is a strange and
curious disease. It can affect
anyone with a lot to learn and
limited neuronal space
“It was much worse
than pneumonia - it
was mnemonia”
Any group of students enjoying a pleasant
summer’s day on the Queen’s Lawn would
be encouraged to look around them at the
surrounding architecture. It is fair to suppose
that bewilderment and dissatisfaction will be
more common reactions than, say, apprecia-
tion for a consistent architectural style.
A common lament among students and
staff at this university is that the admin-
istration must have lost its head halfway
through the last century, when the awful
folly was committed of tearing down most of
the original campus. Nowhere is this visual
mismatch more evident than on Prince Con-
sort Road. The Royal Albert Hall, the Royal
School of Mines, and the Royal School of
Music, all fantastic specimens of Victorian
architecture sit incongruously alongside the
dreary Roderic Hill building and the Blackett
Laboratory (the prefix ‘Royal’ would seem
to be a convenient indicator of architectural
worth).
It is worth understanding why the im-
posing buildings that once occupied our
campus were dismantled and destroyed.
Otherwise we might be inclined to entirely
dismiss our predecessors as reckless Mod-
ernists, ignorant or uncaring of the cultural
crimes they were committing.
Imperial College London was an institu-
tion of approximately 1,500 students, at a
time of an emergency shortage in technical
university places. The government at the
time decreed that the College would expand
to meet this national need, with little con-
cern for the feasibility of such an increase.
In particular, the buildings bequeathed by
the Victorians were not fit for purpose.
What role could ageing though beautiful
Victorian museums of outdated laboratory
equipment play in the functioning of a mod-
ern university? Far better to decide, as the
College administration of the time seems to
have done, to spare no expense in building,
say, the finest Physics department in the
country.
There is indeed a touch of nobility in the
arrogance with which this university decid-
ed that it had the authority, at that moment
in time, to decide that such splendid archi-
tectural works were disposable in the name
of progress.
This irreverence for irrelevance sharply
parallels the aims of science itself: a sci-
entist should have no regard for the toes
stepped on in the search for truth.
The nature of science, after all, is to search
for the depth of complexity which underlies
the apparently simple. How perversely ironic
would it be for us to pursue those aims in
buildings whose facades were beautifully
preserved but whose interiors were outdat-
ed and inefficient?
FELIX
Our loyalties lie with the
future, not the past

