FELIX Friday 20 may 2011 17
COMMENT
Yes – Sam Horti No – Tim Arbabzadah
A year after he joined the Conservatives in
coalition, he has gone from national hero to
possibly the most hated man in Britain, but...
I
t seems that the public have decided, almost
unanimously, that Nick Clegg is a “sell-out”
who has betrayed Liberal Democrat vot-
ers. Most of the contempt felt towards the
Deputy Prime Minister seems to stem from
the Coalition’s tuition fees policy, which will come
into effect in September 2012.
As we all know, the abolition of tuition fees was
an important component of the Lib Dem’s mani-
festo before the 2010 general election, and there is
no doubt the promises they made attracted many
young voters. These promises have not come to
fruition. I believe, however, that labelling Nick
Clegg as some sort of traitor is both naïve and
reactionary.
It is clear to me that the Lib Dems played very
little part in deciding tuition fee policy. We are
talking about a coalition in which Conservatives
outnumber Lib Dems six to one in both the cabinet
and the House of Commons. We cannot seriously
think that this idea is anything other than Conser-
vative–driven, or that scrapping tuition fees was
ever on the table. Any attempt at implementing the
Lib Dem manifesto on the matter would have been
quashed at an early stage – which is fair enough.
After all, the Conservatives received the highest
number of votes, so it seems right that they decide
policy. To say that the fact that tuition fees were not
abolished shows that Nick Clegg cannot be trusted
grossly overestimates his influence. This is not a
50/50 coalition, far from it. This is a government
run by David Cameron, who occasionally tosses
his deputy a political bone to keep him on side.
Despite this, some people will still ask “Why
didn’t Nick Clegg fight harder for his cause?” I feel
this type of question makes wholly unreasonable
demands of the Lib Dem leader. Early in the co-
alition, questions about the stability of the govern-
ment were rife, and the coalition was desperately
clinging on to any sense of togetherness it could
muster. Was Nick Clegg really going to publicly
distance himself from the Conservatives to fight
a battle he was doomed to lose? It may have pla-
cated some of his supporters, but in turn it would
have given the public an insight into the lack of
cohesion between the two parties.
It appears to me that the general failure to under-
stand the Government’s policy on tuition fees has
further fanned the flames of the dislike for Nick
Clegg. I wish that people would read the fine print,
which itself is very easily obtained. Of course, if
they did care to do more than a moment of re-
search on the matter they would no doubt concede
that this policy, given the economic landscape, is
entirely acceptable.
It is, as the Government constantly tells us,
a “fair” system, in which the poorest third of
young people pay less, offset by those earning
high salaries. Students only pay when they earn
over £21,000/annum, up from the previous figure
of £15,000/annum. If people read the facts and
thought objectively, there would no doubt be a lot
less animosity on the matter.
Not only do I say that the general feeling to-
wards Nick Clegg is unfounded, I say that we
should be thankful for the selfless act the Lib
Dems have committed. They went into the coali-
tion knowing they would have to concede ground
on every front, and that this, inevitably, would cost
them votes. However, without them we would not
have a stable government.
I would ask those who are so quick to belittle
Clegg to make a choice in their own minds. They
can either have a Liberal Democrat leader who
fulfills their own personal desires by attempting
to force his manifesto upon David Cameron, or a
stable government in which Nick Clegg conducts
himself with subtlety. I would say that anyone
who prefers the first option is being a little self-
ish. On the issue of tuition fees, they were simply
outranked. I cannot see how Nick Clegg can be to
blame for going back on his word when his influ-
ence on the matter was next to nothing. Unfortu-
nately, as long as Nick Clegg’s input stays, as it
must do, out of the public eye, his integrity will
continue to be doubted.
S
o, I am here to argue about why Nick
Clegg is a turbo douchebag. Typical
student gripes about tuition fees, bro-
ken pledges, blah blah blah. I will ad-
dress that very quickly right now. He
said, during the tuition fee row, that he regretted
making the pledge saying “I should have been
more careful.” Making it sound as if it is something
he did on a drunken night out and woke up hoping
it was just a dream. Yeah, but that is just the tip of
the arsehole-iceberg.
Delving a little deeper we find more examples
of general butt-wipery. One prime example is the
shamefully poor attempts to justify abandoning
policies that he previously said that he believed
in. For example, he said that he changed his mind
about the cuts. Not after the election, but actu-
ally before the election. When asked if he had
changed his mind during the coalition talks he said
“I changed my mind earlier than that.” This instead
of telling the truth, which would have been less
impressive, and would have consisted of “I had ab-
solutely zero say, but now have to pretend I agree
with the cuts.” I mean to be fair to him, it is not as
though he had any TV debates or other opportuni-
ties to inform the public, or indeed his own party,
on a crucial U-turn on policy.
Please do not think I fail to understand that the
pro-Clegg argument is in a nut shell: He is doing
what he has to do to try and do the best for this
country, this is the best way he can actually have
some power and influence etc (cue: power ballad
with picture of him shirtless, hair blowing in the
wind). The trouble is he is intelligent enough to
know that this is not true, as he is not really doing
anything at the moment. He got a referendum on
AV, which was never really what the Liberal Dem-
ocrats wanted, they have been talking about PR for
years. Apart from that, it is hard to see any of the
major Lib Dem policies being acted upon. He is
essentially starring in a play as Tony Blair opposite
Cameron’s George Bush (1* - terrible acting, im-
peccable stage management and makeup though).
Yeah, the Liberal Democrats are “in power”, but
that means nothing if all you get is a few people
with some meaningless titles. Being “in power”
for the sake of it is pointless, unless you use it to do
some good. For example: If I were Dmitry Med-
vedev, which I will be the first to admit that I am
not, I would be the President of Russia. However,
Putin would be the one making all the choices.
What would I have except for a title in front of
my name?
He had other options to get real influence. He
could have told Cameron to form a minority gov-
ernment and that, while he would not have desta-
bilised the government by constantly voting ev-
erything down, they would have to moderate their
policies to get him on side. This would give him an
incredible amount of power and say in policy dis-
cussions. It would not have given him a cool title
though, or the ability to go and do things like ad-
dressing the UN, and networking with people who
now know who the **** you are. He had a choice
between power and a title. He chose the latter over
the former, and is continuing to choose it.
He currently has the option to just say no, and
that way he will be actually voting something
down in parliament. However, this could destabi-
lise the very position that he needs to use to get his
policies through.
Oh, it all makes sense now. He is unable to influ-
ence policy. If he did he would lose the position
that enables him to influence policy, thus stopping
him being able to influence policy. It is a vicious
cycle. So he is staying quiet and toe-ing the line,
and using Vince Cable as a human announcement
shield.
I like thinking the best of people, so I will just
hope he is naïve and thought he could really do
something in his position. I will give him another
chance with the NHS reforms, as maybe he will
stand up, find his conscience, and realise it is not
needed or wanted. More likely he will not and my
prize will be a crushing sense of the injustice in the
world. Yey me.
CAN NICK CLEGG
REDEEM HIMSELF?
“I believe that labelling
Nick Clegg as some sort
of traitor is both naïve
and reactionary”
“Being “in power” for the
sake of it is pointless,
unless you use it to do
some good”

