FELIX
18
COMMENT
Friday 20 MAY 2011
I want a good war...
There is nothing like the threat of being shot
in the head, for reassurance. And whether
or not the threat of that has befallen you,
and I hope not, on the world’s stage there
seems to be something of a trend of conflict
resolution and a supremacy of liberal ideals.
The conflict in northern Ireland seems at an
end, there is continued progress of the de-
mocracy in South Africa, and the death of
Osama Bin Laden signally a deep-if-not-fatal
blow to the war on the faceless enemy of
terrorism. Yes, terrorism and not ‘terror’.
Only Lynn Truss can be said to wage war on
a verb.
A successful state visit of H.M. the Queen
to Ireland seems a bit of an obvious thing
now, or at least one that should attract little
drama. However, thirty or even twenty years
ago, when those claiming to be the IRA were
still bombing parts of England, a state visit
was unthinkable. However, successive gov-
ernments have made a real effort to resolve
the seemingly unresolvable conflict and so
despite Oliver Cromwell’s manifest incom-
petence, the situation is measurably on the
mend. With 20-20 hindsight it is not hard to
see why – no one wants to feel they are in
conflict, not really. It is too much effort and
affords too much waste to be sustainable.
There is every likelihood that such conflict is
an adaptation to mitigate population growth,
much good that has done up against our
survival instincts.
The change in the democracy in South Af-
rica is perhaps less easy to see. Certainly,
in the recent political activity there politi-
cians have been quoted saying that the fo-
cus should be on the issues. Impressive
stuff for a country with a democracy less
than twenty years old and one in a continent
riddled with tribal conflict. Perhaps states
in north Africa will also adopt this tack in
the future, once their democracies are
established.
The faceless war on terrorism is perhaps
harder to measure, but the apparent focus
by intelligence services on it and lack of ac-
tivity in the western world since 2005 sug-
gests that that this too is losing its sting.
We cannot tell what sort of cover-up, if any,
there is by Islamic or any other fundamen-
talists. However, if all the said extremists
blow themselves up, there will not be any
left to hurt us or the religion they claim to
represent anyway.
This gives us a peculiar quiet though.
Throughout my childhood there was endless
conflict – middle east, former Yugoslavia,
Chechnya, you name it. Of course not eve-
rywhere is stable and safe – it is not really
safe until Margaret Beckett goes there on a
caravanning holiday if you ask me – but at
least for the minute we have relative calm.
Let us enjoy it while we can.
Samuel Furse
I
like England. No really, I do. But it is not
something I would readily admit to as a
Scotsman living ‘abroad’.
Maybe it is your unfriendly commuters,
your casual racism, or your chalky water that
is slowly calcifying my kettle into a solid chunk of
limestone that oddly resembles the cliffs of Dover.
Whatever it is, it has burrowed its way into my heart
and it is there to stay.
It is no surprise then that I feel frustrated by the
recent results of the Scottish Parliament election –
a landslide victory for the Scottish National Party
(SNP). Alex Salmond, leader of the SNP, has prom-
ised to hold a referendum on Scottish independence
in the next four years. But why break up the Union?
Is it simply national pride or something more?
I have learned to understand Scottish pride. I
attended a school named after William Wallace
(Braveheart to you) built on the site of an historic
battlefield, where Scots fought against, you guessed
it, the English.
But pride can have the power to alienate people
too. Scotland’s obsession with its nationalistic
dreams risks isolating her from her closest neigh-
bours. English people have become bored with
the Scots’ unending patriotism and stopped caring
about whether or not Scotland stays in the Union,
but that is exactly what the nationalists want.
Alex Salmond and the SNP have presented a
mockery of what it means to be Scottish. They have
re-written history as if all Scots ever did was roam
the Highlands chasing the mythical haggis and
fighting the English. But if this is the country I am
supposed to take pride in, it is not a country I recog-
nise. I have not suddenly become a Scotsman faced
by a ‘crisis of identity’. It is just that there is more to
the country I was born in than what is written on the
side of a pack of ‘Scott’s Porage Oats’.
Scotland put its clans and conflicts behind it hun-
dreds of years ago, to make the great intellectual
contribution to the Enlightenment of which Voltaire
said “we look to Scotland for all our ideas of civili-
sation”. It produced The Glasgow Boys who, in the
19th century, put Scotland on the art-world map by
leading on from the European impressionist move-
ment. And its capital, Edinburgh, the UNESCO
City of Literature, now holds the world’s largest
performing arts festival every year. None of these
achievements could have been possible without
connecting with the world beyond national borders.
Our only hope is that there are enough people
in Scotland who can look to the future rather than
dwelling on ancient rivalries, to vote against in-
dependence in a referendum. And enough English
people who can tolerate the Scots. We need to look
past national pride, historic dogma and the colours
on our flags. So much so, that we can share this
small island in the Atlantic Ocean together.
Angry Geek
T
he old adage about not discussing re-
ligion or politics with people is not to
avoid arguments, it is because doing
so makes one far too aware of how
completely objectionable every other
human being on the planet is. I found this out last
week while responding to various opinions on the
education sodomy I wrote about. People whom I
had previously considered to be mildly disagreeable
pieces of raw white onion in the otherwise tasty
salad of life are suddenly revealed to be flecks of
grated cat scrotum dipped in vomit. And the only
seasonings available to mask the taste are blind ig-
norance and seething acceptance.
Although many people seem opposed to the no-
tion that anyone should be able to bypass parts of
the application process, others seem to have quite
different opinions about what education is actually
for. By wildly different I of course mean, wrong.
This has surprised me when really it should not
have, since most of you are so wrong we could start
awarding honorary doctorates in it.
While discussing education reform with people,
I came across a lot of opinions about what Univer-
sities are supposed to be doing, and some of the
things I heard said that Universities were really part
of the economy. Big technology University institu-
tions, such as Imperial, are there to help keep the
economy vibrant and full of educated people, and
that arts and humanities courses were – and I am
quoting one of you here – a luxury.
Anything can be treated as a luxury in life. You
simply take it away from people or start charging
for it, it becomes a luxury. Spotify – now a luxury.
The NHS – presumably soon to become a luxury.
Something is not a luxury just because you do not
see the point in it, however. And this is precisely
why protecting our Universities and undergraduate
students is so important.
The purpose of education is not to serve the coun-
try, it is to serve everyone. It is to produce people
who are capable of thinking twice before allowing
their vote to be swayed by a photo of a sad baby
in a helmet. People who thrive when challenged
individually instead of wilting and looking for the
nearest bandwagon. People who know that there is
no point buying supermarket-brand cheese because
you are only cheating yourself. In economics, edu-
cation is one of the most precious and important ser-
vices possible. Anyone can use an education once
you have given it to them. They do not deprive peo-
ple of the resource while they use it, and it neither
depreciates nor runs out. There is no such thing as
a luxury degree course; if people out there are pas-
sionate about golf course management, and willing
to apply themselves to understand it, then so be it.
It is tempting to think of the University system as
being one of those ‘government policy areas’ like
the NHS or the armed forces, but it is important for
everyone that we give it as much autonomy as pos-
sible, and that when we do interfere it is to make it
more accessible, not less. If we start chopping up
the education of our children based on what is go-
ing to make us money in the short term, we will find
ourselves a soulless nation of fast-food chains, all
staffed by PhD graduates.
Ben Scally
Education: not a luxury item
“But why break
up the Union? Is
it simply national
pride or something
more?”
National pride and prejudice
“The purpose of
education isn’t to
serve the country,
it is to serve
everyone”
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Have your say on this
and other articles at
www.felixonline.co.uk

