FELIX
22
Poem for the week
A R T S
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 20 MAY 2011
Extract from ‘Ode to a Nightingale’
by John Keats
Between 1860 and 1900, something extraor-
dinary happened. A group of artists rebelled
against the prevailing Victorian mood of the tiny
but demure middle-class and unleashed upon
Victorian England art for art’s sake, a move-
ment which worshipped the sensuous and de-
lightful, the Aesthetic movement (1860-1900).
From its beginnings with Dante Gabriel Ro-
setti and the painters and writers he corralled,
through the decadence of their portraiture, and
the furniture and pottery made to fill the homes
of wealthy aesthetes, through the weather of
criticism and derision to the turn of the new
century, this huge exhibition covers every de-
tail thoroughly.
The gallery attempts to capture the lavish
opulence of the Aesthetes with richly coloured
lighting, recorded voices purring lines of prose
and curly-typefaced notices, but you hardly
need them. From the enormous oil-paintings to
the reconstruction of fashionable rooms, fan-
tastical furniture and sculpture, it is certainly
a treasure trove.
Whether you enjoy the aesthetic of the aes-
thetes is another matter, although devoted ap-
parently to the appreciation of beauty itself,
these artists had concrete ideas about what that
entailed, and it reminds a modern audience
how our tastes have changed.
The air of languor which pervades the ideal
throughout is weighty, in a rebellion against the
modesty of buttoned-up society. It is amusing
for this modern congregation to see the life-
less, mid-distance gaze of the muses which
drove some of the artists to the height of obses-
sion, until their laudanum-induced deaths. Not
that all the portraiture follows Rosetti’s dopey,
sultry models, for me a major highlight were
Whistler’s gorgeously toned paintings which
capture people in an ideal light, without losing
their animation. Whistler’s etchings of London
too are sweet representations of the city in de-
lightful detail. Further on, you have the chance
to see the ridiculous ‘historical’ dress and jew-
ellery created for the newly luxurious aesthetic
consumerists. There is room for Oscar Wilde
and his illustrated stories, and the satirical car-
toons which came hot on the heels of the fadish
art-loving middle classes.
The fads are also well documented, from the
blue and white pottery with which Wilde filled
his student lodgings, to the Japanese obses-
sions coming from the opening of the closed
state to the outside world. It is a heady mixture,
and if not all the aesthetics are to one’s taste,
there is at least the (dubious) consolation of the
sheer amount to look at.
Coming out of the gallery feels like emerg-
ing from a stupor into the light of the real world
which the dreaming artists of over a century
ago tried so hard to hide from. The idolisation
of leisure and inactivity is certainly a senti-
ment we can all appreciate to some extent.
WE PAY AT THE V&A
The V&A is the perfect place for a lunchbreak, but the
paid exhibitions showing until July might be an extra treat
Maisie Russ
Jeez, all this chilling is really getting on top of me guys, seriously, I can’t take it any more. Can we take an exam or something?
Those gorgeous Victorians
Drunk on the Aesthetic movement at The Cult Of Beauty
Laus Veneris, Edward Burne-Jones
“The idolisation of
inactivity is a sentiment
we can all appreciate”
MY heart aches, and a drowsy numbness pains
My sense, as though of hemlock I had drunk,
Or emptied some dull opiate to the drains
One minute past, and Lethe-wards had sunk:
‘Tis not through envy of thy happy lot,
But being too happy in thine happiness,
That thou, light-wingèd Dryad of the trees,
In some melodious plot
Of beechen green, and shadows numberless,
Singest of summer in full-throated ease.
O for a draught of vintage! that hath been
Cool’d a long age in the deep-delvèd earth,
Tasting of Flora and the country-green,
Dance, and Provençal song, and sunburnt mirth!
O for a beaker full of the warm South!
Full of the true, the blushful Hippocrene,
With beaded bubbles winking at the brim,
And purple-stainèd mouth;
That I might drink, and leave the world unseen,
And with thee fade away into the forest dim:
Fade far away, dissolve, and quite forget
What thou among the leaves hast never known,
The weariness, the fever, and the fret
Here, where men sit and hear each other groan;
Where palsy shakes a few, sad, last grey hairs,
Where youth grows pale, and spectre-thin, and
dies;
Where but to think is to be full of sorrow
And leaden-eyed despairs;
Where beauty cannot keep her lustrous eyes,
Or new Love pine at them beyond to-morrow.
Away! away! for I will fly to thee,
Not charioted by Bacchus and his pards,
But on the viewless wings of Poesy,
Though the dull brain perplexes and retards:
Already with thee! tender is the night,
And haply the Queen-Moon is on her throne,
Cluster’d around by all her starry Fays
But here there is no light,
Save what from heaven is with the breezes blown
Through verdurous glooms and winding mossy
ways.
I cannot see what flowers are at my feet,
Nor what soft incense hangs upon the boughs,
But, in embalmèd darkness, guess each sweet
Wherewith the seasonable month endows
The grass, the thicket, and the fruit-tree wild;
White hawthorn, and the pastoral eglantine;
Fast-fading violets cover’d up in leaves;
And mid-May’s eldest child,
The coming musk-rose, full of dewy wine,
The murmurous haunt of flies on summer eves.
Darkling I listen; and, for many a time
I have been half in love with easeful Death,
Call’d him soft names in many a musèd rhyme,
To take into the air my quiet breath;
Now more than ever seems it rich to die,
To cease upon the midnight with no pain,
While thou art pouring forth thy soul abroad
In such an ecstasy!
Still wouldst thou sing, and I have ears in vain—
To thy high requiem become a sod.

