FELIX Friday 20 MAY 2011 23
ARTS
The exhibition does not hold back, pho-
tos are large enough to step well away
from, and with seventeen different pho-
tographers there is plenty there to see.
As well as the familiar dignified portrait
style are some real surprises. Amongst
them Pieter Hugo’s astonishingly pow-
erful picture of a man with a hyena, a re-
ally breathtaking piece. It is good value
for money whilst being possible to visit
within half an hour.
Photographs by South Africans must
surely make one ask oneself why it mat-
ters that they are South Africans. It is
interesting to understand what we can
find out about the (dated?) concept na-
tionality implied by this rigid labelling.
These are not after all necessarily pic-
tures of South Africans; this is the post-
apartheid generation of photographs,
every one taken in the last ten years and
representing a huge slice of South Afri-
can attitudes.
Forget exotic landscapes and beaded
tribal-wear, firmly relegated to tourist
brochures and Oxfam appeals, we are
global now, and most of these photos
feel like they could be from anywhere;
they could have sprung from more or
less any part of the zeitgeisty contem-
porary artistic world. That is because
South Africans have the same interests
and causes as you and I. And yet, we
know they are by South Africans. Does
that change anything?
There’s a real richness in the themes
of the photographs, largely because I
suspect, we understand that nationality
does not restrict the themes of art. Many
are about beauty, gender and sexuality,
and interestingly so. A series of portraits
of women take up a large section of the
wall, South African lesbian women. An-
other part of a wall is dedicated just to
transvestites, male South African rural
transvestites.
The juxtaposition of affirming dig-
nity and common humanity with the
careful cordoning off affirmed and rig-
id identity is a provoking one. On the
one hand, plurality is about the pride
of each individual in their own identity,
especially for those who have for too
long been disenfranchised. On the oth-
er hand, respect for an individual and
their personal identity does not actually
You walk in and there is a huge hall
of whiteness, just one single dazzling
room, peopled throughout by the head-
less bodies of life-sized dolls dressed in
couture clothing. Do not worry though,
your £7 has got you more than just a
roomful of mannequins, oh no, there is
a whole audiovisual extravaganza to be
had. I headed straight for the long row
of TVs strung up along the wall.
This technological experience (series
of videos) guides you through Yamamo-
to’s life; a young man fresh out of law
school in Tokyo who decided to follow
his love for fashion through fashion tu-
ition to his own fashion label and one of
the most illustrious careers in the global
fashion world.
If you have never heard of Yama-
moto, you might still have felt his in-
fluence indirectly. He has pioneered
androgynous clothing for women and
enormously oversized clothes for men
since his debut. He has shocked fash-
ion pundits by producing ready-to-
wear ranges which look more at home
on the catwalk. Yamamoto’s created
clothing designs for films, dancers and
sports companies but the series of films
on show give you a brilliant introduc-
tion to all the crazy, brilliant things he
has been doing in fashion shows since
the 70s.
What really strikes you from the con-
cepts he has created in fashion is the
sweetness of his insistence on utility
and usefulness. It is lovely to see whole
collections of clothes based on boiler
suits, a show in which all the clothing
was modelled by real musicians (think
fifty year old men with massive accor-
dions) who played as they watched their
colleagues walk up and down.
If fashion is art then Yamamoto’s
certainly is, his fashion shows are vo-
luptuous with his meaningful ideas. As
well as important statements, there is no
denying that the clothes are technically
clever and often transformative, innova-
tive and beautiful. Some of the coloured,
folded extravaganzas are reminiscent of
enormous flowers, and the most impres-
sive mannequin in the hall is dressed in
just such a glory of lemon yellow.
One show featured the enactment of
a wedding where the bride and groom
arrived in matching black suits and pro-
ceeded to swap clothing so as to become
indistinguishable. I was not sure of the
message until two people wandered up
behind me in the gallery complaining
in horrified tones about the indecency
of Kate Middleton’s wedding dress and
the possible visibility of her nipples. Ya-
mamoto’s fashion kills that dead in the
water.
After the slick audio-visual presen-
tation of Yamamoto’s work so far, the
mannequins filling the hall were a bit
of a let-down. His clothes look great
on people apparently but on the dolls
they tend just to look a bit mis-shaped.
His insistence on utility also means
that many of the clothes really are a bit
dull too. Given how long he has been
designing, there are not that many ei-
ther, although for real enthusiasts it is a
good chance to have a good look at the
clothes close-up.
require the use of labels to pigeonhole
people who share a particular charac-
teristic. It is particularly interesting to
see how the people of a country that is
recovering from the grievous wound of
apartheid choose to use the labels of
identity which we all deal with every
day.
The photos live up to the promise of
their eloquent themes as well. The huge
prints manage to push some seriously
exhilarating images out of their mount-
ings, and make the audience take a step
back to enjoy them.
I think photography can be an art
form that is difficult to appreciate, lack-
ing unlike other workmanship that man-
ual skill onto which our enthusiasm can
fall back if the message of the art can-
not penetrate us. The key to its appre-
ciation, unsurprisingly, is a willing im-
mersion in the artist’s message. Only by
believing that there is a message worth
understanding and attempting to access
it can you really enjoy and benefit from
an exhibition of photography. This is no
different to any other art, but I felt this
exhibition especially repaid many times
the effort invested in it.
New generation South Africa
Figures and Fictions gives a platform to
contemporary South African photographers
Yamamoto’s fashionable life thus far
Retrospective fails to bring designer’s work to life
Rox Middleton
Will Sanssamis
You know what would go really well with this? A fedora...
Nope, not even a fedora will fix this calamity of an outfit
Martin Machapa – Zanele Muholi, courtesy of Michael Stevenson
Monica Feudi

