FELIX
24
MUSIC
Friday 20 may 2011
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Stephen Smith
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Kate Bush
Director’s Cut
EMI
2011
Kate Bush’s first album in six years, a rerecording of
tracks from The Red Shoes (1993) and The Sensual
World (1989), sees the 52-year-old mother complete-
ly reinvogorate albums which became dated very
soon after release. This may sound like a cop-out,
but the album is a truly fantastic aural experience
which, amazingly, sounds utterly contemporary, al-
beit in a rather experimental way. Every single song
is sublime, but the moving Song of Solomon and the
truly haunting This Woman’s Work really are stand-
out tracks, both subtly better than the originals. The
most interesting moment, however, is on the first
single from the album, Deeper Understanding, in
which Kate autotunes her voice. This is not, however,
modern RnB, but a completely credible and artistic
use of the hated technique. Even if you aren’t a fan,
the album is certainly worth a listen, if only to hear
autotune used well. Stephen Smith
Most
listened to
this week by
Felix Music
members
on last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Rodrigo Braga
The Troubadour, Earl’s Court
Tuesday, 24th May 2011
You’d be forgiven for thinking that Imperial’s music
scene might be slightly less developed than those
of other, more art-friendly, universities. But if you
think that, then you obviously haven’t heard of Ro-
drigo Braga. Imperial’s own guitar-wielding maestro
plays a rather beautiful and original kind of funky
Latin Jazz-Folk that constantly captivates with its
surprising chord changes and soothing rhythms. At
times with the voice of Paul Simon or Stevie Won-
der, at times channelling the ghost of Nick Drake,
Rodrigo will make you question why you haven’t paid
more interest to Imperial’s buzzing musical under-
ground. Fortunately, he is playing a headline gig at
Earl’s Court’s quirkiest café, The Troubadour, this
Tuesday, so get down there: it’s guaranteed to be
the most enjoyable way to avoid revision.
Stephen Smith
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. Radiohead
2. Muse
3. Daft Punk
4. The Strokes
5. Gorillaz
6. Arcade Fire
7. The Killers
8. Arctic Monkeys
9. RHCP
10. LCD Soundsystem
www.rodrigobraga.co.uk
T
he idea behind Outlook Festival
is straightforward: a large num-
ber of people; an 18th century
fort; a strictly UK-Jamaican bass
and dub sound; beach parties;
boat parties and, if you need it, a coach named
“The Sunshine Bus” to get you from England
to Croatia.
The festival, surely the best way of round-
ing off the summer, takes place between the
1st and 4th of September. The line up is ri-
diculous (in a very good way), combining
both established old-timers and relative new-
comers from the scenes of dubstep, garage,
dnb, jungle, dub-reggae and grime. Expect to
see Jamie XX, Ramadanman, Untold, Girl
Unit, MJ Cole, Hudson Mohawke, Bok
Bok, Skream, Benga, Marcus Nasty, Ne-
wham Generals, El-B, Shy FX, Barrington
Levy, Channel One Sound System, Congo
Natty, David Rodigan and Gentleman’s
Dub Club to name but a few. Think of it as
FWD’s back catalogue meets Channel AKA
when it was still called Channel U with a bit
of Notting Hill Carnival thrown in for good
measure.
Outlook has been running since 2008 and
has grown considerably each year. If you want
to sample it while it is still a relatively intimate
affair then now is certainly your best bet. The
first batch of tickets have sold out but festival
organisers are considering the release of a sec-
Wild Balkan jungle
Jacob Ward
Duncan Casey
If you’re a Pigeon Detective fan already –
guilty of singing “I’m not sorry!” at the top of
your voice a few summers’ previously – then
you’ll love their new album; it’s very much
more of the same but, in my opinion, a lot
more refined and musical, perfect to listen to
during these sunny days, whether out driving
with your mates or at a chilled BBQ in your
back garden. Like previous songs released by
The Pigeon Detectives, it takes a few listens to
really get into it, but once you do, all the songs
flow together and you’ll know all the words
pretty quickly!
For those of you who are still mulling over
the title ‘Pigeon Detectives’, in an amused way
before deciding, “yea, ill give ‘em a shot!”,
they are a kind of mish-mash between Oasis,
Arctic Monkeys and The Wombats, with a
bit of The Killers thrown in for this album.
They have heavy guitar riffs with, what I like
to call, solid drumming, and simple lyrics so
you can instantly join in the powerful energy
created by their front-man.
The opening song to the album ‘She Wants
Me’ is a brilliant opener, getting you into the
mood of the album straight away. None of the
songs really stand out as the best, as is often
the case with other bands, all are like a fun
continuation of the last, not one song being
“that one that you have to skip; they must have
been having a bad recording day when they
wrote that!”. Their Single ‘Done In Secret’, the
first released from this album, follows this “all
equally good” feeling, but in my opinion, there
are in fact better songs than this one through-
out the album.
With ‘Turn Out The Lights’ having a very
‘Champagne Supernova’ feeling and ‘Through
The Door’ providing a perfect festival crowd
pleaser, there is something for everyone on this
new offering by The PD, and I predict we will
be hearing a lot of these songs blasting out this
summer. In fact, I’ll wager that you’ve already
heard some of them as, like with many of The
PD’s music, you encounter many of those “Oh,
The Pigeon Detectives
The Guilty Hands
Up, Guards And At ‘Em!
Dance to the Radio
★★★★
Razor
Slicethepie
★★★★★
Daniel Oppenheimer kicks off the Felix Summer
Festival Guide with a preview of Croatia’s Outlook
I didn’t know it was them that sings this song!”
moments.
The Pigeon Detectives: “Up, Guards And At
‘Em!” can be found on Spotify.
An unexpected gem. Imagine, if you will, The
Cure after a heavy night of barbiturates with
Franz Ferdinand. In a disco. In Shoreditch.
What’s amazing about the single is that despite
its almost self-parodying range of influences,
the result is remarkable and you’re left won-
dering why more bands haven’t tried Gothic
electro-pop when it’s obviously such a winner.
It’s stylised, it’s sexy and in places it’s down-
right deviant: probably not one for the Daily
Mail contingent, but then again that’s a recom-
mendation in its own right.
Dates: 1st - 4th September 2011
Location: Pula, Croatia
Price: £126.50 + Accommodation
Website: www.outlookfestival.com
ond batch so get yourself to www.outlookfesti-
val.com and keep your finger on the F5 button.
For anyone that doesn’t know that’s how you
refresh the page using the keyboard (big up
the computing department crew inside, I know
you’re feeling that one).
It’s the only festival in Europe thats held in a Mediterranean fort. Who could say no?
Reviews

