FELIX Friday 20 MAY 2011 2
B O O K S
FELIX 25
“Not just an imaginative
piece of escapism; it is
serious speculative fiction”
Books Editor: Guo Heng Chin
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This week I’m going to discuss another Arthur C.
Clarke novel. This time, however, I’m not just go-
ing to heap praise on my favourite author, for this
is ‘The City and the Stars’, the first of Clarke’s lon-
ger works that I didn’t really like.
“The City and the Stars” is set in the distant fu-
ture, after humanity has been deprived of its con-
quests in space by the mysterious ‘invaders’. Earth
is reduced to a desert planet with a single remain-
ing city: Diaspar. It is a technologically advanced
but stagnant society whose members have greatly
expanded lifetimes after which they are reborn in
new bodies in the ‘Hall of Creation’. They are all
content to remain inside the city apart from Alvin,
the first person in thousands of years to emerge
from the Hall of Creation who has not been reborn
but is rather a completely new person. The novel
follows his adventures as he manages to escape the
city and later even explore space.
The first few chapters, set in Diaspar, are admit-
tedly very engaging, with the city and its society
being meticulously described and forming a fasci-
nating setting. Even more importantly, Alvin’s de-
sire to leave the city gives the story much needed
focus which is sadly missing in later chapters. Af-
ter his escape, Alvin specifically states that he has
no idea what his purpose should be and this is quite
evident to the reader. He simply meanders between
several weakly connected encounters, not really
achieving anything until the end.
Even then, when Alvin manages to persuade the
inhabitants of Diaspar to overturn their policy of
isolationism the reader has very little reason to
care. Diaspar is so far removed from our society
that it is very difficult for the reader to relate to
it. This lack of a connection is amplified when we
find out that most of humanity has long left the
galaxy and that Diaspar has become a footnote in
the history of the human race. Most writers would
have compensated for this by making us focus
our attention on the characters but Clarke’s usual
poor characterisation finally lets him down here.
We spend very little time with Alvin’s friends and
companions and even our main protagonist is very
undeveloped, making it impossible to really care
about what happens to him. Clarke also seems to
have abandoned his hard SF roots. Instead of rea-
sonable extrapolations of present day technology,
this story features faster-than-light travel, artificial
gravity and Star Trek-like matter replicators. In a
better story, this would have been hardly noticeable
but here it just adds insult to injury.
This is by no means a bad book. The first chap-
ters are interesting and it is suffused with Clarke’s
usual optimism. Clarke’s best novels, however, are
hard SF set in the relatively near future where hu-
manity has a specific challenge to overcome and
this, unfortunately, is nothing like that. If you want
a good Clarke novel read “The Fountains of Para-
dise”, “Rendezvous with Rama” or “The Songs of
Distant Earth”, not “The City and the Stars”.
Maciej Matuszewski
Biopunk has always been considered a mere sub-
genre. But recently things are beginning to change.
As genomics and biotechnology are becoming more
integral in our lives, there is more interest in biotech
speculative fiction. All biopunk needs is a landmark
book that lifts it from its ‘sub-genre’ label. Paolo
Bacigalupi’s The Windup Girl, which recently be-
came the latest recipient of the ‘double crown’ in
science fiction (refer to article by the side) might just
be the book that biopunk is looking for. It’s quite
something for a science fiction piece to be consid-
ered by TIME magazine to be a top 10 read of the
year.
The Windup Girl is Bacigalupi’s debut novel,
although he has established himself as a sci-fi
short story writer. The story is set in the near fu-
ture where the exhaustion of fossil fuels led to a
‘contraction’ across the globe and climate change
submerged major cities. Bio-engineered plagues
ravaged most of Earth’s biodiversity and is a con-
stant threat to crops and human life.
Biotech mega corporations are the dominant
power; they wield the brains and genetic resources
to stay a step ahead in the dangerous genetic arms
race against the blister rust plague by continuously
creating new variants of blister rust-resistant crops
and vaccines. Dubbed ‘calorie companies’ these
corporations are despised and yet they determine
the fate of nations with their crop seed monopoly.
Anderson is an AgriGen economic hitman
masquerading as a kink-spring factory owner in
Bangkok (in the post-oil world, energy is stored
in kinkily-names springs that function like a bat-
tery). Anderson suspects that beneath the ingenuity
of Thai gene-hackers, there lies a secret seed bank
that provides them with the necessary genetic ma-
terials to build new variants of resistant crops, and
the service of a rogue AgriGen gene-hacker. A fate-
ful encounter with the alluring Emiko, a Windup
Girl engineered for biological perfection would
change everything.
The plot is gripping and tight. Bacigalupi manage
to introduce an intricately complex future Thailand
without compromising plot pace. The diverse cast
of characters keeps the book fresh from beginning
to end. Kudos to Bacigalupi as well for breaking
the mould by setting a sci-fi story in a South East
Asian country and for its eerily accurate portrayal
of South East Asian politics and culture.
The Windup Girl is not just an imaginative piece
of escapism; it is serious speculative fiction. It is a
biological Nineteen Eighty Four: where George Or-
well reminds us of the value of political freedom,
Paolo Bacigalupi reminds us of the Eden we are
stewards of and are squandering at an alarming rate.
The book gains an Inception-like flavour for its
innovative ‘gene-hacking’ culture. Gene-hacking
required intelligence and skill, and it’s the mo-
nopoly of talent that allows the megacorporations
to dominate. Genes of plants and animals are
‘hacked’ analogue to hacking a computer system
to conjure new and intriguing variants of crops,
fruits, animals and ultimately the creation of the
New People, who are superior in every way com-
pared to us but are made sterile; a caricature of the
superior GM seeds sold to farmers in developing
world which are made sterile.
A ‘biopunk’ Nineteen Eighty-four
Guo Heng Chin
Science fiction owes its roots to the early classics
like Frankenstein, Twenty Thousand Leagues Un-
der the Sea, and The Time Machine. The Golden
Age of Science Fiction took place during the late
30s to the 50s and was shaped by prolific masters
like Isaac Asimov, Arthur C. Clarke, Philip K.
Dick and Robert Heinlein. Their stories adopt a
speculative theme and serve as a platform to dis-
cuss philosophical questions about society, tech-
nology etc. Though science fiction as a genre
gained public attention, it is still very much con-
sidered pulp reads.
“When I was a kid....it [science fiction] was
considered, like, total trash. Teachers would take
away the books from me in school – this is Hein-
lein and Asimov they were taking away – and say,
well, it’s good that you’re reading, but you should
read a real book, not this [stuff],” said George R. R.
Martin in an interview with the New York Times.
George R. R. Martin gained worldwide popularity
as ‘The American Tolkein’for his high fantasy epic
series ‘A Song of Ice and Fire’ but first made his
name in science fiction where his novella A Song
for Lya won him his first Hugo award.
What is the ‘Double Crown’?
The Hugo and Nebula awards are the Oscars and
Palme d’Or (or Golden Globes, depending on how
much value you place on the opinions of a small
group of film critics). Once in a while, a novel
scoops both the awards. Though not considered a
rare feat as it happens on average once every three to
five years, books that are honoured with the double
crown are extraordinary. Check out some of them
for yourself: ‘Dune’ by Frank Herbert; ‘Rendevous
with Rama’ by Arthur C. Clarke; ‘The Forever War’
by Joe Halderman; ‘Neuromancer’ by William Gib-
son; ‘Ender’s Game’ by Orson Scott Card; ‘Ameri-
can Gods’by Neil Gaiman and of course ‘The Wind-
up Girl’by Paolo Bacigalupi as reviewed on the left.
Science Fiction today
Sci-fi is gaining more traction in mainstream lit-
erature today, though its still considered an alterna-
tive market by some and the thought of a science
fiction piece winning the Booker prize is still an
outlandish idea (at least until the current generation
of Booker judges expire…)
However, in the recent years, a few authors in
the serious literary establishment (a.k.a. literary
fiction) have toyed with science fiction as a legiti-
mate theme in their writing. Kazuo Ishiguro used
human cloning as the central theme in his 2005
Booker-shortlisted Never Let Me Go, although
the science fiction element is acknowledged in a
shy manner, akin to an embarrassing family mem-
ber.
David Mitchell’s Cloud Atlas conspicuously
flaunted its science fiction themes and it garnered
tremendous praise from critics and is considered
one of his best works. Cloud Atlas was shortlisted
for the 2004 Booker prize. Perhaps the Booker
judges are warming up to science fiction after all.
“The borders between mainstream and genre fic-
tion are getting hazy these days,” quotes David in
a recent interview with Felix Books. “And I think
that’s a good thing.”
Guo Heng Chin
A flawed piece from the science fiction master?
Gene-hacking in a dystopian future
The Windup Girl is in some way a heir to Frank
Herbert’s Dune series, written during the dawn of
the environmental movement in the 60s. Dune
warns of the disruption of the ecological cycle that
sustains the desert planet Arrakis due to the greed of
the people for more water. The Windup Girl warns
us of the consequences of unbridled gene tempering
and monopoly of genetic resources. Would Paolo
Bacigalupi’s The Windup Girl be the herald of a bio-
punk era the way William Gibson’s Neuromancer
established cyberpunk? Only time will tell.
Classic Sci-Fi: Arthur C. Clarke
Science fiction in a
nutshell

