FILM
Haunted House?
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Director James Wan
Screenwriter Leigh Whannell
Cast Patrick Wilson, Rose Byrne,
Barbara Hershey, Lin Shaye, Andrew
Astor, Leigh Whannell
Insidious
John Park
FELIX
26
Dalton walking around at night. Renai can hear
disturbing sounds through her baby monitor.
Things go bang at night and family is terror-
ised by visions of scary spirits who show that
even a smile can be petrifying. Quite sensibly,
the couple conclude that it’s their house that is
haunted. Josh, even though he appears rather
skeptical, decides to move. But this is all in
vain – for the horrific events only become
more frequent than ever. Josh’s mother Lor-
raine (Barbara Hershey), has, along with some
hidden family secrets, a method of her own she
would like to try out. Her close friend Elise
(Lin Shaye), an experienced medium with eyes
of perception like no other, enters the house,
and with some probing around, is sure that it’s
Dalton that’s haunted, not the house. It’s a bi-
zarre theory, with Wan throwing together some
fairly far-fetched concepts of astro-projection
and demonic possession. It may sound a tad
silly, but what did you really expect from a su-
pernatural horror anyway?
No matter how many preposterous de-
velopments the film may hurl at you (even
the main villain looks like Star Wars’ Darth
Maul’s long lost twin brother but with slightly
worse graphics and make-up), the scares and
characters remain effective. It certainly gets
its job done, and surprisingly, without much
blood. The number of characters stays re-
stricted throughout, and Wan is a master when
it comes to building tension. Most of the time,
we know there is something lurking in the
shadow. We know there must be something
behind Josh or Renai as they worryingly walk
around their house. It scares us more to think
about the different possibilities of what hos-
tile things could be appearing out of nowhere.
And with a sharp, piercing screeching of his
Leave it to James Wan, the man behind Saw
who kick-started the whole franchise, to make
another low-budget thrilling horror experience.
This time there is very little gore, no limbs be-
ing hacked off, no scary man in a freaky mask
telling the victims that he wants to “play a
game.” No, the villain here is far sneakier and
sinister than that (hence the title). Plus with In-
sidious, Wan ventures out into the paranormal,
as seems to be a popular crowd pleaser when it
comes to the horror genre these days. Even the
opening score, loaded with string instruments
plucking away, is similar to those of vintage
horror films that scare us even to this day.
Josh (Patrick Stewart) and Renai (Rose By-
rne) are a married couple with three young
children who have had the immense good for-
tune of moving into a nice spacious house. One
day the ever-so curious Dalton wanders around
the house, and whilst drawn by a mysterious
force, climbs up into the attic, and falls due to a
broken ladder. He seems fine as Josh and Renai
rush to his aid, but the next day he ends up in a
coma with no sign as to if he will ever recover.
Doctors cannot figure out what is wrong with
him, and no scientific explanation can be given
for his condition.
But this is when strange supernatural events
start occurring around the house. Foster (An-
drew Astor), the middle child, claims he sees
Bollywood Bite
Catching up with the Indian film
industry with Aamir Shamsi
The RA.One trailers have been creating a buzz ever
since they were released at the end of March. This
superhero flick starring the biggest movie star the
world has ever seen, Shah Rukh Khan, is the most
expensive in Indian history and is being predicted as
a blockbuster to replace all others. With the Spider-
man team in charge of the visual effects, Hans Zim-
mer (Gladiator, Inception) providing the background
score and Akon lending his voice to a song, RA.One
will undoubtedly grab the attention of a larger inter-
national market come 26th October.
The third instalment of the Dhoom series has been
finalised to star Aamir Khan. With a new director at
the helm (Vijay Acharya) this eagerly anticipated film
is set to release Christmas 2012.
Confirmed! Yash Chopra’s keenly awaited returning
venture (after Veer-Zaara, 2004) to the silver screen
will star his favourite King Khan alongside two lead-
ing ladies yet to be cast. And none other than the
great A.R.Rahman will be composing the music for
what will undoubtedly be another mesmerising love
story.
Friday 20 MAY 2011
orchestra, Wan delivers some finely crafted
chilling scenes.
With fine performances from rather well-
known faces, the family dynamic is easy to
settle into. Byrne can show fear exception-
ally well, with her wide-eyed expression and
scream appearing shockingly natural. Stew-
art, playing the well-known part of “doubtful
male” is never annoying, but a fully committed
family man providing as much support as he
knows how. The most memorable are however
the two matriarchal supporting players, Her-
shey and Shaye, whose crucial roles bring in
even more terror and intensity. Wan also has
time for some comedy too, believe it or not.
The two rather goofy co-workers of Elise,
Specs (Leigh Whannell) and Tucker (Angus
Sampson), have a love-hate, bromance compe-
tition even in the midst of demonic invasion.
They provide a brief but much-needed break
from all the jump scares, all the while not wast-
ing time with trivial, needless scenes.
Ending on an ambiguous note, there could
well be a sequel, depending on how financially
successful the film turns out to be. It’s doing
well in the States, and because of its small
budget ($1.5 million), the returns have been
impressive enough. But it would be neater and
at its peak just on its own. If the ideas here are
stretched out even more with unnecessary fol-
low-ups, with more absurd twists, that would
be pushing it too far. Whether you can be fully
on board with everything the film presents is
obviously entirely up to you, but “Insidious” is
so much more than what can be expected. Eve-
ry movement of its characters and every single
note of the highly creepy music crawl under
your skin, waiting to erupt at the last minute
for a loud, energetic climax.
Saw creator goes back to his roots to create a genuinely
creepy but not too original horror film
GupShup (Chit Chat) Corner
Snippet Reviews
Faltu ***
Starring: Jacky Bhagnani, Arshad Warsi, Ritiesh
Deshmukh
Director: Remo D’Souza
Synopsis: 4 good-for-nothing friends decide to erect
their own (fake) college
Review: Bollywood’s take on “Accepted” isn’t too
shabby!
Dum Maaro Dum **
Starring: Abhishek Bachchan, Prateik Babbar, Bipa-
sha Basu
Director: Rohan Sippy
Synopsis: Multiple lives collide one day at Goa Air-
port and change forever
Review: Can’t help but think this had so much more
potential
Shor In The City ***
Starring: Tusshar Kapoor, Preeti Desai, Alok
Chaturvedi
Director: Raj Nidimoru
Synopsis: An NRI faces threats from Mumbai gang-
sters who themselves are facing difficulties
Review: A great mix of humour, action and sensitivity
– definitely recommended.
Naughty @ 40 *
Starring: Govinda, Yuvika Chaudhary
Director: Jagmohan Mundhra
Synopsis: A 40 year old virgin, seeking to lose his
virginity, ends up having an affair.
Review: Crude, crass and contemptible. Bollywood’s
twist on ‘The 40 Year-Old Virgin’ is horrific.
Editor – Oh so you thought it would be funny to illustrate a horror film article with a picture of my granny? Wankers

