FELIX
28
GAMES
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 20 MAy 2011
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Web Games
T
h e Warhammer 40,000 universe
is a violent place. There are liter-
ally a hundred ways to die: you
can be chopped up by a chainsaw
sword, gnawed to death by a giant
bug, have your mind blown up by a psychic
space-elf, or shot in the back by your own side
to hide some obscure secret. Dawn of War II:
Retribution is a real-time strategy game set in
the universe, and really brings the table-top
game to life.
Retribution is a standalone expansion to the
previous Dawn of War games, which means
you can jump straight into it without buying
any of the previous installments in the series.
It adds a sixth faction to the game, the Imperial
Guard, basically ordinary humans who have
been given a LASER rifle and shipped halfway
across the galaxy to die. They, and their tanks.
Lots and lots of tanks.
And boy, the game looks beautiful – and it
loves to boast. Explosions, dust, crumbling
buildings, rocks falling from the sky, huge la-
ser beams of death. If you zoom in, you can
see that game developers Relic have put in a
lot of detail into their models, and that each
one has a lot of character. It puts pretty much
every other real time strategy game to shame
when it comes to colour and visuals. But, it
does have the graphics requirements to match.
The campaign is a lot of fun. Since the
events of the previous expansion (Chaos Ris-
ing), the Aurelia sector has gone to the dogs.
Long story short, the Imperium has decided
that they had enough of this stupid little sec-
tor and have decided to purge the sector of
life – including their own citizens. For the first
time in Dawn of War II, you can play as any
of the 6 multi-player factions in the campaign.
Apart from the Imperial Guard and the Space
Marines, who represent the defenders of the
sector, you have the Eldar (angry space Elves
with heavy fire power), Tyranids (think Zerg
from Starcraft), Orks (Orcs – in space!) or the
Chaos (evil space marines). The campaign has
twelve solid missions, and in each you start
with a small force of heroes and slowly run
around the map, capturing resource locations
and slowly building a large force to complete
objectives (mostly involving blowing stuff up).
The campaign missions are great and quite
well written, though the last mission was a
bit of a grind towards the end. However, all
six factions basically have the same campaign
with the only difference being some dialogue
and some (usually minor) storyline changes.
While the campaigns are different enough to
make replaying it with a different faction fun,
I couldn’t help but feel slightly disappointed
completing the same missions again. The
other single player mode on offer - Skirmish
against the computer – was also disappointing.
While the AI can put up a tough enough fight
against newer players, most experienced play-
ers find this game mode to be a cakewalk.
The heart of the game, however, is the multi-
player. There is no base building in Retribu-
tion – the focus is almost entirely on unit man-
agement, tactics, and resource management.
So games get violent very quickly – there is
no five-minute downtime at the start of games,
you are fighting your opponent from the first
minute. Resources are obtained from captur-
ing resource points spread across the map,
and from building structures to secure these.
This makes games intense and action-packed,
and a constant battle to grab control of re-
sources. The game also rewards clever tactical
decision-making – using cover, flanking and
arcs of fire add an element of depth not seen
in many other strategy games. In the game, it
is quite common for a smaller but better con-
trolled force to beat a larger force that has been
caught out of position.
For most multi-player games, each map has
three ‘victory points’, which work in a similar
way to the control points in Battlefield – con-
trolling more of the victory points than your
opponent causes his ‘tickets’ to drop. The
person or team whose tickets drop to zero first
lose. This usually results in huge, desperate
battles for control of important central loca-
tions as players jostle for position. There is
also the traditional tried-and-tested ‘annihilate’
mode, where you simply try to blow up the en-
emy base before he/she does the same thing to
yours. Multiplayer mode is tense, interesting
and keeps you engaged throughout.
‘The Last Stand’ is the other main multi-
player game mode – it is a cooperative survival
mode where you and two friends/acquaintanc-
es/random Internet strangers fight off hordes
of increasingly powerful enemies with a single
hero, who can be customised with war gear
which will grant special abilities like the abil-
ity to copy enemy units, or to teleport. As you
play and win, you level up and get even nicer
war gear, which is important, because the early
war gear is crap. It is a tough mode, quite un-
forgiving, but it gets more and more fun as you
unlock cooler war gear and tricks.
Retribution is a varied, diverse, and pretty
gaming experience. While there are some is-
sues with the repetitiveness of the single player
campaign, and the Skirmish AI leaves much to
be desired, the multiplayer more than makes
up for it – both the traditional head-to-head
Victory Points and Annihilate games and the
co-operative Last Stand modes are amazing
with competent humans at the keyboard.
Dawn of War II: Retribution is available now
from Relic Entertainment and THQ for PC.
Retribution is a dish best
served cold... with friends
Tagore Nakornchai has his space cake and eats it
American Football gets WAY more intense after the apocalypse
Clarence’s Big Chance
tinyurl.com/clarencesbigchance
In this super-retro platformer, you play Clarence, an
obese middle-aged man with no prospects. Worst
of all though, you have no date. Thus in many re-
spects, this is an accurate guess at the future life
of most male Imperial students.
RPG elements are combined with the platforming
as Clarence gets ready for his first big date, leading
to a title that is packed with stuff to do and things to
collect. The platforming is rock-solid and has a very
classic feel, while the well polished 8-bit graphics
put the icing on the cake of this very accomplished
title.
Royal Wedding
miniclip.com/games/royal-wedding/
Are you suffering from Royal Wedding withdrawal?
Is the lack of William-and-Catherine-related news
driving you crackers? If so, this hide-and-seek puz-
zle game will scratch the Royal itch. The premise
of the game is simple: it is the day of the wedding
and the Windsors have got a bit of tidying up to do.
Each one needs to find a selection of critical items
to help the day go without a hitch. Quite what His
Royal Highness Prince William is going to do with a
hammer, ski goggles and a football shirt remains
a mystery, but if we knew it would probably have
made the wedding day a lot more interesting.
I LOVE student riots in the year 40,000...

