FELIX Friday 20 may 2011 29
GAMES
I
cannot stand writing articles.
There, I said it.
You know why I detest pen-
ning these things? It is because
once a week I have to get off
my lazy behind, I have to stop playing
games and I have to churn out some-
thing for you lot to read. In general,
the more I enjoy a game the more hate-
filled I become when I have to shut it
down and begrudgingly open up Word.
I say this not to make you feel sorry for
me, but for you to understand how high
my blood pressure rose when I realised
I had to stop playing Plants vs. Zombies
on the Nintendo DS.
Plants vs. Zombies is a sickeningly
cute tower defence game made by Pop-
Cap, a company infamous for pump-
ing out games as relentlessly addictive
as most illegal psycho-stimulants, and
PvZ is no exception to this rule. If you
had not guessed already, the game re-
volves around both plants and zombies
(it is a no brainer really). Zombies are
invading your back garden/pool/roof,
and all you have to save your brain
from becoming a gourmet zombie
dinner is a bunch of thoroughly lethal
plants and fungi.
Variety is the spice of life, and PvZ
embraces this with open arms – there
are 49 different plants at your disposal,
some vital, some so-so, and some that
only have an effect on one or two of the
29 different zombie types, who are also
unique in their attacks and methods of
locomotion. Ever wanted to see a zom-
bie bobsleigh team or Gatling gun pea-
shooter? If not, stay away from PvZ.
The game never overwhelms you
though, as plants (and to a lesser extent
zombies) are introduced to you one at
a time after every successful level com-
pleted in adventure mode. In this way
you never feel particularly inundated
with excessive choice, but it does mean
that adventure mode never feels particu-
larly challenging, unless you are feeling
rather brain dead.
On top of all that you fight in different
environments. Zombies are nothing if
not ingenious, and whilst they start at-
tacking your back garden during the day,
things quickly change: Soon they are at-
tacking at night and under the cover of
fog, which forces you to change to night
time fungi to defend your home. When
they make plans to attack your pool, be
prepared to roll out the aquatic arsenal.
To top it all off, your roof is the final
staging ground for their onslaught, ne-
cessitating the use of plants that launch
rounds of corn, cabbage and melon. I
wish I could dream this stuff up.
I bought the game when it originally
came out on the PC way back in 2009,
and after 120 hours of play since then
(almost not all at once) I was of course
a little hesitant to try it out on the DS.
Would the controls hold up? Would
it run as smoothly and look as good?
Would my eyes be rooted to the screen?
Six hours in, I think it is safe to say that
the DS version of PvZ is not destined
for an early grave. Obviously the DS is
limited in its technological capabilities,
but PvZ holds its own reasonably well.
The touch screen is put to good use, and
the stylus control over the killer mem-
bers of the Plantae kingdom is precise
and natural, which is saying something
coming from someone so used to mouse
control on the PC version.
The graphics, whilst not being compa-
rable to that of other platform versions,
still look good-ish. The various varieties
of pernicious plants and uncouth undead
are easily told apart, something that has
to be admired in a game with so many
different towers and attackers besieging
your brain.
That being said, the DS version
throws up a few niggling issues that
cannot really be ignored. The top screen
does not do much at all, and consider-
ing how cluttered the touch screen can
potentially get in the later stages of the
game it would have been useful to have
it serve some other purpose beyond dis-
playing cute zombie animations. It also
does not run quite as smoothly as it did
when I tried it some time back on an
iPhone, which is rather annoying con-
sidering the fact that the DS version of
the game costs even more than that of
the iPhone version. Not that I paid for
the game of course - I get this stuff for
free, suckers!
There is also a versus mode – but not
on-line – mode in which you can play
with a friend, in which one controls
the plant defence, and the other takes
“I think it’s safe
to say that the DS
version of Plants
vs. Zombies is not
destined for an early
grave.”
the role of necromancer and summons
zombies from graves to attack his or her
opponent. Because none of my friends
play PvZ/own a DS/actually exist I nev-
er got a chance to try this mode out, but
it looks like it could be fun for a good
few rounds.
Even if you ignore versus mode com-
pletely there is still a wealth of other
games available including adventure
mode, twenty-four mini-games, two
sets of puzzle challenges, survival mode
and the Zen Garden. Adventure mode
is the first and only game available at
the start, and progress through it will
unlock more plants and different modes.
The mini-games are what they say
on the tin, a range of short challenges
that break away from the regular flow
of the game. In one rather out of place
game you have to shout into the DS to
keep plants awake, which caused an aw-
ful ruckus when I tried to play it in the
library. You would not have thought li-
brarians could be quite so vicious...
Puzzle mode flexes your grey matter,
requiring you to solve puzzles with lim-
ited resources available, i.e. Sun power
and plants. Survival mode requires
you to survive 5 (normal) or 10 (hard)
successive hoards of the undead with
the same set-up, whilst survival end-
less takes it a step further, pitting you
against a never-ending stream of raven-
ous reanimated cadavers. The current
record seems to be 1,600+ waves, but I
seriously would not recommend trying
to emulate this feat. You have got revi-
sion to do, lazy.
The Zen Garden is less of a game
mode than a relaxation one. In it plants
that ‘drop’ during all the other modes
will locate here, and you can spend as
little or as much time as you want at-
tending to them. In return they drop
coins when they are watered and ‘cared
for’ properly. It is not the most thrilling
mode I grant you, but it is a sweet little
extra.
Plants vs. Zombies is most certainly
worth your money if you have yet to
play it, but I would be wary about pur-
chasing it on the DS if you have an
iGadget in your possession. The iPhone/
iPad/iPod Touch versions of the game,
though lacking the DS’s extra mini-
games, run a Hell of a lot smoother and
look a hell of a lot sexier to boot. At the
end of the day, Plants vs. Zombies is like
a bikini model – it is amazing however
you look at it, but a bit of oil to smooth-
en it up makes it even better. You can do
without the drool though, for this game.
Plants vs. Zombies DS is available
now from PopCap Games for all Nin-
tendo DS family consoles.
Flower power in your pocket
Laurence Pope gets all green-fingered (and goo-stained) in Plants vs Zombies DS
“

