TELEVISION
FELIX
30
Television Editors: Matt Allinson
Veronika McQuadeova
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 20 MAY 2011
Dear Alan Sugar
D
ear Alan, Lord, Sir, Del
Boy,
Generally, I am stuck
for jokes. I write a piece
about modern art, say,
only to end up forcefully comparing
Damien Hirst’s latest oeuvre to a pick-
led turd. Artful journalism it is not. But
then, once a year, The Apprentice shows
up and the jokes write themselves. So,
hurrah from me.
However, I am not writing to praise
you. Rather, I want to complain about
your disagreeable work ethic that goes
along the lines of: “Don’t expect me to
do all the work. I don’t expect a sleep-
ing partner. I’m not St. Alan, the patron
saint of bloody losers. If things are go-
ing wrong, I’m going to put your back
on the rails, and if things are going right
you’re not going to get a pat on the
back, you’ll be told to do it even bet-
ter still. You can look at it a bit like an
uncivil partnership.”
That is business, that is.
One can almost sense, between your
gay innuendo and tough talk, how hard
it must have been to refrain from blurting
out, all Michael Caine-esque: “You’re
only supposed to blow the bloody doors
off.”
I fear hard work at the best of times,
with my lazy disposition, so a job with
you – a rather vile, University-degree
hating-Eastender – is something I would
not touch. No, I just could not do it. If
I had been in the boardroom – with its
grim air of depressing loneliness, drab-
ness, and greed – at the time of your pep
talk, I would have gladly been taken
outside and shot, there and then.
Who would be naïve enough, credu-
lous enough, desperate enough, to want
to work with such a miserable bastard?
Well, as you have already taken part in
the first two shows of the series, you
will know.
People whose entire project manage-
ment plan is to “roll with the punches.”
People with nasal voices that whine
“Don’t tell me the sky’s the limit when
there are footprints on the Moon.” Peo-
ple that think mentioning good looks
is necessary on a job application form.
People who, if they actually put their
money where their mouth is, would
choke to death.
On the basis of the show’s candidates,
Michael – sorry, Alan – I am afraid you
really are the patron saint of losers. I
know you say you are “sick and tired of
this moaning culture”, but I am sick and
tired of the same old reality TV twaddle
being churned out year on year in the
full knowledge that you are not as big as
Richard Branson. Could you not at least
go around with a silly quiff Trumpeting
for David Cameron to disclose some
pointless document?
I have never had my ‘own’ anyone.
And although I do see the merits of a
tailor, valet, and driver, I just cannot
fathom how you feel an apprentice is
something one cannot be without. Es-
pecially when we are talking about the
heinous, sickening swarm of self-im-
portant little accountants and “entrepre-
neurs” that want your prize. Sure, they
look nice. In their red ties and light grey
suits, they look the part. But it is just a
sign of their preposterous vanity. Their
business acumen is putrid.
And why do you make a big song and
dance about these pathetic little tasks
and then judge someone’s entrepreneur-
ial sense on their ability to use a fruit
juicer? You have taken dim-wittedness
to the extreme. You are no better than
your gold-digging minion monkeys.
It makes me ill. And to call the whole
thing a “Process”. What is this, a
Morcheeba track? The vanity!
Oh, the wretchedness of it all. Ever
since Margaret left the show, nothing
has been the same. Please end it all.
Before someone makes the pronounce-
ment: “I’m in it to win it.”
And I wonder if you know that it is
rude to point?
Yours firedly,
Charles.
An open letter from Charles Betts about The Apprentice
Getting them all in one room was simpler than expected, however telling them that they all needed an STI test was quite tough
“Oh, the wretched-
ness of it all. Ever
since Margaret left
the show, nothing’s
been the same”
Procrastination Station
TV makes for quality but dangerous time off. Fe-
lix presents a list of revision-break programming
in ascending order of ability to destroy your revi-
sion. And your life.
The OC
A rich couple adopt a problem kid and he strug-
gles to get along with the bratty locals, whilst fall-
ing in love with the brattiest of them all. A window
into a sun-drenched world that is a far cry from
our sweat-drenched world of revision.
Resit-o-meter: 2/10
Black Books
Black Books is a bite-sized show, each episode
a 23 minutes morsel of succulent comedy with
a glass of Scotch, or “corner shop piss” on the
side. The three main characters are played by
pillars of British comedy. This is drunken, nihilis-
tic comedy at its best and will act as a balm for
revision-induced rage.
Resit-o-meter: 4/10
Green Wing
A hospital comedy, but the setting is completely
irrelevant – the show revolves around the hilari-
ously surreal lives of characters who just so hap-
pen to work in a hospital. This is so detached
from reality that it makes perfect revision watch-
ing.
Resit-o-meter: 5/10
Dave
“Well I know I’ve seen all of them before but this
is the episode where Lionel Richie is the star in
the reasonably priced car and it’s hilarious, Oh
and after that, QI!” Welcome to the time black-
hole that is Sky Channel 111...
Resit-o-meter: 7/10
Battlestar Galactica
This fracking series is a swirling shitstorm where
the good guys torture and the aliens are religious
fanatics. The frankly dangerous levels of meta-
phor completely fracks up your revision.
Resit-o-meter: 8/10
The Wire
5 sprawling series of dense deep characterisa-
tion, gripping tension and infectious intrigue and
action. You may be able to escape if you only
see the first half of the first series but watch too
much and your revision will be long forgotten.
Resit-o-meter: 9/10
24
Don’t start. You will fail.
Resit-o-meter: 10/10

