FELIX Friday 20 MAY 2011 31
FOOD
Food Editors: Dana Li
Vicky Jeyaprakash
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
C
offee. Most people have
tried it, some are addict-
ed to it and at this time of
year it is used by many
students to help with re-
vision. The coffee bean is one of the
biggest agriculture commodities in the
world, while the drink is omnipresent
in today’s 24 hour culture. Coffee bars
are everywhere, as are vending ma-
chines offering a hot, sweet, rich tast-
ing beverage for little more than the
loose change most of us carry in our
pockets.
The coffee seen most commonly
– served in boutique cafes and our
own cafes around campus – is brewed
through the espresso method. This
method forces water vapour through
ground coffee beans, producing a con-
centrated liquid. This is great if you are
struggling through an advanced ther-
modynamics textbook, however, if you
are unfortunate enough to find yourself
queuing up in the Library Cafe your joy
may be short lived.
The art of producing a good cup of
coffee is relatively complicated when
compared to the task of producing a cup
of tea. Questions such as milk first or tea
first are irrelevant when making coffee.
The beans should be roasted until they
are a rich brown colour, then ground to
allow the water absorb the flavour. The
water must not be boiling so that the
beans are not cooked, resulting in the
bitter flavour in the espresso. The milk
must be heated and frothed using steam
but avoid boiling-induced rancification
of the milk.
I must stress I did say it was relatively
complicated, just as breathing through
your mouth is relatively complicated
when compared with breathing through
hot you can turn down the temperatures
or flow rates and avoid the horrible
tastes associated with boiling.
A reasonable assumption, in my opin-
ion, is when I am ordering a coffee, or
any product for that matter, the person
making it will be trained and knowl-
edgeable in that area. Just as when I
worked in a bakery while in sixth form,
it would have been reasonable for a cus-
tomer to expect I was trained and had
enough knowledge to produce the prod-
uct they were purchasing.
Yet, again and again, I am left as-
tounded by the inability of staff, par-
ticularly in the Library Cafe, to produce
a drink to even the standards, in terms of
taste or presentation, of a mug of freeze
dried instant coffee. I do not expect our
campus cafes to produce a drink to the
standards of Caffé Espresso, but surely
a coffee which is close to the drinkabil-
You know the exam period is nearing
when you find numerous cans of various
energy drinks scattered throughout the
college, and your bedroom’s floor look-
ing like a scrapyard of said cans.
There are a variety of brands available
in the market, ranging from the familiar
Redbull to the aptly named Monster and
the newcomer Relentless.
Relentless was launched in 2006, but
the sugar-free variant, Libertus, is new
entrant this year to cater for the caf-
feine junkies. The 500ml can draws
you in with an ostentatious shade of
electric blue and its clearly superior
size, evidently appealing to the male
species. Also, the exterior is accented
with streaks of lightning and the gen-
eral melodrama associated with energy
juices. The can is embellished with
the phase “NO HALF MEASURES”,
an unmistakable attempt to draw com-
parison to the much smaller long-run-
ner Redbull. Why fly when you can
catapault through the sky à la Ironman,
Robert Downey Jr style.
Libertus tasted of the artificial fruity
flavour that we are all rather accustomed
to; in other words, it tasted like a Red-
bull clone. I was hoping for more in-
novative flavours, and Relentless could
perhaps take a page from Monster and
their coffee and tea flavoured energy
drinks. It not as sweet as Redbull, which
is great for those who cannot stand the
roundhouse-kick sweetness that is Red-
bull. Relentless is sugar-free but tasted
every bit like its sugared cousin, Relent-
less Original. It might be good for those
susceptible to a sugar rush.
“Coffee, most people
have tried it, some
are addicted to it
and at this time of
year it is used by
many to help us
through the long
hours of revision”
ity of a Starbucks coffee is not unattain-
able. From this I do not want anyone to
take that I believe what Starbucks serve
is good coffee, however, its taste is not
unpleasant relative to the drivel we are
expected to endure on campus.
I was inspired to write this by two par-
ticularly abhorrent cups of coffee served
to me by the Library Cafe. Normally,
my drink of choice is a Macchiato and
for those who do not have much expe-
rience of espresso coffee there are nor-
mally about six different basic ways to
serve, which are common to most coffee
bars:
Espresso: Concentrated shot of coffee;
Macchiato: Espresso with a small
amount of milk added;
Latte: Espresso with steamed milk
served with a little or no foam;
Americano Espresso topped up with
hot water;
Mocha: Espresso with chocolate syrup,
steamed milk and foam or whipped
cream;
Cappuccino: Espresso with steamed
milk and foam.
The significance of the small amount
of milk in my macchiato is that it reduc-
es the bitterness, which has been present
in every cup of coffee I have ever pur-
chased on campus. This is the bitterness
produced through the cooking of the
ground beans at too high a temperature.
The first cup of coffee which I took
offence to was served early in the
morning. While passing the Library, I
took a quick detour in the hopes of find-
ing something which would awaken my
mind before the day’s revision. On the
surface, the coffee seemed very much
what I was hoping for; once I took the
first sip it became very clear it was not.
The taste was bitter, almost undrink-
able.
The second cup underlines what I
believe to be the more serious problem
present in college catering. On Sun-
day, I ventured from my department in
search of a pick-me-up. The only place
nearby was the Library cafe. I ordered
my usual Macchiato and when it was
presented to me, it was clearly not what
I had expected. It was something strad-
dling the border between a small Latte
and a Cappuccino. Too much milk and
foam to be what I had ordered. Some
of you may say “So what?”. You may
think I’m being a coffee snob. I just
want what I paid for and want it made
by someone who knows what they are
doing.
When I worked as a baker I did not
always enjoy what I was doing, but I
always took pride in the products I pro-
duced. I was never asked by a customer
for a loaf of brown bread and instead
gave them six white rolls. Why is Col-
lege catering unable to take the same
opinion when they prepare food and
drink for the staff and students here?
Initially this was going to be an article
in which I ranted over a cup of coffee.
Instead, in the process, it highlighted to
me the issues that have resulted in the
college population having to suffer sub-
standard catering.
In any industry, companies and em-
ployees need to take pride in what they
are producing for customers. In the
small case of my daily coffee, I do not
want someone who neither drinks nor
has any knowledge of espresso serving
me. I am sure this is the case for any-
one who has a reasonable expectation of
quality in what they pay for.
Please sir, where can I find good coffee?
Thomas McFadden isn’t impressed with the caffeine on campus
Coffee on campus: in need of the Kapow factor
Now on the energy front, Libertus
provided an apparent boost in energy
levels for about two hours. It wasn’t
too extreme and I didn’t feel like I was
bouncing off the walls (editor’s note:
Flubber anyone?). It did give me a lu-
cid sense of awareness though that was
very delightful, and really helpful while
attempting to study during the early
morning hours. Best thing though, no
sign of a crash.
In my opinion, I would actually stick
to the tried and tested cup of strong
black coffee, or perhaps the more excit-
ing flavours of Monster. But hey, every
man to their own taste. Be a freed man,
like the drink reckons you’ll become
when you take your first sip.
Caution: watch out for extreme car-
bonation.
Available in stores nationwide
flickr/andai
Chin Hua Yap
Relentless:
Libertus
An antidote for sleepyheads
during revision season
the nose. Most places serving coffee to-
day have large machines which are easi-
ly adjusted to make sure these problems
are avoided. If the water or milk get too

