FELIX
32
TRAVEL
TravelEditor: Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 20 MAY 2011
Want to see your travel photograph featured here?
Send it to travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Planning a trip? Want some quick advice from ex-
perienced travellers? Have a travelling tale to share
with Imperial?
Drop us an email at travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk, or
send us a tweet using #FelixTravel
In an article from an issue past I dealt with
Vietnam’s tyrant ‘go.vn’, a pseudo-social net-
working site where an optional friendship with
the communist party is compulsory, but now it
seems that the attention is on China and her so-
called ‘great firewall’. For some time now this
has been but a petty nuisance for most techno-
philic nomads: nowadays most people are more
than acquainted with the likes of proxy servers
and the basic internet connection alterations that
will get them access to whatever content they
want, wherever they want it.
But enter the Chinese government, who are
now heavily cracking down on virtual private
networks, or VPNs, as a means of controlling
internet use. This shouldn’t come as a huge
shock: why wouldn’t a powerful government be
able to overthrow a simple technique used by
schoolboys to look at boobs on Google images?
Free speech group Global Voices Advocacy re-
cently announced that new software which de-
tects connections to overseas locations has been
put in place by the government. There are also
rumours that employers are ordering employees
to avoid making certain connections out of fear
of backlash.
Last week I received several emails from
family members of a girl I met whilst travelling
last summer: the last time she’d been seen was
in northern Vietnam en-route to China, and her
relatives were concerned as to her whereabouts,
due to lack of updates on the Twitter and Face-
book accounts she’d been using consistently for
almost a year. Eventually she managed to get
online to explain the situation, and has since re-
submerged into the abyss.
Sure, it’s a mild inconvenience that you can’t
tell your relatives your whereabouts, or upload
your token Yangtze swimming snaps, but it’s
clearly a much more pressing issue for Chinese
web users: not only are citizens restrictions lim-
ited in what they hear about the world outside,
but we’re also left dependent on a few promi-
nent bloggers to give us the lowdown on events
inside China (at least until they get shut down).
As an outsider it seems like another totalitar-
ian gadget aimed at repression, but I have no
doubts that those who want to work around the
firewall will invent new cunning ways of doing
so, and once again be leading the technological
arms race.
Venice: a pragmatist’s guide
The great firewall of China
Chris Richardson
“What do you think of Venice?” I asked. “Tour-
ist trap”, replied Dylan. When he next told me
that he hadn’t even been, I decided his opinion
was invalid: I wasn’t prepared to discuss the
pitfalls of this dream destination, considering
the countless praise it gets.
Fast forward a fortnight and I was in Ven-
ice, set to fall in love with the place. We wan-
dered through the alleyways like tourists, but
our stomachs soon needed filling and we could
hardly care for Saint Mark and his lousy lion. I
had attempted to clue myself up on how to eat
come un italiano, or Venetian for that matter.
The city is known to serve food that is sub-par
and the rules are common knowledge: waiters
in bow ties who tout for business are a big no-
no; any restaurant advertizing the pasta dishes
found in the Tesco Value range is a place best
avoided; spaghetti Bolognese was designed
for foreigners. Oh, and do it at the bar, not the
table.
Every corner has a shop that is ready to sell
‘authentic local goods’, such as the Venetian
masks made famous by the film Eyes Wide
Shut, elegant marbled paper pressed onto vari-
ous stationery goods and Murano glass jewel-
lery. They don’t come cheap though, and the
reality is that none of the souvenirs bought
here are going to serve much purpose other
than gathering dust. Simply smelling the air,
feeling the aging walls of the city once home
to Casanova’s reckless escapades, and savour-
ing the tranquility of the quieter intertwining
canals were far more fulfilling.
My experience wasn’t ever going to be akin
to Johnny Depp’s in The Tourist, but visit-
ing the standard tourist destinations like The
Dogges’ Palace, Rialto Market and Burano
Island were a must. The former boasts a few
of the most breathtaking oil canvas paintings
I’ve seen outside of a gallery, and the grandeur
of the place during the height of its power is
simply intangible. The Rialto market is an eye-
opener and a place I roamed with a smile plant-
ed permanently on my face: innumerable trays
of artichokes, zucchini of odd shapes and sizes
and other colourful vegetables. Of course, the
fishmongers dominated the place with their
freshly caught fish – tuna still oozing dark
blood onto the ice, ink-stained squid and crabs
still scampering in their box of death. Burano
Island, with its brightly painted houses and a
stunning view of the Serenissima from across
the water was one of the highlights of my visit.
Venice has its charms, but more often than
not the fact that I was a tourist was shoved in
my face at every corner I turned, a feeling I
rather detested throughout the trip. It’s true
that there are more tourists than locals. I prob-
ably heard more British accents in Venice than
I do in London on a standard day. And maybe
that’s just the cruel reality of it: everybody
wants a piece of Venice.
Dana Li
Aww shit! Get your towels ready it’s about to go down! No seriously, I think we’re sinking...
I wonder how the firewall would fare against pure muscle. Well, this guy looks confident...
‘Seoul celebrates Buddha’s birthday’ by Park Ji-Hwan
Get there: Boris bike (‘cause it’s faster)
See: Endless cocktail and blues bars
Eat: Mezze to share at Yalla Yalla
Cost: £10-15 for nibbles between 2
Ditch mainstream Piccadilly and head into the un-
known side streets: you’ll be pleasantly surprised
at the supplies of swanky bars offering free music
all nights of the week, cheap and delicious eateries,
and a resident b@1 that trumps its lousy Hammer-
smith counterpart.
Wishing you were here
Travel on your doorstep
Seedy Soho: your 24/7 revision getaway
Dana Li
Dan Dos Santos
Rich Johnston

