FELIX Friday 20 MAY 2011 33
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
G
ive me your clothes, your
boots, and your dignity –
a common cry across the
land as 40 eager Impe-
rialites joined hundreds
of students from around the country in
preparation for the British Universi-
ties Snowsports Council (BUSC) Main
event 2011. The stench of sweaty ski/
board boots filled the air as old gear
was dug out from the back of cupboards
and chucked on coaches for the 24-hour
drive to Tignes, during which our star
snowboard freestyler Luke Bridgestock
became a much loathed mini-celebrity
among Bristol University students for
his embarrassingly loud “the first time I
ever...” life recollections at 5am.
The first day in France was spent
burning in the sun and messing around
on nursery slopes before Val Claret was
graced with athletic disco shapes (go
Vlad!) and piggy backing all the way
to the moon and back. Not the kind of
limp wristed skiers who lie in bed all
day, Sunday brought with it the first of
many early starts and epic days! With
most students opting for the lift pass
extension, thousands of acres of ski-
able terrain were at their feet, offering
something for everyone; from absolute
beginners to all star ski-racers. Snow
conditions are always a concern with
an event scheduled at the tail end of the
season, but as Tignes is a high resort
(think 3500m peak, 2000m base) fun
Easter skiing was to be had, and surely
everyone enjoys slaying some end-of-
day choppy slush?
Competition-wise it was a successful
trip for us, notably Chris Wyatt who put
in solid performances in the men’s ski
racing events, but was let down in the
Skier-X by a last minute course change,
putting the 2nd half of the field at a
distinct time disadvantage. The relent-
less pursuit of excellence by our snow-
boarding freestylers saw appreciation
from the judges, and final round quali-
fications were granted. As always com-
petition was fierce and unfortunately a
stray (and most likely imaginary) pole
in the lip of a kicker thwarted Luke’s
60 ft rodeo-5 attempt, prompting our
exit from the competition and a heavy
night of melty-face concussion antics
for some. Ex-competitor in the world
Mountain Boarding championships but
newcomer to the freestyle snowboard
scene was our youngest competitor, the
fresh faced Irish wonder John McGu-
ckin, who wowed judges with his pre-
carious Slopestyle innovation, pulling a
trick of his own creation on his final run,
the now infamous “turtle spin”, getting
enthusiastic cheers from the judges box.
Perhaps too radical for his own good,
such innovation failed to translate into
BUSC points, but John vows to return
to the competition next year and “nail
an edge flip” for the recognition this sin-
ewy sportsman deserves.
In great Imperial tradition, most of
PLAYING
THE
CLAIM
GAME
the committee (current and elected for
next year) as well as the keenest club
members spent the majority of the
trip dressed as animals/morons. Think
“tight, bright, and shiny” and of course
“cow vs croc” - keep an eye on the ICSC
Snowsports page for high speed video
evidence of the latter. As always BUSC
laid on endless great nights out, perhaps
the best being the Funicular party – a 10
min train (!) ride up the mountain for a
3500m/6 h rave to natty riddumz and
dirty beetz, with Lizzy Griffiths pushing
the skank meter up to 11 all night long!
Another incredible Imperial snow-
sports trip, and so a big thanks to all
the people who came along to make
this possible. Special mention goes
to next year’s Snowsports chair, our
very own sugar cougar and trip or-
ganiser Beth Burks for making all our
dreams a beautiful and boozy reality!
As the snow melts for the summer, and
we count down the hours to the ICSC
January trip (see you there!), we praise
the almighty God of Snow for look-
ing over us this season, and letting us
come home in one piece. In the words
of the often late and rarely great cur-
rent Snowsports chairman, “it’s like the
Black Eyed Peas say...it’s all about the
boom boom pow”.
SNOWSPORTS
TRIP TO
TIGNES
BY GERRY HAWKINS
“It’s like the Black
Eyed Peas say... it’s
all about the boom
boom pow”
Lizzy Griffiths
Luke Bridgestock
Don’t you hate it when you’re getting a blowjob in the middle of the
dancefloor and suddenly your mates crowd round for a photo?

