FELIX Friday 20 may 2011 35
Scorpio
This week, you’re clinging onto some
floating debris from the sinking of the
immigrant boat you were on. A tattooed
man swims over to you, steals your
debris and twats you in the face. The
last thing you hear before you go under
is, “You’re fired”.
Horoscopes
Aries
This week, you’re queuing for coffee in
the Library cafe, when you overhear the
conversation of the person in front. “Yeh
I’m totally fucked” he says.You suddenly
shout out, “THAT’S WHAT SHE SAID”
and laugh uncontrollably. “I could do
stand up”, you tell yourself...
Taurus
This week, you’re morbidly depressed.
You’re lonely and there’s little hope of
love any time soon. Then one day you
meet the guy of your dreams. He’s got
cool tattoos and a great personality.
Unfortunately the next day he gets
blown to pieces by a bomb. Life in Libya
sucks...
Gemini
This week, you’re getting beaten up by
a gang of youths when you notice that
their vicious kicks to your groin form a
pattern. It’s almost like morse code. In
between the waves of nausea and pain,
you decipher the message: “Kickin’ in
the front seat... sittin’ in the back seat”
Cancer
This week, you meet this really clingy
girl in Tripoli. You’re not sure how to
shake her off so you spread a rumour
that you got blown up by a bomb and
secretly escape to Europe on a rickety
immigrant boat. Not far from shore, the
boat suddenly sinks.
Leo
This week, you’re trimming your pubes
when the scissors take a wrong turn and
give you an impromtu circumcision.
You should probably go see a doctor but
you can’t miss that date you have. When
the girl sees your blood-soaked jeans,
you explain that you’re on your period...
Virgo
This week, you’re piloting an immigrant
boat from Tripoli, aiming for Sicily.
Some tattooed douchebag won’t stop go-
ing on about how amazing the new series
of the Apprentice is. He gets so annoying
that you purposely scuttle the boat and
drown everyone. Life in Libya sucks.
Libra
This week, you’re at your girlfriend’s
house shagging her housemate. Despite
the screams of delight shaking the walls
of the small two-bedroom flat, nothing
can persuade your girlfriend to put
down the controller and let you have a
go on Portal 2.
Sagittarius
This week, your parents disown you just
before your graduation ceremony. That
would have been just about manageable
if your dad hadn’t still insisted on
attending and hadn’t shouted out “He’s
a cunt!” as you shook the Rector’s hand.
Oh the woes of getting a 3rd.
Capricorn
This week, you’re at a house party
wearing nothing but a pair of armbands
and a cotton replica of HMS Victory
around your cock. People love the
outfit but are less impressed when you
fire a couple of broadsides at the host’s
girlfriend’s face.
Aquarius
This week, you’re jogging around
Hyde Park when the sky suddenly turns
to fire. It’s the 3rd coming of Jesus,
again. I mean, the 2nd coming was all
right (not as good as the original), but
a trilogy? Now you’re just doing it for
the money J-man.
Pisces
This week, you spill water all over your
laptop. At first it seems ok but suddenly
an electronic voice starts crying, “why? I
loved you, don’t you love me...” You cra-
dle it in your arms in its final moments,
“it’s dark”, it says, “I’m scared.” You
give it a dignified burial in the garden...
DRUNKEN
MATE OF
THE WEEK
I’m sorry, are you seeing what I’m seeing? Is she sitting on a bundle of newspapers? Listen lady-who-thinks-it’s-
ok-to-sit-on-my-newspaper, if I ever find out who you are, I’m going to... give you a stern telling off! Hmph!
I’m sorry, are you seeing what I’m seeing? Is she sitting on a bundle of newspapers? Listen lady-who-thinks-it’s-
ok-to-sit-on-my-newspaper, if I ever find out who you are, I’m going to... give you a stern telling off! Hmph!
THE NEWS WITHOUT THE NEWS
Hip replacement
pleases Queenie

