Felix Sport sponsored by
POLITICS
IMF Chief in hotel
rape scandal:
Page 13
MUSIC
Sublime sounds at
Croatia’s Outlook
festival: Page 24
SCIENCE
The effects of exam
stress on your
health: Page 11
GAMES
So good I’m willing
to give up my degree
for it: Page 29
HANGMAN
Unintentionally
homoerotic rap
lyrics: Page 34
Boat Club
win raft
of medals
Nottingham
SPORT
20.05.11
ISSUE 1489
Imperial College Boat Club
BUCS Regatta 2011
Libby Richards
BUCS 2011 was a successful one for Imperial Col-
lege Boat Club culminating in an impressive 13
medals won; 6 gold, 2 silver and 5 bronze, as well
as 145 all important BUCS points. The club was
third overall and in the medals table, despite being
depleted in numbers due to the pressing matters of
exams and revision. Five of the six gold were won
by the skinnier half of ICBC with the lightweights
winning almost every race they entered.
Over the extended bank holiday weekend, Impe-
rial journeyed to Nottingham for three days of in-
tensive racing and was greeted by strong winds and
even stronger gusts. As the conditions deteriorated,
scullers seemed to sit on the water or surf over the
waves. Paul Jones fought hard, sinking; whilst
Gareth Brown battled on to take a silver medal in
the intermediate lightweight single. Harriet Cross
was extremely disappointed by the cancellation of
the women’s beginner event, due to the adverse
weather. The women’s intermediate pairs suffered
the same fate. Medals were brought home by Impe-
rial’s female scullers, Mel Wilson won gold in the
open weight whilst Chloe Symmonds won bronze
in the lightweight. Wilson made her heat and final
look easy, slicing through the horrendous water
and the competition. Unfortunately, Josie Bowler
was not quite as lucky as she capsized in her inter-
mediate lightweight heat and was not allowed to
complete the race, much to her frustration.
The men’s championship 8 (cox: Henry Field-
man/Matt Whaley/Rory Sullivan/Ben Spencer-
Jones/Ali Hudson/Simon Steele/Henry Goodier/
Wilf Kimberley/Leo Carrington) added a bronze
to the tally as they rowed through Queen’s Uni-
versity Belfast and Durham in the closely fought
final. Bronzes were also won by the men’s champ
pair (Goodier/Spencer-Jones), men’s champ
coxed four (cox: Libby Richards/ Steele/Goodier/
Spencer-Jones/A Hudson) and the men’s inter-
mediate quad (Adam Seward/Danny Bellion/
Spencer-Jones/Paul Jones). Hal Bradbury per-
formed marvellously in the heavyweight single,
coming fourth behind three GB rowers, but his ef-
...Continued on Page 38
Men’s Football
beat King’s in ULU
plate final
ULU Plate Final
Imperial 2 - 1 King’s College London
Haran Rajkumar
An incredible season of football for Imperial Col-
lege Football Club culminated in two cup finals,
having already seen a league win for the 4s, and a
narrow miss on promotion for the 3s. With the 1s
cup final played on the Saturday, the 5s were out to
set the cup final bar on the preceding Wednesday.
The team were up against a Kings College 3rd
team whom they had already beaten twice in the
year, the 5s were keen to end a fantastic season on
a high.
The second term had seen the 5s unbeaten until
the final league match, winning 10 of 13 along the
way; an exceptional record. Unfortunately Impe-
rial’s 4s prevailed in the final league game of the
season, ruining the 5s chances of causing an upset
...Continued on Page 38
Imperial College Boat Club show their
worth at BUCS Regatta

