5
FELIX Friday 20 MAY 2011
NEWS
lBUNBUJOH
To sign up, contact Charlotte Ivison on
EQXFMGBSF!JNQFSJBMBDVL and let us know if you HAVE a
room or NEED a room. 3FHJTUFSCZ+VOF
4PVUITJEF)BMMT4PDJBM4QBDF
XXXJNQFSJBMBDVL
BDDPNNPEBUJPO
Speed
.FFUNPSFQPUFOUJBMlBUNBUFTGBTUFSÐ
r4BGF TPDJBMFOWJSPONFOU
r'3&&QJ[[BBOETPGUESJOLÐ
r/PBXLXBSElBUNBUFAJOUFSWJFXT
'*/%"
'-"5."5&
5IVSTEBZ+VOF!
New College Chairman appointed
Baroness Eliza Manningham-Buller, a
former Director-General of the Security
Service, or MI5, has been appointed
as the new College Chairman. Her ap-
pointment follows the resignation of the
previous Chairman, Lord Kerr, in Janu-
ary.
Baroness Manningham-Buller be-
gan her career as an English teacher at
Queen’s Gate School in 1971 but then
joined the Secret Service in 1974. She
was Deputy Director General from
1997, before taking the top job from
2002–2007. During her time at MI5
she specialised in countering Irish ter-
rorism and was credited with increas-
ing the agency’s transparency when she
became the Director-General; she began
the practice of recruiting agents through
newspaper adverts. She is the first wom-
an Chairman of Imperial. She is also a
Governor of the Wellcome Trust.
Her appointment is not entirely sur-
prising, she has served as Deputy Chair-
man since 2009 and stood in for Lord
Kerr during the postgraduate graduation
ceremonies this month. Lord Kerr said:
“We know Eliza, and Eliza knows us.
We know what a huge success she will
be.”
Baroness Manningham-Buller will
take up the post on the 16th of July. She
commented, “I have admired Imperial,
but since becoming more closely in-
volved with the College, I have been
more impressed by its standards of ex-
cellence and the contributions it makes
to the UK and worldwide. Imperial’s
staff and students have a wonderful aca-
demic and cultural tradition and I look
forward to contributing to the College’s
growth and continued success”
New research centre
in Shoreditch
In a speech made to the 2011 Google
Zeitgeist conference, Chancellor
George Osborne announced that Im-
perial, in collaboration with UCL, are
developing plans for a new Research
and Innovation Centre in Shoreditch.
The project is part of the Government’s
‘Tech City’ initiative that aims to create
a new Silicon Valley in East London.
The Research Centre will focus on
how data from ‘smart infrastructure’ –
a combination of the internet, mobile
communications, embedded sensor
technology and information analytics –
could transform cities of the future. An
example of a potential area of research
could be the creation of a personal C)2
market through the real-time monitor-
ing of individual Co2 emissions.
A spokesperson for Imperial said,
“Academic research will be placed at
the heart of the Centre […] Key scien-
tific areas for exploration include novel
sensor technologies, the scaling of com-
munications and network technologies,
spatial and geographical analysis meth-
ods, interaction design and behavioural
analysis, and visualisation technologies.
[…] Both UCL and Imperial jointly
possess expertise which spans both sci-
entific research and the ability to con-
tribute to service and business model
innovation. The partnership between
innovative companies and universities
is essential, where research is shaped
by business and user requirements and
where scientific advance contributes to
business success”
Felix has been told that a 5-year pilot
phase is currently being developed, in-
volving corporate partnerships and joint
private/public funding.
Kadhim Shubber
Former MI5 head to become first woman
Chairman of Imperial
Kadhim Shubber
Imperial College London

