FELIX
6 Friday 20 may 2011
FEATURE
Features Editor: Lizzie Crouch
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Imperial as it
once was
F
or students enrolling at Impe-
rial College after the Second
World War had ended, the short
walk to lectures would have been a
stroll through a Victorian wonderland.
What we now know as the freestand-
ing Queen’s Tower was then the Coll-
cutt Tower at the heart of the Imperial
Institute, a proud building lying snugly
within the fine architecture of the sur-
rounding university. The Royal College
of Mines and City and Guilds College
were situated to the north-east, while
the Royal College of Science stood
opposite it on Imperial Institute Road
(now Imperial College Road). But the
merciless modernisers at Imperial Col-
lege and within the British government
were to smash this idyllic setting and set
about building the future of our univer-
sity on the ruins of South Kensington’s
Victorian architecture. In 1953 the Gov-
ernment announced that Imperial was
to double in size from 1,500 students to
3,000. In an attempt to make room for
this unprecedented influx of students,
Imperial during the 50s and 60s would
have been a perpetual construction site.
The Union’s top two floors were added
in 1954–57; the Roderic Hill and Black-
ett buildings had arisen like counter-
weights to the Royal College of Music
and Royal School of Mines by 1960;
The City and Guilds College was torn
down in 1962; and all the while the Im-
perial Institute suffered a death in slow
motion, ripped down section by section
between 1957 and 1966.
The motivations of the modernis-
ers were clear. They were acting in the
greater interests of Britain and of the
Empire. Their goal was the education
of the nation’s scientists. Writing in Fe-
lix in 1965, Rector Sir Patrick Linstead
was sober about the duty that Imperial
needed to perform. The £15 million ex-
pansion (amounting to nearly a £1 bil-
lion today) was needed because of the
‘emergency national shortage of places
for undergraduates’ he remembered,
looking back at the construction work
that had gone on, whilst also looking
forward to the 1970s when ‘we hope,
most of the building upheavals [we be
over]’.
In 20 short years our university
was transformed, and the transforma-
tions continue to this day. The Busi-
ness School, the Sir Alexander Flem-
ing Building, and the development at
Prince’s Gardens are fine examples of
how we continue to shape South Kens-
ington at a furious pace. No doubt the
buildings that were erected in the 50s
and 60s will one day feel the force of
this university’s relentless drive and be
compelled to improve and modernise.
Kadhim Shubber and Gilead Amit.
Courtesy of the Imperial College London Archives – 1951
Imperial College London/Sean Gallagher – 2006
Our special thanks and gratitude to
the Imperial College London Archives
See more pictures of
Imperial then and now
at felixonline.co.uk

