14 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
07.11.2014
Editor Philippa Skett
Features Editor VACANT
Features
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Pietro Aronica on taking on Paxman for Imperial pride
Are you up to the Challenge?
What is the capital of
Kenya? Which is the
largest moon of the Solar
System? Who is the only person to
have been awarded two unshared
Nobel Prizes?*
For many people, the answer to
those questions is “who cares?”,
or, if they’re feeling charitable,
“just google it”. For a select few,
however, being able to recall these
nonessential bits of information
represents a cherished pastime.
That’s right, we’re talking about the
trivia enthusiasts.
These people pride themselves
in knowing who the first Tory PM
of Great Britain was, or the atomic
number of Einsteinium, but their
skill is generally hidden or left for
the odd pub quiz, and they are often
unable to brag about how they know
who wrote “As I Lay Dying”. Unless
they are college students, of course,
in which case they will probably try
to get on University Challenge.
A true British institution, the
popular quiz show has a little
something for everyone, from those
who like to marvel at the vast range
of knowledge to those who want to
challenge themselves to those who
just want their dose of a sarcastic,
quipping Paxman. Some are proud
when they manage to answer at least
a question per episode, but some
dream of getting on the big stage and
proving themselves on national TV.
Imperial has produced a few teams
of such hopefuls, and the college has
a reputation for being a juggernaut
when it comes to scientific questions
but a minnow in artistic matters. In
2011, for example, an unlucky cohort
was defeated in the first round by the
University of the Arts, and there’s
a real feeling of overspecialisation
when the Imperials are all reading
physics and biology and medicine
and whatnot but the opposing team
can also boast experts in geography,
theology and literature. That’s
not to say that the Imperials are
always hopeless in their quizzical
endeavour: they have won the
competition twice, in 1996 and 2001,
and reached the final again in 2002,
where they almost accomplished a
spectacular comeback victory going
from -10 to 185. In 2012 they made it
all the way to the quarterfinals, being
defeated by the eventual winners,
and in 2010 an excellent team was
just short of the final.
It’s been a while, however, since
an Imperial team has made it to the
televised portion of the show; the last
team, in 2012, left the competition
with the infamous “Inspector
Clouseau” moment, and for two
years running no representatives of
the College have had the pleasure of
being grilled by Paxman.
It is a great experience to go
through the whole process and sit
on those uncomfortable chairs,
finger quivering on the buzzer, sweat
pearling on the forehead, hoping
that the next question is on the
maximum mass of white dwarf stars
and not on the architect who rebuilt
Westminster Palace. It’s a thrill that
is every bit as good as an athletic
competition, only with obscure facts
about flags instead of footballs and
running.
The only thing that is missing is a
little bit of local team pride, and we
hope to see soon an Imperial quartet
teaching those Oxbridge brats a
lesson.
The tryouts for this year’s
candidates are going to be soon. If
you think you can wrestle with the
date of birth of Churchill and the
longest river of Australia, give it a
go. You may be next Imperialite to
have the honour of being berated by
Paxman on TV.
* In case you were wondering,
the answers are, in order: Nairobi,
Ganymede, Linus Pauling, the Earl
of Bute, 99, William Faulkner, the
Chandrasekhar limit, Charles Barry,
1874 and the Murray river.
Spot the Felix cat chilling with the team from 2009. Fun fact, Amit was so amazing he made it into the national press AND he used to write for Felix Photo credit: Felix

