Next week is Rep Week, our campaign to ensure all students know
about the Academic Representation Network. Every student at
Imperial has an Academic Rep who they can contact about teaching,
resource, supervision or feedback issues. They’re contactable
throughout the year, and all students can find out who their Academic
Rep is using our Rep A-Z tool on the Union website.
Come and tell us what you think about your course or department
at our Rep stall from the 10 - 14 November, Sherfield Foyer, South
Kensington campus.
Find out more go to imperialcollegeunion.org/academicreps
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Academic
ACADEMICCHOICE
STUDENT
AWARDS
Over the next few months the Union will be forming its new stance on how Higher Education is funded. We’re looking
particularly at Home Undergraduate Fees but we want to hear absolutely everyone’s opinion on how University should be
paid for.
If you could take a few minutes out of your day to fill out our survey that would really help as the more students that fill
this in, the louder our voice will be when we come to lobby candidates and local MPs in the upcoming General Election
and ultimately the new Parliament.
To find out more information about higher Education Funding go to our factsheet or let us know your thoughts by
participating in our survey here.
Go to imperialcollegeunion.org/hef
Next week is Rep Week! Apply to become
a Student Trustee
We are a vibrant and dynamic charity
with a bright future, and we are
always looking for ways to improve
and to better serve our members, the
students of Imperial College London.
A strong and active Board of Trustees
is essential for us as we endeavour
to build on recent successes and
continue to move forward. We recruit
Student Trustees to our Board to help
us do this.
If you’re interested in helping the
Union move forward, you can apply
to be a Student Trustee. You can
find information on our website or
download our recruitment pack.
Applications close midday 14
November.
Find out more at
imperialcollegeunion.org/ trustee-
recruitment
The Student Academic Choice Awards - or SACAs for short - are Imperial College Union’s flagship event for empowering
students to recognise, reward and celebrate excellence among College staff.
Launched in 2012 and awarded for the first time in May 2013, the SACAs enable students to reward excellence and
innovation amongst Imperial’s academic and professional staff. We believe teaching and supervision are skills of
equal worth and value to research, and we aim to build a community in which academics, staff and students all feel
empowered to bring forth new ideas.
Eight awards in total cover all faculties, departments and campuses, as well as all modes of study – undergraduate,
taught postgraduate and doctoral research. Every student at Imperial will have the chance to recognise the innovation,
skill, engagement and energy of the staff they learn with.
The SACAs cycle covers almost an entire academic year - nominations open soon after teaching begins, leading to a
prestigious prize ceremony held in May of each year. Invites, certificates and the famous mug sent to each nominee are
highly sought after by staff - as are the eight winners’ trophies presented each year.
Find out more about the SACAs at imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
Student Academic Choice Awards
Nominations open
Monday 10 November
Higher Education Funding Survey
International
Imperial
International Imperial will be taking
place 10 - 14 November to celebrate
culture and diversity here at Imperial.
Some of our Clubs, Societies &
Projects will have a variety of events
and activities on throughout the week.
You can find out more about all of our
Clubs, Societies & Projects through
the A to Z on the Union website or
by going to our whats-on page to see
how you can get involved.

