THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 27
07.11.2014
FELIX
Food
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Michael Chung
What’s up with all these diets?
The Food Editor's diet of choice has got to be the seafood diet: she sees food and eats it. Pics: Raw Kristina, Health Me Up
Michelle Tan explores both the longstanding and the faddy
Red in my ledger
CAROL ANN CHEAH
SECTION EDITOR
I managed to get a trip down memory lane this
week–well,this was when I was making a batch of
red velvet cupcakes for our ed-in-chief’s birthday
on Tuesday (happy birthday again Philippa!) Many
moons ago,when I was a not-so-jaded fresher,I was
actually known amongst some peers as the queen
of red velvet.I totally blame the South Kensington
outpost of the Hummingbird Bakery for this one;
they were the ones who sold me my irst red velvet
cake,and I fell in love.
My mum’s the baker in our family,so it’s not like I
didn’t grow up around bread and cakes.However,she
hardly ever makes anything that uses food colouring
(she isn’t as keen about working with it)–which is
why I had never tried red velvet cake prior to moving
to London.My only niggle at the time with the HB
offering was that the icing was crazy-sweet,and
that I wanted a slightly more pronounced chocolate
flavour in my cake,so the kitchen-hacker in me was
dying to experiment–which I did,of course.
Cut to spring term in my fresher year,where I
ended up making loads of red velvet cupcakes for
a number of occasions: at least a few fundraisers
(ex-Felix Editor Kadhim’s Skeleton Fund and the MSF
bake sales),a number of birthdays and potlucks,and
during one bad low in my depression,“just because”.
Sure beats being an unproductive blob in front of a
HowIMetYourMothermarathon.Thankfully no one
has been poisoned by my bakes,so I think I’m okay...?
Since then I’ve deinitely moved on to add more
cakes and sweets to my repertoire; however,red
velvet’s deinitely got a special place in my heart,and
one that I come back to now and again.Those who
know me will know that there are very few desserts
that I make (semi-)regularly,as I’m always keen on
trying new things; tiramisu (for family gatherings
in Malaysia) and créme brulée are the only others
apart from red velvet.It’s also encouraged me to
experiment more and not be afraid of working with
food colouring; anyone who’s seen my log cake with
my handmade fondant Pokémon will be able to tell
you how far I’ve come since then.
The title of this editorial also has another meaning
(apart from being an Avengers reference as well
–NEW MOVIE TRAILER LEAKED OMG MUCH
EXCITE!): often there are many who get conned
into going broke,overhauling their diets to follow
the latest fad,and just as many lament how it’s so
expensive to eat healthily (newsflash: TV dinners
cost more!).This tends to be truer in America where
it can be cheaper to eat out (my foodie boyfriend
spent two terms on an inal year project in Potsdam,
NY–every Skype convo had a lament about how high
fructose corn syrup was EVERYWHERE).
Either way,Michelle’s taken a look at some
characteristics of the more-known diets in this
week’s feature–we hope this’ll educate others a bit
more.Yes,there always is a leeeeetle bit of start-up
cost when one makes some dietary changes,that
said,no one says you’ve got to totally change your
eating in one go.For broke students like us,tweaking
bit-by-bit is probably better for both your wallet and
for maintaining healthier habits long-term-–you’re
more likely to stick to it than if you made a crazy-
drastic change.Enjoy,and I’ll see you next week!
Nowadays there seems to be
a host of diets that we have
heard of but know nothing
about. And yet, people still seem to
think that these diets are good for
their health. But do we really know
what we are getting ourselves into?
The media today is so
overwhelmingly influential that it
can convince anyone to jump on
the bandwagon. So now is the time
to clear up all the rumours, debunk
some diets out there and find out
what they are really all about.
Gluten Free (GF)
It has gotten a lot of attention
lately for being a “healthier” diet, but
the main reason for the increased
hype is due to a spike in people with
gluten intolerance; whether from
coeliac disease, wheat allergies or
non-coeliac gluten sensitivity. For
clarification, only the first of these is
an autoimmune disease.
In recent years, food manufacturers
have jumped on this increased
demand for GF food products, so
now we find that there is a section in
every supermarket containing GF
food. Some have been able to attract
purchases with a preconceived notion
that they are somehow “healthier”
and “cleaner”. There might be some
truth to this, as some (especially
women) seem to find that lowering
their gluten consumption helps to
keep bloating at bay. Whether this
is just a placebo effect has yet to be
determined, though. In addition,
cutting out gluten tends to mean
leaving out a variety of wheat
products (which tend to be high-
calorie), so in most cases GF dieters
do end up losing weight.
However, just because these
specialist foods are labeled “gluten
free” doesn’t necessarily mean they
aren’t loaded with sugar and other
unhealthy ingredients. Nevertheless,
for true allergy/intolerance sufferers,
these might be the only option.
That said, any beneficial effects
of going GF are easily nullified if
you don’t supplement your carbs
with enough protein, fruit or veg - in
fact, it can be very easy to end up
nutritionally imbalanced on this diet.
Paleo
This is a slightly newer diet trend
that has become popular amongst
health nuts, and is in some aspects
our last-ditch effort to somehow
make our ‘growing’ population grow
a little less (sideways, that is). This
means eating how cavemen eat:
anything you could hunt or find,
you can eat, but everything else is
forbidden.
You might be thinking that the
“back-to-caveman-basics” association
is a bit of a marketing ploy, but it
does have some scientific basis.
The average human back then was
muscular, agile and fit – compared to
the overweight, out of shape, stressed
and sleep-deprived average human of
now. Paleo followers believe that the
difference is in the food we consume,
and that our nutritional needs have
yet to change from those of our
cavemen ancestors – so why change
from them?
As such, this diet consists of eating
vegetables, fruits and meat - without
any dairy, grains, sugar or processed
food (agriculture wasn’t a thing in
the Paleolithic era, hence the ban on
grains; fibre can still be obtained via
all sorts of fruit and veg).
It isn’t without its critics however,
as health experts cite the increased
risks of cancer that seem to be linked
with higher meat consumption.
Nevertheless, if you are feeling
lethargic, living on 8 cups of coffee
a day with energy levels near the
floor, followers swear by the increase
in energy Paleo provides. Perhaps
switch up just one of your meals in
the day to Paleo – there’s no harm in
eating more fruits and vegetables!
Raw
I’ve come across a YouTuber called
“Raw Kristina” who has eaten raw
for almost 10 years, and has shown
her viewers that contrary to popular
belief she isn’t nutritionally deficient.
Proponents believe that applying
heat to food actually doesn’t have any
nutritional benefit (even lowering it
in some cases), except for preventing
us from getting food poisoning – and
we wouldn’t get food poisoning in
the first place if we didn’t have foods
like meat as part of our diet. As most
raw foods are naturally low-fat and
low-calorie, weight loss naturally goes
hand in hand with it.
There is no cooking involved so
food prep can be incredibly quick
and easy, and raw foodies like
Kristina swear by regular use of
a blender in order to make their
raw smoothies and salad dressings.
However, becoming a real raw foodie
can sometimes be difficult. Cost is
usually the key inhibiting factor
– since everything you are eating is
raw, followers tend to go organic as
well (to minimize ingested nasties
like pesticides), which hikes up your
grocery budget.
Then there’s gadgetry. Dehydrators
are another tool often used by raw
foodies, but these can often take
forever to prepare a batch of food.
Also, being a raw foodie when you
like socializing and eating out with
friends can be inconvenient at times.
So yes, a raw food diet can be
potentially cleansing for the system,
but to go all out can require a
substantial amount of money, effort
and time. It would be more practical
to maybe try out a couple of raw
meals if you are feeling bloated, or
just need a mid-week pick-me-up!
Conclusion
These examples are only the tip
of the iceberg. In most cases, proper
longstanding diets have one thing in
common: balance and moderation.
Your schedule might dictate that
some ‘rules’ are more practical and
easier to follow than others, and that’s
fine as long as your body is healthy
and happy.
Each diet has its own set of
followers – whether you choose to
go all out with one diet, or pick a few
bits of each and incorporate them
into your lifestyle, your health and
well-being are of utmost priority.
The most important thing is to be
adventurous and keep trying a variety
of new things so you don’t get stuck in
any unhealthy ruts.
Have fun eating healthy and trying
out new recipes; if they happen to be
gluten free, paleo or raw then that’s
an added bonus!
"Each diet
has its
own set of
followers"

