THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 37
07.11.2014
FELIX
Editor Cecile Borkhataria
Fashion
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Wedding Dresses: An Exhibition at the V&A
Cecile Borkhataria takes a look at dresses from 1775 onwards
Silk brocade gown an petticoat, silk covered straw hat and silk satin shoes, 1780. Photo: John
Chase
Today, brides of many faiths
and nationalities wear white
to celebrate their marriages,
even in countres where it is not
traditional to do so. The globalisation
phenomenon and the influence and
strength of the wedding industry have
contributed to this homogenisation
in wedding trends. The white dress
has become the universal symbol of
the bride.
However, this wasn’t always the
case. The wedding dress exhibition
at the Victoria and Albert Museum
in South Kensington showcases over
80 extravagant wedding gowns from
1775 up to present day. Displayed
chronologically over two floors, the
outfits displayed were mostly worn in
Britain.
The exhibition also includes the ac-
cessories worn by the brides. Some of
the higlights of the exhibiton include
Kate Moss’ wedding dress, designed
by John Galliano, the Duchess of
Cornwall’s coat and headpiece worn
at her marriage to HRH The Prince of
Wales, and the bright pink Dior dress
worn by Gwen Stefani on her wedding
day to Gavin Rossdale.
The opening section of the ex-
hibiton features early examples of
bridal fashion, notably a silk brocade
gown and petticoat, worn with a silk
covered straw hat and silk satin shoes,
worn by Jane Bailey for her marriage
to James Wickham in 1780. In the 18th
century, most royal and arisocratic
bides wore silk gowns woven with
gold and silver, whilst other brides at
the time wore fabrics patterned with
flowers and other motifs, as these
designs could be worn again after the
wedding. Bridal hats were also a big
trend at the time, as the preserved
modesty.
It was only in the 19th century
that white dresses became more
fashionable. In fact, a significant
moment in wedding dress history
took place when Queen Victoria wore
a white dress for her marriage to
Prince Albert in 1840. This cemented
the white dress and the white veil as
the dominant tradition for weddings
for the next 200 years.
The beginning of the 20th century
saw a radical change in bridal
fashion, which became influenced by
historical costumes. By the 1920’s,
bridal fashion became heavily
influenced by evening wear. Dresses
were no longer diaphanous and full,
instead, they were slim-hipped and
made from rich, beaded fabrics or
satins. Lace, pale gold, pale pinks and
velvet became common styles for
wedding gowns in the roaring 20’s.
During the Second World War, the
‘austerity look’ arose. When clothing
restrictions and rationing were put
in place, brides had to be practical
with the types of fabrics they used
for their wedding gowns. Some
borrowed or hired dresses, whilst
others used non-rationed fabrics such
as upholstery, net curtaining and
even parachute silk. Alternatively,
some women chose to wear a smart
day dress or service uniform.
During this time, the British fashion
indsutry had hoped that the war
would reduce Paris’s dominance of
the international fashion market,
but Christian Dior’s debut collection
in 1947 only solidified Paris’ place
as the fashion capital of the world.
At the time, the British government
criticised the new Dior look for being
too impractical and luxurious, with
its long full skirts not in line with
austerity measures. Despite these
criticisms, British women were still
entranced by the designer’s luxurious
style.
By the 1960’s, ready to wear
clothing began to challenge the
dominance of couture designers.
Innovative styles were marketed to
young clientele, and this married well
with the cultural and style revolution
that took place at the time.
The ground floor of the exhibition
features styles from 1775-1950, whilst
the mezzanine level features wedding
styles from the 1960’s to 2014. The
mezzanine collection includes some
of the most up to date bridal designs
by Jenny Peckham and Temperley
Bridal, as well as celebrity gowns.
The exhibiton is showing at
the V&A until March 15th 2015
(Travel Partner Kuoni, supported
by Waterford Crystal and Monsoon
Bridal.)
John Galliano wedding gown, worn by Kate Moss
Photo: Victoria and Albert Museum

