THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 39
07.11.2014
FELIX
Travel Editor Yung Nam Cheah
Travel
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sarting clockwise from top left is the MarkhalleNeue interior, Chinese
style hand pulled noodles, Pastrami burger and Taiwanese pulled pork
bun . Photos: Yung Nam Cheah
Grecian Myth – Santorini
The infamous sunset at Oia that has tourists flocking to this island. Photo: Emmilyn Yeoh
Emmilyn Yeoh tells us the ups and downs of this popular island
Local Highlight of the
week – Nomad Cinema
Yung Nam Cheah
TRAVEL EDITOR
Donating 100% of their proit to the Sustainability
Institute,this pop up Cinema gives you the perfect
excuse to attend its showings all over London in the
name of charity.With 12 locations from the Middle
Temple Gardens to the Hoxton Hotel,you can catch
a spooky Halloween screening of the BlairWitch
Project,enjoy Frozen with your family for Christmas or
revisit the classic It’saWonderfulLife.
There’s nothing more pleasant than attending an
outdoor screening during the summer,however
bear in mind that seating is not provided but you are
allowed to bring in your own food.The show will go
on come rain or snow–unless severe weather occurs,
of course.Seating is provided at the indoor venues
unless otherwise stated,and rest assured that toilets
will be available at all sites.
You can check them out on their website and follow
them on twitter:
www.whereisthenomad.com/
twitter.com/thenomadcinema
You have to purchase tickets on the WeGotTickets
website and they are dificult to transfer (but doable
–log onto WeGotTicket website and relocate),but
refund or resale are impossible.
Having attended the Halloween screening of the
BlairWitchProject completed with a glass of izz and
Greek style food wrap on arrival at the Lookout,Hyde
Park,I would have to say the £25 I spent wasn’t really
that worth it; although irepits were set up where
you can roast marshmallows and the spooky setting
in the middle of a park at night did make the entire
experience more eerie.
Have you got some local expertise on that sort of
lesser known venue that you think our readers
will like? Or are you planning on jetting away over
Christmas to somewhere hot and exotic,or cold and
exciting,and fancy sharing your stories? Get in touch
with Felix Travel: travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk and
share your stories!
"The most
amazing
gyros pita
(Greek
version
of kebab)
store called
Obelix..."
Asingle mention of Greece
would bring squeals
from the general public
considering the fact that it is typically
described as a true heaven by most
tourists. I don’t know about you,
but it definitely makes me wonder
sometimes, does it actually live up to
its reputation? I therefore decided to
pay a short visit to the Greek islands:
Santorini to testify to its postcard
beauty and Crete, to check out the
dark horse.
I spent a total of five days in Greece,
two days in Santorini and three days
in Crete. Admittedly, Santorini can
be depicted as all the words that are
synonymous with picturesque, it is
swift on sweeping you off your feet;
Crete on the other hand is something
else, it slowly grows on you and just
leaves you dazzled with delight.
When I first set foot on Greek soil,
I was frankly a bit disappointed.
I’ve spent months gaping at all the
beautiful pictures of Santorini on
my friends’ Instagram and Facebook
profiles. I was under the assumption
that the whole of Santorini looked
like Oia, the only part of Santorini
that occupied a big chunk of your
romantic dreams. Little did I know
that only 10% of the entire island
looked like the pictures on the
internet! If you rent a car and drive
along the island, you’ll discover the
true landscape of Santorini – which
is a desert of nothing! The ground is
literally screaming for moisture, the
grass so dry that it would have driven
away any kind of herbivore and this
was not exactly the sight that I signed
up for.
If you speak to the locals about the
beaches, the ones that are commonly
mentioned are Perivolos, Perissa,
Kamari etc also known as the black
sand beach, red beach. I know, such
catchy names, don’t you think? Please
do not be fooled like I was. Thinking
that the beaches might be able to offer
a redemption, I drove to a couple of
them in high spirits. When I got to
the black sand beach, I quickly left
my sandals in the car because I was
indeed a tad too eager to sink my feet
into some soft sand. Lo and behold,
the sand felt prickly, a complete let
down of the visuals of warm sand that
slips around your feet I had in mind.
With every bad thing comes a good
side, and vice versa. I hope I haven’t
completely ruined Santorini for you
just yet. There is the most amazing
gyros pita (Greek version of kebab)
store called Obelix that will change
your perception of kebabs for the rest
of your life.
Did I mention that it’s easy on the
pocket too? Most things on the menu
cost less than 3 euros, what a way to
stick to your budget! Additionally,
the boat trip to the nearby volcano is
definitely one for the books. Imagine
yourself sitting on a quaint maritime
sail ship reminiscent of Pirates of
the Caribbean that brings you to an
active volcano. From the peak of the
volcano, you get spectacular views of
the Aegean Sea and a quick soak in the
hot springs nearby.
I’m sure those who have been
to Santorini are just waiting for
the mention of the famous Oia
sunset. Tourists flock to this village
every evening just to catch the sun
drowning in the horizon. There are a
few ways to have an unforgettable and
desirable sunset experience.
One should make a reservation with
the restaurants on Ammoudi Bay and
near the cliffs that offer a spectacular
dining experience which comes with a
view of the sunset.
Alternatively, you could join a
sailing trip or rent a private yacht to
appreciate the beauty of the island
and see the sunset with unobstructed
views.
Unfortunately, the word limit
does not allow for a Greek island
showdown. I would have to save my
Cretian experience for the next time!
With five whopping storeys of
vintage and second hand fashion that
won’t break your budget, you will be
running around getting your mitts
on anything that catches your eyes.
Whether you are in it for the trend
or simply because it is way more
affordable than high street shops, the
individuality and variety is a good
alternative to get a unique souvenir
of Berlin.
Address: Frankfurter Tor 3, 10243
Berlin
Station: U5, Tram 10 / Frankfurter
Tor
Open: Mon-Sat 10:00 – 20:00
Tel. (030) 422 2018
Even if you’re only in Berlin for a
few days, all these locations are worth
visiting, so make your way there if
you can!
The enormous warehouse style store at Frankfurter Tor Photo: Yung Nam
Cheah

