4 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
07.11.2014
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Sun offers money for “Jihadi John” photos
The Sun has now come under
fire from various student
unions, after it emerged that
their reporters have offered money in
exchange for images of controversial
Halloween costumes.
Editors at a number of university
newspapers have since spoken out,
claiming that “thousands of pounds”
and “a potential front page spot”
were offered for pictures of students
dressed (amongst other offensive
costume ideas) as “Jihadi John”, the
British member of ISIS responsible
for several beheadings this year.
Publications that were contacted
by The Sun include bathimpact at the
University of Bath, The Gryphon at
Leeds University, Epigram at Bristol
University, and Mancunion at the
University of Manchester.
Speaking to The Guardian, Gráinne
Morrison, one of the editors at the
Mancunion, told of how the editor-
in-chief at her paper received a
phone call from a female reporter
at The Sun, who made the offer for
pictures of “Jihadi John” costumes or
those of Alan Henning, the Salford
resident who was killed by Isis at
the beginning of October. “They
implied that if we could make that
happen, they would reward us and if
we wanted to go even further, there
would be even more reward.”
Morrison expressed how the
Manchester student community
were disgusted by this request, as
Alan Henning hailed from Greater
Manchester and his death had been
a huge shock to them. “We felt that
they were trying to misrepresent
students, by trying to get us to send
something that would not only make
students look bad but that would also
be completely insensitive, especially
for Manchester students. Manchester
students have been very affected by
Alan Henning’s execution.”
Officials from the University
of Manchester’s Student Union
have unanimously condemned
the tabloid’s actions, with general
secretary Charlotte Cook issuing
the statement: “We have a zero-
tolerance approach towards offensive
outfits at the Union to ensure we are
maintaining a safe space for all our
members.
“However, undoubtedly somewhere
across the country people will choose
to wear inappropriate costumes. For
The Sun to purposefully have students
out witch-hunting for this minority
in order to completely misrepresent
students as a whole is disgraceful.”
Also speaking to The Guardian,
Ben Butcher from bathimpact said
that “we were told that pictures of
‘Jihadi Johns’ would be a front-page
story, but ebola victims would also
be good. They said a substantial
financial reward would be offered.
They wanted to portray all students
Carol Ann Cheah on the paper offering money for bad taste costume photos
as stupid – based on the actions of a
few. We wouldn’t want to sell out the
whole student body like that.”
This is not the first time that The
Sun has courted student Halloween
costume controversy. Last year, the
tabloid had published photos of
two students from the University
of Chester, who won a nightclub
fancy dress competition with outfits
depicting the World Trade Center’s
Twin Towers being destroyed in the
9/11 terror attacks.
A spokesperson for News
International issued the following
statement: “The Sun was aware that
there were Halloween parties taking
place on student campuses, with
reports of some interesting choices
of costumes, and was calling student
newspapers to see if they had photos
that they might want to share with
the newspaper. We categorically
deny any suggestion that money
was offered to construct or fake a
photograph.
“Approaching other publications
is a legitimate and often practiced
journalism request which we stand
by.”
An “investigation” into the use
of human tissues at Imperial
by The Mail on Sunday has
been condemned by the College and
the Royal British Legion Centre.
The investigation, outlined in an
article posted by The Mail on Sunday,
detailed how “Human remains are
being used in secretive weapons tests
funded by the sale of Remembrance
Sunday poppies,” at the Royal
British Legion Centre for Blast
Injury Studies (CBIS), located on the
South Kensington campus.
The article went on to describe how
“legs, feet, and possibly other body
parts,” are being imported from
America, and then “destroyed in
gruesome experiments.” The article
Mail on Sunday “investigation” on human tissue use at
Imperial “highly misleading”
PHILIPPA SKETT
FELIX EDITOR
described how limbs are regularly
transported to the test centre, but
highlighted that the College were
not answering The Mail on Sunday’s
questions as to whether or not the
limbs are donated specifically for
military tests.
The college released a press
statement this morning, hitting back
at the article. The College said that,
“All human tissue used in the course
of research at the Centre – whether
from the UK or overseas – has been
donated to medical science, with
full informed consent, by either the
donor or their relatives.”
College also addressed the
accusations made by the article
about refusing to answer questions,
saying that “The College has not
refused to name tissue suppliers.
“As the journalist has known since
Wednesday 29 October, his inquiry
is being handled as a Freedom of
Information request.”
The Royal British Legion, a
partner with Imperial College, also
announced that it “[Deplored] The
Mail on Sunday’s cynical attempt
to discredit our funding of vital
scientific research.” The RBL went
on to say that “For The Mail on
Sunday to term this as a “macabre
trade in human legs and feet”
is sensational, false, and deeply
offensive.”
The Royal British Legion for Blast
Injury Studies opened last October.
His Royal Highness Prince Harry
officially opened the research centre,
that looks to reduce the effects of
roadside bombs and Improvised
Explosive Devices (IEDs).
The centre is funded partly by
the Royal British Legion, a charity
that provides welfare for the Armed
Forces. It recieves donations through
the sale of poppies every year.
Two girls dressed as the World Trade Centre during 9/11, as reported in The Sun. Photo: The Sun
Prince Harry opens the centre for Blast Injury Studies last year Photo: Imperial College London

