40 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
07.11.2014
HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
KnitSock SUSPENDED after drunken rampage
Second Year latmates already hate each other
The Knitsock president expresses their displeasure at being banned from the Liberty's haberdashery section
(Artist' Impression)
Shock this week as the otherwise
highly reputable knitting society
has been closed down by the
Union after drunken debauchery was
RAVAGED on the people of London
by the club.
KnitSock – a portmanteau of
‘Knitting’ and ‘Society’ with a ‘pun’
twist – were out on their way back
from one of their notorious “Crochet
and Clunge” yarn crawls from Betty’s
Wool Emporium in West Hounslow
when the first of the incidents
occurred.
Whilst riding the Piccadilly line the
Knitsock First XV began playing their
infamous “Sew Sexy” initiation with
the freshers. The first year students
were ordered to strip completely
NUDE and forced out of the train at
Osterley station, where they had to
Knit themselves some pants whilst on
the platform.
Next, at Boston Manor, the initiates
were forced to then attempt to create
some trousers for themselves. Some of
the ICKS XV held the doors open for
one of the slower freshers, irritating
some already shocked TfL passengers.
By the time the train pulled
into Hammersmith, most of the
KnitSock freshers had managed to
get themselves moderately clothed.
However the intensely loud clacking
of needles and boorish chanting of the
KnitSock committee had overwhelmed
most of the passengers on the service
and the train terminated early.
Unperturbed, the team then
marched through Hammersmith
shopping centre chanting “Get your
Knits out for the Lads” before boarding
a number 9 bus for the union. Whilst
on board, the out-of-control crafters
cross-stitched “Bus Wanker” onto
the hat of the conductor and a heated
argument between two 3rd year
students over the merits of Cables vs
Bobbles resulted in one threatening
the other with a hammer and a window
was smashed.
When Hangman tried to contact
Aloysius Stich, the team captain, we
received a pair of mittens with “Knit
Fast, Die Warm” written across the
palms.
We approached the Deputy
President (Clubs and Societies) for
the Union’s opinion on the future
of the club. She reassured us that the
society would be allowed next year but
suggested that, in terms of captaincy;
A. Stich would be dropped.
Six second years have realised that
living in your own house for the
first time is not living up to their
expectations. Nearly five weeks in to
term and the fun of having their own
flat has started to wear thin. The first
three weeks were spent having house
parties, working out a cleaning rota
that everyone stuck to for 3 days and
then ignored, and spending 4 hours on
hold to Virgin Media trying to get the
broadband sorted out. Now, however,
tensions have begun to show.
The first flatmate to realise things
might not be all amazing was Ellen, a
physicist. “I was having the time of my
life really, living outside of halls with a
load of people I thought were cool, but
I’m beginning to realise it’s a pain in
the fucking arse,” she told Hangman.
“Things were going okay but then
Dave just started walking around
the whole flat in his boxers and, well,
they’re not even nice boxers”.
When approached for comment by
Hangman, Dave told us “God the flat
was really cool but now Ellen starts
whining if you leave your plate in
the kitchen sink for like five minutes
without washing it up. It’s ridiculous.”
When pushed on the pants issue he
replied “Well she just pushes her bike
straight through the flat to the yard
out back without caring about the
mess she makes in the hallway, so if
she can treat it like she owns the place,
why can’t I?”
Further to the strains between Dave
and Ellen, who both have rooms on
the ground floor of the terraced house
just off Fulham Palace Road, further
animosity is brewing between two of
the first floor residents: Raheela and
Jessica. “She’s just the worst person
in the world to share a bathroom
with,” Raheela, who had an en-suite
room in halls, told Hangman. “She’s
got this thick ginger frizzy hair and
I’m pulling about 4kg of it out of the
sinkhole every morning when I want
to have a shower.”
Meanwhile Jessica has found that
her toiletries keep disappearing,
telling this correspondent “fucking
hell, Raheela keeps stealing my
exfoliating body scrub and I swear to
god that stuff is so expensive. She’s
such a brat, she thinks she’s entitled to
everything, I’ve had enough already,”
this opinion was echoed by Dave,
who had seen her drinking his orange
juice a week previous without asking
beforehand.
Currently feelings towards Yannis,
— who hasn’t left his attic room
after the first housewarming party,
during which he stood in a corner
and would only talk about Bitcoin —
are ambivalent. His only annoying
act so far so far is installing the 25
metre long internet cable from the
modem that snakes up both staircases
and under his door. However when
the first electricity bill arrives in
January and the others realise that
he’s running a mining rig in his room
costing them £3,400 in electricity a
quarter, feelings may sour.
Whilst they may not talk to each
other anymore, the five former
corridor friends from Wilkinson are
unified in their hatred of the sixth:
Jasper Toff-Woodhole, a boorish
Medic who is driving them all insane.
“I can’t believe how inconsiderate he
is” Jessica confided. Dave reported that
Jasper — or ‘Jazzy’ to his insufferable
twat friends who turn up at 11 pm and
shout to him from the street — has
a terrible habit of not knocking on
doors. This resulted in an awkward
situation when he walked in on Jessica
and her boyfriend during the second
week. “I think Jess would’ve forgiven
him eventually if he hadn’t then got
his phone out and sent a snapchat
to everyone,” Dave said. Jazzy was
unreachable for comment as he’s
currently in A&E getting shards of bus
window glass removed from his hand.
“He’ll probably pass it off as banter,”
Raheela said, about the window
incident, but if he wasn’t paying so
much more rent for the slightly larger
room then we’d kick him out in an
instant.
At the time of going to press, Dave
had found that Jessica was tweeting
bitchy stuff about them all from
an anonymous account and had
emailed a link to the others. Raheela
is staying late in the library to avoid
the inevitable row that was going
to break out and is complaining to
all her increasingly bored friends
about it. Yannis’s participation in a
deepweb hacker circle has them all
under observation by GCHQ, whose
operative have just analysed a photo
sent to their flat whatsapp group
by Jazzy of his blood soaked hand
with the caption “#Lad”. They are all
discreetly asking their friends if any of
them have any spare rooms.
One of the sources of contention between the slovenly jerk and the stuck-up neat-freak

