THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 47
FELIX
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
07.11.2014
In case you missed it in the world of sport
In the Champions League
Arsenal blew a 3-0 lead to only
draw against Anderlecht at
the Emirates. Liverpool’s game
at Real Madrid was the source
of much discussion, as manager
Brendan Rodgers opted to field a
much changed eleven against the
Galacticos. The Reds lost 1-0.
Lewis Hamilton won the United
States Grand Prix to extend his
World Championship lead over
Nico Rosberg. In doing so, Hamilton
surpassed Nigel Mansell to take the
British record for most grand prix
wins.
Misbah ul-Haq created history
by scoring the fastest Test fifty and
equalling Sir Viv Richards’ record for
the fastest Test hundred. Misbah’s
Pakistan destroyed Australia to
complete a dominant whitewash
2-0. India has demanded £26m in
damages from the West Indies cricket
board, after the West Indies players’
strike led to a premature end to the
Windies’ tour.
This weekend marks the beginning
of the Autumn International
season in Rugby Union. Wales face
Australia, Ireland take on South
Africa whilst the pick of the action
will come from Twickenham, where
England will attempt to topple the
All Blacks. England have suffered a
setback, as lock Joe Launchbury has
been ruled out of the autumn Tests.
In Rugby League there was
controversy as England lost to
Australia 16-12 in the Four Nations.
Ryan Hull seemingly went over the
line and touched down in the last
minute of the fixture, only for the
video referee to rule it as not a try.
Andy Murray has been drawn in
the same group as Roger Federer in
the Barclays ATP World Tour Finals
at the O2, which starts on Sunday.
Kunal Wagle takes a look at what’s been going on outside the BUCS League
We won't know until December if Brendan Rodgers' Champions League gamble pays off Photo: Colin Lane
Is Formula 1 on a track to disaster and uncompetitiveness?
Formula 1 touched down in
Austin, Texas, on Sunday for
the 17th race of the season at
the Circuit of the Americas. The race
was saturated with on-track action
with wheel to wheel racing and daring
overtakes commonplace. The final
result had Lewis Hamilton atop the
podium for Mercedes followed in
by his team mate Nico Rosberg and
Red Bull Renault’s Daniel Ricciardo.
One noticeable difference to previous
races this season was the reduced line
up of just 18 cars as opposed to the
normal 22. Backmarkers Caterham
and Marussia were not present at
the Grand Prix after both teams fell
into administration during the two
week break after Sochi. While their
absence did not have a large impact
on the outcome of the race or the
excitement of the spectacle, it has
served to highlight the extremely
expensive nature of the sport and the
fine financial margins that teams,
especially the smaller ones, work to.
Sunday’s field of cars was the
smallest seen at a Grand Prix since
Monaco in 2005 when the British
American Racing team (were serving
a ban for infringing the regulations.
All three of the new teams introduced
to the sport in 2010 have since
disappeared from the grid with HRT
having been unable to find a buyer
at the end of the 2012 season. The
potential for an even smaller grid
of cars is a realistic possibility as
other teams have been struggling
with finance during this year – most
notably Sauber Ferrari and Sahara
Force India.
The sport cannot afford to lose
teams in the way it has in recent
years. It damages the level of
competition and will dent the
attendances at races accordingly.
Smaller teams also provide a stepping
stone into the sport and often find
the greatest talent. For example, 2007
World Champion and Ferrari driver
Kimi Räikkönen started his career at
Sauber. Another issue is the contracts
in place for the races which state that
Formula 1 will provide a minimum
of 16 cars for each event. This means
that if the problems are not resolved,
some teams may be obliged to run a
third car, once again narrowing the
competition.
The underlying problem is that
the amount of money received
by the smaller teams from
Bernie Ecclestone’s Formula
One Management company is
significantly less than the amount
required to run a competitive team.
The sum of money that each team
receives every year is dictated by
their finishing position in the
constructors’ championship of the
previous year. The amount of money
given to each team is not disclosed
to the public but it is believed that
Marussia received around £9million
for this year whilst Caterham, for
finishing 10th
, received about double
that. This is in comparison to the
estimated £75million required to
fund a midfield team.
Some of the disparity between
these values can be made up through
sponsorship deals and private
investment but a team at the back
of the grid will rarely attract big
sponsors.
The distribution of money is also
very uneven. For finishing third in
the championship in 2013, Ferrari
are believed to have been paid
£125million with almost half of that
being paid just for turning up on the
grid. The difference in net income
between teams means that it is almost
impossible for the smaller teams to
out-develop the larger teams and
hence overtake them in the world
championship. To compound this,
only the largest teams sit on the board
that decides on team spending with
the likes of Ferrari and Mercedes
vetoing proposed cost caps within the
sport.
Formula 1 is suffering from a
managerial crisis that is preventing
the smaller teams from having
their voices heard whilst the largest
teams use their power to maintain
the unfair nature of spending in the
sport to benefit their title chances.
Undoubtedly Formula 1 is too
expensive for teams to survive on the
little money that they are given.
Unless this problem is resolved, the
grid risks losing even more teams and
becoming even more of a procession.
Marussia and Caterham have gone into administration. Could more follow them? Photo: James Moy/PA
HENRY LAMBLEY
SPORTS WRITER

