Stars approaching a supermassive black hole
are ripped apart by its huge tidal force. The
black hole gobbles part of star and spits out
some material in form of radiation. This fantas-
tic phenomenon has been observed by a team of
astrophysicists from US and UK through obser-
vations obtained from the telescope in Mount
Haleakala, Hawaii, and the Chandra X-Ray
Space Observatory.
From a survey of thousands of galaxies, the
scientists found that both the telescope and the
Galaxy Evolution Explorer satellite had detect-
ed a luminous flare from the centre of a galaxy
located at a distance of approximately 2 billion
light-years from the Earth. The flare, dubbed
PS1-10jh, is extremely intense and reveals an
uncommon shape of the light-curve. The long
duration of the phenomenon (a few months) was
not typical of gamma ray bursts that fade away
within a day and come from the explosion of
massive stars or collisions between giant stars.
Stars-shredding events are rare and occur
roughly every 10,000 years in a galaxy. One can
be detected from Earth once every two years. In
June 2011 astronomers from the University of
Berkely, California, had observed a similar phe-
nomenon coming from a galaxy as far as four
millions light-years from Earth.
However, the present study published in Na-
ture, is the first to give accurate predictions.
Analysing the intensity of the radiation of the
light flare and the shape of the curves and fitting
the data to numerical simulations the scientists
calculated a mass of the black hole as big as
about that of 3 million suns and reconstructed
the orbit of the star finding it to be tight to the
Black hole shreds star
black hole. They also estimated the event oc-
curred for about 76 days.
The most intriguing aspect of the discov-
ery is the prediction of the structure of the
star. Analysis of the spectra of the radiation
revealed that the disrupted star was a red gi-
ant with a helium-rich core whose hydrogen
shell was previously stripped off. Gezari, the
leader author of the study from Johns Hopkins
University, Maryland, says that this “is a con-
sequence of being in the environment of the
black hole.”
Some questions such as the low temperature
of the radiation and the lack of effects from
general relativity in the model remain open,
but the possibility of characterising the light
from black holes can give precious information
about their gravitational field.
DOI:10.1038/nature10990
Researchers in New York have engineered a
way to non-invasively trigger gene activation
in live animals using nanoparticles and radio
waves, a method that may, in the future, be
used to remotely control genes in humans for
medical purposes.
Current methods of activating cells are un-
wieldy at best: direct stimulation using elec-
trodes is invasive, potentially damaging and
non-specific, whilst control of individual light-
activated channels using different wavelengths
of precisely-timed light pulses requires inter-
nally implanted light pipes. But, by abusing the
properties of iron oxide nanoparticles (FeNPs)
and temperature-sensitive ion channels, the re-
searchers found a way to finely control certain
genes non-invasively.
Jeffery Friedman and colleagues of The
Rockefeller University targeted FeNPs to a
modified, temperature-sensitive cation chan-
nel, TRPV1 (otherwise known as the capsa-
icin receptor) by coating the nanoparticles
with antibodies specific to a modified tag on
the channel. Exposure to low- and mid-range
radio wave frequencies heated up the targeted
nanoparticles but not the surrounding tissue,
thereby activating the channel upon reaching
its activation temperature. The resulting cal-
cium ion influx activated a specially modified
gene that controlled expression of insulin.
This lead to a corresponding drop in blood
glucose levels after 30 minutes.
The team also experimented with nanopar-
ticles that could be made intracellularly using
modified ferritin, a naturally occurring iron-
storage protein. They saw that insulin secre-
tion still occurred, albeit more weakly.
Radio wave gene activation has the advan-
tage of being both non-damaging to tissue and
non-invasive whilst heating surrounding cells
to a minimal degree. Currently however the
technique can only be used in basic animal re-
search, as the delivery of nanoparticles into a
living organism requires the deliberate growth
of tumours, making it inappropriate for use in
human clinical research.
Friedman hopes though that as research pro-
gresses use of nanoparticles in a therapeutic
setting will be able to treat diseases involving
protein deficiencies, such as hexosaminidase
A replacement in Tay-Sachs disease.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1216753
Laurence Pope
FELIX
Friday 11 may 2012
12
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
What we missed...
Antonio Torrisi
Researchers from the University of Washington
have used techniques from quantum physics and
neuroscience to control brain cells for the first
time. Photosensitive semiconducting nanopar-
ticles known as quantum dots have been used to
stimulate the brain, and it is believed these tech-
niques could pave the way to non-invasive treat-
ments for conditions such as Alzheimer’s disease,
depression and epilepsy.
While the experiment was conducted on a film
external to the body, the team claims for humans,
the quantum dots would need to be delivered to
brain tissue. Lih Lin, the researcher who headed
up the team, said that “a significant advantage is
that [the quantum dots’] surface can be modified
with various molecules” and used to target specif-
ic brain cells. For now, scientists hope to learn to
use the techniques to repair damaged retina cells
in order to make advances in treating blindness.
DOI:10.1364/BOE.3.000447
Alexander Karapetian
Quantum dots to control your brain
Remote-controlled insulin production
Simulation of a black hole flare as the remains of the disrupted star stream into the black hole
Watch out... here come the quantum dots
CERN’s Large Hadron Collider (LHC) reported its
second particle discovery last month, a new bary-
on consisting of an up, strange and bottom quark.
The particle, an excited state of Xi_b whose lower
energy counterpart was found by the Tevatron col-
lider at Fermilab, was discovered by scientists
from the University of Zurich’s Physics Institute.
The Compact Muon Solenoid experiment, one of
the detectors at the LHC, observed the electrically
neutral particle from its decay products. A total of
21 Xi_b decays were found, which makes the dis-
covery statistically significant. The discovery will
allow scientists to better understand the strong
nuclear force.
The particle was found in a sample of about 530
trillion proton-proton collisions with the LHC oper-
ating at 7 TeV, and adds to a growing list of discov-
eries at CERN.
arXiv:1204.5955v1
Alexander Karapetian
LHC finds a new particle (again)
NASA / S. Gezari (JHU) / J. Guillochon (UCSC)
... but only in mice, so far

