SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 11 may 2012 13
GM debate: dialogue or déjà vu?
B. Franklin Pugh, Penn State University
In March this year the British Science
Association released a survey that indi-
cated, at least to some degree, that the
British public is slightly less concerned
about the prospect of embracing ge-
netically modified food. This comes in
stark contrast to the hostility exhibited
towards the technology a decade ago,
when it was rejected in an outright fash-
ion in the nationwide surveys dubbed
GM Nation. This essentially halted the
push for GM crops by Tony Blair’s gov-
ernment and put research in this area
on the backburner. But GM has now
found its way back onto the radar; more
flexible EU legislation regarding the
technology combined with the survey
results means that perhaps the public is
once again in the mood for a conver-
sation about the technology.
All the interest groups,
from anti-GM campaign-
ers to researchers have
been airing their ar-
guments and fram-
ing the debate in a
very public fashion
over the past few
weeks. When interest
groups frame a debate as part
of their strategy to appeal to the public,
they simplify the issues, lending more
weight to certain aspects over others.
So how is the GM debate being framed
by the two main two opposing groups?
Anti-GM campaigners
At the top of the GM-debate headlines
has been the mass action ‘Take The
Flour Back’. Anti-GM campaigners
behind this appeal are planning on up-
rooting a field of genetically modified
wheat at Rothamsted Research on 27
May. The group has summed up their
arguments in an open letter by appeal-
ing to ideas of ‘Frankenstein foods’ and
suggesting that scientists are opening
up a Pandora’s box by using GM; they
say that the GM wheat being trialled at
Rothamsted has artificial genes
‘most similar to a cow’ and
that the repercussions of
this are unknown and
could be potentially di-
sastrous. They are also
drawing on economics
by pointing out the con-
strained market for GM
wheat across the world and
saying that tax-payers will
receive very little benefit from the
research they are paying for.
Rothamsted Research
Scientists at Rothamsted Research re-
plied to the group of activists with an
open letter and an online video plea of
their own, trying to convince the anti-
GM protestors to not trash the field.
The tone of the researchers’ message
invited anti-GM campaigners to come
and have a conversation on the 27th of
May so that the two groups might find
a ‘middle way’. They also appealed
to the campaigners by suggesting that
their actions would undermine ‘social
progress’; trampling the fields would
destroy not only GM crops but other
research which is fundamental to envi-
A mass sensor has been developed by
a group of Spanish scientists, lead by
Julien Chaste from the Catalan Institute
of Nanotechnology, capable of weigh-
ing individual molecules, atoms, and
even protons.
Sensors of this type, known as nano-
mechanical mass sensors, have been
developed before. However, previous
developments only yielded a resolution
of about 7000yg (yottagrams) for a mi-
crofabricated sensor, and around 200yg
for a carbon nanotube based sensor. In
this development, which is an improved
version of the nanotube based sensor,
the researchers achieved a resolution of
1.7yg, which allows weighing of indi-
vidual protons.
These sensors work by oscillating
a resonator, either nanomechanical or
carbon nanotube, at its characteristic
frequency (the frequency at which reso-
nance occurs, this is usually just below
the natural frequency). A computer can
measure this frequency. When atoms
or molecules land on the resonator, the
characteristic frequency of the reso-
nator changes, and the computer can
measure this change. The change in fre-
quency can then be used to calculate the
change in mass of the nanotube, which
is the mass of the molecule or atom just
adsorbed onto it.
Changes by the Spanish team to
improve the sensitivity of the sensor
come in 3 parts. Firstly, to make the
changes in resonance frequency more
pronounced, the length of the carbon
nanotube was shortened, with the part
of the tube able to oscillate only being
150nm (this is the part of the tube over
a trench). This means there is a notice-
able change in frequency of the resona-
tor even if only a few atoms are present.
Additionally, by cooling the system
down to 4K, and measuring within a
vacuum, the error caused by other par-
ticles being present is reduced.
However, the final and most impor-
tant improvement was to run a small
current of approximately 8 microamps
through the tube. Before this change
was applied, the resonance frequency of
the resonator exhibited much variance.
The team suspect this is due to other
contaminants in the system.
The team have successfully weighed
both xenon atoms and naphthalene
(C10
H8
) to high degrees of accuracy. Fu-
ture uses for this research could be into
new mass spectrometers, more accu-
rately measuring the mass of incredibly
tiny particles. However, a more closely
linked application of this technol-
ogy could be to allow further research
into the nature of molecular diffusion
through nanotubes, as well as investi-
gations into the nature of magnetic par-
ticles within a nanotube.
DOI:10.1038/nnano.2012.42
Weighing a
single atom
Philip Kent
A well-known consequence of global
warming is rising sea levels, caused
by the melting of polar ice as the Earth
heats up. Now, scientists have found
evidence that sea level rise this century
will fall short of the expected worse case
scenario. A team at the University of
Washington have found glacial flow in
Greenland to differ from that of previ-
ous expectations. This latest research re-
sults in two main findings: that glaciers
are moving a lot slower and that this
movement is not likely to slow down.
Glaciers are responsible for the trans-
portation of ice and snow from land-
masses into the sea. This, along with
the direct melting of ice sheets when
temperatures increase, results in ris-
ing sea levels. The glacial flows from
Greenland and Antarctica alone con-
tribute the most to rising sea levels. A
staggering 250 billion tonnes of ice is
pushed into the sea each year, result-
ing in an annual 1.5mm increase in sea
levels on average. As glaciers flow, they
accumulate more matter and move fast-
er. A faster glacier will deposit more ice
into the sea, increasing the water levels.
Previous studies suggested that glacial
flow would increase by 100% by 2010
and eventually reach a constant speed.
However, the new research estimates
glacial flow is only increasing by 30%,
with nothing to suggest that the speed
would remain constant once this volume
of shifting ice had been reached. In the
largest glaciological study conducted so
far, satellite data from 2000-2010 were
collected from over 200 glaciers and
their movement patterns.
Previous extrapolations suggested sea
levels could rise by 46cm by 2100 as a
worst case scenario. In light of recent
research the movement of Greenland’s
glaciers places this increase much lower,
at barely above 9cm. This may sound
like good news, but even a 30% increase
in sea levels poses a threat to low-lying
countries such as Bangladesh.
Such contradictory findings from gla-
ciological studies suggest the dynamics
behind glaciers are extremely complex
and scientists do not fully understand
them yet. In addition, the 10-year time
period may be too short for any conclu-
sion about the end of this century to
be meaningful. In the meantime, more
studies will have to be carried out be-
fore anyone is any closer to knowing
just how consequential climate change
will be during our lifetimes.
DOI:10.1126/science.1219985
Glaciers go slow, but they might not stop
Jessie Durk
Juan Casasbuenas
Commonwealth glacier, Taylor Valley, Antarctica, January 1956
Ross Sea Info
Crop trial at Rothamsted Research. Left: Image from GM protest flyer
Caroline Stocks
ronmental work. Whilst there was an
element of trying to discuss some of the
actual science, the researchers tended to
steer clear of this approach, presumably
because it may not appeal to the hearts
and minds of protesters or the public
It seems that the disagreement be-
tween campaigners and scientists
continues to be as polarised as ever,
with each framing their arguments in
slightly different ways. Perhaps the
biggest change in the debate is that the
researchers at Rothamsted are embrac-
ing the challenge of dialogue. It puts
the campaigners in a difficult spot and
it will be interesting to see if they ac-
cept the researchers’ invitation.

