FELIX
Friday 11 may 2012
14
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
FELIX
T
hose of you who aren’t fol-
lowing the United States
presidential race may not
be familiar with Rick San-
torum. In order to save you
time and limit my own personal biases, I
will impartially copy and paste the Wik-
tionary definition for Santorum:
“Santorum (noun, uncountable) – A
frothy mixture of lubricant and fecal
matter that is an occasional byproduct of
anal sex. [from 21st c.]”
Okay maybe it’s not impartial, but it is
the Wiktionary definition for Santorum.
More specifically, Mr. Santorum was
the republican candidate who managed,
for the past few months, to continually
rain on Mitt Romney’s presidential pa-
rade. He won a number of primary elec-
tions and positioned himself as a serious
contender in the 2012 election. Santo-
rum has recently dropped out of the race,
but his prolonged viability as a presiden-
tial candidate is too curious to ignore.
Here is a quick fly by of his views.
During a speech on the election trail
regarding higher education Santorum
addressed the crowd: “President Obama
said he wants everybody in America
to go to college… What a snob.” God
forbid, in an increasingly competitive
global world, that Barack Obama would
like the young adults of America to avail
themselves of the university system.
Santorum is against abortion in all
cases, including rape. His argument?
“The right approach,” he said, “is to ac-
cept this horribly created, in the sense
of rape, but nevertheless, a gift” [sic].
Despite this defense for the sanctity of
life, he is still in favour of capital pun-
ishment.
Most controversial are Santorum’s
views on homosexuality. He opposes
openly gay men and women serving in
the military based on what he claims is
in the best interest of national security.
Surely if homosexuals were allowed to
serve openly, American military might
would soon be reduced to Elton John
and pillow fights. He justifies his plat-
form semantically, claiming that mili-
tary service is not a right, but a privilege
– a privilege, of course, to which only us
heteros are entitled.
When asked to justify his opposition
to gay marriage, Santorum’s rationale
was that no reasonable line could be
drawn to limit the inevitable influx of
atypical marriages. “You can imagine
all the different types of marriage that
would happen,” he said at a town hall
meeting. Extending my imagination to
its limits, I can only come up with a few
far-fetched ideas. Santorum on the other
hand is much more creative about the
“likely” consequences of relaxed con-
straints on traditional marriage.
Toward the end of his candidacy San-
torum found himself clarifying a state-
ment he made during an interview in
April 2003 during which he stated: “In
every society, the definition of marriage
has not ever to my knowledge included
homosexuality. That’s not to pick on ho-
mosexuality. It’s not, you know, man on
child, man on dog, or whatever the case
may be. It is one thing.”
Political commentators have since cit-
ed this sound bite as evidence that San-
torum equates homosexuality with besti-
ality and paedophilia – an allegation that
he forcefully denies, emphasizing that
he specifically excluded homosexuality
from those other things.
No, he didn’t explicitly equate them.
But why was he talking about them
together in the first place? Cognitive
psychology conceives of the mind as a
web of nodes and links. Nodes represent
objects or concepts and links represent
the strength of the association between
different nodes. When a given node is
activated electronic impulses are trig-
gered that activate other nodes thereby
leading us to recall certain concepts that
are, in our minds, associated. For in-
stance, when I say renaissance painter
you may think of Leonardo da Vinci.
When I say footballer you may think
of David Beckman. When I say Rick
Santorum you may think of an unsavory
frothy mixture.
By distinguishing homosexuality from
bestiality and pedophilia Santorum man-
ages to give us a sneak peak into how his
mind actually works. Boiled down and
bereft of the subtle nuances of language
Santorum’s queer ideas
that he uses for his defense, Santorum’s
moral persuasion is clear. To him homo-
sexuality, bestiality and pedophilia are
ultimately – to invoke the misused lingo
of right-wing fundamentalists – abomi-
nations.
Santorum is a Catholic fundamental-
ist, and his bigoted ideas are based on
the teachings of the bible. Today many
of the faithful take a more flexible in-
terpretation of the holy book, viewing it
as malleable and understanding that its
message is partly obscured by transla-
tion and the passage of more than 2,000
years. Sure you can find quaint wisdom
in the bible, but is it a singularly reliable
source for answers to significant moral
questions? Is the book that prescribes
death for not observing the Sabbath a
tenable moral compass for the 21st cen-
tury? Why are we seeking answers from
people who didn’t have toilet paper?
Vestiges from the past manage to lin-
ger. The arguments against The Civil
Rights Act of 1964 weren’t dissimilar to
those being levied against the gay-rights
movement today. In an interview with
Chris Wallace, Mr. Santorum was asked
if the following quote dove-tailed with
his rationale behind why homosexuals
should be excluded from military ser-
vice: “The army is not a sociological
laboratory. Experimenting with army
policy… would pose a danger to effi-
ciency, discipline and morale and result
in ultimate defeat.” When Santorum
agreed that this quote sounded about
right, Chris Wallace revealed its narra-
tor, Colonel Eugene Householder, who
was arguing against racial integration in
the military.
In 2012, what are we doing debating
these things? Will our children not look
back and find these debates as senseless
and as bigoted as we now perceive those
regarding racial integration to have
been? What’s does Santorum’s viability
as a presidential candidate say about our
society?
Everyone is
revising so
don’t shout
it out in the
library. Your
other tab is
Facebook so
you may as
well just head
on over to:
felixonline.
co.uk to get
your voice
heard.
Joseph Kaupp
This week saw the Postgraduate Gradua-
tion Ceremony take place in the Royal Al-
bert Hall. Felix congratulates all of those
who received their doctorates and wishes
you well for the future of your careers,
whether in academia or otherwise.
The graduation nevertheless follows the
news reported last week that Imperial is
now placed joint 71st with Canterbury
Christ Church University on the Times
Higher Education Student Experience Sur-
vey. This survey follows many others by
different supplements and publications
which inevitably place Imperial College
in varying positions on varying topics for
a bevy of different reasons. Regardless,
this latest position warranted a discus-
sion of the merits of the system and a
look at just what is considered the prob-
lem when it comes to student experience
at Imperial.
In the hope of seeing how deep the is-
sue sits with students, this week we put
out a brief message on the Felix Facebook
page, asking whether you would consider
recommending Imperial to a friend. Of
the small handful of respondents, the re-
sponse was generally muted, though one
response called into question the couple
of outright ‘No’ responses as what was
seen to be a culture of complaint over the
same recurring issues and stereotypes.
Whether the problem is as simple as this
is another question, however.
While the survey overall had over
13,000 respondents across universities
in the United Kingdom, Imperial made up
156 of those students who took the time
to respond. This is undeniably a small
sample of students to draw definitive con-
clusions about the student experience
at Imperial. If we really want to judge the
issue, it is far more worthwhile to take
into account other documentation and in-
formation such as that generated by the
National Student Survey, and the Union’s
response to this.
Perhaps it is time to stop placing as
much weight as we already do behind
league tables. As much a fan as I am of
the constant seesaw effect that league
tables has on a university (with much
praise from all sides when we’re up, and
deep seated contemplation when we’re
down), it would be a novel approach to
back away from worrying about national
comparisons and taking a little time to
engage and progress internally and focus
on the immediate and long term effects.
After all, the over-saturation of constant
inspection and analysis of universities
across the United Kingdom won’t cater to
Imperial’s own specific needs.
League table woes
not a problem
Just be glad we didn’t put a picture of the Wiktionary definition up...

