ings: simple, crisp lines to outline heavy
limbed models and cross hatching (a tangle
of lines) to create a more three dimensional,
curvy and chaotic image. The two techniques
are often mixed to create a meld of neo-clas-
sical, composed pictures with some more
decomposed, emotionally strong prints such
as the ones depicting rape in “The Battle of
Love” section. The rationalism of classicism
is strongly intertwined with the irrationality
of surrealism, with each print being part of a
captivating and mysterious story.
I left the Vollard Suite feeling I had expe-
rienced something special: not only were the
prints magnificent and displayed and curated
in a very clear and informative way but I had
also seen 100 prints which, before the exhibi-
tion, had only been viewed by a select few.
Picasso Prints: The Vollard Suite at The
British Museum continues until 2 Sep-
tember. Entry is free.
FELIX
Friday 11 MAY 2012
18
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
Silvia Davey
profile inspired him and Picasso asked the
young woman whether he could do a portrait
of her. The two then became lovers: she is
the female model that is often depicted in the
Vollard Suite as a modern day Aphrodite. An
interesting and bemusing detail is that when-
ever her figure is present in an etching, a little
vase of flowers is also found somewhere in
the picture. Picasso, instead, recasts himself
as sculptor from the classical period, bearded
and mature, who is often depicted in the act
of sculpting, watched by Marie Therese. The
Minotaur, which first appears in etchings from
1933, symbolizes forces of uncontrolled emo-
tion and behavior. Picasso does not depict the
Minotaur in the labyrinth (its usual mythologi-
cal surrounding) but transports it into the mod-
ern world in an artist’s studio amongst female
models and in a bullfighting arena, the latter
evoking a powerful atavistic topos of popular
culture in Picasso’s native land.
Picasso uses various techniques in the etch-
Smack My Etch Up
Competition time, again
The lovely folks at Festival of the Spoken Nerd have
given us a pair of tickets to their upcoming sell-out
show π-curious at The Bloomsbury Theatre on 21
May. Blue Peter’s resdient science expert Steve
Mould, stand-up mathematician Matt Parker and
geek songstress Helen Arney (a product of Impe-
rial’s very own Physics department) lead the au-
dience through an evening of scientific adventure
and comedy, described by the Edinburgh fringe
bible, Three Weeks, as ‘riotously funny’.
To be in with a chance of winning, we’re asking
you to send us in a π-ku (think a haiku but with a
mathematical slant) to the email at the top of the
page, and you and a friend could be spending an
evening breaking the exam monotony in a way that
practically counts as revision. Here’s a few of the
entries we’ve had so far, to get your creative juices
flowing:
Tax on my pasty.
David Cameron is a git.
Pie remains constant.
Sex life is constant.
Study at Imperial:
Differentiate.
A Mobius strip
Is not orientable.
Idea for boob tube.
Real analysis
Is a really hard subject.
I’m doomed for exams.
One, two, three, four, five.
Six, seven, eight, nine, ten, err.
Seven screws it up.
Log base e zero,
Much like Greek economy.
Where is it tending?
Homeomorphism?
Mum said I should have done French.
Wish I had listened.
Dave’s sculpting method was unorthodox to say the least
Even on a rainy, bleak and depressing morn-
ing the British Museum managed to lift my
spirits up. The Great Court was dazzling in
all its whiteness, filled with noisy and enthu-
siastic tourists and school groups. Making my
way through the crowds I ventured into a part
of the Museum that I had never experienced
before: a couple of hidden rooms filled with
etchings.
One of these rooms is the brand new keeper
of Picasso’s most renowned series of etchings
known as The Vollard Suite, which includes
100 beautiful prints produced by the Spanish
artist between 1930 and 1937. These etchings
were created by Picasso for the famous Pari-
sian art dealer and prints publisher, Ambroise
Vollard, who had promised a couple of paint-
ing in exchange for the etchings. Vollard had
been planning to publish a book of the prints
until his death caused by a car accident in-
terrupted the project. The etchings were for-
gotten about during WW2 until dealer Henri
Petiet purchased them: the Petiet family has
owned them ever since. It is only through the
immense generosity of Hemish Parker that the
British Museum has managed to display the
complete set of prints, which has never before
been shown to the general public.
The prints are displayed chronologically
and have been divided by the curator into little
groups that share a predominant theme. The
separation though should not be considered
as absolute: many themes overlap, disappear
and return throughout the series, creating a
confused and dreamlike narrative. It is clear
though that the style and the stories that char-
acterize most of the etchings are of classical
origin: Picasso admired classicism and did not
feel that it was a retreat to antiquity, as he be-
lieved that “if a work of art cannot live always
in the present it must not be considered at all.”
Picasso uses characters from ancient mythol-
ogy as the main subjects of his paintings: he
first came into contact with ancient classical
art in his trip to Italy in 1917. This classical
predominance makes the British Museum the
perfect place for the Vollard Suite to be shown:
sculptures and vases from the ancient Greek
and Roman periods are scattered throughout
the room, enabling the viewer to understand
fully Picasso’s reinterpretation.
Three main characters star throughout the
100 etchings: Marie-Therese Walter, the Mi-
notaur and Picasso himself. Marie Therese
was a young woman that Picasso met in front
of a department store in 1927; her classical
“An eclectic mix of mod-
ern art, antique relics
and personal accounts.”
The British Museum displays its rare collection of Picas-
so prints, never before seen in Britain

