Lolcat of teh week
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Editor-in-Prowling Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Aemun Reza Maciej Matuszewski Jonathan Peek
Features Editors Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editor Indy Leclercq Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Business & Finance Editors
Will Prince Deepka Rana Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal
Music Editors Mark England Ross Gray Simon Hunter Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex Ramadan Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors George Barnett James Simpson Film
Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson
Online Editors Chris Birkett Philip Kent Jonathan Kim Puzzles Admiral James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah Iulia Gherman Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor
Christopher Witham Special Thanks Charlotte Ivison
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for services bought or sold, capiche? Good.
What’s on 2012 ICT Survey
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 11 may 2012
2
CLASSIFIEDS
Understanding neural
circuits
Lecture Theatre G16, SAF
South Kensington Campus
14 May 17:30-18:30
Plastic electronics: the
coming revolution
Professor Donal Bradley, Pro
Rector (Research), speaks in
the Friends of Imperial College
lecture series. The nano-scale
printing and coating of materials
on a wide range of plastics has
the potential to impact on mul-
tiple applications in energy, en-
vironment, consumer electronics
and healthcare. Tickets cost £3
for students and staff. Contact
admin@friendsofimperial.org.uk
for tickets.
Lecture Theatre G16, SAF
South Kensington Campus
15 May 19:00-20:00
Lunchtime Concert
Gordon Fergus-Thompson performs. Open to all.
First come first served.Contact mary.bowe@impe-
rial.ac.uk for further information.
LT1, Wolfson
Hammersmith Campus
15 May 13:00-13:45
MIT Professor of Biological Engineering and Brain
and Cognitive Science Ed Boyden delivers this
2012 Bagrit Lecture on the use of optics and oth-
er tools for the analysis of neural circuits. Open
to all, contact a.glyes@imperial.ac.uk to register.
Looking for convenient summer accoms? Room
with double bed and great view, £140/wk, includ-
ing utilities, available from 1 July to 15 Sept. 5 min
from Gloucester Road tube station. If interested
pls contact Hui at hqt08@ic.ac.uk.
Unicycle!
Relax and unwind
from revision with
this 16” wheel uni-
cycle for £30 ono.
Slight surface rust.
Contact Reuben on
rlg107@imperial.
ac.uk.
Family with two young children living in Queens
Gate Terrace are looking for a mother’s help for a
few hours in the morning and afternoon, to start
a.s.a.p. Can be planned around study commit-
ments. If interested, please call 0796 6171802
Win one of five Amazon vouchers
worth £100!
Heads up Imperial, you’ve got the chance
to win an Amazon voucher worth £100! All
you have to do is go ahead and fill out a
survey about your thoughts and experiences
on College ICT.
It only takes 10 minutes, and five students
will be selected at random from all
respondents to win a voucher.
All this and you have the chance to shape
the future of College ICT. Need something
that the College hasn’t got in place at the
moment? You could be one suggestion
away from seeing it come to life before your
eyes.
The closing date is 18 May, so make sure
to get your views across.
Head over to bit.ly/ictsurvey2012 to get
started.
Editor
That’s right, quit your brogramming for one second

