5/4 Respect: A Tribute
to Math Rock
MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 11 MaY 2012
20
music.felix@gmail.com
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Ross Gray Mark England
Alex Ramadan
Simon Hunter
I
interviewed Jack Steadman from Bom-
bay Bicycle Club before they played the
biggest ever UK headline show of thier
career at London’s Alexandra Palace.
With the North London band returning
home to celebrate their extra-ordinary third
album, A Different Kind of Fix, it was to prove
a memorable night.
Mark: How are you looking forward to the
Alexandra Palace show?
Jack: I am trying to not think about it to be
honest. It is not looming over us at all but it is
just better not to really. I am sure once it comes
to it I will be very excited by it.
M: What festivals have you got planned?
J: I am looking forward to Benicassim in
Spain, it is always nice to get some sunshine.
They have just changed our set-time to half
one in the morning which will be fun. The
crowd should be truly warmed up by that stage,
I would hope. The festival I am most excited
about is Hultsfred because I have never been to
Sweden before.
M: I have heard rumours of an upcoming
EP...
J: I wasn’t aware that we were making an EP…
That’s the first I’ve heard of it. Maybe they
are making it without me. We are kind of busy
touring right now. We are going to America in
the summer. Maybe we will write an actual al-
bum then.
M:Any chance you will do anything acoustic
again, like Flaws?
J: Yeah. It would be nice but probably not the
whole album; probably just the b-sides to it.
Maybe an EP, that’s a good idea. We will have
to give you credit for coming up with that idea.
M: Do you think that being quite young acts
against you?
J: I haven’t noticed it. Let me think. When we
started out, there was always that compliment
of ‘oh they are so good for their age’which gets
a bit tiresome after a while. But nowadays we
are not that young. I don’t feel young. I feel
incredibly old. I am 22.
M: That is still quite young.
J: Not in my mind.
M: Are you still living the rock and roll life-
style?
J: I think everyone else is. I am certainly not.
The others seem to be partying a lot more.
There has been some disgraceful evenings but I
have only heard of them.
M: Is it hard when making a set-list to com-
bine all the distinct albums?
J: It is very difficult. It is hard to play all of the
loud stuff and then go into the acoustic album.
I think for people that come to our shows, that
don’t really know us before they are very con-
fused because we play all of this weird differ-
ent shit. But for the people that know us, they
know what to expect.
M: Do you ever lie during interviews?
J: Sometimes but you always have to realise
that it is so tempting to be an areshole but you
Bombay fever hits London
have to be really grateful for all this. I guess it
is easy to do it because it gets repetitive some-
times, but you should always treat people with
respect.
M: You came straight out of school. Are you
glad you missed out on university?
J: I am so glad I didn’t go. I had a place at
Manchester. My girlfriend is there, she is just
finishing having done a three year course. I
spend a lot of time there and I am not sure if I
would have enjoyed it. The whole idea of mak-
ing friends all over again sounds quite stressful,
really. I was going to do French which I’d still
like to learn, but not at university. It sounds like
quite an intense place to be. Lots of ups and
downs; pressure and loneliness. I am not one
of those social people who parties all the time.
For them it sounds wonderful, but I am too shy.
M: Is it true that you guys got banned from a
few hotels for being naked in the reception?
J: Yeah, that’s embarrassingly true. I feel like
we have it all out of our systems at an early age
and now we have mellowed out a lot. You have
to get all that shit over and done with while you
are still young. Now I am happy to never do
any of that ever again.
M: And you are only 22…
J: My life has all been squeezed into the space
of thirty years so in a few years I will be an
old man. I will be properly elderly. Dementia,
Alzheimer’s. And then that will be it!
And on that sombre note I left to let the band
prepare for a historic night in the capital.
Mark England catches up with Bombay Bicycle Club
Shellac are another great Math Rock band. You
may know them for including prolific producer
Steve Albini, or you may know them for the sound,
which is pretty much abrasion itself. From the
distorted, almost noisy guitars, to the vocals, ag-
gressively shouted, often about violence and fight-
ing and more often than not bitter, sarcastic and
unpleasant. They formed in 1992, after Albini’s
involvement in Big Black and Rapeman, who are
both somewhat important to math. It is with no
disrespect to these bands, however, that I say that
Shellac is the culmination of Albini’s work.
The band started out as a collaboration be-
tween Albini, on guitar and vocals and drummer
Todd Trainer. They were later joined by bassist Bob
Weston, who also does some vocals and, like Al-
bini, is a recording engineer. This is perhaps what
led the band to make some very specific deci-
sions about their recording set up. They opt for a
more analogue sound seldom, if ever, using over-
dubs. Albini’s signature crunch is in large part due
to his use of a rare aluminium body guitar with a
copper plectrum, as well as a “Harmonic Percola-
tor” distortion pedal.
In summary, heavily distorted guitar, surreal,
brutal but always intelligent lyrics, complex time
signatures and rhythms and structural unconven-
tionality. That is Shellac’s sound and they do it
well. They have released four albums to date; 94’s
At Action Park, ‘98’s Terraform, 2000’s 1000 Hurts,
2007’s Excellent Italian Greyhound. Throughout
their long career their sound has changed remark-
ably little, merely honing their existing sound.
Their sound and their output, four albums in
twenty years, show a lot about the band. This is
the uncompromising nature of the band’s ethos.
They care little for the corporate realities of the
music business today, refusing to temper their
sound to a larger audience or to be forced to ad-
here to any kind of label deadline. This lack of de-
sire for material success is reflected in the band’s
continuing to have other jobs, leaving Shellac’s
sound uncompromised. Furthermore, they refuse
to sell tickets to their gigs through any company
that adds additional charges. The band’s strong
ethics are further demonstrated by an anecdote
about their curating an ATP
. Knowing most fans
would be there to see them, they insisted on play-
ing first thing in the morning to force festival go-
ers to see the other bands.
It is not hard to see why those who like Shellac
love them; refusal to sell out, respect (where due)
for other bands and for their fans. Oh, and for their
brand of best noise rock/punk tinged math rock, a
distinctive sound they refuse to compromise but
only hone and improve with each release.
Riaz Agahi
Pt. II - Shellac
Everyone in this photo looks very happy and relaxed, apart from Mr Serious on the left . Cheer up son
Returning heroes triumphant at theAlly Pally
This was my first time at the epic venue which
is Alexandra Palace and I was not disappoint-
ed. With support from Rae Morris and Lianne
la Havves, the evening had a solid start but it
was the first few songs of Bombay Bicycle
Club’s set that really kicked the show into gear.
The set was largely composed of songs from
the most recent album and the bands’ debut,
with classics such as ‘Open House’ and ‘Dust
on the Ground’ mixing well with more recent
hits like ‘How Can You Swallow So Much
Sleep?’. Only two songs were played from
their acoustic folk tinged second album Flaws,
which I thought was a shame but they ended up
being the highlight of the night for me.
I found that the moments where beautiful
songstress Lucy Rose provided backing vo-
cals, especially on ‘Still’ which was perfomed
stripped down with only a piano for accompa-
niment. It was a fragile, heart-breaking mo-
ment which was shared by, what seemed to be,
the whole of London packed inside the Palace,
hushed in reverence.
The song which the whole audience was
waiting for, ‘Shuffle’, was played triumphant-
ly during the brief encore. Everyone seized on
this song to sway, jump and bounce around to
the baggy drums and funky bass riff in a mo-
ment of sheer joy.
This show only validated my opinion that
Bombay Bicycle Club are ready for bigger
stages, even if they themselves told me that
they are very unambitious. I heard rumours cir-
culating that they could headline Reading and
Leeds next year, and at first I could not picture
it, but after that accomplished performance,
such feats seem inevitable to me.
Mark England

