MUSIC
FELIX Friday 11 MAY 2012 21
I am an Anti-Christ, I am an Anarchist
Plabon Saha tells of his encounter with Johnny Rotten
Reviewed in 60
seconds
F
or anyone who knows about the
history of punk music, they will in-
stantly recognise the title as part of
one of the most famous songs that
went on to define the genre. In the
70’s the Sex Pistols, fronted by Johnny Rotten
a.k.a John Lydon, started a revolution in the mu-
sic scene with just one album. To this day music
critics recognise that album as one of the most
original pieces of work in the industry. I would
not bore you with my praise for that album as
I’m sure you hear enough of it from your parents
(Not sure what you imagine normal parents to
be like, but you must have some seriously cool
ones – Music Ed). This is about one of the best
nights I’ve had at Imperial, when I found Mr
Rotten in Eastside bar having a pint with his
friends on St. Patrick’s Day.
A few friends and I went to Eastside after the
rugby game to celebrate what was to be just
another night out for us at Imperial. The night
quickly went from normal to extra-ordinary
when my friend spotted Mr Lydon in the bar. At
first we were sceptical about whether it was re-
ally him, as it would be odd to find a man of his
reputation to simply be having a pint there. Af-
ter looking up current pictures of Johnny on our
smartphones, scepticism quickly turned to fan-
induced euphoria as my friend called her dad
to inform him who was at the bar. Being ner-
vous as any fans would be, we went up to him
to shake his hand which to us was a privilege.
Johnny was relaxed and quick to make jokes.
We laughed and, unable to make conversation,
quickly went back to our group to revel in what
just happened. The night took a better turn when
more friends of mine came to the bar and they
wanted to go say hi to Johnny. Wanting to speak
to him properly this time, I took a quick gulp
of my drink and started walking towards them,
which turned out to be one of the best decisions
I will ever make.
With the initial awkwardness gone, I quickly
divulged into a conversation with Johnny’s man-
ager Rambo, with whom he has been friends for
over forty years. Our conversation ranged from
topic to topic. It started off with the importance
of pure mathematics and went on to football
hooliganism back in the day, architecture, cul-
ture and of course music.As I listened to him tell
stories about Arsenal football club and the pric-
ing out of fans, I was amazed at how real these
people were and how we shared a few opinions,
such as the ugliness of modern architecture and
the need for an integrated English culture. These
people might be more than double my age yet it
surprised me how well I got on with them. They
had stories to tell, interesting ones, and Rambo
and Scotty, who maintains Johnny’s band Pub-
lic Image Limited’s website was interested in
my story too as we chatted about bits and bobs
of my life. They might be famous but they did
not come across as people drunk on fame. They
were normal, using that term loosely, of course.
Johnny was the eccentric one of the lot, but not
as crazy as one might think. After a few other
friends of mine had joined us, one of the loud
moments of the night that I recall was when
he shouted “THIS IS ENGLAND, MY ENG-
LAND” as he pointed out the multicultural
group that surrounded him. As soon as it was
established that we were all students, I remem-
ber Johnny telling us that we are the future and
we need to sort this country out and not mess
things up like previous governments. This was
a man who cared, a man who was passionate.
And I definitely shared his sentiments regarding
politics and the monarchy.
One of the other things to remember from
the night was about this Brazilian woman. The
background info on this story is that there was a
woman outside the bar who works for one of the
many museums around South Kensington. Ap-
parently, they are doing an exhibition on punk
culture, which really rustled Johnny’s jimmies.
The man who defined the genre was not consult-
ed about this exhibition at all. Johnny asked her
what she understood about punk and what the
genre, the culture actually meant. From what I
recall, her answer was something along the lines
of “punk is all about expressing views that are
not so easily accepted by society”. “You have
no idea what you are talking about,” replied
Johnny, not amused at all. Personally, I would
think twice about telling John Lydon out of all
people about what punk means. As she pro-
tested her innocence, her ignorance was quickly
unravelled as Johnny asked her how she knew
what she thought she knows about punk. No
straight answer. I remember my friend saying
something along the lines of “you can’t tell the
founder of punk what punk means” which sent
her on her way and also got a few laughs from
the others. She came back with a vengeance
later on in the night and told me my hair is not
punk, simply wavy. Johnny and co leapt to my
defence and told her “THIS IS PUNK, HIS
HAIR IS PUNK.” As someone who gets teased
about their haircut by their friends quite a bit,
needless to say that was one of the best things
that one of the icons of British punk could have
ever said to me. And you know what the funny
thing is? That woman came back half an hour
later asking Rambo for a cigarette and started
claiming my hair as punk. Such hypocrisy, such
ignorance, it was no surprise the guys weren’t
a big fan.
As the night wore on and closing time beck-
oned, that same woman came to say her good-
byes along with her friends, this time trying to
appeal to Mr Lydon to the best of her ability by
showering him with praise. The need for celeb-
rity approval baffles me. Even if she was a fan of
Johnny’s work it was clear that she didn’t think
very highly of the guys there. So it was quite
surprising that she continued to try and gain
their approval. Oh well, laughs were had and
that was that. As Eastside closed, we decided
to move to the Union. It was a bit of a pain to
get into Metric but some quick thinking on our
feet meant that even the guard couldn’t stop us.
Johnny got his groove on and, for once, Metric
was enjoyable despite the inevitable sausage-
fest. We left the Union on a high, thinking about
how awesome the night was as we parted ways.
I was also invited to PiL’s gig at Heaven in
April and I just wanted to take a paragraph to
write a quick review. The crowd at the gig was
much older than I was but even then I definitely
had a good night. I started checking out PiL’s
work after meeting Lydon and although he looks
less of a punk rocker these days with his spec-
tacles (And the butter adverts- Music Ed.); you
can still see the youthful angst in him. PiLseems
to me a band that has experimented quite a bit
with their sound and will continue to experi-
ment with it in their upcoming album, This is
PiL. The two songs I was most fond of at the gig
were ‘Disappointed’ and ‘Religion’, especially
the latter one as it was stretched to 10 minutes
with bass filling the room until your ears started
bleeding. There were no supporting acts with
PiL playing a two hour set followed by a half-
hour long encore. Some old fans may not like
the direction to which PiL have headed but as
a teenager who has recently discovered their
music, I remain keen and interested to see what
more they have to offer. With Rotten working
his socks off, I can only hope that PiL will ap-
peal to the old and the new simultaneously. My
best wishes for Johnny and co.
Acid-fuelled madness far more in the psychedelic
style than the harsh industrial abrasion of previous
outings such as Broken Ear Record, with Mr Im-
possible, Black Dice successfully continue their in-
credible progression from their humble beginnings
as an insane hardcore outfit and go pop. Synths
that don’t induce headaches and catchy basslines
squelch under Copeland’s distorted-beyond-belief
vocals and drum patterns that vary from jazz to
hip-hop. At some points, they even *gasp* use a
four to the floor. Black Dice have always focused
on honing one sound throughout a track, creating
sonic pieces as opposed to songs, and continue
to do so here, but there is an element of tradi-
tional structure to these tracks. The press release
describes Mr Impossible as the sound of “a sub-
stance-fuelled basement party on Mars”, and re-
ally, I’m never going to sum it up better than that.
Ross Gray
★★★★✩
Black Dice -
Mr Impossible
2012
Possibly the most frightening release of 2012, none
of Factory Floor’s new psychedelic live sound is por-
trayed on this live collaboration between two Throb-
bing Gristle members (Cosey Fanni Tutti & and Chris
Carter) and FF’s Nik Void. Void’s growling, menacing
guitar is combined with Tutti & Carter’s squealing
synths in the school of Throbbing Gristle onto an
incredibly deep, bare, ominous bass thud that runs
throughout the entire monstrously industrial perfor-
mance. Tension is built perfectly, with each of the
ten-minute plus tracks slowly building from the ab-
solute barebones into soul crushingly ominous atmo-
spheres. Probably not one for the sunny weather, I
would advise waiting until a particularly suicidal mo-
ment before checking out this pretty great live record.
Ross Gray
★★★★✩
Carter Tutti Void -
Transverse
2012
Boston Arms
Thursday 17th May
Be sure not to miss...
Zulu Winter
I cannot decide whether Zulu Winter
are some sort of hipster wet dream
or an epic stadium band in waiting.
A show at the Boston Arms seems
to point to the former but then a sup-
port slot for Keane’s upboming dates
suggests otherwise. Check them out
to make your mind up on their shim-
mering and soaring pop. Also have
a look at the lead singer’s jaw: you
could cut glass with it.
Mark England
Bloc Competition
Remember: To be in with a chance of winning two
tickets for this years Bloc. weekender, send in
your answer to “Which Imperial alumnus is playing
Bloc?” to music.felix@gmail.com by 16/05/12 at
4pm. More details can be found on the Felix Mu-
sic Facebook page.
“[the punk culture ex-
hibition] really rustled
Johnny’s jimmies”
The world works in mysterious ways
indeed

