2. Jaws
Another Spielberg entry (don’t get tired of him just yet, he still has plenty
more on this list), he is the man to blame if you have a phobia of sharks
or oceans in general. Before the days of fancy computer graphics, Spiel-
berg’s vision of a series of shark attacks on men terrified so many of us
that coupled with John Williams’ unforgettable score, Jaws has become
an essential viewing despite its uninspired sequels.
3. The Sting
Coupling two of the hottest (both in terms of looks and talent) actors
working back in the day, Paul Newman and Robert Redford formed one
heck of a hustling team conning a ruthless criminal banker. Winner of
seven Academy Awards including Best Picture, The Sting is possibly the
most likable film of all time, which would explain the sensational box-
office receipts this raked in.
4. Jurassic Park
Yes, this is another Spielberg achievement. Whenever you see a glass
of vibrating water, do you immediately jump to the likelihood that dino-
saurs may be on the loose? Thank Mr Spielberg once again for instilling
such fear in you. One of the greatest blockbusters of all time, you owe
it to yourself to sit through the thrill ride of your life, as troublesome
creatures lurk around every corner.
5. Airport
A mass ensemble disaster piece, the cast is quite astonishing, consist-
ing the likes of (deep breath) Burt Lancaster, Dean Martin, Jean Seberg,
Jacqueline Bisset, George Kennedy, Helen Hayes, Van Heflin, Maureen
Stapleton, among others. Airport has the reputation of being the first to
invent the disaster film genre, but looking back today, the film is over-
long, full of ageing stars and lacks genuine thrills.
1. E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial
It hardly comes as a surprise that the much-beloved alien offering from
the Steven Spielberg takes the top spot as biggest money-maker. The
technological accomplishments amaze even to this day, but what E.T.
does successfully in its story-telling is to have a heart. “Phone home”
has become an iconic line, and this has garnered interest as being ac-
tress Drew Barrymore’s acting debut, who was barely 7.
6. American Graffiti
Forget American Pie, George Lucas’ 1973 Best Picture nominated teen-
age dramedy is one of the most influential, significant coming-of-age
films of all time. It kick-started the acting careers of Harrison Ford,
Ron Howard and Richard Dreyfuss, and this bittersweet, rather touching
reflection of impending high-school graduates is a highly memorable
piece. A timeless portrayal on what it means to grow up.
7. National Lampoon’s Animal House
This remains to be one of the most profitable films of all time, given
its modest budget and huge returns. Despite its mixed reviews upon
release, director John Landis’ hilarious tale, in which a group of mis-
behaving fraternity brothers plan a revolution against the dean of their
college who threaten to evict them, has since become a fan-favourite,
firmly holding its position as one of the best comedies of all time.
8. Back to the Future
No doubt the exceptional Michael J. Fox’s most well-known and cele-
brated roles, this is an example of that rare hybrid of action, adventure
and sci-fi which both harsh film critics and the public absolutely adore.
The energy with which its brilliantly constructed narrative takes place
is exhilarating, and the script doesn’t forget to include some killer hu-
mour in the midst of all the insane spirit.
9. Smokey and the Bandit
One of Burt Reynolds’ most iconic roles, his Bo “Bandit” Darville is the
full embodiment of the 70s hipster American lad, laying back with his
no-nonsense demeanour, thick moustache and riding fancy cars. The
financial success brought about two sequels and even a spin-off televi-
sion series. Although originally planned as a B-movie, this went on to
become the fourth highest grossing film of the year.
10. The Lost World: Jurassic Park
Thought you were done with Spielberg? Not quite. The tenth highest
honour on this list goes to the sequel (shock horror!) following Spiel-
berg’s epic dinosaur disaster piece. Although everyone agrees this
doesn’t capture the magic and creative genius Spielberg managed with
his original, the hype surrounding the sequel was clearly strong enough
to propel this to its number 10 spot.
FELIX
Friday 11 MAY 2012
22
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Celebrating 100 year
You might have noticed slight changes made in the usual logos of Universal and Paramount Studios. No lon
year anniversaries. 2012 marks the milestone executives are so gladly celebrating and in congratulating th

