FILM
FELIX Friday 11 MAY 2012 23
rs of film production
nger the usual globe nor the mountain covered in snow, both companies are proudly showing off their 100-
hem, Felix Film looks back at the studios’ biggest financial hits. Here’s to 100 more glorious years!
1. Titanic
Thanks to the most recent 3D conversion re-release of James Cam-
eron’s juggernaut, Titanic has sailed past the 2 billion-dollar mark in-
ternationally. It held the record for highest grossing film of all time until
Cameron beat his own record with Avatar. 15 years on, the romance
between Jack and Rose shows no sign of cooling down, as audiences
worldwide still flock to the cinema to watch the doomed lovers sink.
2. The Ten Commandments
Cecile B. DeMille’s almost four-hour long biblical epic requires a heck
of a lot of patience, tasty snacks and intermittent loo breaks to sit
through. It might even be faster to scan through the Book of Exodus
(on which this is based) instead. But this mother of all epics puts even
Cleopatra to shame; DeMille spends as much time on focusing on the
lavish scale of his production as he does on his leads.
3. Raiders of the Lost Ark
Steven Spielberg wasn’t only making colossal financial hits with Uni-
versal – his Indiana Jones films were backed by Paramount who made
an absolute fortune out of the series. Harrison Ford was a hit with
both the ladies (with his looks) and gentlemen (this time, more with his
heroic status), with the ever-so brilliant Spielberg further cementing his
status as one of the big players in Hollywood.
4. The Godfather
It certainly would have been odd if “The Greatest Film Ever Made”
didn’t make the list of the highest grossing films of all time. Considered
by many critics and fans to be the quintessential movie that is the rep-
resentation of perfect filmmaking in every sense, you have to see it to
believe just how good this is. The sequels are just as good, but nothing
tops the original... oh, and that infamous horse’s head.
5. Forrest Gump
Pulp Fiction fans, look away. The very film that stole the Best Picture
Oscar in 1995 from Quentin Tarantino’s beloved crime thriller takes the
number five slot on Paramount’s biggest money-makers. Tom Hanks,
one of the most likable faces around Hollywood, plays a character ev-
eryone loves to treasure, living out a narrative that is as sugar-coated
and sweet as a box of chocolates.
6. Grease
‘We Go Together,’ ‘Summer Nights,’ ‘You’re the One That I Want,’ are
only a select few of what the musical phenomenon Grease brought
along with it. John Travolta is both hunky and smooth as he dances
away at a car wash, whereas Olivia Newton-John is the sweet and inno-
cent darling waltzing around in her skirt until her hysterical last-minute
makeover. The less that is said about the sequel though, the better.
7. Love Story
“Love means never having to say you’re sorry”...either the most roman-
tic thing you can hear someone say, or a vomit-inducing, corny cheese-
fest. Whatever you take away from the line, we’ll agree with you, since
Love Story is a truly acquired taste of a film. It’s manipulation after
manipulation, but the impossibly good-looking charms of Ryan O’Neal
and Ali MacGraw may be hard to resist.
8. Beverly Hills Cop
Once upon a time, you might be surprised to hear that Eddie Mur-
phy was once considered a serious, profitable movie star. A lot has
changed in thirty years, but it doesn’t alter the fact that Murphy’s hit
cop comedy spent the 2nd most non-consecutive weeks (28) at the
number one spot in the U.S. box office, outdone only by Titanic. What-
ever happened to him is anyone’s guess.
9. The Greatest Show on Earth
The second Cecile B. DeMille feature to nab a spot on this list, this
visually dazzling feature full of actual circus acts, never-before-seen
scale and the unforgettable James Stewart cameo as Buttons the
Clown, walked away with the Best Picture Oscar in 1953. Again, the
film has a considerable running time, but you’ll barely notice with all
the extravagant set pieces.
10. Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom
Ever the master in directing sequels that are as financially success-
ful as its predecessor, Spielberg makes another entry to this top 10
list with Temple of Doom, a direct follow-up to Raiders of the Lost Ark.
The critical reception wasn’t as warm, with dislikers complaining of the
film’s vulgarity and senseless darker turn, but it would appear the audi-
ence loved it just the same.

