FELIX
Friday 11 MAY 2012
24
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Mine’s bigger than you Sparrow!
Curse of the dead man at
world’s stranger tides
Rhys Davies
Director Peter Lord, Jeff Newitt
Screenwriter Gidoen Defoe
Cast (voice) Hugh Grant, Salma
Hayek, Jeremy Piven
The Pirates! In an
Adventure with
Scientists!
Bye, bye Miss American Pie
My girlfriend sometimes says that I’m
just a big kid sometimes. That doesn’t
bother me – kids get all the really cool
stuff. After going to see this film, that
opinion is now firmly cemented in her
mind.
From the studio that brought us Wal-
lace and Gromit and Chicken Run, Pi-
rates! revolves around the exploits of a
rather amusing crew of pirates, headed
by the Pirate Captain (voiced by Grant).
The plot sees the pirates, accompanied
by a young Charles Darwin (voiced by
David Tennant) head to London to ex-
hibit Polly, a dodo, to the Royal Soci-
ety. The Pirate Captain hopes that the
enormous cash prize will secure his bid
for the Pirate of the Year award.
There is nothing original about the
story. It’s an old one, a common one,
and there isn’t much in the way of plot
twists, none that couldn’t be guessed
ahead of time anyway. However, this
film succeeds in telling it in a charm-
ing and amusing fashion. The writing
is filled with jokes and humour, and a
surprising amount of innuendo for a
children’s film. It also helps that the
stop-motion characters are just so live-
ly and fun to watch.
In addition to Grant and Tennant, the
cast is filled with a host of British tal-
ent. Martin Freeman, Brendan Gleeson
and Russell Tovey all take their place
among the Pirate Captain’s most mot-
ley crew, Imelda Staunton plays an im-
perious and pirate-hating Queen Victo-
ria, and Brian Blessed even makes an
appearance as the King of the Pirates.
Few films can boast of such a rosta and
this one keenly avoid the mistake to
cram them all onscreen. Each character
is given their proper time.
The film is punctuated at times by
modern music such as ‘London’s Call-
ing’ by The Clash and ‘I’m Not Cry-
ing’ by Flight of the Conchords, usu-
ally during a montage scene. While
always apt for the onscreen action, it
did jar me a little from the 1830s.
This film is aimed at children but
the humour was just as funny for (so-
called) adults like myself. Children’s
movies can run the risk of patronising
their audience (and losing the inter-
est of both adults and children). This
film avoids that. The jokes are funny
regardless of whether you’re eight or
eighty. Indeed, several jokes revolve
around the Pirate Captain inadvertent-
ly hinting at evolution to young Dar-
win, accessible only to those aware of
his contribution to science.
In short, this is the perfect film for
the Easter Holidays. Children will en-
joy it, adults won’t mind going along
with them, and students can sneak in
and pretend they’re with their cousin or
something. It’s not a particularly inno-
vative or imaginative story but it is told
in a fresh, entertaining way. Go and see
it if your girlfriend worries that you’re
a little too mature for your age.
John Park
Directors Chris Kentis, Laura Lau
Screenwriter Laura Lau
Cast Elizabeth Olsen, Adam Trese,
Eric Sheffer Stevens
Silent House
Who’s that knocking
on my door?
Here is a film that is more likely to im-
press than scare. Depending on what
you’re in the mood for, Silent House
could be the film for you. It would be
best not to expect many jump scares
or any blood, gore and guts. Instead
be amazed at how this feature film
looks as though it was filmed in one
long take, without ever making a scene
change. There are some black-outs
sure, and the number of continuity
errors is somewhat laughable, but it’s
the real-time, real-life experience that
counts. Of course, this was not shot
in one long take. But the director tries
very hard to keep everything flowing.
Film-buffs or any eagle-eyed members
of the audience will be able to spot
where the edits took place, but why try
to dissect and trivialise what actually
looks quite remarkable?
Like any haunted house horror, the
film opens with an abandoned, worn-
down house that is anything but silent.
A place you wouldn’t want to live in,
essentially. The walls have holes in
them, windows have been bolted shut,
there is very little light, the phone line
is not connected, there is a strange
neighbour kid, the floors creak, the
doors squeak, and so on. Unknowingly
entering this house are Sarah (Olsen)
and her family who are getting ready to
move out of their lakeside retreat. With
her father (Trese) and uncle (Stevens),
they are there to pack things up, fix a
few dodgy places, so the new owners
can move in.
As the work begins, she starts hear-
ing odd noises. Sometimes they’re
nothing, but soon they develop into
more menacing, demanding knocks
and thumps. Upstairs, outside, down-
stairs in the cellar, everywhere she
goes, these sounds start haunting her.
Her father, like all men do in horror
films, assures here that it’s an empty
house and that she’s being paranoid.
But this doesn’t put her mind at east,
and soon, even her father seems to van-
ish into thin air.
What’s disappointing is how, aside
from the filming technique, everything
is so ordinary and predictable. She
takes out a kitchen knife. She loses it.
She hides under the dining room table.
She feels someone grab her leg from
behind. She is found. She tries to get
out of the house. Oh no, the windows
have been bolted shut remember? What
about the front door? Darn it, she’s lost
the key. The back door? Nope, it’s pad-
locked shut. She runs upstairs. Hides
again. Guess what, found again! It’s a
tiresome repetition that was never truly
scary in the first place.
But what the seemingly one long
take does add to the atmosphere is its
undeniably claustrophobic set and with
so many shaky close-ups of Olsen, the
intensity escalates as when things get
going, the audience isn’t given a single
second to have a breather. The air feels
tight, and because the 88-minute run-
ning time is the exact same time pe-
riod she experiences in the film, you
know she can’t do anything radical or
unconvincingly heroic. She just doesn’t
have the time. And so the anticipa-
tion for the ending and answers to our
burning questions builds up like never
before and the importance of giving a
reasonable answer becomes ever more
crucial.
Unfortunately, Silent House doesn’t
get many points on how creative or
how big of a shocker the ending is.
Instead what is commendable is how
the final few minutes are shot. Us-
ing clever camera tricks and angles, it
tries its best to explain and tie up the
loose ends. But unfortunately like most
horror films, not every question is an-
swered. Given the sustained tension
in the first half, the pay-off is rather
bland, and the short length of the film
comes to a surprisingly brisk finale.
After the unprecedented success of
the Paranormal Activity series, the
phenomenon of “found-footage” hor-
ror films has, in recent years, become
an almost annual tradition in which
half-hearted scripts make their way
into shaky-cams and are presented to
somehow scare someone. Silent House
rises above the worst of the sub-genre,
and yet it lacks the truly creepy, hor-
ror spectacle. It keeps everything close
to Olsen’s character, but sometimes it
feels too restricted to allow the audi-
ence to truly absorb the atmosphere.
It’s nice to see a different idea (al-
though technically this is a remake of
an Uruguayan film) not go to waste,
and it’s certainly not an awful film to
list in Olsen’s growing resume.
John Park
Directors Jon Hurwitz, Hayden
Schlossberg
Screenwriters Jon Hurwitz, Hayden
Schlossberg
Cast Jason Biggs, Alyson Hannigan,
Seann William Scott, Chris Klein,
Thomas Ian Nicholas, Tara Reid,
Eugene Levy, Jennifer Coolidge
American Reunion
Making that silly face won’t help
They’re back! Or more specifically,
Stifler’s (Scott) back! And so is Jim’s
Dad (Levy)! And so is Stifler’s Mom
(Coolidge)! Do we really care about
anyone else? A lot of the comedy that
sticks to our mind revolves around
these three characters, and with Ameri-
can Reunion, these three are the ones
who once again steal the show, and
remind us why the American Pie fran-
chise was such a hit.
With Reunion the characters have
aged. Their lives have changed and no
longer revolve around having to go to
school. Instead they have their jobs,
serious adult relationships, and for
some, kids. Jim (Biggs) and Michelle
(Hannigan) now have a young boy,
and have very little time to spend for
themselves. Oz (Klein) is a sports news
anchor working in L.A. with a smoking
hot new girlfriend. Kevin (Nicholas) is
a stay-at-home architect completely de-
voted to his wife who makes him watch
the likes of Gossip Girl and The Bach-
elorette. And of course, Stifler… he has
a job. No, really, he does. But it’s clear
Stifler hasn’t grown up one bit, hitting
on women in the workplace with his
usual, crass practice.
Bringing them all back is the high-
school reunion, class of ’99. And with
this, the gang is exactly as you would
expect them to be, doing and saying ev-
erything that is required of them, and
a lot of the gags work because of the
film’s loyalty to the characters its pre-
decessors have successfully created.
Their living situations have changed,
but they seem to remain true to them-
selves, with actors who look more than
comfortable slipping back into the
roles they originated over 10 years ago.
There have been numerous direct-to-
video sequels in between the Wedding
and this Reunion. It’s been a long wait,
but it certainly feels nice to have them
back.
Trying to squeeze in quieter drama
in the midst of all the chaos that arises
from the gang’s arrival back in their
hometown, the film’s frequent mis-
steps originate from trying to attach
dull life lessons and deeper themes
into the many comedic moments. Pain-
fully obvious messages are dragged out
through revelatory conversations char-
acters share in unnecessarily drawn-
out scenes that unfortunately contribute
to the 113-minute running time, plagu-
ing the many crucial moments of the
film’s fast-paced wit with sudden nar-
rative breaks.
Original fans of the series will no
doubt welcome back their favourite
characters with open arms, and even
newcomers might appreciate the sur-
prisingly accessible, hysterical comedy.
There is a chance this could be the last
outing for Jim and his gang (because
let’s face it, what excuse will there be
next time to bring everyone back?) and
this serves well as the final, send-off
piece, neatly wrapping everything up to
a sweet and funny conclusion.

