travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Dushi Arumuganesan
Chris Richardson
TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 11 MAY 2012 27
From the exam hall to an East Coast adventure
H
ow far is it to Ajmer?”,
I asked, concerned.
Ajmer, although fa-
mous for its holy Mus-
lim shrine to the great
Sufi saint Moinuddin Chishti, was not
originally on our itinerary. So how did
we find ourselves seeking its Accident
and Emergency department at 11pm
on Easter Saturday?
Puskhar, a sacred Hindu town boast-
ing 400 temples and a stunning holy
lake, lies 11km from Ajmer. We and
other westerners, some of whom
appeared to live a Hippie lifestyle
there, were soaking up its culture and
charms. The ever threatening presence
of mosquitoes, though, had prompted a
friend to assemble his mosquito net, a
non-trivial procedure that involves at-
taching a cord to the ceiling. The ceil-
ing, however, was already occupied by
a viscous yet ineffectual electric fan,
rotating very quickly in an attempt to
stave off the heat. Indeed it is not sur-
prising that there were two capitals of
British India; Delhi for the winter and
the Himalayan Shimla for the summer.
We “Britishers”, although cowering
under factor 50 sun block, sunglasses
and hats, were still scorched by the
Rajasthani April heat.
Needless to say, a brief collision
between person and said fan neces-
sitated a speedy drive to Ajmer. We
already were familiar with the adage
“There are three things you need when
driving on Indian roads, a good horn,
good breaks and good luck.” Although
blessed with all these, the drive was
still hair-raising since cows and wild
beasts are neither responsive to horns
nor fitted with headlights. After a few
extremely cheap remedial stitches
from an excellent doctor, we returned
to Pushkar, a little shaken.
The next day we discovered that
Ajmer had another important visitor,
the Pakistani president, his first trip
to the shrine after 7 years. This fol-
lowed important talks with the Indian
Prime Minister so we felt our proxim-
ity to history in the making. Also, a
local gentleman tried to persuade us
to make a large donation at a nearby
temple in order to quicken recovery.
Indeed all Indians we met found reli-
gion important. And one of their new-
est religions is cricket. We discovered
this when we joined 48,000 others to
watch the home team Delhi Daredevils
take on the Chennai Super Kings for
their Indian Premier League match. A
flash thunder storm in the afternoon
prompted fears of Wimbledon-esque
rain breaks, but thankfully the only
adverse effect was a damp seat. A live
band and some unrestrained cheer-
leading enhanced our cricket experi-
It’s May, it’s exam season and naturally
all I am thinking about is how to fill
my four month long summer up with
as much travelling as possible. Having
never been to the USA before, I figured
this year would be a good time to cross
it off, and managed to rope in the boy-
friend on a four week-long tour of the
East Coast.
I started off with a list as long as my
arm of cities, beaches, national parks
and (mostly) famous movie locations
that I wanted to visit… and then the re-
Dushi Arumuganesan
Accidents, emergencies, and Ajmer
Stephanie Walton recounts an Indian Easter with some very important people
ality of four weeks and a limited budget
made up of leftover student loan forced
me to narrow that down. I now have a
much shorter list made up of Washing-
ton DC (to which the time allocated has
been extended since I watched National
Treasure for the first time last week),
NYC, Boston, Cape Cod, while hope-
fully fitting in much more of New Eng-
land on day trips.
The real difficulty for a financially
restricted student planning a trip of this
scale is finding affordable accommoda-
tion. I’ll admit it, I am uncomfortable
sharing a bathroom with ten other peo-
ple, but I also don’t want to have to pay
an extra £100 (or $150) a night for the
luxury of a guaranteed pee-free shower.
And this is where www.airbnb.com
has so neatly stepped in. A website
where hosts can advertise their rooms or
even entire homes for short-term stays
at more affordable prices than hotels
and travellers can search for somewhere
to stay by preferred neighbourhood, lo-
cal amenities, and price – it’s perfect for
those in need of a middle ground when
it comes to lodgings. No, I can’t afford
a fancy hotel and yes, I’m too princessy
to slum it for a month. You can even
have a go at haggling with some of the
homeowners, as the prices aren’t set in
stone like they are with most hotels.
And it’s not merely the exclusive use
of a toilet seat that has me drawn to the
idea of living someone else’s home – I
love that I’ll be coming back to my own
apartment each night in New York. Not
only have I saved over £400 on my ini-
tial budget (which was for cheap hotels,
bed and breakfast inns and hostels), but
I actually prefer the location and living
arrangements of all my chosen accom-
modations to my originally planned
ones because I’ll feel less like a tourist
and more like a local.
Naturally, you always need to be care-
ful when paying for anything online but
airbnb act as an excellent middle man
when it comes to payment; they charge
the guest’s credit card as soon as a
booking is confirmed and only pay the
host once the stay has commenced. I’d
like to think I’ve been careful enough;
I’ve contacted my hosts, checked out
their verified reviews and photos,
picked safe areas… but if you’re not
reading my travel report in next year’s
Felix, then maybe stick to the commu-
nal bathrooms.
ence as we saw Delhi crush Chennai
with the aid of Kevin Pietersen. We
envied his chance to get to know such
an enchanting and diverse country. We
wondered how he coped with all the
spicy curries, the unpredictable driv-
ing and the crushing heat. And we
marvelled at how he managed to hit
the ball so far.
Homes away from home
Fans, cricket, presidents... it’s all go in Ajmer

