In Brief
Pub to remain on Level 0
Following a meeting of the Management Board on
20 April, an agreement has been reached over the
proposed development of the space currently oc-
cupied by the Holland Club on Level 0 of Sherfield.
The space will continue to provide a “pub facil-
ity”, which will be open to staff, postgraduate re-
search and postgraduate taught students, along
with a catering facility.
Consideration will be given as to whether under-
graduates will have access to the catering facility.
An additional ‘social space’ will be accessible
throughout the day and over weekends.
An advisory Group consisting of the Senior Dean,
representatives from Imperial College Union, the
Holland Club, and Commercial Services has been
formed and will work on the next stage of the de-
sign process. Designs and costings will be submit-
ted to the College’s Portfolio Review Board in June
or July for approval before any further progress is
made.
Matt Colvin
NEWS
FELIX
Friday 11 MAY 2012
4
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
The results of the 2012 Science Challenge
were announced at a reception at the House of
Lords on 22 March. The Science Challenge,
run annually by Imperial’s Royal College of
Science Union, invited students from the Col-
lege, as well as secondary schools around the
country, to answer science based essay ques-
tions set by high profile judges. One Imperial
and one schools winner was chosen from the
answers to each question and an overall win-
ning College and schools essay was then cho-
sen from amongst these.
Second year undergraduate Eugene Lee was
the Imperial winner in the first category, in
which Professor Lord Robert Winston asked
“What are the five main ethical issues that
face modern science and how do we tackle
them?” Lee told Felix that he “chose the eth-
ics question because it was the one closest to
my heart; being a biomedical science student”.
He got his “inspiration to write about it using
the laboratory as a reference starting point
for a narrative”. While “it was hard to choose
only five of the biggest ethical issues for the
essay though” since ethics is “something that
permeates all corners and areas of science” he
says that there was the added benefit that “eth-
ics is something that everyone feels strongly
about and can relate to easily” which meant
that it is a topic he could confidently write
about “without going into too much technical
detail” for a layperson reader.
Mathematic postgraduate Matthew Gipon’s
work was judged to be the best Imperial an-
swer to the second question, set by BBC sci-
ence correspondent and former Felix Editor
Pallab Ghosh – “What is the role of science
journalism in the 21st Century?” In his essay
Gipon argues that a modern science journalist
should not only move beyond “regurgitating
press releases” but also retain a broad focus
and consider “the political, economic and so-
cial dimensions” of scientific results.
Cell & Molecular Sciences postgraduate
Christopher Waite was chosen as the winner in
the third category, in which senior Accenture
executive Peter Lacy asked “What scientific
breakthrough should we focus on to provide
sustainable food, energy and water for nine
billion people on a planet of apparently finite
natural resources, and why?” Waite says that
his background in biology means that he has
always had “a passion for plants so presenting
their case as a solution to the imminent global
food and fuel crises was an easy choice for
[his] answer to the sustainability question”.
He chose to write about “genetic modification
of the hub for photosynthesis, the chloroplast”
since this area has a great deal of potential.
Waite says that chloroplasts “can house a
plethora of bacterial genes with a variety of
functions while allowing some primary risks
of traditional GM to be circumvented”.
Engineering postgraduate Carys Cook was
selected as the overall winner for her answer
to the question “How should politicians best
make use of science?” set by Times Science
Editor Mark Henderson. Titled “Parliamen-
tary Election Manifesto of a Scientist Turned
Politician” her essay outlines how a wide-
spread scientific illiteracy amongst members
of Parliament has made her decide to turn
to politics. Cook told Felix that “the lack of
scientific literacy in politics explains why
politicians dismiss scientific advice about is-
sues incredibly relevant to the public, such as
climate change or drug policy”. She believes
that “more scientists should become more ac-
tively involved in the political process” and
that “improved understanding of the scientific
process will not only ensure politicians will
better consider scientific information, but will
make them more objective and better decision
makers”.
As overall winner Carys received a cash
prize of £2,000 and a tour of CERN for herself
and one guest. The other Imperial winners re-
ceived a £500 cash prize each. Waite says that
he considered the tour of the Houses of Par-
liament that preceded the awards presentation
“an ample prize in itself – the gold-encrusted
Lords Chamber, in which you are under the
watchful eye of the barons and bishops who
signed the Magna Carta 800 years ago, was
a magnificent climax.” Lee commented that
“the House of Lords was a fitting place for the
ceremony” and that he did not know how “the
committee could top this year’s ceremony for
next year’s competition”. He added that, “all
in all, it was really meaningful and everyone
should be encouraged to join.”
“ethics is something that
everyone [...] can relate
to easily”
“more scientists should
become more actively
involved in the political
process”
Maciej Matuszewski
Science Challenge concludes at
the House of Lords
Cash prize and tour of CERN awarded at Grand Final
A tour for two of CERN was up for grabs for the overall winner
CERN
Wilson House
Wilson House has been removed from Imperial
College’s accommodation website for prospective
students. In February, it was reported in Felix that
the hall could potentially be closed for refurbish-
ment for the 2012-2013 academic year.
A new hall of residence, named ‘Xenia’ has ap-
peared on the website. Situated in Waterloo, the
accommodation website states that the hall has
“recently undergone extensive refurbishment and
is located in the ‘cultural heart’ of London”. En
suite single rooms cost from £170-£200 per week,
standard single rooms from £130-£140 per week,
and twin rooms from £110-£170 per student per
week. In comparison, a standard single room cost
from £104.08 per week at Wilson House.
Previously, the warden of Wilson House, Dr Mi-
chael Bluck, said that “Should closure of Wilson
be required (whenever that may be), other halls
would likely be needed temporarily, in order to
meet the guarantee we make to first year under-
graduates.”
Felix will have a more detailed report on this
story next week.
Matt Colvin
Wilson House not listed on
accommodation website

