NEWS
FELIX Friday 11 may 2012 5
Super mutant algae declared winner
Teams from Imperial take runner-up places in BP Ultimate Field Trip
Two teams from Imperial reached the
Final of BP’s Ultimate Field Trip com-
petition, which was held on Tuesday 8
May. The prize of a six week internship
at BP Trinidad & Tobago was ultimately
won by a team from the University of
Strathclyde.
Tasked with outlining how they
would make a BP refinery CO2
neutral
by 2030, the competition was judged
not just on technical content but also
presentation skills and teamwork. The
teams, having already presented their
proposal during the semi-finals, had the
chance to present their ideas in a suc-
cinct manner to staff from BP as well
as field a 20 minute Q&A session from
the likes of BP’s Chief Scientist Ellen
Williams at the Royal Institution-based
final.
The competition was closely fought
with each of the three finalists having
an advocate on the judging panel. When
the audience voted on a separate poster
competition, the voting was just as tight,
with a split of 34%Aspire (Strathclyde),
33% C-less (Imperial) and 31% G.I.C.
(Imperial).
Team Aspire’s proposal was based
on the use of Algae-based bioreactors
housed in Lego-brick inspired green
houses to break down the CO2
, with the
side benefit of the algae by-products be-
ing of high value in the nutrition indus-
try (e.g. Omega 3 oils). This proposal
was so radically outside of the team’s
background of marine, ocean and aero-
mechanical engineering that “it was like
doing a whole other degree”, despite
not having had to “take any algae to the
lab”. There was concerns raised over
whether the super mutant algae posed
a threat to wildlife but Aspire defended
their proposal: “it’s alright as it’s a natu-
rally occurring mutant.”
G.I.C. (Global Intelligence Consult-
ing) outlined a three-phase approach
with membrane technology (based on
research being carried out at Imperial)
being the first part of their proposal,
which culminated in artificial-leaf CO2
break down. G.I.C. stressed the impor-
tance that “you won’t go to bed and
wake up the next morning with a carbon
neutral refinery” and that a flexible solu-
tion with immediate action is necessary.
C-Less outlined an efficiency im-
provement approach with large amounts
of retro fitting to existing refineries to
cut CO2
emission before finally using
carbon capture and storage to remove
the CO2
under the North Sea. Whilst
retro fitting is not cheap, “looking at the
costs makes me wince,” a BP employee
commented. The retrofitting also has
the advantage of being a partial solu-
tion that can be enacted right now rather
than waiting for technology to develop.
Despite not winning the competition
both teams from Imperial said that it
was the chance to put their knowledge
into practice and to try and tackle a
large-scale problem that was the real
reason they entered the competition.
“We often get stuck working on prob-
lems, we lose sight of the bigger pic-
ture,” student Nicholas Kwok said.
As the winning Team Aspire will be
spending six weeks as guests of BP
Trinidad & Tobago and will visit BP’s
operations in the Gulf of Mexico, along-
side spending time in New Orleans.
Last year’s winners said that whilst
they were envious of this year’s prize
(“We should have a waited a year”) as it
gives Apsire the chance to see BP work-
ing on another continent, they were
happy not to have to try and tackle this
year’s challenge. Despite the challenge
of making a refinery CO2
free by 2030,
BP Chief Scientist Ellen Williams said
“if we had the solution we could do it –
and that’s the kicker”.
Both Ellen Williams and David Eyton,
Group Head of Technology, were both
keen to point out that this competition
was more about challenging students
than getting research done for free: “BP
has looked at all of these ideas”. With
the success of the competition over the
last three years, next year the competi-
tion will be international, meaning that
students from Imperial will have even
more competition next year if they want
to win the “Ultimate Field Trip”.
“[the competition]
was like doing a
whole other degree”
“if we had the solu-
tion we could do it –
and that’s the kicker”
Jonathan Peek
The Final was held at the Royal Institution
More tension than 45 minutes of Deal or No Deal
From left to right: Zhen Xiong, Dun Xiang, and Nicholas Kwok of Global Intelligence Consulting, Zie Wearn
Chua, Wern Chia Chang, and Zhi Xiong Chong of C-Less, Edward Kay, Simonas Stilius, and Guy Drori of Aspire
Zhen Xiong explains it all Aspire (far right) won over the judges with their algae concept

