FEATURE
FELIX Friday 11 MAY 2012 9
W
ell, how do I start
off? Let me just be-
gin by saying that
I was diagnosed
of having severe
depression and have been meeting my
doctor and I am currently on medication
since the last academic year. I’ve been
through the whole process of counsel-
ling, psychiatric evaluation, CBT ses-
sions (Cognitive Behavioural Therapy),
and there have even been times that I’ve
rung up the Samaritans when it was just
too much for me to handle. So, yes, I’ve
had and still having my share of mental
health issues.
How did it start? Not exactly sure
how it all began! But when I was a pre-
adolescent I remember being really ir-
ritated and just wanted to get out of my
own skin. I would start scratching my-
self vigorously, and flapping my hands
around and always had that feeling of
punching something (don’t worry, I
don’t randomly just punch people!). By
this time I’ve changed countries, went
to school in a totally new place and ev-
erything was just new! My family was
broken up and life just started getting
a bit hectic for my taste. Then comes
along puberty and the whole teenage
drama begins! I was bullied in school
both verbally and physically. Wasn’t
really sure why I was bullied and the
more I thought of it the more confused
I got and the more depressed I started to
get. To add to that, I only got to see my
dad once a year and when I do see him,
he always buggered off somewhere and
when he was around it just felt like, that
he didn’t really seem to care about us.
Things got worse to a point that suicide
seemed to be the only solution! Which
I did proceed with, but luckily stopped
myself from over dosing before it was
too late! This was at the age of 13. That
was my first major episode.
Throughout the years the episodes
got worse. When I mean episodes, I
mean periods of me being depressed
for more than a month. During these
periods I was insomniac or slept a lot,
starved myself, had thoughts of hurting
myself or even suicide, was lethargic,
couldn’t concentrate, was panicking a
lot, was crying my eyes off every day,
was having different body ailments and
the list goes on and on… The worst part
is I hated myself, I wasn’t comfortable
being in my own skin and there was al-
ways that thought where I just wanted
to rip my skin apart and run away from
all the trauma. Every day before I went
to bed I prayed that I wouldn’t wake
up the next morning and when I did
wake up it was just a horrendous feel-
ing. I couldn’t tell anyone how I felt
Unseen Imperial
because for one I didn’t want to accept
that something was wrong with me and
two, people would just call me a retard
or say deal with it or man up or some-
thing stupid like that. I tried comforting
myself by talking to my toys and doing
a whole psychiatric session by myself
(yes, I had toys, I was 15). I was never a
social outcast, I had a lot of friends and
I was quite active during school time. It
was all just an act! People thought I was
happy and never assumed that anything
was wrong, but boy were they wrong as
hell.
So, before coming to Imperial I had
about four or five major episodes and a
huge amount of minor episodes. I never
paid close attention to my episodes.
Yes, I had all my depressive symptoms
and I did weird stuff to take care of it,
but I never told anyone anything. I was
faking my way through and didn’t want
to accept the fact that there might be
something wrong with me.
I got chosen to Imperial and every-
thing was going quite alright. The stress
of work did get to me and I did have my
spirals, but everything went fine. Even
had a mini break down during the exam
time period but ended up doing pretty
well.
Then it was the next academic year
and all hell just got loose. The thing is
with my episodes (should be like every-
one else’s), the more I ignored it and
the more I didn’t get help the worse it
got. During the first term of my second
year it got really bad! The trauma, the
agony, the pain I went through was just
excruciating. For someone who hasn’t
gone through any sort of mental health
issue this might sound like an exaggera-
tion, but trust me when I say that the
pain you go through is agonising and
is actually hard to describe in words.
There were times that I actually was
paralysed. I couldn’t move, if I were
standing, I’d collapse to the floor and
my whole body would just go numb.
Hurting myself and suicide became pri-
ority in my head. I would hurt myself
when I was at lectures using a pen, at
home it’d be a sharp object. I kept bang-
ing my head hard against a wall. I kept
on pulling my hair out (literally). I tried
to keep myself happy, tried hanging out
with people, watched movies, cooked,
ate what I liked, but it didn’t make me
feel better, it just made me feel worse. I
didn’t want to hang out with my friends
because I thought they’d see right
through me and they would consider
me to be some sort of omen. I walked
whenever I started getting depressed
and sometimes I’d walk for hours at
two in the morning. I just wanted to run
away. I despised myself and seeing my-
self in the mirror just made me want to
pull my eyes out. I was always crying
and wanted to be alone. I couldn’t focus
at all and there were times I had to just
stand up and get out of the lecture room
because I was feeling really uncomfort-
able. The list does go on and some of
them are pretty gruesome, but that is
the sad truth about mental health issues
when they are untreated.
Then during the second term I just
couldn’t handle it anymore and took
the leap of making an appointment
with the Imperial College Counselling
Service! The day of the first appoint-
ment came along and I was having re-
grets and jitters. As once as I go in, the
counsellor just asked a few questions. I
just couldn’t hold it in and started cry-
ing like I’ve never cried before. The
counsellor was very understanding
and made me feel like someone actu-
ally cared (I know it’s their job, but
sometimes that small gesture means the
world to you). He then advised me to go
to see my doctor which I did and have
been since. I’ve been on medication
since then and have seen a psychiatrist
for further evaluation of my problem. I
also started on my CBT sessions, which
are really helpful and gives you guid-
ance on how to deal with problems you
suffer. I really can’t thank these few
people enough for what they’ve helped
me through with and will always be
grateful to them.
So if you are suffering or know any-
one who is suffering from a mental
health issue, please get help! You might
think it is embarrassing, you might
think people might take the mock out
of you, you might feel you are a failure.
I know I did! But after that first step,
it becomes a bit easier for you to open
up and help yourself get through with
it. I’m not saying it is easy at all, it is
tough and there are some instances that
you’ll have to put that extra effort in!
But all I’m saying is that get help if you
are having some troubles, being quiet
and feeling ashamed never helps and I
don’t want anyone to go through what
I’ve been through! I’ve been having this
for ten years and am still in the process
of getting help for the past one and a
half years! I don’t want to make this
sound like a happy ending in a fairy tale
but with all the help I’m getting, I find
myself to be more confident and hap-
pier than I’ve ever been in my life! So,
please do get help is you are suffering
from a mental health issue!
“I didn’t want to ac-
cept that something
was wrong with me”
I
n 2011 the world that I loved
turned dim. It’s hard to describe
how things turned so quickly, but
they did. There were redundan-
cies and many uncertainties. My
friends were receiving letters to say they
were to be made redundant and the su-
pervisors had gone underground. We did
not know what was going on and people
became worried and upset. I was the only
one about to ask and question. It was
hard seeing my friends crying and unable
to contact the supervisors to talk through
the situations. I too had been moved to
what we started to call the redundancy
waiting room – as all those who were
moved were being made redundant.
I continued my work and developing
my research program. There was little
feedback on my work and my questions
about what was going on went unan-
swered. Instead of meeting to discuss my
work, I would receive an occasional short
curt email. It just made me worry more.
That I guess was the start of the spiral.
My health spiralled very quickly into a
very dim depressive place. I took advice
from a friend and went to my GP – who
diagnosed clinical depression. I was put
on an antidepressant and psychology
sessions were set up, I felt relieved that
things were going to be ok.
I contacted my supervisors and told
them that I had been to my GP and was
diagnosed with clinical depression. I
guess I expected that they would be un-
derstanding and supportive. No, they
just demanded that I report back and
start work the following Monday. Then
they stopped talking to me, advised my
collaborators to stop talking to me and
stopped my salary. What they did made
my recovery very hard. Not only did I
have to try and get well from a very seri-
ous condition, but I had to try and fight
for what were basic human rights in the
UK.
It all just made me so very sad. Sad
that people I had known and worked with
for many years would be so unsupport-
ive, when I most needed to be supported.
If there is one message I would like to
transmit to all, it is keep communication
open when working with someone who
has clinical depression. Support them in
the same you would support someone
who told you they had just been diag-
nosed with cancer. One in four people in
the UK will experience a mental health
problem in any given year. There is no
excuse for ignorance.
If you’d like to share your experienc-
es of anything people don’t openly
discuss, such as faith, sexuality,
body image, mental health, disabil-
ity or discrimination of any kind,
please email icu-disabilities@impe-
rial.ac.uk. You can create an anony-
mous email address to send it from
and any details which could be used
to identify you will be edited out.
“I’m not saying it is
easy at all, it is tough”
Once again, thank you to those who
have submitted accounts on the as-
pects of our lives that we just don’t
talk about:
Email icu-disabilities@imperial.ac.uk if you would like to share your anonymous experiences of topics that are not
openly discussed
features.felix@gmail.com
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith

