travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editor – Dylan Lowe
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel
18 felix Friday 15 May 2009 19
Friday 15 May 2009 felix
To the end of the world and back
Earlier this year, two engineers, Jeffery Marlow and David Whittleson, took part on a trip of a
lifetime to Antarctica. Jeffery Marlow’s blog of the trip proves insightful
March 28th
Good news and bad news today on the Drake. The good news is that ol Sir
Francis has been relatively kind, with “Drake Lake” conditions prevailing for
most of the day, and most of the team is doing just fine. The bad news is that
I am sadly not one of that unaffiliated majority. After wrestling a bout of sea-
sickness this morning, I ultimately chose to bite the proverbial bullet and take
some anti-nausea medication. Why, you might ask, did I not do so pre-
emptively, knowing that we were headed into the most notorious
waters in the world? That’s a good question, and as I examined the
ceiling tiles above my couch / bed for several hours, I managed
to mine the depths of my misguided psyche to come up with an
answer.
Back in grad student world, the routine of daily life is pretty
comfortable, and I’ve been anticipating the opportunity to test
my limits. Well, they’ve been tested, and on the seasickness
front, they’re pretty weak. But at least I know that now, and
I have a better sense of my physical limits and capabilities.
Sadly, my physical challenges have made it difficult for me to
pursue the abundant intellectual challenges present on the
ship. We’ve divided into teams to pursue various themes
centred around climate change, and I’ve been feeling
guilty for abandoning my wonderful Interdependencies
Team. Somehow they’re managing without me.
In other news, we got news this evening that we’re
in the process of crossing the Antarctic Convergence,
where water temperature plummets and we officially
enter the Antarctic ecosystem. It’s not every day that
one gets to say that we are now officially within the
Antarctic sphere of influence.
March 29th
Day 2 of our initial Drake
Passage crossing, and
things have taken a
turn for the worse: we’re
officially in the biggest
storm of the year, with
frothing 40-foot waves
passing by our 4th-floot
windows. Let’s just say it
wasn’t the most productive
day of the voyage, but it cer-
tainly has been an adventure.
Anyway, today we’ve got
some thoughts from guest
blogger Tiffany Vogel, the lead
singer of the newly formed band,
“Bronco 5.” Take it away Tiffany.
-----------------------
Today, the Drake finally decided to conspire and collaborate with the wind
and in doing so, they have self-or- ganized into the strongest and mightiest of swells this
passage has seen all season. This Ant- arctic rite of passage has fully manifested itself in the form of
seasickness. It appears most of us have drowsily retreated into cabin hibernation mode, especially since we have
crossed the Antarctic convergence zone and woke up to the news that we are in gail 9 winds (hurricanes are about gail 12)
and that we must temporarily hold steady and refrain from pushing ahead.
I write to you from my little bunk in the Ioffe where I sway back and forth not from overtaking the waves in the name
of progress, but by floating respectfully and humbly with engines silent in hopes that the mighty Drake will show eventual
mercy. This setback means will we not reach Antarctica as scheduled, rather we will lose half a day on “the Ice” as we pre-
cariously pass the Drake. Although this could be processed as a disappointment, I could hardly call this a setback. In fact, I
wouldn’t have it any other way.
We, as humans, are all too accustomed to setting our owns schedules and working to our own watches. Here on Ioffe, we
find ourselves stranded on a small floating island in the irrational swells of the Southern ocean. There is no negotiating, no
art of persuasion, or charming outreach to the Drake. The message is walloped back in the simplest of terms: for probably
the first and last time for many of us, the Drake represents the unique condition when we are completely subserviant to the
environment. We are reduced to the most primitive forms of environmental determinism and I thank the storm for unsen-
sitively reminding me of this. We work on the Drake’s clock, not our own, and the journey of the Drake is just as important
to understand Antartica as Antarctica itself. Here, I cannot run away from challenges and if I bristle, it will have to be within
the bounded rational walls of the Ioffe. I must come to terms with the Drake, and although I cannot make choices of what is
happening around me, I CAN choose how to deal with the circumstances. Coming to this humbling understand-
ing is a major part of the mental game needed to overcome anxious forms of seasickness. I welcome
the storm. Recognizing and accepting my powerlessness has never been more enlightening
or liberating, but then again, bear in mind this comes from a ‘non- seasickeningly’
perspective.
------------------------
Update: the storm subsided in the wee hours of the
morning, and we’ve just sighted land! The winds are
frigid up on the top deck, our route is framed by cliffs
of ice and rocky shores. We’ll be making our first land-
ing in a few hours at King George Island, having sur-
vived the infamous Drake Passage.
March 31st
Well folks, things have officially gone meta on the expedition. After several days
of being encouraged to consider climate change issues, network with peers and
experts, and soak in the moment, we seem to have reached a tipping point where
excessive self-reflection has yielded some sort of collective short circuit. Of
course, it’s all part of the “beautiful chaos” that has enveloped the expedition: with
so many remarkable people in such a stunning environment (there’s a humpback
whale outside my cabin window at the moment, for those of you keeping score),
it’s hard to know how to spend our hours. Or should we even question that proc-
ess – would it be wiser to let the waves of confusion and neurosis wash over our
hyperawareness? Maybe just by looking at the daily rhythms in the first place,
we’re submitting to the structured regime we’ve hoped to escape in this “open-
framework” style expedition. Whoa.
All joking aside, the morning “reflection” session was extremely useful – a mad-
dening mix of enlightenment and frustration similar to an initial viewing of Me-
mento. We even had a bit of civil disobedience when a few expeditioners walked
out to go look at icebergs. To be fair, it can hardly be called disobedience when
the entire expedition is a free-flowing evolution of ideas and directives, but there
was a touch of tension. It’s hard to say right now what exactly I’ve gained from
the “process” side of the expedition, but I can sense the eventual lessons will be
applicable to nearly all aspects of my life.
Intermission: there are 7 penguins swimming outside my window now. Count
it.
Anyway, all signs of tension melted away with an absolutely exhilarating zodiac
cruise through Wilhelmina Bay. I hate to say it dear reader, but describing the
morning’s experience is an exercise in futility: there is simply no way to convey
the richness of life, the purity of nature, and the inspired mood of the team that
came together for a few hours this morning. Needless to say, however, I’m going
to give it a shot.
Humback whales an arm’s length from the boat. A rusting shipwreck framed
by cliffs of ice. Cue the sun, part the clouds. Fur seals waddling and sliding to
come check us out. Ice-encapsulated mountains in the distance. Skimming the
frigid water, wind blowing through our hair. Sea-salt perfume. Icebergs carved
and chisled by wind and waves. A sleeping whale awakened by an idling motor.
Unforgettable memories.
April 1st
You can always tell the first-time visitors to Yellowstone National Park by the cars
that pull over to the side of the road for bison. A bison poking out through the
trees a hundred yards away? Pull over. A herd of the animals grazing across the
valley? Pull over. A picture of a bison on a sign? Pull over. Tires screech, windows
roll down, and the cameras come out. Of course, veteran visitors, those who have
been in the park a day or two, don’t bother with such things; they have learned
that the bison are everywhere, and a photograph without one would be the real
anomaly.
During this morning’s excursion to Neko Harbor, most of the group reached the
status of veteran Antarctica visitors. Yesterday afternoon, we simply couldn’t stop
photographing the thousands of gentoo penguins waddling around us. Penguins
flapping, penguins sliding, penguins eating snow – believe me folks, we’ve
got photos of it all. But today, the cameras were laregly focused elsewhere.
It’s not that we were sick of the penguins, but rather that they were more
a part of the landscape, a piece of the greater Antarctic experience and not
a destination in themselves. This place is an intricate sea-based ecosystem,
and the penguins are just a single piece, albeit an adorable one, of the larger
puzzle.
In other news, we’ve struck it rich again today with the weather. Not a cloud
in the sky as the zodiacs left the mothership, and as we now cruise toward Par-
adise Bay, the bright sun glints off the
glassy water and scalloped icebergs. The
near absence of wind has even tempted
some to consider sunbathing (jokingly I
presume). And tonight’s order of busi-
ness is camping on the ice, a truly rare ex-
perience that will be a continual struggle
between the yin of Antarctic beauty and
the yang of encroaching hypothermia.
Wish us luck!
April 3rd
Freestyling it today, in keeping with the general mood on board the ship. Some
thoughts:
Camping on the ice a couple of nights ago was an adventure. The setting was
unbelievable: a small island dome of ice in the middle of a harbor ringed by four
rocky pinnacles. Once the sun went down, the starscape was the best I’d ever
seen, with shooting stars and satellites criss-crossing the sky every few minutes.
A fun game the next time you’re bored at a cocktail party: go around to each
group, gently insert yourself, contribute one appropriate thought relevant to the
discussion, and subtly extract yourself. It’s a great way to get a sense of a group,
especially if you’ve got a short attention span. Maria and I pioneered this activity
during the night on the ice, experiencing a full range of convserations, from the
meaning of life (one of those things you know will come up in such a gorgeous
setting), to how to get into a sleeping bag (you’d be surprised), to worst pick-up
lines.
On a related note, the group reflected on the dichotomy of simplicity and com-
plexity associated with the expedition. Simple: we’re 80-odd people on a boat,
moving across the ocean toward our destination. Complicated: we’re also 80-
odd vessels of swerving dreams, ambitions, and capabilities, and it’s overwhelm-
ing to think about mapping those discrete movements into anything remotely
coherent.
I was playing a game of sardines last night (I swear I’ve done more than just
play during the last week!), and it got to be my turn to hide. I chose the bridge
– the part of the boat where our Russian captains steer us through the roughest
waters on Earth. The sun had long since gone down, and the bridge had the feel
of a movie set, with only fluoescent lights on navigation consoles silhouetting the
sailors. Looking out to sea, a huge foglight on the mast looked out into the mists
and dark waters ahead, illuminating the odd bird in the distance. It was spatially
disorienting, giving an impression of flotation and suspension. Fortunately no
one found me.
I wish I knew Russian: the crew on this ship must have great stories to tell.
We’re in full-fledged “conference mode” on the Ioffe today, with stimulating
group meetings and seminars filling the day. We’ve questioned the basis of west-
ern civilization, shared our own personal stories, and debated the issues. I’ve also
had a chance to sit down with a few of the experts individually, which is a bit like
drinking from a firehose. The point is that I think I’ve finally come to understand
the challenge of the expedition.
Let me back up. I’ve done a touch of mountaineering and skiing and general
outdoorsiness in cold places, so I was a bit skeptical of this whole “Antarctic Ex-
pedition” thing. It’s not like we were trekking across the continent. And in reality,
this has been a tourist trip, at least as Antarctic trips go. Our guide Graham has
trouble keeping a smirk off his face every time one of us refers to this “expedition.”
Turns out it is an expedition, just not a physical one. The problems of climate
change are so immense, this experience has really been about harness-
ing the intellectual capital and know-how among this group
to do something about them.
The intellectual expedition has just
begun.
March 27th
After months of anticipation, thousands of miles of travel, and two days of
team building, our team has finally set sail for Antarctica. At approximately 4
PM, the Academic Ioffe pushed off from the dock and we said our goodbyes
to Ushuaia (a town more affectionately referred to among team members as
“Ush”). The communal sense of excitement and anticipation was palpable on
the uppermost deck, the wind whipping our hair and the occasional raindrops
spraying our faces. A few minutes later, we spotted the first wildlife of the
trip – seals dipping in and out of the Beagle Channel water escorting us out to
sea. In the distance, several pods followed suit, like shiny black rocks skipping
across a pond.
But the storm clouds are gathering already as we make our way toward
the infamous Drake Passage. The first raindrops have just started splattering
against the windows, and the dark clouds are billowing up ahead. The 2041
team is warning us of “rough” seas, which, in the understated habit of the sea-
worn, roughly translates to “waves the size of skyscrapers.”
To be honest, the volatility of the Drake has been one of the big draws for
me. As a student of explorations past, I’ve read about this stretch of water time
after time in stories of great voyages. Nowhere else on Earth are storms so vio-
lent so often. The Drake is also a wall of sorts, an effective challenge separating
the civilized world from the utterly alien.
This journey across the Drake is shaping up to be an…interesting one (in the
British sense of the word). The bouyant excitement of our departure has sub-
tly transformed into a sort of giddy apprehension. Most of the team appears
ready, if a bit hesitant, to endure the worst of what the Drake has to offer. For
my part, I’m starting to question my (stubborn? lazy?) choice to forego motion
sickness medicines. I’ve been looking forward to the high seas of the Drake
Passage for months, but we’ll see just how enthusiastic I am tomorrow…
ANTARCTICA
Fact File
Area (Overall): 14,000,000 km2
Permanent Population: 0
Researchers: ~1000
Antarctica is the fifth largest
continent and has seven official
territories that are shared between
Canada, Australia, Argentina,
Chile, New Zealand, France and
the UK.
Brazil has also made a claim to
some of the land, which has added
friction between nations as there
are already some territories that
overlap.
The Antarctic Treaty was signed in
1959 by twelve countries; to date,
forty-six countries have signed the
treaty. The treaty prohibits military
activities and mineral mining,
supports scientific research, and
protects the continent’s ecozone.
Ongoing experiments are con-
ducted by more than 4,000 scien-
tists of many nationalities and with
different research interests.
A total of 37,506 tourists visited
during the 2006–07 Austral sum-
mer with nearly all of them coming
from commercial ships. The
number is predicted to increase
to over 80,000 by 2010.There has
been some recent concern over
the potential adverse environmen-
tal and ecosystem effects caused
by the influx of visitors. A call
for stricter regulations for ships
and a tourism quota have been
made by some environmental-
ists and scientists.

