music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
24 felix Friday 15 May 2009
Music
Music Editors – Peter Sinclair James Houghton & Alex Ashford
More Alarming gig
at The Flower Pot
“Oh come on!” she pleaded with a
faltering smile as the feedback inter-
rupted another song, “It’s only a mic
and a guitar!”. The tightly squashed
crowd chuckled and urged her on as
she weaved her cynical story of love,
missing a stitch here and there to grim-
ace at the incompetence of the sound
technician.
Earlier that day, I had received a text,
“Laura Marling is playing a secret gig
tonight at The Flower Pot in Kentish
Town, I’m told it’s free”
. In the time-hon-
oured tradition of Secret Gigs I received
this news at the worst possible time. Sat
in a meeting, I heard my phone buzz
and glanced down to see the news. Un-
fortunately I was sat in a meeting and it
was 8 o’clock; it would take over an hour
to get to Kentish Town…
I played my hand. “Excuse me, I re-
ally have to go”, I interrupted. “What’s
the matter?” came the reply. I hesitated,
the window of opportunity was slowly
closing and the gig inching ever closer.
The truth would not do, would not jus-
tify my leaving… “Uhh…”, I dashed for
the door and fled down the stairs, to
hell with the consequences!
Down the stairs, across the road, I
sprinted all the way to the tube station.
A fellow commuter, sprinted up beside
me. He looked at me quizzically, ask-
ing “Late as well?”. “Yes! I’m going to
a gig! It’s free you should come!”. Un-
surprisingly, the 50-something man
with a briefcase and a train to catch
declined my offer and then proceeded
to accelerate ahead of me. In a word,
humiliating.
The crowd at The Flower Pot had
not quite reached bursting point when
I arrived but before long there were
fans hanging from the rafters, occupy-
ing every nook and cranny of the 200
capacity venue.
Rather quietly, she jaunted onto
stage and began to set up. She would
be solo tonight with a solitary cellist
for accompaniment. Laura Marling
has a peculiar stage presence, entirely
disarming. It’s as if she doesn’t realize
that she’s standing in front of a whole
crowd of adoring fans who dropped all
their engagements to see her perform.
She gives the impression that one
could perk up, “Y’alright Laura?” and
strike up an impromptu chat while she
tuned her guitar.
The crowd cheered as she was intro-
duced as “The Lovely Laura Marling”
but unfortunately the gig was to go
downhill from this point.
Her set was plagued by feedback
from her guitar. At first it was minor
inconvenience and she laughed it off
with a shrug. The audience too, smiled
back sympathetically. As it continued,
Laura Marling took it in her stride al-
tering her song order to avoid quieter
songs (although I wondered if this was
actually because half the people at the
back of the pub talked loudly through-
out her set).
After a few songs and no improve-
ment with the sound, she abandoned
the mic completely and attempted to
play without any amplification. A bold
move that could have worked had it
not been for the fans who decided that
their conversations were more inter-
esting (don’t get me started on the peo-
ple who thought we had come to hear
them sing).
Thus with an uncooperative mic and
similarly uncooperative audience, Lau-
ra Marling departed the stage after 5 or
so songs. Despite being interrupted by
feedback, her new songs sound bloody
fantastic and give every indication that
her second album, which is due to be
released sometime this year, is going to
impress.
Laura Marling
@ The Flower Pot
12th May
Alex Ashford
Music Editor
Slit your
wristbands
H
ey, it’s 2009, one year
away from the futuris-
tic sounding 2010, and
as my global change
biology course informs
me, very near to some sort of space-
age climate apocalypse where we will
all dress like astronauts and have to
dodge tsunamis and hurricanes on our
way into work every morning. Sounds
awesome, right? Like living in a Bruce
Willis movie directed by Daft Punk.
But why then, are so many people so
obsessed with clinging onto the past?
The past sucks! The past is full of shitty
boyfriends who wrote bad poetry on
their jeans, times when getting drunk
frequently meant being sick in some-
one else’s front lawn, and times when
you thought the band Placebo were
cool.
I’m talking about those people who
wear festival wristbands way after
that festival has ended. Those little
slivers of polyester rags have the ef-
fect of instantly transforming your
look from normal guy into complete
dickhead. Last night I went to a spur
of the moment Laura Marling gig in
Kentish Town and found myself stand-
ing next to one such guy. I asked him
why he was wearing those horrid fes-
tival wristbands and he confessed to
me that it was because they represent
happy memories of the few times he
didn’t feel suicidal and he couldn’t bear
to get rid of them. I wasn’t sure if he
was joking because, as someone who
wears festival wristbands, it’s obviously
possible it could be true. Anyway I told
him that if he’s that pathetic he prob-
ably should just kill himself already. He
laughed, so I’m guessing it was a joke.
There are many reasons why those
wristbands are bad, firstly, because if
you wear them, it’s usually because you
think it’s a talking point. If you think
going to a really mainstream music fes-
tival that 99% of people under 25 have
been to at least once in their life, with
lots of average bands that everyone has
heard of, really defines who you are,
then you shouldn’t want to advertise it.
At least present yourself with a modi-
cum of mystery and the possibility that
your tastes aren’t completely average.
Festival bands are no different to
those livestrong wristbands people
used to wear to show they aren’t fans of
cancer. No one likes cancer! You don’t
need some sort of accessory to show
this. At least with those the money
you bought it for might actually go to
a cancer charity.
As if to prove my point, at the Laura
Marling gig I turned around and was
face to face with, in the words of Ka-
dhim, the biggest douche-bag in the
world. He was singing along badly to
every single song Laura played, drown-
ing out her angelic voice with his own
football hooligan style burblings, and
yes, he was wearing festival wrist-
bands. Point proven. The guy I was
talking to had to admit defeat. So cut
those festival wristbands off and cut
yourself free.
Top 10 Cover songs
Patti Smith - Gloria (Them)
Her most well known song, with the beginning added lyrics, “Jesus died for some-
body’s sins, but not mine.” Genius.
Jimi Hendrix - All along the watchtower (Bob Dylan)
Did you know this was a cover? I totally didn’t know this was a cover.
Ben Folds - Bitches aint shit (Dr Dre)
Ben Folds captures the subtle emotional nuances of Dr. Dre’s song.
This Mortal Coil - song to the siren (Tim Buckley)
Hauntingly beautiful.
Devo - Satisfaction (the Rolling Stones)
Far more satisfying than the original version.
Florence and the Machine - Postcards from italy (Beirut)
Florence’s voice is so beautiful, I don’t even know what to say about this.
Klaxons - It’s not over yet (Grace)
Rave music is so much better this time around.
Cowboy Junkies - Sweet Jane (the Velvet Underground)
Lou Reed described it as “the best and most authentic version I have ever heard.”
Soft Cell - Tainted love (Gloria Jones)
You know I had to put this on here.
Jose Gonzalez - Heartbeats (the Knife)
Not as good as the original, but a lovely fresh twist on it.
Our other music editor James Houghton refused to let me put Rolf Harris’s cover
of Bohemian Rhapsody - oh yes! It exists! - in the number one spot. Honourable
mentions go to everything by Nouvelle Vague, Neko Case - Christmas card from
a hooker in minneapolis, the Future Heads - hounds of love,
and Joey Ramone - what a wonderful world.
Kadhim Shubber
Flat Sharp
What we think is sounding sharp or falling flat
Asher Roth sings songs
that exemplify the worst
people at university
Lil’ Wayne’s at-
tempts at rock ...
stick to rapping!
Bat For Lashes we
liked your last
album better
The Horrors have
finally made a
good record!
www.gregorynolan.com
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
This week it’s all change in the East
Basement of the Union Building!
After years of planning, lots of building
works and a good deal of heavy lifting,
the Student Activities Centre (SAC)
is moving to its new home. Over the
past couple of terms, there has been
a whole new floor created between
the second and third floors of the main
Union Building specially for this purpose.
The SAC will no longer live in the East
Basement, but will be located on this
new Mezzanine floor - the source of the
mysterious ‘M’ button in the lifts.
The new Student Activities Centre has
been specially designed to be the hub
of all Club & Society administration and
activity. When it opens next week, it
will offer a vastly improved range of
facilities for student officers and Clubs
& Societies. In addition to everything
being brand new and shiny, there will
be more computer terminals, more
pigeonholes, upgraded CSC cubbyholes,
new swivelly chairs, and two break-out
areas perfect for small club discussions,
or CSC Treasurers’ meetings. The
Student Activities Centre has also been
designed to maximise space, and will
offer more lockers for Club & Society
use. In addition to all this, the new SAC
may unwittingly offer additional health
benefits, for, as well as the extra calories
it may take Club & Society officers to
get up the stairs, it will provide previous
basement dwellers with almost shocking
amounts of extra Vitamin E.
The new SAC complex will not only
house the Student Activities Centre,
but will also house the Advice Centre,
so all students will have easy access to
Nigel Cooke, the Student Adviser. The
Membership Services Team, including
Phil Power and Alissa Ayling, the Sport
Partnership Administrator, will have their
new offices next to the SAC.
Looking forward, the improvements
for Clubs & Societies, and students
in general, doesn’t stop here. The
redevelopment is still going on, with
the East Basement to be transformed
into a set of brand new meeting rooms,
and the West wing of the 3rd floor of
the main Union
Building will
become a new
Union Gym – with
mirrors, a sprung
wooden floor
perfect for dancing
and martial arts,
and larger Club
& Society stores.
This final part of
this phase of the
redevelopment will be completed in time
for the new academic year. There will
inevitably more disruption in the short
term while all this work is going on, but it
will, as the new Student Activities Centre
shows, all be worth it in the end.
Introducing the New StudentActivities Centre!
LilyTopham
Deputy President
(Clubs&Societies)
dpcs@imperial.ac.uk
student activities centre
sac
imperialcollegeunion.org/clubs
What are Colours?
Colours are a type of award that Imperial
College Union can give to anybody to
recognise the service, contribution and
dedication of someone to the Union.
There are five types of Colours that
are broadly separated into two groups.
The first three Colours, which are Half
Colours, Full Colours and Outstanding
Service Awards, are awarded in
recognition of one year’s service to the
Union. The other two Colours, which
are Fellowships and Distinguished
Fellowships, are awarded in recognition
of many year’s service to the Union.
Who can be nominated for Colours?
Anybody can be nominated for these
awards, except the Union Sabbatical
Officers and the Felix Editor.
Who can nominate someone for
Colours?
Any Imperial student can complete a
nomination form, but it’s best not to
nominate yourself!
What happens if you are awarded a
Colours
Being awarded a Colours is a great
honour and privilege. Those who receive
these awards are presented with an
award certificate at a ceremony, a tie
or pin, and in the case of the higher
awards a gift like an engraved tankard or
Honorary Life membership of the Union.
The Union keeps a record of all the
people awarded Colours.
What do you need to do to be
awarded a Colour?
To be awarded Half Colours you need
to have made a “positive contribution
to the general life of the Union in an
extraordinary fashion.”
To be awarded Full Colours you have
to “repeatedly, through outstanding
achievements, over the course of the
year, have made a significant contribution
to the life of the Union.”
For an Outstanding Service Award
“you will have displayed continuous
outstanding achievement across a broad
spectrum of Union activities.” Few of
these are given out, only five a year at
most.
The Fellowship and Distinguished
Fellowship awards are much harder
to get as they are are based on the
contribution the awardee has made over
a length of time.
To receive a Union Fellowship award you
need to “have continuously served the
Union in an exceptional manner.” Very
few of these are given out.
To receive a Distinguished Fellowship
you need to have “served the Union in a
selfless and dedicated manner which is
both exceptional and beyond reproach.”
If you don’t know which award to
nominate someone for then choose the
one you feel is appropriate and the Colours
Committee will change if necessary.
Union Colours - Nominations Open Now
How can I nominate someone?
Nominations are open from Tuesday
5 May to midnight Tuesday 26 May
at 12 noon. Nomination forms can be
downloaded from the website and
should be completed and emailed to
colours@imperial.ac.uk.
You’ll have to give the name of the
nominee, the award you are nominating
them for and tell us, in less than 200
words, why you think they should get it.
Also include your name and CID.
What happens then?
Your nominations will be considered
by the Union’s Colours Committee
and then the results will be announced
towards the end of the term in Felix and
successful nominees will be given their
awards at an Colours ceremony in June.

