food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 felix Friday 15 May 2009
Food
Food Editors – Rosie Grayburn & Afonso Campos
Rosie Grayburn
Food Editor
Spring is Here!
Let’s eat things
D
ear Mr Examiner,
I have chosen to write
my dissertation on the
pertinent subject of
“Stuffing Your Face: A
Critical Review of Student Revision
Cuisine circa May 2009”. I selected
this topic because I believe it will sat-
isfactorily fill the editorial-shaped hole
that currently sits on page x of the food
pages this week.
After successfully draining any pos-
sible artistic creativity or wit from my
poor, poor brain over Easter whilst re-
vising for exams, I have thus attempted
to put a spring back in my step by try-
ing out some Quick Revision recipes
for you all. No doubt the best way to
increase productivity while you’re deep
in papers and notes is to make in bulk,
use your fridge and heat up food as
required. Classic bulk bakes are Chilli
Con Carne (or Chilli Non Carne) or a
family-sized dish of lasagne, but here
are some alternatives for y’all to try
out!
Revision Pasta – Cook 1 onion and
a clove of garlic in a dash of oil until
softened. Add a pack of turkey mince
and cook until browned. Then add a
tin of tomatoes, 2 tbsp tomato puree,
2 tbsp of sweetcorn, 1 tbsp of mixed
herbs and chilli powder to taste. Cook
the mixture for 20 minutes and season
So if you’re staring at your empty
fridge in halls, with a tenner in your
pocket, get down to Big Easy. Ten
pounds [incredibly] gets you a large
bowl of 6 very spicy wings with blue
cheese sauce, a huge portion of the
best fries, a deliciously fat burger and a
choice of margarita or beer. Beat that,
Weatherspoons. This is an extremely
impressive amount of food for a mere
ten pounds. Whilst writing this, I have
tried to recreate the size of the burger
using my hands and eat it, thus achiev-
ing some strange looks from onlookers
in the library. Yes, readers – the food
is so good, you can carry on eating it
even when it’s not there anymore. (Im-
agination required.)
If you’re feeling rich and decadent on
a Wednesday, you can spend an extra
£5 and go to town on some Unlimited
Fajitas. Being presented with Big Easy’s
pile of tortillas, guacamole, chicken,
salsa and sour cream must be a similar
feeling to that of winning a gold medal
in the [Fajita] Olympics as your heart
fills with pride, joy and you start crying
Big Easy BBQ and Crabshack
332-334 King’s Road
www.bigeasy.com.uk
Best deals: Repeat after me:
Burger, fries, wings, beer, ten
pounds.
with happiness. I’ve never seen people
ask for a top-up so there’s a challenge
if any of you boys fancy a testosterone
fuelled Fajita match pre-Sports Night.
Other meal deals exist on other days of
the week, including an all-you-can-eat
BBQ on a Monday. Just check the web-
site before you go to see what will be in
your belly later.
Probably due to its reputation for
feeding Princes William and Harry
and their posse, people can be put off
by the often Dolce-clad people that
might be seen lurking inside. Fear not
– it’s not just the playground of the rich
and royal playing at being rustic! The
clientele is mostly West Londoners,
large groups of friends and families. All
in all this makes for a pleasantly noisy
atmosphere which fits with the All-
American image. Big Easy is incredibly
popular so I’d book if you are going on
a Friday or Saturday night. Also, live
music is played each night so you can
gorge on your burger, fries and wings
to the sound of Sweet Home Alabama.
Perfecto.
I
’d bet you that King’s Road
would not be the first place you
would think of for a cheap meal.
However, it seems to be the case
that the eateries lining this mile
of high fashion, Chelsea tractors and
beautiful pedestrians are keen to cater
for people other than those with fifties
in their hand and a Porsche parked on
the curb.
The best of these student-friendly
restaurants sit on the Evelyn Gardens/
South Kensington end of King’s Road.
Opposite the amazing Dumpling and
Noodle Bar and near the gut-busting
Dutch Pancake House sits the legen-
dary crab shack Big Easy. Modelled
on a simple Gulf Coast crab shack,
Big Easy serves every classic Ameri-
can dish you can dream of: wings,
ribs, burger, lobster, pecan pie, waffles,
dunkin’ doughnuts… What makes me
especially happy is the fact that (as pre-
viously noted) Big Easy is more than
happy to cater for those spending £10
just as much as those splurging £100,
as student-loan-friendly meal deals
grace the menu every night of the week
- just make sure you stay clear of the à
la carte… Bye bye loan, hello lobster!
Serves 4
2 tbsp olive oil
1 red onion
2 cloves garlic, crushed
400g cooked potatoes, cubed
150g frozen peas
Handful of mint
200g feta cheese
6 eggs, beaten and seasoned
In a large frying pan, fry the red onion in the oil until soft and
golden. Add the garlic, cooked potatoes and peas. Cook for 3
minutes, or until the potatoes have a bit of colour. Add the mint
and cheese and give the mixture a good stir before adding the
eggs.
As soon as the eggs hit the pan stir them until the mixture is
well coated and the eggs have started to cook. Cook the tortilla
on a low heat for 8-10 minutes then place under a hot grill for 2
minutes to cook the top. Serve in quarters with a big green salad
and a warm baguette.
Feta, Pea and Mint
Tortilla
well. Stir in 300g cooked pasta. Serve
with some salad, if you like. If you’re
making this in bulk, make sure you re-
heat it properly.
Hotpot à la felix – Cook 400g sau-
sages, 100g bacon and a red onion in
1 tbsp oil until well done. Add a tin of
tomatoes. Rinse out the tin with water
and add the tomatoey water too, with
2 tbsp dark sugar. Add a tin of chick-
peas and 2-3 sweet potatoes. Bring to
the boil then bake in the oven for 30
minutes. Serve in a bowl with parsley
and a hunk [of bread]. This can be eas-
ily reheated in the microwave.
Tea Break Cake – For all that work
avoidance, there is nothing better than
a nice homemade cake. Soak 100g rai-
sins in the juice and rind of one orange
for 30 minutes. Meanwhile, melt 125g
butter with 125g light soft brown sugar.
To this mixture add 2 eggs, 3 mashed
bananas, the raisin/orange mix and
200g self raising flour, sieved. Pour all
of this into a greased loaf tin and back
at 170°C for 50 minutes.
Despite being rather recipe-heavy
this week, I couldn’t help adding the
green-themed Tortilla recipe shown
below in honour of the start of Spring
and to remind us that sometimes when
trees turn green, they like to spread
their seed more than a 16 year old chav
from Stockport. Laters, my homies.
Get Stuffed for a Tenner
If not actively ignorant, it seems that
it would be awfully unwise not to start
a discussion on Public Houses with
a brief mention of Orwell’s descrip-
tion of the perfect pub. After all, his
judgement retrospectively is so sound,
that it would be unlikely that his take
on public houses should be anything
less than revelatory (even if decidedly
tongue-in-cheek).
To summarise, Orwell claims that the
perfect pub, which he calls ‘The Moon
Under Water’ is largely equivalent to
its atmosphere. It should be Victorian
(genuinely so) and comfortably ugly. It
is frequented mostly by regulars whose
names the motherly barmaids know. It
serves draught stouts in vessels with
handles. It has a garden for families.
It dispenses good cheap meals. It is
reasonably quiet and has no music or
radio.
It was this set of criteria that led
Wetherspoons to create its chain of
pubs (most of whose names contain
the word ‘moon’). That JD followed the
letter of the law as much as possible
while ignoring the spirit of the it is in
the nature of chain operations, though
I would freely admit it that when it suc-
ceeds, it does tick some spiritual boxes,
too. And it’s absurdly cheap.
I would contend that it is impossible
to conceive, these days, in London, of
anything even moderately approaching
what Orwell described. Firstly, Lon-
doners rarely stay put for very long, so
are continually changing ‘locals’ giving
little opportunity to make any lasting
connection with the motherly bar-
maids. Secondly, the meagre amounts
available for bar work offered by most
establishment tend to preclude any
motherly tendency to call everyone
‘dear’. Thirdly, no-one drinks stouts;
so that where they do occur, they are
likely to be vinegary (they have a very
short shelf-life). Lastly, if any pub did
actually tick a high proportion of these
boxes, it would be rammed full of
ponces like me.
I broadly agree with Orwell, certain-
ly in that atmosphere is key, though I
would insist that the beer is also excel-
lent. But it’s worth noting that modern
concerns mean that priorities have
shifted somewhat. For instance, it is
enough of a battle to get a beer in a
real glass that the desire for a handle
can be dispensed with, or even to get
something served within half an hour.
(Seriously, complain when the Union
won’t give you a proper glass.) For
another instance, barmaids are just as
often barmen these days. For yet an-
other instance, where he asks for no
radio, he would now ask for no televi-
sion. I would argue that music can be
acceptable, though it has to be good,
and a real skill is needed to find exactly
the volume necessary to perfume the
vibe without stinking it out. I would
also add to his analysis that the light-
ing is crucial: it needs to be good and
virtually non-existent. The keyword is
‘comfortable’. What Orwell describes is
what he is comfortable with; a situation
which is familiar to him, and of which
he himself is a familiar inhabitant. In
short, a pub should be a womb.
Unfortunately London does not have
any wombs. But there do exist a small
clutch of pubs (and bars!) scattered far
and wide throughout London which at
least have a little amniotic fluid slosh-
ing about. These include The Wenlock
Arms, (26 Wenlock Road, N1), The
Microbar (14 Lavender Hill, SW11),
The Charles Dickens (SE1 0LH), The
Harp (WC2N 4HS) and The Royal Oak
(SE1 4JU).
A London Guide to Pubs
David Stewart
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
When the director gets it wrong...
There is a fine line between bad and
good, on both sides of the terms.
Naturally, most attention is garnered
by those films which fall in the latter
category, and it is most deservedly so.
But there’s also a lot to be learned by
watching some of the less glorious cin-
ematic achievements that have blessed
(cursed) the screens and the eyes of
man along the years. They shed light
on the whole spectrum of film-making
ability, highlighting the fatal flaws that
ruin the more refined part of the mov-
ie-going experience. Whether it’s hor-
rendous acting, ridiculous writing, un-
focused directing, or a mix of these and
several other factors, the truth is that a
bad film is always to be preferred to a
mediocre one: there’s nothing worse
than being in the middle of the road,
neither good enough to be listened
to, nor bad enough to be laughed at –
filmwise, of course. The only exception
refers to comedies, which are generally
the least enjoyable kind of bad mov-
ies, as recent history has clearly high-
lighted through this swarm of very low
brow parodies that has invaded us in
the new millennium.
With this in mind, it is worth taking a
look at three movies that are generally
acknowledged to be among the worst
ever made and checking whether they
have any redeeming qualities to render
them watchable. While it may be a bit
mean spirited, the truth is that any-
one who can’t laugh about his or her
blunders should re-examine the moral
imperatives of life - and if one cannot
will it to become a universal law, then
perhaps a career change is in order.
Alone in the Dark (2005)
Uwe Boll’s second “hit” is pretty
much defining of most of the German’s
movies. Big budgets, famous actors,
important franchises – all turned into
a pile of rubbish in a highly consistent
fashion. The main problem with Boll’s
works of film is that he tries so desper-
ately to conform to Hollywood stand-
ards and stereotypes, which comes
coupled with generally poor special
effects and tediously uninteresting
scripts. It’s true that simply taking on
a video-game movie (as Boll has so
often done) is a pain in itself as far as
the writing is concerned, but given that
Boll isn’t even that passionate about
staying loyal to the story or the fans
means this excuse doesn’t hold.
It’s difficult for me to say that I’ve en-
joyed any of the German’s disasters. I
find that I have too much respect for
some of the actors that sell their souls
in his projects to relish their failure,
while the writing rarely goes into the
“so bad it’s good category” and main-
tains a fair level of blandness through-
out. Moreover, I sometimes get com-
pletely lost in the messy action directed
by Boll, which can go so far as to make
me close my eyes in the attempt of con-
vincing myself there are no monsters.
So as far as Boll is concerned, watch-
ing one of his films is enough to get an
idea of what you can expect and any
decent human being just has to see at
least one film from the most famous
bad director around – or at least the
historic “fast motion – slow motion in
one scene” bit from Far Cry
On a related matter, I highly rec-
ommend Alone in the Dark II (2008),
which was one of the most delightful
bad movies I have ever seen. Out of re-
spect for it, all I can say is: “Don’t wor-
ry. It only kills the soul, not the body”.
From Justin to Kelly (2003)
Similarly to Gigli, this was one of
those films that quickly rose to fame
because of how bad they were. Basi-
cally, this musical about several col-
lege kids having some fun at a sort of
summer camp was an attempt to make
some money and rush the rise to fame
of two contestants on American Idol. I
could easily go on a rant here in regard
to how much these shows ruin the life
of many good TV series because noth-
ing truly good can compete on equal
grounds with them, and the battle
for ratings just forces the networks to
search for a lowest common denomi-
nator. But I won’t, because somehow I
could ignore this abominable state of
affairs and actually found that From
Justin to Kelly is not the complete dis-
aster I expected it to be.
From a musical labelled among the
worst ever made, I expected tragic
singing performances, because that’s
where its strength lies. However, while
I’m definitely no big fan of traditional
musicals, I couldn’t say that this one
was shockingly more unlikable than
the others I’ve seen. Most of the actors
were even adept enough to keep the
utterly predictable and mostly retard-
ed story flowing without major inci-
dent. Beyond the dancing and the sing-
ing, which didn’t upset me more than
usual, it’s the highly disjointed way
the film comes together that makes it
seem amateurish. Ironically as it may
seem, another twenty minutes to it
would have rounded it into something
that would not have been far beyond in
terms of “real quality” to most medio-
cre films that have come out recently.
As it stands, From Justin to Kelly is lit-
tle more than a bunch of songs strung
together on film.
Some have considered it as one of the
most likable bad movies ever made and
I reckon there is some truth to that: it’s
definitely watchable and at times, a joy
to make fun of.
Manos: The Hands of Fate (1966)
Written, directed and starring Ha-
It seems to me that there has been
a spate of films in 3D recently. Well,
spate isn’t exactly the right word. Off
the top of my head, only Monsters vs.
Aliens and Coraline spring to mind,
but there are more waiting just around
the temporal corner – including a “roc-
kumentary” about the Jonas Brothers...
ugh!
If you’re like me, the mention of 3D
films harks back to a period in the 90s,
when you would go to see cheap, sec-
ond-rate films wearing cheap, second-
rate paper glasses. It was a time when
studios thought that instead of decent
acting or witty scripts, they could pull
in the crowds with gimmicky special
effects. It is a tragedy that an otherwise
good film must suffer because it has
to parade a ropey 3D effect in front of
everything.
With this nostalgia in mind, I was a
little cautious of going to see the above
films – not to mention the fact that
they are aimed at kids when I am at an
age when people begin to call me “sir”.
But I was very pleasantly surprised by
both Monsters vs. Aliens and Coraline.
Monsters vs. Aliens is about a very
normal young woman, Susan (Reese
Witherspoon), who, after an unfortu-
nate accident with a radioactive me-
teorite, grows to become a giantess.
Swiftly captured by the US govern-
ment, she makes friends with the other
“monsters” being held. With the threat
of alien invasion, they are Earth’s last
chance at survival – that or nukes.
The plot doesn’t deviate much from
the established formulas of superhero
and alien films, but it still manages to
be entertaining. What really won me
over, however, was the quirky collec-
tion of characters, each one making
me laugh in their own special way. Of
special note is Dr. Cockroach, a mad
scientist, played by Hugh Laurie, a
mad scientist. Even now, I don’t know
whether Laurie was speaking in his na-
tive accent, or a British impersonation
in his American one.
Coraline is the other 3D film in cin-
emas now. Based on the book by Neil
Gaiman (‘American Gods’, ‘Never-
where’) and directed by Henry Selick
(The Nightmare Before Christmas),
this is a dark tale of an adventurous
yet bored girl as she explores her dull,
boring new home and the fantastic and
wonderful other-world hidden behind
a door in the living room.
Neil Gaiman never does things by
the numbers and his name is a syno-
nym for strange. Coupled with Selick,
it makes for entertaining, exciting
corkscrew of a plot. Coraline (Dakota
Fanning) and her parents are relatively
normal but the other residents in the
apartment complex define and defy
the eccentric. The music and the art-
work are both stunning and this film is
a treat for all the senses. Out of the two
films, this is easily my favourite.
But what of the dreaded third di-
mension? Are these just the bastard
offspring of those horrible 3D films of
my childhood? No. In both films, the
3D effect is used to enhance, not re-
place, the story being told. It’s less in-
trusive and more intuitive. This is how
it should be done.
And the glasses themselves have
rold P. Warren, a fertilizer salesman
from Texas. Now, compared to this
here creation, the previous two titles
don’t stand a chance: Manos succeeds
in surpassing them on all levels, which
makes it a glorious achievement in bad
filmmaking.
While some of its issues clearly arise
from the film’s very low budget, it is
this in the end which provided the
catalyst that turned Manos into a story
for the ages. There are loads of good-
ies to be enjoyed here, from a wonder-
fully weird character called Torgo, with
bulging knees that must have aimed to
inspire fear and terror, to disappearing
children and dogs, as well as a second-
ary storyline that consists of a couple
kissing for hours on end, which has
no connection to the main plot what-
soever – and if you get overwhelmed,
there are always some nice scenic shots
Stefan Carpanu
come a long way as well. Instead of
flimsy paper and acetate that gives you
paper-cuts on your ears, it’s all made of
plastic. As eyewear goes, they’re a bit
tacky but they’re not the reason you
bought the ticket. Modelling them in
the mirror after the film, they remind
vaguely of Buddy Holly.
In summary, I think we may have
finally turned a corner in 3D cinema.
The equipment has improved, and so
have the films – greatly. Even on DVD,
when the 3D effect is lost, these films
will still be a treasure to watch.
Rhys Davies
...and when they get it right...
“Alone in the Dark” ranks 44 on IMDB worst movies list. Wonder why?
The bright colors and blond hair - all blinding after a night in the library
to take your mind of planning holidays
and maybe force you to consider the
monotony of human affairs.
The fact is Manos was a lot of fun
to watch, ranking next to Alone in the
Dark II, as one of the most delightful
bad movies I have ever had the pleas-
ure of seeing. The same way some
films are too good for words, this set of
moving pictures is just about as good
in levels of bad. Even if “the Master
would not approve”, watching Manos
is an imperative for anyone who enjoys
making fun of bad films.
This is Manos: hands of fate!
The terrifying monsters of BOB, Susan and The Missing Link from Monsters vs Aliens
27
Friday 15 May 2009 felix

