felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Continued on page 38
Lacrosse club win ULU
Challenge Cup Final
Time had flown by and following an
undefeated season, Imperial went into
the ULU Challenge Cup final looking
to seal the win. The sun was out and
Sunday looked like it was going to be a
brilliant day to play some cup winning
lacrosse.
Arriving at Teddington, it was appar-
ent that we were going to be up against
somestrongopposition.TheUCLteam
had arrived far earlier and with a long
warm up and bringing along an army
of supporters, looked strong. However,
having already beaten them once al-
ready this year, the Imperial team knew
they could finish the job. Despite hav-
ing to change on the side lines to save
time and having little time to warm up,
at 1.45pm, the game kicked off.
UCL started extremely strongly,
pressuring the defence heavily but
fantastic work from the likes of Sam
Jayaweera, Elsa Butrous and Becky
Singh kept them at bay, denying them
time and time again. Imperial capital-
ised on every missed UCL opportunity
and with UCL unable to deal with the
pace of star scorer Ian Hunt and cap-
tain Akira Fukutomi, the first quarter
ended 3 – 0 to Imperial.
UCL came back with a vengeance in
the second and third quarters and Im-
perial was hard pressed to stay ahead.
The defence proved themselves again,
keeping UCL at bay and the pairing
of Flo Slater and Ian in midfield made
sure that UCL was given no room to
breathe.
Going into the final quarter, Impe-
rial was still ahead but UCL mounted
a formidable offence. Goal opportuni-
ties came thick and fast at both ends,
with 6 year veteran, Chris Allen tow-
ering over the UCL players and keep-
ing the shots at goal going. The final
15 minutes were possibly the longest
experienced by any player, but the fi-
nal whistle was eventually blown and
Imperial emerged victorious, winning
6-5. For the first time in their history,
the Imperial mixed lacrosse team had
secured both the ULU league and the
Challenge Cup, with a completely un-
defeated season.
UCL had provided us with the hard-
est game we had played to date and af-
ter receiving the winner’s medals and
Captain Akira Fukutomi lifting the
Challenge Cup, both teams congratu-
lated each other on an extremely tough
match.
The game provided an absolutely
brilliant end to a fantastic season, both
on and off of the pitch. Despite the
men’s and women’s teams being spread
thinly with their many other additional
league commitments, team solidarity
kept us working well together to finally
bring home the victory. Our many so-
cials and sports nights have been really
important to cement us as both indi-
vidual teams and a club as a whole. It’s
not until you’ve seen someone drink
from a lacrosse stick and then vomit
snakebite out their nose that you truly
get to know them.
This year had been phenomenal
for Imperial Lacrosse. Winning both
the ULU mixed league and Challenge
Cup, putting the women’s team in the
top 16 in the country, the men having
an extremely successful first season,
but most importantly, winning ICSM
Sports Club Of The Year 2008-2009!
We are all looking forward to a new
season of lacrosse in the autumn and
welcoming some new faces to our in-
credible club!
Chris Baldwin
Imperial
students
BUCk Up!
Christina Duffy
Five gold, twenty-eight silver and four
bronze medals were won by Impe-
rial crews at the National Water Sports
Centre in Nottingham last weekend.
This places Imperial fourth in the row-
ing BUCS championship table with 87
points behind overall winners Durham
(184 points). The ICBC team was con-
gratulated by Head of Sport Imperial
Neil Molsey whose boat namesake was
raced in throughout the weekend. 72
individual races by IC crews combined
to a distance coverage of over 288 kilo-
metres, 144 km of which were at race-
pace. There were victories across the
board in all categories and boat types
with gold secured in Mlwt2x, MI2-,
WB1x and MB1x.
In the men’s intermediate pairs
(MI2-) Danny Symmonds and Alex
Gillies claimed the first medals of the
competition for ICBC and cruised
through the opening heat into the
semi-final. The pair lined up in the
final against Durham A, B, C and D
and after hanging back for most of
the race made their killer move within
100 metres to win by 0.12 seconds.
Announcers were aghast at the brutal
acceleration; “Wait… I think… yes!
Imperial have taken the lead, can they
have? Yes… Durham weren’t expecting
this! No one was expecting this.” The
duo was cool coming off the water at-
tributing their win to “sheer skill”. The
men’s lightweight double of Adam
Freeman-Pask and Oli Mahony took
pole position in their heat by 12.67
seconds. Durham again put up a good
effort sacrificing Durham A, B and C
to the IC crew in the final. When asked
afterwards if it was a tough race there
was much laughter: “No.”
With such a vast quantity of entries
there was little time between races and
several athletes had to sprint straight
from one boat to another. The women’s
intermediate quad (WI4x: Stainthorp/
Duffy/Philips/Bromley) had to ignore
impatient Marshals’ urging the crew
The winning mixed team pose with the impressive trophy

