4 felix Friday 15 May 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 15 May 2009 felix
News
T
his year’s budget alloca-
tions hasn’t gone with-
out its usual suspicion of
foul play and corruption.
Every year the £360,000
that is allocated to the over 300 clubs
and societies at Imperial College Un-
ion has always generated some tension
between the clubs, with some getting
more than others and with some get-
ting less than they had in the previous
year.
Accusations are thrown about every
year of favouritism and unfair treat-
ment of clubs who consider themselves
more important than other. These ac-
cusations are normally nothing more
than students being upset at not get-
ting what they want, but this year there
seems to be some validity behind the
accusations. The Chairman and Treas-
urer of the Athletics Clubs Committee
(ACC), the body that is responsible for
the numerous sports teams at Impe-
rial, have been accused of extreme fa-
vouritism over their own clubs when it
came to allocating budgets for the next
academic year.
Samuel Furse, who is ACC Chair is
also the Chair of the Riding and Polo
Club, whilst Joseph Lees is the ACC
Treasurer and Chair of the Imperial
Vectors, the basketball club at ICU.
Both of these clubs saw their budget
increase by over £2,000 compared to
the previous year, and since the two
people that have a large influence on
the eventual outcome on the budget
are the Chair and Treasurer, it is not
surprising that there have been accusa-
tions thrown about. At the same time,
ICU Football Club, who have been in
the spotlight over their actions at Ham-
mersmith earlier this year, saw a £2,000
reduction in their budget, specifically
in the travel section.
When questioned over their deci-
sions, Mr Furse told felix that:
“I did not do the allocations at any
stage of Phase II of budgeting for the
riding and polo club, and Joseph the
same for Basketball, we did the other’s,
and this as well as the allocations made
was verbally agreed as fair by a well-in-
formed CSC colleague who possesses
no ACC membership.”
Mr Furse went on to explain that “In
the last three years, as treasurer (06-
07) and chair (07-09) of riding & polo I
have more than doubled the member-
ship of the club. The costs of ground
hire have gone up by 25% (we are not
able to train at any other yard under
BUCS rules, and no other yard in the
SE of England could cope with our
numbers) to £25ppph, still a significant
discount on the prices paid by ordinary
members of the public. We have also
introduced polo as an activity as it is
otherwise no longer available to IC
students since they are no longer UL.
The club’s funding has not increased
to help with any of these factors – in
fact our ground hire was cut last year
and no explanation was given, despite
at least two requests.”
“If the Riding and Polo club were to
be funded as it was per person three
years ago, the club would receive an
annual budget of around £19k from
the ACC. The ground hire award for
09-10 to Riding & polo was 55% of the
I
CU prides themselves on their
clubs and societies. Without
question, in my opinion, the one
thing the union does well is sup-
port, fund and encourage the
participation of the student population
into extra curricular activities.
For most it is a light relief from re-
lentless exams and coursework dead-
lines which make the ‘university expe-
rience’ slightly less exciting at IC than
at other universities. Hence I don’t
think university students should be
complaining about the state of the fi-
nancial and organisational conundrum
that the union faces, but we should
support and get involved in finding
a better solution. I say this from ex-
perience. It is often the case whereby
someone will step up to the mark, put
their hand up and take the lead only
to find that they then become isolated
from the minions and therefore have
to make individual decisions which are
not necessarily the popular ones. Here
we have this situation where Furse and
Lees have taken on selfless responsibil-
ity for the benefit of others, have made
decisions that they think are correct
and are now being criticised for it. Well
I believe that the ACC has been run
superbly this year up to now, and the
criticism should be coupled with some
constructive analysis.
The current set-up requires clubs to
fill in a budget, submit it to the ACC (or
equivalent) who then make informed
decisions how much each club should
be granted, based purely on a spread-
sheet of numbers from each treasurer.
Firstly, we have a problem with clubs
getting wise to this set-up and in ex-
treme circumstances budgets of tens
of thousands of pounds are submitted;
hence even a subsidy of just a few per-
cent is substantial.
Secondly, the ACC executive com-
mittee have to make decisions based
purely on the incoming budget, but
often there may be other contributing
factors. For example personal interest
in certain clubs may result in biased
budgeting, and certain reputations of
clubs may result in their budget being
cut. Both of these circumstances are
unfair and unprofessional. But that is
where the problem is – we are not em-
ploying professionals. We are voting
in volunteers (often from only a very
small selection of people who are will-
ing to do the job) who do not neces-
sarily have any budgeting experience at
all, yet we trust them to deal with the
distribution of substantial amounts of
the union’s money. The DPCS could,
and maybe should, have a bigger part
to play in this after being provided with
training… but it still comes down to
opinionated students with little experi-
ence and vested interests.
My first idea is to make the budget-
ing system more scientific. I would bet
that everyone at IC can put together a
spreadsheet that takes into account all
the facts and figures and will quickly
pop out a fair subsidy per head. Sec-
ondly why not get some financial ad-
vice in. I have been reliably informed
that the union has external financial
advisors. Why not use them?
Lastly, I think that clubs and socie-
ties need to be categorised, and hence
funded depending on an agreed status.
Lets say if I joined Knit Sock for exam-
ple, I would not expect the £50-£100
subsidy that most sports clubs receive,
and further I do not think that riding
and polo can be classed in the same
league of sports as rounders. The ex-
penses of all these clubs are different
and hence there needs to be some flex-
ibility when assigning them money.
ICU pride
themselves on
Clubs & Socs
Jack Cornish
Sports Editor
Corruption found
within the ACC
request, the ACC standard was 70%.
Basketball have been underfunded too,
and have suffered from successive poor
senior officers however have really im-
proved this year, falling short of their
membership target by only one mem-
ber. The target was also a lot higher
than previous years and is a medium-
sized ACC club. Riding has gone from
being a medium-small club to being a
large ACC club.”
Riding and Polo is, as expected, an
expensive sport for individuals to take
part in, especially with the costs of rent-
ing horses and having lessons. The ar-
gument that always exists is how much
of that cost should the members pay?
Clubs which do not have such a high
running cost, such as ICU and ICSM
Rugby, charge £70 and £60 respectively
for membership a year, which they use
for various travel costs, coaching and
competition entry. IC Rugby, which
now has the biggest slice of the ACC
cake, have had between £110 and £123
per head over the last few years, or for
every pound membership they get be-
tween £1.57 and £2.47 back in subsidy,
with this years figure being £1.57.
Other more financially demanding
sports, such as IC Boat Club charge
£75 membership to cover their ex-
penses. On top of such a high mem-
bership fee, the members also have
to pay to go to training and matches,
costing anything up to £10 a week per
player. Imperial College Hockey Club
have a similar set up, charging £45 a
head, however, each individual has to
buy their own hockey stick and shoes,
which can cost anything up to £280.
In contrast to the costs of these
clubs, the Riding and Polo Club charge
their members £35 a year. With such
a low cost, it is not surprising that
74 people signed up to the club to go
horse riding every week. Asked wether
or not they would increase the mem-
bership fees to cover the high running
costs of the sport, Mr Furse replied
N
ot enough money and
not enough space. They
are the two biggest
complaints that you get
from the 300 or so clubs
and societies at Imperial. ICU has
more than any other students’ union
in the country and they are the best
funded, apparently. The facilities and
services available to the students are
second to none, yet we still seem to
have problems, with clubs consistently
complaining of not enough money or
space. What has the Union done, or are
planning on doing?
“I would say that money and space
are the two biggest things that will al-
ways affect a club or society. Those are
the two things that will always affect
clubs no matter what state the economy
is in. It is an issue, and it will always be
an issue.
” - Lily Topham
We continue our journey through
the pillars of university life. Social life
and Clubs & Societies are almost in-
terlinked; if you take part in a club or
society you are bound to meet like-
minded people and thus the bonds of
friendship develop. Take a look at the
Union on a Wednesday night, packed
full of sports teams all socialising and
having a good time. But what happens
when you’re part of a club that fails to
function properly, or, what could be
seen as even worse, finds it hard to
function properly because of financial
constraints?
One of the things that I do agree with
Lily is that running the ACC clubs is
expensive. “If we got rid of the ACC,
the financial problem here would be a
lot easier, but that’s never going to hap-
pen.” She went on to say that:
“The SCC (Social Clubs Commit-
tee) has the largest number of clubs
and they are by far the least funded out
of all the CSCs at Imperial. They get
about £4,000 a year whilst some clubs
such, as the Boat Club are asking for
£6,000 in their appeal, which is more
than the whole of the SCC.”
Sports clubs are expensive to run, but
could Sport Imperial maybe do more?
It seems that the Unions resources
and finances are primarily used to
promote and improve participation
in the clubs. But what happens when
they are good and need more money
to get better. Well that’s where Sport
Imperial step in, however, it seems
that their level of involvement is incre-
mental. Clubs such as the Boat Club,
who bring in more points than the rest
“Next year’s budgeted membership fee
is £50 (up from £35), with a target of
65 members (same target as this year).
Members bear a huge cost for both rid-
ing and polo. The latter costs £50ppph,
the former £25ppph for flatwork,
£35ppph for jumping. The average
member spends around £500/year on
riding (with subsidy), with members
of the BUCS teams spending upwards
of £800 (with subsidy). Regular polo
players spend around £1,400/year with
subsidy. The maximum subsidy any
one person could get in a year is £200,
but in practice this is rare.”
Whereas the Riding and Polo Club
have been meeting their membership
targets for the past few year, the other
clubs in the spotlight have not. For the
past four years, the Basketball club has
failed to reach their membership tar-
get which has meant that a percentage
of the grant that was assigned to them
has always been lost. The amount
lost has been as high as £1,250 which
would then go into the ICU Exec re-
serves fund which is used for funding
Union projects. This money however,
could have been used to subsidise oth-
er clubs, so the decision to increase the
budget for a club that has not met it’s
membership target for several years is
even more puzzling to some club com-
mittee members.
When asked about the suspicious
increase in the Basketball funds Mr
Furse told felix that “The club has been
the victim of successive poor senior
management and has paid the price
through budget cuts, but has turned
a corner this year and has more mem-
bers than it has had for years. I am sat-
isfied that the costs incurred have been
justified for the grant allocated.”
One problem that all Club and Soci-
eties Committees (CSC) have, includ-
ing the ACC, is the lack of money and
space that is available to them. With so
many clubs and not enough money, it
is always inevitable that some clubs will
not get what they ask for, the problem
is that do the people who make the de-
cisions make an impartial decision on
who should have a larger proportion
of the cake? More importantly has the
relationship between the ACC Chair
and Treasurer led to them both siding
favourably to each others clubs?
When asked if there was enough
money available to the ACC from ICU,
Mr Furse simply replied “No!”. He went
on to explain that “It would be reason-
able to request as much as £280-300k
subsidy for the ACC based on our
costs (the total cost is around £1.25m
including facilities) however it would
be unrealistic.”
The problems continue even further
for Mr Furse with accusations of un-
even distribution of funds within the
Riding and Polo Club. Alex Sevell, Rid-
ing and Polo Treasurer, informed the
Union that he was not allowed to do
the budget for the club and that the
submitted budget favoured the riding
side quite heavily.
Mr Sevell told felix that “the Treas-
urer should play a big part in the bud-
getting in any club. I did not feel I was
given this opportunity, in fact after an
initial draft I felt actively excluded from
the process and my concerns about
how Riding and Polo were portrayed in
the proposal, seemingly downplaying
polo significantly, were, as far as I can
tell, either dismissed or ignored.”
Christian Carter, Imperial College
Union Deputy President (Finance &
Services) told felix that the ACC budg-
et allocations were “totally ridiculous”
and that “we will be dealing with budg-
ets in the next CSB [Clubs and Socie-
ties Board] on the 26th May.”
Several questions arise from this
whole affair. Should the ACC consti-
tution, or any CSC constitution, be
changed to not permit club chairs to
stand for their governing body posi-
tions? How much should individuals
contribute financially and how much
should the Union? Should the budget-
ing process be changed or inspected
more closely or, will the Union be too
lazy to do anything about it? Or could
it be, as this reporter thinks, that we
have too many clubs and that we actu-
ally can’t fund all the clubs as fairly as
they would all like to be?
Basketball and Riding & Polo societies have both received a
£2,000 grant increase from the Union for 2009-10. The two
clubs are respectively chaired by the ACC Treasurer and Chair,
leading Editor-in-Chief Jovan Nedić to investigate
Are there too many Clubs
& Societies at Imperial?
Editor-in-Chief, Jovan
Nedić, interviews
the Deputy President
(Clubs & Societies),
Lily Topham, to find
out her views
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW7 3ES
(1 Minute walk from
South Kensington Tube)
CASH ONLY
‘Still the best student
offer in South
Kensington!’
ONLY BY EXPERIENCED STYLISTS
£26* ..... LADIES
£20 ..... MEN
*£36 with Blowdry
Telephone 0 2 0 7 8 2 3 8 9 6 8
w w w. f r e s h h a i r d r e s s e r s . c o . u k
NOW 10% DISCOUNT ON ALL
COLOURING SERVICES
ACC Chair Samuel Furse at the ACC Dinner and Joseph Lees (inset)
“felix: Do you
think the Union
gives enough
money to the
ACC?
Sam Furse, ACC
Chair: No!” “[The ACC
budget
allocations
are] totally
ridiculous” -
Christian Carter,
Deputy President
Finance &
Services
The facts and figures
Riding and Polo					
		 2005/06		 2006/07		 2007/08		 2008/09		 2009/10
Membership £15.00		 £26.50		 £30.00		 £35.00		 £50.00
Members 32/35		 56/35		 81/45		 74/45		 ??/65
Grant		 £6,843.80 £6,712.22 £7,450.13 £7,878.33 £9,935.80
Per Head £195.54		 £191.78		 £165.56		 £175.07		 £152.86
Per Pound £13.04		 £7.24		 £5.52		 £5.00		 £3.06
Basketball					
		 2005/06		 2006/07		 2007/08		 2008/09		 2009/10
Membership £20.00		 £35.00		 £35.00		 £40.00		 £40.00
Members 32/38		 32/38		 31/40		 49/50		 ??/50
Grant		 £5,485.63 £5,269.17 £5,093.98 £5,090.40 £7,096.46
Per Head £144.36		 £138.66		 £127.35		 £101.81		 £141.93
Per Pound £7.22		 £3.96		 £3.64		 £2.55		 £3.55
Rugby					
		 2005/06		 2006/07		 2007/08		 2008/09		 2009/10
Membership £40.00		 £50.00		 £50.00		 £70.00		 £70.00
Members 50/70		 76/75		 86/75		 100/75		 ??/85
Grant		 £11,293.41 £11,633.13 £10,624.55 £11,079.12 £11,009.00
Per Head £161.33		 £155.11		 £141.66		 £147.72		 £129.52
Per Pound £4.03		 £3.10		 £2.83		 £2.11		 £1.85
Per head = Grant/Members		
Per pound = (Grant/Members)/Membership Cost
i.e. what do you get for every £1 membership?
of the clubs combined, get a lot from
the College. A boat house, boats, Ol-
ympic gold medallists as coaches, the
list goes on! It seems that it will take
some time before another club will get
the same level of involvement as Boat,
but they do help along the way, all you
need to do is ask! Need money to get
to a BUCS final? Ask them and they
will help. Need a physiotherapist for
your matches? Apply to the Develop-
ing Excellence Scheme and you might
get one! It’s that easy!
So yes, sports clubs are expensive to
run, but so are some of the outdoor
clubs especially if you think of some of
the equipment they need, such as ca-
noes! On one hand you really do have
the financial constraints that clubs
have, but they have it every year and
they seem to scrape through. The oth-
er problem is space.
Outdoor sports need grounds on
which they can play and Harlington
is only one solution for the numer-
ous outdoor clubs. Harlington is also
free for all those clubs and all they
have to pay are travel costs, which can
cost anything up to £20,000 a year per
club. The indoor ones, well they have
Ethos, which they have to pay for, but
at least they don’t have to pay for trans-
port costs because it’s right next to our
campus. Ethos, however, can only hold
so many and so some clubs are going
to have to travel farther afield. But the
problem doesn’t seem to lie just with
the sports teams:
“Currently, clubs can use College
facilities for their activities. But you
have two different types of facilities,
those that need a lot of space, such as
the sporting types, and then those that
need smaller meeting rooms. We defi-
nitely have enough space for meeting
in, although the Union struggled with
it this year,” said Ms Topham.
To me, this seems that we are actu-
ally reaching a saturation point if you
will. We are running out of money to
give to the clubs, which can be seen by
the table on the opposite page where
the amount of money given per head
has decreased across the board, well
apart from the scandalous one! How-
ever it was something that Lily said
that confused me:
“There’s obviously a limit of sensible
activities that students can do, so we
might be reaching a limit in that sense.
I think it’s easy to look at room book-
ings and say that we’re chocker block
and that we’ve got to a stage where we
can’t sustain anymore. I think the Un-
ion just has to be more imaginative in
the way they accommodate them!”
To me this says that we should be
spending more money to create the
space for the clubs. Why are we not
curtailing the growth? If we don’t have
the space, we slow down the rate at
which we create new clubs and simply
try to optimise what we already have.
Regarding the creation of new clubs,
Lily did say, and I agree with her on this
as I’ve been to a few of them (thought I
might as well do some proper investi-
gation work!):
“I think that actually, at Imperial, we
can congratulate ourself on having so
many of clubs because its backed up
by having such a high student partici-
pation. We do actually quite severely
scrutinise the new clubs before we put
them through to make sure they last
and we make sure that we have enough
resources to support them. At the same
time we do try and make sure that peo-
ple’s interests aren’t ignored.”
Personally I think that we do have
too many clubs. It will be very difficult
to get rid of a lot of them without any
strong evidence and trying to merge
them, no matter how easy it will make it
to run them, might ultimately lead to a
conflict of characters within the clubs.
What I think really needs to be done is
a review. Let’s have a look at the mem-
bership over the last few years, and if
they haven’t reached their targets, then
as Lily puts it “that’s something that
should be taken into consideration at
budgeting for the next financial year
really!”
Let’s also see how much the individ-
uals have to put in to take part, which
will be very hard to do. With that infor-
mation, we will be able to have a better
picture of what the proper expendi-
tures of the members and the clubs re-
ally are and we can make an informed
decision on the budgets.
We have so many successful clubs
at Imperial who need a fair finance
system to let them compete. We have
a very strong arts life at Imperial, we
have a strong and vibrant Dance soci-
ety, we have a Big Band and sympho-
nietta that win national competitions
and sports teams that are the best in
the country.
Doesn’t the Union owe it to the suc-
cessful clubs and societies to make
sure that they don’t go under during
this difficult time, or will they let them
fall just to satisfy some smaller ones?
Hangman: ACC Chair and Treasurer in expenses claim. Page 35

