comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 15 May 2009 felix
Comment
8 felix Friday 15 May 2009
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
Dan Wan needs his USBs and Ipod back. Please?
“Are you that
ruthless you
don’t mind
letting someone
else lose a part
of their degree
that you’re
striving to?”
I
have had a truly dire week. A col-
lection of events has turned my
general indifference on life into
despair. I’m pretty much ready
to murder a small animal, cook
it, and force-feed it to a child. There’s
some fellow shaking his leg in front of
me as I sit in the library, and the only
thing holding me back from going over
and jabbing my compass into his legs
is the fact I don’t have a compass. Stop
shaking your leg, you prick.
So where do I start? I mean, who do
I point the finger at first? O2, normally
a reliable broadband provider, decide
it’d be hilarious if they trickled a mini-
mal internet connection to my house.
I can’t check Facebook for two whole
hours, and my social life is reduced to
eating cold spaghetti hoops in my bath
tub every night for the next week. Not
so bad you might say. I hear you loud
and clear: a cold bathtub, bits of proc-
essed pasta and a tomato sauce un-
doubtedly full of preservatives are ac-
tually the three things Barack Obama
cannot live without. And look where
he is now.
Then my laptop died on its feet (it
doesn’t have feet). In a mid-contract
crisis, broadband had nervous break-
down and moved out. Apparently. My
laptop decided it couldn’t live without
broadband. Without it, it is useless in
its only function as a means of stream-
ing terabytes of porn, and some occa-
sional coursework submissions. So it
gave up and died, only for broadband
to return the next day a little apologetic
and remarkably healthier than ever. It
was like a poor version of that Romeo
and Juliet scene, but after this scene,
I was left bricking it as I remembered
each file and folder I’d lost.
Withoutmylaptopforentertainment,
I decided to break the Imperial mould,
and socialise; by visiting some friends.
Fuck that, I lie. I went over to steal
some coursework off them I hadn’t re-
ally bothered to do prior to this whole
episode. Instead of a lovely evening of
banter and all around nothing, I spend
the night listening to their neighbours
and end up being banned from mak-
ing any sort of noise (apparently to en-
hance the listening-to-neighbours ex-
perience). All we can hear through the
wall is screaming, slamming of doors,
furniture being thrown, and two dogs
going absolutely mental. So with the
aching fear that some sort of massacre
was going on metres away from me,
added to the possibility we might be
next for a butchering, we called the po-
lice. Twice. I’ve never called 999 (never
mind twice), but I’m hoping I made a
difference or saved someone from any
sort of harm when I did. I never found
out what was actually going on next
door.
Now, here is where things really start
going wrong. 12th of May, and it is a
Monday evening. I’m happily (not
so happily) doing some work in G27
Computer Lab in the Sir Alexander
Fleming Building, otherwise affec-
tionately known as the SAF. Someone
really important to me comes in, and
I need to leave the room to turn an oth-
erwise failing week into an acceptable
one. In the time I’m absent from the
room, someone comes into the room,
goes through my bag I left by my com-
puter, and steals my Ipod and two USB
sticks.
When my laptop died holding my en-
tire music library, personal photos, all
my coursework from the last two years
of university, and every single article
I’ve ever written for Felix on it, I wasn’t
too bothered. Mainly because the fact
Facebook holds nearly all the photos I’d
lost. But also the fact that I had all my
music on my Ipod anyway. And also
the fact I had all my coursework and
Felix articles on those two USB sticks.
Now do you get where I’m coming
from when I feel like I want to murder
those small animals, cook it, force-feed
it to a child, then break down in tears
remembering the loss of nearly all the
things that have been necessitating my
life to run within normality for the past
two years?
What kind of person comes into the
computer rooms at ten in the evening,
and pilfers other people’s bags. I’d ex-
pect that to happen back home in Wat-
ford, my shithole of a hometown. Not
at university, especially a university
where everyone should have their head
screwed on all the way.
I acknowledge the fact I’m majorly
to blame here. I shouldn’t have left
my Ipod in my bag whilst I left the
room, but for the reasons I needed
to leave the room, I would have left a
lot more there. Beyond that, I doubt
anyone would expect something like
this to happen in College, where eve-
ryone leaves their possessions around
carelessly.
So here’s a message to whoever the
protagonist in this life-reducingly dis-
graceful behaviour is. I hope you’re
reading.
I can understand why you’d take my
Ipod. It’s probably not worth much, it
was a 4th generation Ipod and looked
like it’d survived a go in a blender, but
I can still understand why you took it.
But why take my USB memory stage
sticks? They were both free, and prob-
ably worth absolutely nothing to you;
but the contents on the sticks were so
valuable to me. Isn’t it clear that as a
student, I’d have important course-
work or dissertations on it? Are you
that ruthless you don’t mind letting
someone else lose a part of their degree
that you’re similarly striving to gain?
Well, I hope you’re happy whoever
you are. The joke is on you though. As
shit as I feel being forced to be in the
library into the small hours of the night
doing work now, how shit are you go-
ing to feel when they identify you on
that night’s CCTV footage. Both Impe-
rial College Security Services and the
Metropolitan Police are now involved,
just to let you know.
So, how’s this for a deal: you anony-
mously hand-in the Ipod and most
importantly the USB memory sticks to
the SAF reception, no questions asked,
and I won’t pursue the theft. The SAF
reception will not be notified about
any sort of hand-in (and I doubt they
read felix), it will look like any other
lost property hand-in, and I get my
some of my life back. Please.
T
ell me Annabel, while
you were masturbat-
ing with self-satisfaction
over your poignant/tear-
jerking rebuttal of the
original speculation, did it not occur
to you that a response worth publish-
ing should have included a point? By
which I mean among all the meaning-
less deconstruction, unfunny reaction
and unintentional irony, perhaps, just
for giggles and shits, there could have
been a purpose for wasting the read-
ers time? I searched the entirety of last
week’s 700+ word drivel, admittedly
falling into a mild coma halfway after
OD’ing on tedium, but was unable to
find a crux, conclusion or anything
even placidly amusing (aside from the
chronology of quotations taken from
my article, each followed by inconse-
quential, unintelligent comments that
confirm a fundamental misunder-
standing of satirical prose).
Indeed, given the extent to which
Annabel Slater analysed my words on
such a serious level, the only plausible
deduction is that she has acute emo-
tional retardation or a face that sug-
gests her mother had a loud bark, or
both. Remember, one has to face the
problem even if the problem is one’s
face. Imperial College’s men are so
academically successful because girls
like her give us another reason to stay
in and study every night.
For anyone else distressed by my
writing; I recommend Johnson’s ‘No
more Tears’ Baby Shampoo. This will
guarantee and end to whiny mono-
logues about Felix writers insulting
people. If you still feel victimised, there
is a terrific webpage on the Connex-
ions site entitled ‘Dealing with Bullies’.
If you want to beat the bullies some of
the best things for you to try are:
• Tell someone you trust - what about
a teacher, parent, carer or friend? Did
you tell your carer someone was writ-
ing in the Felix being mean about
people? When you talk to someone
about your problems, they halve!
Sharing is caring!
• Try to ignore the person bullying
you. This is an excellent time for you
to become a missing person.
• Try and stay in a group and avoid
going places by yourself, that way you
are not such an easy target. Those Fe-
lixes won’t dare try anything when
your internet ‘penpals’ have your
back!
•Make sure that your body language
is confident and stand tall. You prob-
ably already have a shallow sense of
self-confidence now that geographi-
cal convenience has forced others to
be your friends. If you decided that
university would be a ‘fresh start’
,
you are probably a loser.
• Keep a diary of what happens, who
was involved, when it was and what
they did.
This one is a pisstake. Here is what
your diary might look like.
Dear Diary -
What happened: I read a satirical
article in the newspaper and almost
had my menopause, that’s how much
it upset me! I felt inclined to write a
response defending all those with XX
chromosomes by pointlessly decon-
structing every sentence he wrote.
Who was involved: Some guy called
the‘Rogue’(whatkindofjeb-endnames
themselves after the ‘Satirical Rogue’
from Hamlet - remaining anonymous
in order to freely express his views…
oh yes somebody who understands the
value of satire in commentary).
When it was: The incident occurred
mid-march. It took a lot of awkward,
pasty sex before I had the courage
to write a bunch of dry, worthless
remarks.
What they did: The Rogue used lan-
guage that suggests he was trying to
make people laugh, through parody
and blanket statements, exaggeration
and lampoon. I knew the only funny
thing that could ever come out of my
mouth is his cock, so I went for the
‘systematic’, ‘bitter’, and ‘systematically
bitter’ angle and patted myself on the
back.
I can imagine Annabel and her kind
quivering with anticipation to label me
an odious, misogynistic freak. Once
again, despite hints among the parody,
the point has been missed. For her
benefit, and anyone else who is still
crying into their pillow /doing extra
sets in the gym/ menstruating early as
a result of reading my words - my at-
tempt to explain ‘satire’ may put it all
in context;
Clip and Carry; The Rogue’s quick
Guide to Satire
A literary manner which blends a
critical attitude with humour. This is a
typical and reasonable definition of the
style of writing that has existed since
the 2nd Millennium BC - as a tool
where wit is employed to criticize. The
best definitions of satire should be for-
mulated from a combination of its cor-
rective intent and its literary method of
execution – exaggeration and sarcasm
are some of the tools exploited by the
writer. The true satirist is conscious of
the frailty of institutions of man’s de-
vising and attempts through laughter
to inspire a change of scenery. In other
words, all phrases, hyperbole and im-
plications are not intended to offend
but rather to amuse, while subtly sug-
gesting an adjustment on whatever the
object of disapproval may be. Satire
need have no moral lesson or didactic
purpose, yet the essence of satire is ag-
gression or criticism through ridicule,
and criticism (as opposed to existen-
tialistic nihilism) has always implied a
measure of good and bad.
Woo woo! Here comes the clue train,
last stop is you. By analysing every sa-
tirical exaggeration I made Annabel
has achieved little except reveal her
lack of humour. By the way, it isn’t par-
ticularly challenging to make phrases
sound inane by placing them out of
context. For example, and I hate to
quote quotes, the most idiotic section
of the response (and there were a lot
to choose from) was the implication
that I have pigeon-holed every girl at
Imperial into either one that ‘walks
past you’ or ‘looks at you and walks
past you’. Very shrewd, except that
clearly wasn’t what I was contending,
it was just an observation of attitudes
(and the fact she describes people one
passes on the walkway as ‘strangers’
rather than ‘fellow university goers’ in-
sinuates her frightening lack of social
skills. Was she recently raped, or does
she prefer to meet people on World of
Warcraft?). And even more aggravating
is Annabel’s uproarious comment slyly
poking fun at the fact I use ‘big words’.
The irony is her article was bursting
with grammatical faults and attempts
to use clever language that consistently
fall short. Don’t believe me? Re-read
the FIRST sentence; ‘Imperial full of
plain Janes with delusional perceptions
of self-worth, shallow brains.’ An open-
ing sentence with no verb – it’s tragic,
like tripping over the first hurdle at the
Paralympics.
If her words were people, I would
embrace their genocide. Indeed, if her
words were people, she still wouldn’t
have any friends. And to anyone else
who still doesn’t get it; it’s high time
you piped down.
PS. Annabel was desperate to know if
I had female friends. I’ll have you know
I have over 37 Facebook ‘friends’, some
of whom claim to be female. Suck it.
The Rogue gives his reply to Annabel Slater
“If her words
were people, I
would embrace
genocide [and]
she still wouldn’t
have any
friends”
W
hen Professor Ger-
shon Carbuncle,
D.D. and the Rev-
erend Willoughby
Trisket, two of the
nation’s most respected theologians,
meet to engage in the sort of feast of
reason and flow of soul that character-
ises men of a high and noble calling,
there is bound to be a certain coldness
in the air. After all, have not Prof. Car-
buncle’s papers on Anatolian mono-
physitism directly undermined the
Rev. Trisket’s attempts to revive an in-
terest in Nestorian Christology? Could
the Reverend’s last sermon to the an-
nual convocation of East Anglian vic-
ars be seen in any other light than as
a direct attack on the interpretation of
Psalm 137 so vehemently advocated by
Professor Carbuncle?
The meal begins in silence, with only
the occasional half-hearted pleasantry
to interrupt the distinctive sound of
two mustachioed men angrily imbib-
ing soup. A snide dig at the ethics of
the first Nicean council made over the
roast beef and potatoes leads to an
incendiary remark on the sexual pre-
dilections of those in holy orders, and
before long the language has descend-
ed to a level unbecoming of two men of
such theological distinction. It is at this
point in the proceedings that the Rev.
Trisket pours his glass of claret onto
his adversary’s lap, and Prof. Carbun-
cle knocks off the reverend’s glasses
with an expertly-pitched bread roll.
After a brief metaphysical alterca-
tion, and just as he is about to pin the
Reverend’s ear to the floor with a fish
knife, the Professor graciously con-
cedes on an issue concerning Genesis
1:3. The Reverend, with his free hand
closing around a stainless silver candle-
stick, is forced to regretfully mumble
assent. As the battered duo sheepishly
help each other to their feet, they settle
the bill and part ways with a newfound
meekness, the Reverend solemnly rais-
ing an indented bowler as the Professor
waves with his remaining good hand.
Their sudden rapprochement on the
issue of Creation is echoed regularly
throughout the land, with scholars
concluding in virtual unanimity that
in creating the Universe the Almighty
was absolutely onto a Good Thing. In
particular, peer-review committees
have long applauded the decision to
take a day off after six days of what
was, it must be admitted, pretty in-
tensive construction work. It had, of
course, previously occurred to other
gods to create their own days - with
some even possessing the narcissism to
name them after themselves - but none
had taken the action to such inspired
heights. Odin must have felt pretty
silly, at that point, to have laid claim
to a piece of the weekly real estate of
no possible use to anyone. Frigga was
doubtless perfectly livid to have her
namesake reduced to a mere harbin-
ger of the weekend; in the same way
as minor celebrities who are the talk of
the town when they move in to no. 24
Adenough Avenue have an unbounded
resentment for the A-list couple who
move in at no. 26.
It is precisely this sort of forward
thinking and profound understand-
ing of the needs of the marketplace
that have assured our Lord the en-
during fanbase he enjoys today. In a
recent poll conducted by The Lonely
Shepherd newsletter, as a part of their
three-week ‘The Almighty - A Top Ten’
series, the weekend was found to be
the undisputed favourite of the Lord’s
achievements; followed by his work on
the Resurrection and that frightfully
clever solo business with the Red Sea.
It fills one with a sense of inestima-
ble gratitude to the Powers That Be to
jolt out of bed at 07:00 on a Saturday
morning and to have the delicious re-
alization slowly flood over one that
one’s bed is a safe haven for at least a
few hours more. The Saturday lie-in
must rank among the most glorious of
human discoveries. I can imagine that
Chadwick and Walton may have ap-
proached such divine heights of ecstasy
on the Thursday they finally managed
to split the atom, but it is more likely
that even this must have paled in com-
parison to their reactions when sleep-
ing in on the following Saturday.
The sudden shock of discovering
that it is Saturday morning is enough
to startle ruthless dictators out of their
blood frenzy, encourage pillagers to
hold off their pillaging until further
notice, and cause the most sordid and
inhuman of murderers to roll over and
drowsily mumble their way back to
sleep. Upset consciences and tortured
souls achieve a moment of quiet in the
early hours of the weekend, when the
sum of their troubles involves finding
the snooze button on the alarm.
Unless I am mistaken you too, gentle
reader, are about to go into a weekend
- if not tomorrow then soon, very soon.
What fun for you! Have you planned
how you are going to spend it? I’m sure
you have - scheduled it in merciless
detail, no doubt. I have always envied
you that singular determination and
drive you display, dear reader, when
it comes to revision time. Not for you
the endless procrastinatory pacing, ac-
companied by a sudden desire to wash
dishes or scrub floors. You can revel in
the weekend as the first-class coach of
a weekly train, and not merely treat it
as a buffer between adjacent carriages.
Your exams, I am sure, will pass you
by as the idle wind which you respect
not, but weekends will remain as a last-
ing hebdomedary monument to one of
the Lord’s more insightful moments.
Enjoy them while you can - you never
know how long it’ll be till they next
come around.
Gilead Amit waxes lyrical over the weekend
Issue 12 • Summer 2009 - OUT NOW!
Scratch & Sniff front cover!!!
Focus: green
energy
ALSO: Proust Phenomenon, Solar
Cars & London’s Wild Parrots
I, science
OUT MONDAY
in the library

