Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 15 May 2009
Science
Science Editors – Mićo Tatalović and Daniel Burrows
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 15 May 2009 felix
Student survey could help stop the Swine Flu
How fast could a pandemic spread
across the UK and swamp the NHS? In
the first ever kind of large-scale study
of its kind, epidemiologists from Liver-
pool and Warwick universities aim to
find out, but they need our help.
They are asking for volunteers to
complete an online survey, detailing
how many people we come into con-
tact with on a specific day (if you are an
average student, that’s probably quite a
lot!) – and, crucially, they also need to
know how many of those we actually
touched (!) giving details about when
and where the contacts occurred.
It might seem a little bit ‘big brother’
but all the info submitted is confiden-
tial, and using this data, they will for
the first time, be able to make a de-
tailed ‘map’ of person-person exchang-
es in the UK.
“We need to know the patterns of
social interactions to enable us to bet-
Maria Hogan
Science Correspondent
A
team of Imperial stu-
dents is focusing their
work on solar energy. A
team of third and fourth
year students from the
Mechanical Engineering Department
have been designing a solar panelled
boat for green boat races. Their work
on the solar boat counts towards their
third and fourth year research projects.
The boat, ‘Solar Spirit’ is made of glass
fibre and is powered by five solar pan-
els which drive an electric outboard
motor. The motor runs on lead-acid
batteries which maximise cost efficien-
cy and create a power storage system
that is within the competition’s storage
capacity and weight limits. It is partly
sponsored by the Mechanical Engi-
neering Department.
The prototype of the ‘Solar Spirit’
first hit the water back in June 2007
when it was tested and found to be
fully functional and running at speeds
of 6.3mph. In their first race in 2008
they came 14th out of 21 solar boats:
this unsatisfying result was due to in-
experience and bad luck: the electron-
ics on boat stopped working in the last
500m of the 220km race! So the team
received the “Bad Luck Prize” from the
judges. But they are now gearing up for
the 2010 Frisian Solar Challenge – Eu-
rope’s only solar boat race that takes
place in Netherlands where they hope
to get a better result.
How many people are on the
team?
We currently have one team of four
third year undergraduates working
directly on the boat, and a couple of
fourth years doing related individual
projects. We hope to be able to ex-
tend the project slightly for next year
(hopefully to two or three third year
projects, each of four or five third
years). There might also be opportu-
nities for more fourth years to get in-
Imperial’s Solar Powered Boats
volved. (If any mechanical engineers
- particularly second years - are inter-
ested in doing the project next year
then they can e-mail the team)
Is it an official part of your
course-do you get any credits for
it?
Yes, a significant part of the third
year of the mechanical engineering
course is the group Design, Make and
Test (DMT) project, worth around a
third of the marks for the year. A So-
lar Spirit project can easily be used as
one of these projects - for example to
design, make and test a suitable hull.
The fourth year has a similar amount
of marks allocated to an individual
project, which is typically more re-
search/development based. There are
plenty of things in the Solar Spirit
project which would fit such research
projects, particularly given Imperial’s
relative inexperience with boats!
Why did you focus on solar boats
and not solar cars like many other
univerisites have done (UCL,
Cambridge...)?
One thing you’ll notice about the
Mechanical Engineering Department
is that it already has two large car
projects - Formula Student and Racing
Green [and now a third one, Racing
Green Endurance]. We wanted to do
something else, and while Imperial’s
limited experience of boat hydrody-
namics has been a big challenge, it is
in a way a better learning experience
for the students to have to go out and
find out about, say, hull shape design
rather than just being able to get all
the answers easily.
What is the point of these boats -
are they ever mean to be com-
mercialized or is just for pushing
the solar technology further?
The short term vision for the project
is simply to provide an interesting and
stimulating project to undergraduates.
Long term it is unlikely that any work
we do will directly benefit the wider
world, simply because it is just an un-
dergraduate project and by its nature
there is very little original research
that can be done on such a project.
However, despite this, I see the project
as a vital part of the Mechanical En-
gineering Department because of two
reasons. Firstly it is a challenging,
exciting and stimulating project (and
I speak from personal experience!)
which helps the students to develop
their skills (both direct engineering
skills and general skills such as team-
work) to the highest level. Secondly it
promotes solar power and renewable
technologies to the upcoming genera-
tion of engineers, which I see as vital
to the future. By providing the future
engineers with such attributes, hope-
fully we can benefit the world just as
much as if we set up a high level solar
cell research lab!
What is you view of renewable
energy and solar power?
I think it’s clear to everyone that so-
lar power - in its current form - is un-
likely to be able to make a large scale
contribution to UK energy produc-
tion. The technology isn’t particularly
new, and yet even these days the out-
puts are typically too low in compari-
son to costs for it to be commercially
successful. Having said this, what is
vital is that we innovate, invent and
push the boundaries, and one of the
fields we can do this in is solar power.
By its very nature we don’t know what
the next great invention’s going to be,
but if we push ourselves in the right
way then we might just come up with
a new fantastically efficient way of
capturing sunlight and turning it into
electricity. Or it could be in the field
of wind power. Or it could be a whole
new source of energy that no-one’s
thought of before. What is important
is that we are not afraid to go out and
try new things.
How do you see future in terms of
felix talks to Peter Huthwaite, a member of Imperial’s student solar boat racing team Solar Spirit.
Could students help stop the spread of the pandemic?
ter predict and control the spread of
infections – such as pandemic flu,” said
Professor Keeling, one of the lead re-
searchers in the project.
“There are understandable growing
concerns about the current situation
and a possible pandemic; we need to
find out as much as possible about so-
cial contacts”.
In light of the current Swine flu epi-
demic therefore, leading figures such
as Professor Stephen Hawking, record-
breaking runner David Moorcroft and
television historian and writer Adam
Hart-Davis are appealing for as many
people as possible to complete the sur-
vey – and for as many days as possible.
“From the results we will have a much
better idea of how quickly an epidemic
could spread, and the measures that
would be needed to control it,” said Dr
Read of Liverpool University.
For further details, or to complete
the survey online, log on to www.con-
tactsurvey.org
Wind powered Lotus Exige.
Read felix on the
new Kindle DX?
The new Amazon’s digital newspa-
pers reader, Kindle DX announced
last week is hailed to save the newspa-
pers. The new, larger Kindle (9.8 inch
screen) was revealed in New York last
week and will go on sale for $489 in the
summer.
With readers flocking to read news
online, number of people buying has
been in decline as well as the newspa-
per revenues from advertising in print.
Kindle and similar digital readers
that allow books and newspapers to
be delivered digitally and read on the
screen, could save costs of printing and
provide revenue through subscription
to the newspapers.
Three US newspapers, The New
Mico Tatalovic
Science Editor
York Times, The Boston Globe and The
Washington Post have already signed
deals to deliver their content via Kindle.
Others, like USA Today have signed
deals with the British equivalent, the
Plastic Logic, to use their third genera-
tion digital readers.
But will felix be available to read
through Kindle? Jovan Nedić, the edi-
tor of felix says “he will look into any-
thing that would make the newspapers
website available to more people”. He
doesn’t exclude the possibility of felix
appearing as one of the available news-
papers on Kindle. With the ongoing
work to digitise the entire felix archive
and make it available in user-friendly
way to readers, it is possible that felix
will soon make the next logical step
and become available on Kindle-like
devices.
Issue 12 • Summer 2009 - OUT NOW!
Scratch & Sniff front cover!!!
Focus: green
energy ALSO: Proust Phenomenon, Solar
Cars & London’s Wild Parrots
I, science
O
UT
M
O
NDAY
energy sources?
It is impossible to predict what’s go-
ing to happen in the future, but it is
clear today that the traditional meth-
ods of energy production are becom-
ing unsuitable because of limited re-
sources and waste products. What is
vital is innovation and investigation
(which as I mentioned before are a key
part of the Solar Spirit project) which
will help us develop new technologies
- whatever they are - in the future. It is
clear that things are going to have to
change, and the sooner we act on this
the better things will be for everyone.
It would be wise for the world to
invest in a variety of technologies (in-
cluding outside the field of renewa-
bles) because things do change and a
having a wide range of resources to
rely on will make us more resilient to
future problems.

