14 felix Friday 15 May 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 15 May 2009 felix
Arts
Just put a lady on top for a change
Caz Knight is treated to illustrated versions of two great leaders at two recently opened exhibitions.
I
f ever you manage to read a
proper newspaper and make it
as far as the editorial and com-
ment section deep in the back,
not far from the sports section,
then you will be familiar with the type
of political cartoons currently on dis-
playattworecentlyopenedexhibitions:
Yankee Doodles!: President Obama in
Cartoons at the Political Cartoon Gal-
lery and Maggie! Maggie! Maggie! at
the Cartoon Museum. Both celebrate
the advent of leaders the U.S. and Brit-
ain had not seen before: a Black man
and a woman.
Yankie Doodles is the first collec-
tion of original political cartoons of
America’s 44th and first Black Presi-
dent and the last nine months have
certainly given political cartoonists
such as Steve Bell, Dave Brown, Mark
Rowson, Ingram Pinn (to name but a
few) more than enough fodder for their
pictorial political satire.
This exhibition travels chronologi-
cally through Barack’s rise through
the Democratic nominations, election
campaign and first few challenging
months in office.
One takes for granted the skill of
these ‘cartoonists’ when one sees
their work printed on newspaper. But
framed and in all their watercolour glo-
ry one realizes just what a talent these
men have for creating a superb illustra-
tion, injecting into it satire and comedy
yet managing to maintain the political
context and conveying a novel view-
point. They are unafraid of offending
(be that the politicians or the public),
not scared of pushing boundaries and
certainly not fearful of saying what we
are thinking but too shy to say.
As one browses through the car-
toons, themes begin to emerge and a
broader picture is painted which re-
flects the many facets of public and
media perceptions of Obama and how
he has dealt with the obstacles present-
ed to him these last nine months. Dave
Brown of the Independent’s Barack is
decidedly gremlin like with pointed
ears and taking on the form of a hur-
ricaine as John McCain’s defeat looms
ahead, while the Financial Times’ In-
gram Pinn’s Obama is nothing short
of heroic and handsome, lacking the
engorged horse teeth – a common fea-
ture of many of the other caricatures.
These cartoons will have you laugh
out loud especially at Peter Schrank’s
image featuring a down and out, al-
coholic bum Uncle Sam proclaiming
excitedly, “Guess what, they’re fighting
Pride, Prejudice and a huge mirror
One is great and one is gruesome: Emily Wilson reports back on two exhibitions currently showing at the
National Portrait Gallery
U
sually when I write re-
views for the arts pages
of Felix I’m reviewing
exhibitions I would pay
to see anyway, featuring
artists I already know and love. This
somewhat defeats the point of writing
a review, given that I’m inevitably go-
ing to fill it with praise and admiration,
with a few token whinges near the end
to balance it. This week I saw two ex-
hibitions that I wouldn’t normally have
set foot in: Constable’s portraits and
the photography of Gerhard Richter at
the National Portrait Gallery. I was ex-
pecting to be moderately unimpressed
by both. But contrary to my expecta-
tions, I thoroughly enjoyed the former
but completely despised the latter.
John Constable (1776-1837) is know
for being a nice traditional English
landscape artist. Rolling hills, country
folk, mills... that sort of thing. But here
we have the portraits Constable pro-
duced. The focus is on his nearest and
dearest. His father, brother and sisters,
wife and seven children are all present,
painted with deep fondness. There’s a
tenderness that comes through, par-
ticularly when he paints his younger
sister and his children, that only ap-
pears when the subject is captured by
the person who knows them best. For
a ‘landscape artist’, Constable is in-
credibly talented as a portrait painter.
These aren’t just sketches to hang on
the family’s mantelpiece – Constable
also painted portraits of the rich and
famous to support his seven children.
It’s interesting to see the family re-
semblance between the Constables.
There are self portraits of John, which
show a similarity to his rather attrac-
tive brother Abram, who in turn looks
like their sister Mary. All can also be
compared back to their father, who fea-
tures twice here. Mary is a very pretty,
pale-skinned, dark-eyed girl in the
Jane Austen style – cape on, bonnet at
hand. The whole exhibition oozes Jane
Austen, with a hint of stately home
tour.
The exhibition is a pleasing contrast
to what I had expected: mild pae-
dophilia of rosy-cheeked, doe-eyed
teenage girls. There is a little bit of
rosy-cheekedness dotted about in the
portraits of family friends. “Master
Crosby” (1808) is horrendously twee
and over-angelic. “The Barker Chil-
dren” (1809) is described as “the most
polished and successful of Constable’s
group portraits”, but I think is the
worst thing in the whole exhibition. It’s
painfully naff, with small boys in white
frocks.
The underlying Austenian love story
is the romance that blossoms between
over me”, as Obama and McCain battle
it out in the election.
The recurring theme of the Presi-
dent as Messiah presents itself in many
forms, most comically when he is
unable to get into the bath - “Shucks
Michelle, I can walk on it but I can’t
get in!” Other highlights include a
pig-tailed Bill Clinton dressed a cheer-
leader, Sarah Palin riding a giant lip-
stick brandishing a rifle and Obama
threatening to shoot his new puppy Bo
(“Keep spending or the puppy gets it.”)
At their less brilliant these cartoons
incite a titter; at their best they are in-
genious. One comes away learning a
huge deal about the current affairs that
have come to pass, the media’s portray-
al of them and how these satirists have
played on.
These cartoons will be treasured in
years to come as well as being studied
as sources during GCSE history classes
in fifty years. I wonder if they will be
enjoyed and appreciated as much as
they are now? Until 13 June.
Ten minutes away Maggie! Maggie!
Maggie! celebrates thirty years since
the Iron Lady came to power on 4 May
1979. Those not old enough to have
lived through the Thatcher age con-
sciously might not immediately under-
stand many of the hundred odd car-
toons on display, which feature works
from over 35 artists such as Martin
Rowson, Steve Bell and Gerald Scarfe.
However, curator Anita O’Brien has
ensured that each piece is accompa-
nied by a brief but informative blurb,
putting each picture in context and
allowing none of the satire to go to
waste.
Margaret Thatcher suffered much
more ambivalence than Obama. Not
only did she appear bourgeois when
compared to England’s working class
majority. But she was a woman, and it
was the seventies. These cartoons ex-
plore her rise to power, the Falkland’s
war, the miner’s strikes, her policies
such as privitization, deregulation, tax
cuts and strong defence, her downfall
and the impact the Thatcher era has
had on Britain.
Many of the cartoons show her as a
lady wrought of iron in temperament,
in cutting rhetoric and in inexorable
beliefs: “You turn if you want to. The
lady’s not for turning.”
We are treated to many more of
Maggie’s razor sharp lines in a picture
entitled Mrs Thatcher’s Pearls which
seeks to reinforce her sheltered mid-
dle class background. Others include
an excellent abstract and visceral por-
trait by Ralph Steadman (illustrator to
Hunter S. Thompson’s Fear and Loath-
ing in Las Vegas), commissioned by the
Labour party, filled with his character-
istic blots and splatters of ink. Erratic
footballer George Best features in a
cartoon produced during Thatcher’s
time as Secretary of State for Educa-
tion and Science with the birds, booze
and fast cars lover sucking his thumb
in a nursery.
Many of these political cartoons
could be construed as misogynistic,
especially in this age of political cor-
rectness. Labour supporting feminists
of the time might have had difficulty
deciding which side to back: their par-
ty or their sex. It is a sign of Thatcher’s
power and presence that cartoon-
ists who opposed her had no qualms
about attacking her using any means
possible.
Given the seemingly unanimous
British contempt for Maggie in today’s
Labour climate, this exhibition manag-
es to present both sides of Britain’s first
female PM impartially and it is pos-
sible to come away feeling sympathy
and admiration for this strong leader
who advocated self improvement and
personal responsibility and who went
a long way in reversing the economic
decline of the nation. There is much
to learn and be entertained by here.
Ensure that you have plenty of time to
peruse.
Until 26 July.
Constable and his eventual wife Maria
Bicknell. Bicknell’s parents disapprove
of her possibly marrying an artist, and
he only dares pursue her after nabbing
a tidy inheritance. Then after some
honeymooning in a cottage they have
seven children before she tragically
dies in 1828. The portraits of Maria
Bicknell are some of the nicest paint-
ings here, particularly where she is
pictured with some of her children.
Another particular favourite is “Emily
on a sofa” (1834), an ink sketch of Con-
stable’s nine year old daughter lazily
reclining with a book.
The exhibition does end on a bit of
a low, extending beyond Constable’s
family and into some rich people who
paid him to paint them. There’s less of
a narrative here, and less to catch your
interest. Though I must admit to be-
ing very taken with “Sir Richard Digby
Neave”, who was a VERY attractive
young gentleman. I can quite imagine
him on horseback, galloping up to me
on a hillside, with me in a bonnet and
empire line dress... Overall this exhibi-
tion is short and sweet, very relaxing
to wander round, though best suited
to those of us who enjoy BBC costume
dramas and National Trust properties.
On the other end of the spectrum is
Gerhard Richter. Here we have some
very modern photography. Given that
I have very little patience with photog-
raphy, and plenty of modern art fails to
appeal to me at all, it is probably un-
surprising that I hated this exhibition.
I only spent around ten minutes in it,
having not really intended to go at all,
and couldn’t stand to stay any longer.
Here Gerhard Richter has taken some
photographs, or in some cases I believe
just stolen other people’s photographs,
and made them large and blurry. That
is it. Some involve naked women with
unattractively shaped breasts, most are
just people standing doing not a lot.
The works are hung in a very white,
very bright gallery in such a way that
gives me a headache, and makes my
mild hangover significantly less mild.
It was quite crowded when I went in,
which bewilders me because I cannot
find anything to like about Richter’s
blurry photography.
What makes me even more angry is
the final piece in the gallery which is
“Spiegel [Mirror]” (2008). It is a mir-
ror. Really. It’s quite big, but it’s just a
plain flat mirror. I usually hold a lot
more patience for modern art and all
its ridiculous eccentricities than your
average person, but this is stupid. Un-
less you are particularly passionate
about Richter (why? No really, I’d like
to know) or a massive photography
fan, I would urge you to avoid this ex-
hibition like the plague. There are lots
of lovely things to see for free in the
NPG without spending your precious
student loan on this nonsense, so don’t
even give it a second thought.
Constable is on until 31 May and
Richter until 14 June 2009.
Constable’s wife Maria Bicknell
Two of Constable’s daughters

