arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
16 felix Friday 15 May 2009
Kuniyoshi: the daddy of manga
The Royal Academy takes Emilie Beauchamp back through space and time to 19th century Japan
W
e often forget the
influence and reali-
zations of foreign
cultures’ masters
because of the
massive amount of artists that have
proliferated right under our noses for
centuries in Europe. Fortunately, the
Royal Academy of Arts has crossed the
borders of time and space to present
us a delightfully unique exhibition
of one of Japan’s most celebrated art-
ists, Utagawa Kuniyoshi. A master of
woodblock printing, he was forward-
looking and produced extremely im-
aginative and suggestive compositions,
inspiring the Japanese masses of the
19th century. Kuniyoshi was part of
the movement known as the “floating
world” arts, which aimed primarily at
depicting the new, then peaceful and
unified Japan and its prosperity. Ac-
cordingly, printed scenes focused on
myths and legends of warriors glorify-
ing the country, beautiful women and
landscapes and other humourous illus-
trations of “fleeting” pleasures, such as
kabuki theatre, that the contemporary
society had to offer. Kuniyoshi was
artistically independent within this
group by developing new printing and
composition techniques. First famous
for his depictions of war scenes, he
presented heroes of the past combat-
ing evils, fury and courage all dramati-
cally pictured in their stance and ex-
pressions. His fondness for large battle
scenes lead him to work mostly with
triptychs, a three-sheet format of print
he developed in response to the lim-
ited width of the traditional printing
blocks. Producing wider landscapes,
he innovated by using over the three
sheets large motives, such as a road
or a building, so to create a sense of
perspective and to unify composition.
Block printing usually produced two-
dimensional depictions, but here again
Kuniyoshi broke the new by inspiring
himself from European illustrations
found in books to produce new designs
and styles.
In a passion for precision, his pieces
often included many details such as
complex tattoos on the characters or
intricate fabric prints and textures.
This is astonishing when the amount of
work to produce one print is explained:
Kuniyoshi, as the artist, would draw
or paint the image to be printed, and
would then work with a team of wood-
block carvers to ensure all elements
of the drawing would be perfectly
pressed on paper. Private publishers
would then sponsor the printing to up
to 8000 copies of a composition, to be
sold in the streets. As Kuniyoshi was
a proliferate artist, this process could
be repeated many times in a week to
create as much as 4 different composi-
tions per week. It is good to remember
that block prints were a communal
form of art, produced for the masses
and costing less than a double portion
of noodles in the street. Consequently,
the prints were the main significant
medium of mass communication, aim-
ing to amuse or inspire the widely liter-
ate public but also becoming a form of
subtle social critics of the government
in later days.
In fact, in 1842 the government in-
troduced new publishing regulations
which included bans on images of
courtesans and geishas, or any depic-
tion that could somehow represent a
perverted side of Japan’s slowly eman-
cipating society. Consequently, pic-
tures of beautiful women that had been
a very lucrative genre disappeared for
a few years. They were replaced by
traditional scenes from everyday life,
such as women at work or enjoying
seasonal amusements of countryside
Japan or even by a series of composi-
tions on historical heroic women. At
this point, Kuniyoshi started to widen
his field of inspiration, producing more
landscapes, but also humourous pieces
such as pamphlets on kabuki and arts
camouflaging criticism of the censure
imposed on his art and other govern-
ment policies. His satiric pieces even
include a series of grotesque erotic
prints in which sexual organs are tak-
ing the lead, called “Night Procession
of the Hundred Demons”. His pieces
always displaying bright colours and
impeccable lines add up to make this
exhibition historically and artistically
captivating, exploring Japan through
the ancestor of today’s mangas and
cartoon animations. In short, anyone
who can afford the entry fee should
plunge to discover this exhibition with
delight. Note that arriving early will al-
low you to avoid the mass of lazy tour-
ists coming from noon onwards and to
comfortably wander around.
Until 7th June
Subwarden
Vacancies
Applications are invited for the position of
subwarden at the new Eastside. The position
is open to all full time members of Imperial
College including postgraduate students.
Further information can be obtained by
emailing subwardens@eastsidehalls.org
Application forms may be downloaded from
www.eastsidehalls.org
The deadline for applications is:

