ISSUE 1687
FELIX
FILM
FRIDAY, 2ND
MARCH, 2018 FELIX
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk FILM film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
20 21
Felix Film’s guide to the Oscars – who will win, who
Best Picture
I
t’s been a complicated awards season. Call Me by Your
Name started out in the lead when it picked up the Gotham
Award back in November, but next month the National
Board of Review of Motion Pictures decided to award
their top prize to Steven Spielberg’s The Post. Greta Gerwig’s
Lady Bird and Martin McDonagh’s Three Billboards Outside
Ebbing, Missouri then moved to the front of the pack when
both picked up Best Film at the Golden Globes, and since
then, Three Billboards has gone on to win at the SAG awards
and the BAFTAs, cementing it as the frontrunner in the race.
While Lady Bird and Get Out remain dark horses in the race,
I’d say the only film with a realistic chance of dethroning
Three Billboards is Guillermo Del Toro’s The Shape of Water.
It should be an exciting night. Mark Aduol
Will win: Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Should win: The Shape of Water
Shoulda been a contender: The Handmaiden
Best Director
T
his year’s Best Director race has been one of the most
fiercely competitive in recent memory, yet it appears
Guillermo del Toro will come out on top for his swirl-
ing fantasy romance The Shape of Water. It couldn’t
happen to a nicer guy. Del Toro’s direction is superb, yet the
most perfect work comes from our current greatest director,
Paul Thomas Anderson, in his swirlier, more fantastical, and
more romantic Phantom Thread. Where Del Toro is inspired,
Anderson is flawless, and so should come out on top. Alas this
award will continue to evade him as it did the likes of Kubrick
and Hitchcock – there’s no shame in that. The likes of Luca
Guadagnino, Denis Villeneuve, and Sean Baker can rightly
feel aggrieved at being shut out by lesser works by debutants
Greta Gerwig and Jordan Peele. Ashley Luckyram
Will win: Guillermo del Toro (The Shape of Water)
Should win: Paul Thomas Anderson (Phantom Thread)
Shoulda been a contender: Luca Guadagnino (Call My by Your Name)
Best Supporting Actor
Will win: Sam Rockwell (Three Billboards)
Should win: Willem Dafoe (The Florida Project)
Shoulda been a contender: Michael Stuhlbarg (Call Me by
Your Name)
Best Supporting Actress
A
s with the other acting categories, the choice for
Best Supporting Actress seems apparent: odds
are Allison Janney will win for her role in the
black comedy biopic I, Tonya. There’s a chance,
however, a different mother may win: Laurie Metcalf would
make a more-than-worthy winner for her portrayal of Marion
McPherson, the emotional centrepiece of Greta Gerwig’s Lady
Bird. What is perhaps most heartening about this category,
however, is how it is celebrating older women who are all
too often written off in the film industry. She may bring the
average age down, but it would have been nice to see Michelle
Williams on the list, for her Katharine Hepburn-esque turn in
All the Money in the World. FF
Will win: Allison Janney (I, Tonya)
Should win: Laurie Metcalf (Lady Bird)
Shoulda been a contender: Michelle Willams (All the
Money in the World)
Best Actress
I
t is all but guaranteed that Frances McDormand will run
away with this award for her portrayal of anti-heroine,
Mildred Hayes, in Martin McDonagh’s drama, Three
Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri. Three Billboards
is told primarily through the eyes of grief-stricken mother
Hayes, who serves as a vessel for McDonagh’s trademark
potion of caustic wit and darkly comedic dialogue. Some
have said that by juxtaposing Mildred’s superficial black
humour with the inner turmoil caused by the rape and murder
of her daughter, McDonagh has crafted a tonally inconsistent
character. However, one could also argue that the difficulty
in authentically portraying a character that is simultaneously
heartbroken, vengeful, compassionate, and humorous is
reason enough to award McDormand the Oscar. MD
Will win: Frances McDormand (Three Billboards)
Should win: Frances McDormand (Three Billboards)
Shoulda been a contender: Vicky Krieps (Phantom Thread)
Best Actor
W
hen people make lists of great actors who have
never won an Oscar, Gary Oldman is no doubt
a regular feature. And that is firmly where he
should remain. Caked in make-up, Oldman
bellows his way through Joe Wright’s clunky Darkest Hour
in a performance a world away from his best. Meanwhile
Day-Lewis reunites with Paul Thomas Anderson in Phantom
Thread for the final performance of an astonishing career. The
last time the two worked together resulted in one of the finest
performances ever seen on screen, and once again Day-Lewis
delivers the best work of the year. For his last role he wrongly
beat out Joaquin Phoenix to claim a record third Best Actor
trophy. For his final ever role, he should be allowed to extend
that record to four. AL
Will win: Gary Oldman (Darkest Hour)
Should win: Daniel Day-Lewis (Phantom Thread)
Shoulda been a contender: James Franco (The Disaster Artist)
I
f there’s one injustice we should be upset about in
this day and age, it is without a doubt the exclusion of
Michael Stuhlbarg in the Best Supporting Actor category.
‘For what film?’ I hear you ask – well this is the question.
Stuhlbarg has been in three of the stand-out films this year,
and for each he could deserve a nomination; but it was in Call
Me by Your Name he shone brightest, delivering the most
memorable moment of a beautiful film. If there were any jus-
tice in the world, he would be nominated, and Willem Dafoe
would win for his performance in Sean Baker’s The Florida
Project. But the world is a cruel place: Woody Harrelson is on
the nominations list, Sam Rockwell will take home the statue,
and there is no God. Fred Fyles
should win, and who’ve been left out in the cold
Best Animated Feature
I
t was to be expected that once again the animation
category will be underwhelming and underappreciated.
With this year’s controversial rule change, allowing any
member with an interest in animation to cast their votes,
it is worse than ever. On the surface this may seem like a step
in the right direction, but looking at the nominations this year
is tragic. Loving Vincent is an amazing feat of animation, and
Coco is a great movie, tugging at the heartstrings of kids and
adults alike, but when they are up against John Cena and Boss
Baby it just feels like the Academy are taking the piss. Now
more than ever the Oscars seem out of touch with animation
and although Coco is a great movie and deserves to win, Boss
Baby should win just to wake the academy and the film world
up and completely reform this category. Mikhail Demtchenko
Will win: Coco
Should win: Coco
Shoulda been a contender: Okja
Best Foreign Language Film
A
Fantastic Woman is A Fantastic Film, with Daniela
Vega spearheading what could be A Fantastic
Breakthrough for trans cinema. But in this hotly
contested category, it is hard to tell who will
win. Going up against Palme d’Or winner The Square and
Loveless, a Cannes jury favourite and bookies’ favourite, the
Oscar could go any way. With 92 films submitted for this cat-
egory this year, it is interesting to see how different the Oscar
nominations were to the Baftas and those who didn’t make the
cut. Most notably missing Angelina Jolie’s First They Killed
my Father, Netflix super success Okja, and, more tragically,
the absence of Bafta winner The Handmaiden, which made a
strong fight for the Palme d’Or and snapped up the coveted
Felix Film Best Picture award. MD
Will win: Loveless (Russia)
Should win: A Fantastic Woman (Chile)
Shoulda been a contender: The Handmaiden (South Korea)
Best Adapted Screenplay
W
hen the nominees were announced back in
January I wrote that “one could have desperate-
ly scribbled down the ingredients from the back
of a bottle of Heinz tomato ketchup on a napkin
five minutes before the nominations went out and still been in
with a chance of an Adapted Screenplay nod”. I stand by that
statement. Call Me by Your Name, from the legendary James
Ivory, is the only truly outstanding work. The Academy would
have done well to recognise Sofia Coppola’s steamy femme
fatale reimagining of Thomas P. Cullinan’s The Beguiled over
Aaron Sorkin’s unnecessarily tell-not-show Molly’s Game
script. Sorkin has become the Streep of his craft, rewarded
over others more deserving based on his reputation. AL
Will win: Call Me by Your Name
Should win: Call Me by Your Name
Shoulda been a contender: The Beguiled
Best Original Screenplay
W
hether creating an original screenplay or adapt-
ing a pre-existing work for the screen is harder
remains an open question. What can be said for
certain about all the nominees for Best Original
Screenplay this year, however, is that they have all managed to
create their own sense of time and place. The winner is likely
to be Martin McDonagh’s Three Billboards Outside Ebbing,
Missouri – theAcademy continues their long-running fixation
with people saying improbably witty things very quickly. A
much worthier winner would be Greta Gerwig for Lady Bird –
93 minutes of delicately crafted dialogue that pays homage to
the relationship between mothers and daughters. Paul Thomas
Anderson’s Phantom Thread, with its stomach-turning explo-
ration of power dynamics, is a striking omission. FF
Will win: Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri
Should win: Lady Bird
Shoulda been a contender: Phantom Thread
Best Original Score
W
ith the Hans Zimmer votes being split between
Dunkirk and Bladerunner 2049 at the Baftas
Alexandre Desplat managed to beat out compe-
tition to take home the award to put alongside
his Golden Globe. This comes at no surprise, with Desplat’s
romantic fantasy style score perfectly accenting the relation-
ships in the movie. However the Oscars could be a different
story: with only one Hans Zimmer film being nominated and
the academy primed to throw their votes his direction, he may
finally pick up his second oscar. There rest of the nominations
are not to be trifled with either: with legend John Williams,
Radiohead guitarist Jonny Greenwood, and Coen veteran
Carter Burwell, this certainly is a stacked category. MD
Will win: Hans Zimmer (Dunkirk)
Should win: Alexandre Desplat (The Shape of Water)
Shoulda been a contender: Oneohtrix Point Never (Good Time)
Best Documentary
L
astyear’sO.J.:MadeinAmerica,whichwontheOscar
for Best Documentary, broke the mould, clocking in
at over 460 minutes long. In this ceremony, however,
things are largely back to normal: five documentaries,
on a wide range of subjects, competing for the crown. Icarus,
a fast-paced doc on the Russian Olympic doping program, is
likely to be the winner. Agnès Varda and JR’s documentary
Faces Places would be a more unique winner, and – given
it is likely to be Varda’s last film – a worthier one. Frederick
Wiseman, who was awarded an Honorary Award at last year’s
ceremony, should have garnered a nomination for Ex Libris,
his warm-hearted, tender portrayal of the New York Public
Library system, dizzying in scope but intimate in mood. FF
Will win: Icarus
Should win: Faces Places
Shoulda been a contender: Ex Libris

