Candidate Manifestos: Union President
Dmitrii Usynin
This college has so much potential to
be an amazing place for each and every
one of us and I want to be the president
who brings that about. I want to make
the union our union, not just another
branch of the college: I’ll improve its
communication with the student body,
seeking out feedback and suggestions
in person and via social media. I’d
put pressure on the college to make
changes to its dubious endowment fund,
it’s embarrassing that our institution
Once a symbol of prosperity, truth, and
bliss, Imperial College London is now
a mere wraith of its past. The Imperial
College Union has stood idly by. This
will end. Who voted for the abolition
of Stella, the JCR’s opening times, and
overpriced Tanpopo? Who voted for
the abandoned library door? And when
exactly did ICU relinquish hope and
vision? I promise to you I will drain the
swamp of disinterest and incompetence
within ICU. I campaign for the many, not
for the next-to-no-one. I will fight for
Catering outlets cut. A counselling
service bursting at the seams. Our staff
striking on Exhibition Road. It’s a poorly-
kept secret that something at Imperial
isn’t right, and it can be hard to tell if
students are a priority to this institution.
Now more than ever, we need a Union
that will actively fight for us. A Union
unafraid to take risks in its mission for
change. A Union that delivers for ALL its
members, no matter how engaged they
are. I believe I am the person to lead
this Union. I’ve been an active member
of our community throughout my time
Max Stocker
No manifesto submitted.
Dex Oseman
Michael Edwards
your right to prosperity, truth, and bliss.
This means replacing 568 and Metric
by a Wetherspoon’s on my first day in
office. This means tearing down Huxley
and rebuilding the old Imperial Institute.
This means organising student strikes.
This means attracting sponsors a la
DocSoc, who will pay for my coronation
party. People voted for me as the welfare
rep for a reason. I will bring back joy
and welfare in your life. You may think
“why should I trust a man in a unicorn
costume”? Because not all heroes wear
masks, some wear unicorn costumes
instead. Because I am your only hope.
here - from three years as a Wilson Hall
Senior to two years leading the RCSU as
President and Secretary.
My Plan
The “Imperial Experience” * Pressure
College to reverse changes to Campus
Services and student provision * Open
membership of Faculty Unions to
postgrads and review Union’s postgrad
provision * Expand Union presence to
White City and other satellite campuses.
Student-led democracy * Create a
bottom-up, volunteer-driven Union
including officers and reps in decision-
making * Work towards 50% student
representation on College boards
There is so much more I want to write,
but this margin is too small to contain
it. Let my actions speak louder than
any words. Make ICU great. For once.
Think of what Trump would say if he
was running. - Constantin, campaign
manager, Ghostwriter 2k18.
and projects * Form a new Union
Entertainments Committee - more
diverse social events
Peer Support * Review the Mums and
Dads programme, and support club
“buddy schemes” * Support Hall Seniors
and Reps year-round * Drive culture
change at Imperial to make all students
feel welcome and valued
Clubs support * Streamline payment
processes and room bookings for club
activities * Review spaces for student
clubs
For a Union that works for all, vote
Michael!
conducting world-changing research is
a stakeholder in ethically questionable
industries. We hold the unflattering title of
the most unequal university in England.
I find this shameful and will launch a
review into the main causes of this
and push for the Social Mobility Officer
position. The efforts towards improving
mental health and well being have been
positive and admirable, yet more needs
to be done. The counselling service here
is not what it could be, one of my main
focuses will be to work with the college
to reduce wait times, making the service
more efficient and accessible to us all.
We also need to realise that we are only
treating symptoms here - I will look into
the aspects of the college that generate
stress, and eliminate them. I believe in
Imperial and I know it can be a great
university, but we need to work to get
there. If you want to see some change,
toss me your votes.

