Robert Tomkies
Maurice Yap
Mahmoud El-Khatib
Imperial is changing. My broad
experience means I am excellently
positioned to lead and oversee us
through these changes, ensuring that
the outcomes you get, are the ones
that you want. As RSMU president I
currently represent over 1000 students
in matters ranging from education and
welfare to clubs and socials. In my four
years at Imperial I have held positions in
sports, DepSocs and a constituent union,
alongside helping with departmental
mentoring, tutoring and “Mums and
Vote me, Tony Peng, to be your next Bio
Soc president.
To end the tyranny of previous regimes
that have forced us to queue outside
metric, led to the increase price of fusion
and the removal of Stella at the union.
I hold previous presidents responsible.
It’s time for change. When milk turns
stale, we throw it out. Vote Mahmoud for
president and I pledge to end the union.
Dads”. What do I want? I want to ensure
fresh ideas come through the union
so that we can make long standing
positive change while building on the
successes of this year’s team. What are
my goals? Finance and Services * Better
funding for your constituent unions,
clubs and societies through a centralised
sponsorship support centre. * Better food,
including halal and vegan, at all hours,
at all campuses through conducting a
complete catering review. Clubs and
Societies: * Ethos expansion with usage-
based equipment - lets end the over-
crowding. * A referendum on the Sport
Imperial mascot - Do we really want a
lion? Wellbeing: * Wednesday opening
of the advice centre and introduction of
Skype appointments. * Increase student
support for welfare and campaigns
at non-South Kensington campuses.
Strategy: * Guaranteed internal varsity.
* Campaign to secure increased student
study space available to all through re-
purposing the newly vacated chemistry
building. For all my ideas and experience
see:http://robforpresident.strikingly.com/
Rate ideas? Rate experience? Rate Rob
Vote for Duckworth for a
stronger union and a brighter
tomorrow!#livetheduckworthway
Andrew Duckworth
Candidate Manifestos: Union President

