Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Welfare)
Your welfare matters. Your DPW must
listen compassionately, be sympathetic
and supportive, and, most importantly,
fight your corner to help advance and
develop the College’s approach to
student wellbeing. I am that person
- enthusiastic, experienced and
determined to represent YOU and
push for the greatest improvements
to welfare provision. I have experience
over my four years at IC in supporting
welfare across College while holding
positions in community societies, in
particular sexual health enlightenment
and provision, along with volunteering
Matthew Hayward
Jude Merzah
and campaigning for LGBT+ affairs
especially during Pride in London and
Birmingham. MENTAL HEALTH * Over
65% waited over a week for counselling
service appointments, many over three
weeks - with demand for these services
ever growing and Health Centre funding
cuts reported, I will lobby the College
for much needed increases in provision
for mental health related therapy. *
Working with Mentality to encourage
staff and student training in mental
health first aid, complementing the
active bystander campaign. PHYSICAL
HEALTH * Designate lunchtime napping
and rest areas. * Provide healthier food
options across all campuses. * Lobby to
expand Ethos and ensure it is kept for all
to use. ECONOMIC ACCESSIBILITY * I
have first-hand experience of financial
limitations at Imperial, and will continue
recent work promoting the existence of
support funds. CAMPAIGNS * Training
for liberation officers to help enable
effective student-led campaigns. *
Actively supporting student societies
with campaigning ideas. UNION * Work
with the DPE to address timetabling
issues. * Supplement wellbeing network
training and structure with resources to
use throughout the year. * Your welfare
matters. Vote Matt.
No manifesto submitted.
Welfare is a major issue facing students
and College are finally acknowledging
and listening to students. College must
deliver efficient, resourced, fully-funded
services and be held to account for their
welfare decisions. College is currently
compiling the Wellbeing Strategy and
I plan to make sure this strategy has
student consultation, is efficient in
providing the services you need and is
delivered to its best. You need a DPW
that can provide this, and I have the
experience, passion and drive to ensure
this happens. Objectives: * Ensure
the Wellbeing Strategy is fully-funded,
Rebecca Neil resourced and delivered by College
across all campuses. * Cut counselling
waiting times and review the missed
appointments policy. * Subsidise
tampons/sanitary products further * Stop
talking about personal tutors and make
changes * Support student-led, liberation
and community officer campaigns *
Collect student suggestions/complaints
using an anonymous online system *
More training, support and development
for Wellbeing Representation Network
volunteers * Ensure freshers receive
adequate information regarding self-
care, welfare, well-being and where to
find help regardless of where they live. *
Run union-wide Mums and Dads events
Experience: * RCSU Vice President
Operations - overseeing/assisting the
FONS welfare rep network and RCSU
welfare week and attending faculty and
departmental Staff-Student Committees.
* Union Council FONS UG Ordinary
Member * Governance Steering Group
developing a consultation strategy for the
review of the governance of the union
* Vice Chair BioChemSoc- LfS Year Rep
for 3 years * Experience coaching people
with disabilities and neurodivergence.
* Lead tutor for Pimlico Connections
tutoring disadvantaged students *
Trained in Safeguarding * Events officer
for Pole & Aerial#VoteBeckyshewontNeil
#VoteBecky
Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Education)
There have never been so many
opportunities for students to shape their
own education at Imperial. Vote for
me to ensure that the Imperial College
Union and its Academic Representatives
take advantage of these opportunities to
make your education what you want it
to be. Choose #LuyforDPE for:
Improved Feedback * Feedback at
Imperial should be a strength, not a
weakness. I will continue the work of
the current DPE so that every student at
Imperial College receives timely, high-
quality feedback. Student Involvement
Alejandro Luy in Curriculum Reviews * As part of
the Learning and Teaching Strategy,
curriculum are being re-written across
college and I am committed to seeing
students integrated into the process
from start to end. Enhancement of the
Academic Representation Network
* I will develop practical training
materials and effective communication
channels to ensure that your Academic
Representatives have the training and
resources they need to represent you
well. Implementation of StudentShapers
* I will spearhead the implementation of
the new StudentShapers scheme, which
provides paid opportunities for students
(maybe you!) to shape their own
educations. PG Timetabling This is still an
issue, and it really shouldn’t be. Just like
DPE’s before me, I will continue to fight
to protect your Wednesday afternoons.
Experience * 3 years as an Academic
Representative (2 years as Year Rep, 1
year as Dep Rep) * 1 year as Academic
Affairs Officer for the CGCU International
Education Experience * attended 6
schools on 3 continents.
For more information check out:
My Website: luyfordpe.weebly.com
Facebook Event: www.facebook.com/
events/1996084530711055/
#LuyforDPE

