The DPFS is responsible for the bars
and services of Imperial College
alongside financial responsibilities
including sponsorship, marketing and
development. Why Me? As Manager of
the Union’s bars, you may recognise
me from behind the bar serving you
some curly fries or a snakebite. *
Worked at the Union’s bars for all 4 years
of my degree * Jointly accountable
for £1.6 million in sales at the bar *
Financially managed Summer Ball
2017 * President of Imperial College
Fencing Club-Helped secure a 3-year
Ella Rice
Ali Malik
long sponsorship deal for the club-
Secured the Harlington Grant for the
club * Regularly made major budgeting
decisions for the club’s 100 members
Full Manifesto: electella.com
What I want to achieve - Bars * Prevent
under-staffing - give staff financial
intensives to work busy nights * Reduce
queueing - increase capacity and
make structural changes to the queues
into and within the venue *Introduce
more Yoyo loyalty schemes for regular
products eg. buy five get one free on
curly fries, burgers and pints. Services
* Implement an affordable ‘meal deal’
across campus. * Update Imperial
App - including a real-time function to
determine where it would be quickest
to get lunch. * Revolutionise eActivities,
club mailing list and room bookings
White City * Ensure the movement of
a community, not just a building * Will
work with College to provide student
prices for Lunch, Dinner and Bars
*Lobby college for on site student cafes,
shops and bars
Reduce Waste * Reduce plastic and
food waste on campus to align with the
core values of the Union
Elect Experience. Elect Ella.
No manifesto submitted.
Alexander Dean
The services Imperial College Union
run have a direct impact on students’
experiences during their time at Imperial
and it is imperative to use students’ ideas
and feedback to improve them. You need
someone with the ideas, the drive and
the experience to improve our Union in
the way students want. My four years at
Imperial have given me the opportunity
to meet Imperial students from all walks
of life and find out what they want to
change. As the current President of
ACC Snowsports I organised and ran
the largest club tour in Imperial College
history providing experience in dealing
with vast sums as well as budgeting. My
time as ICSM Lacrosse Tour and Stash
has given an understanding into how
ICSM clubs function and what they want.
Here are a few of my main objects for
next year: * Implement online petition
system on the Union website to allow
students to easily express their opinions
on how their Union is being run *
Streamline sponsorship process for clubs
and societies to allow clubs to get the
money they need ASAP * Fix the SALUS
injury reporting system * Develop and
e-activities app making claiming quicker
and easier * Continue the drinks price
freeze in the Union bars * More free
phone charging ports at Reynolds and
the Union * Develop app for ordering
food in FiveSixEight * Reynolds library
open until 10pm on weekdays and
11pm during exam periods. Check out
my Facebook event for a more detailed
description of my objectives.
Hi, I’m Claudia, a 4th year Civil Engineer
with the experience and determination
to make real lasting changes to
improve your time at Imperial. As
CGCU President, I work with CSPs
on a day-to-day basis and oversee a
budget of £300,000. Additionally, I’m 1
of 2 students overseeing the new drink
supplier deals in the Union bars, which
means I also have a deep insight into
the running and finances of the bars. My
promises: STUDENTS AT THE HEART OF
DECISIONS *Making YOU the decision
makers of events and big changes, so
Claudia Caravello
Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Finance & Services)
another Bud Light incident doesn’t
happen again! * Info-graphics on how
Union income is spent on YOU FOOD
& DRINK * Focus on Union food quality
and deals * Introduce online ordering
system
* Bring back SCR breakfast, or start it at
the Union * Reduce queues at Library
Cafe and College Cafe -Bring back bendy
straws TRANSPORT
* Transport to Harlington on Mondays
and Wednesdays * Ensure students get
home safe by introducing an end-of-
night Union minibus drop off system-
Improve minibuses upkeep CSPs *
Negotiate with College to make more
departmental spaces available to
CSPs * Quicker sponsorship contract
approval and greater support from
Union * Lunchtime drop-in sessions-
Useful, quality training, delivered at the
right times EXTERNAL INCOME * Make
the Union less dependent on student
spending * Develop online shop to sell
to global alumni/prospective students
* Advertise facilities to public during
the holidays * Generate income from
eActivities by licencing to other Unions
Full Manifesto: voteclaudia.in
Vote CLAUDIA to GIVE VALUE BACK TO
STUDENTS!

