It’s obvious that College doesn’t always
havestudentinterestsasapriority:cutting
catering outlet hours, underfunding the
Counselling Service, and supporting
brutalcutstostaffpensionsexemplifythis.
The Student Union should be a powerful
voice in fighting for students’ interests,
but too often it fails at this. Union Council
(our parliament’ - elected students from
across the university meet there to
represent you) should be leading this
fight, but it has a number of key failings:*
Meetings often have little meaningful
discussion and consist only of rubber-
Lloyd James
Union Council is our primary student
decision making body within the Union,
yet few students know about it and
even fewer directly engage with it. Your
voice matters and I want every student
at Imperial to be able to bring their ideas
forward. As Union President this year, I
am reforming our democratic structures
and building a more engaging, effective
and open platform for you. I want to
continue this work as Council Chair. If
elected, I will work for: * A more inclusive
council - We can utilise technology to
Candidate Manifestos: Council Chair
Alex Compton
stamping Reports. * Hours are wasted
arguing over tedious bureaucratic details.
* New Council members are poorly
trained. * Important business bypasses
Council without sufficient scrutiny. I’m
deeply frustrated by these failings. So I
propose to: * Mandate existing Council
subcommittees to formulate policy
proposals to provide Council with more
business of substance. * Develop clear
procedures to take complex/bureaucratic
matters outside of meetings. * Require
sabbatical reports to describe planned
future activities for Council to scrutinise.
* Provide comprehensive training
documentation explaining key Council
procedures. * Ensure that all policies due
for renewal are examined and revised
in plenty of time for scrutiny before
expiring. My experience:* Involved with
Council since 2015. * Previous roles:
RCSU President, PhySoc President, both
Physics UG and PG Dep Rep. Lobbied
for:* More accessible Council meeting
space (wheelchair accessible and with
reduced background noise).* Ending
the zero-tolerance policy on late work
submission. * Union role representing
economically disadvantaged students.
So vote Lloyd for a Union Council that
is a vehicle for real, positive change for
students.
modernise and open up Council’s reach.
Live streaming of Council debates and
regular student polls will allow you to
engage more easily and be heard. * An
online ideas platform - I will support all
students to present their ideas to Council
and help you create constructive debates.
Through an online ideas platform all
students will be able to submit proposals
for debate and have the support they
need to take forward their ideas.* Strong
communication - I will provide a strong
student voice on the Trustee Board
and will keep you informed about the
discussions you care about that take
place at the highest level of the Union.
I have the ideas and the experience
to support and shape our democratic
structures so they work for you. Find out
more at: http://chippyforcouncilchair.
strikingly.com/ Your Voice Matters. Vote
Chippy for Council Chair.
LIVESTREAM
DEBATE
18:30, Wednesday 7 March 2018
Tune in with your questions
facebook.com/imperialcollegeunion

