My vision as Student Trustee is for a
stronger and fairer Imperial - an Imperial
that works as hard for you as you do for
it. There is so much about the Imperial
experience for which we have the Board
of Trustees to thank; they oversee the
objectives and direction of the Union,
bringing good progress in improvements
to campus life year on year. But how can
good progress be transformed into great
progress? As one who never settles for
“good enough”, I have outlined key Action
Areas to turn good into great: From food
Joshua Jackson prices on campus to the availability and
quality of aid from our Careers Service
and even the conditions of department
buildings, I am ready to bring the issues
that matter to you to the table. Moreover,
I am dedicated to making the decision
- making processes of the Board of
Trustees more transparent and even
more accessible to you. Currently, I
serve as the Vice President for External
Relations and Sponsorship of the Imperial
ACS; I am no stranger to representing the
interests of a large and diverse ensemble
or to the responsibility of making crucial
decisions. This year, after considerable
sponsorship success, we have celebrated
the fastest rise and greatest increase in
membership in our 20-year history! I’m
Joshua and I’m committed to working
hard on your behalf for the best results
on the Board of Trustees, all for a better
Imperial. Place your trust in me for
Student Trustee 2018 Vote Joshua
Trustee Board is the Union’s governing
body, but there’s a good chance you’ve
never heard of it. Every issue in our
“democratic” Union, from Bud Light to
bookable spaces, ultimately reaches
this opaque forum. Their decisions are
seldom justified to students. I’m running
for Student Trustee with a single issue
in mind: transparency. I want our Union
to actually represent student interests,
make decisions democratically, and be
bold enough to challenge College when
it gets things wrong. None of these things
Abhijay Sood
Having worked closely with the Officer
Trustees this year as a Welfare Officer
and member of Union Council, I
understand the ways our Union can be
fine-tuned to better meet the needs of
individual students, as well as our clubs
and societies. Working to embed the
Wellbeing Representation Network into
Faculty’s consciousness, overseeing my
CampaignsTeam,andfightingforchanges
and further clarity for students in personal
tutoring, mitigating circumstances and
interruption of studies have been some
Stephen Naulls
are possible when the most senior body
in the Union acts with impunity. To this
end, I will report on what happens at the
Board, record the meetings, and ensure
these recordings are easily accessible.
EXPERIENCE: * Academic Rep at year,
department, and faculty level; Rep of
the Year 2016-17 * Supported ending
the zero-tolerance policy on late
coursework - the only Dep Rep to do
so. * Introduced undergraduate teaching
assistants to my department: paying 4th
years to supervise Freshers. * Currently
working to ensure space vacated in the
move to White City is utilised effectively
for students, prioritising departments
without common rooms. Union Council
Member since 2016: * Fought to increase
bursaries. * Strengthened student input
on the College-wide curriculum review,
where all course content is being revised.
* Compelled the Union to take a strong
stance on the UCU Pensions dispute.
Chairing a club with record membership
- double last year’s figure. I’m committed
to fighting for you; elect me and I’ll take
that fight to the Union, and help ensure
it truly backs students.
of my accomplishments in my role this
year. From attending meetings such
as Community & Welfare Board and
Student-Staff Committees, I have a solid
insight into the day-to-day decisions our
senior volunteers and paid staff make
on your behalf for both Academic and
Wellbeing concerns. Similarly, serving as
both a Treasurer and Secretary on Club
committees during my time at Imperial,
I am aware of the challenges facing
students stepping forward for senior
positions within their Societies having
witnessed many of them myself. Based
on this, I can be expected to offer a firm
yet pragmatic voice as your Student
Trustee; using my experience to best
portray the perspectives of individuals
themselves or entire Clubs and Societies,
whilst framing this within the context
I have as a Senior Union Volunteer to
determine the most reasonable solutions
to problems arising at Board of Trustees
meetings. A vote for Naulls is a vote for
experience and transparency: a strong
and reasonable voice for ALL Imperial
students. Your voice. Your Union.
#VoteNaulls #NaullsInHalls
Candidate Manifestos: Student Trustees
The Board of Trustees is the Union’s
highest body, able to overturn any
decision made by any other part of the
Union. Yet, rather than being an open
and democratic body, it is often closed
and opaque. Democracy is at the core
of what a Students’ Union should be,
yet the Board regularly implements
sweeping changes with minimal or no
consultation with anyone outside of its
own membership. As the current Council
Chair, I have sat on Trustee Board for the
past year, and, although a great deal of
Owen Heaney good work has been done, there is still
much to be done to ensure that the
Union is truly democratic and makes
decisions which are right for students.
I am asking for a second term on the
Board so that I have the opportunity
to use my experience from this year to
make sure that the Union’s democracy
is strengthened by the Board, not
diminished. If elected as the students’
representative on the Board of Trustees,
I will: * Speak up against implementing
large-scale changes without consulting
students and volunteers * Ensure that
the outcomes of the Governance and
Liberation Reviews are implemented in
full and in a timely fashion * Open up
the Board by making sure that details of
its meetings and decisions are published
in a timely manner and adequately
publicised
A vote for me is a vote for democracy -
vote for Owen Heaney as your Student
Trustee.

