Hi! Hola! Hallo! Bonjour! Annyeong!
Ciao! Ni Hau! Salam! Marhaba!
Namastay! Yo! I am Rana Sher, an
International student from Pakistan and
South Korea and I am running for the
position of Imperial SU Student Trustee.
Some axioms about me: * International
Students’ Officer(2017/2018)* RAG
Vice Chair(2017/2018) * RAG Events
Officer(2016/2017) * Pakistan Society
Treasurer(2017/2018) * Academic
Representative(2016/2017) A bit of self-
indulgence: * Campaigned to set up the
International Lounge in college space
over the Christmas vacation. * In RAG I
Rana Khan got to organise and manage events like
sponsored skydives, bungee jumping,
jailbreak and break the Guinness World
Record. * As the Treasurer of Paksoc, I got
an insight into the financial issues that
societies deal with along with helping to
make society’s first boat party a success.
* I am an Imperial SU fanatic with fangs
gashed in campaigns, clubs and societies.
Syllabus: * Ensuring that the Union
sticks to its democratic agenda. * Urging
ICLSU to afford more opportunities
for students to enhance their
employability. * Ensuring transparency in
dialoguebetweenICLSUandyouthrough
relevant media to ascertain students’
complacence w.r.t the management
of ICLSU. * Making education more
affordable and curbing the soaring tuition
fees. * Promoting diversity, equality
and integration amongst students. *
Upholding freedom of speech and
fortifying student rights. * Expanding
accommodation halls to harbour more
students (including returning students)-
to obviate the need for paying higher
rents for private halls. Are you looking
for a Student Trustworthy more so than
a mere Trustee? Yes? Look no further.
Curious readers can have recourse
to rana.khan16@imperial.ac.uk. Thanks a
lot!
Attainment gaps, barriers facing under-
represented groups, and gender
imbalance are all issues that cannot
be tackled by Liberation Officers or
individual representatives alone. It takes
a strategic organisational approach,
involving all levels of ICU governance,
to achieve durable progress towards a
more accessible and inclusive culture.
As your LGBT+ Officer this year, I have
been primarily involved in the Liberation
Review commissioned by the Union and
have contributed to the shaping of an
action plan. I have uplifted the voices of
Alessio Incitti others by representing LGBT+ students
on Union Council, the Community and
Welfare Board, and College’s Equality
Diversity and Inclusion Forum, and I have
been striving to ensure minority needs
are made a priority by other student
leaders and senior staff members. I have
succeeded in making some tangible
changes, such as obtaining College’s
approval for the relabelling of all single-
cubicle toilets as gender-neutral, the
review of Union policies, and the
improvedvisibilityofLGBTHistoryMonth.
My goal as a student trustee would be
to bring the voices of under-represented
groups to the table of the Union’s highest
decision-making body. If elected, I will:*
monitor the Union implementing the
Liberation Review action plan and ensure
direct involvement of marginalised
communities * push the Trustee Board
to set deadlines for longer-term actions,
such as engagement of minorities
* contribute to the Governance
subcommittee bringing focus to
diversity and representation * suggest
to the Communications subcommittee
ways of steering towards a culture that
regards inclusivity as its most central and
founding value
Hello, my name is Ashley Brooks and I’m
a third year PhD student in the Civil and
Environmental Engineering Department.
Whether I’ve met you before or not, I
send out a warm greeting and thank
you for considering to vote for me. I
believe that the student community is
a vital part of Imperial College’s campus
and life, and indeed, can set the tone
for intellectual curiosity and pursuit
throughout the College. I would like to
bring about a greater presence of the
student community as Trustee and see
Ashley Brooks greater integration within, and across,
departments - particularly for students
who often work in isolation or very small
groups. I would also like to celebrate the
international diversity of the community,
and help to deliver events that are
appropriate and engaging, as well as
just a time to wind down and have fun.
Having been involved in a number of
clubs and societies at College over my
time here, serving successfully on the
executive committee of an external
organisation (Secretary for a Chaplaincy
House), as well as being a teacher
providing academic & welfare support
for many years, I believe I can make a
significant and positive contribution
as Trustee. It would be a privilege to
represent YOUR views, thanks again for
potentially voting!
Candidate Manifestos: Student Trustees

