ISSUE 1687
FELIX
FOOD food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
33
Acouple ofAsian-inspired recipes for you to fry!
W
riting feels
oddly thera-
peutic most
of the time
and I am not sure why I
stayed away from it for so
long – I mean, two weeks
is a really long time, but I
have an excuse! (I mean,
I always have an excuse,
don’t I?) I experimented
with new ideas and tried
new ingredients and culi-
nary zones so I can come
here today and present
new tested recipes. So,
without further ado, here
we go on a nice journey
that to me – an Eastern
European – brings to the
table food that I am not
used to. They are fairly
familiar to some students,
and who knows, maybe
they can come and im-
prove them.
MANGO AND CHICKEN STIR FRY
You will need...
• 800g chicken breast, cut into
cubes
• 3 tbsp oil
• 1 tbsp cornstarch
• 2 tbsp soysauce
• 400g green peas
• 2 tbsp honey
• Salt
• Pepper
• 3 mangos
• 1 medium red onion
• 1 jalapeno
• ½ tbsp. fresh ginger
• 1 tbsp hot pepper sauce
• 2 tbsp lime juice
1. In a large bowl, mix the mangos, red onion, jalape-
nos, fresh ginger, hot pepper sauce, and lime juice. This
is a trickiest part, as you should blend them in order to
get a smooth texture – I assume that if you chop them
well enough, you can use them in a cruder version, as
long as you do not mind it. Season to taste with salt and
pepper.
2. An alternative would be to find mango salsa to buy if
you look hard enough.
3. In a bowl, combine the chicken, 1 tbsp oil, corn-
starch, and half the soy sauce. Make sure that all the
chicken is covered and let rest for at least 10 minutes –
consider that you might want to keep the chicken in the
fridge is it’s longer.
Katsudon and egg rice bowl
You will need...
• Pork chops (boneless, the kind you
will find in any shop – not very
thick ones, however)
• Salt
• Pepper
• Flour
• 3 eggs
• 1 cup breadcrumbs (originally
panko, but it’s easier to find plain
breadcrumbs than the Japanese
version)
• Oil
• ½ cup dashi stock (can also be re-
placed by ordinary chicken stock)
• 2 tbsp sugar
• 1 tbsp soy sauce
• 2 tsp Mirin (you can try replacing
it with some sweet rice wine, but
I cannot guarantee that this is a
good idea)
• 1 onion
• White rice
• 1 scallion
As you can see from the ingredients list, but there are a couple that are very
specific. I believe that some of them (if not all) can be easily replaced with
what you find at any corner shop, but the good thing about London is that
you should find them easily.
1. Start by seasoning the pork chops with salt and pepper. After mixing
the egg, dust the chops with a bit of flour and then coat them with the egg.
Finally, coat them with the panko/breadcrumbs, until you get an even
layer. Remember to put the breadcrumbs and egg in a shallow bowl so
you can easily do this step.
2. Cook the pork in hot oil – you can check if it’s hot enough by seeing
if a breadcrumb sizzles. For ~1cm thick chop, you should fry it 5-6 mins
on each side or until golden brown.
3. Drain the extra oil on a plate lined with a paper towel.
4. In the same pot (it should still have the oil and all the juice from the
meat) add the finely chopped onions until it is slightly caramelised. Pour
the stock, sugar, soy sauce, and Mirin over the onions.
5. Cut the pork chops and place over the onion, while the cooker is on
medium heat.
6. In a bowl, beat the remaining two eggs and add them in the pan, driz-
zling them over everything. Cook until they are set.
7. Serve over a bowl of steamed white rice (to be fair, I just buy a pack
of pre-cooked rice and I microwave it as I am too lazy to cook rice).
FOOD
Andrada Balmez
Food Editor
4. Boil the green peas for 3-5 minutes.
5. Heat a pan on high.Add the remaining oil and,when
hot enough, add the chicken and cook (depending on
how big the cubes are this should take 6-10 minutes).
6. When cooked properly, add the boiled green peas,
mango salsa, remaining soy sauce, and the honey. Mix
well and allow to cook for another 2-4 minutes.
7. Finally, season with salt and pepper.
8. I recommend serving it with some white rice, as
you will be able to enjoy the sweet and spicy taste bet-
ter – but if you really want, you can try other side-dish-
es, too. Don’t forget to enjoy!
I was a bit reluctant about the combination of
mango and chicken in the beginning, but now
I love it as it is a great mixture between sweet
and spicy food. This is obviously not an orig-
inal recipe, but since I had it for the first time
in a restaurant, I tried a lot of variations I could
find online and I would like to think that this
variation is the best.
Before saying anything else about this recipe, I have to admit that
this resembles much European cuisine and that, generally, there
are very many similar dishes in most countries – in the end, this
is only a pork cutlet. But the Japanese version has something
special to it, mostly because the rice complements so well the soy
sauce and the mirin.

