10 felix
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Samuel Gibbs
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
N
ot all microphones are born
equal; some are infinitely more
equal than others. That’s cer-
tainly the case with the THX
certified Yeti from renowned
USB microphone manufacturer Blue.
The £100 Yeti is the top of the range, all sing-
ing, all dancing USB microphone that claims
to be able to do it all. Featuring not one, not
two, but three condenser capsules (they’re the
bits that actually pick up your dulcet tones) in
a proprietary ‘Tri-Capsule Array’, the Yeti is
certainly capable of dealing with almost every-
thing you’re likely to throw at it in the audible
spectrum.
In reality what that means is that the Yeti
can operate in one of four separate polar pat-
terns: stereo, bi-directional, omni-directional
and cardioid (which is what you’re likely to
end up using the most). Cardioid essentially
focuses in on audio that’s coming from di-
rectly in front of the microphone, blocking
out any audio from behind it and allowing you
to get in nice and close for the ultimate ‘radio
voice’ effect.
The other microphone modes allow you to
capture multi-point sources in more detail,
with stereo perfect for recording a band, bi-
directional for one-on-one interviews and
omni-directional for recording a group around
a table. In fact having used all of the separate
modes in the course of creating many pod-
casts, we can attest to the versatility of the
Yeti.
The Yeti also has on-board mic gain control,
which allows you to fine tune the recording in-
put directly from the microphone, something
that can be really useful if you’ve got variable
sources or you’re having trouble getting the
levels right. Blue have also thought to include
a zero latency direct monitoring headphone
port on the mic complete with it’s own ampli-
fier and volume control. That means that if you
need to listen to the recording as you’re making
it you don’t have to be tethered to your comput-
er and experience the lag that going through the
computer and back might induce. In fact you
can output all your computer’s sound through
the Yeti’s headphone port, allowing you to sit
a decent way away from your computer with
only the mic close to you, reducing any po-
tential background noise a close by computer
might make.
The microphone is suspended on a table-
top stand that can be locked at any angle you
need. The stand is quite hefty, supporting the
relatively heavy microphone and also provid-
ing the Yeti some protection when stored by
letting it fold back in on itself. If you want to
use your own mic stand the Yeti has a standard
threaded mic stand mount on the bottom next
to the mini-USB port.
You might think that £100 for a USB mic is a
lot to pay and you’d be right. You can pick up
a cheap headset for around the £10 mark these
days and for the majority of people, that will
do them fine. However, if you’re serious about
taking vocal or musical recordings directly into
your computer, if you’re a podcaster or musi-
cian for instance, then you simply can’t get a
better USB mic at the moment.
Of course it’s not perfect (what is?), we
don’t like the wobbly plastic master volume
knob, and admittedly it’s a pretty large tool to
have sitting on your desk, but when it comes
to sound quality, ease of use and that illusive
baritone that is the ‘radio voice’the Yeti comes
second to none.
Free App of the Week
iOS - Layar for iPhone
Augmented reality, or AR, promises to be a huge thing
going forward. Layar makes it a reality now, painting
information over a camera feed, just like Terminator.
The iPhone 4 is a svelte piece of product de-
sign, with immaculate lines and a glossy, beau-
tiful finish. Like it or loathe it, no one can deny
that it is a gorgeous piece of hardware and,
with it costing up to £600, you probably want
to keep it that way.
In steps Scosche with its take on the thin rub-
ber iPhone 4 case. The glosSEE g4 comes in
two colours, glossy black and colourless see-
through plastic, but surprisingly you get both
in one box.
The cases themselves are pretty plain, be-
ing made from one piece of a semi-flexible
rubber that fits snugly around the outside of
your iPhone. It offers your pocket-pal decent
scratch protection for all but the screen, sadly
there’s no included screen protector in the box,
but its impact protection is fairly minimal. On
the bright side the material the Scosche is made
from isn’t of the super-grippy variety which
means that getting your iPhone into and out of
a pocket in the case is actually possible, but at
the same time it’s not going to slip out of your
hand.
The clear case allows you to see the indus-
trial design of the iPhone 4 fairly well, with the
only blemish being a relatively small Scosche
logo on the back towards the bottom. Access to
the camera, mute switch, dock connector and
speakers are decent, whilst the volume buttons
are covered but easily activated.
Overall the Scosche glosSEE g4 is an above
average case that provides enough protection
in the pocket and out on a table, but its thin
and slippery enough to get in and out of pock-
ets easily.
Clear iPhone 4 Protection
Samuel Gibbs
Layar for Android came first, and like its iOS brother,
allows both free and paid AR overlays for all sorts of
things.
Android - Layar for Android
Can you hear me now?
Samuel Gibbs goes hands on with the ultimate ‘radio
voice’USB microphone, the unusually named Blue Yeti
Friday 05 November 2010

