BUSINESS
FELIX 11
Midterm elections: what do
they mean for US businesses?
As the Republicans retake the House of Representatives, analysts debate whether
they will they ease the burden on businesses or let them down like it’s 1994
T
uesday saw the US midterm
elections, ending months of
speculation about the ex-
tent of predicted Democrat
loses. These elections were
seen as particularly important in deter-
mining the business environment in the
world’s largest economy for at least the
next two years. The outcome will have
a major effect on the Obama adminis-
tration’s ability to pursue a number of
policies critical to the shape of any com-
ing recovery or double dip. Analysts are
especially interested in what the results
are likely to mean to the healthcare,
drilling and mining industries facing
new regulations, high-income taxpayers
whose ‘tax holidays’ will soon expire if
not renewed, as well as the federal gov-
ernment’s fiscal policies and the Federal
Reserve’s monetary response.
Republicans gained over sixty seats
in the House of Representatives, win-
ning a majority of around twenty seats.
This was an even larger swing than the
fifty-four seats won in the so-called
‘Republican revolution’ of 1994, which
gave the party control over both houses
of congress.
Analogies with that election have
been prevalent for months on Ameri-
can political talk-shows due to several
similarities. Both have been seen as
reactions against ambitious increases
the size of government pushed for by a
first-term Democratic president. In both
cases, Republicans have drawn up ‘con-
tracts’ with their electorate, promising
to roll back the size and scope of the
state if elected.
Democrats will have reason to hope
that the analogy does not end there. The
1994 elections are widely credited with
returning Bill Clinton to popularity af-
ter over a year of low and falling poll
numbers. That had far more to do with
the Republicans, led by House speaker
Newt Gingrich, being seen to com-
pletely abandon their promises of tax
and spending cuts than any particular
triumph on the part of the Democratic
president. The Republicans’ ability to
stop Clinton from doing anything too
unpopular, whilst also failing to en-
act much of their own ‘contract,’ led
to Clinton’s comfortable re-election in
1996.
Democratic hopes are high that a
similar failure by the Republicans, to-
gether with their abysmal field of likely
2012 candidates, will stop Obama from
becoming the first one-term black presi-
dent. The new speaker, John Boehner,
promised in an emotional speech on
Wednesday morning that that will not
happen. Having already received a con-
gratulatory phone call from Obama,
who told him of his hope to “find com-
mon ground” with him, Boehner told
supporters that he would ‘never’ let
them down and that voters had sent
the president a message, that he should
“change course”. He also vowed to cut
spending and reduce the size of gov-
ernment, although his number-two in
the House, Eric Cantor, was unable to
name a single government program that
would be cut, whilst both men have re-
peatedly called and voted for rises in
defence spending.
Despite gaining six seats, the Repub-
licans were unable to regain control of
the Senate. Whilst their 47 seats are
easily enough for them to filibuster any
piece of legislation, they were unable
to secure a majority after several of the
craziest Tea Party candidates lost their
races. In perhaps the biggest surprise of
the night, Majority Leader Harry Reid
fended off a challenge from Sharron
Angle, a favourite of the social-conser-
vative wing of the Tea Party. A delight-
ed John Kerry commented that “Harry
Reid isn’t just Dracula, he isn’t just
Lazarus, he’s our leader and our whole
caucus is thrilled that he’s unbreakable
and unbeatable.”
Karl Rove, George Bush’s former se-
nior political advisor who raised $100
million for Republican candidates in
this election cycle through five lobby-
ing organisations, said that the party’s
base should learn a lesson from the Del-
aware race, which turned from leaning-
republican to a Democratic landslide,
after the establishment candidate was
rejected in the Republican primaries
in favour of a candidate who spent the
remainder of her campaigning trying
to convince voters that she was ‘not a
witch.’
Overall spending on campaign ad-
vertising in this election cycle exceed
ed$3.3bn (£2.1bn), an all-time record
for congressional elections. Most ads
focused on economic issues, but they
were also noted as being the most
negative in tone ever. Healthcare was
another big theme, given strong voter
resentment in most states toward the
Obama administrations rapid expan-
sion of government involvement in that
sector. Other campaign themes ranged
from ‘red meats’ issues like immigra-
tion to some of the most bizarre per-
sonal attacks in US electoral history,
such as an ad that claimed Rand Paul,
the Republican candidate in Kentucky,
worshiped idols and mocked Christians.
Unsurprisingly, the ad backfired and Dr
Paul won his race by double-digits.
What do the results mean for US busi-
ness and the world economy?
Whilst Tuesday night was seen overall
as a win for Republicans and fiscal con-
servatives in particular, questions are
already being raised about the extent
of any impact on the real economy. The
Federal Reserve in particular is widely
expected to counter any moves to bring
Anglo-German style austerity to Amer-
ica. Not only is it already being taken
as a given that interest rates will remain
near zero for the foreseeable future, but
additional rounds of quantitative eas-
ing are now seen as almost inevitable.
As Felix goes to press, Ben Bernanke
is expected to announce $500 billion in
additional ‘stimulus’ whilst markets are
thought to be pricing in around $1 tril-
lion over the next few months.
In terms of specific policies, it is un-
likely that already-enacted bills such
as healthcare will be repealed, but the
Republican takeover of the House will
probably stop new legislation. With the
exception of immigration reform that
many business leaders have been cham-
pioning for the past year, this is likely
to raise investor confidence in the US
economy. A much feared expansion of
‘cap-and-trade’ will now almost certain-
ly not happen whilst some of the most
contentious parts of the financial regula-
tion bill likely be retracted. Robert Doll,
chief equity strategist at the world’s
largest fund manager BlackRock recons
that “the near-term issue of [most] im-
portance to investors is the Bush-era tax
cuts.” These are due to expire soon but
will probably now be extended by the
Republican-controlled House.
Despite record low figures on home
prices and unemployment, the S&P
500 rose thirteen per cent in the last
couple of months. This was likely to
have been the pricing-in of Republican
gains in the Midterms, which means
that equity markets will probably not
be significantly moved by election re-
sults. In fact, the S&P 500 opened on
Wednesday morning almost unmoved
from Tuesday.
It may be a different story in the com-
ing weeks for the US Dollar however,
as the Fed and the ECB are seen to be
pursuing very divergent policies. Whilst
the Federal Reserve may pursue infla-
tionary policies to counter likely cuts
in the rate of increase of government
spending, the ECB has signalled that
it is already looking to tighten its mon-
etary policy. According to Bloomberg,
analyst consensus is now saying that the
Euro will appreciate beyond resistance
levels between $1.45 and $1.50 before
the New Year. Much will depend on
the Republicans’ ability to reign in the
Fed, which judging from their failure
to Audit the central bank despite hav-
ing the support of over two-thirds of the
House earlier this year, including over
one hundred Democrats, appears to be
non-existent.
2010 has been a highly emotional election cycle, will large scale rallies held regularly throughout the year
5tat1stics Corn3r
Friday 05 November 2010

