POLITICS
FELIX
12
Pol
i
ti
cs Edi
tors: Hassan Joudi, Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Peace in Korea
It is clear that North Korea is in a dire state in
humanitarian and political terms. On the 60th
anniversary of the start of the Korean War and
10th anniversary of opening diplomatic rela-
tions with the United Kingdom, from the out-
side it seems things have only gotten worse and
this trend can only continue.
This is a country which the fourth largest
standing army in the world, but this is only
possible with a minimum height requirement
of only 4’3” due to years of malnourishment
resulting in widespread stunted growth. It is
also a country which has technically been at
war with its southern neighbour, now fifteen
times wealthier than the North, for 60 years.
Despite the armistice, they continue to antago-
nise their former countrymen by developing
nuclear weapons, destroying their battleships
and firing across the border.
During last week’s visit Lord Alton, Chair
of the All-Party Parliamentary Committee on
North Korea, questioned officials over inter-
nal human rights abuses. They confirmed that
the idea of ‘innocent until proven guilty’ is
not used and ‘suspects’ are not allowed any
defence until the trial stage has begun, when
they are already considered guilty. The death
penalty, as of 2007, has been extended from
5 to 21 offences including distribution of
foreign audio-visual materials and economic
crimes.
Despite official denials, it is clear that these
offences are given a broad definition. While
public executions in the first half of this year
are thought to stand at a relatively low (com-
pared to the United States or China at least) 22,
there is no figure of death in prison camps as a
result of poor conditions, torture or execution.
Earlier this year Shin Dong-Hyok, who was
born in prison camp No. 14, testified before
the European Parliament. He described being
roasted on an open fire and seeing his family
members executed. When questioned by Da-
vid Alton about his testimony, officials denied
these prison camps even existed.
Lord Alton, did, however, report on some
positive changes being seen. The first indepen-
dent university, The Pyongyang University of
Science and Technology, has finally been built
(see below). Churches are also being opened;
The Korean Christian Federation has claimed
there are now 500 churches in North Korea,
though this is difficult to prove. Lord Alton
and Baroness Cox visited a Russian Orthodox,
a Catholic and a Protestant church as well as
a seminary. While these indicate an increase
in religious freedom, it should be noted that
the Russian Orthodox Church, despite having
Korean priests, had mainly Russian diplomats
worshipping. The Catholic Church is not even
allowed to have a priest.
These physical changes have been dwarfed
by the Workers’ Party of Korea’s first confer-
ence since 1966, where Kim Jong-Un, the third
son of Kim Jong-il, was promoted to the rank
of four-star General and Vice-Chairman of the
Central Military Commission. He is expected
to succeed his father as the supreme leader,
continuing the family’s rule for a third genera-
tion. Senior officials said that the country is en-
tering a period of “momentous change”. Given
how little is known about him, it is still difficult
to gauge how important this really is.
North Korea has, since 1977, been advocat-
ing “Grand National Unity” under the principle
of “Two Systems, One Country”. South Korea
and the International Community supported
this and formed a plan of action at confer-
ences in 2000 and 2007. This has now been
abandoned by South Korea’s new government.
North Korea was further isolated when its pro-
posed denuclearisation talks in January were
thrown out by the United States.
The physical changes, the conferences and
the possibility of reunification are not why we
should be hopeful about North Korea; it is the
changing attitude of the government. Previous-
ly, the country took the ideal of ‘Songun’, or
the ‘military first’ revolutionary attitude. This
prioritised the military above all other govern-
ment departments, which has resulted in the
current state of a huge army but little invest-
ment in any other area. Now, however, officials
talk of a “great, prosperous and powerful na-
tion” by 2012.
It is because of these signals of change that
the new report calls for a new era of dialogue
with the isolated country. A first step would be
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
United States
Greece has suspended all international mail and
parcel services for 48 hours to allow authorities to
inspect all outgoing mail. This comes after a series
of mail bombs were sent to foreign embassies in
Athens and other destinations in Europe. Terrorism
experts suspect that an extreme left wing group
called the Conspiracy of the Cells of Fire is respon-
sible for this campaign. They are accused of trying
to spark a revolution in Greece amidst the economic
downturn. Greece was hit especially hard by the
global financial crisis and its economy is expected
to shrink by up to 4% this year and another 3 % next
year.
Greece a peace conference between the former com-
batant states; the US, UK, South and North Ko-
rea and China, facilitated by a neutral country
such as Sweden or Switzerland. The 6 Party
Talks, initiated to address the issue of a nuclear
armed North, should be continued; especially
in light of recent overtures to denuclearisation
by the North Korean Foreign Minister. The
issue of energy insecurity should also be dis-
cussed, with help given to the country to build
dams and other non-nuclear alternatives. Coop-
eration on humanitarian issues is also sought,
after Kim Jong Il banned all foreign aid organ-
isations in a country in which the state spends
an estimated $2-4 per capita on development.
None of this will be possible for as long as
North Korea’s international outlook is that of
fear and suspicion. The country needs to ac-
knowledge that the Western world does not
seek to destroy it. It can also learn a lot from
China’s economic boom since developing
greater co-operation with the West and liberal-
ising its policies.
Some small steps have been made in this vein
by the British government, which introduced a
scholarship for North Koreans to study in the
UK. Canada has also provided English lan-
guage software to the country’s universities.
The fact that North Korea invited Lord Alton
and Baroness Cox to the country, despite their
open criticism of the government’s human
rights record, is also a welcome move.
Inspired by the Helsinki Accords which dealt
with the USSR, this approach may be the wis-
est option for securing peace in the region in
light of a more open North Korea. Given the
nuclear capabilities of all involved, the penal-
ties for failing to act may make this the only
option.
US Republicans have seized the House of Repre-
sentatives in mid-term elections, dealing a severe
blow to President Barack Obama’s ability to pass
laws. President Obama has called John Boehner-
the House minority leader to congratulate him and
to discuss their priorities. John Boehner is expected
to take over the role of House leader from Demo-
crat Nancy Pelosi once the new Congress has been
sworn in. Meanwhile, the Republicans despite mak-
ing huge gains in the November midterms, failed to
take over the Senate with the Democrats securing
at least half of the 100 seats in the Senate. The Re-
publicans ben-
efited from
voter discon-
tent over the
stalling US
economy and
the persistent-
ly high jobless
rate.
South Korea
South Korea’s navy has fired warning shots to drive
away a North Korean fishing vessel near the disput-
ed maritime border. This is the second incident in six
days and comes after South Korean and North Ko-
rean troops exchanged gunfire near the DMZ. South
Korean security forces have been put on high alert,
anti-aircraft missiles are at the ready, shipping and
air routes are under heightened surveillanc, ahead
of next week’s G20 meeting in Seoul. North Korea
has in the past used high profile events in the South
to bolster its standing and to embarrass the South.
This week’s report from Lord Alton and Baroness Cox,
following their latest visit to North Korea, argues that we
should be building bridges, not walls with the hermit state
Rajat Jain
Rory Fenton
Pyongyang has developed behind a veil
Friday 05 November 2010

