POLITICS
FELIX 13
The Imperial College of North Korea
James Lees
UN calls in Rector in India-Pakistan dispute
Hosepipe bans cause outrage in middle
England, but some water disputes go
much deeper than the need to ensure your
lawn is greener than the Jones’, and when
there is an issue between India and Paki-
stan the world needs to pay attention. The
Kishenganga tributary in the disputed
Jammu and Kashmir region is currently
the source of an argument between India
and Pakistan over Indian plans to build a
300MW hydroelectric plant.
After the dispute could not be resolved
at a governmental level, Pakistan has de-
cided it needs to be settled by a specially
formed International Court of Arbitra-
tion (ICA). This is how any problems
over water in the region are to be settled
as laid out in the Indus Waters treaty of
1960. The UN Secretary General, Ban
Ki-moon, has appointed Judge Stephen
M. Schwebel, former President of the
International Court of Justice to head
the ICA. India and Pakistan have each
appointed 2 legal experts to represent
themselves. The final 2 members of the
7 member ICA will be appointed by
Lord Judge, the Lord Chief Justice of
England and Wales who will choose a
neutral legal expert, and Imperial’s own
Rector, Keith O’Nions who will choose
an engineer.
It is the ICA’s task to settle the dispute
over whether India has the right to build
the dam. The process of making the dam
will result in diverting the Kishenganga,
something which India believes it is al-
lowed to do under the terms of the treaty.
Pakistan objects for a number of reasons,
firstly doing this will result in disruption
of the water flow at its own Neelam-
Jhelum project further downstream.
Pakistan claims this “breaches India’s
legal obligations under the treaty”. A fur-
ther objection relates to India’s decision
to lower the level of the reservoir at the
plant which Pakistan believes breaks the
rules on the drawdown of water.
The Indus Waters treaty gives India the
right to create 3.6 million acre feet of wa-
ter storage capacity and it is apparently
not in danger of exceeding this. Envi-
ronmentalists have claimed that the con-
struction of the dam will wreck the habi-
tats of local endangered animals such as
the snow leopard and the barking deer.
Disputes over anything between these
two nuclear nations need to be resolved
carefully and the ICA has a difficult task
ahead of it if a fair solution is to be found
which avoids either side losing face. It
is likely many hours of sitting in rooms
with arguing lawyers await whichever
engineer the Rector eventually chooses.
The British delegation and teaching staff at the P.U.S.T.
James Chin Kyung Kim is that rare man
– a man who believes in the unbeliev-
able, and makes it happen.
Remarkable also, because he once lan-
guished in a North Korean prison cell.
Remarkable, because this self-made
man has used his own resources to back
his beliefs with hard cash.
During my recent third visit to North
Korea I was privileged to visit the cam-
pus of Dr.Kim’s brand new Pyongyang
University of Science and Technology
(PUST) – just a day before it formally
opened for business.
Like its founder, PUST is remarkable,
because in a country notorious for the
rigid control exercised by the State, this
is the country’s first privately funded
international institution, with a cohort
of academic staff drawn from Europe,
China and North America, openly pro-
moting a strategy for enabling North
Korea’s citizens to engage successfully
in the world economy and global soci-
ety.
PUST is a complex of brand new
buildings situated on 248 acres of land
in southern Pyongyang’s Rakrang dis-
trict. The well-appointed campus has
a target enrolment of 600 graduate and
2000 undergraduate students by 2012
This academic year it began courses in
three faculties: information technology;
industry and management; and a faculty
for agriculture, food and life sciences.
Two more will follow: architecture and
engineering; and public health.
PUST’s development plan includes
a research and design capability, the
creation of a Pyongyang Techno-park
to incubate inventions and ideas, and
a straight-forward repudiation of what
James Kim calls “mass production edu-
cation.” PUST is helping to prepare to-
morrow’s Korean leaders for the world
in which they will live : generation next.
What Kim and his university repre-
sent should not in any way be under-
estimated. They are symbolic of the
incremental change which the country’s
leaders recently promulgated – change
which places the characteristics of “a
prosperous future” and “a dignified fu-
ture” before military might. North Ko-
rea is gradually accepting that neither
its neighbours nor western nations have
territorial ambitions against it and that
the maintenance of the worlds’ fourth
largest army – one million men under
arms – and the development of weapons
of mass destruction – have drained away
precious resources which could have
been better used on economic and social
development.
Its military leaders know that if it ever
used its arsenal there would be a deadly
and cataclysmic repetition of the Korean
War which claimed an estimated 3 mil-
lion lives.
In this, the sixtieth year since those
lethal hostilities commenced, there re-
mains in place a threadbare armistice.
In the intervening six decades there has
been neither peace nor war, merely this
stop-gap armistice which flares up from
time to time into dangerous and deadly
acts of provocation, the most recent of
which were the sinking of the South Ko-
rean naval vessel, the Cheonan, resulting
in the loss of 46 Korean lives; and some
sabre-rattling shots fired across the bor-
der just a few hours after we left
During my three visits to North Korea
with my colleague, Baroness (Caroline)
Cox we have consistently urged its lead-
ers to find a peaceful way forward whilst
also documenting and raising examples
of egregious violations of human rights
- and urging economic, social, humani-
tarian and political reforms.
In 2003, at Panmunjom, on the 38th
parallel which divides north from
south, and where the 1953 Armistice
was signed, I wrote in the visitors book
that it is “better for men to build bridges
than to build walls.”
Since then we have both quietly per-
sisted with constructive, critical engage-
ment, mindful of the old Korean proverb
that “to begin is to half complete the
task.”
In 2009 we published our report
“Carpe Diem”, which urged the in-
coming Obama Administration seize
both the moment and the initiative. The
White House missed the chance to an-
nounce the formal ending of the war and
the creation of diplomatic presence in
Pyongyang.
Throughout the Cold War, the U.S. had
a comparable presence in Soviet Union
and its satellites, and also in China –
allowing it to pursue the Helsinki pro-
cess of human rights engagement and
to see both economic liberalisation and
political reform. But, like the Bourbons,
we seem to have learnt nothing, failing
to pursue “Helsinki with a Korean face.”
Britain, to its credit, has had an Am-
bassador and embassy in Pyongyang
since 2000 – and this has enhanced our
ability to engage the country’s leader-
ship and to influence its future. Ambas-
sador Peter Hughes is widely admired
for his thoughtful diplomacy and his
refusal to give up on finding a peaceful
way forward.
Ignoring North Korea is not an option.
We need a variety of confidence
building measures which painstakingly
and patiently help North Korea to take
its place as a welcome member of the
world community – and Pyongyang’s
University of Science and Technology is
a welcome harbinger of what that world
might look like.
James Kim’s story should not ob-
scure the magnitude of the challenge or
the unique difficulties of operating in a
country which because of its oddities
and enormities can all too easily become
a copy writer’s dream. But his is a story
which inspires and encourages.
At the outbreak of the Korean War
Dr.Kim was just 15 years-old. Neverthe-
less, he enlisted and fought against the
communist north. Of 800 men in his unit
he told me that just 17 survived.
Without money, after the war, he trav-
elled first to France, landing in Marseille,
and then on to Switzerland and, in 1960,
to Britain, where he studied at Bristol’s
Clifton Theological College. He later
returned to Seoul and, in 1976, began a
series of business enertprises in Florida.
But he never forgot his vow and, in the
1980s he sold up, created a university
college in South Korea and in 1992 was
ready to export his model of educa-
tion to China. Yanmbian University of
Science of Technology, in Yanji, north
eastern China, was the result. It, in turn,
became the model for Pyongyang.
But, before that could happen, Dr.Kim
would be arrested by Kim Jong Il’s
North Korean Government and languish
in jail.
Next week David Alton describes how
Dr.Kim unlocked both the door to his
cell and a political system - opening
the way to North Korea’s first private
international university.
David Alton
In the first of three Felix articles, Lord David Alton of Liverpool reports on his visit
to the Pyongyang University of Science and Technology
Friday 05 November 2010

