14
COM M ENT
felix
FRIDAY 5 novemBER 2010
S
ince the not so level-headed
Mephedrone debate you’d
have hoped that people
could see how prohibition
can only lead to problems
and that legalisation of narcotics isn’t
such a bad thing, but judging from the
idiotic grumbles I keep hearing, it seems
people still aren’t quite getting it.
Unless you’re a holier-than-thou
preacher from one of our beloved main-
stream religions I’m sure you’ll agree
that you don’t have the right to tell
someone what they can and can’t do
with their body. If somebody wants to
dabble with mind-altering substances in
their free time, what’s it to you?
Sure, people may be a ‘menace’ to
those around them when they’re on such
chemicals, but I fail how this differs to
alcohol consumption, which seems to be
disregarded on grounds of our ‘culture’
(whatever that means). How being sick,
getting into fights, having one-night
stands, and forgetting about an even-
ing’s events can be seen as perfectly
normal behaviour is just beyond me.
Besides, most people I know who’ve
dabbled with drugs don’t become the
raging arseholes most drinkers seem to
morph into on Wednesday sports nights,
and instead just have a bit of a chat and
a boogie.
So let’s imagine for a second a nation
where the sale of narcotics is controlled
by the state (refrain from the Orwellian
utterances, please) or by private compa-
nies à la Marlboro or Absolut. Quality
would have to be outstanding, and prices
competitive – the illicit market would
soon cease to exist as it simply wouldn’t
be able to compete. So now you have
the loss of a frankly scummy market,
lower crime rates, and the people who
were getting high anyway are doing so
in a safer environment with controlled
substances.
Nobody would be encouraged to start
taking drugs due to their availability,
and an adverse effect might even oc-
cur. Sure, it’s ‘cool’ to bang chemicals
up your nose when it’s illegal, but who
wants to conform to something perfectly
legal? It’d quickly lose the image of
glamour that it currently has, that’s for
sure. So the people that were going to
get high anyway will do so, and those
who want to give it a miss can do as they
please. Of course there would have to be
regulation on who can buy what when,
but that’s a separate argument altogether.
What does prohibition actually
achieve? An increase in the street value
of the product, drawing people with no
aspirations to sell it for a quick buck. As
more people sell it (and make a killing)
the value drops. At this point, some of
the bigger players will be caught and
banged up – demand is still there, but
supply is low, so price increases. And
so the cycle continues – a fluctuation of
prices, a lot of dealers getting rich, and
some imprisoned.
It goes even further than that, though.
Mephedrone as a case in point: most
Bans don’t work
websites were selling ‘good quality’
stuff that was what they said it was, at
affordable prices, delivered faster than
a Dominos pizza. Following a bunch of
hyped media coverage and an unneces-
sary ban, a bunch of people decide to set
up websites of their own selling who-
knows-what (if they actually deliver)
– we now have a designer drugs mar-
ket whereby people have no idea what
they’re getting but will still take the risk.
I’m not saying that the story of your
mother’s brother twice removed isn’t
upsetting – I’m sure it’s devastating
when you lose someone to drugs. The
point is that with some alterations to
our legislation and culture around drugs
these kinds of horror stories probably
wouldn’t exist. Like sexual orienta-
tion, race and religion, attitudes towards
drugs really need to be dragged from un-
der the carpet and brought into the 21st
century.
Our out-dated attitude to drugs is doing more harm than
good. Legalising them is the most sensible solution
It is a truism that scientific research is
an international affair. It relies on the free
movement of ideas and technology across
land, sea and international borders. Most
importantly, it relies on the free movement
of academics themselves.
Therefore the government’s plan to impose
a strict cap on immigration is disturbing for
the scientific community. Driven by the politi-
cal need to assuage the widespread fear of
immigration, the coalition have come down
hard on immigrants from non-EU countries.
In doing so, however, they have shot them-
selves in the foot, and the UK’s scientific
community in the chest.
A credible argument could be made (though
this newspaper wouldn’t support it) about
the need to reduce immigration into the UK.
But conflating the large-scale immigration
of unskilled workers from the world’s dys-
functional states and movement of highly-
skilled specialists in the global job market
is short-sighted.
To add insult to injury, while the scientific
community is denied exemption from the
draconian immigration cap, Premiership
football teams will be allowed to hire players
from across the globe without restriction.
When kicking a ball is deemed to be more
important than the advancement of science,
something is clearly amiss.
Already the government’s distorted immigra-
tion policy is making the UK a less desirable
place for scientific research. Overseas ap-
plicants are forced to jump through a whole
series of bureaucratic hoops and at the end
of the day, EU applicants are legally given
precedence. The new cap will mean that re-
search groups will be further hampered by
an inability to hire the brightest minds and
postdoctoral researchers who require a visa
extension could find themselves deported
before their research is completed.
Research in the UK already excels in spite
of poor funding and a lack of investment.
One wonders if the government is playing
a cruel game, increasing the burden just to
see how much the system can take. Their
recklessness is short-sighted and stupid.
Scientific research, and skilled employment
in general, must be exempted from the im-
migration crackdown.
FELIX
Black Sheep
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
The Government’s
immigration policy is
a threat to scientific
research in the UK
The desks in the Felix office are getting a bit messy. Time to get the hoover out...
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“If somebody wants
to dabble with mind-
altering substances,
what’s it to you?”
“
“
messy. Time to g
”
Most people I know who’ve
dabbled with drugs don’t
become the raging arseholes
drinkers morph into on
Wednesday sports nights
Comment Editor: Anna Perman

