WERE THE FRENCH
RIGHT TO
STRIKE?
Y
awn yawn, the
French are on
strike again, and I
and others are left
wondering what
the point is. This time at least, it
appears to be some sort of prin-
ciple, though whether this raises
them above the level of London
Underground tube drivers striking
is questionable. The majority of the people they inconvenience either
earn half what they do, or work for twice as many hours in a day – gener-
ally both.
However, I cannot help but think the strikers in France have got it
wrong too, and for several reasons. For one, several affluent Frenchmen
(and women) known to me have described the French predilection for
striking as the ‘national sport’. This hardly imbues it with a moral wor-
thiness the strikers might wish for. But even more than that, the princi-
ple, which it doubtless is, over which they are striking now is seemingly
impossible to rationalise. They do not like the age of compulsory retire-
ment being raised from 60 to 62 years. This seems rather spoilt when
one considers that in both the UK and in Germany, the age of compulsory
retirement is 65, and will rise in both countries, probably to 67 or 68.
There is little resistance to this in Britain, one imagines for a variety of
reasons. No one has any money and so it is understood that we all need
to work for longer. What many may not have considered is the fact that
when the current system of state pensions was designed, the expectation
was a retirement of only a few years after the age of 65. The fiscal com-
parison of this with today’s retirements of twenty or even thirty years,
has not been widely reported. Perhaps more importantly, a compulsory
retirement of almost any age seems a form of ageism. Whole sitcoms
have been written about the subject (Waiting for God; The Legacy of
Reggie Perrin), in which experienced, well-trained personnel at the top
of their games are ‘retired’. They call it being ‘thrown on the scrapheap’.
Second, striking does not seem to fit with the principles it means to in
France. This rather French off-centre attitude goes back a long way—the
first clear example being that beheading the aristocracy was as recondite
to egalitarianism as any of the current activity is. Mme. Guillotine did
nothing to equalise people. If anything she served to mark the unsatisfac-
tory delineation as clearly in death as it was in life.
The British have an innate distrust of their politicians, the French seem
to have an innate belief that theirs are criminal. Many turn out to be so,
but that does not seem to make the French electorate change that. So in-
stead of complaining-by-inconveniencing, what about making a rational
analysis of the effect on the lives of everyone?
16 felix
FRIDAY 5 november 2010
COMMENT
Comment Editor: Anna Perman
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
E
ver since the 14th July
1789, the French have
consistently displayed
a fair amount of je
ne sais quoi when it
comes to acts of rebellion. The
Storming of the Bastille cemented
France’s reputation, in the words of
François Mignet, as a nation “intox-
icated with liberty and enthusiasm.”
Closer to most French hearts, however, are the riots of May 1968.
What started as a piddling group of grumbling students soon exceeded
20,000 people. Within less than a week, over a million people were
marching through Paris in their support. You blinked your eyelids and
the number had become ten million! President Charles de Gaulle
fled the country, calling for new parliamentary elections to calm the ris-
ing violence and avoid civil war. A bunch of adolescents had very nearly
caused the collapse of the government. And none of this had been driven
by the unions.
Ever since 1968, France has become a more liberal place, with less
respect for authority and a steadfast desire to place quality of life at
the centre of all social reform. In 1983, President François Mitterrand
brought in the right to retire at 60, and in 2000 Prime Minister Lionel
Jospin helped instigate the 35-hour working week. But this social trend
is under threat from a bill to make people work two more years for their
pensions. A bill that is being rushed through the upper house using a
highly contentious emergency constitutional measure.
The public are out in force once again, living up to their strong strik-
ing and demonstrating pedigree. Current President Nicolas Sarkozy is
in essence a wannabe JFK, and likes to portray a Hollywood persona.
He is the least popular leader in the history of the Fifth Republic, and
is at odds with two-thirds of the French citizens that he represents who
oppose the pension law. He has been accused of ignoring the public and
comes across as a tetchy authoritarian, arrogant president. How their
French howls of protest put to shame our British whimpers against the
draconian cuts we are facing.
The French government seems to only listen to public opinion when
under serious pressure to do so. It’s almost as if the whole political
system is centered on striking. The government appears to deliberately
wait for a strike before considering any negotiations, whatever the issue.
The people are correct to express their democratic right to strike, regard-
less of the financial impact of the reforms. They adamantly believe in a
social way of life that has taken countless battles, fought by their parents
and grand-parents, to achieve. They are being true to their principles and
culture, putting us don’t-you-mind-if-you-don’t Brits to shame.
“The French
predilection for
striking is the
‘national sport’”
Samuel Furse
“French howls
of protest put to
shame our British
whimpers”
Pumpkins? Evil?
Topless torsos? Odd...
Halloween sucks.
Charles Betts
Halloween bugs me, so this year I thought
I’d ignore it altogether. I’m not the kind of
person who will set out logical arguments
for this, but not because I’m lazy. I just don’t
have that desperate a need for your approv-
al. However I would really like to talk about
my fear of Pumpkins. I realise that as a type
of vegetable (or is it fruit? I’m not going to
look it up because I don’t care), Pumpkin
should not have a capital but I have a prob-
lem. I don’t like to backspace. So I don’t
care if I typo, I ain’t going back.
So there’s the Pumpkin sitting pretty (or
ugly if the mother let her fat little son han-
dle the knife) flickering in the window mock-
ing me. I’m not paranoid, the damn things
are actually evil and hate me and want to
kill me and STUFF. We used to be friends,
Pumpkins and I, we used to braid one an-
other’s hair etc. And then the love was gone,
just like David Guetta says. On a side note
before I continue about Pumpkins, I hear
some men dressed for Halloween parties as
werewolves from Twilight, i.e. topless teen-
age “tottie”. I only write “tottie” for the al-
literation, I actually hate the word, plus no
topless guy at a party really attracts anyone
because having your torso out when it’s not
cold is a rather effeminate look.
Back to Pumpkins (which, incidentally,
would make a great girls’ name). I would
like to crush Pumpkins further by pointing
out that they aren’t even remotely spooky. In
fact, things that attempt to be spooky rarely
are. A cemetery at night, is that spooky?
Well yes, in a way. But only in the same way
many deserted places are spooky at night;
it’s not that there is a chance of someone
rising from the dead, it’s the presence of
undesirables such as muggers. Something
that does intrigue me is masks. In the Hal-
loween films, the fact that you can’t see Mi-
chael Myers’ face definitely adds to the fear.
I get genuinely scared watching those films.
People in masks at Halloween aren’t scary
except when you actually have no idea who’s
under it and they don’t speak and keep star-
ing at you from a distance. But that tends
not to happen at parties.
Damn, how am I going to sleep tonight
now that I’ve reminded myself of those
Halloween films! (Incidentally, “you’re a
sexy chick” tends to follow whenever I say
“Damn”, it’s become a real social problem.)
Still don’t need your approval though. I’m
just ashamed of being the complete baby
that I am.
You know how people say it’s fear of the
“unknown”? It follows that if I know how it
feels to stalk in a mask I might fear it less.
So maybe I’ll get a mask of my own, hang
around some college gates menacingly, just
get a feel for it… Anyway bring on Bonfire
Night!
By Bloody Mary
During October 3.5 million French
workers took to the streets to protest
against changes to pension plans.
But the question is...

