A R T S
FELIX
18
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
When a writer writes to tell the truth, it can have
dangerous and disturbing effects. Roberto’s book
Gomorrah on the Neapolitan Camorra crime sys-
tem, published in 2006, made him a bestselling
author. However, it also gave him the perennial
company of five armed guards. Why does a writer
have an escort? The question could be easily an-
swered by pointing out that Saviano’s book exposes
the activities and economic system of the Camorra,
the criminal organization originally from Naples that
now does business all over the world. This has cer-
tainly upset the camorristi who now threaten Savi-
ano’s life.
If you read nothing else
this week...
Eduardo Borgomeo’s choice of a
modern Italian epic will open your
eyes to one of the most important
books of the last five years.
Gomorrah by
Roberto Saviano
Want the world to know about your favourite read?
If you want to see it in Felix send 300-400 words to
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Helen Mackey
From classical ‘safari’ style photos that bring
drama on a big scale, to atmospheric artistic
black and white studies and colourful concep-
tual pieces, this exhibition has rightly earned
itself a popular following as an internationally
renowned exhibition bringing together some of
the best wildlife photography of the last year. I
really only became aware of its existence last
year and sadly, that attention was due to in-
famy. In 2009 there was scandal; shortly after
José Luis Rodriguez’s ‘Storybook Wolf’ was
announced as the overall winner of the presti-
gious award, gossip began circulating that not
all was as it seemed. Following thorough in-
vestigations it emerged that, contrary to what
Rodriguez had portrayed in his submitted cap-
tion, his photo was not a chance encounter with
a wild wolf, capturing distinct natural behav-
iour. Instead, he effectively cheated by using
a tame wolf trained to perform for the camera.
For the first time in 46 years, there was a blank
space on the exhibition wall as the photograph
was removed and Rodriquez’ title revoked.
This year captive animals were banned from
the competition altogether. As was Rodriguez,
incidentally. Harsh. But strict enforcement of
such rules is essential to this exhibition and its
purpose. In an age when every image we see is
manipulated to such a degree that we question
what, if anything present, constitutes reality;
it’s refreshing to look upon photographs that
capture the very concept of magnificence of the
untouched. Wildlife is, after all, most incred-
ible without our interference.
When I visited, it was clear that that message
of conservation is at the heart of the exhibition.
But I was pleased that they managed to put
their point across in a way that doesn’t over-
whelm what remains a celebration of the stun-
ning work on display. There are specific cat-
egories whose photos plainly aim to illustrate
the current destruction of wildlife worldwide
(including the newly introduced ‘Photojournal-
ist’ award, whose winner this year reported on
animal cruelty in Asia), however in general the
point is made in a more positive way; by show-
ing us how much we have, it implies how much
we have to lose.
However what impressed me most was the
dedication the entrants possessed. Beneath eve-
ry photograph is a list of the equipment used
to take the shot, one or two sentences about
The art of shooting wildlife
the creature or its habitat and a caption writ-
ten by the entrant. It was whilst reading these
captions (some authored by 10yr olds entering
the children’s category, which was, gallingly,
no less impressive in standard) that I realised
the photographs on display were not really the
product of any expensive or elaborate equip-
ment but, more truthfully, the product of end-
less patience in often inhospitable conditions,
all for the chance of that one magical shot. You
will undoubtedly agree, if you take time to visit
the exhibition, the end result confirms that their
perseverance to wait for that real, truly wild
animal is absolutely worth it.
A marvel of ants, Bence Máté. Veolia Environnement Wildlife Photographer of the Year - Overall Winner
However, many writers and journalists have talked
about the mafia systems before, so the fact that
Saviano is writing about the mafia is not the only
reason why he is a marked man. Saviano’s work
has been perceived as a threat to the criminal or-
ganization because it broke through the walls of
silence and indifference. Gomorrah turned the at-
tention of a whole nation, and not just of a few lo-
cal newspapers, on the practices, connections and
businesses of the criminal system. It is the number
of readers, and thus the success of the book, that
has made Gomorrah and its author dangerous. The
fact that Gomorrah sold 10 million copies means
that 10 million people know. They know the names
of the mafia bosses. They know that the camorristi
filled entire provinces with toxic waste. They know
that the existences of the godfathers are miserable
and wretched, and not incredible as the Hollywood
mythology made us think.
Yet it is unclear why a writer should deal with the
mafia. I mean, usually dealing with the crime sys-
tem is the task of judges and policemen. What does
literature have to do with the mafia? To answer this
question we need to consider what the mafia really
is. The mafia is not just an association of gangsters.
It is a frame of mind, a way of thinking, a system of
relationships that covers every aspect of life. Thus
in order to fight it off and defeat it, what is needed
is a cultural movement and not just police action. In
this scenario works such as Gomorrah are of funda-
mental importance because they spread the word,
they spread the knowledge so that a story that used
to be the story of a single town or area is now the
story of 10 million people. This is the power of liter-
ature, the power of making a distant story the story
of everyone. A story that you can’t ignore.
The Veolia Environment Wildlife Photogra-
pher of the Year at the Natural History Mu-
seum till March. Students £4.50.
The Frozen Moment, Fergus Gill. Young Overall Winner.
Another year at the Veolia photography competition, and
the entries are wilder and more captivating than ever
Friday 05 November 2010

