FELIX 19
ARTS
B
est known for his instantly
recognisable still lifes, the
Courtauld’s latest exhibition
instead focuses on Cézanne’s
depictions of people at play.
His models were peasant farmers from
his own estate, about whom the exhibi-
tion provides some intriguing snippets
of information. They are pictured smok-
ing and playing card games together, but
Cézanne endows them with a gravity and
concentration of purpose totally unlike the
depictions of the ‘immoral’ behaviours of
peasants usual at this time (a second room
houses many examples of such works from
the 16th and 17th centuries). Cézanne
himself said, “I love above all else the ap-
pearance of people who have grown old
without breaking with old customs”. His
rough brush stokes and strong lines lend
the peasants a rugged, stoic air and there
is a stillness similar to that of his still lifes
suggesting the timelessness of the scene.
The mix of colours blended carefully to
make each block of colour are beautiful,
although the compositions sometimes ap-
pear a little off balance.
Although there are fewer than 20 works
exhibited, they have been brought togeth-
er from all over the world, including loans
from the Musée d’Orsay in Paris and the
Met in New York (to where this exhibit
moves in the New Year). Three of his five
large final canvases are displayed (the oth-
ers cannot be loaned), along with many in-
tricate studies of the individual farmers in
pencil, watercolour and oil - Cézanne pro-
duced far more preparatory work for this
series than he usually did as he considered
his subject very ambitious.
The idea is to enable the visitor to fully
appreciate Cézanne’s creative process over
the five years during which he produced
this series of paintings and I really enjoyed
trying to imagine how he worked. (This
exhibition has allowed art historians to
revise their understanding of the order in
which his various paintings were created).
There is a relatively in-depth guide to each
painting giving insight into its subject and
the artistic techniques, which helps as it
is necessary to appreciate each painting if
you don’t want to leave feeling a little dis-
satisfied by the small number of works.
This is definitely worth a visit for anyone
interested in Cézanne and you will have
plenty of time left to visit the rest of the
gallery which includes several works by
Cézanne’s great influence, Pissarro.
WHAT’S
NEW ABOUT
CEZANNE?
It’s more than 100
years since Cézanne,
one of the great French
post-impressionist
painters died, so how
much more is there to
say? Find out at The
Courtauld Gallery
Marclay’s 24hr masterpiece
Eva Rosenthal Mena
Time will run away with you. It will
skip, jump, come to a standstill, and
even explode in front of your very eyes
in Christian Marclay’s ‘The Clock’.
Marclay has made a twenty-four hour
film using snippets from movies that
involve clocks and references to time.
Every single minute of the day is
mapped out using scenes from famous
old and new movies. James Bond will
surreptitiously tell you what time it is
as he tracks some unknown person’s
movements; at four o’clock bands of
excited children run out of classrooms
screaming as their teacher tells them to
slow down; and I am almost sure I saw
Kevin Spacey walk across the screen
with a watch on his hand in a scene from
The Usual Suspects.
The logistics of the project are un-
imaginable. A moment in movie his-
tory was found for every minute of the
day. Most minutes even have multiple
clocks and ways of telling the time
from various different films. Moreover,
each scene is faultlessly edited so that it
runs into the next with no interruptions.
Somehow, Marclay has even managed
to make music spill from its original
scene into the next, flowing constantly
in one direction.
There is no plot. How could there be?
Realistically speaking it would be im-
possible for a plot to materialize. Nev-
ertheless, you believe in a plot. Or in
many interweaving plots that twist and
turn as the minute passes. Everything
seems to build up to the hour, where in a
sudden blast of clocks and actors shout-
ing out the time as they run to their next
engagements, time appears to end. Then
the clock starts ticking again.
‘The Clock’ functions as just that;
a clock. If you were to play it on your
kitchen television, you would only have
to look or perhaps listen for a few sec-
onds to tell the time. But ‘The Clock’ is
much more than just a movie that tells
the time. It is a visual representation of
the infiniteness of time, a compilation
of recognizable moments from the 20th
and 21st centuries and a commentary on
the randomness of instants in life.
That is what it meant to me. I left the
viewing room in a slightly dazed fashion
but wanting to capture every minute of
the day as ‘The Clock’ does.
Go and see it for just fifteen minutes
after a hard day of shopping or visiting
the more serious museums near Pic-
cadilly. One more thing: after the 13th
of November the only way to see this
amazing ‘thing’ will be to pay a quarter
of a million pounds to obtain one of only
four available copies.
Christian Marclay, The Clock (2010) single channel video, duration 24 hours.
Until 16 January, free for full-time
students.
Free at the White Cube, Mason’s
Yard til 13th November
Paul Cézanne (1839-1906) Man with a Pipe, c.1893-96
Christina Flanagan
Friday 05 November 2010

