HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 05 November 2010
2
FELIX
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Layout/Design
Editor Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas James Goldsack Business Editors Sina
Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors Hassan Joudi James Lees Rory Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Comment Editor Anna Perman Arts Editor Rox
Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Matt Allinson Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon
Worthington Online Editors Niharika Midha Ravi Pall Chris Birkett International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editor
Thomas Welch Travel Editors Dylan Lowe Chris Richardson
Special thanks to: Afonso Campos, Lizzy Griffiths, Alex Nowbar, Shruti Mishra, Alex Karapetian, Ian Wei, Matt Allinson, Simon Worthington and Gilead Amit.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
Lolcat of teh week
EDITOR’S PICK Union Competition
Green Week
To celebrate Green Week (22nd – 26th November) the
Union is running a Green Photo Competition. Take photos
of anything around College that is environmentally friendly
under the following categories: Energy, Recycling, The
Natural Environment, Water.
Include a 30 word caption with your photos and ensure
that your photos are of the highest resolution possible.
The top 10 photos in each category will be displayed
in the College Entrance in an exhibition unveiled at
the beginning of Green Week. Send your photos to
greenphoto@imperial.ac.uk
Photo Competition
On campus
Teaching Awards
The awards for Teaching Excellence for NHS Teach-
ers celebrate the efforts of over 800 NHS staff in
West London who help deliver the curriculum for un-
dergraduate medical education at Imperial. In addi-
tion, there will also be the inaugural lecture of Prof
Karim Meeran on Gila monsters, neuropeptides
and Margaret Thatcher.
G16 Sir Alexander Fleming Building
10 November 17:30-20:30
Lord Flowers Memorial
The physicist Lord Flow-
ers, who led Imperial as
Rector for 12 years from
1973, died earlier this
year at the age of 85. A
memorial is being held
in celebration of one of
Imperial’s longest serv-
ing Rectors. Speakers in-
clude Sir Keith O’Nions.
Registration in advance.
Contact amna.siddiq@
imperial.ac.uk
University Challenge trials
The selection for the University Challenge team will
be organized through faculties this year, before an
intense inter-faculty final on the 22nd November.
The RCSU trial is on 8th November, 17:30 in SAF
G.34. The ICSMU trial is on 9th November, 19:30 in
Reynolds Bar. The RSMU trial is on 11th November,
18:00 in RSM G.41 and the CGCU trial is on 15th
November, 12:00 in Chem Eng LT1.
Inter-faculty Finals
G34 Sir Alexander Fleming Building
22 November
Great Hall
11 November 14:30-15:30
EDITOR’S PICK
‘Funding Our Future’ Rally
On Wednesday 10th November, students from all over Britain will be
marching through the streets of London to protest against the govern-
ment policy to slash the higher education budget. The ‘Funding our
Future’ rally is being organized by the National Union of Students and
University and College Union and is intended to defend education from
these ‘devastating cuts’.
To offset the 40% cut in the university teaching budget announced
in the Comprehensive Spending Review, education minister David Wil-
letts announced on Tuesday that the cap on university fees will be
raised to £9,000.
The NUS argues that this will place an unfair burden onto the shoul-
ders of students, who will already face hardship in the wake of reduced
government spending. NUS President Aaron Porter said: ‘The Govern-
ment’s approach to funding our colleges and universities is short-sight-
ed, illogical and unfair. Together we will let politicians know that we will
not tolerate their failure to fund our future.’
Response to the rally from Imperial College Union has been luke-
warm. President Alex Kendall said: “we do not yet have a stance on
the cuts [to higher education], as more information needs to be given
as to where these cuts will fall.”
Imperial College Union will be making students aware of the protest
as they “welcome the maintenance in research funding which is vital
for research led teaching”. However, they will not be encouraging stu-
dents to march, leaving the decision of whether to attend or not up to
individuals. Anna Perman
10 November - Horse Guards Avenue - 11:30am

