T
he UK Grime scene has been gain-
ing a lot of popularity in recent
times. With tracks such as ‘Too
Many Man’ and artists such as
Skepta sweeping the charts. So on
Monday 25th, the launch night of ‘This is UK
Grime Volume 1’ took place at the Fenchurch
store in Covent Garden. It was a bit of a strange
venue if you ask me.
We were sceptical at first but when we got
there, they had turned the whole store into an
intimate music venue. The cream of the UK
Grime Scene were all on show, with the likes
of members of Boy Better Know and other top
grime artists showed us what they had to offer
and it was very impressive. The great mix of
tunes and well thought lyrics made for some
great music and the free bar went down a treat,
which really got the music flowing. When we
were all booted out, the cameras came out and
people were MC’ing on the street with passers
by bemused at what they saw.
This is how grime has grown in the under-
ground music world, with artists recording
their tracks on small cameras and sticking
them on Youtube and creating mixtapes. Even
though it is now becoming more mainstream,
the essence of grime hasn’t changed. I’m a big
grime fan myself, and I really see it going plac-
es with such talented artists churning out some
quality tracks.
MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 5 NOVEMBer 2010
20
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Album of The Week
Salem
King Night
IAMSOUND Records
2010
There’s a bit of ruckus being raised on the blogosh-
pere about a phenomenon called ‘Witch-House’. Chi-
cago-based band Salem are hailed as the originators
of this so-called ‘genre’, and have just released their
first full-length ‘King Night’, collecting six new songs
alongside five old favourites from their past singles
and EPs. Regardless of hipsters debates, Salem have
made a genuinely brilliant, cohesive album, full of
dense, atmospheric and interesting songs, they draw
you into a world that is Salem’s alone. Most appropri-
ately described as a downtempo, drugged-out fusion
of industrial and noise-rock, it is an album that re-
wards repeated listens. Producer Dave Sardy cleans
up the sound somewhat, bringing out hidden beauty
lying underneath the layers of murky noise. The amaz-
ing ‘Sick’ and ‘Trapdoor’ feature freaky, downtuned
drawl-rapping reminiscent of The Knife’s ‘Hanging
Out’, but it is closer ‘Killer’ that floats my boat as one
of the best tracks of the year.- Greg Power
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
The Dillinger Escape Plan
Electric Ballroom, Camden
Tonight! (Friday 5th November)
7:00pm
If you’re like me, you like a bit of math-metal on the
side of your lectures. Breaking out of New Jersey
back in 1999 with their landmark release ‘Calcu-
lating Infinity’, these pioneers of insanely extreme
metal have spawned a legion of imitators. Over the
years they have kept evolving, incorporating catchy
choruses and experimental noise jams, leaving
everyone else trailing far behind. And ever since
they collaborated with Mr Bungle/Faith No More
mastermind chameleon Mike Patton, they’ve been
getting funkier too. Prepare for a night of moshing,
slam-dancing and maybe a little grooving as well. I
can promise you it’ll be a better workout than you’ll
ever get at Ethos. - Greg Power
I knew these girls were good. I knew they were
hyped. I knew they could put on a great live
performance. But still, I wasn’t expecting a
sold out Scala only two days after they released
their first album!
2:54 opened the night with their “pre-pubes-
cent Garbage”-like songs led by a extremely
foxy lead singer. Friction followed with a very
tight Fool’s Gold-meets-Mystery Jets happy
set, highly dominated by the high pitched, well
played and placed, crisply joyful, Maghreb in-
spired guitar notes. Before leaving the stage,
Friction mentioned that everybody that came
to see Warpaint was “in for a treat”. And oh
boy, were they right! After a (perhaps too long)
sound check, the “angel-like choir” got up on
stage and started delivering their “minimal-gap-
filling harmony”. The simultaneously contrast-
ing, yet completing vocals and guitars of Emily
Kokal and Theresa Wayman impressed on me a
yin-yan’esque feeling of the performance. Led
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
UK Grime and the DJ-Mag Awards
Blacks (I swear that’s his name) rock-
in’ the mic like there’s no tomorrow
1. Radiohead
2. The xx
3. Muse
4. Florence + the
Machine
5. Kings of Leon
6. Daft Punk
7. The Killers
8. Bloc Party
9. Michael Jackson
10. Arcade Fire
Ahmed El-Refee gives us the lowdown on two wicked London events
Warpaint
Scala
28th October
★★★★★
Diogo Miguel Geraldes
Ready for War? Ready for Love!
by Stella Mozgawa and followed by the exqui-
site Jenny Lee Lindberg’s bass lines, the un-
expected melody breaks evidenced how great
musicians they all are. Everyone in the King’s
Cross venue was hypnotised with the flawless
but still human performance. Their unique style
of inserting songs into songs and silence into
music is what makes their album a definite
contester to any Top Albums of 2010 list. As
highlights, I would like to pick “Beetles” for
its never-ending epicness, “Composure” and
“Set Your Arms Down” because they capture
Warpaint’s essence and geniality and, obvi-
ously, the almost a-capella, involving, vocal
dominated four-way that was “Billie Holiday”,
the last song in their encore. As a very frequent
concert-goer, I’ve seen many great established
acts this year. LCD Soundsystem, Grizzly Bear,
Arcade Fire, Beirut, The Antlers, Broken So-
cial Scene or The National have all impressed
me beyond belief for their live performances,
technique and brilliance. However, I wasn’t
expecting a similar reaction to this new, slightly
inexperienced LA band. I could go on and de-
liver an endless list of adjectives of the likes
of ‘magnificent’ or ‘perfect’, but I won’t. I was
there, it’s all that matters. They are going to be
huuuuge and stay for a while, so book yourself
tickets for their next concerts. Oh, and I’m in
love. With all of them.
W
ednesday was the final of
the DJMag Top 100 DJs
2010. Ministry of Sound
played host to a star-stud-
ded lineup featuring even-
tual winner, Armin van Buuren and others
such as Deadmau5, Fedde Le Grande, Laid-
back Luke and Eddie Halliwell.
One of the artists that really caught my eye
was Afrojack. He played a great selection of
his own music and it justified why he was in
the top 20 DJs in the world. His great mix of
house and dance/electro really worked well and
the crowd really responded to what they were
hearing. I definitely see him as an artist to look
out for in future.
Later that evening, the top 3 were announced.
Even though Armin van Buuren was voted
number 1, Deadmau5 played a fantastic set
that made me question why he was only at num-
ber 4! Some may disagree, but I really think he
deserved to be number 1. He really shone as a
top class DJ with all of his own remixes and
tracks. His unique style was a hit with the fans,
especially the fact that he mixes all of his tracks
on the fly!
If you get a chance to see him live, I defi-
nitely recommend you go and see him. Funnily
enough, he will be at Earls Court on the 18th
December together with Magnetic Man and
Zane Lowe. Get your tickets quick!
Went to a gig, four beautiful babes... AND THEN I JIZZED. IN. MY PANTS.
This is UK Grime Volume 1
Fenchurch store, Covent Garden
25th October
DJMag Top 100 DJs of 2010
Ministry of Sound
27th October

