FELIX
22
MUSIC
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
How could a gig featuring a children’s
choir, the Britten Sinfonia and a man
smashing melons in the name of music
be anything other than sublime?
These New Puritans (TNP) had felt
that people were never quite sure what
to do at their gigs. Should they mosh,
dance, or just stand and admire wist-
fully? When composer André De Ridder
approached TNP about performing their
widely acclaimed second album Hidden,
the problem was solved. The result was
this performance at the Barbican where
the band would be joined not only by
the brass and woodwind of the Britten
Sinfonia, but by a childrens choir and
Foley artists armed with everything
from swords to Tycho drums and the
aforementioned melons.
Front man Jack Barnett was the only
detractor from what was an otherwise
perfect performance of Hidden’s am-
bitious, beat driven, classically influ-
enced Art Rock. He was apparently in
the midst of a throat infection which
explains the exceptionally quiet vocals.
The higher notes on ‘Orion’ were terri-
bly strained and I found myself feeling
a little anxious that he would choke up
completely. As a front man, though, he
was very much a cross between Thom
Yorke and Gollum from Lord of the
Rings: nervy stomping, gangly and
deep in the music. As a fan of both Ra-
diohead and Tolkien, this came some
way to making up for a weaker vocal
performance.
The ferocious single ‘Attack Mu-
sic’ was a highlight with Jack’s vocals
backed hauntingly by the children’s
choir and the sharpening swords of the
Foley artists. ‘Hologram’ was the ten-
derest song off the album and made for a
beautiful live performance.
Support came from Darkstar who
had brought in a singer to create their
latest album ‘North’ and take them
away from the dubstep for which they
are famed. The performance has ele-
ments of Dubstep but was very much a
somber affair: not the kind of stuff that
would be played at club. The mood was
such that a dubstep-tinged cover of the
gloriously sparse Radiohead’s ‘Video-
tape’ sat well alongside their own ma-
terial.
Although not the best gig I’ve ever
been to, it was still an outstanding per-
formance. The album is a delight and
seeing performed live so faithfully re-
affirmed that it should have been nomi-
nated for the Mercury Prize.
These New Puritans join
with Britten Sinfonia at The
Barbican to riotous success
TNP & Britten Sinfonia
The Barbican
23rd October
★★★★✩
James Gollings
Jack Barnett: bastard offspring
of Thom Yorke and Gollum
It’s a dark, windswept Saturday night
in October – Mischief Night, as some
call it – and outside the Hammersmith
Apollo waits a rabble of youths in band
shirts and beardy old men with bad
tattoos. It’s the first concert of A7X
& Stone Sour’s Halloween weekend
double bill!
Kicking off the show was Hellyeah,
a metal supergroup from Texas. They
proved to be a lot of fun, with songs like
‘Alcohaulin’ Ass’ and ‘Cowboy Way’
channelling the spirit of Pantera. Vin-
nie Paul, drummer, invited us to throw
the horns for his late brother Dimebag,
which was nice.
Next up, Stone Sour delivered a thor-
oughly awesome performance that ri-
valled the headliners’. Corey Taylor was
his usual fire-breathing yet slightly emo-
tional self, and gave us a solo serenade
with an acoustic guitar midway through.
This led into ‘Through Glass’, the
much-appreciated singalong of the eve-
ning; other highlights included ‘Made of
Scars’ and ‘30/30-150’, whose consider-
able heaviness gave drummer Roy May-
orga a chance to shine. Fewer verbose
interludes from Corey might have been
an improvement, though…
Finally, it was time for the main act,
whom all the dirty-haired angstyboppers
had been waiting for. They didn’t disap-
point; from ‘Nightmare’ through ‘Criti-
cal Acclaim’ via oldie ‘Unholy Confes-
sions’, the guitars sounded sweet and M
Shadows strolled across the stage like it
was his own – which, voice on form, it
was. Halfway through, oversized-drum-
kit pioneer (and genuinely excellent
Dream Theater drummer, Mike Port-
noy) left his stool and we were invited
to remember the late Jimmy Sullivan, or
If you haven’t heard of these guys yet,
it’s about time. The Cat Empire flew
all the way from Aussie land to grace us
with their spirit-lifting mix of jazz, ska,
rock and everything in between. I seri-
It’s been a whirlwind 18 months for
Wilder, Bristol’s hippest Indie offering
for years. Since they’ve been scooped
by Rough Trade records and toured with
Julian Casablancas and The Macca-
bees, intimate pub gigs such as tonight
in Kentish Town’s The Flowerpot will
surely soon be a thing of the past .
I barely had time to buy a pint when a
diminutive figure takes a seat behind her
drum kit and starts beating out an infec-
tious rhythm heralding the start of the
gig. As she pounds the skins, vocalist
Sam snakes his way to the stage, urg-
ing everyone to get on their feet. The
message is clear, they want everyone
dancing, and all it takes is 30 seconds of
opener ‘White Noise’before everyone is
pushing to the front.
Older singles ‘TBT’ and ‘Girls Vs
Boys’ provoked the loudest cheers but
every new track packed full of soaring
synths and cutting guitars wows the
crowd. For such a new band (and de-
spite the bass cab blowing up halfway
through) the set is surprisingly tight but
with only 30 minutes on stage and no
support acts, the crowd are left wanting.
In a flash it’s all over, leaving onlook-
ers to creep sluggishly back to their
seats, but an impression has certainly
been made. Wilder’s electronica fused
indie may not be the most original
sound of the moment but their talent to
play live is undeniable; one of the best
bands I’ve seen for a long time and
highly recommended.'
Avenged Sevenfold + Stone
Sour + Hellyeah
Hammersmith Apollo
30th October 2010
★★★★✩
Eliot Barford
The Cat Empire
O2 Brixton Academy
23rd October 2010
★★★★★
Katherine Portilla
ously left the gig with cheeks sore from
smiling and feet tired from dancing.
Despite a mellow and hence, oddly
placed open act from Tinpan Orange
- an acoustic trio of sorts similarly
from Australia - as soon as The Cat
Empire set foot on stage the crowd
was theirs. Never have I seen an audi-
ence clap and move with such enthu-
siasm.
If in the past you have ever been left
disappointed after watching a live act,
I prescribe you these Melbourne boys.
A beautifully orchestrated set, not only
focusing on songs from their new al-
bum Cinema, but instead reaching a
perfect compromise between hits from
their previous albums and their great
new material. Old favorites such as
‘Hello’ and ‘Two Shoes’ had the crowd
going mental, generating a unanimous
feeling of euphoria which defines
The Cat Empire’s music. In between
songs, we were treated to an array of
solos, from an insane 6 minute drum
solo to some sick scratching from the
band’s very own turntables paired with
beat box-style vocals. Not only do they
mesh together raw talent somewhat mi-
raculously, The Cat Empire have an
undeniable skill to interact with, or per-
haps better yet said, charm the crowd.
In short, I recommend this band to
anyone in search of that special, yet
indescribable sound we often lack on
our iPods nowadays. You will find mu-
sic that can truly put a smile on your
face, all the while making you feel like
getting up and grooving to the tune. If
you do come across an opportunity to
see The Cat Empire live I assure you
it is an experience gained, not money
spent.
Wilder
The Flowerpot
26th October 2010
★★★★✩
Alex Malcolm
The Rev, who died last December, leav-
ing the demos from which A7X’s latest
album was assembled. We all sang ‘So
Far Away’and ‘Afterlife’in his memory.
Then to top it all off, the crowd chose
classic ‘Bat Country’ for the finale,
which was frantic to say the least.
All in all, with an excited crowd and
consistently good sound, it was a gig I’ll
remember. For fans of melodic, heavy
rock music, both groups are highly rec-
ommended.
The Cat Empire: these pussy cats are pretty damn horny. AMIRIGHT? HUH? Anyone...?
Friday 5 NOVEMBer 2010

