24
FILM
felix
A warm and witty
modern family film
Ruffalo has been perfectly cast in the role of
the sperm donor and you can quite easily see
him as the weed-smoking, womanizing college
drop-out who donated sperm for money. He
may not have graduated from college or have
a fancy job to boast but he isn’t dumb – and he
does, in fact, give out some very logical advice
to his children, which makes matters worse for
Nic. She is on the verge of exploding when
Paul tries to give parenting tips.
It’s a shame that the children’s subplots are
hastily concluded. Wasikowska, (considerably
better here than in Alice in Wonderland) is
given a set of friends she can confide in, but as
she prepares and goes off to college, they dis-
appear. The same goes for Hutcherson. There
is a big development when it comes to the
conflict between his balanced, well-behaved
character and his best friend’s wilder attitude,
Classic Cinema
Akira
Akira is one of the most important Japanese ani-
mated films ever made. It tells the story of best
friends Kaneda and Tetsuo, members of a violent
biker gang in post-World War III “Neo-Tokyo”, 2019.
Tetsuo discovers he has a huge power he cannot
contain, and the consequences for everyone are
cataclysmic.
At first glance, Akira is an answer to the futuris-
tic, dystopian Western films of the preceding era
– the gang’s costumes and highway battles recall
Mad Max, and Neo-Tokyo’s looming, luminous vast-
ness is directly inspired by Blade Runner. Fans of
these kinds of action movies will like Akira, as they
did when it was released; consequently, this animé
was instrumental in introducing English-speakers
to the wonders of Japanese fiction. From danger-
ous government experiments and an underground
resistance to orbital lasers and psionic combat, it
has everything an action sci-fi lover could want and
more, all centred on a terrifying secret hidden deep
beneath the city. Like the best anime and manga, it
takes the tropes we’ve already seen to their stylis-
tic and philosophical extremes – although unfortu-
nately this includes a lengthy and confusing ending,
a frequent problem in animé.
Akira also stands apart thanks to its uniquely Jap-
anese take on the pervasive fears of the Cold War:
Akira’s Tokyo faces annihilation for a second time
and its inhabitants cry out for a saviour. Arguably,
Akira is a reply to Watchmen, the most acclaimed
“graphic novel” of all time; both address fears of
global destruction – and both took their creative
forms to a new level of quality, garnering legions of
new fans in the process.
Eliot Barford
Compensating for something...?
Film Editors: Jade Hoffman
Matt Allinson
Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The kids are all right. The title makes that clear.
But what about the adults? How is a lesbian
couple supposed to react when their children
start looking for their sperm donor? And what
about when they start bonding with him? When
he works his way into their seemingly normal
family life? The adult protagonists of The Kids
Are All Right are lesbians, but this theme is
never exploited. It’s not necessarily about the
lesbian marriage, it just centres on one. They’re
a normal suburban family and Nic (Annette
Bening) and Jules (Julianne Moore) face the
same challenges that all married couples face.
Joni, (Mia Wasikowska) their smart 18-year-
old daughter, is the one who makes the call to
the biological dad, with her 15-year-old brother
Laser’s (Josh Hutcherson) persuasion. Their
father turns out to be Paul (Mark Ruffalo), an
easy-going restaurant owner who says things
like “yeah…sure…cool…right on…why not?”
They meet (why not?), and of course, it’s awk-
ward. But when, Nic and Jules find out, Nic
- the more controlling figure in the family - has
a difficult time coming to terms with this sud-
den revelation. Jules, the slightly unfocused
one, has a more relaxed attitude, and this au-
tomatically creates tension in their comfortable
upper-middle class home.
Bening is superb here: whilst she stays away
from portraying a total bitch, she is the protec-
tive mother bear trying to protect her family.
She speaks from the mind, whereas Moore,
who is just as excellent as her co-star, has a
higher level of tolerance and speaks from the
heart. The two are immediately convincing as
the loving couple, now facing their marriage
being put to the ultimate test.
but, as the film comes to a close – perhaps due
to the film’s title – Cholodenko seems to be a
lot more interested in showing the clash be-
tween Jules and Nic. After all, it’s the adults
we should be worried about, not the kids.
What makes The Kids Are All Right so warm
and witty is its script that cleverly balances
both comedy and drama. The intelligent dia-
logue gives us plenty of moments to laugh, but
also to reflect on the complex situation these
characters have to face. The humour is never
too gross or outrageous and the drama is never
too sentimental or manipulative. Director/
writer Lisa Cholodenko knows not to take the
film too seriously. With enough racy humour to
thoroughly convince as an adult dramedy, but
also mixed with undeniably stirring moments
that the audience will be able to relate to, the
film is a true exploration of what the term
“modern family” really is.
Felix readers, we love you thiiiiiiiis much!
iCU Cinema - Scott Pilgrim vs. The
World
£3/£4 for members/non-members
Tue 9th Nov. 6:30pm. Union Concert Hall
FilmSoc - Ten Canoes - FREE
Thu 11th Nov. 6:30pm. Mech Eng 220
EVENTS
Director Lisa Cholodenko
Screenwriter Lisa Cholodenko,
Stuart Blumberg
Cast Annette Bening, Julianne
Moore, Mark Ruffalo
The Kids Are All Right
John Park
Opening yesterday and running until the 11th
of November, the London European Docu-
mentary Festival, “Screen Green!” is featuring
some of the best of European environmental
documentaries in locations all over London.
The festival is showcasing ten films across
five venues, including South Kensington’s
Ciné Lumière, and kicked off with Gold Fu-
tures last night. This Hungarian/Romanian
documentary follows the story of Europe’s
largest gold ore deposit which, located in a
rural mining town, soon becomes the centre
of international interest and disrupts the quiet
village life.
This documentary, followed by a Q&A with
the director, sets the tone for the rest of the fes-
tival. Screen Green aims to explore the often
strained relationship humans have with nature,
and features an impressive range of thought-
provoking documentaries to highlight this.
Among others, the festival’s programme in-
cludes Planeat, a British documentary consid-
ering the problems of farming and the Western
diet; Lithuanian film The River, which looks at
the lives of inhabitants of a village that shares
ground wih a chemical plant; and the animated
short Fridge about the greenhouse effect. For
Imperial students in particular, this festival is
a must and provides a fresh perspective and
sharp insight into topics so frequently dis-
cussed here.
Go to http://www.europeandocfestival.org.
uk/ for more details.
Screen Green! eco film festival
Jade Hoffman
Friday 05 November 2010

