Dear All,
We are no longer interested in speak-
ing to Shivya. She has been unable
to provide evidence to back-up her
alleged claims. Our investigations
have shown that her alleged claims
have been made with the intention of
defaming us.
The email that Zaffran sent Shivya
FOOD
FELIX
Friday 05 NOVEMber 2010
26
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Are food bloggers entitled
to the right of whinging?
Chin Hua Yap
Your review
Danes says:
Pret A Manger is the answer to hungry lunchtimes
waiting for the afternoon lectures to start. Every-
body mocks its previous affiliation with McDonalds
but Pret leads the way with the selection of sand-
wiches available daily. Not mentioning the humon-
gous range of hot soup that they rotate through ev-
ery day, albeit, I’ve already sampled my way though
that list of soups. Crazy Pret fan that I am. Their hot
chocolate also satisfies my sugar cravings, and has
a much nicer texture than the Starbucks equivalent,
whipped cream or not.
No barbeque sauce in the cupboard? Try this recipe
that a Chinese college student invented as an al-
ternative. God knows what enlightened her to use
these ingredients:
4 chicken breasts, boneless, skinless
1 can Diet Coke
1 cup ketchup
Place chicken breasts into a skillet or Dutch oven.
Pour cola and ketchup over the chicken and bring to
a boil. Cook, covered over medium heat until chick-
en is done (approximately one hour). Raise heat and
cook uncovered until sauce thickens. This might
take a while, so keep a close eye on it.
Or the lazy student version: dump everything into a
crockpot and cook until done (about 3 hours or so).
Coke Chicken
Share your favourite restaurant or cafe in 80-100
words with us, send it to food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
This student must have been on coke...
Food is more than mere sustenance; it should
be a celebration and a chance for get-together.
Food should bring joy, delightful conversations
with dining-mates and satiation. Sometimes,
however, food brings out more important is-
sues - poverty, governmental corruption, Jamie
Oliver’s rather unhygienic habits and, wait for
this, freedom of speech.
You may think I have completely lost my
mind, what has food got to do with freedom of
speech, you ask? The truth is that food is an in-
timately subjective thing, descriptively flimsy
and almost always perceived different by dif-
ferent people; think Marmite. Ask every Nige-
lla wannabe and you’ll find out that there are
as many taste preferences as there are plastic
cups outside Eastside Bar on Saturdays. Many,
if you are unaware of the post-Friday carnage.
Exactly because food perception is varied and
personal, everyone should be given an oppor-
tunity to express his or her views objectively,
on whatever platform one is comfortable with.
Given how we are living in an age with con-
stant bombardment from partially factual ad-
vertisements (apparently everything lowers
risk of heart diseases now) and near-impossible
claims, the voice of the common-man can be
rather obscured. Peer reviews on printed me-
dia, blogs, online review aggregators and social
networking sites are extremely valuable sourc-
es of information before making decisions,
definitely more trustworthy than a billboard ad.
What happens, though, when a factual review
of a restaurant lands you a lawsuit?
What happened was, Shivya, the food-blog-
ger behind ‘The Shooting Star’ had a rather
unpleasant experience in a restaurant. Shivya
was having lunch at an Indian restaurant when
a waiting staff stumbled and spilled curry and
curds all over her back. Naturally, thanks to
Murphy’s blessing, Shivya had to be wearing
a black jacket. It is common knowledge that
white fluids on black jacket is not exactly the
prettiest thing on earth. Thus, Shivya spoke to
the head staff who appeared to have asked her
to foot her bill, and when confronted about the
spillage, the head staff argued that “it happens
sometimes with food”. Great, first the jacket,
and now, an unreasonable staff. The manager
of the restaurant in question called Shivya a
short while later and explained that the waiter
was hurt. The manager also said that Shivya
would be compensated. Fair enough? Nay; the
compensation would come from the waiter’s
salary.
Clearly, this story has much dramatic poten-
tial and might make an excellent short film, but
that aside, the restaurant had made a number
of fundamentally annoying mistakes. First, In-
dian curry and curds should not be on anything
but cooking pans, serving bowls and in the gut,
customers’ jackets are no exceptions. Next, the
restaurant should have shown at least a respect-
ful amount of concern for the customer after
the spilling. Also, docking the waiter’s pay is
just pure unkind. I’m aware that there are other
restaurants with similar practices when the
waiting staff make mistakes, but it is just darn
right mean.
The story doesn’t end here. Shivya, our food
blogger here, was naturally unhappy with the
response from the restaurant’s management
and, consistent with the anger-dealing mecha-
nism of most bloggers, decided to post her ex-
perience online. Shivya posted a rather angsty
review on a Singapore-based peer review ag-
gregate site, Hungry Go Where, and about a
month later, received an e-mail from the mod-
erator asking for her details to verify her review
as the restaurant had refuted her review. What
followed was an e-mail from the restaurant to
Shivya requesting for her contact details so as
to send her a legal notice. Apparently, the res-
taurant believed Shivya had written the review
as a means to defame them.
There are little details on what exactly hap-
pened after, but however it develops, it is a
horrible sign of corporations bullying the ev-
eryday man. (Shivya did not want to make a
statement to Felix on the matter in light of the
legal proceedings she is currently involved
in). Being sued for an article detailing factual
events is most unacceptable. Online citizen
food journalism is what keeps our wallets safe
from the charming little lies that restaurants
often use to lure in big bucks. Restaurants
should deal with complains admirably and
not attempt to silent the speaker. If restaurants
eliminate food bloggers by scaring them with
legal notices, where would we get our daily
doses of food porn? However, it must also be
said that all bloggers, no matter what they lead
you to believe, are at least slightly narcissistic.
Whether the blogger in question enjoyed her
little curry-induced fame is beyond any con-
jecture.
My advice? Get yourself a waterproof plas-
tic poncho and bring it every time you dine
at an Indian restaurant. Tell everyone you en-
joyed Halloween too much to retire the ghoul
Starting from the basics of cooking, literally (Credits to Natalie Dee Comics)
Food blogger is sued for bad review after disastrous meal
“My advice? Get your-
self a waterproof plastic
poncho and bring it every
time you dine at an
Indian restaurant.”

