GAMES
FELIX
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Same old story for Fable 3
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
AVOIDAL
avoidal.com
‘Enemies as weapons’ is the idea behind this mouse-
controlled arcade game. Destroy the blue stars by
setting off the traps that you must yourself avoid - red
stars will chase you around the screen and yellow
spikes fly in a straight line when activated. It sounds
pretty easy, but when there’s enemies bearing down
on you and no way to escape a small panic does
start to set in. Graphics aren’t particularly amazing
but at least they don’t get in the way. A good way to
spend an idle ten minutes.
Sean Harbison
28
Welcome back to the Kingdom of Albion! 50
years on from the setting of Fable II, Fable III
tells the story of a prince having to overthrow
the tyrant king that is his brother. The game
takes you through the prince’s role at the head
of the revolution having to complete quests in
order to convince faction leaders that you are
worthy to start the uprising.
Fable III and its predecessors have many
similarities. The graphics are essentially the
same, though this is no bad thing. The attention
to detail remains extremely high and the theme
benefits from the cartoony-style. The voice act-
ing is extraordinary, featuring a top cast of John
Cleese, Stephen Fry and Simon Pegg. Having
your character complimented by these great
actors feels like an amazing achievement! The
comedy associated with previous Fable games
also returns. You often find yourself laughing
at random comments from passers-by, which
really makes the game enjoyable.
The combat is identical to the previous
games, and it can get repetitive and boring. It
offers no challenge and really detracts from the
better points of the game. This has always been
a flaw of the Fable series and you would have
thought on their third attempt Lionhead Studios
could have made some alterations to improve
such an integral part of the gameplay. Combat
has only improved in the smoothness of swap-
ping weapons: it’s easy to switch from bashing
someone’s face in with a sword to shooting the
next man with a pistol. This time around the
fluidity of combat is much better than in Fable
II as delay between actions is minimal, giving
a real feeling that you’re controlling an experi-
enced fighter.
The weapon choice has fallen dramatically.
Fable II allowed you to collect a large combi-
nation of weapons and choose between them
which gave a varied armoury. Disappoint-
ingly, Fable III gives a much smaller choice
Treadmillasaurus Rex
jmtb02.com/treadmillasaurus-rex
Dinosaurs. Lasers. Partying. Three things that are
undeniably awesome, so if you were to mix these
things together you might think that the product
would be a game of epic proportions. And you’d be
right. The titular treadmill will push T-Rex back and
forth between the lasers and spiked balls force him
to jump, causing the wheel to spin. Where it lands
is (presumeably) random, and with certain spaces
activing laser light shows, confetti showers and top
hats, things get very epic very quickly. Whether the
wheel ever lands on ‘Win The Game’ is debatable, so
if that happens to you then let us know!
but causes your weapons to change depending
on your actions. This actually gives a smaller
array of weapons as there are essentially two
possibilities for each weapon: good or evil.
Levelling up also takes a new route, as rather
than gaining experience by using one type of
weapon (ranged, etc.) you can spend your ac-
quired guild seals to upgrade styles of fighting.
A great addition is the ability to mix spells.
Whereas being a mage in the previous games
meant mastering one spell and using that to the
death, you now upgrade all spells at the same
time and then can mix and match, combining
the likes of fire and electricity in one spell.
Once again the majority of the game is
taken up earning people’s respect by complet-
ing quests to collect guild seals. The number
of seals you have determines whether a faction
will help you start the revolution. Fable III’s
quests are more engaging and lengthier which
is relieving as previously Fable quests felt too
similar and repetitive. Exploration is still im-
portant, and there are plenty of discoverable
caves and buildings. However, sometimes the
treasure inside is not proportional to the effort.
You can spend hours exploring a cave finding
only a bandit’s outfit, which is a complete let
down and a real disappointment.
Morality is at the core of Fable III, as with
the previous games, but the decisions you must
make are much more difficult. The subtleties
and ambiguities of morality are brought to light
and show the darker side of being a ruler. Right
from the start you must make a horrific choice,
showing yourself as a selfish or selfless leader.
The difficulty of this first decision surprised me
but it’s a great opening as the game instantly
throws you into the deep end. The game leads
towards you becoming ruler of Albion and
eventually, on taking the throne, your every
decision visibly shapes the world around you.
Fable III allows you to relive the enjoy-
able experiences of Fable I & II, however it
fails to bring enough new features or repair
flaws which both predecessors contained. If
you’re looking for a completely new experi-
ence prepare to be disappointed. Nonethe-
less, whether you are a fan of the series or a
newcomer, Fable III is thoroughly enjoy-
able and I highly recommend you get it!
Polynomial proves maths isn’t fun
The Polynomial - Space Of The Music, far from
being just a mathematical expression, is a 3D
music action game in which you pilot a space
ship through a brightly coloured universe that
pulsates along to currently playing song.
The premise is simple: you select a certain
music track, and the game will use it to gener-
ate an environment that corresponds to the tune.
For example, in another popular music game
called Audiosurf, where you pilot a ship along
a racecourse, a fast, upbeat track will have a
lot of slopes and steep gradients, whilst a slow,
calming piece will have you leisurely making
your way uphill. As a big fan of Audiosurf, I
was expecting Polynomial to deliver as well.
My first words when I loaded up were ‘bloody
hell’. The menu options at first appear quite
complex for such a simple game, but when you
fiddle about with them you realise that a lot of
the controls simply modify the brightness and
sound. I recommend adding your own music
when you first load up the game; not because
the stock tunes are bad, but I play music games
to have fun and it’s much easier to do that when
you’re listening to music you enjoy.
The instructions make Polynomial seem
more complicated than it really is. The first
level has a huge floating set of instructions that
tell you what everything does: orange monsters
damage you, blue... things heal you and green
circles offer power-ups. That’s all you really
need to know. Point, shoot, fly about, simple as.
For a game that supposedly tailors itself to
fit your music, I was hard-pressed to see how
things changed when music tracks switched. I
tried a switch from a hard, upbeat Pendulum
track to a much calmer Rachmaninoff piece,
and I didn’t see any changes to the game. I sup-
pose this wouldn’t matter so much if the game
was fun, but unfortunately Polynomial doesn’t
have much else going for it.
After half an hour you feel like you’re play-
ing in an elaborate screensaver and repetitive-
ness starts to kick in. You fly about, shoot stuff,
and listen to your music. The graphics are very
pretty, and it does have a certain beauty to it,
but it’s just not fun. There is an editing mode
which I toyed about with for a bit, but unless
tweaking about with a load of figures and see-
ing what they do appeals to you, I doubt it’ll
keep you hooked.
If you’re looking to try out a similar game,
my advice would be to pick Audiosurf. It’s
nearly two and a half years old, but I still play
it and have fun. Polynomial feels less like a
game and more of an elaborate tech demo. A
pretty one maybe, but a tech demo nonetheless.
It could have been so much more.
Laurence Pope
Friday 05 NOVEMber 2010

