I
’ve always put travelling as my
passion under the interests sec-
tion of my CV. Name any Euro-
pean country and all I can think is
‘been there, done that’. But what
have I really seen in all of those plac-
es? Fancy hotels with pleasantly warm
swimming pools, crowded promenades
holding gazillions of restaurants you’ve
already seen in London, every minute of
your excursions ‘kindly’ organised by
a travel agency. It all merges into one
commercial vacation experience – ev-
erything looks and feels the same.
I’ve been a volunteer freak since be-
fore I can remember, and “helping out
anyone, anywhere” is my motto (and
is probably the reason I’m studying
Medicine). With this attitude in mind I
was lucky enough to stumble upon the
charity Link Community Development.
When they sold me the idea of hitchhik-
ing across Europe in addition to some
worthwhile fundraising I was instantly
bought.
Hitchhiking? I immediately pictured
the 70’s: flower power, free love and
crazy decisions usually made whilst
‘under the influence’. I was sure that no
one did this anymore – I couldn’t have
been more wrong. With LCD alone
there have been almost seven thousand
students who have thumbed their way
across Europe in the past 20 years! That
convinced me (and my parents) that if
other people had done it, I could too.
And with my frustration for package
family holidays growing, hitchhiking
seemed like the perfect alternative. Un-
predictable and adrenaline-filled: ex-
actly what you need when you’ve just
hit your 20’s!
The two proposed destinations were
Morocco and Prague: naturally I chose
Prague, which is closer to my Polish
heart. Packing my bag proved to be
the first major challenge: I’m used to
the luxury of applying tons of lotions,
conditioners and other miraculous goo
to every inch of my body, not to men-
tion compulsory outfit changes at least
twice a day. How to fit all of these es-
sentials into one tiny rucksack... After
much blood, sweat and tears I managed
to pack ‘lightly’ and was ready to go. I
grabbed my hitch partner and there we
were, setting off from Bristol on what
was advertised as the most epic journey
of our lives.
Our first lift, a shiny Porsche, stopped
just few inches from our feet. Inside was
a handsome young man in a tailored
suit. I was in heaven – “life can’t get
TRAVEL
FELIX Friday 5 NOVEMber 2010 29
“
es-
fter
er
ged
ged
o. I
o. I
we
we
what
hat
“There is hope that
helpfulness and
selflessness are not
extinct virtues in
today’s world”
An unforgettable hitchhiking debut
Karolina Mazan recalls her treasured memories of aimlessly hopping from car to
car across mainland Europe, armed with nothing but a tiny backpack and a loyal
sidekick to keep her thoroughly entertained
better than this”, I thought! The only
flaw in this dream of mine was that the
happiness lasted less than 40 miles, and
before we knew it we were on the hunt
for another lift.
We quickly realised that hitching from
petrol stations was the way forward. You
don’t feel as lonely as when you stand on
the side of some dodgy road, and there
are always snacks and drinks available
in the event of a munching crisis. Pet-
rol stations are also the best place to talk
to and meet more new people than you
could have managed during your fresh-
ers’ week. We were approached by a
lovely couple who spotted our Prague
hoodies and a few minutes of chit chat
later we were in their car, exchanging
phone numbers and arranging our meet
up in Prague, where they arrived a few
days later. This rather unbelievable story
ended up with an expensive dinner and
countless litres of quality beer in Prague,
which we didn’t even have to pay for
– how many friends do you have who
would do this for you?
Calais has never been blessed with such a cheery face
The generosity of strangers we met on
the road was quite astonishing: people
driving extra miles just to drop us off
closer to our destination stopped sur-
prising me rather quickly. But when a
guy drove us all the way to Dover, over
16 miles away from his original des-
tination, I have to say that I was truly
moved. There is hope that helpfulness
and selflessness are not extinct virtues in
today’s world.
Less than two hours on a ferry and we
were in Calais - on the continent at last!
The real adventure began here, what
with different countries and customs,
and many drivers who couldn’t speak
any English. If I had any affinity for
foreign languages, this was the time for
them to shine. Sadly I don’t, so instead
I just smiled, nodded, pointed, waved
and performed all kinds of weird moves
with my hands trying to explain where
we were headed. In the end, maps and
our finger pointing proved to be the most
effective method of communication.
Many hours later and finger points later
and we made it into Germany.
I’d hoped that those German classes at
school would have paid off that I’d be
able to lure drivers with ease, but unfor-
tunately it wasn’t my time to shine. As
the first car pulled over I eagerly jumped
to the driver’s window, only to be con-
fronted with Czech rather than German.
Janek, who turned out to be our saviour,
was a loving boyfriend going to visit
his girlfriend in – yes, you guessed it
– Prague. A few cute smiles and my se-
ductive gaze, and we were in our final
lift to the Promised Land. To the accom-
paniment of Czech Christian rock and
plentiful snacks from Janek, we arrived
in Prague later that evening.
Four crazy days, seventeen lifts, and
countless new friends – an amazing
hitch experience with truly unforgetta-
ble memories. I’m preaching to you all
and I hope that you listen: ditch cheap
flights, trains and hired cars – hitchhike!
I can assure you that it’ll bring your
travelling experience to a much more
exciting level.
I’m sure the drivers got the gist

