FELIX Friday 05 November 2010 3
Photo by David Robertson
NEWS
Prof Nutt: alcohol
worse than heroin
Council backs fees rise
This week Imperial College Union
Council accepted Union President Alex
Kendall’s Higher Education Funding
Policy paper. The paper broadly sup-
ported the Browne Review, with Ken-
dall warning against “reactionary”
behaviour similar to that of the NUS,
suggesting that students should be pre-
pared to “work with universities, not
against them”.
The Council did, however, recognise
some problems with Browne’s report.
Kendall specifically thought that “post-
graduate students should be included in
a government spending review”.
Much was also said about the psycho-
logical impact of greatly increased fees
on poorer students. Kendall argued that
“what matters is what you’ll actually
pay, not the maximum possible fees”,
pointing out that under Browne’s pro-
posals the amount students pay will be
tied to their income, which will be es-
pecially helpful to those who wish to go
into “socially useful” but low paid jobs
such as teaching. Indeed it is estimated
that more than 30 percent of people will
never have to pay back the full amount
they owe. He did, however, agree that
many potential students are not aware
of this, and that there is “not enough
information about bursaries” and other
means of support. The Council agreed
that “getting information to schools”
should be one of Union’s and Impe-
rial’s biggest priorities. It also agreed to
Union Council passes policy supporting
Browne Review, including uncapped fees
campaign for students’ means to be cal-
culated based on family size as well as
total income, to help ‘medium income’
families from which many children go
to university.
The discussion then turned to the pos-
sibility that better universities, such as
Imperial, might charge more for de-
grees than less academically accom-
plished ones. Several council members
argued that universities are not purely
capitalistic systems, and that increasing
fees would not lower student numbers,
(which might be a disincentive), but
simply increase the proportion of richer
students. It was, however, pointed out
that if Imperial was to gain a reputa-
tion for attracting mainly rich students,
the loss of highly able but less well off
students, would in itself act as a disin-
centive. Browne’s suggested levy on
universities charging excessive fees was
also mentioned as a reason why Impe-
rial’s fees would not become unreason-
able. The general consensus was that
while we must “accept different rates for
different universities”, these differences
will not be as great as feared.
The impact on EU students, however,
was recognised to be possibly greater
than on UK students, because they have
less access to support. Imperial’s increas-
ing fees might drive them to cheaper UK
universities, or universities in their own
countries (where higher education is of-
ten free), causing the College to lose its
reputation as an “international univer-
sity”. Kendall, however, rebutted that
“Imperial runs on reputation more than
money” and that increased fees would
be invested in improving this reputation,
therefore maintaining student numbers.
The higher education funding situa-
tion was ambiguous at the time of the
debate, so Council was very clear to
state that by accepting Kendall’s paper it
was not setting a permanent Union fund-
ing strategy. Amendments to its policies
are likely after the government finalises
its plans (see below).
Maciej Matuszewski
Government keeps fees cap
The UK coalition government has re-
jected the Browne Review’s proposal
of unlimited tuition fees in favour of a
£9,000 cap.
In an announcement on Wednesday,
the proposal of a free market for tuition
fees was rejected as it was seen to be un-
sustainable and expensive. The govern-
ment was compelled to come to a final
decision that would be quick to imple-
ment so that it would be in place for fees
in 2012. Raising the tuition fee cap will
not require a change in legislation, so
can be put into place quickly.
Many universities feel that this
amount is necessary to cover the costs
of financing education, especially after
the government cuts of 40% to teaching
funds and a complete cut to funding in
humanities. The higher fees will enable
universities to supply more bursaries, so
should not dissuade prospective students
from going to university. However,
there are fears that students will be put
off by the estimated £40,000 debt caused
by a three year degree course. Although
the repayment threshold will be raised
from £15,000 to £21,000 per year with
a 9% repayment rate, graduates may
spend 30 years paying off their debt be-
fore it is cancelled.
The Liberal Democrats, who initially
pledged to have no fees at all, proposed
a cap of £7000, however as some uni-
versities saw this to be inadequate and
threatened to privatise, a maximum fee
of £9000 was agreed. Universities who
wish to charge this fee will have to make
a ‘public benefit’ by taking more stu-
dents from disadvantaged backgrounds,
but its implication that university appli-
cation will now be based on means as
well as merit is controversial.
The announcement was officially
made to the House of Commons by
David Willetts, the Universities and
Science Minister, who said that the pro-
posal “will put universities’ finance on
a sustainable footing with extra free-
doms and less bureaucracy”. Aaron Por-
ter, President of the National Union of
Students, feels that the proposal will be
“saddling a generation with huge debts
before they have even got on their bikes
to find work.” The NUS are opposed
to any rise in fees and will be holding
a protest in Central London on Wednes-
day the 10th.
Imperial professor and former govern-
ment adviser David Nutt has pitted him-
self against current drugs classification
once again by claiming that alcohol is
more harmful than various illegal sub-
stances in a newly released report.
The study, published in peer-reviewed
medical journal The Lancet, was co-
authored by Professor Nutt and provides
a list of 20 drugs ranked with respect to
their harm, both personal and to society
in general. A wide range of topics were
investigated, including the risk of addic-
tion and crime. Findings revealed that
heroin, crack and methamphetamine
were the most harmful drugs to an in-
dividual while alcohol, heroin and crack
were most harmful to others. However
taking both factors into account revealed
that alcohol was the most harmful drug
overall. The report goes on to argue
against current drug classifications,
claiming that they “have little relation”
to the evidence of their actual harm.
This is not the first time Professor
Nutt has contradicted current govern-
ment drugs legislation. He caused some
controversy amongst government min-
isters in February 2009 when the Home
Office body that he chaired suggested
downgrading ecstasy from a class A to a
class B drug. This followed a compari-
son between the risks of using the drug
to those associated with horse riding.
He was then sacked from his position as
chief drugs adviser in October 2009, by
then Home SecretaryAlan Johnson, after
suggesting, in a similar fashion to the lat-
est report, that alcohol and tobacco were
more harmful than many illegal drugs.
Following his dismissal, Professor
Nutt sought to continue his research
unhindered by governmental influence,
forming the Independent Scientific
Committee on Drugs which seeks to of-
fer ‘impartial objective information on
drugs and drug harms to the public’ but
‘free from political pressures’.
At the time of his dismissal last year,
Professor Nutt was highly critical of
politicians who he accused of misrepre-
senting research in order to manipulate
drugs legislation. When asked whether
he believed that the new coalition gov-
ernment would be more accepting of the
latest findings, especially after the recent
government budget freeze for science,
Professor Nutt, speaking to Felix, said,
“I think so. The Liberal Democrats have
always wanted independent scientific ad-
vice on drugs” before adding that, “the
Tories are more drug-experienced than
old Labour”.
Claims against the findings have been
made to the BBC by a spokesman for
the Wine and Spirit Trade Association,
who argues that, “Professor Nutt and
his colleagues risk switching people off
from considering the real issues and the
real action that is needed to tackle alco-
hol misuse”. In response to this, Profes-
sor Nutt told Felix that the association is
“running scared. They can’t argue with
the science so they are trying deflection.”
When asked about the report itself and
how the ready availability of alcohol
was taken into account and what effect
this had on social harm, Professor Nutt
stated that, “most of the harms to others
are affected by availability”.
This debate arrives as Imperial Col-
lege Union launches a new website,
yourlimits.co.uk, that seeks to advise
students on the potential risks associated
with drug and alcohol use. Ravi Pall,
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
explained to Felix the reasoning behind
the creation of the website: “We created
the Limits website as an additional tool
to raise the awareness of potential situa-
tions students may encounter.”
“We see this being particularly use-
ful for new students, who may not have
been exposed to the culture created by
others. It provides helpful advice for stu-
dents, and will be heavily tied into the
marketing for our new night-club, bars
and ents program.”
It remains to be seen whether such a
willingness to educate students on the
risks of alcohol will tempt Professor
Nutt to have a pint in the newly opened
FiveSixEight.
Zainab Ali
Matt Colvin

