CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
34
While the slopes of North Wales basked in the
glowing rays of an unseasonably pleasant Oc-
tober, 24 intrepid Fellwanderers were already
gathered at Beit, failing to load their masses of
kit onto the roof of the minibus. Stories from
the veterans, of tarpaulins freeing themselves
from the bus somewhere on the M1 and bags
almost being lost, didn’t do much to hearten us
freshers, adding to the already present thoughts
of why on earth did we agree to follow these
people just because they gave us free pizza?
But nonetheless we set out to the soothing
chords of drum n’ bass to conquer the great
peaks of Snowdonia. Snowdon itself, at 1085
metres, loomed over us upon awakening at the
hut the next morning. The thought of all the
excitement to come drew me from my bed at
7.30 and I was presented with a bottle of gin as
a grand prize for being the most eager fresher.
That wonderful breakfast couldn’t dampen my
spirits for the day.
With the sun shining bright we packed our
lunches and prepared – but there was a cloud
in the sky. A plot to poison the trip was afoot!
James Allen had bought poison for our lunch I
tell you! We were forced to fill our bags with
packets of Tesco Value crisps. We almost re-
belled at the horror of the situation – but we put
our differences aside and kitted out. And a right
bunch we were all dressed for our hike. Train-
ers were in show, boots lacking, and Simon had
even turned up in a suit; though boots and gai-
ters for him finished off the snappy look.
So we set out in two groups; the mighty
ducks strong and true and the squashed banan-
as (named so by the mighty ducks) also ready
for the ascent. And a nice easy ascent it was
too. Snowdon stands tall, yet we walked it in
a mere couple of hours, arriving at a suddenly
very cloudy summit after hours of sunshine.
The second group arrived in blinding sunshine
and could see from the sea to inland plains. Ba-
nanas have all the luck!
After a first lunch on the slopes accompanied
by a lovely cup of coffee, brewed at three and
a half thousand feet by yours truly, we stopped
for a quick snap on chancing on the other
group, and continued a leisurely stroll back
down the mountain; stopping frequently for
more lunches. When the crisps are absolutely
tasteless you need to eat more of them to feel
accomplished.
The incredibly speedy and absolutely prob-
lem free trip left us with a concern level of
merely 1, and hours to kill in the pub. Joe ar-
rived back from Snowdon with a tablet of stone
and soon the commandments rained down
upon us. Our copious drinking was undertaken
on pain of punishment from THE TABLET.
Returning to the hut for Jim and Peter’s veg-
etarian curry (with added chicken) we found
half our number had been massacred by vi-
cious weresheep (baaa-arrrrooo!). Even Fran’s
magical Bells potion and the warming power of
Hong Thong - Willy Wonka’s own speciality –
couldn’t save us. Only Natasha and Wan Ting
were left standing. Maybe their love of micro-
waves helped save them from the weresheep.
With fire blazing, shisha smoking and whisky
drowned cake we were dropping like flies;
Matt already having left us after his three pints
at the pub. Creating our own Hong Thong from
Bells, curry and other ingredients I don’t want
to know about finished us off for the night.
By the next morning we still hadn’t decided
on what to hike that day. Not until we were half
way up a cliff face and found out we couldn’t
turn back did we decide that that was our walk
for the day. So bags filled with Value crisps and
leftover curry sandwiches we stopped being
Fellwanderers and became mountaineers. The
idea of a Sunday walk of course being a nice
gentle walk to cool off the weekend became a
crawl on all fours to the peak of Tryfan at 918
metres. Tensions rose. Rafal became steadily
more annoyed, and he passed through all of
his possible facial expressions within seconds.
Finally reaching the peak we stopped off for a
quick lunch and then the mighty ducks raced
the descending ominous clouds to the base,
loosing James Allen on the way who insisted
on following his map. A 2 hour climb was fol-
lowed by a very brief 15 minute descent.
And so, our weekend came to a close, just
stopping off on the return for a carvery and an
Ultimate Burger, in a lovely cosy candlelit pub.
It was quite a break from the regular sciencing
of Imperial College, and the hills of Wales do
well to clear the head of the troubles of Lon-
don. Yes, we conquered Wales, we conquered
weresheep, mountains and bottles of ancient
Grolsch.And who knows where our adventures
shall take us next?
Sam Gonshaw
RAG Week
Win £100 prize for craziest photo
Weresheep don’t
drink Hongthong
Fellwanderers climb the great peaks of Wales, with only
the warming power of Hongthong to sustain them
This year, RAG is seeking to make ICU RAG bigger
and better than ever before and is launching RAG
Week during the first term for the first time ever.
Come and join us for any of the events below and
tell us your fundraising ideas - we just might be able
to realise them this year! Have a pint with us in the
Union Bar on Monday, come to the Ball @ Carbon
on Tuesday, buy a Union Officer at the Slave Auction
on Wednesday, have lunch made by Cooking Soc
or see a movie with FilmSoc on Thursday, join in
on the biggest ACC Pubcrawl ever on Friday or join
us in the Union on Saturday to find out which of our
volunteers we've driven off to an unknown location
made it back to the Union successfully!
Also, RAG and Foodcylce will be doing a week-long
sale of raffle tickets and the winner will get an iPod
Touch during the Foodcycle presentation next Friday
(watch out for posters on the Walkway)! £2 for a
ticket!
Events
Monday, November 8th at 7pm:
RAG meets other Unis at our Union Bar. 2 pints
£3.50!
Tuesday, November 9th at 9pm:
RCSU and CGCU RAG Ball at Carbon, Marble Arch
Tickets are £5, VIP £10) more info on the club:
http://www.carbonbar.co.uk/
Wednesday November 10th 8pm: CGCU Slave Auc-
tion at the Union Bar with Smoothies sold by Food-
cycle
Thursday, November 11th, 12-2pm:
Cooking Soc Cooking Sale + Movie night by FilmSoc
(movie tba)
Friday, November 12th:
ACC Pubcrawl
Saturday, November 13th:
LOST
Charity Week London
‘Smoky not Smudgy’
A Ladies Only Pampering and Beauty
Event
6th November. 11am-4pm
SAF
EVENTS
Send your best and crazies RAG Week photos to rag-
chair@imperial.ac.uk to be in with a chance to win
a £100 clothing voucher. The deadline for entry is
Sunday the 14th of November and the photos must
be of RAG Week activities. The winner will be chosen
by the College’s Creative Director.
Friday 05 November 2010

