FELIX 35
Rolling towards the beginning of No-
vember, with the weather turning cold
and grey, and Bonfire Night approach-
ing, our minds turn back to the last
fireworks display that was witnessed
by members of Imperial College Sinfo-
nietta.
The annual tour took place in the last
week and a half of September. Being the
tenth in a long line of epic voyages to
foreign climes, it turned into a bit of a re-
union, with many of the older members
of the orchestra who have long since
graduated returning for another taster of
Sinfonietta Rampaging. It started unre-
markably; beer and a fry-up in the de-
parture lounge at Gatwick was followed
by a quick flight to Porto, a ride on the
Metro and setting up camp in a hostel.
But the fun soon began. The first tour
dinner is a bit of a blur for this writer;
with the local beer, Super Bock, at just
one Euro a bottle, the week had begun in
the manner in which it was to continue.
Each day in the city started with those
who woke up early enough finding a
quick breakfast in one of the many ca-
fés, followed by a walk across town to
the Conservatoire, a school of music for
6 to 18 year olds that opened last year.
Here, we rehearsed for three hours, with
a gap in the middle for a picnic lunch
and 1.5 litres of water… The venue was
brand new, and we the first orchestra
they hosted. Problems aside (no house-
lights and air conditioning blasting up
from the floor and chilling everyone), it
housed us well, and allowed for a pro-
ductive session every day.
Afternoons were spent exploring little
alleys winding over steep hills, climbing
church towers and generally being tour-
isty. Porto being the home of port, we
went on a port factory tour after a trek
over the mountains of the town (don’t
always trust someone with a guide-book
just because they have the book…),
which was followed by a quick recov-
ery, helped along by tasters!
As the sun set, the bars on the water-
front found themselves host to groups
of musicians, with merriment and con-
sumption often accompanied by games,
photographs, and once, a song about
the man in charge in which we were
joined by wandering gypsies with their
accompaniment; a dog. A good deal of
table-swapping followed as we found
each other, much to the bemusement
of the locals; “inside voices” and “pipe
down” did nothing to encourage us to
decrease the decibels as we found ‘long-
lost’ friends from the bar before the last
one…
Members of the orchestra were en-
couraged to engage in a game of assas-
sins, resulting in a ‘tour word’ of “bul-
bous!”, a few epic kills (not to mention
members of the committee abusing their
power to get their targets) and more than
one person complaining ‘I thought you
wanted to talk to me, but you just want-
ed to kill me!’. Clothes-pegs also made
an appearance, leading to ‘peg-checks’;
and more than one unsuspecting mem-
ber of the public walking off with fluo-
rescent bits of plastic clipped to them.
Monday night found us performing
to an audience that was certainly larger
than the predicted two, a result of hand-
ing out 1000 flyers to the people walk-
ing about the town earlier in the after-
noon. It went well; all the hard work
paid off, and the comments received in-
dicated that the audience loved it. These
included phrases such as “a dream come
true” and “splendid”. Good job!
The tour ended with a visit to the
beach, dinner at a restaurant which
served giant dishes of fish-pie and
roast pork, and a visit to a shisha bar in
which tour prizes were given for vari-
ous misdeeds committed throughout the
week. The van was sent off on Wednes-
day morning to the high praise of “My
second best tour…after Croatia”, from
the Sinfonietta Matriarch, who organ-
ised Croatia and hence her opinion on
that one is discredited. The rampaging
didn’t end on the plane (the Captain did
get pegged as he left the plane in Lon-
don) and we gradually parted ways with
much regret, many memories and much
stronger friendships.
And the fireworks? Porto celebrated
the presence of Sinfonietta by giving
an impromptu display while we were
sitting at the waterfront one evening. It
wasn’t actually for us, but the sight of a
whole orchestra jumping up from a bar,
still clutching tankards full of beer, and
running to the river to ooh and ahh, is
one of the highlights of the trip; for the
author of this article, anyway.
Congratulations to the team who or-
ganised it, many thanks to our wonder-
ful conductor (DC al fine!), and well
done members of the orchestra; we
made it back in one piece and look for-
ward to next year!
Corrie Berry
Does God exist?
A question that has thwarted man since
the beginning of human history was
brought to a heated and intensely in-
tellectual debate on Tuesday evening.
The Philosophy Society’s “Does God
Exist?” debate challenged some of the
most able polemicists in the university
world. Prof. Peter Atkins, a renowned
Oxford Professor and outspoken atheist
and Alex Gabriel, the President of the
Oxford Atheist Society, would be argu-
ing that God didn’t exist, while Hassan
Choudhury (author of “God’s ID”) and
Dr Muhammad Umar (freelance con-
sultant and medic) would demonstrate
proof for God’s existence.
With Prof. Atkins beginning the de-
bate, the atheists proceeded first. The
room fell silent, as all present were either
ready to support or rebut his arguments.
From the beginning Prof. Atkins made it
clear that it was not his job to disprove
the existence of God, but instead the job
of the theists was to prove that God ex-
ists; an interesting approach, but a weak
stance to be taken by a world-renowned
professor such as Atkins. Many present
were expecting him to deliver an all-en-
compassing argument to disprove God’s
existence. Instead, he wandered along
the lines of lack of available evidence,
citing the desire of humans to create a
deity and the belief that all people will
get what they deserve in the afterlife.
The atheists were off to a shaky start,
but surely things could only get better
for them?
Next, Choudhury was setting the stage
for his colleague, Dr Umar, to deliver
the proof for the existence of God. Us-
ing what the atheists typically call upon,
science, to disprove God, he used it
against them demonstrating its limita-
tions; this included that science can
only prove what it can test and observe,
nothing more and nothing less. Science
cannot prove what is immeasurable and
beyond the limits of science. Further-
more, adding weight to their argument
is that ‘creation requires a creator’, and
how a painting (or a pizza) could not be
tested for a creator if the creator was not
‘noticed’from the creation. By using ra-
tional arguments and dismissing weaker
arguments such as emotions, faith and
belief (one of the few issues which were
argued by both sides for the whole eve-
ning), proof was presented for a creator
of the Universe.
One would have expected Gabriel
to be more than ready to rip apart and
undermine the opposition’s arguments.
Surprisingly he failed to do so. More
often than not, he was stumbling for
words, evading the arguments and side-
tracking the concept of the proof. Had
the theists succeeded in presenting an
argument that had no flaws? Well, Ga-
briel never disproved it. Dr Umar’s
presentation was one of the most en-
joyable of the evening; he engaged the
audience and speakers alike, holding ev-
eryone’s attention throughout. The issue
of the beginning of the Universe began
to dominate the discussion, along with
the concept of infinity. He proved how
there could not be an infinite number
of causes to start the Universe, known
as the infinite regression argument, nor
how a spontaneous mechanical event
could have occurred. He synthesised his
argument, firmly based in the realms of
rationale, that the cause had to be exter-
nal to the Universe, space and time in
order to create them, demonstrating the
necessity for a creator. Now, it was up to
the atheists to disprove this during the
Q&A session.
No atheist in attendance addressed
Dr Umar’s argument; instead, they
evaded the issue like ninjas, which, in
all fairness to them, they did very well.
The atmosphere was intense, the audi-
ence electric as questions, answers and
rebuttal were thrown back and forth,
evolving into a philosophical discus-
sion where many aspects of human na-
ture, science and the fundamentals of
mathematics were discussed. The con-
cept of infinity not working in reality
really seemed to bewilder the atheists
more than anything, requiring numer-
ous explanations and examples to show
why it cannot work in practice whilst
its existence is plausible in mathemat-
ics. The atheists’ arguments (well,
more like statements) were dissolving
rapidly as the speakers’ points became
weaker and less viable.
By the end of the evening, everyone
was discussing the “Existence of God”,
and this continued long into the night
(even after all the free food was gone).
The big question that remains: what is
the consequence of believing in God?
Surely the next event will be of a simi-
lar magnitude where everyone, includ-
ing you, could take part. So watch this
space!
Isa Cassius Morrison
Imperial Sinfonietta on
the rampage in Porto
Admittedly there’s not much rampaging going on in this photo. Unless
you include the conductor’s trousers... What was he thinking?
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
Philosophy Society tackle the
world’s toughest question
“The atmosphere was
intense, the audience
electric as questions,
answers and rebuttal
were thrown back
and forth”
Friday 05 November 2010

