CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
36
Scuba trip to Penzance
Who doesn’t love diving on a freezing cold morning?
Having loaded up the minibus with enough
gear for the week, five of us set off nice and
early from the union on Saturday 24th for the
long journey down to Penzance. Deciding that
motorways were boring we took theA303/A30,
whereby we had to resist the urge of stopping
to buy strawberries from the stalls cunningly
positioned every 50m along the road. After a
quick stop for lunch we knew we were getting
close when Pirate FM appeared on the radio,
and we were soon greeted at the campsite by
what seemed like a completely sane campsite
owner (a what??!) before speedily heading off
to the shops to buy some food. By the time we
got back Icy (our RIB) had arrived and our tent
village for the week was taking shape. Sadly it
turned out that the boats steering was broken
and we would need to get some new bolts.
With no boat to use, Sunday saw us heading
to Lamorna Cove to do a couple of shore dives.
Those people who didn’t listen to Olle’s ad-
vice and headed around the harbour wall found
some interesting things, while those of us who
did found sand. And rocks. With the day’s div-
ing over we headed off to find some screws to
fix Icy. With Icy now fixed Monday was going
to be much more interesting. Launching from
Hayle, Ben gently lowered the boat down the
incredibly steep slip and armed with 4 different
coordinates for the St Chamond we headed out
eager to see what awaited us. Turns out it was
4m swell. Having gone through all that we had
however, we were not going to let that put us
off and so in went the shot and down went the
divers. Sadly we picked the wrong coordinates
and only Olle’s group found the trains. Having
made most people chuck their breakfast over
the side of the boat, we decided not to pursue a
second dive as it was already 3pm.
Tuesday saw our first trip out from Penzance,
although we didn’t see much due to a thick
layer of fog. The original plan was to dive the
Hellopes, but it was too deep for the inexperi-
enced sporties onboard. For the rest of us it was
onto the Lowlee Ledges / Primrose which had
a nice nature trail rope to follow, and then onto
what we later discovered was the very broken
up wreck of the Ansgir. On Tuesday evening
while venturing in to collect our filled tanks for
the next day, the crazy man showed us his com-
pressor room. He had about 5/6 compressors
linked by a network of pipes that would look
fitting on a submarine, and they were powered
by a generator from an old telephone exchange
that could rival Battersea power station!
On Thursday we decided that due to the nice
weather we would attempt to go for the Run-
nelstone. After a long journey we decided to
ignore the 3-4m swell and dropped down to be
greeted by huge boulders completely covered
in jewel-anemones.
We decided to go for the Hellopes again on
Friday. With Simon’s twinset broken, he and I
decided to make the most of our dive and made
our way down to 35m in 2 minutes by climbing
down the shot line! This gave us plenty of time
to explore the wreck where we found the rud-
der and prop still intact and 2 massive boilers
with lots of pipes running all over the place.
With the departure of Danielle, Tom and John
on Friday there were only 7 of us in the boat on
Saturday and so we loaded up 2 cylinders each,
packed our lunch and headed off on the 15 mile
journey to Wolfrock. This was a fantastic dive
with a very steep wall covered in jewel-anem-
ones and teeming with all sorts of life. After
heading back to a nearby cove for some lunch
we set out once again to go to Longships where
Olle and Richard swam around trying to find
some seals. All in all, a great week.
There are still be places on our training
courses for this year, email scuba@ic.ac.
uk if you are interested. For more info visit
www.union.ic.ac.uk/icuc “
Sam Gonshaw
It’s definitely not at all sunny. I’d look less silly wearing sunglasses in the Felix Office
Notices
Law Society
A six-figure salary? Only with a career in finance,
right? - WRONG! Did you know a starting salary for a
lawyer is £60,000? Law has the same challenges as
a career in finance with identical application process-
es. The attractive thing about law is the diversity in
the career path you could take. The most popular be-
ing commercial law, which deals with a lot of the big-
gest banks and corporations in the world. Law firms
actually value students from a non-law background
as we have that extra knowledge, which we can in-
tegrate into law. The intake of non-law students into
most prestigious firms can be as high as 50%!
Even though Imperial does not have a law faculty,
there is a law society. Law society has been around
for five years now and whilst in previous years mem-
bership has been low, this current year we have
seen the biggest increase in membership. We aim
to provide the best possible information for anyone
considering a career in law after his or her science
degree. We have invited many of the ‘Magic Circle’
law firms to come and guide us through the process
by providing advice and tips.
Next Tuesday, 9th November, Hogan Lovells will
be joining us for a panel event based on Intellec-
tual Property (IP). A partner, associate and a trainee
from the IP department will be there to explain the
different stages in the career progression and to an-
swer any questions you may have. To register for
this event or for further information please contact
lawsoc@ic.ac.uk
Electricity is the basis of development, and we strive
to provide rural Rwanda with access to electricity
through our Energy Kiosks. We aim to develop a fi-
nancially sustianable system that can be replicated
on any scale, even in the remotest of communities.
The high level of innovation involved, the concept
of sustainability and the enormous effort put in
by the teams has earned e.quinox the JP Morgan
Good Venture Award 2010, the Professor John Le-
ver Award and the top prize in the highly prestigious
IEEE Change the World President’s Award 2010 - are
the only student team in the finals for the BBC World
Challenge 2010, competing for a prize of $20, 000.
Vote for us at e.quinox.org/vote
e.quinox
Friday 05 November 2010

