SPORT
37
felix FRIDAY 5 NOVEMBER 2010
Fencers return from
Malta with most of
their gold
The Imperial College Fencing Club summer
tour saw them invade Malta, escaping from
their exams, and starting the week with a bit
of night swimming at the villa they had rented
in Mellieha for the competition.
The next morning saw the men’s foil en-
trants, still a bit bleary eyed, find a cab and
get to the morning’s fencing. Jack Patten of
Imperial, thrown by the very different styles
of fencing shown by some of the continental
fencers, was knocked out in the quarter finals,
leaving only two remaining, who unfortunate-
ly met each other in the semi final. Guillau-
me Joubert managed to pull the victory from
Jack Patten
Our proud fencers posing with their impressive medal haul
see Alumni George Whittaker had won GB heavy-
weight trials overall. Simon Steele brought home
IC’s quickest single time of the day (19:31.3 – 15th
in BUCS). Further solid performances came from
Dom Meyrick-Cole (19:45.0 – 51st GB trialist),
Leo Carrington (19:50.0 – 21st in BUCS) and Ben
Spencer-Jones (20:07.7 – 72nd GB trialist, 33rd in
BUCS). Leonora Kennedy and Zoë Lee continued
to go from strength to strength as they both were
in the top ten overall with times for the women’s
single of 20:58.3 (8th overall) and 21:09.8 (10th
overall) respectively.
Jamie Kirkwood continues to have a golden glow
around him as he smashed his way to win the light-
weight trials. Further lightweight success contin-
ued for Sam Scrimgeour (18:44.2 – 12th Lwt GB
trialist), Josh Butler (18:44.5 – 13th Lwt GB trial-
ist), Alex Gillies (18:55.9 – 17th Lwt GB trialist)
and Tom Pearson (19:37.1 – 35th Lwt GB trialist,
7th BUCS). Chloe Symmonds also put in a strong
performance in the women’s lightweight single
(21:52.2 – 12th Lwt GB trialist, 9th BUCS).
IC also fielded a further five boats with the aim of
gaining BUCS points and medals. In the doubles,
Ben Spencer-Jones andAlistair Hudson came 6th in
a time of 17:55.9, while the W2x of Christina Duffy
and Selina Graham came 4th in a time of 20:30.0.
Unfortunately due to the absence of many of the
club’s bowsiders; due to man flu/busted joints/doc-
tors orders etc, the lightweight men’s double had to
be withdrawn and it was down to four strokesiders
to race the pairs.
On top of this, chaos nearly ensued when the
pleasure cruiser, the “Boston Belle”, decided the
start of the third and final division would be the
perfect time to head down the centre of the river,
heading directly towards the fifty boats coming in
the opposite direction. Fortunately, disaster was
averted and the Belle pulled into the side. In the
Men’s Championship Pairs, Imperial A (Steele/
Carrington), having already successfully overtaken
Durham B, were heard from the bank employing a
Kirkwood Tiger [a now well known winning mech-
anism] with 100m to go and they raced their way
into fourth place (18:51.8). Imperial B (Matt Whal-
ey/Pearson) put in another storming performance
overtaking “three and a half crews” over the 5km
course and beat Imperial A by five seconds to bring
home the Bronze medal (18:46.9). The women’s
pair of Symmonds and Duffy also brought home
the bacon coming in second (21:12.9) behind a very
strong Durham crew.
All in all, the weekend was a success and, in time
honoured tradition, McDonalds was eaten on the
way home with delight, even by the conscientious
lightweights. With Fours Head of the River less
than two weeks away, ICBC has little time to reflect
and needs to be ready for a few more miles on the
home water of the Tideway.
ICBC hit GB trials and BUCS Small Boats Head
...Continued from back page
“Our fencers put in an impressive
display, with four of the top five
fencers being from Imperial, who
came away with a gold, silver and
a bronze”
Chris Gilliam, who ended coming in third.
Guillaume faced Maltese fencer Pierre Bian-
chi, but was finally defeated, earning a silver
medal and the respect of the opposition.
The men’s sabre event saw the same group
going into the fastest of the three weapons.
Again Jack was knocked out in his first di-
rect elimination fight, but this time Chris and
Guillaume almost effortlessly moved on to
the finals against each other. After a back and
forth fight Guillaume managed to shut down
the wrist hits that Chris had used to get to the
finals, earning him the gold that had been de-
nied him earlier in the day, with Chris’ silver
bringing the medal count to four after only
two events.
The last event of the first day was a fun
team sabre event where all of the fencers were
mixed up to let fencers from different coun-
tries and at different skill levels to interact in
a less competitive setting. Even fencers who
rarely use a sabre picked one up for a bit of
fun.
The next day began the women’s events,
though rather than being the official Malta
open, the two women fencers from Imperial
were competing in the St. Paul’s Fencing Club
Challenge, a new event run by the same fenc-
ing club which holds the open.
As the men were relegated to the sidelines,
the women started on foil, which neither had
a particular love of. Despite this, both moved
through the initial stages of the competition
with little trouble, adapting to the more unusu-
al styles of fencing on display. Unfortunately,
as with the men, they ended meeting in the
semifinals, with Beth slowly out fencing Em-
ily Bottle, to move on to the finals. In the final
Beth met her match in German fencer Barbara
Schormair, letting her bring home the silver
medal, and Emily the bronze.
The epee event, being Beth’s least favorite
weapon, saw her knocked out in the quarter-
finals. Emily destroyed any competition she
was up against, however, as this is her primary
weapon. The finals saw her comprehensively
defeat German epeeist Vanessa Klaas.
The team event of the day was epee. Even
Jack and Guillaume picked them up – despite
neither of them finding them the most interest-
ing weapon, and Jack having never used one
before at all!
During the week the fencers took some time
to explore the country, whilst more fencers ar-
rived for the rest of the week, and to do the
second weekend competition. On Monday
they headed out to try diving, which Chris and
Beth decided to spend some more time on.
They also enjoyed a meal in the capital Val-
letta with the competition fencers and their
spouses. Tuesday was spent at St. Paul’s Fenc-
ing Club for some training with the Maltese
and some of the other international fencers.
They spent some time exploring Mdina, a
fortified town in the hills, a relic and monu-
ment to the military history of Malta as a naval
staging point for several wars. On Friday they
took a couple of speedboats out to do some
snorkelling and have a look at the nearby is-
lands of Gozo and Comino.
The second weekend started with the men’s
individual epee event. After a round of poules
Chris had opened into a good position, while
Jack’s inexperience in epee had left him in
a mediocre position, and led to him being
knocked out in the first round of direct elimi-
nation. Chris managed to make it through to
the quarterfinals, defeated by British fencer
Eddie Crofton, who was only defeated in the
final by Pierre.
Then it was time to start the open for the
women’s events. The first weapon was epee,
and once again Emily found herself quickly
leading the pack. She even defeated her moth-
er in the semi-finals, to face off against fellow
Imperial competitor Joan Chang in the finals.
Joan’s style gave Emily pause in the first set,
but was finally broken in the next set, winning
Emily the gold, and Joan the silver.
The afternoon saw the team foil event. This
had lots of entrants as most fencers start by
learning foil and despite everyone trying hard
to beat everyone else, the atmosphere was jo-
vial. The competitors had become close over
the week.
The last day of the competition opened with
women’s foil. Our fencers put on an impres-
sive display, with four of the top five fencers
being from Imperial, Hannah Bryars beating
out Emily in the semi-finals and Alice Mitch-
ell in the final, for a nice gold, silver, bronze
run, with Beth being just outside the medal
zone in fifth.
The last individual event was women’s sabre,
where Imperial did even better, the top five be-
ing entirely Imperial. Alice took fifth and Joan
and Helen Pennington became bronze medal-
lists. After some back and forth in the final
Beth took silver and Hannah earned the gold.
Another team sabre event was the last event
of the day, and the competition, this time with
mixed gender teams. A chance to say goodbye
with some light hearted stabbing.

