NEWS
FELIX
4
In brief
Should Union profits pay for
student bursaries?
Union President Alex Kendall’s plans to consider us-
ing “a proportion of the Union’s commercial services
profits to fund bursaries” received a mixed reception
at this week’s Union Council meeting. The money
would be given to the college to use as part of its
bursary scheme in order to eliminate logistical diffi-
culties in deciding which students should receive it,
but many were ideologically opposed to giving away
Union funds.
The opposition was lead by Deputy President for
Finance and Services, Ravi Pall. It is his belief that
the money made by bars and shops should be rein-
vested in these same services, improving them for
the benefit of students.
RCSU representatives were also worried that if
the Union gave away some of its money the College
would believe that it has a surplus, and therefore cut
its £1.2 million subsidy, which is completely sepa-
rate from the commercial profits. Kendall stated that
he didn’t believe that the College would take this
“immoral” course of action. He also dismissed Pall’s
claims that the subsidy might be reduced in the
future for other reasons, meaning that the profits
would be needed for running the union, as unlikely.
Many were also concerned that giving Union mon-
ey to just some violated the Union’s mandate to
help all. Supporters of the policy argued that a large
proportion of students, (about 40 percent), would
have access to the bursaries, and that helping the
neediest was clearly the right thing to do. There was,
however, a lot of anxiety about the possibility of fail-
ing international students, who would be unable to
access many of the bursaries.
Pall’s motion that this issue should not be dis-
cussed at further Council meetings as it would be a
waste of time was defeated by a large majority. The
final decision on whether to support the bursaries,
however, will be left until the College and govern-
ment finalise their higher education funding policies.
Judging by this week’s events, the debate over that
decision is likely to be heated.
Maciej Matuszewski
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Metric launch date announced
Unsecured networks leave
student data at risk
being used, such as WPA, the captured packets
can be analysed effortlessly to derive the data
which is being transmitted. This could equate
to a Facebook status, a downloaded E-mail or
even background information such as a cookie
authenticating the user to the website.
The problem lies here, as Felix tested this tool
around various parts of the campus. FireSheep
is a Firefox extension which appears as a side-
bar in the popular Internet browser. The side-
bar hides the complexities of packet inspection
from the user and performs various tasks in
the background. It requires a packet captur-
ing driver to be installed, called WinPCap, and
using this, it monitors all traffic visible to the
machine’s network card (particularly packet
data corresponding to other users on the same
wireless network) and attempts to hijack ses-
sion cookies for websites.
Should an unsuspecting user log in to one of
the listed services over the same network the
hijacker is on, their picture and username will
be displayed in the sidebar and the hijacker can
gain access to the service, fully authenticated
as the person captured, by simply double click-
ing on the name in the sidebar.
Felix was not able to successfully use the
tool over the Imperial-WPA wireless network
on campus, since packets are encrypted with
protection, although this type of network is
still vulnerable to other types of attacks. The
IC-DoC network, situated in the Department of
Computing in the Huxley building, however, is
unsecured. As a result, Felix was able to use
the tool to its full extent. Armed with an old
laptop with a network card that allowed captur-
ing packets in ‘promiscuous mode’, where the
user has access to all packets visible to the card
(some laptops protect against this), screen-
shots of private messages within Facebook ac-
counts, phone numbers from ‘numbers please’
groups and other private information, Felix
approached Computing’s security team (CSG)
and Imperial’s ICT security for a response.
Regarding the FireSheep tool, ICT comment-
ed that it is ‘very interesting’, and that ‘unen-
crypted wireless networks have always been a
security issue, but they’ve never been so high
profile’, adding that ‘the release of FireSheep
might generate enough publicity for home
wireless users to think seriously about whether
encryption is enabled on their home networks,
and whether a wireless network is safe to con-
nect to.’
‘ICT has always had security in mind when
designing the College wireless service’, they
added, ‘we provide a number of different wire-
less networks to accommodate the huge range
of devices which we support. It is planned that
staff and students in Computing will be migrat-
ed to use the main College wireless network’,
Imperial-WPA.
Felix interviewed two students from the De-
partment of Computing who were affected by
this issue. Approached with information he ex-
pected was private, Josh Forman-Gornall said:
‘I was surprised when I saw my account was ac-
cessible by anyone else. I expected the depart-
ment would have measures to protect against
this’, adding ‘I think it’s a travesty how they
have unprotected wireless. It should be WPA.’
Upon explaining the alternative of using the
Imperial-WPA network, Josh added ‘I would
use it but the signal strength of IC-DoC is
stronger so it’s my first point of call. I have
good speed, but it seems I lose my privacy
as a result.’ Commenting on the tool itself, he
said ‘it’s quite a scary prospect that the author
has made it so simple and put it out there. It
means anyone can do it without knowing how
it works. Pretty much everyone’s bound to be
using that tool soon. It would wreak havoc, but
I hope it doesn’t get that far.’
Felix also approached Danish Khan with less
of an emphasis on network security but more to
do with the websites’ lack of SSL encryption,
who said ‘if FireSheep worked regardless of
network security, I guess I’d have to stop using
them or switch to a wired connection.’ He add-
ed that ‘Facebook and other sites could offer
an HTTPS service which used SSL throughout,
for networks you don’t trust, but you’d expect
to be able to trust DoC’.
David McBride, of the Computing Support
Group, responded to these comments in an
interview explaining that there will be a com-
putational cost associated with services such
as Facebook providing SSL throughout the
session, but that the problem is the underlying
assumption of privacy in an otherwise unen-
crypted session on a website without SSL.
He explained that the IC-DoC network is
unsecured to allow test devices, research ma-
chines and robots that are not compatible with
encryption to connect to networked resources
or be controlled over the wireless network.
Coverage issues with the DoC network can
be investigated and fixed, but ultimately, for a
reasonable expectation of security, the entire
session from the moment the website is visited
must be encrypted, not just the authentication
and login.
‘Don’t panic’, he added, explaining that the
attack has existed for many years, and that us-
ers should associate with the Imperial-WPA
network for increased protection against this
type of attack. ‘If in doubt, if the padlock isn’t
there when you started using the website, it
isn’t safe’.
Google’s Gmail service switched to SSL in
January this year, but services such as Face-
book have yet to follow suit. Twitter currently
provides an SSL only option as a feature, and
Felix advises users with doubts to both associ-
ate with the Imperial-WPA network where pos-
sible. The attack, formally known as HTTP ses-
sion hijacking, is an inherent problem with the
way the websites are presented to the user and
not the fault of the wireless networks and their
security measures. Firefox extensions such as
HTTPS-Everywhere and Force-TLS can be
used to enable encryption where possible to
thwart snoopers over a wireless network.
FireSheep allows rather more subtle Facebook snooping than this
...Continued from Front Page
After a summer of construction work and successive
delays, the Union has finally set a date for the long-
overdue launch of Metric.
The club will open on Saturday the 20th of Novem-
ber with a host of live bands and djs, including Ro-
bots in Disguise, Tape the Radio, Citadels and Miss-
ing Andy.
The new club, which replaces the old dBs, was
originally set to open at the beginning of October,
in time for Welcome Week. However problems with
removing a pillar that would have blocked the stage
meant that this was pushed back to the 29th of Oc-
tober.
Unfortunately the discovery of asbestos dashed
Union hopes of launching with a Halloween party.
With the success of the new bar, FiveSixEight, ex-
pectations are high for Metric. Hopefully it will have
been worth the wait.
Metric launch: 20:00 - 03:00, Saturday 20th
Friday 05 November 2010
Photo by Kadhim Shubber

