FELIX 5
INTERVIEW
Charles Betts
interviews
Mark Field MP
I
n September, during
a speech at Queen
Mary University,
Vince Cable said
“there is no justifica-
tion for taxpayers’
money to be used to
support research that
is neither theoreti-
cally outstanding nor
commercially useful.”
What is your stance?
My concern is that with so much of
scientific research it is difficult to gauge
during the early stages whether the work
will be useful. The very nature of scien-
tific research often involves numerous
cul-de-sacs before finally utilising some
of the experience gleaned from going
down those various routes. I don’t think
having as hard and fast a rule in place is
terribly sensible and I’m afraid it doesn’t
reflect the reality of how scientific re-
search is undertaken.
The science budget has been frozen
for the next 4 years, which represents
a 10% reduction in real terms. Do you
agree with this?
There is a broader issue with funding
at the moment. Because of the difficul-
ties with the deficit funding, other bud-
gets have taken absolute as well as real
cuts. A freeze is rather more generous
than it is for other departments going
forward. The difficulty with scientific
research is that given those financial
constraints there is going to be an in-
creasing demand for evidence of success
over a much shorter time period. Scien-
tific researchers may end up spending a
disproportionate amount of their time
on bureaucratic tasks such as filling in
forms to get their next grant instead of
on scientific work.
The UK represents 1% of the world
population, yet produces 8% of all
scientific publications. Do you feel we
might lose this edge over the coming
years following the spending review?
The issue is that when you simply look
at the raw statistics – if you start looking
for any measure of success, for example
the number of column inches in scientif-
ic magazines – then you get perverse in-
centives to do things in a particular way.
A lot of what is published is only read by
a handful of people and just gathers dust
in the library. That’s not in any way to
belittle scientific research and we should
be proud of our track record, which we
should be looking to maintain, but one
of the difficulties with highlighting quite
a narrow statistic is that some perverse
incentives could come into play.
Do you feel you can fully appreciate
the nature of scientific research if you
don’t have a scientific background?
I’m sure there are many scientists at
Imperial who know more about politics
than I do about science. Obviously, you
have a limitation. What I’d like to think
I can provide is some perspective and to
be able to broaden the judgement on a
range of other issues, other than just the
raw scientific research element. Clearly
it helps to have a proper scientific back-
ground. Equally, we are working within
quite strict financial constraints and will
be for the rest of this decade and those
concerns also have to be addressed.
You don’t feel it is a problem in terms
of representing Imperial College as
our local MP?
The trouble is my constituency is a
uniquely diverse seat in many ways. It
has very wealthy areas and very poor ar-
eas, and it is home to the scientific, the
artistic, the political and the economic
centres of this country. I do my level
best to try and have an understanding
of it all. But yes, it’s a classic case of
being a jack-of-all-trades and a master
of none. I try and do a reasonable job in
that regard.
The Browne Review has suggested
unlimited fees should be allowed. The
Universities Minister David Willetts
has said that “ unlimited fees are nei-
ther sustainable nor sensible.” Vince
Cable has said, “unlimited fees is an
avenue that is unlikely to be pursued.”
Do you think there should be a cap?
I regret the stance that is being taken
by Vince Cable and David Willetts. I can
understand the politics of the situation,
given that every one of the 57 Liberal
Democrats MPs were committed to no
rise in fees, as to why we have ended up
in this state. I would like to see the cap
entirely removed. I see our universities
as being elite international players and
the worry is that, even towards the best
universities, there is a level of compla-
cency in respect to their global role.
The funding of US universities means
that they can attract the best academics
to make their careers there. I would like
to see the cap lifted totally, allow the
market to determine where fees are, have
some safeguards to ensure there are bur-
saries in place and in the meantime try
and build up alumni funds as in the US
model. The worst of all worlds is if we
do have a cap and I am particularly wor-
ried about having a lower rate cap which
is being suggested at £6000-£9000 – I
want to see a diversity of innovative
universities. Let’s have 2-year degrees
(not at places like Imperial, but other
places like private colleges) that cost
say £3500/year. Give another option to
people rather than have the whole thing
hamstrung in a very bureaucratic way. If
a cap is too low, one or two universities
may go private – you hear about Cam-
bridge and Imperial contemplating that
route depending on how negotiations
pan out. I support the Browne review.
I have had conversations with Richard
Sykes in the past and he would note how
much you can charge a home grown stu-
dent and how much you can charge an
international student. He rightly takes
the view that we want our indigenous
British people in our top institutions.
Given the enormous gulf between the
two fee levels, there is going to be a
push to get lots of overseas students. I
want to promote a genuine meritocracy.
Do you envisage a system similar to
the American one?
`Realistically I think we are heading
in that sort of direction. The benefit the
American system has is that the private
universities have these huge endowment
funds and are able to say if you are good
enough – not necessarily academically,
for instance if you are an elite sportsman
– if you can bring something to this in-
stitution then, whether your parents earn
a modest amount or not, we can make
a way of making that work. That’s the
sort of model we should aim towards. I
appreciate that the American institutions
have the benefit of huge alumni funding
– to get to that stage will take some time.
In the event of unlimited fees, the
wealthiest could pay without prob-
lem, and the poorest would be offered
scholarships. Is there a chance the
middle classes could suffer?
Yes, I think so. It’s a classic debate
we’ve been having in the last week
about housing benefits. It’s the middle
that is being squeezed. I was the first
person in my family to go to university.
I’m from the middle class. I was very
lucky and had a full grant and no debt.
I am adverse to debt and can see that is
the worry – though I’d probably take it
on the chin.
WE SHOULD BE WORKING TOWARDS
THE AMERICAN SYSTEM
“I would like to see
the cap lifted totally;
allow the market to
determine fees”
Friday 05 November 2010
Photo by Slobodan Radosavljevic

