NEWS
FELIX
6
Job Markets
Graduate unemployment at 8.9%
Graduate unemployment has risen to 8.9%, a rise of
one percentage point from the previous year. This is
the conclusion of a survey by the Higher Education
Careers Services Unit (HECSU) of 225,000 gradu-
ates questioned in January this year, after leaving
university in the summer of 2008.
Employment prospects have not looked so grim
since 1993, when the UK was coming out of a reces-
sion and graduate unemployment peaked at 11.6%.
“These latest figures show that students are grad-
uating from university into the bleakest employment
market for decades”, said Aaron Porter, president of
the National Union of Students.
Whilst the number of Imperial graduates unem-
ployed does not hit national averages, the university
is not immune either. Imperial’s graduate unemploy-
ment has risen sharply from 5% to 7.6% over the
past year, closing the gap between Imperial and the
national average. Imperial graduates entering em-
ployment within six months was down from 69.9% to
60.2%, although this can be partly accounted for by
more students entering into further study.
The survey also revealed that the proportion of
graduates working in non-graduate sectors such as
retail and catering rose to about one in seven.
Striking differences between different degree sub-
jects are also highlighted. IT graduates fared worst,
with a staggering 16.3% still seeking work after six
months. Also in the top five for the highest unem-
ployment were media studies, design, accountancy
and electrical and electronic engineering. Only 6.2%
of law graduates were out of work after this period.
However, graduate unemployment is still some way
off the levels seen in the last recession. Charlie Ball,
Deputy Director of Research from HECSU, believes
that “prospects for graduates in the short-term look
bright and next year we expect to see a decline.”
Ball also stresses that young people thinking
about university should not be deterred by the latest
figures. Average starting salaries are still substan-
tially higher for graduates (£19,695) than for non-
graduates (£15,912).
The study is compiled from a national survey car-
ried out by all UK university careers services each
year and then collected together and analysed by
HECSU. However, the reliability of the results has
been questioned by Imperial’s own careers service.
“Each graduate is asked about their activity on one
specific date in the January following the end of their
course. If he or she is starting a job the following
week, they would still be classed as unemployed for
the purposes of the survey,” said Elspeth Farrar, di-
rector of Imperial College Careers Advisory Service.
Alex Dahinten, Deputy President (Education) of
Imperial College Union, emphasised the benefits of
participating or taking an active role in the union’s
clubs and societies to improve their employment
prospects: “You have the opportunity to learn a num-
ber of vital soft skills which are not taught in lec-
ture theatres, while having fun and getting to meet
like-minded people. Graduates should not underes-
timate the ability to give a presentation, work in a
group or chair a meeting.”
The deputy president believes that companies will
continue to fight over employing Imperial graduates.
“We come from a world-class university and due
to the subject choice and academic responsibilities
that we carry during our time here, we will always be
‘in-demand’ graduates.” Sophia David
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
jobs, thousands of people within the
UK could potentially fill the role, in
research, that number is down to tens
of people across the globe. This means
that the immigration cap on non UK/
EU immigrants introduced by the Home
Secretary, Theresa May, in June could
potentially have serious negative con-
sequences on the competitiveness of the
research done within UK universities.
Researchers who are resident outside
and wish to work in the UK have to ob-
tain a visa, of which there are two main
types which apply to research staff, tier
one and tier two.
Tier one is a personal visa, where ap-
plicants have to apply through a system,
giving information on their age, degree
level, earnings, et cetera. This informa-
tion is then assessed and given a score
in several categories. Each category has
a different ‘pass mark’ and applicants
must pass each category in order to
qualify for the visa. The length of this
visa is usually a fixed term, typically
around two years. There is, however, a
hard cap of 600 of these visas which can
be issued per month; which in October
was already ‘used up’ by the 20th. On
top of that, tier one visas are hard to ob-
tain, with the ratio of tier one to tier two
visas at 1:1 in the Physics department
despite the department strongly advis-
ing researchers to obtain a tier one visa
wherever possible.
The second type of visa is the tier two
visa, which can only be applied for if the
individual has a sponsorship certificate,
which is issued by the university. These
visas last only until the end of a contract
with an individual, and individuals look-
ing to extend or renew contracts, must
also obtain a new tier two visa. There is
a limit on tier two visas, with Imperial’s
quota across the whole university being
82 certificates which can be issued be-
tween June 2010 and March 2011. It is
worth noting that researchers who need
to renew their tier two visas also count
toward the quota and contracts which
have ended do not ‘add’ back to the
number of certificates that can be issued.
Having already used up around half
the tier two sponsorship certificates
which they are allowed to issue for
this year, there is a real concern that
nearer January, research groups will
be forced to turn away some excellent
candidates simply because they cannot
obtain a visa. In particular, postdoctoral
researchers on tier two visas looking to
extend their visa after the quota has been
filled, face the real risk of deportation
back to their home countries though it is
hoped that the extra time in the UK will
entitle them to successfully apply for the
different visas.
Imperial has a particularly diverse
workforce. In the physics department
alone, around 25% of post doctoral re-
searchers were hired from outside the
EU from 2006-2010, highlighting the
importance that high quality immigrants
from outside of the EU has for research.
Adrian Sutton, head of the condensed
matter theory group in the Physics de-
partment at Imperial, expressed his con-
cern by stating that “Universities have
always disregarded where people come
from because they recognise that to be
the best you have to recruit the best
people. That is why there are so many
postdoctoral researchers from outside
the EEA at the top UK universities.
They have been attracted by our open,
inclusive culture in UK higher educa-
tion. The UKBA restrictions are negat-
ing this culture, a culture which led to 3
of the 4 Nobel prize winners in the UK
this year being awarded to immigrants.”
Overseas applicants already have sig-
nificant disadvantages when applying to
jobs within the UK. Since the ‘Resident
labour market test’ was introduced, em-
ployers are forced to give precedence
to any applicants who are from within
the EU, when applicants have the same
skills and experience listed in job ad-
verts.
Professor Simon Gaskell, principal
of Queen Mary University of London,
recently stated in an interview with the
BBC, that he believes “The most damag-
ing thing that we could do to UK higher
education, UK research, UK science, is
to reduce the attractiveness of this coun-
try, for overseas scientists and other re-
searchers.”
The government is not oblivious to
these concerns. Science minister David
Willets and Business Secretary Vince
Cable, acknowledged that there were
problems with the current system when
speaking at a “science question time” at
the Royal Institute, on the 26th of Oc-
tober. However, ever since the immigra-
tion laws were introduced, it is hard not
to notice that top athletes such as pre-
miership footballers have been exempt
from the restrictions, perhaps suggest-
ing a lack of respect for the important
role that research plays for the UK as a
whole.
With increasing levels of bureaucracy
and hoops to jump through, researchers
from abroad will see the UK as a less ap-
pealing place to work. The real danger is
not a cut to funding anymore, but a cut
to the level of talent which helps give the
UK its reputation for world class educa-
tion and research. And that, for many
people, is much, much worse.
Deportation risk for
postdoc researchers
Comment on this
article online at
felixonline.co.uk
...Continued from Front Page
Friday 05 November 2010
Although all seems well at lunch in the Senior Common Room, postdoctoral researchers on
tier two visas face the real risk of deportation
Photo by Kadhim Shubber

