NEWS
FELIX 7
Deutsche Bank
Agile
minds
inspire
each
other
Afro Caribbean Society Event for 1st Year Students
It takes a unique balance of passion and precision to succeed at
Deutsche Bank. Going beyond the obvious, being able to adapt, this
is the mark of an agile mind, which is what we value most in our people.
We are hosting an event for students from ethnic minority backgrounds
who are interested in learning more about Deutsche Bank.
To find out about our 2011 programs, join us at:
Date, Time & Venue:
Wednesday, 1 December 2010
17:30 - 20:00
Deutsche Bank Office
To apply:
Please send your CV and covering letter to graduate.events@db.com
by 19 November 2010. Successful applicants will be sent an invitation
to the event.
See more at db.com/careers
NEW YORK, USA
“Unsustainable.” That’s how Damian
Green, the immigration minister, de-
scribed levels of student migration to the
UK. The Conservatives have been plan-
ning to curb immigration since before
the election, and now more than ever it
seems that universities will not be spared.
None of the changes made to the im-
migration system so far have affected
students directly (although some are
bound to have an indirect impact; see
opposite page). The real trouble begins
next April, when the Government will
permanently restrict immigration from
outside the EU.
The precise scale and nature of these
restrictions are still unknown but, judg-
ing from Mr Green’s recent comments,
it looks as if student visas will be cur-
tailed. This will have a marked effect
on those universities that rely heavily
on the tuition fees of internationals (no
points for guessing which one we’re
alluding to); it is the income generated
from Mr Green’s “unsustainable” levels
of international students that sustains
universities such as Imperial.
Tuition fees for Brits and Europeans
are set to rise, but it is dubious whether
this can counteract a joint drop in gov-
ernment funding and international par-
ticipation. The International Office at
Imperial emphasised this, saying: “At a
time when the government is proposing
cuts to Higher Education funding, the
income from international tuition fees
represents a significant financial contri-
bution to the College.”
At the same time, a different set of re-
strictions is being considered. The Tier
1 Post Study Work visa (PSWV) allows
recent international graduates to remain
in the UK to work for up to two years.
These are likely to be curtailed, forcing
graduates to leave the UK sooner. The
International Office has pointed out that
“the Post Study Work visa is an excel-
lent incentive to encourage international
students to choose the UK as a study
destination.” The fear is that many ex-
ceptional international students will opt
for countries with lighter restrictions,
and that as a result UK universities and
the UK economy as a whole will suffer.
Amresh, a fourth year undergraduate
and an international student, was not
deterred. He told Felix that he’d “much
rather work in the UK.” He did have
some reservations though: “If I’m get-
ting rejected from jobs just because I’m
not British, I would be quite pissed off.”
Universities are facing an academic
and financial shortfall. How deeply these
changes will impact students – interna-
tional and domestic – remains to be seen.
Students
hit by visa
changes
Navid Nabijou
Friday 05 November 2010

