SCIENCE
FELIX
8
Science Editors: James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
How to dunk a doughnut
by Len Fisher
And a few suggestions...
Upcoming Science Events
Nov 11th
Royal Society
Our genes, our history
6:30pm - 7:30pm
Nov 06th
Wellcome Collection
Exchanges at the frontier: Gwen Adshead
10:30am - 16:00pm
Wellcome Collection
Authors in conversation
15:00pm - 16:30pm
Nov 11th onwards
Wellcome Collection
High society exhibition
In this charming and quirky book, Fisher introduces
us to some of the more day-to-day applications of
science. Ranging from the physics of sex to making
the perfect boiled egg, there is a huge variety of
scientific silliness to choose from.
Fisher writes in an engaging and clear way, mak-
ing the concepts accessible to everyone whilst still
keeping the content interesting for scientists. I
found myself maintaining a great sense of admira-
tion for him, it takes a truly devoted scientist to carry
out some of the experiments mentioned. Don’t ex-
pect to learn anything that would contribute to your
degree but rather take a break from the monotony of
equations and bar charts to delve into some fun and
useless science. Maybe you’ll even recapture your
youth, after all, this sort of science is what lured us
to our disciplines in the first place!
Do babies dream in
the womb?
Katie Tomlinson
“Being a foetus is fun”: daydreaming begins before birth
New Imperial research shows newly born ba-
bies have highly developed “daydreaming”
brain networks.
Whether our brains are focused, resting or
asleep, default networks of neurones in the
brain are constantly activated. When we are
not focused a network called the resting state
network is switched on, but we are hardly
aware of its activity. The resting state network
allows us to day dream and branches across the
brain between the visual areas, motor areas and
areas involved in abstract thought.
The Imperial study scanned the brain activ-
ity of 70 healthy infants. A 4-dimensional brain
atlas was drawn up by the Computing depart-
ment and mapped activity to the known loca-
tion of the resting state network in adults. It
was shown that the resting state network de-
velops in the last 10 weeks of pregnancy and
at birth looks much like an adult’s, prompting
the question: are babies day dreaming in the
womb?
When we daydream the resting state network
allows introspection; triggering autobiographi-
cal memories and envisioning the future. Pro-
fessor David Edwards, the lead author of the
study, suggests that “being a foetus is a lot
more fun than any of us can remember -- lying
there happily introspecting and thinking about
the future”.
The study shows that babies’ brains are more
fully formed than previously thought. In gen-
eral, it seems that our brains are constantly en-
gaged in complex activities, which begin early
in development.
Professor David Edwards has previously fo-
cused on preventing brain damage in babies by
preventing oxygen starvation. He has recently
been awarded the highly prestigious Arvo Ylp-
pö medal. Professor Edward’s future work will
investigate how illnesses which disrupt the rest-
ing state network effect brain development.
fMRI scans showed that babies’ brains have a fully developed network of neurons
Strung along by Brian Greene
Katya-yani Vyas
String theory is not a subject that would enthral
most people, it is hard physics, mathematical,
untested and impossible to visualise. On Thurs-
day the 28th of October at the Wellcome Insti-
tute, I attended a discussion with Brian Greene
on the subject of String theory and the contro-
versy and debate surrounding it. Brian Greene
is a professor at Columbia University, author of
‘The Elegant Universe’ as well as being one of
the most well-respected and high profile string
theorists. The talk was facilitated by Professor
A.C Grayling, author and professor of philoso-
phy at Birkbeck University.
The talk began with a brief and concise intro-
duction to some of the background physics and
the reasons for pursuing string theory. Greene’s
easy and relaxed manner is evident from the
start, his lilting American accent puts the audi-
ence, and indeed Grayling, at ease. He begins
with a simple assertion that string theory holds
a unique place within science in that it is cur-
rently the best model we have that can unify the
four fundamental forces of nature. Without go-
ing into too much detail, this is the Holy Grail
for physicists.
Perhaps I should give a brief overview of
what String Theory is although most of it lies
in a realm completely beyond my understand-
ing. The idea is that all matter is made up of
tiny vibrating strings; every particle has a par-
ticular frequency associated with it and, just as
different vibrations on a guitar string match up
to different notes, each string’s frequency cor-
responds to a different particle. This gives us a
single constituent of all matter which is a tanta-
lising prospect.
Grayling was engaging in his role as inter-
viewer and seemed to know quite a lot about
the subject himself, which enabled him to talk
about some of the criticisms of String Theory.
Further on in the interview Grayling steered
the discussion to the debate surrounding String
theory research and the amount of funding be-
ing funnelled into it. Greene seemed baffled by
the concern, especially as he perceived it as a
definite non-issue.
He pointed out that string theorists want noth-
ing more than the truth, and if string theory was
closest to revealing it then of course money
should be spent on it. He added that if it was
disproved then something else would take over
and, whether correct or not, every effort should
be made to find out.
Greene’s explanations of some physics
phenomenon were excellent, proving his cre-
dentials as a great communicator of science
although his bestselling book is a far greater
testament to that.
The talk was enlightening, Greene and Gray-
ling kept the attention of the room admirably
with witty and relaxed conversation. String
Theory is far from being proven, but after this
lecture I found myself anticipating a break-
through with hope and optimism.
Friday 05 November 2010

