FELIX 9
SCIENCE
Hawking’s lesson for life
On Wednesday 20th October, a very rare
public lecture was given by one of the
most famous and respected physicists
alive today, Stephen Hawking, at the
Royal Albert Hall in South Kensington.
By the start of the lecture, the hall was
fully packed with people of all ages.
Professor Hawking was introduced by
the theoretical physicist, author and
broadcaster, Professor Jim Al-Khalili.
In addition, a woman was there to help
Professor Hawking communicate, be-
cause of his difficulty to move as he
suffers from the serious neuron disease
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
He spent the first half hour talking
about his childhood and his family with
a projector behind him showing pictures
of the people and places he was refer-
ring to.
Stephen Hawking was born 68 years
ago in Oxford and he studied Physics at
University College of Oxford. “My fa-
ther studied in University College Ox-
ford so he told me to apply there because
I had more chances to be accepted”.
He graduated with a first class honours
degree in Natural Sciences and went to
Cambridge to do research in Cosmol-
ogy. “In an Interview I had with my
professors in Oxford, they asked me
about my future plans. I told them that
I wanted to do research and if they gave
me a first I would go to Cambridge, if
they gave me a second I would stay at
Oxford. They gave me a first”.
The audience enjoyed his sense of hu-
mour, not only in his words but also in
the pictures shown behind him of phys-
ics theorems presented in a comic way.
The professor explained that he was
always fascinated by science and how
things work, but he concentrated on
physics because he believed that it was
the most fundamental of the sciences.
He confessed: “my father told me to
study medicine, but I didn’t like biol-
ogy.”
He discussed the people that inspired
him in his research such as Sciama Den-
nis, Richard Feynman, Roger Penrose,
and Werner Israel, and about some of
the topics he is interested in like Black
Holes, formation of Galaxies and Uni-
verse Expansion. He gave some basic
information for each topic to give food
for thought.
He gave a brief reference to his nu-
merous publications including “A Brief
History of Time”, “Black Holes and
Baby Universes and Other Essays” and
“The Universe in a Nutshell”. He em-
phasized his new book, “The Grand De-
sign”, which was written with Leonard
Mlodinow.
At the end of the lecture, an exclu-
sive edition of “The Grand Design” was
given free to all the attendants together
with “Eureka”, the monthly science
magazine from The Times.
During his book presentation he said
that “to understand the Universe better
we have to understand why we exist.
The Universe was created by nothing,
not by supernatural creatures or Gods”.
He explained the purpose of his new
book; which is to answer some funda-
mental questions of life such as “Why
are we here?” or “Where do we come
from?”
At the end of the lecture, Stephen
Hawking was asked the question “do
you think it will come the time that
people will learn everything about phys-
ics?”. He gave a quick and interesting
answer making space for new questions
in our minds; “I hope not!”
While watching this wheelchair-
bound man in the centre of the stage giv-
ing an incredible lecture, with thousands
of people showing their respect for him,
I realized that whatever difficulties may
arise in our lives, we should never give
up, and we must keep trying no matter
how hard our goal seems.
So for me, and I believe for many of
those at the lecture, the evening was a
very important lesson. Not only in as-
tronomy and cosmology, but also a les-
son for life.
Anastasia Eleftheriou
2009 swine flu carried deadly mutation
Researchers at Imperial have been part
of a global team whose latest research is
giving greater insight into what caused
tens of thousands of fatalities during last
year’s H1N1 pandemic.
Viruses are weirdly beautiful. Their
DNA material is held in a delicate and
unique protein casing; an arrangement
unlike any living structure. However, it
is this casing which Imperial researcher,
Professor Ten Feizi, and her team be-
lieves may hold the key to understand-
ing what makes a particle invisible to the
naked eye into a killer.
The protein casing allows the virus to
stick to receptors on the surface of hu-
man cells. It’s like puzzle pieces; where
the protein casing and the receptor
match in shape, the virus latches on and
infects the cell.
Last December the World Health Or-
ganisation (WHO) published a report
looking at a mutation where one of the
building blocks of a protein in the cas-
ing shell had been altered. Professor Ten
Feizi and collaborating teams have been
conducting extensive research which
has shown that this change results in
marked differences in the way that the
virus affects our bodies. The research-
ers reconstructed the receptors lining the
airways on glass surfaces. By examin-
ing how viruses stuck to these receptors,
they were able to demonstrate that the
mutated virus was able to attach itself
with greater strength to more cells in the
airways than seen with other flu viruses.
Usually, in seasonal flu, the virus only
infects a limited number of cells in our
Lizzie Crouch
nose and throat resulting in familiar yet
uncomfortable symptoms. The mutated
swine flu virus is not only more infec-
tious but also prevents the tiny in-built
cleaners from clearing away any further
grime which can accumulate, opening
Filthy swines: the 2009 swine flu outbreak, originating in Mexico, has killed more than 18,000 people worldwide
up the possibility of more severe symp-
toms and even pneumonia.
The mutated H1N1 virus, known as
D222G, was found randomly as the pan-
demic spread across the world. It wasn’t
the generation of a new subset of virus.
It was sporadic and sometimes deadly
mutation. However, despite this latest
research going further to explain the
reason behind the fatalities seen during
the pandemic, it is important to note that
only 7.1% of people who died from the
swine flu during the pandemic suffered
from the mutated form. In fact, in De-
cember 2009 the WHO released a state-
ment that said “the D222G substitution
does not appear to pose a major public
health issue.”
The fact still remains however that
people infected with this mutant vari-
ant of the H1N1 virus are more likely
to have severe and fatal illness. Profes-
sor Feizi warns that “If the mutant vi-
rus were to acquire the ability to spread
more widely, the consequences could be
very serious... The virus is constantly
evolving, and it’s possible that a new
form as dangerous as the 1918 pandemic
could emerge.”
5tat1stics Corn3r
1 1 6 ,5 6 9
15,372
38,679,799
5,629,776
1,512,754
789,099,355
3,523,597
Species gone extinct this year so far.
Days of oil left at current useage.
Abortions this year so far.
Deaths caused by smoking this year so
far.
Deaths caused by drinking this year so
far.
Kilometres the Earth has traveled in
space in our Solar System this year so far.
Billion litres of water consumed this
year so far.
Friday 05 November 2010

