EXPERIMENT D E C L A R E D FAILURE
Imperial College School of Medicine has been
experimenting with a new brand of medical educa-
tion over the past three years. The course is one
of the very few in the country where students get
into hospitals and see patients from day one. The
first three years are spent concentrating on the
touchy feely aspects of medicine such as commu-
nication skills and empathy. Medical learning dur-
ing these first three years is relatively limited,
much is expected to be self taught, and is exam-
ined by trivial multiple guess quizzes, and of
course the infamously ridiculous computer based
statistics test with online help. Following the entry
of the first wannbe doctors to undergo this course
into their clinical training I C S M have realised that
the approach taken to their education in the first
three years has left them ill-prepared from the
more traditional second half of their training. In an
incredible move course directors at the medical
school have decided to accept that their experi-
ment has failed, and are set to make changes to
the current course to give students a more rigor-
ous, traditional education in their formative years
at the school. To save face it is planned that these
changes will be introduced gradually over the next
three to five years.
L O N G T E R M ASPIRATIONS
ICU's new President Sen Ganesh has been plan-
ning his entire life around getting the sabbatical
position for the last few years. Sen completed his
undergraduate degree in the year in which Hamish
C o m m o n w a s e l e c t e d P r e s i d e n t . It is now
believed that Sen did not stand for the presidency
at this time as he came to some sort of agree-
ment with Hamish. In order to be eligible to stand
this year Sen has spent the last year at Imperial
taking an M S c course which has involved him
repeating large chunks of the fourth year of his
undergraduate degree. The year was not entirely
effortless though, he is thought to have done one
or two modules for the first time. However, as one
A mostly libellous column. Kevin is a
random entity who knows nothing about
nothing
of his 'very good friends' is thought to have
already c o m p l e t e d these c o u r s e w o r k - h e a v y
courses this may come in useful.
INSTANT N O T E S
It is likely that by the start of next year course
notes from MIT will be available online for a wide
variety of subjects that are taught at Imperial. The
scheme, known as MIT-OpenCourseWare, the
scheme is designed will serve as a model for uni-
versity dissemination of knowledge in the Internet
age. In the Chemistry department staff have
already been looking at MIT's offerings, and were
worried by the possible implications. One lecturer
was wondering how they could justify the tuition
cost of their courses now that lecture material
was available in a superior form for free.
S U C C E S S B R E E D S S U C C E S S
Following the huge success of Idris Harding and
his team's Imperial College Summer Ball college
has given the go-ahead to another massive stu-
dent run event to be held in the college. The
RCSU's Beer festival was this week given the go-
ahead by head of catering John Foster on behalf
of the College, who were particularly impressed
by the quality and speed of the cleanup following
the Summer Ball - the Great Hall was back in its
examination room format by nine o'clock Sunday
morning, just five hours after the event closed.
The Beer Festival has in the past been one of the
largest and most enjoyable R A G events, and will
provide a popular and highly visible core to RAG
activities next year. The event, which will feature
the drinking of a huge variety of exotic Beers,
Ciders and Largers will be held on the afternoon
and evening of Wednesday the 6th March. People
wishing to get involved in the event should con-
tact Stuart Davis, stuart.davis@ic.ac.uk
A N D FINALLY
While Kevin has not yet found and excuse to stay
around college next year the Felix editor-elect Will
Dugdale did made a hustings pledge that should it
be submitted, Mishmash will continue. Fantastic.
(Yes. Great. So long and thanks for all the fishy
stories, Kev -Ed)
ARE YOU UP TO
green rumen
STANDARD?
Work next term with Union Ents
There are employment opportunities in all areas of
Ents, Rag Cloakroom and Advertising. Hours are
arranged to suit, depending on your timetable.
There will be an Introduction & Training Day on
Friday, September 28, 9am-4pm. Come and meet
the team and find out more. Lunch will be provided.
For more information please either drop by the Union
reception, or phone on 020-7594-8060.
Make a date in your diary for the Union Training Day,
Friday, October 28, 9am-4pm. We look forward to
working with you!
iCU
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
W o r k f o r yourself. W o r k a t t h e U n i o n . . .
...and make a difference to your social life.
M a k e F r i e n d s
a n d
I n f l u e n c e P e o p l e
Short term positions available
during Freshers' Week.
Staff are needed to issue /CU Union Cards and
London Transport Cards during the first week of the
autumn term, October 1-5. Hours will be arranged
to suit depending on your new timetable.
For more information please either drop by the
»'CU reception, phone Michelle Lewthwaite on 020-
7594-8060 or e-mail m.lewthwiiite@ic.ac.uk with
your contact details for now and during the summer.
/CU
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
W o r k f o r yourself. W o r k a t t h e Union...
...and make a difference to your social life.
• i Columns • 27th June 2001 • Felix*

