Driving Tomorrow's Technology
Systems and Software Engineering
Excellent salary plus benefits
Automotive Sector London, Kent and France
Delphi Automotive Systems is the world leader in automotive component and systems technology.
We supply advanced fuel injection systems to the world's greatest manufacturers of cars, trucks and
industrial machinery. Our systems contain embedded microprocessors operating with exceptional levels of
real-time performance in severe environmental conditions.
Continuing success in our growing business has opened up a large number of vacancies in our Systems and
Software and Engineering Teams at Park Royal in West London, Gillingham in Kent and Blois in the Loire
Valley, France. We have opportunities for Engineers at all levels within these teams, from new graduates to
specialists with many years of experience.
For all positions you should be educated to degree (or equivalent) level, ideally in engineering, computing or a
related discipline.The work encompasses all aspects of the Software Engineering Lifecycle including requirements
definition, system modelling, structured analysis and design, "C programming and software testing using
automated tools and extensive engine and vehicle test facilities. Previous experience in any of the above and the
ability to deal confidently with customers at all levels are desirable.Any experience in automotive engineering,
or just a keen interest in cars and engines would be an advantage.
We offer excellent training and development opportunities and as part of the world's largest
automotive component and technology company, our career opportunities are unrivalled. Most of the
positions will provide opportunities for international travel. We also offer a first class salary and
benefits package together with generous relocation expenses.
For further information please ring Nicola Pratt on 01453 794410.
You can send her your CV, quoting reference number ICI to the
lk. Human Resources Department, Delphi Automotive Systems, Brunei Way,
Stonehouse, Gloucestershire GLIO 3SX or email
nicola.pratt@dds.delphiauto.com
Please state any particular location preference.
A u t o m o t i v e S y s t e m s

