3
d
E V E R Y
F O R T N I G H T
No. 78
ftUX ft
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E J u n e IOth, 1955
A B L U E F I E L D C U P
P O L I C E A R E N O T A M U S E D
AFTER A HECTIC AND SOMEWHAT WET SIXTY MINUTES THE CIVIL
following tradition, the race was preccoded by a
most entertaining Guilds' Union General Meeting, and
there were many happy smiling faoe3 as Kim Ash, the new
President of Guilds' brought i t to a close. '"ith cries
of.."3port" the multitude thundered into the entrance
hall where sand, water and paraffin lay dormant. Will-
ing hands seized string and wood; nimble fingers fash-
ioned crude but effective stretchers to oarry the large
galvanised 'buckets; the Mechanical Engineers were the
first to complete their frame - BUT - the multitude fell
upon them like wolves on the fold. Sweet-smelling pa-
raffin filled the air whilst a mess of sand and water
was trampled underfoot in the sheer joy of destruction.
One after another of the Departments suffered agony,
watching the wanton ruin of their stretchers by scream-
ing savages, and then common sense prevailed. The
builders retired to safety to start again. .,,*•..,.,
Like Red Indians on the warpath they oharged up
Exhibition Road or through the Royal Sohool of Mines,
leaving a trail of havoo in their wake. Up the 3teps
to the Albert Hall, and a voice shouted "There's filming
going on outside!" "Good old J.T." yelled another.
"Doris Day" shrieked a third. But there was no time
to stop and stare, no time at all. Up the steps, hold-
ing up the traffio while stretchers were manhandled a-
oross Kensington Gore; the mob swept towards the Memo-
rial, and Albert trembled on his throne.
"Up and on" rose the cry, "up and on!" The mul-
titude poured into the Park .... and hesitated! Where
did all these Policemen come from? How did they get
here so quiokly? The Rail Strike, of course! ON - ONI
They oame to the Serpentine and paused again. Where
were the boats? Well, we asked Kim Ash about that, and
this is what he told us
"I went up there in the morning, quite early, and
questioned one of the boatmen. "I'd like to hire six
large rowing boats for this afternoon", I said.
"1
Oo fer?" he asked me.
"City and Guilds'", I answered.
"
»
J
u
i
d deposit eaoh", was his terse reply"....
SXOOSE 101, OFFICER, OAR TOD TILL ME TUB WAX TO TUB
AISBB5 HALL ?
SAY, CHAFSJ I'ViS BEEN FIXSD. WHERE'S THE OARS?
DUNKIRK TACTICS
Undaunted by the shortage of boats, n i'ow Kuilds-
men stripped off, and leapt into the ioy w.ter with
stretohers, while others swam towards oooupisd boats
and tried unauooessfully to commandeer them. Then i t
happened! One Guildsman spotted a boat manned by three
young ladies he knew, and the oharm of his manner (and
perhaps the anguish in lids voloe) persuaded, them to liami
over their vessel to him. The boat ran aground - the
ladies were jettisoned like ballast, and one oar went
for a swim while the other hid itself. The boat was
launohed, and i t was the first one on the 'serpentina
oooupied by Guildsmen.
A seoond boat was commandeered by the Civile who
"persuaded" a fond father and his two ohlldren alretAv
in a boat to take part in the "sport". They rowed
a modified oourse round the island taking daddy, the
kids and the buckets for a ridel
LAW 4 ORDER
But all to no avail, for the
Insistent demands of the Boys in Blue had forced Andy
Levine to deolare the Civils as the winners. On shore
the race had finished - on the water it was a different
•tory. For a quarter of an hour three Aaronauticals
attempted to ram two disconsolate Meohanioal Engineers,
and succeeded in boarding whan both ran aground.
While this was in progress, the majority had arr-
ived back at the aanotuary of Guilds', and there they
yrooeeoed to bestow endearments on an embarrassed Con-
stabulary, until the latter replied by reading caution-
ary teles to the more irresponsible elements among the
opposition. So ended a mediocre field Sup Raoe, doomed
to medlooritv by the shortage of boats and the excess of
police.The spirit was willing,but.a a .

