2 F E L I X
P R O F I L E
FRANK G. IRVING
Time: - Some time in May.
Place: - Calais Customs.
Enter Prank Irving with Lome Welch arguing;-with an
uncooperative immigration officer. They were explaining how
neither of them had passport or papers after their epic flight
to Belgium. "It does not matter," said the official."there ara
rules and regulations to he observed."
"Oh, o'est le SPORT." replied Prank. The offioial smiled
benignly, and went on to boast about the English soccer defeat
on the previous day.
Prank Irving was bora in Liverpool in 1925. He was a pupil
at ST.Edwards College Liverpool and later studied C I V I L
( but of course ) Engineering at Liverpool University where his
interest in gliding was awakened by reading Kronfald's works on
gliding. After this he spent a brief period as a Junior scientific
officer at the Empire Test Pilot School where he survived one
prang .
He came to I.C. i n 1945 taking up a P.G. course i n the
Aero. Dept. which gave him a D.I.C. Prank graduated through
the realms of a demonstrator, a lecturerc , and even finally
building wind tunnels. When the I.C. Sliding Club re-commenoed
their activities i n 1946, Frank was there, and he went with
them to RedhiOl and then on to Lasham in 1951. He has been,
and s t i l l is, a member of the Technical Committee of the Brit-
ish eliding Association. And, incidentally, the glider in which'
he crossed the Channel belongs to the "EAGUB" comic. Frank will,
i f you buy him a drink, relate how a crowd of screaming children
invaded the glider, shouting "It belongs to me, MISTER."
His likes: naturally enough, Gliding. Literature, and es-
pecially Robert Graves' writing. And continental touring with
great big trailers (guess what's in them).
Dislikes: On oloae questioning, he broke down and admitt-
ed that cold water and milk bottles from the Old Hostel are
among his more fervent dislikes. Said Frank," I dislike this
conventional routine dreary existenoel" As Dean of Residents,
he Bhould find the routine anything but dreary and conventional.
HIGHWAYMAN RALLY
At 1 min. intervals from 11 a.m., 18 competitors
left the I.C. Union on the 1st stage to Hettlebed, Oxen.
The Rally was meant to be difficult. It was not inten-
ded that the difficulties should include the introduction
of deliberate mistakes, but, owing to an unfortunate
error on the Route-card, most Competitors left London
via A40 instead of A4, thereby by-passing the 1st Control.
From the confusion thus caused, most competitors
recovered well. R.M. Devlon and crew (Austin A30) made
a very good run to finish only 10 mins. behind time and
the only casualty was R.M. Walker (Ariel 500), last seen
with a wheel out. J. Allen (Norton International) is
reported to have taken an escape road after'motoring
sideways for some considerable distance towards a woman
pushing a pram; nevertheless, he arrived at Nsttlehead
ready for more.
With a few exceptions, competitors started the 2nd
stage on time. From bearings, distanoes, latitude and
longitude, and map references, they had to locate, visit
and reoord the names of a number of Inns. They then
had to intercept a Moving Control whioh was operating
along theloknieldWay before covering a final regularity
section to the finish.
Laok of knowledge of the Ordnance Survey Map de-
layed some competitors around the Inns but some very
good interceptions were made on the Moving Control, par-
ticularly by D.M. Watson and M. Walsh (Austin 7) Mike
Neale and Laurie Stevenson (Morris Minor) and G.B. Dar-
ling (Ford Prefect). Potentially the most brillisnt
was by Ian Duff (Morria 8) who hurtled across the bows
of the Control Car with all the ^mv2 of Aston Hill be-
hind him. His unseeing eyes strained ahead; anything
oloaer than ^ mile away was probably too blurred to be
visible.
At the Chequers Hotel, Uxbridge (the Final Control)
Mike Neale oheoked in 25 mins. before anyone else, but
one by one all save a gentleman on a B.S.A. arrived.
In the Bar, the results were announoed.
Outright Winner - Mike Neale and Laurie Stevenson (Mor-
ris Minor)
Runner-up - D.M. Watson and M, Walsh (Austin 7)
3rd - R.M. Barlow and orew (Austin A30)
2
1st Motorcyole - J. Allen - Q
.
M
.
C
. (NortonInternational)
Though they had suffered many frustrations, every-
one seemed to have enjoyed the day thoroughly. In a
few oases, the reason was not hard to seek, and perhaps
J.D.R., who took —1—n L-no-st-r in his oar and ran
out of petrol twice, can but give the answer to that one.
STUDENTSHIP: EXAM-MANSHTP:
"Ah, at last the exams are nearly here..."
One very rarely hears suoh a remark as this,
particularly from a student at I.C. But, believe
me, the speaker (who shall be nameless) has my full
backing. Are you taken aback at this blatant excla-
mation? You are? Good. That is exactly the effect
i t is supposed to have on you.
The speaker is obviously a Lifeman, and you, by
showing your astonishment, have given him just what he
wanted: that supreme feeling of "one-up".
The effect of your reaction does not just stop at
the "annoyed" stage.'I Far from i t . . . Your immediate
second thought is "Good gracious (or similar words)
this man obviously knows the work, and merely accepts
the exams, as a pure formality. Your second action
is to work at such a pace that when the exams do oome
your brain is absolutely fumbled, you seem to be living
in another world, you are obsessed, dead^. Worried, and
a nervous wreok . In short, you have been Ployed!
To help you along in your struggles in June (thinks
... "Have I ployed myself?") here is a l i t t l e bit of
exam-manship which should help you along.
The dreaded morning has arrived. But you are not
flustered, and to hurry is the last thing that has en-
tered your head.
In one hand you carry an extremely small light
brown bag with the bare essentials for your task, which,
when you oonsider i t couldn't be simpler!
In the other hand you carry your first ploy: A
large travelling bag full of back numbers of Reveille,
Weekend Mail etc., and under the arm, held very ostens-
ibly, the Times, Telegraph, and Manchester Guardian.
Up to the room which is going to torture your in-
feriors. Take your time, let the brown baggers rush
by you: as they pass a very oheery "Good morning" is
not out of plaoe.
Take your plaoe in the bustling throng of nervous
wrecks. Start to read the Times, and attempt to distri-
bute the contents of your travelling bag. You will
obviously get such remarks as "For —-— sake, put them •
away!" Your retort is "Good gracious, anyone would
think you were just going into an examination!"
The appointed hour arrives: A bent gentleman will
look over spectacles from the door and say in a mono-
tone "All right, you may oome in now".
Take your time, for after all, i t is your own!
Make a point of going in last, perhaps even two minutes
late, just to enjoy your cigarette the better!
Sit down, quite casually, and continue reading the
paper. (The newspaper, obviously!) Only stop when
told to. This small diversion has already distracted
everyone, and the question they thought they were just
beginning to understand iiow appears oompletely trans-
formed before their eyes to absolute "undoables" and
"next question" types.
Now your major ploy! Pick up the exam paper and,
with a very oontented look oh your faoe, ostensibly
tick off all question as "do-ables", and then, amid
bluater of sharpening penoils, blowing nose, and undoing
"Spangles" look puzsled, as i f considering whioh ques-
tion to do first, as they all seem so easy.
Now take the answer book, and write absolute bunk
for 20 minutes, with oonstant underlining, with your
particularly scratchy pen: specially bought for the
job! You can write your name 10 times i f you like,
but by now, i t i s obvious what chaos you have caused
in your "opponents'" minds.
You now have a small break from ploying, and do
4 questions Then, a casual question to the
invigilator such as "Is there a mistake in the printed
answer for question 5?" will shatter your contestants,
for they haven't even got an answer!
Time is now running out, but stay to the end.
Do not join in post-mortems with the brown baggers, and
when asked what you thought of the paper, some suoh
comment as "Wizard" will fix them.
Have a quick snack for lunoh, and suggest a row
on the Serpentine. If the idiots accept, make sure
you are sitting in the stern. After all, you don't
want to tire yourself, or blister your hands.
Back for the afternoon session, and out in a simi-
lar manner to the way you acted in the morning.
Trusting this will help those lifemen among you,
I remain, yours , very unworriedly,
EDMUND BEE.

