F E L I X 3
F e i t x
THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE
EDITOR-- P.A.E. SOUTHGATE Circulation 1200
"The time has come", the walrus said, "to talk
of many things". This issue of FELIX marks the end
of another College year; a 3'ear that has "been sing-
ularly unique. looking back, i t seems to m
e only
yesterday when, in company with many of my
contemporaries* I met old. friends on the first day
of the Christmas term. The year flowed on irrevoc-
ably; after the Freshers' Days where those same
gentlemen gazed awestruck at their first glimpse of
pseudo-University life, came the celebrations of Nov-
ember 5th. Guido Fawkes was very much in abeyance
to Senate House, a Senate House which up to then had
seemed only a distant body of octogenerians; an iron
hand in a velvet glove.
I think i t is possible now to assess the justice
of their edict. "When a student is arrested while
taking part in an official, or unofficial, Rag, we
will suspend him (or her) from thepursuanceof fur-
ther education at the College which he (or she) att-
ends", said the Senate in a leaflet issued to every
person at every college in the University.
In assessing, we must bear in mind two points:
1* That the word arrest means arrest and not con-
viction.
2. That when the Police make arrests at a Student Hag,
they, as the Statisticians say "take a random sample".
To be fair, they have no other choice.
It seems to me that the first point contravenes
the foundations of British Justice: every man is inno-
cent before he is proved guilty. And an innocent man
is not punished.
Ipso facto - Senate justice is not British Justice.
The second point brings to mind a case which was
before the Magistrates after the Rag of November 5th.
An elderly lady, in Piccadilly, was arrested, and found
guilty of the heinous crime of being there on the 5th.
She wished to appeal. The Magistrate told her that i t
would be cheaper to pay the fine. I suppose that the
3ame holds for students in the Magistrate's Court under
similar circumstances. Forsake all hope, 0 ye that
enterI
DISHONESTY
Among the highlights of this year were the three
Carnivals. For those of you who have not been to a
Carnival, let me advise you to go to one next year.
If you drink a little too much, one of the many Hostel
inmates will be sure to take compassion on you, never
fear. But there are some people in I.C. who do not
have this spirit ofc amarad erI eThey go to Carnivals
without paying a brass farthing. I thought that the
last Carnival saw an end to this dishonesty, but I was
mistaken. Someone stole the FELIX money in the Royal
College of Science. If that person reads FELIX, pro-
bably without paying for i t , let m
e say this to him:
W
e are unsubsidised. W
e just keep our financial heads
above water. W
e do not appreciate any kind of thiev-
ing, and certainly not this kind.
SUBSCRIBING
In our last issue you read how Frank Irving and
Lome Welsh created a British native reoord. W
e are
justly proud of that achievement. In the Freshers'
issue we hope to be able to include news of Imperial
College which is truly international news: about
which we will be even prouder.
If you are not coming back next year, and you
would like to hear from the College, why don't you
send a subscription to FELIX for the ,
55-*56? It
costs six shillings, post free. Whilst on the sub-
ject of subscriptions, have YOU donated anything to the
RODERIC HILL MEMORIAL? Sir Roderic Hill* as Rector
of the College, did a fine job, and we have reason to
be thankful to him. Show your appreciation: give as
much as you can, i f only the price of ten cigarettes.
THE FELIX BOARD
Most of our readers know little about the produc-
tion staff. Those who have been along on Sundays to
see them in action leave with the impression that it's
a wonder i f the paper is finished in time. One of
our recent lady typists was heard to remark "This isn't
the way to run a newspaper". I might add that she
only typed on one occasion; who knows, she probably
types for Sennet nowi
FELIX is run on newspaper lines, with a sports
editor, a features editor, a production editor, a
coming events editor and a willing team whose keenness
leads them to make news so that they can print i t .
John Scott Seeley, stout editor-emeritus; restrains
m
e in m
y more irresponsible moments with good pdvioe
and an attractive typist.
S
O
N
'
S C
O
L
U
M
N
•V
BY THE TIMS THAT YOU READ THIS, the
Traction Engine, painted i n the correct
colours by those hard working a r t i s t s ,
p.E.Sevier and "Jake", - and not bedaubed
we hope, by disrespeetfulihoollgans, w i l l
be wending i t s way towards Appleford to
Saturday's Traction Engine Rally. A coach
leaves I.C. on Saturday morning to v i s i t
the Rally. The Mines' engine i s entered
for a zig-zag obstacle race and a t i l t i n g
the bucket contest.
MORE NEWS OF THE FIRE-ENGINE; The H.C.S. hope to have
a 1916 45 h.p. f i r e engine at Morphy Day next year.
It has a ladder, b e l l , a four cylinder engine with a
crash gear-box, but Guildsmen and Miners w i l l be
relieved to hear that i t has no pumps. These could
have- been used to f i l l the traction engine boiler.
•V-
THIRD YEAR CIVILE visited the Forest Research Lab.
They obtained two excellent specimens (2'6"xl'3"x6").
Before they l e f t the coach was searched and the
trophies removed - which goes to show thaf'you s t i l l
can't get the wood."
'§'.
continued page 5 col I-
WE QUOTE THE TIMES - A member of the staff has sent
us a cutting from the"Times".unfortunately undated,
but we think about four weeks old. The " architect-
ural correspondent " says:
"There i s alao a drawing of the f i r s t block .
... of the rebuilding scheme for the Imperial College
of Science - i t s e l f a harmless enough structure..."
J.'! - That's what he thinks.
"....But when regarded as a pattern of the sort of
building that may cover the present imperial I n s t i t -
ute site and the ground beyond i t up to the Albert
h a l l , provokes at least two questions: f i r s t whether
the picturesque Imperial Institute skyline must reall
disappear, and secondly whether, i f so, some attempt
cannot be made to lay out this important site with
an eye to the traditional South Kensington character."
A POKE BONNET OF OFFICE FOR PADDY:- Although R.C.S.
prefer a man as President, Mis3 paddy Clarke was
elected to the post of Vice-President by a good mar-
gin. I t was decided at the not very well attended
Union meeting that she should wear a poke bonnet i n
R.C.S. colours as a mark of her office. Before any
more uncomfortable adornments could be o f f i c i a l l y
i n f l i c t e d upon her, the malevolence of those present
was diverted by an old-fashioned brown-baggers tea
party by Chem.I. One pair of bags was brought back,
the sortie having failed to yield more because of
the presence of a certain member of staff.
THE I.C. TURF-FOLLOWING FRATERNITY are laughing at
W.S.Robinson - the man who confidently tipped MY
SaOKEY for the Derby.
Mm FROM ONE OF MY FANSJ-
TOIffiLSON^^J^DMLY^jgtfflSS
PROGRESS
Let metallurgists work like biases,
To supply "the boys" with chrome-steel razors,
Let physicists struggle with circuiting,
For television games and John Pertwee.
Let chemist cackle over stills andpots'
(Small wonder that they all are clots")
Plastic knobs for rolling pins
And coal derived carcinogens .
Let mathematicions devise a pool
Where everybody wins,
Then there would be no need to work.
And much more time for sins.
Let us simply flood the world
With oil and detergent powders.
And jets and bombs and cheap Ford oars,
And smart zip fronted trousers.
B. Climer Ph>.1.
A NEW "NELSON" IN THE NEXT ISSUE;- The present writer
of this column announces his retirement from this
t r i v i a l scratching and w i l l apply his "lack of i n t e l -
lectual and moral integrity" elsewhere. A funny l i t t l e
man w i l l take over. (In his more sober moments).

