F E L I X 5
continued from page 1.
David Hattersley, the pro-
duction editor aucoeeds not only i n the difficult tank
of producing, hut has written more than one front pai;e
story. I He has to see that we never run short of typ-
ists or paper, of gum or ink, and he has the unenviable
job of transporting the layout to the printer by motor-
bike. / This latter he will lend to an incapable and
uninsured editor, on the oondition that he gets i t
back in "one piece".
John Pownall, our treasurer, has at least some finan-
cial integrity - we hope J He puts in a lot of hard
work and i t will take a good man to replace him when
he leaves at the end of this term.
"Mad Mike?, alias Kike the Turner, is a sporting
man and well fitted to be sports editor. He takesv
his job seriously, a l i t t l e too seriously in fact, for
on one occasion recently he was seen to be stuck on
top of the pole vault, and I have a photograph.to,prove
i t . He denies that Herbert i s a earioatur* him-
self, saying i t looks more like Nelson. He is ably
assisted with athletic reports by Trevor Bailey, who
one day hopes to learn how a typewriter works.
Who is Nelson? John Bramley is a miner, and
smokes a peculiar nicotine mixture known as "Wayside
Droppings" in a hollowed-out lump of fossilised wood.
We call him Nelson because he has to stand on a hund-
red foot column when he smokes his pipe. To be seri-
ous for a moment,Nelson's Column i s a fine piece of
writing, and it3 success is solely due to John's abi-
lity with a pen (and his big toe).
Robin Crouch is our art editor. He i s also an
old boy of my school, where I knew him as "slouchy
Crouchy", and he knew me by an even ruder title.
His ability is not limited to art however, and he re-
duced one FELIX Board meeting to tears with his own
caustic "brand of humour.
Whenever I cry for news from R.C.S., Geoff. Grim-
shaw is there like a Genie from the magic lamp. H©
edits the coming events, and also Robert Louis FjUaortff
phrases.
Bob Fillmore has a usual brilliant waistcoat, he
is assistant production editor, and he is no mean boxer
so I dare not say any more about him.
Trevor Ruthen takes most of our photographs, and.
on many occasions he has worked overtime to have them
ready for publication. If you have done any develop-
ing yourself, you willknow what a long job this can be.
Miss Paddy Clarke is our secretary, a thankless
task which she does extremely well. It i s noticeable
that the Business Manager, B i l l Hudson, and the secre-
tary take a keen interest in the running of the paper.
B i l l is a miner with a flaming red beard, which grew
after he drank a bottle of his distilled orange squash*
There are many other members of the FELIX-staff,
like Johnny Dearden, who is new to us. He i s a pho-
tographer and helps to edit sport. These are the
people who make FELIX what i t is: a newspaper.
Our thanksr are also due to the London College of
Secretaries, Miss Larcom in the Bookstall, Mrs. Hebb
in the Union Office, our salesmen in a l l the Colleges
and, of course, our printer, S'il vous plait.
THE THATCH ON THE MAP
B.M. 176-54 ft. O.D.
RETURN TO SILWOOD BY THE MEN OF COURAGE
This is the height that Guilds third year Mechani-
cals found the Thatched Tavern to be during the Survey
course at Silwood at Easter. A bench mark was struck
beneath the door to commend this fact to further genera-
tions of Mechanical engineers on survey courses, for
this was the first time that so large a group of mech-
anicals had been to Silwood. On Monday night 3M
char-
tered a coach and returned to Silwood to erect a brass
plaque as a permanent record of their find. (The coach
was a safety precaution to avoid accusations of drunken
driving on the return journey.)
The plaque was fixed to a beam above the bar and
was unveiled by the landlord's wife.
After an excellent evening the party returned to
London rather less sober than when they set out. One
member mistook the window for the door on entering the
bus - unfortunately, the window was closed, but entry
was effected nevertheless. The coach came home via
Silwood drive where the magnificent time of 1 min.53"5
sees, was put up over the Motor Club sprint course (11*2
m.p.h. )
On returning to I.C. hostel they were greeted by
a deluge of water from above. When searching for the
culprits, a oertain Ek*. 0—n' s room was investigated
and as a result 3M were invited to fade away. With
or without trousers. The party finished in the Sarabia*
C O M I N G EVENTS
SnT.JUNB 11th.
2p.m. Appleford near Abingdon Berks.
There may be room on the coach. Please see
Mines1
notice board.
8.p.m. Last Hop of the session.
Ayrton Hall. 1/- per capita.
MOH.JUNB 20th.
9p.m. - 2a.m. Mines' B a l l .
Ayrton Hall. Tickets 10/6 double i n c l . buffet.
JULY 26th-30th.
The Municipal Theatre Maidstone Kent.
I.C.Dramatic Soc. Summer Tour. See notice
board for further details.
LAST WEEK OP JULY.
National Sliding Championships,
Lasham Hants. P.G.I, rides again!
CONTINUED FROM BACK PAGE:
ATHLETICS
Since the last issue of FELIX the Athletic
Club has taken part -in two home and two away matches.
On May 21st at Sandhurst they found themselves opposed
"by the usual ultra fit military team and also an
extremely strong Cambridge University side. Sonse-
quently, I.C. found themselves rather out of their depth
in spite of many good performance.
The two matches at Harlington, although poorly sup-
ported, were both very enjoyable and resulted in vic-
xories for I«C». L.S.E. and Koyal Vets, were beaten in
a match which proved closer than expected; the outstand-
ing performance coming from Terry Hyslop whose time of
15*5 sees, for the hurdles further reduced his own I.C.
record. A week later a very small team scored an easy
win over Barts. Hospital in a match remembered more for
its social side than for any high standards of perfor-
Last Saturday the Club faced their hardest task
of the season when they shared a coach with Kingf
s to
travel to Loughborough for a four cornered match. A3
expected, Loughborough were easy winners with a strong
Birmingham University team second, I.C. third and King's
fourth. I.C.'s two wins came in the 880 yds. and mile,
th the former, Gordon Stewart was content to lie 2nd
until the 660 yds. mark when he went away to win easily
while Les Locke came through from last to 2nd over
the last 220 yds. Trevor Bailey employed similar
tactics to win the mile comfortably. Second places
were gained by Stewart in the 440 yds. Hyslop in the
120 yds. hurdles and Pinsent in the 44-0 yds. hurdles.
Smellock and Lawrence were unfortunate in that personal
best performances could only gain them 3rd and 4th
places in a hop, step and jump where a mere 5 inches
covered the six competitors. In the pole vault, Col-
man was 3^d and iSnellpck amazed everyone including him-
self by clearing 9 feet for 4th place. 3rd and 4th
plaoe3 were also gained by Hobson and Browne in the
long jump which was won by Olewir of Loughborough with
a leap of 23 ft. H^ins, - one of the best jumps in
this country this season.
A frantic loudspeaker announcement resulted in
a hurried rush away from the hammer throw after Dave
Langdon had almost caused mass slaughter by heaving the
missile backwards over his head.
THIS IS IMPORTANT.
As you know, to-day's "Felix" is the last one this
term. The first "Felix" next term is the "FRESHERS'
FELIX", and i t is published BEFORE the bulk of the Coll-
ege returns to the grindstone - about five days before,
on the Friday, Saturday, .and Sunday. It means, of
course, that all material MUST be edited and compiled
at least ten days before the Friday on whioh we publish
- not later than the 20th September.
CLUB AND SOCIEEfSECRETARIES, IF THEY WISH TO LIT
THE FRESHER (AND EVEN PRESENT STUDENTS) K
N
O
W W
H
A
T THE
CLUB OR SOCIETY HAS DCME DURING THE PAST YEAR, SHOULD
SEND THEIR REPORTS TO FELIX BEFORE gOTH SEPTEMBER. 1
THIS IS IMPORTANT

