3 F E L I X
A L L O M C U P R E G A T T A
THREE WINS BY I.C
ALLOM CUP REGATTA.
Imperial College once again proved itself the heat
rowing college in the University by winning a l l the three
races for eights in the Allom oup Regatta at iChi swick on
May 28th .
Pour crews entered for the division I :U.C.H., Berts'.
Thonas's and I.C. I.C. beat U.C.H. in the first heat and
Barts in the final, winning both races by 1-j lengths.
In Division II (The Roderic Hill Memorial Trophy)
the 2nd eight beat L.S.E. I and Kings I in their first
two heats and met Battersea Poly, in the final. One m
minute from the end I.C. were f length down but with a
very strong finish drove i t home to win by f length.
To complete the day's successes the ifth eight won
the clinker division beating L.S,E,II easily in their
first heat and KingsII in the final.
I.C. also entered a clinker IV which had a bye into
the final only to be beaten by L.S.E.
TWICKENHAM AND 7
/
A
L
T
O
N REGATTAS.
At Twickenham on May 28th the 3rd eight entered the
Juniors "but lost to Staines in the semi-final after
beating Twickenham R.C. and Southampton University in
their previous races.
June Vfch saw I.C. at Walton Regatta where the 3rd
eight beat Rings I only to be beatera again by Staines
in the semi-final. The 2nd eight lost to Walton who were
the eventual winners of the Junior- Seniors and the first
eight were beaten by Molesey in their first heat.
CRICKET
I.C. v Hook (Hants.)
IoC. made their annual pilgrimage to village cricket
at Hook, near Basingstoke, on Whit Monday and emerged
triumphant by 56 runs. The wet pitch caused a delayed
start, and this necessitated a change in batting order:
sc that the least inebriated of the party should tackle
the tricky wicket first. This they did to such effect
that a score of 136 - 9 was reached. At this stage R.
Dytha.ni strode to the wicket with an air of confidence
that was not shared by his colleagues. However, this
rustic cricketer smote two towering sixes - the first
time that he has exceeded 2 for the college - and ret-
urned to the pavilion accompanied by frenzied applause
and cries of "Speech!"
Hook were soon in trouble against the fast attack
of Heam (4 for 21 ) and Dytham. They would have had
to bat one short but for the valiant efforts of an aged
member of the crowd who responded eagerly to a shouted
appeal to "bat for Hook" by donning pads over his grey
flannels and braces and hitting 14 not out before Hook's
last wicket fell at 92. I.C.'s fielding was not too
bad considering the enormous lunch, and this year the
return journey was accomplished without any serious di-
fferences of opinion with the vast hordes of police pa-
trolling the main road.
The 1st XI has now won 6 and drawn 3, t)ut will lose
its unbeaten record i f the catching does not ijnprove,
especially close to the wicket. The most recent results
are :-
Q
.
M
.
C
. 99, I.C. 100 - 9 (Shepherd 26, Smith 22)
I.C. 145 - 9 dec. (Oldland 2*2), Trinity Hall ,Cambridge
125 - 8.
I.C. 148, Hook 92.
L.S.E. 71 (Regan 3 - 6), I.C. 75-2 (Shepherd 38
n.o., Kitchener 29 n.o.)
H E R B E R T
TENNIS CLUB REACH U.L SEMI-FINALS
This year the club has had a rather varied season,
winning only four and drawing two of the deven matches
played. Two of these victories have been in the U.L.
oup competition, and so the club s t i l l has a chance to
retain the trophy for a further year.
In the 1st round of the cup, the opponents were
Barts. Hospital and a keen struggle developed the score
reaching 4-4j this being partly due to the valiant
efforts of a medio, who first attended Barts, in 1939
and i s s t i l l waiting to write M.D. after his name.
In the deciding match the I.C. Second pair, D
.
Ward and D. Gregory looked on paper a winning combina-
tion, but again Barts., who were proving tough opposi-
tion, won the 1st set 6-4 and led 4-0 in the second set.
At this stage however the I.C. pair put up a great
rally and with Ward finding his. norriial form, they went
on to win the next twelve games, thus putting I.C. in
the quarter finals.
In the quarter final we met <
'
j
»
i
«
[
B
C
. who unfortu-
nately were not at full strength due to a subversive
element of Brown Baggers in their team. The I.C.
team favoured by a rather lucky draw of opponents, played
much better than in the preceeding round and went on
to win 5-1 • 'The Q
.
-
v
I
.
C
. team contained two U.L. players.
In the semi-final the club play C.E.I-i.' the result
of whioh should be known before this publication
I.C.W.B.C.
The I.C.W.B.C. four now feel thoroughly est-
ablished, having competed in their- regatta. This was
the University of London Summer fours, held over a
mile course at Chiswiok on Saturday, June 4th. Nine
crews were entered in the novices division and I.C,
finished a close fourth after one of their best rows
to date. The crew has progressed amazingly well over
the last two weeks, mainly due to some very helpful
coaching, and with a little more racing experience,
and with a little more • * • experience they should
fare better in the future.
Cox - Rosemary Shaw
Str.- Janet Walsby
3 - Edith Stephen
2 - Jean Osborne
Bow - Shirley Holman
U. L. SWIMMING CHAMPIONSHIPS
The I.C, team did not do quite so well here as
they might have hoped. The result was a win for L.S.E.
with King's second and I.C. a very close third.
In the individual events, Mike Clark gained a
comfortable win in the 100yds, backstroke and Eric-
Hemmingway swam very well to gain 3rd. place in the
breaststroke. Useful points were also obtained by
Stewart and &>y in the butterfly and 440yd? respot-
ively.
The team races, which score the most points,
were both won by I.C. last year and provided the main
excitement of this year's Championships. In tha medley
heats, I.C. were a slow third, but after a thoughtful
reshuffle of the team and very fine swims by all, the
final resulted in a close first place for I.C.j their
third successive win in this event. The freestyle
relay was even closer, with King's beating I.C. by a
touoh. The timekeepers could not separate the two
teams who both recorded 68 sees. It was this event
which gave King's their lead over I.C. in the final
points. The teams were:-
Medley: G.Stewart, T.Robinson, M.Clark, C.McChesney.
Freestyle: G.Stewart, T.Hoy, C.IvcChesney, M.Clark,
the meaning of the word
Publiibcd by t
h
» FELIX BOARD, Imperial College Union, London, S
.
W
.
7
.
Printed by S'lL VOUS PLAIT Ltd.. 307a, Telephone Place, LoinJuo, W
.
1
4
.

