- 1 2
FELIX
Guilds -MSM Carnival
Last Fridav exactlv 500 people enjoyed
the Carnival organised ioinflv bv Guilds and
Mines. The Carnival in the third term has
alwavs been difficult ot organise, what with
examinations and so forth, and combining it
with the second Carnival was a logical thing
to do. The theme was Roman and togas were
everywhere in fact there were even a few ladies
wearing them; in Roman times the only fe-
males to wear the togas were prostitutes
errrhmm. Eight couples had goi.'e so far as
to hire full Roman costumes, which added
•considerably to the atmosphere.
The Rugby Club were noticable by their
abscence and/or abstinence in the view of
the Cup Final the following day and apart
from a few beery bearded louts at the front,
the cabaret suifvived intact. John Feather-
stone had managed to avoid the homosexual
theme of most Carnival cabarets, and the
humour was bawdv and quite good in places.
Perhaps, the best item was the Roman news
and weather forecast, read by John Feather-
stone himself, and the dialoque which followed
it was good in patches; but it lapsed occas-
ionally into the most horrible puns. The
songs were lively but the words were barely
intelligible even at the front.
We had the usual difficulty in getting drinks
although there were two bars and Howard and
Arthur and their assistants worked extreme-
ly hard. The buffet comprised chicken risot-
to and fruit salad and was good, despite the
fact that Mr. Mooney has been off sick last
week or so. Instead of having a series of
short cartoons as in previous years a full-
length thriller, "The Fiends" was shown, to-
gether with a Charlie Chaplin and a French
cartoon. The Lower Lounge was uncomfort-
ably crowded and the main film was in French
with sub-tides, (which many people sitting
down at the back could not see) so that the
film was not very satisfactory. The bars ran
out of draught beer just before closing time
and the dancing went on until five o'clock,
leaving five-hundred people in a very delicate
state for a considerable time. Congratulations
and thanks to Messrs. Liddle and Veras and
all their helpers for a most enjoyable eight
hours entertainment.
the social event of the sessioi
MAY BALL
F R I D A Y , M A Y 4 T H 9.30 P.M. — D A W N I N T H E E N T I R E U N I O N
4 BANDS 4 B A R S
B U F F E T C A B A R E T
TICKETS 45/- D O U B L E
APPLICATION F O R M S F O R TICKETS ARE N O W AVAILABLE IN T H E UNION OFFICE.
Buster Keaton
and
the General
Friday March 16th, 7 p.m.,
Phys. Lect. Theatre 3.
In the 'twenties screen comedy had its hey-
day. The leader and most well known was
of course Chaplin, but Keaton, Lloyd, and
Langdon were at that time equally famous.
Keaton was a brilliant clown and original
(unlike Lloyd and Langdon who followed
Chaplin <somewha|t). His most well known
feature was his incredibly immobile face —
a flat white thing. Yet, this face was not ex-
pressionless for slight changes were sufficient
to produce laughter. Keaton came from the
hard school and did all his own, stunts some-
times with dire results (nearly drowned,
squashed, broken leg, broken neck). His two
most well known film are 'The Navigator"
(1925) and "The General" (1927). The latter
is based on the true exploits of a southern
American locomotive driver, and in 1956 it
was remade straight by Disney as "The Great
Locomotive Chase". The Keaton version is
a tremendous comic "tour de force' with a
conitinous succession of hilarious scenes. A
large portion of the film is devoted to two
locomotive chases — one into and one out
ot enemy territory. In between he rescues a
girl and obtains enemy information. The
photography is good for any year and the
editing is a masterpiece. Keaton had a hand
in these for he co-directed the film; this was
his usual practice.
The coming of sound brought disaster, and
Keaton never made another successful film.
He more recently appeared in "Sunset Boule-
vard" alnd "Around the World in Eighty
Days', but never as a star. His humour is
essentially visual, and with the greater em-
phasis on sound and speech he disappeared
from sight, but his humour never dial and
capable o.f> producing such belly-laughs.
A.J. W A L K E R
Barmen
FOR
M A Y BALL
S E E : J. WHITE. W E E K S H A L L
M.F. BARRON
HAS
DEPARTED
Plat*, Jbnft^t u ^ U
, ™ e
? by F E L I X BOARD, Imperial College, London, S.W.7
Plates & offset printing by WEST L O N D O N OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road, London, S.W.6. Tel.: F U L 7969

