Sim to ik EdgsL
Sir,
It is genuinely gratifying to learn that your
Literary Crvtic, Mr. Gilbert, is at last persu-
aded of some reason for SCRUTINY'S exist-
ence. Far be it from me to attempt to dissuade
him from his praises, nor. indeed, from his
criticisms, but there is one point about which
I remain puzzled.
It is Mr. Gilbert's contention that SCRUTINY
displayed a "neurotically aggressive" attitude
Council in its Autumn issue. How then does
he square this with the fact that the majority
of people in this College (judging from the
famous Union meeting Idst term) were in
agreement with SCRUTINY'S main complaint,
i.e. the disbanding of C.D.N. Does he think
they were all neuurotic as well!
Surely the idea that SRUTINY is a magazine
run by the stirrers and trouble-makers is a
little out of date. It was invented by the Est-
ablishement at the time of the C.N.D. fiasco
to convince themselves that they had never
really done anything wrong at all. It is a
familiar way of ignoring valid criticism. Aftei
the Union meeting, when Council were round-
ly condemned, I supposed that we had seen
the las of statements of this kind, but, alas
f did not count on Mr. Gilbert.
The fact that SCRUTINY failed to attack
Council in the last issue was not a fortuitous
accident or any one of these other ingenious
explanations; it was becaus ethere was no re-
ason to do so. Just that.
Yours faithfully,
D O N A L D PEARSON
Dear Sir,
The favourable comments on Scrutiny. by
Mr. Gilbert, in the last week's issue of Felix,
are timely and most' welcome. However, his
further remarks on the anti-propaganda
propaganda in the Arab-Israeli dispute are
most unfair and untimely. I would like to
suggest to him that it would be more approp-
riate to reserve such comments till after the
next issue of Scrutiny when, I hope, I might
have the opportunity to refute the charges
and point out the gross inconsistencies and
.inaccpracids in both MrS Levitt's and Mr.
Sekey's articles in the last1
issue of Scrutiny.
I need hardly remind MA Gilbert, and
he non-committeted readers of Felix, of Mr.
Levitt's letter and the reply to it, both pub-
lished in the last term's issues of Felix, which
the Jewish claim to be God's chosen pepole
who are ordained to return to their promised
land, was certainly 'cut to size'.
Yours etc.,
M . H . KUBBA
An open letter to the Chairman of the RCS
Entertainments Committee
Dear Sir,
While in no way wishing to disparage the
hard work put in by those who were involved
in the recent R.C.S. Smoking Concert, I do
feeil that some standard of decency shoutd
govern the content of such a production.
A Smoking Concert of 1911 was described
as "an excellent musical and dramatic pro-
gramme . . . including Dr. Philip's quartet".
Since then the standard has progressively de-
teriorated, reaching what I hoped would be
an all-time low two years ago. There are depths
below depths however; this year's concert con-
tained all the vulgar \vords in "Lady Chatter-
ley's Lover" and a few more besides and gave
on the impression of an R.C.S. obsessed with
sexual perversions and brought up in a
school lavatory.
I am not a prude, but I do not agree that
humour is synonymous with filth. Although
this year is my last year at I.C., I should like
to feel that next year's concert will be one
\o which a student can take a reasonably
broadminded girl friend and not be ashamed
to look her in the face afterwards.
Yours sincerely,
I.N. G U Y
S M A L L A D S .
M R . DLCK FRESTER. guitairst, wishes to
announce his engagement to Liz (Gipsy) Hill.
Details of the party in the next issue of
Felix.
V A C A N C Y I N F L A T , for fourth student in
cheap abode at Finsbury Park. Remt 35/-
per week. Appy to L.T.G. Lait, C . & G .
Rack.
U K E L E L E - B A N J O for sale. What offers?
L.T.G. Lait. C. & G. Rack.
T Y P I N G AND D U P L I C A T I N G undertaken.
Theses, reports, books, etc. Miss V . A . Brock.
Int. 2237.
Dear Mr. Lyle,
I doubt that anyone with the intention can
have enough space in Felix to reply to your
letter (except perhaps the President).
You made certain proposals about public-
ations which are quite revolutionary by I.C.
standards. For instance the internal public-
ation of Felix will not only reduce costs
offer valuable experience in printing proced-
ure to many more students. Already there
is a FELIX-PHOENIX board which appears to
me wholly unnecessary. Both papers should
have seperate spheres of activity. Possibly a
"humour" section could be tacked onto Felix
to obviate the need for a special humour
paper.
I will stick out my neck and say that thes-
is apathy widespread in the Union. A con-
tributory factor is thai few students live in
hostel and we have therefore no true com-
munity spirit. When there is more hostel ac-
commodation we may except the beginning
of esprit de corps. It would be desirable to
have some members of staff (bachelors .pre-
sumably) living in the halls to bring more
staff into student activities. As most mem-
bers of staff now live some distance away,
it is impracticable to expect them to stay for
activities outside lecture hours.
higain I think there is not enough out-
ward-looking tendency in the Union. The
mere mention of bodies or associations out-
side the College leads to unreasonable out-
bursts and foolish action as witness the CND
fiasco.
It is time the students at I.C. realised that
events outside the College or even outside
Great Britain may profoundly affect them in
spite of themselves. Here in College we have
a glorious opportunity to look at the worlds
problems — politics, economics and so on.
It is not enough to have a couple of members
of Parliament on a debating platform once
a term.
Finally may I suggest a move to increase
student's interest and knowledge of the Union
itself. This is that meetings of I.C. Council
be open for attendance by all Uion memmers
as spectators. This will necessitate the meet-
ings being held in a large hall like the Con-
ioncert Hall. If you like I would put this as
a formal motion to a General Union Meet-
ing at some future date.
Yours sincerely,
S A M APEJI
Zoology.
EL. Karnai*
(books) Ltd.
N E W BOOKS
S E C O N D H A N D BOOKS
and now . . . P A P E R B A C K S
Visit our new paperbacks shop at 56,
Gloucester Road, where a comprehensive
selection of general technical and
scientific paperbacks are on display.
56-58, Gloucester Road,
S.W.7

