FELIX
GUTTERIDGE CUP RETURNS
IC6
VETSO
Several hundred spectactors pacKea me
stand at Motspur Park on the afternoon of,
March 10th to see I.C. and the Royal Vets, do
battle for the Rugby Cup. Others (among them
a most venerable professor and a veiy senior
warden) showed heroism beyond the call if
duty by lining the open touch-line in the
rain. Fortunately they were rewarded by a
fine game, full of incident and alive to the
final whistle.
l'.C. were the first to attack but a kick a-
head went over the dead ball line and from
the drop-out play surged back down the
field. Twice in three minutes. I.C. were pen-
alised on their own '25' for scrum infringe-
ments but the two kicks at goal, from wide
angles, failed. A break-away by Orman re-
lieved the pressure a n d a foot-rush lead by
Kehoe resulted in a scrum on the Vets '25'
From the heel Howard put in a well judged
kick towards the right-hand corner, Rawlings
followed up fast and tackled a defender in
possession, and Johnson was there to fasten
coolly onto the loose ball and score near the
flag. Fairfield's kick just failed, but after
twenty minutes I.C. were leading 3-0 and
were now showing a definite superiority.
There was little between the sides in the set-
scrums and line-outs but the I.C. forwards
were quick to exploit defensive errors, and
Howard's experience was telling at fly-half
against a three quarter line which made the
tactical error of lining up almost straight.
" M U S T H A V E I. C.
Both Milwood and Butler broke through in
mid-field, then from a heel Howard sent the
three quarters away to the right. The final
pass went astray but number eight forward
Willcox came up to dribble over for a try and
emerge with the delighted smile of one who
has found the answer in the soil. Fairfield's
kick from near touch went just undtr the
kick from near touch went just under the
cross-bar. Vets, counter-attacked fiercely but
were held and then driven back by Edward's
kicking. Just before half-time it looked as
if I.C. might score again when Howard ran
wide sent Butler through on the inside, but
desperate defence prevented a try.
W E L L O U T

