FELIX 9 -
The
40 Pays
of
— Lent —
The Forty Days of Lent — Ash Wednes
day to Holy Saturday — are for us Christ-
ians a training time. During Lent we follow
our Lord into the wilderness and with him
we pray, we fast and we act so that we can
be less unworthy servants of His.
Please try to follow these suggestions:
1. Private prayer to be regular, morning
and evening. Do not let this slip.
2. Bible reading daily. The Gospel for the
coming Sunday in the New English Bible is
a good scheme.
TEACHING WEEK
Feb. 25th — March 4th, 1962,
This week was far from usual in Imperial
College and the other colleges in the Ken-
sington area, in that it was 'invaded' by a
team of men — three of them monks — and
two nuns. The week was called the Teaching
Week, and was designed to achieve what in
fact it did do — viz. teach the Christian
Faith.
The week started and ended eppropriately
enough with worship on the two Sundays.
Both at the services of Holy Communion and
at Evensong the preachers were members of
the team.
On the Monday and the Friday in the
lunch hour there were two talks delivered by
the Rev. Henry Cooper, on the theme "The
Heart of the Matter — attitudes and trends
in Church Unity". There were 20 present at
the Monday meeting and about 55 on the
Friday. Father Cooper was well quallified to
speak on the subject, as he was one of the
delegates to Delhi at the recent Third As-
sembly of the World Council of Churches.
On the Tuesday and the Thursday after-
noons the General Studies was conducted by
another member of the team — the Rev.
Father John Shand, S.S.J.E., a monk of the
Society of Saint John the Evangelist. He could
be easily recognised by his Cowley Cut,
which resembles that sported by Mike Bar-
ron, only much closer!! Father Shand spoke
on the days on the theme "The relevance of
the Christian Gospel Today", and in it of
man's attitude to himself, to death, to the
fact of the Faith etc., etc. The Tuesday
meeting had 50 to it and the Thursday one
60-70. There were daily celebrations of
Holy Communion in the Concert Hall, with
the number attending increasing each day
averaging 30. The preacher at these celeb-
rations was another member of the team —
the Brown Brother, the Rev. Neville Palmer
of the Society of Saint Francis. He preached
o* "Prayer". Breakfast followed after and if
nothing else resulted from the Week, one thing
certainly did — Mooney had an increase in
custom!!
The highlights of the Week was the Thurs-
day evening service of Sung Eucharist when
two students were baptised and thirteen con-
firmed by the Rt. Rev. Thomas Craske, the
Assistant Bishop of London. Bishop Craske
celebrated at the Eucharist and administ-
rated First Communion. There were about
250 at the service and among those confirmed
were two men from Imperial College — Jim
Ingram and Laurie Aur.tin, whose fiancee,
Hilary was also confirmed jointly with Laurie.
The Eucharist was followed by a party held
in the Snack Bar, where free admission and
free beer were the order of the day!!
The leader of the Teaching Week team —
the Rev. Nicolas Graham conducted the
most valuable evening series of three
instructions on the F A I T H which were
held from 8 to 9 p.m. on the Monday, Tues-
day and Wednesday in the Snack Bar. The
attendance increasing each evening and re-
aching over 100 on the Wednesday. These
talks are to be put into a more permanent
form for the benefit of those to whom thev
meant so much. AH members of the Team
— and apart from those mentioned already
there were the Rev. John Livingstone, the
Rev. Donald Allchin, the Rev. John Moodv.
Sister Elizabeth of the Society of Saint Fran-
cis, and Sister Edna Mary of the Deaconesses
Community — all of the team were hand-
somely treated to lunch, tea and supper and
to innumerable cups of tea and coffee in very
many students' rooms in the many hostels
around. A lot of coffee was drunk, a great
deal of talk took place, many friendships made
and we trust some faith deepened!!
Many of us count ourselves lucky to
have had the great joy and privilege of tak-
ing part in this", Teaching Week of 1962,
which we hope has helped us to deepen our
lives as members of the FAITH.
3. Regular attendance at Holy Communion
each Sunday. The University church for the
Kensington area is Saint Augustine's, Queen's
Gate, S.W.7., and services there are 9 a.m-
Holy Communion and 7.30 p.m. Evensong.
It should be the obligation for Christians as
the Lord's People to gather round the Lord's
Table to partake of the Lord's Body and
Blood.
4. Loyalty to the life of the Church in the
College.Apart from the general meetings and
the study groups etc., held each week, there
are five opportunities each week for students
to receive Holy Communion. You ought to
make use of one of them.
a. Tuesday, Weeks Hall, Room 11, 8.30. a.m.
b. Tuesday, Huxley Building, Room 1-2.
12.40 p.m.
c. Wednesday, Concert Hall, 8.30 a.m.
d. Wednesday, Physics Building, Room 305,
1 p.m.
e. Thursday. Committee Room A , 5.45 p.m.
5. Some regular form of self-denial. Try
to do without some item like smoking or a
meal on Wednesdays and Fridays. Try to
limit time given to some good object like sport
or seeing your girl friend or boy friend in
order to practice the salutary habit of self
control. Of what are you becoming possesive
— some game or habit? Try to resit some
particular temptation in order to give your-
selve more fully to serving God.
6. Almsgiving. The money from your selt
denial ought to be given to some specifically
Christian cause — this ought not to be less
than five shillings each week. We need priests
very badly and the T A P Fund (Tram A Priest)
is a very worthy Christian cause.
This should be extra to. not instead of the
regular weekly offering each Sunday.
7. A n honest attempt each week to talk
to some non-churchgoer about our Holy Faith,
to pray for him or her and to encourage that
person to come to church with you.
If these suggestions appear to be difficult
ones, they were meant to be so! If you break
your resolutions during Lent, do not worry,
just Start again and go on going on!!
FATHER IVOR SMITH-CAMERON I
Chaplain to Anglican Student*

