4 NEWS FELIX FRIDAY 1ST NOVEMBER
IRC Restricted
S A R A H EWEN
The Internet Relay Chat software
used by staff and students to chat
with other users on the Internet all
over the world has recently been put
under restriction, pending an investi-
gation by the Department of
Computing. It appears that allega-
tions of misuse regarding the soft-
ware have been made against stu-
dents at Imperial College. Upon log-
ging in to use IRC software, users
are informed that due do an investi-
gation into pornographic material
being downloaded from the Internet,
restrictions have been put in place.
The length of the restriction, or
whether it may be permanent, is cur-
rently unknown. The topic was dis-
cussed at a recent CISSC meeting,
however members of staff were
unavailable for comment.
UCL Union - Licence Revoked
MARIA IOANNOU
UCL's extended licensing hours
were cancelled in early October,
after complaints to the police from
local residents about rowdy students
and street crowds.
The extremely popular Thursday
Cocktails Night has already had lim-
its put on it, with a no-guests policy
being imposed. Initially, the late-
license ban was put on all UCL sites
but this has since been modified and
the Gordon Street Union building is
now allowed to stay open until mid-
night.
UCL sabbatical Ian Cairns, spoke
on the methods that UCL Union have
employed to rectify the situation;
"We have had a heavy advertising
campaign to make students more
aware of their attitudes and behav-
PHOTO: IVAN CHAN
Barred! University College London Union have had their late licence
revoked after a flurry of protest from nieghbours over noise levels.
iour. Since this step was taken, we residents and the police are very,
have had far less complaints from very happy with the situation."
Strikes to paralyse Imperial
AUT ballot and SWSS EGM soon
N E W S T E A M
With balloting on industrial action
due be completed by the 6th
November, it appears that a proposed
'day of action' will go ahead as
planned. The 19th November is the
likely date for a nation-wide higher
education strike which would cripple
Imperial.
A pay offer of just 1.5% for acade-
mic, technical, clerical and academic
related staff has been rejected by all
the major trade unions associated
with higher education. The postal
ballot of all union members has
included more than 1,000 members
of Imperial College staff currently
affiliated to the eight unions
involved. Local Union officials have
suggested to Felix that a decision in
favour of industrial action is extreme-
ly likely with one suggesting that his
members will probably "go for it."
While the National Union of
Students has offered full support for
the action, Imperial College Students
Union has been more reticent. Eric
Allsop, ICU President, has indicated
that it will be up to each individual
student to decide whether they want
to "continue their education or stay in
bed." He went on to emphasise that
ICU is an "apolitical organisation"
and that support for a staff strike
would be a matter of personal choice.
Imperial College Union looks set
to enter the debate, despite the
attempt by sabbaticals to stay out,
with Socialist Student Workers
Society expressing an intention to
call an Extraordinary General
Meeting of the Union. Although it is
expected that the one hundred signa-
tures needed to call and EGM will be
found, ICU officials feel that the two
hundred students needed to make the
meeting quorate are unlikely to mate-
rialise.
Despite the current attitude of ICU,
local officials of the Association of
University Teachers are still hoping
for student support. They emphasise
that the dispute concerns the national
underfunding of higher education as
well as their own pay deal. It is
expected that liaison with ICU will
follow today's planned meeting of all
Imperial's trade unions.
Both Unison and MSF have over
three hundred members currently
working at Imperial College, with
one MSF official expecting that
around two-thirds will vote in the
postal ballot. The 19th November is
almost certain to see the first strike
held at Imperial since the 4th
December 1991, when industrial
action over plans to privatise Security
received widespread support.
Residence finances under scrutiny
JACKIE S K E A T E
The controversy surrounding the
security situation at the College's
Clayponds residential estate has been
put in a new light this week with
accounts showing that College resi-
dences produced a net surplus of
over £1.5 million. This money, most-
ly profits from conference lettings
over the summer, has gone into the
residences' short to medium term
maintenance and renovations fund.
As reported in last week's Felix,
residents have been complaining
about the amount of money being
spent on proper security at the estate.
However, though the introduction of
extra security patrols since then has
decreased the number of burglaries at
Clayponds, they have not stopped
completely - a bike was stolen from
inside a building there only a few
days ago.
At Clayponds, College Estates still
insist that deadlocks and window
bars, one of the proposed solutions,
would constitute a fire risk. Also,
they still suffer from ridicule over
their suggestion that students were
not able to use the locks on their
doors and windows properly. The
cost of fixing these devices is just
£33,400 for the entire estate, yet
other more expensive and less urgent
improvements seem to have priority.
One of the residents who had his
room broken into earlier in the term
commented on the attitude the
Estates Division seemed to have had
towards the whole business: "It
seems to take ages for anything to be
done. They were also very patronis-
ing... implying that students could-
n't understand how to use a door
lock. It's the cleaners who leave the
doors open." Another resident com-
mented on the new floor coverings
"If they're so keen on replacing car-
pets, they should have started at
Southside."
Minor renovations are being con-
sidered in other halls, though with
the aid of external funding. It is
thought that some time dependent
funding is being sought from local
councils for essential "sanitary and
kitchen improvements" in Evelyn
Gardens, though Kensington &
Chelsea officials would not confirm
this. If this work goes ahead, it could
cause substantial disruption to stu-
dents.
Elsewhere, criticism about the clo-
sure of Montpelier hall does not
seem to have deterred College from
recently spending over a million
pounds on the purchase of the free-
hold of 47 Princes Gate, a building
already occupied by College person-
nel but earmarked for further expan-
sion of administrative personnel
according to one College source.
The finances of the College resi-
dences have often been questioned
by students, though it is well known
that surpluses from summer letting
subsidise room rents. However, such
a large surplus maybe unjustifiable.

