FELIX FRIDAY 1ST NOVEMBER NEWS 5
Arts Graduate and Government science minister speaks
ANDREW SMITH
The Government Minister responsi-
ble for Science and Technology
spoke on Wednesday to just over
twenty Imperial College students
about his work in overseeing a bud-
get of £1,300,000,000. The junior
minister insisted that he has one of
the largest portfolios of any
Government Minister, and that his
work is "very exciting."
While previous political speakers
have been vilified for expressing pos-
itive views toward Europe, Mr Ian
Taylor, MBE, MP, forcefully
expressed support for the European
Union and the European Court of
Justice. The MP for Esher, in Surrey,
went as far as suggesting that some
eurosceptics should be banished into
space for their activities.
As the Parliamentary Under
Secretary of State for Science and
Technology, he followed the
Government line on Europe, insisting
that a referendum would only be
needed in the event of a Cabinet deci-
sion in favour of a single European
currency. Mr Taylor went further by
PHOTO: WEI LEE
Trust me, I'm a politician. Ian Taylor, Minister for Science and
Technology, speaks to a reduced Conservative Society audience.
dismissing James Goldsmith's
Referendum Party, "Jimmy's off the
wall", and calls for a wider referen-
dum on Europe by insisting that
"we're already there [the EU], that's
not the question."
Rubbishing calls from other Tories
to leave Europe completely, the
Junior Minister insisted that "the cost
of leaving the European Union
would be mind-boggling" and that
the single market of 360 million peo-
ple is essential to the UK.
Establishing himself as a complete
Europhile, Mr Taylor went on to
express his support for a stronger
Commission, an expansion of the
Court of Justice and a European
Parliament with more power to scru-
tinise Brussels.
Concentrating on his current
Government responsibility, Mr
Taylor explained how he regularly
travels the world promoting British
science and innovations. Recent trips
abroad have persuaded him that this
country's 'science base' is in a
healthy state, despite others 'focus-
ing only on the negative.' The
Science Minister insisted that spend-
ing has increased by 10% in real
terms in recent years, and that British
scientists are amongst the most suc-
cessful in the world.
The low level of R&D spending by
industry in this country does worry
the Government, with Mr Taylor
suggesting that investment in R&D
directly affects the future profitabili-
ty of a company. The telecom giant
Ericsson was praised for spending
15% of sales on research, but Mr
Taylor slammed the Chairman of
GEC, Lord Weinstock, for spending
only 1.5% on research saying that he
is "one of the worst managers Britain
has ever seen."
With your intelligence,
shouldn't you beworking with ours?
Reuters is a world-class organisation, supplying critical, real-time
information to the financial services industry and to the major
financial centres around the world.
Perhaps you haven't considered us as a career option. You see
yourself as a potential high-flyer: someone with exceptional
promise, an international outlook and the ability to adapt to
change and new challenges. So chances are, you've set your
sights on investment banking, management consultancy or a
blue-chip business environment where you've been told you'll
be fast-tracked to a successful career.
That may be the case, but if you want to ensure you get the
support and opportunities to reach the very highest levels, take
a look at Reuters. You won't just get management training -
Reuters high-exposure programme means the sky's the limit. It's
a programme that will give you real business responsibility from
day one and groom you for a senior management future. And it's
a programme that has consistently achieved its objectives.
We'd like to show you the evidence. Why not come and meet us at
our presentation on campus - we look forward to seeing you there. • • • • • •
;|d!;ddda-:y1^:^-;;; -a^^Av•Af;*^;*:$a

