6 NEWS FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 1ST NOVEMBER
Imperial Discovers New
Human - BSE Link
BY JESSICA SHERIIMGHAM
Researchers at St Mary's, led by our own Professor Collinge,
have come up with the strongest evidence yet that eating
infected meat products in the 1980s could have caused some
cases of Creutzfeld-Jacob Disease (CJD), the human equiva-
lent of BSE. The research seems to vindicate the view
across Europe, especially in Germany, that the
British beef ban should remain, at least until
Britain takes stronger action to eradicate
BSE. Furthermore, it is expected to
delay the British Government's
request that the EU start lift-
ing the ban from certified
BSE-free herds in Northern
Ireland.
The European Parliament
has extended their investiga-
tion (into the alleged mis-
handling of the matter by
Britain and the Commission) in
the light of the new findings. The
Ministry of Agriculture, however, does not see
the evidence of humans appearing to have
caught CJD from eating infected beef as con-
firmation that the Government handling of
BSE was at fault. Sarah Atwell, a
spokesperson for the Ministry, said that,
although these findings are the strongest
evidence so far supporting this link, the
Collinge research was not totally con-
clusive.
The development of the new test
could be a mixed blessing for the
British beef farmers; Philip
Saunders, spokesperson for the Meat
and Livestock commission, commented
that the test could allow a quick diagnosis of
BSE and therefore would alleviate the need
for unneces-
sary culling of
cattle suspected of
having the disease.
While this could be the
answer for restoring public
confidence in beef, it could also
reveal more BSE-like diseases in
other livestock, such
sheep.
Although scrapie, the
sheep form of BSE, has
never crossed the species
barrier to humans, there is a chance that a cross between BSE
and scrapie could be transmissible to humans. In response to a query on
testing sheep for a new variant form of scrapie, Mr Saunders replied that
"sheep have had scrapie for two-and-a-half centuries with no problems of
the disease appearing in humans" and saw it as unlikely that the test on
sheep would reveal any danger to humans.
There have been twelve cases over the last two years of a new strain of
CJD, which has new symptoms and seems to target younger people than
other, previously characterised, types of the disease. The results of the
research show the molecular characteristics of various forms of CJD and
BSE-infected brains. Surprisingly, the new variant CJD (nvCJD) was of
a different type to other forms of CJD - yet very similar to the disease
particles found in the brains of cats and other animals with BSE
caught from eating infected beef products.
The link between eating BSE-infected food and developing
CJD was already considered plausible. This is due to evi-
dence that animals such as cats can contract a BSE-like
disease from eating infected products. The new study
strengthens that link by highlighting the simi-
larity between CJD and
BSE, suggesting that
these new cases of
CJD have indeed arisen
from eating infected beef products.
The development of a new technique
by Professor Collinge and co-workers
allows the characterisation of differ-
ent CJD and BSE strains in days,
rather than the years which are
needed for conventional stud-
ies. At present the tech-
nique needs to use brain
tissue for testing, though
the Collinge team are
hoping to extend the
technique for use on
other tissues in the
body, and eventually
develop it as a blood
test.
This could not
only diagnose CJD,
but could offer opportunities
for determining the cause of the
disease and help to find a cure.
Yv The Collinge study has provided
definitive findings on the possble
causes of the nvCJD, a rapid way to
JL diagnose the disease and in addition has
H opened up opportunities to discover a
f cure. However, the underlying message
from the research seems clear. As com-
mented in Suddeutsche Zeitung (a German
newspaper) last week: "there is not the
slightest reason to ease up the fight
against BSE....Perhaps London will lis-
ten at last to serious researchers in its
own country".
Professor Collinge declined to
comment on the political situation.
>16

