F E L I X FRIDAY 1ST N O V E M B E R C O L U M N S 7
I must apologise if my rapier wit (?!)
appears somewhat blunted this week.
This is because of a very bad
headache that has afflicted me these
last few days. Not due to alcohol,
mind, but a result of repeatedly hit-
ting my head against a brick wall
ever since reading the excellent front
page lead from last week's Felix
(wonder where that idea came from,
Jackie!). I now fully understand the
frustration of the Clayponds' resi-
dents when I read fatuous comments
from Messrs Leeson (no relation),
Daniels and , last but not least,
Caldwell. Paul Leeson saide that
break-ins only occur through ground
floor windows. Funny that, I always
thought that when burglars cased a
joint, they sought the most difficult
route into a building through the
point of highest security. Of course
they're not going through the doors
when they can SlttlOIl
jemmy the win-
dows. Comments
about deadlocks
making escape in a
fire difficult are
ridiculous. When
did a Chief Fire
Officer say that
lives would have
been saved in a
fire if deadlocks VOICfi Of
had not been fit-
ted? We could Ian Caldwell
'resigned attitude' about the persis-
tence of criminals to its logical con-
clusion and sack the entire staff of
College Security and scrap swipe
cards on the basis that 'they would
find a way [to break in].' Fortunately
the Police and, unfortunately for the
residents, insurance companies do
not agree with this crazy attitude. As
BoJker f
°r n
°tei r
°°ms
with bars on the
windows, the only
ones that I have
heard of are run for
the pleasure of Her
Majesty, but since
my lawyer has just
told me not pursue
this point, I won't.
As for most
R QCLSOYl Sa
Uin
g comment,
it's a toss-up
between Mr Caldwell reassuring us
that the money for the carpets come
out of a different fund from Security,
and the corker from Leeson that
these caipets 'will last for a good 10-
15 years' even though the previous
one has barely seen out five. On
reflection, the former just wins. The
subject of budgets and the way that
they are used here to provide a
veneer of credibility to a system that
is scandalously profligate is one that
one day, dear reader, I shall cover at
length, making no apology for send-
ing you to sleep in the process, such
is the importance of this issue. Ever
keen to help, I shall offer this mighty
trio a bit of advice. You are on a slip-
pery slope if you persist in treating
some of the finest minds of their
respective generations like silly little
children whenever they challenge
you. All your points have been read-
ily demolished. Theirs haven't.
.With all this accommodation
malarkey of late, regular readers may
have thought that my love affair with
Southside Bar was waning. Not on
your nelly, missus. After the refur-
bishment over the summer of the cel-
lar, the range and quality is better
than ever. You only have to look at
my bank balance to see that.
Why are you here? In an ideal world, when
asked that question the entire student body of
Imperial should clamour in unison "I am here
to learn!", because Imperial is after all an edu-
cational establishment and the reason why stu-
dents come here is to be educated. Thankfully
though it is not an ideal world; if it were, it
would be very boring. Instead, everyone
knows that students come here for a vast range
of different reasons - maybe to learn, probably
to gain a qualification (Felix 1066), often to
have a good time, often to avoid having to do
any work. So inevitably a significant propor-
tion of the student body have motivations other
than those the college would wish: they miss
lectures, hand in work late (if at all),
devote their time to drink, drugs,
women, men, the internet, sports,
clubbing, whatever pleases them.
I have nothing against this; after
all, Imperial would be an extremely
dead place without such a variety of
different attitudes. « „ 1 _ . .
v , , „ , , , - i n t h e c o u
Not only that but
undergraduates are supposed to be self moti-
vating. It is for them and nobody else to decide
if they should work or not, and what they
should do with their time. As far as I can see,
it is nobody else's business. If they choose not
to work it is their prerogative. Similarly if col-
lege decides to kick them out for doing no
work, that is the college's prerogative. It is
simple, straightforward, and it works - the stu-
dents who should be here stay, those who
shouldn't leave. At least that is how it should
be.
Sadly though, it doesn't seem to work like
that. For some reason the academic staff see
things differently. As far as they are concerned,
students have to work, whether they want to or
not. Distractions may be allowed (if one is
lucky) but only when they are officially sanc-
tioned. Students not wishing to work are not
removed from the system as they should be,
but are pampered, cosseted and nannied all the
way through a degree that they themselves do
not wish to be doing. And all the while they are
treating us like five year olds, the authorities
chant that 'you are all adults, it is your respon-
sibility now' with a surprising lack of irony to
their words. A case in point: a few years ago,
the Department of Computing kept its facilities
open 24 hours a day. They stopped this, their
justification being that it had an 'adverse effect
on some of the students'. Well, as far as I am
concerned anyone who does not have the self
discipline required to go to sleep now
and then should not be at Imperial,
full stop. There is no justification for
the college to punish the majority
simply on the grounds that there are a
few people who cannot deal with
their own freedom - people who can-
r o p n f r]utV 1 , 0 1 l 0
° k a f t C r
U i u w L
J themselves to that
level do not deserve the degree at all.
So why is it that so much effort is devoted to
nannying students who should not be here at
all? There is no logical reason for it in terms of
the college and its aims. It simply makes no
sense at all - those who do not want to be here,
or are not capable of being here, should not be
here; but instead they are forced to stay even if
it means restricting the 'adult' freedom of the
rest of the student body.
Is there an explanation? Of course there is.
Students bring in money. More students equals
more money. Seeing as losing money is funda-
mentally bad, IC needs as many students as it
can possibly accomodate, and stuff the other
consequences.
T H E W E E K L Y P O E M
supplied by PoetIC
MY DREAM
Hiding underneath my shadow, behind my reflection,
I hunger for protection, I thirst for comfort.
Sticking my head out from my shell from time to time,
I see the slime, the sickness known as humankind.
Opening my ears, I hear the agonising moans,
Societies sickening groans, and pleas for peace
From people dying slowly, wounded with the strife,
Cut open with a sharpened knife, no mercy shown
By this villain known as life.
But sometimes when I sleep, I'm free to dream
And then it seems that there is more than this.
Our villian meets his match, and cannot spread
His conquering dread, and we are led
Away by greatness, to a world where shadows hide,
Thirst subsides, hunger is a memoryi
All shells are cast away, and laughing drowns
Unhappy sounds, and I am now at peace
With this hope that I have found.
Keith
PoetIC is the creative writing society of Imperial
College. Workshops are held every fortnight on a
Monday evening and other events are held on alternate
weeks. For more information, contact Keith McNulty,
PG Mathematics (k.mcnulty@ic.ac.uk) or Ed Sexton,
UG Biology (e.sexton@ic.ac.uk).

