10 NOTICES & LETTERS FELIX FRIDAY 1ST NOVEMBER
ICU O P T O U T
Students who wish to exercise their right under the Education Act 1994 for-
mally to opt out of ICU and CCU membership, may now visit their local
Registry to record their decision. Students are advised that the only practical
effect of opting out will be that they cannot stand for elected office or take
part in Union elections and referenda.
C A R E E R S DIRECT 96
Important news for students with disabilities: Careers Direct 96, the third
national graduate recruitment fair for students and graduates with disabilities,
is due to take place at Wembley on Friday November 8th. The event offers a
unique opportunity for disabled students and graduates to meet with some of
the country' s top employers who will be there to recruit and give advice about
the training schemes and job opportunities they offer. The event is planned
specifically for those with disabilities: the venue is wheelchair accessible and
services on offer include sign language interpreters and information in
Braille.
In the past Careers Direct has attracted students from throughout the coun
try and from all disciplines. At this year's event the exhibitors will include
Midland Bank, Marks & Spencer, Unilever, Boots, Ford, (GCHQ,
Kingfisher, The Employment Service, MBNA, Lloyds, Local Government
Opportunities, The NHS and BT. There will also be workshops on job skills
and a CV Surgery run by expert careers advisers. Careers Direct 96, the only
national event of its kind, will be open from 10am - 4pm at Wembley
Conference Centre on Friday November 8th. Entry is FREE!
LETTERS TO FELIX
Felix. Beit Quad. Prince Consort Road. SW7 2BB. felix@ic.ac.uk
ICU H A N D B O O K A M E N D M E N T
On page 43 of the 96-97 Handbook, the telephone number for Barclays
Bank's Gloucester Road branch should read 0171 441 3516. ICU
Publications Board would like to apologise for any inconvenience this might
have caused.
i C U
I
M
P
E
R
I
A
L COLLEGE U
N
I
O
N
I
C
Print Unit
Photocopying
A 4 c o p i e s , 5 p a s h e e t
m o r e t h a n 1 0 0 c o p i e s ,
A 3 c o p i e s , l O p a s h e e t
Printing
Letterheads, Compliment Slips,
Carbon Copy, Office Stationery,
Departmental Magazines.
Enquires x48071
Red Card for article
Dear Alex,
The article printed in your last edi-
tion of Felix, regarding the Union's
(not the College's) Health and Safety
Policy for its Clubs and Societies,
was a classic example of a collection
of misleading half truths. Not only
does this undermine the Union's
Duty of Care to its members but it
also indicates some dubious practice
in the methods of research that your
reporters use. Had the author both-
ered to speak to myself for more than
two minutes, to my predecessor, to
any of the major Sub Committee
Chairs, or to the Clubs and Societies
themselves, he would have discov-
ered why this policy has been imple-
mented.
As for the article, I would like to
correct the blinding errors and
explain at this point the reasons
behind the Health and Safety Policy.
1. The members of ICU are not
being conned. Through the various
Major Sub Committees, Clubs have
been requesting extra cover for sev-
eral years. In cases of temporary dis-
ablement, dental repairs etc. students
are now provided with some finan-
cial support which, in the past, they
would not have been given.
2. College have not instituted a
supplementary insurance policy in
the form of activities card. The
Union has taken out a blanket policy
through an Endsleigh/BUSA scheme
which we are asking our members to
pay for this year. The activities cards
prove that individuals pay for their
insurance, and they also provide the
Union with Contact details for next
ofkin etc. in case there is an accident
or emergency.
3. The view the author takes with
regards to the policy being unneces-
sary for our mountaineers/ table ten-
nis players/ rugby players seems
ridiculous. If he had thought for one
minute about the suffering and finan-
cial difficulty caused by dislocating a
knee, severing a tendon in the hand
(yes by playing table tennis), or by
breaking an ankle climbing, his atti-
tude would probably have been very
different.
4. Bridge players do not need
activities cards as the Bridge Club
members are well aware. Had the
author glanced at the Health and
Safety policy, he would have realised
this.
5. You do have to have an activi-
ties card to play sport as a member of
ICU, it is detailed in the Clubs and
Societies Health and Safety Policy
passed at thefirstCouncil meeting of
this year.
6. Frank Murray, the Sports and
Leisure Manager of IC was only
made aware of the details of our
Health and Safety policy at the
Athletics Committee meeting held on
the 24th of October, and the informa-
tion he had before was incomplete
and therefore unfortunately inaccu-
rate.
7. I presume, when talking about
the Finance Office, that the author
had talked to someone over in the
Sherfield Administration. The Union
manages its own finances, and there-
fore, had he talked to any of our
financial staff about the insurance
policy, he would have been present-
ed with a large amount of informa-
tion.
8. I was in fact the author of the
Health and Safety policy, so if the
author of the terribly researched arti-
cle, would like to get his facts
straight, I suggest he interviews me
before he writes anything else about
this policy as he said he would before
he wrote his last effort.
Whilst it is obviously the job of
Felix to question what goes on in the
Union and College as a whole, may I
suggest that your researchers attempt
to follow their job description ie
research.
Whilst it is easy to get incorrect
information from people who do not
know the facts, it is not exactly diffi-
cult to get therightinformation from
those who do.
So please in the future, just ask,
Sarah Corneille
Deputy President, Clubs and
Societies.
Dear Mr Feakes,
I am writing in response to the
appallingly inaccurate account of
'superfluous insurance' reported in
last week's Felix. No doubt the poli-
cy correctness will be commented
upon from other sources, but I would
like to highlight the need for provi-
sion of adequate insurance through
the Union.
As a past member of the Imperial
College Ladies Rugby Club, I

