12 FEATURE 24 October 1997 FEATURE 13
At the height of his career, Howard Marks was smuggling consign-
ments of drugs of up to thirty tons from Pakistan and Thailand to the
United States and Canada making him the biggest drug smuggler in
the world. He had forty-three aliases, eighty-nine phone lines and
owned twenty-five companies trading throughout the world for the
sole purpose of money-laundering for dope dealing. An ex-MI6 agent,
Marks also had contact with the CIA, the IRA and the Mafia who all
wanted his talent.
He began dealing small amounts of hashish while doing a postgradu-
ate philosophy of science course at Balliol College, Oxford, moving on
to larger quantities soon after. Touring rock bands were used to move
drugs, stashed in their equipment, into Europe and America.
After a worldwide operation by the Drug Enforcement Agency, Marks
was busted and sentenced to twenty-five years in Terre Haute
Penitentiary. He served only seven years and was released in April
1995. In another of our continuing series of increadible blags, we
secured a face-to-face interview with the man himself...
Simon Wistow: Of all the places you went to, which was your favourite?
Howard Marks: Favourite place in the world?
Wistow: Yeah.
Marks: Uh. . Taiwan, I think, favourite country.
Wistow: Any particular reason or just...
Marks: Yeah, because at the time 1 went there it was, you know, proba-
bly the most alien culture I'd encountered for some time and it was the
religion again... Taoisni, stuff like that... plus it was quite extraordinary
you know with the kind of manufacturing and industry... it was just so dif-
ferent...
Wistow: Bit of a culture shock?
Marks: Yeah, I kind of thrived on the... I think, the greater the culture
shock, the more I liked it was basically it. That was the way I seemed to
like it...
WHICH WAS THE NICEST ORGANISA-
TION YOU CAME IN CONTACT WITH?
"THE MAFIA. THEY'RE LIKE O N E BIG
HAPPY FAMILY..."
Wistow: Not many places like South Glamorgan.
Marks: No, but I got used to that. I had to leave it when I was about
nineteen so...
Wistow: Urn... next question., urn.. Out of the different organisations you
worked for, which was your favourite and why?
Marks: Well, I didn't work for any...
Wistow: Out of the ones you had contact with...
Marks: Which was my favourite and why? what out of the smugglers, you
mean?
Wistow: MI6, CIA, which ones you came into contact with, which one
was the most flin?
Marks: Probably the Mafia, I think, or those ones, the smaller organisa-
tions. . urn., .the Brotherhood of Eternal Love were friendlier than the
Mafia but not what I would call 'flin'
Wistow: But the Mafia is a nice family business though.
Marks: Yeah. They're ok,
Wistow: How would you say your education at Oxford prepared you for
a career in drug smuggling?
Marks: Ah, I suppose providing an enthusiam for experiencing more cul-
ture shock.
Wistow: Good set of contacts?
Marks: Yes, it was sort of a confidence thing, 1 think. Making good con-
versation,
Wistow: Which college did you go to?
Marks: Balliol.
Howard Marks:
A Nice Man Indeed
Wistow: Which is your favourite Spice Girl?
Marks: 1 don't know her name but the one with her hair in bunches?
Wistow: Baby Spice?
Marks:That's the one. 1 don't know any of their names.
Wistow: Would you say your career with smuggling was a fair represen-
tation of novel business? Would you be able to give tips to young busi-
ness people?
Marks: It was very different from any legal business because the demand
was so high.You didn't have to have an business or entrepreneurial skills,
it was just a lot of people wanting a lot of drugs and looking for a way to
get it. It wasn't a business that needed any Richard Branson type talent
or anything. It would never succeed as a legitimate business.
Wistow: When did you discover you had a talent for journalism? I've read
the first chapter of your book and it's very good and your articles in
Loaded.
Marks: I did a lot of writing in prison, I did a lot of teaching of English
Grammar. The reason I wrote a lot was because it was the only means
of communication I had.
Wistow: You taught yourself Law in prison, didn't you? Did that help?
Marks: Yeah, I studied Prison Law and I'd already done a postgraduate
course in Philosophy of Science so I guess it was a combination of those
things but I never realised I had any journalistic talent until I started writ-
ing the column for Loaded.
Wistow: You did Maths, Physics and Chemistry at A-level, didn't you?
Did that help you at all?
Marks: No. You see, when I did four A-levels I hadn't actually taken any
drugs - I was a late-starter. 1 mean, not many people where I lived had.
The closest thing was alcohol, urn, so 1 wasn't hip enough to take advan-
Fuck me, skin up: Photo by Ivan
tage of that - I just did them to pass exams because that's the way, I
thought, to go. And I found those subjects easier to get good grades in
than any others.
Wistow: Would you say you had a more scientific mind?
Marks: Not really. I have no interest in it at all, I just found them easier.
I mean, I've got a degree in Nuclear Physics and I can't even fix my car,
you know. 1 had no interest in it at all but I happened to be able to pass
exams in them.
Wistow: How many cases that you took on as a lawyer did you win in
prison?
Marks: 1 took on about twenty cases but I won probably about., ten per-
cent.
Wistow: Do you think they were more difficult to win given the nature of
your crimes?
Marks: You see, generally, lawyers on the street don't get involved in
prison law because a) it's boring, b) and the money is hard to find once
you're in prison so some lawyers don't get paid when they take on a
case. So there's not a lot of interest in post-conviction law. But the Sixth
Amendment says Law can be taught in prison and everyone in prison
looks to try and get some post-conviction amendment. Everyone tries,
it's crazy.
Wistow: How many different prison systems have you been involved in?
Marks: England, Holland, Spain and America.
Wistow: Which was the nicest?
Marks: Spain, primarily because they allow conjugal visits. Plus they're
not too worried about what comes into the prison, only what goes out.
America can vary - they can be quite nice, like a holiday camp, or they
can be the worst prisons in the world.
Wistow: How did you get into contact with MI6?
Marks: It was a friend of mine from college who was working for the
Foreign Office, secretly an M l 6 agent, and he approached me some
years after.
Wistow: Was it because of the contacts you had?
Marks: Probably, I mean, that partly clenched it but partly it was also
because they thought I was talented and could get in to areas they usu-
ally couldn't.
Wistow: You have a talent you get yourself in and out of situations that
maybe, an ordinary person couldn't.
Marks: That's all down to charm and I have that - you just be nice to peo-
ple.
Wistow: How many missions did you go on for M16?
Marks: They weren't defined as operations, it was continual work, safe-
houses, false id, the kind of thing you're doing all the time as a dope deal-
er and which is also useful for any kind of secret transmission. Once, I
was asked to seduce an employee of the Czech Embassy but she never
showed up at the party. I was also asked to infiltrate the IRA.
Wistow: How do you feel about the IRA as a political thing?
Marks: As an organisation, I don't think anything can begin to justify the
slaughter of innocents. 1 agree with their cause completely and I'd like to
see Ireland as one country but not with the way they're doing it.
Wistow: why do you think the DEA agent, Lavato, had so much against
you? You mentioned that you were dealing dope and...
Marks: Yeah, I think all DEA agents get off on knocking you down when
you're having a good time and they'll use any excuse to do it really. We
all have our sadistic side.
Wistow: why did you get into the dope dealing initially? Was there a gap
in the market?
Marks: No, 1 think it was much more gradual evolution than that., .the
usual way - I wanted more drugs. At some point, it became an obvious
means of getting money as I had all the usually sort of lucking problems
HOW MANY DIFFERENT PRISON SYS-
TEMS HAVE YOU BEEN INVOLVED IN?
"ENGLAND, H O L L A N D , SPAIN A N D
AMERICA."
with student grants - not as bad as it is now but bad enough. It was easy
money.
Wistow: So you enjoyed the thrill?
Marks: Yeah
Wistow: How hairy was it? Did you get in something where you thought
"Shit, I'm in trouble here."?
Marks: Yeah, you know that in the end there was always the possibility
but you just carried on anyway even though you knew there might be sev-
eral years in prison.
Wistow: Was it worth it? If you had the chance, would you do it again?
Marks: Well, I'd miss out all the bad bits but in principle, 1 think 1 would.
Wistow: You never dealt in hard drugs like heroin or cocaine?
Marks: No, I've never dealt with any of those partly because I don't use
them.
Wistow: Thankyou very much
Howard Marks will be at the Shepherd's Bush Empire on the 7th of
November to host "An Evening With Howard Marks" where he will be
talking about his unique career in a question and answer session starting
at 8.00pm. Tickets are £10 - box office 0171 924 9999
)

