24 October 1997 MUSIC 15
ALBUMS
R O B B I E W I L L I A M S
Life Thru A Lens • • • •
Robbie shows what a
young whippersnap-
per he can really be.
T
he grey storm clouds of Take That have finally
dispersed and from within has shone two rays of
light. One is Gary Barlow who quickly found his
feet and the other, perhaps surprisingly, is Robbie
Williams.
After Robbie released his first solo single Freedom,
nobody could be blamed for thinking, "There goes
another Matt Goss." However, since then Robbie has
released some of his own material, including a couple
of real gems. So congratulations are due for a more
than acceptable debut solo album - well done Robbie
et al. Yep, that's right, this album would be nowhere if
it were not for the likes of Beck, Aerosmith and, dare
1 say it, Gary Barlow. In fact there's even a great
Laverne and Shirley sample on the title track for all you
lovers of eighties daytime TV. But don't get me wrong,
you'll find no covers here (Freedom didn't make it
onto the album), but to say that Robbie Williams is yet
to find his niche within the music genre is an under-
statement.
You'll have no doubt heard Old Before I Die, Days
and South of the Border, and in all probability, this is
the style for which Robbie is headed. But this album
seems very much a post-Take That biography, in which
he has used various styles to express himself. There
are many references to his well-publicised drink and
drugs habit, including a track titled Clean, which needs
no explanation, and also a poem dedicated to humili-
ating one of his former school teachers, which should
raise a few smiles. Life Thru A Lens is not going to set
your stereo on fire, but it is an album worthy of many
a collection, however it is more likely to appeal to the
new breed of Brit-Pop lovers rather than those mind-
less Take That fans that we had grown to hate over the
past few years. H
Derek
E M P E R O R SLY
Sparking Up * * *
V
ery, very heavy, fast, hard
house music, most of it well
over 160bpm, and absolute-
ly chock full of samples, this is not
an easy album to sit down to
review on a hungover Sunday
morning after two hours of sleep.
Driving, threatening, and absolute-
ly stoned off its face, the first half
is most definitely not for the unini-
tiated. The pace, though, like the
hash night which it inevitably is
meant to accompany, settles
down to a steady canter to the end
but still with an astonishingly high
energy. If the album was com-
posed entirely of these more
palatable eased down tracks it
would be a triumph, but the hard-
floor stuff is a bit too much for the
less dedicated home user.
Technically excellent throughout,
and with flashes of creative bril-
liance. H
John
SINGLES
The Kings Of Infinite Space -
Slut (that I'm livin' with)
This is the kind of thing that teeny rock clubs
would go for about a year before Nevermind
was released. Competent enough and not so
bad when you're pissed but then so are Oasis
although they are not exactly stretching the
genre either.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Pizzicato Five - Mon Amour Tokyo
Mental electronic jazz with a genuine French feel
to the singer and an obscenely happy Bangles
meets Bach hammond riff. A bit bloody weird to
be honest. But then they are Japanese, singing in
French. The weirdest thing is that I like it.
Brilliant.
Addict - Dust
Quiet bit. Soft gentle guitar. Nice. Chorus com-
ing. Soulful Bruce Sprignsteeny bit. Pretty good
so far... oh what are you doing with your guitar?
LOUD BIT. Utterly unnecessary. Quiet bit. Nice
again. Loud bit. Still shit. If you were really sharp
on the volume control you would most likely
enjoy this.
Mandelay - This Life
Slightly happier trip hop than the usual fare,
sharp strings, clipped brass and a bass so heavy
I'm not sure my stereo likes it very much. A
touch bland but better after a couple of listens.
Candyskins - Feed It
A gently building slice of the most saccharine
pop pie this critic can stomach. Dreadful lyrics
and a wholly unnecessary verse song by "sweet"
schoolchildren and a chord sequence that is
deader than Bob Carolgees' career. It's pap, but
well intentioned pap and more than a little
infectious. The drum and bass b-side, Disco Hell
is as MOR as the style can get but they really do
try.
John
Soul II Soul - Pleasure Dome
Nice in the way soul songs are but why do they
always sound the same? Lyrics are a little
awkward.
Ether -She Could Fly
Interesting guitar based song. Could be worse
but could be better. Worryingly high vocals for a
male singer.
The Supernaturals - Prepare to Land
Slightly rockier than normal fare from the
Supers' whilst still keeping their trademark light
melodies though this is remarkably bland.
T H E E S S E N T I A L C H O O N
Smash Mouth - Walkin' on the Sun
Dead cool, a sort of punk version of the
Charlatans though the b-sides are much more
straightforward punk, especially the amusingly
monickered Sorry About Your Penis.
3 Colours Red - This Is My Hollywood
Fairly straightforward rock but with a dark and
menacing air to it. H
Martin

