24 October 1997 NEWS
Displaced Freshers
Returned to Halls
Increased pressure of student
numbers this year forced the
accommodation office into a
frenzy of activity as they strug-
gled to fulfil Imperial's guarantee
of accommodation to its first
years.
As an emergency measure, stu-
dents who could not be housed on
campus were given temporary
College beds. According to Sharine
Brown, Residences Manager,
dozens of freshers had to be trans-
ported to overspill accommoda-
tion at Clayponds, Wilson House
and Charing Cross.
After initial complaints during
the summer, parents were reas-
sured that all new students would
be allocated a College bed. Most
understood that the high student
intake was causing severe prob-
lems. According to Senior Tutors, a
significantly larger number of stu-
dents were accepting College
places than in previous years, lead-
ing to increased pressure on the
Accommodation Office. This situa-
tion was exacerbated by the small
number of freshers dropping out at
the beginning of term.
Although the chances of con-
tinuing students obtaining rooms in
Halls this year is extremely slim, all
first years will eventually be offered
rooms in South Kensington. The
sixteen students placed at
Clayponds and Charing Cross have
already been moved into Halls near
College. Of the twenty-nine stu-
dents at Wilson House, thirteen
have now also been relocated. This
was made possible by a number of
students leaving Halls during the
first week of term.
Although every effort was
made by wardens and subwardens
to welcome the freshers, the
accessibility of college life enjoyed
by most other newcomers was
inevitably lacking; late night Union
parties and tube travelling are less
than compatible. Unfortunately
this year's predicament is unlikely
to be a one-off. The consequences
of next years influx of medics have
yet to be addressed by the accom-
modation office.
Meanwhile, students are tem-
porarily living in Montpelier Hall
whilst half of Southwell Hall is
undergoing refurbishment.
Completion of the eighteen week
project is now in sight, and is
scheduled for the end of this term.
The long-term future of the dilapi-
dated Montpelier Hall, which was
due to close in September, still
hangs in the balance.
Anita Devoy and Ed Pavelin
Higher Education:
A Better Deal?
"If you're a student now, you're getting a very
rough deal... . The new proposals are better."
These are the words of the former NUS presi-
dent (84-86) and now Labour M P for Oldham
East and Saddleworth, Phil Woolas, in an inter-
view with Felix.
Prospective students do not share Woolas's
optimism, as shown in a recent report in The
Times. The study showed a marked fall in early
UCAS applications from this time last year. Phil
Woolas gave his explanation for this fall:
"There's a lot of confusion I think ... many peo-
ple [prospective students] quite understandably
think that they're going to have to dig deep into
their own pockets and pay up front." Asked if he
thought that the proposals would deter
prospective students in the long term, he said "I
don't think it will, but I've got an open mind ...
it shouldn't do, because the proposed system is
fairer."
The suggestion that there was a conflict of
interests in being a NUS president with Labour
in power - wanting a career in the Labour Party,
while having to fight against them - was dis-
missed, "1 don't think so. Politics doesn't work
like that ... as a union, I think they're [the NUS]
doing their job very well."
There is no doubt that there is confusion
over the proposals. Until now, students have
not had to pay fees, and their funding came
from a combination of loans, means-tested
maintenance grants, and parental contributions.
Under the old system, the loans were not paid
back until the graduates earned around £15,
000. A full grant was given to all students whose
parents earned less than £ 16, 500, and no grant
was given to those whose parents earned more
than around £52,000.
The current system is by no means perfect.
The 1996 Policy Studies Institute found that in
1995/6 47% of students graduated with an
average overdraft of £2,400. The funding allo-
cated per student has fallen by 26% since 1990,
"I do think it's sad that
when people start out in life,
[upon graduating] they will
have a debt around their
neck of about £14,000."
and over a third of higher education institutions
reported a deficit in 1995/96.
The new proposals were outlined in the
Dearing Report. Tuition fees of around £1,000
are paid by all but the poorest students, and
there will be an increased student loan avail-
able, with improved pay back terms. Contrary to
the Dearing Report, the Government also abol-
ished outright the current maintenance grant.
It is not only students and prospective stu-
dents that harbour reservations over the new
proposals. Dr. Macdonald, admissions tutor for
Imperial's Electronic Engineering department,
thought that the more desirable universities like
Imperial would not suffer overly from a reduced
number of applications, thanks to the huge
demand for places. He conceded, though, that
the "higher universities might have to lower their
standards" as a result of there being less appli-
cations.
With regard to the loans that students will
have to take out for fees and maintenance, Dr.
Macdonald said "I do think it's sad that when
people start out in life, [upon graduating] they
will have a debt around their neck of about
£ 14,000. It may be fair, but 1 think that it may
alter the pattern of what people think they can
do when they graduate."
The universities themselves even look like
losing out. Asked if he thought the proposals
would give the universities a better deal, Dr.
McDonald said "I don't really think it will make
any difference. The money we get is dependent
on Government policy. The way they raise it is
not our business. It doesn't look as if the gov-
ernment is going to get much repaid for a long
time, ... they're not going to see that money
for a while."
Contrary to Phil Woolas's point of view, it
seems that the students will be losing out, and
the universities will be no better off. The only
winner is apparently the government, who will
have slashed their total funding for higher edu-
cation.
Joseph Barton

