12th March, 1970 FELIX Page 3
T a k e y o u r P i c k
a n d C a s t y o u r v o t e
Your eyes are assailed by posters of every size and description, duplicated notices stare
at you from every wall, and information sheets are scattered liberally around the Union
and Halls of Residence. The end of the spring term means election time, and all the candi-
dates for Union high office come out in their finery to exhibit themselves for public
approval; to persuade you they are the people to turn the Union into a progressive, re-
spected organisation which will best serve the interests of the students whom they repre-
sent.
The candidates represent the left, medium left and centre; take your pick and cast your
vote, I don't care where. But remember, whichever part of the political spectum (or degree
of fascism in its current use) they represent or are said to represent, their primary function
is to represent yourselves. The students union decides policy at Union meetings, which
should not be used merely to rubber stamp decisions made by a small group of people
at a previous occasion. The Union this year has been livelier and stronger than it has been
for a long time, but it has been run by too many people seemingly incapable of under-
standing any point of view which differs in the slightest from their own, and there are too
many Council members who represent not the Union floor, or their departments, but
themselves and their associates. You decide who will be on Council, you decide who will
represent you there (if you care); so vote when the elections come round for the minor
Union posts as well as the exec, but don't be surprised next year if some of the successful
candidates seem as intent on pushing their own opinions regardless of everyone else as
some of this year's council have been.
This is the last FELIX of the term, and the last under my editorship. FELIX next
term will be run by Dave Chant and Ian Williams, who will need contributions from
members of the Union to make FELIX as diverse as possible.
I now resign as the alcoholic press-baron of East Durham and go back to trying to
pass exams. We still need staff to keep FELIX running smoothly next term, and to learn
production and page lay-out in preparation for next term, so if you are at all interested,
some and see us in the press room.
Halve the syllabus time
Dear Editor,
I bought a copy of " F E L I X " last week. First of all, let me congratulate you on the
accuracy of your reporting. I looked very carefully at the three entries devoted to my
comments at the last U . G . M . and I could not find anything that I could really take
exception to, althougth naturally I would have liked the emphasis to have been slightly
different on some matters.
I had an interesting discus-
sion with Brian Hains, the
Academic Liaison Officer of
your Union, last week, dur-
ing which we tried to recon-
cile our attitudes. If I may
make the point, I think your
general endeavours to obtain
diversification with credit to
be given to such studies and
representation of the Board
3f Studies are not the real
issues that you should be
taking action (direct action,
I think you call it) about.
In my view, you should be
clamouring for a reduction
in your teaching load. The
fact is that with the explo-
sion of knowledge in science
and technology, the syllabi
in the Undergraduate Course
have become so overloaded
that students really have no
spare time now to "improve"
themselves. By clamouring
for diversification with re-
cognition, all you would do
would be to overload the al-
ready overloaded syllabus
still further, which I think
would be the straw which
breaks the camel's back, both
for the staff and the students.
In my opinion, what you
want and what you should
be taking direct action about
is a lightening of the load on
your syllabi. If the syllabus
time and content could be
halved, you would then have
adequate time to diversify
and take all the many lec-
tures on such subjects which
are already available in the
College, some of which could
be given credit for in your
examination.
I hope you find these com-
ments useful, and I shall be
quite happy for you to pub-
lish this letter in " F E L I X " ,
and I know if you want to
shorten it by editing, that I
on you to give a
version of my let-
can rely
balanced
ter.
Yours sincerely,
J. M . Alexander,
Professor.
Judith Walker speaks..
The Union belongs to you.
In the building—music,
lights, paintings on the
walls?, a wall newspaper?,
peace and quiet or happen-
ings? Make I.C. a fun place?
It is the students, not just
the President and council
who should be playing a
significant role. Real in-
volvement of students will
come about through depart-
ments. The president is in a
position to coordinate with
the help of I C U department
reps on council and year
deps., the development of
department committees to a
position of strength.
Departments.
At present most Heads of
departments are too power-
ful, relegating the staff-
student committees to a
mere consultative role. Com-
munication with staff on
course content etc. needs
to be continued, perhaps
through department open
forums. The theme is the
gradual transference of
power to a new kind of de-
partment committee.
Representation.
Instead of accepting the
representation dealt out by
the college authorities, on
their terms, the Union could
develope the structure pos-
sible through the ICRC and
department committees and
explore other schemes. Mo-
difying the existing struc-
ture, adding a random stu-
dent, is not enough—but
where college decision mak-
ing committees exist students
THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
News: Dave Chant, Ian Wil- Photos: Simon Hoyle, Mai-
Mams, Jean Pasteur. colm Bailey, Andy Thomas.
Features,: Tony Sims, James Circulation: Felix and Sen-
net; Roger Lindsay, with
Pete Morgans and Arnold
Pinfold, Frances Campbell.
Business: Ian Quarrinton.
Sports: John Darley.
Felicity: John Bowman.
Official Nobody: Tony Kirk-
ham, Esq.
Salesgirls: Jean and Denise.
Assistant Ed.: Mike Yates.
Printed by: F. Bailey & Son, Dursley, jlos.
National Advertising: J.E.P. and Associates, 107/111 Fleet
Street, E.C.4. Tel. 01-353-3712 .
Published by the Editor on behalf of I.C.U. Publications
Board, Imperial College Union, London, S.W.7.
Darby.
Typing: Susan Parry.
And thanks to: John Ackers,
John Schofield, Phil Tay-
lor, Mike Muller, Malcolm
Williamson, Barry Pywell,
John Doerr.
Looking to
the future
WHAT SHOULD BE DONE IN I.C. IN 1970/71?
Piers Corbyn briefly gives his views
When elected the main items in my platform were Repre-
sentation, Diversification, U S K , U L U , NUS, ICRC, 'The
involvement of anybody who wanted to do anything' and
Promoting discussion and a critical appraisal of Imperial
College.
The level of discussion—perhaps the most important thing
of all—has increased tremendously this year. This is a direct
result of my method and approach.
The I C U Dept Reps have carried discussion into depart-
ments but a great deal more needs to be done. The staff-
student committees in the department need strengthening and
the technicians involved in them to form mini ICRC's. The
Dept Reps should report results to department meetings. I C U
Dept Reps should be on the BOST.
Effective student power at a departmental level will speed
up diversification—specific ideas for courses must be produc-
ed before the end of the summer term ready for introduction
and discussion in October. Union effort on diversification
must go up.
USK is now sufficiently strong to start inter-college diversi-
fication. The new U S K committee and U S K fund need
strengthening.
USK is now in a position to exert a clear voice in the Lon-
don Region of NUS—where the idea of co-operation between
groups of colleges can be further promoted.
must be adequately repre-
sented. It has been found at
other colleges that when stu-
dents gain membership of a
board the power diffuses
eleswhere. BoSt representa-
tion isn't sufficient to ensure
constructive participation.
It would seem wrong to as-
sume that the admin are
there waiting to be approach-
ed diplomatically. Their dip-
lomacy has consisted of
—meaningless consultation
(Jurgo)
—not taking decisions
(BoSt)
—unilateral declarations
(AA merger)
We have had to struggle
for advances in democracy.
Diversification
It is not just a matter of
negotiating on the basis of
present Union policy. There
is no statement on the means
of implementing diversifica-
tion—one must be formed by
ICU out of the departments,
evolving from student ideas.
There is a danger of getting
bogged down in discussions
on minor problems unless a
comprehensive plan is form-
ed by the students.
Should there be a Liberal
Studies department or should
diversification develop in
departments by initially re-
lating specialist courses to all
relevant fields. Postgraduates
in
Relate researcf
be
programme,
to society?
You want to specialise? A
strong flexible course-unit
system would allow each
student to make his own
choice of courses.
USK/NUS
Do psychology at Bedford?
The course unit system was
also designed to allow inter-
collegiate courses within
London University. Contact
with other colleges must be
extended, (it's friendly).
USK could be made more
vital by introducing joint
lectures and courses.
And what about having
joint student houses?
USK women in Halls!
Continuing to look out-
wards—ICs membership of
NUS will become more im-
portant as both Unions pro-
gress. Having been a dele-
gate at N U S conferences I
know how valuable the ex-
change of experiences with
other colleges can be. IC
could use the background
info, provided by N U S in
college and department dis-
cussions.
During the coming year,
the ground that has been
gained by the Union must be
strengthened and extended.
ICU must continue to move
forward.
Arthur Lee, leader of Love, who appeared at IC last
week. See Felicity for report.
ICU has almost found its feet in N U S so next year NUS)
issues can be increasingly brought directly to I.C. students.
Coming back to discussion and the corresponding control
of your own life. The level of discussion and awareness in
I.C. could be greatly increased by having a week of inter-
year/department discussions of all sections of the college
during the first week of the October term—I will try and ar-
range for this in the summer. In halls of residence the archaic
and ignored rules should be discarded and the power of hall
committees increased.
Union finances need re-appraisal. Next year the fight for an
increased Union fee must continue but the distribution of
finance needs changing (this will probably be done this June
at Joint Council). More money must be allocated for Social
Clubs, Ad-Hoc Union activities (e.g. the Moritorium), sun-
dry ideas, publicity, expenditure by I C U Dept Reps, and Ex-
ternal Affairs. The means less money from elsewhere. The
Constituent Colleges seem now to be finding their own new
roles so will volunteer to cut their budgets.
Finally, a president needs to be more than a 'nice-guy', or
a 'rep-on-council' and he has to do a lot more than have cosy
private chats with the staff and the administration (if he un-
derstands the difference!). H E M U S T B R I N G ISSUES INTO
T H E OPEN.

