28 FRIDAY 14 MAR
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The West Wing: A Retrospective
T
he West Wing is widely
acknowledged to be the best
political drama ever shown
on American television. he
seven series were broadcast
from 1999 to 2006, premiering
the same year as Bill Clinton’s
impeachment trial and inishing in the
depths of George Bush’s second term,
when the president had an approval
rating of just 37%. Although the show
never pretended to be an accurate
representation of a president’s
administration, the inluences of real
life are plain to see. It’s been said since
the show ended that he West Wing
was a portrayal of an idealised Clinton
administration, and it’s true that there
are easy parallels to draw between
Clinton and Jed Bartlet, the ictional
Democrat president in the show: both
charismatic, highly intellectual, and
plagued by scandal throughout their
presidency.
One accusation often levelled at
the show’s creator, Aaron Sorkin, was
that The West Wing was too idealistic
and failed to show the dirty reality of
politics. Bartlet’s administration, and
those closest to him, do have a strong
sense of morality and seem remark-
ably unjaded from having worked in
the White House for so long. And
yet it’s refreshing to watch something
that’s hopeful about politics for a
change, that shows a President who’s
struggling to do his best but trying to
make the right decision. In the first
series, the team is frustrated with the
lack of things accomplished by the
administration so far, due to a diffi-
cult and uncompromising opposition
party and Bartlet’s fear of not getting
re-elected. Midway through, in one of
the best episodes of the show (Let Bar-
tlet be Bartlet), these frustrations cul-
minate in a great scene between the
President and his Chief of Staff, Leo
McGarry, and an inspirational speech
that would give even the most cynical
viewer some faith in politics.
On its inception, Sorkin never in-
tended the President to have a large
role in the show, preferring instead
to focus on the staff surrounding
him: his Chief of Staff, Communica-
tions Director and their deputies,
and Press Secretary. However, Martin
Sheen was pretty much perfect cast-
ing for the role of Jed Bartlet, making
the character such an interesting one
that it would have made no sense to
relegate him to a secondary role. One
of the major story arcs of the first few
series is the discovery that the Presi-
dent suffers from MS, which he cov-
ered up during his election campaign.
After the revelation is made public,
he faces questions as to his compe-
tence for the job and an investigation
into whether he defrauded the public.
Clearly, the similarities between this
and the Clinton-Lewinsky scandal
are deliberate, and although they il-
lustrate very different character flaws
in their respective Presidents, it’s still
an effective way to examine the rela-
tionship between politicians and the
electorate they serve, and how open
public figures should be about their
private lives.
In addition to Sheen, the support-
ing cast is also outstanding. Seven of
the cast won Emmys over the course
of the show, several more than once.
It also jumpstarted the career of Rob
Lowe, who, as Deputy Chief of Staff,
was a main character on the show un-
til his departure during season four,
and Dulé Hill, the President’s Aide,
who went on to star in Psych.
Much of the drama in The West
Wing comes not from scandals, but
the reality of policymaking and cam-
paigning. One episode follows the
attempt of an elderly senator to fili-
buster a bill, requiring him to stand
up and talk without stopping for more
than eight hours; another details the
chaos that ensues after Josh Lyman,
the Deputy Chief of Staff, is forced to
stand in for the Press Secretary at a
briefing. Lyman, unfamiliar with deal-
ing with journalists, allows himself to
be wound up to the point where he
sarcastically tells a roomful of press
that the President has a ‘secret plan to
fight inflation,’ only to be taken at his
word.
That’s not to say that The West Wing
can’t tackle heavier material when it
needs to. One scene which has be-
come infamous even outside of the
show’s legacy comes at the end of
the first series, when Bartlet is trying
to decide whether to run for reelec-
tion. After the loss of someone close
to him, the President walks through a
cathedral, venting his grief and anger
to the God he’s always believed in. It’s
a scene that demonstrates the full act-
ing capabilities of Martin Sheen and
which remains moving after many
viewings. The show is also capable of
handling a romantic subplot, featur-
ing one of the longest will-they-won’t-
they plotlines on TV.
Sorkin has made a name for him-
self by writing witty, fast-paced dia-
logue. Prior to The West Wing, he was
most famous for writing A Few Good
Men, and went on to write the Oscar-
nominated screenplay for The Social
Network (any doubts I had about the
making of a film about Facebook were
dispelled when I saw Sorkin’s name at-
tached). He also pioneered the ‘walk-
and-talk’ filming technique, where
cameras follow the characters through
the corridors of the White House.
It’s a technique which has since been
copied by many shows such as House,
E.R. and Law & Order as a useful way
of conveying a lot of exposition while
retaining the audience’s interest.
After previously writing almost eve-
ry episode, Sorkin left after the fourth
season. The first four series are gen-
erally considered superior, but there’s
very little decline in quality in the final
three; the writing is still fantastic, and
it gave the show a chance to explore
different storylines.
Sixteen years on, it’s easy to dismiss
The West Wing as standard American
feel-good fare, particularly at a time
when disillusionment with politics
seems to be the default. There are mo-
ments where the show can be a little
too pompous and a little too idealistic;
it’s difficult to muster a swell of patri-
otic pride every time a character gives
an inspirational speech, particularly
when it’s not even your own country
they’re talking about. It’s a testament
to Sorkin’s writing that these speeches,
which are pretty frequent, very rarely
become tedious. For the most part,
the show is just hugely entertaining,
and also educational, especially for
non-Americans: I now know enough
about the American political system
to bullshit my way through most con-
versations about US politics, which
turns out to be surprisingly useful.
There are very few reasons not to
watch The West Wing; it’s got a fan-
tastic cast and some of the best writ-
ing in a TV drama. Unfortunately, it’s
not available on Netflix UK (although
it is available on the US version), but
you can pick up the series boxsets for
pretty cheap online these days. Even if
it doesn’t inspire any great faith in pol-
itics, it might just shake some of the
cynicism out of even the most hard-
ened skeptics. And if not, well, there’s
always The Thick of It.
Emily Fulham takes a nostalgic look back at the Bartlet administration

