5
FRIDAY 14 MAR
FelixScience
@Scifelix
SCIENCE
You can’t teach an old virus new tricks
James Bezer on the giant virus that is still infectious despite its age
Epigenetics implicated in type 2 diabetes
Fiona hartley
Science Editor
A
fter spending 30,000
years lurking deep
within the Siberian
permafrost, an
enormous virus has
escaped its icy lair. Even after all those
years encased in ice, it’s still deadly.
But this isn’t the plot of a low-budget
horror ilm. his is real science.
If you’re feeling worried, don’t panic.
Fortunately for most of our readers,
this particular virus is only deadly
if you happen to be an amoeba. But
even so, the fact that a microbe could
still be infectious after such a long
time in ‘hibernation’ raises a worrying
thought. Could human diseases like
smallpox, that we have managed
to subdue, be released into the
environment by melting permafrost?
Researchers at Aix-Marseille
University discovered the virus in
an ice core taken 30m underground
in the far northeast of Russia. Once
they had defrosted it, they discovered
that it could still invade an amoeba,
hijacking the cell’s apparatus to make
copies of itself. his is the irst time
that a virus this old has been shown to
still be infectious. With rising global
temperatures, this may suggest the
possibility of more dangerous ancient
viruses emerging from the ice.
he team’s investigations, published
in the journal PNAS, show the virus
in question is remarkable for more
reasons than just longevity. At 1.5
micrometres in length, Pithovirus
sibericum is the largest virus ever
discovered, and is similar in size to
many bacteria. It’s more than ten
times the size of an average lu virus
(usually around 50-100 nanometres),
and is so big that it can even be seen
through a regular light microscope. It
contains over 500 genes – 50 times the
number found in a typical lu virus.
Pithovirus is one of a number of
giant viruses to have been discovered
in recent years. In 1992, scientists in
Bradford identiied what they thought
was a new type of bacterium, but it
was only in 2003 that it was shown
to actually be a huge virus. Just last
year, another, named Pandoravirus,
was discovered in a sample from the
coast of Chile. Under the microscope,
they have a fairly broad range of sizes,
although their shapes and structures
appear alike.
But surprisingly, despite their
external similarities, there are
signiicant biological diferences
between them. Pandoravirus has
about 5 times as many genes (about
2,500) as Pithovirus, and the two share
only a handful of proteins. hey also
attack other cells in diferent ways:
Pandoravirus uses the cell nucleus
to replicate, whereas Pithovirus only
requires structures in the cytoplasm.
heir evolutionary relationships,
though, remain a mystery. he
unique features of these viruses
have led to speculation that they
may constitute a fourth domain of
life, alongside eukaryotes (such as
plants and animals), bacteria and
H
ow can the body change
how a gene acts without
changing the DNA
sequence of said gene?
Part of the answer lies
with epigenetics: alterations to a
genome that don’t happen by messing
with the nucleotide sequence of DNA
but by changing how the gene is
expressed.
Common changes include DNA
methylation, which normally
suppresses gene expression, and
the addition or removal of histone
proteins from a gene sequence.
Histones act like spools, winding
up DNA so that it doesn’t take up as
much space as it ultimately could.
Epigenetic diferences are being
found in an almost-unlimited number
of diseases: cancer, epilepsy, arthritis,
obesity. A recent paper published in
PLoS Genetics has now found that
epigenetic changes may inluence how
susceptible one is to type 2 diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes develops happens
when your pancreas either doesn’t
produce enough insulin to maintain
a normal blood glucose level –
called insulin deiciency – or your
body is unable to use the insulin
that is produced, known as insulin
resistance. Insulin is responsible for
the absorption of glucose from the
blood, generating cellular energy.
Researchers from Lund University in
Sweden compared cells that produce
insulin in healthy individuals to those
who sufer from type 2 diabetes. hey
found that over 800 genes in diabetic
individuals have epigenetic changes
that aren’t observed in healthy people.
102 of these epigenetic alterations
were proved to cause diferential gene
expression in diabetic individuals.
Ultimately some of the afected
genes contribute to reduced insulin
production, which can be one of the
underlying causes of type 2 diabetes.
Type 2 diabetes is typically treated
by changing one’s diet and exercising
regularly, to maintain normal blood
glucose levels. But as the disease
cannot be cured, treatment may
eventually include using medication
to control blood glucose levels.
Charlotte Ling, who led the study,
said, “[Our research] can help us to
understand why people develop the
condition. his also opens the way for
the development of future drugs.”
Furthermore, the researchers found
that the epigenetic changes identiied
in diabetic individuals “had already
taken place in healthy subjects as a
result of age or high BMI (body mass
index)”.
his suggests that these changes may
be contributing to the pathogenesis of
type 2 diabetes. Future research can
use this work to identify new target
genes for therapy.
“Unlike genes that can’t be changed,
epigenetic changes are reversible,”
said Tasnim Dayeh. In fact, drugs
that cause epigenetic changes have
long been used in the treatment of
cancer and epilepsy. his lends further
support to the hope that this work
could be important in developing
treatment drugs.
Perhaps one day the stigma of
sufering from ‘self-inlicted’ diabetes
– type 2 diabetes being a condition
archaea. Whatever their true origin,
the discovery of these giant viruses,
and the huge variation between them,
has been a vivid demonstration of the
extreme diversity of microbial life.
JuLIA BARtOLI / ChANtAL ABERgEL / IgS / CNRS / AMu
Pithovirus sibericum will eat you alive... if you’re an amoeba. Phew!
linked to obesity and old age – will
lessen, as people are able to receive the
medical treatment that they deserve.
We can only hope.
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004160
EPISONA
These two mice have different epigenetic methylation pattern at a speciic gene
loci that impacts hair colour and weight.

