10 FELIX May 13th, 1971
B e i t F i r e s p r e a d s
from Page One
Hall. The glass-fronted wall
boxes containing the keys to
the locked fire escape doors
did in fact contain nothing
more than fresh air, and so
the only escape was via the
ground floor entrances, i.e.,
past the fire and through the
smoke — good job it wasn't
term time! Moreover, there
are no fire alarm points in
any of the Beit Quadrangle;
the alarm bells in Beit Hall
are set off by a push button
in the Security guard's office
—hard luck (good frying??)
if the man is on his rounds
and the office locked This
fire may speed up the instal-
lation of proper fire alarms
and escapes in the Hall.
Also on this subject, a
quick FELIXCHECK on the
Union building last Satur-
day revealed that the chances
of anyone in the top floor
disco escaping in the event
of a serious fire are about
the same as those of the oft-
quoted snow cat chased by
an asbestos dog through
Hell. It's about time .that the
Ents Committee and other
Union officials sacrificed (the
cost of a few gatecrashers in
favour of taking all those
chains off doors at dances.
Doing the Lambert Walk Pay More, See Less
According to all the
humph there should have
been a Union meeting last
Thursday at 1.00 p.m. How-
ever, there was only about
half a quorum and Martin
Black was sitting in the
third row, so it wasn't
opened. Instead, there was a
meeting of I.C. students.
George Assimakis gave
the up-to-date news on
Nightline, which is reported
elsewhere in Felix.
Judith then explained
about Union participation in
the choice of Halls wardens
—(the one in the pipeline at
the moment being Selkirk.
The procedure is that the
Union is asked for comments
on the shortlist—the snag
being that the Union officials
given this confidential infor-
mation do niOt necessarily
know all the candidates. An
interview system has been
suggested and is under con-
sideration.
We were told that college
hours next year will remain
as they are (9.30-5.30)—7
out of 10 departments and
ICU Council being in fav-
our of this. She then presen-
I.C. Improves
The proposed improvements to the Union building are at
last becoming visible.
Most of the chairs on the first floor of the Union building
have recently been renovated at a cost to the Union of
about £300. Over the Summer, the upright chairs in the
lower lounge will be replaced with a lesser amount of more
comfortable furniture; the old chairs being used in the
former upper refectory. It is hoped to install a Juke Box
and more gentle lighting in the lower lounge, and plans for
a student re-decoration of the Upper Refec to make it more
suitable for disco's and parties, which fell through at Christ-
mas, may be revived. However, the future of private parties
in the Union must be in some doubt, after .the many com-
plaints about late-night noise, and mess left by the selfish
revellers.
In addidtion, the old snack bar by the Beit arch is being
converted into a new Union meeting room, to seat about
60, which will be used as a Biology lounge during the day.
The only fear here is that the provision of reasonablyipriced
coffee in opposition to the lower refec may give Vic Mooney
yet another nail to smash into the Union building coffin.
After several incidents last term involving friction between
watchers of the Union COLOUR television and organisers
of functions in the Ante-Room next door, a floor bracket
for the box's anti-theft frame has now been fixed in the
lower lounge, so that it will now be possible to install the
set downstairs when necessary.
Meanwhile in Southside, the T.V. is being left in .the Upper
Lounge for a trial period. Opinion at present is about 50-50
in favour of a permanent move. The change has caused a
noticeable increase of the use of Southside lounges as a
whole, and has helped ease the crush in the bar.
Downstairs, the new carpet was laid over Easter, at a
total cost to the students of £950. Although the new carpet
does not bear the Carl Cecil Seal of Approval, it is over
£500 cheaper and probably more durable than its predeces-
sor, and ICU officials are delighted with the long-awaited
improvement to Southside. The method of fixing has also
been improved, and rubber mats have been installed at the
areas of heaviest wear.
On Monday, April 26th, a new coimmon room was
Opened on Level 4 in the Physics building. It occupies an
area of about 1000 sq. ft. between the 1st and 2nd year
labs, the lifts and the stairs. If you had seen it last term
before any improvements had been made, you would have
thought, like most other people, that no-one could do
anything to change the corridor-like atmosphere into, any-
thing like a cornmoin room. However a remarkable trans-
formation has taken place as anyone who has seen it knows.
One wall has been completely covered by a mural designed
by Paul Clarke (Physics 1). The design is based on three
ted the NUS report and
some discussion took place
on how the Union floor
could be informed of mo-
tions coming up for the next
conference so delegates
could express Union views.
The "Pete Lambert
Affair" was discussed ad
nauseum. Pete was dismissed
from college shortly before
the end of last term for not
having completed his course-
work. An appeal upheld the
Department's decision that
Pete should be "requested to
withdraw from college" and
be allowed to return in Oc-
tober 1972 on completion of
a year in a technologically
based industry. A lot of dis-
cussion took place on wheth-
er the decision was fair, both
as a general principle and in
this particular case.
Pete admitted to the meet-
ing that he had done little
coursework and attended
very few lectures. There
have previously been cases
of dismissals at this time of
year but they have in gen-
eral been uncontested or for
medical reasons.
The Y.S.S.S. then pro-
ceeded to spout irrelevantly
to the great amusement of
the meeting for about five
minutes. Pete read the letter
he had received and the rele-
vant regulation from the
prospectus. He also informed
the meeting that he had been
told verbally that his dis-
missal was due in part to1
his
"bad influence." (Editorial
comment—how can he be a
bad influence when nobody
takes any notice of him any-
way?) Geoff Needham then
brought the meeting to some
kind of sensible discusssion
by reading a list of proce-
dures he thought the college
should follow when they
were thinking of dismissing
somebody. The meeting
agreed almost unanimously
with these sensible proposals
and Geoff said he would re-
fer them to Council. Piers
then proposed that Pete
should be reinstated in 1971
and a vote was taken. The
majority abstained but more
voted for his reinstatement
than against it.
The Ricardo affair was
then raised and the Felix
editor left to avoid dying of
boredom.
voiceprints of the word "you". Although not finished by the
beginning of the term, it should be completed now. The wall
opposite the lifts has been covered by a large poster, origin-
ally advertising a well-known brand of whisky. You can now
take a Physicist anywhere!
For the first two weeks there were only ten chairs up
there. This was only a temporary arrangement, but it pro-
duced at least one comment that there was more room to
sit down on Level 8! More than thirty new chairs arrived
on Friday, May 7ith.
The coffee machine is situated in a small room (formerly
a cleaners cupboard) off the corridor. Coffee costs 2p a
cup. The machine uses real ground coffee (not instant). It
makes ten, cups at a time and in the event that there is none
left when you go there, there are simple instructions on how
to make coffee in about 8 minutes. Biscuits are also available
at 2p a packet.
The coffee service is run by a student committee who
were also responsible for getting the common room ready
during the Easter vacation.
Odds, Sods, Balls, and Cooke
Prospective climbers of the Queen's Tower may find it
rather harder than previously (see P J . C 2), following an
incident before Easter when the front door was left blowing
in the wind, resulting in damage to the mahogany woodwork.
The climbers had entered by a 40ft. climb up a vertical shaft
leaving their nylon rope hanging down behind them. A grill
at the top of the shaft has now been securely bolted down,
and moreover a large padlock has been placed on an
unavoidable door half way up the tower, thus ensuring
that naughty boys can't .possibly give the Queen's bells a
tinkle. Will the next issue of P.I.C. tell us how to ring the
bells in Mech Eng?
Wondered why there haven't been any more issues of
Private I.C. Perhaps it's because Editor S. Cooke has at
last realised that nobody appreciates him. Not only are most
of his contributors pissed off with his so-called magazine,
but he made a loss on the last issue after about 300 copies
were stolen and distributed about Southside gent's. Poor
Stevie!
His D.J.'d birthday party at Daddy's Guildford Palace
wasn't too much of a hilt either, due to the presence of some
of his supposed prestige College friends, notably a drunken
D.T. Poor Stevie!
Nor has his year's reign over R.S.C.U. got him much
praise. His only major achievement can hardly please his
successors—viz. to manage, by gross over-spending, to pass
on a vast deficit. Poor Stevie!
British Universities' first million volt electron microscope
has been installed in I.C.'s Microscope Laboratory in the
department of Metallurgy. The microscope was commis-
sioned at a ceremony attended by, among others, Lord
Penney and Prof. Sir Brian Flowers, F.R.S., Chairman of
the Science Research Council.
The microscope, an EM7 manufactured by A E I Scientific
Apparatus Ltd., part of .the (iEC-Elliott Automation Group,
is the first of four that the SRC is providing for universities
to improve our understanding of the microstructure of fluids
and the influence of structure on bulk properties of materials.
The other three of these giant 22 ton, 18 feet high micro-
scopes are to be installed at the Metallurgy Dept. of Oxford
in May, Birmingham in August and at the BSC's Labora-
tories at Rotherham by July, the third being shared by
Leeds, Manchester and Sheffield. I.C.'s microscope is for
use by the College and by academic instituitions in the south-
east region.
Building of the Microscope Laboratory began in May
1969 and the EM7, capable of resolving down to 5 Angstrom
units, came into operation in February this year. Special
handling facilities allow such operations as .tilting, heating,
cooling and straining of the specimen to be carried out
from the operating position. A unique feature of the control
system is that the specimen to be viewed is moved by a
single "joystick" control, allowing movement in any direc-
tion with a wide range of speeds and motion.
The advantage of .the new electron microscope is that
it can handle specimens up to 5 times 'thicker than those
used in conventional 100KV microscopes, normally ten
thousandths of an inch thick. Because of their larger sizes,
the specimens have properties more like those of bulk
material, thus enabling many types of in situ experiments,
e.g. stressing, to become a practical possibility.
The instrument uses all the latest integrated circuits and
specially designed servo mechanisms. To reduce the size
of the power supplies required to drive the electromagnetic
lens, a specially designed 400 Hz generator is included with
the equipment.
AEI Scientific Apparatus Ltd. has been awarded the
Queen's Award to Industry in respect of their EM7 electron
microscope.
The Annual General Meeting of the Royal College of
Science Union will be held today in Chemistry lecture
theatre A at 1.00 p.m. During the meeting there will be
elections! for the assistant Hon Sec, the Publicity Officer
and ten members of the entertainments committee. These
will be followed by the initiation of next year's executive
in the traditional manner.
F E L I X
EDITOR: John Rogers.
PRODUCTION: Ian Carr, Martin Cox, Tony Sims, Dave
Sug-thing, Mike Yates.
PHOTO EDITOR: Malcolm Bailey.
FEATURES : John Ackers, Charlie Hulme.
NEWS: Tony Kirkham, Colette Robertson.
PHOTOGRAPHERS: Malcolm Freedman, Steve Heap.
TYPING: Susan Parry.
PRINTING : F. Bailey & Son Ltd., Dursley, Glos.
ADVERTISING: University Press Representation, Grand
Buildings, Trafalgar Square, WC2.
PUBLISHED B Y the Editor on behalf of ICU Publications
Board, Prince Consort Road, SW7.
Are you interested in
books by:—
Herman
Brian
Gavin
Len
John
Vladimir
Friedrich
H
e
s
s
e
Al d i s
Lyall
Qeighton
Allegro
jsjabokov
gngels
Get them from the
H a l d a n e L i b r a r y
Level 2, Library Block
Open Mon. to Fri. 10—5.30
L A M L E Y ' S
A
M
L
E
Y
for your—
BOOKS
ART MATERIALS
PAPER BACKS
STATIONERY
t MtBinON ROAD, S.W.7

