2 FELIX May 13th, 1971
N
U
D
E T
H
E
A
T
R
E
A
T LC?
D . L g e t s t h e D J / s
Prince's Gardens was last week the scene of a strange orgy
with naked students careering through the flower beds and
in and out the boiler house nearby. At least one couple were
seen copulating in the great urn in the centre of the gardens,
forming an attractive centre piece to the display. . . .
At the heart of things was a large rotund person, bearing
a slight resemblance to Clement Freud. His hands and arms
moved rhythmically and his nubile followers followed his
every motion, their graceful forms fleeting through the night
air in stark contrast to the hard angular background of the
Imperial College Halls of Residence.
I moved closer and looked harder at this noctural extrava-
ganza, crouching down so I could not be seen. Was this some
mysterious occult society holding a secret meeting in the
early hours? Had I unwittingly stumbled on some religious
sect bent on worshipping the demon Gods? My whirling
mind was quickly brought down to earth by a sharp cry im-
mediately to my right. 1 looked down and fought for breath
as a human hand wrenched free from under my trembling
feet! This was attached to a long, slender arm, naked to the
shoulder and just visible through the dew-covered green fol-
iage . . . I stared, petrified and unable to move. A. human
arm!
This disappeared, then reappeared just as suddenly, and
as my eyes adjusted to the background, I could dimly make
out patches of the more obtrusive anatomy of a woman.
Normally I would have been delighted at such a sight. . .
my loins instinctively tightened at the sight of a bare breast
cheekily pushing out through the hedge—but this momentary
animalism in me was swiftly overcome by amazement as I
spied two more, riper and fuller than the first and just to one
side. Two of them!
My attention was quickly diverted by what was happening
in the garden. The commander had now moved to the great
urn in the centre. I shivered both at the sight of this fleshy
being and at the cold night air creeping through my thick
overcoat. Yet these people were naked as the day they were
born, and looked perfectly comfortable.
I watched . . . the two forms across which I had previously
stumbled ran past me into the naked throng which had now
gathered round the urn. A deep murmuring of happy voices
was abruptly stopped at a sign from the commander. He ges-
ticulated and made the most suggestive movements with his
hands, while the score or so naked forms constantly brushed
against each other in a tight cluster.
I couldn't make out what he said but suddenly a startling
thought flashed through my mind. I don't know how or why
I thought as I did. I don't know who or what was respon-
sible. Maybe it was a fleeting response to this scene which
took root in me and grew. Maybe it was an extension of the
A
M
N
E
S
T
Y
I
N
T
E
R
N
A
T
I
O
N
A
L
b y W i l l i a m E d m o n d s o n
On Trinity Sunday, May 1961, Amnesty was born. Eric
Baker (now chairman of the British Section), and Peter Ben-
enson, in an article in the Observer, suggested that people
should write to various governments about "forgotten priso-
ners". The response was so great that an organisation was
formed. International interest grew and it was decided to
make the organisation international, the product:—Amnesty
International, a non-political body of people concerned about
Human Rights.
A.I. is particularly concerned about "prisoners of cons-
cience". A prisoner of conscience is a sort of political priso-
ner; such a prisoner must not have committed any violence,
he is imprisoned or 'restricted' by his government, often with-
out charge or trial, because of his beliefs, religious or poli-
tical. Very often such prisoners are tortured, sexually abused,
isolated from other prisoners and from the outside world,
their treatment being far worse than ordinary criminals.
A.I. has its headquarters, the International Secretariat, in
London, and various national headquarters in other coun-
tries. World-wide membership is about 17,000, British mem-
bership is about 2000 many of whom are members of a group.
A group is a collection of people who undertake to adopt
or investigate a prisoner (this latter category is necessary to
thoughts of the people there in Prince's Gardens, that cold
May morning. All I know is that I felt a strong desire to join
them. I almost unthinkingly stripped off, put my clothes in
a neat pile under the hedge and ran across to join the group.
Nobody said a word to me (just as I thought) and within
seconds I was completely absorbed in the crowd. I was now
part of them, and didn't feel in the least bit ridiculous or out
of place. I was secure and I belonged. Why was this when
only a few minutes ago I'd looked on in amazement at these
strange people of whom I was now a part. And it suddenly
struck me that I had wanted to join them for a long time. It
was now no longer an absurd thing to do. Others were there
doing exactly the same thing and I would have joined them
had I discovered them a few days before, or a few years
hence, or tomorrow, or the next day.
So if this was what I'd wanted to do, I must have previ-
ously been afraid to do it. I felt ashamed at this new found
failing in my character. I looked around at the black, stark
buildings and realised the people in there were still asleep;
Asleep in its true meaning. They were completely ignorant
of the fact that people were running naked round Princes
Gardens every night. Of course none of them would believe
it if they were told.
It's a ridiculous thing to do.
establish that a prisoner is a prisoner of conscience). There
are some 2000 prisoners in 60 countries who are A.I. cases at
present, either adopted or under investigation. Groups help
prisoners by writing to governments, the prisoners them-
selves, their families and anyone else who needs to be con-
tacted. Groups also raise money, and this is often more re-
warding than writing letters most of which are never
answered. The money is used in two ways. Firstly, each
group sends money to their national section (who then pay
the International Section) for research into cases. The Inter-
national Section does all the research on the cases the groups
take up. Secondly, groups give direct help to prisoners' fami-
lies, paying for schooling, clothes, food, etc. Apart from
money raising activities a group will meet perhaps monthly
to discuss progress and the work of the individuals con-
cerned with prisoners.
Groups also help support (financially) missions. A mission
is a visit, often by a lawyer, to a country which is holding a
trial. The presence of a foreign lawyer at a trial is helpful,
and contacts with sympathetic lawyers can be made. The
mission may be to contact governments, observe prison con-
ditions, etc.
The Hampstead group, of which I am a member, has 5
prisoners; in Mexico, Brazil, Russia, Rhodesia, and Greece.
We need Money (like all groups), donations to A.I. Turnag-
ain Lane, Farringdon St. E.C. 4. (from whom you can also
get details of membership) or to W. Edmondson, Rm.1108.
Elec.Eng.
Why not become a member, or start a group in the col-
lege? Languages are very useful and if you feel you might be
compromised you can use a pseudonym. Please contact me
if you would hke to know more.
N.U.S. LANCASTER '71
Meaningful or Masturbatory ?
By John McCollough
Just four weeks ago, five I.C. delegates left a cool, blustery
Lancaster University, quietly musing on the importance, the
meaning, the emotions, and the debates of the Annual Easter
N.U.S. conference that had just terminated.
For the average student back home in their union, per-
haps most of the decisions made at this conference will have
little effect or interest. Generally the conference was quite
orderly, although emotions did run quite high on the last
evening when the left (not to be confused with our conser-
vative Soc Soc) managed to bully the conference into dis-
cussing the Industrial Relations Bill instead of the more
highly urgent Regions and Areas (do we prefer U.L.U. or
U.S.K.?) motion.
Most of the time the conference seemed politically united
with strong anti-Tory feeling, this probably being reflected
in the election of Digby Jacks, the Communist, as President—
in fact he seemed politically radical in name only (just to get
the left-wing votes) taking a line generally close to that of
Jack Straw, the Socialist, who has perhaps been one of the
best N.U.S. Presidents for quite a while. Thus the main dis-
tinction at the conference was between the moderate anti-
Tories, trying to get better housing mandates and debates
on careers, grants, etc., and the demagogues trying to force
through and prolong debates on General Strikes, the Indus-
trial Relations Bill etc. When the lefties did get their Thurs-
day night victory there was brief talk of disafliHation by
some but most their political masturbation could be stopped
by showing our own unions what was important that hap-
pened, that it maybe will affect them and thus hoping that
they won't elect too many political masturbationists to the
next conference.
SO WHAT WAS MEANINGFUL?
Pefhaps one of the things that came out of the conference
that will be most likely to affect some of you, was the I.C.
proposed decision to mount an accommodation campaign
at the beginning of next term. A long, constructive, very
orderly debate and an accompanying press conference snowed
that everybody knows there is a great student accommoda-
tion problem, but that few knew how bad it is. Our greatest
worry is that e.g. I.C., Chelsea, Q.E.C. etc. will keep expand-
ing, thus pouring an ever increasing number of students into
S.W. London, looking for what is at present a stationary, if
not declining amount, of accommodation. This problem is
at its obvious worst during the first term and it is hoped
that a concentrated campaign (and many students feel this
is more relevant to them than a grants campaign) will attract
public sympathy to the student cause, get colleges to recon-
sider their expansion plans and hopefully get more govern-
ment finance in certain areas.
The grants debate was generally low key, most delegates
being disappointed that the Government's new grants offer
hadn't yet been announced, however it was decided that a
Grants campaign would soon have to become a yearly fea-
ture, it was thought here that this could be very much co-
ordinated with other campaigns.
SUBSCRIPTIONS
Another major debate was on N.U.S. Subscriptions. It was
decided that these should be proportional to the Union fee
that each college receives. (We get £6 per head per year).
Thus smaller, poorer colleges would benefit. It was also felt
that an increase was needed to cover the increased cost of
campaigns, inflation, assistance to constituent organisations,
etc. With the new Union fee (£10 in 72/73 we hope) it will
mean that our fee will nearly double by 1977, but propor-
tionally, it will be very much the same (about 4£ per cent
of our Union fee money).
Many more topics deserve mentioning, exams., Student
Union autonomy, careers, the Binary System, the N.U.S.
merger with the Scottish Union of Students, etc. GET A
COPY OF THE N.U.S. REPORT (available soon from the
Union Office.) or go and see one of the delegates.
Is it all relevant? Let's see how bad the accommodation
situation is next October. Maybe then we won't be able to
help finding ourselves in the forefront of the campaign.
S T A Y I N G I N L O N D O N O V E R S U M M E R ?
D O Y O U N E E D A J O B ?
We need a few more cleaners to work i n
Linstead Hall Student Accom. Scheme.
H O U R S : Five mornings a week
P A Y : £8 a week and rent-free room
Q U A L I F I C A T I O N S : I C student
D U R A T I O N : 30th June — 25th September
existing holiday arrangements honoured.
C O N T A C T : M r s . S. E . Rossell,
Timber Research Lab.,
Botany Department, I.C.
Internal tel. 2279.
•••••••••••••••••••••••^

