4 FELIX May 13th, 1971
THE TRANSPORT PROBLEM is just
one of a number of important issues with
which ordinary people are becoming more
actively concerned. When the Greater
London Council published its Development
Plan in 1969, 20,000 objections to it were
received, the majority specifically referring
to one aspect or another of the transport
proposals. What is the essence of the
urban transport problem? Most of us have
a fairly clear picture of its worst manifest-
ation—crowded trains, interminable queues
at bus stops, choking traffic jams, trying to
cross Exhibition Road at lunch time—but
the underlying causes of the problem are
not clear cut. Even in a series of lengthy
dissertations it would be impossible to dis-
entangle all the components of the problem
and theilr inter-relationship with other
urban issues. This brief essay no more than
comments on certain aspects of the prob-
lem.
To start, it has been recognised that the
transport of goods and people is not an
activity in itself, but a function of land-
utilising activities such as industry, com-
merce of shopping. People normally move
about in order to get to a pre-determined
destination, not just for the sake of travel-
ling. Transport can justly be (regarded as
one of a number of services which people
expect to be able to obtain in various
forms, in the same way as other services,
subject to the limitations imposed by tech-
nology and cost. Individuals also expect to
be able to obtain this service without great
loss of some other amenities which some-
times conflict with the provision of trans-
port; notably peace and quiet where they
live, and a pleasant and safe environment
in which to work and enjoy their leisure.
The community, however, has to ensure
that transport does not command a dispro-
portionate amount of the scarce resources
which need to be shared with other com-
peting demands such as housing and educa-
tion, or the provision of much needed open
space.
The essential feature of urban transport
is the imbalance that exists between de-
mand and supply in many kinds of trans-
port service, and in the environmental needs
which seem to conflict with the transport
needs. The one factor which has had a
major influence on both the demand for,
and the supply of, transport is urban
growth. Most countries in the world, devel-
oped, under-developed or never-to-be-
developed, are still rapidly urbanising. As
cities expand the demand for transport
grows more than proportionately because
of the longer distances to travel. But the
effect of growth on the supply of transport
is even more significant. As the scale of the
city increases, the expansion of the trans-
port capacity above a certain level becomes
progressively more costly. The pressure for
more capacity tends to occur where the
growth of land-use activities is most intense,
since it is these activities which are creating
the demand for transport. Continued
growth eventually reaches a point where the
associated expansion of traffic capacity
becomes incompatible with the expansion
of land-use activities which give rise to the
traffic.
Thus, to summarise, urbanisation gener-
ates a more than proportionate increase of
travel demand on the one hand, and steeply
rising costs for meeting that demand on the
other. In the developed countries this pro-
cess of escalation is accelerated by increas-
ing affluence which leads both to an over-
all growth of travel demand and an increas-
ing desire for individuals to use more
space-consuming private transport instead
of public transport. Effective land-use
planning has, in many areas, reduced the
costs of this future growth by reserving
space for the expansion or diversion of
activities and services.
Land-use controls can also prevent the
continuous outward growth of urban areas,
a notable example being the "green belt"
around London. Even so, land-use plans
for London and other cities, produced earl-
ier this century, could hardly have foreseen
THE URBAN
TRANSPORT PROBLEM *
by D. A. M. Gilbert
the technologicol and economic develop-
ments that have taken and are taken place.
Consequently, in most large cities, transport
competes for space where it is most scarce
and costly, and transport unfortunately
requires a lot of space.
A number of methods of regulating
demand for transport have been considered.
The most commonly used method, parking
control, is almost certainly having a signi-
ficant effect, in London, on both the own-
ership and usage of the private car. A
method of restraint favoured by econom-
ists is "differential pricing", and recently
the more important technical problems of
developing pricing equipment, for use on
road vehicles, have been overcome. In
urban areas, transport costs to the user
have risen as congestion increased; but
prices, for example fuel tax and fares, are
generally uniform over the whole urban
area, and do not increase selectively in
areas where congestion occurs, and where
the cost of meeting the demand is high. A
typical example is the city centre where the
cost of providing extra capacity is extra-
ordinarily high. Yet, the "prices" charged
for the use of the roads in the centre are
the same as elsewhere in the City—although
costs to the user due to congestion are
higher. If differential road pricing were
introduced the price of transport would be
THIS IS YVONNE ANTROBUS, WHO HAS NOTHING TO DO WITH THE URBAN
TRANSPORT PROBLEM, AND IS INCLUDED HERE PURELY BECAUSE SHE IS THE
MOST BEAUTIFUL GIRL YOUR FRIENDLY PRESS BARON COULD FIND IN THE
PHOTO 'FILE'S.
cheaper hi some areas whilst in others, the
more congested, it would be more expen-
sive than today.
Many people, particularly motorists,
object to the idea of paying more for road
space. But of course, there is no' single
approach or simple solution to the basic
problem of imbalance between supply-of
and demand-for transport services. The
problem is extremely complex and requires
the working together of people of many
disciplines. It was a far simpler task to
send three men to the moon for a few
hours, than it will ever be to transport
250,000 workers 3 miles in any British city.
A balanced solution to the urban district
transport problem would almost certainly
include some or all of the following meas-
ures:—
a) Road building (including improving
existing roads as well as building new
motorways)
b) Improvements to both road and rail
public transports
c) Improved transport interchange facil-
ities
d) Traffic and environmental management
(e.g. the banning of vehicles from certain
streets, bus priorities, the banning of turn-
ing movements, etc.).
At both strategic and tactical levels land
planning would be used to control both
the magnitude of transport-demand and the
ways in which this demand could be satis-
fied. At a strategic level the location of
housing, industry, offices and shopping
centres is closely linked to the level of
transport services expected to be available.
At the tactical level planning controls can
be used to determine the precise location
of particular land-use activities in order to
effect efficient linkages with other transport
services. Improved transport technology
can also make a valuable contribution to
the problem.
High-speed belt transporter systems or
'people movers' and fixed track automated
taxis have an obvious role particularly in
catering for those trips too far to walk and
to short to use the underground or car.
'Dial a bus' systems could perform a useful
function in certain areas with a role be-
tween that of a car and the normal bus.
The possibilities of improving the transport
system through technology are considerable
but again this approach would form only a
part of the overall solution.
The problem of unbalance between
the demand for and the supply of transport
services in urban areas has always existed,
and in the developed countries with growth
in ownership and use of private vehicles,
the problem has become particularly acute
in the past 2-3 decades. At the same time,
people have rising expectations of the type
of environment they would like to live in,
and this produces a problem which is a
direct conflict with their, perhaps stronger,
desire to increase their personal mobility.
There is little doubt that for most people
a car is a desirable possession and there is
every evidence that the majority of the
40% or so households that do not own a
car will obtain one as soon as they possibly
can. There are, and will be, more cities
designed for full motorisation through
necessity rather than choice, with motorists
allowed to move where they like without
restraint; cities with drive-in banks,
cinemas, churches, weight-watchers' clubs
and the rest. But even in such 'Golden
Cities' there will be numerous problems,
some families will not own cars, either
through poverty, disinterest or disqualific-
ation. How will these people move about
freely if public transport is not economic to
run? In the one car household how will the
housewife do her shopping, the children
get to school or the elderly and infirm get
about?
Finally a small point of topical interest,
what would happen to motor transport if
the resources of oil were all consumed or
supplies were cut off? Some estimates sug-
gest that the world's present stock of fos-
silised hydrocarbons will last no more
than forty years if consumption continues
at the present rate.

