May 13th, 1971 FELIX 7
FELIX
FLICKS
N
E
W FILMS REVIEWED BY JOHN ACKERS
The film distribution system seldom ceases to be a source
of astonishment. At any time millions of pounds worth of film
print is stock-piled awaiting distribution. The case of "Perfor-
mance", which spent almost two years maturing in Warners'
cans, was well publicised. The latest issue of "Film" tells of
"Hotel Paradiso", kept dark by M G M since 1966; " A Walk
with Love and Death", which the "Love Story" bandwaggon
might carry with it; and for those who thought that "Midnight
Cowboy" was Jon Voight's first film, he appeared in an
earlier film by Paul Williams, director of "The Revolution-
ary", called "Out of It" which is still to be released (sic).
At present, many films, such as "Catch 22", "Woodstock"
and "Performance", just aren't going on release widely, be-
cause of disagreements within the industry. IncMentally, the
company which refused to distribute "Women in Love" (on
moral grounds) recentiy presented "Myra Breckenridge" and
"Beyond the Valley of the Dolls" in a double bill.
"Deep End", first seen about six months back at the
London Film Festival, is now showing at Academy One.
Although I've mentioned the film before, after Its Festival
screening, a recap would be in order, since it's highly rec-
ommendable.
"Deep End" is the first film in English by the Polish
director Jerzy Skolimowski, largely filmed in Munich, evid-
ently to reduce the crew size, and set fin a suburban London
public baths and swimming pool. Well acted, more like im-
provised, by John Moulder-Brown, as the shy young male
attendant, and Jane Asher, as the promiscuous attendant in
the women's section with whom he becomes neurotically and
fatally infatuated. Diana Dors plays a difficult customer,
It is to be expected that many of the "unknowns" of yes-
terday's films become the stars of today's. And Dustitn Hoff-
man's latest performance in the title role of "Little Big
Man" (ABC1) shows that his continued success after "The
Graduate" is well justified. It is a long film, perhaps slightly
over-long, but for both its director, Arthur Perm, who pre-
viously made "Bonnie and Clyde" and "Alice's Restaurant",
and Hoffman, "Little Big Man" is something of a high
point. Indeed, of the films now showing in London, this, in
my estimation, is the best.
right: Jack Nicholson and
Susan Anspach in "Five Easy
Pieces."
below left: Dustin Hoffman
and Faye Dunaway in 'Little
Big Man" during his "re-
ligious period."
below right: John Moulder-
Brown and Jane Asher in
"Deep End."
(photos by Columbia, 20th
Century Fox and Academy)
The film, taken from Thomas Berger's novel, is conducted
in retrospective narrative. Jack Crabb, the 121 year old sole
white survivor, and self-confessed instigator, of Custer's Last
Stand, recollecting to a historian his life 'in the West drifting
between the Cheyenne and the white intruders, associating
with legendary figures—Wild Bill Hickock, Wyatt Earp,
Calamity Jane and General Custer—and apparenUy present
at many historic occasions—the massacre of the Indians at
Washita in 1868, and Custer's defeat at little Big Horn.
Although Berger's historian is allowed to observe "Either
he was the most neglected hero in the history of this country
or a liar of insane proportions", the epic reminiscences could
be called true fiction. Penn shows the dignified civilisation of
the Cheyenne, embodied by Little Big Man's adopted grand-
father, Old Lodge Skins, magnificently played by Chief Dan
George. Although an episodic film, with the occasional slap-
stick scene, such as in the hero's "gunfighter period", and a
docile ironic humour, what comes through, apart from the
woeful history of treaties broken by the white settlers, is more
than simple humane sympathy for the Cheyenne, who call
themselves "the human beings", but rather an honest and
refreshing respect.
The telling line, that "the white man hates the human
beings", has intentional significance in the world today—a
connection that Arthur Penn does not deny.
Most people will remember Jack Nicholson as the alcoholic
liberal lawyer in "Easy Rider". In "Five Easy Pieces"
(Prince Charles) he plays Bobby Dupea, an itinerant oil-rig
labourer from a middle-class musical background, who re-
sents and cannot come to terms with the oppressions, re-
sponsibilities and petty restrictions of his life—from the
dependent mistress and rush hour traffic to the inflexible
menu at a wayside cafe.
Reluctant to ditch his girl-friend Rayette (Karen Black)
when she becomes pregnant, he leaves her in a motel near his
family home, where he has returned to see his dying father,
hoping she'll go.
At home he is indifferent to their earnest intellectual con-
versation and the unreality of continual music practice. He is
attracted to Catherine (Susan Anspach), the gentle fiancee/
pupil of his brother Carl, but as they are getting close Rayette
arrives. Caught in an embarrassing trap, with Catherine
placing loyalty to Carl and music first, he leaves with Ray-
ette, but at a stop for petrol he hitches a lift on a long-distance
lorry.
Like "Wanda", Bob Rafelson's "Five Easy Pieces" is a
documentary, rather than allegorical, approach to the
depiction of a broad mass who, whilst not manifesting their
alienation in "anti-social" styles of living, nevertheless find
themselves aimless social misfits. Also highly recommendable.

