May 13th, 1971 FELIX 9
JS
P
O
R
T
S FELIX [
| e d i t e d b g |
I m i k e ftdams I
In the short space of three weeks, LC's summer sport
has got well under way and some major events have already
taken place, as may be seen here. In the U.L. Athletic
Championships held at Motspur on Saturday, May 1st, the
college finished in 3rd position behind Guy's Hospital and
Royal Holoway College.
On Wednesday last our own Sports Day was held—this
year at Hurlingham for the first time. R.C.S. won the
Governors' Shield yet again, by a fairly comfortable margin.
However, it was very poorly attended as a coDege happening
but until a very imaginative idea is produced it looks like
being no better again next year—all views to the Athletics
Captain, Steve Fletcher.
The cricket 1st X I seems to be set for another good season,
as they begin their defence of the University cup. They have
many promising freshers, some of county standard no less!
Their new strength in depth is reflected by the four XIs
they are turning out. The tennis club have not started too
well but some old lags may be brought in to strengthen the
side—under the voluble captaincy of Lonnen they are sure
to talk their way into winning something!
U.LU. athletics
The University of London Atihleitic Championships were
held at Motspur Park on Friday, April 30th and Saturday,
May 1st. They were dominated, as expected, by Guy's
Hospital and Royal Hoilloway College who fielded strong
teams and finished first and second respectively. I.C., how-
ever, finished a respectable third and easily defeated rivals
U.C., Q.M.C. and L.S.E.
There were some excellent individual performances by
I.C. athletes, Two of these both came from Graham Hunt,
this year's captain of U.L.A.C. He won the 400m. hurdles
in a time of 57.0 seconds and later, in (the most exciting
finish of the championships, also won 'the 400m. in 50.8
seconds. Another outstanding performance was that of Barry
Dabrowski who won the 3000m. walk, almost lapping the
runner-up (who looked suspiciously to be running). In the
women's events, I.C. could have done with a few more
like Christine Culshaw, our only I.C.W.A. representative.
Christine won the 100m. and the 800m. and was given
second place in a dead-heat finish to the 200m. She thus
amassed, single-handed, a points total which gave I.C.
women's 'team' second place behind Royal Holloway College.
Others who were placed in their events were: Bob How-
ard (2nd in Pole Vault), Martin Suggett (2nd in Discus),
Garry Hill (4th in High Jump), Barry Dabrowski (4th in
3000m. Steeplechase), George Widelski (4th in Shot), Rich-
ard May (5th in 100m.)
Steve Fletcher.
Easier rugby
Unfortunately, due to financial difficulties the R.F.C. did
not tour during the Easter vac.—however, we look forward
very much to going abroad next year! (Hint, ACC).
The club did however take part in the qualifying rounds
of 'the Middlesex Sevens competition held on 'the Saturday
before term started. We came to an early end however due
to the rather weakened seven which finally took the field
(people get married at such awkward times!) and also due
to the fact that Richmond I happened to be our opponents
in the 1st round! Although the score was 3 pts. all for at
least 4 mins., we finally succumbed 18 pts. to 3 pits, to Buck-
nail and Company.
The old boys side of I.C. rugby, namely Ffagins, visited
Lowestoft rugby festival in Bast Anglia. They fared very
well winning most of their games and certainly excelling in
the social side of the proceedings. This marked the end of
an extremely successful season for Ffagins who have been
successfully resurrected by Barrie Mair. Anyone leaving
college rugby but staying in London would be well advised
to contact Barrie as they can only go from strength to
strength.
Sevens team: Clive Swinnenton, Ifor Rhys, Robin Fourness,
Martin Harrison, Derrick Marriott, Mike Adams (capt.)
and Keith Devaney.
M. Adams.
Boat Club Paris trip
I.CB.C.'s third VIII boarded the college Transit and left
the boathouse at Putney early on the morning of Thursday,
April 22. Bound for Ramsgate and thence to Paris; we were
to row in the Coup Gelis a regatta similar to U.L.'s Allom
Cup run on an invitation basis. We arrived back on the
following Sunday by BEA Trident III from le Bourget.
The events in between these times will long be remembered
by all who went.
Once we had cleared London (a task more difficult than
we had first imagined) we had a smooth journey to Paris,
and then by means of some miraculous driving and somewhat
doubtful navigation through the Paris rush-hour, arrived
at the rendezvous and met our hosts, the Ecole Superiere de
Commerce de Paris (ESCP).
A brief venture into the Latin quarter for a meal, quickly
made us realise the monetary value of English food, and
rather exhausted, we made our way to the youth hostel at
Choissy-le-roi, the venue of the Coup Gelis. A practice
outing the following morning on the 1500m. course proved
beneficial if somewhat wet. We sploshed back through the
town in rowing kit, to the amusement of the inhabitants and
the annoyance of the hostellers. Once again dry, we set
off on the long walk round Paris, returning for our cus-
tomary early night very footsore.
The racing took place on the Saturday; we finished 9th
out of 46 VIIIs in the morning time trial over 1000m., and
qualified for the afternoon's petite finale (the first five VIIIs
race in the grande finale). Before the afternoon's race we
were the guests of ESCP for a sumptuous lunch including
muah wine. We reluctantly took to the water in the after-
noon. We had a slow start against three French crews but
by 1000m. of the 1500m. race we were level with the leaders
and were going through strongly. Unfortunately the boat,
being patriotically French of German origin, preferred the
other crews. Bill Graham painfully found himself without
a seat and we finished fourth with only 7 men working. Our
initial disappointment soon faded at the champagne reception
followed by a dinner with some of the oarsmen and oars-
women of ESCP.
We rose, bleary eyed, early the next morning and set off
for home. Half an hour found us at a garage just north of
Paris with a burnt-out clutch. The A A advised us to abandon
the wagon to them and return by air from le Bourget, which
was a couple of miles away. Thus we returned to England.
The trip will be remembered for its high spots (finding
ourselves sharing showers with the women in the hostel), the
vociferous old French tramp who joined with our singing,
and its calamities, the broken seat, the broken clutch and
the broken bank balance.
Our thanks to ESCP for Saturday morning, Saturday
lunch (hie), Saturday afternoon, Saturday tea time (hie),
and Saturday night (hie; burp) especially Dominique (whose
maternal, admiring eye never strayed from Charlie, who
also deserves our thanks) and Miriam (who was just nice
to everybody).
S. O. Mebody.
Badminton successes
Along with the Badminton Club's success in the U.L.U.
League, as indicated by the table below,
Posn. W L F A
MENS I 1 10 0 72 18
MENS II 2 7 3 59 41
MENS III 2 7 3 58 42
MENS IV 3 5 5 44 56
MIXED 1 10 0 80 10
LADIES 5 4 4 34 38
I.C. were very well represented at 'the recent U.L.U. cham-
pionships. In fact the only final in which I.C. had no repre-
sentative was the Men's Singles.
Lynne Beynon won the Ladies Singles, and along with
Sue Thompson, justified their top seed position by taking
the Ladies Etoubles.
Stuart Donald and partner from R.H.C. went through
to win the mixed doubles with relative ease.
Steve Saw and Souki Theuvwara were unfortunately on
opposing sides in the Men's Doubles final; had they played
together, we may well have taken another event.
Undoubtedly an extremely successful season for I.C. The
Ladies team's position in the League should have been
higher without a doubt. This was clearly shown by I.C.'s
6-3 win over Chelsea (3rd in League) with only four ladies
playing for I.C.
A note of thanks to all players concerned for giving I.C.
such a splendid success.
A special note of thanks to the committee, Dave Gilmore
(Vice-Capt.), John Powell (Sec.), and Steve Sanderson
(Treasurer) for making the club run smoothly. Also to Sue
Thonipson who has not missed a mixed match in the past
two seasons, even though she has played regularly for U.L.U.
and has had the added responsibility of captaining the Ladies
Hockey Team this year.
A. N . Onymous.
Volleyball triumph
During the Easter vacation the Volleyball club went on
tour in The Hague, Holland. We travelled over by boat on
Easter Monday and played our first match as a 'training
session against a visiting German team, who we beat two
sets to one. They were there to play in the same tournament
as us, which was arranged for the Wednesday. This was
played in a superb sports hall 29 x 48 metres, which made
British facilities look minute. In our pool we started by
beating the team from Belgium but lost to a team from
Rotterdam. We then had to play the winners of the other
pool, the French team from Lille, which resulted in a 2-0
win for them. During the lunch break the Germans, who
we had made friends with the previous evening played off
for and won fifth place and then returned to cheer us in the
play-off for third place against the home team. The first set
started badly—we were 13-2 down at one stage, but drew
level before they could reach 15 with a 2 point lead and we
finally won 19-17. We lost the next set quickly, but rallied
to take the last set and third place. The following night we
played one of the local league teams and beat them 3 sets
to 1.
At home we have won the South-East Technical Colleges
league and reached the finals of the cup competition, to be
played Wednesday the 19th of May at Crystal Palace. In the
National League Div. 2 (South) we have won 3 and lost 7,
but can hope for better results in our remaining games. At
the start of this term we represented SEETECH in the Focus
Championships, the national areas tournament, at Crystal
Palace and won.
As can be seen from our results, this has been our most
successful season to-date.
C. Orton.
I.C. Hockey on the road
The festival XIII arrived at Weymouth from all parts of
the country by devious routes. Mr. Bates seems to remember
being instructed by his navigator that the correct way to
proceed was to cross the central reservation of A31 and to
head off into darkest Hampshire—which was sharply execu-
ted. Using this optimum method, he succeeded in taking
six hours from London (only 130 miles). Most of the team
arrived by about 10.00 p.m. whereupon the liveliest haunts
were found, and duly used for the quenching of thirst.
The turn-out for the photograph at 9.30 a.m. on Good
Friday was complete, although a little lacking in spirit. To
add to the general feeling of doom, it was wet, windy and
cold. But as a l good teams should, we overcame the condi-
tions and thrashed the Meeces by 2 goals to nil (scorers
D. Richman and I. Tasney). After the game, our centre-
forward felt a little tired and proceeded to sleep for seven
hours! The afternoon saw us lose narrowly to Bedford by 1-0.
That night we bumped into Southampton University (better
known as Wessex W. Anchors) and drunk them under the
table. The games on Saturday were played at an incredible
pace and although I.C. Should have won both of them, we
lost to the Poachers, but defeated the Bards (Stratford-upon-
Avon) by 2-0—Dave Wilson scoring his 25th goal of the
season with a penalty flick.
Sunday was supposed to be 'rest-day', but besides playing
football on the beaoh, the team took a sightseeing trip along
Chesil Beaoh and sampled a few Pubs. At Lulworth Cove,
Simon Tyrell insisted that the sea was too cold for swimming
despite concerted efforts!
Easter Monday was yet another fantastic day (with re-
gards to the weather), and saw I.C. draw both their games,
0-0 against Basingstoke, and 1-1 against Fareham. In this
last game, the captain scored from a short corner to boost
his tally to eight!
The final night was spent finishing the odd whisky and
gin battles before sampling the local fare and subsequently
depositing Mr. Tyrell in the English Channel at 3.30 a.m.
Record of Festival: P 6, W 2, L 2, D 2, F 5, A 3.
J. B. Sargent.

