Feature
Constitutional Crisis?
"Knowledge is power" says Tony Benn. Nullius Filius mokes us powerful.
'300 years of rule from above is enough' - That was the
bold proclamation made by an advert placed in a national
newspaper, on the 300th anniversary of the Glorious
Revolution, November 1988. Its perpetrators are a
political pressure group known as Charter 88, leading
players in the game of constitutional reform. On the first
Saturday of every month on the steps of St. Martin-in-
the-fields, Charter 88 hold V i g i l s for Democracy.
Together with other means of protest, they aim to inform
'Joe P u b l i c ' of what it sees as the corrupt and
undemocratic nature of the British Constitution. It also
lobbies within Westminster for a written constitution, a
Bill of Rights, and various other major changes to the
status quo. So what is the current British Constitution,
and why do we have it? What would the reformers have
in place of the current system? Is there really a need for
change? To gain the answers to these and many other
questions, off I toddled, Dictaphone in hand, to the dizzy
heights and saucy delights of the Palace of Westminster.
Evolution of the present system
A Constitution is:
The system of
laws, customs
and conventions
which define the
composition and
powers of
organs of state,
and regulate the
relations of the
various state
organs to one
another and to
the private
citizen
The origins of political power in the United
Kingdom can be traced back to the Norman
conquest. In times to follow, all powerful
E n g l i s h K i n g s took council from the
'Witengamot'. T h i s was a small body of
England's noblest men, whose task was to
assist the King in his decision making. It was
then superseded by the A n g l o - N o r m a n
'Magnum Concilium'. From these ancient
foundations, evolved the British System of
rule, that we know today. The turning point
w h i c h lead to a largely elected, liberal
democracy, was the Great Reform Act of
1832.
T h e uncodified and evolutionary
nature of the British constitution can be best
explained by consideration o f the past
thousand years of English, and subsequently
British history. Not once over this very long
period of time have the British ever had to sit
down under the pressure of military defeat
from another nation, and 'thrash out' a
constitution from first principles.
Furthermore, the only interruption of the
Crown's rule over the British people was due
to the Glorious Revolution of 1688. However,
the monarchy was reinstated by the Act of
Settlement in 1701, and to this day its reign
has remained unbroken.
esent system
opelessly impossible to date the B r i t i s h
:ion. This is due to the fact that it is a jumble of
:n conventions and written laws, all inbred at
it moments o f history. The present B r i t i s h
:ion is epitomised by 'The Mace'. The Mace i n
form is a silver staff situated in the House of
Commons. It represents the fundamental principal that
the authority and power i n the United Kingdom rests
with the Crown in Parliament. It is for this reason that
the sovereign power of the U K is often referred to as the
Queen-in-Parliament.
Through this central axiom, no group or individual
may challenge a decision made by the Prime Minister
with Cabinet, endorsed by an Act of Parliament which
receives the Queen's seal of approval. Thus we indeed
have an extremely powerful Executive, who have
complete control over a flexible, uncodified and arguably
unwritten constitution. Some might say that this
situation has led to an elected dictatorship. In stark
contrast to this, the American system is such that its
executive, legislative and judiciary are theoretically
independent. Ideally, this provides checks so that no one;
institution can impose its will on another. Where as in
Britain, Parliament is deemed sovereign; the judiciary
has no authority to overrule Acts o f Parliament.
Invariably the government has a highly disciplined
majority, allowing it to force the majority of legislation
without question. Therefore, the government is the final
arbiter of its own powers. B e i n g i n a democracy,
ultimately the electorate is sovereign, assuming of course
that one agrees with the present electoral system, and that
you believe we do live in a democracy.
The reformers
At the cutting edge for constitutional reform is Charter
88. But there are also many more supporters for their
cause. Unsurprisingly, H e r Majesty's opposition i n
Parliament are also very strong supporters for sizeable
constitutional reform. A single leading voice i n the
reforming pack is M r Tony Benn M P . H e had his
'Commonwealth of Britain Bill' introduced to the House
of Commons on 17th May, 1991. The broad aims of
which are:;
1. A written constitution, which embodies a citizens
'Charter of Rights'.
2 The establishing of ;i 'i lommissioner of Human
Rights'.
3. The establishing of a High Court, independent of
Legislature and Executive.
4. To have two Houses of Parliament, democratically
elected.
5. Abolition of the Monarchy, and in its place an
elected President.
6. The disestablishment of the Church of England, and
the abolition of the blasphemy offence.
7. Voting age reduced to 16.
8. Commonwealth Parliament Acts to take precedence
over E C law.
9. Enforcement of equal proportions of men and women
in Parliament.
10. Accountable security services.
I was fortunate enough to be able to talk to the most
honourable M r Benn on the telephone, very early, one
Monday morning. I asked him to sum up in one sentence
FELiX H
U
f
i
n
S
S
Feature
why we needed a Commonwealth of Britain. His reply
was quite simply;
"The short answer is that we don't have a democracy.
Why are we not allowed to elect both houses of Parliament
democratically? Why do we have a nationalised church?"
In response to my asking him what was wrong with
the House of Lords he replied;
"Well, why do we need a House of Commons?... Why
don't we just leave it to the King to govern the country?... The
reason that democracy matters is that if you can't overrule the
people that govern, then they '11 never listen to you ".
I then suggested to h i m that the Lords have a
unique wealth of experience.
"Well lots of people have a wealth of experience. You
can stop the first hundred people you meet in the street, or get
the national lottery to pick the houst •' Lords, you '</ get a very
broadly based range of experience".
Words spoken i n jest, perhaps? But I think they
highlight the rather unique position of the L o r d s
amongst world democracies.
I asked M r Benn whether he thought that the
abolition of the Crov\n m^ght erode the British national
identity.
'Well it's up to you whether you take your national
identity to be that way, but the powers of the Crown go towards
selection of the Prime Minister, the Judiciary, the
Archbishops... that's the problem, the Crown powers... it's
nothing to do with the royalfamily, theyjust happen to be there'
One recurring theme throughout his bill was the
promotion of an artificially maintained representation of
women in the new Parliament - 50% men, 50% women.
His reasons for this were:
"that there were more women than men in the country,
and fewer women than men in the House of Commons... why
shouldn't we have gender equality. This then gets rid of the silly
idea that men are competing with women...as I think that the
competition between men and woman causes a great deal of
tension."
The next thing that I turned to was the issue as to
whether government was to secretive and unaccountable.
'We not only have secretive government, but a secretive
Parliament. I'm just about to be thrown off the privileges
committee for reporting what's going on there [he subsequently
wasJ. For example if you take the book written by Peter
Wright, 'Spycatcher', saying he'd tried to undermine the British
government, and they [the government] spent millions of
pounds making sure that we never read the book. ...when Oliver
North said he'd disobeyed the president it all came out in a
congressional hearing, and was held in the open for months and
months... Knowledge is power, and nobody in power wants
anyone else to know what's going on."
I asked for his thoughts on the state o f
independence of the three main branches of officialdom
that form the constitution - the Legislature, Executive
and Judiciary? His response was;
"...the British Constitution is a strange one, because the
Lord Chancellor is the ChiefJustice [responsible for making
judicial appointments], the speaker of the House of Lords and
also a member of the executive, in cabinet...so it is a totally
integrated system."
Commenting on his Bill, M r Benn said;
"[I haven't] tried to completely recast it [the
constitution] on the American model, because we are
traditionally within this particular system. And it could be
made more democratic without fundamental changes... but I
think Scottish, Welsh and English Parliaments, and a federal
elected second chamber... will p • b 'Ay clear up most of the
problems."
is there need for constitutional reform?
I think it is fair to say that i uring rruulei n times, the
British citizen has lived as free a life as any other person.
I n - i' e~< jstitutional system i n Great Britain has
lasted for over 300 years without a break, revolution or
civil war. This is a record of stability unmatched by any
other nation, ever. In my opinion it is a testimony to the
British constitution and system of government that the
Clerk of the House of commons has set up an office whose
purpose is solely to deal in offering advice to requesting
foreign nations, o n how they might best go about
operating a parliamentary system. The evolved living
organism which the British constitution surely is, has
procured flexible and powerful government, balanced by
moderation and trustworthiness i n the executive.
Parliament is so strong, that no parliament may bind its
successors. Here, in my opinion, lies the true genius of
Consiae: for one moment the position of women,
ethnic ~ ' - . -i*. -mosexuals if we had a written
-. ;t _ - »ic i
- i some Utopian rock. A Bill of
Rights would impose; the 'founder generations beliefs'
upon all future generations. Examples of this are the
German constitution with its prohibition on the use of
German troops abroad (enacted i n 1949), the Irish
constitution with its claim to sovereignty over Ulster
(enacted i n 1937), and the 2nd Article of the American
constitution enshrining 'the n g k l to bear and carry arms'.
This last example most aptly demonstrates the absurd
circumstance currently occurring in America where the
level of gun related crime has reached boiling point, and
whenever the 2nd article comes up for possible
amendment, the gun lobby ensure that all political hell
breaks loose.
I myself am a passionate believer in the Crown, and
all it stands for. I believe it gives the nation a sense of
identity in a world which is rapidly acquiring a global
culture. However I would support some kind of reform of
the Royal Prerogative applied to ministers of the Crown.
It seems disgraceful to me that government ministers can
claim political and legal sanctuary i n the name of the
Crown, when things go wrong. I also agree with Tony
Benn's idea that the church should be disestablished, as
we now live in a multi religious society. With regards to
the House of Lords, I see no problem. As long as there
continues to be a fresh injection of life peers, i.e. a
meritocracy, then I am sure that it will continue to be a
debating chamber, whose quality of debate is unsurpassed
by any other.
In truth, far from the constitutional structure being
on the point of collapse, I see it as being on the point of
consummation, with only the last few pieces to be put in
place. Do we have a constitutional crisis?
I would like to offer m y sincere thanks and
gratitude to Alan Duncan M P , Tony Benn M P and Tariq
Dajani of Charter 88. H
MM

