Xtra Curricular
•0Q
L i b e r a t i o n o f A u s c h w i t z
K e y s : Fifty, H o l o c a u s t , P u r i m
This year sees the 50th anniversary of the end
of the Second World War, and with it the end
of Hitler's attempts to make the world into a
purer 'Aryan' place.
To mark the anniversary of the libera-
tion of Auschwitz, next Sunday January 29th
at 3pm in Logan Hall, Institute of Education,
Bedford Way, there is a commemoration ser-
vice being held.
Speakers include Lord Alan Bullock, an
eminent Holocaust Historian, and General
Vasily Petrenko, who was one of the libera-
tors of Auschwitz, talking about what he saw.
There will also be a chance to see the
B B C documentary " T h e Blueprints of
Genocide", which is about the fabrication of
the gas chambers and crematoria and their
designers.
This is a very important year, and it is
necessary to continue the education process
so that we do not forget and we do not let
such a horrifying event happen again.
During the year there will be several pro-
jects running, including one by the Union of
Jewish Students.
Entitled "Fifty Days for Fifty years", the
attempt is to "remember the past and build
the future". The project matches each Jewish
Society in the country, and each registered
student, with a Holocaust victim and we are
all going to learn about our community in
order to preserve their memory. The decision
was taken that rather than just reflect back-
wards upon their death, we should improve
ourselves and our knowledge to further dissi-
pate the effect Hitler had upon us and move
forwards for the future. This project will last
for fifty days, from Wednesday 25th January,
and there are books and information packs
available on request to those who are not
already members. During this period there
will be events running concurrently at every
Jewish society i n the country, such as
Holocaust survivors coming to talk, evenings
of learning, films, theatre trips and exhibi-
tions. It culminates in Purim, on March 17th,
which was the Biblical date used by Haman, a
prince of Persia, to try to eradicate the Jewish
people and he too did not succeed. On this
day there is much partying and rejoicing, as
there will be this year too. More details near-
er the time. If anyone is interested in partici-
pating in the project, please do not hesitate to
get in contact with me or with the UJS office.
For more details, write to Sarah Waiman,
Chem Eng 2, or atjsoc@sgl.ic.ac.uk
Is Y o u r G a s a K i l l e r ?
K e y s : C a r b o n M o n o x i d e , D e a t h
Carbon monoxide poisoning from faulty gas
heaters poses a real threat to us a l l .
Approximately 35 deaths occur in this way
every year and students are often the victims.
Carbon monoxide is difficult to detect as
it cannot be seen and does not necessarily
smell. However, there are a few danger signs
to look out for, such as stains at the top of a
gas heater or a yellow/orange flame. The best
way of ensuring your appliance is safe is to
have it checked by a qualified person
(CORGI registered).
The good news is that since 31st
October, 1994, landlords/ladies have a legal
responsibility to ensure that gas appliances
are checked every 12 months. They have to
keep an inspection record which must be
made available to students. A gas safety
action line has been set up to provide infor-
mation. They can be contacted by phoning
0800 300 363.
All in all, these changes may help students to
protect themselves. If you are in any doubt, you
can seek advicefrom the Union Adviser.
J. Cummins, Assistant Adviser.
Introductory Offer
MRI 14,400 bps Fax Modems
Internal £99.88 inc VA T
External £105.75 inc VAT
Valid for orders received during January 1995
(Prices correct at 23 December 1994)
Imperial College Computer Sales
Level 4 Mechanical Engineering Building Exhibition Road London SW7 2BX
T E L : 0171 594 6953 FAX: 0171 594 6957 E M A I L : sales@ic.ac.uk
Open Monday to Friday: 9.30 am - 5.00 pm
Visa, Access, Switch and Delta cards are now acceptable for payment.
f F E L I X 21JMS

