i n *
i •
Elections
It's that time of year again...
Next year you could be a I C U Sabbatical - all you have to do is get elected. To stand for a post, you need to sign up on the
papers which will be posted on the notice board opposite the Union Office in the Union Building. You need one person to
propose you and twenty others to second you. Papers go up on Monday 6th February and come down on Friday 17th
February at which point the campaigns begin. Now you know how to stand but what does it involve? Each of the current
Sabbaticals describes their job below. Whichever post you go for it will take energy enthusiasm and team work. You will
have some of the best times you have ever experienced, and you will also have days when absolutely every thing goes wrong.
P r e s i d e n t
If you become Union President what do you have to look forward to? Well
you are the ultimate representative of the Union, you are ultimately
responsible for the finances of the Union, you sit on 1 9 College
committees, 1 6 Union Committees and what ever working parties either
the Union or College decide need to be formed. That is a very brief
summary of the Job Description but what do you really do?
OK, this is hard. You spend a lot of time in committees some
exciting some not so exciting but all important in one way or another.
These committees will range from Student Welfare to College Finances
and including Governing body. In order to take an active role in these
committees it is important to read the papers for the committee and arrive
at the committee with some idea of the issues which are to be discussed.
You are responsible for the smooth running of the Union. This
means anyone may contact you at any time of the day or night with a
problem. Problems will range from reciprocal agreements to being told to
leave College, from exams on a Wednesday afternoon to external
organisations not recognising ICU cards.
As President you represent Imperial at the University of London
Union (more meetings). The Presidents of the Colleges which make up
ULU meet once a month to discuss problems of mutual interest and any
University of London Campaigns. You are also an IC representative at
ULU General Union Council (the equivalent of our Council) and the
University of London Academic Committee.
There are also large amounts of one-off jobs to do. These include
organising Union training, allocating parking permits, interviewing for
new Union Staff, organising the Union's annual second handbook sales,
organising Welfare Week, writing the Union's Constitution, writing to
students spending a year in Europe and arranging the Sabbatical
elections. All the Sabbaticals help out at Carnivals and the big Union
events. This will involve working behind the bar, stewarding or working on
the door. There are a lot of things I haven't mentioned but you may have
the idea by now being President is extremely varied. What I haven't
mentioned is that you must work well with other people. Being a
Sabbatical involves team work. It is an experience you will never have
another chance at. Don't miss it. Lucy Chothia
D e p u t y P r e s i d e n t ( C l u b s & S o c i e t i e s )
Are you going to be the lucky (?) one? If you are thinking of something
challenging to do for the next 13 months then have you thought about
being a sabbatical? Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) is a challenging
and fulfilling role to take up in the Union. If elected, you will be
responsible for the following:
Organising BUSA sports; organising the Freshers' Fair ('95);
representing sports and societies to College, ULU, and other outside
organisations; sorting out insurance payments; temporary membership;
overseeing all the Clubs & Societies; internal room bookings; Union keys;
notice boards and poster regulations; e-mail accounts; WWW pages.
You will also have to attend: Disciplinary meetings, Exec, Council,
Sub-Committee meetings, ULU sports meetings, Refectory Services and
Bookstore meetings, Union Finance Committee, College Athletics
Committee, South Kensington Users Group, BUSA meetings, College
Disciplinary meetings, ULU GUC, BUSA conferences, ULU training and
ICU training.
On top of that you will be part of a team who look after the day to
day management of the Union. Teamwork is very important in this job if
your year in the Union is going to be successful. You will find yourself
mucking in around the office, helping out with carnivals, reception and
helping in a multitude of other incidents.
So now you know what goes into the job, why don't you run in the
elections and have an interesting and stressful year. Ian Parish
D e p u t y P r e s i d e n t ( F i n a n c e & S e r v i c e s )
So, you're thinking of becoming a Sabb? - come on, I know you are. See!
caught you red-handed reading the job descriptions! But what will you do
if you are elected?
Union Finances:
The Deputy President (Finance & Services) is responsible to the President
for every aspect of the Union's £2M turnover. Any item of expenditure or
budget over £500 must come to you for authorisation. A lot of your time
will be spent helping Clubs and Societies with any financial problems they
might have. You will also be responsible for organising and chairing the
Union Finance Committee. This is the body within the Union that makes
all of the top level financial decisions.
Trading Activities:
As Deputy President (Finance & Services) you are responsible for
overseeing the running of the Traditional Bar, Da Vinci's, Bookstore and
Newsagent. Policy decisions regarding the outlets are made at Refectory
Services Committee and Bookstore Committee respectively. Again, you
will be responsible for organising and chairing of these meetings.
Other Duties:
You will also be responsible for overseeing all of the other Union services,
e.g. Minibus fleet, games machines, food machines etc. You will also be
the Union representative for accommodation which involves taking part in
Subwarden and Warden interviews. As a Sabbatical you also represent
the Union in meetings at the highest level within College and ULU. But
probably the most important aspect of your job is that you must work with
the President and other Deputy President as a very close knit team at the
head of the Union.
Well that is very briefly what my job entails, if you are interested please
feel free to pop into the Union Office for a chat. Dan Look
F e l i x E d i t o r & P r i n t U n i t M a n a g e r
Why would anyone want this job? The thought trundled again and again
through my mind. It was the second week of October and I was into my
second hundred hour week. Everything I knew would be bad had been
worse and a load of things I'd never known enough to consider were
putting the icing on the cake. I was stressed, news stories were bringing in
complaints; but my team was coming together (which seemed stressful
enough - continual meet&greets) and people were reading FELIX across
college (yet you can't help thinking no readers would ' = ' an easier life...)
It's now late January, I'm on a sensible fifty hour week and half my
issues are under the bridge. Things are quite relaxing: the strange thing is
it is those mad weeks at the start that I miss most! Don't get me wrong -
I'm not some masochistic stress-lover nor am I an insomniac. It's just that,
suddenly at the start of that October, something I was doing suddenly
seemed important. I know FELIX isn't the last word in vital world organs
but try thinking that when you see it being read by 4500 people, or when
the Managing Director is on the phone for 'a word' or when the Union
who you work for is breathing down your neck.
It's Ying and Yang. For every petulant complaint from someone
slighted or grief stricken hour of panicky feeling that you're not doing
your job properly (being vicious enough!), there's the beautiful feeling
when someone comes in during the middle of their exams to take vital
photos, or you study a double spread and realise it's up to professional
standards. The moment you calculate your advertising has topped ten
thousand pounds, the time you collate the welfare handbook (study the
'print unit' bit in the title above!) on Sunday night for ten hours but
everyone is smiling. The time you go out with your staff to the Mongolian
BBQ and realise that more then a paper you are managing people.
As FELIX Editor and Print Unit Manager you will be responsible for
a weekly magazine and the Union's in house printing facilities. But I
thought you should know the real story. Owain Bennallack
2UM19S F E L I X MM

