Standby
bettie serveert
o mLxed menswear
Luxury...a category of the spirit, the perpetual pursuit of individuality...a
delving into the infinite options which the realm of fashion now offers
every man. And so let's learn to enjoy the luxury ...(MONDO UOMO
Jan '95).
Men's fashion is set to take the market by storm. At long last, with
the shattering of the plethora of male costume taboos, colour, shape,
cut and form are back in style for men. And above all else, materials
have become deeper, richer and altogether more self indulgent than
ever before. After decades of being boxed into a standard shape and
style, the first off the mark to individuality will be the winner. Faux-fur is
among the strongest influences - outside on hats and bomber jackets,
or inside lining fur-collared cashmere overcoats. As ever, Gianni
Versace exhibited the ultimate expression of grandeur - throwing mink
stoles carelessly over the shoulder in opulent replacement of the scarf or
cable knit sweater.
Paul Smith is back at the top, having produced the most eye
catching style in the Barcelona shows. From cigarette pant suits with
narrow high necked (absolutely wicked) jackets to a rainbow of colours
in chenille or ribbed cotton pullovers, his collections took the forefront
of style back from the stilisti of Italy to our inner-city streets.
As ever my favourites, Dolce and Gabanna, couple striking
originality with polished style - introducing trousers so ample they
almost resemble a skirt, worn with close fitting v-neck ribbed jumpers
and distinguished by the usual D&G touch of class. Alternatively, choose
gauze or georgette fabric for the shirt (particularly nice), with loose
trousers gathered at the waist -think back to what your girl-friends were
wearing last year- and with the arrival of the male navel remember as
well the number of sit-ups and the amount of breathing in they had to
do each day. Come on guys, we'll be looking out for those building
blocks in your stomach! 0
in a sea of their own
The best description I've read of
bettie serveert is that they sound
like a life slowly coming together or
slowly falling apart. Sometimes it's
so hard to tell the difference.
Certainly a cursory listen to their
new album, lamprey could result in
some disturbing thoughts. The first
track, 'Keepsake' digs in deep with
a haunting intro which transmutes
moodily with the words, "pondering
endlessly our mistakes just for
keepsake". Even the sweet rising
melodies of the following 'Ray Ray
Rain' conceal more that their share
of wistfulness; "time and time it
seems, we're always somewhere
inbetween". But that's not to label
Bettie Serveert as the dutch chapter
of the Smiths' depredation society.
Melancholia isn't necessarily sad.
More often 'Lamprey's' twisting
passage brings us back to some
eventual uplifting hope.
Perhaps this is best displayed
in the triptych made up of
'Cybor*D', 'Tell Me Sad', and the
current single, 'Crutches'. The
doubt contained within the latter's
"I'm never sure what goes on
inside" is overbalanced by a
delicious Come inspired riff. 'Tell
me sad' eases in on the back of
"rockinghorse people out on a
limb" but despite all the obvious
hook ins, lead singer Carol van
Dijk's voice never approaches
despair.
To sum them up? Well
'Cybor'D's' call, "if we only had the
courtesy to see it through" is
peculiar edge for a love song to
take but it's all the more satisfying
for that. While Bettie Serveert sail
the same emotional storms as the
rest of us but they do it in a boat of
their own unique construction. (7)
"Welcome to our showcase",
said Tanya before breaking into the
first new song of the belly set.
Chugga, chugga, it sounded like
the first ten seconds of Status Quo.
Another new one seemed to
revolve around the line "I guess I
can't fake it, I want to see you
naked". What about all those
acerbically poised lyrics from their
last album, 'Star'? Behind the
growing ranks of mindless paid-to-
moshers, one reviewer was coming
to an early conclusion that this was
not going to be one of his better
experiences.
First blame was firmly placed
on Gail the bassist. I mean she's
done most of her plucking in no
hope hardcore bands. Tonight she
was in ripped vest mode, complete
with an arm cast the size of
nebraska which had 'kook'
scrawled on it. Gail also has lips
that snarl like Steve Tyler.
Under attack from songs they
actually knew the zebeedee crew
down the front could hardly contain
themselves. But it was true, even
the old numbers like 'Feed The
Tree', 'White Belly' and 'Dusted'
had a definitely heavier feel to
them. Tanya wasn't so much
slipping through our wires as
venously twanging the strings of
her strat and scraping the top of
her range. So why did it all turn out
right in the end?
Because three songs crashed
in together. Maybe by this point
Belly weren't straining, maybe they
just liked playing these more,
maybe they're better songs, I don't
know. But 'Now They'll Sleep',
'John D'Ark' and 'Red' subtracted
more that what had gone before. I
take it back, Belly are as poised as
they ever where. Sure the ethereal
edge that ran through 'Star' has
been replaced by a more complex
and confident muse but the same
breaking tsunami of emotion runs
throughout. The two song encore
was completed by a blistering 'Slow
Dog'. "The kind of skin you can see
through, she shot again" - through
the heart, yeah.
r o s a m o t a are one of the
multitude of bands that have been
recommended as a good listen so it
was with anticipation I that put on
their new album wishful sinking.
It took about five minutes to
figure out that this was a concept
album. Not perhaps in the sense of
'Dark Side Of The Moon', but as an
album it was definitely not just a
collection of unconnected single
material.
There's a classic climatic intro-
duction, cunningly called 'Thintro',
which leads into three more not
dissimilar songs, all sharing
common themes, rhythm and guitar
styles. Most of the songs have no
real structure, and while there is a
continuation of themes, they really
aren't good enough to sustain this
kind of power chord bashing.
As an album this is a real flop,
with no memorable songs, no
sensitivity and no change in
expression or direction. (4) 0
TRICKY G I V E A W A Y
TO WIN OUR TRICKY BAG OF
GOODIES - CONTAINING AN
EXCLUSIVE TAPE, CD AND 7"
SINGLE - ALL YOU NEED TO DO
IS ANSWER THIS QUESTION;
WHERE DOES TRICKY COME
FROM? FIRST ANSWER TO
F E L I X WINS THE LOT.
MM F E L I X 2UM19S

