PAGE 16 PAGE 17
FRIDAY 29th
APRIL 2016 felixonline.co.uk felixonline.co.uk FRIDAY 29th
APRIL 2016
THE STUDENT NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
felix@imperial.ac.uk
SEX
SEX felix@imperial.ac.uk
Iconic sex toys that changed the world
Anonymous
Writer
T
he Hitachi magic wand (although no longer branded as Hitachi) is a
mains-powered ‘vibrating massager’ that’s been around since the 1960s,
and is responsible for fifty years of sexual liberation of women all over
the world. This many years on, it’s still as popular as ever, with many
variations available.
I’m not going to lie; it’s as loud as it is powerful. This is not one to use with
your housemates chilling out in the next room, unless, like me, you’re a bit of an
exhibitionist. Considerate usage aside, there are justified reasons that women have
raved about this for decades. Being mains powered, this magic gadget can deliver
incredibly powerful vibrations for as long as you desire, although you’ll probably
find yourself getting into multiple orgasm territory within a f ew minutes.
Although I’ve had some amazing orgasms with the Magic Wand, and have found
myself at near-addiction levels of distraction by having it in the house, I do find
that the vibration can be too intense, sometimes preventing me from seeing my
climax through to the end. The strength of the vibration can, with prolonged use,
lead to short term loss of sensation in the stimulated area, which isn’t necessarily
a bad thing if you’re using it solo, but can sometimes lead to a temporary loss of
appreciation for other stimuli.
I would recommend it for anyone who finds it difficult to achieve an orgasm
consistently, or who wants to get themselves off, hard, in a very short amount of
time.
Tested for your
pleasure
I
f there’s one thing that I’ve learnt over the course
of my adult life, it’s how to get myself off, and I
don’t think there’s any shame in admitting that. In
recent years, more and more women have begun
taking control of their sexuality, and although there is
still a huge stigma attached to female masturbation, the
sex toy market has silently turned into a huge industry,
with thousands of products to tickle your fancy however
you like it.
From the early days of Ann Summers parties, to the
advent of (discreetly packaged) internet shopping, to
vibrators being stocked on the shelves in Superdrug,
we’ve come a long way. This revolution is unquestionably
thanks to certain iconic gadgets that have made women
so excited that they’ve broken down social boundaries to
share them.
Sex toys these days range from the cheap to the
high-end – from those who want to get themselves off
repeatedly with a vibrator that cost a fiver to those who
want to drop a ton on a more luxury glass dildo. Some
are made from cheap plastic, and others are pieces of art
in themselves, designed to be displayed when not in use.
These don’t always have to be solo escapades either. I’ve
used every sex toy that I’ve ever owned with a partner, to
varying degrees of success: from the guy so intimidated
that he only wanted to go near small clitoral vibrators
(but appreciated the break they gave to his fingers and
tongue) to the guy who kept stealing them for his own
personal use.
The world is starting to realise that women love to
rub one out as much as men, and whether you’re already
acquainted with battery-powered pleasure,or just starting
to look around, there’s always going to be something new
out there for you to try.
The Magic Wand
The bullet vibrator
T
he bullet vibrator has revolutionised discreet masturbation for women
all over the world. Coming in many different designs, including some
disguised as lipsticks, the bullet is subtle, and can bring quick and
silent pleasure. Being so small, the bullet is only really good for clitoral
stimulation, but is great if you want to get yourself off quickly. You can easily use it
with other toys to customise the experience.
I’ve owned many of these, and they definitely have different vibrational intensities,
so depending on what you like, it might be worth spending an extra couple of quid
on this. In my experience, these things eat through the batteries, and there’s nothing
worse than having the power wane when you need it. Even so, one of these comes
with me in my make-up bag whenever I travel, and in all the years I’ve been doing
this, I’ve never had any awkward discovery moments.
Honestly, I think that everyone should own one of these, and take the time to
discover all the different ways that you can use it.
N
ow available with as many features as you can imagine, the rabbit
vibrator was dreamed up in the 1990s, following demand for sex toys
that provided simultaneous vaginal and clitoral stimulation.
I have several friends who claim to have been sexually awakened, and
to have had their first orgasms by the ownership of a rabbit vibrator, and based
on such recommendations, I’ve bought several. While I can’t argue that they don’t
work, they always end up languishing in my drawer, taken out only for a very
occasional craving.
Although more luxurious versions are available, most rabbit vibrators are made of
this jelly-like, plasticky material, which never loses the smell of rubber (even after
years). I’m definitely a hard-and-firm-vibrator kind of girl, so these just don’t tick
my boxes. Aside from the texture, I’ve always found it a bit of a faff to correctly
align the different parts of the vibrator to get the stimulation that really does it for
me.
I recommend this for anyone who’s new to using sex toys for vaginal penetration.
You can get ones that are a bit smaller for beginners (there’s nothing wrong with
being nervous!), and there are so many varieties out there that there’s one to suit
everyone.
The Rampant Rabbit
I wasn’t allowed to include photos of eerily realistic dildos.
Photo Credit: flowerpicturegalery.com
I’m a slut and
proud
I
’ve been called a slut more
times than I can count, both as
an insult and as a compliment.
Whilst some people recoil
from the notion of a sexually
empowered female, many celebrate
us girls who openly love sex.
I’ve long felt the idea that men love
sex and women need love is absurd.
I’d rather have steamy sex than
cuddle watching The Notebook. I’d
rather fuck than make love.I’d rather
my partner call me a little bitch than
his little princess. Not all girls like
hearts and flowers, lots of us like
primal, raw and outright dirty sex.
And that is totally okay. I’ve slept
with many people, both male and
female. I’ve kissed even more. New
sexual experiences are exciting and
I love exploring new things. What’s
the harm in trying? After all, you
never know unless you try; a bit like
trying new foods. That is not to say
you should be reckless or take risks
– contraception,protection and self-
care are necessary.
I have a regular partner with whom
I explore the limits of sexuality in a
safe and controlled way. Sometimes
we get it wrong but we have been
on an incredible journey together,
which would have been impossible
without trust. Trust, respect and
communication are so important
when exploring sexuality.
I embrace my sexuality and
unashamedly own it. It is liberating
to love sex and not give a damn
what anybody else thinks. Go
along to a fetish party and you’ll
see orgies, naked bodies and
couples having sex publicly. It is not
intimidating, disgusting or wrong.
On the contrary, it is liberating,
empowering and accepting. Society
frowns upon both nakedness and
sex, yet they are not bad: after all it’s
only natural.
We live in a society that celebrates
male players and shames female
sluts, but that need not be the
case. Increasingly we are accepting
female sexuality and those who
don’t are jeered at. Western society
is a long way from perfect, but it is
possible for us girls to be sexually
empowered. If we refuse backward
notions of smothered female
sexuality and openly embrace
ourselves we can shake the stigma
of being a slut.
I don’t feel judged for being a
slut, nor do I take offence when I
get called one. Not because people
aren’t judging me, but because I
don’t accept it.The word slut should
not be derogatory. I’m proud to be
a slut because it means I’m sexually
empowered.
The G-spot vibrator
T
he elusive G-spot, located somewhere on the front wall
of the vagina, is traditionally ignored during sex and
masturbation, probably because it’s awkward to get to,
and it might not occur to you to go poking there for
specific pleasure. In this era of a vibrator for every occasion, one
type that has really made the difference to many women’s orgasms
is one that specifically targets the G-spot, precisely stimulating it
to give powerful orgasms with or without the need for additional
clitoral stimulation.
G-spot stimulation can take some getting used to. With any sex
toy that stimulates your G-spot, it will take some practice to figure
out the positioning that works for you, and G-spot stimulation, in
any context,can be an intense new sensation that might feel strange
at first. With some perseverance, recognising these sensations and
building on them has given me some of the strongest orgasms that
I’ve every experienced.
Vibrators and dildos designed to stimulate the G-spot come in
many shapes, designed for use with and without a partner. Anyone
who has never experienced the arousal and pleasure arising from
their G-spot should be encouraged to experiment and seek it out –
it’s worth the effort!
E
ven in this enlightened age, many people are still afraid
to talk about anal. While it may not be everyone’s cup
of tea, if you use plenty of lube, and take your time, it
can be something that both men and women can enjoy.
Butt plugs have been commercially available for more than a
hundred years,demonstrating that there is nothing new or strange
about wanting to fire up these often ignored nerve endings.There
are dozens of kinds of anal toys out there, but beyond a cheeky
finger, butt plugs are what usually first sell the intoxicating world
of anal play.
In women, anal toys add a feeling of fullness, heighten
sensitivity, and provide additional stimulation both in the ass and
in the vagina through the walls. For many women, this can be
eye-opening,and enhance other sensations.Contrary to what I’ve
been told my whole life, I can assure you that the butt is not just
for the boys.
There’s nothing strange of unusual about enjoying anal play
either with a partner or as part of your solo routine, and by using
anal toys such as butt plugs instead of going in all guns blazing,
people are starting to realise how much fun it can be.
The butt plug
“Who here has ever been called a slut?” Photo Credit: Sire Paramount Pictures
Anonymous
Writer
We need to end the trope that
women make love, and accept
that they like sex
DO THE SEX SURVEY
Closes this Thursday
felixonline.co.uk/go/sexsurvey

