imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
Come on down and check out the newly refurbished Reynolds Bar!
All students are invited to a special launch event of Imperial College
Union’s newly refurbished Reynolds Bar based on Charing Cross Hospital
Campus on on Friday 13 May from 17:30.
It will be a chance to look at the transformed space and get to grips
with the new menu. Find out more online in the next few days on the
Reynolds Facebook page www.facebook.com/reynolds.bar.
Imperial College will once again be hosting their annual Imperial Festival on Saturday 7 and Sunday 8 May. The Festival showcases Imperial’s ground
breaking research with a programme of demonstrations, talks, tours and performances across Imperial’s South Kensington Campus and is free and
open to everyone. Imperial springs to life during this free public event with hands-on science demonstrations, music, comedy, dance and art for all
ages. Join the celebration and discover something different at this annual Festival!
To find out more go to: imperialcollegeunion.org/imperial-festival
Help raise money for those affected by the earthquake that hit Ecuador
On Saturday 16 April, a powerful 7.8 Richter scale earthquake shook Ecuador’s
northwestern coast - the strongest quake the country has witnessed in four decades. To
help those affected by the disaster, Ecuadorian students in the UK with the support of
the Ecuadorian Embassy, have come together to raise funds for their country as it faces
this arduous humanitarian challenge.
This initiative started in Imperial College, thanks to the accurate proposal of Inty
Gronneberg, Ecuadorian student of the Dyson School of Design Engineering. We are
asking you to join in and help contribute to the initiative #FuerzaEcuador. All donations
will be directed to increase the capacity of emergency teams deployed in affected areas.
Every single contribution counts and will make a difference in the lives of families pulled
apart or left homeless.
To donate please go to: www.crowdfunder.co.uk/sos-ecuador/

