FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
10
t is hard to believe that I am
over half way into my term
as Deputy President (Wel-
fare), elections still only feel
like they were last month!
Following on from Paul’s article last
week I am doing a manifesto review,
but also talking about all of the other
projects I have been involved in that
I hadn’t even dreamt up at the point
of writing my manifesto. It has been a
whirlwind so far and I have genuinely
really enjoyed the job. Whilst doing
my degree I was constantly counting
down to the weekend with the general
feeling of WHAT IT’S ONLY TUES-
DAY?!? This year Friday always seems
to appear out of nowhere with all of
the meetings I have to go to and the
projects I’m working on. It is hard to
know if the role has involved what I
thought it would when I started out,
I really enjoy the mix of representing
students on welfare related commit-
tees and also having time to peruse
welfare campaigns and projects work-
ing with Union staﬀ. I would have to
say that the role is more varied than I
ever imagined, which is a huge posi-
tive from my point of view. The big-
gest learning experience for me has
deﬁnitely been having patience and
realising that I can’t make things hap-
pen alone. When starting a new pro-
ject you often need help and support
from other staﬀ, other sabbaticals and
College departments; and your priori-
ties hardly ever match. That said, I will
do a manifesto review and then a brief
overview of some of the other things I
have been involved with over the past
year.
On the right are
the main points
from my mani-
festo, but here
is a quick over-
view of all the
other projects
that I am
currently in-
volved with.
• Mental
Health Cam-
paign Planning – working on develop-
ing a campaign group of students to
carry out mental health campaigns. I
am also working with other London
based Welfare Sabbs to hopefully car-
ry out a London wide campaign.
• Developing a Green Network as a
launch pad for green campaigns and
initiatives – much more to come on
this soon. Watch this space.
• New student led campaigns, no
need to write much about this here,
turn to the Union page in Felix (page
17) to ﬁnd out more about this!
• Exam stress – this will be a big
campaign in the summer term where
the Union will be trying to ﬁnd quick
innovative ways for students to take
little breaks and distress during revi-
sion period.
• Unseen Imperial – campaigns
about underrepresented student
groups at Imperial. This also focuses
on destigmatising mental health.
• Student Experience Survey – along
with a team of staﬀ I am currently
analysing the data, and reading every
single one of your free text comments.
Keep a look out for the report, which
will be appearing over the next few
months.
• Pop up STI clinics in the Union.
This will hopefully happen over the
next few months.
That’s just to mention a few. If any-
one wants to get involved in any of the
above projects – then feel free to drop
me an email! I really want to give some
personal advice if you are thinking of
running for a sabbatical position (es-
pecially DPW), don’t let anyone tell
you that you aren’t qualiﬁed/need
to have experience. The less previ-
ous involvement you have had,
the steeper the learning curve;
but that isn’t necessarily a bad
thing. The Union needs new
faces to bring fresh perspec-
tives and outlooks to problems
and projects. If I had listened to
everyone that told me I wouldn’t
win my election campaign, then
there is no way I would be sat in
my oﬃce writing this article right
now. GO FOR IT! If you have
any questions about
being Deputy Pres-
ident (Welfare) or
just spending a
year as a sabbat-
ical drop me an
email and I am
always happy
to meet up
for a chat.
The Manifesto Review
Becky Lane, Deputy President (Welfare) dusts the cobwebs off the
campaign material and sees what she thinks she has and hasn’t done
This is a point that I am finally getting to work on! The way I envisage this working is to have something akin to a personal
tutor logging system. This is an ICT based project that the ICT department can’t begin until the previous project is finished.
The current ICT project is developing a new survey platform, which is hopefully coming to an end soon. I will be putting my
proposals for this system to a board in a few weeks time. I am pushing for your personal tutor to be aware of your exam and
coursework marks also within this system. This hopefully means your personal tutors will be more aware of your general
progress and both senior tutors and personal tutors will be able to step in to help much earlier when problems arise. I also
want to tie this in with improved personal tutor training to ensure your personal tutor can effectively and sensitively sup-
port you and signpost you to college services.
The mums and dads system has been a joint project between myself and Doug Hunt. There are challenges; however the
uptake has been better this year than previous year. I still believe that a centralised Union allocation system is the way
forwards. This year, we held a mums and dads event called The Great SOCOFF in November, and we are planning for this
to happen in the first fortnight next year. We are holding another night in March which will be bigger and better than the
last one – more to follow on this soon. We are going to deliver better training to departmental societies so that they can
provide better mums and dads events. We also hope to lobby departments to give more support to the mums and dads sys-
tem meaning that going forwards it can be more effective. It was never going to be perfect in one year, but we are moving
in the right direction.
This is of course a case of working jointly with/lobbying College. In the past year the counselling service has expanded, with
the hope that another counsellor will be appointed soon bringing us in line with the national average. How this support
is communicated to students still needs to be improved and is something I am definitely working on. I am also lobbying to
provide increased support hours outside of the College day for all of the College welfare provisions. When you are stressed
and down about work, the last thing you need is to miss lectures or labs. Hopefully by next year, the Counselling Service,
the Disabilities Advisory Service and the Health Centre will all be increasing their out of hours provision without cutting
any existing hours.
“There needs to be an effective feedback
mechanism regarding personal tutors”
“I think there also needs to be a more uniform
peer support service from department to
department. Some faculties have buddy
systems; I think there needs to be a robust
model rolled out throughout College.”
“I will campaign to further increase the
resources of the Student Counselling Service”
Over summer the amount of bike storage available in Beit Quad was doubled. Further long term solutions to bike storage
need to be investigated by the College.
“Increased bike storage around College”
I

