FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
The Manifesto Review
warn you now that this article
is a bit dry but that is just the
way I am.
I ran for the Deputy Presi-
dent (Education) role as I real-
ly enjoyed the Chemistry Dep Rep po-
sition and loved voicing the students’
point of view. I also found the subject
of higher education very interesting
when reading random articles on BBC
news.
From being DPE I have learnt how
to use Microsoft Outlook extensively,
organise my time between soooo many
meetings, committee meeting eti-
quette, how a world leading university
operates and coordinating a team of
devoted academic reps.
The one thing I wasn’t expecting
though was the large number of long
meetings I had to attend so there is stu-
dent representation and the national
Quality Assurance Agency is happy
(they decide whether an institution can
award degrees or not). However it is
crucial that a student representative is
present at these meetings and I do get a
better oversight of what is taking place
across the College.
My manifesto review is on the right
and hopefully you are glad you voted
for me and not RON.
Doug Hunt , Deputy President (Education) wasn’t a mug and
voted for Doug. He sees what he has and hasn’t done this year...
Autumn SOLE got a 67% overall turnout across the College, which is the high-
est it’s been in years. Departmental staff across the College are taking SOLE
more seriously now, than they did a few years ago and in every department
they push you to fill it in.
However, the academic rep system also did its part to increase the participa-
tion rates, as I sent out daily year by year breakdown of participation rates to
the Dep Reps and sent this information to the year reps three times a week. I
also worked with ICT to get pop-ups appearing on login for those students who
had not started SOLE in the second week.
However, I feel the participation rate can be improved upon for spring and
summer SOLE, so I will be finding more inventive ways for this to happen.
To make sure the results are shown to academic reps, I will be producing a
paper on Staff Student Committees, which will go to the College’s Quality As-
surance and Enhancement Committee and this will state whether SOLE is be-
ing discussed.
“Increase SOLE participation rates across
the college and make sure the results are
acted upon.”
I
I am still planning on doing this but with an added feature for all students to
use to help them study.
“Improve graduate prospects by creating
an Imperial student forum for intern-
ships and year in industry placements.”
I initially submitted a paper to Faculty of Natural Sciences (FoNS) Teaching
Committee, as I was invited to give a presentation, as all departments in FoNS
(apart from Chemistry) only have year abroad partners in Europe. This paper
meant that the Director of Postgraduate Studies in Physics also attended the
Rector’s trip to the USA and she asked the universities they attended about
potential studying abroad schemes.
I also ran an International Mobility survey in November and the report
should be available in the next few weeks, which I plan to submit to interested
parties and the College’s Strategic Education Committee.
“Encourage faculties and departments to
set up exchange programmes with other
world class universities outside Europe.”
In November 2012 I coordinated a Rep Week, which saw academic reps wearing
brightrep“Loveyourrep”t-shirtsandwemanagedtocollect448suggestions,which
werethensenttotheirrepstobringupatstaff-studentcommittees.Thisallowedyou
toeasilyidentifyyourrepsinperson,ratherthanjustbyemail.Ialsogotpersonalised
polosforyourDepRepsandFacultyUnionAcademicOfficersatthestartoftheyear.
Inadditiontothis,IaskedeachDepartmentalSocietycommitteetosetupaFresh-
ers’ Facebook group in Easter 2012, in order for there to be a greater sense of com-
munity within each year and allows your academic reps to communicate with you
viaadifferentmedium.
The A-Z reps system was also launched in November, which allows any student
to find any academic rep in any department and is regularly updated. If you log into
Imperial College Union’s website it will even show you who your rep is on the “Your
Union”page.
“Raise awareness of student
representation”
In the 2011 student experience survey 87% of undergraduate respondents
stated they wanted exam feedback via their personal tutor. This already
takes place within life sciences and I stated this as good practise in the 2012
NSS Response.
As part of the Pro Rector (Education)’s consultation process for Imperial’s
educational strategy, she is including the academic representatives’
opinion on the Education and Representation Board (both UG
and PG). Within this group I have given them the chance to
say whether they think the College should adopt this level
of exam feedback and the Pro Rector (Education) can take
this into consideration.
“Work towards achieving personalised
feedback on exams through personal
tutor meetings.”
Lecture podcasts
So at the end of the last academic year, the College publicly stated that it plans
to roll out audio and video lecture podcasts. This is taking place over the next
few years but students are generally disgruntled by the speed this is happen-
ing. ICT are rolling it out at a steady pace as they wish to ensure the quality of
the service e.g. make sure they can handle the large amount of data uploaded
every day. Paul and I both gave the College silver with respect to this in the NSS
response for the slow rolling out pace and have had a meeting with ICT regard-
ing this issue, reiterating that students aren’t happy with it taking so long.
Mums and Dads
This year the buddy scheme was rebranded as Mums and Dads, which saw the
highest percentages of Freshers entering their data and the highest number of
parents signing up to the scheme. This was accomplished by me working with the
Departmental Societies and Dep Reps over the summer. This also would not have
been possible without the Union System Administrator, Philip Kent setting up the
online matching system and showing the live percentages by subject (this proved
very useful for the Dep Socs and Dep Reps).
AtthestartoftermIattendedtheICSMSUMumsandDadseventtofindanygood
practise, which I found a lot of. From attending this I arranged the Great Soc Off,
where450studentspaidtogetintoMetriconaThursdaynight.Sincethefeedback
onthenightwassogoodwearerunningSocOff2.0on7thMarch,whichIpromise
will be even better (for one, we aren’t kicking people out at midnight).
TotryandimproveMumsandDads2013,wearecurrentlylookingintotrainingthe
newly elected Departmental Societies in the summer term, so they can start plan-
ningoverthesummerholidaysandIpersonallywouldwantaSocOffinthesecond
week of the Autumn term.
“Carry on the former DPE’s work, which
includes campaigning for lecture pod-
casts and improving the buddy system.”
The ticks, crosses and neutral are
what they think. What do you think?
Go online to felixonline.co.uk

