Quadruple DNA? Go home
DNA, you’re drunk
SCIENCE
A treatment for women vulnerable to miscarriages?
Keir Little Science Writer
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
Philippa Skett thinks DNA are now causing a scene and need to be sent home in a taxi
he traditional double he-
lix conﬁguration of every
biologist’s favourite acid,
DNA, is a common sight
in the media. It’s on text-
book covers, in adverts and even in
logos attempting to convey scientiﬁc
superiority, but which are really play-
ing on the naivety of the general pub-
lic (anti-aging creams, I am looking at
you). The dual swirl has been incred-
ibly romanticised since its discovery
by the biology big shots James Watson
and Francis Crick, but new research
is showing that this structure may not
be all that DNA has up its molecular
sleeve.
Chemists at Cambridge University,
where the classical double helix struc-
ture was discovered almost 60 years
ago to the day, have ﬁnally identiﬁed
the quadruple helix structure of DNA
in human cells. These structures,
called the G-quadruplexes, form when
four guanines (one of the four chemi-
cal groups that make up DNA) lie in
a planar arrangement between four
strands of the DNA backbone.
Data published this week in Nature,
by the wonderfully named Dr Shankar
Balasubramanian and his researchers
shows how they have targeted ﬂuores-
cent antibodies to the G-quadruplex
and identiﬁed them in genetic regions
that have high proportions of guanine,
making this the ﬁrst time these have
been visualised in human tissue.
But what do these structural won-
ders do, if anything? They have pre-
viously been found in telomeres, the
end of the chromosomes that shorten
with each cellular division. Telomeres
are sort of like the genetic countdown
to death, and are part of the reason we
aren’t immortal. As each cell divides, a
little bit of each chromosome doesn’t
make it to the next cell due to the en-
zymatic limitations that allow cell di-
vision to occur.
Telomeres are the cleaver little non-
coding genetic martyrs that sacriﬁce
themselves to ensure precious coding
DNA doesn’t disappear, as they short-
en instead. This shortening actually
leads to a limitation in life span – as
a telomere shortens to a certain point,
cells may enter a state of “old age,” or
die completely. When many cells do
this, it can lead to organ deterioration
or cause many of the diseases associ-
ated with old age.
One idea is that G-quadruplexes
may stop enzymes accessing the tel-
omere after replication. Telomerase is
one such enzyme – this replaces any
DNA lost at the end of the chromo-
some and almost reverses the genetic
countdown as the chromosomes no
longer shorten. With this in mind, in-
hibition of telomerase could be seen
as detrimental to cellular longevity, al-
though too much of telomerase activ-
ity can also lead to cancerous growth.
It may be therefore that the G-quad-
ruplex acts a mediator between too
much or too little telomerase action,
and maintains healthy growth levels.
Other functions are being discussed
too such as the role they have in con-
trolling gene expression, but such
speculation is in need of some hard
evidence to prove once and for all
T
Researchers at Imperial College and
the University of Warwick have iden-
tiﬁed molecular signals produced
by cells in the womb saying whether
an embryo can implant there or not,
and suggest that drugs aﬀecting these
signals could be used to treat women
vulnerable to miscarriages.
A fertilised embryo must embed it-
self in the uterus during a speciﬁc few
days in the menstrual cycle for proper
development. Previously, it was un-
clear how endometrial cells control
the time during which they are recep-
tive to embryos, and how they signal
this receptiveness. A recent investi-
gation into the chemicals produced
by endometrial cells has found that
a molecule called IL-33 is secreted
during the receptive period, which
regulates inﬂammatory and immune
responses in nearby cells.
Usually, this molecule is secreted
brieﬂy, allowing embryo implantation
only during the correct time in the
menstrual cycle. However, the study
found that in women who had suf-
fered several miscarriages, IL-33 is se-
creted for up to 10 days, showing the
endometrium is receptive even when
it is not ready for embryo develop-
ment.
The study also investigated the ef-
fect of these molecular signals in
mice. Mouse uteri were treated with
human endometrial secretions, which
increased the period during which the
mice could become pregnant while
also increasing the likeliness of mis-
carriage, supporting the theory that
the signals are responsible for multi-
ple miscarriages in humans.
Further research into the IL-33 mol-
ecule and drugs that block its action
may lead to new treatments for wom-
en who have suﬀered miscarriages.
The researcher leading the study, Pro-
fessor Jan Brosens of Warwick, said,
“the molecular signals we identiﬁed
are known to be involved in a range of
diseases, including Alzheimer’s, asth-
ma and heart disease. Our ﬁndings
suggest that targeting these molecules
might also be a promising strategy
for developing treatments that would
prevent miscarriages in women who
are especially vulnerable.”
Dude, I swear, that’s totally the
nerd gene right there
what these quadruple helices actually
do. For now, it seems that Dr Shankar
Balasubramanian and his researchers
work is not over. Although we have
come a long way since Watson, Crick
and their Cavendish chums poured
over their draft structures at the Eagle
pub in Cambridge, we still have a long
way in understanding the more intri-
cate details of the genetic code.
DOI: 10.1038/nchem.1548
Quadruple DNA

