LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Lost in Translation
he Translation Unit of Im-
perialisunderthreat.There
is currently a “consultation
period” going on. This will
decide the fate of the Unit.
The idea being that it doesn’t fit with
College’s strategy. Maybe it doesn’t, but
how is anyone supposed to know given
that when you ask them they refuse to
say what that even means.
Many of you will not know about this
Unit. Maybe some of you don’t care. But
wait, who will be next? Given that a Unit
that makes money can be axed, what
about anyone else, especially those
that are losing money? I fear that they
will go the way of the Life Sciences:
they will be cut like a DJ’s sampler from
the 90s (that’s one for all you ‘old school
ravers’ out there – sorry, I’ve been play-
ing a lot of Oxide and Neutrino in the of-
fice recently).
You may think this is rather presump-
tuous to say it is closing. Well, there
certainly is international support for it
to remain open. Just look at the petition
to keep it open and you’ll see how many
signatures, and where they are from, it
has accrued in such a short space of
time. When was the last time you man-
aged to get 10 people to do something,
let alone nearly 5000. That’s impres-
sive. I worry that this “consultation pe-
riod” is going to not really be that. I think
it will be one of those consultations
where it turns out the original sugges-
tion is what happens in the end after
consulting with people just because
you need to show everyone that you
are asking about. One of those studies
where you stick your finger in your ears
and scream “LALA I’m not listening, sor-
ry, was working on my excellent (appar-
ent) leadership skills” when people reply
to you. Just in case College are wonder-
ing: look, you’ve consulted, people have
said your idea sucks, sorry to have to
break the news to you.
Maybe you will think that you don’t
care about all of this as you don’t think it
is important. If not, that is fine. You can
have a reasoned debate about why you
think that, but you can’t deny that many
people all over the world think the op-
posite. As well as this, consider the fact
that it isn’t losing money. This is what
makes the decision strange.
Perhaps you still don’t care. In this
case, put yourself in the lecturer’s
shoes. Image you have been told all of
a sudden that you are possibly going to
be made redundant when you thought
it was all going well. It’s a bit like walk-
ing into lectures one day and being told
that there is a consultation period on
whether or not to kick you out. You may
be a bit concerned and think that per-
haps they have already chosen to get
rid of you.
I asked College if the staff are going to
stay on until all current students are fin-
ished, as they will need them to super-
vise the projects. The answer I received
was a non commital “we’re in consulta-
tion before any final decisions are taken
so aren’t at that stage.” That sounds like
a ‘possibly not, but, for now, we have to
just say something incredibly non spe-
cific’. Surely that would be somewhere
on the agenda when discussing this. I
mean, the people who made this deci-
sion are all accomplished individuals
who have words like ‘professionalism’
and ‘expertise’ flying around their bios.
Wouldn’t one pipe up and say “erm, you
know how we say no students will be
affected, well, what about the staff su-
pervising them through their PhDs? Will
they stay on to keep supervising them?
Let’s discuss this and make an informed
decision on that outcome to not cause
distress and uncertainty”.
Luckily, there is hope that it will be
able to at very least move to a different
university. However, the heavy empha-
sis on science is what leads me to be-
lieve that this is a good place for it, but
I could be wrong. It will be interesting
to see how this develops. I think that
translation is important and hope that
College reverses this decision and at
least finds a new home for the Unit.
SEX SURVEY DRUGS SURVEY
CLUBS AND
SOCIETIES
Talk about sex Chat about drugs I Night...
Yep, as you probably saw on the front page, the Fe-
lix Sex Survey is back. Puns away: do it all night. Flip
to the Centrefold to see me naked promoting it, if
you’re into that sort of thing. Please be as honest as
possible as it’s all secure.
ThisyearwearealsodoingaDrugsSurvey.Thisisto
findoutyourthoughtsondrugsandwhatdrugsyou
have/haven’t.Don’tworry,thissurveyisverysecure
and even if we wanted to (which we wouldn’t) we
literally couldn’t see who said what.
It’s I Night, which is where the all international
clubs showcase their various cultures and talents.
This is definitely going to be something worth go-
ing to! There’s also Singaporean Societies event
Homecoming to look forward to.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>24 >>24 >>14
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana
Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Max Eggl, Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor Veronika
McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Sanchit
Sharma, Jack Peacock, Thomas Lim, Laurence de Lussy Kubisa, Matt Colvin Illustrators Hamish Muir, Lizzy Griffiths Web Uploading Matt Colvin Special Thanks: First and foremost to the multitalented Phil Kent for
incredibly managing to get both the Sex Survey and Drug Survey ready! Matt Allinson for his work on the Sex Survey and Ross Gray for his work on the Drugs Survey.
Maths tutor wanted
Maths tutor needed for 7 and 9 year olds. High perform-
ing children that need support to continue to perform at a
high level.
Initially two hours per week and potentially more espe-
cially during exam periods.
Must be able to speak English.
Family live in Knightsbridge.
Rate of £20 per hour.
If interested: contact Anne at annesinik@me.com
Email felix@imperial.ac.uk to place Classifieds.
Boy/girl seeking boy/girl also welcome. Accompanying pictures of you in
provocative poses in the Library not.
T

