COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
20
Kier Little
But are you are scientist doe?
t’s happened: geek is chic,
nerds are sexy, and everyone
and their dog is ready to de-
bate with creationists. Like
Brian Cox’s smiling, wistful
face, science itself is increasingly en-
tering the public consciousness. Every
haunt of internet culture – Reddit,
4chan, your Facebook friends, etc.
– discusses and valiantly defends sci-
ence against the evils of false belief.
There’s a newer, more insidious evil
arising, though: the many people who
claim to “fucking love” science with-
out the slightest clue of how science
works. These are not mere naïve spec-
tators interested in science – I have
no qualms with them – but those who
use their warped understanding of
science to win arguments and further
their own misguided agendas.
Now that scientists are cool, eve-
ryone wants to be one. Much like a
priest wears robes to signal his being
part of the clergy, scientiﬁc beliefs
such as evolution, the beneﬁts of nu-
clear power and even logical fallacies
are held without understanding as a
means of signalling being part of the
“science” group. They’re wearing lab-
coats, but without a science to do in
them.
“Correlation does not imply causa-
tion,” is a very useful phrase to scien-
tists, but one that’s become co-opted
without the critical “does not imply”
clause in online arguments. All too of-
ten, any debate and discussion arising
from the suggestion of a possible caus-
al link is shot down with “correlation
is not causation!” said with the smug
self-righteousness of someone who’s
memorised a few fallacies. I’ve even
I
A shoutout to all so-called ‘science lovers’: go hard or go home.
seen this said in response to peer-re-
viewed, fairly-tested and statistically
analysed studies. These people don’t
love science, in fact they’re damag-
ingly anti-scientiﬁc. They just love to
sound smart.
This is further shown in the wor-
rying meme of dismissing scientiﬁc
ﬁndings as being “obvious” – the
idea that something which is “com-
mon sense” doesn’t need to be tested.
Critically, common sense often turns
out to be wrong, and any real scien-
tist will know that there’s great value
in accurately quantifying things which
seem obvious. A recent article on Fox
News and HuﬀPo, “12 Obvious Sci-
ence Findings of 2012,” lists the com-
mon-sense “fact” that “smoking a lot
of pot can make your mind fuzzy.” The
paper, in fact, was a detailed cohort
study, showing that marijuana use
only causes irreversible brain damage
if used regularly by under 18s, meas-
uring change in IQ and other tests of
brain function in several users. It’s un-
likely the journalist ever read the full
paper – they just wanted to show how
much smarter they are than those silly,
whimsical scientists by pointing out
how obvious their results are.
With creationism as one of the most
easily-falsiﬁed religious beliefs, evo-
lution has become the biggest poster
boy for science. Darwin’s travels, col-
lection of evidence and formulation of
a theory which has since been veriﬁed
and improved upon by fossil data is
an almost perfect example of the sci-
entiﬁc method in action. Evolution by
natural selection is GCSE-level sci-
ence, but most people aren’t willing
to learn even the basics – they just
profess belief in evolution to signal
their atheism. This leads to people
laughably talking about how creatures
“choose to evolve,” but more danger-
ously to racist beliefs supported by
crackpot theories about how humans
have “evolved” recently.
I love science so much that I’m
dedicating my life to it and getting
people interested in it, but subjec-
tive opinions seemingly backed up by
logic and fact and the memorisation
of a few intelligent-sounding phrases
are not science. The work that people
like Neil deGrasse Tyson and Brian
Cox do is great – increasing public
respect for and interest in science is
as important as actually explaining
the concepts. I’m not asking that all
non-scientists understand science,
just that they stop pretending to, and
stop wearing the attire of scientists in
order to win arguments on the inter-
net.
fa
te
h
4
“
”
These peo-
ple don’t love
science, in
fact they’re
damagingly
anti-scientif-
ic. They just
love to sound
smart.
Online
In response to “NUS: A Pottered History”, 11th January:
Good God man, nobody at Imperial cares! Don’t force a referen-
dum on us just because you couldn’t think of anything better to
do with your time.
- Anonymous
This is pre-campaigning.
In saying you’re calling a referendum on this issue, you’ve im-
mediately said you’re not going to express your opinions, and
then you do.
And on admitting that you came across as a bellend at the con-
ference, way to represent Imperial!
- Anonymous
Why shouldn’t the President have a view on NUS?
Shame that the vote will distract from the Sabb elections. The
NUS is a bloated organisation staﬀed by under occupied third
sector types, some of whom will be dispatched to campaign at Im-
perial so their employer can trouser £60k of our money. I hope
ICU makes sure they are prevented from doing so as there is no
equivalent resource for the No campaign.
- Anonymous
---
In response to “Religion for Atheists”, 11th January:
Thanks very much for coming. I am so glad you liked it in the
main. We were delighted by the turn out and overwhelmed with
the response. So many great things were said afterwards, with so
much help oﬀered.
You totally hit the nail on the head when you said it is a work
in progress. We went for this format because it was something
with which everyone was familiar, and to save time.
We could have wasted years coming up with some totally new
thing that was just right. Or, we could start with the something
that worked, then improve it every week, with feedback from the
congregation.
Yep. It’s a peer reviewed service.
The main thing that I have to answer is the whole ‘pseudo-
science’ and ‘self-help’ things you wrote about. I will go into the
speciﬁc details later, but what I have to say is this: we will try to
ensure any tool, tip or way of thinking we put forward is evidence
based and transparent.
Scientiﬁc atheists, do not worry. This is a safe place for you.
- Sanderson Jones
---
In response to “Business School Set Exams in Breach of Col-
lege Rules”, 18th January
The comment from Laura McConnell is clearly a cop-out, if
the exams managers in the BS did their job properly and fol-
lowed up available space from other departments they would
easily find an appropriate room on Campus. I also under-
stand from my fellow students that at times the BS has con-
ducted its exams off campus during the day which is allowed
under College rules. This really shows the lack of profession-
alism the BS show for their own students and of those for oth-
er departments. Sad really considering the amount in fees us
students pay. It’s about time the School put more emphasis on
the needs of it’s students.
- Anonymous
http://www.smbc-comics.com/index.php?db=comics&id=1777

