COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
Pietro Aronica
United States or Europe
We need more, not less European integration. Much, much more.
ne of the most baﬄing
things I’ve come across
constantly when talking
to British people is their
use of the word “Euro-
pean” to mean “Beyond The Channel”
,
as if sharing strong political, historical,
geographical, economic and cultural
ties weren’t enough to make the UK part
of the continent. Rule Britannia, God
Save The Queen, and all of that, but isn’t
it time to put the nostalgia for the 19th
century away in favour of some com-
mon sense?
I get it that you used to be an awesome
nation. I still hear people boast that the
British Empire covered a quarter of the
world, and that you civilised (read: op-
pressed) countless people around the
globe, despite it being as much of a relic
as your grandfather’s racism and anti-
suﬀragists, and equally relevant today.
It’s understandable: Britain had a pretty
sweet gig, calling all the shots for more
than a hundred years, and it’s good to be
part of the winning team; but we can’t
cling to this faded past while the world
has changed. We were all heartbroken
when Europe had to relinquish its sta-
tus as continent of superpowers to the
USA and the USSR, but the truth is that
it could not and cannot compete with
them and it cannot exert the same kind
of inﬂuence – or, at least, it can’t while
it stands divided, squabbling amongst
themselves.
I believe in a strong, united European
state, a United States of Europe, if you
will. Perhaps this is only a dream of
mine, but I have hopes that it will hap-
pen one day. After all, the peoples of
Europe share far more than most re-
alise: the British like to concentrate on
the diﬀerences, like bidets and funny ac-
cents and the ability to see the sun more
than three days a year, and yet we have
common cultural experiences that make
all of us the same. Our governments,
despite small local variations, all work
in the same way; we grew up in similar
environments, going to similar school
systems, watching similar TV pro-
grams; our calendars are largely identi-
cal; the goods we buy and the foods we
eat come from the same tradition. Now
that we have the internet, we can be ever
more alike. Sure, there will be discrep-
ancies here and there, but people across
the continent will be able to strongly re-
late to one another because we have all
live similar sorts of life. And, of course,
there is an international political organi-
sation that has kept us together for the
past half a century.
Ah, the EU: a reviled bunch of corrupt
bureaucrats busy determining the cor-
rect curvature of the banana when they
aren’t taxing and obstructing; or the seed
of a more just state that will represent
Europe on the global stage without get-
ting mired in squalid local diatribes, de-
pending on who you ask. It has its ﬂaws,
of course, because trying to get govern-
ments so stubborn to agree on common
measures can lead to ineﬃciencies and
even injustices. The British public likes
to rag on when the EU has problems in
trying to manage twenty-seven countries
worth of economies, obstinate national-
ism and partisan politics, and yet it soils
itself with excitement if the Royal Family
as much as farts, proving that the noblest
goals of the others merit mockery if they
comewitheﬀortanddiﬃculties,butyour
nation’s idiosyncrasies are important and
cherished traditions. Because that’s what
the European Union is: a noble goal, the
ideal that people that share so much can
cooperate to do great things instead of
ﬁghting for crumbs amongst themselves.
There was a lot of grumbling when the
EU got the Nobel Peace Prize, as many
claimed that it hadn’t done anything
to deserve it; you know, as if it hadn’t
guaranteed the lack of war of more than
ﬁfty years. People take it for granted
now, but Europe has never enjoyed this
unity and stability in its history. From
the Middle Ages to WWII, being in Eu-
rope meant that at some point during
your lifetime you could be sent to war
or that your country would be at war.
Maybe you’re an Austrian sent to con-
quer Italy, or you’re a German ﬁghting
for your religion against the Swedes, or
you’re an Englishman trying to prevent
the French from conquering Spain, but
the longwinded point is that European
nations fought a lot. It was pretty much
a given that conﬂicts would eventually
erupt over this or that issue: the history
of the continent is one of near-perpetual
battle. Today, it would be unthinkable
and impossible for any two EU member
states to come to arms.
Economically speaking, it has created
prosperity and wealth and it has made
the Euro, an experiment that is bring-
ing Europe closer and assuring that we
grow together. Like it is possible with all
experiments, not everything has gone
perfectly, but the advantages outweigh
the disadvantages, and the negatives are
reasons to better the system and make
it more just.
It is still more of a supranational or-
ganisation with limited power rather
than an actual political entity, but things
can change. They won’t, however, if
Britain clings to its outdated and unfea-
sible Splendid Isolation (Britain and all
the other countries. The UK, as bad as it
is, is not the only obstacle on the way to
integration). The notion that a country
the size of the UK can still be a super-
power or at least not be dependent on
someone else’s power is as prevalent as
it is wrong: Britain has not been able to
compete on the global scale, and will be
able to do so even less if it abandons its
only way to relevance short of becom-
ing the 51st US state. And if you say that
the UK aims at being left alone and in-
dependent even at the cost of not being
able to have a say on international mat-
ters, then I guess I haven’t learned much
about the British.
My motive for the United States of
Europe is one of brotherhood, unity
and freedom. I want it because it makes
sense, economically, culturally, histori-
cally, but if I can’t convince you, then
perhaps I can bribe you: if the EU were
one, united country, it would be the
largest economy in the world by a vast
margin; it would represent more than
500 million people; it would be able to
exert more inﬂuence than any other and
it would be able to push international
agendas, from climate change to social
equality, that no country on its own
could hope to achieve: wouldn’t you
want to be a part of that?
O
We’re all the
same really.
“
After all, the
peoples of
Europe share
far more than
most realise
... we have
common cul-
tural experi-
ences that
make all of us
the same.
Follow us @FelixComment
Facebook
Twitter
Email: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Like us facebook.com/FelixComment
Write for
Comment

