ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Manet: Portraying Life @ Royal Academy – An exhibition of impressive breadth,
Manet at the RA is well worth the ticket price. You could spend an entire morn-
ing there, in the company of 19th Century Parisian society, and in this way put off
inevitable library time for a few more hours. £10 for students. 26 January - 4 April.
Mariko Mori: Rebirth @ Royal Academy – A mesmerising and hypnotising exhi-
bition that provides a somewhat sci-fi experience. I would imagine that an alien
religion would lead to the same sort of other-wordly calm that Mori’s art provides.
Her drawings are very pretty, if a bit pink. £7 for student. Now - 17 February.
Work in progress show @ The Royal College of Art – Students from the RCA School
of Communication will display their work just down the road from Imperial Col-
lege. This is the show for you if you want to find out what ‘information experience
design’ is all about. Animators also showing. Now - 27 January
Gerard Byrne: A state of neutral pleasure @ Whitechapel Gallery – Byrne’s video
art recreates specific historic moments and conversations, in such a way that the
public is able to interact with history in a way that is especially unusual. Three of
his works are on display, on a rolling programme. Entry free. Now - 8 March.
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle is Umar Hossain’s attempt to dragon
himselfthroughanothermathslecture.
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
28
regor Samsa is late for
work one day. Eve-
ryone is extremely
concerned, includ-
ing his boss who pays
him a personal visit for a personal
reprimand. Instead of opening the
bedroom door to find Gregor, his
family and boss are surprised and
subsequently disgusted by the huge
beetle-like creature which has re-
placed him.
Books with obvious metaphors
are sometimes some of the most
difficult to interpret, a personal
opinion extending to Kafka’s Meta-
morphosis. It is always interesting
to see how such works are translat-
ed to the stage and it is great when
they contribute to personal under-
standing of the literary classics.
With this in mind I was excited to
see a limited run of the ‘Smash Hit’
production at the Lyric Theatre.
The obvious question that an-
ticipated any viewer was how the
Ungeziefer is depicted, and it was
probably inevitable that a man in
a huge bug costume clambering
around on stage would have been a
bit too tacky. Opting for a salesman
clambering around on stage slightly
detracted from the mystery of what
he has transformed into, contribut-
ing to the interpretation that he has
not physically transformed at all.
The music (Nick Cave and Warren
Ellis) was also a definite highlight,
and was more noticeable compared
to many other plays. However, this
could have merely been a positive
compared to the quality of direction
(David Orr and Gisli Orn Garoars-
son) and acting which was embar-
rassingly pantomime-esque.
Of course, acting on a stage re-
quires large gestures, exaggerated
speech, and audience-directed ac-
tion. In this production however
the cast’s performance was so in-
tense that it made the play difficult
to believe or meaningfully identify
with in any kind of realistic manner.
Perhaps this was an attempt to
capture the strangeness of Kafka’s
world. There was no direct mention
of any bug or transformation, this
could have been a way of reminding
the audience of the surreal event
by distancing the play from reality.
This definitely seemed the case as
the play opened with unnecessary
and annoying dramatic poses dur-
ing the Samsa family’s breakfast at
the table.
However, as the play progressed,
such a defence for over-exaggerat-
ed acting seemed too far-fetched,
and if this effect was a purposeful
by-product, it did not manage to at-
tain its intended effect. It was not
enjoyable.
For certain scenes though, such
as Grete’s freakout and Gregor’s
death, the comic relief interspersed
throughout the darker and more
distressing events, was entertain-
ing.
Overall Metamorphosis was well
produced. The open plan family
house was a clever way of allowing
Lily Le metamorphoses at the Lyric
Taking the carapace
G
us to see Gregor’s behaviour as his
family grew increasingly ashamed
and separated from him. The rela-
tively small stage prevented the
overuse of a single setting becom-
ing boring and negated the need for
messy changes between scene.
Metamorphosis is on at the Lyric
Hammersmith. Tickets from £12.50.
Until 9th February.
Gangnam Style and acid day at
the office considered a success

