MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
32
he aptly titled album ¡Dos!
is the second instalment
in the rapid-ﬁre trilogy
that Green Day now has
released. This album is
a bit less clean than ¡Uno!, playing to
a garage rock style vibe. Armstrong
went as far to describe this as a sec-
ond Foxboro Hot Tubs album. If you
have heard of the Foxboro Hot Tubs,
then you will know that they have a
raw musical style, which can be quite
easily applied to ¡Dos! as well. In fact
one of the songs ‘F*** Time’ is actually
originally a Foxboro Hot Tubs song.
¡Dos! was released roughly a month
after ¡Uno!, and one can clearly see
a link between the two. A fast paced
style, with strong power-chords and
a lack of ballads are common traits to
both albums. One can best describe
¡Dos! by being the music when you are
in full ﬂow of the party, while ¡Uno!
prepared you for the party. Thus it has
a bit more bite than before. Another
AMS album of the week
How many bands can say they have their
own posh burger named after them?
Dutch Uncles can, at least. The Godboy
Burger Flexxin Out In The Wilds Of The
Northern Quarter was created to hon-
our the release of their third album, Out
of Touch in the Wild. It’s a wonderfully
constructed album, albeit short, as I found
myself disappointed it had ended so early.
I really enjoy how Dutch Uncles manage to
take their eclectic influences and formu-
late them in such an unpretentious, easy to
listen to way. There’s none of those dodgy interludes, nor those rubbish slow
songs you always skip. It’s a treat for the ears, with a lot of interesting per-
cussion such as xylophones, vibraphones and marimbas adding to the jangly
pop vibe.
‘Pondage’ starts as a slow piano ballad-esque piece, until the familiar rhyth-
mic guitars kick in. Almost as soon as it comes, though, the song finishes. I
never had Dutch Uncles down as being such teases! In comes ‘Bellio’, an ini-
tial favourite of mine on first listen. Some of the more heavy synth usage can
be heard on this song, with a driven grumbly rhythm section to compliment.
The album’s first single, ‘Fester’, was released in November, with an abso-
lutely wonderful video made by director and photographer Isaac Eastgate,
who has also produced excellent videos for Django Django and Egyptian
Hip Hop. I urge you to check them all out as they’re some of the best videos
I’ve seen in ages.
Out of Touch in the Wild is upbeat, and a real pleasure to listen to. Odd time
signatures reminiscent of progressive rock still remain, with ‘Threads’ sound-
ing heavily influenced by the likes of King Crimson and Japan.
As far as the aesthetic of the album, something I particularly enjoyed was
the intriguing song names. All a bit weird and only one, two, three syllables
long, but they reflect the unity and flow of the album as a whole.
¡Dos! ¡Uno! ¡Tres!
Max Eggl reviews the second installment from Green Day
contrast between this album and the
other two of the trilogy, is the fact that
¡Dos! has 13 songs on it, instead of 12.
This last song to be added is a stun-
ning song in homage to Amy Wine-
house, which I will discuss later.
The only single released from this
album was ‘Stray Heart’. A great song,
which lives oﬀ the great bass and ad-
dictive lyrics, to say it simply, it’s a
great piece of music. Sadly, Arm-
strong’s trip to rehab due to substance
abuse cut short any kind of promo-
tional tours or opportunities to bring
this single as well as the album to as
many ears as possible. This may ex-
plain the relative sparse airplay this
song has received.
Just like the previous article on
¡Uno!, I will be dissecting the songs
that I feel that really deﬁne this album
and give it its character. The ﬁrst song
that really struck me when I ﬁrst lis-
tened to the album was ‘Lazy Bones’.
It starts oﬀ in a manner not usually
associated with Green Day, in fact the
song is not like their style. They own
the song though. The chords power
through you, and the lyrics “I’m too
tired to be bored. I’m too bored to be
tired” and strangely (as well as sadly)
seem to apply to my life. The whole
song is piercing and was my favourite
song for quite a while. The next song
that really seemed to talk to me was
‘Nightlife’. It features Lady Cobra of
the band Mystic Knights of the Co-
bra. Among all the high-powered
guitar chord based tracks of the other
pieces on the album, this song really
does stand out. Musically, it’s slower,
with a James Bond-esque bass line/
guitar riﬀ throughout the song, Lady
Cobra raps parts of her lyrics making
for an intriguing musical mix as well
as Armstrong’s vocals sounding as
if they came through a faulty micro-
phone, which adds to the aura of the
piece. This combination makes for a
very interesting song, which makes
listening to it a pleasure.
However the theme of the song is
also totally diﬀerent from the album,
if not the whole trilogy. The lyrics
are peppered with words like “devil”,
“blood” and “angel of death”. This re-
ally gives the impression of the char-
acter of Lady Cobra being “evil”, and
Armstrong’s a hap-
less drunk. The song
is much more heavy-
hearted compared to
the usual Green Day
fare. In fact the vibe is
so dark, that it aﬀects
the whole album, giv-
ing it a darker tinge
than ¡Uno! or ¡Tre!.
The last song on ¡Dos!
that I would like to talk
about is ‘Amy’. As men-
tioned before, it is an
homage to Amy Wine-
house, who passed
away in 2011. It is the
most emotional and
sincere song of the whole trilogy. A
simple chord progression, that would
sound amazing unplugged, as well as
really heartfelt lyrics make this song
an absolute masterpiece. It ends the
trilogy on a sad note, and yet I could
not imagine a better way to end ¡Dos!.
Please look up the song on YouTube or
something, as I promise you it really
will be worth your while.
¡Dos! may be a garage rock album,
yet the addition of Nightlife and Amy
add a little something special, and it
is this special touch that makes this
album worth listening to. Even with-
out those two, the other songs also
ﬂow nicely into each other, and would
make an good album on their own, if
a bit repetitive. If the album would be
only songs of that calibre, it would be a
absolutely stunning album worth 5/5.
However I found on the whole ¡Uno!
to be stronger and more enjoyable to
listen to, while ¡Dos! is a bit weak on
some songs. Thus I give this album
a 4/5. Like in my last article, I would
encourage any Green Day fan (in fact,
even if you are a music fan) to buy this
album, as there is enough good mate-
rial on it to make it worth your while.
UTR:HelmandTropaMacaca
Promoters and record label Upset
The Rhythm have really been having
a good run so far this year, throw-
ing the phenomenal Pete Swanson
(of Yellow Swans) and Mark Fell (of
SND) event last Monday, and last
night putting on a small show in The
Sebright Arms for hot-topic Helm
(on the hot-topic label PAN, which I
only recently realised is the same la-
bel that put out Sewer Election’s fan-
tastic Vidöppna Sår in 2010) and the
obscure Portuguese synth and guitar
duo Tropa Macaca.
This was the ﬁrst time I had ven-
tured to Bethnal Green, and I must
say, The Sebright Arms seems to be a
pretty cool venue. The large upstairs
is sadly full of standard East Lon-
don hipster types, but after winding
through some small staircases and
tight corridors you come to a tiny
dingy basement with a barely raised
stage; just the way I like it.
Helm, whose fantastic 2012 album
Impossible Symmetry was a high-
light of the year, opened proceedings
with his indeﬁnable noise-ambient-
drone crossover sounds. That’s about
as much of a pigeon holing as I can
really give it as this stuﬀ has to be
heard to be understood. Numerous
sound sources were pushed through
(surprisingly few, I thought) pedals
to produce soundscapes that var-
ied from rhythmic and somewhat
danceable to light noise, with crush-
ing drilling sounds that I particularly
appreciated. This was certainly my
highlight of the evening and any-
one interested in current experi-
mental music that doesn’t neatly
ﬁt in boxes should really make
an eﬀort to see Helm live (or
watch his live boiler room
set I guess).
Tropa Macaca were mas-
sively diﬀerent to what I
had expected from the one
incredibly lo-ﬁ recording I
had heard: Ectoplasma, re-
leased on Software, the la-
bel Oneohtrix Point Never
Ross Gray Music Editor curates. From my single listen to this
I was expecting a Roll The Dice style
set up, with two boﬃns and a modu-
lar synthesizer. Instead we were met
by a guitarist with a minimal pedal-
board alongside a keyboardist with
two keyboards and a fair amount of
pedals. Opinion was split on their
performance through our group: I
felt it wasn’t quite what I expected
– I really would have liked a denser
soundscape – which somewhat re-
duced my opinion, whilst my ﬂatmate
felt that they managed to successfully
incorporate a huge range of inﬂuenc-
es (ranging from Black Dice to free
jazz) to produce an unique sound.
Either way, it’s clear from the
fact that opinion was split that
both of these artists are strong
live performers. I look for-
ward to seeing Helm playing
live around his native Lon-
don and am interested in how
Tropa Macaca’s sound
will develop as they get
older and more expo-
sure.
Yasmin Malik
Dutch Uncles: Out of Touch in the Wild
T

