MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
33
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
A Doomy Night With Katatonia and Alcest
Following the release of their sumptu-
ous ninth album, Dead End Kings, the
Swedish doom metal quintet Katatonia
returned to London, for another even-
ing of great music and melancholia.
This time they were accompanied by
the French shoe-gazing concept band
Alcest and an American rock band,
called Junius. As a fan of both Katato-
nia and Alcest my expectations for this
show were high and, of course, I deﬁ-
nitely was not disappointed.
I was rather impressed by Junius;
their sound was intellectual, emotional
and as described by Rolling Stone as
“a perfect hybrid of Neurosis and The
Smiths.” What could be a more ap-
propriate choice to set the dispirited
tone of the evening? Their music had
power and was easy to listen to, but
I felt their songs lacked variety; each
one remaining too faithful to the same
‘slow and bleak’ formula. Having said
this, I thought that ‘Betray The Grave’
was a great song (and it has a stunning
music video). Unfortunately, Joseph
Martinez’s vocals lacked clarity as they
were being overwhelmed by the guitars
and drums (a problem also experienced
later by Alcest).
Next up were the dreamy Frenchmen.
Alcest never fail to create an atmos-
phere of pure calmness and tranquillity,
which could be felt as soon as they start-
ed playing the enchanting song ‘Autre
Temps’
. I was disappointed at how short
their set was, but at least this was made
up for by the setlist, which was mainly
composed of songs from their most
recent album Les Voyages De L’Âme.
This glorious masterpiece, released
in January 2012, is the most concept
abiding-oﬀering out of all their albums;
portraying the ‘fairy land’ of the warped
childhood memories of vocalist, Neige.
I am delighted to discover that not only
are Alcest working on their fourth al-
Jemma Pilcher Writer
bum, but this will feature the stunning
voice of Billie Lindahl, of Swedish band
Promise And The Monster, who I also
highly recommend.
Finally, Katatonia took to the stage,
opening with ‘The Parting’ from Dead
End Kings. This chilling song was per-
fectly complemented by the icy-white
backdrop, adorned with ﬂocks of black
birds taken from the album artwork. I
was surprised at how many songs from
this new album they played, yet from
what I could tell, that was a great deci-
sion, as it seemed to be well-received by
the crowd. Along with their new work,
they performed a varied selection from
their back catalogue. And, of course, no
Katatonia set would be complete with-
out those predictable classics ‘My Twin’
and ‘July’
. For me, the highlight of the
setlist was ‘Omerta’ from Viva Empti-
ness. This song is made beautiful by its
simplicity, but the lyrics are weighted by
a sense of foreboding darkness, as the
omerta has been broken. The song sud-
denly ends to depict an untimely death.
Jonas Renkse’s voice sounded as
strong and clear live as it does on re-
cord, which is impressive considering
that he has suﬀered from severe vocal
issues in the past. The music was tight
and it’s always great to see guitarists,
Anders Nyström and Per Eriksson, run-
ning around manically. Unfortunately,
Jonas was not blessed with charisma. I
would love to see him interacting with
the audience more, instead of shyly hid-
ing behind his limp, black hair.
It seems like a rare experience to
enjoy the entire line-up of a gig; I’ve
become so used to being subjected to
terrible support acts. From start to ﬁn-
ish, however, this show was incredible.
It was such a privilege to witness three
great bands, who have the ability to
move an audience with their beautiful
music. And now I’m very intrigued and
excited to see what they do next!
Fear in a Handful of Dust
Riaz Agahi reviews Hacker Farm’s new album, UHF
here is a scene in Fitzger-
ald’s novel The Great
Gatsby, where he de-
scribes a valley of ashes,
a wasteland in subur-
ban New York, full of dirt, decay,
ash, and poverty. If such a place
had a soundtrack, it would prob-
ably be Hacker Farm. Such is the
intimidating, disconcerting nature
of the soundscapes of this year’s al-
bum, UHF. Perhaps as a result of
this comparison, I can’t help but feel
that there is something very mod-
ernist about the atmosphere their
music creates. Their sound is a mix
of the very darkest elements of elec-
tronica (see the broken down beat of
‘Grinch’), noise and maybe a dash of
industrial. Unlike the valley of ashes,
this dystopian mix provides the cul-
tural backdrop of modern Britain,
self-styled ‘Broken Music for a Bro-
ken Britain’. ‘One, Six, Nein’ is one
example, with an almost punk-like
dissatisfaction with society reﬂected
in a sample. Unlike some punk and
many other merchants of a dystopian
sound, this leads them to new and
inventive ideas of music production.
While some may say there’s no
such thing as an original idea, it ap-
pears to me that Hacker Farm are
doing something truly revolutionary.
The Hacker Farm collective operates
out of a farm near Yeovil, but as al-
luded to before, doesn’t quite of-
fer the serenity some associate with
country life, but rather the poverty
and dissatisfaction that brews there.
My personal highlights include the
aforementioned moments, along
with a most depraved bassline on
‘Konrad’ and the foreboding rum-
ble that slowly builds up in ‘Engine
Room’.
Their musical ideals revolve
around stepping away from the mod-
ern world of computer production
and laptop sets to create something
truly cutting edge. They attempt to
return music to the physical world,
which is demonstrated by, for exam-
ple, giving out Rubick’s cubes which,
when solved, reveal a QR code lead-
ing to downloadable content. This
approach extends to their music,
where the sounds are made from
largely discarded materials, such as
housing speakers in a variety of unu-
sual places, from a bird-house to a
milk churn, giving them a range of
frequencies. In a way, it’s like a more
fully realised Holy Fuck, but they tru-
ly stand for something.
Behind the dystopian disgust, there
is a very real and positive message to
reuse and recycle rather than simply
replacing. Their music serves as a
warning to the consumerist society
we currently live in. While the main-
stream of music focuses on creat-
ing more disposable, artiﬁcial, more
slickly produced and unimaginative
hits, it’s nice to know that Hacker
Farm’s latest eﬀort, along with per-
haps Prinzhorn Dance School’s
Clay Class, may be one of the few al-
bums which truly give future genera-
tions a look into the despair, uncer-
tainty and turmoil of Britain during
the recession. Hacker Farm seem to
take it a step further though, oﬀering
a directive to their listeners. Since
this is a truly excellent sonic assault
on society’s bloated commercialism,
using equipment most of the target
audience view as rubbish, it’s hard to
really argue with them.
T

