FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
36 FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
The greatest manhunt in history
John Park Film Editor
A lot of nonsense, completely base-
less controversy and accusations
surround Kathryn Bigelow’s out-
standing, heart-thumping epic of
a procedural, Zero Dark Thirty. Bi-
gelow has managed to condense ten
years of complex, never-ending infor-
mation and events regarding the hunt
for Osama bin Laden into a mere
150-minute running time, whilst
keeping the pace healthy, suspense
high, and realism intact. Instead the
ﬁlm has generated, and continues to
storm up its ever-growing number of
detractors and haters, most of whom
haven’t even seen the ﬁlm, criticising
Bigelow’s portrayal of the use of tor-
ture sanctioned by the government
to gather intelligence. Anti-Obama
politicians who supposedly have
nothing better to do than to attack
an innocent ﬁlm, accuses the narra-
tive of showing political bias towards
the Obama administration. Further
proof this pathetic ilk never even
bothered to watch the ﬁlm, since
Obama is barely mentioned. Oh, and
did you know that Bigelow is now a
strong advocate for torturing and
abusing military captives? That Bi-
gelow had to go so far as to pen an
op-ed piece to defend herself and her
excellent ﬁlm is beyond absurd. In
fact one of the ﬁlm’s most distressing
parts is its opening, in which a com-
pletely blank, black screen is shown,
with a background audio feed of vari-
ous victims of the 9/11 attack in 2001.
This makes bin Laden the number
one target.
Bigelow bravely opens with a series
of scenes where a prisoner is beaten,
water-boarded, humiliated and quite
literally treated like a dog. Does this
promote torture? Of course not. If
anything, it strongly stands against
it. Again, if the politicians and pun-
dits had taken the time out of their
precious schedules to actually see the
ﬁlm, they would realise that. Plus the
whole point of the sequence is that
torture doesn’t lead to any substan-
tial, usable information. Worn down
and beaten to within an inch of his
life, Ammar (Reda Kateb) isn’t quite
inclined to give up his answers, and
his physical and mental deterioration
doesn’t exactly help with the process.
Uncomfortable in being a witness
to such brutal methods but stern
in her overall approach to the most
important investigation of her life is
Maya (Chastain), a CIA oﬃcer who
becomes the ﬁrst-hand operative in
hunting down the leader of Al Qaeda
starting all the way back in 2003. As
an initial freshman still coming to
grips with active ﬁeldwork in Paki-
stan, she isn’t the one in charge im-
mediately. But over the years and
with thorough observation, she be-
comes convinced of a single lead that
she believes will lead straight back
to bin Laden and his whereabouts.
Of course, it sounds too good to be
true, very few people are talking, and
very little support is shown from the
higher-ups. But she intelligently and
diligently marches on, pulling out all
the stops, gathering the appropriate
information, interrogating the long
list of suspects whilst also running
into trouble of her own.
The 2005 7/7 London bombings
and footage from the attack have
her more frustrated than ever, she
survives the 2008 Islamabad Marri-
ott Hotel bombing, she almost gets
gunned down by angry terrorists who
have made her their target, she loses
a close colleague in the 2009 Camp
Chapman attack due to bogus intel-
ligence from an unreliable source,
but she perseveres. As the ﬁlm pro-
gresses, as it jumps from one year to
the next, you see the impact these
dead-ends are having on Maya. It is
obvious to see that she is very much
alone – sure she has co-workers, very
talented and reliable ones. Jennifer
Ehle excels even in her relatively brief
role as the vibrant Jessica genuinely
concerned for Maya’s welfare, Jason
Clarke is the unﬂinching, rugged Dan
who leads a lot of the enhanced inter-
rogations, whose techniques Maya
even learns and employs herself when
times get tough. Dan also develops
into something more interesting in
the second half of the ﬁlm, suiting up
to work in Washington, closer to the
politics away from the frontline. But
ultimately we see her isolated, with
very little connection, if at all, to the
outside world, outside her oﬃce, as
she spends a decade looking for the
world’s most wanted man.
With someone like Chastain, who
has given so many versatile perfor-
mances over the last couple of years
that one can only look forward to
what comes next for this amazingly
gifted actress (up next is the Guiller-
mo del Toro-produced horror movie
Mama), the ﬁlm ﬁnds itself a strong
and conﬁdent leader, one who doesn’t
let anyone undermine her steely con-
viction. “I’m the motherfucker that
found this place, sir,” she says point-
blank to the Director of the CIA, a
coldly delivered line. A U.S. Navy
SEAL Team Leader (Joel Edgerton)
points to Maya, and cites “her conﬁ-
dence” as the reason why he believes
that bin Laden is hiding out in a sub-
urban compound in Abbottabad, Pa-
kistan. And by the time you reach the
ﬁnale, you will have every bit of faith
in Maya, with Chastain well deserv-
edly on her way to Oscar glory. “I’m
going to smoke everyone involved
in this op and then I’m going to kill
Osama bin Laden” is another classic
line of dialogue that will have you
cheering her on.
Closing the ﬁlm is the 30-min-
ute long action footage, seen mostly
through the eyes of the Navy SEALs
themselves with their hi-tech visual
kit, carrying out a relatively stealthy
assault on the compound. In an oper-
ation like this, there cannot be neat,
tidy camera angles or loud, big-scale
shootings, which is exactly what is
done here, with hardly any use of a
music score, purely relying on what
is shown on the screen, nothing less,
nothing more.
For a ﬁlm with an ending we all
know well, and a lengthy, wordy pro-
cess that comes before it, Bigelow has
managed to create an insanely sus-
penseful piece of work with height-
ened realism and her focus in all the
right places. Perhaps adding to the
fascination and interest is the actual
detail of how everything unfolded,
and the little strands here and there
that made all of this possible. So bin
Laden was killed, but what were the
actual events that came before that?
And that is where Bigelow’s keen
eye for speciﬁc facts becomes handy.
Zero Dark Thirty is as much about
bin Laden as it is about Maya, and the
plot revolves around the one woman’s
quest to bring down the villain. It’s
about the eﬀect this manhunt has on
her, her moral compass, her world,
and her relentless passion for doing
what she deems right. As for the neg-
ative attacks, one can only hope they
work as free publicity for the ﬁlm in
general.
Zero Dark Thirty
Director: Kathryn Bigelow
Screenwriter: Mark Boal
Starring: Jessica Chastain, Jason
Clarke, Jennifer Ehle, Kyle Chandler,
Mark Strong, Joel Edgerton
Bin Laden? Bitch, please...

