No vampires or zombies in this one
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
37
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
John Park Film Editor
Lincoln
Director: Steven Spielberg
Screenwriters: Tony Kushner, Doris
Kearns Goodwin (book)
Starring: Daniel Day-Lewis, Sally
Field, Tommy Lee Jones, David
Strathairn, Hal Holbrook, Lee Pace,
Joseph Gordon-Levitt
It’s a story we all think we know so
well. Abraham Lincoln, the 16th
President of the United States, abol-
ished slavery. Yay, he’s a hero and
hurrah for Lincoln who remains an
American icon. But Steven Spielberg
is here to tell us that it wasn’t a simple
task by any means. Passing the 13th
Amendment in the last few months
of his Presidency, Lincoln achieved a
milestone in American politics ban-
ning slavery outright – that’s the end
result. But what came beforehand
was a whole heap of ups and downs
that threatened its smooth course.
For international audiences not fa-
miliar with the details and intrica-
cies of the event, Lincoln can seem a
daunting, information-heavy movie
experience. But here is a ﬁlm so well
crafted, cleverly written and bril-
liantly acted that it forms as much as
it entertains. Essentially this is a ﬁlm
where we see a lot of talking, between
important individuals behind closed
doors, but how Spielberg keeps every
single minute of it all so fascinating is
a real wonder.
One of the best, most deservingly
respected and admitted actors of our
generation, Daniel Day-Lewis, steps
into the role of Lincoln. And it’s in
his cool, digniﬁed and surprisingly
witty interpretation of the character
that we are immediately drawn into
the drama of his tumultuous months.
Delicately ﬁnding the balance be-
tween the many diﬀerent aspects of
his role, his leadership position as
the President of his nation, as well
as the more private, family-oriented
side as a husband and grieving fa-
ther, Day-Lewis once again shows
there is virtually no limit as to what
he can achieve. His performance is a
deeply moving and aﬀecting one, in
his tight, rigid, tall frame, with his
soft-spoken, eloquent voice, drifting
from one scene to another, always
grounded, concentrating in his many
thoughts, and yet remaining entirely
accessible to everyone watching him.
Politics has never been this excit-
ing or gripping, and courtroom-style
scenes have never been this over-
whelmingly fun to watch. Of course,
when Lincoln proposes this Amend-
ment, there is as much support as
there is harsh criticism. Within his
own Republican Party, Lincoln man-
ages to secure enough support, mostly
thanks to Francis Preston Blair (Hol-
brook), a highly inﬂuential member
who can guarantee support from the
conservative Republicans. The catch
with Blair is that he’s keen to start the
peace talks between the Union and
the Confederacy, hoping to end the
Civil War that is destroying Ameri-
ca. Peace is never a bad thing, espe-
cially when so many lives have been
lost, but complicating matters is that
Lincoln will no doubt lose a certain
level of support for the Amendment
should the War end before it is actu-
ally passed. If there is a real chance
the War will end without this new
Amendment passing, a lot of people
will just not bother. This puts Lincoln
in a precarious position of having to
hold oﬀ on the peace talks as long as
possible, whilst getting a move on
with gathering enough votes.
Unafraid to voice their opposing
views is the Democratic Party, led
by Congressman Fernando Wood
(Pace) who is vehemently against
these changes. End of slavery would
inevitably lead to racial equality, and
this is something even most mem-
bers in the United States House of
Representatives (all white) aren’t will-
ing to accept. So Lincoln must again
walk a ﬁne line between pushing his
anti-slavery agenda whilst keeping it
clearly separate from further racial
issues. Another hiccup here – a vocal
supporter for the Amendment, Radi-
cal Republican Congressional leader
Thaddeus Stevens (Jones), again quite
the inﬂuential man in the govern-
ment, is a staunch supporter of racial
equality. If this Amendment has any
chance of passing, Stevens needs to
keep a lid on his enthusiastic views,
to not lose anyone already on board.
Having to win with a majority, it’s
not enough just to have the backing
of his own party. He needs to con-
vince the Democrats, and in order
to do so he needs to step into the
rather dirty pool of politics – quietly
promising federal jobs to persuadable
Democrats for their votes. And so be-
gins some intense lobbying, headed
by William N. Bilbo (James Spader)
and his fellow lobbyists Richard
Schell (Tim Blake Nelson) and Robert
Latham (John Hawkes). A lot of com-
edy ensues here, as not all of their at-
tempts are entirely successful. Who
says a two-and-a-half-hour-long po-
litical drama can’t be funny?
And it’s not just the politics keep-
ing Lincoln busy: his family life is
also given its share of meaty run-
ning time. His wife, Mary Todd (Sally
Field), often suﬀering from terrible
migraines and still reeling from the
loss of their son, provides support
although she herself sometimes re-
quires some hand-holding of her
own. More so when their eldest son,
Robert Todd (Gordon-Levitt), upon
returning home from his studies at
Harvard Law School, announces that
he wants to join the ﬁght in the Civil
War. Abraham respects his grown
son’s wishes, almost appearing un-
interested, whereas Mary Todd, at
the thought of losing another one of
her children, cannot believe her hus-
band’s shockingly relaxed response.
Already emotionally unstable, this
pushes Mary over the edge, leading to
a heated argument between the cou-
ple, which provides one of the ﬁlm’s
ﬁnest scenes in which these two out-
standing actors have at it with their
built-up ﬁery emotions.
Spielberg reportedly spent almost
twelve years in preparation for this
movie, and it shows in his meticulous
structure and authentic-looking sets,
as well as the general atmosphere he
places his actors into. Everywhere is
appropriately dampened down with
wooden furniture, smoke-ﬁlled and,
when required, in complete and ut-
ter chaos, most notably in the House
of Representatives, where hot-headed
individuals mouth oﬀ and start at-
tacking one another. There are plenty
of elaborate set decorations and de-
signs to marvel at, and the technical
achievements are extremely vast.
There are lots of facts to be relayed
to the audience – everything needs to
ultimately make sense, and we must
understand why various characters
are doing what, with what intentions.
And nothing could be made clearer in
Tony Kushner’s script. It is immedi-
ately clear that Lincoln had to go to
great lengths to gain enough support,
perhaps venturing into places he may
not have been most comfortable with.
Heatedly arguing, smartly bribing,
calmly persuading, raising his voice
(although very rarely), he’s had to do
it all, and the many fragile complexi-
ties that could either make or break
the ambitious plan are told to us in a
very logical step-by-step manner that
all the dense material is told compe-
tently, whilst not confusing the hell
out of anyone.
Then there is the cast – the phe-
nomenal cast in roles both big and
small who shine in every supporting
part there is. Sally Field is typically
strong, sturdy and feisty, Tommy Lee
Jones has a lot of fun arguing his way
against his opposing party (both ac-
tors thoroughly deserving their Best
Supporting Oscar nominations) and
Lee Pace provides the healthy op-
ponent. Another stand-out is David
Strathairn, as Secretary of State Wil-
liam H. Seward, a loyal friend and
trusted advisor to the President, who
stands by him as Lincoln faces one
of the toughest, most unpredictable
times of his Presidency.
What an incredible feat Spielberg
has accomplished here – it’s a ﬁlm
that is both intelligent and wholly
comprehensible, an utterly enjoyable
experience from start to ﬁnish, based
on the unlikeliest subject matter.
Don’t like this review?
Write your own!
film@imperial.ac.uk
When will top
hats come back in?
What do you
mean the Library
is closed on
Friday nights?

