NEWS
4 FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
Student makes racism complaint to College
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The paradox of Paragon: Imperial
students pay more for the same halls
Stage 3 of the Complaints Procedure.”
Due to the diﬀerences between com-
plaints, it is sometimes unclear in the
College Ordinances (the documents
that govern how College must be run)
exactly what stage the complaint is at.
It seems as though the complaint has
not reached Stage 3, the ﬁnal stage, yet.
The student noted that Terry Branch
and the oﬃcers who stopped him be-
haved very professionally.
In the letter to College the student
highlighted the reason for being upset.
“I ﬁnd it incredibly stressing, especially
at this point in the term, that I can in-
vest loads into a University and have
folks think I do not belong, especially
when I am using a public space for
University students!”.
The incident started with the student
going about their normal routine. In
the letter to College this is explained
as “I entered the Alexander Flemming
building and brieﬂy stepped into the
medic’s student union to heat up my
food as I have done daily for the term.
Imperial College London students
are paying more for the same room
in the same halls than students from
two other London universities. Fresh-
ers from Imperial pay £155 per week
for a room in Paragon. Students from
West Thames College London (West
Thames) and University of West Lon-
don (UWL) both pay £133.55 a week.
When questioned, College gave mul-
tiple reasons to Felix to explain the dis-
crepancy.
The students from the two other
universities have a 44 week contract,
whereas the Imperial students have a 39
week contract. This means that overall
Imperial students pay a total of £6045,
which is £168.80 over the total paid by
the other students. However, at the 39
week mark the Imperial student has
paid £836.55 more than the students
from West Thames and UWL. The ﬁg-
ures were shown to Felix after a Union
employee looked into the matter.
Felix contacted Paul Noke, Head of
Residential Services and GradPad, to
explain the discrepancy in cost. He said
that “College is, in fact, subsidising to
bring the weekly rent in at £155 per
week for our students”
.
Noke told Felix that there were many
reasons for the price being as it is.
He stated that they had to “negotiate
quickly” with providers due to the deci-
sion by College to refurbish and rede-
velop Wilson House being “fairly late”;
a refurbishement that left hall seniors,
sub wardens and wardens in limbo as
to their living arrangements. Noke said
that the decision by College “didn’t
leave us with very much time to get an
alternative option online ready for the
UG accommodation application pro-
cess early last summer”
. He also noted
further delays saying :“We looked at a
number of sites and our preferred op-
tion was actually in Elephant & Castle
(in zone 1, not too far from Xenia in
Waterloo) which would have allowed
us to keep all of our students under one
roof with one Wardening team (and
possibly some of our own staﬀ) at more
aﬀordable rents.” The option was dis-
missed as a number of those in College
and the Union were uncomfortable
with Imperial freshers being located in
Elephant & Castle.
Noke stated that the length of the
contract that College wanted (39 rather
than 44 weeks) was a contributing fac-
tor to the increased rent saying “the
College had to pay a slightly higher rate
to secure the rooms for Imperial Col-
lege students.”
Wardening increased the cost but
was considered “vitally important to
the welfare of our students”
. The team’s
costs were initially thought to have
been from the welfare budget, however
this was denied by Noke saying “the
costs... are not being covered by the
welfare budget this year”
.
Noke added that the College also
“pay a small contribution to allow our
students access to the UWL shuttle
busses between 7am–8pm each week-
day”
. This is to South Ealing, on the Pic-
adilly line in Zone 2 and is for students
to travel in to College.
Paragon is a temporary halls that
is being used by Imperial this year to
house some freshers, it has also been
used to house freshers before – an ex-
ample of this is in 2008 when the Col-
lege was oversubscribed. Noke said
that the decision to house students
there was because “the facilities and
services had been ‘tried and tested’”
. It is
in Brentford, which is a long way from
the main South Kensington campus.
There are 839 rooms in Paragon, which
is owned and managed by Notting Hill
Housing Trust. There is an agreement
with UWL, which means that they
must give their blessing for rooms to be
released to other parties, such as Impe-
rial. West Thames College have a long-
standing agreement to use some of the
rooms for exactly the same terms and
rates as UWL.
Wilson House redevelopment was
granted planning permission on 6 No-
vember 2012, and Noke told Felix that
they will re-open it for the 2013-14 in-
take.
A black student has raised a complaint
of racism after being asked to show
identiﬁcation by security oﬃcers fol-
lowing a call made to College by a
member of staﬀ who thought the stu-
dent may not be a member of Imperial.
The complaint was raised near the
end of last term, and to Felix’s knowl-
edge the student has not received a re-
ply to the letter he send via email – it
is now over 6 weeks since the original
complaint was raised. The student
said: “It has now been over a month
and I have not heard from anyone.
Clearly this matter is not being taken
seriously.”
The student was asked to show iden-
tiﬁcation, and believes that the reason
that they were picked out as not be-
longing to the university was due to
their skin colour.
Felix contacted Terry Branch, Head
of Security, who gave the following
statement: “Given how accessible parts
of the Campus are to members of the
public, the Security team routinely ask
to check staﬀ and students’ College ID
cards in restricted areas as part of their
duties. On this occasion, security oﬃc-
ers responded to a call from a member
of staﬀ who had seen someone she
didn’t recognise in her building. The
staﬀ member was on alert for people
she didn’t know following a number
of thefts in the building recently. As is
routine following a call like this, secu-
rity attended, checked the individual’s
ID card and apologised for any incon-
venience caused. The complaints pro-
cedure isn’t managed by our team so I
can’t advise on this.”
Felix also contacted Denis Wright,
Dean of Students, who conﬁrmed that
he was aware of the complaint. He
said: “Security have discussed this with
[the student]. If the student has made a
formal complaint and it is not resolved
at the initial stages it will come to me to
consider together with the Academic at
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
Lizzy Griffiths
I noticed, however the room was be-
ing set up for interviews, so I was
more prompt than usual in using the
microwave and ate outside the medic’s
union in the common cafeteria since
the medic’s union was soon to be oc-
cupied. After having my lunch I re-
entered my home department’s lounge
(Skempton building) waiting for my
afternoon lectures to begin.” At this
point the student was stopped by two
Oﬃcers and asked to show identiﬁca-
tion. At the time the student was with a
group of peers who were all white and
European. In the letter, the student
said: “I even considered the way I was
dressed and concluded it did not draw
unnecessary attention to me”.
In the letter, the student also ex-
pressed dismay at how diﬃcult the
procedures in place were, saying: “I feel
it is unfair Imperial College of London
with all of its accolades require that I
see multiple personnel, set up number
of appointments and wait an undeter-
mined amount of time for someone
who might be able to aﬀect change see
me. As I write this, I am missing lec-
tures because of the message our policy
sends not only to me, but to my peers
and anyone who may be randomly vis-
iting: if you do not look like us, you are
subject to harassment. I do not know
how many others in our community
have been negatively impacted by our
policy.” The letter ﬁnished with: “Such
negative impact may lead to Alumni
not wanting to donate or volunteer
with Imperial at all after their time is
done. I urge you to consider making a
change. I have not oﬀered a solution,
but have only stated the problem. My
job as a student is to be a student. I
believe the solution should come from
Staﬀ and Administration.”
The student did not wish to be named.
However, they asked for a note at the
end saying that if anyone has been af-
fected by a similar issue contact Felix
(felix@imperial.ac.uk) to be put in
touch.

