Take us to your editor
Ross Webster isreadyfortheprobing
ssuming that it’s not just
your mothers that read
Felix, you’ll probably
be aware of the simula-
tor surplus that has hit
the Felix oﬃce. Well, Excalibur Pub-
lishing (those lovely folk who send us
these games) also publish real games.
Sorry if I sound condescending to you
hardcore sim-junkies (you know who
you are, and I’m putting a padlock on
the games chest), but these are ac-
tual games. (Let’s ignore the fact that
Farming Simulator 2013 was the best
selling game on Steam last week.)
With a title like The Unstoppable Gorg,
this game was either going to be one of
two things – terrible or awesome (or I
guess the third option is that no-one in
the oﬃce knows how to spell George).
Thankfully, it’s the latter of the two
real options. Much like Dredd 3D, The
Unstoppable Gorg ended up with good
reviews but few people went to see
or play it when it was new. A segue, I
know, but I need to spread the good
word, as a sworn-in member of the
Disciples of Dredd.
TUG (as it forever shall be known)
is a tower defence game with a nice
change – you can move your towers.
You’re in charge of defending a variety
of planets from B-movie-style aliens
(you know, the ones wrapped in tin
foil, ﬂying in ships made of cardboard
boxes and held aloft by string), and you
can place a variety of satellites (read:
towers) to stop the invaders.
So, being in orbit, you can move
your satellites around to cover the new
route of attack. It’s balanced out by the
fact that the aliens can attack from any
angle, so it’s a little harder than it ﬁrst
seems. The earlier missions feel like
your run-of-the-mill tower defence,
but quite soon you’re having to alter-
nate between dragging your satellites
into range of the UFOs, and away from
enemy ﬁre.
Some tower defence games, such as
Revenge of the Titans, keep your re-
search/upgrade choices throughout
the cam-
paign, which
can be a bit of a
pain, when you realise
you’ve been barking up the wrong
(research) tree, for the last ﬁve mis-
sions, because the whole thing is con-
fusing. TUG makes you work for your
rather simple upgrade points – they
aren’t handed out like some sort of in-
tergalactic candy – instead you’ll need
to place research stations around your
planet to ﬁll up your research bar. If
the mission ﬁnishes and the bar is full,
you get the medal and the point, to use
as you wish. Finish all of the missions
objectives (i.e. none of your satellites
are destroyed) and you’ll unlock the
mission for the challenge mode.
The well-balanced diﬃculty modes
will keep you playing for a long time,
and it’s not too gimmicky to bore you
before you ﬁnish.
Unusually for a tower defence game,
the cut-scenes are really fun to watch
and actually bring something to the
game. It adds a sense of 50’s immer-
sion, akin to Fallout 3 & New Vegas. I’d
heartily recommend this game to any-
one who’s interested in tower defence
games.
Well, now that’s over. Let the prob-
ing begin.
A
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
42
A bit that will really drive you a long way
Hah – you thought that you would es-
cape my zombie fanaticissm this week,
but you haven’t! This week’s selection
is Zombie Driver, the spiritual sequel to
Zombie Chauﬀeur, the game adaptation
of the BAFTA winning Driving Miss
Zombie.
Disappointingly, your exploits are
not narrated by Morgan Freeman as
you crush zombies under your wheels,
but hey, I expect he was too busy re-
cording the voice of Gordon Freeman
for Half Life 3. Oh wait, there was an
NDA about that. Oh well.
Sooo... Zombie Driver? Another
game from Excalibur Publishing, but
unlike Zombie Chauﬀer, you’re not a
sauve, rotten corpse, taking custom-
ers to their BDSM parties, but instead
your job is to drive around a zombie-
infested city.
Your goal? To rescue school kids,
drunken sailors, paramedics, engi-
neers, etc from the zombies in the
street. The city is completely open
plan, so you can drive anywhere you
want at any time you want, spend-
ing your time shooting zombies with
machine guns strapped to your cars,
immolating them with ﬂamethrow-
ers, and adding their ﬂesh to your ra-
diator with the nitro boost. As a slight
note, the survivors can get eaten by the
awaiting horde if you take too long, so
don’t enjoy the scenery too much.
As you progress through the ‘sto-
ry’ you earn more and more money,
through cash bundles throughout the
city, kill streaks, destruction of prop-
erty and completing objectives. Each
mission has a primary and secondary
objective, for example a primary mis-
sion would be “Rescue 4 paramedics”
,
and the secondary would be “Rescue all
6 paramedics”
.
Well. this can be a bit of a dilem-
ma, as your original car was not once
owned by a clown, and has a limited
capacity for bodies. As you complete
more missions and more extra objec-
tives, you unlock new weapons, up-
grades and vehicles. The taxi, in which
you start, has a moderate capacity for 4
passengers, and has okay stats (speed,
damage resistance and ability to keep
your inertia as you plough through the
zombies). Soon after, you can unlock
the white limo – slower and tougher
than the taxi, but with a capcity of 6, so
for a bunch of missions, you might not
have to return to base in the middle, to
drop oﬀ the ﬁrst survivors.
Money might seem to be a problem,
but once you’ve picked up your sur-
vivors, you can drive around the city,
without a timer. As such, you could
Ross Webster Oh God, it’s Candlej-
The Unstoppable Gorg
possibly gather a horrendously large
pile of money that would put a dent in
US debt. See, I managed to throw poli-
tics into this week’s games.
The graphics for the game are actu-
ally quite good, but we’ve found a few
people who get motion sickness from
the game. I’m assuming that this is a VS-
ync (or rather a lack of VSync) issue, as
the game can move quite fast at times.
I’d recommend a decent computer if
you want nice visuals, without the barf
bag. For those of you who don’t know
what VSync is, it’s nothing to do with ‘N
Sync. That would be horrible.
In-game sounds are ﬁne (it’s hard to
go wrong with groaning, and screeching
tires) but the voice acting leaves quite a
bit to be desired, but hey, that’s probably
not why you bought the game.
So, if you can ﬁnd this game any-
where, I’d pick it up, as it’s a feel-good,
endorphin pumping game, that requires
little thought, but is still kinda tricky to
pull oﬀ perfectly.
Until next week, it’s bye bye bye from
the Games team! (FYI, I made up the
Zombie Chauﬀeur thing. And I’m a spy.)
Turn it off, TURN IT OFF!
Now that’s just cheating.
Imagine a mixture of Sins of
a Solar Empire, and this...

