Issue 1537
SPORT
Wolverine 1s Smashed by 2s
Steve Ndumbe Dodgeball President
Felix Sport learns of the strange goings on at IC Dodgeball...
On Sunday 13th January, the Wol-
verines set oﬀ for Essex with 3 teams
ready to hit their ﬁrst tournament of
2013 in force. In a ﬁrst in the club’s
history, there were no delays in set-
ting oﬀ, nor incidents on the way
there (minus Scott Esnouf’s typical
minibus stalling, mind).
The day started oﬀ with a shock re-
sult, as the Imperial 2nds wiped the
ﬂoor with one of the best teams in the
country and the club’s newest rivals,
The Meteors. The 2nds had achieved
what the 1sts had failed to do in their
previous 4 encounters against The
Meteors; was this a sign of things to
come? Aided by the insane throws
of Jan Kosco, coaxed out of dodge-
ball retirement with a “particularly
lawyer-ish Facebook message” and
Zain Abbas’s tremendous catching –
reaching the club record of 4 catches
in one game – the 2nds triumphed
4-1 and ended up progressing to
the quarter ﬁnals at the top of their
group.
Due to one of the clubs pulling out
at the last minute, the 1sts had to play
the UCL Pumas twice in the group
stages. Rest assured the inferior uni-
versity team was duly beaten not only
by the 1sts twice, but also by the 2nds
in the quarter ﬁnal. The 1st team then
faced The Meteors in the quarter-ﬁ-
nal. Fuelled with the conﬁdence that
if their 2nd team could beat The Me-
teors, then surely they could too, the
1sts eventually managed to progress
to the semi-ﬁnals, thanks to some
solid catching from Edmund Teo.
The Imperial 3rd team were un-
luckily in a group of top tier teams,
unfortunately losing all three of their
matches against strong opposition.
However, they showed impressive
perseverance through the group
stages, even if Scott Esnouf decided
it would be a good idea to tell them
a few days before that they were ba-
sically screwed. Their ﬁnal match of
the day, the positional play-oﬀ was
against a new team called “The Spe-
cial Bus”, appropriately dressed in
pyjamas. This match served two pur-
poses: the ﬁrst was to show how peer
pressure can easily aﬀect the referee’s
decision. In one of the games, despite
the ﬁnal opposing player being clear-
ly hit on the foot, repeated calls from
the ever-growing crowd (including
that of the Imperial 1st and 2nd team)
that “it bounced” caused the referee
to simply allow play to continue. The
second was to show how bad the 3rd
team are at ‘suicide’ throws. Nota-
bly pitiful attempts included Kunal
Sharma literally walking through the
deadzone area in the middle of the
court, and Iacopo Russo getting good
elevation in a jump, and then failing
to displace the ball further than a few
inches from himself. Their eﬀorts
were initially so bad that in the penul-
timate game all 6 players suicided and
all 6 players missed, causing them to
concede that game (admittedly this
was the same game that the crowd
decided they would referee instead,
but let’s skip over that). Thankfully
Cyprien de Saint Guilhem sorted out
a half-decent technique, and ﬁnally
pulled oﬀ a successful suicide in the
next game to end their day.
Both the 1sts and the 2nds lost
their semi-ﬁnal matches, and so the
ﬁnal match of the day for the Wol-
verines Club was the 3rd/4th play-
oﬀ between the 1sts and the 2nds.
This was easily the most anticipated
matchup of the day, as this was the
ﬁrst time the two teams had ever
met in a tournament before. Previous
friendly matches in training had seen
the 2nds put up a strong ﬁght against
the 1sts; even then, no one could have
predicted how strong the ﬁght they
would be putting up this time. Even
Thomas Delteil, who had gotten so
bored with the day’s proceedings that
he decided to crack out some classic
French literature, was enthralled at
what happened next.
It all started with a simple catch
from Nuno Cunha, eﬀortlessly silenc-
ing Steve Ndumbe’s eﬀorts to take
him out. This was swiftly followed by
Will Robinson’s cries of “shit shit shit”
as Jan Kosco unleashed a blistering
throw in his direction. Despite this,
the 1sts went 2-0 up, only needing
one more game to secure the Bronze
medal. However, the 2nd team then
took the next two games to make it
2-2, helped with some strong words
of encouragement from ex-2nd team
Vice-Captain Zain Abbas, and top-
class leadership from 2nd team Cap-
tain Justin Ioanna. What happened in
the ﬁnal game can only be described
as magical. More speciﬁcally, James
Strang’s mid-air mid-court catch of
Thomas Peake, easily the pivotal mo-
ment in the whole match, could only
be described as awe-inspiring. It was
then and only then that the 1sts knew
they had been beaten. Despite last-
gasp eﬀorts from Steve Ndumbe and
Scott Esnouf to bring the game back,
the 2nds eventually picked oﬀ all
six fellow club members, with some
strong throwing from Kennard Seah,
to secure their ﬁrst ever Bronze med-
al in an Open tournament.
Man of the tournament for the 3rds
was a draw between Iacopo Russo
and Digant Tyagi for their superb
catching. Man of the tournament for
the 2nds, and easily for all 3 teams
was Jan Kosco, whose fearsome
throwing capabilities had been sorely
missed. There was no similar vote for
the 1st team, but it probably wouldn’t
have gone to Alan Soltani for spend-
ing 20 minutes almost crying in the
shower after the fatal loss, or to Scott
Esnouf for coming up with every ex-
cuse under the sun as to the unbeliev-
able result.
And as much as I would love to re-
write this report and claim that the
1sts beat the 2nds after all, I daresay
Thomas Bell’s thorough documen-
tation of the day via the Imperial
Wolverines Twitter account would
easily hamper my eﬀorts. After all,
#thebesttruthisanembellishedone.
Not even Zain and Nuno could save the day for the 1’s....
*Send us a different picture dodgeball!
No medals for Steve.
“Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
25/01/13
@SportFelix

