NEWS
7
FRIDAY 25 JANUARY
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
•A special offer for Imperial students
from Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (DSA)
Accredited Instructor
•Mock Test Examiner
5 Driving Lessons for
£95
"Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test. He is
always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London and his
knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons more than
worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer cheaper lessons to
Imperial students and with the backing of other students I am more than happy to
support him."
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
Free Mock Test from
retired Driving Examiner
"I learned to drive in one of the busiest cities in the world. I passed first time. Would I
recommend Denis? Without hesitation."
- Leon Vanstone, Aeronautical Engineering
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The “Brian Cox Effect”
This year “Brian Cox Eﬀect” is once
again being hailed as the factor re-
sponsible for the number of applica-
tions to physics degrees continuing
to buck falling national trends seen in
the majority of subjects. Manchester
University, academic home of Profes-
sor Cox, seems to agree that the sci-
ence populariser is at least partially
responsible, as internal surveying of
their students suggests.
By the start of 2012 the application
count for physics degrees has had a
50% increase compared to 8 years ago
and estimates show that this rise con-
tinues even against the backdrop of
falling numbers of university appli-
cants. Many people, including prom-
inent academics and public ﬁgures,
attribute this to the rise in popularity
of Brian Cox. Professor Peter Main
of the Institute of Physics agrees with
this assessment, saying that Brian
Cox “demystiﬁes” physics.
Speaking to The Telegraph last
week, he said, “About 10 years ago…
people used to say ‘If only we could
get a face of physics’ like David At-
tenborough for biology”.
Manchester University’s own phys-
ics course has increased in popular-
ity with last year’s ﬁgures breaking
through the 1000 ﬁgure in 2012,
compared to 850 in 2009. We have
learned from a Manchester physics
student that this led to an internal
survey being sent to all 1st year phys-
ics undergraduates. The students
were asked whether Brian Cox had
aﬀected their decision in applying
to the university. The responses may
have been signiﬁcant in the deci-
sion to assign the Quantum Phys-
ics course for this year’s students to
Brian Cox.
Manchester is also capitalising on
its position by being the ﬁrst Univer-
sity to include two A*s in the entry
requirements for Physics degrees.
There are of course other reasons
mooted for the increase in physics
applications, and plausible to sug-
gest that Brian Cox’s popularity may
be the eﬀect, rather than the cause,
of a renewed interest in physics. Prof
Sir Peter Knight, president of the In-
stitute of Physics, has even discussed
Niall Jeffrey Reporter
contributing factors such as geek-
chic and The Big Bang Theory.
Unfortunately for Imperial stu-
dents, if we want a Brian Cox for our-
selves we will have to get our own,
as the man himself has on multiple
occasions declared his love of Man-
chester and his reluctance to leave.
Of course you’ll apply
to Manchester with
those “come hither”
eyes. Touch my
hadron now Brian

