10 felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
COMMENT
I’m excited. Now calm down, there’s
no need for the hose yet. As a second
year, I have recently moved in with
some lazy, messy and slightly anaemic
individuals. They are otherwise known
as housemates and they are kings
among men.
We’re still very much in the honey-
moon period. The green shoots of de-
mocracy as everyone is assigned a shelf
in the fridge. The beloved selection of
a stiff Caerphilly cheese from the dairy
aisle in Sainsburys. The furious wrath
at waking to find a discarded wrapper
and nothing more, with the obliga-
tory witch-hunt. Secretly identifying
the culprit and the furtive thrill of re-
venge; drinking the last of their milk
in the middle of the night – and the
cold sweat of terror as you realise that
wasn’t milk at all and had no business
in the fridge to start with. It’s a verita-
ble cornucopia of emotion.
But in addition to these strange faces
that I must get used to outside the so-
ber light of day, there is one other oc-
cupant of the house. One that I couldn’t
be happier to be sharing a room with.
His name is Plant. He is a houseplant.
I first met Plant in the gardening sec-
tion at the B&Q back home, so, like
me, he’s a true Welshman. Admittedly,
he’ll never play rugby in the Six Na-
tions but he has a quiet charm. Plant
sits at a mighty half-metre tall, in his
white melamine pot, his endearingly
droopy leaves a sign of his relaxed,
open nature.
What I like about Plant is that he
doesn’t judge. I can come home in
the foulest of moods, vent at him to
geothermal proportions, practically
screaming. And when I finish, lungs
bleeding, he just nods along with the
air conditioning. Others might mistake
him as blasé or apathetic, but they miss
the warm glow of gentle sympathy that
suffuses the room afterwards.
In Plant’s opinion, my life is very
complicated. And it’s not hard to see
why; university, lectures, medicine,
food, rent, bills, friends, keeping fit,
eating healthy, sleep and – here it gets
really complicated – girls. And, of
course, the general head-scratchings of
life, the universe and everything. It’s as
knotty as a pair of snakes, just married,
honeymooning in a box of Christmas
lights. Although, in fairness, Plant finds
anything with legs complicated. Move-
ment? – He baulks – ‘Tis madness! So
I have his pity. Plant is a simple thing,
with simple pleasures. Recumbent in
his plastic palace, he is free to spend
the day musing over matters that really
matter, like “Why is water wet?”
But Plant is more than just a stem
to cry on after a bad day. On the occa-
sions that I am caught studying in my
room, Plant is a fine conversationalist
to help those long hours fly by. He of-
ten tries to engage me by discussing his
latest philosophical ponderings but my
feeble human mind can barely keep up
with him at the best of times, let alone
when it’s trying to focus on adrenocep-
tors and cerebral arteries. We also have
a good chat every week when I decide
to water him. More often than not,
we end up talking about the weather,
which we both have a vested interest
in.
What’s more, as a housemate, Plant
is exemplary. Unlike some, he never
contemplates kitchen theft and skul-
duggery; he is always swift and ef-
ficient in the bathroom, and doesn’t
leave potting soil in the bottom of the
shower; and he is always on time with
the rent. I don’t ask where he gets the
money from – some things are best left
unknown.
You might be wondering by now, due
to my hagiographic prose, why I didn’t
just move into a greenhouse? Valid
question, and I must admit, though
Plant is an outstanding individual and
a true friend, he is still a houseplant.
Now, don’t mistake me for some kind
of bigot. I’m the last person to judge
someone based on the colour of their
stem. But Plant is a plant, and I am –
contrary to popular belief – a man.
Our friendship may have done much
to strengthen plant-human relations
but there are some differences that are
too vast to be bridged by goodwill and
MiracleGro.
The lack of opposable thumbs poses
a particular problem. Though I enjoy
the alien sensation of winning at Halo,
it is a hollow victory. Plant holds lit-
tle interest in video games, or in going
out. It’s as if he were rooted to the spot.
It’s a real shame because he does ap-
preciate a good pint of Guinness. But
these are relatively minor complaints
that I can ignore most of the time...
...But when he gets drunk, he does
like to spoon.
RhysDaviesliveswithaplant...Weird?
“In Plant’s opinion,
my life is very
complicated. And
it’s not hard to see
why; university,
lectures, medicine,
food, rent...”
I
LIKE ROUGH SEX. Yes I bet
I’ve got your attention now. If
you are stupid enough to read
this just because of the open-
ing line then you are probably
a sexually deprived male Imperial stu-
dent (of which there are many due to
the male: female ratio) or you are one
of the slutty female freshers who are
really keen (if you have not done so al-
ready) on losing their virginity.
Is it me or is felix and the majority of
the student population of Imperial ob-
sessed with sex? “Where’s the weirdest
place you’ve had sex?” Urghh it makes
me feel sick! Is that really what life re-
volves around? Do you really become
more interesting and are you really liv-
ing life to the full if you fuck regularly?
Yes, fuck –not make love. Because
making love is something deeper, but
in my experience the males I’ve come
across here are not interested in that.
Most just want one night stands and
those that pretend that they don’t are
really just keeping a girlfriend so that
they can get regular fucks. They are
not interested in what music you’re
into or what you did over summer, they
just want an arse to squeeze and then
just forget about it until next time.
I’m also disgusted with the recent in-
take of fresher girls that wear tops with
tits falling out or dresses that reveal
thongs! Get some class! Don’t get me
wrong, I love dressing up and revealing
a bit of flesh, but everything in mod-
eration. I am no nun. I am not a female
scientist only devoted to her stud-
ies and the latest issue of Chemistry
World. I believe physical relationships
can be great fun when they are with the
right person. BUT that does not mean
I give in to horny Imperial males on the
prowl. I have some respect for myself
and I am not ashamed to say that I am
still a virgin. Yes a virgin. I am proud
that I haven’t given in because I am
simply waiting for the right person. Sex
is not the way to start a relationship. It
should be brought into a relationship
as a token of love and trust. And how
on earth are you meant to trust some-
one after a week or two, after meet-
ing them at Fresher’s Week? Many of
my friends have followed this trend as
they got caught up in the whirlwind
of London uni life. But no honey –no
way- not me! I’m starting to feel really
ashamed of some of my “acquaintanc-
es”, as I now like to call them, who need
to take pregnancy or STI tests. If you
were in a stable relationship, planning
properly and actually not drunk off
your face most of the time when you
had sex then you wouldn’t have this
problem!
Oh yes that brings me onto alcohol.
Why is the idea of a good night: one
that is a total piss up? Let me assure you
that I like alcohol. But I do not drink to
get pissed. I have never lost control. I
may have drunk too much at times, but
I did not set out to do this. I like the
taste of alcohol. I agree –a drink does
relax you and being Italian and all...
Well, red wine is in my blood. But it
annoys me when I hear: “last night was
amazing... tons of alcohol... woke up on
the common room floor...went to Hyde
Park during the night...can’t remember
the rest...” WOW aren’t you cool?! It’s a
pity I can’t even try to be just like you!
I apologise to any males that I may
have offended during the voice of my
humble opinion. I know that there are
some decent blokes out there at Impe-
rial –after all - probability distributions
approach the x axis, but never quite
reach it. You must be somewhere in
the tail of the Gaussian. Shame really
-isn’t it? But don’t try and contact me
–I’m not interested. I’m too busy try-
ing to convince my demonstrators that
my recent laboratory work is one of a
kind and actually deserves the Nobel
prize. I’m not going to bother apolo-
gising to any promiscuous girls I may
have offended –just ‘cause you should
know better.
MariashNotellingalreadyknowsbetter
“ I feel ... ashamed
of some of my
“acquaintances”,
as I now like to call
them, who need to
take pregnancy or
STI tests”

