12
SCIENCE
Science Editors
Science Editors Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
Nathan Ley & Brigette Atkins
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
Disgraced stem cell researcher
sentenced for bioethics violation
Woo-Suk Hwang, the South Korean cloning pioneer faces a two year suspended sentence but is cleared of fraud
Last Monday, disgraced South Korean
stem cell researcher Woo-Suk Hwang
was sentenced to two years in jail, sus-
pended, convicted of violating bioeth-
ics law and embezzlement though
cleared of fraud. Supporters are over-
joyed that he escaped actual jail time
but others in the community aren’t so
pleased. How did the man once titled
Supreme Scientist find himself nar-
rowly escaping gruel meals, as his case
tore apart Korean nationalism? And
where do mass human egg donations
and the Russian mafia fit into it all?
Four years ago Hwang was a national
hero, but one of humble origins: born
during war into rural poverty, the val-
ue of cattle spurred him to enter vet-
erinarian research. His earliest noted
achievement was the production of
Korea’s first IVF cow in 1993, followed
in 1999 by its first cloned cow and in
2002 by cloned pigs. In 2003, he pro-
duced a cow resistant to BSE. Such
accomplishments garnered him an im-
pressive reputation, with one caveat:
not one of them was supported by a
peer-reviewed journal article.
By 2004 he was running a huge and
intensely driven lab: it’s said that he
got into the lab at 6:00am and laboured
right through until midnight, always
the first and last there out of 125 peo-
ple. No wonder his marital life was
strained. Nonetheless, the publication
of excellent work seemed inevitable.
That year the team released a paper
in Science that changed the face of
embryonic stem cell (ESC) research,
purporting to have created the first
cloned human embryos using somatic
cell nuclear transfer (SCNT). SCNT
involves inserting the nucleus of a so-
matic (body) cell into an empty egg
cell. It’s notoriously difficult to execute,
and labs outside Korea failed mainly
because they couldn’t acquire enough
EliotBarford
EliotBarford Science Reporter
eggs – the success rate is tiny. Creating
Dolly the sheep took 277 eggs, while
Hwang claimed success with 242.
In 2005, the Hwang lab released a
second groundbreaking paper, this
time cloning 11 embryos using just 185
eggs. The community was astounded;
Hwang’s status soared. Two months later
he became the first to clone a dog: Snup-
py, an (adorable) Afghan Hound. Before
long he was raised to the dizzy heights of
Supreme Scientist and appointed head
of the World Stem Cell Hub.
But even before the second paper,
questions had been brewing. A May
2004 article in Nature first queried
the team’s egg sources, catching onto
widespread rumours among Korea’s
young researchers. On 11th November
2005, Gerald Schatten, an American
co-author on the 2005 paper, informed
Science that he was no longer collabo-
rating with Hwang, believing he had
acquired eggs inappropriately. On the
21st, Sung-Il Roh, a fertility expert who
supplied Hwang with eggs, admitted
some of them were paid for. The next
day, a probing TV programme called
PD Notebook aired a show accusing
Hwang of taking eggs from members
to retract the paper and validate it im-
mediately, stubbornly blaming its er-
rors on his team. SNU quickly rebutted
him with its preliminary finding that
none of the cell lines were clones of
patient tissues. PD Notebook’s second
programme was allowed to air and Sci-
ence officially retracted the paper. In
January 2006, the SNU investigation’s
final conclusions were announced: nei-
ther the 2004 nor 2005 paper was sci-
entifically valid.
Hwang maintained he could clone
human embryos within six months,
but never did. Subsequently, a bioeth-
ics committee confirmed Hwang
forced egg donations from his staff –
in fact he went through 2221 eggs at-
tempting to clone humans, not 427.
Only in March 2006 did he finally ad-
mit forcing his subordinates to forge
results. Until that time he insisted his
colleagues must have been to blame.
Swiftly, his ESC research license was
revoked and SNU fired him. In May
his arduous trial began, investigat-
ing charges of violating bioethics law,
embezzling 2.8 billion won (US$3 mil-
lion) and fraudulently using false data
to apply for research funding. The case
has since dragged on for 40 months
through 60 witness testimonies and 43
judicial hearings.
Hwang’s embezzlement is perhaps
more astounding than his forgeries. He
laundered government cash through
relative’s bank accounts and spent it on
eggs, donations to politicians and gifts
for his wife. Most bizarrely, he actually
cited dealings with the Russian mafia
as part of his defence: he had tried to
purchase mammoth remains on the
black market in the hopes of cloning an
extinct beast. Unable to get receipts for
those transactions, he couldn’t prove he
hadn’t stolen the money.
How did Hwang escape the fraud
charge after so many lies? The defence
argued that the companies who funded
him weren’t defrauded because they
hadn’t expected any direct financial
reward.
What is the result of this sorry story?
The effects on scientific process have
been profound, with ethical assessment
and peer review practices updated and
tagalong co-authorship like Schatten’s
looked upon less fondly. Ironically, an
Snuppy (right) pictured with the the three-year old donor Afghan whose skin
cells, taken from the ear, were supposedly used to clone him
It is thought the judge was lenient on sentenceing Woo-Suk Hwang (above) to
allow him a chance to repair his reputation as an outstanding scientist
$3million (US)
The amount Woo-Suk
Hwang is charged with
embezzling during the course
of his stem cell research
independent group concluded in 2007
that Hwang’s fake cloned embryos were
in fact world-first human parthogenet-
ic embryos (those developed from un-
fertilised eggs), a considerable achieve-
ment in itself.
Who can say what Woo-Suk Hwang’s
motivations were? Even his harshest
critics agree on his talent, but opinion
is divided on his nature – over-keen
researcher or devious manipulator. To
this day no one has conclusively derived
a cloned human embryo. Some have
speculated that the judge was lenient to
allow him a chance to repair his reputa-
tion – perhaps Woo-Suk Hwang has a
few more surprises up his sleeve.
2221
The actual number of eggs
used in an attempt to
clone the first human, not
the 427 initially calimed
of his lab, implying he had coerced
them. Such practices were illegal under
new bioethics law as well as unaccept-
able internationally.
Suddenly, two days later Hwang
called a press conference and con-
fessed both to paying for eggs and tak-
ing them from members of his group.
Accordingly, he resigned most of his
positions, but promised to continue
research.
Yet his fall from grace wasn’t over.
Word got out that the producers of PD
Notebook had run tests on Hwang’s
stem cell lines, showing some were
not actually derived from the tissues
he claimed they were. Hwang’s con-
siderable support in Korea erupted in
response, organising huge drives for
women to pledge their eggs directly for
his research and causing the indefinite
cancellation of PD Notebook.
However, within days Hwang’s in-
stitution, Seoul National University
(SNU), announced an investigation.
Schatten requested his name be re-
moved from the 2005 paper. Then,
without warning, Roh declared 9 of the
11 cell lines to be fabricated. Hwang
denied falsifying results but promised
43 hearings
The case has dragged on for
40 months and gone through
60 witness testemonies

