13
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
Success for Imperial at annual iGEM competition
FACING THE ANNUAL ENEMY
IT’S THAT TIME OF THE YEAR AGAIN AND SHUPAULA DASS IS DECLARING WAR ON THE FLU VIRUS
NathanLey
NathanLey Science Editor
W
hen we think of
war, images of
guns, blood, guts
and soldiers shout-
ing ‘Yes Sir!’ usually
ensue. History is full of it, man against
man. However, there’s a non human
enemy whom mankind has been bat-
tling against for hundreds of years.
Also, brace yourself- it can turn you to
its side with little more than a sneeze.
Of course, it’s the flu (for those of you
believing this article would be about
Predator-sorry.)
Humans are involved in an evolu-
tionary war with the flu. The first rec-
ognized pandemic started in Asia in
1580 and reached Europe within six
months. The worst pandemic in his-
tory was the 1918 Spanish flu, which
totted up a fatality count of at least 20
million. But these are all old statistics;
should we still be concerned about the
seasonal phenomenon?
Yes. The modern day influenza is as
wily as ever, killing hundreds of thou-
sands every year. Sometimes referred
to as RNA viruses, it can be split into
three genera; Influenza A, B and C.
A virus can only survive by replicat-
ing within living cells. As they have
short generation times and high mu-
tation rates, the flu can evolve quickly
to avoid our defence systems. Natural
selection allows for those viruses that
survive to adapt quickly and suc-
cessfully replicate, increasing their
numbers.
Imagine a production line of the
flu virus inside our bodies. For argu-
ments sake, there are 10, each one
slightly genetically different from the
next by one base pair. Five of those
are killed off by our immune systems
kicking in straight away. Warning
bells sound, a fever follows, they die,
and we survive. That is round 1 and
there are still 5 remaining. We then go
to the doctor who prescribes us some
drugs that help kill off 3 of these mu-
tant strains. End of round 2 and still
there are 2 remaining mutants. It is
these 2 that have survived through
natural selection, adapted to our de-
fenses and evolved. It is possible for
no prisoners’ policy. As we enter the
winter months, the incidence of swine
flu has almost doubled to 53,000. The
head of flu planning at the NHS has
stated that the health service should
‘be prepared’.
Sir Liam Donaldson, the govern-
ment’s chief medical officer, says the
projected total deaths for this winter
has dropped from 19,000 to 1,000.
This is less than the seasonal flu which
has an estimated fatality of 6,000 to
8,000.
Luckily for us, we have a few tricks
up our sleeves too to counter-attack
swine and common flu. We are able
to adapt and survive just like our vi-
ral enemies. Vaccinations are a vital
weapon in this evolutionary arms
race. Parrying their attacks year af-
ter year, with deaths, human immune
systems are still able to outwit their
opponents. Annually scientists toil
in labs to predict the evolution of the
next prominent flu strain and develop
an effective vaccine that will minimize
casualties.
There are ways that the public can
impede the spread of flu. For example,
keeping distance from infected peo-
ple, sneezing and coughing into tis-
sues, washing hands thoroughly and
avoiding touching your nose, eyes and
mouth.
Unfortunately there is no estimate to
how long this arms race will continue
or how fatal it will be. As Napoleon
once said, ‘victory belongs to the most
persevering’ or just those that avoid
bestiality.
The iGEM competition (international
genetically engineered machine com-
petition) is an annual event which this
year took place at MIT between the
31st october and 2nd November. 112
teams from universities all over the
world partook in the competition, and
so 4th can be considered a fantastic
achievement. The team consisted of
undergraduates from Bioengineering
and Life sciences, and they were: Dine-
ka Khurmi, David Roche, Kun Xue,
Royah Vaezi, James Field Tianyi Wang,
Nuri Purswani Ramchandi and Charles
Fracchia.
Preparation for the iGEM competi-
tion is intense and is a commitment
not undertaken lightly. The team
is recruited before Christmas and
preparation involves a summer long
UROP placement to push the project
along.
This year’s project was titled "The
E.ncapsulator", a platform through
which therapeutics can be reliably
targeted to the intestine, an attrac-
tive area of research for commercial
pill development by pharmaceutical
companies.
The project description on the web-
site claims “The inspiration behind
The E.ncapsulator was the inherent
difficulty in delivering protein phar-
maceuticals to the gut. Due to the deli-
cate nature of proteins and the highly
acidic environment present in the
stomach”
In an email sent out to life sciences
undergraduate students the life scienc-
es iGEM advisors, Paul Freemont and
Geoff Baldwin, said "This is a fantastic
achievement given the growing size
of the competition and illustrates yet
again what great undergraduate stu-
dents we have at Imperial". I would like
to echo these sentiments with those of
my own and say that these students are
a credit to our university and deserve
infinite praise.
Imperial team finishes 4th overall and wins the award for best manufacturing project with “The E.ncapsulator”
The first pandemic
started in Asia in
1580 ... should we
still be concerned
about the seasonal
phenomenon?
these viruses to mix with other strains
and survive.
The swine flu has been such a char-
acter. The strain of H1N1 belongs to
the flu genus A. Upon analysis it was
found to be composed of four differ-
ent types of flu: North American swine
and avian influenza, human influenza
and Asian/European swine influenza.
This potent mongrel virus has a ‘take Forget ‘catch it, bin it, kill it’, the Imperial College fencing teams have it covered
Right: The mechanism behind “The
E.ncapsulator” which came 4th out of
112 entries at the event

