14 felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
Interfaithing across Imperial College
felix meets some members of the new Imperial College Interfaith team to find out what this new movement is
all about! We talk about why this society will soon play such a prominent part of university life
Felix: Hi guys, nice to meet you all. I un-
derstand this is a new initiative and that
your first event is called UniFaith: Road
to Dialogue. What does UniFaith mean?
Andrew: Hi Felix! Well, when we came
together to decide a name for the launch
event, we were struggling to find a short,
punchy and diverse title that encom-
passes the depth of our initiative. But our
searching was satisfied once we came up
with UniFaith. The “Uni-“ denotes the
UNIfying aim of our initiative – to unite
all faiths behind common aims they en-
dorse, but which faithful individuals may
forget to exercise.
Yousuf: These common aims are moral-
ity and humanity – the betterment of
society. Of course the “Uni-“ suffix can
also represent university and universal,
manifesting the student, and all-encom-
passing nature of Imperial Interfaith.
Felix: But there are already so many
faith societies at Imperial College, why is
it that you have created an interfaith so-
ciety? Surely faith societies can co-exist
already?
Yousuf: You’re right, of course; faith so-
cieties can and do co-exist. But whilst the
union faith societies have a crucial role in
taking up the influx of freshers and culti-
vating their religious identity and beliefs,
we as faithful individuals may sometimes
lose sight of the bigger picture and forget
that there are people of other faiths in
this world too! Sometimes, we see peo-
ple passing through university, wonder-
fully engrossed in their faithful practices,
yet completely failing to interact with
other faiths around them. This can be a
very sad situation, because you end up
losing out on dialogue – one of the most
fruitful opportunities of university life.
May: By having an interfaith forum at
Imperial, we can ensure that there is
much interaction, and of the appropriate
and respectable nature, between differ-
ent faith groups on campus... People may
ask why but the answer’s simple: so that
we can finish our journey in university as
learned and open-minded ambassadors
of the world, whilst maintaining our re-
spective identities.
Andrew: In fact, to their credit, the new-
ly formed interfaith committee consists
of individual representatives from each
faith society. This way, all faiths are ad-
equately represented on the committee,
giving each faith society an equal taste of
the interfaith experience.
Felix: Interfaith dialogue can be seen to
be a confusing thing. Many times people
are afraid of being converted, being chal-
lenged about their beliefs or of interfaith
attempting to create a new religion alto-
gether. How will Imperial College inter-
faith combat these misconceptions?
Andrew: This movement is nothing to
do with conversion or challenging each
other or creating any form of new reli-
gion! It’s about the unification of society,
about learning to understand and ac-
cept other beliefs and practices – using
dialogue and discussion as the means to
achieve this.
Yousuf: The variety of backgrounds at
university should not allow us to lose
the identity of our faiths and principles.
Therefore, the first aim of interfaith is
the acknowledgment of the different
faiths, and the respect for individuals
that have made a choice in life to believe
how the world works in a certain way.
Objective and polite discussion, which is
the modus operandus at our events, can
always prevent faithful people from los-
ing their identity.
May: I would go so far as to say interfaith
strengthens one’s own beliefs! Learning
about the similarities and differences
between yours and other faiths actually
plays a role in reinforcing your own be-
liefs, simply because you increase your
understanding of why you believe in
what you believe. And of course, through
gaining closeness to God’s creation, your
brothers and sisters in humanity, you in-
crease your closeness for their creator.
Felix: In light of the recent fiasco with
the BNP’s appearance on Question
Time, how do you think your initiative
fits in with the model of Britain today?
Andrew: I like to think that university is
a microcosmic representation of the rest
of the world. And the way we organise
things at university, is the way would like
to shape the world and how we fit into it.
Quite clearly, the ICI sets out to include
people of all backgrounds in a diverse
Britain by respecting their identities, rec-
ognising the ability for living together in
peace, whilst still being able to encounter
objective discussion.
Yousuf: We believe that diversity is a
driving force for unity. It’s a little daft to
suggest that the inhabitants of an area
can only be of one particular race or
one particular background, and to base
one’s sole principle upon this ludicrous
notion. 150 years ago, it was rare to see
people from different 8 faiths living to-
gether. But now whilst it is a reality, we
hope to make the most of it and reap
only benefits from its existence.
Felix: So what are the main goals of the
initiative?
Andrew: There are a number of goals
we aim to achieve through this forum.
One goal is to facilitate unity between
the faiths on campus behind common
aims and objectives where possible.
This mainly arises from recognizing the
similar traits and principles between all
faiths, and as a result making a bigger
impact on the campus, and eventually
the world, to create a positive change to-
wards a greater good.
Yousuf: Another important aim is to
encourage dialogue and further the
knowledge of each other about different
faiths. This enables us to understand and
accept differences, as well as highlight
similarities. It’ll help us to understand
why other faiths practice and behave the
way they do, and will give scope for us
to agree to disagree in an objective and
ethical manner. Of course in some cases
I’m sure we’ll learn that our beliefs are in
fact in harmony.
May: The launch event especially will
give people the opportunity to learn the
details of different faiths from the practi-
tioners of that faith, or from the “horse’s
mouth”
, rather than from other unreli-
able sources. In fact, active dialogue with
the members of a certain faith will only
serve to remove any possible misconcep-
tions and potential source of prejudice.
Felix: Sometimes within a discussion,
we find we don’t always have the answers
to certain issues, either due to lack of
knowledge or insight. Will this be prob-
lematic in interfaith discussion?
Yousuf: Without an initiative like Im-
perial Interfaith, it can potentially, yes,
because people may get confused or
emotional, and the discussion may turn
into something quite ugly. But our group
facilitates appropriate “ethics of discus-
sion” so that nobody is at fault to say
“actually, I don’t have an answer to that
question” or “I would need to read up
more to get back to you on that one.”
Andrew: Yousuf’s right – in fact some-
times, the conclusion of a discussion
may be that it is inconclusive... But by no
means does it mean that it was done in
vain! In contrast, we often find that the
pathway of the discussion and the devel-
opment of thought and understanding is
an invaluable gift to walk away with.
Felix: What other events do Imperial
College Interfaith have planned?
Yousuf: Well, there are a few things in
the pipeline. A long term aim still
remains to be combining the
talents of this university’s faith
societies in an Interfaith Char-
ity Week. I mean, imagine the
amount of money we could
raise if we could utilise the col-
lective talents of the students re-
sponsible for say East Meets West,
Mega Malai, ISoc Charity Week to
name but a few… All of these en-
deavours have raised hundreds of
thousands of pounds for charity and
all have spawned from different faiths
societies – imagine what would happen
Interfaith Co-ordinator –
Mohammedabbas Khaki
It has long been a dream of mine
to find a platform whereby
our community can be united;
where we can celebrate our
similarities, understand and
accept our differences, and
unite under the common bond
of humanity.
Interfaith Co-ordinator –
Yousuf Salmasi
I’ve spent my years at Imperial
involved in faith and cultural
societies. I think that our quest
becomes far more fruitful
and accelerated once we
acknowledge diversity and
interact with those from so
many other belief backgrounds.
Ahlul Bayt Society Sara Maki
Bahá’í Society Jean-philippe Aoussou
Buddhist Society Bryan Chia
Catholic Society Nicholas Church
Christian Union Nathan Sherwood
Every Nation Christian Society Jonathon Wright
Hindu Society Harsita Patel
Islamic Society Obadah Ghannam
Jain Society Amar Shah:
‘Live and let Live’ (Mahavir Swami)
Jewish Society Yoni Weiner
Sikh Society Govindpal Singh Kooner
if we pooled all of these talents? The fun-
draising for charity could be incredible…
And think about what a message it sends
out – a united community, working to-
gether, for the benefit of their brothers
and sisters in humanity!
Andrew: Of course, in the near future
we have events too… They may include
a dialogue in the incredible location of
the Bedouin tent pitched outside at St
Ethelberga’s Centre for Reconciliation in
the City, interfaith sports tournaments,
visits to other local places of worship,
and a sacred object tour of the V&A mu-
seum in South Kensington.
May: Other exciting events include dia-
logues on more controversial topics like
gender role, and events where members
can discuss and share articles of faith
such as different scriptures.
Felix: Finally, what about people of
no faith? Are they still included in this
initiative?
Andrew: Of course. In fact, it is perfect
for a person with no faith. ICI provides
a great opportunity to learn about any
faith for the first time, from first hand
sources and in as much depth as you
want – without feeling pressurised into
believing in any of them!

