16
CULTURE &
THE ARTS
Arts Editors
Arts Editors Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
Rosie Milton, Caz Knight & Lucy Harrold
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 6 NOVEMBER 2009
Pop Life: I’m a
material girl
CazKnight
CazKnight Arts Editor
F
irst of all, a huge thanks are
owed to all the arts felix writ-
ers who have contributed to
this section already this term
after only a month. I am in
my fourth year of working for felix an
never before have I seen so much en-
thusiasm and interest to contribute.
So much so that many articles have to
wait an issue to be put in on account of
the limited space!
I have also been pleasantly surprised
by the quality of the writing and depth
of insight especially from people who
have professed to knowing nothing
about art and who claim to have never
written before. Please keep it coming.
As Rosie said last week, autumn is
definitely the hottest time of the cul-
tural year with far too many plays and
galleries to fit into the busy schedules
of two masters students.
Over the course of last weekend Ro-
sie and I used our press privileges to
take in two separate exhibitions at the
Tate Modern, only after delving into
the darkness inside a huge steel box.
Polish artist Miroslaw Balka’s How It
Is consumes the TM’s turbine hall with
its presence and makes for an at first
eery and then extremely fun experi-
ence, albeit lasting under 5 minutes.
Next to each other on the fourth
floor are Pop Life: Art in a Material
World and Pure Beauty, a retrospec-
tive of John Baldessari’s work. After
strolling serenely and unmolested by
tourists through the latter, the former’s
bustling and heady mix of pounding
music, wall floor and ceiling colour
and separate ‘adults only’ section (read:
the Jeff Koon porn room) is a stark
contrast and feels more like a chinese
shopping mall at times. For those who
haven’t experienced the People’s Re-
public, this means bright lights, abra-
sive volume levels and enough flashing
lights and colour to induce epilepsy.
Completely different to any exhibi-
tion I’d ever experienced, I cherished
our brief visit for its originality and
its ability to drive home the banal
commericalism that pervades various
forms of art today.
Watch this space next Friday for
those reviews and enjoy this week’s!
Cosy in the Cocoon
Aspiring physicist Rox Middleton and mathematician Matthew
Colvin find themselves taken with Biology
T
he Natural History Mu-
seum means a great big
dinosaur. We all know
that. Well hold onto your
fossils amigo, because
there’s a new exhibition in town that’s
set to change this, well, muddied in-
terpretation. We were lucky enough
to take a tour around the Museum’s
newly opened Darwin Centre and its
ominous sounding ‘Cocoon’ – actually
a beautiful feat of architecture with an
intriguing purpose to boot. Looking
a little like the Gherkin crossed with
some sort of monstrous egg, it’s as if
you’re entering a Bond Villain’s secret
lair – all clinical white walls and mass-
es of laboratory space. But this new
building wasn’t made with the intent of
destruction, but instead preservation.
The Cocoon is home to an enormous
collection of British botanical and in-
sect specimens, housed in massive
environment-controlled storage. Built
for the Natural History Museum’s 20
million plant and insect species, the
top few floors of the building are open
to the public as a fascinating exhibition
detailing the everyday life of scientists
who work at the museum collecting,
preserving and identifying. Each floor
also looks directly into the labs and of-
fices where the real work takes place.
The beautiful exhibits of specimens
for which the museum is known really
come into their own here. In the big
white spaces even the most mundane
offerings of nature are gorgeous and
easy to examine closely. There are also
a few tantalising tidbits of information
about some displays but they definitely
leave you wanting much more detail.
Fortunately help is at hand in the form
of a nifty little swipe card feature, al-
lowing you to collect information on
various aspects of the exhibition that
you would like to research further back
online at home (though it remains to
be seen whether detailed information
on Welsh Groundsel will take priority
over Facebook any time soon). Some-
thing that also sets this place apart
from other exhibitions is the vast
amount of interactivity. Many, many
touch screens can be found, offering
detailed yet concise information about
myriad aspects of the Cocoon.
Of course, with this interactivity be-
ing hugely responsive, we found that
the majority of screens and films were
soon stopped by children (and adults)
mashing their fists onto the tables.
This interrupted the fascinating cyber-
happenings; all very irritating – but
there’s plenty to look at so you can take
your time and watch something else;
or alternatively bring along a threaten-
ing weapon.
If you’re reading this and thinking
that it definitely isn’t your cup of tea –
or kettle of fish, or whatever – a rethink
is highly recommended. This isn’t just
of interest for biologists, it could be of
interest to anyone. If drawers of insects
or butterflies aren’t your thing, then
the depth of detail into what keeps a
museum running might well be. And
anyway, if it kept an aspiring physi-
cist and mathematician interested for
about 45 minutes, then there’s simply
no reason why you wouldn’t have a
good time either!
Very painful youths in twenties Vienna
Looking for a pretentious night out? Look no further than the existential Pains of Youth, says Rox Middleton
T
his is a play about stu-
dents who spend a lot of
time together, work hard,
like to get drunk and talk
about the Big Questions
and become infatuated with each
other in various combinations. While
expressing their respective feelings
about said Big Questions, they also
take themselves incredibly seriously. I
don’t know whether that sounds like
something you could relate to.
So it’s supposedly about students like
you. Well, maybe. These are medical
students after all. It’s also set in Vienna
in 1923 and is pretty damn existential-
ist, which manifests itself in much talk
about the futility of life and suicide. As
the title indicates, it attempts to cap-
ture the disease of being young, thus is
filled with awkwardness and disjointed
dialogue. What with all that, the excel-
lent set and epochs of twelve tone mu-
sic, it’s fantastically atmospheric and
intense. These people know how to
make a scene, but there are also loads
of genuinely funny lines and farcical
moments (which no doubt highlight
life’s absurdity). The awkward young
maid (Sian Clifford), who is slowly
transformed into a loveably naive pros-
titute, is especially funny.
Laura Elphinstone and Lydia Wil-
son’s characterisations are also particu-
larly good but personally I thought the
prop changes were absolutely brilliant.
Modern people in sharp suits carry
items onto stage wrapped in enormous
sheets of plastic with lots of blue lights
and loud, tense music, during which all
the characters freeze in the dark. I re-
ally have no idea why, except that it is
unspeakably cool, so I’ll leave the inter-
pretation to you.
Altogether it’s a very enjoyable night
out and if you’re feeling pretentious
yourself, or looking for a play about
pretentious young people (inc. urgent
self-obsession/earnest sense of futil-
ity), this is certainly one for you. For
everyone else, I think it’s too far re-
moved from the real world. While the
misery of youth is overpowering, it
is also pointless. Although this is the
thrust of the play (existentialist, innit?)
it certainly takes its time getting there
and meanwhile it might be better all
round if they just got a life and thought
about someone else for a change.
After the massive cultural upheaval
that was swilling about all over Vienna
at the time, it’s quite likely that these
particular ridiculous post-adolescent
emotions were far more important
than modern ones. However, that
doesn’t change the fact that they are
still boringly self-involved young peo-
ple. The pains of youth are captured
incredibly well by the director but, to
be honest, if you’re living the dream
already you probably don’t need to
watch a play about it.
Pains of Youth is on at the National
Theatre until 21 January 2010
Tickets start at £10 Katie Mitchell’s Pains of Youth is on at the Cottleslowe theatre at the NT

