17
felix FRIDAY 6 NOVEMBER 2009
ARTS
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fantasy and magic amid natural history
Christopher Self finds himself spellbound by nature at this year’s Wildlife Photographer of the Year exhibition
I
t was my understanding that
wildlife photography involves
lots of waiting around, sitting
hoping that Mother Nature will
smile on you and all the unpre-
dictable little elements will come to-
gether to create a nice composition. If
that really is what it comes down to I
can’t imagine the hours, days and years
that must have been invested to bring
us this year’s Natural History Museum
Wildlife Photographer of the Year ex-
hibition. There’s probably three medi-
eval cathedrals in that room, that and
enough luck to win the national lottery
every week and fluke your way through
exams all the way to graduation.
That having been said there is abso-
lutely nothing lucky about the sheer
quality of the work on display here.
For those unaware, the Wildlife Pho-
tographer of the Year competition is
an international showcase for the very
best of natural photography. It’s run
annually by the museum in conjunc-
tion with BBC’s wildlife magazine and,
currently enjoying its 45th year, has
long been considered the most prestig-
ious competition of its kind. Winning
it really is the ultimate recognition of
your talent as a wildlife photographer
and this year’s entries show every bit of
that pedigree.
There are truly breathtaking images
here, incredible examples of the split
second timings required, and photos
of all scales and from all parts of the
world. Startling pictures such as that of
an ant drinking a raindrop off a mar-
row, a leopard darting face first down a
tree, the light reflections playing off the
individual feathers on a greenfinches
chest, this list goes on. You could
spend hours enjoying just the pictures
themselves, but of course that would
be only half the magic. Along with
every photograph is a little anecdote
written by the photographer about the
image and a little bit of background
on the animal, or the encounter, or
the location. And these charming lit-
tle titbits really do add a lot. They give
you a sense of the incredible acciden-
tal stories you are witnessing unfold.
For example, the story of the fighting
tigers – in itself an incredible image,
captured perfectly. But along with the
knowledge that the brawlers are fight-
ing territorially and the loser will never
stop returning, because she is fight-
ing her mother, it is transformed into
something spectacular.
Wildlife photography often has a
touch of the fantastical about it: a
magical air, as if looking into a different
world, a world more incredible than
any fiction. There is no shortage of this
in this year’s exhibition; the technique
of backlighting the images for presen-
tation lends them an added sparkle of
enchantment. This, for a small minor-
ity of the work, perhaps detracts from
its purpose as wildlife photography,
allowing them to be separated off into
the realm of fantasy, something I’m
not sure is really what was aimed for,
particularly in a contest considering
the majesty of the natural world and, of
course, carrying the implied message
that this world really deserves saving
from the great modern evils such as
climate change. If the images looks too
cinematic, too make-believe, it is diffi-
cult to associate them with real forests
and jungles that really do need saving.
This year’s winner encapsulates all of
these various ideas perfectly. A photo
called The Storybook Wolf, it depicts an
Iberian grey wolf jumping a fence into
Spanish farmland. You really have to
see the picture to get a true sense of the
magical feel it possesses; it looks as if
it’s been lifted from the pages of a fairy
tale. But this is balanced against the re-
ality of the persecution of these same
wolves owing to the effect they have
on farmer’s livestock, which they hunt
when food is scarce. The juxtaposi-
tion of the incredible beast against the
clearly unnatural elements of the farm-
land backdrop ensure that the meaning
of the image never leaves your mind,
even as you admire the enchanted feel
ing it possesses. Meaning as well as be-
ing an incredible picture, it leaves you
considering the effect on natural popu-
lations when they quite literally collide
with human settlement.
The whole thing doesn’t take a mas-
sive amount of time to look around.
You could probably do it over a lunch
time if you wanted, and now with a new,
greener, sponsor there’s no real reason
not to go. A brief look at the combined
result of all that effort, which in its own
way is much more striking and beau-
tiful than those three hypothetical ca-
thedrals ever could have been, it really
is well worth the £4.50 entry fee.
As with all NHM special exhibits
the entrance to the exhibit is done on
timed entry i.e. you book an entrance
time and come back then to look
around, which you may do for as long
as you like.
The Wildlife Photographer of the Year
exhibition now has a greener sponsor:
Veolia Environment.
Until 11 April 2010 at the Natural His-
tory Museum
C
urrently on display in
the British Library is a
manuscript dating back
one thousand years. Sur-
viving both Henry VIII’s
ransacking of the monasteries and a
fire in 1731, the three thousand line
manuscript has enabled the ancient
heroic poem of Beowulf to be passed
on through centuries, to still be re-
vered today and cited as one of the
most significant works in Anglo-Saxon
literature − and all this by chance. No
wonder, then, that arguments about
its origin, interpretation, significance
and descent down generations prevail
among literary scholars. Last Tuesday
was no exception when an audience
at the British Library and presenter
Michael Wood joined poet and No-
bel Prize winner Seamus Heaney,
children’s author Michael Morpurgo
and performer Benjamin Bagby in an
evening celebrating this Anglo-Saxon
epic.
Believed to be set in the 5th cen-
tury, the poem is set in both Sweden
and Denmark. The King of the Geats,
Hrothgar, is plagued by Grendel and
sees his court at Heorot devoured
nightly by the monster. Hearing of his
distress, the Swede Beowulf travels to
Denmark to rid the King of his men-
ace. Beowulf is successful and slaugh-
ters Grendel without weapons but has
to face Grendel’s mourning mother the
following night. Again victorious, Be-
owulf returns to Sweden only to fight
a dragon who has been rudely awoken
by a thief in its gold filled lair. Beowulf
is fatally wounded and dies a hero’s
death.
The epic poem would have been
immortalised through the decades by
“scops”, a breed of bardic storytellers in
the Oral Tradition. However, there is
much controversy about whether the
manuscript as it stands in the British
Library was written by a contemporary
as a satire of the tradition or as a direct
‘transcript’ of the poem. The precise
date that the poem was written down
is subject to much speculation but is
most likely to have been between the
eight and eleventh centuries, written in
the West Saxon and Anglian dialects of
Old English − the language in which it
would have been performed − using a
set poetic meter.
It is the role of scop that Bagby as-
sumes as he performs an excerpt of
the poem: the bloodthirsty pillage of
Heorot by Grendel. Having no idea
of exactly what the poem would have
sounded like one thousand years ago is
of no impediment to Bagby who com-
pares the manuscript to a cubist paint-
ing: most of the interpretation is up to
us! Half spoken and half sung, the me-
ter comes alive through Bagby’s deep
voice, accompanied by the atmospher-
ic playing of his lyre. Although sound-
ing more Danish than Old English,
hearing the poem recited in such a way
was mesmerising.
Seamus Heaney and the wonderfully
entertaining Michael Morpurgo’s read-
ings of their own translations (both
translations retain the original meter)
were beautiful and hearing them aloud
made this medieval world of monsters
and heroes all the more tangible. The
readings were followed by a discus-
sion amongst the panel in which much
The winning photograph, The Storybook Wolf, by José Luis Rodríguez
disdain was shown for the 2007 film
version starring the gold stocking clad
Angelina Jolie as Grendel’s mother. So
would it be possible to make a genuine-
ly frightening film version of Beowulf?
The only way to make it work as a film
would be to strip to down to its bare
elements: no Hollywood glamour, low
budget, black and white, Morpurgo re-
plies to my question.
An event combining such rich dis-
cussion brought so much to the enjoy-
ment and appreciation of the legacy
− enough to make anyone lament the
decline in storytelling today.
To see Bagby’s version of Be-
owulf: bagbybeowulf.com
Go and see the 1000 year old Be-
owulf manuscript at the British
Library, King’s Cross, for free
As part of four days of events to celebrate Britain’s oldest folk legend, Caz Knight attends the British Museum
to listen to three agile minds exploring the legacy of Beowulf
Brave Swedes, monsters & blood-shed

