20 felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
MUSIC
R
odrigo Braga is a Brazil-
ian taught-postgraduate in
the chemistry department
whose experience of paradise
in the middle of the Pacific inspired
him to write his debut album about
the fact that life really ain’t so bad. As
inspiration goes, that’s pretty ace and
the easy, beach-living coconut filled
world of the Pacific comes flowing out
of his melodic soul offerings. The mu-
sic fills the room and hangs about the
air around you, never directly jabbing
you in the face but instead creating an
atmosphere of tangible warmth. “Eagle
Bay” is a prime example of this, wash-
ing away your troubled thoughts with a
little latin-inspired guitar. He’s playing
at Belushi’s the next two Wednesdays
so there’s ample opportunity to catch
him swooning with his Spanish guitar.
His album “Between the Waves” is free
to download from his website.
Rodrigo Braga Imperial Talent Kitty Magic
T
o be honest, I didn’t think
that a bunch of third year
Mechanical Engineers could
use forks and knives, never
mind make music but I stand cor-
rected. Kitty Magic, consisting by Ed
Bishop, Tim Sadler, Ben Copping and
Erik Forman are an indie-pop band
formed earlier this year who have re-
cently released their 1st EP “Avoid 10
Rillington Place” and while their song
“Never You Mind” strays dangerously
close to The Maccabees before they
were good, “Bar Mitzvah Blues” dem-
onstrates the band’s energetic talents
while “Small Town Trap” is a poignant
heart-grabbing tune. The band are ul-
timately enjoyable and display a talent
for song-writing but they hardly repre-
sent a re-invention of indie-pop music.
That said, they’re good enough to bag
a gig at The Hoxton Underbelly next
Wednesday, so what do I know?
A
performance at the Royal
Albert Hall is usually no
quiet affair for both artist
and audience. This Thurs-
day night saw the absence of crowds of
people waiting on the grand staircase
leading up to the Royal Albert Hall.
Instead, a considerably smaller huddle
could be found murmuring with some
excitment within the second floor hall-
ways of London’s famous concert and
performance venue.
The Hush gigs are a revamped series
of small, intimate nights in the Edgar
Room, which was previously a dining
area. Hush invites newly-signed artists
to play in front of a mixed crowd that
samples each sector of the gig-going
demographic.
The latest to be added to London’s
roster of gig venues is incredibly invit-
ing with its carpeted floors, soft light-
ing and homely atmosphere. In a room
that could pass off as your own living
room, the walls are adorned by mount-
ed canvases of musical legends. The
Beatles, Pavaroti and James Brown are
just a few of the artists silently survey-
ing the young acts on stage.
First on was Jose Vanders; the teen-
ager seemed incredibly overwhelmed
and calm at the same time. However,
Her personality left more of an impres-
sion than her performance; her songs
were decidedly samey and hovered
around the same subjects.
Jonathan Jeremiah followed Miss.
Vanders on stage after a short interval,
Hush @ The Royal Albert Hall
but unfortunately left with the crowd
with less to talk about. Although en-
joyable in an alarmingly background-
music way, comparisons were drawn to
Kings of Leon, albiet without their at-
tention-catching Southern twang that
is so evident throughout their tracks.
Finishing off the night was Alan
Pownall. His troubled demeanour set-
tled quite differently from his skinny
jeans, cardigan and closely cropped
blonde hair. Unlike the previous two
artists on stage before him, he turned
many a head as he casually stepped
onto stage and introduced himself.
He produced an impressive serenity in
the room with his acoustic guitar and
softy-straining voice. Despite a largely
satisfying performance, there were
only glimmers of anything special that
may place him apart from similar art-
ists in the catergory in which David
Gray and John Mayer lay claim to.
The informality of the night were in
stark contrast to Imperial College’s
graduation ceremony held at the Al-
bert Hall the day before. The audience
www.rodrigobraga.co.uk www.myspace.com/kittymagic
was split between sitting comfortably
on the floor and standing uninhib-
ited at the back thanks to the free
cloakroom.
This Hush gig was truly saved by the
venue’s relaxing and friendly atmos-
phere. The cheap drink prices probably
helped a little bit too. - Dan Wan
Jose Vanders looks a little bit like a squirrel, no? I’m not being mean, they’re cute
We are looking for HAYFEVER sufferers and NORMAL
VOLUNTEERS to help with allergy research
If you are interested in taking part in research to help us understand the causes of
nasal allergies and develop new forms of treatment, and if
you are between 18 and 55 years old please contact us for more information:
a.goldstone@imperial.ac.uk
Andrea Goldstone – Clinical Research Nurse
Department of Allergy
Royal Brompton & Harefield NHS Trust
and NHLI Ethics Commitees
Fulham Road, London SW3 6HP
The research has been approved by the Brompton Harefield & NHLI Research Ethics Committee

