21
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
FILM
Film Editors
Film Editors Zuzanna Blaszczak & Ed Knock
Zuzanna Blaszczak & Ed Knock
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Lolapocalypse now (+ zombies)
We geeks love the zombie apocalypse.
If you’re a person who finds it difficult
to interact with the outside world, it
becomes less important if the outside
world is filled with people who just so
happen to want to eat your brains, and
your interaction amounts to smashing
their head in with a baseball bat. This
geek appeal is played on to with great
effect in the latest horror comedy flick
Zombieland.
Zombieland tells the story of Colum-
bus (Jesse Eisenberg), who, in his past
life was a World-Of-Warcraft-playing
mountain-dew-drinking geek, but now
he’s one of the few people around still
capable of speech. His talent for sur-
vival is due to a set of “rules” which he
follows, ranging from “beware of bath-
rooms” to “don’t be a hero”. Colum-
bus begins the movie trying to make
the journey from his college campus
in Austin Texas, to his family home
in Columbus Ohio. Soon enough he
hooks up with patriarchal hard man
character (Woody Harrelson) and
sister pair Wichita (Emma Stone)
and Little Rock (Abigail Breslin), and
they journey together, albeit with their
own separate destinations.
The film is supremely funny. With
a great script and brilliant perform-
ances from the main cast. Of par-
ticular note is Jesse Eisenburg in his
portrayal of the neurotic adolescent
lead. One of the scenes in which he
shines is a flashback to the moment his
hot girl-next-door neighbour bursts
through his door in need of comfort-
ing. Flash forward to the next morning
and she’s zombied up and trying to eat
him, Eisenberg captures the pubescent
awkwardness brilliantly. And yet Zom-
bieland’s comic thread is punctuated
by poignant moments of emotional in-
tensity. These contrast brilliantly with
the light-hearted tone of the rest of the
film and allows the viewer to connect
TimDavies
TimDavies
Jean-Stephane Sauvaire’s new film
Johnny Mad Dog is a passionate por-
trayal of a war stricken African coun-
try, told from the perspectives of two
children at the front of the War, where
rape and murder is commonplace. One
of them is a child soldier for the ‘death
dealers’, who calls himself ‘Johnny Mad
Dog’. The other is Laokole, a girl who
has lost everything from the war. Their
paths intertwine throughout the tale, as
the war comes to a climax.
The film is based on a book by Em-
manuel Dongola, who escaped the
Congo in 1997 when civil war broke
out. The film is startling and brutally
violent from start to finish, as the drug
fuelled child troops are sent to mur-
der and pillage under the command of
General Never Die.
Johnny Mad Dog is the leader of the
small boys unit, and carves a path of
savage violence throughout the coun-
try. His second in command, ‘No Good
Advice’ is younger and even more sa-
distic than Johnny Mad Dog, and is
completely void of any human-like
emotions or qualities. Along with the
rest of the unit, they are a killing ma-
chine, following orders blindly from
General Never Die.
The film illustrates the power of the
fearless child soldier. Cocaine is rubbed
into open wounds to frenzy the troops
and to make them forget their hunger
and fatigue before combat. The fierce-
ness of the child soldiers is comparable
to Fernando Meirelles’ brilliant City of
God (2003), where children with no
future are forced into fighting for rival
gangs in the slums of Rio de Janeiro.
In the broken world of war, all morals
are lost. The self-named Johnny Mad
Dog claims he has forgotten his origi-
nal name – and most likely all com-
passion and ethics that came with it.
The encounters between Laokole and
Johnny Mad Dog show a more human
side to Johnny, as the captivating story
unfolds.
The film is shot in a twitchy hand-
held camera style (the latest fashion in
cinematography), which some people
may find disorientating, but does give
the viewer a more down-to-earth look
at the characters.
The soundtrack emphasises the
coldness of an already gut-twisting
tale. After the chilling final scene, you
are left with Billie Holiday’s haunting
song ‘Strange Fruit’ alongside distress-
ing images of war that will leave you
speechless.
Stefan Zeeman
Stefan Zeeman
War children, it’s just a shot
away in Johnny Mad Dog
on a deeper level with the characters,
whilst never seeming out of place.
With the universal success of Shaun
Of The Dead bringing horror com-
edy to the mainstream there have
been a raft of new films to the genre,
with mixed reception. However Zom-
bieland has already become highest
grossing zombie film ever, overtaking
the remake of Dawn of The Dead. And
it’s not without reason, Zombieland
is a brilliantly funny take on the zom-
bie apocalypse concept; a great script,
great casting and solid direction make
this an autumn release well worth
checking out.
Priests, Perverts and Passion
The wierd and wonderful Japan through the eyes of Sion Sono
I mention Japanese cinema, you
think The Ring, Godzilla and anime.
True, the films of Miyazaki and co.
have been delighting us for years and
J-horror recently hit mainstream
western theatres, however look
beneath the bright colours or dark
shadows and we find another side
to Japanese flms. With the recent
spate of manufacturated ‘indie’ films
rolled off the hollywood production
line (Little Miss Sunshine, Juno etc.)
it’s refreshing to watch a genuine
alternative film and it is of no surprise
to me that it came from Japan.
Love Exposure takes all types of gen-
res from Japan’s rich film heritage; the
period dramas of Kurosawa are com-
bined with the Yakuza films of Fuka-
saku (Battle Royale), mixed with ele-
ments of Christian guilt, revenge and
an underlying theme of romance with
a subtle slice of dark comedy. This film
will make you laugh, weep and cringe
and at four hours long I was never once
bored.
Directed by avant-garde poet/con-
troversial filmmaker Sion Sono, Love
Exposure is based around protagonist
Yu in his search for his true love. When
Yu’s beloved mother dies, his devout
Catholic father Tetsu decides to be-
come a priest. After a brief affair with
a parishioner, Tetsu begins to force
his guilt upon Yu by making him con-
fess his sins every day. Soon Yu finds
himself deliberately commiting sins to
confess to his a father and finds that
the ultimate way to upset him is to be-
come a ‘hentai’ or pervert.
It’s not long before Yu is addicted to
sin and trains in the art of ‘tosatu’, using
his newly learnt ninja skills to take up-
skirt photos of girl’s underwear (for-
tunately it seems that every girl in To-
kyo wears really short skirts) until he
finds the panties of his true love! Enter
Yoko- fierce, beautiful but man hating,
who finds herself accidently attracted
to ‘Miss Scorpion’ who is Yu dressed in
drag as a dare from his friends. Unfor-
tunately for Yu, Yoko finds him repul-
sive and brands him a pervert. Whilst
in the background lurks the mysteri-
ous Koike and a creepy cult whose
true intentions are revealed as the film
progresses.
The majority of the film is shot in
close up and medium shots giving it
a slightly documentary feel, includ-
ing faded ’home movie’ style footage
for the purpose of flashbacks. Sion
Sono’s sense of pace is almost incred-
ible, after starting the film with a gen-
tle coming-of-age (however twisted)
parable he kick starts the second half
with unlimited energy maintaing your
attention right till the end credits. The
cast assembled are mostly newcomers
but pull off very polished performanc-
es with utmost sincerity, even when
debating the ethics of perverts. The
soundtrack is an odd mix of western
classical (Ravel’s Bolero), pop punk
and electro which somehow perfectly
compliments the film.
Although Sono has amalgamated his
nation’s iconic genres together he also
draws on some Western inspiration
too. The themes of crossdressing and
mis-identity continues Japanese direc-
tors’ love of Shakespeare (Kurosawa’s
epic Ran was an adaptation of King
Lear) and it’s impossible not to notice
the resemblence of Koike and her gang
to Alex and his Droogs from Kubrick’s
A Clockwork Orange.
So what has Sono produced? A film
of extraordinary storytelling which is
surprisingly accessible considering its
running time. It gained great reviews
on the festival circuit (it won the Cali-
gary award at Berlin) and now joins the
growing ranks of alternative Japanese
and East Asian films which blow any
of the ‘cutting-edge indie cinema’ from
America out of the water.
EdKnock
EdKnock Film Editor
Probably the most inconvenient time to forget where you put your keys

