FOOD
Food Editors
Food Editors Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
Chris Sim & Holly Cumbers
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
My good friend the soft shell crab, complete with crispy exterior, sweetly soft interior and light wasabi-laden salad. Affordable when you use an online deal.
Restaurant Review: Sake No Hana
A
broken set of escalators.
Not exactly the sort of
welcome you’d expect
from Alan Yau’s latest
upscale Asian offering.
As you clunk your way up those sta-
tionary metal stairs strange thoughts
momentarily hover in your mind: ‘Per-
haps this is intentional? Are they mak-
ing me work for my meal?’ Such odd
ponderings quickly disappear when
you arrive at your desired destina-
tion, whose high ceilings and modern
Japanese wooden décor are a pleasure
to the eye. New thoughts now enter,
uttering ‘Looks like tonight’s going to
cost me a bit.’
Fortunately the last point wasn’t too
much of a worry for myself and a fellow
diner, for we had used a Toptable offer,
though this did mean we had to eat a
little earlier than our appetites desired.
As one would expect from such a chic
establishment, a friendly waiter guided
us promptly to a rather spacious yet
low-lying table and seating arrange-
ment where we were instructed to
take off our shoes. I quite liked this lit-
tle Japanese touch, not really because
it made it seem more ‘authentic’, but
rather because it made my feet feel that
bit cosier.
With my feet made to feel at home
my eyes now turned to the menu.
Pretty comprehensive coverage of su-
shi, sashimi and tempura was evident
alongside some more inventive touch-
es in the grilled and starters section.
With this restaurant review in mind I
thought I should try to have a snippet
of most areas.
Overall, I guess the food was hit and
miss. Let’s start with the misses. I’ll
begin with our much loved friend, as-
sorted tempura. Crispy the batter was,
but not as fluffy and fragrant as you’d
expect from such a restaurant. And the
prawns... Well, they weren’t the giant
ones I was hoping for. Another slight
disappointment was the grilled yellow
tail cheek with yuzu sauce. The com-
bination of firm, fleshy fish with the
slightly citrusy and bitter sauce should,
in principle, have worked harmoni-
ously together. But here the let down
was that the fish was ever so slightly
overcooked. Whilst these dishes were
decent shots on goal, you might expect
them to hit a tad closer to the target.
Harsh critiquing you may think, but
@ 23 St. James’s Street, London, SW1A 1HA. Asian restauranteur Mr. Yau continues to impress at his latest
instalment, where Chris Sim carried out some investigative eating that didn’t squeeze his wallet too much.
remember how much you’re dishing
out for these delicacies.
But there were a few hits, and in my
book they were pretty big ones. Still
hovering in my memory is the delight-
ful dragon roll, whose glorious blend
of sweet eel, juicy tempura prawn and
wonderfully rich avocado was beauti-
fully brought together with perfectly
cooked rice and indulgent little eggs of
flying fish, otherwise known as tobiko
caviar. Another dish which still makes
me smile was an otherwise ordinary
watercress salad brought to life with
the presence of one of my favourite
ocean dwelling creatures, soft shell
crab. The slightly crispy outside of the
crab, combined with its unctuously
Josh Pear
Josh Pear
sweet and fleshy centre, was mar-
ried beautifully with light salad leaves
dressed in slightly acidic overtones and
a light wasabi sauce. Dessert wasn’t too
bad either, a selection of ice creams
and sorbets that let you leave with a
happily entertained palette. The acidic
sweetness of blueberry sorbet cleansed
my palette between diving in for little
mouthfuls of two classic Japanese ice
creams: the flavours of earthily sweet
black sesame and refreshing yet in-
tense green tea.
I must say I was pleasantly surprised
by the portion size – prior to my ar-
rival I had been fearing minute bites on
oversized plates. So to conclude, whilst
the food’s consistency was akin to that
of a mid-tabled Premiership football
team, I guess what you’re really paying
for is top-notch ambience. The modern,
classyJapanesefaçade,combinedwiththe
spaciousness of the room and dim mood
lighting, act in unison to create an atmos-
phere that can only really be described by
that fusion of two words, chillaxed.
Food: 7.0
Value: 6.5
Service: 8.5
Ambience: 9
Overall: 7.5/10
If like me you’re a fresher, the above
title might be slightly familiar. For
most, being a fresher means numer-
ous nights of drinking and ready
meals. Of course I’m with everyone
on that first part, but what about the
ready meals?
I’m guessing, but I think that at least
half of us have had a good few nights
where we simply can’t be bothered,
and would rather wait 5 minutes for
that glorious ping from the microwave.
So, picture this if you will. You’ve had
lectures all day and stop by at the su-
permarket on the way home. Option
a) is to go for numerous ingredients,
which granted do cost a few quid more,
to create your very own culinary mas-
terpiece. Alternatively, you could go for
option b) and get a few of those special
offer tomato penne pasta ready meals.
Unfortunately, for most it’s been the
latter for at least once in fresherhood.
So, 6:30pm has rolled around and it’s
feeding time. Into the empty kitchen to
watch a plastic dish spin in a white box
for 5 minutes, only to burn your mouth
on something which is stodgy and has
gained its entire flavour from salt. And
I’m not joking about that last part, read
the label!
I’m not trying to nag like your
mum. Instead, I’m offering some
friendly advice, the reason being
that I was in that position in fresher’s
week. Trust me, the alternative is so
much better. I found this out when I
decided to invite some friends over,
to see what they thought of my at-
tempt at spaghetti bolognese. They
bought the alcohol, and I got the
food. It was great, I made something
which tasted good and I could en-
joy in the company of friends. I’ve
added the recipe at the bottom of
this page for you to try out. If you’re
still thinking you really can’t cook,
don’t worry. It’s hard to go wrong,
you just cook the mince and chuck
everything into the pan.
Cooking for yourself means that
you will inevitably make way too much
food. It becomes an excuse to be so-
ciable and to drag people out of their
rooms to have some of your Thai green
chicken curry. If you still haven’t met
everyone on your floor on the drinking
nights, it’s a good way to simply knock
on doors. So, it’s now time to re-exam-
ine the two scenarios. Option 1: Stab
the plastic lid, watch the dish for five
minutes and eat alone. Option 2: Be
creative for a change and cook some-
thing which is very simple to make.
Get friends round to get slightly drunk
whilst making it, and finally have a
good time.
Best of all is that when you do make
too much food, you can always freeze it
and eat it tomorrow! Spaghetti Bolog-
nese is the perfect example.
The recipe that I give is more than
enough to feed four and still have
enough left over to make a very simple
lasagne tomorrow night.
Ok, bottom line is that you can pick
whichever option suits you best. Yes,
there are nights when you are in a com-
plete rush because your 3000 word es-
say is due tomorrow and you’ve only
written 150 words. Despite this, on
most other occasions the experiences
really can be incomparable.
Have a go, and enjoy it!
Recipe for Spaghetti Bolognese
(Student Style)
Serves: 4
Ingredients:
1kg of lean minced beef (The more
expensive does actually equal nicer
mince)
2 x tbsp olive oil
2 x 400g tins of chopped tomatoes
1 x diced red onion
2 x peeled and crushed garlic cloves
(or 1 tsp garlic powder)
2 x large glasses of red wine (A cheap
bottle is fine)
6 x tomatoes
1 x 800g Spaghetti (Dried is ok, but
fresh is much better)
1 x 200g pack of button mushrooms
1 x beef stock cube
1 x tbsp tomato puree
2 x tsp of mixed herbs (Dried is fine)
2 x tsp oregano (Dried is fine)
A small block of parmesan cheese to
grate over the top
Method:
Put a little olive oil into a large sauce-
pan and put on a high heat. Add all
the mince into the pan along with the
diced onions, and break up the mince
with a wooden spoon. Don’t put the
garlic in yet as it burns. Once the on-
ions have softened and browned,
reduce the heat or the meat will turn
grey. Gently cook the mince for about
ten minutes and add a stock cube. Use
the wooden spoon to mix everything
together. Add one large glass of red
wine, along with the herbs if you want
them. Allow the red wine to reduce
as it burns off the alcohol. Add both
tins of chopped tomatoes and add the
mushrooms (chopped in half). Also
add the garlic, the other glass of red
wine, and the tomato puree. Stir well
and allow everything to reduce down.
Add salt and pepper at this stage, but
do keep tasting as you go along! Sim-
mer for a further 30 minutes or so.
Cook the spaghetti as instructed on
the pack and serve.
“Oh yeah, I have to cook for myself now…to the microwave!”

