28
TRAVEL
Travel Editors
Travel Editors Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
Dylan Lowe & Olivia Davies
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 6 NOVEMBER 2009
Travel Editor
DylanLowe
DylanLowe
R
emember the bus journeys
that drive you insane with
boredom? Before being bless-
ed with a Blackberry with in-
ternet access, I had them too.
And, as much as a travel extraordinaire/
freak I am, I hated them too.
So resorting to Britain’s second favour-
ite pastime, I allowed my head to knock
back and gaze into constellations of “es-
ure.com” and “D*n’t t@ke !t out on our
staff”.
This scenario fitted neatly with one of
my most treasured mottos of travelling:
“go in with little to zero expectations,
come out with absolute satisfaction.” De-
spite the mundane contents of most bus
advertisements, one particular poster did
captivate a glint of sentimentality.
The header simply reads: “Beyond the
call of duty in WWI”.
It goes on further:
“Within 48 hours of the outbreak of
war, London buses and their crews began
moving troops to and from the war zone.
In a few weeks, more than 300 London
buses - each with a volunteer driver -
were being used at the Western Front in
France and Belgium.”
Though it served as an advert for the
London Transport Museum in Covent
Garden, the poster fulfilled its purpose as
a subtle reminder of the unspoken heroes
of the First World War. The plea went
on to suggest that, as we don our pop-
pies and pipe down for the two-minute
silence at 11am this Sunday, we should
spare a thought on the drivers, the no-
less valiant individuals, who played a vital
part in the British war effort.
Indeed, with perilous conditions on the
continent inflicted by shell exchange and
landmines, their voyages may well have
been their last.
What drives people to travel? Disregard
that of leisure travelling ‒ such isn’t what I
seek to consider this time round. For this
particular editorial I want to explore the
form of ‘travel’ that is driven by a sense of
duty, a sense of moral obligation.
Understandably, many of you live away
from home. I for one have familial du-
ties to meet, albeit having to grudgingly
endure the 23,000 air miles and on-flight
screeching-babies on a yearly basis. But
why on Earth would I put myself through
Travel at your own risk
Fleur Thomas dissects the atrocity that is India’s traffic system
I
f you are a reasonably well off In-
dian, you will never walk. The dis-
tance and the danger of the road
are immaterial, you will not do so
out of principle. Even if your desti-
nation is only two blocks away, you will
jump onto your scooter, or into your air-
conditioned car and drive there. If you
are foreign and you are walking, you will
be asked whether you want a ride on the
auto at least once every ten metres. Ap-
parently the mere notion of wanting to
walk is strange. Why exert yourself if you
can avoid it?
Scooters dominate the roads. This is
because any idiot can drive them – or so
they think – they are small and can worm
their way through the traffic jams. Often
you will see the entire family all perched
precariously on one scooter. If you get hit
by a car or a truck when you are on one of
those, it is cheaper for the driver to run
you over properly and pay the fine than
for them to cover your medical expenses.
Often they will just drive away after they
hit you, risking neither – that is precisely
what happened to a friend of mine. The
windows of the cars tend to be tinted,
which can mean that they can hardly
see you. With cars, the general rule of
thumb is the bigger the better. Most cars
belonging to important civil servants are
monster jeeps with little flags poking out
behind bars that can and will kill you if
you collide with them.
Ifyoudon’thaveacaravailable,youcan
get an auto. Riding in an auto means that
you are sitting at a height that matches
exactly with that of the exhaust of buses
and trucks. The auto driver will complain
about the traffic every day and will cite
this as a reason to rip you off, even though
there is traffic every day. They will rip you
off if you look even remotely foreign. At
peak times they will refuse to take you,
because they are heading in another di-
rection, or because you won’t pay a mini-
mal sum to get home.
Patience is required – often when you
ask them to turn on the meter, they will
either say no outright, or they will claim
that it is broken. You will notice huge
variations in meter rates in different au-
tos, which can lead one to speculate as to
how this is possible. Otherwise you fix
a price and they take you. Once you are
there and you have no change, they might
say that they don’t have change either.
They are usually lying and simply want
your note. If they are particularly rude,
they will take your note and you have to
stand in front of the auto to stop them
from driving away. If they are not lying,
they will ask around for you.
It is important to ask the auto driver
whether he knows where he is going,
because otherwise he might get lost. In
fact, it is better if you know how to get
there as, otherwise, they might drive in
circles and charge you by the kilometre.
If you picked a particularly macho driver,
he may blame you for getting lost – even
though he said he knew how to get there
– and then get aggressive.
It is best to pick an older driver, as he is
still alive having driven for twenty years.
He is likely to know where he is going and
he is less laden with testosterone.
The drive will invariably involve
close encounters, slaloming and sudden
brakes; but as with all things there are
exceptions. Mine was when there was a
lot of traffic and I found myself in an auto
stuck between a huge truck carrying pet-
rol and another auto with gas canisters –
I thought I was going to die. Sometimes
they drive right behind trucks that are
carrying – and often leaking – some kind
of transparent fluid. You would hope it is
water, but often it isn’t. Often when they
drop you somewhere, they will do a quick
U-turn and drop you off on the other side
of the road. This involves driving several
hundred metres in the wrong lane, while
the traffic policeman – who is too busy
looking pretty – overlook.
Buses are taken by those who find au-
tos too expensive. There are two doors –
the front one for ladies, the back for men.
The ladies are given more seats but it is
still very crowded and you will most likely
be standing. Sometimes men will use the
front door when they are in a hurry, but
they will usually move to the back. Oc-
casionally they will stay to harass women.
They generally squeeze at least one extra
person onto the bench, so you become in-
timately acquainted with several people
all at once. The doors of the bus are al-
ways open, even while driving and when
it is completely full, people are pouring
out of the doors. People are to the bus as
excess fat is to over-tight trousers.
Before coming to India, I had never
seen the phrase ‘catching a bus’ taken so
literally. Although the buses go ever so
slowly and the engine really does com-
plain about the slightest slope, they can-
not be easily stopped. My friend men-
tioned this guy who was trying to cross
the road and found himself in front of a
bus that couldn’t stop. He then had no
choice other than to lie flat on the road to
avoid being killed.
the torment ‒ and guilt on my colossal
carbon footprint ‒ when I can simply
stay in London? Perhaps the motivation
lies with my obligation ‒ and sometimes
genuine wish ‒ to see my parents.
This is the darker side of the travel-
ling world, which we all have a fair share
of. This is the mode of travel that leaves
us entrapped in a bleak timeframe, feet
fixed on the ground or bottom on the
seat, minus the glamour and anticipation
of the abnormality we experience when
we go on holiday.
I suspect this is why we, as a society,
tend to avoid the word ‘travel’ when de-
picting our laborious endeavour to reach
a destination that lacks a ski slope or the
odd palm tree. Similarly, my loyal felix
readers, this is why whereupon finding
the travel section you expect to find an-
ecdotes of ‘travels’ based in exotic, far-far-
away locations.
As much as we wish to shun it, travel-
ling is inevitably incorporated into our
normal day lives. It is human to travel.
Whether it is the duty to oneself to ‘travel’
to the local groceries, the duty to ‘travel’
to college to attend lectures, or obliga-
tion to mates to ‘travel’ to attend a fare-
well party, obligation to parents to ‘travel’
home, or even obligation to Dan Wan to
‘travel’ to Beit in order to complete laying
-out the travel page, the message is syn-
onymous: despite our efforts to beautify
‘travel’, it is not entirely a luxury.
However do not regard it with shame.
Because, as with the examples above, by
travelling our satisfaction with the result,
and the smile that blossoms from the
lips of friends and parents ‒ and possibly
our revered Editor-in-chief if I am lucky
‒ from sheer happiness outweighs the la-
bour. Even the process itself, though not
entirely enjoyable, can have us brimming
with pride.
Just like those bus drivers in WWI who
had their courage awarded by an array of
medals, and their loved ones who only
had memories to cling onto in the after-
math of the war.
And so I urge you, proud fellow British
citizens, to don your poppies and con-
duct your two-minute silence on Sunday,
November 8th
, and spare a thought for the
servicemen who themselves ‘travelled’ to
an uncertain, yet glorious, fate.
You can complain to any of the following officers, but they’ll be much happier
to just take your bribe
Next station,
a spot for
remembrance

