30
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor
Clubs & Socs Editor Alex Kendall
Alex Kendall
clubs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMNER 2009
x
Sinfonietta, Big Band and Choir unite
Three societies join forces in a huge musical tour to Berlin with Hannah Short, and the odd marathon runner
W
ith the appoint-
ment of the new
LawSoc commit-
tee, things are look-
ing up. The Presi-
dent, Angela, Treasurer, Rhodri and
Secretary, Max, have worked hard to
bring together a packed year of events
for those interested in a career in Law.
Their dedicated work will ensure you
get the up-to-date information about
Law. Even though Imperial does not
offer a course in Law, the Society will
I
would have to say that my pre-
vailing memory of Choir, Sin-
fonietta Orchestra and Big
Band’s summer tour is of Cur-
rywurst. Never before have 130
of the finest musical folk Imperial has
to offer consumed so much sausage,
ketchup and curry powder. Of course,
our week-long tour to Berlin this Sep-
tember was not made up exclusively of
lazing around stuffing our faces – oh
no! We succeeded in squeezing seven
fantastic performances into our busy
schedule.
Past and current students and staff
converged in the BaxPax hostel in cen-
tral Berlin on Tuesday, 15th September,
waiting expectantly to see what the trip
might throw their way. Being in such
vast quantity (and such high spirits),
we wasted no time in making the hos-
tel our own, pitying the other guests
and making good use of the bar. De-
spite the 1 Euro fine for late attendance
at the 09:00 rehearsal the next morning
there were a good few squinting Sinfo-
nietta members making their way out
of the door at 09:30 on the Wednesday.
While the Choir and Big Band slept in,
the Orchestra set to work perfecting
Humperdinck’s “Hansel and Gretel,”
Sibelius’ 2nd Symphony, Tchaikovsky’s
6th Symphony and Delius’ “Norwegian
Songs” in one of the Humbolt Uni-
versity’s buildings. A few hours later,
it was all change; Sinfonietta was free
to explore one of the most diverse cit-
ies in Europe and the Choir took to
practicing their mix of Fauré, Handel,
Howell, Rutter and Parry with gusto.
Big Band took up the last slot of the day
in our rehearsal venue and blasted out
some exasperatingly catchy jazz hits to
the German students milling around
the courtyard. That evening, the ma-
jority of the tourists found themselves
in an Oktoberfest bar somewhere
along Oranienburger Strasse, Berlin’s
central red-light boulevard, trying des-
perately to avoid catching the eye of
any of the prostitutes. Those big boys
and girls who made it to twelve o’clock
were rewarded with a visit to an artist’s
squat in the bombed-out department
store, bristling with graffiti, behind the
hostel.
As a city, Berlin has everything a
large group of students might need
to entertain themselves for a week.
We dutifully took our dose of culture,
climbing the Reichstag and joining
the free walking tour, only to discover
to our delight that Germany is actu-
ally fascinating! One bright morning,
some very dedicated culture addicts
made the hour-long trek to find the
celebrated East Side Gallery. Upon
arriving at their destination and be-
ing unable to locate said gallery, they
were informed that the vast stretch of
painstakingly decorated remnants of
the Berlin Wall that they had passed
was, in fact, it. Other excursions were
more successful; Berlin’s zoo boasts the
largest number of species of any zoo in
the world and the street markets, the
largest variety of tat.
The Thursday evening was the first
of our string of gigs. Big Band played
two sets in the Pfefferberg Sommer-
garten to uproarious applause and
some interesting limb-flailing loosely
based on dancing. It emerged that
two of our number had been mask-
ing Latin-dance prowess sufficient to
cause the rest of us to wonder what we
had done to deserve multiple left feet.
Big Band produced some unbeliev-
able solos throughout their classic set
of Jazz, Funk and Latin from the likes
of Buddy Rich, Gordon Goodwin and
Frank Sinatra. Of course, as we can
always expect from our Jazz pros, it
was all flawless but I think they just
might have outdone themselves with
their jaw-dropping arrangement of Pat
Metheny’s “The First Circle.”
The next evening, it was the Or-
chestra’s turn to impress. The venue
was the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial
Church, affectionately known to the
public as “the lipstick and the powder-
puff,” owing to its freakish cosmetic
exterior – the sort of architecture that
would make your great aunt swab her
brow with a hanky. The waffled, blue
glass, octagonal church-cum-concert
hall provided a remarkable venue for
some equally remarkable playing. Get-
ting an audience in Berlin is always a
challenge, particularly when the Ber-
lin Philharmonic is playing the same
evening, but with a concerted effort
to hand out all 600 flyers the audito-
rium was packed. The high calibre
performing continued well into the
early morning with an illuminating
karaoke session back in the hostel. It
was discovered that John Lennon had
somehow infiltrated our group when
he took the stage and made everyone
cry with his beautiful singing.
Sinfonietta’s second concert was the
following day. All of a sudden, bellow-
ing “when I think about you, I touch
myself,” the night before didn’t seem
like such a good idea for our singing
soloist. Nevertheless, the show did go
on. The Marienkirche was lined with
scaffolding, the audience sat facing the
walls and there were a few last minute
glitches in the lower wind section but
Sinfonietta’s second and final concert
proved to be one of the best yet. Need-
less to say, the bar lucky enough to
receive our business post-concert saw
its entire spirits store run dry. A sick-
ening number of sectional shots were
ordered, showcasing the phenomenal
endurance of the musicians’ livers.
Sunday was witness to the return
of Big Band. Twice. Throughout the
entire week, two worryingly-talented
string players had been abstaining,
mummifying themselves with tubi-
grip and carb-loading in preparation
for the Berlin Marathon. Give the
biggest of hands to Eluned Smith and
Eugene Chang who both completed
the 42 (and a bit) kilometres on that
particularly hot Sunday morning. Ex-
tra points go to Eugene for being suffi-
ciently deranged to have completed the
course the day before, on roller blades.
Big Band had a spot at the 40km mark
and heralded 40,000 runners with
ear-popping jazz whilst the specta-
tors were soon exhausted from all the
clapping and whistling in the scorch-
ing German sun. Simultaneously, the
Choir and a select group of strings
were putting the finishing touches to
their concert programme in the Auen-
kirche that evening. At five o’clock the
rest of the group, and some very for-
tunate Berliners, listened to Handel’s
Let Thy Hand Be Strengthened and
other stunning pieces in absolute rap-
ture. After a few hours break, Big Band
warmed up again. This time the venue
was an underground jazz club north of
the hostel called Kunstfabrik Schlot.
Naturally, none of us found the name
remotely amusing.
All too soon our little jaunt had
come to an end. The final day saw the
choir perform their second concert,
this time in the beautiful Zionskirche,
followed by the end-of-tour meal in
a nearby microbrewery. Prizes were
presented to those whose contribu-
tion to the tour had been particularly
noted. Tears were shed for those who
wouldn’t be returning to Imperial
and we all reflected upon what a tre-
mendous year it had been for music
at Imperial College. Will this year be
as great? Will next summer’s tour be
quite as rampageous? Only time will
tell. I have a sneaking suspicion 09/10
is going to be a whole lot of fun.
help if you are considering a conver-
sion after you graduate, or even if you
are just interested in law.
I, myself, am a member of LawSoc
with a keen interest in Law and the
first event of the year was a great suc-
cess. A fellow Imperial alumnus, An-
drew Moir, from the law firm, Herbert
Smith, returned here to give an ‘Intro-
duction to Law’ talk on Friday, 16th
October. He gave a deep, inspiring in-
sight into his career in Law after he had
graduated from Imperial. Having stud-
ied Physics here, he went on to qualify
in Intellectual Property Law and is now
a successful solicitor advocate.
Aside from the talks and seminars
this term, I am particularly looking
forward to the trip to the Old Bailey in
November. Touring the Old Bailey will
allow you to see barristers in action.
An experience not to be missed! In
addition, the ‘Negotiation Workshop’
with the prestigious magic circle firm,
Allen and Overy, in December will be
a notable opportunity. Networking
LawSoc is back and YOU should join! says Mevani Jagodage
with other prospective lawyers and
law firms is an essential part in pursu-
ing Law in the future and there will be
many occasions throughout the year in
which you can do so. Allen and Overy
are sponsoring LawSoc so be prepared
to meet with partners and alumni over
the coming year.
So why choose Law? Law is an excit-
ing career path, which extends across
many academic fields – from criminal
and insurance, to medical and patent
law, as well as many more. Law firms
are constantly looking to recruit stu-
dents from a Science background, with
some even paying for you to do your
conversion course! Getting into Law
can be challenging but an Imperial de-
gree gives you the upper hand. If you
take the average law firm, the major-
ity of solicitors did not do a Law de-
gree, and come from a wide range of
disciplines.
If you are interested, come along to
the IC LawSoc events. Contact us at
lawsoc@ic.ac.uk
The Big Band perform in Kunstfabrik Schlot, in underground Berlin
‘All of a sudden, bellow-
ing “when I think about
you, I touch myself,” the
night before didn’t seem
like such a good idea for
our singing soloist.’

