39
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
SPORT
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Jovan Nedić: Undue Pressure
Hinders Perfomance
I
mperial beat the Medics. If you
play sport at Imperial, this sent-
ance is not so much of a shock,
as the vast majority of our teams
regularly beat them; the Football
Club don’t even put out their 1st team
against the Medicals at Varsity. What is
surprising, is that this headline is now
associated with the Rugby 1st team, as
shown in last week’s issue.
For years we have been trying to get
one over the old enemy, yet time and
time again we fail to per-form and end
up getting more and more agitated that
we were unable to beat them. First of
all, let’s just put into context the re-
cent 13-6 win for Imperial. As already
mentioned, Imperial have not beaten
the Medicals for several years now, in
fact, the last time the 1st XV beat them
was in the Gutteridge Cup Final (ULU
Cup) in 2004. That is just before I even
started at Imperial, whilst the majority
of you were probably learning how to
approach and talk to a girl (admittedly,
for some of you, this didn’t even hap-
pen then but probably occurred quite a
few years later!).
In recent years, the game has been
close, with the last two Varsity encoun-
ters both going into extra time - both
times, Imperial were in the lead and
then lost it at the end. The same can
be said for the 2nd and 3rd XV, whose
games are just as close (I have to point
out that the 3rd team have managed
to beat their opposition on one occa-
sion). Even the Old Boys’ team had a
chance a few weeks ago, and the same
thing happened then as it did when
they were students; to put it bluntly,
they bottled it.
This is the crux of the matter when
the Imperial rugby teams play the
Medicals, their nerves get the better of
them. Thanks to live reporting talents
of an old club captain, by this I mean
regular e-mails during the game, I was
able to follow the match from Poitiers
in France. Below is the transcript of
one of his emails:
“13-6
Godfrey pen...I say it again...they are
only in the game cos of the
pens. Our boys are looking a bit
nervy.”
My heart almost sank when I saw
that last sentence. The one thing that
has let us down time and time again
are our nerves, and I was hoping the
same wouldn’t happen again. Luckily,
they held out to the end and came away
as the victors.
The problem we have is a simple one.
Whenever Imperial play the Medicals,
there is a lot of hype, a huge build-
up lasting several weeks with people
saying such things as “We must beat
them” and “This is the only game that
matters this season”. As a result, a lot
of pressure is put on the players to per-
form and get out of the rut that they
have been in for nearly six years, and
as we have seen, sometimes nerves get
the better of you. This is what I don’t
really understand, why is so much
hype and expectation put on the games
against the medics? Do you think the
same amount of pressure was put on
the players for this weeks game against
Chichester Men’s 1st?
Without the pressure to win, players
are more relaxed and end up playing
to a better standard than if they were
nervous. This is the same for any sport;
take the Football Club who, like I have
already mentioned, don’t even put out
their 1st team against the Medicals at
Varsity. Instead, what they do is let the
leavers play and the atmosphere is a lot
more relaxed with people having fun.
Alternatively, you don’t want them to
be too relaxed otherwise they won’t
perform well again. It is finding that
balance of being relaxed yet, at the
same time, having the desire to beat
the opposition that is the key.
I have already heard muttering about
Varsity and how the recent win means
that things should be a lot better for
IC this year. Bollocks! Forget about
Varsity, it’s four months away! A lot
of things can happen in that time. In
fact, it would probably be best if the
With this in mind we were expecting
to lose the game and finish with a re-
sounding last, but with our first couple
of races we saw that each member of
the new Imperial Team had the skill to
win races, we just needed to work to-
gether as a team to get the results.
Large amounts of weed at the first
mark gave us our first win against ULU
3rds when Devin Goonewardena ag-
gressively forced a ULU boat right into
it, taking them out of the race and giv-
ing us a one boat advantage to go on
for an easy win.
Our aggressive tactics paid off until
we started pushing things too far and
our commodore, Gavin MacAulay col-
lided with another boat and received a
penalty for his careless actions.
Our overall position was a respect-
able 4th out of 6. Unfortunately our
clubhouse bar had been drunk dry
the previous Wednesday for the Pirate
themed Social, so we couldn’t celebrate
in a fitting manner.
Sunday brought more racing and
much more wind. A series of 10
short, fast races took place and an F1
style high scoring system was imple-
mented. Imperial’s very own Michelle
Ryder came 2nd out of the 12 boats
present, sailing well in the challenging
conditions.
The Foot proved to be a good warm
up for our next event- the Welsh Drag-
on, where we will have to listen to all
the Welsh men moan about the male/
sheep ratio.
Girls, Weed, Booze... And a
Little bit of Sailing
“Why is so
much hype and
expectation put on
the games against
the medics?”
players forgot about the win all to-
gether, for now, and focused on each
game individually. The one thing that
they should take away is confidence.
They need to believe that they are
good enough to beat any opposition
that comes up against them. The same
applies to all the other sports, this in-
cludes you Netball girls out there who I
know have been having the same prob-
lem as the rugby club with respect to
beating the Medics. Never ever think
that your opponent is better than you,
otherwise they WILL get the better of
you. Be strong and confident in your
abilities and everything will work out.
And most of all, forget about Varsity.
Continued from Back Page
Imperial’s forward dominance of their own scrums gave the impressive backline time to attack the medics
Imperial Sailors fight for water at the first event of the year: The “Foot Trophy”

