4 felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
AS BOTH THE RCSU AND CGCU COME UNDER PRESSURE IN LAST WEEK’S ISSUE, THE TWO FACULTY
UNIONS RESPOND TO FELIX TO THE CLAIMS MADE AGAINST THEM CONCERNING THEIR FORMAL BALLS
NEWS FEATURE
I
n last week’s issue of felix, the
finances and administration of
Imperial College’s two Faculty
Union’s were scrutinized.
The Royal College of Science
(RCSU) and City and Guilds College
Union (CGCU) were placed under the
magnifying glass as their spending on
their formal events was questioned.
Both formal balls held by each Facul-
ty Union lost a significant amount of
money, but it was the CGCU’s Mas-
querade Ball that saw a fiasco come to
light in the following week.
Since then, the news feature pub-
lished in felix has naturally caused
some murmurs of commotion within
the RCSU and CGCU.
This week, both Faculty Unions have
decided to respond to the claims made
against them. The confident RCSU Pres-
ident Katya-yani Vyas has issued an hon-
est response to felix, which looks further
to explain the situation she finds the
RCSU currently in. The full statement
can be read to the immediate right.
Two responses from the Engineers
have been lodged with felix this week.
CGCU Welfare Officer Alice Row-
lands has taken the responsibility and
stepped forward to reply on behalf of
the rest of the CGCU Committee.
An eleventh hour response from
CGCU President Kirsty Patterson,
who chose not to speak to felix when
the original claims were made against
her, has submitted the poem ‘If’ by
Rudyard Kipling. She admitted that
it said “things more eloquently” than
her own response at present. These re-
sponses can be read on page 5.
I
was contemplating this article for about a
day before I began writing, mentally switch-
ing my style and approach, attempting to
churn out key phrases and generally putting
a lot more thought into it than I probably
should have (especially considering I was ambling
around my department from lecture to lecture at
the time).
I came to the conclusion, after many painful
hours, that my previous attempts at dreaming up
a formal response filled with intricate arguments
and carrying a defensive tone was essentially go-
ing to be counter-productive. Instead I have cho-
sen to respond from the niche that I, along with
all of you, occupy. I am writing firstly as a student,
a third year physics student to be precise. There-
fore you can be guaranteed of my frankness and
sincerity when discussing the issues facing us as a
Faculty Union.
The duties of the RCSU committee begin in
the summer, meaning myself and members of our
team were on campus nearly every day in August
and September. The Union, worryingly, became
more familiar to me than my own home and talk
of plans for the year dominated the majority of my
conversations, but I digress...
Having two major events in the first few weeks
meant a flurry of activity in the lead up to the
start of term. Publicity for the aptly named ‘Wel-
come to the RCSU’ was our main concern during
Fresher’s fair, I am almost certain our Publicity Of-
ficer would have strangled me had I requested one
more flyer. Ultimately we held a very successful
comedy night which bodes well for the next two
shows this term.
Well, that is probably quite enough pre-amble.
It is no secret that the real issue here is the finan-
cial maelstrom following the Autumn Ball and the
Masquerade Ball held by the RCSU and CGCU
respectively, and the article in last week’s felix
that reported on it. As President of the RCSU, I
can only be held accountable for the actions of my
own union so I would first like to offer an apol-
ogy to anyone who did not enjoy themelves at our
events and indeed to anyone who did not hear
about them.
In the interview I gave to Mr Campos last week
I made it clear that we do not run social events to
make a profit, just as we do not provide careers
talks or welfare sessions to make a profit. We have
a duty to our students to make our services afford-
able without compromising their quality. As a Fac-
ulty Union we have developed enormously in the last
few years under the astute leadership of my pred-
ecessors, in particular Jennifer Morgan and David
Charles, without whom the current foundations for
a successful future would not have been laid.
“I feel that any issues I had with
how the article was written are
now irrelevant and that we need
to focus on moving forward.”
When I arrived at Imperial I had absolutely
no awareness of the RCSU, we have come a long
way since then and every committee member
has worked incredibly hard to ensure our steady
progress. We will continue to improve and grow
stronger as long as we have the support of the stu-
dents we represent.
Perhaps I should now address some of the is-
sues brought to my attention by the article in
question. There were some questions raised over
Mr Campos’ suitability in writing the article con-
sidering he currently holds the position of Science
Challenge Chair and is therefore a member of the
RCSU committee. My opinion is that the article
was written fairly and without bias, I sincerely
hope that the our engineering counterparts do not
feel hard done by in this respect. In addition, I do
not believe any disrespect was meant towards the
students who have contributed countless hours of
their time to the RCSU and I would like to offer my
personal thanks to these people. I will continue to
champion the old adage; ‘I do not agree with what
you have to say but will defend to the death you
right to say it,’ and feel that any issues I had with
how the article was written are now irrelevant and
that we need to focus on moving forward.
So, on to the points raised by Mr Campos re-
garding where our money would be better spent.
In terms of welfare we are pioneering two separate
welfare schemes this year, both of which you will
hear about in due course (I wouldn’t want to ruin
the surprise). There will be a number of sponsored
career talks and education based seminars as well
as our usual array of social events in the coming
months. I will leave the shameless advertising at
that (or the Editor will charge me for this article). I
hope that my point is making itself clear amongst
the rambling (forgive me, I have a tendency of
delivering impassioned monologues). We are
working hard to acquire your trust and provide
you with as many different events and services as
possible. Fundamentally our aim is to allow you to
get the most you can out of your experience as a
student. I have thoroughly enjoyed my time at Im-
perial and it is my (and the rest of the committee’s)
intention, that you also do.
I should probably conclude soon so I will end
on this note, that we are always welcome to sug-
gestions and are looking to continuously improve.
I implore you to get in touch with me (rcsu.presi-
dent@imperial.ac.uk) if you have ideas as to how
we can provide a better event or think that we are
coming up short in a particular area.
Essentially, every single one of us has a say in
the actions of our student’s union so I urge you, as
a student and not an FU president, to get involved
and believe in our potential. Perhaps if you do we
will avoid another article in felix this year and I
won’t teeter on the verge of a breakdown or con-
template strangling a certain Editor. In the mean
time, I will strive to bring out the best in the RCSU.
and hopefully build a union we can be proud of.
FACULTY UNIONS RESPOND
A response from RCSU President, Katya-yani Vyas
RCSU President
Katya-yani
Vyas was under
pressure last
week, but has
issued an honest
statement on
behalf of her
committee (see
left)
THE RCSU

