5
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
NEWS
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
THE CGCU
A POETIC RIPOSTE
T
he majority of the CGCU committee and
I were surprised to read the article in felix
1442, regarding the CGCU Masquerade
Ball and, more specifically, allegations that
the CGCU committee are ‘pointing fingers’
at our President, Miss Kirsty Patterson.
Though we acknowledge that the ball lost more money
than we could be comfortable with, we feel the night ran
smoothly and was a success, enjoyed by those who attend-
ed. With hindsight it could be said booking such a high-
profile, expensive band was overly ambitious. However,
as far as CGCU have been informed, the losses quoted in
felix are almost twice as high as the actual figures.
I feel the article itself was a needlessly personal attack on
Miss Patterson and appears to have been based on the views
ormis-quotes ofonememberoftheCGCUcommittee,sab-
batical officers who have not consulted us, or Miss Patter-
son, who have leaked confidential information to the media,
while being too cowardly to put their names to the quotes
they gave.
Mr Steve Long (CGCU Vice President- Activities)
agreed that last week’s article was a misrepresentation of
the views of the majority of the CGCU exec, saying: “The
report of the breakdown of the CGCU committee and dis-
satisfaction with our President in last week’s felix was way
off the mark. I wish that more of my comments were in-
cluded in the article, as this would have suggested the con-
trary. For the record, I believe we have the strongest guilds
committee in years. There is a lot of “new blood” with ex-
perience from different areas of college life and this has
brought a new lease of life to the CGCU. The proof can
be seen in the fantastic turn out to our events, the “Impe-
rial Engineers” T-shirts being worn around the campus,
and the feeling of belonging to the City and Guilds Col-
lege Union that has been fostered in the last few weeks. I
would like to take this opportunity to thank the members
of CGCU for their hard graft recently to create this en-
vironment and to thank our President, Kirsty Patterson.
Guilds is strong this year, long may it continue!”
Mr Dan Lundy (CGCU Chairman) echoed Mr Long’s
comments, saying the ball: “will serve to encourage fresh-
ers and older students to take a more active role within the
CGCU in the future, it was one of the best IC events I have
attended to date.”
With regards to the comments made by Mr Norris,
our VPFS, these sentiments are not reflected by the rest
of the committee. With any group of people there will be
disagreements and falling outs, particularly when we are
striving to do the best job possible for CGCU, alongside
studying for our degree and other commitments. Follow-
ing discussions all parties have agreed to continue to work
together in a professional manner.
Miss Patterson disputes Mr Norris’s allegations that
he was unhappy with booking New Young Pony Club for
the Masquerade Ball. I am unable to substantiate either’s
claims, however I would suggest that if there was a disa-
greement between Mr Norris and Miss Patterson, which
was unable to be resolved by the two parties, the rest of
the committee, or the DPFS should have been involved. In
my opinion, central union Sabbatical Officers should pro-
vide more support when such large scale, and high budget,
events are being planned.
“The CGCU exec did not receive the
level of support promised by central
Union sabbatical officers.”
Upon reading last week’s felix, Mr Weetman (former
GuildsheetEditor)contactedmetosayhewasmis-quotedin
order to sensationalise the piece, while reason for resigning
the position of Guildsheet editor was ignored. Mr Weetman
wished to clarify; the pressures of his degree mean he is un-
able to effectively fulfil the role of editor, but he will remain a
Guildsheet contributor, albeit in a lesser role.
The CGCU exec were happy with the service provided
by ICU on the evening; we never intended to make a profit
on dinner sales, so any allegations of over-pricing should
be directed at central union rather than CGCU.
Prior to that evening however, the CGCU exec did not
receive the level of support promised by central union
sabbatical officers. ICU President, Ashley Brown, prom-
ised in his manifesto to support clubs and faculty unions
in running events in the union building. In direct con-
tradiction, ICU Deputy President, Finance & Services,
Danny Hill, told CGCU: “Central Union is not here to help
publicise Faculty Union events”, when asked to help with
the Masquerade Ball.
Another major point of Mr Brown’s manifesto was reduc-
ing the price of entry to the union, if you just want to go for
a drink. As a member of his campaign team, I was therefore
extremely surprised to be paying £6 entry to the union on
thefirstWednesdayoftermandmoreontheFriday.Though
at the time Mr Brown was confident that, as it was Fresh-
ers’Week,“they’djust payit”, helaterconceded “theproblem
[with Faculty Union ticket sales] is that we [Central Union]
have bankrupted the freshers with Freshers’ Week.”
CGCU Welfare Officer Alice Rowlands responds The President’s poem
Miss Patterson has decided to issue a formal response in the
form of a poem that she “says things rather more elequently”
than her own words.
If you can keep your head when all about you
Are losing theirs and blaming it on you;
If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you,
But make allowance for their doubting too;
If you can wait and not be tired by waiting,
Or, being lied about, don’t deal in lies,
Or, being hated, don’t give way to hating,
And yet don’t look too good, nor talk too wise;
If you can dream - and not make dreams your master;
If you can think - and not make thoughts your aim;
If you can meet with triumph and disaster
And treat those two imposters just the same;
If you can bear to hear the truth you’ve spoken
Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools,
Or watch the things you gave your life to broken,
And stoop and build ‘em up with wornout tools;
If you can make one heap of all your winnings
And risk it on one turn of pitch-and-toss,
And lose, and start again at your beginnings
And never breathe a word about your loss;
If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew
To serve your turn long after they are gone,
And so hold on when there is nothing in you
Except the Will which says to them: “Hold on”;
If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue,
Or walk with kings - nor lose the common touch;
If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you;
If all men count with you, but none too much;
If you can fill the unforgiving minute
With sixty seconds’ worth of distance run -
Yours is the Earth and everything that’s in it,
And - which is more - you’ll be a Man my son!
‘If’ by Rudyard Kipling

