6
POLITICS
Politics Editors
Politics Editors James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
James Goldsack, Katya-yani Vyas, James Lees and Phil Murray
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
Chomsky on the Palestinian Region
O
n Thursday 29th Octo-
ber, one of the greatest
political philosophers
of our time, Professor
Noam Chomsky, came
to London for possibly the last time
to present a talk on Palestine and the
region in the Obama era. The event
had been organised by Imperial Col-
lege Political Philosophy Society in
conjunction with Palestinian societies
from across London universities, and
felix was lucky enough to attend.
Professor Chomsky began his talk
by discussing the Iranian situation, in
particular given current concerns over
its nuclear program. He was clearly
concerned about the reaction of West-
ern governments and media, which he
characterised as ‘fear-mongering.’
The focus of this part of the talk was
that Iran poses no significant threat to
Western interests, both in general and
specifically with the nuclear issue. He
further noted the danger of ignoring
what he viewed as more immediate
concerns over Israel and India by keep-
ing attention exclusively on Iran.
Professor Chomsky continued the
theme started by Tariq Ali in his intro-
ductory speech, who had reminded the
audience of Iran’s role in stabilising the
conditions of Iraq and Afghanistan. He
cautioned against negative sentiments
towards, and approached praising,
Iran as a nation whilst distinguishing
between it and its current government.
He focused his blame for such sen-
timents squarely on the media and
warned that it could clear the way
for additional sanctions, including
military. Having written extensively
throughout his career about the exces-
sively cosy relationship between Big
Government and its Big Media, as he
sees it, this was a natural argument for
him to make.
According to Chomsky, since 2007
the media has been set on a policy of
demonising Iran, “the most ominous
issue of today”. Front-page headlines
were about Iran defying the world
community and seeking to acquire nu-
clear weapons, and relating to whether
te US and Israel should attack.
Chomsky accuses the Government-
led media of shifting the general
population towards fear of Iran, whilst
not reporting on almost scandalous
behaviour such as Israel not signing
up to the Nuclear Non-Proliferation
Treaty and Obama making clear to
them that it didn’t apply to them.
A week before being inaugurated,
Obama was saying that Iran was go-
ing to be a problem despite reports
from US intelligence saying that Iran
had stopped its nuclear proliferation
in 2003. This was hardly reported in
the media and the only answer from
the White House as to why they were
ignoring this intelligence information,
according to Chomsky, was that they
didn’t like the intelligence estimates
which they were rejecting.
Another example of this apparent
hushing-up of unfavourable stories
which Professor Chomsky brought up
is the apparent scandal around Pales-
tinian offshore gas. According to re-
ports, the Palestinian Authority grant-
ed exploration rights in 1999 to 60%
of Palestinian offshore gas reserves to
British Gas and a partner company.
However, since the election of the Ha-
mas government, Israel has taken con-
trol of the gas reserves.
There was talk of Tony Blair’s in-
volvement in dealings with BG re-
garding a possible deal to pump gas to
Egypt, in that he halted these proceed-
ings on behalf of Israel. Later, despite
a proposed agreement that would see
a one billion dollar profit go to Pales-
tinians in exchange for gas, it was then
stated that Palestinians would only be
“paid in goods and services” as Israel
wanted to ensure that “no money go to
the Hamas-controlled government”.
EMG, a key gas supply company
signed a deal with the Israeli Electric
Company (IEC) to supply gas to Israel
for 15 years, but refused sales of natu-
ral gas to a number of private gas con-
sumer companies despite them being
willing to pay more. This would mean
the IEC would oligopolise the natural
gas market and supplies to Israel. As
such, a consortium of smaller gas com-
panies have re-opened negotiations
with BG as a possible gas supplier for
Israel. It has been noted that the rela-
tionship between Tony Blair and Israeli
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert has con-
tributed to the increasingly favourable
dialogue between Israel and BG.
To credit the Daily Mail, as Chom-
sky himself did on another matter, an
article published by David Rose writes
that “Blair’s Middle East-focused busi-
ness career has been a triumph” along-
side the statement “No prime minister
in modern times would have dreamt of
exploiting his position in the way Mr
Blair has done”. His involvement has
clearly come into controversy.
The attitude of the United States, as
shown through its foreign policy, which
has often been described as American
Imperialism, was a major subject of the
talk. Chomsky has frequently said that
one reason for discussing and criticis-
ing US foreign policy as much as he
does is because he himself is Ameri-
can, and as a result feels he has a de-
gree of responsibility for his country’s
actions. However, on this occasion the
focus was centred on his belief that US
foreign policy is the only foreign policy
which truly matters, now it is the only
superpower.
This was further emphasised by Tar-
iq Ali who said he had been asked to
make a few remarks on British foreign
policy “But it doesn’t exist.” He pro-
vided by far the best quote of the day,
a quote from an ex-UK Ambassador to
the US, Sir Antony Maher’s memoirs
who had been told by Tony Blair’s chief
of staff, Jonathan Powell, “Your main
task is to find the arsehole of the White
House and remain there.”
Their point is that whenever the in-
ternational community should be get-
ting involved in a situation through the
UN, the only vote that matters is that
of the United States. In UN Security
Council meetings, the US is far and
away the largest user of the Right to
Veto a decision.
Chomsky made the point that in
various cases at a vote of the UN Gen-
eral Assembly, there had been 4 votes
against the motion, or in effect, 1 vote:
that of the US. This is largely because
the only one of those countries that
will be listened to is the US, and also
because they are all effectively under
the control of the US.
Of course the Nobel Peace Prize has
just been won by President Obama,
but from the very start with the first
speaker of the day, Gilbert Achcar,
the tone was set by pointing out all
the ‘war-mongering’ people who have
been presented with the award includ-
ing Theodore Roosevelt (1906) and
Woodrow Wilson (1919); and of course
the Nobel prizes are named after the
inventor of dynamite. The implication
was that the inauguration of the great
Obama will not signal the end of war
and is unlikely to solve the situation in
the Palestine region.
The most original point of the night
was Professor Chomsky’s assertion,
made in passing whilst discussing the
merits of a Two-State Solution, that “of
course even better would be a Zero-
State Solution.” He capitalised on the
uniquedifficultiesoftheIsrael-Palestine
conflict to counter the most frequent
rebuttal to his anarchist arguments.
He repeatedly proclaimed that in this
case it would be “no more utopian” than
either the one or two state solutions
currently on the table. Interestingly, he
reminded the audience that for most
of history, for instance under the Otto-
mans, “[the State] leaving them alone”
was precisely the method used to over-
come the challenge of sovereignty over
such disparate religious groups.
The thrust of this argument is that
the logical source of the conflict can
be fully explained by the simultaneous
presence of mutually exclusive statist
claims by both Israelis and Palestin-
ians. The argument goes that like all
States, they seek geographic monopo-
lies on violence and so cannot possibly
both be satisfied. Professor Chomsky
belongs to the camp that would favour
no such monopolies over two, estab-
lished within the 1948 and 1967 bor-
ders, respectively.
Essentially, this position calls for a
transfer of sovereignty to individu-
als, such that there is no coercion left
over whose exact form to fight. Crit-
ics would question how such a ‘free
state’ could guarantee its own security
from foreign and domestic threats, run
an effective legal system or do any of
Professor Noam Chomsky lecturing at the event. Photos by Chris Hopper of Imperial Political Philosophy Society
Left to right: Tariq Ali, Gilbert Achcar and Noam Chomsky answering questions from the audience on a range of topics.
Feature Report by
Feature Report by
Sina Ataherian, James Lees, Vicki Masding
Sina Ataherian, James Lees, Vicki Masding
World-renowned Political Philosopher and Linguist on his last tour of Britain

