7
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk POLITICS
the other things that are commonly
viewed as being achievable solely by
government. Sadly, Professor Chom-
sky chose not to delve further into this
point on this occasion.
Other efforts that could and are be-
ing made to aid the situation in the
region, or rather to subdue Israel, in-
clude BDS. Initiated in July 2005, BDS
is an international economic campaign
to boycott Israeli goods, supported by
the PSC, Palestinian Solidarity Cam-
paign. There are a number of points to
this campaign: recognise the rights of
Arab-Palestinians to full equality, the
right of Palestinian refugees to return
and to end Israel’s occupation of all
Arab lands.
The boycotting extended to that of
an academic boycott: refusal to inter-
act with Israeli universities, in particu-
lar those situated in the West Bank as
they are seen as being involved with
the occupation of Palestinian territo-
ries and against UN resolutions. This
is, however, controversial and discus-
sions are taking place with a view to
boycotting institutions while main-
taining dialogue with individuals.
Other boycott examples include:
some UK churches have withdrawn
corporate investment from Israel; urg-
ing people to boycott new Intel proces-
sors manufactured in Israel; divesting
in companies that specifically benefit
Israel – drawing comparisons with the
South African Apartheid in which sim-
ilar divestment took place. A campaign
of cultural, academic and sporting
boycotting is being encouraged.
Moreover, the instigation of sanc-
tions would result in increased pres-
sure on the economy which could
cause Israel to implement internation-
al law to give rights to the Palestinian
people.
The point of South African Apart-
heid was further elaborated upon by
Chomsky: a comparison was made
between the modern-day situation in
Palestine and Apartheid South Africa.
Moshe Dayan, the Israeli military and
political leader, said in 1967 Palestin-
ians will “continue to live like dogs, and
whoever wishes may leave.” A quote
Chomsky brought up many times.
In South Africa, he points out, the
Apartheid regime had to look after the
black workers, to some extent at least,
as they relied on them for labour. The
case was similar with Israel’s attitude
to the Palestinians in the ‘60s, however
now with immigrants from other poor
parts of the world now available to car-
ry out the undesirable work, the Israeli
attitude, Chomky alleges, is now much
more in line with Dayan’s sentiments.
One question posed to Chomsky
by a Palestinian student, enquired
about the right of return for Palestin-
ian refugees. UN Resolution 194 states
“that the refugees wishing to return
to their homes and live at peace with
their neighbors should be permitted to
do so at the earliest practicable date”.
However, as this is a General Assembly
agreement, it is not binding by interna-
tional law and as such no repatriation
has taken place.
Moreover, the wording of the agree-
ment is subject to interpretation as the
refugees in question could encompass
Arab-Palestinians and Jews that fled
persecution; where the Arab-Palestin-
ians may be deemed non-peaceful due
to their involvement in the start of the
Israeli War of Independence in 1948-
49. This would eliminate their right of
return based on the assumption that
they would not “live at peace”.
Another point mentioned was
whether any such agreement would
include only those who are first-gen-
eration refugees or whether it would
entitle descendents of the original ref-
ugees to the right of return, of which
the matter is unresolved. The original
number of displaced Palestinians was
approximately 750 000 and if the de-
scendents of refugees were granted the
right of return this would lead to a pos-
sible influx of around four million peo-
ple. Yasser Arafat (2002) highlighted
that if very large numbers of refugees
were to return to Israel, it would be in-
consistent with Israel remaining a state
with a Jewish majority.
Professor Chomsky is admired even
by most of his academic adversaries for
his exemplary intellectual honesty and
integrity. This made his frequent use of
quotes from highly dubious sources as
though they were universally respected
experts particularly disappointing.
Akin to this were various compari-
sons he made that were clearly aimed
at the emotional rather than rational
side of the debate. On the similarities
between Zionism and Apartheid he
made a considerable effort to justify
his position. On his linking of Israelis
to capitalists and Palestinians to social-
ists he did not.
He went so far as to argue that work-
ing for a fixed income was worse
than being a slave and suggested that
this was analogous to the plight of
Palestinians.
Overall the main point to take away
from the talk was that Israel won’t
change its policy towards Palestine so
long as it is supported by the US and
the EU and the situation won’t improve
until Israel changes its policy.
Writer and activist Gilbert Achcar introducing the topic to be discussed and the speakers, Tariq Ali and Noam Chomsky.
Start here.
Get there faster.
Oliver Wyman is a leading global management consultancy. We combine deep industry
knowledge with specialised expertise in strategy, risk management, organisational
transformation, and leadership development.
You can apply to either or both of our distinctive career tracks with one application:
Financial Services Management Consulting

General Management Consulting

Please apply online at www.oliverwyman.com/careers
Application deadlines
Full time:
Internships:
11 November 2009 for December 2009 offers
20 December 2009 for January 2010 offers
28 January 2010 for February 2010 offers

