8
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Ravi Pall
Ravi Pall
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
I
t’s been a long time coming; I
finally have a chance to write a
comment piece. It’s not for the
lack of trying, but more due to
the fact that week after week,
we here at felix have been “snowed un-
der” with the opinions, thoughts, and
bizarre ramblings of Imperial College’s
finest most enthusiastic young writers.
When I say enthusiastic I mean those
who put the effort in to writing a com-
ment piece, then go through the whole
ordeal of emailing it to comment.fe-
lix@imperial.ac.uk .
Now after finally shoving enough
contributions into the seemingly nev-
er-ending, well, we call it an ‘Inbox’, I
have selfishly claimed this space as my
own. It’s like playing king of the hill, but
only I get to cheat. Please keep send-
ing your comment pieces in though, I
won’t do this often. Anyway it appears
I am the one rambling now.
This week I would like to tell you that
life is generally shit. Everything seems
to be good, I’ve made it to third year,
I’ve done well enough to stay on the
four year course, I have a beautiful girl-
friend, great friends, a nice flat to live
in and a job. What’s more, I’m turning
21 in three weeks.
On paper, life is great!! In reality,
too many tutorials, too many lectures
and too much time in labs means that
I have no time to spend with my girl-
friend and friends. And to make it
worse, everybody is in the same posi-
tion – nobody has any time for each
other, nobody wants to go out and
party anymore. Even when I decide to
have some time off and chill out for an
evening, I have nobody to spend it with
– even my flatmate is too busy and he’s
just a SAC monkey!!
Remember when we were in first
year? We were all in halls, we could
be bothered to go out, there was no
such thing as ‘I’ve got too much work
to do’ being an excuse for not heading
off to Soho on a night out, or wasting
a day being drunk in the union. These
were good times, memorable times.
However it seems these times are long
gone, into the distance. I’m not try-
ing to tell you to enjoy your first year
at university, you should know that
already. This rant is more like a pre
warning of how intense things get as
you progress through the years. More
of your friends fail and drop out, some
go abroad, some graduate. It seems like
your social life is thinning by the sec-
ond. Well that might be a slight exag-
geration, but the point none the less is
to make the best of what you have got.
Unless you like working every second
of the day this is a bad thing.
If you think about it, you’re prob-
ably in a similar situation (first years
exempt). When was the last time you
met loads of new people. Called them
up for a night out, and acted like you
were a Fresher again? Exactly, you’ve
been in the same crowd for years
now and wouldn’t it be nice to diver-
sify? As good as it gets these days is
a house party, which are fun, but not
the same as living in halls, right? Hells
no biatches! Get out of the hole you’ve
dug for yourselves and DO act like a
Fresher again. Go to Cheapskates on a
wednesday, or Fabric in the early hours
of the morning. Why do you need your
current friends to have fun? Make new
ones while you’re there. ‘The more
the merrier’ I believe the saying goes.
What I’m trying to say here is don’t let
it get you down, keep doing whatever
you want to do, not what you’re ex-
pected to do. You only die once.
A
lright, look, I know
Question Time was a
while back but I’ve been
in hospital with a her-
nia since I watched it,
because I exploded with laughter so
frequently my internal organs began to
vibrate at high frequency. I passed out
around the time that David Dimbleby
pleaded to the audience that he “didn’t
want the show to be about the BNP”,
as he sat next to the party’s leader, a
prominent black arts scholar, and three
tossers looking to score cheap political
points. Thankfully my girlfriend was
around to call an ambulance before I
bled out to the sound of Nick Griffin
farting out another comment about
the Ice Age.
So cut me some slack, alright? It has
been a hard week. I’ve had to watch se-
rious television for six hours a day to
recover from it all, and watching that
many episodes of The Wire will do an-
yone’s head in. We all love depressing
television, guys, but if I wanted to slash
my wrists I’d have spent the money on
something sharper than a DVD case.
Now, that means I wasn’t around last
week to comfort you all while Abdul
Hannan declared that a new world or-
der was partitioning society into “the
white guys” and “diffrunt people”. But
it’s okay, I’m here now, so let’s start
from the beginning – no-one is engi-
neering anything in this country. The
last thing we engineered properly was
the Channel Tunnel, and even that has
been set alight a few times. Nothing
large-scale ever gets engineered in this
country, because the system works.
And by ‘the system’, I am of course talk-
ing about the fact that most people are
too bloody stupid to pay attention to
anything, racially charged or not.
I know it can feel uncomfortable,
sometimes, to see parties like the BNP
on television giving their spiel. And
worse still, to hear people who are in
power, people who are taken seriously,
saying other things that are similarly
misguided. But you have to understand
that this has happened before, and will
happen again, based on whichever so-
cial or ethnic group is currently in the
firing line. It’s not pretty, but it does
pass.
How can we help? We can help by
being the calm voices of reason. We
can help by not panicking. We can
help by making jokes about Nick Grif-
fin’s entertainingly simple view of the
history of this country. We are the
young adults of this country, and we
are scientists. We’re supposed to be
the people who are speaking clearly,
cutting through the bullshit and stat-
ing the facts. It would help everyone if
we took a step or two back, looked at
how ridiculous the situation really is,
and then got involved again.
Nick Griffin is an arsehole. Everyone
knows that, so don’t panic if we’re all
not down there with the anti-fascism
protesters. Some of us are just lazy,
others just can’t think up witty enough
slogans (not that that stops most peo-
ple – the ‘Dick’ Griffin line was about as
funny as a BNP’s after-dinner speech).
Everyone knows. And as for the rest
of the political parties – this is a stu-
pid country. Not a racist one. So kick
back, and enjoy the hilarity of watching
people get very, very worked up about
all this. It’ll all be over by Election Day.
AngryGeekisalloverDickPrickNickGriffin
“Nick Griffin is an
arsehole. Everyone
knows that, so
don’t panic if
we’re all not
down there with
the anti-fascism
protesters.”
I don’t look like this anymore. Honestly, it was over a year ago
I do
Ravi Pall
Ravi Pall Comment Editor
Want to write for comment? email comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Your Opinions, Thoughts and Ramblings in 750 Words

