9
felix FRIDAY 06 NOVEMBER 2009
COMMENT
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
D
o I like the union? Eve-
ryone at Imperial has
heard the same com-
ment about the union,
“it....is....shit”.
Throughout my first year it was all
I heard, and in a bid to look “cool” in
front of a bunch of strangers, I would
agree, and maybe even spread the
word. I started saying the union was
shit before I had even been there.
Over my time I have found it as
something of a conversation starter,
almost a pick-up line. All girls in the
union love a man who hates the union.
It’s a common topic among everyone
who visits, and it sort of unifies us as
a group. Maybe that’s why people say
it so much. However my fresher days
are over. Now in 2nd year I find myself
a tad older and wiser and am willing to
voice my true opinion about the bar at
the back end of Beit quad. I LOVE IT!!!
I literally cannot think of anywhere else
I would like to go out more, and it’s not
followed by a ‘lol’ so yes, I really am
serious.
Everyone always focuses on the
negative points, like how ridiculously
heavy the stools in Da Vinci’s are, the
permanent smell of vomit in the union
bar, or the pints of piss courtesy of the
rugby team.
But what about the positives? The
union doesn’t care about my type of
shoes or if I’m wearing a hoody, I prob-
ably wouldn’t get a second look if I
strolled in wearing a Borat mankini, in
fact I think it has been done. In the un-
ion you really can do almost anything
short of murder and not get kicked out.
Where else can you get service with a
smile after having just thrown up your
guts on Beit lawn? Now dBs’ dance
floor gets a lot of bad press, however
I haven’t seen many better. There is
nothing more annoying than a packed
dance floor, and dBs is never packed.
I always find space to swing my arms
in some ridiculous fashion and call
it a form of dancing. And so what if
the music isn’t great, if you’re sober
enough to notice, you’re not drunk
enough to be in dBs.
I could go on all day: you never have
to queue to get in, the cloakroom is
free, and they have the quickest most
hygienic hand driers in the world.
On top of all of this, it’s pretty cheap.
Really, where else can you go on a
Wednesday night where it is not only
acceptable to do condom pints, but
encouraged? How can you hate a place
that serves your beer in a plastic skiff
so once you’re done you can throw it
back in the faces of the bar staff that
served you? Then later at the end of
a long night, there’s no issue getting
home, if I’m feeling paralytic there’s a
direct night bus that takes me to my
front door, and I can walk it if I’m feel-
ing active.
So, no one would’ve thought it, but
the best night out in London town is
the Imperial College Union.
JaideepDesai’sconfession:I theUnion
“I probably
wouldn’t get
a second look
if I strolled in
wearing a Borat
mankini, in fact I
think it has been
done.”
♥
A
few years ago, following
the atrocities commit-
ted by foreign citizens on
American soil, President
George W. Bush declared
a global war on tourism. Tourism and
tourists, he claimed in his distinctively
chirpy Texan accent, needed to be
stopped at whatever cost. Whether hid-
ing behind Lonely Planet guidebooks in
cheap hotels or skulking in queues for
discount theatre tickets, tourists had to
be identified, disarmed and eliminated.
In an unparalleled act of unity, virtu-
ally the entire Western world responded
to this clarion call for peace and secu-
rity. As a result, the last few years have
seen life become increasingly difficult
for rogue tourists hell-bent on overturn-
ing our normal way of life. Increased se-
curity at airports, tighter control over
entry visas and a tougher economic
climate have all contributed to prevent-
ing the scourge of international tourism
from rearing its ugly head. Soon even
the silly hats, ‘I Love London’ T-shirts,
unnecessarily large cameras and loud
voices that constitute the most power-
ful weapons of mass distraction will be
eradicated, and ordinary people will be
able to go about their daily lives without
fear of disruption.
As a reformed tourist myself, I under-
stand all too well the appalling condi-
tions that drive perfectly ordinary peo-
ple to strap themselves into a seatbelt
and leave their baggage unattended
in the hold of a transnational airliner.
Their actions may seem disgusting and
repellent to us, but we must be tolerant,
and strive to remember that it is simply
not their fault. Their vile and reprehen-
sible activities are motivated by a genu-
ine feeling of desperation, expressed
through the only means of communi-
cation they feel is open to them.
If we are to put an end to this men-
ace, we have to act with delicacy, pro-
fessionalism and caution. And what
better example to follow than that of
London’s very own Metropolitan police
force? The London Met’s counter-tour-
ism program has been exceptionally ef-
fective, with its four-stage slogan for re-
ducing the spread of the tourism virus:
‘catch it, kill it, bin there, done that’
.
It is a testament to the gravity of the
threat involved that all branches of gov-
ernment and industry have contributed
to seeking out these unwelcome visitors
to our shores. No single body, however,
has done more to help in the identifi-
cation of tourists than the Royal Mint.
Centuries of experience have resulted in
the manufacture of the most confusing
set of circulating coinage known to man,
and the ingenious practice of pricing
everyday items at such arbitrary figures
as £7.28 or £3.43. This forces the uniniti-
ated to deal with overflowing handfuls
of loose change which they are then un-
able to identify. All that the rest of us
then have to do is keep our ears peeled
for anyone who walks down the road
making a noise like a gypsy tambourin-
ist falling down a hill.
Even British Airways has in part
atoned for its role in facilitating the
influx of tourists by financing the con-
struction of a giant detention and iso-
lation facility on London’s South Bank.
Known as the ‘London Eye’
, the giant cir-
cular structure serves as a centre where
suspected tourists can be kept off the
streets in a closely monitored environ-
ment for half an hour at a time. Once
they emerge, dizzy and mildly disori-
ented, it is a comparatively easy task to
push them into the raging waters of the
River Thames.
But perhaps the most impressive pre-
caution employed by the city of London
is Madame Tussaud’s. Behind the story
of this feeble waxworks we see the true
power of marketing, a brute force ca-
pable of transforming a pointless and
vapid attraction into one of the city’s
most visited sites. But why? What is the
purpose of dragging foreigners to such a
hideously vulgar waste of time? The an-
swer is simple. Once used to display the
remains of executed French nobles, it
has now regained its original purpose as
a final destination for unwanted foreign-
ers. The innate ability of Londoners to
respond to a crisis situation means that
standard policy has long been to slyly
direct all potential tourists towards the
Baker Street area. The brightly-coloured
labyrinth of the London Tube map has
greatly facilitated this subtle shepherd-
ing, as after ten minutes underground
not even the keenest orienteer has any
idea where the hell they are, where
they’re going, or what fresh air used to
taste like.
Once a tourist arrives at Madame Tus-
saud’s, after expecting to find himself at
Harrods or the Millenium Dome, he is
quietly and discreetly shown into the
cellars, melted down, and recast into the
latest mould of Nick Griffin or Susan
Boyle. This way the museum is able to
cut down on its wax consumption, and
can continue to provide among the most
realistic dummies in the world.
All that is now left to do, of course, is
to combat the horrors of British tourism
exported abroad. The shutting down
of the renowned British tourism train-
ing camps and a crackdown on the in-
famous and devastating tactic of binge
drinking will surely go a long way to
making tomorrow’s world a safer and
less gaudy place. We can but hope.
Gilead Amit and the global war on tourism
“Soon their weapons
of mass distraction
will be eradicated,
and ordinary people
will go about their
daily lives without
fear of disruption.”

