KEEP THE CAT FREE
Comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
10
COMMENT
dent level. The current Unconscious
Bias and Active Bias training are inef-
fective in tackling the existing culture in
the college. Staff are reluctant to engage
in anti-discrimination speech and ad-
vocacy for fear of failure. There is zero
personal accountability for implicit,
and sometimes explicit, complicity by
staff in furthering the non-inclusive,
non-diverse, and at times hostile status
quo.
a. Reduce the size of the workshop
to encourage greater personal impact
on workshop attendees.
b. Replace the current one-off tick
box Active Bystander Training and Un-
conscious Bias training with higher fre-
quencies of Anti-Discrimination Work
and Anti-Institutional Racism Classes.
A Guardian investigation conduct-
ed in over 131 universities found that
out, of 996 formal complaints of rac-
ism, only 367 were upheld. Of the com-
plaints made against students only 78
studentsfacedsuspensionsorexpulsion,
and of complaints against staff, only 51
staff faced dismissal or resigned (Batty,
2019). It is clear that universities pri-
oritise their reputation over protecting
and supporting the students and staff
of minority backgrounds. Those tasked
with addressing these complaints either
receive minimal training or are dismiss-
ive of the systemic racism endemic to
their communities.
Priyamvada Gopal, a reader at the
faculty of English at Cambridge Uni-
versity, said complaints of racism were
met with “race illiteracy”: “Complain-
ants get exhausted and give up simply
because there is no comprehension of
what racism is. There is either outright
denial, ‘gaslighting’ or minimising...
There are few mechanisms and still few-
er trained staff able to deal with race
matters” (Batty, 2019). Therefore, we
demand the department to:
3. Establish a Racial Misconduct
Liaison Team to provide thorough sup-
port to students and staff in reporting
racial harassment and other form of
racial misconduct. The responsibilities
of this team must include, but are not
limited to:
a. Provide 1-2-1 support to staff
and students experiencing racial harass-
ment, as well as personal guidance and
step-by-step help for victims to formally
report said incidents to College Disci-
plinary Panels with due recognition of
the harassment’s racial category.
b. Collaborate with the College
Disciplinary Panel to mandate anti-bi-
as, anti-racism and institutional racism
classes to racial misconduct perpetra-
tors,ontopofotherdisciplinaryactions
as stated in paragraph 64 in Ordinance
E2 (College Council, 2018).
Throughout the policies and initia-
tives enacted, higher education insti-
tutions, Imperial College London in-
cluded, have hidden true accountability
under the acronym of BAME. This ini-
tialism reduces students of diverse iden-
tities to a single, homogenous group;
a group where the vast range of racial,
cultural and ethnic experiences, and
structural inequalities unique to each
minority group are erased and invali-
dated. For this reason, we demand that
initiatives created and policies made
for under-represented communities be
made with the under-represented com-
munities.
4. Establish an Equity and Equality
Student-Led committee as means of
continuous ongoing feedback into the
work of the EDDCC and Senior Man-
agement Team. This committee will
meet up with the Senior Management
Team and EDDCC to expedite addi-
tional initiatives and structural reform.
A significant step to institutional
accountability is public accountability.
It is for this reason that, we call upon
the department to dismantle its system
of information gatekeeping under the
guise of GPDR compliance and en-
gage in public acts of data transparency.
We call for the data to be disaggregate
where relevant, and findings published
to the Mechanical Engineering cohort
and its alumni, with respect to:
5. Provide transparency in demo-
graphic data including details in attain-
ment, access, and progression in the
department with due diligence done to
comply with GPDR Approval. Actively
disclose reasons as to why said data is
inappropriate for disaggregation if that
is the case.
a. Moreover, engage in staff & stu-
dent forums and town hall meetings,
where department administrators are
in communication with the wider co-
hort to disseminate data, clarify infor-
mation, and answers questions students
might have.
The Department of Mechanical En-
gineering is a department that respects
equality, inclusion, and equity, but
words alone will not eliminate the ra-
cial challenges and barriers faced by stu-
dents of these minorities. It is in times
like this that the department must act,
not only to reject its ties to Imperial’s
deeply racist past, but also set out an
inclusive and equitable future for all its
staff and students.
We stand with the men, women and
children abused, brutalised, and mur-
dered at the violent hands of racism,
anti-Blackness, white supremacy, and
white nationalism. We denounce and
reject the institutional suppression
directed towards Black communities
and we call for power and justice to the
Blacklivestakenbythehandsofracism;
the names of Trevor Smith, Mark Dug-
gan, Sean Rigg, Rashan Charles, Sheku
Bayoh, Julian Cole, Dalian Atkinson,
Jimmy Mubenga, Belly Mujinga, Sarah
Reed, Elijah McClain, George Floyd,
Breonna Taylor, Atatiana Jefferson,
Philando Castile, Eric Garner, Trayvon
Martin, Tamir Rice, Ahmaud Arbery,
Stephen Clark, Michael Brown and
others whose names and stories we may
never know.
Yours,
The students of the Department of
Mechanical Engineering
To add your signature to this letter, go
to bit.ly/3coEcsx or scan the QR code.
To share your experiences, contact us
at antiracism.imperial@gmail.com.
“One white friend told me he was
more of an immigrant than me
as he had briefly lived in another
country. This was despite the fact I
had told him my parents were ref-
ugees.”
“On a university trip, I was one of
only 3 people of colour. The topic
of colourism came up once whilst
I and a black friend were in the
room. When we talked about our
own experiences with colourism,
we were completely dismissed by
our white peers. One even insinu-
ated that they hadn’t seen any ev-
idence of colourism during their
trip to an African country.”
“When I have shared my feelings
about experiencing casual racism
to white friends the conversation
was quickly changed as if my trau-
ma was too uncomfortable a top-
ic.”
THE CURRENT
UNCONSCIOUS
BIAS AND ACTIVE
BYSTANDER
TRAINING IS
INADEQUATE AND
GENERIC.
“
CONTINUED STUDENT TESTIMONY

