Deputy President for Welfare, Hervin Habeghi,
has delivered a petition from first year students
to the College Housing service describing the thick-
ness of walls between student rooms unacceptable
and demanding an immediate decrease in the amount
of sound proofing that they provide.
Freshers arriving in halls for the first time were said
to be dismayed that they couldn’t hear enough sound
coming in from next door rooms. To the dismay of
parents helping their children move in it is almost
possible to forget you are living in a box surrounded
by other people.
This behaviour stems from restrictive COVID
rules limiting student freedom so much that talking
through the walls is the only form of socialisation
available.
Feb Senton, a new Beit resident explained that un-
able to go on a night out he had been really looking
forward to being assigned a room next to “the bastard
that wants to play techno at 3 am.”
What would once feel like a death sentence is now
hot real estate as Facebook Welcome groups light up
with requests to move closer to alleged noise makers
and freshers advertise their huge subwoofers on dat-
ing apps.
The trend towards thinner walls has got so fierce
that freshers are being searched on arrival and cofiles,
pickaxes and drills are being confiscated in their hun-
dreds.
The strict rules have also assisted those in the dating
game.
One Wilson resident, Woliver Eir, said “I am not
exactly a looker and I was quite excited about the
whole idea. After 6 weeks of getting to know each
other in Morse code by tapping on the radiator pipes,
the friends I make will definitely over look my lethal
halitosis when we finally met.”
Unfortunately, this method of socialising can’t sub-
stitute completely for face to face interaction. Neg-
aFelix has reports that attempts by first years to lose
their virginity through the walls lead to confusion
and frustration when the hole through the wall was
completed and it was found that both parties had lied
about their gender.
Channel 4 announced a new spin-off to the pop-
ular game show Come Dine with Me, where
Imperial students from various halls compete for a 15
minute counselling session.
Hosted by Mr Blobby, the programme pits freshers
from Beit, Princes Gardens, Xenia, and North Acton
inacompetitionagainsteachothertoprovidethebest
evening of food and entertainment. Felix received ear-
ly access to first episode, which airs on Monday 5th
October.
The first round saw Beit resident Feb Senton host-
ing. His menu was inspired by his EIE module Sim-
ulation and Modelling. His messy, spicy fajitas were
servedonabedofDoritoes,experiencedonlythrough
his guests’ VR goggles. Susanne Clifford from Xenia
commented, “they tasted lovely but they were a little
light.”
For entertainment, Senton had everyone lie in bed
and try to sleep while the Metric speakers blared the
top tracks of Now That’s What I Call Music 23.
The second round in Princes Gardens was hosted
by Marco Fusilli. His three course menu consisted
of: a boiled pasta starter lightly driz-
zled in Dolmio’s Bolognese Original
Pasta Sauce 500g from Tesco (like his
mother made in Sicily; a fajita pasta
bake with sliced Sainsbury’s Garlic
Baguette x2 420g £1.65g/unit; fin-
ishing off with a Cadbury Dairy Milk
Buttons Chocolate Dessert 85g each.
The third evening was spent at Su-
sanne Clifford’s kitchen at Xenia. Un-
fortunately the experience was quite
forgettable, like everything else about
Xenia. But there were definitely fajitas
involved.
The final night was hosted by Doug Campbell. In a
gesture sure to help his final score, he provided don-
keys and guides to help his guests make the trek. He
planned to serve up spaghetti hoops, baked beans,
tinned mash potatoes, and tinned peas, but unfortu-
nately had forgotten to buy a can opener. Undaunted,
he started the entertainment early, encouraging guests
to join him in a noisy rendition of I’m Gonna Be (500
Miles).
After the sing-along, the results were announced.
With a 15 minute counselling session on the cards,
tensions were high. In last place, Susanne Clifford
from Xenia, for obvious reasons. In third, Doug.
Though he kept spirits high, his lack of can opener
proved to be a fatal error. In joint second place, the
winners Senton and Fusilli were given half of the 15
minute slot each.
Delighted, Senton told Negafelix, “I can’t wait to
ettend my session, I’ve already got the first available
slot. 2026 is gonna be my year!” Fusilli was similarly
pleased, “I just sold my slot to a JMC student for 50
quid and a sexy back rub.”
Student Representatives Calls for Thinner Walls
Channel 4 announces “Come Dine with Me -
Student Halls Edition”
Credits: wikimedia
Credits: Thomas Angus
Tarlie Hitmuss NegaFelix Reporter
Tarlie Hitmuss NegaFelix Reporter
KEEP THE CAT FREE
Felix@ic.ac.uk
12
HANGMAN

