KEEP THE CAT FREE
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
16
ARTS
Amanda
Hertzberg
Writing for Felix since her first year, Aman-
da only joined Felix as an editor recently as
the position for token white and female arts editors
opened up and she somehow landed both. She can
be sighted anywhere from Tate Modern to the Roy-
al Albert Hall, flexing her press tickets in the face of
tax-paying, innocent civilians. Known to her friends
as a worshipper of all things free, writing for Felix was
a natural gravitational pull for her.
She mainly enjoys contemporary art, with a weak-
ness for videography and surrealism. However, you
can tempt her with a plethora of things, even plays
and circuses (especially Cirque du Soleil). Outside
working hours you can find her going to life draw-
ing classes, sewing masks to sell on depop or running
(away from her problems) along the Thames.
Don’t be fooled by her potential resting bitch face
- Amanda is very happy to be approached. She’ll hap-
pily discuss her favourite films over a free Pret coffee,
provided you have the subscription. Or go through
the free collections at Tate Modern for the 10th time,
and that’s this year only. Her best piece of advice to
all incoming freshers is to get a Tate Collective
membership, with which you can get £7 tickets to all
the big exhibitions. But also to join Felix Arts, either
as a writer or as an editor.
Editor suggestions: Tate Modern, V&A,
Whitechapel Gallery, Royal Academy of Arts,
Barbican.
Ozbil Ege Dumenci
Ozbil (also known as Oz depending on who you
ask) considers himself to be ancient, being well
into his sixth (and hopefully final) year at Imperial.
One may mistakenly assume with age comes wisdom,
but the only way Ozbil is wise is when it comes to fi-
nessing the London theatre scene to score cheap tick-
ets.
Having been involved with Felix since his fourth
year at Imperial, Ozbil deeply regrets not finding out
about Felix Arts sooner. Not only does he feel like he’s
made many great friends, he has also received a shock-
ing number of free tickets to plays and musicals only
to review them for the paper. In fact, there was a sol-
id period where Ozbil joked around saying he spent
more time in theatres than in lecture theatres or oper-
ating theatres.
Unfortunately, since the onset of the pandemic,
none of this has been possible. Therefore, the only
thing that’s kept Ozbil from turning to alcohol has
been shouting the entire Hamilton Original Broad-
way Cast Recording from start to finish, obviously
repeating Satisfied seven times.
Ozbil is fascinated by how the London theatre
scene is so inaccessible for young people and loves to
write about the different schemes that make the thea-
tre affordable and accessible for young people or criti-
cising the lack thereof.
Ozbil seems not to be able to get enough of Felix,
as he can also be found editing the TV section, most-
ly ranting about his most recent binges... and Schitt’s
Creek. Always Schitt’s Creek.
Some of Ozbil’s favourite musicals:
Company - Sondheim is the musicals what Shake-
speare is to theatre, don’t @ me.
Sweeney Todd - I mean, come on, Sondheim, murder
AND cannibalism?! What’s not to love?
Hamilton - the musical intricacy of all the patterns
blows me every time... Genius.
Some of Ozbil’s favourite plays:
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf - seeing Imelda
Stauntonperforminthiswasalifealteringexperience.
War Horse - I started crying the moment the horse
puppets appeared. I’ve since seen it thrice. I’ve cried
to it thrice. I’m still not okay.
Often found thinking ‘I should have done an
artsy degree’ 6 years into medical school.
Rating:
(atleast according to his grandmother)
Location: A Piccadilly Line service... to
Cockfosters (Mind the gap between the train and
the platform)
Dates: 28/08/1996 - probably soon
Prices: £0 now, whatever a junior doctor salary
can afford next year (spoiler alert: still £0)
The token white and female editor
Location: Probably somewhere in Beit
Dates: Preferably filled with peanut butter
Prices: Never above £0
Meet the Editors

