FRIDAY 25TH SEPTEMBER 2020
17
ARTS
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
Eamon Akil Farhat
Eamon, also known as Baby Spice, is the youngest
of all the great arts editors and which naturally
makes him the most obsessed with TikTok. Before
the pandemic he could be found watching West End
musicals, Off-West End musicals and even Un-
der-West End musicals every day of the week. Using
his sugar daddy Mr. Felix Arts, this lifestyle has not
had a big impact on his bank balance, while his love
for the finer foods has.
In this post-lockdown world, Eamon had to
replace his theatergoing personality traits with
something new, so he learnt Renegade, Savage and
Say So (not necessarily in that order). He even once
performed WAP on a paddle board, becoming a Wet
Ass Person in the process.
Beyond basic bitch musicals like Wicked, Ham-
ilton and Jamie, Eamon does enjoy modern theatre,
especially pieces that deal with coming of age stories
– Soho Theatre is a great place for these. Eamon isn’t
patient enough to spend too much time in an art
gallery but in small doses, he does find this to be very
enjoyable -the Tate Britain is definitely a favorite of
his.
When Eamon is not pretending to be an arts big
shot, he enjoys eating out (to help out). Dishoom,
Shack-Fuyu and Franco Manca are a few of his
favorites. He also spends hours on end scouring
charity shops from Chelsea to Hammersmith trying
to find another pair of corduroy trousers. If you ever
want recommendations on food, charity shopping or
London in general, Eamon is always happy to oblige.
He is most easily reachable via email, TikTok DMs
a message using Monzo. Eamon hopes you all join
Felix, as writers or editors as he hopes to meet and
work with you all soon!
Vaidhiswaran
Ramesh
He has been sighted in and around London art
venues for over three years now, however his lit-
erary forays and exploits into the Felix art kingdom,
have only began recently. Legend has it that when he
first started venturing out, he did so by leveraging the
free entry policy and student discount at London ven-
ues. However, things have changed now, and nothing
stops him; A 20 quid exhibition does not stand in his
way, and it certainly doesn’t help that he has made
inroads figuring out how to obtain free press tickets
from Felix.
He is known to be a staunch advocate of the classi-
cal and is willing to die alone on that hill (take notes
Tate Modern). Sources say that the Old Masters (be
sure to catch his review on Titian’s Poesies in this is-
sue) are a personal favourite of his. Though he cannot
shake a leg, he is also interested in the Ballet and the
Opera. Russian performances here in London seem to
be an Achilles heel of his and he is often seen coveting
Bolshoi performances on YouTube and scouring the
catalogueoftheHermitageMuseum(Putin-beware).
His other interests include history and journalism,
so if there is an event with the intersection of these,
you can be almost sure to sight him there. Speaking of
the high arts, half the time, he probably doesn’t know
what he is talking about, but strongly vouches to give
a balanced and well researched opinion in his articles.
It’s easy to lure him, all you need is to start a conver-
sation about the renaissance or the Napoleonic wars.
However please beware, he has been known to bite
your ears off and speak endlessly on these subjects.
The pandemic doesn’t seem to have slowed him one
bit,andrecentwitnessessayheisboldingsteppingout
once again, eager as ever to bring you the latest in the
artsy world of London.
Editor recommendations: National Gallery, Wallace
Collection, Tate Britain, V & A, and the British
Museum.
Doctoral Candidate sighted
near Art Venues
Meet the Editors
Location: Often found loitering The National
Gallery, British Museum or the ROH
Dates: Never hibernates
Prices: Blatantly abuses student discount
Felix Arts editor with a minor
in Materials Sc. and Engg.
Location: Reading (for whatever reason)
Dates: Long walks on the beach
Prices: 6.23 x 1 1023

