KEEP THE CAT FREE
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
18
ARTS
Furloughed
and
forgotten
T
here aren’t enough words in the English lexicon to describe the past
few months. Furloughs, lockdowns, first and second waves, vaccine
trials, herd immunity and more recently herd mentality - these
terms have now become far too common.
The Creative industry is just like any other, where a few well-
known faces shimmer in the limelight, constantly held up by the many. And when
the lockdown arrived in earnest in March, the many had nowhere to go. Theatres,
music venues, galleries — for the most part it was the same story. Shuttered and
the thousands whose jobs revolved around these events suddenly were without a
safety net. But even within the sector, the pandemic has affected people in vastly
different ways. While museums and exhibitions have since reopened (albeit with
social distancing measures and a reduced capacity), a vast majority of theatres, live
events and music festivals are still shuttered, leaving the thousands who rely on
these events for their livelihood with an uncertain future. To get a better grasp of
the consequences the pandemic on the industry, we spoke to an insider, Imperials’
very own George Ainscough, director of HW Ents; a lighting design, production
and engineering company based out of Lancashire.
ImetGeorgeatacafeinFulhamBroadwayinmid-September.Thingshavecome
a long way since March, when a complete lockdown was institutionalised leading
to the entire industry closing. Following the lockdown, weeks of campaigning led
the government to announce a £1.57 billion aid package for cultural and heritage
institutions. To be honest, this had me quite upbeat and optimistic, even though
as recently as last week, the Office of National Statistics estimated that up to 51%
of the industry workforce is still furloughed (It is to be noted that this doesn’t not
account for freelancers, sole traders and limited company directors. In any case,
the aid package has been a huge focal point of public discourse over the past few
months and so we began our interview there. Has it been a relief?
George quickly clarifies “There is £1.57b in aid, but that figure is split with the
heritage sector, and the majority of the funding is directed at the large theatres
who are already subsidised through Arts Council England prior to the pandemic.
There is little to no support for live music or the supply chain.”
I suspected this. After all, any government scheme is going to have a few cracks
and any distribution scheme is bound to throw up a debate. But this inability to
access funds is a concern shared by many. The ‘uneven’ distribution of these funds
across the different sectors (museums, heritage centres, crown jewels, theatres
etc…) ultimately means very little is available and accessible to people like George.
Even big names in the field aren’t immune to this. The Royal Albert Hall, which
operates as a charity, a crown jewel and recently socially ‘accredited’ bastion of
British nationalism (Rule Britannia!), was unable to access the emergency grants
available under the £1.57 government aid package. Instead, the charity has cur-
rently been advised to ‘apply for a government loan’ which, if successful, would
make funds available ‘nine months after its ability to generate income was abruptly
cut off ‘.
The situation can only be worse for grass roots artists and musicians. “The
£1.57b package, while welcome — has made little to no difference for most indi-
viduals and companies in the supply chain” says George. “There is money, but we
hardly see any of it, at least not now while we need it”.
But there is a sliver of hope in the horizon, with isolated music events, theatres,
and even festivals, such as the Gisborne park festival, opening with socially dis-
tanced arrangements across UK. I bought this up. “It was reassuring to see some
festivals still go ahead with social distancing, like the shows in Virgin Money Uni-
ty Arena in Newcastle, but the reality is that vast majority of festivals and shows
rely on a huge number of people turning up and are not financially viable in the
current scenario” he chimes in. [However, between the interview and this issues’
publication the VMUA festival has been cancelled due to the localised lockdown
in northern England.]
There has got to be something to spring the sector back to life, particularly with
all the ideas being floated around by think tanks and opposition MPs. I quizzed
George on some of the more popular schemes out there such as “Culture Vouch-
By Vaidhiswaran Ramesh
Music events are a rarety in the age of COVID-19
Credits: George Ainscough

