KEEP THE CAT FREE
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
24
ARTS
Titian’s visual poetries, Poesies - as he championed
them, are reunited after over 4 centuries at The
National Gallery’s latest exhibition.
The paintings, considered among the artists’ best
work, were commissioned by Philip II of Spain in the
middle of the 16th century. Titian was given artistic
license to freely choose and interpret the subject mat-
ter, and thus in a unique way these paintings are the
physical manifestation of the old masters’ true ambi-
tion and creativity, unencumbered. Titian chose to
source from Ovid’s ‘Metamorphoses’ (quite literally
- Book of transformations), a cornerstone of classical
literature, hugely popular then among artists, encom-
passing around 250 Greek & Roman myths. He en-
visaged it as a series of 7 paintings, only 6 of which he
was able to send to Philip before Titian’s death. The
seventh, ‘Death of Actaeon’ was never sent to Philip
but is finally reunited with the rest of the series in this
exhibition.
Paintedoverthespanofadecade(‘DeathofActeon’,
there is debate over whether the seventh painting was
ever finished), each of these seven paintings are grand,
both in vision and in scale, and Titian has leveraged
his freedom of subject matter to explore the depths of
Roman-Greek mythology, producing some of the fin-
est thematic exposition of ‘seduction, power and dis-
guise’ in paintings. One of the most defining features
of these paintings, one that is often stressed upon, is
the that the feminine characters in these poesies are in
a state of undress. Contemporary interpretations are
divided over Titian’s motive – a popular modern view
is that Titian was prodding Philip II’s piety with the
choice of models and his handling of nudity. One can
never truly know what the artists’ intent was, but it is
hard to refute the fact that the nudity or the feminine
in this instance is not purely allegorical. The nudity of
the feminine is not treated as a parable to subjugation
or feebleness, as it often is, but rather is given a sincere
treatment and is used to add intensity to the charac-
ters and their plight. A beautiful exposition of these
threads is seen in the three paintings featuring Diana,
and most particularly ‘Diana and Castillo’, pictured
above, which shows Diana’s wrath when she realises
one of her companions (vowed to celibacy) is preg-
nant.
It is difficult not to draw parallels between Tit-
ians’ work and Bernini’s masterpiece — ‘The Rape of
Proserpina’ despite the two artists completely differ-
ent mediums of choice. Interestingly, however, they
are both inspired by Ovid’s work. The strokes in the
former are almost surreal, fragile and emotive… in the
same way as Bernini’s treatment is in the latter. The
tenderness and the evocativeness of flesh come about
inequalshadesinthesestrokes.Thefainthazinessand
texture of the paintings only elevate these features, al-
most as if we are there, only removed from the action,
mere mortals witnessing mythology.
Arguably the highlights of the exhibition (if one
can humbly say so about the old masters’ work) are
the paintings ‘Diana and Actaeon’ and ‘Diana and
Callisto’ which were envisioned as a pair and are now
collectively owned by the National Gallery in London
and the National Gallery of Scotland.
The exhibition is special in this context that for the
first time, we see the collection together, united after
over four centuries, something that neither Titian
nor Philip II was able to do. This was made possible
because of the landmark decision by the committee
of the Wallace collection in 2019 to loan exhibits for
the first time in its 119-year-old history, breaking its
terms of endowment.
And this produces something truly unique, allow-
ingustoappreciatetheartiststransitionovertheyears,
his own ‘metamorphosis’ of sorts, beginning with the
lighter work in ‘Danae’ and ‘Venus and Adonis’ and
the earthier ‘Death of Actaeon’ produced in his final
years.
No work better exemplifies the Venetian school or
indeed the late Renaissance than Titian’s ambitious
workhere.Theexhibitionwhichwassupposedtocon-
clude by 16th of June 2020, has been extended until
17th of January 2021 courtesy of the pandemic. After
London, the poesies and the exhibition, are soon to
embark on a grand tour, making stops in Edinburgh,
Madrid and Boston. So, catch it in person while you
can - this is one exhibition you don’t want to miss.
One room, seven paintings, an Old Master and his poesies
Reviewed by Vaidhiswaran Ramesh Arts Editor
Titian’s Posies
Where? National Gallery
When? Until 17th Jan 2021
Howmuch? £12 student price
Art Exhibition
Diana and Callisto
© The National Gallery London / The National Galleries of Scotland
ComingSoon
Artemisa @
The National Gallery
“In this first major exhibition of Artemisia’s
work in the UK, see her best-known paintings
including two versions of her iconic and viscer-
ally violent ‘Judith beheading Holofernes’; as
well as her self portraits, heroines from history
and the Bible, and recently discovered personal
letters, seen in the UK for the first time.”
Be sure to look out for our review of the same in
the next issue.
3rd Oct 2020 – 24th Jan 2021

