KEEP THE CAT FREE
ARTS
Arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
25
Tate Modern was running an exhibition of Andy Warhol before lockdown
started, which was forced to be put on pause. Now it’s up and running
again for an extended time, which I guess we have got a certain virus to thank
for. So if your online lectures are draining you faster than your lousy London
sink is draining your dirty dishwater, maybe now is the time to see what the
father of pop art was all about.
Born Andrew Warhola, he was the son of two Slovakian immigrants who had
migrated to an industrial Pittsburgh before Andy was born. During his earlier
years as an artist he built up a studio that he called “The Factory”, where his
model- and artist friends joined him in creating constant art. He dubbed them
his “factory superstars”. In the factory, they would hang out and take photos
and film each other, together forming some kind of a living artwork. One of
the rooms in the exhibition is made to look like this factory, with its iconic
silver-coloured walls. Photographs of the factory hang on the walls here, and
some of his film reels are playing on the wall, giving us a feeling of being there
in the factory, hanging out with Andy and the superstars. However, none of it
feels quite welcoming. There’s a levitating feeling of alienation in the air, in both
the story of Andy’s life and the way that he approached his art. He spoke and
wrote about feeling alienated and left out during different stages of his life. This
is something one can imagine not only relates to the obvious factors, like his im-
migrant background and homosexuality, but also his eccentric approach to life
and apparent shyness. He also spoke of feeling like a machine when creating his
pop art, and that being a machine was desirable as machines don’t discriminate.
Oh how disappointed Andy would be if he saw the racist and biased algorithms
we have today.
Andy’s life took a dramatic turn in the 60s, when he suddenly was shot by one
of his own factory superstars. An outright and radical feminist, having released
a manifesto stressing the need of eradicating all men, she stated Andy was steal-
ing her work. Andy was pronounced clinically dead, but somehow the surgeons
managed to save him. He then went on to have two more fruitful decades before
actually dying (again).
Andy experimented with many different art media, for example making a lot of
experimental films. He would just film a subject doing absolutely nothing for
the whole reel. He filmed his then-partner sleeping over many different nights,
putting together a five hour film with the idea that everyone coming in and
watching the film would catch a slightly different moment of him.
I am enthralled by Andy’s life story. Am I as enthralled by his art? Maybe not,
but maybe that is because of the obvious prevalence and impact it has had in our
society already. His pop art was paradigm shifting, but it has been milked dry
in every art history course I’ve ever sat through. For this reason I’m happy the
exhibition has been curated with a storytelling narrative in mind. From the very
moment you enter, you are given not only a brochure but a QR code to scan,
taking you to an audio-guide tailored to each room and period of Andy’s life.
This makes the exhibition very interactive and user-friendly. Just remember to
bring your earphones, and you’re guaranteed a good story!
Credits: Andrew Dunkley
Reviewed by Amanda Hertzberg Arts Editor
Andy Warhol @ Tate Modern
12th
March - 15th
October
£25 (concession £22 or Tate Collective ticket £7) www.tate.org.uk
The Eccentric
Father of Pop Art
Exhibition
Andy Warhol’s screen printing motifs

