KEEP THE CAT FREE
Music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
30
MUSIC
Guthrie Ruby
Middle parting, check. Fjallraven bag, check. A
selection of “alternative” shirts, check. Coffee
snobbery, check. Plant-based diet, check. Yup, my
name is Guthrie and I’m a textbook hipster. Don’t
worry though, I’m not as textbook when it comes to
music.
My taste in music can swing between extremes. At
times I’m engaging in ultimate snobbery of the high-
est degree, only listening to niche music that to the
average listener may sound “like the most annoying
alarm clock ever” (real quote from my housemate).
However, I’m just as likely to have a week of binging
nothing but the trashiest tracks from my childhood
– JLS, N-dubz, Chipmunk, Tinie Tempah. A com-
fortable middle ground is what I’m striving for.
Writing articles is not something I do in an
attempt to become an accomplished writer or gain
esteem amongst fellow music heads. Rather, I use it
as a catharsis for my own curiosities and intrigues
about aspects of music. This includes exploring the
genre of Japanese environmental music and why JLS’s
‘The Club Is Alive’ is a brilliant song, I have articles
in the works for both (stay tuned my dudes). Putting
it simply - I write to entertain myself, hopefully I can
do the same for you.
Asad Raja
This will be my third year as Music Edi-
tor, which makes this my third “intro to
me” aka “yeah I’m on my fifth level of Radi-
ohead-before-Radiohead-ception discovery
and now I have to point out that Kid A is
blatantly derivative of the most banal trans-
Celtic-post-glitch-horror-core albums of
the 70s (1870s) but also I like Drake so I’m
relatable!”. I feel like the most unembarrass-
ing way for me to talk about my relationship
with music is to talk about it the same way
Pusha T talks about coke dealing – so un-
abashedly braggadocios about his synony-
mous status with the subject that the listener
becomes the trade union to his labouring of
the point. Don’t know if I can pull that off
though, I’m just a suburban brown boy stud-
ying mechanical engineering. I’m too cynical
to suspend disbelief, so why ask you to? After
all, one NAV can distract from every Freddie
Mercury, Talvin Singh, Four Tet, M.I.A, Jai
Paul, Charli XCX, Jay Sean, Rishi Rich, Steel
Banglez and Zayn that came before. Not
trying to compare myself to any of the latter,
I’m not a brown creative/music genius. I am a
brown creative-music Genius though (you know, like
the website, Genius? It was a clever pun, trust me).
I’m not above the self-aggrandisement of pouring
out hot cups of opinion by the way – just wait till
you read one of my reviews, or see my website, or ask
who my top five is at a Hip Hop Soc social (a society
founded last year by, guess who).
Martin Flerin
As I write this, I’m considering whether it would
be my best bet to return to London by plane,
train or donkey. The donkey seems like the most
sure-fire option right now. Weird times for a global
world. Weird time for music.
Those of us on the way out of Imperial have been
put in a weird position. We aren’t really able to give
assurance on what will happen to you in your time
here, because we have no clue – we’re the pre-pan-
demic people, the PPP (now I’ve thought of the
Beach House ballad and cried in my sleeve).
Nevertheless, let me take out my soapbox as I am
wont to do (and I’m not even a physicist) and tell
you why it’s important to Hear the Music, just in case
Paul Johnson hasn’t convinced you yet.
Sonic breadcrumbs are the traces of my life. Now,
without throwing up in my mouth, that means that
I can tell you for hundreds of permutations of songs
and moments that are dear to me, exactly how they
intertwine. Coming to university rigidified these
dendritic highways and caused them to branch out
MEGASTYLE.
I was forced out of my echo chamber (think rigid
brickhouse rock –boomer, zoomer, doomer – if it
had a guitar I was there). Back to present – I am now
sitting on my couch listening to the new Moodyman
remix of Dua Lipa’s ‘Break My Heart’ and shimmy-
ing in my seat. Four years ago, I would’ve cringed
HARD AF BRUH. Point is: don’t underestimate the
power of music, or your ability to appreciate what is
currently foreign to you, and you’ll live a happy life.
Or something.
Miles Gulliford
Hi, I’m Miles, a 4th year chem eng student and
one of Felix’s music editor team this year. I like
music, and while there are currently fewer opportu-
nities about to watch it live, or even share in it with
friends, I believe music can be a ray of light in the
rather gloomy world in which we find ourselves.
Less time out and about doing whatever it is we
used to do out means more time in, and whether
you are hard at work or taking time for the things
you truly enjoy, this means more time when you can
be listening to music (or at least in charge of what is
playing). The fact that music is the perfect second-
ary activity while you are focusing on
something else means that the pan-
demic is the perfect time to expand and
enrich your listening.
But why bother? The language of
music is, for practical purposes, one
entirely of its own, by this I mean
that understanding the psychical or
contextual components of music adds
no value to your life beyond a deeper
understanding of music. But do you,
the hard-working Imperial student, not
deserve, not need some solace, some
sliver of beauty amidst the mechanical-
ly violent rationality of your studies? I
wouldn’t be this far into my degree if
not for it.
Therefore reader, I implore you to
nurture the seed, that mild or powerful
affection you feel for music, which I am
certain that anyone having read this far
has, and let it grow by challenging your
ears and cherishing each sound you
take in. I hope that we Felix editors can
guide you as you grow.
Meet Your Music Editors!
Feature

