FRIDAY 10TH FEBRUARY 2020
31
MUSIC
Music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
It’s hard to write about Detroit guys. They’re all a bit
out there. All a bit intense. And they’re very seri-
ous about their music. They’re either all façade or no
façade at all, depends on how you look at it.
Omar S is chief amongst them. His breakout full-
length was called It Can Be Done But Only I Can Do
It, featuring an early 2000s Need For Speed-inspired
cover of the man himself, wearing a fat jacket and a
bucket hat, along with the most horrible font ever
printed anywhere.
These kinds of artists will always be the most po-
larising. They’re not giving you much wiggle room
to form your own opinion. Can you not love a guy
who is so true to Detroit that he held a permanent
job in the Ford fac-
tory until only a
few years ago, goes
street racing at
night, and calls all
European minimal
techno ‘absolute
garbage’? I may
disagree with the
last of these, but
props to him for calling them how he sees them.
Anyways, his newest EP isn’t really all that good,
but it’s good enough for an EP which is apparently
nothing more than a lash out against RA for having
reviewed his previous release, his first full-length in 4
years, poorly. His lack of adventurousness in produc-
tion was compared to the steadiness of a Ford Fiesta.
He might have a case to be salty.
Enough about the man, let me tell you how the
sound goes in a single paragpraph. Simply is too sim-
ple, a tad boring with just the undulating ‘OOH,
DAMN’ sample and some pad-glued drums to keep
itgoingoverthefourtonebassline.It’son‘GonnaLuv
You’ that Omar shines for me. It starts with a brittle
chord over a crunchy beat, which gets swallowed up
in some wickedly constipated laughing from the man
himself. This then flows into a beautiful sax sample,
and the rest of the track goes swimmingly. The pro-
duction highlight is a timely filter-and-flanger de-
scent into the last minute. ‘Bread Over Bed’ is very
old-school, but again on the boring side, with a single
semi-intriguing melodic line amidst a flurry of hats.
The last two tracks are more intriguing again, with
an even more old-school touch, and some very deft
moves from John FM on the closer (another Detroit
local with a new EP worth checking out).
All in all, good try Omar, if nothing else, then for
the lolz.
Felix Reccomends...
Reviewed by Martin Ferlin Music Editor
EPby: Omar S
Toptracks: Gonna Luv You, Mell’like Boom
Boom In’dair;
RunTime:28 minutes;
Album Reviews
To Feel Alive
Kali Uchis has outdone herself with this one,
proving her potential beyond the stellar dis-
cography she’s already built up. In four songs and
10 minutes, she paints pure impact with a palette as
vibrant as a full album. The tracks glide beautifully
into one another both sonically and thematically as
Kali recounts the stages of a short but intense flame
love-affair. On ‘honey baby’, Kali’s inflecting voice
brings together lullabying keys, bird song and easy
trap and bass layers like, well, honey. She fawns over
Reviewed by Asad Raja Music Editor
EPby: Kali Uchis Toptracks: honey baby; TO
FEEL ALIVE;
Forfansof: SZA; ABRA
RunTime:10 minutes;
the eternal sunshine of mutual belonging and long-
ing. ‘angel’ captures the soothing high of the love-
drug, with Kali taking a more mellow vocal approach
over bass-buried synth runs that climb and fall like a
tide. Things shift as diffuse keys over a pulsing drum
on ‘i want war’ express a falling off a tightrope of
infatuation into neighbouring insanity. The EP ends
with ‘TO FEEL ALIVE’, an awakening from the
entire experience, as Kali is left to reflect on the void
that a short, intense period of infatuation leaves; a
void it was there to fill all along. Teasing, climbing
strings are the plain backdrop for Kali’s stretched
vocals and pained lyrics, gripped with emotion.
The urge to immediately hit pay again is telekinetic,
and an effective metaphor for the cyclical nature of
desire.
Reviewed by Miles Gulliford Music Editor
EPby: Etuk Ubong Toptracks: Africa Today
Forfansof: FelaKuti;Sonsof Kemet
RunTime:36 minutes;
Africa Today
Simply (Fuck Resident Advisor)
Nigerian trumpeter Etuk Ubong has created a
record that cuts decisively through the increas-
ingly dense afrbobeat/jazz scene with Africa Today
and in doing so captures the emotional power of his
predecessors. With muscular horn sections deliver-
ing tight – dance influenced arrangements (perhaps
not so far removed from Shabaka Hutching’s sons of
Kemet) and propulsive percussion drawing upon by
the ritual drumming style of the Ekombi, the dense
propulsive bodies of each track make a thrilling expe-
rience for the ears.
However, Ubong wields texture to his advantage
throughout this excursion, often stripping instrumet-
als back, making for a more varied listen and allow-
ing him to deliver more meaningful and powerful
messages on politics and spirituality.

