KEEP THE CAT FREE
Music.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
32
MUSIC
American singer-songwriter Frank Zappa fa-
mously said about music criticism: “Most rock
journalism is people who can’t write, interviewing
people who can’t talk, for people who can’t read.” I
can’t say that any of those three things are ever simul-
taneously true. I hope that if you’re staring at this
page you can in fact read. I also hope that I never end
up at an interview with someone who has nothing of
value to say. However, I can say that when I started
trying music journalism I sure as shit couldn’t write. I
wouldn’t even say I could now.
Before I started, I barely read music criticism. I
barely read at all. I enjoyed talking to people about
music. I enjoyed sharing music with others, and
having it shared with me. I was addicted to the dopa-
mine hit I would get whenever someone would over-
hear the music I was listening to and ask me “who’s
this?” or “what’s the name of this song?”. Not just
because it’s gratifying when people agree with your
taste in art, but because it gave me an opportunity to
talk about the music I loved.
Does this sound anything like you?
First, I wrote an album review, then a soundtrack
review, then an opinion piece. As I wrote more, I
gained more confidence in my opinions and became
more fluent in the way I discussed music. I wasn’t
writing articles that often and having them published
in Felix was just an added bonus for my ego. The
biggest benefit was the way it improved me.
In short - the barrier is low and all it takes is a little
bit of passion.
Is there an album, single, artist, performance, ven-
ue, collective of artists, genre, era, soundtrack, even
a ringtone that you just really want to talk about?
Excellent, that’s step one done, only one more to go.
Granted the next step takes longer, but the first step
is the hardest.
Step two is actually writing. It can be tackled in
a myriad of different ways but there are some core
concepts to keep in mind (please be aware this is my
opinion and not fact, there is plenty of other advice
online).
The first key element, and probably most impor-
tant, is to make sure you have something unique to
add to the readers experience. If you don’t do this,
you’ll just regurgitate facts and recall exactly what
you heard. Why read that when you could just listen
to the music instead? Tell us your opinion. What
parts stood out to you and why? Did they remind
you of something else and why is that interesting?
Use your opinion to alter another’s experience.
Okay, so we’ve established you have something
original/unique to say. Now let’s make sure there’s
a reason you’re sharing these thoughts. What is the
point of your article? What are you trying to teach
the reader? What are you trying to convince them
of? Or maybe you’re just trying to share and enter-
tain.
Which leads me to the final key element to any
good piece of writing, and that’s to make sure it
is at least somewhat entertaining and/or educa-
tional. Throw in some weird adjectives, a funny
metaphor, an obscure fact, or even ask the read-
er thoughtful questions. Don’t leave the reader
bored. Ask yourself, would I enjoy reading what I
have written?
Hey-ho you’re a music writer, congratulations! I
told you the barrier was low. Don’t worry though,
there’s an almost infinitely high ceiling to music
writing. If you want to be the next Lester Bangs or
Anthony Fantano it’s going to take a lot of work.
In the meantime, stick to what you’re passion-
ate about and you may be surprised at what you
produce.
How to Write About Music
Feature
Music for two (part 1.)
Feature
Guthrie Ruby Music Editor
Miles Gulliford Music Editor
Of the many takeaways found in the Imperial
sex survey (see next week’s issue for the sur-
vey’s results in full), I was particularly struck by the
diversity of songs listed by respondents as their go to
listening during intimacy. As someone who enjoys
music in any and all contexts, I felt I could offer some
suggestions for those who enjoy music as an accom-
paniment to these moments. Over the next 2 weeks
I will be talking you through a few albums that I feel
are particularly well suited to the bedroom by genre.
I have endeavoured to include a selection that covers
all bases, offering something for everyone.
Pop: Beauty Behind the Madness – The
Weeknd
I have to concede that The Weeknd’s tasteful
production and slick melodies make for an intoxicat-
ing listen which should certainly meld well into the
intoxications of passion. A superficial examination
of lyrics on tracks like ‘Often’ might lead the reader
to the conclusion that songs on records like Beauty
Behind the Madness have been designed precisely for
loving.
Jazz: Moon Beams – Bill Evans Trio
In the midst of a fairly large jazz kick myself, I was
pleased to see that the genre was quite popular for
sex jams, however many listeners seemed to go to
playlists rather than artists directly. If there was an
artist to choose for loving – Bill Evans is perhaps
unmatched, his label even released a posthumous
compilation titled Bill Evans for Lovers. His gentle
yet rich playing has a near opiate effect that I defy
listeners to not dissolve in bliss to. Moon beams is a
personal favourite, packed back to front with impos-
sibly delicate originals and velvet-smooth interpre-
tations of classics like ‘Polka Dots and Moonbeams’,
this record has the added prestige of featuring Nico
of The Velvet Underground on its cover.
Indie: Portishead – Dummy
Portishead’s moody debut is hard to categorise, a
slowed and warped take on early hip-hop instrumen-
tals – perhaps the dub to hip-hop’s reggae, the UK
trio accent their trip-hop grooves with mournful
melodies and understated lyrics. These downtempo
tracks are profoundly atmospheric and seem to be
waiting to envelop couples into their twilit world.
Electronic: Jacques Green - Dawn Chorus
While electronic ranked quite highly for sex jam
choice, I found myself struggling to find a record I
found particularly suitable for loving. I settled upon
Jacques Greene’s latest effort; a collection of delicate-
ly danceable pieces built around cavernous synths
borrowed from the ambient oeuvre. The result is an
ethereal hour which retains some of the deep dance-
floor rhythms upon which the genre is built, a listen
that is equal parts tranquil and exciting making this
record well placed to accompany nocturnal congress.

