There seems to be an increasing need for our gener-
ation to keep up with current fashion trends. From
the latest Nike drop to the E-girl hair, it has become
the norm to throw away an item considered ‘last
season’.
On average each person in the UK buys 26.7kg of
new clothing a year and from this, a huge £140 mil-
lion’s worth of clothes are dumped in landfill. The
wave of fast fashion brands has swept the market.
With the added increase from online fashion retail-
ers like Missguided, Boohoo and PrettyLittleThing,
there has been an increase in inexpensive clothing
copied straight from the runway. It can also be seen
that the rise of social media marketing and influencers
has led to the boom of a throwaway society. So, what’s
the issue? Well, fast fashion is damaging not only our
pockets, but also the environment. The fashion indus-
try is the second biggest polluter, contributing more
greenhouse gas emissions than the aviation industry.
The use of non-biodegradable synthetic materials has
led to the release of plastic microfibers into the oceans
and subsequently into the food chain. It is time for a
much-needed wake-up call.
1DEPOP
A social shopping app where anyone can set-up an
account to sell or buy pre-loved clothes at a negotiated
price. From sellers all around the world, you can find
a wide range of items to suit your own style, allowing
you to focus on exactly what you want. You can also
start your own shop and sell old items that may not fit.
2Charity shops
A similar approach but relies on you having to
leave your bed. Charity shops are a great way to buy
second-hand clothing at a cheap price. Not only limit-
ed to clothing, many stores sell books, ornaments and
kitchenware. There are over 11,000 charity shops in
the UK, here are some around Kensington and Ful-
ham.
in a Post-COVID World
The pandemic has efficiently ground the fash-
ion and luxury industry to a halt: as seasonal
collections fade away and clothes with longevity
re-materialize, we wonder what else will come to
light as the fashion world adapts to a post-COVID
world.
Shopping habits
Perhaps not necessarily a priority for many but for
the everyday shopper, the obvious restyle has been
around retail routines. Hand sanitisation every
minute, changing rooms out-of-
action, and one-way systems may
have drained the therapy out of
retail therapy.
Is it fun anymore? Do people
even want to shop offline any-
more?
With people’s disposable income
for the most part decreasing, money put aside for
designer goods and indulgent purchases may now be
used for a more long-term fulfilment and investment.
The show must(n’t) go on
Milan’s fashion week still proceeded, as the current
situation was apparently not considered a pandem-
ic to some cities, whereas some designers made a
decision to turn to other platforms to deliver their
collections, largely due to the irresponsible nature of
large gatherings and the travel bans set in place. This
also meant that fashion week sales plummeted with
no international buyers in attendance.
London fashion week transformed into a completely
digital event, giving labels the opportunity to get
innovative with their fashion expression.
The main medium used were live streams, with
brands like Armani joining in; with other brands
finding other avant-garde ways to connect with the
community. Of course, social media makes this easier
with filters and a bombardment of posts on your
feed. And if lockdown/quarantine boredom has
really gotten to you, Gucci has a 12-hour behind-the-
scenes reel of their collections waiting for you.
It’s also interesting to note that with new collections
proving more difficult to fabricate in this contempo-
rary world, a decrease in lines follows suit. Whether
the digital age is continued or if futuristic fashion
exhibitions become the new norm is unknown for
the moment.
A more ethical industry
Less negative repercussions on the
environment have cropped up as a result
of a reduced production of clothing and
their dyes. Namely, the lowered carbon
emissions and minimised aquatic toxicity
as an outcome make for a strong step in the right di-
rection. This time of reflection has allowed us to con-
template the ethics and politics of fashion. With the
desire to be frivolous with cash diminishing and the
push to bring fast fashion to a standstill, sustainable
shopping through charity shops and rental systems,
such as that of Selfridges, is a replacement for this
season’s new trend. The impact of overproduction
can be reconsidered long-term and the welfare of the
workforce behind the clothes rails can be reassessed,
overall creating a more pleasant industry.
Despite the fashion world around us changing, we
can hope it’s for the better and brings more resource-
ful, visionary vogue to the world post-COVID.
FASHION
Elizabeth Tong Fashion Writer
AVANT-GARDE
WAYS TO
CONNECT
“
FRIDAY 25TH SEPTEMBER 2020
FASHION
33
Fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
Simran Gill Fashion Editor
FIGHT FAST
FASHION
3Beware of Green-Washing
Apart from second-hand clothing, many retailers
have taken it upon themselves to start promoting an
eco-friendlier image by using misleading claims. The
maininstancesofthiscanbeseenwithbrandssuchas
H&M’s ‘Conscious Collection’ and Zara’s ‘Join Life’
clothing line. Both have been accused of greenwash-
ing by misleading customers using false marketing
claims, such as exaggerating the use of recycled ma-
terials. This is becoming more prominent amongst
the fashion industry as fast fashion brands can be
seen to attract consumer buying through these meth-
ods. Therefore, it is important to beware of potential
greenwashing claims that may infiltrate retailers and
be prepared to research a company before buying.
4Vintage Stores
Although they may not be as budget friendly,
you can find many pre-loved designer items in vin-
tage shops across London. This is the best way to
find one-of-a kind pieces that no-one else will own.
You can find many vintage stores around Brick Lane
including ATIKA and Rokit, as well as the weekend
market at the Truman Brewery. There are also many
around Camden, my personal favorite being What
Goes Around Comes Around.
Let’s fight fast fashion with sustainable shopping!
• Shelter
• British Heart Founda-
tion
• Cancer Research UK
• Little Lives UK
• Fara
• Sue Ryder
• Octavia Foundation
• Royal Trinity Hospice
• Oxfam
• Cancer Research UK
You can easily find many more around London!

