KEEP THE CAT FREE
FASHION
Fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
34
HAUTE COUTURE
In French means high dressmaking. It is the process
of making high quality clothing by hand.
The very first couturiers originated from France
dating back to the 1850’s. Once a year, fashions most
prestigious well-known brands meet in Paris for the
spectacular Haute Couture Fashion week. This year’s
fashion week took place at the end of January and
met all viewers’ expectations (viewers of Instagram
I mean, like mois). From Iris Van Herpens almost
architectural dresses to Jean Paul Gaultiers theatrical
show this year’s haute couture week was one for the
history books.
Couture week started strong with Schiaparelli’s
quirky creations ranging from all over body em-
bellishments to extravagant and colorful gowns.
Schiaparelli is known for his ability to use patterns
from nature but make it couture. However, you won’t
come across typical patterns leopard, cow, zebra print
but rather see a blazer embellished in frog skin pat-
tern, a tube top made of ladybug resembling beads, a
dress with small black dots on it which are not polka
dots but ants.
VALENTINO
Since Pierpaolo Piccioli became creative director of
Valentino, sales of water-
proof mascara have *not*
coincidentally increased the
day before each of his shows.
People actually leave in tears
- just like Imperial students
leaving their exam halls. But
better dressed. And in Paris.
This year Piccioli stayed
true to maison Valentinos
identity by bringing a literal
explosion of colour to the
runway in voluminous
gowns. Colour blocking,
massive bows and heavy
beautiful embellishments all made a strong showing.
Piccioli made a bold move by introducing eccentric,
extremely long earrings – longer even than my last re-
lationship to haute couture. A questionable accessory
for couture but we’ll take it. Aduta Kech emotionally
closed this show wearing a jaw dropping baby pink
feather gown and yes people left in tears. Google it if
you don’t believe me.
Jean Paul Gaultier one of the biggest names in fash-
ion, an icon, a master, a legend; announced that this
year’s couture show would be his last one. It was an
hour long and very appropriately
took place in a theatre. I could
write a full essay on this but will
leave it at this: If Coco Rocha
dressed in madras print, plaid and
feather, dancing a ballet inpsired
Scottish folk hybrid dance to
Missy Elliot music in the back-
ground, doesn’t capture Gaultier’s
aesthetic... I don’t know what else
could. Big models such as Karlie Kloss, Irina Shayk,
the Hadids and the corset queen herself: Dita Von
F* Tease were some of the legends parading Gaultiers
latest and last couture creations.
GIVENCHY
Givenchy, another well-known
fashion house also produces a
couture line once a year. Kaia
Gerber (Cindy Crawford’s
daughter for the non-Instagram
junkies out there) closed the
show with a dramatic bridal
looking gown and a hat that
to my childish eyes looked like
papier-mâché.
BALMAIN
Not all fashion houses create couture collections. A
notable absence was Olivier Rousteing, the creative
director of Balmain. New last year, he was heavily
criticised which might go some way to explaining his
decision to stay away this year. Giambatista Valli did
not take part in a catwalk this year as well but chose
instead to present his couture line in a proper art
exhibition space as fine art. Valli has been known for
his voluminous toulle dresses the past few years ever
since the goddess herself: Rihanna, wore a humon-
gous pink one to the 2015 Grammys. This year Valli
took the puffy toulle gowns to another length *lit-
erally*. I swear these dresses
wouldn’t fit in my London
apartment.
CHANEL
Chanel’s new post-Lagerfeld
creative director, Virginie
Viard, paid homage to Coco
Chanel’s childhood spent
around nuns, presenting a col-
lection that used both nun like colours and shapes.
Though still haute couture I couldn’t help feel a bit
underwhelmed.
JACQUEMUS
Although not a couture line, Jacquemus showcased
his “L’anee 97” line which paid tribute to his late
mother, 1997 being the first time he made a dress for
his mother. Jacquemus rose dramatically in populari-
ty when he took over the fashion world with his tiny
(tiny). bags which are as functional as a necklace yet
still sold out globally. But that is fashion!
On that note, stay tuned for our next fashion week
cover whenever that will be in these weird COVID
times.
Au revoir mes amours!
The Last Fashion Week before
COVID
Louise-Cristine Pitsillides Fashion Writer
ECCENTRIC,
EXTREMELY LONG
EARRINGS – LONGER
EVEN THAN MY LAST
RELATIONSHIP TO
HAUTE COUTURE
“
Haute Couture week Paris January 2020
AS FUNCTIONAL
AS A NECKLACE
YET STILL SOLD
OUT GLOBALLY
“
SCHIAPARELLI
JEAN PAUL GAULTIER

