Advert after advert, trailer after trailer — our grand
return to cinema is finally here. Tenet certainly has
the spectacular visuals, the action/thriller storyline, and
the temporal hijinks that we have come to expect from
Nolan. The plot is full of ambition, foisting upon the
audience numerous moving parts requiring a level of vigi-
lance few directors are willing to demand from audiences
these days. John David Washington
and Robert Pattinson put in some
decent performances as the stoic
spies — especially given that the
film is like an audiobook at times,
and the chemistry between Russian
oligarch Andrei (played by Kenneth
Branagh) and his tormented wife
(Elizabeth Debicki) adds a much
needed human element to this fairly
emotionless film. With a beefy 150
minute run-time, Tenet demands
your full attention and constant en-
gagement with the puzzles it poses.
Frustratingly, the dialogue is barely
audible in several scenes and is an irritating
barrage of exposition, with little consolida-
tion or emotional underpinning. What was
intended as thrilling, came off only as tiring.
There are certainly some movies that make
their name solely on the basis of their laby-
rinthine plots (cf. Primer (2004)), but Tenet
is not one of them. Underneath the mildly
interesting technology is a fairly unremark-
able story; and amid the tiring tsunami of
exposition, there’s a noticeable shortfall of
tact and grace — things Nolan masters in
Dunkirk and Inception. Ultimately, Tenet
isn’t the spy-fi bang I’d hoped for, but boy
am I glad we’re back.
Lockdown Flop or Summer Success?
Begin with a classic: The Breakfast Club
Editor Recommends
“Life is just a series of peaks and troughs, and you don’t
know whether you’re in a trough until you’re climbing
out, or on a peak until you’re coming down. And that’s
it, you know, you never know what’s round the corner.
But it’s all good” — D. Brent
It’s true that we give nothing so generously as our advice.
I’d also venture that, when you’re not looking for it,
there’s nothing more patronising to receive. For the first
issue I thought I’d share some advice, but hopefully not in
that preachy, finger-wagging way. Given that the cinemas
are regaining their strength, I thought I’d recommend a
true classic to make my point for me. My coming-of-age
selection, perhaps unsurprisingly, is The Breakfast Club:
a quintessential ‘80s movie, garnering nostalgia-driven
praise from the old and young alike. The film is a goodbye
to high school and, dare I say, to childhood. It features
the entire gamut of high-school characters — the brain,
the athlete, the princess, the criminal, and the basket case
— stuck in a Saturday morning detention, struggling to
find their place at home, and struggling to let go of the
stereotypes, routines, and familial mannerisms imposed
on them. Although director John Hughes has had his
share of big hits — being the writer and producer of the
Home Alone trilogy — the emotion, sincerity, and truth
in The Breakfast Club is second to none. While the film is
nostalgic — perfectly portraying those aspects of school
we come to miss, its real strength is that it tells us what we
really ought to gain from an education.
As the Breakfast Club concludes, and what I can attest
to as a 4th year, is that an education isn’t about learning
physics, biochemistry, or computer science, nor is it even
about the social side of uni. The true benefit of education
is developing an awareness to choose which behaviours,
which customs, and which patterns of thought you
value and give meaning to in adult life (and all its unsexy
associations)— as opposed to falling into such things
unconsciously. As Brian (the nerd) mentions of their
detention teacher Mr Vernon (Paul Gleason): “You see us
as you want to see us...in the simplest terms and the most
convenient definitions”.
You will be tested in this way at
uni. Going shopping at 10pm after
a long day studying, because all
you have is some wilting spinach,
some soured milk, and the ar-
se-ends of some seeded bread you
thought you’d try but now hate.
And maybe you have a report due
the next day. And maybe you get
to Tesco and they’ve just closed,
and so you have to travel a mile
to the next one where everyone is
grumpy and tired and the baskets
are broken, etc etc. A truly well-adjusted person will be
able to choose not to fall into the default channels of
getting pissed off, indignant, or overly upset — and how
much you know about Maxwell’s equations or enzymolo-
gy will have nothing to do with this ability. Being a nerd,
a jock, or a beauty queen is easy; however, stepping back,
and consciously deciding which habits, pretences, and
inclinations are truly worth your time is unbelievably
difficult.
Perhaps the ‘Breakfast Club perspective’ will sound like a
nauseating cliché; but, as with most clichés, they usually
end up being true. I think the message and optimism
within this movie will do you good whether you’re a fresh-
er or a postgrad. So: welcome, get involved, don’t take
yourself too seriously, and have fun!
Reviewed by Oliver Weir Film Editor
Oliver Weir Film Editor Ways to enjoy film...
AT UNIVERSITY
MUBI — Conveyor belt of movies in all genres
and languages (free for students)
FilmSoc — Imperial’s dedicated society for all
things film. Sign-up at union website or join
Facebook @ImperialFilmSoc
Imperial Cinema — Student-run cinema based in
IC Union (@imperial_cinema on Twitter)
BFI Southbank — World-famous cinema in the
heart of London
Picturehouses of London — New releases at fair
prices
Amazon Prime — Students get 6 months free
Prime
Letterboxd — Rate & review website to log your
movies & see what friends are watching (follow me @
BarbershopRaga)
Credits: Flickr/Olliver Simmones
The iconic shot of the gang at their Saturday morning detention
The iconic shot of the gang at their Saturday morning detention
Directedby: Christopher Nolan
Starring: John David Washington; Robert Pat-
tinson; Kenneth Branagh; Elizabeth Debicki
Studio: Warner Bros. Pictures
Tenet
FRIDAY 25TH SEPTEMBER 2020
FILM
Film.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk 35

