KEEP THE CAT FREE
FOOD
Food.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
36
Agood healthy breakfast is key to ensure that you make
healthy choices throughout the day. Oats are highly nu-
trient-dense, stabilising your blood sugar levels, making sure
you stay full right until lunch (we can’t have your stomach
rumbling during Panopto!). These dessert-inspired breakfast
recipes are deceptively healthy, very quick and easy to make
so please have a go! Your stomach and taste buds will thank
you for it.
I hope you enjoy these recipes and have a go! If you want some more oatmeal inspiration,
check out my Instagram @nooreatsalot where I have links to recipes on my website!
*Theses recipe are not endorsed by Myprotein™ nor Pip & Nut
Oats: the superfood to kickstart your day
Noor Akhtar Food Writer
Ingredients
60g / ½ cup of oat bran
(oat bran is ideal since it is the
highest in fibre and protein, but
old-fashioned oats are a decent
substitute)
250ml / 1 cup of liquid (I like
1:1 cashew milk to water)
½ grated courgette (this
makes you oats extra creamy and
increases the nutrient profile!)
½ tsp of cinnamon
1 scoop of protein powder of
choice
Myprotein™ flavdrops: I add
10 drops of raspberry and 5
strawberry once my oats have
cooled slightly. There are over
20 fruity and dessert flavours
to choose from on their website
(myprotein.com)
Combine the oats, liquid,
courgette, cinnamon and a
pinch of salt in a microwave
safe bowl. Make sure the bowl
is deep so the oatmeal does
not overflow in the micro-
wave.
Cook according to package
instructions, stirring halfway.
Make sure you keep an eye on
your oats so they do not seep
over the edge of your bowl!
Form a thick paste with your
protein powder and a little
water. Mix well into the oats.
Brownie Batter Reese’s Pieces
Blueberry Muffin Batter
PB&J
Pumpkin Spiced Latte
Add to the oat base before microwav-
ing: 2 tsp of 100% cacao powder, 1 tsp
of vanilla syrup or 10 Myprotein vanilla
flavdrops and 1/8 tsp of baking powder.
Toppings: 1 heaped tsp of crunchy
peanut butter and yogurt if desired.
Add to the base before microwaving:
Pinch of nutmeg, 1/8 tsp of baking
powder, 1 tsp sweetener of choice, 1 tsp
of butter or nut butter of choice
Mix ins: Stir in a small punnet of
blueberries immediately after micro-
waving
Toppings: A drizzle of honey and 1
tbsp of reduced sugar blueberry jam.
For an even lower sugar option, you
can top with blueberry compote (recipe
above).
Toppings: 1 tbsp of high oleic peanut
butter (this is runny and the perfect
texture for drizzling!) and 2 tbsp of
reduced sugar jam or chia jam. Alterna-
tively, you can replace the jam with the
berry compote recipe above.
Add to the base before microwaving:
2 heaped tbsp of 100% pumpkin puree,
½ tsp of cinnamon, pinch of nutmeg
and 1 tsp of coffee
Toppings: 1 heaped tsp of crunchy
peanut butter and yogurt if desired.
Recipe
The Oat Base (vegan) Vegan Healthy Dessert Oatmeal Recipes (More
to come next week!)
Vanilla Cupcake with Berry
Compote
Add to the base after it has cooled:
1 tsp of vanilla syrup or 10 Myprotein
vanilla flavdrops to the base recipe
Compote: Microwave 100g of frozen
berries for 40 seconds. Add a drizzle
of liquid sweetener and spoon over the
porridge.
• Add seeds: e.g. 1 tbsp of hemp seeds, chia seeds, flax seeds etc
• Nut butters: 1 tbsp of peanut/almond/cashew butter etc
• Add more veggies: e.g. carrot, avocado, even beetroot!
• Superfood powders: Add 1 tsp of spirulina, chlorella, lucuma,
maca etc
Increase the nutritional profile further
Getting used to the pace of real life again is tricky and it can be really hard to find the time to bake like we did back in the
early lockdown days – but that doesn’t mean that the cravings for baked treats goes away.This mug cookie recipe is super easy,
quick, halls friendly. You just need a mug, a microwave, and a spoon. It’s a great basic recipe which can be altered to fit your
taste. Sub in berries if you’re feeling something a little lighter, or even chop up some of your favourite chocolate to make a
cookie which is uniquely you.
Easy Mug Recipe to Get You Through Freshers
Haider Nazerali Food Writer
15g butter (1 tbsp)
15g caster sugar (1 tbsp)
15g brown sugar (1 tbsp)
1tsp vanilla paste
1 egg yolk
45g tbsp plain flour (3 tbsp)
50g milk chocolate
Get your favourite mug (I used my
Imperial Mug for the flex)
Ingredients
METHOD:
Notes on sugar: if you don’t have
caster sugar, you can use normal gran-
ulated sugar; if you don’t have brown
sugar, use whatever you do have
Note on vanilla: vanilla paste >>> all
other vanilla but I understand it’s a
bit bougie, so don’t worry - this recipe
still tastes LUSH with vanilla essence/
extract
Add the butter and melt in the micro-
wave (about 10 seconds)
Mix in the white and brown sugar, vanil-
la, and egg yolk and mix until no lumps or
yolk are left – I used a butter knife to mix
because I’m lazy, a spoon works too.
Mixintheflouruntilcombinedandthen
mix in the chocolate or any flavouring you
want to add
• Berries can also work well in this mug
cookie – something like blueberries or rasp-
berries (did someone say raspberry and
white chocolate mug cookie?!)
• My personal fave is mixing in a spoon-
ful of biscoff spread before putting it in
the microwave (if you haven’t tried it you
HAVE TO)
Microwave for 1 min; wait 1-2 min so
you don’t burn your mouth, and enjoy (or
chuck some ice cream on there and eat!)

