The satirical historical dramedy starring Elle
Fanning and Nicholas Hoult is a triumph
FRIDAY 25TH SEPTEMBER 2020
TELEVISION
Television.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
37
The Great
Binge of the week
If one had to put ‘The Great’ into a box and label it
with a genre, the most concise way to do so would
be by calling it a satirical historical dramedy.
There is a lot to unpack within those three words:
Satirical – To say that the show takes the piss out of
its characters would be the understatement of the
century. What’s interesting about the way The Great
does this is the unique tone it has while doing so. It
puts the characters into absurd situations (often by
their own doing) and it makes some bold choices in
the process. Some of these choices dance along the
line of going too far (be it the jokes or the gory vis-
uals). Some viewers would definitely think that the
show goes too far, but for me, it went just far enough
to reinforce its own points in memorable, striking
ways.
Historical – The show revolves around Catherine
The Great, a Russian empress who overthrows her
own husband to rule the country 18th Century...
well, at least a wildly fictionalised version of Cathe-
rine The Great. The show’s opening card clearly states
that this is ‘an occasionally true story’, and upon
some Googling, it is easy to spot the giant liberties
the creative team takes to make a more engaging,
poignant show.
Dramedy – This show is funny. In fact, it is often
hilarious. However, calling it a downright comedy
would be doing this show a disservice. It’s not that
there’s anything wrong with comedies – I love a good
comedy. However, The Great simply uses its come-
dic elements as a tool to embellish on the dramatic
aspects and create a unique take on the lives of these
historical figures.
The Great was created by Tony McNamara who was
one of the writers of a different highly fictionalised
monarchical production The Favourite, which gave
Olivia Colman her deserved win at the Oscars last
year. Tonally, there are definite similarities in the
way the two approach storytelling, however, they are
both unique enough to hold their own as individ-
ual works with extremely different takes on what it
means to be a woman in a position of relative power.
The Great is an unashamedly feminist piece, howev-
er, this does not feel forced at any point.
Elle Fanning (Maleficent, 20th Century Women)
and Nicholas Hoult (Skins, The Favourite) are both
magnetic in their roles. They are oozing with chemis-
try throughout the show, and the ‘frenemy’ dynamics
between the pair is beautifully executed. Fanning,
who has spent much of her career being compared
to her older sister Dakota Fanning (I Am Sam, Once
Upon a Time in Hollywood), not only holds her
own in The Great, but fully embodies the character.
The supporting cast holds their own too. Phoebe
Fox who plays the lady-turned-servant Marial with
gravitas, in the most charming way possible.
The Great is a brave and unique show that is unafraid
of pushing the boundaries. While it may not be accu-
rate enough to act as a history lesson, it is thoroughly
enjoyable.
Elle Fanning and Nicholas Hoult ooze charizma
The Great
Reviewed by Ozbil Ege Dumenci Television Editor
Starring: Elle Fanning, Nicholas Hoult
Episodes: 10 (45-55 minutes) (1 season)
Credits: Courtesy of Hulu
Credits: Courtesy of Hulu
Frenemies.
Frenemies.

