This Irish sitcom has captured my heart
KEEP THE CAT FREE
TELEVISION
Television.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
38
The Young Offenders
Program Review
Irish sitcom The Young Offenders follows the lives
of two mischievous teenagers Conor MacSweeney
(played by Alex Murphy) and Jock O’Keeffe (played
by Chris Walley) as they navigate through adoles-
cence as borderline outlaws. On the surface, the duo
is the farthest thing from what any parent would
want in their children, but the show presents them in
such a heartwarming and understandable way – Pe-
ter Foott, the show’s creator, deserves some applause
for this reason alone. The show is simple, hilarious,
and it dares you to care for those on the edge (a little
Queen reference) without shoving the message down
the audience’s throat.
With that being said, I would argue that this show
is not excellent in a traditional sense. Yes, it is fun-
ny and relatable, but the story is clichéd, predict-
able, and dare I say a little clumsy. The setting is
typical; the dialogues are stereotypically Irish. But
the characters are so full of heart that it makes the
show worth watching. The character development
throughout the seasons is incredible – their growth
feels organic, and it is great watching them learn to
care for others. I especially appreciate how the story
moves with the character and not the other way
around. Many sitcoms are guilty of stereotyping their
leads to the point that the characters lose their charm
and come across strange as the story develops – this
is not something to worry about with The Young
Offenders.
The friendship between Conor and Jock
Conor and Jock are besties – they do anything and
everything together all the time. They rock the same
hairstyles, get the same piercings, and wear the same
colourful tracksuits as they wander around Cork
stealing bikes under their funny masks. Their out-
ward appearances may look questionable, but there
is no question that they truly care for each other,
though in a very cheesy and stupid way. Even if the
entire world leaves the two of them behind, they will
still always be there for each other. Conor defends
Jock when everyone thinks he is a jerk – Jock has
never blamed anyone for his misfortunes; in that
same way, Jock always sees the best in Conor. It
warms my heart to see two silly young boys who are
willing to help each other unconditionally – Murphy
and Walley’s amazing chemistry alongside Foott’s
natural and witty writing both play important roles
in the delivery of the two characters.
‘I love me mam’
Máiréad MacSweeney (played by Hilary Rose) is yet
another highlight of the show. She is the mother of
Conor and widower of Conor’s father. Rose’s por-
trayal of Máiréad is realistic, hilarious, and endearing
as it can be. She is a fish butcher at Cork’s market,
and she raises Conor who she had at sixteen all by
herself after Conor’s father’s passing. She cares for
Conor, and she wants the best for him; she gets mad
from time to time but still tries to guide him when he
feels lost. As much as she dislikes Jock, she does not
hesitate a single bit to save him from his alcoholic,
abusive father.
‘I love me mam’ is the reference of the matching
tattoos that Conor and Jock get. There is a soft spot
in their heart for their mothers – and it is yet anoth-
er clear reminder that they are not bad people, they
really are just kids riddled with ridiculous stupidity,
but underneath it all they have a loving heart.
Billy Murphy
Billy Murphy (played by Shane Casey) is an interest-
ing character that adds dimension to the storyline.
He is a local bully who is mentally unstable; he used
The Young Offenders
Reviewed by Jia Qi Tan Television Editor
Starring: Alex Murphy, Chris Walley
Episodes: 6 (30 minutes) (3 seasons)
Credits: Courtesy of RTE
Besties Jock (Chris Walley) and Conor (Alex Murphy).
to mug Conor and Jock, went to jail, and developed
an odd relation with the MacSweeneys. This is a
simple example of how The Young Offenders incor-
porated a peculiar character naturally that comple-
ments the plot without him seeming out of place.
Conclusion
At its core I believe that Peter Foott is trying to
send out a positive message with this show – steal-
ing, being teen parents, failing school, etc. – this
is not the sort of life the society encourages, yet he
manages to show the charm of it, how the main
characters are trying to be happy and make sense
of their lives. It is written in a way that we can
empathize with those who are a little awkward, a
little problematic but kind and loving. All in all, I
enjoyed the show and would recommend it to all
of you if you are in the mood for a heartwarming
journey.

