FRIDAY 25TH SEPTEMBER 2020
BOOKS
39
Books.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
Three reasons why readers are dying out
Think Piece
Let’s be honest, spotting someone reading in pub-
lic; be it on campus, the bus or the train is a rare,
almost extraordinary sight. When coming across such
a phenomenon one most certainly feels at awe; some-
whatlikethefeelingsharedwhenseeingawildanimal.
What type of animal? A peacock: rare and ravishing.
So, what does this mean? Firstly, you will realise
that you may lack the title of being ‘rare and ravish-
ing’, but most importantly readers are most definitely
dying out! In order to prevent this calamity, we have
compiled three reasons as to why students don’t read
as often; accompanied by tested solutions to help you
gain the spanking new title of ‘rare and ravishing!’
In all seriousness, the number of people seen read-
ing on campus is dismal, and there is good reason for
it. Three popular reasons we often hear are : that some
students don’t see the benefits, they don’t have time,
and finally that they don’t have time.
Why – what’s the point of reading?
Apart from those of you who want to read but are
simply too lazy to (no judgement, I get into reading
slumps too), some simply do not see the point in
reading. It was required in school, we read all the clas-
sics and wrote essays on it –
that’s it.
Fair enough.
Speakingfromexperience,
reading works wonders for
one’semotionalhealth.Trust
me, Imperial has a 4-6 weeks
waitlist for mental health
support – it’s something you
probably did not know you
would need until you arrive
here. Reading allows you to
see through someone else’s
lens – that usually helps puts things in perspective,
nottomentionthesimpleactofreadingismeditative.
Literature is truly one of the most beautiful forms
of art out there. To be able to tell a story through
strings of words, to learn about the essence of one’s
life in a book, to experience and imagine a world out
of someone’s mind, it’s honestly remarkable. That
alone is a good enough reason to read.
Issue of it being time consuming
But let’s be honest – reading is hard, harder than
watching a Netflix show or swiping through social
media. It requires thinking, concentration and most
importantly – patience. There is a common percep-
tion to associate reading with “learning” and “gaining
new information,” i.e. if astronomy interests you, you
may pick up something by Neil deGrasse Tyson; if
you want an overview of the history
of civilizations as we know it, Sa-
piens by Yuval Noah Harari may
be your choice. More and more
the action of “reading” has been
conditioned to feel like a heavy
task with lots of resistance. Espe-
cially in the context of university
where we are constantly being
bombarded with a truckload of
information, it leaves very little
space for our curiosity and thirst
to learn. It is thus rather ironic
that University, an institution
that strives to impart knowledge also takes away the
appeal of learning.
As a result, people often cling onto the illusion
that ‘they don’t have time.’ People do have the time;
however, they choose not to spend this time on some-
thing that does not yield instant gratification. And
this is what we feel
is the biggest rea-
son why individuals
rather spend their
spare time on their
phone than with a
book. Delayed grat-
ification – the root
of the reason why
fellow readers are
dying out. A phe-
nomenon which
further branches out
to several other reasons: reading is difficult, I’d rather
watch a movie, I don’t see the point of reading. People
often, as a result, envision reading as a large, daunting
task; paired with the delayed gratification associated
with reading, it makes tools like Instagram evermore
enticing. So, what’s the solution?
Four tips to get started
First, try reducing your consumption of facile and
Hari Kumarakuruparan Books Editor
Jia Qi Tan Books Editors
3reasons
In a nutshell
WE don’t see the point when we
are studying so much already
WE HAVE NO TIME when
there’s Instagram and Twitter
BASICALLY we need instant
gratification for everything
PEOPLE OFTEN ENVISION
READING AS A LARGE,
DAUNTING TASK,
PAIRED WITH DELAYED
GRATIFICATION
“
guaranteed sources of dopamine, for example social
media.
Secondly, take a moment and think, was there
something that has always intrigued you that you’ve
always wanted to learn more about? Is there a book
thatyou’vealwayswantedtoread,butyousimplenev-
er did? Pick it up and maybe give it a go.
Thirdly, start small. Very small. Small goals, which,
through incremental improvements will result in
larger results in the long run. The
two-minute rule is a well-known
technique, in which you spend
just two minutes on the task at
hand. This instantly eliminates
the daunting obstacle of reading a
big book with many, many pages
and words. Most often than not
you’ll exceed the two-minutes,
which is exactly the point – you’re
tricking the brain.
Fourthly, being consistent. Ac-
tively trying to find opportunities
toread.Agoodmethodis,instead
of using your phone whilst commuting, bring out a
book and start turning those pages. However, reading
on the train should then not become a discouraging
task. Reading on the train should rather, become the
objective of reading one page on the train. I’ll exam-
ine and explore this idea of developing a habit under
a larger, more impressive magnifying glass, in an up-
coming review on the book Atomic Habits.
Conclusion
The point of this article is not to convert the en-
tire Imperial campus into adamant booklovers all of a
sudden – this is to hopefully serve as a gentle remind-
er of how much all of us loved reading – remember
when we devoured Harry Potter or The Twilight
Saga. It would be a little sad if we give up reading, to
quote Lemmy Kilmister, “People don’t read any more.
It’s a sad state of affairs. Reading’s the only thing that
allows you to use your imagination. When you watch
films it’s someone else’s vision, isn’t it?”

