Current and former bar staff work-
ing in the Imperial college union
bars have spoken out against the way
theyweretreatedbymanagementinthe
Union. Felix has heard how staff mem-
bers reliant on the bar for rent and food
money, were treated as thieves and had
their freedoms slashed away.
Complaints allege that the imple-
mentation of the new Commercial
strategy in 2018 resulted in the decline
inqualityofalltheUnionmanagedbars
as well as revenues. Before the Com-
mercial strategy in 2018 the bar had
managed to maintain consistent profits
for the previous 6 years. However, upon
its implementation expenditure grew
by £300,000 a year while income fell, in
real terms.
This increase in expenditure can be
attributed in part to the rise in agency
staff fees that became necessary due to
the effect that the policy’s focus on in-
creasing food sales and cutting staffing
costs had. Staff report how the 2 chefs
that could fit into the kitchen had to
deal with +40o
C temperature as they
worked over constantly on grills, piz-
za ovens and deep fat fryers to provide
freshly cooked food, a key component
of the policy. These conditions lead to
the resignation of many of the chefs re-
quiring the hiring of even more agency
staff.
The culture of the Union at that time
was criticised. Working there involved
“awful mind games and horrible com-
ments” according to one former sab-
batical officer, while student staff were
described as “resources”.
“Before [2018], we had three great
managers. But within 6 months of [the
policy being implemented] they had
all left. I don’t think that was a coinci-
dence” said a staff member who asked
to remain anonymous.
The process of replacing them was
handled “incompetent[ly]” with stu-
dent staff relied on to fill out paper-
work, place orders, hire security and
even in one case, log their own hours.
However, despite this staff were regard-
ed as the reason for the falling revenues
and were “treated as thieves” with the
possibility of staff being searched on
arrival and departure for cash being
raised.
A former staff member described the
campaign against them as “ludicrous.
They clearly had no idea how the tills
worked”.
Staff also have seen their perks being
withdrawn. The Food and Drink Poli-
cy implemented in November 2018 by
the same architects of the Commercial
strategy policy replaced a 60-70% dis-
count on a small list of items (the ‘at
cost price’) with a flat 15% discount on
all menu items. Staff were also forbid-
den from drinking coffee from the ma-
chine that was used to serve customers.
Instead they were given instant coffee,
that was more expensive than the beans
used in the customer coffee, in “spite”.
KEEP THE CAT FREE
NEWS
News.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
4
Union bar staff speak out against
Credits: Calum Drysdale
Calum Drysdale Editor in Chief
Only 2 chefs can work in this small cramped space that can reach +40o
C
CONTINUED FROM PAGE 1
Bleach beers and haram burgers
Bar staff have also condemned
the arbitrary and unprofessional
management styles of some previous
top members of the Union.
Staff describe the dysfunctional
way that favourites were picked, and
people were leaned on to make them
do work beyond their paygrade with
the promise of promotion dangled in
front of them, while those that raised
issues with staff treatment were
‘blacklisted’. One staff member de-
scribes the response they received to
complaints about working conditions
was being described as “difficult” and
that management “couldn’t stand
[them]”.
Will Shepard, a recently promoted
supervisor at the time, was encour-
aged to “prove himself” capable of
promotion by arriving an hour early
for his shifts to complete manageri-
al paperwork with the promise of a
promotion to manager without an in-
terview process held out as a reward.
When complaints were raised about
this by other staff members who felt
overlooked by Shepard’s promotion
the response was that “Will been pro-
moted by me as in my right and po-
sition is to promote any staff member
if they are suitable for the position
without any application process. Will
is only duty [H] bar manger not the
568, if there will be a position for 568
open I will open application for any-
one but currently nobody is suitable
for the role anyway[sic]”
It has also been alleged that staff
members were pressured into taking
shifts by being taken into the office,
the self-locking door was closed be-
hind them and urged to work more
shifts, being forced to turn down
each available vacant spot shift when
already working more than 20 hours
a week.
Picking favourites
in the Union bars
Calum Drysdale Editor in Chief
mornings.
The permanent supervisor was ex-
pected to begin the cleaning, a 3-4 hour
job, “at 2 am after a busy night” said a
student manager at the time. He was
one of only 3 permanent supervisors
“when we needed 4” said Drew Loynes,
former bar staff student supervisor. On
top of this “because the management
thought [the student bar staff] were
stealing they insisted that a permanent
staff manager or supervisor was on
every shift” forcing already overworked
permanent staff supervisors to work
long double shifts and weekend shifts
when having multiple managers was
unnecessary.
The staff member that identified the
drink as contaminated was taken to
hospital but suffered no long-term con-
sequences. The condition of the origi-
nal customer is unknown.
The sale of non-halal burgers oc-
curred on a freshers’ move in day in
2018. The mistake was noticed a day
or two later and it is alleged that sen-
ior managers in the Union, decided
against informing students as, accord-
ing to a manager at the time, “not many
were sold”. However, due to a till mal-
function at the time all staff members
were having to record their purchases
on paper rather than through the tills,
leaving the total number of burgers sold
unknown.

