KEEP THE CAT FREE
BOOKS
42 Books.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
After envisioning a summer being spent mind-
lessly scrolling through Instagram (Facebook
for you 21st century cavemen) and watching
Netflix shows to remedy my featureless Lockdown
Summer with intermittent wall-staring, I thought
– meh that doesn’t sound too bad. But wait! What
if I ran out of good shows to watch?
Amazon prime?
Don’t be silly.
With this haunting reality in the back of my mind,
I picked up a book and came across this gem: How
to Win Friends and Influence People. A book, I
thought, would be ideal to share with you fresh-
ers trying to settle in as well as some of you older
folk who’ve suffered an extended, socially stripped
lockdown.
I wasn’t very intrigued by the book at first, given
its ‘I have no friends, please help me’ title. I still
remember the first few shameful days nearly being
caught on the train mid-read, or by my mum
walking into my room with the title nearly visible
through my fingers. So, what swayed me? What
made me overlook this eyesore of a title and carry
on reading? Warren Buffett. Yes, the one man who
can turn the hopeless into the hopeful, admitting
to how, and I quote, ‘[Carnegie] changed my life’.
With that in mind, let us get into this review. Al-
right…the title still bugs me.
But we’ll overlook it. Please.
Carnegie, the writer of the book for those of you
still pondering over the ignominious title, uses
one of Sigmund Freud’s most recognised psycho-
analytic theories to illustrate his fundamental ar-
gument that ‘everything you and I do springs from
two motives: the sex urge and the desire
Book review
‘[Carnegie] changed my life’ – Warren Buffet
How to Win Friends and Influence People
Reviewed by Hari Kumarakurupara Books Editor
By Dale Carnegie
TALK TO SOMEONE ABOUT
THEMSELVES AND THEY’LL
LISTEN FOR HOURS.
“
to be great’, further articulated by Dr. Dewey, ‘one
of America’s most profound philosophers’, who
said that ‘the deepest urge in human nature is the
desire to be important’. This idea that we have a
‘desire to be important’ is ubiquitous in Carnegie’s
text and is the foundation upon which he shows us
‘How to Win Friends and Influence People’.
As egotistical and self-absorbed as it sounds, we
all have a ‘desire to be important’. Even me, as I
write this article. I foolishly thought that I wrote
this article to help you lead more productive and
happy lives. But no! Deep within, it makes me feel
important. Apply it to anything, go on, any ‘right-
eous and honourable’ thing you’ve done, be it to
save a cat from a tree or giving to charity, it could
be argued that there is a hidden element of feeling
important. Carnegie’s text is thus moulded around
this crushing reality.
Published in 1937, many argue the book to be
‘outdated’, however I believe the methods within
this book to be timeless and, quite frankly, a breath
of fresh air compared to the constant cathartic huff
and puff I find on social media.
Carnegie explores plenty of methods on ‘How to
Win Friends and Influence People’, induced by
making people ‘feel important’. Three methods that
particularly resonated with me were: being genu-
inely interested in people, smiling, and remember-
ing one’s name. Some of these may sound simple
but I’ve been guilty of not following, well, all of
them.
First, we’ll deal with being genuinely interested in
people. We learn best through experience, and the
next best thing is someone else’s experience. In this
book, Carnegie skilfully uses many experiences
and stories from households to historical figures
like Abraham Lincoln and Napoleon the Third,
allowing you to truly understand and appreciate
the rules discussed in the book. With this rule, the
key word is ‘genuine’, and Carnegie highlights this
many a time. Genuine interest sparks conversation
and can lead to everlasting relationships, be it at
the workplace or a social environment. Believe or
not, both sides benefit. A way of putting this into
practice, if possible, is doing your research. Know-
ing a bit more about the person so you can ask
those questions you so desire to be answered and
before you know it, you’ve made another friend -
hooray? Carnegie puts this best when he
says ‘talk to someone about themselves and
they’ll listen for hours’. This quote does some-
what neglect the nature of being ‘genuine’, but it
shines light on the fact that everyone wants to
‘feel important’, and that talking about oneself
can be an enjoyable sport for some more than
others.
Second is a smile. A startling, almost supernatu-
ral expression when we look at London’s public
transport users who prefer to wear the popular
deadpan, dethatched straight-face as their choice
of expression. Seeing someone smile on the tube
is extraordinary, almost inconceivable. Charles
Schwab was one of these extraordinary indi-
viduals whose ‘smile had been worth a million
dollars’. What does a smile say? A smile says, ‘I
like you. You make me happy. I am glad to see
you’. Again, Carnegie stresses ‘a real smile, a
heart-warming smile…’ bringing back the idea
of being genuine, rather than mechanical. Try
smiling at someone in your workplace or wher-
ever, and you’ll most likely receive one in return.
Lastly, remembering one’s name. This is such
a small and simple courtesy but many people,
including myself, don’t bother to remember
names. Past historical figures, like Napoleon the
Third, took it so far as to write down names he
found difficult or felt were especially important
and made sure to memorise and associate the
name with the person. Carnegie speaks of the
‘magic’ contained in a name and discusses how
the name of an individual ‘sets the individual
apart; it makes him or her unique among all
others’. Again, it makes them ‘feel important’. So,
the next time you go to your favourite café, try
and address the worker behind the counter by
their name. This can be done by having a peek
at their name badge or simply by asking because
‘remember that a person’s name is to that person
the sweetest and most important sound in any
language’.
To get the most out of this book, I’d recommend
putting the methods into practice. Carnegie
even wrote an introduction, ‘How to get the
most out of this book’, where he stresses that the
techniques and skills mentioned in the book
can only be acquired when put into practice.
Like any skill, ‘we learn by doing…learning is an
active process’.

