Union Page
Meet our Officers Let’s elect our Reps
Welcome back!
A huge welcome to all new students - we’re excited to show you all
we have to offer as your Union. As an Imperial student you’re already a
member and we‘re here to represent your interests and to ensure you
have the best possible experience at university.This year may be a little
different but we’re here for you along the way and will keep you updated
about our services with regular communications via email, social media
and on our website imperialcollegeunion.org.
Stay in touch:
instagram.com/icunion
facebook.com/imperialcollegeunion
twitter.com/icunion
Welcome Fair 2020 is the biggest event of Welcome and is your chance
to meet all of our over 380 Clubs, Societies & Projects.This year we
are holding our Welcome Fair virtually from 5 - 11 October, when you
can connect with fellow students, ask any questions and meet some of
our partners for fantastic deals and discounts!You can also sign up to a
Liberation & Community Network.
Keep your eyes peeled for our partner brand reveals on Instagram @icunion
next week to learn who you’ll be meeting at the Fair for the best discounts!
Register from 5 October at imperialcollegeunion.org/welcome-fair
For the best Imperial experience
Welcome to
Imperial College Union
#icuElections
Our new OfficerTrustees have been hard at work all summer, putting
foundations in place to fulfil the aims and promises on which they were
elected in March.The team, who will lead the Union full time for a
year includes (left to right, pictured above) Michaela, Deputy President
(Education), Shervin, Deputy President (Welfare), Abhijay, Union
President, Ross, Deputy President (Clubs & Societies), and Sam,
Deputy President (Finance & Services).
Read their plans for the year ahead at imperialcollegeunion.org/officers
and keep in touch with them via email or social media.
Reps and Officers influence the student learning experience, help their
peers access support, represent their area of study at Union Council,
or ensure underrepresented groups are heard. Nominations open at
noon, Saturday 3 October for those interested in becoming Academic
Reps, Wellbeing Reps, Liberation & Community Committee Leaders,
Constituent Union Committee Leaders, or Clubs, Societies & Projects
Committee Leaders. Nominations close at noon onTuesday 13
October, while voting opens at noon on Monday 19 October.
For more information and to stand for a position when nominations open,
visit imperialcollegeunion.org/autumn-elections
Join us at our Virtual Welcome Fair

