KEEP THE CAT FREE
SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.com
50
A beginner’s guide to sustainable living
University is an excit-
ing time in your life; a time and
place where memories and life-long
friendships are made. A once in a life
time opportunity to have the privi-
leges of being treated as an adult, but
without the responsibility of pay-
ing bills.But as students of Imperial,
we also know all too well that it can
also be a stressful experience when it
comes to coursework and exam season.
That’s why, in this very first sustaina-
bility column article of this academic
year, we’ll be providing you with sim-
ple tips on how you can make a pos-
itive impact on the planet without
overwhelming yourself. After all, we
already have a lot on our plates. All ac-
tionable takeaways mentioned in this
article have been ranked in order of
how impactful they are, along with 3
quickfacts about why you should care.
We recommend that you make a grad-
ual transition towards a more environ-
mentally conscious lifestyle. When it
comes to sustainable living, its much
better to have everyone doing it im-
perfectly, than just a handful of indi-
viduals trying to master it perfectly.
But before getting into the nitty-gritty
details, it’s also important to remember
that one of the most meaningful ways
you can help our planet is to reduce
yourconsumptioningeneral. Themain-
streamWesternperspectiveonsustaina-
bility is focused on one small part of the
problem while ignoring broader global
issues. We cannot create sustainability
by buying 'sustainable' things that we
don't need in the first place. There is
also a lot of focus on recycling, rath-
er than reducing and reusing, because
this allows us to consume while sim-
ply being an extension of the throw
away culture driving environmental
degradation. Sustainability is not what
we buy. It is how we live our lives.
Withthatinmind, here’s yourtoolkitto
living better - for your wellbeing, that
of our planet, and those around you.
Flora Dickie Sustainability Editor
Monami Miyamoto Sustainability Editor Fashion
Quick facts:
1) The fashion industry is
the 2nd largest polluter
after aviation
2) Microplastics comprise
35% of oceanic waste, many which come from
washing of synthetic fibre clothes
3) Over 90% of workers in the garment industry
cannot negotiate wages or conditions
Actionable takeaways:
Low impact: If you’re purchasingsomething new,
investigate the ethics of production. Watch out for
signs of greenwashing, which is when brands use
misleading information to portray their operations
as more environmentally friendly than they actually
are. Being curious about where your products come
from is a good starting place to vote with your
consumption choices.
Medium impact: Stop purchasing fast fashion. This
not only includes specific brands but also avoiding
purchase based on trends, impulse, discounts, Black
Friday events, etc. You can instead opt for 2nd hand
clothes or organise a clothes swap with friends.
High impact: Write an email to your favourite
clothing brand or policymaker about what they’re
doing to address global issues. Ask for information
regarding gender equality, safe working conditions,
fair pay, modern slavery, water contamination,
waste, landfill, carbon emissions, animal welfare,
ocean plastic and deforestation. Many people don’t
bother doing this, which is why it’s incredibly
impactful if you do.
Quick facts:
1) 30% of food produced globally for human con-
sumption is wasted or lost; this produces emissions
of up to 4.4 billion tonnes of CO2
2) 6.6 million tonnes of household food are wasted
each year in the UK, and 70% of this was edible –
that’s worth approximately £14 billion
3) Of all wasted food, the largest proportion is fresh
vegetables and salad, that make up 28% of the total
Actionable takeaways:
Low impact: Cook with flatmates or friends. Not
only is this a great way to spend time together, but
you end up saving a lot more energy, water and in-
gredients compared to cooking just for one person.
Medium impact: Avoid clutter in the fridge. Being
able to see what you have means that you’re less like-
ly to forget that there’s a rotting piece of fruit at the
back of the shelf which will be wasted. Organising
once every few days also gives you a chance to check
expiry dates of products (although remember that
these are just general guidelines).
High impact: Start looking into businesses tackling
this food waste. For example, OLIO is an app that
allows you to sell/buy food that people no longer
want but are edible. ODDBOX is a produce deliv-
ery that rescues fruits and vegetables from farms that
would otherwise have been
thrown away because of their
odd shapes. 2Good2Go is an
app that partners with resta-
urants which have leftover
food at the end of the day,
ready to be sold at a discounted price.
Food Waste
Quick facts:
1) Beef and lamb meat
contribute to 250x the
GHG emissions per gram
of protein than plant
protein crops
2) The livestock industry
accounts for 18% of GHG
emissions, 64% ammonia emissions, 8% global
water use, 70% global agricultural land
3) Meat consumption is expected to increase by
26% from 2007 to 2050
Actionable takeaways:
Low impact: If you’re a meat-eater and can’t see
yourself giving up meat, don’t worry. You can still
make a difference by opting for chicken instead of
beef or lamb, which has significantly lower envi-
ronmental impacts. You can also try experimenting
with vegan or vegetarian options that are available
at most restaurants in London now.
Medium impact: Reduce the intake of animal
products, including meat and dairy. You don’t have
to switch your diet entirely as this can be daunting.
Simply choosing to have a no-meat-Monday, or
limiting meat consumption to weekends is still a
meaningful lifestyle change. You mignt start to no-
tice that it also affects aspects of your health, such
as quality of sleep, energy levels and digestion.
High impact: Eat a diet made up of local produce
and plant-rich ingredients. Whilst it can be hard to
eat entirely local in the modern globalised world, a
quick google search will give you many businesses
that work in London to provide consumers with
local organic produce. Try investigating some so
that you can do your part to support the planet and
British farmers.
Food Choice
Quick facts:
1) In 2017, 46.2% of UK plastic packaging was
collected for recycling, and of this only 34% was
recycled in the UK, with the rest exported, often to
countries with inadequate waste infrastructure
2) Globally, 8 million tonnes of plastic packaging
enter the oceans each year
3) Plastic items can take up to 1000 years until they
fully decompose
Actionable takeaways:
Low impact: Recycle properly
by following guidelines of
your local area. This includes
simple things like washing out the food containers.
Make sure you're not ‘wish-cycling’ - when we recy-
cle items that we think or hope can be recycled, but
actually can't, and cause problems at recycling cen-
tres by contaminating recycling streams. Everyday
items that are wish-cycled include paper receipts,
crisp packets, salad bags, toothpaste tubes, Pringle
tubes and sticky notes.
Medium impact: Refuse single-use plastic items.
Merely carrying around a reusable water bottle,
straw, cutlery, cup, Tupperware, and a shopping bag
can do wonders in the long run.
High impact: Reduce unnecessary packaging. Try
buying foods (especially staples) in bulk or plas-
tic-free packaging. You might do this by purchasing
fresh produce from farmers markets (bring your
bag), checking out the Imperial food co-op, or sub-
scribing to sustainable fresh food delivery services
that don’t use packaging.
Recycling & Packaging
Quick facts:
1) Fossil fuel companies are responsible for signifi-
cant air and water pollution, which disproportion-
ately affects communities of low income & colour.
2) Transformative action is needed to transition
our economy to 100% renewable by phasing out
fossil fuel production.
3)The climate crisis is already worsening existing
vulnerabilities in communities with regards to
human health, safety and quality of life
Actionable takeaways:
Low impact: Walk or cycle instead of taking the
bus. For longer trips consider taking trains over
buses or planes.
Medium impact: If not in stidemt halls, check if it's
possible to switch your energy supplier to renewa-
ble provider.
High impact: Did you know that most major
banks invest in fossil fuels and have a tax avoidance
scheme? This includes Barclays, RBS, HSBC, Nat-
West, Santander, Lloyds and Halifax. Check what
your bank invests in (e.g. fossils fuels, arms/military
activities, coal power, mining, arctic drilling, tar
sands, fracking) and if your
bank pays taxes. Then, switch
to a more ethical bank, such
as Triodos Bank, Starling
Bank, Monzo, Co-operative
Bank, Atom Bank or Revolut.
Energy
35% of oceanic waste, many which come from
3) Plastic items can take up to 1000 years until they
ery that rescues fruits and vegetables from farms that
ready to be sold at a discounted price.

