Anew year at university is beckoning. For
some, it will be their first, and for some, their
last. One thing we all share is the fact that this
year will be nothing like one we have experienced
before. With the current “Rule of 6”, as well as
college level restrictions in halls, none of us are
going to be able to go on mad nights out quite as
much as we would like to. Worried about making
new friends during this time? Well, you shouldn’t
be! Video games are
an amazing way to get
to know people, while
having lots of fun
doing it. Here is a list
of what I think are the
best co-op games you
can play to make new
friends this year.
Human: Fall Flat
This is the perfect
game for any puzzler
fan. With 2 players
local co-op and up to 8
online, the wobbly physics make for great laughs as
you and your friends attempt to move your avatars
through seemingly simple stages. Delightfully mini-
mal in concept, Human: Fall Flat excels at just being
damn fun and proving that you don’t always need an
extremely convoluted storyline or control system to
make a game fun. It is available for PS4, XBOX One,
Switch and PC – with the PC version allowing play-
ers to build their own levels for an extra layer of fun.
A Way Out
If you find yourself getting particularly close to
someone and ready to move onto the next level – I
would highly recommend A Way Out, developed by
the same people who made Brothers: A Tale of Two
Sons. This game was made for 2 players, meaning it
has unique co-op mechanics, seamless split-screen,
and a twist at the end that will drive you crazy. In A
Way Out, you and a friend of your choice attempt to
escape prison, loaded with breath-taking set-pieces,
environmental puzzles and even some shooting in
there. Available for PS4, XBOX One and PC, A Way
Out offers 6-8 hours of multiplayer gameplay, with
only one person needing to own the game… even if
you play online!
Mario Kart 8 Deluxe
Everyone knows Mario Kart. Everyone loves Mario
Kart. Do I even need to describe Mario Kart? Drive
round intricately designed tracks, use a myriad of
weapons to knock down opponents, jump over
ramps and twist upside down to race to the finish
line. Mario Kart in non-stop fun for up to 4 players
in person. If you have a switch and a pair of joycons
then bam, you can have 2 players any time any-
where… I would be lying if I said I haven’t sneaked
a couple of rounds in during lectures – which also
remains true for the next game.
Super Smash Bros. Ultimate
Super Smash Bros. Is a fighting game series that goes
back to the N64 era of Nintendo, pitting famous
characters from all over gaming against each other
in a battle of pure skill (unless you use items then
it’s a lot of luck too). Ultimate is truly the complete
experience of the game, with a low barrier to entry
but a high skill ceiling, it is ideal for playing with up
to 8 friends on the Switch. Being on the Switch, it is
also extremely portable – meaning on the occasions
where you can go visit people, it is a great low-hassle
thing to bring to any gathering.
Death Squared
A charming, isometric puzzle games where you
and up to 3 friends play as cubes trying to navigate
increasingly complex scenarios seems like a perfect
game for you visual learners out there. Complete
KEEP THE CAT FREE
GAMES
Games.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
52
RELEASES
PS5 and Xbox preorders are flood-
ed causing much unrest in the commu-
nity. Sony has apologised and stated
that there will be more available “soon”.
GAMING NEWS
Record setting August for the
Switch: Double the sales of August
2019. More sales than the Wii in Au-
gust 2008. Highest hardware sales ever.
Microsoft purchases Bethesda
and parent company ZeniMax Media
leading many fans calling for a Fallout:
New Vegas 2.
Nvidia has purchased ARM mak-
ing way for future innovation in AI.
NEW RELEASES
Mafia: Definitive Edition
2KGames
A remake of the 2002 game MAfia.
An action-adventure game where
you rise through the ranks of the
Mafia during the prohibition era of
organised crime.
Serious Sam 4
DevolverDigital
Fast pace, out of this world wacky first
person shooter.
Tears of Avia
CooCooSqueakyGames
Turned-based strategy Anime game.
Best Co-op Games to Make
New Friends
Freddie Ugo Games Editor
You really don’t know what you are in for with this one.
Credits: IGDB.com//EA

