with a snarky narrator, much like Portal’s GLaDOS,
the game is great fun for anyone that loves to have
their brain switched on while gaming. It is also
available for all major consoles and PC, so whether
you have every piece of tech under the sun or just a
crappy laptop from a decade ago, you should be able
to get the most out of this game.
Just Dance
Unironically, Just Dance is an amazing game
for making friends. It keeps you active when
you may be spending more time in doors
when you would like. It gets everyone to
move in such an embarrassing fashion that
it is the perfect ice breaker. The gameplay
is based on dancing by copying what you
see on screen so anyone can play it as long
as there is enough space for everyone to
stand. There are a whole host of songs from
different genres to dance to, and if you pay
for a membership you get access to every
song that has ever been in a just dance game.
With up to 4 players locally it is the perfect
game for you and your non-gamer friends.
There has been one released every year in the
last decade or so, with the most recent one
being aptly named Just Dance 2020 – which
is still available on the Wii if you can believe
it. It is also available on the Switch, PS4,
Xbox One and even Google Stadia (bet you
forgot about that didn’t you). The best part
is that you don’t even need a controller for
everyone… as long as you have a smart phone, you
can download the app allowing your phone to act as
the controller for the game.
I hope that I have given some good recommenda-
tions for games that will help break the ice with new
faces, or solidify friendships that you are already
starting to make. I look forward to editing the
Games section for Felix again this year especially
considering the host of releases to look forward to.
If anyone is interested in editing, or writing for felix,
please feel free to get in touch! We could always use
new members... or even just someone to chat games
with. Stay safe and game on!
FRIDAY 25TH SEPTEMBER 2020
GAMES
53
Games.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
Days Gone Stole my Summer -
and I do not regret any of it
Drifting
Reviewed by Freddie Ugo Games Editor
Created by: SIE Bend Studio
Publishedby: Sony Interactive Entertainment
Forfansof: RDR; COD Zombies; The Last of Us
Days Gone might be a year and a half old, but it is
definitely still worth playing. You follow the main
protagonist, Deacon Saint-John as you venture
through a post-apocalytpic Oregon, doing jobs for
various camps, recovering your past, and mainly just
trying to survive! In my 60 hours of playing I expe-
rienced every infested corner of the map, fighting
back the triple threat of freakers (zombies), Rippers
Game review
(cultists that want to be zombies) and marauders
(assholes that keep shooting me off my damn bike!).
Speaking of bikes... this game is unique in that it
allows you to customise your bike just as much, if
not more than your own character. Upgrading the
engine and traction may not feel like a boost, you
will definitely benefit from it without realising.
Apart from driving around the plagued wasteland of
the Western US, you also can delve deep into the sto-
ry with over 150 main missions. It is a story of loss,
friendship and betrayal that will keep you interested
for the entire time.
Days Gone really goes to show just how great
single-player games can be, and I cannot wait to
see more from this studio. One gripe I do have
with the game is how overly repetetive some of the
gameplay can get. The amount of times I had to
throw a molotov freaker nest, or chase down some-
one on my bike is uncountable. This paired with
the fact that half the map becomes pointless to
return to as you get more powerful weapons makes
for the occasional feeling of redundancy.
Nevertheless, Days Gone is a fantastic experience,
and with the upgrade to Playstation Plus coming
with the PS5, you should be able to play it for no
additional cost on launch of the PS5. I recommend
some good speakers because oh boy, is that sound
track beautiful.
Need I say more...? This is MarioKart we are talking about!
Credits: NintendoLife.com//Nintendo

