FRIDAY 25TH SEPTEMBER 2020
9
Comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Felixonline.co.uk
COMMENT
To the Department of Mechanical
Engineering, Imperial College
London is not doing enough to sup-
port Black, minority ethnic and other
under-represented students and staff.
Where actions have been taken, the
university has failed to effectively en-
gage with systemic and structural prob-
lems of racism and discrimination. Im-
perial removing its Latin motto due to
its ties to colonialism is, fundamentally,
an empty gesture, one that is especially
tokenistic considering the university’s
imperial-istic name. The College fails
to take true accountability of its ties to
colonialism and the legacy of the Brit-
ish empire. Instead of making superfi-
cial changes, we call on the university
to champion effective anti-racism initi-
atives and support the wellbeing of its
Black, ethnic minority and other un-
der-represented students and staff.
AsMechanicalEngineeringstudents,
we recognise the positive steps our de-
partment has taken toward fostering
an open and supportive environment
for all. It is a place where the wellbeing
of students is valued, as exemplified by
the encouraging work of our dedicated
Senior Management Team. Howev-
er, it is also a place where there are no
Black staff and only a handful of Black
and ethnic minority PhD students, and
where conversations about race and
gender inequality are limited to the
minorities affected. The onus to estab-
lish action and accountability within
the department has been placed solely
on staff and students of the associated
minorities. We believe that the onus
should be shared by the majority white,
male, and /or middle-class department
populace.
It is for these reasons that we, the stu-
dents of the Mechanical Engineering
department, implore the department
to act on the following fronts where
anti-racism and pastoral supports for
Black, ethnic minority and other un-
der-represented communities are still
lacking. We hope that such action
will also catalyse change on a universi-
ty-wide level, to begin tackling Impe-
rial’s deep-rooted links to racism and
discrimination.
We, the students of the Mechanical
Engineering department, understand
that the department is already engaged
in outreach aiming to “widen participa-
tion and access for Black, Asian & Mi-
nority Ethnics students” to the College
(Strategic Planning Division, 2019).
While this intervention is a welcome
development that will undoubtedly
have some positive effect, increasing the
number of under-represented students
without addressing the systemic racism
prevalent in the university only increas-
es the number of under-represented
students dealing with the psychological
stress of discrimination.
An Equality and Human Rights
Committee (EHRC) inquiry into rac-
ism in higher education reported that
those who make formal complaints of
racial harassment often deal with a pro-
found impact on their mental health.
Out of 559 recorded complaints of ra-
cial harassment, 8% of complainants re-
portedfeelingsuicidal.1in20students,
who responded to the EHRC’s call for
instances of racial harassment, left their
course, and 3 in 20 members of staff left
their jobs (EHRC, 2019). We demand
the department to:
1. Facilitate a departmental mental
health support system equipped with
counselling and support for Black, mi-
nority ethnic and other under-repre-
sented students who are experiencing
racial trauma and discrimination.
a. Employ additional student well-
being advisors equipped with the cul-
tural competencies and specialties for
Black students and other under-repre-
sented groups.
b. Engage in data collection & in-
vestigation to ensure there is not a men-
tal health service access gap.
c. Produce yearly reports recording
participation and engagement to the
said mental health support services.
We, the students of the Mechanical
Engineering department, understand
that it is the responsibility of the teach-
ing staff, personal tutors, and admin-
istrators of the department to support
the academic and pastoral demands of
Black and minority ethnic students.
In order to fulfil such a role, effective
training is essential. Yet, the current
Unconscious Bias and Active Bystander
training is inadequate and generic. Staff
are ill-equipped to address fundamental
matters of racial inequality, institution-
al racisms, white privilege, and racial
microaggressions in education – issues
that Black and minority ethnic students
face on a daily basis. Thus, it is impera-
tive that the department:
2. Reform the current inadequate
Anti-Bias work at both a staff and stu-
Mechanical Engineering Students present this letter to their Department, with calls of reforms to BAME support, anti-racism
training and procedures dealing with racial issues.
Open Letter on anti-racism to the
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Mech.Eng.students
Photo credits: Imperial Colllege Assset Library
“
I experienced so much racism in
halls. The people I was literally
surrounded with were overwhelm-
ingly white and privileged, so I
constantly felt othered. On one
occasion, I made curry and ate it
with my hands, this prompted a
white friend to tell me that was un-
hygienic and disgusting. When I
told him, it was completely normal
in other parts of the world, other
people told me to let it go and to
cuthimsomeslack.Iwasrepeated-
ly called the ‘token brown friend’,
with some saving my number as
that in their phones. My white
friends would complain that there
were too many ethnic societies
at Imperial and that third world
countries should be grateful for
colonisation. They would say the
N-word freely and without conse-
quence. I felt like I had to assimi-
late so much just to avoid ridicule
and embarrassment. I changed
my accent, the food I ate, and the
things I enjoyed just to please
people that were meant to be my
friends.
”
Queen Victoria’s Statue in the College Main Entrance
Queen Victoria’s Statue in the College Main Entrance
STUDENT TESTIMONY

