Union Page
How do you experience Imperial?
What’s happening at Union Council
Last week’s Union Council meeting saw members debate over two
major proposals - halls rent and the introduction of a Working Class
Officer. Council rejected the latest proposals in the ongoing Halls Rent
negotiations, on the grounds that the financial model that College had
presented was still fundamentally the same and certain key details
had not been properly explained. This is the second time Council has
rejected the proposals. A special meeting will be held in two weeks to
further discuss the matter.
The proposal to introduce the new position of Working Class Officer
was passed. This position will be elected in the upcoming Leadership
Elections.
Keep up with the latest and read more about the decisions made at
Union Council at imperialcollegeunion.org/news.
Lead the change at Imperial
Nominations for Leadership Elections open at noon, Monday 3
February, and now is the time to think about standing for a position.
You could be the next Union President, one of four Deputy Presidents,
or even Felix Editor. If you’re thinking about standing, we will be having
a briefing session about the major roles every Wednesday in February
at 13:00 in MR4, Union Building. Come and discover what the President
and Deputy Presidents do, what compensation the roles attract, and
why you should consider standing.
Find more information on roles and key dates at
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections.
The Student Experience Survey closes on Monday 3 February,
meaning you only have a few days left to tell us your experiences on
life at Imperial.Your responses help give College and the Union a better
idea on what we’re doing well, how we can further enrich your student
experience, and also what we can do to improve.
Due to your responses in the past, we’ve been able to refurbish Ethos
and replace the gym equipment, as well as improve ventilation and aid
cooling during the hot summer months in the library.
Whether you are a non-final year Undergraduate or a first year taught
Postgraduate student, we want to hear from you. Complete the survey
now and enter a prize draw to win one of the 22 vouchers up for grabs
at imperialcollegeunion.org/student-experience-survey.
Food is back in FiveSixEight
We are thrilled to announce that FiveSixEight is now serving food again.
With renovations complete and many improvements made, all students
and staff can now enjoy food in the bar again every day from noon.
There is also a new menu which will be in place for the remainder of
the term.You will find some of your favourite menu items reintroduced,
including the return of mozzarella sticks. There are new vegan and
vegetarian options, as well as a variety of loaded curly fries.
Beit Bars and the Union are grateful for everyone’s patience during the
kitchen closure.

