Editorial
IC's sporting hero J Martin Taylor has
honoured our humble sports clubs with an
extended deadline for the Handbook. M r
Taylor is a man renowned for his sporting
prowess, and uncontrolled wrath. So make
sure you get your sports articles in pronto.
John Scott
The football team photos from last term are
now ready and can be picked up from Russ
and Rob in the Union, Tuesday lunch time.
•URGENT*
Volleyball Club: Could Man Lam (Aero 3),
Andy Knap (Physics 2) or anyone involved in
this society please inform Jen Hardy-Smith in
the Union Office (internal phone number
3915) if the Club will be using the court on
Saturday as a group would like to use it for
five-a-side if Volleyball don't need it.
Track and
Field
Track and Field
U L U Championships
Despite a poor turnout for the Champion-
ships, some excellent performances were
achieved by Imperial Athletics, many of
whom have not completed since their
schooldays. On the first day Jon Lea showed
his obvious longer distance ability placing
third in the 3000m (9m06s) whilst Ming Tan
and Graham Harker did battle in 800m, Ming
getting the better in fourth position with
Graham in fifth, both clocked at 2m04s.
The second day provided Imperial with
two winners, both field events athletes.
Thales Kasagounis pole vaulted 3.00m to
victory whilst Richard Johnson triple jumped
12.92m for gold. Mike Jones, last year's long
jump champion, aquitted himself well leaping
6.35m for the silver medal as did Mark
Luscombe who high jumped 1.95m for
second. Graham Harker completed again
(narrowly missing the bronze medal) in the
1500m, coming fourth (4m 10.6s) and Jon Lea
backing him up on sixth position (6m 13.0s).
Andy Creth finished strongly, clocking
4m43.0s. Andy Belk showed all round ability
with his fifth in the javelin (41.36m) and fifth
in the 2000m steeplechase (6m52.8s). Julie
Fortescue, also fifth, in the ladies 1500m ran
strongly against fierce opposition to be
credited with 5m58.0s—a useful time if you
consider that Julie is training to run her first
marathon. Peter Sedders, whose best throw
of 59.00m, would have easily won the
Championships, suffered run up problems
and finished without a legal throw. However,
with his obvious ability he should have no
problems making the U.2 team in future.
Many thanks for Chris Buxton (our patient
chauffeur!) and if you believe you can better
these times/distances/heights or are merely
interested in athletics, contact Mark
Lascombe via the Physics letter-racks.
IC Mixed Hockey
Worthing Festival
Icicles vs: Maltesers 2-0; Colchester 1-4;
Mickelton 1-0; Bicester Beasts 2-1; Petersfield
2-0; Bandbury Dita 1-1.
As the above results show the mixed
hockey team had one of its more successful
festivals. Since it would take rather a long
time to go through all the matches, the social
goings on, all the remains to be done is to
thank Andy Stroomer for his efforts in
organising the tour and Phillipa, John and
Jane for turning out in times of crisis, and
congratulate the team on its fine per-
formances.
Team: Phil, F i , Tim, Andy S, Andy G ,
Geoff, Alison W, Alison L, Zena, Simon,
Dana, John, Jane.
Umpire: Chris.
Table Football
Two local student footballers have won
through to their Cup Finals in London.
A team of two—that's right; because P
Akhtar and M Javed are Guinness Student
Table Football Cup Champions of Queen
Mary College. As such they are taking part in
the national finals of the Guinness Student
Table Football Championship at London
University on Sunday 13 May.
At'the national finals they will be twisting
the handles on the table football tables
against the champions of thirty four other
universities, polytechnics and colleges.
There they could win another trip to
another Cup Final—the F A Cup Final as well
as the coverted title.
And if they win they could have the chance
to beat a Guinness sponsored QPR—
represented by two players—in a challenge
match.
For further information please contact:
Chris Lewis, Granard Communications, tel
01-930 6711.
Senior Squad
In the Head of the River Race, held at the end
of last term, the College 1st eight produced
the best performance of a College crew since
the 1940s, coming 9th overall. The race was
won by the British National Squad with the
Stahans second.
The U L B C 1st VIII was eighth, only l ' / 2
seconds ahead of the College crew.
After the race, the crew was disappointed
not to beat the university crew but pleased
with the overall result, beating all the top
British Club crews. Since then the eight has
split into fours and has already picked up the
pots for Senior A coxed fours at Hackney
Borough Regatta.
Intermediate Squad
Having won the Senior B division at the
Kingston Head, the Senior B eight was
without Strokeman Richard Stanley for the
Head of the River Race and so performed way
below potential.
In the regatta season they started well at
Putney Amateur Regatta winning Senior B
eights by over a length, whilst the top four
from the squad was within one length of top
club crew Thames R C in Senior A coxless
fans.
At Mortlake Regatta, the squad did not
perform so well, losing in all events. The
Senior A four, rowing in a coxed boat, were
unlucky to lose by 3 feet.
W omens Squad
The best performance from Mortlake Regatta
was undoubtedly the Womens' Novice four.
Having raced all last session without
winning at all, the four started this season
well at Hammersmith, losing in the final at
Novice fours, by catching a crab just before
the finish. They finally got everything right at
Mortlake winning all their races with style.
Their next race is on Saturday at Putney
Town Regatta where they will be in the higher
status Senior C event for the first time. The
Women's 2nd four will attempt to emulate
their performance at Mortlake racing in
Novice Fours.
Overbreathing is
DANGEROUS
Mosl swimmers Know that taking a lot ol deep breams will enable them to swim
further underwater Some do not know, however, thai mis is a polentially fatal
practice By taking a lol ot deep breaths one blows oft carbon dioxide from the
blood stream It is carbon dioxide which makes one leel me need tc breathe
while holding one s breath II normal levels of carbon dioxide have b
reduced beforehand, by overbrearrwng. the need to breathe will m
experienced Instead oxygen lack will lead lo unconsciousness
OFTEN WITHOUT ANY WARNING AT ALL Unconit
n by your minder might |usf s
YOU HAVE BEEN WARNED
Dr Raanan Gillon
Page 12 Friday, May 11, 1984 FELIX

