Storm in a Pewter Pot?
The fuss over the A P Editor's pot may seem to many to be a storm in a tea-
cup. However the issue is not about a pewter tankard, but about the
Executive Committee riding roughshod over the views of other, less illustri-
ous, students involved in the Union. The awarding of pots for established
posts is a tradition peculiar to this Union. The pot is not given to the person
holding the post to take away, but stays behind the Union Bar for the use of
holders of the post, past and present. It is a small way for the Union to
recognise a valuable contribution to its running. It is not as if obtaining the
pot would be very expensive, or difficult. A l l that would be required would be
for the Exec to take one of the many pewter pots out of a cupboard in the
Union Office and take it downstairs to the Union Bar. One can see how petty
and thoughtless the Exec's decision not to award the pot is. It seems the effort
and nara work (quite often into the early hours of the morning) of an
'ordinary student' counts for very little in the minds of these high flying
sabbaticals and C C U Presidents.
This action merely serves to highlight how lofty and unrepresentative the
Executive Committee can be. The committee consists of the three sabbatical
officers and the C C U Presidents. Their brief is solely to take decisions
concerning the day to day running of the Union or to take immediate
decisions in the event of any emergencies. In practice however a lot of very
important decisions concerning the running of the Union are taken at this
committee. This state of affairs was fine in the' days when IC Union was
merely a coalition of three CCUs. However since then IC Union has grown,
become more diverse and sophisticated. It has over a hundred clubs and
societies of which the majority of students are a member, yet none of the
athletics clubs, social clubs, recreational clubs or cultural groups are repre-
sented on the Executive Committee.
Bye Bye Mooney
Sherry glasses will be running over today in the Union Office after the taking
over of the Union Refectory and, for a change, the celebrations are quite
justified. Well done to Gaynor Lewis and Christine Teller. However, amidst
the celebrations a word of caution may be in order.
College have wanted to close the Union Refectory for some time. The
outlet has been the source of numerous complaints and has lost a great deal of
money in recent years. Although it is difficult to put an exact figure on the size
I* of the loss because of the confused refectory accounting system it is probably
over £7,500 per annum. The Union's takeover proposals must have seemed
like a God-send to College. One would hope the outlet does not become an
expensive millstone around the Union's neck next year. Nevertheless with a
little drive and imagination there is no reason why the refectory should not be
successful and serve as an example to M r Mooney of how a refectory should
be run. -
Travel Awards
If your annual travel expenses are under £250 you could find yourself £150
out of pocket if Sir Keith Joseph's proposed travel awards go through. There
is an article about travel awards by Peter Burt on page 11. If you can tear
yourselves away from your revision for a few hours then do participate in the
lobby of Parliament on Wednesday. The Union's delegation will be meeting
in the Union Office at 2:15.
Credits
Pete Hobbis Nigel Atkinson, Tony Atkins, John Jones, Lynne James, Diane
Love, John Scott, Ulysess, J Martin Taylor, Dave Rowe, Hugh Soi'hey, Peter-
Rodgers, Maz and Pete. Pallab Ghosh
This puzzle was given to me by Neil Thornton of
Maths 1
x x 8 x x
x xjx" x x x x x
x x x
X x x x
X X X
X X
X X
X X
Find the missing digits.
G o o d luck, everyone.
Solutions, comments and criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday please. £5
cheque courtesy of Mend-a-Bike for the randomly
selected winner.
Last Week's Solution
The third guess cannot have three or four correct as
that would mean that the second guess is
completely wrong, so the third guess must have two
correct pairings, the second has one correct, and the
first has none. By working through the possibilities
of which two in the third guess are right, you should
find that the oboe and cello is the only pairing that
works.
So the answer is:
John plays the oboe.
Katy plays the cello.
Louise plays the violin.
Mike plays the trombone,
and Nigel plays the clarinet.
Of 17 correct solutions, M Begley of Maths 3 was
(the randomly selected winner, and can pick up the
£ 5 cheque on Tuesday.
Cryptarithmetic
A=8; B=1; C=4; D=2; E=0; F=3; G=5; H=9; J=6;
K=7.
Fifteen correct solutions, the winner was Tony
Rawlings, an Elec Eng P G .
Words
1. Orange has no rhyme.
2. Strength has eight letters and only one vowel.
3. Rhythm has no vowel.
4. Syzygy has six letters of which three are y's.
5. Bookkeeper has three consecutive double
letters.
6. Facetious is the shortest word with all five
vowels in alphabetical order.
One person has contacted me saying that he is
interested in the puzzles editorship next year. I
would be grateful if he would contribute one or two
puzzles this term (and that goes for anyone else who
might be interested).
FELIX h published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication, Board and is printed by the Union'Print Unit ^ " ^ S m & I S S
Tel01589 5111 extn 1048 orinternal2881. Editor: PalUK Ghosh, Busine,, Mana3er.PeterRodsers;Advernsinaf4ana3er.HuahSoutheyCopVmhtFELlX 1984

