Reviews
r m = A M i = R S
A scene from the Silwood Ball
Robert Altman's Streamers (18, Gate
Bloomsbury) begins and ends with powerful
sequences depicting the U S army in
machine-like precision—a company of sol-
diers drill immaculately in a strongly back-lit
haze accompanied by the sharp reports of
their rifle actions and the smack of their
boots on the parade ground. In between
personnel machinations are put under a
powerful searchlight to reveal multiple flaws
in an equally powerful if less entertaining
fashion. The trouble with Streamers is that it .
betrays its origins as a stage play all too
quickly; by confining the action to one
barrack room—in here the squaddies live
before being shipped to Vietnam—Altman
excludes the possibilities so effectively
utilised by Coppola in Apocalypse Now
where the vast panorma of Vietnam acted as
a stage for the characters. Nevertheless
Streamers' budget was probably less than
that for helicopter fuel in Apocalypse and
there are stunning performances all round,
notably Mitchell Lichtenstein's Richie and
Michael Wright as Carlyle the quick-talking
smartassed (cliched) black whose abrasive
personality accentuates the strong racial and
sexual tensions in the barrack room causing
further deterioration of the already fragile
friendships.
Similarly evocative is Pal Sander's Daniel
Takes a Train (15 Gate Notting
Hill—Hungarian with sub-titles) the tale of
two young men in the wake of the Hungarian
uprising of 1956 and the subsequent Russian
intervention. In an interview with the director
printed in the press handout Sandor states
that he didn't intend the film to clarify the
events of 1956, rather give an 'honest and
authentic presentation of a theme'. This he
certainly does in a taut film which is
excellently photographed from the
surprisingly original opening sequence to the
cryptic conclusion which evokes chaos,
confusion and fear in equal proportions. The
Daniel of the title is a vaguely incompetent
youth who boards the train to follow his
girlfriend who has left for Austria with her
rich shopkeeping parents. Also on the train is
his friend Gyari who as an insurgent is fair-
game for the secret police patrolling the train.
Much of the train sequence which is central
to the film is involved in brief snatches of
conversation between other passengers who
are all scared and seem to have secret
(police) histories. Some of these are resolved
(like Kapos, the acid-scarred ex-policeman
who once incriminated Gyari's father and
with whom Gyari briefly reconciles whilst
waiting for the trucks to shepherd them out
of Hungary) but even more are never
explained—two dandies, a hooker and one
young couple. Daniel Takes A Train is
essentially a film about loyalties—
ideological, national and personal.
All the reviews are by Peter Rodgers. |
Page 4
Secret Places starring Jenny Agutter.
WMWM Friday, May 11, 1984 WBM
Set in the Germany of 1966 during the
British beat invasion led by the Stones,
Beatles, Kinks et al The Heartbreakers
(15, ICA and Classic Oxford St—subtitles)
records the rise to near cult status of a band
of that name. The central character is Bowie
clone Freytay, much prone to incoherency,
tantrums and crude sexism until he
succumbs to the charms of nymphette
songstress Lisa. Many of Freytog's problems
arise from his total lack of home or family life
(bar the odd goldfish) whilst Lisa's problems
are exactly the opposite—her drunken
degenerate father and motorcycle thug
brother.
Add to this randy drummer Schmittchen,
pill-popping fatso Uwe on guitar, harmonica
and occasional church organ, bespectacled
bassist Guido and chain-smoking 14 year old
manager Pico and you have the basis for a
good comedy. Unfortunately superfluous
incidentals in the plot and the sheer age of the
music (and not even the originals at that) lead,
to the film (at just two hours) being 30
minutes too long and much too dated. The
characters are also too young to be
believable—unlike the excellent Breaking
Glass and more like Times Square (the worst
teen music film this writer has seen).
Nevertheless its essentially circular
nature—it begins with Pico disappointed
outside a Stones gig (bullshit was his verdict)
and ends outside a similar hall with Pico
e q u a l l y d o w n h e a r t e d due to T h e
Heartbreakers' failure to win a Battle of the
Bands competition—reflects the relentless
and repetitive nature of the music industry. At
the end Pico still hasn't a light for his cigarette
and by unwittingly asking a mounted
policeman for one he provides a suitably
throwaway line to end a throwaway film.
The arrival of ice-cool German beauty
Laura Meister into a class of pubescent
school girulls in wartime Britain provides a
classic scenario for a Bunty-style romp,
complete with its ration of Occers, chums
and poshes.
However for some of the time Secret
Places (15) does adopt a more moral tone
care of veiled warnings from an ageing
schoolmarm on lesbian liasons (causing poor
Patience to burn the muffins she ws
toasting—fiddlesticks!), a g y m s l i p
pregnancy, and unsuccessful self-abortion
for Nina courtesy of one of the neighbouring
GIs and the breakdown of Laura's psycho-
somatic mother after the death of her son, a
Luftwaffe pilot who shopped Laura's
physicist father to the Nazis, the latter
subsequently being detained by the British.
The film's fatal flaw is that despite this
abundance of melodrama and a host of fine
performances—especially Marie-Theres
Relin as Laura, Cassie Stuart as fizzy blonde
Nina, Jenny Agutter as the school teacher
much taken with the poetry of Keats as a
substitute for all the young men on the front
and Tara MacGowran (looking like a freckled
Meryl Streep) as Patience, the only girl to
befriend Laura—Secret Places fails both in
the drama and 'absolute hoot and scream'
stakes. C4's First Love series is in a similar
vein and has much more to recommend it.
I FELIX

