www.felixonline.co.uk
Felix
Thursday 3 March 2005 7
COMMENT felix@ic.ac.uk
Learning, not earning
There was much to digest in the Government’s recent immigration proposals. For many international
students, the plans are likely to leave a bad taste, says Alex Guite
For over a quarter of a million inter-
national students studying in Britain,
the cost of renewing student visas
will rise from £155 to £250, whilst the
same-day renewal cost will double
to £500.
These huge increases come
scarcely a year after the charges
were first introduced, suddenly and
without consultation, leaving stu-
dents scrambling around to find
large sums of money they hadn’t
budgeted for.
International students shouldn’t
just be treated as any other user of
the immigration service. Many users
are skilled workers who migrated to
Britain to earn and can afford to pay
extra charges. In contrast, interna-
tional students, attracted by Britain’s
universities, are here to learn. Visa
renewal charges are unfair and add
to the already huge financial bur-
den on international students paying
market rate tuition fees.
British students don’t pay these
renewal charges, but they should
still be alarmed. Even with the extra
revenue for universities when top-
up fees are introduced, it will still be
international students paying mar-
ket rate fees – totalling a combined
yearly fee contribution of £1,125
million – that balance universities’
budgets. Yet international students
face many hardships: often they are
not even allowed to open a bank
account, have problems accessing
healthcare, can only work a maxi-
mum of 20 hours per week, suffer
social exclusion and are now faced
with this increased visa renewal
charge. If enough international stu-
dents are put off by Britain’s inhos-
pitable welcome, then what chance
does the £3000 cap on top-up fees
have of lasting beyond the next
Parliament?
Worryingly, the evidence already
points to a decrease in international
student numbers, at a time when
more energy and marketing money
is being spent on encouraging them
to study here than ever before. There
has been a drop of almost 15% in
student visa applications since 2003,
and several African countries have
reduced the number of scholarships
available to study in Britain because
they cost too much.
Within the Government’s policy
on international students there
lies a paradox: visa renewal charg-
es are completely at odds with
the Prime Minister’s own initia-
tive to attract more international
students. Because it is unlikely that
international students will leave
mid-course, they are treated as a
captive market to pay increased
charges in a drive to make the immi-
gration service self-funding. It is
unfair that genuine international
students should foot the bill for
abuse and inefficiency elsewhere in
the system.
Last week students, including a
delegation from Imperial College
Union, picketed the Home Office
and lobbied their MPs, demanding
that students be exempt from visa
renewal charges. The fight isn’t
over and it’s still important to keep
pressure on the Government, as the
Home Office has hinted that it will
review visa charges in 2006.
We should value international stu-
dents as an asset to Britain: they
bring diversity to our campuses and
are worth over £4bn a year to the
economy. They are here to learn,
not earn. They should not be used
as cash cows as the Home Office’s
icy grip tightens immigration
controls.
Human rights abuse won’t help win
the War on Terror
Marking the start of an Amnesty Society campaign, Kevin Bez explains why the sacrifice of
human rights is creating further difficulties for the US and its allies
“Nearly all men can stand adver-
sity, but if you want to test a man’s
character, give him power.”
Abraham Lincoln
After the Law Lords’ ruling on the
Belmarsh prisoners, Jack Straw
commented that the right to life
was the “most important liberty”
and therefore the protection of the
people was the Government’s prime
duty, even at the expense of other
human rights.
Thisargumentstandsindirectcon-
flict with the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights (UDHR), set out
on 2 December 1948. Its final article
states: “Nothing in this Declaration
may be interpreted as implying
for any state, group or person any
right to engage in any activity or
to perform any act aimed at the
destruction of any of the rights and
freedoms set forth herein.”
The human rights of an individual
or a group are not negotiable, and
continued abuse of them will bring
more harm to the cause of defeating
terrorism.
In July 2004 the world was deeply
disturbed by the news of the Abu
Ghraib prison abuse scandal, an
event that will shape the world’s
perception of America for years to
come. However, this abuse of per-
sonal power by the soldiers involved
was, unfortunately, the grim tip of
the iceberg of abuses of human
rights in the name of the War on
Terror.
The more unsettling part of Abu
Ghraib was that it was far from
being an aberration. The story that
never really hit the news is the
extent of the ongoing human rights
abuses in the War on Terror. These
maltreatments did not only harm
the image of the US in the world,
but will also negatively affect the
world’s effort in defeating violent
and radical streams of Islamic fun-
damentalism.
The trail of human rights abuses
leads from detainments of “terror
suspects” in American judicial pris-
ons immediately following the 11
September attacks, as investigated
by a Department of Justice report
published in April 2003, to an alleged
50,000 prisoners held in administra-
tive confinement by the US and its
allies, according to the US Army’s
Inspector General. This route leads
through Afghanistan and Iraq,
where the abuses surfaced momen-
tarily at Guantanamo Bay and Abu
Ghraib.
It was an easy task for the Bush-
Administration to pass the respon-
sibility down to the offending troops.
Of course, it could be argued that
none of the Administration’s high
level officials had a direct involve-
ment in setting policy that facili-
tated torture. Nevertheless, the
government still bears the responsi-
bility for ensuring that the country’s
representatives conduct themselves
correctly according to the Geneva
Conventions and human rights.
Unfortunately, there have been
credible investigations indicating
a contribution by the top ranks of
the Administration in setting pol-
icy condoning torture and human
rights abuses, a topic that never
completely hit the public debate in
most Western countries. Examples
include denying the “enemy com-
batants” in Guantanamo essential
human rights such as the presump-
tion of innocence (articles 6-12 of
the UDHR have been violated). The
influence of these human rights
abuses on the effectiveness of the
War on Terror is widespread and
multifarious.
Firstly, there has been a measur-
able increase in sentiment for the
insurgents and terrorists. In the
Western world, this has mainly been
manifesting itself for Iraqi insur-
gency. As a result, the mainstream
media has mostly ignored the
crimes against humanity conducted
by some of these groups. Examples
include booby-trapping dead bod-
ies of American soldiers and insur-
gents. Never can crimes of one side
of the conflict justify neglecting or
even condoning crimes of the other
side.
Secondly, the loss of credibility
suffered by the US will impede its
efforts in international engagement
for a long period to come. Thanks to
relentless power politics during the
Cold War, the mostly unquestioned
backing of Israel and the unfair
management of globalisation, the
reputation of the US has never been
great among the majority of the
Arab population. The recent human
rights abuses in the name of pro-
moting liberty and democracy did
nothing to reverse this perception.
The previous two matters aris-
ing link into the third major effect
of human rights abuses: political
polarisation. While world opinion
was not excessively in favour of a
Pax Americana before the invasion
of Iraq and the Abu Ghraib scandal,
afterwards the gap between the sup-
porters of the Bush Administration
and the opposition grew into an
abyss. This disagreement will
make constructive efforts to create
peace for conflict regions such as
Israel-Palestine more difficult and is
bound to intensify the War on Terror.
Furthermore, it has also eased the
effort of terrorist groups: recruit-
ment of young, fatuous individuals
has increased significantly due to
the new ‘excuse’ that has been given
to the radicals.
Thus, continued human rights
abuses cannot be in the interest
of the US and its allies. Actually, a
complete and just investigation of
the crimes committed will greatly
aid the US not only in the War on
Terror, but also in future conflicts. A
clean track record of US forces will
not only instill desperately needed
confidence in the Western world,
but will also cause a consequential
destruction of a platform for terror-
ist recruitment.
Secondly, it would undo some
of the long history of hypocrisy of
which the West is rightfully accused.
Should the US have an intrinsic
desire to end the conflict between
itself and violent Islamic fundamen-
talists, then it is time for it to prac-
tice what it preaches: respect for
human rights.
Unfortunately, Britain’s recent
record is not better. Although the
judicial system in the UK is now tak-
ing steps against detentions without
charge, evidence obtained under
torture is still allowed in British
courts. Such allowances are not
only in conflict with the UDHR, the
UN Convention against Torture and
the EU Convention against Torture,
but also are likely to increase the
number of human rights abuses
committed by authorities. This has
been widely investigated by Amnesty
International in the 1980s and again
in the last three years.
The founding fathers of the UDHR
laid out Article 30 for an explicit
reason: to prevent the abuse of the
UDHR in the name of ‘protecting’
it. It was born out of a time when
“disregard and contempt for human
rights have resulted in barbarous
acts which have outraged the con-
science of mankind.”
The US must put a stop the con-
tinuing human rights abuses in the
War on Terror and undo the damage
it has done to mankind’s conscience.
Otherwise it risks jeopardising world
peace for a long time to come. The
world’s only hope now can be that
the US learns from the cruelties
committed 60 years ago in the name
of preserving ‘our’ way of life.
“Every nation that proclaims the
rule of law at home must respect
it abroad; and every nation that
insists on it abroad must enforce it
at home.” Kofi Annan
Detainees at Guantanamo Bay

