6 F E L I X
DO YOU KNOW
WHY UNILEVER RESEARCH
is a First-class
CAREER CHOICE?
T H E M A I N F U N C T I O N of
Unilever Research Division is to
help Unilever keep its position in the
commercial and industrial world —
by intensive research into the funda-
mental scientific aspects of products
it sells or wishes to sell; and by the
development of new or improved
processes Or products.
In other words, the scientist in
Research Division is essential to the
future prosperity of Unilever. A n d
that is why you are given all the op-
portunities, facilities and rewards
you need to make a first-class career.
Basic or Applied Research ?
Unilever believes in giving the individual
scientist full scope for development of his
talents. You may be concerned with product
development work, or with research into the
science underlying the properties, manufacture
or mechanism of action of our products, or you
may be involved in a fundamental study of
some branch of science which will be of long-
term value to Unilever but has no immediate
application in products.
In developing new products you will not be
merely mixing ingredients. You will be
investigating the logical outcome of the basic
research carried out in your own or other
Unilever laboratories. Of equal importance to
the development of new products is the
assessment of their efficacy in use. This means
the design of objective scientific tests to
measure.the properties which are judged in a
subjective manner by the consumer. In
product development work independent and
original thought on a high scientific level is as
essential as in the pure or fundamental research
which goes on in the same laboratories. The
satisfaction lies in seeing products on the
market and patents secured rather than in
published papers which are expected from our
basic research.
How do you keep in. touch ?
As a scientist in Unilever you will have
access to a wide range of specialised techniques,
X-ray diffraction, I.R., U.V., N.M.R., E.S.R.,
Raman spectroscopy, mass spectrometry,
electron microscopes and electronic computers.
You learn what is going on in the other
Unilever laboratories, both in the U.K. and ,
abroad, by the circulation of reports, by con-
ferences and by personal contact. Close
contact is maintained with the universities
through university staff who act as consultants,
and by Unilever scientists who work in
universities. You are encouraged to maintain
your own academic contacts and to make new
ones, as well as taking part in the affairs of
learned societies.
What vacancies are there ?
Unilever Research has four locations in the
U.K.—at Port Sunlight, on Merseyside; at
Welwyn, Hertfordshire; at Colworth House,
near Bedford, (with an out-station atAberdeen);
and at Isleworth, Middlesex. These are part of
a world-wide organisation with laboratories
also on the Continent, in the U.S.A., and in
India.
In order to staff these laboratories Unilever
Research always needs: chemists—physical,
organic and some inorganic; biochemists;
analytical chemists; physicists; microbiolo-
gists; chemical engineers; mechanical engin-
eers; biochemical engineers; and information
scientists.
There is also a smaller periodic requirement
for graduates trained in veterinary medicine,
including animal pathology and physiology;
mathematics, especially statistics; systems
analysis; operational research; radio-
chemistry; and in biology with specialised
post-graduate training in subjects such as
pharmacology and histology.
For entry to the Scientist Grade we want
people with a Ph.D., or good primary degree,
or equivalent. They must be scientifically
creative and should have initiative, technical
skill, and the capacity to relate their science to
our industrial situation.
The Research Assistant Grade is for grad-
uates who want to make a career in the more
experimental aspects of the work, and here
there is a greater emphasis on technical skill.
What will you earn ?
Salaries will reflect your ability, but you can
use this general framework as a guide:
Scientists—the usual starting salary for a
newly qualified Ph.D. is £1,300, rising to
"1,500 after about one year's service. The new
rimary graduate, recruited into the Scientist
Jrade, receives £1,000 and is awarded fixed
increments for two years so that his salary
reaches £1,300 on establishment. These rates
are increased by up to £100 for every year of
research experience relevant to Unilever's
interests. In addition, an extra 5% of salary,
with a maximum of £150, is paid to scientists
in the Isleworth and Welwyn Laboratories
since these are in the London Area.
Research Assistants—graduates in this
grade earn a minimum starting salary of £850.
Relevant experience is recognised in starting
salaries and the 5 % London allowance for the
Welwyn and Isleworth Laboratories is also
paid.
Four weeks' annual holiday leave is given
to established scientists, and three weeks to
Scientists before establishment and to Re-
search Assistants.
All graduate research staff become members
of the Unilever Superannuation Scheme.
Can you get ahead fast ?
You will find plenty of opportunities; it
depends solely on your ability. Unilever
Research is quick to recognise merit, and
there's no question of 'standing in line' for
promotion, which can be on scientific ability
alone.
Is there further training ?
Yes. All scientists attend a week's residential
course on business principles within about two
years of joining the Company. Other training,
including management training, is later given
as circumstances and prospects demand.
Scientists With three or more years' service are
eligible to compete for Unilever Internal
Research Fellowships, which enable you to
return to university for one or two years to
undertake research of your own choosing. You
may also be sent on temporary secondments to
other Unilever Divisions or to universities,
either in the U.K. or overseas.
Do you want to know more ?
We shall be glad to advise you at any stage of
your scientific career, and especially to discuss
the possibility of future employment with those
graduates who are going abroad for post-
doctorate fellowships. An appointment with a
representative of Research Division when he
visits the Physics Department on 10th March
and Chemistry Department on nth March,
can be made through your own Department.
A booklet giving more detailed information
on research in Unilever is obtainable from your
Physics or Chemistry Department, or from the
Staff Officer, Research Division, Unilever
House, Blackfriars, London, E.C.4, telephone
FLEet Street 7474.
U
N
I
L
E
V
E
R R
E
S
E
A
R
C
H
U
K IQj-jMO

