10 Clubs and Societies
Imperial Rowers In The Buff
This summer, five students from Imperial
College represented Great Britain at the World
Student Games in Buffalo, USA. They made up
the largest single group from any one University
in the Men's Rowing Team.
Imagine a university the same size as
Imperial College, where there are no lectures, no
problem sheets and no exams. The sun shines
the whole time, and all the students are in peak
physical condition! Everyone you meet is very
friendly and helpful - they cater for your every
need. Sounds good?
The university is also surrounded by an eight
foot barbed wire fence, and the entrances and
exits make airport security look like revolving
doors. But that doesn't stop the Cuban students
from defecting at a rate of one every other day!
This strange place only exists for two weeks
every two years and is home to the 'World
University Games 1993'. Imperial College has
been represented by rowers on the last three
occasions that rowing has been included.
The World Student Games is a curious event,
and is sometimes referred to as the 'student
Olympics', which isn't surprising as this years
competitors included many 1992 Olympians.
Despite this link with amateur sport, as in all
other areas of sports, it is clearly obvious that the
bounds of 'amateurism' are being pushed further
back. For example, eight of the eleven British
footballers from the last Games signed
professional contracts as a result of their partici-
pation and one of the Cubans who defected this
year leapt over the fence in the middle of his
baseball game into a waiting car to sign his new
contract!
So why does the event get so little publicity?
Despite the high level of competition, the
Student Games fail to generate enough spectator
interest; this year Buffalo was unable to secure a
major television contract. Despite using
volunteers and sponsors to run the whole event,
the host city still made a huge loss. Yet cities are
still queuing up for the financial liability, the
reason being that it gives them an unsurpassable
opportunity to build extensive sporting facilities
and accommodation.
However, it is very important to point out
that, apart from being a financial exercise, the
real reason for its existence is to give students
worldwide the opportunity to meet others with
similar interests and compete on a friendly basis.
This is something that I was very priveledged to
be part of, a real 'once in a lifetime' experience
that all of us will always value.
The rowing events were held in St
Catherine's, Ontario - the home of Royal
Canadian Henley Regatta, which is just over the
border from Buffalo. The course was on a short
stretch of river close to Niagara. This meant that
the water was flowing and therefore had to be
dammed on race days. The lack of water current
allowed weeds to float to the surface making the
lanes unfair, which led to some heated
arguments between the team officials and the
organisers, which were eventually resolved.
So how did we get on?
The selectors managed to achieve their
objectives, with all the crews reaching the finals,
albeit with some pretty inconsistent perfor-
mances. The final day promised to produce some
exciting racing, with all the British crews still in
the hunt for medals.
First were the relatively inexperienced Coxed
Four. They were always struggling in their final
and as the powerful Romanian Olympians pulled
the field apart, they found themselves seperated
from the battle on the other side of the course.
Despite the vocal support from the rest of the
team at halfway, they could only manage a
creditable sixth place.
The Lightweight Double Scull performed
well in an event which the British are not
traditionally good at, achieving a fine fifth place.
The Lightweight Men's Coxless Four were
up against a good French crew, who they had
beaten previously at Paris. Leading in the final
stages of the race, the British crew were unable
to contain the French, who broke through just
before the line. Two of the Brits collapsed with
exhaustion and were unable to collect their silver
medals at the ceremony.
In the last race of the Regatta, the Men's
Eights main rivals were the American and
Canadian crews. The USA made the early pace,
with the British in a comfortable second place.
The Canadians began to drop back as the crews
passed halfway. However, the British crew were
unable to find another gear to pass the leaders,
and had to settle for the silver medal.
Overall the team performed very well, with
another silver medal and a sixth place. This is
not only a reflection of the high standard of
British Rowing, but also the superb team
management of Gerald Gregory-Jones, the
Universities Athletic Union Chief Executive,
and the other coaches.
Our trip was only made possible with the
help and support of the following people, to
whom we are extremely grateful: Bill Mason
AIC, Sir Eric Ash, Peter Mee, and Liz Carr. Our
thanks also to the Union, the A C C , and all the
other members of ICBC.
HHHHH
it
Fancy working overseas this summer? See page 15 for details

