Clubs and Societies
Don't Miss It! Art Anyone? ICU Ski Club
Just to remind you of what ArtSoc is up to, here
is a list of dates for future shows which you can
cut out and stick on the wall beside your bed so
you won't forget:
Five Guys Named Moe: 30th November '93
The Magic Flute: 6th December '93
Aladdin & Christmas Meal: 15th December '93
Woman In Black: 17th January '94
Carmen: 24th January '94
Carousel: 2nd February '94
Cats: 9th February '94
Grease: 23rd February '94
Miss Saigon: 1st March '94
Phantom Of The Opera: 10th March '94
The list is by no means comprehensive and
dates for both the National Gallery talk on how
to look at and understand paintings and a trip to
Crazy For You will be confirmed soon.
People who joined this year (for a mere £3)
have already had the chance to see Les
Miserables and A n Inspector Calls at heavily
subsidised rates. But those wishing to see any of
the shows described above had better hurry. The
demand for many is overwhelming!
We meet every Monday lunchtime from
12.30pm to 1.30pm to allow everybody to book
tickets, so pop along to the Union Dining Hall
(first floor, Union building) and rejoice in taking
the opportunity to watch London's finest shows.
Don't forget, we subsidise all our trips by
amounts which are simply unrepeatable in a
family newspaper like this!
Are you fed up with the one-sidedness of your
science, engineering or medical degree? Have
you ever felt the urge to pick up a brush and
paint? Whether you are good at art, or just wish
to take it up as a beginner, then we may have
what you are looking for.
There are a few of us who are starting up
what we call 'Leonardo Society' or LeoSoc. It
will be Imperial College's (first?) fine arts
society (any guesses as to the choice of the
name 'Leonardo Soc'? A drink in Da Vinci's
for the first answer in!).
We are organising art classes, given by an
experienced art teacher. The fine details have
not been worked out as this clearly depends
upon the wishes of our to-be members.
However, we are proposing lessons once a
week (more if demand is there) costing £2
(approx) per week per 2-3 hours. The day
depends on members, but will probably be
either Wednesday afternoons or evenings.
Classes will probably commence in two weeks
or else definitely from next term. Realising the
cost of materials, the Society may be able to
provide them cheaper.
If you are interested in joining, please leave a
message in my pigeonhole: Mehul Khimasia,
Physics UG3. If you've got e-mail you can write
to me at mml.khimasia@ic.
Remember, you don't have to be experienced
in art to be interested, only to be interested in
experiencing art.
The 1st team earned a well deserved 7th place
this Sunday in the Kings Club races held at
Brentwood Park. Amongst a high class field of
21 regional teams, IC 2nds were placed 13th.
Rugby Success
IC 1st X V 17 - 9 London Hospital Medical
College
After an All-Black style warm-up by, IC started
their Gutteridge Cup campaign with a passion
that reflected the conditions - cold and
unpredictable. Consequently, IC faced a deficit
at half-time due to three penalty kicks.
In the second half, IC promptly scored from
the kick-off. A penetrating run from the scrum-
half created an overlap from aussie newcomer
Tim Oldham to score his first IC try.
IC finished the opposition off with a try from
prop-forward Mark Baker (devastating from one
yard) after sustained forward pressure.
IC go through to the last eight of the Cup,
hoping to salvage a so far poor season.
Sports Results
Mens' Hockey lsts 1 - 0 Royal London Hospital
Medical College
Ladies' Hockey lsts 3 - 2 United Medical and
Dental School
M
JkfrNi^ht at
the Races
Ik Ladies, and Gentlemen place your bets
Tue 30th Nov
Carlsberg & Tetley
promotion
20% OFF All DRINKS DURING
HHPPV HOUR 7-8PM
| Royal
Dinner
perhaps?

