14 Feature
World Aids Day - Time To Act
Nothing to do with you, right? Wrong, says Nicky Fox, ICU Welfare Officer.
1. Do you accept that the spread of HIV, the virus that leads to AIDS, is
preventable?
2. Since there is, as yet, no vaccine and no cure for HIV and AIDS, do you
agree that efforts to prevent the spread of the virus are of para-mount
importance?
3. Do you agree that the cost of AIDS to society in terms of lives lost and
money spent could be reduced by preventative work?
4. Do you agree that every individual has a responsibility to support efforts
to halt the spread of preventable illnesses like HIV?
5. Do you agree that you are unlikely to know the HIV status of every
person you sleep with, especially since many people are un-aware that
they have HIV and, therefore, the only way you can be certain that you
are not putting yourself or others at risk is to take responsibility for
yourself and not give that responsibility to somebody else?
6. Do you agree that individuals have the right to be informed about the
risks of particular practices, so that they may make reasoned choices
about their behaviour?
7. Do you agree that society has a responsibility to provide information to
enable individuals to make informed choices about their lives?
8. Do you agree that people who are ill should have the right to and access
to appropriate treatment, care and support?
9. Do you therefore agree that AIDS is a social problem for us all?
(Adapted from the National AIDS Trust's WAD Resource Pack)
So What Is World AIDS Day All About?
If you have just read through the previous series
of questions and thought about your own
personal responses to them, whether they be
positive or negative, World AIDS Day at
Imperial has been worthwhile. Why? The
answer lies at the heart of the objective of World
AIDS Day - a day of action designed to encour-
age us, at the very least, to think about HIV and
AIDS. At the most, World AIDS Day gives us all
an opportunity to act.
AIDS - Time to Act
This is the theme set by the World Health
Organisation for World AIDS Day 1993. The
words 'Time To Act' were chosen to stress the
urgency of the situation that we now face as a
global society. You may notice posters around
College displaying this message and an image of
a breaking chain. The visual message is: It's
time to act to break the chain of infection and to
break the chains of oppression and
discrimination.
Some of you reading this article may be
unconvinced of the urgency and the need for us
to act now, but perhaps you could reflect on the
following: Every country is affected by HIV and
AIDS and, in the U K alone (as of July '93), at
least 20,035 people were known to be living
with HIV. 7,699 of these people had developed
AIDS, of whom 4,794 had already died. There
are many more people infected who are not
known about and who may not even know
themselves.
Tens of thousands of people are already
working worldwide fo slow the spread of HIV
and to provide care and support to those
infected. These facts are not provided to induce
fear, but rather to inform and encourage the
realisation that now is the time to act!
Action can take many forms and may be
private or public. Whatever action we each
choose to take this World AIDS Day, the day
provides us all with an opportunity to act against
ignorance and to learn; to act against the com-
placency and denial that says AIDS is not my
problem; to recognise that we can exercise
choice to reduce our risks of contracting HIV
and of passing it on to others, by practising
'safer sex'; to questions others' and our own
discriminatory attitudes and behaviours to those
living with HIV and AIDS and to become more
sensitive and aware that those around us -
colleagues, friends, family - may be living
private lives affected by HIV and AIDS.
The Red Ribbon
One small way we can take action this World
AIDS Day, is to wear a red ribbon, the inter-
national symbol of AIDS Awareness. Through
this, we make a publicly visible statement, of
care, concern, hope and support in the fight
against AIDS. The red ribbon symbolises care
and concern about HIV and AIDS and those
affected by it, hope that one day the epidemic
will be over and support for those living with
HIV, for the preventative efforts to halt the
spread of the virus and for the efforts to produce
effective and accessible treatments, services,
vaccines and cures.
On World AIDS Day we hope to make these
ribbons available to you, at the information stalls
in the Student Union, in the Junior Common
Room (JCR) during the daytime, and at the
World AIDS Day benefit disco in the Union,
during the evening.
The Union is organising several events for
World AIDS Day next Wednesday.
At lunchtime there will be stalls in the Union
foyer, JCR and at St Mary's providing infor-
mation on HIV and AIDS and also free condoms.
A benefit gig, organised by Ents, is to be held
in the Union Building in the evening. The entry
fee of only 50p will go to the Terrence Higgins
Trust together with the proceeds from a barrel of
beer kindly donated by the Union Bar.
As mentioned in the above article, the red
ribbon is the international symbol of AIDS
awareness.
Please take part in World AIDS Day, wear
your red ribbon and help us to promote AIDS
awareness around College.
Imperial College Union World AIDS Day is
organised by:
Paul Collens
Nicky Fox
Min Kavlak
If you are concerned and want to talk about
HIV and A I D S , anxious about your H I V
status, considering having an HIV antibody
test or want information and advice on HIV
and AIDS, these contacts can will assist you:
•National Aids Helpline: 0800 567123. Free,
confidential information regarding HIV/AIDS,
24 hours a day.
• Gay Men Fighting AIDS: 071-738 6872.
Volunteer-led group offering peer education.
•Mainliners: 071-737 3141. Services for all
affected by H I V and drugs, including
counselling, support groups and telephone
advice.
• Terrence Higgins Trust: 071-831 0330.
Information, help and advice on HIV infection/
AIDS
•Red Admiral Project: 071-835 1495. Free
one to one counselling to anyone affected by
HIV/AIDS.
• Positively Women: 071-490 5515.
Counselling and support for women with
HIV/AIDS
•Body Positive: 071-373 9124 (7pm - 10pm
daily). Network of self-help groups for people
affected by HIV/AIDS
•Black HIV/AIDS Network: 081-749 2828.
National organisation for African, Asian, Afro-
Caribbean people.
World AIDS Day is on Wednesday 1st December

