Feature 15
Europe
2020
19th March 1994 will see the birth of a new
international discussion forum, the 'Europe
2020' pan-European conference. Attended and
presented by over 150 students, the conference
will encompass everything from a visionary
perspective of the future of Europe, looking into
and beyond current problems, to the shape of
Europe twenty years into the next century.
The conference takes place in Oxford
University from 19th to 25th March 1994. It
starts with a team-building programme on
Sunday. The following three days are spent on
committee work. There will be three major
committees: Political, Economic and Ethnics/
Culture. The committees will be addressed by
speakers of high importance such as MEPs, and
European Commissioners. At the end of the
committee work each committee will have
produced a white paper (its opinion on the
problem) which will be presented before the
Plenary Discussion (the Assembly of all the
delegates) and voted on.
The following countries have confirmed their
participation: Belgium, Greece, U.K., Ireland,
Portugal, Denmark, Spain, France, Sweden,
Holland and Germany.
An application for participation is eligible for
anyone having citizenship of one of the above
countries. A n application should consist of a
letter and C V , a supporting note from your
academic tutor or Dean of Faculty and a typed
essay in English of no more 800 words
discussing your vision of Europe in 2020 with
reference to one of the following topics, looking
at the problems from all aspects, especially with
a view to 'Hopes, Traps and Priorities':
1. Europe Trade Block or free trader?
2. Regional economic fluctuations within
Europe: can a single policy cope?
3. The balance of power between Europe
and the nation state: dealing with
conflicts of interest.
4. Europe and the U N : dealing with
Bosnia's future.
5. Is there a distinct European identity?
6. Environmental controls: should the E C
impose them on the Third World ?
The application material must be addressed
to Mr Owen Johns, Brasenose College, Oxford
OX1 and should be received by Friday 10th
December 1993. If selected, each delegate has to
pay £150 for the participation fee
For more information please contact either
Mrs Bettina Carr-AUinson, Fontainebleu Youth
Foundation, 110a Banbury Rd, Oxford, O X 2 -
6JU Tel: 0865 311946 or Kyriakos Hatzaras,
EE2, e-mail kh@ee, Tel 071 402 0680
As an E Y P alumnus, I urge all European
Youth Parliament Alumni in the College to get
organised. Anyone who has been in an E Y P
session before, please contact me at the above
number or e-mail address.
Kyriakos Hatzaras
Committee President, EYP
No Job This Summer?
The Alhambra Palace, Granada
After making numerous summer job
applications, I was getting disillusioned with
exactly how much being an Imperial under-
graduate in civil engineering is worth. Then I
heard about the International Association for
the Exchange of Students for Technical
Experience (IAESTE). The scheme offered
penultimate year undergraduates the oppor-
tunity to spend the summer working overseas in
their field of study. There was nothing to lose
so, at the expense of a second class stamp, I
inquired for details.
I applied and was successful in obtaining a
placement in Spain. I was among ten students
selected from Imperial College, by far the
greatest number of students chosen from any
one U K educational establishment. (The
IAESTE organisation was founded at Imperial
College in 1948.) M y fellow Imperial College
trainees were off to Croatia, Finland, France,
Hungary, Poland, Sierra Leone and Turkey.
I was greeted at Madrid airport by a Spanish
student and found that, by, chance I was on the
same flight was another IAESTE trainee, Mark
from Scotland. After driving around Madrid in
the sweltering heat for an hour, we came to the
unanimous conclusion that we didn't know
where we were going! Another five hours
passed negotiating with landlords and viewing
grotty accommodation. Eventually the student
got fed up and dumped us at a pension (a sort of
down market hotel infested with vermin).
We survived the first week eating at
McDonalds. Mark knew about as much Spanish
as I know Mongolian but, fortunately, you don't
need much lingo to order a Big Mac and Coke.
As time went by things started to look a little
brighter, though they could only have gone one
way. Through the IAESTE office in Spain we
managed to get somewhere decent to live. I
found myself living with another I A E S T E
trainee from Denmark, an Algerian and a Thai.
On my first day, it took me two hours to find
the office of the engineers with whom I would
be working. When I walked through the door
they told me that they were not expecting me
for another month! Hardly anyone in the office
spoke English but my supervisor Pedro com-
pensated for that by being quad-lingual.
As the weeks shot by, the tempo of the work
picked up and all credit goes to the staff at
Esteyco S A for their dedicated attention
towards me. The work I was presented with was
relevant and I am proud to say that I got away
without touching the broom, photocopier or
coffee machine. M y design office experience
culminated in a visit to a construction site in the
beautiful backdrop of the Galician countryside.
My working week was a minimum of 45
hours and, unlike most Spaniards, the people in
the office seemed immune to the traditional
afternoon siesta. The money was just sufficient
to cover all my expenses, the idea being that
you don't make a profit.
Over the weekends, I A E S T E organised
outings but, after tagging along with them for
one week, I decided my Spanish was strong
enough to explore Spain on my own initiative. I
also ventured outside Madrid, despite the cost
of travel. The highlights of my visit were
undoubtedly the visits to the Alhambra Palace
in Granada and the mosque in Cordoba, echoes
of the much underrated Islamic past of Spain.
Going to a country for a holiday and living
there are two different things. I left Spain with a
lot more than an T Luv Spain' t-shirt.
Everyone I spoke to had an equally
enjoyable time and I stress that getting selected
for an IAESTE placement is not necessarily a
function of your academic prowess. If you're
interested then you'd better hurry as the
deadline for registration is the 10th December
1993. Details may be found on the Careers
Service notice board or directly from the
Central Bureau.
Mashud Chowdhury (Civ Eng 3)
There is an IAESTE presentation on 30th
November in room 201, Civ Eng, at 12.15pm
For more information on summer jobs, contact the Careers Service

