16 Feature
A Slice Of Life - Owain Bennallack
There are several advantages to having older
friends. Vanity - they start going bald before
you. Experience - they have some. Money -
they have loads.
Marc slaves away for five days a week and
the bitter fruits of his labour include a rather
speedy set of wheels. And you know there's
nothing he likes better than to drive dishevelled
students around in it, or so I impress upon him.
"Well, I am going to Cambridge with Louise this
weekend and I suppose you could tag along..."
Marc has problems involving anyone with
Louise, his mysterious fiancee elect. He hordes
her like clean underwear. I think he half expects
me to burst out Alien-like from between them
during a heavy session of nocturnal activity (and
ask to borrow a tenner).
Cambridge! Cool - Tintin is going to review
Teenage Fanclub there this weekend I think. But
what'11 I do? "Go to see Juliana Hatfield" he
says. "You could review her gig, she's playing
with the Fannies." (And that's just about all
according to the press). It sounds like a
reasonable plan so I get out my little black book
but surprisingly East-West records' number is
missing. (Hell, the only time that book is useful
is if I want to call my mother or set up a hot date
with Hammersmith using the tube map in the
back.) I beg the number from Tintin and ring up
the lovely press people. Sure, I could probably
go see the gig she says. Wanna chat to Juliana?
Doo-dee-doo-dooo-doo-dee-doo-dooo...you
are now entering a world where things are not as
they seem. Felix cannot talk to Juliana Hatfield
can it? The Sharon Stone of the grunge world?
The Venus of a thousand indie saddo floppy
fringed boys' lustful stares? Make that a
thousand and one to be honest -1 accept with a
slobber. But where to stay? Billie! M y old friend
who's working in Cambridge. The itinery is
complete. A weekend away from this slimy
grime heap. In fact, forget the Felix office, a
week out of London!
But what do I take? Tape recorder, money,
giant inflatable hammer, there's no room to pack
it all. Well, a boy has to be prepared. Luckily I
forget my suitcase when I leave to meet Marc.
Luckily because my lift has fallen through. I
arrive at the rendezvous, conspicuously sans Mr
Calloway. I phone him up. "Oh God, sorry
Owain," he says, "We're not going up until
Sunday now. Louise is very ill." Yeah right, I
can hear her groaning in the background. Okay,
but I can still get a lift back. Now, to hitch or to
take the train?
Hitching to Glastonbury this summer was one
of the most exciting, vibrant, life-affirming
things I've ever done. Life-affirming because I
regularly screamed mentally "Oh Lord, I'm
going to die" and, although by some flukey
philosophical trick I didn't, I'd come too close.
(To the articulated lorry in front usually.) Not
worth it, not whilst my Juliana awaits me. I
make my purchase at Kings Cross, very
life-affirming too, and afterwards I go and buy a
ticket to Cambridge. The train ride up is deathly
boring but this is supposed to be a true and
accurate reflection of my weekend, my life. So,
for completeness, it was an experimental version
of the Japanese Bullet train, there was a murder
(Morse) (okay - dot dot dot dash dash..), Peter
Sellers turned up to investigate and brought a
pink panther, the nice goateed man sold me
some more pretty sweets and I almost married a
manicurist from Pittsburgh but she ran off (on
her excellent cuticles) with Sellers at Bridge
Head South. The train pulls in and I disembark.
Cambridge is full of students. Unsuprising, I
know, but most of them were from IC! Me and
Billie are just driving over them as we bicycle to
his house. His abode is damp, cold and smells of
old socks so I put my shoes back on, then it isn't
so bad. Actually I put my coat straight back on
and off we rush, to Juliana, to Fame! We get to
the Junction without seeing a single college
(except Emmanuel, which I mistake for a
shopping precint at the time). Oh no, one hour to
go! Off to McDonalds to write my questions.
To be continued...
1
• F R E S H H A I R S A L O N
the best s t u d e n t offer in l o n d o n !
/ minute walk from South Kensington Tube Station!!
C a l l : 071 823 8968
15A H A R R I N G T O N R O A D , S O U T H K E N S I N G T O N , L O N D O N S W 7 3 ES

