Reviews 17
Posse CB4
Starring: Mario Van Peebles, Stephen Baldwin,
Billy Zane, Tiny Lister Jr
Director: Mario Van Peebles
There are three types of Westerns: the old black
and white cowboys 'n' injuns, the old spaghetti
westerns, and the new breed such as Silverado
and Young Guns. However, in hardly any of
these are the heroes black (a surprise seeing as
33% of all cowboys were black) and this is what
Mario Van Peebles sets out to rectify in Posse.
It is about the legend of gunslinger Jessie
Lee (Van Peebles) and his Posse. While the
posse are on the run from a tyrannical Colonel,
Jessie is seeking to avenge his father's death.
The film has a strong plot with many sub-
plots, good characterisations and it raises points
to make you think. However, when you have the
best elements in a film, it can raise the stakes
too high and when Posse doesn't make it you're
left screaming "Why didn't they just make it
that bit better...then it would have been great".
This, I would suggest, is largely due to the
direction of Van Peebles. Situations are often
unclear and action scenes lack the edge which
makes them amazing. He lacks the subtlety of
making you care about the characters, so when
they die it just happens rather than being a shock.
The cinematography has some incredible
shots but that's all they are, a couple of seconds
of something that could have been. It often
looks more like a twenty second photography
exhibition which is disappointing.
The pace is good and holds your attention,
but it does this by jumping from one scene to
the next instead of flowing. Van Peebles seemed
to be aiming for a cross between the modern
western and the stylish, but often surreal aspects
of spaghetti westerns. Rather than try to blend
these he seems to have opted for a pick 'n' mix
approach so the film never really gels properly.
A crying shame for an almost great movie.
Magellan
iiiisiiitiiil^B
•
Starring: Chris Rock, Allen Payne and Charlie
Murphy (Eddie's brother)
Director: Nelson George
CB4 is a revelation; finally someone has had the
courage to satirise the macho posturing of
gangsta rappers and the wit to know how to do it
properly. This film, from music video director
Tamra Davis, also manages to include some
very good examples of the genre in question,
though with titles like 'Sweat Of My Balls' there
is no question of the message being compromised.
The plot is a relatively simple one. Three
middle-class black kids have aspirations to
become rap stars. They have the talent, but can't
seem to find an image, until they come into
contact with local drug dealer and all round bad
egg, Gusto. His imprisonment conveniently
gives wimpish Albert the opportunity to assume
the hard man persona and remodel the group.
They become the most popular band in the
world (as you do) and everybody is happy. Then
Gusto escapes from jail. Suffice to say that there
is a suitably happy ending. The portrayal of the
band, their rise to fame,the scandal, the in-
evitable break-up and the even more inevitable
reunion concert.
One very nice touch is the inclusion of a
geeky documentary crew who provide us with
the early testimonials from rap legends such as
Ice-T and Flavor-Flav. They also lend a surreal
feel to the proceedings. This film is highly
enjoyable, both for the rap connoisseur and the
novice. Ignore any comparisons with the over-
rated 'This Is Spinal Tap', CB4 is the real thing.
Tony
Bodysnatchers
Director: Abel Ferarra
Brilliant. Ferarra's incarnation of the popular
bodysnatchers myth is less a remake than an
inspired overhaul. Setting the film in a military
camp gives degrees of tension to the settings that
make the backdrop compelling in its own right
and, like Cameron's Aliens, gets the pulse
running from the very start.
Unlike his precursors, Ferarra never shows
the aliens arrive, but somehow transmits a sense
of their presence to the audience who, for the
most part know the eventual outcome - a
knowledge which makes the foreboding stronger
still. And when the aliens' presence is finally
overt, the audience can only watch helplessly as
the humans' impotence against the hordes is
demonstrated: "Where you gonna go; where you
gonna hide...There's no- one else like you any
more," a scientists 'wife' gloats.
Yet, while sustaining enough fear and unease
to satisfy most horror fans, one is constantly
aware of the stunning beauty of Henry Links'
photography, each shot so carefully crafted as to
embody the best of Ridley Scott (Bladerunner)
and Copolla (Apocalypse Now) - incredible
montages of light and sound; silhouetted torch
chases through misty woods and in one
particular Aliens-esque sequence, dimly-lit
soldiers lifting alien pods out from a misty river.
The film is brilliant, far, far superior to
Jurassic Park and probably on a par with Aliens
and Terminator 2.1 share fully the anguish of the
Screen International rep who complained bitterly
about Warner's decision to release straight to
video without a cinema release - they are insane.
Not only is it a very good film, but it is a very
cinematic film, the cinemascope format having
been used to excellent effect (and incredible
sound), T V can only strangle its greatness.
The Pear
Coming soon to a reviews page near you: Addams Family Va

