18 Reviews
Tenor In Shining Armour
' J B H B
• 1
HHB|
• iiiifi
H H H I
i f f
If Lohengrin does not attract you with its
symbolism, the mythological tale of a knight, in
literally blazing armour, gliding in the wake of a
swan to the rescue of a distressed maiden, then
this staging may only amuse, bemuse and
ultimately annoy you with its apparent banality.
However, the visual metaphors of T i m
Albery's new production at English National
Opera almost always serves the drama. Act II,
particularly, is indicative of designer and
producer working hand in glove, moving with
dazzling fluidity and invention between the
forbidding, sepulchral opening intrigues of
Telramund and his diabolical wife Ortrud,
through to a spectacular burst of energy and
colour for the celebrations of Lohengrin's union
with Elsa.
Certain devices may be refined as the run
progresses; Lohengrin's duel with Telramund
was clumsy and unconvincing, all very
obviously carefully choreographed. But the
problem of the swan was quite poetically solved,
an almost angelic creature, the dancer gracefully
suggesting loyalty and love in every movement.
Mark Elder was in control of the musical side
of things and demonstrated a breathtaking
virtuosity. He has, for many years been wooing,
audiences with dramatic, vital interpretations of
the Italian repertoire, especially Verdi. Here, he
brought these qualities to bear on Wagner's
sumptuous score. From the beautifully molded,
whispered opening through to the glorious close,
almost five hours later, he had the audience in
raptures. Not since Karl Bohm have I encountered
such an energetic exponent of this repertoire.
The orchestra did their best to stay with him,
while the chorus were in remarkable voice.
The soloists were competent, with two
notable exceptions: the Elsa of Linda McLeod
was surely a miscalculation, the voice not having
the power required and sounding distressingly
squally above the stave. In contrast John Keyes'
debut as Lohengrin is a major event. His voice
has the right warmth and lyrical pliancy the part
demands. He phrased sensitively throughout,
caressing the music of this most romantic of
Wagner's heroes. Despite an obvious tiring
towards the end of the evening, the Canadian's
interpretation will certainly develop in depth and
stamina.
A feast for the eye and ear, although all
subsequent performances may not be enhanced
by the refusal of the curtain to rise at the
beginning of Act III, thus temporarily delaying
the lovers' intended night of bliss.
iqqy
At the Coliseum, St Martin's Lane,WC2N. Tube:
Leicester Square. 071 836 3161. Ends 29th
December.
A Muffled Flute
Would-be opera buffs are usually pretty well-
advised to praise the musical virtues of any new
Royal Opera House production, while con-
demning the staging for a lack of imagination.
But the new Magic Flute which opened at
Covent Garden last week turns this maxim on its
head; Schikaneder's pantomime cum road-movie
is well served but, in the pit, conductor Andrew
Parrott short-changes the divine Wolfgang A.
Martin Duncan's vivid and intelligent
production refreshingly proves that the phrase
'something for everyone', so often applied to the
Flute, doesn't have to be a euphemism for 'you
won't like most of it'. The beautiful abstract sets
in rich purple and bright yellow are filled with
symbols (set-squares, windows with wings)
representing Masonic brotherhood and enlight-
enment. Too much slapstick can upset the
delicate balance between these serious themes
and the opera's comic interludes, but here
there's plenty of wit in the buffo passages: in his
entrance aria, Peter Coleman-Wright's Papageno
stands stork-like on one leg while brightly-
coloured birds zip across the stage in answer to
his pipes. Later the wicked Monostatos,
complete with dangling Oxyrynchus-style
phallus, prepares an outrageous bondage con-
traption for Pamina.
As the hero Tamino, Kurt Streit struggles
against evil, ignorance and a sadistic costumier
to achieve initiation and a decent outfit with
symbolically rolled-up trouser leg. He has a
winsome voice, but from very early on it's
obvious he's not going to get the support he
needs from Andrew Parrott and a severely
pared-down orchestra, who completely ignore
Streit's attempts to raise the temperature and the
decibels at the climax of the portrait aria. Clarity
is all very well and there is indeed plenty of it
right from the crisp overture, but no sense of
theatrical ebb and flow, no build-up of tension
towards dramatic focal points, ever disturbs the
deliberate, even tread of Parrott's conducting.
It's all too quiet and well-manicured; only at the
very end does the distinctive burr of the
valveless trumpets make its mark.
Patrick Wood
Royal Opera House, Bow Street, WC2E. Tube:
Covent Garden. 071 240 1911. Ends 11th
December.
Take a walk through the Exhibition of American Art on page 5

