Reviews 19
Bent
Homosexuality is not straight. It is in fact Bent
by Martin Sherman. First presented at the Royal
Court in 1979, this play has been repeated in
over 40 countries, courtesy of the powerful
portrayal of the struggle for survival of Jewish
integrity comprehended by the eternal Jewish
intellectual who advocates the holocaust of Jews
but omits the holocaust of political prisoners,
criminals and, lastly, the butt of Nazi hate - not
the Jews but the gays!
This is a landmark play as well as a classic in
its own right, depicting the harrowing story of
'queer' or 'fluff love amid Nazi persecution in
concentration camps, which demonstrates that
gays, not Jews, witnessed the worst persecution.
Wolf, a tall blonde superman played by
Richard Trice, is shot by the Nazi's for being
'queer'. He was 'picked up' by Max (Nick
Mercer) who lives with his effeminate lover
Rudy (Andrew Ableson) and all homosexuals
flee the cities in fear of reprisals.
Living in a tent outside Berlin, Max and
Rudy pretend not to be 'queer' while Uncle
Freddie (John O'Byrne) tries to arrange passage
for them to Amsterdam. Both are arrested for
'touching' and end up in Dachau. Max denies
even knowing Rudy who is shot for his effem-
inacy. Max is rewarded for his 'straightness' by
being given a yellow star instead of the pink
triangle and enjoys certain privileges and
luxuries only allowed to Jews.
Max meets Horst, impressively played by
Aidan Slater, who has been imprisoned for
signing a petition calling for more homosexual
recognition. The end result is a struggle for
identity which the Nazi Corporal and the captain
attempt to rub out using the terror tactics of cruel
discipline.
Worth seeing even if you're not gay, but
don't expect a happy evening out. This is a play
for the unceremoniously unsqueemish who have
some interest in the subject matter.
Adrian Thurston
Etcetera Theatre, Oxford Arms, 265 Camden
High Street, NW1. 071 482 4857. Tube: Camden
Town. Cones: £7.50/£6.50 cones. Ends 28th
November.
WhmmM
The Winter's Tale Relative Values
When an actor stars in a long-running television
series, particularly a cop show, there is a
tendency to assume that the screen role rep-
resents the full extent of his acting abilities. To
make such an assumption of John 'Bergerac'
Nettles, would be to make a very silly mistake
indeed, for this production of The Winter's Tale
shows him to be a Shakespearean actor of the
first order.
The sheer intensity of his characterisation of
the jealousy-stricken King of Sicily creates an
aura permeating into every nook and cranny of
the auditorium. When Nettles' tortured monarch
exits the stage, the aura fades, leaving a vacuum
that could, in any other company, flatten the
production.
Fortunately, this is the R S C , where the
supporting players match their leads measure for
measure. This is most evident in the 'bit' parts,
such as those of Geoffrey Dench and Graham
Turner. Their old and young Shepherd double
act is at times so hilarious that, if this were
television and not the stage, they would
undoubtedly be given their own series.
Samantha Bond's Hermione, Queen of Sicily
and cause of all the trouble, was another
highlight of the evening, as was Richard
McCabe's stupendous playing of Autolycus as a
combination of Arthur Daley and Fagin.
Set such high quality players against
Anthony Ward's clever minimalist set that
seamlessly changes from one scene to the next
and then direct them by the RSC's Adrian Noble
and one has the recipe for a magic night at the
theatre.
Incidentally, for student on a budget, the
Barbican offers cheap standbys at £6.50 and £8.
However, my late arrival led me to discover an
interesting variant on the try-before-you-buy
idea. In order to prevent latecomers disrupting
the performance, the management keeps them
waiting in the bar where, with a comforting
drink (£1.80 for a glass of house plonk), one can
watch the first forty-five or so minutes of the
play on a monitor. Now, call me a skinflint if
you like, but isn't this an absolutely brilliant
way of finding out if the Shakespeare on offer is
as you like it?
So what is The Winter's Tale about? Does it
matter? No-one goes to see Shakespeare for the
plot, just the quality of the production and this
is one of the best of them all.
Shaun Joynson
RSC Barbican, Barbican, EC2. 071 638 8891.
Tube: Moorgate/Barbican. Standby £6.50/£8
(immediately before performance).
This is playing at the recently rebuilt Savoy
Theatre which was reduced to ruins in a
devastating fire in 1990. Painstakingly ren-
ovated at a vast cost to its 1920s splendour, it is
perfect for Noel Coward's play set in the height
of Bertie Wooster's days with all the upstairs-
downstairs shenanigans we love to hate.
Susan Hampshire plays the Countess whose
son is about to join the lower ranks by marrying
a Hollywood starlet (played by 'the blond girl in
the Philadelphia ads') causing much muttering
and dismay among the household staff. The
personal maid tearfully begs to leave her
ladyship but her ladyship will not have it as she
has been a servile companion all her life. The
plot thickens and a bizarre plan is tailored to
keep the maid within the household.
Despite a stilted start, the true comedy of
Coward's play emerges in the second half.
Unfortunately, this comedy, having been played
out in innumerable productions before, is dull in
the extreme. If you want to see the superb Savoy
Theatre then get a back stage tour, but the idea
of lunching at the next-door Savoy Grill holds a
lot more appeal for me!
M J
Savoy Theatre, Strand, WC2. 071 836 8888.
Tube: Charing Cross. Standby £10 (on day)
Reviewed on page 21: Tom Waits's latest album

