Reviews 21
Tom Waits
The Black Rider
"Fearless, tireless, insane and capable of going
to deep profound places" writes Waits in the
liner notes about his new collection of songs,
'The Black Rider'. Certainly this album takes us
to familiar Waits territory - crumbling love
songs, peculiar narratives and plain weirdness -
although it's less clear as to whether he's
succeeded in these claims. Like last year's
excellent 'Bone Machine', 'The Black Rider'
has a rough spontaneity. Most of the songs were
hothoused over a few nights in Hamburg with
collaborators Greg Cohen and Gerd Bessler.
Such experiment techniques suit most of Waits'
compositions admirably.
William Burroughs makes his presence felt
throughout the album, writing texts on which the
album was based and also taking a star turn on a
couple of songs. I can see it now, Burroughs as
pop star, dueling on Frank Sinatra's next album
and touring with Sonic Youth.
So there we have it. Reality presented by a
drunken hobo and a ninety year old cult writer. I
think they come pretty close. (8)
JF
Released on Island
A 111
Velvet
Underground
Live MCMXCIII
Lou Reed has succumbed to Dylan syndrome,
the blatant disregard of the original melodies
and vocal inflexions which ingrained them-
selves in your mind, and said what the band
were all about. Perhaps this is because he's Lou
and is a positive statement against stubborn
buffoons who expect a completely retro sell-out.
John Cale actually admitted early on that he was
in it for the money. It's initially patience testing,
but this is more to do with the fundamentally
conservative part of human nature.
With John Cale covering all the Nico parts,
the haunting qualities have been diminished, but
a certain Welshness has been added to it that
allows Nico to truly rest in peace. Incidentally,
his epic 'The Gift' was also delivered
beautifully, while his lamenting viola is nothing
short of stunning.
Moe Tucker steals the show quite easily with
her intriguing 'After Hours', perhaps closest to
the original; all the charm with a slightly fuller
backing. I will always rate Moe, partly because
of her original androgynous mystery, but also
because in the 80s she sang with cynical wit,
"I'll pay rent till the day I die, that's my share of
the American Pie." The seminal woman who
made female drummers just as cool.
This Paris recording is just for posterity, a
once volatile group getting together for old
times' sake. For some reason I can see them
backstage, staring into the middle distance and
wistfully reminiscing about those hazy days.
And as for Andy Warhol, all I can say is Valerie
Solanas. (7)
Camille
Released on Warner
Buffalo Tom
Bettie Serveert
The Forum
Bettie Serveert are from Amsterdam. It's a
foreign sound (there I've said it) US or British
bands wouldn't attempt it. Their songs should be
set as case studies for musical structure. To be
able to build a spiralling song, change tempo
mid-stream and employ false endings without
grinding teeth, these are people to build a
philosophy of music - existentialism within
someone's reach. Forget that the guitarist is a
left-over from the peroxide punk era. If you
have something to say, take me along to. That's
what they do and I don't even like all their
songs. Another speckled set but one which is
glorious in its expanse. Only Madder Rose have
eclipsed them live so far this year.
The headliners are on stage, Buffalo Tom, the
college geeks who made it beyond. B i l l ' s
resplendent with sensible cardigan and Chris in
a pleasant jumper, they're Pavement's saner
fetch and it shows. It's been said that they
"make such a virtue of the unspectacular". Right
on one count. A diet of steak and fries is as
American as apple pie but Buffalo Tom are only
handing out single portions. No grand vision,
just play the song. Yes, the crowd go wild but
they paid to do that. I want to be taken inside
myself but Buffalo Tom are an alternative
playing Kiss. It's tepid and only the encore with
'Torchsinger' really shows that there is any
American psyche at work. That was worth my
time but the rest, it just trailed off in the end.
Tintin
Tom Waits - Mephistopheles, darkness and the
whole cursed shooting match
Cranes
Astoria 2
Mist-garlanded and walking on light, the Cranes
come out to play. This is how it will be; we'll
dance on the edge of our yawning graves and
race thunderstorms through moonlit church-
yards, a tale whispering on the wind...
...but no. The fragile beauty of Alison
Shaw's voice is drowned in guitar feedback and
distortion; what should be portentous seems
merely pretentious. There are moments of
rapture, the single, 'Jewel', and the predatory
guitars of 'Adrift', but it's not enough. The
encore is curiously muted, only 'Starblood'
pulls us down with its ominous undercurrents.
The lights come up, exposing our dream
houses as the tawdry things they are, cheated by
the day. Perhaps I shouldn't hope for
entoxicating night blossoms in a garden like
this, I don't know, but if you'll excuse me I
think I hear the wind calling.
Joe
Baby Chaos
Sperm
I don't want to waste your time, here's two and
a half minutes of raucous riffing which knows
where it's going. Eeek, indie with a road map.
Baby Chaos are going to rake up the plaudits
with an album of this stuff. But, back in single
land, 'Sperm' and especially a funk headed
'Tongue' are just the start of their motorway.
Tintin
Released on East West
A Winter's Tale is reviewed on page 19

