Feature
Artful Dodging In The Capital
In a one man show, Marcus Alexander introduces you to art in London.
Either you can bow your head, gain a permanent
slouch, mumble about Laplace Transforms and
become one of thousands of apathetic zombies
at Imperial College who can't relate to anything
more complex than a spanner,
Or...
You can do something about it! London is
the cultural capital of the world, where you can
find whatever your tastes require, be it high class
theatre or Soho peep shows. Go out, venture
onto the streets and discover it all for yourself.
Visit a museum (there are three within five
minutes walk of Imperial College), go to the
theatre, involve yourself. After all, no-one else
will do it for you. You may have noticed that
Felix has a lively selection of reviews, ranging
i t
from music to art. Yes, art! Why, you may say,
should I be interested in that? Quite simply
because it is everywhere and everything. ("The
secret of life is in art" -O.W.)
An interest in art will give you a greater
understanding of anything else, from T V to
quantum mathematics. Contrary to popular
belief, art is not for pretentious arty farty
students with silly hats, but it is for you. So
where can I find it? Well, on this page, I, as
cultural ambassador to Imperial College, will
lead you by the hand to the bizarre, the curious,
the mind-blowing, whatever it is that's going on
in the world of the visual. So, here's a brief note
on three of the more well known galleries.
The National Gallery
You've heard the name, you may even have
seen it at Trafalgar Square, but have you ever
dared to look inside? The National Gallery
houses the national collection of Western
European Painting dating from the 13th Century
right up to the 20th Century, which basically
means that it has just about everything. It would
take days to explore the cavernous interiors and
see all of the 2,200 paintings, so it's much better
just to pop in when passing to have a quick look
at a few specialities. You'll find paintings by
just about every artist you've heard of, including
selections by Constable, Turner, Van Gogh and
Picasso, so there's something for everyone, even
people who don't think they are interested in art.
Also, you can venture into the Sainsbury
wing (Prince Charles' favourite 'carbuncle on a
much loved friend') where, if you succeed in
avoiding the icons and religious paintings, you
will find the Micro Gallery. Especially for
technophiles and couch potatoes, this allows
you to wander around a virtual museum without
wearing out your Doc Marten shoe soles and
view any picture you want. For a small fee, an
instant reproduction is yours to keep, along with
its background history.
So, next time you're passing Trafalgar
Square have a look at the National, if only to
say that you've been. It is free, so you've got
nothing to lose.
National Gallery. Trafalgar square (Tube:
Charing Cross/ Leicester Square). Open Mon-
Sat 10am-6pm, Sun 2pm-6pm. Free admission.
Smiling over the Tham
The Tate Gallery
Much loved by students of all descriptions, the
Tate is best known for it's superb collection of
modern art, with many familiar faces, including
Picasso, Warhol and Matisse. After fighting
your way past the tourists, security guards and
sellers of the new Tate magazine for Culture
Vultures, you are confronted by Rodin's Kiss. A
very famous sculpture, but his others are more
interesting.
Beyond that are many other gems. The
minimalist room contains almost nothing. Here
you can form a personal conjunction with the
exhibits, or just laugh at the 'Load Of Bricks',
otherwise known as 'Equivalent VIII'
(Apparently there are also seven others in
existence). OK, so you could have done it your-
self in your back garden but you didn't, did you?
Giacometti's spindly stick figures are well
worth seeing, along with Henry Moore's work.
the beloved Tate Gallery
(For a closer Moore, just walk across from
College to Kensington Gardens to see the Arch.)
Walking beyond 'The Geometry Of Fear', you
can find a load of Pollocks. The joke may be
old, but Jackson Pollock's random splatters of
paint are still worth seeing.
Although known for such works, the Tate has
much more than that. It has a superb collection
of earlier British art, mainly from the 18th
Century onwards, with works by William Blake
and others. In the Clore Gallery is the Turner
collection, the most comprehensive selection of
Turner's paintings on display anywhere. They
also have regularly changing exhibitions (for
which you have to pay) and for any real
enthusiasts, there are lectures and talks. So
spend a Sunday afternoon at the Tate and you'll
feel much better for it.
Tate Gallery, Millbank. Tube: Pimlico.
Open Mon-Sat 10am-5.30pm, Sun 2pm-5.30pm
The Hayward Gallery
A spider in the midst of the concrete web that is
the South Bank Centre, the Hayward Gallery
has been adored and spurned with equal venom
over the years. Certainly it does not compare
with the outward majesty of the National or the
Tate yet it has displayed some of the most
innovative and abrasive exhibitions over the last
couple of years. As there are no standing
exhibitions, variety is assured throughout the
year. Georgia O'Keefe, the art of the Incas and
Aborigines, Magritte's surreal visions and
James Turrell's light installations have been
amongst the wonders seen at the Hayward.
Maybe its time to bloom is just arriving.
The Hayward is presently showing the
spirited work of Roger Hilton and installations
from Julian Opie.
Hayward Gallery, South Bank Centre Tube:
Embankment or Waterloo. Open daily 10am-
6pm, Tue & Wed until 8pm. Concessions £3.50
Don't forget about the Serpentine Gallery in Kensington Gardens

