American Art in the Twentieth Century
"It started with a urinal" claims Marcus Alexanderas heflicks through the
back catalogue that is the Royal Academy's American Art exhibition. But
Feature
Dan Flavin, 'A Barrier of Blue, Red and Blue Fluorescent Light' (honest!!)
The Royal Academy recently decided to do a
series of retrospectives of all of the major art in
the 20th Century. A n arduous task indeed, and
the latest stage is the 'American Art In The 20th
Century' exhibition, a veritable feast for all. This
show is so vast that it outgrew the halls of the
Academy itself and an offshoot was spawned in
the Saatchi Gallery featuring the weird and
wacky experimentation of the last twenty years.
It all started with a urinal. Duchamp's pissoir
confronts you in the first room, as it did in 1913
when an exhibition sent the New York public
reeling in shock and the New York artists
dreaming new ideas. Thus, art was born in
America. The artists experimented and the joy
they found can be seen in this first chamber,
with works by Man Ray and others inspired by
the European trends. Duchamp also features (the
only non-American), with his exhibits repeated
in his 'Boite-en-valise', a box set of miniature
versions of his works, even a tiny urinal.
Dangling above the cultourists heads in the
next room are mobiles wherein the fourth
dimension of time first appeared in art. By the
walls are tiny boxes of delights, surreal
collections of objects. The precisionists were
inspired by the new images of America, painting
skyscrapers, machinery and objects. O'Keeffe
(recently shown at the Hayward) painted
buildings with bold, mechanically hard-edged
planes of colour. Sheeler's 'Classic Landscape'
depicts a power station with supreme linearity.
For the first time, the American obsession with
self-glorification appears with brand names and
Americana being recurrent motifs in these
works, anticipating the later Pop Art.
As the cultourists walk on to the next
chamber, they see the images crystallise to form
the first American art movement, Abstract
Expressionism. The arguments about the worth
of these seemingly random splashes of colour
will never cease, but in the flesh they have an
amazing power. Pollock gained fame for
dribbling paint over vast canvasses in a suicidal
alcohol stupor. Stare at these random squirls and
creatures will seem to dance about the canvass.
In an octagonal room is a spiritual temple where
you can seek enlightenment within Rothko and
Newman's vast paintings. Beautiful simplicity,
stare and sink in...
Abstraction became abstract when Reinhart
painted black pictures. Three of these are
displayed, all of them black. The narrator
formed conjunctions in passing. Of course, there
had to be a backlash - in fact there were three.
The most well known was Pop Art and the most
derided was Minimalism. Conceptualism was
the most conceptual.
Warhol (The Pope of Pop) and the other stars
of Pop Art made modern day icons out of
consumer goods. Sadly they have now been
consumerised so much that they have lost their
power as icons. These famous works no longer
work, they just seem decorative. Warhol's
'Marilyn' prints are now seen everywhere, but
his 'Ambulance Disaster' still shocks. Crushed
car sculptures stand in the centre of the room as
an echo of destructive consumerism. Cultourists
laughed as they watched a mad woman place a
plastic fly on Oldenberg's plaster meat display
before photographing it, explaining, "it's more
authentic that way" to a bemused security guard.
For the first time cultourists can walk over a
work of art! Carl Andre placed bricks in the Tate
Gallery, and his floor tiles are here. The
minimalist room is paradoxically overcrowded,
reducing the power of these large cubes, boxes
and shapes. For a better display go to the Tate.
Beyond this, a two foot square lead cube defies
gravity, balanced precariously against the wall
by a pole. A beautiful neon light sculpture leads
the way past the two conceptualist works by
Weiner Statements painted on the wall. One
reads: 'To See And Be Seen'.
Already drained by this incredible journey
through art, the cultourists can rest on the bus as
they head to the Saatchi Gallery to discover
America's latest trends...
Chaos! Entropy has struck, the movements
have collapsed and art is once more in a state of
flux. In the Saatchi, the cultourists are welcomed
by Nauman's 'Green Light Corridor', a neon lit
passage, too narrow for people to walk through,
which shows the way into a veritable torture
chamber of confusion. Huge paintings sprawl
across the walls in a multitude of styles,
sculptures squat on the floor. These modern day
artists use any methods they can in order to
make sense of technology, media and violence.
In this melee, various objects stand out.
Borofsky is obsessed with numbers, his giant
'Split Head' has 2,673,047 tattooed across its
bifurcated forehead. Kitsch supremo Jeff Koons
gives us vacuum cleaners and a glass encap-
sulated basketball. Robert Gober, whose genital
wallpaper recently adorned the Serpentine
Gallery, gives us a closet for our sordid desires.
Overshadowing all this, a giant scrolling
message board delivers cryptic advice, "... Then
you're much less likely to be assaulted ... use
what is dominant in a culture to change it
quickly ... you have nothing to worry about...",
and cultourists trap themselves in a triangular
glass room for a sense of closure.
One of the most exciting aspects of new art is
Installation work, where whole rooms are
transformed into psychoactive spaces. James
Turrell has provided one of his arenas of light,
unfortunately out of order. Few people return the
same after experiencing Viola's 'Room of St.
John'. Providing cultourists with a latter day
version of St John's imprisonment, the room is
dark with a rumbling soundtrack and shaking
projections on the end wall which create an
overpowering sense of unease and disturbance.
In another room, the fourth dimension of time
recurs in a video installation. Eight screens
flicker with seemingly random images and
colours. Don't stand at the edge, sit in the
middle where a voice talks insanely from all
sides. Walking off, the voice droned on with
frightening prescience: "Listen, we can part
company at any time. It's all at your
convenience."
So, as the journey ends, I would advise you
all to follow in the steps of the cultourists and
make the pilgrimage to the Royal Academy
while you have the chance. It's not for elitists,
but deserves to be seen by everybody. Even if
you cannot afford the cost of the entire
exhibition, visit the Saatchi (it's free) for even
this small part is an entire show in its own right,
exciting and weird.
The American Art exhibition runs until 12th December

