6 Feature
I was thirteen when I got my first Giles cartoon
annual for Christmas. That was in 1971 and it set
me on a quest taking fifteen years to complete.
My intention was to collect the other twenty
or so in the series, for this one had made me
laugh so much that I ached to see the others. A
call to a second-hand bookshop in 1986
unearthed a number three to complete the
collection and I carried it home in triumph!
Along the way, I also collected works by
other newspaper cartoonists, too: Thelwell, Low,
H. M . Bateman, Searle, The Perishers, Andy
Capp, I had them all in one of the largest private
collections in the country. Alas, stricken by
poverty some years later, I had to flog the lot.
Mention St Trinians and the Addams Family
and most think only of films and T V without
knowing that both began as newspaper cartoons.
People don't realise the power of newspaper
cartoonists. With a newspaper cartoon, we notice
the joke, not the art. With Giles, both stand out.
A glance into one of his cartoons is a trip into
another world - one that probably never existed -
that of the ideal British family. Giles' family
comprises Mum, Dad, Vera, the Twins, the Son,
his devilish friend Larry, (he's the one with the
black mop-top) and of course Grandma, the
razor tongued, hard-drinking matriarch of the
clan and undoubted star of the show.
Three times a week for the last fifty years,
Giles' family have commented on the news of
the day in the pages of the Daily Express. As
Lionel Lambourne says in the exhibition notes,
"My Grandma says hang everybody." Daily Express, July 3rd 1956
future historians of the later half of the 20th
Century will find his cartoons indispensable,
such is the power of his art.
Having roared at the astringent punchline, the
next thing one must do when viewing a Giles
cartoon is peer into the background. Failure to
do so means that one probably misses a dozen
other laughs. One also notices Giles' tremendous
skill in drawing streets and buildings. Many's
the time I've looked at one of his cartoons and
found myself wanting to jump into it and go into
the chemist and buy a tube of the 'Footo'
ointment advertised on the nearby hoarding.
What tickles me most is the way Giles makes
the characters swear. They will not actually say
the word, but basic lip-reading soon makes it
abundantly clear what is coming out of the silent
mouth. How many other artists can do this?
None, is the answer.
Art exhibitions are normally dull affairs. As
one walks around this one, an amazing sound is
heard. It is the wonderful melody of visitors
roaring with laughter. Funnily enough, one of
the biggest laughs of all is that one can enjoy
this historic and hilarious exhibition for only
£2.50. Don't miss it!
Shaun Joynson
National Museum of Cartoon Art, 183 Eversholt
Street, NW1. 071 388 4326. Until 23rd
December. Admission: £2.50
Thomas Eakins: A Giant Of American Painting
With this retrospective, Thomas Eakins
(1844-1916) has been labelled as one of the
giants of American painting. Comparable to
Sargent in that both concentrated on portraits,
Eakins was the gloomy side of the movement.
His figures, however close he fought for a realist
cause, end up being twisted, whereas Sargent
produced the opulence of the age.
Eakins started at the Pennsylvania Academy
Of Fine Arts where his grasp of technical
reproduction was clear from an early age. Yet it
was his contact with Europe which provided the
direction for his mature painting. Studying in
Paris between 1866 and 1870, but also travelling
to Spain, he was influenced by Velasquez,
particularly . He wrote "I have seen some big
paintings," and returned convinced in his realism.
His early work accomplished some of the
finest studies of outdoor and sporting figures
that have been seen. A study of the solo rower,
'John Biglin', is particularly stunning. The
moment of stroke is precisely caught. Even the
reflections on the water are used as an integral
part. In a similar vein he encapsulated outdoor
life; the synergy between gunner and boatman in
'Will Schuster and Blackman Going Shooting.'
he painted the raw style of the American dream.
Although he was always interested in such
compositions, his later years saw a shift towards
portraits. Yet, as a lecturer at the Academy Of
Fine Arts he also worked with Muybridge in the
photographic analysis of motion. The end of the
exhibition does in fact display some of Eakins'
photographs and he is best placed as a link
between the realism of painting and the absolute
reproduction of the mechanical process.
Of Eakins' portraits, the largest pictures on
show are those of two academics and the better
known 'Concert Singer'. Classic as these are
they do not express Eakins' full meter. This is
best seen in the lipid portrait of his wife. Red
rimmed eyes and sunken figure combine to
produce a wraith like image. Even with more
handsome figures, the results were disheartening.
In fact many of his commissioned portraits were
disliked by the sitters. Realism can always be
turned either way; pessimism was Eakins' way.
His most famous picture is 'The Gross
Clinic', (not exhibited) depicting an operation in
bloody situ. At the time, 1875, it was seen as
being too strong in its representation. As a
realistic scene showing the progressive wonder
of the then modern medicine, it is unsurpassed.
Eakins even paints himself in; the faithful
recorder. Yet it is the fourteen full length
canvases of Catholic dignitaries which perhaps
encompass Eakins most fully; the expense of
rich red, full-bodied figures and then a slightly
twisted visage.
By the end of his life, Eakins certainly had
things to be bitter about. He lost his lecturing
position when he removed the loin-cloth from a
male model in a mixed class. Nudes were not
considered proper in middle-class Philadelphia
society; but nudity was part of Eakins' scheme
of painting. He himself was part of the Walt
Whitman group, which encouraged the sheer
physical enjoyment in the outdoor pursuits of
real men. Scandal was also realised as his niece
committed suicide after living in his house.
In his self portrait of 1902, Eakins is shifty,
uncomfortable and skewed to the frame. It
reminded me of Munch's self portrait with its
background of cloying smoke. In both, the
painter is hiding from an unhappy life.
This is not a pleasant exhibition to attend, but
it places Eakins as a figure looking towards the
uneasiness produced by the fin-de-siecle era in
which he worked.
Tintin
National Portrait Gallery, St Martin's Place,
WC2. 071 306 0055. Tube: Charing Cross.
Mon-Fri 10am-5pm, Sat 10am-6pm, Sun 2pm-
6pm. Cones: £2.50. Until 23rd January '94.
An article on next week}s World AIDS Day is on page 14

