Clubs and Societies
Basketball
Tournament
On Saturday, a Basketball Tournament
involving six Sports Centres took place at the
Kensington Sports Centre. The tournament was
organised by John Gosper, basketball coach for
the Kensington Sports Centre and Masud
Homafar assisted him.
The tournament proved to be very exciting
and competitive between the six very strong and
skilled teams. The Imperial College Sports
Centre and Kensington Sports Centre were the
two finalists, each having won all their
qualifying games.
Imperial College Sports Centre took the final
honours with a score of 63 against Kensington's
43. The referee, Roger Bacchus, deserves full
credit for keeping the tournament in control.
Imperial'Nose'
On Wednesday 10th November 1993, the
Imperial College Union Wine Tasting Society
stormed their way to victory in the Southern heat
of the Macallan/Decanter University Malt
Whisky Tasting Competition.
The heat, held at the Oxford Union,
combined both an individual and team event,
both of which were won by Imperial College.
The team event involved a highly testing quiz
about the ins and outs of malt whisky manu-
facture and the malt whisky industry. For
example, 'How many distilleries are currently
operating in the Islay region?' (Ans = 8); or
'What is the percentage of Macallan lost
annually to the Angel's share during matura-
tion?' (Ans = 1-2%). The marvellous team effort
displayed by the Imperial College competitors
ensured that the opposition, from Bath, Bristol,
Warwick, Cambridge and Hertfordshire
Universities, did not stand a chance and the team
received its just rewards of a twelve-bottle case
of The Macallan 10-years-old.
The competition also involved an individual
event that entailed a blind nosing of five malt
whiskies from the main regions of production. In
this, the competitors were required to identify
IC Virgins 0 - 78 Reading
So, last Saturday saw the Virgins bravely
battling it out on the rugby field against Reading
1st X V . At least, so it goes for the ten of us who
dragged ourselves out of bed on that cold snowy
morning.
Still, despite being severely short on
numbers, they tried desperately to stop the on-
slaught and at times even managed to show
Best
the region in which each whisky was produced
and the distillery that produced it. Not an easy
task when you consider there are more than 100
to choose from! This was brilliantly won by the
society's very own Ole Petter Gulbrandsen, who
goes on to compete in the Grand Final on Burns'
Night at the Caledonian Club. The society
wishes him all the best in the final, where he
will be competing against the winners of the
Northern and Scottish heats, still to be held at
Durham and Glasgow.
After the stresses and strains of the
competition, everyone was revived with a
generous dram of The Macallan and an amusing
video presentation before the journey home via
several drinking establishments.
This competition is just an example of the
many events organised or attended by the
Imperial College Union Wine Tasting Society,
so if you're interested in tasting wine, whisky or
whatever, come along to our meetings, which
happen every Tuesday at 8pm in the Union
Dining Hall, and find out more. Everyone is
welcome, whether novice or expert, so keep an
eye on the notice boards for what's on each
week, both this term and next.
some inspiration, ranging from winning line outs
to running through non-existent tackles. But at
the end of the match this wasn't enough.
So, girlies, if you've been holding back 'cos
you've never played before, don't worry, it's all-
comers welcome. Training sessions are:
Tuesday: 5pm, Hyde Park,
Thursday: lpm, Hyde Park,
Sunday: Matches or 11 am, Hyde Park.
Stomach
Disorders
"Return," they cry and return we do. The Ents
crew are back and we're not budging for jack.
Tonight, it's party time again in the Union
when Atmosphere shoots its sensual stuff.
We've shipped in the latest stars of the inde-
pendent scene, Echobelly. Their recent release
'The Bellyache E P ' had the critics cream
thrown all over it. Many people see this band to
take over the indie-pop crown, first worn by The
Smiths, that has changed hands numerously
over the years. You've got a chance to see them
for a fraction of the price elsewhere. Tickets are
just £1.50 in advance and £2 on the door, people
with Ents cards only pay £ 1 . Doors open at
8pm, bar 'til lam and a disco through till 2am.
The support band will be on soon after 9pm
with the main band on just before 11pm; get
there early for the 8pm-9pm Happy Hour.
The Boomtown Rats have recently shown
their disapproval, but even so, the specialist
discos are carrying on regardless. This Monday
(29th) will be a Monster indie night with all ya
faves, old and new. It's free it's easy and the
music runs from 9pm to midnight.
Club Libido hasn't stopped for anything and
after the last few stormin' weeks we're taking
our part in a charity special for World Aids Day
(Wednesday 1st December). There will be a 50p
donation at the door, all of which will go to an
Aids Charity (see page 14 for details). Come
along between 9pm and lam. There's a late bar
'til midnight. After this week this event reverts
to free admission.
Come along to one of our Tuesday lunchtime
meetings or drop a line to Matt Park, Ents Chair,
in the Ents pigeonhole (Union Office) to find
out more about getting involved with Ents.
Despite this article, we're actually alright
people! Honest.
A Few Brave Women
See page 10 for an article on the World Student Games

