Clubs and Societies 9
Congas, Concerts And Rag
Raids Down South
We told you last week that Rag would not
disappear after Rag Week and we have stayed
true to our word. We have a number of events
going on in the next few weeks, all of which
should prove to be fun and raise loads of money
for charity.
Firstly there is a collection on the 27th
November (tomorrow) at the Lenny Kravitz
concert in Wembley Arena. If you want to take
part, come to the Rag meeting at 1.10pm today
in the Union Lounge and sign up. The collectors
should get in to see the concert, so it is well
worth going.
Secondly, this Saturday, Rag is going to
attempt to raise lots of money for Shelter (the
charity which helps the homeless nationwide
and especially in London).
How are we going to do this I hear you ask?
We are going to do a Giant Conga around
Trafalgar Square at midday!!! So if you want to
help the homeless and have fun whilst doing
doing so, come to the Rag Office at 11am on
Saturday morning and we'll set off to have fun.
Once we've done the Conga, we will set off
to various points around London and collect
loads of money. There will be prizes for the
most original fancy dress and for the top
collector. So come along and have fun. If
nothing else, running around Trafalgar Square
will get you nice and warm.
For more details on the Giant Conga, come to
the Rag Meeting on Friday lunchtime in the
Union Lounge or see Ian in the Union Bar this
evening and bribe him with a pint (a further
prize for the person who bribes Ian in the most
original way!!)
Thirdly, do you want to escape from the
bustling metropolis of London for a day? If so,
come with us on our Rag Raid on 4th December
(next Saturday) as it won't cost you anything to
get there. We will be taking a minibus of people
down to a town near Brighton called Haywards
Heath where we will be collecting for Oxfam
and exploring the local area. Rag have already
done one Rag Raid to Poole this year which was
a storming success and everyone had a good
time. So, if you missed out, come on this one. If
you want to go, sign up at our meeting today or
come up to the Rag Office during any lunch-
time. The places are limited to a minibus-full so
it is first come, first served. Hopefully, we now
have a Rag Raid Coordinator, so we will have
lots more of these outings in 1994.
For more information on any of our events or
collections come to our Friday meetings, read
Felix or simply visit the Rag Office at lunchtime
and we will be happy to help you.
Mission
Impossible
Every Tuesday evening at seven o'clock, IC
Radio takes a peek into the future.
Mission Impossible is a lively mix of news,
interviews and features, keeping you informed
on the cutting edge of science, technology and
medicine. We cover the important issues
affecting scientists and engineers today and in
the future and look at research going on at
Imperial College, so you can find out what your
lecturers get up to behind closed doors! Above
all, we try to make science fun and accessible -
something it's easy to forget when you're doing
a science degree!
In this week's show, we will report on the
European Science Night at the Science Museum
and talk to Kate Bellingham from 'Tomorrow's
World'. There'll also be an interview with Tim
Parsons, the Imperial College student behind the
programme 'Cyberpunks And Technophobes',
shown on B B C 2 last Monday and everything
else you need to know about the world of
science.
Your mission, should you choose to accept it,
is to tune into Mission Impossible this Tuesday,
and listen to tomorrow's science - today.
jr (Boolqng a Christmas Party?
for your departmmt,jriends or
A cvOeacfues...
%K Why not book the Mr
Union Dining Hall?
Very reasonable rates for
your Christmas dinner
or drinks reception.
We can cater for up to 100 people,
anything from a 3 course dinner
to snacks & drinks. Bands and
discos can be arranged too!!
/CU
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Call Sam on (071) 225 8586
or internal x8586
What dike you
doing on
% 5th M
February ?

