5 June 1998 NEWS
Ken Weale Dies
JULIA HARRIES
Dr Ken Weale, a former Senior Treasurer of
Imperial College Union died in hospital of
pneumonia on the seventh of May. H e was
seventy-four years old. A keen sportsman and a
well loved member of college, Dr Weale man-
aged to combine his various sporting activities
with his dual roles as Senior College Tutor and a
member of the College Board of Governors.
Excelling at rugby, he was the second President
of the Imperial College Rugby Football Club, as
well as playing for Imperial College, the
University of London and several O l d Boys
teams until well into his fifties. As well as this,
he also played cricket for both Imperial and
London University, serving as the President of
the Imperial College Cricket Club for many
years, w a s a keen boxer a n d a former
Heavyweight Boxing C h a m p i o n of the University
of London.
Born in Wales in 1923, Dr Weale completed
his first degree at the University of Aberystwyth,
coming to Imperial College as a Reader in the
Department of Chemical of Engineering shortly
after the Second W o r l d War. As Senior College
Tutor, he lived o n campus for over thirty years,
and during that time became heavily involved
Ken Weale; renouned for his energy and
enthusiasm. Photo: Felix Archive
with student affairs. As a former Warden of
Falmouth-Keough Hall, he is credited with start-
ing s o m e of the hall's earliest traditions, and in
a reminiscent m o o d was apt to tell the tale of
the explosion on the O l d Hostel roof. H e was
always extremely popular, having as he did time
for absolutely everyone. H e held the position of
Senior Treasurer for twenty-five years, showing
his interest in and dedication to the union. It is
for this as well as for his concern and hard work
that he will be best remembered.
A familiar figure in Southside Bar, Dr Weale
was also an active member of all three of the
college elective social clubs, the Links Club, the
'22 Club and the Chaps, and regularly spoke at
their dinners. Roger Pownell, Southside Bar
Manager and current President of the ICRFC,
remembers him as "a really nice bloke, probably
the most prominent person Imperial College has
ever had. H e was always smiling, had time for
everyone and was a really special person."
A memorial service is to be held for him in
October, as well as a Rugby Club memorial din-
ner for all those w h o knew him well, reflecting
his popularity in College. As one of the leading
figures at Imperial College, he will be greatly
missed by everyone w h o knew him or had deal-
ings with him.
Dr. Solomon's
Anti - Virus
Software
Version 7.82 is now available
Come and register at
CCS SHOP
Level 4
Mechanical Engineering Building
ext. 46953
ccs-shop@ic.ac.uk
9.30am - 5.00pm (Wed 10.00am - 5.00pm)
m...
\ s Buy your Magic
Bullet Disk,
and receive
download
instructions!!!

