Manifestos
PRESIDENT Mark Reeves proposed by Andrew Jeanes
No p h o t o submitted
I've known Mark since his first day at college. His dedication
to any task he undertakes never ceases to amaze me. Mark has
some radical plans for the Union-plans he has drawn up after
watching the Union very closely this year. Realistic plans that
put the Union back in the hands of its students-not its hacks.
Vote for a students union next year-Vote Mark Reeves on
March 6th and 7th.
Andrew Jeanes
My election pledges are as follows:
Drastic lowering of Bar and Snack Bar prices next year. More
value for money in all Union outlets such as increasing the portion
sizes in the Union Snack Bar. Putting Soft drinks at realistic
prices. Southside and other college outlets should be radically
undercut.
Voucher scheme for clubs membership. The first five clubs
that a student join are free-thereafter a nominal sum is paid.
Proper action on student loans-not pussyfooting as has been
done this year. Co-operation with other SU's to organise sit-ins,
demos, parliament lobbies-whatever is necessary.
Union service for finding part-time jobs for students. Creation
of Jobfinder scheme to succeed where the College Carreers
service fails.
Sponsorship deals with outside companies to fund better clubs
facilities, complete renovation of Union Building, more minibuses
etc.
Negotiate strongly with College over accommodation costs.
Either they bring down their prices or, we organise a rent strike.
Ask St Mary's to join us on their terms. We are based in
Kensington not Paddington. If they don't wan't to merge-so
much more money for us.
Vote for a students union next year-vote Reeves.
Mark Reeves.
PRESIDENT Sez Wilkinson proposed by Andy Bannister
Proposers Speech by Andy Bannister
Sez tells me she is the best candidate for president and I don't
dare argue. If you value your lives you won't either!
Sez has considerable experience of working in mortuarys and
phsychiatric hospitals-experience which should prove
invaluable when working on Union committees.
Her ambitions are to travel and meet people.
The ripening of a voluptuous new union is nigh. The swelling
libido of power-lust and erogenous ego excitation is thrust-out
in spasms of bulging excitement from standing sebaticals and
we witness a paroxysm of profound promises, but in the
tempestuous writhings of election revelry and debauchery we
must not blow the job of President. Partners, this is no wet joke.
Together we have witnessed the ever-painful crushing of our
beloved union. No longer can we lie back with our heads buried
in the pillows. We must unlock the chasity of our fate and
overcome it. We must never be impregnated by the fiery torrent
of anti-student politics, we will fight them in the walkway, we
will fight them in the JCR, we will fight them from every shadow
and shower in College. We will never submit.
May the great leaders of our time remove from us the warm
wet tears of financial strain, the rhythmically rising rents, the
languid looming of loans and the penetrating pain of poll-tax.
Never before in the wild conflicts of student-government politics'
have so many owed so much to so few.
Arm in arm, hand in hand, wholly together we can fill the pot-
holes and the chasms that line the road of life. We need a sense
of direction, time and rhythum to insert ourselves directly into
the warm swelling streams of action, to project ourselves
towards the wild throws of success, until in the final ejaculation
of
DEPUTY PRESIDENT Alistair Goodall proposed by Margaret Poole
Externa! Affairs
The biggest threat facing students today is apathy. As DP I will
ensure that every student is kept aware of all the current
legislation affecting students. ICU must make its opinions on
loans, grants, benefits etc. understood by those that matter
before apathy changes student life forever.
Academic Affairs
Departments must provide adequate support for their students,
many of whom face problems with finance, workloads or
accomodation. I will monitor the current Dep./Ac. Rep. system
closely to see if it represents and protects students' interests
sufficiently.
Union Finance
Clubs should be allowed to hold their own bank accounts (With
suitable safeguards), furthermore wherever possible I will
encourage and help clubs to find outside financing through
sponsorship or donations. This will lead to better and simpler
funding of Clubs and more money for the Union.
Mergers
UGMs and St Mary's are here to stay and ICU should
accomodate both, possibly by providing free transport between
sites for UGMs.
Before a merger with RHBNC is considered further I will ensure
that the Union is informed of all the facts and that subsequent
policy is presented at all stages of the negotiations as it's vital
that ICU's interests are protected throughout.
A Student's Union
The Deputy President exists to report to the President and be
responsible to UGMs for a number of issues and so it is you who
should decide the full policy of next year's sabbaticals.
This manifesto has stated part of what I would achieve as DP
but the rest needs writing next year when you decide what areas
need attention and what should be changed. Your vote counts
so use it, and Vote for your say in the running of your Union
and make me, Alistair Goodall, your next Deputy President.
Page 10 FELIX March 3 1989

