Manifestos
DEPUTY PRESIDENT Gavin Spittlehouse proposed by Tom Yates
Personally and professionally I have known Gavin for some 18
months, during which time his contribution to the Union has
steadily increased. From a very capable start within individual
societies, his involvement grew to the point where he was
elected Chairman of the newly-created Industrial Relations
Committee, a job which he performed with admirable skill. From
this background, Gavin now has a grasp of Union affairs
unsurpassed outside the current Executive.
He will make an excellent Deputy President.
Proposer: Tom Yates, Physics PG.
Would our bookshop, bar and snackbar serve us better by making
profits for the Union, or by providing better/cheaper services and
lower profits? I will look into this.
The proposed IC/RHBNC merger would destroy student clubs
and social life. I am completely against it.
Hall rent levels have increased dramatically over the last few
years, to pay for Fisher Hall. The agreement which lead to these
increases is coming to an end. We must consider whether we
want low rent increases, or would accept higher increases if it
means more places in hall.
Our Union building is a vital facility. It is unclean, untidy and
in a bad state of repair. I will ensure it is repaired and improved,
and looked after properly.
Countless past sabbatical candidates have promised to
produce "Exec News". I make no such promise. FELIX is an
excellent medium for communication, which I will use to keep
in touch with students. I want to see UGM motions publicised
in advance.
The lecturer questionnaire is an excellent idea. The first
published results are due soon. We must ensure that
departments use them to improve teaching standards.
Little has been done towards the SMHMSSU merger. It is to
everyones advantage that it takes place smoothly and quickly.
I will work towards this.
DEPUTY PRESIDENT Dave Williams proposed by Dave Osborne
Proposer
Most people associate Dave Williams with Rag, since as Vice
President this year he has led RCS Rag to their highest ever total.
He also edited this year's IC Rag Mag, which has proved to be
popular both here and across the country. He has achieved this
through enthusiasm and hard work-qualities which he has
continually shown in his posts in RCSU.
As RCS Treasurer last year, Dave and his President saved their
Union's Finances from death. In this capacity, Dave also attended
ICU Finance meetings, and will have no difficulty looking after
IC Union's money. Dave has also sat on ICU Council this year,
and has considerable knowledge in how the Union runs. In all
my experience with him, he has been easy going, whilst still
taking the job seriously. I have no doubt he will do an excellent
job as ICU DP, and urge you all to vote for him.
Dave Osborne, Chem Eng 111
Candidate
Recently we have seen the Union expand its services
considerably, however this has brought us sabbaticals with
minds set firmly on profit. People have forgotten that the job
of DP is about services to students, whilst still keeping a close
eye on the balance sheet.
I want to improve the image of the Unions facilities by
organising a survey of students to find were things are going
wrong. We must reconsider our bonds with the Southside Bar
pricing policy which artificially inflate our own.
We must renovate and maintain the Union building so it is a
place we can all enjoy using and are not ashamed to show
visitors.
These are only the start of my plans, bring these and more
to fruition by voting for me, the man who knows what it is all
about!
HON SEC Doug King proposed by Andrew Garside
If I am elected to the post ot Hon Sec next year I shall do my
very best to drag the Union down to my level. I was brought
up in the gutter and have sunk lower since.
Experience
I have no experience whatsoever that would benefit me as Hon
Sec. I especially haven't had anything to do with ents. However
between me and a few friends I can muster quite a large tape
collection. I also know how to produce publicity on the cheap.
The Hon Sec is also responsible for organising the contact
between the Exec and the students through the UGM. In my time
at IC I have been to at least 2 UGMs so I have seen what they're
like. I have also watched council on one occasion so I know how
little there is to do.
To sum up: If elected I will do as little as possible for a year and
will be useless as Hon Sec. But I'm the only candidate who has
told you the truth and not made any false claims.
So vote for me and I'll do Fuck All for you.
March 3 1989 F E L I X Page 11

