Manifestos
HON SEC Fiona Nicholas proposed by Ralph Greenwell
FELIX EDITOR
FELIX EDITOR
Hon Sec (Events)
Fiona Nicholas, proposed by Ralph Greenwell
Fiona Nicholas is an honest, hard-working, approachable third-
year biochemist who has always believed in playing as hard as
she works and working as hard as she can.
. Having played an active part in the social life of Beit Hall in
her first year, Fiona became RCS VP in her second year and was
awarded an RCS UGA (the highest reward a CCU can give for
service and dedication) for her contribution to their Rag. As RCS
VP, Fiona worked continuously with and on the ICU Rag
Committee; this led to her being vo'.ad this year's Chairman. She
has performed this job diligently and with unfailing enthusiasm,
despite unconstructive criticisms levelled at her by other parties.
The job has placed her in an excellent position to learn about
the workings of ICU, particularly the organisation of large
functions.
Ralph Greenwell, Guilds President.
I see the job of Hon Sec as very much one of co-ordination and
it is to this effect that I intend to set up an Events Committee,
I have known Robin or 'Winthrop' as he is often called, in the
FELIX office, since joining the editorial team last year. I proposed
him for FELIX Editor, because I consider him to be competent
and professional. He has the experience to run FELIX well, and
has many ideas to introduce into a new FELIX, particularly those
of humour. Robin is a very approachable person and will create
a very friendly atmosphere in the office.
Remember-vote Winthrop!
Paul Barton, Travel Editor.
FELIX as the newspaper of Imperial College Union is the only
source of news and views to most of its readers. I believe that
there is a little too much emphasis on the reporting of news.
A FELIX that combined being informative and entertaining could
have an appeal, much wider than it is now. I have used the slogan
"Does your newspaper take you too seriously?" to try to
highlight this. I would like to see more humour and satire in
FELIX, it would be both more fun to read and to produce.
FEtlX should cover the news about IC and be free to critically
examine and comment upon, the running of the College and the
I am pleased to be able to propose Dave for FELIX Editor because
I believe that he is the best candidate for the post.
His experience includes:
1. Broadsheet Editor 1987/88
2. ICU Handbook Editor 1988
3. FELIX News Editor 1988/89
Dave has worked in every area of FELIX and has both the
capability and the know-how to run the Print Unit.
Having worked closely with all the FELIX staff this year, Dave
will provide next year's FELIX with continuity and a friendly
atmosphere as well as a wealth of experience.
I feel that Dave is the only logical choice for FELIX Editor and
I hope that you will agree with me and vote for him on March
6 and 7.
Julian Moore, proposer.
Felix
The first cause to which any FELIX Editor must devote himself
is the accurate reporting of news at IC with the backing of fair
editorial comment; I have no intention of changing this. The city
on which will sit reps from Ents, Rag, SCAB, the CCUs, OSC
and IRC. The aim of the Events Committee would be to make
for a balanced social calendar and to ensure that clashes such
as the infamous Careers Fair: Rag Week one never re-occur.
Ian Morris has taken a very firm stance on publicity in the past
year and I intend to do the same. Removing old and illegal posters
results in more space for legitimate advertising.
Two of my main ambitions as Hon Sec are to actively reduce
the social and academic gap between here and St Mary's and
to procure useful sponsorship for Union events.
I believe I am the number 1 choice.
Fiona Nicholas.
Union. FELIX could expand, its sometimes meagre reporting of
the college events, run by clubs and societies. The reporting of
'what's on' in London is also sadly lacking sometimes. I would
like to see more film, play and book reviews. In fact, FELIX has
enormous potential for expansion, if it could attract more staff,
to work for it.
If you believe that I can run FELIX and the print unit to serve
students better, and would like a more entertaining read on Friday
mornings then vote-
ROBIN DAVISON 1, on election days 6th and 7th March.
we live in offers far more than this however. I am therefore
proposing a London section for next year's FELIX.
I should also like to introduce a weekly sports results column,
a wide-interest humour section and a regular column from St
Mary's. This is not all however! I would like to increase the input
of ideas into FELIX by sending staff out to ask what you want.
In general, I would like to promote features with more impact,
contrasting with a light-hearted approach in other areas.
Print Unit
As Print Unit Manager I would like to help people using the facility
next year by moving staff meetings from Friday lunchtimes to
Monday evenings. This would allow St Mary's students to
contribute to FELIX and would enable people to do print work
on Friday lunchtimes.
Rob Davison proposed by Paul Barton
Dave Smedley proposed by Julian Moore
Page 12 FELIX March 3 1989

