Letters
Loans anger
Dear Bill,
Following last Saturday's mass march through
London I feel it is time to assess the effectiveness
of the current campaign against loans. So far, the
main form of protest has been polite lobbying and
encouraging students and parents to write letters
to their M P s .
It is a great shame that the anger and depth of
feeling that existed following the disturbances on
Westminster Bridge was not chanelled into
further mass demonstrations. This form of action
is the most important weapon we have and with
it lies o u r only chance of defeating the
government.
Saturday's demonstration gave an indication
of the number of students prepared to march, but
unfortunately their action was wasted upon
tourists and policemen. What is needed now are
demonstrations on a similar scale, but during the
week. By doing this our existence will be brought
home to those large numbers of people who are
at present ignorant of the problem.
Until this happens students' demands will
never be taken seriously and the chorus of
disapproval will once again be ignored.
Yours sincerely,
Martin Dixon, Life Sci 3.
Distressed
Dear Bill,
O n behalf of Imperial College Conservative
Society I should like to respond to your leading
story and editorial regarding one of our members,
M r Dylan James.
O n 13/12/89 practically all of the publicity we
had produced for our Angela Rumbold speaker
meeting disappeared. Since many of them were
replaced by SWSS posters it seemed fairly
obvious what had happened.
Therefore it does not surprise me that a rather
over-zealous first year was on the look out for
any illegal left-wing posters. M r James made a
mistake and regrets tearing down a legitimate
Union poster.
That said, there are some far more serious
aspects to this rather childish fiasco. Firstly,
Consoc does not have, and never has had, a
policy of ripping down our opponents publicity.
To engage in tit-for-tat activity would lower us
to the level of SWSS which is not very high in
most people's opinion. We are a well oiled and
efficient society with many events for our
members.
We are very distressed at how apathetic most
students at IC are. We would love to come and
listen to a top Labour M P putting a case against
government policy. But the left wing at IC is so
badly organised, this never happens. We have
no incentive for trying to stop a suitable
opposition being built up.
Next I should like to say how appalled I was
that M r James has been both verbally a n d
physically threatened. O n the evening of 23/2/89
a note appeared on M r James' bedroom door
saying 'Red or Dead—SWP'. This is frankly
unacceptable. It is the job of I C U Disciplinary
Committee to decide M r James' fate. It is typical
of SWSS/SWP to resort to violence and abuse.
One only has to recall the Battle of Westminster
Bridge, the Nurses Strike and many other recent
situations when the SWP has hijacked a perfectly
legitimate dispute.
Your suggestion that M r James tore down
ninety S A L posters is outrageous unless you can
produce some evidence to back this u p .
Furthermore your implication that every member
of Consoc engages in such activity is equally out
of order.
Yours sincerely,
Al Roberts (DoC 3), Chairman Consoc.
The grapes of
wrath
Dear Bill,
A decision has been made by the U F C to no
longer subsidise the buying of wine for the Wine
Tasting Society. This decision is based on a ruling
made several years ago not to subsidise clubs for
the purchase of food and drink. At that time the
Real Ale Society's grant was cut, however the
Wine Tasting Society's was not. The reason for
this was the fundamental difference i n the
aspirations of the two Societies. Wine tasting is
not a Society for piss-heads—not with one bottle
shared between 16 to 20 people. We exist to
educate our members and develop their palates
whilst giving them a chance to experience wine
which many students (and indeed many salaried
people) could never afford. The price of a quality
bottle of wine varies from £5 to over £100, so
without a subsidy the Society would have no
option but to fold.
One of the major activities through the year is
to train a team for the inter-university blind
tasting competition. To date Imperial College
have w o n this so often we actually retained the
trophy two years ago for four consecutive wins.
The team is trained by having experts and
masters of wine from the trade coming along to
lecture on wines from all over the'world. We also
have blind tasting competitions throughout the
year to practice for the competition. Another area
of success is in the McCallan malt whiskey blind
tasting. We therefore enjoy a high reputation with
people in the trade.
We seem to be left with no solution but to put
our case to Council i n the hope that this
seemingly u n i n f o r m e d decision w i l l be
overturned. We are not asking for special
attention, Wine Society has a large membership
and should survive to provide an outlet for the
interest many students have for the subject.
Emma Simpson,
Fiona Erne
Claire Rulkin
Nick Battesby
Sam O'Loughlin
Compromise
vaunted
Dear Bill,
I was appalled at Neil Motterams opinion article
in issue 829, entitled 'St Mary's N o Thanks'. In
the article, he showed incredible selfishness: his
attitude is 'We're alright, so why should we
compromise to merge with Mary's?'.
True, St Mary's have their own identity and
independence. They would keep it as a C C U of
IC Union. Our three current C C U s have their
own Rag, clubs, U G M s , policies, sports teams,
social events and mascotrv, and the St Mary's
C C L would have the same.
1 dispute the claim that St Mary's would have
a disproportionate weighting in (their) favour'
on Council. As a C C U they would have five
representatives on a Council of 55—one e'eventh.
By coincidence, their 500 students are one
eleventh of the 5,500 at IC. This is hardly
disproportionate.
Having read the minutes and proposals of the
ICU/SMHMSSU merger working party, I've seen
no demands to restrict FELIX, to hold half of the
ICU U G M s in Paddington, or to give St Mary's
one third of the seats on Council. Perhaps Neil
should state his sources here.
Mavbe we could force Mary's to merge by
taking control of their finances. I doubt it: if we
don't merge within four years, College will
simply force merger upon us, which is sure to
be damaging to both Unions. Anyway, does the
fact that we could do this mean that we should?
1 don't think so.
Name loitheld by request
Holbein house
of horror
Dear Bill,
As I was browsing through FELIX last week I
noticed a few references to a so-called society
RIP(?)Soc. It mentioned something about the new
breed of Holbein deviants and as a resident in
Holbein I have noticed a few unnatural
occurences. Large lumpy black plastic bags seern
to be strewn over a few staircases; can someone
investigate? I haven't seen my roommate for quite
some time, although I have my suspicions that
he is the third lumpy black plastic bag on the
staircase of House B l . I am terrified that I may
be next. I no longer leave my room door unlocked
as several times during the flight you can hear
groaning and sick banter which I cannot bring
myself to repeat as I am a Christian. I may be
paranoid or naive but I think that something is
definitely amiss.
Yours in-hiding,
Resident Holbein House,
F G fay.
Page 2 FELIX March 3 1989

