Letters
Paddington
Dear Sir,
I agree totally with M r Motteram that a free:
media, a democratically elected, accountable and1
dismissable leadership should be preserved at all'
cost. Also individual members of the Unionj
should be able to voice their opinion at regular
open meetings. W h y therefore was 1 effectively
barred from speaking (and for that matter anyone |
from St Mary's)? That does not seem to follow*
the excellent principles enshrined i n the I C U
constitution. !
It is now impossible for all members of the
Union to attend an I C U U G M out of course
commitments. Therefore one has a problem. H o w
do you ensure the accessibility of the Union on
an equal basis? The present system cannot deliver
the goods, that is a fact. The crux of the matter
is, how to alter the regulations retaining the noble
objectives?
The average Mary's student is unhappy with
the lack of thought or knowledge of the situation
so clearly manifested at 'the' U G M by I C
students. There was no discussion of the
proposal, no chance to defer decisions until
adequate debate had taken place. Surely these
are democratic principles as precious as the Union
rules themselves. I would like to see informed
debate within Imperial College with regards to
a merger as a whole.
With regards to 'all those concessions' that the
working party proposed, if you read the original
statement, h o w many advocate changes at
Imperial? Most refer to preserving life at St
Mary's as much as is practically possible within
the framework of Imperial, with reference to St
Mary's itself, the students here, our sports
ground a n d the Hall of Residence (Wilson
House). A l l these alter nothing at Imperial. With
reference to the section regarding the U G M , this
is where changes of some sort will have to take
place, in some form or another.
The discussion regarding the merger of R H B N C
and IC provides even greater problems with
regards to the unions. H o w is the split site I C U
now going to cope with the added dimensions
of R H B N C students at their separate place of
study, ensuring equal representation for all? It
cannot, exactly the same as it cannot deliver
equality of access to the students of St Mary's. '
Thus something has to be done, ideally within [
the next year preventing similar problems with 1
the R H B N C merger.
A Federal system of government works for ;
many democratic countries i n the world. •
Historical analysis will reveal that the federal
system was adopted with the merger of
individual state governments i n countries too
large to be run from a central point. Imperial has
now reached that point, and will certainly get
much bigger with future mergers. Transferral of '
powers to the individual college unions is one J
solution, if not the best. This is what the original •
proposal was all about. Medical students are i
passionate believers in democracy, and are only i
seeking access to I C U o n a n equal basis,
individually, not wanting disproportionate
representation.
If M r Motteram believes in the U G M , why does
he describe 80% of the meeting as 'tedious1
debate' when this is what the U G M is all about, j
Use of adjectives such as tedious suggests to me I
a distinct disillusionment with the system as a
whole. Yet he also states his defence of the U G M
in the same paragraph. This rally to the cause so
eloquently and romantically portrayed seems to
me to have a hidden message, such that St
Mary's within ICU as it stands would not receive
these much vaunted equal rights.
As an IC student I do not like IC U G M s .
Yours faithfully,
William Lumb, St Mary's Hospital Medical School.
Unfair?
Dear Bill,
I wish to complain about last week's FELIX
which contained many inaccuracies:
1. I was not 'unwilling' but unavailable to
comment. You only aksed to speak to me once.
I had already spoken to FELIX.
2. Your article said I took down more than one
poster, this is false.
3. It said the poster had ' I C Union S C C
Students Against Loans M o n t h ' printed on it, it
did not. It only had a very faint Union stamp on
it which I did not notice.
4. Your quote that I said 'Student Loans would
benefit everyone' is totally fictitious. I have a
history of being anti-loans and I have printed an
article i n the Conservative Society newsletter
condemning them.
As a member of the Students Against Loans
(SAL) C a m p a i g n I w a s responsible f o r
distributing a number of posters. I realised after
I put them up that I had not seen an official Union
stamp on one of them, and thus removed the first
one I saw.
M y letter in FELIX last week is totally unrelated
since I took the poster down to stop the Union
attacking S A L , not to oppose S A L . I asked to
have the letter removed since it only confused
the event.
I feel FELIX owes me an apology.
Yours sincerely,
Dylan James, Maths 2.
Selfish brats?
Dear Bill,
I'm glad to see that Stephen McKeever can state
with such certainty that 'everyone has the right
to free Higher Education'. However, may I
inform M r McKeeer that his Higher Education is
most certainly not free, it is paid for out of the
pocket of the taxpayer.
N o w I'm sure that M r McKeever and friends
would say that this is a good thing because
'society' will receive some benefit from his
education and anyway in a few years he will be
paying more taxes than most because he will be
earning more than most people. However, I'm
also sure that M r McKeever did not come to
Imperial out of some great wish to benefit
'society', he came here for his own benefit, and
may I also point out that the vast majority of tax
is collected from taxpayers who have never
received the benefits of Higher Education and
who will never earn as much as M r McKeever.
I would therefore like to take this opportunity
to challenge anyone, particularly those fine and
upstanding group of individuals S A L and SWSS,
to defend this redistribution of wealth from low
income earners to the middle and upper class
families who are the primary benefactors of
Higher Education.
Yours sincerely,
Ashley Unitt,' DoC 3.
God's wrong!
Dear FELIX,
Dave Thomas (FELIX 827) is clearly unaware
of the concept of metaphor. This is somewhat
strange, since he claims to be a Christian, and
Jesus generally used metaphors to put across his
message. When one looks at the parables, fables
and riddles which delighted the ancient world,
one sees that the use of allegory came naturally
to our predecessors. In fact, Biblical scholars from
earliest times have had no difficulty in seeing the
Creation story as an allegory; to insist on its literal
truth is either to show a great perversity, or to
demonstrate a profound lack of imagination
(perhaps this is why 'fundamentalist' Christianity
appeals so much to science students and
Americans...).
H o w else would G o d have created the world,
except by directing its gradual evolution? To me,
the Creationists demean G o d by their crudeness.
If Dave Thomas cannot see the hand of G o d at
work in evolution, then I suspect he is really some
sort of atheist who has erected his literal
interpretation of the Bible as an idol i n G o d ' s
place.
Yours sincerely,
Matthew Huntbach, DoC.
Fornication
Dear Bill,
Once again I believe that we are witnessing a
misuse of the I C U machinery. What on earth are
S C C up to campaigning on behalf of the anti-
loans group? Where is the mandate for an
administrative body of I C U to adopt political
causes? Did they have a Peace-thru-NATO month
or an anti-NUS month or a p r o - N U S month?
I am not denying the right of students to
campaign politically (in fact I would encourage
more political awareness at College) but only
through the appropriate means. The acting
chairman of the anti-loans group has complained
about the time taken to establish an S C C society.
The solution to this is surely to streamline the
bureaucracy of S C C , not for them to undertake
the work of a society as they see fit.
To cover myself from getting irrelevant replies
to this letter I wish to state that I a m not
questioning the competence of the S C C exec. Nor
am I denying anyone free speech or the
opportunity to campaign effectively as long as they
operate under their oivn banner, not the Water Polo
Club, not I C U and not S C C .
Andrew Allum, Physics 3.
Woof!
Dear Bill,
Jabber jabber jabber jabber jabber jabber jabber
jabber jabber Blah blah blah blah blah blah blah
rhubarb Yaba yaba yaba yaba yaba yaba yab'a
vaba yaba yaba yaba yaba yaba
Emmanuel Saradakis
March 3 1989 FELIX Page 3

