Felix
Editorial
A p o l o g y
I would like to apologise to Dominic O'Kane, president of Positive
Alternatives To Abortion (PATAI for a pasting error in issue 827 in which
his name was attributed to a letter he did not write. Mr O'Kane had infact
submitted a letter of his own that week but it was far too boring to print.
Threats
Mr Emmanuel Saridakis of P A T A has threatened FELIX with legal action
should we decide not to print one of his letters this week.
Having taken advice from the Union Solicitor, I have decided to print
the letter which best sums up his correspondence with FELIX to date. I
hope this satisfies Mr Saridakis and that he will reconsider his threat of
legal action.
Unfortunately, because our typesetter operator has developed an allergy
to the word 'Saridakis' FELIX will not be able to accept any more letters
from the gentleman concerned unless they are excessively interesting.
Elections
Whilst it is pleasing to see an unprecedented 12 candidates running for
Union Sabbatical posts, it is unfortunate that many of the contestants
this year are particularly unimpressive.
It is important that you take the time to find out which candidates will
strengthen the Union next year. Read the manefestos carefully, and where
possible talk to the candidates in person. Do not be taken in by transparent
and non committal speeches about the problems the Union will face next
year. Find out what they are going to do to solve them. A candidate who
is strong enough to voice his or her opinions in public without worrying
about losing votes will also be strong enough to stand up to the College
when they try to steam roller the Union as they have done so often in
the past.
The most telling question to ask a candidate is 'why are you standing?'.
Often the response will be some inane comment about being the best
person for the job, but no one stands purely for the benefit of the Union.
In many ways the most valid reason for standing is to spend a very
enjoyable year out —after all a Sabbatical who does not enjoy his or her
year in office will not benefit the Union.
Think carefully about those candidates who appear to be standing to
satisfy their own cravings for power. Experience has shown that within
a very short space of time they will become more interested in their own
self- importance than the students they represent.
F E L I X
There will be an extra election results FELIX on Wednesday morning.
C r e d i t s Unbelievable thanks to Jason Lander and Wendy Kite for staying
up late, Liz Warren, Paul Barton, Sez Wilkinson for looking after the news,
Simon Bradshaw, Andy Clarke, Summit Guha, Andy Bannister, Ramin
Nakisa, Nicky Fox for doing something unmentionable, Dave Thomas for
sweeping the floor, Robin Davison and Dave Smedley, Doug King for
putting up with Pub Board, Nik Jones for putting up with Doug King, Adam
Harrington, Anj Ahuja, Arup, Neil Motteram, Azhar Abid, Michael Kirsch,
Paul Stephenson, everyone who submitted articles this week which were
postponed due to lack of space, Dramsoc (you're not all obnoxious honest),
Linstead Hall, anti-loans and Con Soc for collating last week and anyone
I've forgotten.
W E L F A R E 8 9
'LOOK AFTER YOUR HEART WEEK'
Wednesday 8th March
National no smoking day—a chance to give up smoking!
Thursday 9th March
How to 'Look After Your Heart'—displays and information
JCR, 12.00noon-2.00pm
S m a l l a d s
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Information on scholarships or
grants for Postgraduate study can
be obtained from the Scholarship
Office, Room 314, Sherfield
Building. Closing dates coming
up soon for applications: 10
Mar—Exchange scholarship for
study at ITH Zurich, 15 M a r —
RTZ Bursaries, 31 Mar—Arab-
British Chamber Charitable
Foundation Scholarship, 31
Mar—Concrete Structures
Bursary, 28 A p r — O R S Awards.
Details are displayed on
departmental noticeboards;
application forms from
Scholarship Office.
• If anyone is interested in
setting up an Imperial College
Animal Welfare Society please
contact Wendy Rooke via first
year Life Science pigeonholes
asap.
• Indsoc: Touche Ross business
game, Wed 8 Mar, 12.30 in the
JCR to reserve a place.
• AIESEC Meeting, 12.45
Tuesday, Mech Eng. Join up, get
involved in parties or just
'brownie points' for companies.
• Driver wanted to drive a Union
minibus on a booze cruise to
France on March 11, 7am to
midnight. A l l travel costs will be
paid for. Apply to P Young,
Maths 2, Before Wednesday
March 8.
• Ladies basketball needs more
players. It's wacky fun. Meet in
the Volleyball Court (behind
Chemistry), Fridays 12.30pm or
contact K Crawley via C h e m
pigeonholes.
FOR SALE
• Nissan Sunny 1.51. W reg
(1981), just been serviced, M O T
Nov 1989, new clutch. £895.
Phone 577 5645 Yamada.
• Apple Macs at student prices.
Educational prices are currently
available for Apple Macintosh
computer range for Imperial
College students and staff. £850
(plus V A T ) compared to RRP
£1395.
PERSONAL
• Manog—you're the cutest spud
I've met!
• Colin—you're still a pratt!
•JSU's seedy 'don't kiss and
tell' life story is appearing all
over College now.
• Ros & Hill's revenge. N o . I can
take a joke—the dream boy.
• Ros & Hill's—frightened I
would be Philip the Stripper.
• Ros & Hill's—come on, you can
take it you like your little jokes,
don't you—A true friend
screaming blue murder.
• Special offer! Only limited
places left. Visit the Southside
Bordello, meet Raunchy Ros—
friend of chickens and sheepskin
rugs. She'll let you keep your
boots on, or Hot B i l l s -
specialising in positions 15 & 29.
Remember these girls have busy
diaries so hurry. It's the best
little whorehouse in South K e n .
• Ros & Hill's—Hons about a
cease fire—a true friend.
•To all those young men in
Maths One, W h o despair that
A n n has now gone, She had to
make u p her mind, Well it's
cruel to be kind, A n d you had no
real hope all along.
• Fruit aka Adrian Pagan, I know
who you are now. Beware.
• How to score on a pool table.
Ask Jace "The Hustler' Brewer.
• K O ' E D , or fucked senseless,
Anna?
• Hot crossed bunny? Pierre a la
mode.
•The bells, Mathias?
• Give me hope, Joanne! JB.
•Fox sale, nonel lines to woo
your lover, boxed as new, all
tested. Contact Mark G .
• Fed up with your chat-up line?
Get down to E E Z and sample the
latest in oral sensation.
• Second-hand coffins, as new,
only one careful owner. A n y
offers considered. Contact
RIP(?)Soc.
• Wanted: Man-sized chest
freezer, spades, Wellingtons,
torches, etc. Contact RIP(?)Soc.
• Anke and David—your secret
has been exposed.
• Let's legalise petting in the
swimming pool.
• Victoria the yuppie White,
Gives the man she loves
marmite.
• Myra, where are they?
R C S U
Country House Ball
at Silwood Park
Friday May 5th
Double tickets now available from the
RCSU Office at £55 (deposit £20) to
include sherry & champagne receptions,
buffet dinner, breakfast, band, disco &
travel
P H O E N I X
free backnumbers
available today
contributions
for this year's issue
urgently required
bring to FELIX
March 3 1989 FELIX Page 5

