Manifestos
PRESIDENT Neil McCluskey proposed by Paul Watkiss
involved in the Union. I have seen first hand the teething
problems that have occurred with the introduction of new
sabbatical job descriptions. To avoid the new sabbaticals
entering their posts with little idea of what they are continuing
on, the President must have worked closely with the Union over
the past year.
Neil has been extensively involved in the Union this year as
Internal Services Officer and Council Chairman, sitting on many
college and Union committees. In addition he has found time to
do his degree and find success in the sporting field. This
combination of dedication, enthusiasm, involvement and
organisation makes him the ideal candidate.
Neil is easily the most experienced of all the Presidential
candidates and, in my opinion, would benefit students' interests
the most over the forthcoming year.
Candidate: Neil McCluskey
Proposer: Paul Watkiss Entertainments Chairman.
Representation and Information
As Entertainments Chairman this year, I have been closely I promise to represent students views as faithfully as I can,
allowing through Council and UGM's to take decisions. I promise
to represent policy made by you and to report on the
consequences of that policy.
Accommodation
I can guarantee there will be no rent increases in college owned
accommodation from the 89/90 to the 90/91 session. I will fight
for a better service for students outside of college
accommodation.
Welfare
Most students problems stem from lack of finances. I promise
to give you more for your money by obtaining sponsorship,
fighting for a fairer grant system, negotiating student discounts
and providing cheaper services. I will always be approachable
on and attentive to students needs.
Immotive issues (NUS affiliation, Poll Tax, the RHBNC merger,
St Mary's merger etc) are imminent. I am already talking and
collating information so you can make informed decisions.
Lastly, I promise to keep
PRESIDENT Clare McErlane proposed by Duncan McGregor
Clare has been involved in the Union as Broadsheet Editor and
RCSU President. I believe her strength of character, sensitivity
to students needs, experience in student representation and
decision making processes will make her an excellent Union
President next year.
Duncan McGregor (SCC Chairman)
The Union comprises a vast web of committees. To spare you
the logistics of eg the Car Parking committee I have concentrated
on topics I consider extremely important.
Internal Affairs
Accomodation is a serious problem affecting undergrads,
postgrads and Overseas students. College rents are near
students affordable limit. Guaranteeing first year students
accomodation is a problem which I believe could be resolved by
pressing college to buy up suitable properties within commuting
distance. The situation will be exacerbated for students living
outside college by the abolition of the Fair Rent Act while Poll
Tax will effect everyone. Effective representation to college is
The post of IC Union President is much more than being the
figurehead of a large organization with annual turnover of around
£2M. It's a question of representation. The President is often
the first and last contact with both College and External bodies.
For this reason, your choice of President must be able to judge
public opinion and not be clouded by personal prejudgices.
I've spent the last year as RCS Academic Affairs Officer liasing
between Academic and Departmental representatives to several
College committees including Board of Studies. I have also sat
on ICU Council and chaired RCS Academic Affairs Sub-
committee. This doesn't mean a detachment from reality whilst
sitting on committees. I'm also RCS Motor Club Chairman, as
such che harsh realities of budgets and dead lines have been dealt
with effectively and efficiently.
The coming year has many problems on the horizon. St Mary's
Union merger with IC Union should be an ultimate aim, but
neither side should be pushed into an unworkable agreement just
for the sake of merger. Disussion, open and involved must take
place to present all the possibilities. Only then can an informed
dicision be made by the students of all sides.
essential. I would establish a strong Welfare service to help
students negotiate the jungle of landlords and benefits.
As President I would also concern myself with the provision
of support for students in Academic Affairs and optimisation of
recreational facilities. The merging of the unions may mean that
St Mary's students must also be considered in provision of
services.
External Affairs
It is time for ICU to reconsider its stance on the NUS. The legal
advice they provide, contact with other universities and the
possibility of a reduced financial subscription may make
reaffiliation a topic for sensible discussion.
We have supported the NUS in their Anti Loans stance and
it so imperative that IC remains abrest of current Government
Policy and proposals for education.
IC Union must be run like any other sizeable buisness
proposition with regard to efficiency, profitability, service and
accountability to you the students.
Clare McErlane.
Next year will see a referendum on whether to reafilliate with
the NUS. There will be strong views on both sides, and the Union
needs a President strong enough to not take sides whilst allowing
fair debates and ballot.
The financial situation of London students, especially with
loans, poll tax and accommodation. It's time to inform students
on the current situation and act as the students decide.
As President, my deepest concern will be to represn't your
views and actually bother to ask you how you feel.
Andrew Meredith ICU President.
PRESIDENT Andrew Meredith proposed by Phil Drew
March 3 1989 FELIX Page 9

