Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Calling all programmers!
Would you like to have a say on Imperial College Union Systems? Using
eActivities and don’t know where to direct your feedback? Want to help us
develop our home page at imperialcollegeunion.org? Drop our Deputy President
(Finance & Services) a message on
dpfs@imperial.ac.uk to find out more.
Throughout 2016, Imperial College Union has been working on its new strategy
that will set its direction from the start of 2017 right through to August 2020, the
end of the 2019/20 academic year.We have been consulting with students - our
members - throughout this year to get their needs and wants firmly integrated
into our strategy.
Now is the final consultation stage - this is where you come in.
Overthenextfewweekswewillberunninganonlinesurveyopentoallstudents.
We want to know how you view the range of services and experiences that the
Union and College offer, as well as your academic experience, your Constituent
Unions and your experience on non South Kensington campuses. You can win
one of three £25 Amazon vouchers for taking part.
We will be also be running some sessions at various campuses in the next few
weeks where you can talk to us about these topics and give us your feedback in
person.These sessions will be run throughout the rest of November - look out
for more information about these sessions in the next few days.
We will also be running targeted focus groups to look in greater depth at specific
aspects of the strategy. If you want to be involved in these focus groups,
especially if you don’t consider yourself involved with the Union, please get in
touch at union@imperial.ac.uk as we would love to hear from you. The survey
will be open until 23:59 Wednesday 30 November.
Find out what’s next and take the survey go to
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Strategy 2017-20 - Final Consultation Stage
Community Connections is the Union’s programme that enables and
empowers you to take action on social issues that you feel passionately about
via volunteering or student led social enterprises.
People volunteer for a whole host of different reasons – gaining new skills,
expanding their CV’s, taking action on an issue they feel passionate about etc,
and let’s not forget, volunteering is about having fun and meeting new people
too!
In the coming weeks lots of Mass Volunteering will be going from volunteering
in our first event with GoodGym: Helping White City Adventure Playground,
to getting involved with the Dinner Club project - feeding the homeless in the
community.
These Mass Volunteering opportunities will be taking place across London, so
are a great way to meet people from other Imperial College London campuses.
For more information about MassVolunteering and to search for a volunteer role
go to imperialcollegeunion.org/volunteering
You can still Give it a Go
There’s still time to try something new with us this term! You can learn a new
language with the Igbo Society onTuesday 22 and 29 November.
Give it a Go enables you to be creative, go explore, get active and discover a
huge variety of opportunities at Imperial College Union –
get involved!
Being a beginner won’t be unusual at any of these activities, so make the most
of the opportunities listed in the Give it a Go Calendar.
imperialcollegeunion.org/giveitago
Mass Volunteering - get involved
C mmunityConnections
Mass Volunteering

