Friday 18 November 2016 33
felixonline.co.uk/millennials millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk
felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
DRUGS
DRUGS
Steroids | Dem gains come at a price
T
aking advantage of a November Tuesday evening free for coursework deadlines, you head down to Ethos to
the gym. You’re in decent shape, feeling good about yourself, and you’re satisfyingly still just about able to hit
the same maxes that you could in the summer when you were working out every day. But then you look over
at the guy working out next to you. He’s ripped as hell; his biceps are bigger than your head, his abs could be
used to grate cheese, and he’s got the deepest V you’ve ever seen. You instantly feel inferior, your arms now
feeling weedy and weak, and you vow to work out every day until you’re hench, the way you ought to look.
After all, who’s gonna look at you twice like this?
So you start hitting up the gym on the reg, knocking back the protein shakes, and doing more and more reps in the
hope of those sweet, sweet gains. You start to bulk up, muscles building and tightening, and people are impressed,
checking you out wherever you go. But the gains are disappointing: you keep looking over at this other guy at the gym
and he’s still way bigger than you. You ask yourself how you could get this built; you’re never going to be good enough
for anyone until you’re a big as him. And then you think to yourself: steroids may be the answer.
Anabolic steroids are effec-
tively synthetic testosterone
that stimulate the growth
in muscle and bone tissues,
which are taken by many
people to improve their
athletic performance and
to stimulate faster muscle
growth. Steroids are often
seen as as bit of a miracle
drug, and we would be
kidding ourselves if we pre-
tended that they’re not being
taken widely both in profes-
sional sport and amateur
peacocking.
There are dozens of
common types, that are
usually injectable or taken
orally, although patches
and implants aren’t unusual.
These steroids are usually
prescription-only drugs,
bought online, and used ille-
gally, often in periodic cycles.
They all have two things
in common: they do boost
muscle growth and repair,
and they have some pretty
nasty side effects.
As these drugs affect a sex
hormone, they affect men and
women in very different ways.
Both men and women are
prone to paranoia, mental
health problems, and bursts
of anger (roid rage is real),
with women being signifi-
cantly more prone to these
effects around menstruation.
And steroid addiction is no
joke. After long term steroid
use, natural testosterone
production ceases, making
you effectively dependent on
a supplementary source. One
consequence of this is atrophy
of your no longer required
gonads – shrunken testicles
really is a thing. As if that
weren’t bad enough,in men
they also increase growth
of breast tissue, stop sperm
production, kill libido, and
cause erectile dysfunction.
These are not things to play
with if you prioritise your sex
life, let me tell you. In women,
they do kind of the opposite.
Clitoral enlargement, excess
hair growth, and lack of
menstruation are all common
consequences, and well as an
enhanced sex drive.
Both men and women will
experience some level of
acne, balding, and steroids
are known to cause liver and
kidney disease, heart disease
and enlargement, blood pres-
sure problems, and a reduced
immune system. If you’re using
them to build muscle, you’ll
get less athletically fit, and
your eyesight may suffer.
And they’re pricey as fuck
too – that’s your entire social
budget blown. But that’s okay,
because when you’re this into
sculpting the perfect physique,
you don’t have time to be
going out partying anyway.
And it’s all worth it for that
glorious bod, right?
Although women do take steroids, the stereotype of
the typical user is usually a man, because using ster-
oids to enhance a muscular physique is a very male
dominated thing. The physical image of masculinity
is generally very desirable in men, while women are
socially pressured to avoid masculine traits in favour
of the desirable femininity. The images of stacked
men that we’re bombarded with as the ideal are not
realistic, with steroids no doubt playing a significant
role in producing this aesthetic.
Men are under a huge amount of pressure to con-
form to this masculine ideal. So many men that they
feel that they need to bulk up to be seen as attractive,
manly, or to be taken seriously, and steroids provide
a route out of this insecurity with a shortcut to self-es-
teem. Steroids certainly work if your goal is to get
big, but are they really worth it?
What exactly do steroids do, though? And what’s the
harm?
If you’re struggling with drug use, visit
talktofrank.com

