Why are you standing for this position?
I’ve been involved in the Union for three years,
over which time I’ve gradually increased the
amount of stuff I know. I think I have the knowl-
edge and experience to represent the whole of
College. I know what students want.
So, what have you been doing the last three
years?
In years one and two I was a Biology year rep.
At present I’m Natural Sciences Union Comms
Rep.
Do you think that’s enough experience?
You can never have too much experience.
There’s stuff I don’t know, I admit that. It’s
essential that I build on what I’ve already got.
Why didn’t you stand at the last election?
Mainly because it wasn’t a good time. I have
much more time now. I think I should stand,
that’s why I’m standing.
Are you just standing for CV points?
What!? No, I’ve got lots of CV points. My CV
is full.
How do you think Tim Weinert-Aplin has
perform in the role so far?
He’s done a good job. He’s very pro-active at
contacting societies. Fair enough there have
been times when he hasn’t been able to fulfill
their wishes, that’s the difficulty of the role.
If you get the job, what would be the one
legacy you’d like to leave?
To ensure the Union redevelopment goes as
smoothly as possible. Next year we really need
to make sure the groundwork is laid success-
fully. The Union needs a viable future.
If you don’t get the job, what will you do
next year?
Umm. I don’t have anything specific planned.
Bit of travelling, temporary jobs. Then apply for
a graduate schemes next year.
f
2006 Sabb
Elections Special
Manifesto
With the redevelopment of the Union, as well as
College’s decision to leave the University of London,
next year will undoubtedly be challenging. Next year’s
Sabbs will have important decisions to make, affecting
both current and future students.
Having been in an elected position for my three
years at Imperial, I believe that I have shown my
dedication and proved that I have the necessary skills
to produce results.
This year I have been the Life Sciences Union
Communications Officer and Broadsheet Co-editor.
Developing communication networks with students
and companies has been essential and I have secured
sponsorship which I hope will aid next years RCSU.
Studying Biology with Management I have taken
modules in Finance, Accounting, and Project
Management which will aid my performance as DP
(F&S).
Fundamentally I am running for DP as I feel that I
would be good at the job and serve students well.
Daniel
Chowdury
DEPUTY PRESIDENT (FINANCE & SERVICES)
Manifesto
The DPFS is not just a Union pen pusher: the winner
of this election will take a key role in overseeing the
delivery of Union commercial and welfare services, as
well as guiding vital projects such as the union build-
ing redevelopment.
I’ve listened to students and staff to discern priori-
ties for the coming year; my 10 manifesto pledges are
laid out on a separate page ad in this Felix. All are
achievable: if followed through they will make a tangi-
ble difference to our university life.
Since arriving at Imperial I’ve been involved in
student issues. I’ve served on Union Council, as my
course year rep, as a re-app and as treasurer of the
Debating Society.
We need a DPFS who is approachable, honest and
who has a sense of humour. Let’s finish electing a
great team and make 2006/7 a year to remember!
See www.edhunt.me.uk for more details
Why are you standing for this position?
In the past people haven’t viewed DPFS as an
important position, just as a glorified accoun-
tant. But, it has a key role in determining the
success of the Union.
Do you think that’s enough experience?
In the first year I was an ordinary member of
Council. I am now a re-app in Evelyn Gardens,
which allows me to keep in touch with the first
years, who are very keen users of the Union.
I’m also a course year rep and treasurer of the
debating society.
Are you just standing for CV points?
No. If I wanted CV points I’d have got a job.
My CV is not my first motivation. I care about
student welfare. If student democracy is going
to succeed people have to stand up.
You are suggesting the Union should employ
a dedicated alumni fund raiser, won’t this
just cost money?
It will be cost neutral. At a university like
Imperial, which is a leading European univer-
sity, there are a lot of very successful gradu-
ates. A lot of them would be keen to lend their
support. I had a gap year at a US uni and they
made a lot out of alumni. Its a shame we don’t
utilise this. Oxbridge do it a lot.
A lot of people think the Union sucks.
Does it?
The Union has achieved a fair amount - the
Building redevelopment, the new website etc.
If I am elected I have the ideas to move things
forward. People normally underestimate the
scope of the DPFS.
Why didn’t you stand at the last election?
It didn’t occur to me. But, seeing who has been
elected I’d really like to work with them.
Some people think you’re too political, are
you?
I don’t think DPFS is a political position.
However, involvement in politics demonstrates
a passion for the issues.
Edmund
Hunt
Manifesto
Imperial is a world-class institution, isn’t it time you
received world-class services?
The Union is you, its members, but this seems to
have been forgotten.
The Sabbs work for you, you are their boss but most
people feel that neither the Union nor the Sabbs serve
or are relevant to them, this must change.
Progress has been made this year but we still have
a long way to go, I can help us get there.
If elected, I will:
• Listen, be directly accountable and ensure I am avail-
able to you, not just hidden in an office.
• Drive for more funding for the refurbishment ensur-
ing you benefit and have input every step of the way.
• Correct the unacceptable increases in bar (over 100%
in my seven years at Imperial) and events prices.
• Give the Faculty Unions the support and indepen-
dence they need.
Vote for yourselves, vote Jon Matthews for DPFS.
Why are you standing for this position?
I have a great deal of experience at Imperial.
I’ve lived with students for 5 years, which has
given me a lot of understanding and knowledge
of the issues they face. I’m standing for bal-
anced representation, not political ambition.
What previous positions have you held at the
Union?
I’ve been a backroom boy and been mainly on
the accommodation committee for 4 years. I’ve
also contributed to council meetings, but not
held a massively high position in paper.
I also have a great deal more experienced that
the other candidates.
You want to continue as a subwarden next
year, wouldn’t that be detrimental to a sabb
post?
I am a subwarden for the sense of pleasure I
get from the job and for the big differences I
can make to the students.
There were some efforts from a minority to
prevent from being one. I do, however, have full
and complete support from the warning team.
Why didn’t you stand in the last elections?
I’m a research student; I asked the department
whether or not I could take a Sabb year in the
middle of my PhD research. They said they’ll
get back to me. Nominations had closed by the
time I found out.
Have the Sabbs done a good job this year?
The President has done a very good job this
year but maybe the rest of the Sabbs could
speak to people as well! People in residences
don’t even know who the Deputy President
(Education and Welfare) is.
Are you against the smoking ban?
Should the union serve the vast majority? I
think it should consider all students. You can
judge services by how many people turn up. I
stood up in public for what I believed was right.
If people vote on a single issue basis, they
aren’t doing themselves justice.
I will promise I will make no attempt to reverse
the ban. We should not buck the trend. It
would be undemocratic to do so.
Jon
Matthews
14
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 18 May 2006

