Manifesto
It is unquestionable that CAG provides an interaction
between student and homeless communites that is valuable
to both parties. It is evident on each and every of these inter-
actions that those that sit on the margins of society within the
Westminster district value the soup runs that form the basis
of CAG's actions. What remains is to convince students that
they too will benefit form participating in endeavours such
as the soup run.
I hope that I shall be elected as CAG chair to raise awareness
of: the vital capacity of what CAG does, the importance of
connection between different spheres of communities within
London and the benefits to any student of involvement in a
world outside of a potentially cosseted studenship.
WHY VOTE JON MATTHEWS FOR
DEPUTY PRESIDENT (FINANCE & SERVICES)?
The Union is YOU, all of you, it’s your union and you make it what it is. The only
reason the Union is there, is for you, its members. The Union needs to be
accessible and represent all of its members but it can only do this if it listens to you.
I will, let’s make this a Union to be proud of.
The Union is more than just a bar, but these are an
important part and need to be attractive to you, not just
aesthetically but in ambiance and price, the
refurbishment is only going to get us halfway there. The
Union needs to put on events that you want to go to at a
price you can afford.
Another major aspect of the Union is its Clubs and
Societies, these are so important that we have a
Sabbatical Officer to look after them, shouldn’t they
have equal importance in your Faculty Union? I believe
so and believe that strong Faculty Unions make for a
strong Union with better and more relevant
representation that will serve you better, they can only
do this with adequate support and funding.
If you elect me, I promise to:
x Cut bar prices.
x Ensure the new website is run properly and
makes the union more accessible to you.
x Make it clear how clubs and societies are funded
and how you can get the money and support you
need.
x Give the Faculty Unions the support they need to
run their own Clubs and Societies without
interfering with their independence.
x Listen to you, if you elect me then you are my
boss and I work for you.
x Ensure I am available directly to you, not just in
South Ken but wherever you, the members, are.
Vote for you, vote JON MATTHEWS for Deputy President (Finance and Services).
Make it YOUR Union
COUNCIL CHAIR RAISINg & gIVINg (RAg) CHAIR
Manifesto
A lot of students don't really know what RAG is. RAG is
the hugely successful charitable outlet of Imperial College
Union that organises a variety of excellent fundraising
events throughout the year.
If elected your RAG chair I would build on the success that
RAG has enjoyed by getting even more students involved. I
would achieve this by working to give RAG a higher media
profile on campus to make sure that everyone knows how
much RAG helps people and of course, how crazy some of
the stunts can get.
Whilst the promotion of public nakedness in the name of
a good cause is a great RAG tradition I wish to continue I
would be innovative in considering other methods of fund-
raising. For example if Felix were to make a £10 'donation'
for every spelling mistake printed the charities would benefit
and the standard of writing would drastically improve!
Stephen
Brown
Manifesto
For those who have experienced Council you will be more
than aware of the frustrations that can be encountered. We
spend too long having to read the papers as nobody can
be bothered to submit them before the meeting. Well I’ve
had enough of it so it won’t be happening in my Council!
Deadlines are deadlines and constitutions should be adhered
to. Less bickering, people need to understand their respon-
sibilities and that they are to represent student opinion and
not personal agendas.
I’m currently ICSM SU President (oh my god, a medic!),
which means I have plenty of experience of chairing meet-
ings. Nobody wants to be endlessly debating the same point
over and over again and I’m very good stopping pointless
drivel if needs be. Council is where the big decisions are
made, so lets not let it descend into a playground
Vote Danny or I’ll tear the place up.
Danny
McGuiness
COmmUNITY ACTION gROUP (CAg) RE-OPEN NOmINATIONS (RON)
Manifesto
RON pledges:
Council Chair - Slap people down rather than fostering agree-
ment – it’s more fun. Allow alcohol back into meetings.
RAG Chair - Lobby to have the SAC breakout area (in the
new building) turned into a RAG office. Fit a de-humidifier
to the storeroom.
CAG Chair - Lobby to fit a kitchen into the new union build-
ing – the new servers won’t fill an entire room.Turn CAG
into a normal club, this means it doesn’t need to have cross
campus elections and can run its own elections.
DPFS - Put advertising on the minibuses – the service should
try to break even. Improve key list security – magnetically
encode privileges onto the cards. As a priority RON will work
with Sport Imperial to reduce the ACCs ground hire bill from
£91K.. Bars shouldn’t make a profit – commercial operations
should operate on a break even basis.
Radha
Gadhok
DISSATISFIeD with the
candidates for a particular
position? THeN VOTe RON!
Nominations will re-open,
and a better candidate may
get the chance to stand for
election.
ADVERTISEMENT – THIS DOES NOT INDICATE SUPPORT FROM FELIX
15
felix
Thursday 18 May 2006 www.felixonline.co.uk

