3
felix
Thursday 18 May 2006 www.felixonline.co.uk
NEWS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Final year students all over the coun-
try are facing severe disruption to
their degrees after the Association
of University Teachers (AUT) reject-
ed the final pay offer made by the
Universities and College Employers’
Association (UCEA).
After days of talks, the offer of a
12.6% pay rise over three years was
dismissed this week as the AUT
claimed it was not a “decent offer…
it is dressed-up to represent 12.6%
[when it is really] worth less than
11% in real terms”. Jocelyn Prudence
(Chief Executive of the UCEA) called
these calculations “misleading”
and said that the offer “exceeds the
[AUT’s] original demand”. She also
criticised the Union for not putting
the offer to its members for a vote.
This latest breakdown in the emer-
gency discussions leaves many
final-year students considering legal
action against their universities as
they are uncertain as to whether
their exams will take place and even
whether they will graduate. Many
say that this situation is preventing
them from finding employment, leav-
ing them with lost earnings, a feeling
of helpless limbo, and a bitterness
that is mainly directed at the UCEA
and their own institutions.
Imperial is not affected by these
developments since staff at College
are under local pay negotiations and
cannot take part in the national dis-
pute. However, IC staff are also due
for similar pay negotiation before
August this year, but talks have not
yet begun. The situation does not
bode well for higher education in gen-
eral as anger grows over the inequal-
ity in pay rises between education
staff and university administration.
Over the last three years vice-chan-
cellors have been awarded an aver-
UK students panic as
emergency AUT talks collapse
Andrew Somerville age increase of 25%.
The AUT fears a ‘meltdown’ across
higher education as exams are can-
celled and marking deadlines come
and go. Edinburgh, Aberystwyth and
Liverpool universities have already
cancelled upto twenty exams, and
many universities are advising that
their students check daily for updates
on the internet.
Universities are attempting to quell
the disruption by implementing emer-
gency contingency plans, but this is
causing concern in some quarters
about the quality of degrees awarded
this year, fearing that standards will
not be upheld.
As tempers fray on both sides of
the debate, more strikes are planned.
Some universities have begun to
dock lecturers’ pay for failing to mark
exams; an end to the deadlock is still
not in sight.
Hazardous waste abandoned at Imperial hospital
Imperial medic walks into overflowing bags of waste outside a public-access lift in Charing Cross Hospital.
Chris Miles
News Editor
Medical students at Charing Cross
Hospital were put in direct contact
with an unattended skip of clinical
waste as they attempted to enter the
hospital's laboratory block on Friday,
12 May.
Overflowingbags,whichcancontain
anything from human tissue to drugs
and dressings, were obstructing the
exit from a lift, which is accessible to
patients, students and visitors at the
hospital. One student walked into an
overflowing clinical waste bag as she
left a public-access lift on route to her
tutorial. She had to move the yellow
‘biohazard’ containers in order to get
past the obstruction.
The distressed fourth year student
told Felix: “This is utterly unaccept-
able. It looked as if someone had left
early for the weekend and dumped a
skip of potentially hazardous waste
in front of a lift for some poor soul
to walk right into. The bags were
unstable and if one had split open, I
dread to think what might have hap-
pened.”
There are usually stringent controls
in place to ensure that clinical waste
is managed safely and is disposed of
without harming the environment or
human health. Contravention of waste
controls is a criminal offence. Section
34 of the Environment Protection Act
1990 places people concerned with
clinical waste under a duty of care
to ensure that the waste is disposed
of safely and is only transferred to
someone who is authorised to handle
it.
Students noticed that the waste had
been left untouched for two hours
and contacted Felix to voice their
concerns. We spoke to the hospital
switchboard to report the incident
and were put through to the Duty
Porter’s office, who confusingly said,
“put it in the bin”. We later contact-
ed Imperial College Charing Cross
Security and the skip was removed
for incineration within the hour.
An employee working nearby
described the situation as “disgust-
ing” and immediately contacted
the hospital’s Health and Safety
Executive. The Facilities Department
at Charing Cross Hospital are cur-
rently investigating the matter.
Danny McGuiness, ICSM SU
President, said: “This is indeed
unacceptable and I sincerely hope
it has been reported to the Health
and Safety Lead at the Trust. Our
students should be able to go about
their studies and placements safe in
the knowledge that their health and
safety will come to no harm.”
College released this statement:
“The College is concerned by the
reports that a clinical waste cart was
mistakenly left outside the entrance
to the laboratory block... Although
the College is confident no one was at
risk under these circumstances, an
investigation has been launched with
the Hammersmith Hospitals Trust
to determine the events which led to
Imperial academics pictured outside College protesting for an increase in London salary weighting .
this incident.
All clinical waste is first placed in
clearly marked bags prior to loading
onto a clinical waste cart and disposal
is thereafter handled by the NHS
Trust with whom the College regu-
larly liaises.
All staff and students at the College
are made aware of the potential risks
posed by it, in accordance with both
College and Trust health and safety
regulations.”
Leader, page 19
A silent bike ride is to take place
on Wednesday 17 May in memory
of cyclists killed and injured by
motorists. The scheme, part of a US
‘International Ride of Silence’ ini-
tiative, will involve a 10 mile route
through the city’s Hyde Park.
Imperial College student Apijak
Srivannavit was killed in a road traffic
accident whilst cycling in the South
Kensington area last summer.
Mr Srivannavit was at the junction
of Queen’s Gate and Cromwell Road
when he was hit by a coach. The
coroner’s report concluded that both
the coach driver and the cyclist were
to blame for the collision; however, no
action was taken against the coach
driver by the Crown Prosecution
Service.
In June of last year, Thomas Sippel-
Dau, an ICT manager, was also
knocked off his bicycle and killed by
a 4x4 vehicle. The upcoming ride
will visit the sites where the College
members were killed.
Ben Jefferys, Chair of the Union’s
Bicycle User Group, told Felix: “I
hope this is a fitting tribute for Apijak
and the other cyclists who have died
in London. It has been organised with
the cooperation of Apijak's family.
This event will be followed up by a
vigorous safety and awareness cam-
paign, funded by a generous donation
to ICBUG from Apijak's father.”
Anyone wishing to take part should
meet at Hyde Park Corner at 6:30pm
on 17 May. The 10 mile route will take
approximately two hours and riders
should be as silent as possible. The
pace of the ride will also be restricted
so all cyclists are able to join in. Each
participant should wear a black arm-
band (or a red armband if they have
been injured themselves).
Memorial bike ride
Chris Miles
The busy Cromwell Road where one of the students was killed last year.

