The Federal Agency Price
Protection Act is supposed to pre-
vent “price gauging”, but with oil
at around $70 per barrel, one must
question the function of this law.
Other proposals to increase taxes
on oil producers have been rejected
outright. Similarly, the EU retraced
its plans for increasing taxes but
Chancellor of the Exchequer, Gordon
Brown, levied the taxes paid by North
Sea oil producers.
Mervin King, the Governor of the
Bank of England, signalled energy
costs are finally taking their toll on
inflation, indicating potential rate
rises. He said, last Wednesday, “the
prices of oil and other commodi-
ties such as metals have risen fur-
ther...pose upside risks to inflation.”
Soaring energy bills and tariffs on
long haul flights has pushed up infla-
tion to the Bank of England’s target.
The Office of National Statistics
said that consumer price index, a
measure of inflation, is up to 3.8 per
One year has almost passed since
Goldman Sachs infamously published
a report predicting a tremendous
spike in oil to $105 per barrel. Once
deemed ludicrous by many analysts,
few dare speak against it now. The
price of oil has surged by almost 50
per cent since then and consumers
and central banks alike are starting
to feel the sting.
In America, the price of petrol is
nearing $3 a barrel and the US is
finally easing off the gas pedal in
response, but not voluntarily. Opinion
poles show anger at the pumps is
being directed at the government
and at a time when the Bush admin-
istration is looking to have the worst
mid-term election result in history. In
response, the Republicans have been
passing legislation designed to pass
the buck to oil companies.
Oil prices fuelling inflation
business business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Michael Olymbios
Business Editor
The Bank of England where Governon Mervin King gave his inflation report last Wednesday
Michael Olymbios
Capital markets, affectionately known
in the industry, as the “factory floor”
is the place where financial instru-
ments are created. Typically, it is a
branch of the investment banking
division, and is divided in two sectors
known as equity and debt capital mar-
kets (DCM). The main products they
form are shares and bonds respec-
tively, and do so to raise money for
companies. Recently, however, banks
are combining ECM and DCM into a
single division.
This week shall deal with ECM.
Europe saw a 400% increase in equity
financing in 2004 with deals totalling
$30.6 billion, compared to a meagre
$5.7 billion, the previous year. Those
working within capital markets find
themselves principally involved in
one of three things, including: origi-
nating new business, structuring the
products or syndicating, which entails
pitching newly prepared instruments
to potential investors.
The most publicised work of ECM is
the initial public offering (IPO). This
is where a private company decides
that, in order to raise finances it will
sell its shares to the public, usually
via a stock exchange. There are rare
instances when the motive is not to
raise capital but stocks being sold
as a secondary offering by existing
shareholders.
This was the case for the USA’s
largest IPO in 1998 when DuPont sold
part of itself to Conoco for $4.4 billion.
Some of the largest IPOs occur when
governments sell their holdings in
stock to raise money. This was the
case for the largest ever deal that
City explained: Equity Capital Markets
• Inflation for April up by 2 per cent
on pervious month
• Bank of England says rate hike
likely despite fears over economy
cent in April, a 3 per cent increase
on the previous month. The Bank
of England signalled the next move
would be a rise in base rates. The US
Federal Reserve has already raised
rates to 5 per cent. Money markets
have priced in a 25 basis point rise
this summer and a 50 point rise for
mid 2007 in the sterling. The bank
is, however, cautious about a lack of
capacity in the economy and does
not wish to overreact on wage infla-
tion data. Consumer sentiment is still
high, though, due to a resilient hous-
ing market and expensive assets.
Despite economic forecasts being
revised on the downside, Mervin King
was still optimistic about the state of
the economy, highlighting a strong
external environment. Projections
show that this year will be the first
time, since 1995, that the trade bal-
ance is positive and contributes to
the economy.
involved $13 billion worth of stock
in Nippon Telegraph and Telephone
being offered by the Japanese gov-
ernment.
Once a company decides to go pub-
lic, its first decision is to pick an
underwriter. The choosing of man-
agers is often known as the ‘beauty
contest’. This involves meeting with
investment bankers form different
firms who pitch what they think the
company is worth and how much
stock they can realistically sell.
Underwriters are the midwives in
the birth of financial products and
their role is three-fold. Initially, they
explain the procedure and provide
advice, after which they then buy the
newly issued instruments that are
finally resold to the public. After an
underwriter is chosen, that firm’s
lawyers and accountants prepare
a registration statement to be filed
with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC). It is a lengthy
and dry document covering a range
of issues, including proposed financ-
ing and the history of the company.
The most important aspect of the
registration documents is the S-1
form, also known as the prospectus.
It is vital to get this right because it
is distributed to potential investors.
Creating a prospectus is a highly
expensive process because it involves
an array of highly paid professionals.
This culminates in something known
as “going to the printer”. This highly
stressful endeavour involves law-
yers, bankers and accountants being
locked in at printing houses where
they must work together continuous-
ly until the prospectus is perfected.
It is not all bad news though. These
24-hour financial printers (the largest
being Bowne and Donnelley) offer all
the gourmet food you can eat, baths,
showers and other amenities.
Whilst the firm awaits a decision
from the SEC, it is busy calculating
the issue price. This is done using
models like price to earnings ratio
comparisons and discounted cash
flow models. Once the SEC gives
the green light, something known as
the road show takes place. This is a
marketing exercise where the banks
talks to potential investors who will
mostly be institutional investors such
as mutual fund or pension fund man-
agers. They will then give the bank
the maximum price they are willing
to pay and how many dollars they are
prepared to put forward. Although
investors are not legally bound by
their promises, they will want to stay
in the underwriters’ good books so as
to remain in the loop when it comes
to future opportunities.
When selecting a price, underwrit-
ers are extremely cautious and usu-
ally do not go for the highest possible
since this might put off investors and
leave unsold stocks. Some degree
of under pricing also leaves room to
temp other investors. This is where a
conflict of interest might arise. Since
the underwriters agree to buy the
stock and then sell it to the public,
they do not want any unsold shares
since that leaves them with market
exposure. On the other hand, the
company wants a high a price as
possible to raise as much capital as
it can since that is, in most cases,
the motive behind floating on a stock
exchange. In return for underwrit-
ing the stock, the bank profits from
a spread. That is they are allowed to
buy the stock for less than they sell
it to the public. The company is also
billed for any administrative costs
incurred by the bank.
The most expensive aspect of an
IPO is under pricing. The cost is
hidden but very real and is famously
illustrated with eBay. The prospec-
tus for eBay estimated that investors
would be interested in a stock price
of $14 to $16. However, they failed to
account for the huge interested this
new web-based economy had gener-
ated. By the end of the first day of
trading over 4.5 million shares traded
and the close was $47.375. In the UK,
IPOs increase by an average of 20%
after floating, but this premium is
short-lived and prices usually settle
within five years.
Bankers in ECM can typically
expect similar pay to those in M&A
with some managing directors
achieving seven figure bonuses at
the best firms for the largest deals.
The dot-com crash has hampered the
industry but the number of IPOs is
back on the increase.
eBay stocks increased by 260 per cent on the first day of trading
4
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 18 May 2006

