Bored of exams?
Write for Felix Science:
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
pacemaker. DBS is clearly a risky and
serious step to take; as Tiipu Aziz, a
consultant neurosurgeon, says: “I as
a surgeon can kill you, tablets can’t,”
making it clear that DBS is only to
be considered for extreme cases of
movement disorder.
One of the strengths of the evening
was the combination of technical and
personal stories gained from having
such a diverse combination of speak-
ers. DBS is both a neat and revolu-
“It’s restored life to me,” says Fergus,
of the procedure known as Deep
Brain Stimulation (DBS). Now an
established treatment for Parkinson’s
disease and other neurological move-
ment disorders, DBS, a combination
of brain surgery and implant technol-
ogy, is becoming more widespread.
As we live longer, brain disease will
become more common and managing
its symptoms and finding a cure will
be an ever-increasing problem.
Certain areas of the brain are over-
active in movement disorders such as
Parkinson’s disease, and DBS targets
those by the insertion of electrodes
into these regions. A high-frequency
current is then transmitted to the
electrodes from a pacemaker, which
controls and generates the electri-
cal pulses and is implanted into the
patient’s chest under the collarbone.
The electrical stimulation effectively
blocks or reduces the activity of the
chosen brain region, alleviating the
symptoms resulting from the brain’s
over-activity.
Part of Brain Awareness Week,
the webcast broadcast by the Dana
Centre was a presentation of the sci-
ence of DBS by two top surgeons
in the field, combined with a dis-
cussion of the selection procedure
and follow-up treatment carried out
by neurologists. Mike Robins, one of
the first people to undergo the pro-
cedure in this country seven years
ago, goes so far as to turn his pace-
maker off, letting us see the reality
of living with Parkinson’s before the
operation. He describes conventional
Parkinson’s drugs as making him feel
as if he were “living in a bubble” as he
became gradually more despondent
and marginalised from society. DBS
became a last resort for him, and one
for which he is very grateful.
Despite this being something of a
celebration of DBS (another young
woman in the audience, Amy Westall,
was also on hand in the audience to
talk about the positive impact DBS
has had on her quality of life), the
discussion was tempered by an intel-
ligent and informative presentation
fromneurologistDrPatriciaLimousin
about the selection procedure and
rigours of post-operative care, includ-
ing the trouble patients may have in
finding the correct setting for their
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
science
“I had the rather
bizarre feeling of
having crashed
a private party
where people
exchanged idea
for Parkinson’s
help groups
over wine and
canapes.”
Delving deeper into
brain surgery
Deep brain stimulation is becoming more popular as a
treatment for Parkinson’s, but how much of a risk is it?
A
new grooming product launched
this week is set to change the way
we communicate and even alter the
way we think. Ockham’s Razor™
is an application of the philosophy
of science to everyday life and its
makers, PhilosoTech, have billed it
as a revolutionary tool for “cutting out bad ideas”
and “trimming unsightly theories”. The device was
inspired by an artefact unearthed last year from a
fourteenth-century grave near Woking.
Ockham’s Razor has been developed in partner-
ship with the university of Edinburgh’s department
for Intellectual ParsimonY (DIPY). DIPY’s head,
Professor Seth Knox, gave the historical back-
ground to this invention:
“William of Ockham was a man to whom scien-
tists owe a lot. He came up with ideas about theory
creation and selection which can be paraphrased
as: ‘Don’t multiply entities in a theory’ and ‘When
choosing a theory, go for the one that explains
things in terms of what you already know, and in the
simplest way.’”
For centuries this idea has been described as
Ockham’s Razor, but when Knox and his team dis-
covered Ockham’s tomb in 2005, it seemed his razor
was more than metaphor. “We found a number of
objects associated with Ockham’s life, presum-
ably thrown into the burial pit after his coffin. One
of these was a rather elegant knife, apparently
designed for shaving with.”
Tests on the little knife showed it had never
been sharpened, but a chance discovery revealed
something more interesting. Senior researcher
Selima Alma described the moment: “I was getting
nowhere with my analyses. Prof Knox came in and
asked me how I was doing. I started to describe
my procedures and theories about the knife and
absent-mindedly scratched my chin with it as I was
doing so. Suddenly my redundant ideas fell away,
and my vague theories crystallised. Knox noticed
the difference immediately. He said I was ‘shaving
the phenomena’.”
Alma and Knox realised the blade was actu-
ally influencing the user’s thought processes –
Ockham’s razor indeed existed, and could be used
to clarify thought, simplify theories and rationalise
poor logic. Knox decided to conduct some scientific
tests; he applied the blade to 35 History of Art stu-
dents and 28 showed a significant increase in verbal
clarity and logical reasoning for up to five days
following the application. There were some unfore-
seen consequences though. As Knox noted: “Most
of them failed their assignments for that week.”
PhilosoTech saw the potential market for a retail
version of this ancient knife and worked with Knox
and Alma to develop an up-to-date device. They have
since received huge advance orders for Ockham’s
Razor and their sales manager, Julia Romeo, point-
ed out some interesting sales patterns: “We’ve had
high order volumes from the Shoreditch area of
London, parts of Liverpool, and most of Kent. We
believe that these must be regions where people
talk complete nonsense most of the time – hence
the demand for such a device.” However, the stand-
out sales successes have been corporate orders
from major consultancy firms Accenture, McKinsey
and PriceWaterhouseCoopers.
Ockham’s Razor will retail at £12.99 for a set of
five disposable blades and a mock-ivory handle.
Ockham’s
Razor
Duncan
McMillan
h
e
Newer
Scientist
Deep Brain Stimulation (DBS) is a risky and serious step to take.
As Tiipu Aziz, a consultant neurosurgeon, says: “I as a surgeon can kill
you, tablets can’t.”
Katherine Nightingale tionary piece of science as well as
a life-changing experience for those
seeing no other alternative. The con-
trast between the PowerPoint pres-
entations from the neurosurgeons
(briefly evoking a scientific confer-
ence or lecture hall) and the emotive
speeches about DBS from patients
balanced the evening nicely and pre-
vented the event from sliding into
either dry information about the sur-
gery and risks or emotional polemic
about the benefits.
It dawned on me about halfway
through the evening that I was proba-
bly one of the few people there whose
life has not been touched by a move-
ment disorder. I had the rather bizarre
feeling of having crashed a private
party, where people exchanged ideas
for Parkinson’s help groups over wine
and canapés. Although not exactly
science-in-public, and perhaps not
what the Dana Centre was designed
for, this event showed that there is
clearly a role for a public forum about
specific diseases.
Maybe the speakers were preach-
ing to the converted or giving valu-
able information to people whose
lives would be directly affected by the
topic. It was certainly the busiest I’ve
ever seen the Dana Café, and per-
haps indicative about the kind of sci-
ence the public want to be informed
about.
5
felix
Thursday 18 May 2006 www.felixonline.co.uk

