he Summer is Here!
he Isle of Wight Economic
Partnership (www.iwep.com), in
conjunction with Felix, is oﬀering
two pairs of tickets for the Nokia
Isle of Wight Rock Festival (9th to
11th June 2006).
Go to www.felixonline.co.uk for
details of how to enter.
7
felix
Thursday 18 May 2006 www.felixonline.co.uk
MUSIC music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“Final who?” This is something I
might catch you saying, or regret-
tably, “You mean the guy who writes
the music for the video g…” NO! I
completely understand the former,
though, since his first album was cob-
bled together in a week and released
without any fanfare on a little known
label (Tomlab). Fans of the gay ver-
sion of the Polyphonic Spree, the
Hidden Cameras, and those who
dedicate themselves to every string
crescendo of Funeral by Arcade Fire
will have heard of this one man band.
He wrote string parts for both. Now
you are thinking you should’ve heard
of him sooner, aren’t you? Well, “yes”
is my answer.
When he performs live, he does
so with a violin, his voice, and a loop
pedal to create the backing. Now
he has a new album out. The more
orchestral, fuller-sounding (but tragi-
cally titled) He Poos Clouds. Buy it
(when it finally comes our over here).
Due to the nature of this album, I was
unsure whether he would expand to
include a quartet, or continue with his
‘one man and his loop pedal’ show. It
turns out he stuck to the latter and it
was joyous, but first a few words on
the support acts.
Simon Bookish is fantastically
appalling. I can see what he is trying
to do (one third Jarvis Cocker, one
third Richard Youngs, and one third
Richard James) but falls flat and just
irritates me.
Grizzly Bear, from Brooklyn, are
brilliant with their charming, sparse,
experimental, heavily reverbed, and
looped alt-folk country with slo-core
(I cannot believed I used said that)
elements. It is beautiful stuff and no
description I can muster will cover
it.
Owen Pallet arrives onto the stage
with violin in hand and launches into
The CN Tower Belongs to the Dead.
A magnificent entry, I must say (as
the bishop said to the housemaid).
He proceded to impress the audience
with his mastery of his looping pedal
during new songs such as This Lamb
sells Condos. This song is about a mid-
dle aged guy who can’t perform in the
underwear department. Classic lines
include, “His massive genitals refuse
to co-operate/no amount of therapy
can now save his marriage.”
A new arrangement of This is the
Dream of Win and Regine was not as
successful or triumphant as I wanted
it to be, with the drums letting it
down. It is odd that as soon as he
adds elements, he takes away from
the performance. Also after profess-
ing that OMD (80’s pop) were his
favourite British band, one of his
encores feature two brilliant covers
(with faithful schoolground noises).
His second and last encore then fea-
tured an attractive cover of Mariah
Carey’s Fantasy, featuring the lead
singer of Grizzly Bear, that had me
singing along and laughing, which is
simply a good thing.
Owen Pallet has a geeky edge (he
has a song called 59 Man Points
Leads to Many LIves) which is actu-
ally tolerable, and is the best thing
named after a computer game. He
may remain in the shadow of the far
better-known and accessible (some
may be offended by Pallet’s lyrics
dealing with homosexual themes)
Arcade Fire, but I hope this doesn’t
last long.
Matty Hoban
LIVE REVIEW
FInal Fantasy
The Luminaire
Kilburn
H H H H H
ARE YOU READY TO LIVE LIFE?
The Isle of Wight offers a fantastic lifestyle to
Graduates. Fast becoming one of the UK’s cul-
tural hotspots, with a large music scene including
the famous Nokia Isle of Wight Music Festival and
the Bestival.
The Isle of Wight offers excellent opportunities
for extreme watersports enthusiasts and hosts
Europe’s largest extreme watersports festival
- White Air.
People are able to take time chilling out, enjoy-
ing the beaches, restaurants, and pubs or being
a bit more active, trekking or cycling across our
beautiful countryside and rugged coastline; one
can really achieve the work–life balance that so
many people aspire to.
The Isle of Wight has built up an enviable repu-
tation as a place of excellence and innovation in
the fields of maritime and aerospace engineering
and technology. Many world class companies
such as British Aerospace Defence Systems,
GKN Westland Aerospace, Britten-Norman and
FBM Marine are based on the Island.
In recent years the Island has been success-
ful at developing a cluster of businesses in the
renewable energy and composites sectors such
as SP Systems and Vestas Blades. The Island also
has many small and medium sized companies
offering opportunities.
A recent report showed the Isle of Wight
Economy grew faster than the South East and
the UK. These figures reflect the number of
opportunities for skilled students and graduates
to live, work and play on the Isle of Wight.
To apply for work experience and graduate
placement opportunities on the Isle of Wight, or
to find out more, visit www. iwep.com.
You too can be part of the crowd above and also get to see the sights of the picturesque island.

