8
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 18 May 2006
Like to feel cold? Like vodka?
nightlife nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Having trawled a selection of some
of London’s less salubrious clubs, we
requested, for a change to be sent
somewhere ‘cool, classy and chilled’.
We think that our request may have
been taken a little too literally and we
found ourselves bound for the exclu-
sive ‘Absolut Ice Bar’ in Mayfair…
Some clubs just perfectly suit their
name, for instance: Hombres is, of
course, filled to the brim with men,
Embargo should be avoided at all
costs and sure enough, exactly as
it said on the tin, the Ice Bar was
constructed entirely from ice. Upon
arrival we were presented with large,
insulated ponchos, sporting fur col-
lars and hoods, that made us look like
camp Nordic members of the Ku Klux
Klan. Everything from the walls to
the bar was carved entirely from ice,
and not any old frozen Thames Valley
Tap Water, but as our obliging antipo-
dean barman ‘Jase’ proudly informed
us, ice specially imported from the
Tourne river in Sweden. This specta-
cle was further enhanced by ambient
blue lighting, breathtaking ice sculp-
tures, and reindeer pelts to sit on…
Even the glasses were little more
than hollowed out blocks of ice.
The management insisted we ‘sam-
ple’ every beverage on the menu.
The drinks, invariably vodka based,
bore Nordic-esque names such as
‘The Howling Husky’ and ‘Northern
Lights’. Everyone we spoke to stipu-
lated that it was nigh on impossible
to get drunk in the ice-bar, yet lo and
behold, two-and-a-half hours later
(one-hour-and-three-quarters over
the maximum time the establish-
ment and conventional safety laws
would allow plus numerous requests
to vacate the premises from the
management) we had accomplished
this feat, and almost collapsed on
Regent’s Street…
The establishment’s entrance fee
was twelve pounds (one free drink
included) which perhaps explained
the large number of ‘wanker-bank-
ers’ and suit-wearing monkeys
amongst the clientele. We leapt upon
the opportunity to challenge some
bearded Germanic businessmen to
an impromptu curling match, using
our glasses and the slippery surface
of the bar. After sending at least two
glasses cascading towards the floor
we decided to call it an honourable
draw, but Fritz was having none of
it! The drinks (having sampled all of
them) were delicious, yet fiscal rape
ICE Bar - Mayfair
£12 - Any Day
HHHHH
Felix reporters get chilly with the Absolut Vodka Ice Bar on Regent Street.
at six pounds a time. The staff were
fun and friendly and we were able to
request ice in our drink or cappuc-
cinos at least five times before they
wearied of the jokes that must plague
them on an hourly basis.
One or two things did strike us as
strange about the bar, for instance:
the fact that there was a fire escape.
Call us crazy, but how could it hap-
pen? Furthermore, if you stood in the
same place, leaned against the walls,
or propped up the bar for any sig-
nificant period of time, you tended to
become attached to the surface. After
a while this can become a tad embar-
rassing, especially if one is chatting to
a large number of attractive Swedish
young ladies.
Customers are only allowed into
the bar for forty-five minute slots yet
the venue also boasts an adjoining
bar and lounge bearing the name
‘Below Zero’. In stark contrast to the
ice bar, the theme is ‘warmth’, with
roaring fires and ambient red-orange
lighting. Food is served, but alas,
after rinsing £240 worth of Felix com-
plimentary drinks in the Ice Bar the
management shockingly did not per-
mit us to sample the delights of the
menu (which interestingly included
Kangaroo steaks and roast Ostrich)
To summarise, the bar was expen-
sive, yet well worth the money as it
is a truly unique experience. It would
make fantastic date material and it is
guaranteed to impress, despite the
fact it may seem almost impossible to
get her drunk. Wait till you leave and
the heat hits you, the bar will certain-
ly be the only frigid thing around.
Mosli-Lynch & Lowley
In the run up to the exams for most
university students, Imperial College
International Tamil Society (I.T.S.),
organisers of Mega Maalai, offered a
little break from long hours trapped
in the dark recesses of the library in
the form of their 4th bi annual char-
ity event: Twist: Reloaded. The Twist
parties are the brainchild of I.T.S. vet-
eran Harry Narenthira aka Harrybo
and have been running for three years
now. These parties have witnessed
performances from some of the big-
gest personalities in Imperial College
including MC Rashad the Human
Beatbox and Funkology, the high pro-
file dance troupe! They have been
hosted at some of London’s top night
clubs including Rococo and Zoo Bar,
raising over a thousand pounds for
various charities including Medical
Institute of Tamils.
The 3rd of May 2006 saw Twist
grace the glamorous location of
Mayfair at the favourite celebrity
haunt: Capisce. The 200 strong crowd
on the night fitted perfectly with the
plush venue with students’ glamming
themselves up with tiaras and fur
coats. Although the crowd mainly
comprised of Imperial students, there
was strong representation from all
years (especially the 5th year medics
who were out in force tearing up the
dance floor.)
Taking care of the music on the
night were Ministry of Sound’s DJ
Technixx, K2 of the Notting Hills Arts
Club and ICSM’s own DJ Harrybo
and Nazza T who has just released
an album: Spot the Difference on
Xstreme Soundz record Label.
Throughout the night the sounds of
Hip Hop, Soul and Bhangra were
pumped out as well as an inspired
garage/grime set resulting in an
explosion of severe dancing/rowdi-
ness on the dance floor!
In traditional Twist style the
evening included break dancing
and street-locking performances
by Caeser (look out for his dance
classes) and Ajay (ICSM) as well as
an Open Mic Competition featuring
the likes of MC Menis, Sub Zero and
even Harrybo blessing the mic with
some interesting lyrics to get the
crowd lively. Having advertised the
event on most of the major clubbing
websites in London, we also saw a
couple of high profile photographers
taking photos on the night! Even Bob
Geldoff decided to pop his head into
the venue! There were great drinks
promos available and the Capisce air
also boasted a hint of flavour with shi-
sha available throughout the venue.
Congratulations to the International
Tamil Society Committee 06/07 and
the veterans Harrybo and Kris for
continuing the success of Twist, host-
ing an excellent party and raising over
600 pounds for worthy causes such
as British Red Cross, Ramakrishna
Mission and Tamil Aid. Look out for
our future Twists during next year’s
fresher’s week.
Annakan Navaratnam
Twist: Reloaded with IC Tamil Soc.
Two pages again today, which is
strange considering most people
are not going out any more. Thank
you to the Tamil Society for sending
in their review of Twist: Reloaded;
be sure to catch their next event.
Conor has been at it again this week,
sampling the delights of Mayfair
at the Ice Bar, making the most of
the £240 bar tab that they gave him
for writing the review. Felix must
be pretty highly regarded in those
circles.
No reviews from me this week,
Another double page spread. Conor at Ice Bar, IC
Tamil Soc at Twist and a stupid cliche article.
you’ll have to wait a few weeks
before you get any of the best
material we have to offer, which
means we are still open to sug-
gestions. I’ve said it every week
before so I’ll say it again here,
if you want to write a review for
somewhere just email me with
your preferences, I’ll give you and
a friend a club to visit, some free
drinks, some money, a prostitute,
and a miniature giraffe. It can be
anything: Your favourite club, your
worst club, your local crack broth-
el. In fact, it doesn’t even need to
be a review. You could write an
article on your favourite area for
picking up hookers, or maybe an
essay on how much you love me.
I’m open to suggestions.
Congratulations to the winners
of last week’s prize. I’m afraid
there is no competition this week
as I didn’t have time to organise
the prizes, but look out in future
issues for our super sweet givea-
ways: Probably more VIP tick-
ets, or maybe something com-
pletely different, I have no idea.
Remember if you don’t enter then
I’ll just end up keeping them for
myself, or giving them to a tramp
or some underage kids. Until next
time, have fun with revision.
Greg Mead
Nightlife Editor
No sailor outfits in sight this time, but those coats do look rather dashing.

