An investigation into students and alcohol: Page 10
“Keep the Cat Free”
FELIX
The student voice of Imperial College London since 1949
ISSUE 1506
13.01.12
COMMENT
TELEVISION
Sherlock returns to
the small screen
Page 22
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
Snowsports take on
Les Arcs
Page 24
A rise in Masters
fees
Page 14
Binge Drinking: Is it a problem?
Holland Club Campaign
Matt Allinson
Call to protect staff bar attracts over 600 members
The future of Imperial College’s staff
bar, the Holland Club, is in serious
doubt this week as it emerged that col-
lege catering are potentially planning
on converting the space into a new food
outlet.
The news sparked widespread contro-
versy online amongst both Imperial’s
staff and postgraduate community, with
the “Save The Holland Club” Facebook
group receiving nearly 600 likes in less
than four weeks. The page has become
a hub for past and present patrons of the
bar to express their shock and outrage at
the news, while the page itself has been
updated almost daily with information
about the potential closure.
The move to replace the Holland Club
with a new catering facility comes at the
beginning of a busier than usual year for
Imperial College Commercial Services,
which as well as attempting to improve
services provided to students and staff,
will also be playing hosts to members of
the Swiss and Japanese Olympic teams
during the summer.
Currently, Commercial Services are
carrying out a feasibility study into how
to improve the west basement of the
Sherfield Building and will consider,
amongst other things, “what addition-
al catering and amenities would best A poster campaign has also been launched
Julia Buckingham to step down as Pro-Rector
Carol Ann Cheah
Professor Julia Buckingham, cur-
rent Pro-Rector for Education and
Academic Affairs at Imperial College
London, has been appointed as the
next Vice-Chancellor and Principal for
Brunel University. The first woman to
be appointed to this position at Brunel,
she will assume duties from Professor
Chris Jenks on the 1st of October 2012.
A graduate in Pharmacology from the
University of London, Professor Buck-
ingham is also currently the Director of
Imperial’s Centre for Integrative Mam-
malian Physiology and Pharmacology.
She joined the College in 1997 during
the merger of the West London Medi-
cal Schools with Imperial, serving as
Non-Clinical Dean for the Faculty of
Medicine and the Head of Division of
Neuroscience and Mental Health prior
to her appointment as Pro-Rector in
2007.
Professor Buckingham was also pre-
viously employed as Professor of Phar-
macology and Assistant Dean (Preclin-
ical) at Charing Cross and Westminster
Medical School, University of London.
As a researcher, she has had her work
funded by various research councils
and the Wellcome Trust, and trained
over 25 PhD students. She is also cur-
rently Chairman and Trustee of the
Society for Endocrinology, as well as
a Founder Member of the Society of
Biology.
Jane Kelly, Chair of Brunel Univer-
sity’s Council, said that “Council is
very pleased to have appointed Julia
to be our next Vice-Chancellor...[she]
demonstrates the skills, commitment
and enthusiasm to build on Brunel’s
strengths and aspirations.”
serve the needs of staff and students
on the South Kensington Campus”.
Meanwhile the Holland Club manage-
ment have been left feeling “in limbo,”
unsure whether or not to carry on with
their own planned improvement works
or even if the Holland Club will remain.
Various sources have stated to Felix
that this will be a major project with a
budget of around £4m, and the feasibil-
ity study has a wide remit of possible
amenities that could be offered, includ-
ing a bar, cafeteria or restaurant, and
also allowing space that could be usable
by Union clubs and societies.
In correspondence with Felix, Jane
Neary, the head of Commercial Ser-
vices at Imperial, commented that the
food facilities on the South Kensington
campus had reached saturation point
and; despite being able to provide cater-
ing services to a footfall of 2.5m people
last year; were unable to meet demand.
Furthermore she stated that, “Stu-
dent feedback has also highlighted that
taught postgraduates would welcome
more appropriate common room provi-
sion on campus,” in reference to the fact
that the rules of the Senior Common
Room state that taught postgraduates
are not allowed to eat there.
This is a problem that the college read-
ily acknowledged and has been working
...Continued on Page 4

The Holland Club is under threat, help us by liking our
SAVE THE HOLLAND CLUB Facebook page
College Catering are undertaking a 'feasibility study' on whether
space occupied by the Holland Club could be used for a College
Catering facility.
The Holland Club was founded in 1949 as a self-governing staff club
and has provided staff and postgraduate students with their own
social facility since then.
  
      

 
!#"" !#"#



