ago,” she explains “and actually com-
mented then on how the British like to
drink to excess. We are talking about
a culture that has been going on for so
many years.”
And at university, of course, the
pressure to drink is even more pro-
nounced. Moira Plant, Professor of Al-
cohol studies, University of West Eng-
land, feels that the culture of alcohol
is even more prevalent in University,
“It’s really very difficult, particularly
for younger people, not to drink be-
cause university cultures are drink-
ing cultures. People at times perceive
people who don’t drink as ‘no fun’: as
people to be suspicious of.” We spoke
to Verana, a teetotal student at Impe-
rial, who explained that there is “some
pressure to drink, but generally people
are happy when you just explain your
choice”.
These ideas ring true when looking at
an average night out the town – drink-
ing is practically a must. Unfortunate-
ly, the amount can lead to people end-
ing up in hospital. Dr Zul Mirza, A&E
Consultant in West Middlesex Uni-
versity Hospital gives Felix his take:
“the NHS sees twice as many twice as
many alcohol patients as 10 years ago;
and British teens are the worst binge
drinkers in Europe – of all 15-24 year
old deaths, alcohol contributes to 1 in
4.” He also highlighted the effect of
peer pressure leading to previous non-
drinkers conforming to fit in.
The College of Emergency Medicine
attributes in part the affordability of
alcohol as there are studies showing
the strong positive correlation between
cheap alcohol and excessive use. In su-
permarkets, it is sold at less than cost
price and as Brigid Simmonds Chief
Executive of the British Beer and Pub
Association tells us “Almost 70% of
all alcohol is bought in supermarkets.”
This was has been further exacerbated
by the 24 hour licensing reform, which
rather than encouraging French café
culture and pacing how alcohol was
drunk, merely increased availability
and enabled alcoholics.
While the notion of alcohol being
bad for your health exists, it is seen
as relatively safe in large amounts,
unlike other easily available drugs
I
t’s that time of year again when
we all start to make, and con-
sequently break, all those well-
meant resolutions we dreamt up
over the Christmas break. But
one resolution that couldn’t afford to
be broken was that made by Imperial
College School of Medicine (ICSM)
this time last year: its anniversary
marked by ICSM’s inaugural ‘Alcohol
Awareness Week’, a series of events
designed to highlight the dangers stu-
dents face by abusing alcohol. Here,
Felix investigates the binge drinking
culture of our universities, and asks
what, if anything, can be done.
Alcohol to most British people
comes part and parcel with socialis-
ing. It’s just normal to have a couple
of pints or a few glasses of wine when
meeting with friends. Peter Marsh,
Co-director of The Social Issues Re-
search Centre tells us how the culture
of drinking is a fundamental part of
our collective psyche. “The British
identity […] has rested on its drinking
habits and drinking reputation. The use
of alcohol is central to most of our cel-
ebratory rituals – to marriages, births
and even deaths.”
And, according to Sibohan McCann
of Drink Aware, this is far from a mod-
ern problem. “A King of Norway came
to visit Britain thousands of years
like paracetamol. Unfortunately, this
is not the case. Like an overdose of
paracetamol in a short period of time
can damage your liver and cause you
to die, acute alcohol poisoning can do
the same. Furthermore, taking in a lot
of alcohol over a short period of time
can raise you blood concentrations. If
this reaches 300mg/L, you will become
unconscious, lose your gag reflex and
aspirate vomit. If you’re lucky, it will
give you pneumonia. If you’re not,
you’ll suffer an hypoxic cardiac arrest
- hardly the best way to end a night out.
It is not only in the short term alco-
hol is dangerous. Excessive consump-
tion over a sustained period can lead
to portal hypertension, bleeding of the
stomach and vomiting up blood. This
is the commonest presentation of al-
coholism and alcoholic damage to the
liver in the “silent middle classes” who
do not arrive in hospital until the dam-
age has become permanent. This in-
sidious onset is due to the apparently
harmless act of sharing a bottle of wine
each evening with a partner. Whilst the
image of a homeless vagabond with
a few cans of Tennant’s is the stereo-
typical image of an alcoholic, this is
a problem that spans all ages, genders
and classes.
But why do students in particular
fall into alcohol abuse? The answer
of course is multi-factorial, however,
Dr Mirza suggests part of the reason
might lie in personality type. Stu-
dents at Imperial are largely Type A,
meaning that they exhibit traits like
perfectionism, highly competitive na-
tures, time urgency, and a predisposi-
tion to stress. Dr Mirza stressed that
it was the responsibility of the student,
though, to find outlets for their stress
that don’t involve alcohol. Currently,
though, ‘there is a lack of understand-
ing about how to deal with the pres-
sure’.
So why should students care? The
health and professional consequences
of binge drinking are well known - but
it is not widely appreciated that drink-
ing, even in small amounts, can seri-
ously affect academic performance.
There is some evidence that ‘one
night of heavy binge drinking will im-
pair your abstract thinking for up to
30 days’. That includes your reading
comprehension, ability to understand
what your lectures say to you, and
problem solving abilities. It is a widely
held belief that a person can have one
or two drinks and behave completely
normally, however, this is untrue- a
persons ability to think normally could
be impaired ‘right from the first sip’.
Not such a problem on a night out, but
if the effects are as long lasting as sug-
gested, students who regularly binge
drink will face serious academic re-
percussions (not to mention significant
financial cost.)This idea is reflected in
the significant number of freshers in
the UK who drop out of their courses
every year due to alcohol related prob-
lems.
But what can be done about the prob-
lem? Part of the problem is confusion
over guidelines. Officially, the NHS
advices men to drink no more than
21 units a week, and women no more
than 14. However, this often misleads
people into thinking that it is healthy
to drink every day, which of course it
isn’t. It has been suggested this week
in a report by the Parliamentary Sci-
ence and Technology Committee that
we should abstain from alcohol for
at least 2 days a week. An interesting
proposal, but doesn’t all this conflict-
ing advice confuse the general public
over what is a healthy amount of al-
cohol to consume. Dr Mirza thinks so,
and called for ‘clear guidelines and one
message’ over alcohol intake.
In terms of what universities should
be doing, education is a major compo-
nent. Initiatives like ‘Alcohol Aware-
ness’ week are fantastic at highlighting
the problems associated with excessive
drinking. However, Mirza recognises
the importance of avoiding seeming
‘dictatorial or Machiavellian’ when
guiding people about their alcohol in-
take .
“We don’t want to stop people hav-
ing fun, we just want to encourage sen-
sible and responsible drinking.”
Alcohol: why should you care?
Madhura Ghosh and Katy Bettany investigate binge drinking culture
“One night of binge-
ing will impair your
abstract thinking for
30 days ”
“159,000 freshers in
the UK will drop out
of their courses due
to alcohol”
FELIX
Friday 13 january 2012
10
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
FEATURES
Imperial College
Advice Centre
Imperial College
Health Centre
Alcoholics
Anonymous
Worried?
If you are worried about
your alcohol intake, there
are plenty of places to
seek help and advice.
10am – 5pm weekdays,
Mezzanine Level of the Union
Building
8am – 6pm weekdays, Tues-
days 8am – 1pm, 6:30pm
– 8pm (Pre-booked Appoint-
ments Only)
www.alcoholics-anonymous.
org.uk
Imperial College London

