the perceived ‘essential’ nature of alco-
hol at these events. Whilst events for
‘non-drinkers’ have never really taken
off, I think that ICSM has improved the
events to cater for everyone, which is
what we should be aiming for.
I would like to reiterate Dr Mirza’s
point that this Awareness week is an
excellent step in the right direction.
What made you decide to arrange an
Alcohol Awareness week, and will it
become a regular thing for the medi-
cal school?
The thought to run anAlcoholAware-
ness week was initially triggered by
last year’s press, and ICSMSU felt that
it necessary to highlight to students the
impact that alcohol (or misuse of it)
can have on their careers. I hope that
it has not come across as an attempt to
tell people not to drink: that was never
the aim. We want to provide the infor-
mation that people need to allow them
to make a fully informed decision.
Huge thanks to Neeraj Kalra, IC-
SMSU Welfare Officer for leading the
week, which I think has been well re-
ceived.
Obviously, education is a massive
component in changing the health
behaviours of students, and many
H
ow do you think the
medical school has
changed since this time
last year (with respect
to the Daily Mail ar-
ticle highlighting the binge-drinking
culture of ICSM)?
The changes made [after] the Daily
Mail article last January have caused
some necessary changes to bar behav-
iour. The changes have brought the
bar in line with the ICU responsible
retailing of alcohol policy which was
revised earlier this year. The buckets
were removed, alcohol is no longer
served in jugs, it has been further high-
lighted that drunk people will not be
served (although this was already an
existing rule).
Do you agree with the opinion
that excessive drinking has been in-
grained into ICSM’s culture, and if
so, is this something that needs to
be changed? What steps have been
taken to improve the issue, and how
successful have they been?
Whilst many medical school events
(across all medical schools, not just
ICSM) have previously had an alcohol
focus, I think that a great effort has been
made over the last few years to lessen
students may not be aware that
they are at risk of seriously damag-
ing their professional and personal
lives. However, is education enough
– do you not think that there needs
to be more serious repercussions for
students who repeatedly drink exces-
sively?
I think it is crucial to separate the im-
pact of drinking excessively in different
situations. Where it is purely impacting
the individual, whilst we can educate to
allow them to know the damage they
are doing, it is ultimately their decision
(as long as they have capacity and in-
sight). The difference comes when the
individual’s alcohol consumption is af-
fecting those around them, whether it is
family, friends or patients.
However, I think what is often missed
is that alcohol abuse (and ultimately
addiction) is also a medical problem as
well as a social one, and students who
have difficulties surrounding alcohol
need to be helped through it, and not
refuse to tell anyone for fear of re-
percussion. I don’t think that punitive
measures are the most productive ap-
proach to alcohol misuse.
How would you respond to the pos-
sible criticism of the ICSMSU about
certain members failing to lead by
example by drinking responsibly?
The ICSMSU Exec, as an elected
body, is voted for by all students and is
representative of the student body.
ICSMSU Exec strive to lead by ex-
ample, and we are aware of the impact
that alcohol can have in relation to stu-
dents.
A key point of alcohol awareness
week is to start to impact upon the per-
ceived drinking culture. I hope that in
a few years time, as a result of cam-
paigns run by ICSMSU amongst oth-
ers, we will have managed to change
this, but it will be a long process.
And finally, if a student suspects
they have a drinking problem, where
should be their first point of call for
help? Many students could be re-
luctant to come forward for fear of
jeopardising themselves profession-
ally – what would you say to them?
Within the university, there are lots of
points of call. Obviously, the ICSMSU
Welfare Officer and I are always avail-
able for confidential advice. The senior
welfare tutors are also an excellent
source of impartial and confidential ad-
vice. The counselling service (counsel-
ling@ic.ac.uk) provide 8 sessions and
referrals for longer term treatment.
,QYLWLQJDOO¿UVWDQGVHFRQG\HDUXQGHUJUDGXDWHV
Imperial Horizons
www3.imperial.ac.uk/horizons
:DQWWRSXW\RXUGHJUHHLQDEURDGHUFRQWH[W"
)DQF\KHDULQJIURPWRSH[SHUWVIURPDOORYHUWKH&ROOHJH QRWMXVW\RXUGHSDUWPHQW "
:DQWWRHQKDQFH\RXUSURVSHFWVRIHPSOR\PHQWDIWHUJUDGXDWLRQ"
,QWHUHVWHGLQWKHVFLHQFHDQGSROLWLFVRIFOLPDWHFKDQJH"
&KHFNRXWWKHQHZ,PSHULDO+RUL]RQVFRXUVH([FOXVLYHO\GHYHORSHGIRU¿UVWDQG
VHFRQG\HDUXQGHUJUDGXDWHV
Application deadline Wednesday 18th January.6HHRXUZHEVLWHIRUIXOOGHWDLOV
FEATURES
FELIX Friday 13 january 2012 11
the perceived ‘essential’ nature of alco-
H
ow do you think the students may not be aware that
An interview with Medic President Suzie Rayner
Last year’s Daily Mail article

