In brief
Scientists have developed the most advanced
model yet of the weather system on Titan, one
of Saturn’s moons and the only place in the so-
lar system other than Earth that harbours lakes.
Instead of water, Titan’s lakes are filled with
methane, a molecule made of one carbon atom
and four hydrogen ones. The temperature on
Titan is around -180 °C, which is just right for
methane to exist in three different states: solid,
liquid and gas. The lakes on Titan form part of
a whole weather system, that works in much
the same way as the water cycle does on Earth.
Vast clouds that cover the surface for most of
the year (one Titan year, that is, which is equiv-
alent to 30 Earth years) made up of evaporated
methane from the surface, that eventually pre-
cipitates back down to fill the lakes again.
Observations made by the Cassini space-
craft currently in orbit around Saturn show
that lakes are not scattered across the surface
of Titan uniformly, but instead tend to cluster
around the polar regions. Clouds also appear to
cluster near the poles at middle and high lati-
tudes in the summer hemisphere, which until
recently was the southern hemisphere.
Dr Mueller-Wodarg, a planetary scientist in
the Physics department at Imperial explained,
“Recent Cassini observations have made a di-
rect link between changes in clouds and chang-
es on the ground in terms of the sizes of lakes,
hinting at actual weather events occurring right
now.”
Previous models have tried and failed to ex-
plain all of these observations, but now a group
of Caltech researchers think they can do just
that using a new model that is a cut above other
attempts. For starters, it is 3D rather than 2D,
and includes more detail about the transport of
methane from the surface to the atmosphere,
and vice versa. It also takes into account sur-
face reservoirs of methane and how they
change over a year.
The Caltech team, led by Professor Tapio
Schneider, produced simulations that repro-
duced the distribution of clouds that has been
observed by Cassini and the right distribution
of lakes.
Mueller-Wodarg said that through the
Caltech team’s work “we have gained a first
understanding of what controls these features.”
Schneider and his colleagues think that be-
cause there is less sunlight at the poles of the
moon, on average, it is easier for lakes of meth-
ane to accumulate there. In places where there
is a lot of sunlight, its energy would cause the
methane to evaporate and prevent the forma-
tion of such lakes.
The Caltech team simulated the interaction
between the surface methane and that in the
atmosphere in more detail than has been done
before.
It’s raining methane
Titan as seen by Cassini in ultraviolet and infrared wavelengths
Untreatable TB found in India
In an early contender for scariest science story
of the year, scientists in India announced that
they have found a strain of tuberculosis (TB) that
is completely resistant to all drugs normally used
to treat the disease. Doctors in Mumbai are call-
ing the strain TDR, which stands for totally drug
resistant.
TB is already one of the worlds worst killers,
along with HIV/AIDs and malaria. This is partly be-
cause, to cure it completely, a patient must take a
long course of antibiotics that have some unpleas-
ant side effects and have to be taken long after
the patient stars to feel better.
Incomplete courses of antibiotics, amongst oth-
er problems, have already given rise to two strains
of TB known as MDR and XDR, which stand for
multi-drug resistant and extensively drug resistant
respectively.
The new TDR strain is a worrying addition, espe-
cially once you consider that not all counties have
the resources available to diagnose this strain of
the disease, and that one person with active TB
can infect up to 15 others.
“The wind system calculated by the model,
which plays a crucial role in globally distribut-
ing methane, appears to be quite realistic. This
is important since only a single wind observa-
tion, from the Huygens probe, is available near
the surface, so we rely on models to calculate
them” said Mueller-Wodarg.
Armed with this new model, scientists work-
ing on Cassini will hopefully now be able to
plan observations so that they can test the pre-
dictions made by it. Mueller-Wodarg added,
“We will now be able to predict cloud occur-
rences and specifically look for the predicted
clouds.”
DOI: 10.1038/nature10666
Every four or five years we go along to a bal-
lot box, tick our preferred political party and
defer all other decisions to the group that gains
power. Most people probably believe this is the
best way of running things. We may not even
have much to say about education, economics or
war, so how could we add to decision making?
And why is this being mentioned in the science
pages?
A group of researchers, based mainly at Princ-
eton, recently published results in the journal
Science that showed democratic consensus is
enhanced by the participation of what they term
“uninformed individuals”. This means that the
presence of people with weak preferences dilute
the control of a strongly opinionated minority
allowing a decision to be finalised that is repre-
sentative of the whole group.
Whether it is schooling fish, flocking birds or
an anarchist organisation, decisions are regularly
decided without voting. It has been argued that
with people/birds/anarchists acting with their
self-interests the process of deciding what pub to
go to/where to fly during migration/whether it is
ethical to eat meat, even when it’s from a bin, (a
debate I have witnessed) can be easily corrupt-
ed by an individual or small faction which are
particularly vocal to the benefit of themselves,
rather than to the rest of the group. The group
of scientists from Princeton used models of the
movement of animals, with varying preferences
of direction, and varying strengths in that pref-
erence, and found that a strong minority could
dominate over a numerical, but weaker, majori-
ty. However, when individuals with no real pref-
erence of where to go were added into the mix
they instantly returned control to the majority.
They also found these results to be reproduced
in real experiments with groups of strongly
schooling species of fish.
This study shows that consensus decision
making, where voting is not used, can work
when there are people with no real preference
taking part. Who knew that science would prove
anarchists have been getting it right all along.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1210280
Apathy leads to better group decisions
Luke Sheldon
Nicotine patches don’t help you
in the long term
Using nicotine-replacement patches or chewing
nicotine gum does not help keep you off ciga-
rettes in the long term, scientists have said.
While such therapies could be useful immedi-
ately after quitting smoking, and studies have
shown that people using nicotine-replacement
therapies are twice as likely to remain off ciga-
rettes six months after quitting, the difference
after a few years is greatly reduced.
In fact, over five years scientists periodically
questioned a group of people who had given up
smoking and found that those who used patch-
es or gum were no less likely to have relapsed
than those who did not.
This result does not change the fact that nic-
otine-replacement therapies help many people
through the quitting process, but those people
who do use them should be careful not to be-
come complacent once the initial period is over.
Kelly Oakes
Doomsday clock moves to five
minutes to midnight
Scientists in charge of the symbolic doomsday
clock moved its hand one minute closer to mid-
night, so that it now sits at 23:55 – where it
was in 2007. The Bulletin of Atomic Scientists,
who control the clock, explained their decision
by saying that a “path toward a world free of
nuclear weapons is not at all clear, and leader-
ship is failing.”
They cited a collective failure to stop the
spread of nuclear weapons, act on climate
change, or find safe and sustainable sources of
energy, as shown by the Fukushima disaster in
March last year.
FELIX
Friday 13 january 2012
12
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE

