This moves us
a step closer to
understanding how
the universe is held
together
”
e is held
e is held
“
This mo
This mo
Over the Christmas holidays, CERN’s
Large Hadron Collider (LHC) in Ge-
neva reported its first particle discovery
since opening in 2009. Named Chi_b
(3P), the particle was recorded by AT-
LAS, one of four detectors within the
LHC, and is a more excited state of the
Chi particle.
Chi particles are part of a family of
mesons called quarkonia, whose con-
stituents include a quark and their own
antiquark. The Chi_b (3P) particle is an
example of bottomonium, made up of a
bottom (or beauty) quark and a bottom
antiquark.
The particle was discovered by re-
searchers from the University of Bir-
mingham and Lancaster University,
who analysed data from the ATLAS
detector and published their findings on
22 December. James Walder, a research
associate from Lancaster who worked
on the analysis, said that the particle
“was predicted by many theorists but
was not observed at previous experi-
ments.”
Professor Roger Jones, Head of the
Lancaster ATLAS group, said “while
people are rightly interested in the
Higgs boson, which we believe gives
particles their mass and may have start-
ed to reveal itself, a lot of the mass of
everyday objects comes from the strong
interaction we are investigating using
the Chi_b (3P).”
“The better we understand the strong
force, the more we understand a large
part of the data that we see, which is
quite often the background to the more
exciting things we are looking for, like
the Higgs”, he added.
Professor Paul Newman, from the
University of Birmingham said that the
discovery of this particle is a “testament
to the very successful running of the
collider in 2011 and to the superb un-
derstanding of our detector which has
been achieved by the ATLAS collabora-
tion already.”
Other, less excited states of Chi par-
ticles were observed 25 years ago, and
new measurements continue to test the-
oretical calculations of the forces that
act on fundamental particles. Dr Mir-
iam Watson commented that this will
LHC finds its first new particle
“move us a step closer to understanding
how the universe is held together.”
Dr Jad Marrouche, an Imperial re-
searcher working on the Compact Muon
Solenoid (CMS) experiment, another
detector at the LHC, told Felix: “this is
yet another validation of the predictive
power of our theories. However, it’s not
the discovery we were all hoping for in
2011 – there is still one more particle
the Standard Model predicts which we
haven’t conclusively discovered yet,
Yes, you read right: time cloak. But
what is this mysterious device? Well, it
works to conceal an event in time. This
is not just science fiction; experiments
and investigations have been carried
out to show that such a cloak might ac-
tually be a possibility.
Now before you get too many wild
ideas, let me preface this article by
saying that there is no garment that
allows you to escape from even the
worst lectures.
Imagine a spatial cloak which ren-
ders what is inside invisible. Most
ideas concerning this use the refraction
of light and bend light around a spa-
tial region using lenses with negative
refractive indices, to make it appear
undetectable.
Instead of diffracting and refracting
light, the time lenses affect its disper-
sion. For an event to be detected in
time or space, you need to change,
manipulate or somehow alter a parcel
of light. When we view an object on
the table, what we are seeing is all the
light reflected off its surface. Just as a
spatial cloak warps light around space,
the time lens will similarly affect light
and not allow it to reflect of the region.
To achieve this, Moti Fridman and
his research team at Cornell Universi-
ty accelerated the front of the incident
light and delayed its rear part.
A split time lens creates a “frequency
chirp” which is interpreted as separat-
ing the red and blue parts of the spec-
tral wave and delaying them. A sin-
gle-mode fibre further delays higher
wavelengths while speeding up shorter
wavelengths with respect to the initial
beam. There comes a point where the
region is fully isolated. The process is
then reversed so that the regular wave
is detected and it is unnoticeable that
the wave has been changed at all.
The best visualisation I can give
is to imagine a sheet of light coming
towards the zone, which has different
wavelengths being sped up and slowed
down so the light bends around the re-
gion, analogously to an invisible spa-
tial lensing effect.
Whether or not you can imagine
it – as with the case of most mod-
ern high level physics, even Richard
Feynman said “I think I can safely say
that nobody understands quantum me-
chanics” – Fridman’s team was able
to experiment using the method and
Have you seen my time cloak?
Pavitar Devgon
Alexander Karapetian
but 2012 will hopefully be that year.”
The LHC continues to fill gaps in
the Standard Model of particle phys-
ics and leads the search for the Higgs
Boson. It was closed for the Christmas
holidays and will resume running fol-
lowing a submission of various papers
this month regarding the latest Higgs
analysis data showcased at their sci-
entific update and press conference on
December 13.
arXiv:1112.5154v1
showed that the lens actually can mask
an event to a high degree.
The experiment was set up so a
1569nm light pulse interacted with a
non-linear fibre, producing a 1539nm
signal. The 1539nm signal was clearly
observed when the cloak was turned
off, however once activated, the cloak
reduced the amplitude to noise levels.
While the time cloak is not 100%
efficient, it did conceal the majority
of the fibre, reducing the amplitude
by more than 10 times. To greater in-
crease efficiency, the ‘temporal gap’
can be widened by exaggerating the
dispersion of light between the split
time lenses. There is a trade-off here
though as the effects of third-order
dispersion arise and interferes with the
experiment, reducing efficiency.
While these experiments do provide
strong evidence that we should con-
tinue research into this field, they are
just the beginning and it will still be a
long time before you can weave your
own time cloak from tachyon hairs and
use it to escape from bad lectures. In
the mean time, we will just have to risk
being seen.
DOI: 10.1038/nature10695
Leap second
announced
Philip Kent
Astronomers and engineers at the Inter-
national Earth Rotation and Reference
Systems Service (IERS) Earth Orienta-
tion Centre recently announced that a
leap second will be applied at the end
of June this year. Leap seconds are in-
troduced by the IERS to make up for
inaccuracies in timekeeping, made
as a result of the slowdown of the
Earth’s rotation. This additional sec-
ond means that June 30 will last until
23:59:60UTC, instead of ending at the
end of the 59th second. As this is during
British Summer Time, the change will
be applied at 1AM, and will be marked
by a 7th ‘pip’ from the BBC’s time sig-
nal.
Coordinated Universal Time, or UTC,
is the measure of time from which all
time zones are offsets of, and is derived
from an international network of atomic
clocks. While this leads to an incredibly
accurate measurement of time, it fails to
account for the decrease in the speed of
the Earth’s rotation. This decrease is as
a result of the circulation of currents in
the atmosphere and oceans, as well as
due to lunar pull.
UT1, an alternative measure of uni-
versal time, is instead based on the
rotation of the Earth against the Sun,
making it a more accurate form of
GMT. This does take into account the
slowdown, though having days of non-
constant length is inconvenient so UT1
is not in general use. As the slowdown
is accounted for, UT1 is more accurate
than UTC, and so there is a difference
between this ‘accurate’ measurement
and UTC’s ‘convenient’ one.
This difference can become prob-
lematic, so the IERS have the option of
introducing leap seconds at the end of
June and December. These seconds are
applied so that the difference between
UT1 and UTC never exceeds 0.9 sec-
onds. To date, there have been 25 leap
seconds applied to UTC, the most re-
cent being at the very end of 2008.
The future of the leap second is un-
certain, with a proposal by the UN In-
ternational Telecommunication Union
to abolish them. If there is approval by
members of the ITU in a conference lat-
er this year, then no more leap seconds
would be applied from 2017.
Whilst this is unlikely to be an issue
for most – watches, for example, are
unlikely to be accurate to the second
– systems that update their time auto-
matically (such as via the Rugby Time
Signal or NTP) will be automatically
corrected.
Still the best way to escape from truly awful lectures
The ATLAS detector where the new particle (not pictured) was found
Want to write for Felix
Science? Email us!
SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 13 january 2012 13

