”
L
ast term I went to Paris to
meet up with a friend who
is doing a year abroad. Be-
ing a man of modest means
I took the overnight coach,
arriving at the coach station at 5am. My
friend was arriving by the first train from
Clermont Ferrand at about 8am, which
meant I got to spend two and a half hours
waiting in Gare Du Lyon with nothing but
an incredibly expensive coffee and a copy
of The Economist for company. Growing
quickly bored of The Economist I took up
people watching. What struck me most
was the fact that the police in France,
even the guys in the transport police, are
armed. Every officer had a handgun and
what looked like a Taser. Several of the
officers, when they were just standing
around, even rested their hands on their
weapons in some bad-ass John Wayne
pose. This made me feel exceptionally
uncomfortable. The preceding 12 months
at home had consisted of bungled polic-
ing of student protests, UK uncut dem-
onstrations and the summer riots; which,
coupled with my intrinsic whinging
liberal outlook on life, had left me very
distrustful of the police. Not for the first
time that weekend, I found myself feeling
a little homesick. Our police can at times
be rubbish, racist idiots, but at least they
can’t blow our brains out.
However, one aspect where law en-
forcement in the country still infuriates
me though is the ubiquity of surveillance.
Primarily due to the CCTV network es-
tablished in response to the actions of
the IRA in the 1970s and 80s, the Brit-
ish are the most watched nation on earth.
Although fantastic at providing security
by allowing for suspicious vehicles and
abandoned packages to be detected, the
crime fighting merits of closed circuit
television are far from clear to me. By
having cameras everywhere, all you are
doing to criminals is suggesting that they
perhaps wear a hat. Personal experience
Matt Allinson
Feminists need to man up
Big Brother is watching you
as a victim of a crime has resulted in me
hearing a variety of excuses on CCTV’s
behalf, such as being in a camera blind-
spot, the tape having already been wiped
and, the most ridiculous excuse I ever
heard after the assault of a friend, that the
camera didn’t work in the rain. In much
the same way I cannot understand why
the French seem to tolerate their police
officers being able to utilise lethal force
at the drop of a hat, I cannot understand
why we in this country don’t seem to care
about CCTV. A woman whose husband
was assaulted so violently in a nightclub
in Wakefield that he now requires 24 hour
care has called for CCTV to be manda-
tory in nightclubs and bars and an article
on her campaign even made the BBC
most read section – admittedly on a rather
slow news day between Boxing Day and
New Year’s Eve. With all due respect to a
person who has been subject to a terrible
injustice, how would CCTV have helped?
Even in the unlikely event that the cam-
eras were working, what would they have
provided? More footage of her husband
getting attacked from several angles, per-
haps, but not much more. CCTV doesn’t
make people behave better, it just means
we get to watch them behave badly. Most
worryingly, the article on her campaign
she is quoted as saying “If you get the
Big Brother effect within the clubs then
aggression, when it is spotted, can be
stopped before it goes any further.”
Now, as I stated previously, I have a
whinging liberal outlook on life. Quot-
ing the phrase “Big Brother” as a force
for the public good has made me sweat
so much that it’s made the ink run on the
copy of the Guardian I was reading. Close
friends of mine will appreciate the irony
of me complaining about privacy when I
am eternally logged into at least one and
usually three social media websites at any
given moment, but the difference between
social media and “Big Brother” is impor-
tant. That difference is engagement. Big
I
am writing from the kitchen, the
place where my family believe I
belong, having given me an apron,
tea towels, cookbooks and sponges
for Christmas. Feminism is com-
mitting suicide. Last week, the BBC’s
adaptation ofArthur Conan Doyle’s Sher-
lock was criticised for being sexist. In
my opinion, this was another example of
where feminism is going wrong by creat-
ing bad press. The allegations were purely
based on a far-fetched interpretation of the
last fifteen minutes of the show.
Itisnotbecauseawomantakes“advice”
from a man, has feelings for another and
is saved from being beheaded by him that
she is a “pawn “ in the game of men or the
weaker sex. The ending was criticised for
being changed from Irene Adler’s victory
in the original story to her losing against
the Holmes brothers. That is quite simply
called dramatization for entertainment’s
purpose. Adler greets the famous detec-
tive in the full nude, giving away the code
to her safe (her measurements – obviously
a key factor in a woman’s worth). It was
sexy, not sexist.
Feminists are slowly becoming repeat
offenders in this area, following Apple’s
Siri scandal in the USA. Picking up on
small details, over-interpreting them and
then proceeding to make a big deal out of
it. This is not helping their cause whatso-
ever. The point is to obtain the same rights
and opportunities for women as those
available to men. Then again, when the
voices of feminism come across as those
of hormonal, loud, strongly opinionated
beings picking at mere details, the result
can only be negative. The stereotype of an
active feminist is that of an angry lesbian
with half her hair shaved off. Men mock
women for being overemotional, irratio-
nal, picky and constantly moaning. How
can you expect to improve that image and
Brother not only requires passivity in its
subjects, but, in both Orwell’s books and
in practice on our camera-laden streets,
actively encourages it. Social media, how-
ever, is all about being active. One has to
check into Foursquare, tweet about a TV
show or post a photograph of where we are
on Tumblr for our privacy to be violated.
Brits are enormously famous for be-
ing a little bit passive about everything.
“Mustn’t Grumble,” is more than a phrase
for us, it’s a way of life. However, I feel
that in public disorder and crime we are
dangerously over-passive. Daring hero-
ics by impromptu crime-fighters are an
American comic book invention. A Brit-
ish comic book hero would probably be
‘Loud Tutting and Head Shaking Man’.
Have you seen the Croydon Tram video
on YouTube? While most comment on
the video focuses expressly on the rep-
rehensible subject and her words and
ideas, a large amount of mention is given
to the woman, pictured at the end of the
film, determinedly playing a game on her
phone desperately trying not to look up
or play any part in the fuss taking place
around her. It is important to note, how-
ever, that the infamous Croydon Tram
lady wasn’t apprehended on the basis of
prospects of women with behavous such
as this? In that case, they may just as well
surrender to sexism and go back to their
ovens.Aform of extremism is developing
in feminism. This might be the worst ser-
vice rendered to the cause because its por-
trayal is so bad. So instead of depreciating
the general view of the fairer sex, femi-
nists should calm down, take a step back
and concentrate on real issues. Like the
“Reclaim the Night” campaign (fighting
against sexual crimes and for safer streets
at night). Not a BBC TV drama that pic-
tures a strong woman, “THE Woman”,
proving to be Sherlock Holmes’equal.
By having cameras
everywhere, all
you are doing
to criminals is
suggesting that they
perhaps wear a hat.
By havin
By havin
h
evidence gathered by the no doubt rather
expensive CCTV systems that have been
installed throughout the TfL network,
but rather through evidence obtained via
a YouTube video. Mike Skinner, leader
of British chart sensation The Streets,
once complained on ‘When You Wasn’t
Famous’: “How am I supposed to do a
line [of coke] in front of complete strang-
ers when I know they’ve all got camera
phones?”
I’m not saying that we should screw
the system and start tweeting parking
offenses in lieu of traffic wardens and
post our location on Foursquare if we
see an unattended bag, but the constant
encroachment of state cameras into our
lives is unnecessary. The general public
now has the means to capture high qual-
ity footage of crimes being committed,
rendering patchy, expensive and liberty
infringing surveillance systems obsolete.
What’s more, encouraging the public to
take a more active role in recording and
reporting crime could be seen by the “big
society” conservatives as strengthening
the community. Our police are no more
heavily armed than us, and our closely
matched ability to document crime
strengthens our liberty once more.
Italian police have guns, but more importantly, style and swagger
Marie-Laure Hicks
COMMENT
FELIX Friday 13 january 2012 15

