MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 13 january 2012
18
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Stephen Smith
ground bands – the limited amount of fans, the
money you just don’t have, and the fact that the
record deals just suck anyway, really.
You have to comprehend that you are either
going to start becoming a little more commer-
cial or you’re going to end up letting go of all
that to register at some university like Imperial
College London, studying a degree like EEE,
ending up with a career at the end of it that
might actually get you something better than
a wall full of your merch because no one else
bought it; and then close your mouth when you
see some of your favourite bands do what you
were tempted to do years ago.
All I’m saying is that maybe we should cut
these bands some slack, because when it comes
down to it, they’re also just trying to make a
living, and they’ll either have to adapt (even if
it does mean that they expand their fan base to
14-year-old girls) or simply quit.
you can’t complain. It’s the equivalent of go-
ing into your favourite restaurant, which serves
some luxury food you love, eating there and
making a run for it without paying. Then the
next time you go, the owner knows what you
intend to do, but for some reason he still gives
you some food, because cooking is what he
loves to do (I know, not quite the same, but you
get the point), which may not be as nice; and
you still don’t pay. Then you go home and have
a fit about it to your friends.
Being in a band for over 5 years now, and
pursuing the dream of being signed by some
indie record label that also has bands that we
listened to daily - such as This Will Destroy
You or Moving Mountains (no, not the song
by Usher) - has made me realise how tough it
really is.
The dream started to deteriorate as we realised
how many obstacles stand in the way of under-
P
eople, including me, seem to nag
about how bands are continuously
following the crowd and mov-
ing more towards the mainstream
genres, instead of keeping it under-
ground and just making music like they used
to – a term known as “selling out”. But in our
increasingly greedy, torrent-driven society,
with its ever expanding pool of artists, is it any
wonder that bands are almost forced to move in
this direction?
How are artists expected to keep making
underground music when the demographic
for this sort of appeal is so small, and the few
people that do listen to it don’t seem to want to
spend any money on actually supporting them?
Is it selfish for a band to take the initiative
to move in a direction where they can actually
make enough money to live on, instead of liv-
ing on a tour bus, making only enough money
to eat fast food and pay for fuel? Don’t you
think they would prefer sticking to the music
they love to play, if they could afford it?
I mean, here we are, possibly leaving our
childhood dreams behind and modeling our
lives around getting enough money to actually
support a family one day or buying a Porsche
911. Is it really any wonder that some of these
artists actually want the same thing? And that
they may have to sacrifice a little bit of their
taste by actually “selling out” a little to make a
bit of extra cash?
Is it really our position to judge whether a
band has done the wrong thing, as we sit back
and do the same in our lives with our career
paths? I know people, including many friends,
who complain endlessly about this and then go
onto their computers, with their libraries of hun-
dreds of gigabytes of music (most of which ex-
ist just to add to the collection and rot), stacked
up nicely into lines of folders. All of which was
downloaded illegally!
I’m sorry, but if you are going to do that, then
Do they owe us a living?
Theo Pavlakou on selling out to bring home the bacon
Ever heard of ScarletSnowPrelude? – No! Because they didn’t sell out... or they suck?
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Oneohtrix Point
Never
Replica
Software
2011
My New Year’s Resolution was to stop using
food metaphors in my writing, but as you will
see, this album has left me a bit drunk and I’ve
succumbed to the lurid appeal of Pot Noodle
once again.
Broken resolutions aside, 2012 is still young
and the green shoots of new albums are yet to
appear. So I hope you will forgive me if albums
from 2011 continue to appear for a week or two.
Indeed, Oneohtrix Point Never’s Replica is a re-
lease from November that certainly carries its
weight into the New Year.
Replica is a 40-minute cacophony of a gazillion
different and competing sounds from Brooklyn-
based experimentalist Daniel Lopatin. Lyrics
fear to tread in his ambient netherworld where
pianos dash in and clash horns with chopped up
squeaks and run-down, exhausted beats.
I’ll be straightforward: it’s not something that
you would expect to like. It’s deeply weird. At
times there’s an almost-overwhelming urge to
grab your speakers and shout, “this shouldn’t
be working!”
But work it does. Despite the tongue-twisting
diversity of flavours, this dish is a spectacularly
enjoyable shock to the senses. When things get
too hot, soft sea-like melodies soothe like a
cool glass of milk. If it feels like things are get-
ting a bit meek, Replica chucks a raft of chillies
down your throat.
The overall effect is rather otherworldly. It
feels oddly appropriate for the New Year: it’s
very suggestive. The great variety of sounds
rubbing shoulders on crowded tracks, or warily
standing off from each other, leaving large Ja-
mie xx-shaped gulfs between them, feel like a
cipher of what’s to come in 2012. Like a mash-
up of ghostly tunes that are yet to be recorded.
So perhaps not the easiest album to start
off the term with. I might have selected The
Weeknd’s latest superficial mixtape, Echoes of
Silence, except that I think it’s a cheap, one-
dimensional knock off of Michael Jackson’s
Dangerous (screw it, of MJ generally) and not
worth anyone’s time. But given its fair chance,
Replica will prove as satisfying as those 4am
Pot Noodles, and without any of the shame...
If you’re upset at my gratuitous trolling of The
Weeknd, tweet me @kadhimshubber to tell me
why I totally don’t get it, and it’s like “all sexy and
creepy and shit”. Alternatively tweet @0PN and
ask him how many girls he’s pulled with the line,
“The name’s Point Never, Oneohtrix Point Never”.
A beginner’s guide to post-hardcore: At The Drive-In
Whether they’ll be the same now is a differ-
ent story but I’m sure any fans of the band will
join me in hoping they’ll come back exactly as
they left: a bunch of nutters. I urge you to try
your hardest to use your laptop for something
other than a wanking aid and check out some of
At The Drive-In’s music or at least the Recom-
mendation below.
Remember to come back every week and if
you’ve got exams coming up just remember
we’re all dead at the end of the year anyway
so fuck it. Good old Mayans, always making
everything better. Happy 2012.
Writer’s Recommendation: Get on YouTube
and watch At The Drive-In’s live performance
of ‘One Armed Scissor’ on Later with Jools
Holland. Poor old Jools looks mortified.
ible Relationship Of Command. While their
music is truly inspirational, the things they are
perhaps most famous for are their stage antics
and drug abuse. These things cannot be put into
words and so to see them in action I suggest
following the Recommendation at the end.
Their notoriety caused them to lead the 90s
post-hardcore movement to fight the generic
music heard every day on radios worldwide.
They used the sheer power of their music to
start winning this war but like the true drug-
addled lunatics that they were, they committed
an act of friendly fire in one of their final shows
when front man Cedric Bixler-Zavala criticised
fans of the band for “slam-dancing” and contin-
ued to bleat like a sheep at them. But no harm
was done as this was the At The Drive-In they
knew and loved.
Welcome to the first instalment of this weekly
guide to the darker side of alternative music.
What better way to start than with the news that
the almighty At The Drive-In have reformed
after a ten-year hiatus. Those of you familiar
with this band will probably be losing your
noggin right now, but for those of you who
aren’t, I’ll give you a little insight into why At
The Drive-In are so important.
As a new band from El Paso, Texas, playing
to tiny crowds (tiny in number, not like playing
to dwarves or anything weird), little did they
know that they would become the fathers of
modern alternative rock music. Throughout the
lifetime of the band, they released a multitude
of timeless records, culminating in the incred-
George Jeffrey

