FILM
Overlooked DVD of the week
Why this important, superior thriller only made the
direct-to-DVD release is anyone’s guess but The
Whistleblower, one woman’s quest for justice in
which she has to go after a powerful group of in-
dividuals, may sound familiar and predictable, but
anchored by a strong lead performance, assured
direction and a solid script, is an unmissable treat.
Based on a true story (aren’t they always?), we
first meet Kathryn Bolkovac (Weisz), a Nebraska
cop, as she takes on a job for Democra Corp,
an American private military company, to travel
to post-war Bosnia, where she is to assist the
peace-keeping operations overseen by the United
Nations.
Although this new opportunity is well-paid and
filled with excitement at first, she soon uncovers a
major sex-trafficking ring in which even underage
girls are forced into prostitution. At first, Bolkovac
only suspects the local police and the military of
being responsible. But as she digs deeper, she
discovers a long list of clientele that includes
names of high-level diplomats, as well as those
employed in the U.N.
Bolkovac is far from perfect, and is way in over
her head trying to tackle the world’s biggest, most
respected organisation. But the one thing she
knows better than anyone is right and wrong. Rape
is wrong. Human trafficking is wrong.
Weisz, in one of her most unforgettable per-
formances, is masterful in balancing the many
complex emotions of her character as she is put
through all sorts of obstacles. Compassion and
anger are what drive our heroine; the former for
the abused girls, and the latter towards the high-
power officials arrogant and corrupt enough to be-
lieve that they can get away with anything.
What sets The Whistleblower apart from similar
themed films is how personal and sensitive the
film’s narrative is. Bolkovac travels alone, mostly
in the dark, risking her life in order to finish what
she rightfully started. By using her vulnerability,
it reels you in, and is more than effective in set-
ting up a cruel, menacing atmosphere of the real
world. And being such a character-driven drama,
it walks that fine line of addressing the important
key issues with confidence and passion, all the
while not succumbing to too much preachy tone.
It has a gentle, well-balanced mix of drama and
thriller, in which neither aspect is overplayed. It’s
a much-needed wake-up call for us all, reminding
us of the world we live in.
The Whistleblower is released on January 16
Phyllida Lloyd is a special director. But I mean
this as no compliment. With her skills behind the
camera, she has managed the almost impossible.
She made a Meryl Streep movie almost unwatch-
able.
Opening with a hallucinatory Margaret Thatch-
er(Streep),inwhichshebelievesherdeadhusband
Dennis (Jim Broadbent) is still alive, the film is al-
ready starting to show that it has its focus in all the
wrong places. It is heart-breaking for the audience
tolearnthatshehaslostsomeonedeartoherheart,
and the devastating consequences this has had on
her life, but it’s certainly not something we want
to come back to too frequently. Perhaps trying to
squeeze as many tears out of us as possible, Lloyd
is strangely eager to show the current Thatcher,
instead of closely examining the rise of a great
leader, her politics, and her eventual decline.
Sure, we have the flashbacks. We even see a
younger version of Margaret played by the perky
Alexandra Roach. It’s unclear why Lloyd even
bothered with this segment, for this part serves no
purpose to the later parts of the film. It moves too
quickly, and barely glances over her family. Her
distant mother and her politically driven father are
scarcely shown, and appear to have had very little
influenceonher.Thenwehearthehappynewsthat
she got accepted into Oxford. Margaret soon runs
for a seat in the Parliament. So what happened in
Oxford? Apparently, not much. Through her first
election, she meets Dennis, a charming young
businessman who wants to marry her. They bond
over The King and I. As he proposes, she declares
that she won’t “die washing teacups.” This kind of
ambition is why he wants to be her husband.
Fine then, this chooses to focus more on the ro-
mance between Margaret and Dennis, given the
way the dead Dennis keeps popping up to trouble
the frail Margaret. Not quite; because when poli-
tics kicks in, Dennis is forgotten in an instant and
is shown in rare shots where he’s surrounded by
fellow conservatives, applauding as Margaret de-
livers a winning speech. The bond between these
Must work to “live long and prosper!”
FELIX
Friday 13 january 2012
20
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
two is never explored any further than their mutu-
al love for The King and I, and it becomes increas-
ingly frustrating as we know so very little about
the couple. Her children also make an appearance
– and although the daughter (the excellent Olivia
Colman) shows up to add more nostalgia, the son’s
name is barely even called.
So has Lloyd suddenly decided, half way
through the film no less, that she does in fact want
to explore the politics? Again, not quite. Show-
ing all of the leader’s accomplishments in tacky
scenes containing far too much past real-life foot-
age, whereas Streep is required to do no more
than a) wave at her supporters or b) look scared
in her car as angry demonstrators try to climb her
vehicle, there is hardly any sense of triumph for
the remarkable political climb this woman man-
aged. The closing of the coalmines, resolution of
the Cold War, the IRA prisoners’ hunger strike,
the Falklands War etc., are covered poorly, if at all.
But one thing is for certain: Streep is, as usual,
utterly brilliant. This isn’t just about her accent or
the voice. Perfect as those two qualities are, Streep
goes a step further in showing us the more private
and ailing Thatcher as well as the characteristics
of a stern Prime Minister. She is ruthless and stub-
born as she addresses her cabinet, often alienat-
ing even those close to her, and yet her vulnerable
sides show through, mostly when it becomes ap-
parent that not having her husband around in later
life is unbearable even to the Iron Lady. Opposite
her, Broadbent is also spot-on, providing a sub-
dued air of warmth, exactly the kind of support
Streep needs to truly shine.
Lloyd’s direction however, is irritatingly dis-
jointed,unevenandmanagestosuckalltheexcite-
ment and drama from this extraordinary woman’s
life. One wonders what would have happened to
this project if Streep had declined the role. As she
happens to be the best and only reason to even
consider watching this, it would be reasonable
to assume that without her The Iron Lady would
have flopped.
This lady’s not for turning
John Park
Director Phyllida Lloyd
Screenwriter Abi Morgan
Cast Meryl Streep, Jim Broadbent
The Iron Lady
January blues and then some
Cheater’s guide to Margin Call
John Park
Director J. C. Chandor
Screenwriter J. C. Chandor
Cast Kevin Spacey, Paul Bettany, Jeremy
Irons, Demi Moore, Simon Baker, Zachary
Quinto, Penn Badgley, Stanley Tucci
Margin Call down the rest of the world’s economy along with
him.
A lot of financial talk shouldn’t put you off
from watching this gripping Wall Street drama,
as the talented actors turn heavy dialogue into
compelling, dramatic exchange.
More surprising however, is how Chandor, in
his compelling directorial debut, remembers to
neither condone nor condemn his characters.
It’s easy to have a condescending, angry tone
against the investment bankers selling away
their designated share of worthless holdings, but
Chandor’s subtle direction opts to examine the
many employees involved in this chaotic mess
on a more personal level. All the characters,
no matter what positions they hold, are shown
to have vulnerabilities and insecurities of their
own, even in very brief moments, and their per-
sonal struggles coping with the demise of the
world economy is a fresh, fair-minded and hon-
est approach in the midst of so much hate and
anger displayed towards bankers nowadays.
What is shown in Margin Call is what really
might have happened in the final days leading
up to the eventual financial collapse of 2008 that
has put the global market in chaos.
Set in an unnamed but very successful invest-
ment firm, as the company’s CEO (the brilliantly
sly Irons) learns of his troubled investments that
can take down his empire in one clean swoop,
he makes the corrupt decision to sell off all of
the company’s toxic assets, before anyone can
close in on his downfall. In short, he decreases
his company’s exposure in what will become the
biggest financial crisis in history, whilst taking
John Park
Director Larysa Kondracki
Screenwriter Larysa Kondracki
Cast Rachel Weisz, David Strathairn, Monica
Bellucci, Vanessa Redgrave
The Whistleblower

