FILM
...Noomi lands her H debut
Set in Sweden, the plot revolves around
disgraced journalist Mikael Blomkvist
(Craig) and 23-year-old hacker Lisbeth
Salander (Mara). Diagnosed as men-
tally incompetent as a child, Salander
is a Ward of the State who has, in her
short life, been subjected to all manners
of physical and mental abuse. Mikael
Blomkvist is hired by Henrik Vanger
(Plummer), former CEO of a large cor-
poration, to solve the four decade long
mystery of the death of his niece. Re-
luctant at first, Blomkvist finally accepts
the job and moves out to the small town
of Hedestad, where he is later on joined
in his investigation by Lisbeth. What
follows is a truly harrowing tale of mur-
der and deceit.
David Fincher, well known for his
psychological thrillers dealing with
mass-murderers (Se7en, Zodiac), is re-
ally in his element with this film. Fol-
Mara and her much more complicated
character. Also, despite his reasoning
of Blomkvist not necessarily having
a Swedish accent because he’d lived
abroad, sounds like laziness and makes
him the only cast member without an ac-
cent.
In terms of book-to-movie adaptation,
the American version is almost perfect,
with only a few changes that don’t take
anything away from the viewing plea-
sure of people who have read the books.
The book itself was difficult because of
the subject matter and I’m glad the Hol-
lywood version didn’t gloss over the
more extreme scenes. People who are
familiar with Fincher’s work won’t be
shocked by how graphic and violent this
movie is. This is not an easy movie, but
I found it highly enjoyable and have al-
ready seen it twice. It’s not necessary to
have read the books before watching it,
but I would recommend reading them to
gain a fuller appreciation of the charac-
ters and story that Stieg Larsson created.
Many critics have said that they do
not understand why it was necessary to
make a Hollywood version, but great
stories can be told again and again, and
Lisbeth’s story is a great one. This truly
is a stunning, thought-provoking film
and makes a nice change from the usual,
naïve Hollywood flicks.
As Rooney dons her new tattoo...
Let’s take this to the bed shall we Agent Salacious Salander?
lowing his Oscar nominated The Social
Network from last year he manages to
again direct an amazing movie. The
opening title sequence alone makes it
clear that the next 2.5 hours are going
to be equal parts uncomfortable and on-
the-edge-of-your-seat exciting to watch.
Filmed on location in Sweden, this ad-
aptation is fast-paced and gripping from
start to finish.
Much like Natalie Portman’s perfor-
mance in Black Swan, Mara’s portrayal
of goth hacker Lisbeth is a fine example
of total character embodiment. This little
known actress, probably best known as
the girl who dumps Mark Zuckerberg
in The Social Network is the perfect
fit physically, but has also turned out
be perfect in her acting. While the true
complexity of Lisbeth’s character only
FELIX Friday 13 january 2012 21
Lucia Podhorska
Director David Fincher
Screenwriters Steven Zaillian, Stieg
Larsson (novel)
Cast Rooney Mara, Daniel Craig,
Christopher Plummer, Robin Wright
The Girl with the
Dragon Tattoo
Maciej Matuszewski
Director Guy Ritchie
Screenwriters Michele Mulroney,
Kieran Mulroney
Cast Robert Downey Jr., Jude Law,
Noomi Rapace
Sherlock Holmes: A
Game of Shadows
ing been horribly misused in the first
film Irene Adler is brought back only
to be killed off in the first few scenes.
One might think that this would have
some significance later but she isn’t even
mentioned past the half way point. The
replacement as female lead (Rapace) is
so completely undeveloped and utterly
bland that I can’t even remember her
character’s name.
This is certainly not a disaster, all the
good points I made still apply. If you go
and see this film you’ll probably enjoy
yourselves – just don’t expect too much.
I must say that my feelings about Guy
Ritchie’s latest Sherlock Holmes are
somewhat mixed. When I first walked out
of the cinema after seeing the film shortly
after Christmas, there was no doubt that I
felt I had gotten my money’s worth. Sure,
it wasn’t exactly faithful to the original
stories or even, with its heavy action fo-
cus, to the stories’ spirit. However, I al-
ways find it pointless to demand absolute
verisimilitude with the source material of
an adaptation. There is no reason a differ-
ent interpretation, if well made, couldn’t
be just as good as the original.
Mind you, Sherlock Holmes: A Game
of Shadows is certainly well made. The
action is fast paced and exciting and, as
in the last film, slow motion is gener-
ally employed to great effect - though I
will admit that some might find it rather
overused at times. Despite the changes
in tone, the crucial elements that have
of domestic politics. All these, however,
are easily forgotten and, if it wasn’t for an
unlucky coincidence, I might have said
that this is as good a Holmes film as we
could have hoped for.
You shouldn’t expect an intellectual
masterpiece from a Sherlock Holmes
movie but I would at least hope for some
sort of insight into our protagonists and
interesting characterisation. Unfortu-
nately the explosions and witty banter
leave very little room for either. Indeed
everybody outside of the main pair seems
superfluous to requirements. After hav-
always made Holmes stories so compel-
ling – the character of Holmes and his
relationship with Watson – are still pretty
much intact. While this relationship be-
tween our protagonists is far more frac-
tious than in Conan Doyle’s work, their
many arguments provide some of the best
scenes in the film and do not obscure how
strong their friendship really is.
The film certainly isn’t perfect. There
are numerous small plot holes and, while
I’m no expert myself, the movie’s under-
standing of foreign affairs seems almost
as bad as its predecessor’s understanding
Elementary my dear Watson, you should never start with French
becomes fully apparent in the future
novels, Mara still manages to beautifully
capture both Lisbeth’s rough exterior
and her vulnerability. Her dedication to
this role is demonstrated in her willing-
ness to cut and dye her hair, and by suf-
fering through a number of piercings. It
would be easy to turn Lisbeth into a ste-
reotype, but she keeps surprising view-
ers at every turn and I’m excited to see
what Mara has up her sleeve for the next
two films.
The casting of Craig as Mikael Blom-
kvist was also initially a surprise, but he
does a fine job of breathing life into the
character. He’s a far-cry from the suave
James Bond, but then it’s not right to try
and compare those two characters. Craig
never really has a chance to show-off his
acting skills, as every scene is stolen by
Top 10 Box
Office films
in the UK this
week
1) Mission: Impossible
– Ghost Protocol – 12A
– Tom Cruise, Jeremy
Renner, Simon Pegg
2) Sherlock Holmes: A
Game of Shadows – 12A
– Robert Downey Jr., Jude
Law, Noomi Rapace
3) The Iron Lady – 12A –
Meryl Streep, Jim Broad-
bent
4) The Girl with the
Dragon Tattoo – 18 –
Rooney Mara, Daniel
Craig, Christopher Plum-
mer, Robin Wright
5) Alvin and the Chip-
munks: Chipwrecked –
U – Justin Long, Matthew
Gray Gubler, Jesse Mc-
Cartney
6) Puss in Boots – U –
Antonio Banderas, Salma
Hayek, Zach Galifianakis
7) Goon – 15 – Seann
William Scott, Jay Ba-
ruchel
8) The Artist – PG – Jean
Dujardin, Bérénice Bejo,
John Goodman, James
Cromwell
9) New Year’s Eve – 12A
– Michelle Pfeiffer, Zac
Efron, Robert De Niro,
Halle Berry, Hilary Swank
10) Hugo – PG – Asa
Butterfield, Chloë Grace
Moretz, Ben Kingsley

