Pick of the week
Now that exams are over, put
your feet up and put the telly
on... here’s what to watch
January 14 | 2000 | Sky Arts 1
Monty Python: Almost the Truth
First episode in the a history of the comedy group.
This week; the formation of Monty Python.
January 15 | 1610 | ITV1
Vera
First in a four part series of detective shows fea-
turing Brenda Blethlyn as DCI Vera Stanhope.
January 15 | 2100 | BBC1
Sherlock
Last in the series. Damn.
January 16 | 2030 | BBC1
The One Griff Rhys Jones
Last in the series in which the welshman explores
his comedy routes with thirty minutes of sketches
with his old partner Mel Smith. Guests include:
Hugh Bonneville (Downton Abbey), Larry Lamb
(Gavin and Stacey) and Tom Hollander (Rev).
January 16 | 2130 | BBC2
Stargazing Live - Back to Earth
Brian Cox and Dara O’Briain celebrate all things
astronomical from the Jodrell Bank Observatory.
Two worlds collide. The poor flatmates are
completely lost in front of this crying wreck
that watches Dirty Dancing on loop and makes
up songs (she comes up with the theme tune
in the pilot). Jess, on the other hand, is com-
pletely confused by these men and has no
understanding whatsoever of boundaries. Let
the fun begin. As the boys help Jess get over
her ex, discover her inner craziness and meet
her model friend Cece, she finds herself a new
solid base of friends.
This breath of fresh air is like a short rom-
com; Friends with the dynamics of The Big
Marie-Laure Hicks
There’s a New Girl on Channel 4!
Blue Monday (the statistically most depressing
day of the year) is approaching. The weather
is ever gloomier. Work starts to pile up. Fes-
tive feelings slowly disintegrate into utter mis-
ery. In a desperate attempt to cheer yourself
up, you splash your student loan in the sales,
fill your house with the smell of baking cake,
or finish Skyrim. I’m going to recommend an
alternative measure: Channel 4’s new sitcom,
New Girl.
Jess (Zooey Deschanel, 500 Days of Sum-
mer) is a young, quirky and slightly insane
primary school teacher. She has just broken
up with her boyfriend after catching him with
another woman. Emotionally shattered, she
moves in with three guys found online. Nick
is a law-school drop-out bartender with a low
self-esteem. Schmidt is an overconfident man
with a tendency to take his shirt off for no rea-
son and donate a dollar to the douche bag jar
each time. Winston is unemployed after spend-
ing two years playing basketball in Latvia, and
surprisingly talented at bell ringing.
Bang Theory. It is a cute, heart-warming, sexy
comedy. Zooey Deschanel is a splendid ac-
tress, able to make any crazy old cat lady look
adorable. Quite simply very enjoyable and re-
laxing. New Girl is 20 minutes of easy (brain-
less) entertainment and a good laugh.
The sitcom is carried by Deschanel’s per-
formance and is tipped to be one of the most
exciting new comedies of the year. Nominated
for Best Television Series and Best Actress at
the Golden Globes, it is more than promising.
New Girl, on Channel 4, Friday at 8:30pm.
As the statistically most depressing day of the year nears, Channel 4 is prepared with a little treat
This picture is in no way sexual
FELIX
Friday 13 january 2012
22
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Television Editors: George Barnett
James Simpson
TELEVISION
ing around the famous hell-hound case, which
received an army research labs twist. In partic-
ular the upcoming series finale is one to watch
out for as the detective finally tackles his great-
est antagonist: Jim Moriarty. Sir Conan Doyle
didn’t think Sherlock would make it out of this
one alive. Will 21st Century Sherlock make it?
I guess you’ll just have to tune in.
Irene Adler was brilliant in its own right. And
of course, sex sells. So, it was not surprising at
all that the episode had a 30% audience share.
Yet the show itself was not trashed and the up-
coming series finale is certainly worth looking
forward to.
There has been much to look forward to in
this series, with last Sunday’s episode revolv-
A
fter a successful first season,
Sherlock is back on our screens.
Giving the detective stories
a 21st century make-up, the
second season does not disap-
point. In fact it picks up exactly where it left
off, full of suspense, comedy and twists. The
way things are turning out, Sherlock should be
added to everyone’s must-watch list.
The first episode titled ‘A Scandal in Belgra-
via’ lifts the story to a new high as Sherlock
finds himself tackling Irene Adler, a domina-
trix with some compromising photographs of
a member of the royal family. Being hired by
the highest in the land, it’s up to Sherlock to
save the monarchy’s face but soon he finds that
there’s more afoot than a simple blackmailer.
From then on the story spins off and touches
aspects of international terrorism, rogue CIA
agents and British secrets. I would expect no
less from Steven Moffat and, in his own style
he keeps us interested in a thickening, compli-
cated plot.
The biggest challenge for this season would
have been to move the characters forward
rather than simply solve cases. In this episode
certainly we see a more human side of Sher-
lock which speaks to the audience and I can’t
praise Benedict Cumberbatch enough for his
acting. Robert Downey Jr. ought to take some
pointers. The inclusion of Lara Pulver to play
A power play with the most
powerful family in Britain
Plabon Saha uses his powers of deduction on the new series of Sherlock
No one could look as cool as Sherlock in this jacket
January 17 | 2130 | BBC2
Horizon
Adam Rutherford explores one of the newest
areas of science, synthetic biology, in which sci-
entists break down nature and rebuild it as they
wish.
January 18 | 2000 | Channel 4
How to Cook Like Heston
Everyday tips from the craziest chef in the World.

