FASHION
FELIX Friday 13 january 2012 23
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion Editors: Saskia Verhagen
Alice Yang
Fashion faux pas to avoid
Kicking off a new year, Alice Yang shows us the style resolutions to adopt for life, not just for novelty
GIRLS: Bin those Uggs
Understandably, after seasons of toe-
crunching towering stilettos, the female
population are seeking out more practi-
cal and cosy footwear. Yet regardless of
how appealing a shearling lined boot may
sound, we must remember and endeav-
our to live through the famous quote: ‘no
pain, no gain’. Now girls, that is not to
say that we should start sacrificing our
feet every day, but it really is time to
ditch those monstrosities, better known
as Ugg Boots. Even the name of these
clumpy sheepskin clad slippers gives off
a repulsive sound – so throw them to the
landfill where they belong and instead in-
vest in a good pair of leather boots. Not
only will these keep your feet warm, but
they’ll also keep them dry – without the
use of ‘care kits’. Break the bank and
bag a pair of elegant leg extending Rick
Owens wedge boots or opt for a less de-
manding pair of ankle boots from Office.
With so many choices out there that
eliminate ‘fat calf syndrome’ and guar-
antee you walk upright (as opposed to
on the side of your Ugg), this resolution
will not only improve your posture but will
also help you give off a more sophisti-
cated look.
GUYS: T under V is never good
Should you be reading this issue of Fe-
lix prior to catching sight of your own re-
flection for the first time today, fear not
because the t-shirt under the v-neck is
a fashion pit that Justin Timberlake, Gor-
don Ramsay and even Brad Pitt have
fallen into. However, lets make this clear
once and for all, a round neck protruding
inconspicuously from under a sharp V,
especially in clashing colours, is identi-
cal to hanging a sign around one’s neck
reading “I blindly picked what I’m wearing
off my floor this morning” – also known
as a big red warning sign to your female
counterparts regarding your sense of
style.
Now boys, your mother did not buy you
v-neck sweaters in a desperate attempt
to wean you out of your hoodies and
band-ts just to see their efforts ruined
by such carelessness. Instead, make the
conscious decision (preferably starting
as soon as possible) to match a smart
shirt with your v-neck. Should this look
be too formal for you, a casual shirt is
a wardrobe staple for the modern man
and with the high street offering such a
plethora of styles and patterns; you re-
ally are spoilt for choice.
GIRLS: VPLs no more
The return of the 70s has landed with us
recently in the form of glitter and gold,
yet not all the looks from the decade are
ones to copy, and topping the list are the
unsightly sight of VPLs – most commonly
seen under excessively tight lower wear.
Leggings/jeggings/treggings, regard-
less of what you call them, undeniably
have their uses – thicker than tights, and
with the ability to sit perfectly under long
tops without the need of shorts. How-
ever, the unfortunate fact is, too many
have been ignoring the word ‘long’ prior
to ‘top’, resulting in what can only be de-
scribed as flashing the world a disturbing
peek down where-the-sun-don’t-shine.
So should your backside be perfectly
pert, I am by no means preventing you
from giving the male population their
eye candy, but for those wishing to keep
their dignity having indulged somewhat
more humanly over the break on comfort
food instead of trips to the gym, opt to
dress with a lengthy shimmering top à
la Kate Moss in vintage Chanel or per-
haps throw on a pair of treggings under
this season’s favourite large jumper for
an overall cosier effect as seen on Rumi
Neely.
GUYS: Roll long sleeves, burn short sleeves
Referring to formal short-sleeved shirts
as opposed to the standard t-shirt, this
section is the start of an attempt to ban
the wearing of such items. If you are not
yet aware of the risks of wearing such
pieces – they hang on even the hunkiest
of men in the most unflattering manner,
then perhaps it is time you cleared out
your wardrobe out and indulged in what
women call ‘retail therapy’.
The hatred towards these shirts arises
because not only are they cut out in the
shape of square for some mysterious
reason meaning that wearers are expect-
ed to be as wide as they are tall, but they
also posses the most ridiculous loose
flappy sleeves. Not quite as short as on a
t-shirt but most definitely not full length,
these sleeves hobble somewhat uncer-
tainly around the elbow so that even the
most gym-loving biceps seem somewhat
lanky and lacking in substance.
Make a new resolution for life to avoid
such items and instead opt for rolling up
the sleeves on your long sleeved shirt in
warmer conditions. Not only will you be
able to show off how miraculously athlet-
ic you’re destined to become, your future
office reputation will benefit too.
Office Ankle Boots
£70
Rick Owens
Wedges
£710
Bin!
Buy!
Look in a mirror
Looking good
Yes
No
Buff
Burn

