CLUBS & SOCIETIES
entire week was sponsored by Relentless which
kept everyone going, but by the end of the week
some students couldn’t function without it. These
sad souls could be seen shaking from caffeine
withdrawals muttering about how many they had
consumed in the last hour and wondering when
they might get their next fix. Still, we learnt a lot,
for instance if you drink 15 cans in less than 12
hours you might find yourself in hospital. Need-
less to say, if you’ve ever complained about the
cost of a can of Relentless – think again – it’s for
your own safety!
The snow, the snow, the snow! This week was
really about nothing else. It was incredible! For-
mer Whistler seasonaires were overheard saying,
“this is the most powder I’ve ever seen!” It just
kept falling, everyday, relentlessly. Avalanche
warnings were high and so was the adrenaline.
Les Arcs has plentiful off-piste areas that are
close enough to stay safe and offer fresh lines.
By midweek it was snowing so heavily that the
top half of the mountain closed. With only about
three lifts open it didn’t matter how many times
you did the same run by the time you got back up
to the top – your previous tracks were covered in
fresh, soft powder. It seemed ridiculous that three
FELIX
Friday 13 january 2012
24
felix@imperial.ac.uk
weeks prior, all of this was grass and rocks. It was
deep enough that even though there was no Snow
Park yet – Simon Federer and Will Stanger of the
committee both landed their first backflips! Also,
an impressive amount of piste skiing was done
by frequent racer Michael Parkes and his crew
– leaving no piste untouched! However, nothing
could compare to being almost waist deep, sailing
through trees and taking it as it comes.
Snow is something that is not only to be enjoyed
during the day, the evenings of après-ski resulted
in snowball fights and backflips off balconies.
With four fancy dress themed evenings planned
(Tube Stations, Comic Book Superheroes, Retro
80s and Animals), Imperial students really did us
proud! Four outfits may be a lot of packing space
to ask for, but it was so worth it! It was a wondrous
sight to see a mixture of Cockfosters, Shepherd’s
Bushes, Baker Streets and Blackfriars out one
night then WonderwoMAN, Batman, Willie from
The Simpsons, Dennis the Menace, Bananaman
and Mario the next. It is fast becoming tradition
in Les Arcs to get bizarre haircuts: 2 years prior it
was the Hare Krishna Monk do, this year the Irish
Crew Cut. Thank you so much to those who chose
commitment to the cause over personal dignity
(note: Mr. Squiggles) – we love you for it!
The mountain meal – for Retro Ski Day –
brought out 80s onesies in force. Much cheese was
eaten and much wine drunk in a restaurant on the
slopes. Despite the long wait at the beginning all
were well fed enough to start some table dancing
and conga fun! For those looking to earn some
extra pocket money, the consumption of an entire
cup of cheese could earn you two euros. Sadly, the
“I dunno why there’s so much snow, it’s just like
MAGIC,” the words of the little girl in the ski film
Attack of La Niña echoed amongst Imperial stu-
dents throughout the first week of the holidays.
The last night of term saw the departure of three
coaches of us as we journeyed to Les Arcs in the
Alps. A total of 137 attendees made this the big-
gest ski trip in recent memory by quite a long way.
Just two weeks before we left for the Alps there
was no snow – none. The wait for snow was pain-
ful but after enough Snow Dances praising the
God of Pow (powder snow) we were blessed with
an unprecedented amount. A mere two days be-
fore the trip our chosen French resort, Les Arcs
was reporting “Dumping Snow” – the biggest and
most consistent snow fall in 10 years. It really was
magic.
The wait to board the ferry at Dover gave us a
chance to catch up with the other London univer-
sities heading our way – Arts, Greenwich, South-
bank, Ravensbourne and a couple from Westmin-
ster. Everyone was in high spirits, especially the
committee, who had been planning for this event
for a long time (six months!). Not everyone chose
to board the ferry by bus, a few Imperial students
thought it better to strut on – at least that’s what
we heard – their fortune cookies might have read
“a coach driver waits for no man”.
Arriving in the resort many hours later, we were
greeted by the rest of the Wasteland Ski crew and
the guys from Relentless. We were handed out
free cans of the drink, the first of many to come.
The result was a bizarre social experiment. The
Elisabeth Burks
From London to Les Arcs
Caffeine addiction, bizarre
haircuts and onesies.
Snowsports report on their
biggest ski trip in recent
memory
challenge might have left you feeling a bit funny.
With night fallen and dinner and dancing over, it
was time to find those skis or that pesky snow-
board in the dark and descend down the green run
home. By this stage those beginners were skiing
like pros and everyone made it down safely!
With the week coming to a close, it was sad to
say goodbye – to new found love, to new friends
and old, and most of all to the unique beauty that
is a university ski trip. We boarded the coaches
exhausted, but in equally high spirits knowing
that the mountains had blessed us with an incred-
ible trip.
A big thank you is needed to Vlad, our trip or-
ganiser who worked tirelessly on putting this trip
together. If you see him, give him a high five! Also
a thank you to travel company Wasteland Ski for
helping us through it. London did Les Arcs and
we did it well.
If you are feeling like you missed out there’s the
Easter trip next (2000+ UK university students in
one resort – with competitions all week if you
want another sensational holiday). Next year’s
winter trip should be just as big and so don’t leave
it to the last minute to book! Any questions –
email us at ski@ic.ac.uk. As always, Snow Love!
“Avalanche warnings
were high and so was the
adrenaline”
“The consumption of an
entire cup of cheese could
earn you two euros”
Simon Federer

