CLUBS & SOCIETIES
The best wines in the world are French;
the most beautiful women in the world
are Spanish; the best pizza is claimed by
Italy, the best chocolate by the Swiss,
the best beer by the Belgians – even the
Germans have their ruthless efficiency
to make the rest of the world jealous. So
what is so fantastic about England? The
weather is better on the continent, the
skiing is better on the continent, and the
beaches are far, far better on the conti-
nent. Europe is home to après-ski, top-
less sunbathing and absinthe; we’ve got
binge drinking and rain.
To compound this, we have chosen
to spend three years (and upwards) of
our lives here. Could there be more of
an antithesis to the lazy hedonism of
Europe than Imperial College? I find it
unlikely. And so to my point – there is
hope. Whilst you have resigned yourself
to a slow and steady slog to a good de-
gree, to turning your back on your inner
libertine, there is hope; hope in the form
of the Erasmus scheme which will pay
you to spend a year of your degree in
Europe. The Year Abroad programmes
at Imperial have sent Physicists to
Looking for a change of scenery?
Amsterdam – famed for its canals, museums and zoo
Tenerife, Biologists to the Alps and, to
their credit, Chemists even further from
the civilized world. So whether it is ski-
ing, surfing, sunbathing or an efficiently
run and painfully clean public transport
system that floats your boat, the Year
Abroad programme is for you.
“But wait!” I hear you cry, “is there
not some way I can get a taste of the de-
lirious delights of a year abroad before I
make this momentous decision?” There
is indeed – Tuesday 17 January sees the
heady cocktail that is a year abroad dis-
tilled into a single shot of pure escapism.
Yes, for one night only the largest soci-
ety at Imperial not to have been banned
from the Union invites you to come
and experience the pleasures of a year
abroad from the safety of the Blackett
Laboratory. Last year’s International
food night was so debauched it is said
to have made the head chef at Nobu fall
on his sword. There will be food and
drink from all over Europe, along with
the riotously attractive men and women
currently on exchange, all of whom find
the British accent(s) wildly arousing. To
top this off the returning students will
be roaming around showing off their
linguistic skills and bragging about the
FELIX Friday 13 january 2012 25
Richard Butters number of Swiss women they were able
to nail, because now that they do gym-
nastics instead of rugby they have a lot
more time on their hands. So what bet-
ter place to find out what to expect, and
why to choose a year abroad?
Following the wonders of the in-
ternational food night there will be an
unbelievably cheap trip to Amsterdam,
the home of (according to Wikipedia’s
things to do in Amsterdam) 19 mouth-
watering museums, 16 eye-wateringly
beautiful churches and of course the
Amsterdam zoo, described by some
as “like, a total mind-f**k”. For £119
ESN UK will give you transport to and
from Amsterdam, 2 nights in a hostel,
and free club entry on the first night.
For details please contact erasmus@
imperial.ac.uk – places are limited so
act fast!
IC Erasmus International Food
Night – 18:30, January 17 in the
Blackett Common Room, Level 8
ESN UK Ram the Dam – 1-4
March. Tickets available from
http://www.outgoing.co.uk/interna-
tional-students/trip/3329/. Dead-
line for £40 deposit – 16/01/12.
Christianity is dead in the UK. At
least, that’s what we’re told, on an
almost weekly basis. Whether be-
cause of further decline in church at-
tendance, or supposedly outdated and
irrelevant teaching, Christianity is a
faith that seems to matter less and less
in 21st Century Britain. Despite 70%
of the population in the last census
claiming to be Christians, a survey
in 2005 showed that only 6.7% of the
country goes to church regularly. “We
are a Christian country and we should
not be afraid to say so” said David
Cameron in December. However, in a
2008 poll, only 17% of people agreed
with him.
The picture is even more striking
when it comes to the young. Accord-
ing to the Church of England’s own
research in 2010, the average age
of a churchgoer was 61 and 59% of
churches had no members between 15
and 19 years old.
But in universities across London
hundreds of Christian students are
telling another story. Almost every
university, including Imperial, in the
capital has a Christian Union or CU
– a group of Christians who try to
give every student on their campus a
chance to hear the message of Jesus.
And these CUs are coming together
this month to put on a week of events
tackling life’s big issues and the rel-
evance of the Christian faith to them.
So what are these ‘big issues’? In
a unique London-wide survey, each
CU spent a week in December trying
to find out what their fellow students
thought. They asked two simple ques-
tions: ‘What’s your favourite film’
(not one of life’s big questions, but
bear with me) and ‘If you could ask
God one question, what would it be?’
And they got some interesting an-
swers.
Students most want to ask God why
he allows suffering to exist, followed
by ‘What is the meaning/purpose of
life?’ Perhaps showing a slightly mor-
bid streak, ‘Is there life after death?’
was third in the list and the simple
‘Do you exist?’ was also a popular
choice. In amongst these compara-
tively straightforward enquiries were
more profound philosophical ques-
tions such as ‘Do you have a beard?’,
‘Why is my hair falling out?’ and
‘What is your favourite film?’ London
students’ favourite films were less es-
oteric, with the epic Lord of the Rings
trilogy topping the poll.
Using these results, CUs in London
are holding Uncover: The London CU
Project from the 23-27th of January.
During the day each CU will host
lunchtime talks and other events such
as debates or ‘Grill a Christian’ panel
discussions on their campuses. On the
evenings of the 24-26th there will be
a central event at All Souls Church,
near Oxford Circus, presenting the
Christian faith with opportunities for
discussion via three of the most popu-
lar films: The Lord of the Rings, The
Shawshank Redemption and Incep-
tion. Starting at 7pm, these events
will include a café and chance to ask
any questions. For more information,
search for ‘London CU Project’ on
Facebook.
Then look no further than Imperial’s Erasmus scheme
Christian Unions uncover big issues on campus
London-wide project aims to tackle big issues this January
Tim Wyatt
Gandalf brings the survey smackdown
imedia.io

