Horoscopes*
Scorpio
This week you submitted an essay
that you know you did badly in. You
decide to seduce the lecturer by asking
how to get ‘extra-credit’. You manage
to sleep with the old man. You get the
essay back a week later. You still fail. It
doesn’t get worse than that.
Aries
This week you wake up to find out that
you’re President Obama. Hell yeah.
Time to go shoot some missiles at coun-
tries with oil. You go to press the big
red shiny button when you realise that
you’re now black. Fuck this. You go play
basketball with Shaq instead. You lose.
Taurus
This week you need a piss. You urinate
behind some deserted bushes and then
realise there are Taliban corpses hid-
ing within the bushes. Fuck. You try to
run when a hundred miltary spot lights
hit you at once. The only thing you can
think of is that your fly is undone.
Gemini
This week you remember its now 2012
and therefore the end of the world. You
form a bucket list. The only two things
on it are to get your degree and get
laid. You realise that you still have an-
other two years to your degree and you
haven’t been on a date in months. Nice.
Cancer
This week your friend keeps telling
you about how amazing Skyrim is,
even while you sleep. You don’t even
live with the guy. You can only take
so many stories about throwing bears
off mountains and shatter his CD. You
bathe in the sweet, sweet Level 32 tears.
Leo
This week you take a keen interest in
American politics. After a quick trawl
through the internet you realise that you
don’t particularly want to live on this
planet anymore. You watch a couple of
minutes of FOX News before breaking
down completely and supporting a ban
on masturbation.
Virgo
This week you go and see Tom Cruise’s
latest generic action film .Inspired by
the fact that he hasn’t aged over the
past 20 years, you become a Scientolo-
gist to discover the key to eternal youth.
You give them all your money and end
up starving to death yourself. Oh, the
irony.
Libra
This week you decide to go on the show
Take Me Out. You play the theme track
to Doctor Who as you descend the ele-
vator, dressed as Frodo. You get a black
out before you even say your name. 30
girls rejected you in the same second.
You wondered why you even applied.
Sagittarius
This week you realise the Holland Club
may be closing. You decide to hang
out with some undergrads. One says:
“Allow Imperial, manz dun knoe about
me. Gonna shank my lecturer innit.
Safe tings.” You can’t figure out if he’s
gonna kill his lecturer or sleep with him.
Capricorn
This week you wake up to realise you’re
Catwoman. Brilliant. You’re sexy and
can fight crime and shit. Instead you find
yourself shitting in a sandbox and licking
your own butt-hole all day. This wasn’t
what you were expecting. But you enjoy
it. Meow.
Aquarius
This week you have exams. You grow
a revision beard. You realise you like
your revision beard. You decide to keep
it. You spend so long maintaining your
revision beard that you forget to revise.
The only way you can pass is if your
exam is on beards. It isn’t. You fail.
Pisces
This week you have to ask the question:
Whatever happened to Will Smith? Se-
riously, the guy hasn’t done a film for
years. What’s that? Men in Black III?
I’m literally crying actual tears of sad-
ness right now, I just want my Fresh
Prince back...
*Straight from the mouth of a psychic woman down a Brighton back alley
Hangman’s Finest College News Source
Lecturersrevel in students’misery
I guess studying under the shad-
ow of a massive phallic tower
doesn’t help either
T
he Turnip has gone under-
cover to reveal the truth
behind the behaviour of
Imperial staff towards their
students. Using bugs plant-
ed in staff rooms and offices, alongside
old-looking PhD students posing as
staff, the lid has been blown on what
looks like institutionalised abuse of un-
dergraduates across all departments.
Delays in publishing problem sheet
solutions are officially cited to be so that
students attempt them without relying
on the answers, but a conversation over-
heard between senior staff in the Depart-
ment of Physics has revealed that they
just enjoy seeing them spend five hours
on a single question, knowing the obses-
sive nature of the average Imperialite.
One particular lecturer has also been re-
ported to make his exams excruciatingly
hard: in previous years people have
cried after completing them, or not at
all –some just sit there for two hours be-
cause it would be a total waste of paper.
Some complete it for this very reason.
When the solutions are finally re-
leased, some lecturers have replaced
some of the answers with more ques-
tions, making doing a problem sheet
the turnip
Reporter’s eyebrows raised, but not as high as they could be
DRUNKEN MATE
OF THE WEEK
He feels homesick... for his Mum’s uterus. How he ever
moved out for university is a mystery
akin to watching an episode of Lost, but
without Evangeline Lilly’s breasts to
compensate.
Lecture theatres are not safe, either,
with first-year Physics lecturers chal-
lenging their students to contest special
relativity. After quoting Einstein’s fa-
mous equation, the professor asked if
anyone wanted to suggest alternatives.
One student mentioning modified New-
tonian gravity got laughed out of the
theatre.
In one extreme case of scholarly mis-
conduct, the lecturer of advanced Rie-
mann tensor calculus in Mathematics
simply did away with several lines in a
proof with “???” and ended the deriva-
tion with “PROFIT!”
Finally, a final-year project supervisor
has been reported to give his students
no guidance whatsoever with respect
to their work: he merely waits for them
to spend a whole term heading down a
research dead end so that in their final
meeting he can berate them for not hav-
ing done anything, muttering “trolled”
under his breath in a thick European
accent as they leave his office, hidden
under the loud banging noise of the door
slamming behind them.
HANGMAN
FELIX Friday 13 january 2012 27
Dubious vacancies
Tortured comic genius? Think you could do
so much better, hotshot? Allow me to in-
form you that this section isn’t, you know,
entirely exclusive.
Show me what you’ve got and I’ll either
spend many a sad, lonely night chuckling
to myself over its inherently lame quality or
stockpile it for future use.
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk, bring it.
Ladies love laughing at with my humour

