More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut
and shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by
highly experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
To book an appointment,
call 0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Imperial and UCL celebrate five
years of nanotechnology research
It is a truth universally acknowledged
that all mad scientists must carry out
their ingenious experiments in a base-
ment. But most of us have absolutely no
idea what goes on beneath the floors of
our faculties. At Imperial, some of our
most ingenious pieces of research are
carried out by the London Centre of
Nanotechnology (LCN), which has just
celebrated its fifth anniversary. A col-
laboration between Imperial and UCL,
it covers such a large range of research
that it could not be contained in a single
basement and is now carried out across
both campuses.
The co-director of the LCN is Milo
Shaffer, also the warden of Holbein and
Willis Jackson Hall. His group aims to
contribute science that “can make a real
difference to the world around us.” He
could be right; in the last five years, their
researchers have “discovered magnetic
analogues of electric charge, found new
Madeleine Staple
• Understand what is driving global business
• 8 master classes from the Business School covering:
economic foundations / the world crisis / business strategy /
global marketing / innovation & entrepreneurship / human
resource management / the changing balance of world trade
• Access to a dedicated programme website with additional
study materials and social media feedback
BUSINESS IMPERIAL
Capture an expert!
Registration opens on 25 January 0900
@ www.imperial.ac.uk/business-imperial
Free to all Imperial Undergraduates!
l busine
covering:
usiness strategy /
NEWS
FELIX Friday 13 january 2012 3
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
ways to manipulate light... and devel-
oped new ways to screen for antibiotic
resistance in bacteria.” What’s more,
they also offer two Masters programs at
Imperial.
The LCN is very unusual, in that not
only does it involve two of the best uni-
versities in London working together,
but the team itself is completely multi-
disciplinary. Chemists, medics, bio-
chemists, biologists, physicists, material
scientists are all striving towards a com-
mon goal: working with materials on the
nanometre scale to improve the efficien-
cy of instruments and ideas, to analyse
materials at a level that was not possible
before, and then to apply that knowl-
edge to all kinds of fields – including
healthcare, physics and engineering.
Beneath the floors of the Royal
School of Mines lurks one of the most
interesting experiments: TITAN, a £6m
electron-microscope with correction for
spherical aberration, the first of its kind
in the UK. By connecting it to sophisti-
cated software, TITAN can take images
on an atomic level, allowing us to view
single atoms with the naked eye (on a
computer screen). Recently, it has been
used to study replacement hip-joints –
these have always suffered from oxygen
degradation, and the team hope to find
exactly why this happens and how to
counteract it. They are also looking into
regenerative medicine, and how and
why Alzheimer’s progresses as it does.
The first five years of the London
Centre of Nanotechnology have been,
by anyone’s estimation, hugely success-
ful. What happens in the next five years
could be even more interesting.
“[The LCN] aims to
make a real differ-
ence to the world”

