In Brief
Imperial academics awarded in
New Year’s Honours
Three academics at Imperial College have re-
ceived some of the highest awards in the country
for their work in the sciences in the New Year’s
Honours, announced on December 31. These hon-
ours are issued by the Monarch on the advice of
the Government for exemplary service.
Professor Sir Stephen Bloom, the head of the
Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism division
in the Department of Medicine; and Professor Sir
Simon Donaldson, a researcher into geometry and
topology at the department of Mathematics, have
both been appointed Knight Bachelors. In addi-
tion, Professor David Philips, a researcher at the
Department of Chemistry, as well as President of
the Royal Society of Chemistry, has been made a
Commander of the British Empire (CBE).
As well as the members of staff, five members
of Imperial’s alumni have been given honours,
including a Knighthood and a Damehood (the fe-
male equivalent).
The Rector of Imperial College has extended his
congratulations to the staff and alumni. In a state-
ment to Imperial’s press office, he said “These
researchers, along with the Imperial alumni who
have been honoured, represent some of the very
best that the UK has to give. On behalf of the Col-
lege, I offer them all my warmest congratulations.
Philip Kent
NEWS
FELIX
Friday 13 january 2012
4
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Rally to ‘save Holland Club’
The Facebook campaign has attracted over 600 members at the time of going to print
towards solving, as highlighted by an
interview with The Reporter (Septem-
ber 27 2011) in which Mrs Neary stated:
“[Commercial Services] would like to
create more space for the College com-
munity to interact socially, especially
taught postgraduates … [who] don’t re-
ally have a place to call their own. We
would like to change that, providing a
catering and social space that could be
open out-of-hours and at weekends.”
In her correspondence with Felix, Mrs
Neary went on to explain that the pur-
pose of the feasibility study is to evalu-
ate the space currently occupied by the
Holland Club and determine which fa-
cilities would be required to best suit
the needs of the College community;
whether the new facilities should be
open to everyone or just a select group
(i.e. staff and postgraduates, both taught
and research) and “How the ethos of the
Holland Club might be maintained in
any new facilities.”
Kevin Young, the manager of the Hol-
land Club, told Felix that his main com-
plaint is the way he feels that College
has not only failed to consult him on
their plans for improving postgraduate
facilities, but also what he believes to be
concerted efforts on behalf of members
of the feasibility study staff to not share
information about it with him.
Specific examples he included to
justify his belief included finding se-
nior members of Properties Manage-
ment and Commercial Services looking
around the inside of the bar at 7am on
a Wednesday morning in early Novem-
ber without express permission from
Mr Young, and original requests made
by college for allowing access for archi-
tects and engineers stating that the work
done was for “updating the college re-
cords.”
Mrs Neary stated that the reason the
Holland Club committee hadn’t been
consulted was because there had been
nothing to consult on, and that now that
the plans are progressing they have been
meeting with the panel in charge of the
feasibility study.
The Holland Club itself is named
after Sir Thomas Holland, former Rec-
tor of Imperial College London. It is
technically a private members club for
non-academic staff, while postgraduate
students (both taught and research) are
Holland Club, and that communal spac-
es and function rooms remain.
Imperial College Union responded
to the ongoing issue with the following
statement: “Until the feasibility study
comes back it is impossible to comment
on what potential plans there are for the
space the Holland Club occupies.
“It is important to note that the Hol-
land Club was setup as, and still re-
mains, a bar for non-academic staff of
Imperial College London.
“The Union will always be welcom-
ing to plans that seek to improve the
amount of social space available to our
members. It can only be seen as a posi-
tive move that College are looking to
invest several million pounds in more
student facilities.
“We look forward to submitting our
response to any plans that are put for-
ward by College and Commercial Ser-
vices.”
As a worst-case scenario, Mr Young
is willing to discuss the moving of the
Holland Club to new premises. This is
not the first time in its 62-year existence
that it has been moved. Originally start-
ing as a room in 15 Princes Gardens
– a location Mr Young jokingly said
he wouldn’t mind moving back to – it
was moved to the Huxley building, be-
fore being moved into its current site in
the basement of Sherfield 16 years ago,
which up until that point had been home
to Imperial’s telephone exchange.
While most Holland Club bar users
Felix spoke to weren’t averse to the
Holland club undergoing a renovation,
there was a fear on how said renovation
would be done. This was best expressed
by one punter questioned who feared
that the ‘pub’ character would be lost to
the ‘Ikea catalogue’interiors endemic to
Commercial Services’ most recent proj-
ects, the Eastside bar and the Queen’s
Tower Rooms.
The various outcomes of the feasibil-
ity study, which are due in the second
quarter of 2012, will be reported in Fe-
lix as and when they become available.
allowed in as guests. In practice the bar
is heavily used by PhD students when
they don’t want to drink with under-
graduates in the union or the cast of
Made in Chelsea in the South Kensing-
ton locals, which can be prohibitively
expensive.
The Holland Club itself is self-gov-
erned and not for profit, any money
made from the running of the bar is
re-invested into the bar. Mr Young also
stressed that the Holland Club manage-
ment was not blind to the increased
need of postgraduate students, especial-
ly as they now made up the majority of
its customers. The Holland Club com-
mittee was already looking as far back
as last October into plans to re-open
the kitchen bring in network points for
internet access and purchase a coffee
machine.
As it stands the coffee machine has
been bought with a three-year service
contract, and will be installed within
the next few weeks, a point that par-
ticularly annoys Mr Young as it may
now potentially be ripped out by Eas-
ter. This uncertainty about the future
has affected the day-to-day running of
the club, and also on the ability of the
club to go about carrying out its own
improvements. Plans to start serving
light pub food have been shelved until
the Holland Club can be sure the re-
quired equipment and staff are worth
the investment.
It is hoped that a compromise could
be reached between the goals set out
by the Feasibility study and the current
Holland Club. The feasibility study it-
self does plan to invite input from stu-
dents and staff – including members of
the Holland Club – on what facilities
are desired and how the project should
proceed. However Mr Young expressed
regret that the Holland Club hadn’t
been included in the process from the
very start. The primary concerns that he
wants addressed in the feasibility report
are that the new facilities will also be
self – governed in the same style as the
Imperial Horizons initiative to
challenge undergraduates
Join the debate
and have your
say on this
story at
felixonline.co.uk
Imperial has unveiled a new pilot scheme for un-
dergraduates, which aims to challenge students to
consider global issues through use of their scien-
tific knowledge.
The new initiative, entitled Imperial Horizons, is
being led by the materials physicist Professor Adri-
an Sutton.
The free programme consists of eight weekly two
hour sessions on Monday evenings on the South
Kensington campus, with students attending lec-
tures delivered by Imperial research stars as well
as outside speakers from the worlds of science,
media and policy, allowing for further interaction
with the world of research.
Professor Sutton has explained the purpose of
the scheme as a means to enable students to put
their degrees in a broader context: “Undergradu-
ates at Imperial receive one of the most thorough
technical educations available world-wide but there
is a growing sense that the education we provide
has become too narrow, that we don’t facilitate stu-
dents from different faculties working together and
learning about each other’s ways of thinking.”
“I believe that Imperial College is exceptionally
well placed to deliver this programme. This is partly
because the College has a long tradition of inno-
vation in teaching and of recognizing excellence in
teaching.”
The course begins on January 23. Students
can sign up through the website www3.imperial.
ac.uk/horizons.
Matthew Colvin
...Continued from Front Page
“[Commerical Ser-
vices] would like to
create more space
for the College com-
munity to interact
socially”

