NEWS
FELIX Friday 13 january 2012 5
The topic of Fisher Hall’s closure in
Evelyn Gardens has been revived after
a planning permission request from the
college aiming to shift the building’s
use from Halls of Residence to Care
Housing was granted.
The request, put forth by both Impe-
rial College and The Wellcome Trust,
was approved on December 9 2011
along with proposed development to
the affected buildings at 24 and 26 Ev-
elyn Gardens such as removal of the
front steps, the insertion of windows
and the erection of chimneys.
The review began in January 2011
and it was speculated that the high cost
of refurbishment would lead to the clo-
sure of the hall. The planning applica-
tion was submitted in July 2011 indicat-
ing the intent to switch to use the hall
for elderly care, citing the creation of
halls at Prince’s Gardens as causing
the “need for student accommodation
[to be] reduced”.
The cheapest standard single room at
Eastside, the newest halls at Prince’s
Gardens, is currently £175.34 per week,
while the cheapest for Fisher is £99.56.
Converting Fisher to a care home
would cause the 156 existing beds to
be turned into 28 housing units. Last
year’s Union President, Alex Kendall
told Felix that the decision appeared
“driven by cost-cutting”, adding Fisher
Hall “is in urgent need of refurbishment
and Imperial are less likely to lose mon-
ey if it is sold on rather than retained as
student accommodation.”
Jane Neary, Director of Commercial
Services, told Felix last year that the
problem with halls such as Fisher lies
with the condition of the buildings, and
that they “have had no financial invest-
ment for as long as anyone can remem-
ber”, but she denied claims that Fisher
was below standard, saying “it’s not
that [the hall isn’t] good enough, it’s
completely legal”, adding that “we’ve
done all the urgent work”.
There is a period of under 38 years
left on the lease for Fisher Hall, after
which time it reverts to the freeholders,
the Wellcome Trust. John Anderson,
CEO of the College Fund, told Felix
last year that “College is going to be
looking at an 8-figure sum to refurbish
Fisher Hall to achieve the standard
of other halls. To my mind, it simply
doesn’t make sense to invest that much
money into a property for which the
lease expires in 38 years”.
The College are continuing the search
for new sites of accommodation which
would take over as an alternative, and
were reported to not be seeking a so-
lution through private halls. Felix con-
tacted the Head of Commercial Busi-
ness and Student Support, Charles
Gallagher, who stated that College
takes into account Fisher Hall as a
“core building” which “currently re-
mains part of the undergraduate accom-
modation portfolio”. He said that “the
investment needed to keep the building
fully operational as a student resident
may not be feasible”, adding “the Col-
lege is exploring options for develop-
ing the undergraduate accommodation
offer”.
“Until an alternative facility is found
that offers suitable accommodation”,
he continued, “Fisher Hall will remain
a student residence and a core asset for
College”. The planning proposal for
Permission granted for Fisher Hall development
converting Fisher from a hall to a care
home, however, was approved with the
condition that “the development shall
be begun before the expiration of three
years from the date of permission” as
required by Section 91 of the Town and
Country Planning Act 1990, to avoid
the accumulation of unexercised plan-
ning permissions.
Alexander Karapetian
Simon Kreitem
“new sites would pro-
vide an alternative” The proposals would see new care housing at Evelyn Gardens

