NEWS
FELIX Friday 13 january 2012 9
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Imperial West masterplan unveiled
Proposals include 34-storey residential tower to be built at Wood Lane
New Medicine Faculty Principal appointed
Professor Dermot Kelleher has been ap-
pointed Principal of the Faculty of Medi-
cine. The Vice-Provost for Medical Af-
fairs and Head of the School of Medicine
at Trinity College Dublin since 2006,
Professor Kelleher is to take up the role
on October 1 2012.
Following Professor Sir Anthony
Newman Taylor, who has been Principal
since December 2010, Trinity College
graduate Professor Kelleher will direct
the Faculty of Medicine’s activities and
be a member of the College’s Manage-
ment Board, which acts as the senior
decision-making body.
Rector Sir Keith O’Nions welcomes
the appointment, saying “Professor
Kelleher is an international leader, with
an outstanding record in academic medi-
cine. His emphasis on translating re-
search discoveries from the laboratory to
frontline patient care fits perfectly with
Imperial’s vision, and I am delighted to
welcome him to the College.”
Originally a gastroenterologist by trade
and now a pioneer in the field of immune
response and infectious diseases Profes-
sor Kelleher’s research involves examin-
ing the immune response to many of the
leading causes of gastrointestinal infec-
tious diseases worldwide such as Heli-
cobacter pylori and Clostridium difficile.
One aspect of his work is on lymphocyte
function in the body’s reaction to infec-
tious agents and inflammatory diseases
like inflammatory bowel disease.
In 2002 Professor Kelleher helped to
obtain collaborative grant funding to
establish the not-for-profit company,
Dublin Molecular Medicine Centre
(now Molecular Medicine Ireland),
which supports medical biotechnology
development in Ireland. Its aim was to
accelerate the translation of biomedical
research into improved diagnostics and
therapies for patients. He is also a found-
ing member of Opsona Therapeutics, a
spin-out drug development company
from Trinity College Dublin focussed on
immunology research.
His appointment coincides with the
completion of his term as Chairman
of the Eurolife Consortium of Euro-
pean Medical School and has served as
a member of the Board of the Health
Research Board Ireland, the European
Medical Research Council and the Well-
come Trust Clinical Interest Group.
Imperial College Healthcare NHS
Trust and Imperial College London re-
cently formed the UK’s first Academic
Health Science Centre which aims to
translate new discoveries into new thera-
pies as quickly as possible. In admira-
tion of Imperial’s Faculty of Medicine’s
“international reputation for excellence”
and its “global reach” Professor Kelleher
says “I share in its vision for research
translation, both through its activities
in the Academic Health Science Centre
and the future partnership with health
providers in North West London.” He
is looking forward to “further strength-
ening Imperial’s medical research and
teaching activities and helping take the
Faculty to new heights.”
Alex Nowbar
Matt Colvin
Aemun Reza
Trinity College Dublin
Professor Dermot Kelleher
Imperial College London has submit-
ted a planning application for the sec-
ond phase of the development of a new
postgraduate campus at Wood Lane,
with the project aiming to include the
construction of a 34-storey residential
tower block.
Imperial purchased the Wood Lane
site from the BBC in September 2009
at a freehold price of £28m, with £8m
from general College funds and £20m
provided by the College Fund, which
seeks a long term return from the in-
vestment.
Construction on the first phase of the
campus is currently underway. This will
include four blocks of studios providing
accommodation for 606 postgraduate
students, alongside some family apart-
ments for Imperial researchers, lectur-
ers and trainee doctors. It is envisioned
to be ready by late summer 2012. The
studios will form part of a new Impe-
rial College campus – Imperial West
– which will ultimately include new re-
search and teaching facilities and man-
agement offices for the College as well
as a 34-storey residential tower.
The proposals for the second phase
‘masterplan’ of construction at Impe-
rial West include an open landscaped
square the size of Soho Square that is
open to the public, a four-star hotel,
retail services, a pharmacy, healthcare
services and a nursery.
The site aims to incorporate “world-
class facilities” for the Imperial School
of Public Health, which will be located
on the site. The College hopes that the
site will enable the College to achieve
its ambition of providing accommoda-
tion for a quarter of post-graduate stu-
dents, alongside the new Griffon Stu-
dios at Clapham Junction. In addition,
the site will operate close to Imperial’s
Hammersmith Campus, and will of-
fer a chance to “explore collaborative
work with the BBC” due to the close
proximity to the BBC’s Media Village.
They also anticipate that the new site
will attract budding entrepreneurs as a
place to start their business as well as
creating 2500 jobs and a boost for local
business.
The “new safe and secure green open
space” proposed by Imperial West aims
to be as environmentally friendly as
possible both when building the site
and once it is completed. They are to
take a “green approach” by having a
bio-climatic design, using low energy
and carbon and minimalizing the use of
transport between campuses by provid-
ing a shuttle-bus.
John Anderson, Project Director for
Imperial West has said of the project:
“Imperial West will enable the Col-
lege to expand upon the success of its
South Kensington site to create a sec-
ond, open access academic campus that
provides the physical infrastructure
for world-class research and teaching,
leading-edge facilities for business de-
velopment and technology transfer, and
create an attractive environment to live
and work in.”
However, the plans have not met
widespread approval, with the St Hel-
ens Residents Association in North
Kensington launching the ‘Imperial’s
Folly’ campaign in October 2011. The
association hopes to prevent the devel-
opment from “destroying the Western
skyline” for residents of the area. While
noting that they do not oppose the de-
velopment of a new campus, they re-
main wary of what they consider to be
“overdevelopment”.
John Anderson responded to concerns
in a statement: “We have refined the
designs of the residential building, the
academic health building and the office
building to respond positively to resi-
dents’ comments as well as to the re-
quirements of the planning authorities
and Greater London Authority.”
The decision on Phase 2 of the cam-
pus construction has been forecasted for
late Spring 2012. Imperial West hope to
create a “truly mixed development” for
academics and researchers with a com-
mercial element of different facilities.
Imperial College London
Imperial West will provide accommodation from autumn 2012

