College backs down over
bookstore rent
The College has backed down over plans to
increase the rent of the Imperial College U n i o n
Bookshop from £4,700 per annum to £19,000.
The rent will now be equal to last year's rent
plus inflation.
The plan is yet to be agreed, and 'Impact',
who represent the College, are still negotiating.
College Secretary M r John Smith, told F E L I X
'nobody wanted to do down the bookshop o r
Union'. He added 'the Union had put more into
it than originally thought'. He also commented
that 'It's important for the people w h o run it
commercially to know what a commercial rent
is i n this neighbour-hood—the space is very
valuable'.
The Rector, Professor Eric A s h , justified the
change of mind—Tt was felt that the higher rent
would be unnecessarily hard on the Bookstore',
he told F E L I X .
Last Friday's meeting between the Union
President, Neil McCluskey, M r John Smith and
Professor Eric A s h yielded the draught solution.
The original aim of raising the rent was because
the old Bookshop was non-departmental—a non-
College based activity' as Impact described it.
It was pointed out that Southside Bar paid no
rent at all and is even more non-departmental
than the bookshop. Impact is an impartial
agency, so a rent rise in one sector must be
accompanied by a rise in any comparable areas.
Refectories Manager M r Rob Northey, who
is responsible for Southside Bar, commented
that any change in the rent on Southside Bar
would probably be reflected in bar prices. The
Union bar also pays no rent, he added.
See summer news review
Theft: Hamsoc lose £2,500
A n estimated £2,500 worth o f equipment has
been stolen from HamSoc, Imperial College
Union's amateur radio society. The missing
items include tranceivers worth about £2,000
and various other equipment, including
antennae.
The robbery is thought to have happened
sometime last week after electricians employed
by the College had been working near the
Hamsoc room. It is believed that they left a door
open. The theft was only discovered on Tuesday
when Hamsoc members started to prepare for
the Freshers' Fair.
The U n i o n Deputy President Dave Williams
said the articles were uninsured and that 'as far
as I'm concerned the College Estates are paying
for it'.
The theft occurred during the day, and is
thought to have involved a number of trips to
and from the room. Dave Williams has now
instructed that he be told before a contractor is
left in any of the Union Buildings.
M r Geoff Reeves College Chief Security
Officer, added that no one is sure of when the
theft actually took place, but it must have taken
some time. H e said that the back door o f the
Union, facing the Albert Hall, is to be fixed with
a magnetic lock, but cannot be locked
permanently as it is a fire door.
In a later interview Dave Williams told
F E L I X that it 'looked like' the door had been
left open. T believe it is not insured' he added.
Students to fund College
cock-up?
College's residence fund may have to support
the £1.6 million Olave H o u s : , according to
Senior Assistant Finance Officer, M a l c o l m
Aldridge. The House's finances are presently
kept separate from the main Residence Account,
under an agreement, made between the College
and Imperial College Union (ICU), designed to
limit rent increases in other residences.
A r o u n d £1 million o f the cost o f the new
House was raised through a loan, with the rest
of the money coming from the Sherfield Trust.
It was decided at the time of purchase to pay
the interest on the loan entirely from the Olave
House rents, i n order to avoid burdening
students i n other residences. Following the
recent interest rate increases, the £50-60 rents
are no longer sufficient for this and the loan is
steadily increasing. It has also been estimated
that the value of Olave House has fallen to £1
million, in line with property price trends.
Commenting o n his policy toward rent
increases, M r Aldridge told F E L I X ' M y
objective is to keep pace with inflation' but did
not rule out the possibility of increases greater
than the rate o f inflation. If Olave House is
added to the Residence Account, all rents may
see a substantial rise in order to ensure that the
House breaks even financially.
College Secretary John Smith denied that
there are any plans to bring Olave House into
the Residence Account. He stated his intention
to uphold the College's agreement with the
Union and said that he thought Olave House
rents are 'about right for the nature o f the
accommodation'.
M r Smith, who recommended the purchase
of the House to the Sherfield Trust, remarked
'I still think it's a good buy in the long term'.
Neil M c C l u s k e y , Imperial College Union
President, reacted with surprise to the proposal
that Olave House should be financed from the
general Residence Account. T will stick to any
agreement made and I do believe that the
agreement was that any residence bought after
Fisher Hall would be kept separate from the
Residence Acount', he said.

