Achaeologists are now learning more about how our ancestors livedfrom
what they definitely wanted to leave behind...
The passed and the present
The science of archaeology once concerned itself only
with bones, pottery and treasure. More recently it has
expanded to cover such things as the study of animal
and plant deposits and, as Andrew Jones of the
Enviromental Archaeology Unit of York University told
the BA, of what is easily the oldest of human
activities. Jones is an expert on the archaeology of
excrement.
He argues that by identifying faeces among the
debris of a dig, much can be learnt about the diet, the
state of health and the standards of hygiene of its
former inhabitants.
There are few other methods for exploring these
particular aspects of life. Historical documentary
evidence is scarce although historians do know that
hygiene had a low priority in medieval times. There
is written evidence of frequently overflowing
cesspools and primitive lavatories that emptied onto
the street. People in the 14th century thought nothing
of relieving themselves at night out of the bedroom
window, and public latrines, apart from being filthy,
were favourite haunts for muggers. Such a society
offers rich pickings for someone like Andrew Jones.
The first problem that any excrement archaeologist
faces when he visits a site is that of separating
centuries-old faeces from other ancient organic
material such as waste food and animal dung.
'Fortunately,' the BA was told, 'the ancient excrement
detective has clear clues to follow.'
The eggs of the parasitic worms which live inside
animal intestines are fairly resilient and can be easily
and accurately identified after being buried for
thousands of years. The problem is not identifying the
eggs but identifying the unfortunate host. Whipworm
eggs are a useful clue: they are large and easily
recognisable but the whipworm is known to infect
pigs, dogs, mice, rats and sheep as well as human
beings.
For help, the researchers turned to the bodies from
the bogs: ancient human remains preserved intact in
the acidic conditions of a peat marsh. These bodies
have been found to be parasitised by whipworms of
particular species, the eggs of which are significantly
smaller than those found in other animals. This gave
researchers an ideal method with which to separate
human and animal excrement.
The technique helped identify the so-called 'Lloyds
Bank turd' excavated in York as being of human origin:
it contained around 133 000 whipworm eggs per
gram.
There are other clues. Latrine pits contain large
quantities of recognisably intact cereal bran. Fish
bones have also been found. The bones are of
particular interest to Jones who carried out a series
of experiments to see if they could be traced back to
humans.
An unnamed experimenter ate a whole kipper and
faeces were collected over the following week. These
were found to contain a small number of fish bones
crushed and partially dissolved in exactly the same
way as those found in the latrines. This is significant:
fish bones can survive in conditions that can destroy
parasite eggs.
Archaeologists are now learning more about how
our ancestors lived from what they definitely wanted
to leave behind.
New brains for old
Fool's
gold
Alchemy is much more than just a vain attempt to
transform base metals into gold. It is a much more
complicated subject which encompassed the brewing
of medicines and potions and developed the basic
principles which became the modern science of
chemistry. It was the subject of the only meeting of
the British Association's History of Science section.
Alchemy came in many forms: from the Islamic
countries, from China and from Europe. Islamic
alchemy still shows itself today in the chemistal
terminology in such words as 'alkali', 'alcohol' and
'elixir'.
In China, alchemists were regarded as healers and
used Saltpetre (Potassium Nitrate) as a powerful
medicine, so powerful in fact that steps were taken
to reduce its strength. By 300AD they were heating
it with Sulphur; by 850AD someone had thought of
adding honey to the mixture. As any good chemist will
tell you Potassium Nitrate, Sulphur and a source of
Carbon such as Honey are the ingredients of
gunpowder.
Alchemy also florished in Britain, Issac Newton
spent time studying the subject and it did not die out
until a century or so after his death. The last person
to attempt to demonstrate alchemy in this country
was a man called Price. He was called before a
meeting the Royal Institution to give a demonstration.
Unsurprisingly he failed and was so ashamed that he
commited suicide at the meeting. No one has followed
in his footsteps.
Page 10
Professor David Marsden is one of the few researchers
whose work has attracted the attention of the World's
media. He was one of the pioneers in the use of foetal
cells to repair the damaged brains of the victims of
Parkinson's disease. The cells produce the chemical
dopamine which sufferers' brains lack. Recently, he
has tried to extend the technique to the repair of
severed spinal nerves.
So far, the only spinal nerve experiments have been
on animals and the work on Parkinsonism, although
it is now using human guinea pigs, has yet to produce
convincing results. The condition of the first.patients
has only slightly improved.
Depressives, people for whom the World is
unremittingly awful and only likely to get worse,
would probably not take comfort from the latest
psychological research; they could be right.
Received wisdom, according to Dr Shirley Fisher of
Strathclyde University, says that there is a fault in the
way a depressive perceives evidence. He or she is
more likely to overgeneralise, to be pessimistic and
to accept blame. This is believed to lead to a loss of
motivation and a drop in self esteem.
However recent laboratory evidence seems to
indicate that the depressed are good judges of
evidence 'especially when judging the relationship
between what they do and what happens.'. It is the
Professor Marsden is working on refining the
technique which is so sensitive that something as
apparently insignificant as the thickness of the needle
used can affect whether a graft takes or not. He
blames the press for raising sufferers' hopes and
driving researchers to work faster than they should
have done.
At the moment, it can take up to six aborted
foetuses to provide enough material to treat one
patient. However, it may be possible in the future, to
replace these with genetically altered skin cells or
clones of brain cells taken from a single foetus.
non-depressed who distort the evidence: they tend to
be over-optimistic.
Dr Fisher, perhaps over-optimistically, does not
conclude that life is genuinely a bad deal which most
people seem to be able to ignore. Instead depression
may be a biological trick to avoid trouble.
In any society, 'losers' try not to confront 'winners'.
By publicly understating their abilities, depressive
'losers' are able to control sensitive situations without
causing trouble with those of higher 'rank'.
The technique can get out of control: a person who
says 'I'm no good' too often may eventually end up
unnecessarily maintaining a reputation for being
incompetent.
Sadder but wiser?

