The Ents crew tell you about the party to end the week with.
The Freshers' Ball
Ents Disco
Wednesday night is one of the most regular of all the
Ents events. We run a FREE disco in the Ents Lounge
every Wednesday. Also some Wednesdays we will be
running joint parties with other colleges like St Mary's
and the AIFS.
This year's disco will feature an improved light show
and the possibility of theme nights and, of course, all
the latest and greatest sounds in chart house indi etc.
The disco is also available for hire for halls, societies
and private parties at the cheapest prices around. The
Ents disco can be used in two forms: the fixed Lounge
disco or a mobile disco. If you are thinking of having
a party contact me via the Ents pigeonhole in the
Union Office.
Gwyn Jones, Ents Disco Officer
I hope you all enjoyed Monday and Wednesday night
and are raring to go for tonight-Party Night! If you've
missed the publicity for tonight you need glasses but
just in case you have, I'll run through it quickly. The
bands are Big Town Playboys, Jivin' Instructors and
Dave, Puppy and the Happy Dogs. We also have a
casino, late bar, cocktails, late discos and food. All
in all an excellent night's entertainment.
Other events planned in the term include the Muscle
Shoal on October 20th in the Lounge and other
assorted comedy, bands and discos every Friday night
(except October 13th). More details nearer the time.
We still have some Ents cards if anyone hasn't got
one and wants one, priced £7. Anyone who failed to
pick up their Freshers' Week ticket on Monday can
come to the Union Office and we will refund the
money.
Thanks to everyone who helped out on Monday and
Wednesday and if you would like to become one of
the infamous Ents crew we are having a meeting on
Tuesday at 1pm in the Lounge.
Nirvana—Bleach
Bleach is the debut album from Nirvana. They are
exponents of 'heavy grunge' rock, a bit like Husker
Du or perhaps Motorhead with a little sophistication.
(A pity really as Motorhead's charm is their lack of
sophistication.) It is raw, unpretentious stuff,
performed in a workmanlike fashion by the four piece
Nirvana and whilst it does not have anything special
to distinguish it from the rest of this genre it satisfies
the market. There are a few gutsy screams from
vocalist Kurdt Kolan, particularly on Scoff and the
curiously titled Floyd the Besler, the occasional guitar
riff and a rhythm section with the energy of a
blacksmith on speed. As 'melody' and 'tune' are not
factors here, modem popular music is unlikely to be
transformed by Nirvana but they could teach Guns W
Roses a thing or two about heavy rock.
Phillip Boa
A German, over whom the serious music papers are
apparently having orgasms, Container Love, out on
Polydor is a totally unmemorable dirge in which Phil
grunts like a tramp and his partner Pia trys to sound
like a bored supermarket checkout girl. It lacks the
blandness of the S-A-W drum machine but at least
Sinita trys not to sound like the shop assistant.
He's probably so intelligent that he gains his
inspiration from Stravinski and Schoenberg in which
case he'll never make the Top 40. For your
information the B-side is subtely called Annie Rides
the Lover Bember and its accoustic version is as bland
as the A-side.
Son of the
Sun—One
On Crysalis
Meanwhile One's number of the beat, majestic
thumping, pumping pop to dance, jump, skip and hop'
is not half as bad as the press release would have us
believe. One is not quite 'a flower in a forest of weeds'
but is a three piece who can play and sing a decent
toon and will probably fail to trouble the DJs at Radio
1 at all. However this is what pop should be.
Danceable with half-way intelligent and intelligible
lyrics, it features no female orgasms, sexual innuendo
and a no hope dance remix on the flip-side. Thoroughly
recommended all round even though they are
reminiscent of Lloyd Cole at times.
Jethro Tull
Hammersmith Odeon
21 years on from their conception, Jethro Tull are still
going strong, oblivious to musical fashion and
promoting a new LP Rock Island.
To the fore is Ian Anderson, still manically snorting
and grunting into his flute whilst standing on one leg
or singing of farming problems and lecherous tramps
by the name of Aqualung. His lechery is even less
repressed nowadays judging by the slick show that
accompanied Kissing Willie or the scantily clad woman
who showed us her 'Wisp of cotton panties' during
Night in Budapest.
Supported by Dave Pegg and Martin Alcock (now
the driving force behind Fairport Convention), Doane
Perry and Martin Borne, Tull seem to have found a
stable line-up. Borne, beardless for the first time ever,
now has pretentions as an axe-hero and indulged in
enough posturing to make up for the others' lack of
it, but it was the enjoyment with which they all played
around in between numbers which made the show
intimate. Alcock's 'coal driven' keyboards running out
of steam and Perry's 'violin miming' made the concert
an occasion to be remembered rather than over-
rehearsed video effects that many concerts have now
become.
Material from Rock Island, a patchy collection of
familiar ideas was eclipsed by older songs with an
emphasis still on the 'album of '73'. Aqualung Huron
43 and Cheap Day Return now being Tull standards
and Locomotive Bxxxx acting as an encore, as usual.
The Renaissance of the old rock stars has covered the
fact that Tull never stopped doing it and will probably
continue long after the Stones break up again.
Page 11

