What really goes on at political conferences? What do all those delegates do when not grabbing th
minutes offame before the TV cameras. Andy Waller walked down the middle of the road to the Soc
Liberal Democratic conference tofindout.
Salad days
What better way is there to wind up your summer
holiday than going to a political conference? I suppose
there are at least several million better ways, but this
is a report from someone who was silly enough to
jump onto the nearest Rapide coach and head down
to Brighton at the beginning of September.
Security is one of the major headaches at any major
conference these days and it certainly caused me
some problems. Arriving to register heavily laden with
suitcase and sleeping bag I was promptly told 'You
can't go in there with those'. However I couldn't take
them direct to my digs as I needed to collect the key
from the Youth Stall inside the conference centre.
Deadlock: and my shoulders didn't feel that much
alive-if only I hadn't listened to my mother
suggesting that extra jumper. A kindly porter at the
Grand Hotel (conveniently next door) said that I could
leave them in the lobby until I got my key.
That problem sorted out, I ventured around the
sights and sounds of the various stalls in the
conference centre. I thought that British Nuclear Fuels
were wasting their time, but I did get a rather nice
telescopic keyring/pen off them. Wandering around,
there were yet more freebies to be had: a free sewing
kit, pen and keyring from the Royal Bank of
Scotland-at least I now had my key to put on the
key rings.
There are several bars in the Brighton Centre and
in trying to find one of them open I stumbled across
the conference hall where (horror of horrors) someone
I knew was making a rather silly speech. So I left: it
was only the English Federal Conference, a sort of
warm-up session to the real thing. By then it was time
to check-in and chat with one of the major political
commentators of our day-a taxi driver. He admitted
that he had once voted for us in the past but enquired
as to why anyone bothered to have a conference
when there wasn't going to be a General Election for
such a long time, and whether we had already sorted
out how the votes were going to go during the
following week. I said that we weren't that sort of
a party. Luckily we then reached Brighton Poly Halls.
What on earth is there to do at a party conference?
This being my first proper one, it took me a few days
to work out the rules.
1. Wander about looking as though you know what
you are doing, and saying a brief hello to whoever you
can remember from the last conference, by-election,
council meeting or breakfast. When you have been
through everyone once then start again trying to get
on television doing it.
'SOCIAL1
r
& LIBERAL"
DEMOCRATS:
2. Put in 30 million speaker's cards in the hope that
you will get called and then hurriedly learn the speech
you wrote on the bus that morning.
3. Go to as many free lunches or buffets as you can.
As for rule three, whilst it is party policy to deplore
any 'political' expenditure on pre-privatisation
advertising by the major utilities like water and
electricity, this does not stop you from eating any free
food or beer on offer.
Paddy Ashdown's first speech to the conference
began in Mandarin (from his days in the Special Boat
Service) which has to be a first. The full conference
was opened on the Monday morning by the Mayor of
Brighton. There followed some interesting debates
and some not so interesting debates. Whilst it is
flattering for a political party to have extensive live
coverage on television, I wonder who actually
watches it, apart from the few thousand party faithful
or Aunt Flo who has been tipped off that her darling
nephew/niece is about to make a major controversial
speech in a pull-over she knitted them for Christmas.
On Monday afternoon I dutifully bought my specially
signed copy of David Steel's autobiography. It was
also possible to get other books signed by their
authors. I suppose it was sheer coincidence that all
these books by the party hierarchy came out at about
the time of the conference. After all, ours is not a
cynical party, is it?
Tuesday saw the big guns being brought out for
(yes, the cliche gave it away) the defence debate.
Trident was accepted ready for the next General
Election, along with the rest of a paper on East-West
relations. The policy process is currently 'deliberative'
i.e. preliminary papers are prepared, discussed,
amended and then passed, rather than being made on
the hoof. There was an attempt to alter this and the
debate produced the memorable quote "Take a look
at the person sitting next to you, does she look like
a Trot?". Well personally I hadn't thought of Ian
Wrigglesworth's former secretary in quite that
context.
Every day each delegate was bombarded by
hundreds of leaflets, papers and documents and so
with environmental concerns being at the heart of the
party our Councillors from Adur (just down the road)
provided eco-bins to recycle all this waste paper.
The press seemed to be covering a completely
different conference and one enlightening story came
from the Youth Stall where someone was approached
by a Today reporter who wanted a comment about
Paddy Ashdown allegedly taking up a very large suite
in the Grand at the Party's expense. It transpired that
he had already written the article about the Youth
Wing's indignation before he arrived.
We were also all alarmed to hear that Sir Russel
Johnson (MP for Inverness, Nairn and Lochaber) was
about to resign as Whip. He did say that he hadn't
even spoken to the press, but the bright young thing
of the old SDP, Charles Kennedy, said that it was his
own fault to be misquoted by saying nothing at all.
Thursday night saw the traditional sing song and
perhaps the best contribution to the name debate
coming from a rendition of 'Socialiberaldemo-
craticexpiallydocious'. Other amusing ditties included
'0 Pad, our help in ages past/Our hope for months to
come/Take thy computer in both hands/And stick it...'
to the tune "0 Lord, our help in ages past", which
goes to show that even a 'non-conformist' party
knows tunes from 'Ancient and Modern'.
Finally came the speech they had all been waiting
for. The adoring members, and even those with woolly
pullovers (of which there could only have been a
handful), sat and listened to Paddy's Leadership
Speech. The standing ovation would have lasted
longer, only I think Baroness Sear wanted to sit down
after five minutes.
Homeward bound with my SLD rock, Paddy pen and
other memorabilia, it did cross my mind that several
of my friends would consider me slightly mad for
having been to a party conference, but nevertheless
it's Blackpool next year for me.
Page 12

