Nightline
eviction
Dear Dave,
I am writing to you following your article on the
eviction of Nightline by College at the end of the year.
Firstly the comments attributed to Neil McCluskey
which implied that as he'd never had cause to use
Nightline the money spent on it could be better used
elsewhere were, I hope, taken out of context and
surely can't reflect official Union policy.
Nightline provides a valuable listening and
information service throughout the night for anyone
to use. It is run for students in London by students
from London and as such is uniquely suited to student
needs. I found Neil's comments ill thought out and
offensive to an organisation whose volunteers, by
nature of their anonymity, can get no outside
recognition for the effort they put in.
By repossessing the Nightline Office College gains
accommodation for up to three students which will
require both work and money to be brought up to a
suitable standard for year round occupation.
Nightline will lose secure premises in an area which
is relatively safe for its volunteers to travel to and from
and is ideally located in a central area for volunteers
from all the different colleges to get to. It would lose
its internal phone line which means that IC students
would no longer be able to use the service on the
internal system form any hall or College phone.
The argument that it's someone else's turn to house
Nightline is a poor one. Couldn't another college
provide accommodation for three IC students rather
than destroying what is a near ideal set up at Imperial
and jeopardising the future of one of the largest
student Nightlines in the country.
People, particularly Union Presidents, must realise
that as anonymity is a pre-requisite of Nightline it
makes defending it very hard. Rather than just letting
this eviction take place I would ask all those involved
to try and come up with viable alternatives and protect
an organisation that cannot publicly protect itself.
Name and address withheld.
Molto
fascisti
Dear Dave,
Isn't it funny how nothing ever seems to change?
The subject of this venting of spleen on my part is
the wonderfully neutral and informative booklet
foisted on the new intake by that well-known bastion
of tolerance, the Imperial College Conservative
Society, a group of individuals so devoted to market
forces that they cannot even bring themselves to use
the word 'Union' in their own title, despite the
shameful fact that the Union funds them, and that
they are all members of it.
What have they done? Well, what do you expect?
They have once again launched themelves on a
crusade to worm their insidious propaganda into the
minds of the gentle and the innocent. A campaign of
spiteful half-truth, poisonous generalisation and blind
self-satisfaction, prompted by a typical 'I'm alright
Jack' attitude, and directed at the usual targets such
as Socialists, members of the NUS (not all of whom
attend or applaud wasteful conferences, no platform
policies or the IRA) and the poor old homosexuals,
appears to be the standard opening shot in what will
almost certainly be an increasingly ignorant and
uncaring year.
The old Federation of Conservative Students was
rightly regarded as a gross political embarrassment by
the current government. We can see very easily that
only the name has changed: The willful blindness and
vicious intolerance are just the same.
I have no doubt that the Conservative Society will:
a) Write to Conservative Head Office, naming me
as a subversive, and
b) Write a reply to this with several pages of
statistics proving the fairness of Student Loans and
the Community Charge. For an encore, they will then
eat the Queen's Tower and prove that the Moon is
made of blue cheese
Yours,
Andy Bannister.
-get out andabout
in London
TOMORROW, 10.00am
MEET A T YOUR CCU OFFICE
For further details please come to
the Rag Meeting today at 12.35 in
the Union Lounge

