F e l i X
This week has seen the beginning of the College's
breakdown of promises. I am not talking about the
official prospectus; I am talking about Olave House.
John Smith promised that last year's purchase of
Olave House would not burden the residence system
and would therefore have no effect on rents in other
halls such as Southside and Evelyn Gardens. I believe
this promise. Sadly, Mr Smith will be leaving the
College after Christmas and the hoods in Sherfield are
going to do their best to see otherwise. Malcolm
Aldridge has said that he expects to see the house
enter into the Residence system this year, if Students
Residence Committee agrees to it. Don't forget that
SRC is only an advisory body, however. If the College
wants to force the decision they can and will. I believe
that this year will see this move. If the College gets
away with it, it will be the shiniest thing this College
has done so far. College bought Olave House for
£1.6m and it is now worth £1m: why should we pay
for their cock-ups?
I have heard that student re-apps have been given
free rooms in halls for the week before term on the
condition that they clean the halls. This is ridiculous.
If they were working during the Summer, they would
have received free accommodation and a wage. For
information, the halls that I have heard about so far
are Tizard and Willis Jackson House. Students had to
clean fridges which the cleaners and housekeepers
were too incompetent to arrange during the Summer.
I might add that the fridges had various flora and fauna
growing in them over the summer, which would have
broken every health and safety rule under the sun, if
the right people had been informed. I shall have no
qualms about doing so in the future, after this. Could
the lady in charge of arranging things like the summer
letting of halls please tell me why she is ripping off
students like this? Yes Loretto O'Callaghan, you have
used slave labour in order to scrape a few extra
pounds out of the summer lettings. I might add that
the most ridiculous instance of ripping off students
is Joe Cartwright, Willis Jackson Warden. He charged
a student £3 for removing an extra chair from his room
at the end of last term. I know you messed up your
hall amenities account Joe, but do you have to go
round creaming it off the students to make up for it?
I must apologise for calling the Rector a conniving
git in the last issue of FELIX. I have decided that the
simple term 'twit' would be far more accurate after
his speech at the Freshers's reception on Monday;
conniving, after all, implies too great a deal of cunning
thought. I am standing here now, of course, with my
paint brush in hand, waiting for the 'grown-ups',
which I am sure include Professor Ash, to teach me
how to paint my room. I thought 'Magnolia' would be
a novel shade.
Credits
I seem to have run out of space, so I should just like
to thank the following for collating the last issue:
Rachel Wilson, Louise Lucas, Emma Skitt, Rufus
Isaacs, Alex Ball, Alex Challis, BJ, Gwyn Jones,
Morgan Pimblett, Chris Home, Cathy McClay, Alistair
Goodall and Ruth, Jason, Adam, Liz, Chris Stapleton,
Doug King, Fiona Nicholas and Neil McCluskey (up
yours Bill, we still get on.)
The biggest thanks of all must go to Jason Lander
for his science special, including 'The shit article.'
Immense thanks also to News Editor, Adam
Harrington and his growing team of reporters,
including Pippa Salmon and lain Stewart. Welcome
and many thanks to Neil Lavitt for working so hard
on getting some gig reviews for the future. Thanks
also to Business Manager, Stef Smith; Features Editor
Liz Warren; MAC for reviews; Simon for popping in
to help paste-welcome!; Chris Leahy for Music;
Lorraine Rogerson and B.A. Costello for books;
Richard Crouch and Chris Stapleton for the Cartoon
feature; Andy Waller for the Salads; BJ for the ents
info, and Andy Bannister for being an all round nice
guy and help. Thanks, as always to Rose and Andy
for the hard work and patience, and the anonymous
sources, who shall remain forever so.
Staff meeting
There wil be meeting to disuss the next issue today
at 1pm in the FELIX Office. If you are interested in
getting involved, please drop in.
Dave
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 01-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley, Business Manager: Stef Smith. Advertising Manager:
Ramin Nakisa. Copyright FELIX 1989. ISSN 1040-0711
A WORLD OF OPPORTUNITIES ON OFFER WITH
ICI OVER CHRISTMAS
The career opportunities for graduates in the 1990's
seem to be becoming increasingly diverse. As a result, more
and more students are looking for their first job within
organisations that are international, flexible, competitive
and world leaders in technical innovation.
With so much to look for, it is an advantage to get an
early introduction to such an organisation and meet the
people within it.
Id's Christmas courses provide the ideal opportunity
to find out more about the people and careers described in
the corporate literature.
If you're interested in attending a Christmas course in Engineering, Marketing, Physics, Chemistry
or Material Science, or youjust want to find out more about a career in ICI, contact your careers office and
ask for the relevant ICI brochure and application form.

