AUT pay claim
The national executive o f the Association of University
Teachers ( A U T ) has recommended a salary claim of 27%
for LIniversity staff.
The document is being considered by A U T members and
may be adopted as policy at a special council meeting o n
Saturday 14th October. The A U T claim that the increase is
needed to 'halt the appalling decline in academic related
salaries over the past decade'.
A spokesman for the A U T told F E L I X that the claim was
'high with respect to the last pay claim, but not with respect
to comparable jobs' and that it was 'certainly not
unreasonable'. She added that the Chancellor of the
Committee of Vice Chancellors and Principles ( C V C P ) were
'unlikely to award the full whack'. O n the possibility o f a
strike she commented that such thoughts were 'weeks ahead'.
The Rector, Professor Eric A s h , said that 'Academics are
grossly underpaid and it's about time the Government
realised this'. During the last A U T strike over pay claims
Professor A s h wrote a letter to The Times condemning the
A U T ' s action.
Poll tax protest
The main event at yesterday's U n i o n General Meeting was
the final U n i o n policy on Poll Tax. A n original motion,
proposed by M r Edgar Denny, of Socialist Worker Students
Society, was amended to call for the Union to 'support and
coordinate any lawful action against the Poll Tax.'
The original motion instructed the Union Executive to
write to the College, demanding that they do not hand over
names to the Poll Tax Registrar. M r Denny explained that
he did not actually expect the College authorities to comply,
but it would let them know the student position. N o such
letter will now be written according to the motion amended
by H a l Calamvokis.
Other matters included announcements of financial
assistance for parents w h o put children into the day nursery
and a new election for the I C Union Women's Officer
following Nicky Fox's resignation due to work pressure.
Willy J deficit
Willis-Jackson House is charging five pounds to each of last
year's residents to balance the £750 which was overspent
last year.
M r Joe Cartwright, warden of Willis-Jackson House stated
that some of this deficit was due to overspending by the last
warden, so he was only responsible for about £580 of it. He
blamed it on an error in the accounting system. 'I basically
made a mistake as to how much it would all cost' said M r
Cartwright.
Union President Neil McCluskey said 'If anyone complains
the U n i o n will back them all the w a y ' .
Residence losses
A loss of £175,000 was made o n the Student Residence
Account's £2.4 million turnover last year. This follows a
£100,000 loss in the previous year.
John Smith, College Secretary, toid F E L I X that a large
proportion of the money had been spent o n bringing the
residences up to fire safety standards. He also commented
that money was being spent on improving the general
standard o f accommodation, which would slightly reduce
maintenance costs in the future.
M r Smith suggested that the continuing losses could be
reduced by 'good management' o f student residences, in
particular by reducing the number of rooms which are vacant
at any given time. 'There are always opportunities to make
things better', he said, in defence of the past standard of
management.
Honda founder
M r Soichiro Honda, the founder of the Honda Motor
Company, visited the college on Tuesday for the first time
since being made a fellow of Imperial College on last year's
Commemoration Day.
The last time M r Honda came to college was in 1982 to
view the site for the wind tunnel. W i t h other members of
the Honda Foundation, the party visited the Honda sponsored
wind tunnel in Aeronautics and demonstrations o f Neural
Networks a n d Electrochromotography i n Electrical
Engineering. Following the departmental visits, the group
lunched with the Rector.
M r Honda is currently on a world tour, the next port of
call being a new car factory in Toronto, Canada. The Honda
Foundation was formed after M r Honda retired from the
Motor Company in 1973, its activities are aimed at studying
human problems with respect to the broader issues related
to technological development.
Unions surveyed
The Department of Education and Science officially released
the results o f its survey into student unions last week. The
report, which is a factual analysis of the survey, has taken
three months to complete.
A spokesperson from the D E S said that the delay was to
allow officials time to think carefully about policy, but he
'didn't know exactly what influenced the publication date'.
The policy of M r John MacGregor, Secretary of State for
Education, was outlined in his speech to the Committee o f
V i c e Chancellors and Principals ( C V C P ) , in which he said
that no action was to be taken against the expenditure o f
student unions on political activities, as the survey showed
this to be only 0.5% o f their annual budget.
Council battle
Hammersmith and Fulham Borough Council is fighting a
legal battle over their £400 million money market loss and
the council auditors claim that they may not be compelled
to pay the debt. The council was acting outside its legal
powers in speculating its £6 billion in the first place they said.
A spokesman told F E L I X T don't think that Housing
Benefit will be affected' but declined to comment pending
a court case.
Dramsoc success
Imperial College U n i o n Dramatic Society's (ICDS)
acclaimed Edinburgh production of Huis Clos by Jean-Paul
Sartre will be performed in the Union Concert Hall on Friday
13th October. The production was described in The Scotsman
as having 'admirably succeeded in providing both precise
acting and a claustrophobic atmosphere'.
The performance will start at 8pm and tickets cost
£2.50/£2.00. A l l enquiries should be directed to Adrian
Pagan o n ext 3531 o r 3533.
Big bang
'The birth of the cosmos' was the title of a speech given by
Professor Paul Davies from the University of Newcastle on
Wednesday, in the Great Hall.
He gave an account of current thinking on the big bang,
the event that began our universe. H e explained that this was
not just 'any old bang', but a well balanced affair which
contained enough explosive energy to prevent the universe
collapsing before life had a chance to appear, but not too
much to spread its material too thinly.
Motor mania
City & Guilds Motor Club are running a competition for
budding racing car drivers. The winner will be awarded an
initial trial at Brands Hatch, all costs included. Further details
are available from City & Guilds Union Office.
BEEF BURGER STALL
5pm Saturday 7th
Princes Gardens
^Cheaper than MacDonalds
*More wholesome than Wimpys
^Refreshes the parts other burgers cannot reach
Everyone welcome
followed by Guilds pub crawl
Iff?

