Graham Swannell's
Marrakech
Every once in a while it is fun to remind yourself how
abysmal a play can be in order to fully appreciate just
where the proverbial bottom of the barrel lies-and
Graham Swannell's latest play is it.
If you picture the most tedious middling middle class
sitcom you have ever zapped then this is it without
the benefit of a remote control or even indeed of an
interval (a wise tactical decision.)
Walter, a failed landscape architect finds himself in
the position, obviously 'humiliating' and 'comic' for
a professional man such as he, of playing
househusband to Vivien his wife-a minority survivor
as a doctor still loyal to an ailing NHS (and very SDP
with it).
At the start of the play Walter has decided to hang
up his rubber globes and escape to the red walled city
of his shattered dreams-Marrakech-and write the
great naval-contemplating novel that burgeons within.
The dreary but stunning Vivien wakes up in search of
a coffee and discovering him packing she wonders
what all the fuss is about.
The incompetent and illiterate dross which follows
plays like an imbecil's guide to a gospel of middle class
tenets and truisms. For example:
1. men cannot cook
2. women can cook
3. when we were young we were wild
4. now we are older we are wiser
5. any aspirations beyond a semi and 2.4 kids are
hiliarious and silly of course
6. especially the idea of writing
7. or come to that of travelling
8. we must stick together
9. this is the best of all possible worlds:-
beautifully captured in the line "you think you'll find
Robert Royston's
The Struggle
LYRIC HAMMERSMITH
STUDIO Tel: 01-741 2311 for further details
what you want in Marrakech. It doesn't exist, this is
what exists."
But the most powerful impression that the dialogue
gives is that Swannell like Walter "couldn't write a
note to the milkman".
Stuck with the script though one might expect that
director Peter James would attempt for the sake of
pride to do something with it. His attempt to convince
the cast that the dialogue is of this planet has however
obviously failed in Morag Hood's case as she
sleepwalks Vivien's part in a painfully droning
monotone (throat problems perhaps?). Consequently
Gregory Floy's valiant attempt to make something of
Walter is lost in an alternate recital of lines that could
never pass for conversation. Jokes fall flat and
communication between characters and to the
audience never begins to be established.
The play is as desperate as the NHS for some
immediate life-saving action:-
Either a radical shake up to send up the flimsy and
hackneyed script or a serious investment of energy
to play up the pockets of humour. Since neither of
these seems likely, the play, like Walter's life, will
speed towards its date with oblivion; "Hardly alive
and then dead forever". May it rest in eternal peace.
MAC.
T H E G A T E T H E A T R E
Tel: 01-229 0706 for further details
Amidst the vague propoganda and political cliche
which blunts the brutal reality of life in the South
African Republic The Struggle insists itself as an
intelligent and focussed tale which stabs with
convincing precision.
Ruth has long ago left South Africa and the island
of appropriated wealth that was her father's home,
for London and the bloated amnesia of a busy
journalist's life. Ruth's widower father languishes,
from the loss of a dead wife and deserting daughter,
in the confused mausoleums of both house and
fragmented mind erratically issuing orders to and
demanding company from the long suffering servant
Tim. But the deep draughts of exile are hardly the
waters of Lethe and Ruth is driven by conscience to
return, ostensibly to visit her father, in reality to do
work for The Struggle.
A violent and compelling history of events unfolds,
alternately cut with the present interrogation of
discovered-subversive Ruth by the sadistic Colonel
Van Zyl.
The callous engineering of the murderous ending is
powerfully conveyed by a chillingly routine radio
announcement and the piece closes with a sense of
foreboding and imminent conflict.
The distinguished cast deliver confident
performances with Osei Bentil {Othello at the Albany)
bringing great humour and vitality to his role as
Gumede-the fatalistic young township activist.
MAC
Page 3

