Second
Fiddle
Mary Wesley
Pub. Black Swan £3.99
Afficionados will not be disappointed by Mary
Wesley's latest offering in paperback. Not only does
it afford us another glimpse of Calypso Grant, on
whom the curtain was lifted in The Camomile Lawn
and who last played a part in The Vacillations ofPoppy
Carew. It also opens up a whole new cast of quirky
characters, in typically vivid colours.
The plot centres on Claud Bannister, 25,
unemployed, back at home with mother, dreaming of
writing a novel and Laura Thornby, 45 (the ages are
important). Exotic, independent and controlled, she
runs her own life, enjoys men and discards them
(charmingly) before they go sour. Laura takes Claud
on, sets him up with a market stall and encourages
him away from mother to write. But the relationship
does not proceed quite as she expects.
The dynamics of their relationship are played out
in a kaleidoscope of scenes which also illuminate
aspects of Laura's past and her family, and of Claud's
mother's mind, marriage and maternity, as well as
introducing a team of comic characters, including the
deliciously dreadful Terrence. The novel exposes the
process of writing a novel and (with a characteristic
turn of wit) the process of writing book reviews.
The language is spare and pungent. The rhythm is
irresistable. The characters are engaging, the wit is
sharp, the plot is intriguing. Highly recommended.
Lorraine Rogerson.
The Bellarosa
Connection
Saul Bellow
Pub. Penguin £3.50
The aging memory man forgets the name of the river
in the song he learnt as a child. His friend and step-
cousin Harry Fonstein has spent forty years forgetting
his Jewish origins but trying to thank the man who
rescued him from the Nazis, now a successful
Broadway producer, Billy Rose (Bellarosa).
Fonstein's wife, the tiger lady Sorella, a Gentile,
who has made herself an expert on Jewish history,
has the means to bldckmail the reluctant Billy Rose
into allowing her husband to thank him. She has been
given the diaries of a female former aide of the
producer, but after confronting him with them,
destroys them.
As Saul Bellow gets older his novels seem to get
shorter; this one, described by the publishers as a
novella, is really an extended short story, with its
single theme of memory and its relation to history. The
characters are highly drawn, and Bellow eschews plot
with a Nobel Prize winner's confidence, but the terse
description and dialogue are enough to evoke the
America of 'Herzog' and 'Dangling Man'. Bellow's
fiction is unforgettable.
Trying to trace the Fonsteins thirty years after losing
touch with them, the memory man remembers
'Swannee' (or 'Suwannee'-spelling preferred in the
South) and learns of their deaths.
B.A. Costello.
Job Hunting Alfred Hassack
Penguin 'Self-Starter' £3.99
Now that your grant cheque has been pissed away
at the Freshers' Week events and you discover that
your landlord, one Mr Rachman, is a stickler for
prompt monthly payments, it's time to join the
pioneering cohorts of nineties students and get out
and earn some dosh.
And here's your edge: you're competitors for that
sought after post at the local ale house are obviously
a bunch of losers who hadn't the wit to prepare for
the inevitable eyeball with the boss with the latest
self-instructional training in transactional analysis and
the high art of fast-talked bullshit. But you, you
cunning devil, spotted the glossy cover and blue
dotted summary and speedily secured, for a pittance,
your key to love life and riches beyond your wildest
dreams.
Or so the story goes and a book that can sell itself
In Search of the Crack
Robert Elms
Pub. Penguin £3.99
well to you promises well that it can then sell you to
Mr Big and his merry band of moderately remunerated
men. This book makes a fair job of it (pun intended).
Aimed at a broad audience the chapter regarding
CVs is a bit of a shock including as it does formats
for those various forms of real life without a university
education (those who also must work). The
subsequent chapters on interview preparation and its
pop-psychology are a suitably commonsense pep talk
for all those of a thick-skinned/socially incompetent
persuasion.
Overall, although quite dispensible as a tool of any
great enlightenment the book gives a clear simple
check list and serves its intended function to calm and
groom the potential victim before the sacrificial
presentation to the big bad interview day.
MAC.
Whatever else this novel's about it is about the fun
of camaraderie and the richness of friendship-the
pleasures of 'having the crack'. The crack is the crazy
spirit of a night hunted down drunk, and drained of
its sparkle then thrown to the side with the empties.
The crack is the wit of the Irish and the nightly quest
of a wide-eyed wide boy from N22 for that elusive
something more.
From under-age drinking in a pub in Camden Town
through sexual skirmishes in the B&Bs of
Bournemouth, Tony is riding the crest of a wave which
carries him almost as far as his passionate vague
ambitions.
With the wit of Joe Kelly and the sharp edge of
bright and bold Diamond, the boys have divined the
spirit of the times, or at least of living in London, and
in a party of drink, drugs and sounds Pleasure
Incorporated is born.
The anarchic crusade of the hedonists' vision is
launched, and with a cool mix of blarney and balls the
gospel of good time is spread. After London, New
York and Tokyo bow to the pirates flag.
Through the dollars and a death and the loss of his
English Rose a big-hearted man is made from a bright
faced boy. From these fond memories of a lusty life
and 'getting drunk in the company of honest men',
Tony can now look forward with the contented smirk
of a man who has had his cake and still has another
slice left.
Better than the blind rebellion of angry young men
and brighter than the self destruction of the
disillusioned, this novel opens an unseen door in the
writing of recent times which leads to a more positive
path for those 'In Search of the Crack'.
MAC.
The Oat and Wheat Bran
Health Plan
Dina R. Jewell and C. Thomas Jewell M.D.
Pub. Bantam Books £3.99
This book otherwise known as Crapping Your Way to
Health delivers the final panacea to that gamut of ills
peculiarly favoured by the constipated western world
such as:
Coronary artery disease
Appendicitis
Colon cancer
Breast cancer
Hiatal hernia
Varicose veins
Depression
and many more besides. I've been on the diet for
a fortnight now and can honestly tell you that in this
time I've suffered from none of these ills so that can't
be bad for a first indication.
But I should mention, there are certain drawbacks
to the plan. The main problem being that the diet
consists of lots of visits to the toilet to deposit your
new, more bulky, fast transit time, cholesterol
removing number twos.
However, this is surely a small price to pay for such
a healthy, energising cleansing effect that these little
fibrous treats can bring to your life. Or at least that's
the message that enthusiast and High-Fibre-Priestess
Dina relates in her endearingly spunky American way.
The book is clearly planned and presented and the
tone of address is set for an intelligent interested lay
audience. From the beginnings of research in Africa
on the importance of dietary fibre through a summary
of the physical and chemical effects of oat and wheat
brans the text leads into the bulk of the book where
the practical business of getting the stuff down your
throat in a suitably appetising way is covered by a
comprehensive list of recipe ideas.
An interesting substitute for the traditional diet of
many beers and a curry but whether the medical basis
will be wiped out by an article in next month's Lancet
in the time honoured manner of these things, remains
to be seen. Meanwhile stock up on bog roll.
MAC.
Page 4

