The summer is always quiet according to those who would like to make you think so. But the College trie
to pull a fast one on the Union and the Summer Accommodation Centre got washed out
OAP P M saw IC's IRCs
The Right Honourable Margaret Thatcher, MP, visited
College on August 25. In a brief interview with FELIX,
she explained that she was visiting the College's
Interdisciplinary Research Centres, which she
described as 'fundamental and very exciting.'
Mrs Thatcher visited two of the College's three
IRCs, which will bring a total of £32 million to the
College. 'It's very exciting,' she commented
afterwards, 'what we do both in the basic and the
private research really will have a tremendous effect
on the whole future success of our country.'
The Rector, Professor Eric Ash, told FELIX that he
had invited Mrs Thatcher to view the IRCs after she
had expressed an interest to Professor Abdus Salaam
in the Physics Department. The centres are in
population biology, Process Simulation and control
(Chem Eng) and Semiconductors.
Mrs Thatcher is known to be unsure about the
validity of IRCs as a research tool. Professor Ash now
believes she thinks 'this is the right way to go.'
Interdisciplinary Research Centres work in an inter-
departmental manner, drawing ideas and resources
from several areas at once.
Bookstore lost £75,000
The Imperial College Union Bookstore's losses
exceeded original estimates by £75,000 when a full
stocktake was held during the Summer.
The amount was made up by unsold books which
could not be returned to suppliers. Past stock
valuations had quoted non-returnable, out of date
textbooks at full price less a profit margin. An example
quoted was 'A history of Persian Earthquakes,' which
was valued at £50 in the accounts and was selling
in the Bookstore at £10-20.
The loss was originally higher, but was reduced by
the return of £25,000 worth of books. It came as an
addition to the Bookstore's £30,000 overdraft and the
Union's £67,000 refurbishment costs.
Union Manager, Dave Peacock told FELIX that he
did not expect the Bookstore to repay the debts for
ten years.
Impact hit Bookstore
The College increased the rent on the Union Bookstore
from £4,700 to 19,000 when its rent negotiators,
'Impact,' were employed to arrange an 'arms length'
agreement between the Union and the College.
College Secretary and 'Impact' director, John Smith
accepted that the new rent was 'a bit tough on the
Bookshop,' but added that the new arrangements
provided 'much sharper objectives.'
With a good year, Union Manager, Dave Peacock,
told FELIX that he expected a profit of £40,000,
which would have been halved by the new rent.
The new rent was part of the College's policy to
increase rents around the campus, including that of
National Westminster Bank. The policy was decided
by the College's Management and Planning
Committee
SAC in hot water
A mix-up between the Summer Accommodation
Centre and the College's Estates section left 56 rooms
flooded in Southside in September.
The hot water supply to the halls had been
disconnected overnight and during the day to 'repair
a burst main,' according to Managing Surveyor of
Residences, Peter Hallworth.
Mr Hallworth told FELIX that everyone in the halls
had received a leaflet warning them of the imminent
disconnection. Several residents left their hot water
taps running however.
Speaking on the incident, Conference organiser,
Pauline Clark, said, 'No, I still haven't been informed
officially that the water was to be switched off.' She
added that the staff at the Summer Accommodation
Centre's reception desk had not been informed either.
She described the leafleting of the halls as 'minimal,'
and added that the residents had 'thought it was a
rather a hoot!'
UFC success
Imperial succeeded in gaining a nationwide top
research ranking in all of the departments reviewed
by the University Funding Council over the summer.
The new ratings placed IC 3rd in the national table of
Universities with 91.25% of the possible marks.
The UFC now aim to give a double weighting to
research excellence, which Professor Ash expects to
provide a 'sizeable fraction of a million (pounds),' in
future years. 'It won't drastically change our fortunes
overnight,' he added.
New ICU staff
IC Union appointed ex-ULU Vice President, Louise Van
der Straeten as Assistant Finance Officer in August.
The new permanent staff post is to be paid for by the
Union's outlets and its central account.
Union President, Neil McCluskey, now hopes that
Finance Officer, Reggie Blennerhassett will be able to
devote more of his time to the management
accounting he was employed to do originally.
Mary's refit
St Mary's Student Union had its bar and main hall
refitted during the Summer. The cost of the refit was
met by the Medical School and St Mary's Student
Union.
The main hall, which had not been refurbished since
the 1960's is used as a refectory and houses events
during the evenings.
Page 5

