'My drawing isn't bad, and I like the sound of this comic business.
Where can I learn more?' The answer is the London Cartoon
Centre.
Capital cartoon
Unless you've been out of the country for the last year
or so, you will no doubt have noticed the amount of
media attention that comics have been attracting.
With the Batman film and the rising prominence of
more mature, 'adult' comics such as Deadline and
Crisis, the public eye has been forced upon this unique
artform as never before. Several major book publishers
are now entering the fray with extensive plans for
comic projects.
"Hold on", you may say. "My drawing isn't bad,
and I like the sound of this comic business. Where can
I learn more?" Well, surprisingly, the only place in
Europe that offers specific training in comic strip art
is the North Kensington based London Cartoon
Centre.
The Cartoon Centre grew out of a workshop started
in 1984 by David Moran, who was convinced that
there must be talented young people in his area who
could draw original cartoons for a newsletter produced
(under his guidance) by a local youth club. After a few
unsatisfactory tutors, David Lloyd, artist of the
acclaimed series 'V for Vendetta', was asked to find
someone suitable. He decided to have a go himself,
and from there the Cartoon Workshop gradually
expended to become the Cartoon Centre, gathering
enough support from the Portobello Trust, the
European Social Fund and D.C. Comics to be able to
hire a full-time co-ordinator, Eve Stickler.
Today, with an impressive roster of experienced
comic artists and illustrators for tutors, the Centre
offers a range of evening classes covering all aspects
of comics creation: strip illustration, script writing,
humour scripts, anatomy and life drawing, with hopes
to start colouring and animation courses in the near
future.
A new development instigated by Ms Stickler is a
daytime course running for two and a half days a week
over ten weeks, comprised of the basic elements of
the evening classes plus advice on setting up in
business as a cartoonist.
Every term 'Masterclasses' are arranged featuring
top name professionals such as Alan Moore, Dave
Gibbons and Paul Neary talking about their techniques
and looking at students' work.
In June the Cartoon Centre moved into new,
purpose built premises in the Portobello Trust Business
Centre, which provide good working space and
equipment essential to budding Steve Bells, such as
a light box, a guillotine and a photocopier-the last
being used to produce the students' showcase
magazine, Silicon Fish.
If the ultimate aim of the Cartoon Centre is to teach
their students the skills necessary to make a living in
comics and related fields, there can be no doubt of
its success. Many of the graduates have gone on to
professional work: Martin Griffiths and Darren
Goodacre work for 2000AD, Dougie Brithwaite has
been published in A-1 and is drawing The American
for Dark Horse Comics, Nick Abadzis draws Hugo
Tate for Deadline, and Denise Dean is working for
Universal Studios on American Tail II, to name a few.
An interesting project which the Cartoon Centre is
involved in is a collaboration with Amnesty
International. The plan is for representatives of
Amnesty and some of the Centre tutors to talk to
various GCSE Art classes about human rights
violations and drawing comics respectively. Then, as
part of their GCSE exam, the pupils will have to
produce a comic strip about a particular human rights
case. Hopefully the results of this will demonstrate
the effectiveness of comics as an educational tool and
at the same time heighten awareness of Amnesty's
work.
To attend the London Cartoon Centre you must be
under 26. The evening classes cost £1.50 each (soon
to rise to £2.00). Send photocopies of your artwork
and/or scripts to Eve Stickler at the London Cartoon
Centre, 249-251 Kensal Road, London W10 5DB, or
phone her on 01-969 4562 and arrange an
appointment. Let the longer haired of you be warned:
Ms Stickler has a penchant for tugging pony-tails!
Richard Crouch.

