B
r
i
t
i
s
h
A
s
s
o
c
i
a
t
i
o
n
The annual meeting of the British Association for
the Advancement of Science (BAAS), or BA89 in
advertisers hype-speak, was held in Sheffield in
mid September. Every year, Imperial College
arranges for six paid-for trips to this somewhat
expensive event, one of which happened to fall my
way.
On this and the next three pages you will find
my somewhat potted account of the week-long
conference. Potted is probably too weak a word,
a lot happened and I succeeded in missing the
vast majority of it. What you find here is a
collection of the items which interested me,
which I could understand and which I got round
to writing up. The result is a someone emaciated
collection.
Sheffield has a topology all of its own. It is
apparently built at the junction of half a dozen hills
and seems to consist of a number of completely
separate townlets with- no apparent joins in
between. The town boasts a University and a
Polytechnic spread over about three miles and
several sites and, no doubt to stop an
interacademic war, the organisers spread the
events fairly evenly between the two.
Individual sections, such as Physics,
Chemistry, Medicine et al, each had there own
home on one of the campuses. This was fine if
you fancied spending a whole week immersed up
to your intellectual eyeballs in your own subject.
However, for those of us with wider interests
things were more difficult.
Travelling between two interesting talks at two
widely spaced sites was a challenge. There was
an alleged half hourly bus service shuttling
between Poly, University and various residences
which was adequate unless you found yourself on
the wrong side of town an hour before a lecture.
'Don't ask me, I'm from Barnsley' explained one
harassed driver.
The lectures were generally good and, unlike
here, the audiences, mostly of school teachers,
school children, random academics and keen
OAPs, was interested and attentive. Subjects
varied from the accessible through the obscure
to incomprehensible Psychology seminars and
much attention was paid to Science and the
Media.
These media meetings ran like a scientific
journalism who's who as Heather Couper agreed
with what Nigel Henbest had said about Tom
Wilkie's opinion of Colin Blakemore. All involved
agreed that scientists should be nicer to
journalists and more journalists should try to
understand science.
Needless to say, the press reports on the BA,
a self-proclaimed scientific media event, were
hidden on inside pages of the quality papers well
behind the report on the SLD congress.
SCIENCE 89
ESA: towards 2000
The Solar System has been explored,' says Professor
Roger Bonnet, Director of Science for the European
Space Agency ESA, 'Now it needs to be studied.'
A detailed study of the Solar System is the aim of
ESA's long-term 'Horizon 2000' programme which
Professor Bonnet outlined at a meeting of the Physics
section of the British Association. The programme
includes plans for missions to Saturn, to study the Sun
and even an ambitious project to land on the nucleus
of a comet.
The Solar Terrestrial Science Project (STSP) is one
of Horizon 2000's major 'cornerstone' projects. It will
investigate how conditions on the Sun influence the
environment of Earth and consists of two linked
will be carried on the American Cassini mission to
Saturn. While Cassini concentrates on the planet and
its famous system of rings, Huygens will attempt to
gently land on the moon Titan. This unique body is
believed to have a chemical composition and
atmosphere like that of the early Earth. Huygens will
be able to photograph its surface and examine its
struture possibly giving us a glimpse of the early life
of our own planet. Cassini and Huygens are scheduled
to set out in 1996 or 1997.
One of the most successful space missions of
recent years was the Giotto probe to Comet Halley.
The spacecraft, though badly battered, survived the
encounter and plans are now being made to send it
Jason Lander
schemes: SOHO, observing the Sun, and CLUSTER,
studying the Earth.
SOHO will use the recently-developed technique of
'helioseismology'. It consists of a single satellite
capable of detecting shock waves at the surface of
the Sun and in its atmosphere. The behaviour of these
disturbances can reveal much about conditions inside
and uncover hidden activity.
The CLUSTER scheme is not a single satellite but,
literally, a small cluster orbiting close together within
the Earth's magnetic field. The satellites are designed
to detect small changes in the strength and direction
of the field and by comparing the data from all the
individual craft it will be possible to find out how such
disturbances travel through space. The two schemes
are scheduled for a launch in 1995.
Studying the Sun is also the aim of the Ulysses
project. This is a joint US-European venture to
examined the Sun's North and South poles. Earth, like
all the major planets bar Pluto, orbits around the solar
equator. We have not, as yet, seen the Sun and the
Solar System from 'above' or 'below' the plane of the
planets. By using the gravitational field of the massive
planet Jupiter, the Ulysses project aims to throw a
satellite into an orbit passing directly over the Solar
poles.
The Ulysses satellite will measure the strength of
the 'solar-wind', a stream of high speed material
thrown out from the sun into space, and the density
of interstellar gas. It is due to be launched from the
Space Shuttle in October 1990 to reach its final orbit
by 1995.
In addition to the Solar missions, ESA plans to visit
the Planet Saturn. Huygens, a european space probe,
Chris Edwards
on to another target, the more obscure Comet
Grigg-Skjellerup.
All being well, Giotto should be reactivated early
next year and should reach its final destination by
1992.
A more ambitious cometary mission is Rosetta. This
is another joint US-European effort, this time to collect
and return to Earth samples from a comet's nucleus.
To do this a probe must be landed on and anchored
to the nucleus itself. Any material collected must be
placed in a sealed container for transport back to
Earth. Comets are believed to be remnants from the
early years of the Solar System and the mission may
provide much information about its creation. Rosetta
is one of Horizon 2000's final cornerstones and, as
yet, is not fully approved.
Professor Bonnet and his ESA colleagues believe
that no single organisation can afford to do pure space
science on its own. The future lies in joint projects:
there are plans for european contributions to future
superpower visits to Mars and, perhaps more
exotically, a joint European-American-Soviet mission
to the Sun known as Vulcan. The Vulcan probe will
be designed to 'graze' the surface of the Sun at a
distance of just four solar radii. There it will be able
to make the first direct measurements of the
composition of the solar atmosphere. If it goes ahead,
Vulcan could be launched by 2004.
All these large projects need massive funding from
all concerned and although ESA may have plenty of
ideas, multinational collaboration is always vulnerable
to the whim of politicians and the political 'realities'
of underfunding, Glasnost, Perestroika and US budget
deficits.
! 7

