With the discovery offurther contributory factors, the erosion of the
world's atmosphere is becoming more and more imminent. The latest
computer models predict that the surface temperature of the earth
could rise by three degrees by 2060. The world is warming,
scientists are working and politicians are panicing as they
discover
The greenhouse effect
Global warming, caused by the greenhouse effect, is
one of the few scientific issues which interests
politicians. It is also one of the most urgent and,
unsurprisingly, the BA discussed it at length.
We need the greenhouse effect to survive: without
it the planet would be over 30 degrees cooler. Most
solar radiation can pass through the atmosphere but
long-wave, infra-red radiation cannot. This is because
of the presence of the so-called 'greenhouse gases':
water, carbon dioxide, methane and chloro-fluoro-
carbons (CFCsl which act as a 'blanket' stopping the
long-wave radiation from the surface from escaping.
Our current problems are caused by a recent, rapid
and man-made increase in the concentration of these
gases. Large amounts of carbon dioxide have been
released through mass deforestation and the burning
of fossil fuels; methane, due partially to more intensive
farming, has doubled in concentration over the past
century and the quantity of highly potent CFCs has
increased dramatically over the last decade.
The mean temperature at the surface of the Earth
has already been artificially raised by half a degree.
The BA was told that the latest computer models
predict that, even after recent international anti-
pollution agreements, this increase will reach 1.5
degrees by 2030 and could be as high as 3 degrees
by 2060.
The models differ in detail, but all agree that the
average temperature rise at the poles will be greater
than at the equator. They also agree that there will
be greater evaporation from the oceans. What is less
certain is what this will do to rainfall. It is believed that
the higher latitudes will become wetter in winter and
drier in summer. Dry sub-tropical areas will become
still drier.
As the temperature increases, the polar ice caps will
start to melt and, more significantly, the warmer
oceans will expand. This will cause the sea-level to
rise. The best current estimates are of a sea-level
20cm higher than today's by 2030 and 35cm higher
by 2060.
All these figures assume that the models have
included all possible effects. Not all researchers agree
that they have. One of the missing factors, according
to Dr John Woods of the Natural Environment
Research Council, is the recently discovered 'plankton
multiplier' which could lead to still more rapid warming
in the future.
Plankton, microscopic plants, in the seas and
oceans absorb vast quantities of carbon dioxide as
they grow. Present models assume that half the
carbon dioxide released into the atmosphere will be
absorbed in this way. Dr Woods believes that the
plankton multiplier may mean that this is a dangerous
overestimate.
For most of the year, ocean turbulence washes the
plankton up and down through hundred's of feet.
Masses of the tiny plants spend most of their time in
out of the reach of sunlight, unable to grow. It is only
in spring, when the oceans are at their most calm, that
the plankton hover close enough to the surface to
Page 8
absorb sufficient carbon dioxide.
It is believed that as the oceans warm, they will
become more turbulent. The period of comparative
calm will become shorter and less gas will be
absorbed. A greater fraction of the carbon dioxide
released will remain in the atmosphere contributing
to global warming.
There is evidence that the plankton multiplier effect
is responsible for the 7 degree temperature which
ended the last ice age.
Dr Woods hopes that new computer models of the
world's ocean system and the work from the research
ship Discovery will lead to a better understanding of
this potentially disastrous phenomenon.
Global warming may cut the amount of energy
available from wind power, according to Dr Trevor
Davis of the University of East Anglia's School of
Environmental Sciences. According to recent
research, the warming planet has left Britain less
windy than half a century ago.
This is because the poles have warmed faster than
the equator. The difference in atmospheric pressure
across the planet is now smaller and, as this difference
is related to the amount of energy carried by the wind,
the wind speed has fallen.
The British Wind Energy Association has estimated
that wind energy could eventually provide up to 20%
of our energy needs. However the slowing winds will
affect the power output of the proposed wind
turbines. Dr Davis has calculated that in some places,
the turbines will be producing 30% less power at the
end of their lives than at the beginning. By using more
fossil fuels now, mankind could easily be depriving
itself at least partially of a future source of power.
Another speaker, Dr David Shannon, the chief
scientist at the Ministry of Agriculture, examined the
effect of a changed climate on farming. Britain, he told
the association, might become a food exporter,
growing food for nations more badly affected than
itself.
He predicted higher production with changes in the
crops being grown to take advantage of warmer,
wetter winters. However, if the planet continues to
warm, conditions could rapidly become much worse.
Cattle, according to Professor Phil Grime of the
Natural Environment Research Council, will no longer
need to be housed in the winter but would find it
harder to find food in a hotter, drier summer. He
predicted that irrigation schemes would become as
much a part of UK farming as they are now in more
arid regions. Weeds and pests would flourish under
the changed conditions.
Our knowledge of our climate is still incomplete.
There are few who would disagree that more research
is needed. However scientists and even politicians
now understand that our planet and its environment
have limits and we are rapidly approaching them.

