In April 1953, Francis Crick and James Watsonformally announced their
discovery ofthe famous double-helix structure for DNA. Since then, the
science of Genetics has advanced in leaps and bounds. It is now on the
edge of 'big science'.
The Handbook
of Man
Evolution may be the most successful of all scientific
theories but recent research casts doubt on one of the
fundamental principles upon which the modern theory
is based.
The work, by Dr. Jeffrey Pollard of the Albert
Einstein College of Medicine, suggests that it may be
possible to overcome 'Weismann's Barrier,'
August Weismann, working in the late 19th
century, suggested that what he called the
'germplasm', material carrying genetic information
can only be passed directly from one generation to the
next. In effect there is a biological barrier against
'foreign' material. Any changes between generations
must therefore be the result of either the shuffling of
existing material or random errors in its replication.
Weismann's theories eventually lead to the downfall
of the 'Lamarkian' theory of evolution. This theory,
named after a 19th century French biologist, had
many followers including Charles Darwin himself, and
stated that it may be possible by some unknown
means for parents to modify the genetic material
passed on to their offspring to give them some
biological advantage.
Since the days of Wiesmann and Lamark the
science of genetics has made a number of major leaps
forward, not least the discovery of the structure of
Breaking
evolution's
barriers
DNA. Most of this research seemed to show that
genetic material is effectively stable, protected by
Weismann's barrier, and accurately copied between
generations. This gave rise to the modern 'Neo-
Darwinist' theory of evolution in which only the
principle of 'survival of the fittest' applies.
However, recent work, including that of Dr. Pollard,
suggests that genetics may be more flexible than
previously thought. Molecules of DNA have been seen
to grow and shrink and move around within the
chromosomes which hold them. They may even pick
up material from external sources such as viruses.
To Dr. Pollard this is a strategy for survival. He
believes that it is possible for life-forms to speed up
evolution by copying their DNA inaccurately,
something which has already been observed in certain
bacteria. It may also be possible for higher animals to
alter the genes of sperm and egg cells in response to
changes in the environment.
Dr. Pollard believes that controversial experiments
using 'harmless' viruses to transfer new genetic
material into cells could back up his work. He does
not, however, advocate a return to pure Lamarkism.
In his version of evolution survival of the fittest is still
the most powerful influence-all he has done is put
a few holes in Weismann's barrier.
The human genome is what carries the information
which makes us what we're. It is in effect the
'Handbook of Man' and, according to Sir Walter
Bodmer the director of research at the Imperial Cancer
Research Fund, within 15 years it may have been
decoded.
DNA, the basic stuff of life, contains within it's
famous double helix a long sequence consisting of just
four basic constituents or bases. It takes 3,000 million
bases to define a human being, divided into 46
chromosomes. Inherited diseases are faults in this
sequence: sickle cell anaemia, the blocking of arteries
by misshapen blood cells, is known to be caused by
one error in a 146-base sequence. Other conditions
such as Muscular Distrophy and Arthritis have been
traced to defective genes. Cancer is known to be a
'genetic flaw'.
Yet, despite these successes, geneticists have
decoded only a tiny part of the total sequence. Sir
Walter and his colleagues in the Human Genome
Organisation (HUGO) believe that the way forward
will be to unscramble the rest.
This gigantic international project could cost as
much as £2 billion spread over all the countries
involved. Not much, said Sir Walter, compared with
'the odd trident missile or the take-over of just one
American hotel chain'
The problem has been likened to taking fragments
of text from a dictionary and, by finding out where
they overlap, piecing the complete dictionary back
together. Some experts believe that this will need
computers 10,000 times faster than those in use
today.
Page 9

