Recommended reading
forfirst-yearstudents
Your first year at college.
What you don't need are money problems
to hold you back. What you do need is practical
help to make your grant go further.
That's where we come in.
At Lloyds Bank we've helped ease the
financial worries of generations of students and
we've got a good idea of what really comes in useful.
So we've put together a package that'll save
you money and, hopefully give you some pleasure
into the bargain.
Cheque book & Cheque Card
Open a current account with us as a first-year,
full-time student and you get a cheque book. As
soon as you pay in your first LEA or SED grant
cheque you get a Cheque Card as well. It means
your cheques are guaranteed for all payments up
to £50.
Cashpoint
You'll also get something special. A Lloyds
Bank Cashpoint card. This lets you withdraw up
to £100 a day if your account can stand it, from
over 1400 Cashpoint machines - more than any
other bank can offer.
There's likely to be
one near you. In some
cases on your college
campus. Most Cashpoints
are open outside normal
banking hours.
Statements
Regular statements will help you to keep
track of the money that is going into and out of
your account.
Free banking
Free banking is another Lloyds Bank benefit.
For as long as you're in full-time further education
and you stay in credit, we'll run your cunent
account free of normal bank charges. Even if you
arrange to overdraw by up to £100 we'll still run
your account free of bank charges. Though, of
course, you'll have to pay interest on any money
you borrow*
Help with travel
Lloyds Bank will also help to cut the cost of
your rail travel. We'll give you a voucher for £5 off
a British Rail Young Persons Railcard. And that
can mean, as many of our student customers tell
us, a saving of more than £50 on a year's rail travel.
Or you can opt for a £5 Book Token**
The Economist
We've arranged for all our student customers
to take advantage of an unbeatable 52% saving on
the subscription for 12 issues of The Economist-
which means you pay just £5.
We think our package of banking services and
special offers is the best available to new students.
Call at your local Lloyds Bank branch - the
staff will be happy to talk things through.
*You must be over 18 to borrow and we'll provide details of our credit terms, if required.
r
*T/ie Railcard or Book Token offers are available to first-year, full-time students only. New students opening current
accounts at our branches in Scotland are not eligible to receive the Railcard or Book Token offers and will receive a £5 opening
balance instead. These offers, including The Economist, close on 28th October, 1983.
More help for students
at the sign of the Black Horse
Lloyds
Bank

