Clubs
ICSO
Dramsoc provides a range of activities which
cover most aspects of drama. Each term, the
society performs one major show involving
work from people from all aspects of the
society: actors, lighting and sound people,
stage managers, set designers and builders,
costume designer and even a bar manager!
This term's major production is called The
Unknown Soldier and His Wife, a comedy by
Peter Ustinov. If you are interested in acting,
lighting or general odd jobbing in this show
then please attend the first of the weekly
Wednesday afternoon workshops on 5 Octo-
ber that will be taking place throughout the
year. There will also be a special workshop
for those interested in acting in this show on
Sunday 9 October. Both are at 2:30pm in the
Union Upper Lounge.
Dramsoc not only provides lights for its
own shows but also for Ents gigs and for large
parties such as the Silwood Ball. We also
provide sound, design and build sets for our
own productions. The society makes regular
theatre trips, the first one being on 12 October
to Daisy Pulls It Off at the Globe Theatre.
Tickets, at reduced rates, are between £4-5
from any committee member.
If you are interested in any aspects of
Dramsoc I hope to see you either at Freshers'
Fair, at the first workshop or at an informal
party which will be on Wednesday 5 October
at 8:00pm in the Concert Hall for those
interested in Dramsoc. All freshers are more
than welcome and if you cannot make any of
these evenfs then the storeroom (up the stairs,
past the Union Office) is occupied every lunch
time.
THE
Wl ONE!
•v.fweujiNesswiEs-
S"c £ aSft-TTh
PftEfgHcfls F f l |,t
I hnjoR CuSSi SttttieH+hi'nkisiAv
Si V
Q
S i T TO THE T I M c S -
(Sj | BUSINESS CflHE" \KC MC,HTCLU(
Page20
Patricia Hughes' Book of Time Fillers No 17
As we have a few minutes to go before our
next gramophone record here on Radio 3, let
me tell you a little about Imperial College
Symphony Orchestra and its forthcoming
concert season. As featured in this year's
Handbook, this full size symphony orchestra
is currently under the direction of Richard
Dickins, a busy profes-sional freelance con-
ductor, and has recently been acclaimed for
its characteristic interpre-tation of Mozart,
the virtuosity of its players, and its overall
professional attitude.
Sometime in December we shall be broad-
casting a performance of Shostakovitch's
Sym-phony No 5 and the overture to Weber's
Der Freischiitz; in 1984 there will also be a
chance to hear Tchaikovsky's 5th Symphony,
Mo-zart's Clarinet Concerto, and Borodin's
Polo-vtsian Dances. Other events in the Or-
chestra's calendar include a 'Well Known
Tunes' festival, held in Silwood Park during a
weekend, various musical evenings and pos-
sibly a joint venture with the College amateur
choral society.
The Orchestra is keen to welcome new
players, and you can find out more either at
its stall at the Freshers' Fair or by going to the
first rehearsal this Wednesday at 7:00pm in
the Great Hall—preferably bringing a string
player, (pause)
And now with the time at 8:30 we have
some muficke from the Court of Terence the
Tone-Deaf, played on this record by the
Fflangehorn Inharmonia Consort with The
Boat Club
The Boat Club is one of the most successful
sports clubs at Imperial College. The boat-
house at Putney is equipped with its own
rowing tank for teaching novices to row, and
also contains the best fleet of boats of any of
the U L colleges, looked after by boatman,
coach and former international oarsman, Bill
Mason.
Last season was highly successful with all
levels of the club winning events at open
regattas, and 44 wins being recorded in all
competitions, including nine of the twelve at
the U L regatta.
Much of the success was achieved by the
senior squad whose season culminated in the
selection of the first eight to represent Eng-
land at the Home Countries International.
At Henley Royal Regatta, the eight was
beaten in the semi-final of the Ladies Plate by
Harvard the eventual winners. The remainder
of the senior squad, the coxless four, were
beaten in the final of the Visitors' Challenge
Cup by U L B C .
At the National Championships, the eight
gained a bronze medal behind two eights
from the British National Squad. The coxless
four also gained a bronze.
If you wish to row—at whatever level—
come and meet us at the Freshers' Fair on the
Queen's Lawn—just look for the boats.
S n K H Monday, October 3 1983 WamM
This, the newest society at Imperial, has been
described as the only College club that sets
out to perform music badly (on purpose, that
is) (ready made excuse-ed). In fact we exist to
encourage music at all levels; we can book
rooms for rehearsals and (if you like) recitals,
find obscure sheet music and, most important
of all, put you in touch with like-minded
people who play whichever other instruments
you need in your ensemble.
Obviously, to do this we need a list of all the
musical people in the College, so whatever
your aspirations/inspirations/expirations,
come to see us at Freshers' Fair and tell us''
what you play/scrape/hit/blow/sing/listen
to and how well or badly you do it. Non-
freshers or anyone who misses us on Tuesday
can telephone us most evenings at 289 6504
(ask for Richard Williams). Our plans for the
next year will depend entirely on how many
people contact us, so do let us know of your
existence as soon as possible.
Furthermore, we have some kind of social
event lined up for the second week of term; at
the time of writing we haven't the faintest idea
of what-this will be, but someone's suggested
a 'Music to Forget' party with live (dis-
posable) entertainment, so if you have any,
tasteless or just forgettable music that you'd
like to inflict on your fellow-musicians, let us
know. Further details at Freshers' Fair and in
Friday's F E L I X .
Consoc
As its name implies this is the society of
conniving con-artists. We try our best to be
devious and underhand in everything we do.
Are you a whingeing snivelling little bastard?
If so join Soc Soc we don't want you. We want
fine upstanding conservative types with a
penchant for conundrums.
But suffice it to say if you want to put your
devious little nose in the running of the
country do it right. Vote conservative and
join Consoc.
Consoc is a really interesting society. We
all meet and talk about what a great job
Maggie is doing and then we contemplate
ways of how to get Tony Benn deported to
Russia. Then once a year we have our annual
Christmas card sending to our MPs who go
out of their way to save us lots of money by
cutting taxes.
If you've got lots of cash, join Consoc and
we'll take it off vou.
\ Felix

