STOIC, Student Television Of Imperial Col-
lege, is the second regular media in College
(know their place-Ed). It is the only student
television station in London, one of thirteen
in Britain.
Usually we broadcast two programmes a
week: on Tuesday an interview with a well-
known personality (including Michael Palin,
Tim Brooke-Taylor and Gordon Jackson last
year); an extended report or a feature on a
recently released film. On Thursday is our
weekly news and magazine programme News-
Break, which includes a look at some of the
latest films, with clips from the distributors,
in Film Review. Look out for our posters for
programme details.
If you want to know more and meet some
of the people involved, visit our stand at
Freshers' Fair (in the Sherfield Refectory).
Or, why not call in at the TV Studio on the
Walkway next to the Electrical Engineering
Department entrance, around 5:00pm on
Wednesday afternoon when we are making
Thursday's edition of News-Break. See where
you can fit in—a great variety of talent is
needed to make a programme, and not all of
this is immediately obvious from the pro-
grammes. —
in yz&i c*ogwmme includes V .
b<Kh mdgnificdt
the dieam of gercntius
rtraVBllky symphony of psalms
everyone welcome
and wcxks b y
handel h a y *
vaughan mriKamr
ft puccM
no auditions
Rehearsals for Imperial College Choir are held
every Thursday during term time starting on
October 6 in the Department of Mechanical
Engineering, Exhibition Road SW7-. Meet in
Room 342 at 5:45pm or a few minutes earlier in
•he foyer.
For more information phone Martin Taylor
on 01-223 1105 f-:- ' "•• :
« / o u H?%
Dancing
Imperial College Dancing Club is a lively,
popular club for ballroom and Latin Ameri-
can dancing. The membership comes not just
from IC but from other colleges and local
institutes. The most popular dances are the
Waltz. Quickstep. Cha-cha. Rliumba and
Jive.
The central activities of the club are the
classes on Monday. Tuesday and Wednesday,
which cater for standards ranging from com-
plete beginners to bronze and silver medals
and above. In previous years the club has
attracted a large number of beginners and
there will be at least one class per week for
them. In all the classes the atmosphere is
relaxed and dress informal and there is no
need to bring a partner since you swap
partners during the evening. One of our
professional teachers takes the class for about
1 '/hours and then you can practice for about
another hour.
In addition to the classes the club holds an
annual ball in November and has a team
which competes at Inter Varsity balls. Many
members go along to support the team and
join in the social dancing.
The club will be at the Freshers' Fair in the
Botany/Zoology Common Room, so come
and see us there or come to one of the classes
in the Sherfield JCR at 7:30pm starting the
second week of term.
Paul Kirkman
Physics PG
Bikes
During this period property totalling
£16,431 was reported to Police as stolen
from within the College. The bulk of stolen
items were 102 bicycles with a total value
of £12,088. Within this amount were five
bikes with a value of over £150. Other
items of property stolen amounted to
£4,343, which consisted mostly of cash in
wallets and purses. The wallets etc were
usually left unattended in unlocked drawers
or in coats and handbags left by seats or in
libraries whilst the owners went elsewhere.
It is hoped that all students and staff who
own pedal cycles will take advantage of
'postcoding' their bikes during the first
week of term. The Crime Prevention
Officer, PC MacDonald and myself will be
'postcoding' on the first two days of term
and on the next three days we will be
assisted by five cadets. The 'coding' which
consists of stamping the owners home
postcode onto the frame will take place in
the Ante-Room Sherfield Build-ing on the
following dates and times:
Monday 3 October
Tuesday 4 October
Wednesday 5 October
Thursday 6 October
Fridav 7 October
ll:00am-6:00pm
l:00pm-6:00pm
8:00am-fj:00pm
8:00am-6:00pm
8:00am-4:00pm
Paul Goodison
p e r i a L
COLLEGE
Now com'on troops, retrieve that scrap of
paper, with all the squares on it. from 'the
round file' (dustbin) and concentrate on it for
a second of your valuable time...Hi there, it's
IC's biggest Pseud here—well that's what the
sheet says!
Right, things that should be concentrated
on and noted well:
1. The freshers meeting will not be as dire
as it sounds. In fact, it will probably be one of
the best during this week of introductory
events...as we will no doubt give you 'live'
experience on the radio...so you can be real
media stars!
2. The Bar Programme is the place to be on
Thursday night. I can categorically state that
although a caravan will not appear in the
Southside Bar, there are rumours of a Cheif-
tain tank....
3. Look out for the special features at
8:()0pm each evening. The Fast Food & Pub
Guide are vital for your existence in South
Ken and the Monopoly may help you discard
your A to Z!
It should also be noted that if there are any
wine buffs reading this article that Cha-
teauneuf du Pape 176 will not be served at our
freshers meeting...as some of us have drunk
South Ken dry in this vintage already. See you
all at Freshers' Fair.
Caving
Caving is often regarded as a dangerous sport
carried out by a set of irresponsible maso-
chists who, for some unknown reason enjoy
crawling down small muddy holes. Be that as
it may, it doesn't really apply to IC Caving
Club. We tackle all manner of caves from the
muddy crawls of Mendip, to the spacious
stream passages of S Wales and the deep
potholes of Yorkshire. We run trips every
other weekend all over the country, leaving
Friday evening and (those still alive-Ed) re-
turning Sunday night. Accommodation is in
local caving huts and we provide all the
equipment and training.
The level of competence of the club is high
and we tackle some of the most demanding
caves in the country as well as mounting
summer trips and expeditions abroad. How-
ever we cater for all levels of experience;
everyone is welcome, it doesn't matter if
vou've. never set foot in a cave before, so why
not come along and give it a go? We meet
every Wednesday at 1:00pm in the Lower
Union Lounge and we'll be at the Freshers'
Fair.
Felix m O B M M H M B H H n H H I Monday,October 3 1983 • H H H B H H H H Page21

