0F
A torrid tale of terrible tor-
ment. Any resemblance to
persons living or dead is purely
coincidental.
"Ah me, what am I to do now?" thought
Smarty Saylor aloud to himself as he lay
awake in a dingy room in Evelyn Gardens. He
was in a right fix. Unemployed, broke, re-
search in ruins, and sharing his room with
cockroaches, silver fish and noisy plumbing;
could he sink any lower?
Smarty felt the beginnings of a hangover
throbbing in his skull. His eyes rolled like
gritty marbles and the room began to gyrate
around him. Faces familiar and strange swam
before his eyes. "That third pint of ginger
beer I had last night was one too many," he
groaned as he sank into a faint.
Smarty was rudely awakened by the sound
of 1,000 people unenthusiastically clapping a
small procession led by the Baron being
wheeled on by his sidekick John Secretary.
He suddenly realised where he was. Gone
were the cockroaches and silverfish of Eve-
lyn Gardens! In their place were the cock-
roaches and silverfish of the Grand Hall in the
Surefield Building. The new citizens of
Cheapskate had gathered together for the
first time.
For it was Stalers' Day in Cheapskate: a
tradition dating back to the depths of anti-
quity.
No less a person than the Baron himself
would give the Address.
"Psst," he pssted at John Secretary,
Johnny boy."
By
Juvenal
Mr Secretary was one step ahead of the
Baron, instead of the compulsory three steps
behind.
"Number two my Lord," he replied.
The Baron prepared himself to deliver his
second speech.
"Good morning."
At these words, three of his audience fell
into a deep slumber.
"My name is Baron Weed of Cheapskate;
I'm one of those people who seek to increase
their status in life by incorporating their ad-
dress into their name. Around here, what I
say goes."
"In one ear and out the other," thought Mr
Secretary.
"I make this speech every year. It is pro-
bably the most monotonous, boring, insig-
nifigant, irrelevant speech you will ever hear
but I have given it every year since 1971 and
no one has written a new one for me yet." He
scowled at Mr Secretary, who was fast a-
sleep. "Yes, I know it's boring, I fell asleep
during it in 1978 myself.
"Now you won't believe how important I
think I am; whoops, I mean I think you would
not believe how important I am, so I won't
even start to tell you.
"Some of you may think that with so much
to do during these few days: registration,
finding your way round, meeting new friends,
that coming along here to listen to me rambl-
ing on at you till I get fed up with it all and go
back to bed, is a complete, utter and total
waste of time. Well, lean tell you it isn't. In the
first place, I enjoy it. Secondly, by the time
I've ground you down, you are much more
easy and pliable for my lesser initiates to
deal with. Fourthly, I do so enjoy dressing up
in this tricorn and embroidered gown. To be
quite frank with you, it's not often I get the
chance to dress like this outside the lodge."
Suddenly, Smarty jolted upright. He rea-
lised that if only he could become a citizen of
Cheapskate all his problems would be solv-
ed. Then he could get a job, have some
money, find a place to live, and carry on with
his research.
"But how can I become a citizen?" Smarty
whined ninnyishly.
Who is Dr Hargreaves and is he the most
pompous, stuck-up, overpaid member of
College?
Do Profs Gutenhuis and Murgatroyd really
exist?
Why is Professor Eric Brown of Civ Eng
going to have his name splatterd all over the
next issue of FELIX in a most uncompli-
mentary manner?
Read the answer to these questions and
many more in the next thrilling episode of
The Baron of Cheapskate.
Page221
BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS
Number 1 John Hilary Smith BA CBE,
College Secretary.
John Smith came to Imperial College in
1978 following a career in the diplomatic
service. His last posting was as Governor to
the Gilbert and Ellice Islands where his role
was to bring the islands towards indepen-
dence. Mementos of this period adorn Mr
Smith's office on Level 5 in the Sherfield
Building and suggest that this was probably
the most enjoyable part of his career.
He is certainly an extremely effective and
efficient administrator and as such has been
quite frustrated during his period at Imperial
College. He was rather surprised by the
ability of entrenched sections of the College
to prevaricate. He has often achieved re-
forms at IC with only the support of the
Union. Indeed, he is quite prepared to appear
before a UGM to explain College policy. To
confirmed Smith watchers like myself these
occasions are quite illuminating.
Mr Smith uses slow measured phrases,
pausing slightly, with his head inclined gazing
into the far corners of the auditorium. Even
during daily meetings he adopts the same
technique, immediately one is reminded of
the Great White administrator on the banks
of the Niger among the unwashed masses. It
has been observed that the only changes that
occur when 'Smith of Sherfield' becomes
annoyed is that the inclination of the head
becomes greater and the pauses longer with
a quiet sarcasm becoming apparent.
He has a reputation for dumping duffers
who invariably are found cluttering sections
of the Sherfield Building. After gazing at the
smile of the tiger they find themselves in what
amounts to administrative Siberia dealing
with trivia.
My favourite Smithian anecdote concerns
his period as Deputy President of the stu-
dents Union at University College London.
Part of his responsibility was for Rag. This
was rather difficult in the early post war
period but John Smith hit on the idea of
putting a replica Eros in Piccadilly Circus (the
original being held in safe keeping). Unfortu-
nately the Police had other ideas and pre-
vented the papier mache figure being placed
on the plinth. A £5 donation to Rag will reveal
what happened in the ensuing malee. A case
of the poacher turned gamekeeper!
The Mole
\Manday,October3 19831 I Felix
M

