Jjtorial
Freshers
Welcome to all freshers, this is the start of three or four years at
Imperial, I hope you enjoy it. The first week is a very exciting
yet apprehensive time for new arrivals. The best thing to do is
to go to all the parties, join lots of clubs and make sure you
have a good time in your first week.
Censorship
I must sympathise with the Handbook Editor Adrian James. He has
been very badly treated by the Union Exec. The reason President
Gaynor Lewis recalled Adrian from the printer was that she did not
realise that she was supposed to check the artwork before it went to
press. It seems common sense is beyond these high Hying sabbaticals.
Once Gaynor got her hands on the artwork she proceeded to rip
apart the Handbook that Adrian had painstakingly completed. Her
reason for censoring the Handbook was that she felt that it might
cause offence to College block. The Handbook is supposed to be 'an
honest and unbiased view of College' and that is exactly what
Adrian's Handbook was. Certain sections of College are inefficient
and badly run and deserve all the offence students can throw at them.
I think Gaynor has got her priorities wrong somewhere if she is
more concerned about the fragile egos of administrators in College
block than student interests. She is afterall the Union's representative
in administration and not the administration's representative in the
Union.
FELIX
Staff
You are now reading FELIX, undoubtedly the best student news-
paper in the country. Apart from this issue it comes out every Friday.
At this moment Friday's issue is being put together by a very talented
but overworked staff. If you would like to write, photograph, draw,
make tea. etc for the newspaper then pop into the FELIX Office
during Freshets' Fair or come to the staff meeting on Friday at
12:30pm.
Copy Deadline
Copy deadline for sport, clubs and what's on articles is 1:00pm
Monday.
Credits
I am indebted to the following people this week: Guy Riddihough,
Matt Fawcetl, Steve Brann. Diane Love. David Roue, Carl Burgess,
Stephen Goulder, Mark Smith, Ulysses, Michael McKenna, Peter
Rodger.';, Danttla Orlowska, Maz Fellows, Keith Heartfield, and Nick
Thexton for the masthead.
Pallab Ghosh
Welcome to the Puzzles Column, edited by Ulysses
this year. Each issue will contain a puzzle, some
mathematical, some wordy, some hard, some easy.
The incentive to answer these, apart from pure en-
joyment (!) is £5 donated by Mend-a-Bike of Fulham
Road who also give 10% discount on repairs and 5%
discount on purchases on production of your IC
Unioncard. All you have to do issolvethe puzzle and
put your solution, name, department and year on a
piece of paper and bring it to the FELIX Office before
the closing date. If you wish to donate a puzzle, I'll be
more than happy to use it, if you enclose your real
name or a pseudonym.
This year we kick off with a crossword for which I
am indebted to Nick Williams, the Manager of the
off-set litho unit in the Sherfield Building. The
crossword is based loosely on the Collegeand some
of the people in it.
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the
FELIX Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday week. £5
from Mend-a-Bike for randomly selected winning
entry.
/ z •J 1 :
- 1 7 '
8
<
7
it
it-
17
/<?
Jo
b-7 1
i
1 Ali knocks about Mr Glee of the police and makes
a name! (8, 7) 9 MA, DIC, Ace (8) 10 Crystallised
sugar (5) 12 King Dog? 13 Employment found in
buses (3) 14 One time only (4) 15 Diverse (6)
'17 Administrative body (7) 18 Operator messes up
reprint of FELIX! (7) 20 Added to boards for infor-
mation (6) 22 Pin bend missing from u shape turn of
road leaves lack of cover for some! (4) 23 300 (3)
24 How many faces has the College Secretary got?
(3) 25 Jones the master builder (5) 26 One of note
(8) 28 Horse face (with apologies) (6, 9)
D O W N
2 Degree (1, 2) 3 Last (6) 4 Blend together (5)
5 Instructive discourse (7) 6 Carthorse does a turn
(9) 7 City University? (6) 8 ICU Grand Supremo (6,
5) 11 An unidentified flying object crashes into fine
icon and ends up in Beit (5, 6) 16 Book of names etc
(9)19 One who makes an accusation (7) 21 Instead
of (2, 4) 22 Any place encouraging growth (3, 3)
24 Paper clocks? (5) 27 Put on lecturer, perhaps
Tet'oV^gftfl^i^Vn'at E d i /
° , r
/ 0
^a
^?"F^I, a
'/
D^/
|TtT'^C 0
['T Uni
°" I'Vblications B o a r d
' * P^ted by the Union Print Unit, Prince ConsortRd, SW7
•e, m-589 5111 extn 1048 o r mternal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh, Busmess Mana3er:PeterRodaers;AdvertisingManaaer:HughSouthey CopWightFELlX1983

