E X E C NEW
FRESHERS U G M
G R E A T H A L L
l p m O C T 6
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
M
E
W
S RESIDENTS
At the end of the summer term a number of complaints were received from the
residents of the mews at the rear of the Southside Halls, concerning the
behaviour of resident students. Noise and objects being thrown out of
windows were the main problems. As a result of this, notices are now being
placed on the windows warning students that disciplinary action w i l l be taken
if such behaviour occurs. A document on this matter is now being included in
the conditions of acceptance of residence in Southside and Linstead Halls.
INCOST
The "84 INCOST is being held in Finland and therefore we w i l l not be hosting
the conference next year.
U.A.U.
It is almost certain that we w i l l affiliate to the Universities Athletic Union
within the next nine months. Two options are available: (i) enrolling for
full membership for the 84-85 session, or (ii) enrolling for an interim year
involving a percentage of athletic clubs for the current session. At present
discussions are s t i l l in progress.
REFECTORIES
During the summer vacation the JCR Buttery has been expanded, refurnished
and redecorated. As term continues the food service is to expand, with
emphasis being placed on the sandwich service i t currently provides.
Overall, the increase in refectory prices this session has been set at
approximately 4%. However, this is being achieved in two stages; everyday
refectory prices are to increase by 2.5%, the increase in external occasions/
dinners being 5.8%, to average about 4%.
RESIDENCE
Over the summer a number of new flats were acquired in Hamlet Gardens, and
recently a new Head Tenancy in Earls Court Square. Thanks to the effort put
in by Michael Arthur and the Students Services Office this is the f i r s t year
we have been able to guarantee places in residence for a l l freshers.
Due to bad weather a few problems have recently occurred at the Fremantle
Hotel, these being leaking roofs and dampness. After numerous defect reports
to the Landlord work was in progress by the 20th September. However, this
delay may result in a number of rooms being uninhabitable at the beginning
of term. A l l students who were to resident in these particular rooms have
been found alternative accommoda*-.
"he rent increase this session K*
grant increase.
S.A.C.
T
he Summer Accommodation Centre has TJH efficien
accommodation being fully occupied approximately
°ygj*SEAS STUDENTS
Judgements made at the House of Lords durin-: the
a
significant effect on a number of I.e. student
classified as home students may now find
tudent
sly
"its. Many s
a Ives classified as overseas
students. Fortunately, in most cases where students have been awarded research
grants, the departments involved are covering the extra fees involved. A few
students may not be able to pursue their research due to financial problems.
Another outcome of the judgement is that some students may be eligible for a
r e
fund on fees paid due to incorrect classification? Over 50 students have
W r
itten to College stating their case." College is presently waiting until a
judgement is made on a test case before makinq any policy but the test case
m a
y not come before the Courts for some months.
*82/83 session only.
DEPUTY PRESIDENT'S REPORT
UNION BUILDING
Despite the redecoration of several areas of the Union Building, the general
aspect of the building is s t i l l fairly tatty. After Freshers' Week, I shall
be discussing with House Committee the next stage of the programme to improve
the building generally. One major area of change is the Old Refectory on the
ground floor which has been redecorated and refurbished as a weekly night
club starting this Saturday.
SECURITY
W
e have had problems over the summer with the security of the building including
a break into the games machines and vandalism. The Security Officer and I
are considering improvements to the Security system.
SPORTS SHOP'
W
e have moved a l l the regalia and sports goods out of the Southside shop and
have set up a new shop on the Walkway in what used to be the London Student
Travel Office. The bookshop manager w i l l be responsible for the running of
the shop which will sell an increased range of sports goods (all suggestions
welcome) plus ties, scarves, T-shirts etc.
with the departure of LST, I have discussed with a variety of travel agents
the possibility of opening a new travel centre on a different site in College.
Meanwhile LST are s t i l l trading from Victoria, and STA who run a similar
student travel service, have an office in Old Brompton Road.
FRESHERS' WEEK
W
e have for the f i r s t time sold an a l l inclusive Freshers' Week ticket for
£7, which entitles you to go to a l l the large events in Freshers' Week
including the Ents Ball on Friday which should be one of the biggest and
best carnivals held in the Union Building for some time. I hope to report
verbally about the progress of Freshers' Week, and especially Freshers' Fair.
Finance
With the Finance section in College, 1 have discussed several changes to the
accounting system which should enable us to have a much cleaner picture of
Union Finance. A new guide for junior treasurers is being produced though
unfortunately i t won't be completed this term, however I have limited number
of last years version for treasurers who are not sure about what their job
enta i1s.
CRASH PAD
Crash Pad is operating until at least the end of the week. The venue is the
Green Committee Room on the third floor of the Union Building and it is free.
Bring along a sleeping bag.
I have wasted much time chasing up Estates to get something done about the
appalling state of the Bars and Finance to provide reliable Bar accounts.
I expect to see some results in both these areas fairly soon.

