HON SECS REPORT MOTIONS
INSURANCE
The Halls of Residence insurance has been re-negotiated to provide £ l , 5 O 0
of new-for-old cover @ £5 per head. This w i l l be charged on your f i r s t
terms' h a l l b i l l s . The scheme is now underwritten by Provincial Insurance
company, through Nat-West Insurance Services. A summary of this policy
should arrive with your hall b i l l s . However anyone with any queries
should come along and see me in the Union Office.
Concerning Insurance for Union equipment, w i l l a l l clubs and societies
captains please comply to my memo and send me an updated inventory by
31 October 1983.
PARKING PERMITS
Application forms are s t i l l available from the Union Office and should be
returned by 5.30p.m. Friday 7 October. The parking committee awards these
on a s t r i c t merit basis and results w i l l appear in Felix on 14 October.
GESTETNER
Anyone wanting to use the Union Office Gestetner should come along to
my office at 5.30p.m. on Monday lO October where I w i l l be giving a free
demonstration on "How to use a Gestetner in one short lesson". Only those
who come along w i l l be allowed to use the Gestetner throughout the year
without my supervision.
RAG
Having lost this year's Rag Chairman and being unable to elect another
until the second UGM (eight days before Rag Week), i t appeared for a while
that Rag would be almost non-existant this year. However due to the great
amount of time and work put in by Dave W Parry (RCS VP), Rag i s once again
on i t s feet and flourishing.
Rag Week this year w i l l begin on 16 November and finish on 25 November.
I have already drawn up a time-table, for Rag Week and once this is O.K.'d
by the CCU's i t w i l l be published in F e l i x .
The f i r s t big Rag stunt of the year w i l l take place on Saturday 8 October.
This w i l l be the selling of o l d Rag Mags (of which there are about 15,COO)
at University Hallsof Residence within London. Everyone should come along.
We are meeting in Beit Quad at 10.30a.m, on Saturday morning.
Tiddly-winks - Yes i t s back in Oxford Street and this time i t s a l l legal.
Mencap are kindly letting us use their licence and providing us with
collecting cans. Tiddly-winking w i l l take place on the Second Saturday
of term (15 October) - further details will be published in F e l i x .
MOTION ON PORNOGRAPHY. Proposed by: Michael Newman (Life Sci.2)
Seconded by: Liberal Club.
I.C.U. Notes:
1. That B.S.M. Union organises and holds annually an event called 'Hon. Porn.
Night' this has involved the showing of hard-core pornography and strippers
performing lesbian acts on stage. This is completely paid for by R.S.M.U.
funds and by an admission charge.
2. The pornographic business is a large multi-million pound industry relying
for its profits on the corruption and sexual degradation of young children,
teenagers, adults and animals.
3. Pornography is aimed primarily at a male audience and involves the portrayal
of women and sexual organs to be used and abused. It portrays, perpetuates
and derives from an attitude that women are inferior, are bodies to be
leered at, to be laughed at, to be masturbated to and to be used and raped.
1. It is the right of individuals over the age of 18 to entertain themselves in
whatever manner they choose so long as it does not hurt anyone else and is
done in private.
I.C.U. Believes: •
1. That this Union in allowing such an event to take place supports its
continuation.
2. The event is an expression by Mines and this Union of an active support not
for freedom but for the pornographic industry. The Mines Union has become
a marketing outlet for hard-core porn.
3. This motion does not endanger the individuals freedom to choose his/her
entertainments. It does not seek to prevent people going to such events.
J». The majority of members of this Union do not want I.C.U. acting in support
of pornography.
I.C.U. Instructs:
1. That the President of this Union should make i t known to a l l I . C . students
and staff and to the University of London Union that we do not actively
support the pornographic industry and have NEVER consciously intended to do
so.
2. That 'Hon. Porn. Night' and other similar events should not be held on Union
premises. This decision to be made by and enforced by the I.C.U. Exec.
3- That Union funds, equipment, transport and t i t l e s should not be used in
organising and staging pornographic events inside or outside college. This
includes Constituent Unions and a l l Clubs and Societies. Any offenders shari
have a l l support, monetary and otherwise, from this Union promptly withdrawn
until they can satisfy the Executive that they w i l l not contravene Union
Policy on this again. Second offenders w i l l not receive support again.
RETURNING OFFICER'S REPORT
The following Union posts are vacant:
Rag Chai
2 First Year representatives to Council
Alternative Prospectus Editor
Papers for these are posted at the moment on the Notice board at the main
entrance to the Union Building. Nominations close on 14th October, 1983
at 5.00 p.m. Anyone wishing to stand for one of these posts come and see
me and I w i l l explain what work i s involved.
ELECTIONS. These are mainly carried over from last term.
Haldane Library Record Buyer: Because of exam failure by the opposing candidate,
Haldane Library Book Buyer:
Representative to Union
House Committee:
Posts Opposed
Delegates to GUC (4):
Council representatives (2):
Dave Millar is therefore returned unopoosed.
I would like nominations from the floor for this post
I would like nominations
Candidate
M. Attwell
I. House
M. Newman
P. Simion
M. Williams
Jon Barnett
Steve Bishop
Gareth Fish
Dave W. Parry
the floor for this post
Proposer
M. Mallick
J . Sattaur
N. Maxwell
G. Singleton
I. Heptinstall
Carl Burgess
Ian Bull
Dave Kingston
Chas Fuller
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
FRESHERS UNION GENERAL MEETING
TO BE HELD ON THURSDAY, 6th OCTOBER, 19 83,
AT THE GREAT HALL, SHERFIELD, X.00 p . m .
A G E N D A
MOTION ON NICARAGUA.
I.C.U. Notes:
Proposed by: Martin Attwell
Seconded by: John Sattaur.
Since the Sandinista overthrow of Samoza in 1979 l i f e in Nicaragua has improved
greatly.
a) Illiteracy has been reduced from 50% to 12%.
b) There has been 98% decline in new cases of Malaria.
c) Infant mortality has been reduced from the highest in Latin America to an
acceptable level.
d) There w i l l be a free election in 1985 to form a new government.
I.C.U. Believes:
1. The Sandinista government has done more for the Nicaraguan people in four
years than the Somoza regime was ever likely to do.
2. That the US government policies are considerably exacerbating the problems
throughout Central America.
1. Minutes of the l a s t meeting
(7th June, 1983)
2 . Matters A r i s i n g
3. P r e s i d e n t ' s Report
4. Deputy P r e s i d e n t ' s Report
5. Honorary S e c r e t a r y ' s Report
6. Other O f f i c e r s ' Reports
7. E l e c t i o n s
8. Motions
I.C.U. Instructs:
The President of ICU to write to Ronald Reagan informing him of this motion and
asking him to stop the US intimidation of Nicaragua.

