Whilst most of you were sunning yourselves over the summer vacation, life at Imperial
continued hectic and unabated. A few members were able to get down to some real work.
The rest were able to take their holidays and potter off to conferences in hot foreign
countries without a care in the world. Postgrads would monopolise coffee machines and fall
asleep in refectories to their hearts content. Amidst this hive of activity, FELIX worked
hard to maintain its reputation as the best student newspaper in the country; the peak of
investigative journalism. We now present an update on the summer's news and scandal.
Goulder Goes Out With A Bang
Mr Stephen Goulder, retiring ICU President, formally handed over to
his successor Miss Gaynor Lewis in his last day in office at the top of
the Queen's Tower. The handover came at the end of a jolly afternoon
of wine and champagne provided by Mr Goulder.
The Queen's Tower, perhaps South Kensington's best phallic if
somewhat castrated symbol provided an excellent opportunity for an
ego massage for Mr Goulder and a chance to give Miss Lewis a tongue-
in-cheek kiss. Or perhaps he was whispering to her the sweet nothings
of the President's job.
Mr Goulder, typically absent-minded to the last, handed over the
keys to his Linstead Hall room instead of the Union Office keys. It was
reported that they later went off together and had some hanky-panky.
Summer Lettings Scheme
Mr Michael Arthur, Student Ser-
vices Officer, ran into severe pro-
blems with the management of
the Summer Lettings Scheme.
Examples of overbooking, incor-
ect charging and mismanagement
were rife in the first two weeks of
the scheme's operation.
Michael Arthur's mismanage-
ment and creative accounting
came under heavy criticism from
all quarters. He was described in
FELIX as the most arrogant and
unhelpful official in College.
Guilds Romp Home
On a happier note, City & Guilds
successfully completed their
round Britain pedal car mara-
thon on Thursday 21 July. The
intrepid Guildsmen pedalled in-
to Charing Cross Station after a
furious last leg that set a blazing
new record time of 252 hours.
Guilds hack Mike Stuart man-
aged to hog all the publicity,
always arranging to be in the
pedal car just as the photo-
graphers arrived. Despite Mike,
the nationwide media coverage
helped Guilds to raise nearly
£10,000 towards a lifeboat engine
for the RNLI.
Cutbacks Equal 'Efficiency'
The governing council of Queen
Elizabeth College, Chelsea Col-
lege and Kings College approved
documents stating an intention to
merge the three colleges into one
institution based at the Kings
College site on the Strand. The
eventual aim is to sell the QEC
and Chelsea sites, but according
to U L U President Chris Sale,
integration will take five to ten
years and much time-consuming
bussing of students will be in-
volved.
Meany Mooney Swindle
Scandal
Mr Victor Mooney, the much
maligned Refectory Manager,
was up to his old tricks again over
the summer. He prevented the
student cleaners from having
breakfasts using breakfast tickets
that had been given to them as
tips, despite the fact that the
tickets had been paid for. Appar-
ently, cunning old Victor, realis-
ing that many of the tourists
would rather not eat his break-
fasts (who can blame them-Ed)
thought he could make a bit on
the side by not cooking enough to
fill breakfasts the orders.
Davy Handover
Davy, an oversized Davy lamp
and the mascot of RSMU was
returned to them on 19 June. The
ransom set by RCSU was a Rag
collection in front of Harrods.
£200 for charity was raised.
Fire in Chemistry
It was feared that the Chemistry
building might explode when a
fire broke out in one of the fume
cupboards engulfing a doctor in
the department in flames. Fortu-
nately the fire was under control
very quickly.
Rector Resigns
No, not Lord Flowers. Dr Lionel
March, Rector of the Royal
College of Art, resigned on
Monday 1 August in response to
mounting criticism of his man-
agement of the College. The
climax was his appointment of
Dr George Sting, his friend and
former colleague at the Open
University, to the new post of
Dean. Both men denied reports
that Dr Sting was holding on to
his old job in America. These
reports were subsequently
proved true, and both men have
now resigned. Earlier criticisms
centred on what many felt to be
Dr March's lack of experience
and the irrelevance of his field of
study to most work at the RCA.
No Cunt No Fuck
The Rag Mag was censored yet
again this year. The words 'cunt'
and 'fuck' were banned from use
in the Rag Mag. Other material
banned included jokes relating to
geriatrics, babies, disabled
people and natural disasters.
Racist, sexist and religious jokes
have been allowed to remain
since they only affect insignif-
icant minorities in College.
BackslapDJjng and Back-
stahhirjg
Self-congratulations and petty
snubs were the order of the day at
the final meeting of ICU Council
this year. Engraved pots and
Honorary Life Membership were
awarded for exceptional service
to the Union to Mike Prosser
Publications Board Chairman;
Nick Pyne UGM Chairman and
former Welfare Officer; John
McCallion, non-sabbatical Dep-
uty President; and, 1982/3 Presi-
dent Stephen Goulder. Further
awards went to Andy Grim-
shaw, Jonathan Miller, Ian Bull,
Simon Rodan, Colin Butter and
Matthew Tonks. All were nomin-
ated by Stephen Goulder. Martin
Taylor, last year's FELIX Editor
received no recognition for all his
hard work in the Union.
Page 6 Monday,October 3 1983 Fell*

