Freshers week: the ghastly truth!
The FELIX guide to freshers week
On arrival at Imperial College, most people
have little idea where the various places of
importance are located within the College. To
remedy this situation the College and Union
conspire on the first day to send freshers on a
sometimes fruitless search around College for
Unioncard, grant cheque and registration slip.
On Monday morning queues of almost
Biblical proportions build up in the JCR as
most students attempt to register. The experi-
enced student would probably wait to register
when the Rector's Reception takes place at
10:00am. This event, which all first years feel
obliged to attend, usually records a resound-
ding zero on the clapometer with the Rector
Lord Flowers delivering his only speech yet
again. When they have wheeled the old duffer
off, the Union Sabbatical Officers re-read last
year's Freshers' Reception speeches, 'get in-
volved...rewarding... UGMs a must etc, etc'
This ends at 11:00am leaving enough time for
you to find your department for their intro-
duction; you will have a chance to meet your
tutors for the first time. At this point the
difficulty of the course and the failure rates
are usually mentioned, as there is no need for
the 'nice guy' image now that you're here.
In the afternoon Scientists, Engineers and
Miners split up to go to their CCU UGMs at
which you are introduced to your CCU, its
activities and its officers—a must for those in
need of comic relief. The UGM will probably
finish by 4:30 after which you will be free for
the rest of the day. This will give you the
opportunity to chat up the boy/girl you have
had your eye on ever since you arrived at
College and ask him/her to the Freshers'
Party later on that evening in the Union
Buiding.
Having woken up, hopefully not in your
own bed, you drag yourself off to your
department where your course is explained to
you in greater detail. At this juncture the
dedication needed to complete the course is
raised in graphic detail. However, one does
not need to be Saint Augustine to graduate.
....and don't forget all those vital little items
for the end of your first week: Optrex (for
eyes, bloodshot, two), mouthwash (take
instead of, rather than after, 14 pints of
Youngs), deodorant (until we learn to wash
our clothes!), some clean needles (for sewing
of course) and those all-important precaution-
ary measures (just in case you strike lucky).
The afternoon is devoted to Freshers' Fair
where all the Union clubs and societies run a
stall (see centre spread). Take a pen and paper
to make a note of the introductory events of
clubs that interest you. The highlight of the
afternoon is a visit to the FELIX Office,
where the FELIX Editor tries to cream off the
most interesting and talented new arrivals.
There is the Life Sciences Party in the JCR
in the evening to which those in the know will
go since it is consistently one of the best
events of the year.
By Wednesday you reach your first lecture
and come down to earth. By tradition this is
delivered by the most boring member of the
department.
In the afternoon the sports trials take place.
The squads are picked early in the session, so
if you wish to play for ICU or your CCU you
must take part in these trials.
Later on in the evening is the Gangsters
and Molls Party with free cocktail for all
those who dress up. This is the event of the
week and anybody who is anybody will be
there; an ideal opportunity to see the Presi-
dent wearing next to nothing—but don't let
this discourage you.
Thursday abounds with lectures and labs.
The Freshers' UGM takes place at 1:00pm.
This is usually a forum for various Union
Officers, who strive to humiliate each other
and indulge in backstabbing.
Every Thursday evening the Union enter-
tainments committee show popular films
recently off the West End run. This evening
they will get things going with a double bill of
Cat People, possibly the most erotic film of
last year and Quest for Fire, possibly the film
having the most amusing cast credits of last
year.
If you can still stand come Friday evening
then there is the opportunity to go and see
some really great bands at the Freshers' Ball.
It features Clint Eastwood and General Saint
on the first night of their nationwide tour.
There is also a barbeque, two discos, all night
films and steel bands.
FELIX Check List
1. Registration Monday and Tuesday in
the SCR on Level 2 in the Sherfield Building.
Subsequently on Level 3 in the Sherfield
Building. Bring a pen and retain the stamped
slip.
2. Unioncards In the JCR Monday and
Tuesday, for the rest of the week in the Union
Senior Common Room and subsequently in
the Union Office. You need to bring two
passport sized photographs and the afore-
mentioned registration slip.
3. Grant cheque You need to take your
Unioncard or other means of identification to
the SCR on Monday and Tuesday on Level 3
in the Sherfield Buidling.
4. Freshers' Week Ticket for just £7 you
can attend all freshers' week events for free
(except the Life Sci Party). Available from
ICU and CCU offices.
5. Food and Provisions The nearest super-
market to College is Waitrose on Gloucester
Road. There is also the Union shop which is
to be found in Southside close to the RCS
Office.
6. Recommended texts, stationery and IC
diaries All available from the Bookshop
which is on the Concourse, Level 2, Sherfield.
7. Lockers See departmental superinten-
dants or ask at the departmental office. Be
sure to grab the best one before your friend
does. . _ _
LaTCR ON, cXT mSHCRlS FaiR.
Monday,Betoner 3 1983 Page 7

