16 Tfr^lML" Him 7 December 1998
Reviews
Ronin * • *
Starring : Robert De Niro, Jean Reno, Jonathan Pryce, Natascha McElhone, Sean Bean
Director: John Frankenheimer
Jean Reno. Surely clear favourite for this year's 'Coolest man In Hollywood' award.
A
pparently, Ronin are Samurai who
have lost their master and go
around kicking the hell out of
other people because thcy'te pissed off.
Ronin, however, replaces the Samurai
with a ctack squad of ex CIA, KGB and
any other acronym you'd care to men-
tion. Robert De Niro is at the head of this
hand picked crew whose mission it is to
retrieve a briefcase (not cliched in any
way then...). Everything goes swimming-
ly until they decide to double cross one
another - which turns out to be an
excuse for any number of high speed
chases in the Parisian backstrects.
Don't be deceived by the cast list
and the director's back catalogue (which
includes The Manchurian Candidate and
French Connection II). This is not, I stress
NOT, an intelligent, charactet-dtiven,
high-brow thriller. It is a sctiptotially chal-
lenged, high octane action movie. Admit-
tedly, however, it's not thc run of the mill
Hollywood lets-get-star-and-make-him-
run-and-shoot a la Lethal Weapon. Firstly,
the film is entirely shot in France (Paris
and Nice) which makes for a refreshing
change of scenery that adds to the mood
of the film. They've tried to include a plot
here but it seems to have been written
by a student from Truro polytechnic. Sev-
eral times logic failed me. I think they
tried too hard on the plot side and there
really was no need. A film should stick to
its strong points and Macbeth it ain't.
What it is though is an out and out
action movie. As the cast career across
France in pursuit of the case, adrenaline
levels are kept high with a succession of
gun-battles, confrontations and truly
amazing car scenes. Now wc come to
why you should see this film. Not since
Thc Italian job have I seen such amazing
car chases. They might not be as inven-
tive as the Michael Caine caper but for
pure energy rush it's unbeatable. The dri-
ving is in your face, on the edge of your
seat stuff, the car shots are very realistic
because the actors are always pictured in
the car without a fake background. The
stunt driver is cither in the seat beside
them (using a car with two steering
wheels) or ingeniously positioned in the
boot (the cars were specially rigged up
so that a stunt driver could steer the car
whilst sitting in the trunk. Not vety reas-
suring for thc actors).
As far as acting goes, with a script
this perfunctory there's not a lot of Oscar
worthy emoting going on. De Niro, as
usual, slides with ease into a role that
requires him to be a star first and an actor
a distant second. Reno, Skarsgard and
Pryce all acquit themselves well. New-
comer McElhone doesn't let herself be
outdone by the seasoned actors. The
only concern is Sean Bean who was just
crap; luckily he doesn't hang around for
long enough to spoil the film.
As far as action films go, you could
do a lot worse than this, and the car
chases are simply breathtaking. Maybe
not one for the cinema but definitely
worth renting out when you've got a
few mates round. D
Mark
Rounders *
Starring : Matt Damon, Edward Norton, John Malkovich
Director: John Dahl
F
or those of you who haven't see
this movie already, the simple mes-
sage is don't bothet unless you're
a poker fanatic (and I stress the word
fanatic). Whenever I think of poker, I
imagine high tension and big bets with
enough excitement to make you sweat.
Instead Rounders greets you with a
group of people who are obviously -
painfully so at times - just going through
a routine. It might as well have been a
documentary about banking.
Once again Matt Damon gets to play
an everyday guy who just happens to be
a genius. This time around, however,
he's not an academic genius but a poker
one. He plays Mike McDermott who is a
law student with a passion fot poker. So
nothing at all like Good Will Hunting
then.
As you've probably guessed, this is
a film about poker, poker, and more
poker. There is nothing else - even
though the plot tries to involve some-
thing different, namely Mike's girlfriend.
She does thc 'it's me or poker' thing -
Who'd have thought that looking like a smug git could be so profitable.
which is fair enough if your boyfriend has
just blown enough money to get him
through college on one game of poker,
then expects you to help him out. This bit
cither should not have been included or
developed a bit more. It was so thin that
it would have made Kate Moss fat.
There is also the regulation best
friend who's got into trouble (through
poker of course) and subsequently
Damon gets into trouble because of him.
Well, the story had to involve something
of interest.
Talking of stoty where was it? the
film just went from one poker game to
anothct with so much poker jargon you
might as well have been watching the
film in another language, tven thc big
finale was disappointing. It was sup-
posed to be a poker game to match all
poker games. Damon was playing
against the bad guy (John Malkovich)
whose exciting trait is the ability to say
'son of a bitch' in the most peculiar way.
Thc outcome of thc game was obvious
before it statted.
It was a dull film full of nothing but
dull people with a dull plot. There was
just one thing that made it interesting;
Matt Damon's personal tutor handed
over ten thousand dollars without expect-
ing to see it again. Now that's the sort of
personal tutor I want! D
Helen

