7 December 1998 Film
Reviews & competitions
If Only * * *
Starring : Lena Headey, Douglas Henshall, Penelope Cruz, Mark Strong
Director: Mario Ripoli
A
romantic fable set in modern day
tondon, If Only is nothing if not
inventive. It begins with
Henshall's attempt to stop ex-girlfriend
Headey marriage to Strong because he
now regrets cheating on het and wants
her back. The film then starts down a
magical path as Henshall, aftet a night
on thc bottle, meets some eccentric
Spanish dustmen who allow him to
attempt to right his past wrongs by
sending him back in time to change his
life for the better. Or so he thinks.
His subsequent attempts to stop
Headey meeting Strong are hindered -
which underlines the film's repeating
theme of the unchangeable nature of
fate and the unavoidability of destiny. If
Only is concerned with the conse-
quences and regrets that tesult from infi-
delity, with writer Rafa Russo drawing
on personal experience to construct his
first screenplay.
Thc film has a distinctly European
feel with its vibrant, colourful scenes,
and underlying romanticism. This comes
from the all Spanish team of writer
Russo, director Ripol, and produccrjuan
Gordon who have carefully shaped the
17
Quick - someone pass me the sick bucket.
overall atmosphere of the film.
The acting is generally good,
although at times it comes actoss in the
style of a BBC Christmas special rather
than a true work of cinema. This may be
due to many of the actors having a
background in television. Douglas Hen-
shall, previously in Sharpe, is good in thc
lead role, thanks to enthusiastic (if a lit-
tle over stated) acting, bringing an almost
stand-up-comic persona to his charac-
ter Charlotte Coleman effectively replays
her four Weddings role as Headey's
frumpy friend.
The tiny budget occasionally
becomes obvious, but this only serves to
add to thc film's charm. If Only would
probably appeal more to a female audi-
ence (semi-chick flick) but that's not to
say everyone won't find it engaging. It's
just not a must-see movie. 0
Bill and Jon
Vote for the best of '98 and win a massive prize, as Felix
brings you the Film of the Year Poll in association with the
As we move into thc festive period, it's
only right and proper that we cast our
minds back over the last year: Iraq,
Indonesia, Clinton and Lewinsky, Peter
Mandleson and bloody Beckham - to
name but a few. So, it seems fait for us
here at Felix to do the same. Conse-
quently, in the next issue we'll be don-
ning our best Barry Norman wigs, and
looking back at the best films of 1998.
And that's where you come in. To
construct an accurate, nay definitive, poll
of what the best film of 1998 actually was
we want to hear from you. Did you love
Titanic? Was Starship Troopers more your
thing? Or did you prefer the old-fash-
ioned charm of The Truman Show? Ot
Good Will Hunting? Or Deconstructing
Harry? Hell, you might even have some
KENSINGTON
strange affinity for Godzilla. Whatever
your favourite film of 1998 was, we want
to know.
But what do I get in return, I hear you
cry. Well, to mark the close of the year,
we've teamed up with those delightful
people at the Odeon Kensington to
come up with a veritable prize bonanza.
Only without Lome Greene. As well as
loads of tickets, the lucky winner will
take home T-Shirts, posters, the com-
plete South Park Box Set 2 and whatever
else I can get my hands on. And of
course they'll be a mountain of runners-
up prizes too.
To be In with a chance of winning
this basket of goodies, simply email
fllm.fellx@ic.ac.uk with your favourite
movie of 1998, before Wednesday.
fast week's Out of Sight competition
produced a record number of entries -
hardly surprising considering it's so damn
good - but there can only be five winners:
Scott Edmunds
Paris Deligiannakls
Tom Grek
Catrin Jones
Serene Urn
They all correctly identified that Olivet
Stone's U Turn linked Out of Sight star
Jennifer fopcz with both Claire Danes
and Billy Bob Thornton. In return for this
clear demonsttation of their knowledge
of all things filmic they each take home
a pair of tickets. Please drop into the Felix
office to pick up your prize.
Train to
Pakistan
W
ritten by Kushwant Singh -
one of the most prominent
writers in India today - frain
to Pakistan charts thc histoty of the
partition of British India into modern
day Pakistan and India.
The story is about the three main
communities in north India who lived
together in harmony until the partition
was announced, friend became foe
and mass killings of Muslims in India
and Sikhs and I lindus in thc new Pak-
istan began. Train loads of dead bodies
were sent to India from Pakistan and
without doubt thousands were killed
whilst migrating by train to Pakistan.
Ihe Irain to Pakistan was the one that
got away.
In a personal interview with the
novelist, Kushwant Singh, he explains
his first hand experiences and how he
came to wtite thc novel and later how
thc film was produced.
During the days of partition he
remembers coming out into the streets
and seeing fahore in flames. Sikhs were
the easiest targets because they could
be identified by their long hait and tur-
bans. He vividly remembers people
being toppled from theit bicycles and
beaten to death. No doubt the same sit-
uation existed on the other side of the
new border. Trains full of people were
sent along the main city lines towards
thc new India - but when they crossed
thc border and stopped, the carriages
were silent and only the hiss of the
steam engines could be heard as piles
of dead bodies lay in the aisles. This
scene in thc film is shocking to sec,
especially when someone is found mov-
ing around under the pile of bodies. The
films shows how revenge completely
engrossed the local villagers and the
only justice would be to do the same
when thc ttain to Pakistan goes past the
village.
Kushwant Singh decided to write
the book while sctving as a diplomat
from India to the UK and Canada. As a
diplomat he found he had a lot of time;
"I got bored of just entertaining people
and being called your txcellcncy". He
started the novel in 1949, and after pub-
lication in 1956 he attempted lo pro-
duce a film himself, but was refused a
license by the government.
forget thc cast of unknowns - the
film itself is definitely worth watching,
Moteover, this adaptation will appeal to
anyone with an interest in histoty, as it
ptovides an important insight into thc
continuing tension between the two
nations. Q

