2 News 7 December 1998
STA to be Superceeded
Through a variety of closed-door meet-
ings and despite a number of financial
questions that remain unanswered, the
College has chosen not to renew the
contract for STA Academic Travel. Instead
the shop, which is primarily aimed at
staff, has been awarded to a new com-
pany, who will re-open with a new image
in the new year.
Crucially, the Union seems to have
been given no say in the process, despite
the fact that it receives a large chunk of
the revenue that the tender generates.
This all stems from an arrangement
formed last year, whereby the College
forced the Union to share the income
generated by the two travel agencies on
the Walkway (STA Academic & STA Stu-
dent Travel) in lieu of the cost of the JCR
refurbishment. Although then President
Andy Heeps offered, as a concession to
the Rector, a seemingly more logical deal
By David Roberts
whereby the College could take academic
travel income from the Union, allowing
ICU to keep student travel.. However,
this offer was refused, and a straight
70/30 split was agreed. Consequently,
the Union retained the right to assist in
the tender process for both companies.
When the tender for the student
travel shop went out last May, College (in
the form of the Estates Manager) argued
that the Union couldn't possibly tender
properly, and refused to meet the sab-
baticals, on the grounds that "they're only
students". Thus, the Union Manager was
asked to deal with the tender process,
and secured a very valuable deal for the
Union. In the summer, however, the
Union learnt that College had put the aca-
demic travel shop out to tender, without
consultation. Mr Heeps demanded that
the Union reserved the right of veto, on
the grounds they had a financial interest.
The Union Manager was once again
asked to sit on the selection panel. Yet the
committee did not contact her about
meetings until the last minute, and then
did not allow her to ask questions or see
any of the financial paperwork. I his atti-
tude has profoundly affected Mr I leeps:
"I am.ashamed to think that I respected
members of College staff last year. Most
have shown themselves to be two-faced
and no better than schoolchildren, lying
to the student body in the short term to
get their own way".
Eventually, a new firm was picked to
run the agency, with the result that STA
Academic Travel on the Walkway will
close down on December 18, with the
new outlet opening in time for the new
year.
K E E P l i l t . C A T F R E E H EST. 1949
issue 1129
30 November 1998
Editor; Ed Sexton
News Editors: Andrew Ofori
Photographic Editor: William Lorenz
Music Editors: Jason Ramanathan
and Dennis Patrickson
Him Editor: David Roberts
Sports Editor: Gus Paul
Arts Editor: Helena Cocheme
Games Editor: Gary Smith
Clubsccnc: Giles Morrison
Photo Editing: Joel Lewis
Delivery Last Issue: Andrew Ofori
Note: Next Issue is on 16 December
Tamil Show Sells Out
In contrast to the
unsightly scenes that
took place Friday 27th November saw
scenes of a much happier nature in the
night's sell-out show, staged in the Great
Hall. It was the showpiece of ICU Tamil
society; with all proceeds being donated
to the Tamil Rehabilitation Organisation.
By Andrew Ofori
Entitle gal' the event set out
tion for the entire audi-
ence. The QMWthes-
pians gave an excellent account of
themselves in the light-hearted drama 'It
could be you!' A fairly dry plot was invig-
orated by the talented players, much of
the Tamil-speaking elements of the audi-
ence being particularly impressed with
the elderly matriarch of the family.
Photo Jonas
to "tantalise with glimpses of the many
aspects of the Tamil heritage". As the
show began it was clear the organisers
had grand production aspirations, the fact
that the curtains parted over an hour late
was early indication the ambitions were a
step too far.
Meticulously tailored for the discern-
ing eastern viewer much of the show
took place in Tamil, but often with English
interjections demonstrating a consldera-
The dancers sparkle
Outstanding were the young students
of Mrs. Ragani Rajagopal who performed
routines such as the traditional dance
'Bharata Natyam' with such intricate deli-
cacy, even those unaware of its religious
origin were inspired.
The show was plagued with a destruc-
tive number of technical difficulties result-
ing in truly epic delays between many of
the acts. To some extent these were
bravely glossed over by the night's two
IC inspires Thai Campus
The newly-formed
Asian University of
Science and Technology (Asian UST -
founded in 1997) in Thailand has just
commenced its academic programmes
for new students. The university has
strong links with Imperial College, which
provides academic support. This follows
Imperial's existing links with Mahanakorn
University where staff from IC direct post-
graduate courses (as well as setting and
marking examination papers) of the
same standard and quality as Imperial's
own.
Asian UST aims to be a leading
regional science and technology training
centre and conducts all of its teaching in
English. The University, which is a private
one. is entirely Thai-owned and is based
in Jomtien in the eastern seaboard
region, between the popular tourist des-
tination Pattaya and the city of Rayong,
about seventy-five miles south-east of
the capital Bangkok. Asian UST runs
degree programmes in Engineering
(Civil, Llectrical & Electronic, Industrial &
Manufacturing, mechanical and Soft-
ware Engineering & Information Sys-
tems), Applied Science (Applied
Chemistry, Biochemistry and Biotech-
By Sunil Rao nology) and in Busi-
ness Management
leading to BEng, BSc and BBA degrees
respectively. Masters' degrees are also
conferred.
With nearly seventy-five percent of
academic staff being expatriates and the
university's curriculum being based on
and closely following that of IC (with the
successful tutorial model being adopted
as well), Asian UST promises to usher in
a new infusion of science and technol-
ogy training to Thailand. The University,
which has just taken in its first batch of
nearly 500 students, offers students, who
have been forced to reconsider plans to
come to the UK, a new chance to get a
world-class degree of the same stan-
dard and quality as an Imperial degree.
"We think the university will be good for
Thailand and the whole region," says Dr
Pinai Sukhawarn, a member of Asian
UST's Liaison Committee who added that
in addition to following IC's curriculum,
the university had chosen to model their
teaching on the effective and efficient
teaching styles and methodologies cur-
rently in place here al Imperial, with the
emphasis on tutorials.
comperes, one of whom was telix's own
Milen - Tha Bomb columnist. They tried
in vain to give the show the continuity
sorely lacked for that professional edge,
cleverly introducing a sub-plot that
brought as much enjoyment as some of
the acts, (found a wife yet Milen, or do
I stop calling you on your mobile).
The audience was left exasperated
with the premature conclusion especially
when taking into account the major delays
they had suffered throughout the
evening. A frustrating and lack-lustre dis-
appointment was closely avoided, the
sheer quality of the many of the acts
being the event's saving grace.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, fondon SW7 2BB Internal tel: 58072 Interna! fax: 48072 External tel & fax: 0171 594 8072 URL: www.su.ic.ac.uk/felix E-mail: felix@ic.ac.uk
Printed at MCP l.itho Limited, Units B2 & B3, llatton Square, 16 -16a Baldwins Gardens, Iondon FC1N 7RJ Felix is a registered newspaper: ISSN 1040- 0711
Felix is produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publication Board. Copyright © Telix 1998. Photographic copyrights remain with photographers.

