7 December 1998 Music
Tha Bomb!
FAITH, TOTAL, WHITNEY ALBUM REVIEWS AND DON'T FORGET : SATURDAY 12TH DECEMBER - THA BOMB PARTY
we were In for something special, but after such a long
time out I had doubts she would bring more of thc
same. Well she's back with more of Ihe same, the album
is almost sample free, all original, which is definitely not
the norm these days, but thc girl pulls it off. The 15 track
album has quality written all over it with the standouts
being Little Bit ofLovin, Kiss Me, Love and My Love.
Milen
Question: How does one follow up a multi-platinum
debut set?
What up people! After a two week break Tha Bomb
has returned with album reviews for the wicked faith
Evan's effort Keep The Faith, thc latest set ftom Whit-
ney Houston and the second album from thc Bad Girls
of Bad Boy - Total. As well as that you got some random
shit from yours truly, and news of thc "Tha Bomb
Party".
First up I've got cuss down the latest tune from Will
Smith - Miami; this is the wotst tune to come from Will
Smith, since the last one he released. The boy is going
downhill very fast, with 'Miami' he uses the all time clas-
sic And the Beat Goes On by thc Whispers as his back-
ing and does his usual fucking shit over thc top. This
appeals to the tcenyboppers out there (entered the
charts at number three, what the fuck is wrong with the
world?), but anyone with half a brain knows he's just
taped a classic.
Snoop Doggy Dogg celebrated his birthday on
20th November and then flew into fondon last week
for a date at Sub. Just as he was getting into some of
his classic tunes somebody fired off a blank, causing
chaos and ending up with the crowd all going home.
Snoop was said to be very pissed off; someone should
have informed the boy that Ladbroke Grove is our
answer to Compton. Talking about Compton, Priority
records are releasing a tribute album: Straight Out Of
Compton - 10th Anniversary fribute. The album cele-
brates the anniversary of the original release of 'Straight
Out Of Compton', the album which introduced the
wotld to NWA and the gangsta rap style. Ice Cube, Dr
Dre, Eazy-E and MC Yella exploded on to the mainstteam
of US music with what are now hip-hop classics. The
album is a series of covers, original NWA tunes covered
by latter day artists including Big Pun, MC Eight and
many others. The hits covered include Fuck fhe Police,
Quiet On The Set and Express Yourself.
This year has seen the return of thc excellent Bev-
erly knight and now we have the relurn of the beauti-
ful 21 year old tast Londoner Kele Le Roc and her
stunning scl Everybody's Somebody. When she first hit
the scene, in 1995, she rocked the placer and we knew
I ot the First Lady of Bad Boy, it seems like that I aith
had no problem in tackling this seemingly mammoth-
sized task. Before I start giving you thc LD, there's one
word that springs to mind about this album: INCREDI-
BLE!!!! lor all you RnB connoisseurs, this is the album
to go and buy ASAP! Because of Milen constantly
reminding us (and I really DO mean reminding!), many
of you will have heard Love Like fhis by now (and
shame on you if you haven't!), fhis is thc first single
to be lifted ftom the album, is currently on general
release and deserves to be a lop 10 hit at least. Bor-
rowing from Chic's Chic Cheer, this is an up-tempo
number that will have you dancing along or head
nodding all night. Another notable floor filler is All Night
with its truly infectious chorus: 'Wc can dance, dance,
dance, Clap your hands, hands, hands...'
Thc rest of the album is very much down-tempo,
it's difficult to decide which tracks arc the best; they're
all genuinely amazing. Perhaps thc Kelly Price collab-
orations of My First Love and No Way ate worthy of a
special mention as well as the Babyface-produced
Never Gonna Let You Go.
What is impressive about Keep The Faith is that
there ate no signs of the sometimes overbearing pro-
duction and trademark sounds of Puffy. I aith sings and
writes from the heart and it shows Don't worry, girl,
we remember you and we'll always Keep thi; I aith,
Kidphobee
you say ana
ong, I hear some of
ally scheduled for a
'hitney's 4th studio
our sli 'les last week
oil an all < M hjsi
You'll Never
X':.
Sc
th December in Union DBs
ie union Is coming around again on the
on, the first was good, the second night
hisfinalnight of the year at the union.
St.;

