22 Music 7 December 1998
oma Records
based in Glasgow
have consistently
challenged and inspired
clubbers and music listeners alike with their cutting
edge sounds. Sometimes hard and driving, some-
times delicious and funky, but never boring, Soma has
nurtured and put its artists on thc world stage. They
have also pioneered some previously unheard of con-
cepts in dance music. One is that they encourage
their artists to release full-length albums to prove
them as mature musicians. The other is that they are
getting their artists to make live shows and break
down the stereotype that live elctronic music is bor-
ing. Soma has long been known as a family of like-
minded individuals driven by a common
passion. We caught up with tnvoy, one
of their artists. His new album (Where
There's Life is out now).
Who are you? What do you do with
music?
I am Hope Grant, aka Envoy. I've done
four eps for Soma which stretch back over
the last four years, and I've just completed
my debut album Where There's Life. We're
doing live- dates across the country and it's S
all looking quite positive!
Have you only recorded for Soma? r:
j
No. Ihe first thing I did was for a label
called Peacefrog. I did that under the
name St Vitus Dance, lhat was the first
thing I did alone. Then Soma approached
me a little while after that, and I hooked .
up with them. They're like a family,- a great
bunch of guys. I've been recording for
them since. I also did some stuff lor a label
called Plink Plonk, under the name Urban
Groove.
So I guess Soma approached you on
the strength of the Peacefrog material,
because that's a very famous ep.
Yes. tor a first ep it got a really good
reaction. Lots of people were aware of it. A good mate
of mine knew the Soma guys and they'd heard the
Peacefrog ep. They asked him if he reckoned I would
do some stuff for them. That's how the Envoy stuff came
about.
Why do you record under different names?
I never actually meant to go onto Soma. What
happened was I did the St Vitus Dance cp and I was
ready to give the next ep to peacefrog. But they were
in a funny direction at the time. They were doing a lot
of Chicago style house, and they already had a techno
blueprint with Dan Curtin and Luke Slater. Thc guy
who runs Peacefrog (Pete) thought the stuff was a bit
similar. So what actually happened was Solitary Mission,
which was the first Envoy release on Soma was actu-
ally meant to be the second St Vitus Dance release on
Peacefrog.
I don't really change my style a lot. I don't go
under a lot of different guises because it's usually all
the same kind of sound. It's just that people want you
to change your name and I just fell into line really!
Can you describe this sound? What kind of music
do you make?
I like to think of it as beautiful stuff; emotive. I don't
Artist Profile
really want to say timeless because that's a big word,
but if you take the St Vitus Dance, I can listen to it now
and it still sounds fresh as if it was made yesterday. But
it's a good few years old. So really the stuff I make is
emotive and soulful.
As your music Is emotive, are you inspired to make
music from emotional things that happen to you?
Yes. I've seen some of the reviews of Where There's
Life and some magazines have come in with thc slant
that it's a very deep and personal kind of album. When
you consider the word techno, a lot of people say
"urban decay" and "you've got to be really up against
it to make this machine-style music". I don't look at it
like that at all. I make techno after a lovely conversa-
tion with somebody, or a night out, or just talking to
people and having personal experiences. Life's about
more than just urban decay and our surroundings. It's
also about emotions and people.
How did you originally get Involved In music?
I was very young when I got into music. I started
writing songs when I was a kid. I wanted to be the
proverbial rock/pop star. I was a singer/song writer
and I wanted to be in bands throughout my childhood.
Then I got into Prince. I saw a video, and I had never
seen that kind of energy before. II really did blow mc
away. I'm quite an obsessive person. When I get into
something I have to delve deeper and find out all the
stuff about it. When I delved into thc Prince stuff I found
that he writes all the songs, he plays the instruments,
he does the vocals; and that's what I wanted to do! I le's
basically his own man.
It was around thc time when everyone was setting
up their own studios, so I got a bank loan and bought
a drum kit and a four track and started writing songs
all by myself. It was a good apprenticeship but you never
know what road your life is going to take. A friend of
mine took me to a rave in 1987 and I never looked back.
The songwriter in me died. At first I thought, "what is
this?" I thought a 303 was noise! "Where's the melody?
Where's the harmony?" But a few raves down the road
I was hooked!
So which DJs were you listening to then?
In those days it was the times of the big raves with
labio and Groovcrider. Now these boys make
drum'n'bass. There was also a guy called Frankie Valen-
tine who blew me away. Also people like Colin Faver
and LSD. Back then I used to follow them everywhere
when they did Energy and the big raves. Then they used
to come and play in tiny little after hours clubs and spin
till the morning. They would play everything. Now
they've all ventured off into their own genres.
Do you feel that's a bit sad, as It was maybe more
diverse before?
Yes I do. The whole way it's gone now is
pretty sad to me, but I suppose it's just a sign
of the times. Everytime I meet someone for
the first time and they ask me what sort of
music I do, I always say house! We all know
about the "t word" (techno), and if you use the
"t word" to some people they think, "Oh my
God! You make that bang bang noise. It's
great when people like youtsclf ate on mis-
sions to show people by playing them thc
music they didn't expect to be thc "t word",
and they actually like it! I've got to the stage
now where I don't even bother because I
don't think they'll understand, so I just say
house. It's so btoad. I think it's sad that I cop
out but it's just a sign of the times.
Live techno acts are often criticised for not
being as raw or exciting as rock musicians on
stage. How did your live sets come about?
Soma had albums out lasl year by Maas
and Funk D'Void. Both of them went out and
did live sets in Lurope. I followed them around
to a few gigs to check what this live; Ihing was
all about. Soma were always saying "you
should go live when you do your album." I did-
n't know about that. I saw Maas and Funk
D'Void do their thing and was very impressed.
My singer/songwriter background had never really left
me, as I thought it would when I immersed myself into
techno. I decided I would try and do vocals while I was
playing live and see if people were up for it and what
type of reaction I would get. They were all my own
vocals. Up until now the reaction has been very posi-
tive because there was that energy that you speak of
in thc other scenes.
People used to say to me that the crowd doesn't
want lo be entertained and that the DJs are the kings.
I don't like the fact that they have this power. I think
it's great that they're spreading the word, but I've been
into this scene a long time now and I've seen a lot of
DJs turn up, don't even look at the crowd, take the fee,
play the same set that they played in the last club, and
thy're out of there onto the next club. I'm a fan, and
I'm a paying fan. I believe that they should be enter-
taining the crowd. There are only a few that do that for
me. I wanted the crowd to be entertained. I was told
that they didn't want to be entertained, that they just
wanted the music. At this moment in time I don't think
this is the case.
Do the live sets work?
Yes! It's wotking big style at the moment. Especially

