7 December 1998 Music 23
Envoy
recently as we just did a couple of dates in London.
How long does a live set last?
About forty-five minutes. It's sort of split in two. The
first half is instrumental stuff, including tnvoy tracks.
Then I come out and do vocals for the rest of the set.
Are the vocals live or pre-recorded?
I'm on the mic and I sing to the crowd. It's all live!
Do you record and sample them or do you sing
songs?
I sing songs. It's hard to get your head around when
you think about how I do it...
But with all the Instruments and everything It must
be like controlling a whole orchestra and singing at the
same time!
No. Ithere's two boys, the HSC boys, who help with
all the Envoy stuff when we record in thc studio. They
come out with me and control the synths and thc
drums and the mixct while I'm out front. We do it all
together.
Have you played elsewhere in the world?
Not really yet. We've done a couple dates in Europe.
France and Norway. We haven't really tested Europe
extensively yet. But we've done England, Ireland, Scot-
land and Wales.
How were these gigs received?
It all went down really well. But it all depends on
what time you go on, who was playing before you. It's
all about catching the crowd. Sometimes when I start
the set they're not really up for it, and I know they need
to be entertained, and you have to work them like a
good DJ. That's the bit I really like, going out there and
bringing them over to our side.
Many DJs say that two hours isn't enough time to
build up a set. Would you like more time to play In?
Yes. I would really like more time. We could easily
do an hour for starters. It's just that we've been given
forty-five minutes for startets. That's what they say for
live sets. But you're right, on quite a few occasions thc
crowd have wanted encotcs and I've never legislated
for that. When it's over I want more time. I don't want
to leave the stage but it's game over!
From playing In Europe, how did you find the
crowds in other cultures? And the techno scenes In
other countries?
One of the teasons I took on the live gigs was that
I always wanted to travel. I know quite a lot of DJs and
I was always a little bit jealous when they wete going
to these countries every weekend. I wanted to meet
other like-minded souls who were into thc same music
as mc. That's what's nice about travelling. It's amazing
to go to another country and meet someone that has
your record and knows the tune. That is a really lovely
thing. And when you make this music in yout bedroom,
you don't really know who it's going to reach. So to go
thousands of miles to another country and know some-
one's got your ep is a fantastic thing.
Do different cultures react to the music In the
same way from country to country?
Not really. I or instance Glasgow is a fantastic city
for house and techno. They really know their stuff. I'm
not being sexist or anything but the girls arc as knowl-
cgable as the guys. They're used to having good DJs
up there. Lots of the American DJs come to Scotland first
and play there before they hit London. Because they
are so used to good DJs you have to work them. But if
you work them well they're true fans.
Where did the Inspiration come to make Where
There's Life? It's rarer for techno artists to make a flow-
ing album (and not a collection of tracks) than say pop
or rock artists.
Well, going back to my past again. I'm a fan as I said
before, and the albums that I own ate really special. For
mc the word album is really special. In this scene I find
it a bit strange that you put two bits of vinyl together
in a sleeve and you can call it an album. Some people
call it a double pack. I don't like this word! Sometimes
it's eight banging tracks or eight mellow tracks. There's
no continuity. If I only make one album I want to be
able to say that it was the best that I could do, that it
is an album! If I die tomorrow then I've made that album
that I've really wanted to make. That's how I approached
it. I wanted little intros. I wanted it to end in a certain
way and ebb and flow and have something for every-
one like a good album should.
Is It Inspired from personal experiences?
Yes. Definitely! One of the things about mc is that
I'm nototiously very slow at making tracks. Hence four
eps over three years on Soma! But a lot of it is from per-
sonal experience
Can you tell us what sort of things Inspire you to
sit down In the studio?
Absolutely. Well I don't want to bring anyone down
but I entered into a deptession this time last year. It was
a really serious depression where I had to seek some
help. It's a hard thing this scene. One thing that we can-
not take away from it is the word underground. It's vety
easy for people who listen to think, "I le records for
Soma. I le must be doing well!" But if you'te not a DJ
and you only sell cps, it's all an undergroung thing. We
don't sell hundreds of thousands of copies, only thou-
sands. It's a struggle. You haven't got a job but you want
to make this music, and I was litutally on thc edge. I
thought I would have to give up because I wanted to
live. But at the same time I thought I really had some-
thing to say with my music. I didn't have a place to
record. I had all the geat but I had domestic problems,
relationship problems and all manner of things lhat hap-
pened within a space of time.
I actually got out of it because my record company
Soma invited me up to Glasgow. I'd never actually
been there before even though I'd been recording for
them for a few years. I went to Glasgow and almost
made another family. It
was wonderful. They
cased my confidence
back. When I came back il
jusl all poured out! And lhal's Where's There's Life!
Thanks for sharing that with us. I hope you're feel-
ing better now!
Yes I am. You know it comes in waves, doesn't it?
I think it's great that you could express yourself like
that.
I suppose it's a bit bolder because I'm naked in thai.
I'm thete to be shot down. But I don't mind at al!
because it's real. It's teal life and I think everyone can
relate.
You're also going to start your own record label. Can
you tell us about that?
It's actually with someone else, Mr Funk D'Void (tars
Sandberg). The label is called Dark Night Recordings and
the first release should be out in the new year. We make
thc tracks together.
Is there a musical style or concept Involved In that?
Not really. I think you have to imagine how Envoy
and I unk D'Void would sound like. Everyone has their
prc-conceptions about how wc should sound. So wc
just want to keep people guessing!
Do you have other artists Involved In the label?
No not at the moment. It's really just for us to gel
thc stuff we do out. In the fututc we would really like
lo progress to that stage, the first few tcicases are just
going top be mc and Funk.
Electronic music does get criticised. You talked
about the "t word" earlier! That dirty word that is so mis-
understood. Can you defend the music from people
who say It's created by computers and has no soul or
funk?
Apart from putting on one of my records which is
a bit blase, it is hard to defend. We'te in this scene and
we can't speak for every record that comes out each
week. To be really fair, for every great record there is
a record that is not so great. All I know is that since I've
been into it, every couple of years they say "It's over!
They've been swept under the carpet and thcy'te not
coming back." But we'te still here!
You can compare it to thc rock/pop scene The
same dinosaur giants ate making music in the present
day. It might not be as great as when they were doing
it in the 1970's but they're still making the music. I hat's
like us! The same Dave Angels and the Juans and thc
Jeffs and thc Mad Mikes ate still making quality records.
I don't think it's going away. I think we're here to stay
and people have just got to accept it.
Is a computer a musical Instrument?
There is a human input because you have to tap
in! It really depends on how you approach the whole
music-making side The way I describe the whole
techno thing is that as a fan, or for anyone listening to
the music for the first time, when I first put a techno
record on I was blown away. I thought "I low did that
guy/girl make those sounds? How did that happen?" I
had a synthesizer and I thought, "I'm going to try and
make those sounds!" So you are stealing, but every
musician steals because you need a reference point lo
start off with. And that could be that fitst techno record
you put on.
alick

