24 Clubbing 7 December 1998
.•;:., •
• •
•
: .;.
Milk #?' 2 Suti&rs
• •
•
•
'
•
/
* '
@ The Cross
Southern Comfort
@ The Scene
Goods Yard, of! Kind's Way, King s Cross (opp. Baglcv's VVarohouso) - cur-
rently monthly n 'xidency. 1 ridays, £12.10 30pm - 6am, capacity' 360, Glam dr
code.
people (and bouncers!), enough room to dance, and a few freobies st alien >
•
herr'and then uou ptobabh won 1 get those though p a l s o l i h i |ob Im
all ml to savl. Ailogclhi r a ieall\ groou I iida\ night.
. • '• • . , : : ' ! : ' . : . , i: > ... '! t h o U g h
and can gel a bil sweaty (its a club convened out ol some old railway arches,
its not ti 0 aie I Ihe (rbss I 'till ot ol the most stylish venues in London, am
is increasingly the place to be seen. Its even rumoured thai this is Baby Spin;'
favourite < Itib. And if It's good enough for the blond-haired, wide-hipped om
then it'll certainly do for me.
As for the night, .Milk n' 2 Sugars is : ir y I tabpy, and most defihiti ver\
\er\ st \\ Ihe musn is M M Ihe peoplt arr sex on a stick, tnd :\ n their mer
bership cards are sexy. All live club babes (of both SCNCS) are out in this wood,
run I 11 1I1 1 d girls <;omg lor it to some dt hghltul u <i hou 1 anc
1 in ihe mlndlc -
twiddling that ran piaeu 1 hit • 1 is < I < < mn yaiagi DJs \t \tilk n'2 Sugars Ihe
residents and the likes of the mighty Roy Davis Jnr. (ovet from America for his
only UK appearand! this year) mak sun that the tunes arid fh< mi>
ues.to bi up-beai enough to dance to, but still with that qroov e d | | | i gt you
expect at a garage influenced night,
Manicness is not what this night is all aboul but al the same time you won
just see people tapping their feet to the tunes and sipping on their G&ls. fh<
crowd is never in \oi face like at the more crazy, drug-influenced tendon night'
Ihe crowd here: is more sophisticated, and arc mon; likely to be; downing a few
Vodka Red Bulls than half a pill and a wrap. Bui tins dor sn t m ih lh< m boring
people in here still enjoy themselves lo Ihe extreme and really (Jo try to dai
the night away. It's jusi that there is a lot less tension in here than on an awful
lot of othei nights in the capital (less paranoia, I guess). All in all a confident
night, lull of Lonftdcnt people-, just go and stylishly loose the plot for the night
Now foi the cheesy bit - I've got to say a special Cheers Male! to lim, • ho
promotes the night, for all his help lasi week. Also look out lor a competition to
win Milk n 2 Sugars concessions in one of our issues after
I'll have three lumps, please. *
SI6 (ikt Kent Rd South tendon, 9pm -4am, capacily
dan; go Sou
SO. V:
the river you could be in lot a pleasant surprise;, as this
is the home of what is known as the UK Underground Garage si one \nd In my
humble opinion this includes one group which puts on some of the best events
-the Upfront 99.3fm kru, who also run a pirate radio station, and have their fin-
ger on the pulse, and access to some ol the best Garage DJs around.
Southern Comfort is a monthly event at (he recently refurbished Scene
Nightclub, which providi s the p< rfect surroundings foi this night of sexy under-
ground garage The venue is only small, so you'd better arrive early to avoid dis-
appointment - the last two I attended, have been serious roadblock sessions.
This isn't all that surprising 'cos as I said before the night is run in conjunction
with Upfront 99.3fm, one of London's leading pirale stations. I hey make? lull
use of the wealth of DJ talent at their disposal, and on this night you don't only
get Ihe lull Upfront I lilsauad treatment - Ihe Dexter. Dl Para. KCK. lavDee & l.)l
Risky,
age were covered!
leiground beats. Pa
ought the vocal
a little deepet
in- pic:
lei on i iping it up and ihe Dextei • mashed 1
1 as always, with
fi nt d iplal ction..going on; .alopgsideffle usual crowd please
)i on tin night I wont wa unbeln\abli relaxed n friendly. And
T seen as sexy a crowd as this lot. I his is a nighl I can firmly moor
Southern Comfort Pt. 5 is on December 51 h, and double-header New Year's
Lve spectaculars are also being held at The Scene Nightclub and the Vaibonne
Nightclub, in Purely, Surrey. Yes, two dubs, one night, one vibe. Keep it locked
to Upfront 99.3fm for further info on forthcoming events and one-off specials
that'll be popping up all over town Lnough respec I lo all I plronl management
n' all da family.
Upfront running tings for 99...
jo Public
Roobarb

