4 News 7 December 1998
In brief... Fellwanderers Fall
ICSM top the league Part-Time Infringement
Victim to Minibus Fault
ICSM rugby students have exceeded
all expectation by winning the I lalifax-
sponsored, British universities south-
ern premier league. The team has no
doubt benefited from the merger
between St. Mary's and Charing Cross
under the IC name bringing about
unexpected victories over universities
reputed for their strength, teams like
Brunei West fondon. A victory in the;
national play-off against the northern
champions, set to take place at the
end of January, would nicely round-off
the team's already impressive perfor-
mance.
Fastrack to IC PhD
Some of the top physics professors are
currently debating over whether physics
students should be allowed to take a
PhD after just a three yeat degree
course. At the Standing Committee of
Physics Professors held last month, Mal-
colm Longair, head of physics and
astronomy at Cambridge said "although
it is not absolutely mandatory, we very
strongly encourage people to do a four-
year course"
Conversely, the IC physics depart-
ment does not consider a four-year
degree to be mandatory for progres-
sion onto a PhD. Dr R Burns, the admis-
sion tutor at IC, is confident that "
someone with a three-year degree
from IC is adequately trained to do a
PhD"
Oxford Dispute
Two undergraduates at Oxford univer-
sity have been threatened with exam
and lecture suspension if they fail to
pay the newly introduced tuition fees.
They were given until the end of last
week to pay the money they owed,
but as Felix went to print the result of
the dispute had still not been resolved.
The students were protesting at the
recently introduced controversial gov-
ernment policy that requires all under-
graduates to contribute £1000 towards
their tuition fees. It is believed that the
action taken by Oxford was the first of
its kind over the new policy.
Research undertaken by thc university
of Central London have found that
some students are spending the equiv-
alent of two days a week part-timing to
make ends meet. Their survey also
showed that 2 in 5 full-time under-
graduates had a part-time job, which
corresponds to a 10% rise over a period
of three years. The danger is that some
university students may suffer acade-
mically as a result of trying to support
themselves financially. This comes in
thc wake of the on-going tuition fee
saga, which still arouses feelings of
animosity.
Medical Correction
fast weeks article "Wade in Resigna-
tion Nightmare" stated that Oli Warren
had been asked to stand down by the
ICSM Admissions Tutor. Since this arti-
cle went to press, we have learnt that
such a meeting did not take place, and
would like to apologise for any incon-
vienience caused to either Mr Warren
or Ms Burnett.
By Tony Ofori and Gareth Morgan
The fellwanders were at the centre of a
potentially catastrophic situation due to
the mechanical fault in a minibus.
On 22 of Novembet. the IC Fell-
wanderers society left London in a Union
minibus and headed up thc M l . They
had not gone far before the driver
realised that something was afoot. The
change was subtle at first leading thc dri-
ver thinking that the untesponsive steer-
ing was due to high winds. After
travelli ng a little futthet the driver lost
control. Ihe minibus shook and veered
across the motorway, at 60 mph. It Is
believed that this was directly attributable
to a mechanical problem. Fortunately,
the driver managed to get the bus from
the fast lane to the hard shoulder avoid-
ing collision with any other vehicles.
However, the bus did hit the ctash bar-
rier beyond the hard shoulder, and was
damaged in thc process. Alhough the
bus was thc only casualty, thc society
members were forced to wait three
hours at a nearby service station before
they could return to college.
ICU said that the cause of the crash
was uncertain, and that an insurance
assessor would determine what actually
happened.
It is tumoured that sufficient infor-
mation was known about the unroad-
worthy bus to avoid its use prior to thc
event. It is allcdged that the condition of
thc vehicle had been assessed and the
steering had been recorded as defective.
The person who came to collect bus is
believed lo have ignored the note detail-
ing fault because they assumed that the
minibus would not have available if it
had not been serviced following this
assessment.
The bus has certainly seen better days
Photo:Andy
HAIR SALON
C U T & B L O W D R Y
B Y O U R T O P S T Y L I S T S
&20 L A J D I E S
& 1 7 M E N
Normal Price Jt,35
A C C E S S V I S A M A S T E R C A R D C A S H C H E Q U E S
'Still the best student offerV
15a Harrington Road
South Kensington
London SW7 3ES
(1 Minute walk from
South Kensington Tube)
Teleph one 0171 823 8968

