7 December 1998
Editorial & Small Ads
A Plea to DOC Students
The more astute of you will probably
notice that this editorial, and the
accompanying notice, are in a dif-
ferent font from the rest of Felix this
week. This isn't an attempt to try out
new styles, but a result of computers,
in particular IBM based machines,
being unreliable. Yes, once again
the Felix server has shown itself to be
the embodiment of all things evil,
and Windows to be the manifestation
of the devil (I like Microsoft really -
please don't sue us).
So thank you to our printers for
letting me use their Macintosh to fin-
ish this edition, and if any D O C stu-
dents fancy making a million and
not selling their soul; please, create
an operating system and that is reli-
able when running a network. I'll
give you a tenner.
Elections
As a fair and impartial man, I cannot
possibly advise you how to vote in
the DP(C&S) elections next week.
All I would say is that it is our last
chance to get someone for the post
this year. Take it or leave it. What-
ever the result, it would be nice if a
reasonable number of people voted.
It really makes a difference to us
sabbaticals if we feel we have a
decent backing from you, the stu-
dents. May I wish Marie the best of
luck in the elections. Oh, and Ron
as well.
Drugs, You Need Drugs
Next term I am hoping to reopen the
age-old drugs debate. Before col-
lege officials complain, I would point
out that I intend to make the debate
fair and impartial, as always. In par-
ticular, I want to look at people's
personal experience. To do this I
need your help. If you have had any
interesting experiences with any
drug, legal or illegal, good or bad, I
want to hear from you. You can, of
course, remain anonymous - simply
drop letters into the office or email us
(emails will be deleted after down-
loading). I would also like to hear
from any members of college who
have had experience with drugs, or
drug users, as part of their research.
I myself am a drug addict -1 smoke
20 a day.
-Ed
Bound Editions
Bound editions
from last year are
now available.
Please drop into
the Felix office
before the end of
term if you ordered
a bound edition at
the end of last year.
Free Concert!
Imperial College Winds will be giving
a lunchtime concert In the Great Hall
on
Wednesday 9th December
1pm
It won't cost you a thing, so please
bring all your friends.
If you'd like to know more about the
programme, please take a look at the
posters on the walkway.
City & Guilds College
Union
Officers & Members
Committee Meeting
Thursday 10 December 1998
6pm Guilds Office (Mcch bng Rm 340)
All welcome
Papers to be submitted by 5pm Tues-
day 8th December to C&GU Office
Southwell Hall Subwarden Position
Southwell is a hall of residence situated in Lvelyn Gardens (walking distance from
thc main campus). It is a newly refurbished hall with excellent facilities housing
up to 210 undergraduate students. Southwell Hall has a ttadition of being one of
thc friendliest halls in Imperial College with an amazing social life.
As a subwarden, you will work as part of the wardening team that is respon-
sible for the pastoral care and discipline of the students. Thete is also much to be
done in the day-to-day running of the hail as well as a wide tange of social events
to organise.
You will need to be a caring and mature individual who has the energy to work
hard for the hall and who is comfortable with responsibility and willing to take thc
initiative. In return you will receive rent free accommodation in a newly renovated
environment. The position is available from 1st of January 1999.
Application forms arc available from the Accommodation Office at 15 Princes
Gardens or from Dr D Britton in thc Physics Department. They should be returned
to thc latter no later than 14 December 1998.
Exam Stress Workshops
Wednesday 9 December and
Wednesday 16 December
3pm to 4.30pm at thc Health Centre
Free!
for bookings please ring Liliane Carter
on (0171 59)49381
Opting out of ICU
Students who wish to exercise their right
under thc Education Act 1994 formally
to opt out of ICU and CCU member-
ship, may now visit thc Student Records
Office, Room 343 Sherfield Building, to
record their decision. The only practical
effect of opting out wiil be that they can-
not stand for elected office or take part
in Union elections and teferenda.
Ball Launched into Cyberspace
Friday 25th June
Alexandra Palace
Register online? now [www.su.ic.ac.uk/summerball/l to receive up to date infor-
mation throughout the year on Summerball 1999
Info & Ideas: summer.ball@lc.ac.uk

