7 December 1998 Columns
Medicine Matters
Like a phoenix from the flames...
F
ollowing is a quick summary of the
situation regarding the medical
school union and its workings and
relations. Everybody hates us. Almost all
of the competent and hard working
members have quit and the rest are
about to go. Everybody is being investi-
gated for financial irregularities. This sum-
mary was gleaned from a thirty-second
glance over the last half dozen issues of
felix.
What a load of bollocks, ICSMSLJ is
probably one of the strongest unions in
the College. It has taken the shit handed
out to it by some small-minded twats
both within the medical school and with-
out and it has survived. It has put with
mis-reporting on an almost criminal level,
alleged near-bankruptcy and the back-
stabbing that would shock Saddam Hus-
sein's regime.
On Monday night I attended a Union
meeting and if ever proof was needed
as to how much the union cares about
the students it represents, and how hard
it works on behalf of those students,
then this was It.
The medics' union
is an effective body of
people working
extremely hard to pro-
tect the Imperial Medics
from people deter-
mined to screw them.
The last few
months have seen
some bitter arguments
raised surrounding the
whole medics at IC
issue. Has anyone won-
dered why? Medics arc,
on the whole, good at
striking up friendships
with people. It is on the clinical syllabus
that you have to be seen to be able to
establish a rapport with people who are
sick, in pain or even dying. Yet IC give the
impression that medics apply the sort of
levels of tact and sensitivity usually
reserved only for bouncers and diplo-
mats. Could this be the ugly green mon-
ster raising its head? My private theory,
Nick Newton
designed as I write this
to be as insulting to
those I wish to insult as
possible, is this. Medics
arc so much better than
the non-medics at IC
are. lake the example
of the rugby team
which is one match
away from being top of
the English BUSA cham-
pionship. Which league
docs the IC rugby team
play for?
Ihe case of the
rugby team is of course,
just one example and
you only have to mention the IC boat
club to counter it. I wonder, though,
how many people will get upset when I
suggest that the people that write against
or speak against medics arc jealous
because they failed to get into medi-
cine themselves? If I write that I believe
that anyone not teading medicine is a
second class citizen at IC because the
school ol medicine brings in almost fifty
per cent of the IC research budget, will
anyone write indignant letters to I elix?
I sincerely hope so because I am
clearly talking complete rubbish and all
the sensible intelligent people at IC know
this. So, if you know when I am talking
rubbish and I know that I am talking rub-
bish then why can you not tell when
other people are talking rubbish. It is an
essential skill that all scientists are taught
(or should be) to separate the intellectual
wheat from the chaff. Whether you are
reading papers that concern your subject
or are trying to establish the relevance of
a set of data you are extracting informa-
tion and making a judgement of the
veracity of that information. If people
tried applying the principles of ignoring
the bullshit and getting on with their
lives then life at IC would run a lot more
smoothly and everybody could start work-
ing together lor the good of themselves,
which as I have often said, is what the
union is all about.
Presidential Talk-Back
night or sacrifice
W
ell done David Hellard, ICU President their weekends to
everyone the books to try and
who applied to the , finish projects. 9pm doesn't
Dillons hardship fund. 52% of -fadjIfchH even reach the hrst coffee
thf applicants were from break, let alone anything near
•i 1 I
.
.
.
. •
•
;
•
.
!
: ' h '0. nioh: ol sllldv
if. i i ; V)lurday.ar<M,|ion taken
apply). By my calculations f t *•/ *~ up with sports matches and
• • •
•
>
• o. • . i, .. i: • • iii •
: oi a <
• 'iovc iv Irom the
on average, so most people WL night before and the tradi
should be getting what they . -^f tionalty empty day of Sunday
applied for. is the natural work spot ol the
My topic for discussion a m
w e e k e n d . It is hard to believe
this week is the library. Quite a few stu- that College is restricting student's stud-
dents have complained about the limited ies, forcing them to work in hours that
opening hours of the library. Imperial a lot people find unsociable; very few stu-
College has one of the heaviest work- dents can face visiting the library straight
loads in the country in nearly all subjects, after a hard days work to try and fit in the
requiring its students to be in lectures or work that they have for the next day.
labs during the day. Because of this The library should remain open to at
most students are forced to work outside least 11 pm in the weekdays and prefcr-
the normal 9-6 lecture schedule and due ably all of Sunday. If you agree or have
to the specialist nature of our courses, any other problems with the library
the library is essential to most studying, please email me at the address below.
The library is currently open until 9.00pm Please also contact me if you would like
during the week and does not open at mc to look into another subject that you
all on Sundays. Given the workload that find unjust in College.
Imperial dishes out and the huge num- Presldent@lc.ac.uk
ber of deadlines, a lot of students find Next week: Catering (especially the
themselves having to work well into the prices of the Main Dining Hall).
M a c b e t h
BUB W SH ^BJBp^^HBi ^^BP^^ IRW^BJP^ ^^BBB*^ ^MR»
Wednesday 9th - Saturday 12th December
Union Concert Hall, 7:300m !
Students £4.00, Non-students £5.00

