Compiled by Phil Web<
V U W W U W I f W W W W W U W l / W W l f ^
Results: Wednesday, February 18
Hockey
IC V LSE 7-1
Guilds V RCS 2-0
Football
IC 1st V LH 3-0
IC2nd V LH 6-0
IC3rd V Goldsmith 0-4
IC6th V Westminster f3-0
Rugby
IC 1st V Thames Poly 14-11
IC2nd V Thames Poly 9-8
Basketball
IC 1st V V Kingston Poly 78-128
Football Sixths
WITH one minute of the game left the referee
awarded the Sixths a penalty. The crowd was
iiushed as Barton stepped up, the atmosphere
was electric. Slowly Dick moved towards the
ball as the Westminster goalkeeper fidgetted
nervously on his line. Then Dick struck the
ball sweetly towards the corner of the net but
the Westminster goalkeeper leapt to his left
and palmed the ball off for a corner. However,
the Sixths managed to hold on to their six
goal lead until the final whistle.
In fact this was the Sixths biggest win of the
season. Chamberlain scored the first after the
Westminister goalkeeper could only parry
Martin's shot. Haberlin was the next to score
with a fine header from a corner. It was
following another corner that Chamberlain
scored the third goal after Haberlin headed
against the bar. The Sixths continued to
dominate the game with Martin outstanding in
mid-field. Roche added a fourth with a header
from c l o s e range but despite further
pressure the score was four-nil at half-time.
In the second half, playing against the
wind, the Sixths created fewer chances. After
a quarter of an hour Coussens scored the fifth
goal following a fine solo run. The game then
stagnated for a period and all credit should be
given to Higham, Haberlin, Bradley and
Davies in the defence for coping admirably
with Westminster's occasional breaks. The
sixth goal came midway through the second
half when Roche's powerful cross was
deflected into the net by a Westminster
defender. IC continued to press forward but
did not add to their score.
T E A M : Hampton, Higham, Bradley,
Haberlin, Davies, Tinkler, Martin, Gartside,
Coussens, Roche, Chamberlain.
Fencing
OUR return match with Kings College,
London, on home ground was overall, as
successful as our away match had been. We
fielded two foil teams of four members each
— the A team and a mixed ability B team —
together with one Epee team of three
members. I'm afraid that our sabre team was
yet again disappointed as no opposition
sabre team was available — bad luck lads.
The Epee team came up against particularly
tough opposition and lost 6-3, the same score
as in the away match. On a more optimistic
note, both foil teams won convincingly. The A
team conceded only 6 out of 16 bouts, Chris
Wachnicki remaining unbeaten. The whole
team produced highly entertaining fights with
some beautiful hits — pity we didn't bring a
camera. The B team were also on good form,
Johnathon Reed winning all of his bouts.
Special congratulations are due to Hugh
MacGillivray, who, in his first match, won
three out of his four fights with some very
neat blade work; well done Hugh.
Thanks are due to Phil Bird who presided
most ably over the B team match and did all
the general dogsbody work on the evening.
Foil A (10-6) Team: Bird, Crisp, Parker,
Wachnicki.
Foil B Team (12-4): MacGillivray, Reed,
Spottiswoode, Tsui.
Epee Team (3-6): Collins, Perkins,
Wachnicki.
Camborne
Weekend
LAST weekend saw the massed heathens
from a certain Mining polytechnic in Cornwall
sent back west with little more than a narrow
victory in one out of six events.
The competitions began well on Friday
evening with a resounding 5-0 victory in the
squash. It's been several years since RSM
came out top, and there was certainly no
better way to get things back on the right
track. Congratulations to the team led by
Dave Molesworth and ably backed up by
Ralph David, John Stocks (repeating third
year for the eighteeneth time). Rich
Thompson, and Mark Patterson.
No problems were had in the table tennis
with Rich Fifieid (ULU number one) leading
tiie way. The only criticism is that CSM won
two out of ten games. The one disappointing
event of the evening was the badminton held
in the Great Hall. Hard luck to the six RSM
players who were narrowly edged 4-5 into
second place.
With the tension gradually mounting, the
football and hockey teams with the more
dedicated RSM supporters left the Union
early on Saturday morning.
CSM decided, unlike previous years, to
bring a hockey team with them. After a quick
start by RSM and a gradual takeover of
control the result was never in question after
I went two up midway through the
second half. With several players having to
play out of position the final performance was
quite creditable. Maybe the CSM will think
twice before bringing another team up to
Harlington.
By one o'clock the number of supporters
had grown sufficiently for there to be a cup-
tie atmosphere during the football. The CSM
ware revoltingly noisey after a first minute
goal, but were soon shut up by an over-
whelming barrage on their defence. By half-
time RSM were three up.
Was it complacency or sympathy that
allowed CSM to pull two goals back? No, it
Wham!!! Dashing heriocs on the hockey field.
just made their inevitable defeat that more
disheartening. R S M , captained by Tom
Hanke, performed magnificently.
Even though the RSM were now 4-1 up in
the match results, the success of the whole
weekend hinged very much on the result of
the Bottle match. The tension before the
game in the changing room was unbearable
and the atmosphere electric.
The game proved to be very hard indeed, as
can be seen in the number of injuries
received. Two CSM players had to be taken
off concussed and one with a broken jaw.
Furthermore the CSM winger flaked out after
the game; he was also concussed. Doug
Mcintosh had to be led off with ten minutes to
go with a twisted ankle.
The only scoring in the first half was an
excellent penalty goal by Keith Maynard.
Keith had an excellent game and his kicking
was superb and did much to inspire the team
to go forward.
Good defensive work in the second half
saw RSM soak up a lot of pressure and
gradually more into attack. Mark Daniels and
Ray Parkinson were stopped just a yard short
in a period of sustained RSM pressure.
Eventually a line out on the CSM line led to
M c i n t o s h going over for the first try,
beautifully converted by Maynard. From the
kick-off a certain CSM prop reverted to low
flying head-butts and succeeded in breaking
his jaw and stopping the game for six
minutes. The' result was never in question
now and only complacency allowed CSM to
score an unconverted try in the last minute
Although the game was a bit scrappy at
times it was hard fought with total commit-
ment from both sides.
The Dinner to follow was a rather rowdy
affair with CSM proving what animals they
really are. The Bottle was duly returned to the
Union Bar on Sunday and now RSM can say:
"Didn't we stuff Camborne".
flags 10 FEUX, February 27,1981

