Results: Saturday, February 21
Hockey
IC 1st V Thames Valley 3-1
IC2nd V Harrow 2-1
IC 3rd V British Airways 0-0
Football
IClst V LSE 2-3
IC2nd V LSE 2-1
IC3rd V Kings 1-1
IC4th V Kings 4-3
Rugby
IC'A' V Old Kingsburians 9-42
Football Seconds
IC's impressive first half performance was
enough to give them both points and a
hundred per cent record at home this season.
The afternoon had not started well when
only nine players arrived in the Union
Lounge. The goalkeeper problem was solved
however when Al Betts, who had returned to
IC for the previous night's Aerosoc dinner,
walked in and accepted the offer for a game.
Inside the first ten minutes of the match, IC
were in front after Veenman had forced the
ball across the area and Hartland rifled his
shot, on the run, past the helpless keeper.
Further pressure again paid dividends when
Beer volleyed his shot against the keeper with
such force that it rebounded and allowed
him a few more attempts before finally
squeezing the ball home.
LSE however, are a good footballing side
and were not going to give up easily. The
impressive Betts was forced to make two fine
saves when faced with a rapidly advancing
forwards. In the second half LSE increased
the pressure to little effect, whilst IC
squandered the chances which coud have
made the game safe.
LSE eventually scored with fifteen minutes
to go when a shot from outside the box hit a
post and rebounded kindly to the feet of an
LSE forward.
The last quarter produced some frantic
stuff, although the tenacity of every member
of the side was enough to give IC the win that
they thoroughly deserved.
TEAM: Betts, Dunhill, Beer, Armstrong,
Lakin, Griffiths, Wiggins, Lay, Veenman,
Hartland, Saunders.
Jim Beer
Football Fourths
IC took the field with three changes from their
regular team for the top of the table clash.
The Fourths started well, gaining control of
the midfield and should have taken the lead
cheering this spell of pressure.
Twenty minutes into the game Hawa gave
IC the lead when a break led to him scoring
from just inside the box. This led to more
good play from the league leaders.
Then disaster struck, Buckley in the right
back position, with time and space to play the
ball anywhere passed straight to their centre
forward who hit a first time shot past
Hampton. The match then became scrappy
and rough play resulted with Burns, Hawa
and Graves all' involved in fights with the
opposition.
After half-time IC looked the better team,
and McNicholas gave them the lead when
after a long ball from defence he scrambled
the ball into the net. King's defence were
again caught square and Burns lobbed the
advancing keeper to give the Fourths a 3-1
lead.
Lack of concentration in defence allowed
Kings to reduce the deficit before the best
goal of the match. Buckley beat two men and
ran thirty yards before curling a shot just
inside the post. Again King's scored quickly
but IC's defence managed to hold out and
enabled IC to gain the two points.
TEAM: Hampton, Clegg, Gohill, Maddy,
Chown, Buckley, Graves, Dolan, McNicholas,
Burns, Hawa.
Castaways Cup
THIS is one of the most important and
prestigious events in the ULSC calendar. All
the London colleges and City University are
invited to enter a three boat team and IC
presented two teams to defend the title again
this year.
The racing took place over last weekend
and the first race was timed for just after 9:30
on Saturday. However the Harp was frozen
and by the time racing started (almost an
hour late) the efforts of the rescue boat zig-
zagging up and down the lake and of the few
happy souls who had taken a boat out had
made depressingly little impact on the
surface.
IC 2 were due to sail the first race and using
the tactic of sailing in ice free channels were
winning easily until the first mark. Here the
almost unbroken ice brought all the team to a
halt, unable to tack, and in danger of giving
penalties if they touched. However new-
f o u n d skill and s o m e luck got them
unscathed out of the situation and they went
on to gain first, second and third positions.
As the day proceeded the ice cleared and
some good team racing was seen. IC 2 were
beating most people on the water, but giving
penalty points to anyone who cared to ask, in
one race giving three "greens" (63
/4 points)
on the start line before the race. They finally
lost to both UL teams, QMC and IC 1 but beat
City on a resail. This gave them six wins and
fifth place in the competition. A good
weekend's sailing considering the team
consisted entirely of first years.
IC 1 however owned the competition. They
began showing little potential, winning race
but only by narrow margins but as Saturday's
racing continued a combination of good
individuals, people with team racing
experience and fast sailing ability, began to
show as one after another the teams fell to
their superior force. By Saturday evening, as
the teams retired to hot food, the bar and barn
dancing, arranged by Castaways, IC 1 was
the only unbeaten team having shown its
versatility and consistancy through changing
winds and weather conditions.
9:30 Sunday morning again saw the team
on the water for a resail against UC2, this was
a farce, since although IC managed to put
hastily rigged boats on the water for the resail
UC2 had requested, UC couldn't manage to
present a team and IC1 merely sailed the
course alone. This did however give a
measure of the again vastly different weather
conditions. In contrast to Saturday it was
blowing quite hard and it eventually became
necessary to reef the sails.
The league table s h o u l d have been
concluded with a match between IC1 and
UC1 but by the appointed time it was clear
that it was these two teams that were to meet
in the final and with Wembley SC putting
more and more boats on the water it was
decided to go straight into the final, best of
two races.
In the first race Lewis moved immediately
into first place and Baker, covering the
opposition stayed just ahead of Murray and
two UC boats in second, with first and second
position, a winning combination the two
leaders sailed for the finish. UC needing the
best placings possible should have pushed
Murray back to sixth, but rounding the last
bouy with only yards to go they let him
through into third place. IC retained their
unbeaten record and needed only one boat
in the first three to win the competition.
In the second race Lewis again got a good
start and sailed away from the fleet in first
place with Murray and Baxter loosly covering
the opposition up.
The beats they retained third and fifth
places, despite some desparate manoeuvres
by UL during which a green was given. The
final result was IC1 retained their unbeaten
record over the weekend beating UC1 in the
final by 15V2 points to 26 (first, second, third,
first, third and fifth) and retainino the Cup.
A word is due here to thank Cestaways for
organising an event which went jff smoothly
and was enjoyable both on and off the water.
Snooker
THE B TEAM with a new line-up managed to
crush a QMC team who lacked talent and a
sporting attitude. Mr P Holt kept up his good
form by winning convincingly. Bennet
managed to lose in a dull frame where talent
and inspiration were in short supply.
The battle of the two top league teams took
place last week when our very own A team
took on our C team. The result shocked most
of the people concerned when the A team
won by five frames to nil. The C team were
taken by surprise when their veteran players
lost frame after frame to an A team riddled
with young upstarts.
This year's AGM will be held on March 11.
Papers for next year's committee posts are
up in the Snooker Lounge.
Water Polo
LAST Saturday, Bristol University came to
London to give us a match, in return for our
visit last month. Both sides were hoping to
improve on the 4-4 score last time.
imperial started very well, and scored three
goals in the first quarter, while only
c o n c e e d i n g one. Last, Heffeman and
McCartney took turns in our goal, each
playing well.
The end result was a pleasing 8-3 win for
Imperial. Goals came from Barry, Nick, Mike
and Richard.
Ten Pin Bowling
ON Sunday, February 22 four enthusiastic
members of the Bowling Club set off to bowl
in the P o m p e y Q u a d s T o u r n a m e n t at
Portsmouth. When we left London at 9:30am
the weather was cold but the roads were
clear, however, on reaching Hindhead, half
way to P o r t s m o u t h , the weather was
appalling with compacted snow on the roads.
Only skillful driving on J Knight's part
prevented an accident. We arrived unscathed
and after sampling the local brew we
commenced bowling. The bowling was
divided into two sets of doubles and the
combined quads competition and after
disappointing bowling by all players in our
team we lost the Quads Trophy that Imperial
held last year. However, individual trophies
were won by McMullan and Cook. For the
highest handicap doubles series. Finally
thanks must go to Knight for providing
transport.
Hyde Park Relay
DID you know that Imperial College is the
host of one of the country's top athletics
events? Out very own Hyde Park Relay starts
at 2:00pm on Saturday, February 28 on the
south side of the Serpentine. Helpers and
anyone who can put safety pins in envelopes
should meet in the morning in the Union
Building. Spectators are welcome. You may
see some well known athletes (Seb Coe?).
Look out for confirmation of these details
beside the Union Staircase.
FEUX, February 27,1981 Page 11

