D o you
write plays
The Edinburgh Festival Fringe is a showcase for
original productions, and this year IC Dramsoc is
to be on display. If you wish us to consider one of
your works then contact us on internal 2854 or in
the storeroom (Union East Staircase) by March
11. The plays must be for a small cast (up to eight)
preferably in one scene with a minimum of props
(we have to get it Edinburgh)! It would help if
costumes are cheap (e.g. modem dress).
The meeting where the plays will be chosen will
be in the Lower Refectory on Tuesday, March 17.
Good Luck.
Graham Brand
President, Dramsoc
UROP
summerjobs
The Undergraduate Research Opportunities
Programme is beginning to attract sponsorship
from outside organisations and, firms. This will
take the form of contributing towards the cost of a
student working on his UROP project during the
summer vacation.
To qualify for support a student must have
'joined up' under the UROP scheme during the
academic year and, together with his supervisor,
make a proposal for a summer research
programme. If it is accepted UROP will pay for a
shared room in a Student House for up to ten
weeks, plus pocket money at a level negotiated by
the student with UROP and his supervisor.
So far we have offers of funding from four
different organisations, in some cases for a
particular range of projects. Offers will be posted
on the UROP noticeboard on level two walkway
outside the JCR. For further details contact:
Professor J C Anderson, Electrical Engineering.
Bookshop News
Publication date 26
Richard Gough £2.50
Penguin New Titles •
February 1981
Social History
The History of Myddle
Fiction
Schultz — JP Donleavy £1.50
Burger's Daughter — Nadine Gordimer £1.95
Grendel — John Gardner £1.25
Malcolm — James Purdy £1.95
Tales from the Little World of Don Camillo —
Giovanni Guareschi £1.25
Pelican
You and Your Heart — Paul Kezdi £1.75
Statistics Without Tears — Derek Rowntree
£1.95
Betrayal of Innocence — Forwardd & Buck £1.95
Reference
Penguin Dictionary of Microprocessors —
Anthony Chandor £2.25
Advance Information
Book Sale: April 27 — May 8
Consoc Opinion Poll
Between January 28 and February 11, members
of Consoc have been asking residents of
Falmouth and Tizard Halls their opinion on
matters both inside and outside College. We
visited 101 people (consisting 65 first years, 28
second and third years and 8 PGs) and asked
them 17 questions divided into 5 sections.
Section 1: Sabbatical Officers' Popularity
The most remarkable feature of this section was
that nearly half those questioned were unable to
give an opinion on John Passmore's performance,
and nearly two-thirds on Rae Snee and Liz
Lindsay. Of those expressing a view, people were
more or less evenly divided on Passmore and
Snee, and strongly in favour of Lindsay.
Ignorance certainly wasn't a problem with
Steve Marshall, with only one sixth of the people
not giving an opinion. The remainder approved of
his performance by a majority of a little under 2 to
1. It is worth remembering that the poll was
predominated by first years who have no
standard of comparison by which to judge the
sabbaticals' performances. Thus further analysis
of the results (ignoring don't knows) shows first
years slightly, in favour of Passmore and seconds
and thirds slightly against. Firsts were slightly
against Snee, and second and thirds about even.
With Lindsay both groups approved of her
performance, the second and thirds to a much
stronger extent. Both sections approved of
Marshall, the first years more strongly so.
Section 2: Performance of Marshall
This section aimed to find out whether people
approved of Marshall printing the controversial
'New Years Honours Shock' in FELIX, January 9.
As expected, most people had read the article,
and of these, nearly two-thirds approved of him
printing the article, humourously intended or not.
Having said that, most also thought Pub Board
was correct in asking Marshall apologise publicly,
and privately to Mr Mooney. A substantial
minority (one third) felt, however, that Pub Board
was too harsh to do this.
Section 3: ReappKcants in IC Halls and
Houses
Here, we wanted to find out what students feel
about the problem of whether or not some people
should get second years in residence, and it
produced some of the clearest response of the
poll. (It is worth remembering that the
respondents were Hall residents, and the results
should be interpreted with that in mind). Over
three-quarters felt there should be reapps in
residence. Lesser, but still clear-cut majorities,
felt that students should have the main say in who
the reapps are and that the wardens should have
the power of veto on reapps.
Section 4: Student Loans
This part was designed to assess (i) the level of
ignorance about the possibility of student loans
being introduced in the next couple of years and
(ii) what people thought of the idea. We
discovered that 20 of the 101 hadn't heard of the
proposals, and a further 25 didn't know what that
could entail. The remaining 56 split roughly 4 to 1
against the idea.
Section 5: Nuclear Weapons
Here, Consoc wanted to know what students felt
about various aspects of this controversial
subject. Firstly, excluding don't knows, more
than two-thirds felt Britain's national security
would be threatened if we undertook unilateral
nuclear disarmament, and over three-quarters
thought that such a course of action wouldn't
encourage other countries to discard nuclear
weapons. Again, after getting rid of don't knows,
small majorities approved both of Cruise missiles
being here and of Britain building Trident
submarines.
The poll obviously has limitations, namely that
the respondents were mainly first years, and all
were in Hall. However, going round Halls means
you get to see a random sample of students, that
you don't do the same person twice, and that
usually you see the student individually, so that
you get a single person's view rather than a
group's view, which you might get going round
the JCR at lunchtime. say.
This article aims merely to present the results,
not to interpret them, and interested people and
groups can draw their own conclusions about
them. Thanks are due to John Webley, Ian
Stockdale, John Patterson, Mark Clegg, William
Cortazzi and Geoff Knox for giving up their spare
time to help.
Tim Lawes
Maths 3
KEY: S-Satisfied, D—Dissatisfied, DK—Don't Know, Y-Yes, N-No, T-Total
1.1 Are you satisfied or dissatisfied with John Passmore as
S D DK T
President? 26 26 49 101
1.2 Are you satisfied or dissatisfied with Rae Snee as DP? 19 22 60 101
1.3 Are you satisfied or dissatisfied with Liz Lindsay asHon Sec? 30 9 62 101
1.4 Are you satisfiedordissatisfiedwithSteve MarshallasFELIX
Editor? 55 29 17 101
2.1 Did you read the article about Mooney inFELIX called"New Y N DK T
Years Honours Shock"? 90 11 — 101
2.2 (If Yes) Do you think Marshall was right to print the article
whether it was humourously intended or not?
on
2.3 Was Pub Board too harsh, too lenient or correct, in asking
56 26 8 90
whether it was humourously intended or not?
on
2.3 Was Pub Board too harsh, too lenient or correct, in asking T H C T L DK
Marshall apologise publicly and privately to Mooney. 31 43 4 6
Y N DK T
3.1 Do you believe in principle that there should be re-apps in IC
Halls and Houses? 77 19 5 101
3.2 Do you think students should have the main say in who the
re-apps are? 63 25 13 101
3.3 Should the wardens have the power of veto on re-apps? 59 32 10 101
4.1 Are you aware of proposals that maintenace grants might be
replaced by a part loan, part grant system in 1982? 81 20
— 101
4.2 (If Yes) Do you know what that might entail? 56 25 — 81
4.3 (If Yes) Are you in favour of such a system in principle? 10 43 3 56
5.1 In your opinion, would Britains national security be threat- 60 28 13 101
ened by undertaking unilateral disarmament?
5.1 and would suchacourse ofactionencourageother countries 21 70 10 101
to discard nuclear weapons?
5.3 Should Britain allow American Cruise missiles to be sta- 46 35 17 101
tioned here?
5.4 and should Britain go ahead with building Trident sub- 49 35 17 101
marines as her own nuclear deterrent?
Page 6 FELIX, February 27,1981

