Campaign Coffee
W H E N Y O U B U Y a jar of instant coffee, only
about 37% of what you pay will get back to the
country from which the coffee beans came.
About 10% will go to the retailer, and the rest will
go to Nestles, General Foods, or Brooke Bond
Liebig if you buy a "brand name", or to J Lyons or
Coca Cola Ltd if you buy a supermarket "own
label".
It is in processing the coffee that the profits lie.
So, in theory, if the producing countries
processed their coffee themselves, they would
make more money. In practice, however, they
run into problems with the multinational
corporations (MNCs), who may object to "unfair"
competition. When Brazilian soluble coffee
companies captured 15% of the American instant
coffee market, General Foods complained to the
U S G o v e r n m e n t with the result that the
Government threatened to cut off aid and not to
renew the International Coffee Agreement (ICA).
These companies can have more power in
shaping some countries destinies than their
governments — but, as in Britain, a lot of the
leaders of these countries have also been
company directors, which is' why the M N C s
never come under effective fire.
Although the producing countries only receive
37% of what you pay, it makes up more than a
quarter of the export earnings of eleven out of the
fifty producing countries — all Third World. In
Burundi, it accounted for 83% of export earnings
for 1972-77.
Coffee, whilst in no way essential to the survival
of its consumers, nor the M N C s , is crucial to a
producing nation's economy. Although various
ICAs have been made to try to get a better deal
for the producing countries, this non-essentiality
to the consumers coupled with the fact that
coffee beans rot if stock-piled for too long,
means that the producing nations cannot withold
the coffee until prices go up, as is done with oil
(although, after oil, coffee is the most valuable
commodity traded internationally).
Also, as the 1977 crisis showed, most of us start
questioning our "need" for coffee if shop prices
rise by more than a few pence.
The M N C s can weather crises like these — for
example, in 1977, Brooke Bond Liebig's profits
only dropped from £49 to £41. Nestle is the
second largest food company in the world
(Unilever is the largest) with an annual turnover in
1977 of about £550m — larger than the gross
international product (GNP) of 51 out of 53
African countries and 21 times the size of
Tanzania's total world sales.
In 1963, soon after independence, the new
Tanganyikan government decided, in conjunction
with its policy of self-reliance, to reap the profits
of processing the coffee itself. But, along with
equipment problems, they have also had
marketing ones. Although Nestle's were called in
to provide management and marketing skills
training, Nestles "assistance" has still not found
adequate outlets for Tanzania's admittedly more
expensive, but high quality instant coffee, nor for
helping to train Tanzanians to continue the work.
The cost of Nestles expertise to a country
which still has a clean water supply and a
dispensary as priorities for every village is
immense; but Tanzania cannot afford to do
without it as it is the western nations who have
the necessary technology and access to markets.
Until recently Tanzanian instant coffee has only
been marketed in Zambia, Kenya and Tanzania
itself as "Africafe". It is now available in Britain as
"Campaign Coffee" and can be bought from
Campaign Co-op, 52 Acre Lane, London, SW11.
On Friday, February 27, there will be a stall in the
J C R selling the coffee during lunchtime. Also on
Tuesday, M a r c h 3, at 6:30pm in the Green
Committee Room, as speaker from "Campaign
Co-Op" will be giving a lecture in the exploitation
of workers in the coffee plantations and how we
should stop supporting the multinationals and
help the developing countries instead.
The cost of the coffee will be £1 for a lOOg
packet
Jan Czernuszka
ICCAG
E V E R Y FRIDAY NIGHT at about 10:30 they
used to pack into Falmouth Kitchen as best they
could — the weekly crowd of enthusiastic
souprunners. Some were old hands. Some were
"socially aware". Others still were third years
who'd never heard of a soup run. Some just
didn't want to go to bed, while others wanted to
meet different and interesting people. And some
just came for the drive round London.
But whatever their reasons, they've stopped
coming, except for a small handful, who obviously
can't be expected to come every week.
Why don't you come?
In case you don't know, people on the Soup
Run go to various locations in London in a van,
armed with urns of hot soup, loaves of bread, and
packets of biscuits, which they distribute to those
who sleep rough, perhaps chatting to them for a
while as well. Normally back at College before
1:00am. It's certainly an eye-opening a n d
interesting night out.
Meet in the kitchen, Falmouth Hall, Southside
at about 10:30pm every Friday — at least give it a
try!
Phil
Lloyd
Appeal
Phil Lloyd was an undergraduate at Imperial
College from 1969 to 1972 and a postgraduate
from 1972 to 1976.
To those of us who know Phil Lloyd as a
student at Imperial College, the news of his
accident and the resulting permanent disability
came as a great shock. Phil was one of the
brightest students in his year, and during his time
as an undergraduate, followed by postgraduate
research, made many friends at Imperial College.
His individual flair was automative engineering.
This expertise is not bottled up in his mind; ideas
are waiting to find a way onto the drawing board
as Phil is totally paralysed from the neck
downwards.
We can help Phil by raising money to purchase
a mouth-stick operated X-Y plotter (£460) plus
any other computer aids for the severely
handicapped that are available. The experience
he gains in developing techniques in this new field
will help others similarly handicapped.
I intend to run in London's first People's
Marathon on March 29 1981 (26+ miles) from
Greenwich to The Mall. Sponsorship on a
mileage-covered basis could raise the money he
needs to get this project moving.
If you would like to help to raise money for the
Phil Lloyd Appeal I would like to hear from you.
Peter Saunders
Mech Eng Dept
SF Sock
IT W A S A N early afternoon in February and the
clocks weren't striking at all. Fortunately, neither
were the authors of the S F Soc Bulletin, which
this week comes from the pen of Mark Jeffcock,
the paper of Ken Mann, the subconscious of John
Chamberlain, and the angst of Elise Pechersky.
For those of you who dislike in-jokes, that wasn't
one, so hard luck.
Love and kisses to Afro-Carib Soc from
Jonathan's stunt hairdresser. Cynicism is Naive.
The committee for less sense in SF Sock bulletins
has ceased control of this report due to its disgust
at the rampant eroticism prevalent in Ken's
knees. Chris Priest. Sorry about the previous
sentence but I was told to mention an author.
THIS IS A L M O S T A S
DISJOINTED A S
Lot of rot, my whole life has been like that.
Have you ever read Flight 714 by Herge! Anyway
Arthur C Clarke's just a figurehead.
A FELIX L E A D A R T I C L E
I don't know what to write. Actually I was
enjoying myself with Ken's knees, but my hands
were controlled. A n d now a quote from Mark's
watch 16.8938. Thank-you.
Concealed deep within the heart of this bulletin
lies a sentence composed by Steve Higgins the
Sage of Salford. To find it; scan all sentences with
a pretentiometer. This sentence though short,
has the highest reading.
And now here are the main points again.
We're showing the Rocky Horror Picture
Show on March 10. We're going to the One
Tun in Farringdon, for further details come
to a LIBRARY MEETING on FRIDAYS at
12:46 in SOUTHSIDE UPPER L O U N G E .
We've also done something actually
connected with SF. Yes, two authors are
coming to College. Chris Priest early next
term and J O H N SLADEK at the end of this
term. Yes, J O H N SLADEK, author of the
Steam Driven Boy, Keep the Giraffe Burning,
The Muller-Focker Effect, the Reproducing
Machine, The New Apocrypha and Roderick.
And now an extract from a Vladivar Vodka
Ad.
Well, we're coming to the end now, so we'll say
goodbye. Goodbye.
The Gunslinger's Osteopath
John (the man without a nickname) Chamberlain
Ken (the man without qualities) Mann, and
Yetta (Swordmistress of Chaos).
All items in bold contain information.
Patrick Moore
will speak to Astrosoc
on
The Planet M a r s
6:30pm
Friday, February 27
in Physics LT1
BE THERE!
Amnesty
International
E A R L I E R T H I S M O N T H , the IC A m n e s t y
International G r o u p learnt that its adopted
prisoner Ngimbi Mbaki was released from jail in
Zaire. He was arrested in March 1980, probably
for attending illegal meetings or for belonging to
an illegal political party. It should be noted that
opposition political parties are banned under the
Zairean constitution. He was not charged nor
brought to trial, although detention without
charge or trial is supposedly restricted to five
days, and Amnesty International have reason to
believe that political prisoners in Zaire are
routinely ill-treated and beaten.
As he was the adopted prisoner of the College's
Group, letters were written to senior government
officials in Zaire requesting further information
and asking them to look into the matter, and the
campaign, which was carried out together with an
Amnesty Group in Austria, was ended when
news was received of his release. Last year the
Group had two adopted prisoners released from
Zimbabwe and Indonesia.
Anyone who is interested in the Amnesty
International Organisation, is welcome at the
weekly meeting on Tuesday, 5:30pm in the Green
C o m m i t t e e R o o m , top floor of the U n i o n
Building.
FEUX, February 27,1981 Page 7

