Duke of Edinburgh
Award Scheme
The Duke of Edinburgh's Award Scheme is a
programme of sparetime activities available to
young people between the ages of fourteen and
twenty-five, designed to encourage a spirit of
voluntary service, self reliance and perseverance,
a sense of responsibility to the community and
the acquisition of vocational skills
The Award Scheme relies upon adult help for
its implemenation and promotion — adults who
are not necesarily connected with schools or
youth organisations.
For overseas students currently in the UK
wishing to learn more about the Award
Programme overseas and for those people
intending to spend some time in a country other
than the UK (perhaps on teaching contracts or
Voluntary Service Overseas), two training
courses are being held this year near London.
Monday, 13 to Wednesay 15 July: Green Park
Training Centre, Aston Clinton, Aylesbury.
Wednesday, 16 to Friday, 18 December:
Easthampstead Park, Wokingham, Berkshire.
Both courses will be residential with a nominal
charge of £15.00 per person including all meals
and accommodation at the course centre.
If you would like to attend please write to
Adrian Goodworth, Overseas Executive, Duke of
Edinburgh's Award, 5 Prince of Wales Terrace,
Kensington, London W8 5PG (telephone 01 937
5205) before May 31 1981.
IC Baha'i Society
Inter-Caiary Days Celebration
in Sherfield Great Hall
at 7:30pm
Saturday, February 28
Mozart Requiem From Scratch
Join ICSO and IC Choir on Sunday, March 8
from 10:30 to 4:00 in the Great Hallf.
from 10:30 to 4:00 in the Great Hall.
Do join us. YouH enjoy singing with us, you'll
be made very welcome.
Antimalarial
Prophylaxis
The advice on the dose of Maloprim (Pyri-
methamine and dapsone) has been changed since
the original advice which was given in October
1980.
Until further notice, take one tablet of Malprim
a week before gong to Kenya, Central and South
America and Asia (including Asia Minor), and
then take one tablet every Sunday, and continue
for six weeks after you come home.
Natural History
Society
A DAY TRIP to Virginia Water this Saturday has
been organised by the Natural History Society.
Virginia Water is a flooded valley which is used as
a West London reservoir. It is on the edge of
Windsor Great Park and is a managed estate
comprising of areas of deciduous trees and
common land.
The area is of particular interest to the
ornithologist and botanist. The valley gardens
contain foreign plants, many of which are labelled,
and there is a possibility of observing Mandarin
ducks, Hawfinches and other winter migrants.
A walk of about five miles is expected and
walking boots or strong shoes are advised. A
packed lunch may be taken or food may be
obtained at the pub. We shall meet at Virginia
Water Station at 10:00am and later at the
Wheatsheaf Hotel car park (map ref T Q 982688)
at 10:30am for the start of the walk.
Time of Trains
BR Station Departure Arrival Cost
Waterloo 09.22 09.58 £4.00
Richmond 09.37 09.58 £1.50
Student Railcards halve the cost. Return
trains from Virginia Water, ten minutes past
every hour.
If you have any enquiries see Nick Grattan, Life
Sci 3, S J Slade, Life Sci 2.
fkjnt f)0dw Visits frtends
hi the street the last revellers were wending their various
•jfays home. The public house was shut; its clientele well
satisfied. Zacharee Hellebore climbed over the stile on the
<ith which led dawn to the railway. The seasonal rain had
made the ground treacherous and as he passed the
Curious Stones he slipped and fell, covering himself from
head to foot in slough. His inebriation did not allow him to
register his state and his wife was thus caused to make
derogatory remarks.
The railway line; Zacharee has crossed some time before
and all that is left to show where he has passed are a few
spots of mud on the silvery rails. Here by the Une it is
quiet; a lone fox scurries down the bank to the fence and
hops over the lowest rung. Just a slight sulphurous odour
indicates that the train has been here. And now it has
gone, Aunt Deidre too, and the village is at rest.
The very last episode
Page 8 FELIX, February 27,1981

