FELIX 3
Prior peregrinates
around the Union
The times they are a'changing. The time has come to inquire
just why IC Union exists. Is it just an excuse to have two college
bars, or is it possibly something a little deeper ?
As an entertainments centre it is splitting up; more people going
to Southside and an already austere Union building becoming even
more stark and empty. With facilities, but not a substitute Union
builuing, available in the new college block, the physical disembodi-
ment of a corporate union will be complete. Southside, although a
very popular watering ground, does not possess the facilities of the
Union, and never will, so, with no real focus, will IC disintegrate into
a kind of cafe society, wandering from a Wells Soc. meeting in Mech.
Eng., to the Union for a game of darts, to the college block to lift a
few weights, to Southside for a Nightcap? Or can enough excitement
be generated by the activities of the Union to retain an identity, a
situation where the social facilities are regarded not merely in utili-
tarian fashion, but as a focal point. For this to materialise we need
that elusive ghost which has haunted I.C. for so long, "an active
U m
° n
- , . . ' . „ happening, he doesn't like to be
But what is an active Union? ie ft put. Then all you need, is an
efficient organiser to farm out .the
work and keep people on their
toes. This is happening in Ents.
this year, but it should be hap-
pening everywhere.
Cheap Records
A record shop will sell you an
LP for the all-in bargain price of
32/6. They buy them for about
24/-, so they're making a fair
profit out of you. Now there are
about 3500 of us at IC and we
spend a fair bit of bread on those
black pieces of plastic, so why
don't we get together and save
ourselves a little of that cash?
For students to go into the re-
tail business is not at all unusual
in the USA, so why not here? A
small beginning, with just a small
table in, say, Southside lounge,
manned by volunteers with a
small stock of records (most re-
cords could be obtained on order,
drop your order in a Southside
room and collect it 2 days later)
is all that is necessary. Not only
could new records be sold, but
students with discs they want to
wave goodbye to could sell them
here. In addition it would act as
an information centre. If we can
prove a need for an idea like this,
then maybe we could get decent
backing from the Union, extend
the range of products available
and put the thing on a perma-
nent basis. Perhaps we could do
something with the Southside
excuse-for-a-shop at the same
time.
So, please, if there is anybody
who knows anything about the re-
tail trade, or is prepared to help
with a venture of this kind, please
get in touch with me via the Mech
Eng rack or accost me in the bar
and then we can start things hap-
pening. In the meantime, if any-
one wants an LP for 25/- I can
get them one, provided the de-
mand is not too great.
LES PRIOR
Contrary to popular belief, it is
not one in which a few union
officials work themselves impo-
tent arranging ways of keeping
the masses happy throughout the
year. It possesses a number of
attributes, not the least of which
is that worthwhile things can hap-
pen there, but only if they are
well organised by a large number
of people. It is also one where
the events relate rather better than
at present to what is happening
outside the college. Why, for in-
stance is there no interest here in
the Arts and in creative work in
general? It is not because scien-
tists are unable to appreciate the
Arts, they are just hung up.
So how do we bring them
down? Bigger and better general
studies lectures are not the ans-
wer. The majority of IC students
only attend half a dozen lectures
in their entire student life, they
are only interested in something
immediately groovable on, and
this is what we must give them.
For example, few students would
consider it worthwhile going to a
showing of recently made experi-
mental films, but give them a
competition forfilmsmade by IC
students and this would automa-
tically involve over 100 students
who would spread interest by
word of mouth; give it maximum
publicity, maybe even get that
obnoxious instrument the popular
press, to take notice; then show
the films along with other more
professional examples, give the
people loud music, happenings
and coffee to fill in the gaps and
you might have created something
worthwhile at last.
The above example is of
course, infeasible, but it does il-
lustrate the organization and as-
sistance required to put a show
like this on the road. That stu-
dents are apathetic is nonsense,
they simply need to be invited to
help rather more than at present,
and once involved, they must be
given something worthwhile to do.
Remember, friendship is your
biggest weapon, if you give some-
one the idea that something is
IC Words
Mr ICWA elected
The usually dull ICWA
general meeting was livened up
last Tuesday (November 7th) by
the Election of Mr. ICWA. The
gentlemen were not allowed into
the meeting until other business
had been cleared ; they were
meanwhile entertained with a
free pint in the Union bar. Per-
haps this was why there were
more candidates than the nomi-
nation papers had hitherto
shown. . There were in fact ten-
candidates all longing to be Mr.
ICWA, all of whom swore that
they had been conned in to
standing while they were drunk.
Before the proposal speeches was
the usual display of knobbly
knees. This was rather dull as
the only candidate suitably
dressed was Ian Wells, who came
clad in rugger shirt and shorts.
The proposal speeches proved
to be highly entertaining, even if
some were rather longer than
Jane Pearson would have liked.
After the first paper ballot there
was a tie between Andy Vicker-
staff and Pete Hall. After a
further show of hands Pete Hall
was declared Mr. ICWA 1967/68.
It is interesting to note that Pete
Hall won the title " King of Jez "
by virtue of his knobbly knees.
(I am told that Butlin's run a
similar contest if Mr. Hall should
care to turn professional). Al-
though the election proved very
amusing it was not such fun as
those held at the ICWA party
where cheers of support from
members of ICWA helped to en-
liven the proceedings.
ICWA Carpet
On the subject of parties, it is
a great pity that because of the
new carpet they are not allowed
to be held in the ICWA lounge.
At present members of ICWA
have no place in which to hold a
G E N T L E M E N
w = M I N E S
Freshers dinners are now all
over, and Morphy Day is behind
us. I was a pity that Mines did
not do as well in the races as had
been hoped, but this was largely
due to unfair Guilds practice in
using an expert at stroke. How-
ever any disappointment felt by
the Minesmen ,at the tow-path
farce was quickly washed away
that evening in a superb Mines-
night held at the Prospect of
Whitby. About 40 men and a
fair smattering of women, even-
tually pushed their way into the
Prospect and proceeded to con-
sume quantities of beer, and to
smash their fair share of glasses
on the floor. Ian Wells considers
the night a complete success, as
he not only lost his voice sing-
ing, but also managed to get ar-
rested for causing a disturbance
in the tube on the way home.
On the following night the
RSM Association held their an-
nual dinner. After a number of
excellent speeches, including one
by Lord Tweedsmuir—son of
John Buchan, and some light re-
freshment in the Senior Common
Room, about 15 Minesmen re-
paired to the front of Royal Col-
lege of Art, where they proceeded
to sing a rousing Chorus of the
Mines chant to the Queen as she
emerged from the building. The
Queen smiled and the Dukr,, seri-
ous to begin with, smiled broadly
and acknowledged with a wave.
Mr Wells is rather regretting
his move to reinstitute the post
of Hon-Pornographer. After a
lapse of several years, the post
has now beenfilledby Dave Mc-
Naughton. Dave assures us that
be has colleced some very incrimi-
nating evidence on Ian and others
after the Mines Fresher-Women
dinner, held on Tuesday 31st,
which was enjoyed by all who
went.
M A C K M A N I A
Congratulations to Roger Webb
on becoming our new Honorary
Secretary. As it only took two
RCS General Committee meet-
ings, plus use of Presidential
emergency powers by President
Bob Mackman for this simple
task, it will be interesting to see
how any really difficult business
will get done.
The main reasons are problems
with General Committee quora
(vacancies for Secretary, Physics
Department rep, Officer for aca-
demic affairs, plus a couple of
missing members rendered meet-
ings inquorate) and Malcolm
party; let us hope that the pro-
posed cover for the carpet will be
bought soon !
Bar Prices
A lot has been said about in-
creased bar prices, but no one
has yet pointed out that raising
the prices in Southside but not
in the Union is unfair to the
members of ICWA. Why should
we have no option but to pay 2d.
extra per pint (yes, we do drink
pints). Quite often we are aban-
donned by our male companions
who go in search of the cheaper
beer. Please don't say, " Well,
there's the lounge bar," the at-
mosphere is dismal and anyway
it isn't open every night. So I
say put up the Union bar prices
and lower the Southside prices.
ANITA FURNESS.
'Twas down by the towpath one lunchtime in fall,
Contingents of students were set for a ball,
With bags full of flour and bags full of fruit.
And the arms were completed by bags full of soot.
The boatnce was started and battle was near,
Custard pies at the ready—but was the coast clear?
To be sure it was not for eight vanloads of fuzz
Had surrounded the towpath—who gave them the buzz?
The inspector walked up to the Presidents three,
" You'll all be arrested if youfightnow," quoth he,
" Throw your arms in the river and just clear away! "
" We're just watching a boatrace and we're here to stay! "
We argue and argue and then compromise,
The only " affray " must be with custard pies,
That is the signal to all of I.C.
Throw your arms in the river and go home to tea.
With a sickening squelch the custard pies struck,
Some soot and some flour in the river we chuck.
But the smoke and the fumes they became so dense,
We can't see the river—not even the fence.
So all thrown at random were soot, fruit and flour,
But random he ducked—and now was the hour,
Standing behind random was the inspector so grim,
And the ammo was slung with vengeance at him.
(Abrupt change in metre—to show we're engineers)
Now we come to the tragic bit,
There was no way of stopping it!
The cops no longer had clean kit,
It was covered all over in marmalade, marmalade, marmalade.
All that remains to be said about Morphy Day is that Guilds won
both races; and by two lengths in each case. Congratulations and
many thanks to our boat club Captain Neil McBride and his dedicated
crews.
Another big event in the Guilds calendar occurred on Sunday
with the annual London to Brighton run. For the seventh year in
succession Bo againfinishedthe course although slight trouble was
experienced in the shape of three punctures. However, Dr. Denton
in the tender car fought his way through the traffic to our assistance
on every, occasion—aided and abetted nobly by our two sports car
outriders, Moore and Harris. Thanks are due to many Guildsmen
in this venture : to those who turned out pyjama clad to give Bo such
a superb send-off from Hyde Park; to those who went down to the
motor club lunch in Brighton (also attended by the owner and crew
of the only other James and Browne known to exist—a youngster
of 1904!); to the back-room boys who helped prepare and polish Bo
—and most of all to our drivers Dave Knowles and Bill Mackey whose
tremendous verve and co-ordinatios, coupled with an admirable dis-
regard in true pioneer spirit of petty traffic rules (like red lights, or
driving on the left!) enabled us to get to Brighton a mere hour behind
schedule. Thanks very much to all concerned.
Next big date in the future is the Guilds Rugger Sevens—this
Sunday at Harlington. This is a really superb sporting social oc-
casion—we would like to see every year in every department put out
at least one team ! The competitions is for the Hugh Ford Trophy, but
large beer prizes are at stake. Support, particularly female, is very
welcome and coaches will run from the Union. All turn out for a
great day!
(Spooks) Duckett's strong views
on Mike Tait being given only
two days' notice to leave Hall.
However, on the academic front
things seem to be moving. We've
got an Officer for academic af-
fairs, Mr. Wield, who was elected
unopposed. Which brings us to
the next point. R.C.S. is going
to get a management study
course, or at least a Sociology-
Economics one. On an experi-
mental basis, ten lectures or so
are going to be given his year, and
if these are a success, R.C.S. may
be included in the general Col-
lege - Sociology - Economics - Psy-
chology Course now given to
Mines and Guilds. The idea is: —
" To introduce the concepts of
the Social Sciences and show how
they can be applied to the syste-
matic analysis of the economic
and sociological environment in
which decisions have to be made
in industry, and to the under-
standing of people working at all
levels in industrial and govern-
mental and academic organisa-
tions."
If you are interested, watch
this column and come and join in
discussion in the next Union
meeting.
I am informed that at the mo-
ment the R.CS. contribution to
Carnival stands at £0; things
should start moving any time, so
watch the notice-boards and come
to union meetings. Carnival hopes
to raise £10,000 this year for
Leukaemia Researci: which takes
a hell of a lot of tin sb-iking, so
come along; it's great fun.
For the freshers, Carnival is
the name given to the yearly IC
effort to raise money for charity.
It's not a single happening, it's
the name given to the whole lot,
stunts; hops, film shows, con-
certs, etc., etc.
If you can solve this problem in under 3 minutes
VS0 would like to hear from you
• •
£ Find the odd man out J
• •
•••••••••••••*•••••••••••••••*
VSO needs 1500 volunteers for
1968/69...
...YOU?
VOLUNTARY SERVICE OVERSEAS
3 HANOVER STREET LONDON Wl .

