4. FELIX
CEDITOR'S
omment
The purpose of the three clubs committees, ACC, RCC, SCC, is
constitutionally said to be " to sanction the formation of any relevant
Imperial College club for which there can be proved to be need and
facilities." On this basis there need only be the formation of an
Anti-Social Clubs Committee (with a similar purpose in mind) before
the ardent group of " Loo and Lift" scrawlers may bt formed into
one of IC's most active clubs—the facilities are undeniable and the
apparent need is becoming more and more obvious around the lifts
and loos of IC .
Just think how their activities could expand if given a small
Union grant and coherent leadership. They could arrange themselves
into years and departments—spread throughout the college and
blacken every lift and loo with obscenities, puns, rhymes and, best of
all, just plain filth.
Of course the interests of specialists could be developed by having
special events weeks—for instance they could start with an "underwear
week" when every member, under the guidance of an underwear
specialist, could go round the college writing " knickers," " slim line
bra " and, for lady members, " jock straps " all over the lift ceilings.
This could be followed by a joke week. Monday and Tuesday would
of course be practice days for well worn puns, but, taking the Wednes-
day half holiday as an opportunity for giving tuition, members could
advance for the rest of the week into the more sophisticated field of
Limericks.
Hell, the range is unlimited; they could progress from these to a
lavatory joke week, sex week, anatomy week . . . the mind boggles.
So active they could become that in no time they would be
established in the college and would justify being given a grant
to go on tour—where to? South Kensington, Bognor, Europe,
Darkest Africa? Who knows how far the fingers of filth of the
ICLLSC could spread?
Come on, you lift writing juveniles, pull yourselves together ; you
are at University now not primary school. Defacing the lifts and
lavatories around the college lowers the tone of the whole place,
quite apart from demonstrating the warped and infantile minds of
those who do it.
IC SURVEYS
We learn that the welfare officer intends to conduct yet another
survey among the students of IC. This time the subject is to be student
money. In principle this is a good idea as it not only gives a yardstick
for future generations but shows whether or not we need an increase
under the Government's expected review of the whole grant structure
—or does it?
In my first year at college the year rep. did a survey on our
opinion of the course, the lecturers, the lab. periods and so on. One
lecturer at least publicly denounced the results (which were not un-
favourable to his course) as worthless because, he s^id, the questions
were the wrong ones and they were asked in the wrong way. To us
the survey appeared thoroughly reasonable and likely to produce
useful results.
It is pertinent, then, to ask at this point if, when we produce a
set offigurespurporting to represent ourfinancialstate, they will be
accepted by anyone but us. If we produce statistics to prove that
each student needs an average increase of say £2 per week, will the
Government negate all the effort put into obtaining the figure by
maintaining that our sampling technique was inadequate?
However expert the student interrogator may be, the fact remains
that he is an amateur—the most damning of all crimes in the eyes of
the professional. Would it not be worthwhile to give this survey a
greater prestige by consulting a firm of surveyors, such as Gallup or
NOP—even if they cannot improve our method, " in consultation with
at the bottom of the published work gives it a previously
unheard of authority.
NUS LOSE THEIR GRIP
I understand that already this session UC have expressed serious dis-
illusionment with the present administration of NUS and LSE only
remain members through a last minute Union decision and inter-
vention of their Director, Dr. Adams. The main cause for concern
seems to be the fact that £39,000 out of an NUS income of £72,000
is spent on staff salaries and the cost of several other administrative
items seems excessive.
This may well mean that the ULU will take on a new lease of life.
In the field of student complaints the trend still seems to be one of
mass protests by significant bodies of students, and so, no longer
having the NUS flag under which to march, it seems quite possible
that London Students will increasingly turn to ULU as the parent
body for their protests.
Whether ICU would follow such a trend I doubt as we have been
veryfixedin our autonomy for a long time, but for the smaller colleges
and those nearer ULU, geographically and in spirit, The University
Union presents a convenient ready built body to which to switch their
allegience.
F H X Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Tel. KEN 2963
Editor : RORY REDMAYNE
Asst. Editor : John Mullaly.
Sports Editor : Phil Hopwood
News Editor : Paul Heath
Features Editor : Les Pryor
Business Managers :
Dave Cooper and Mary Ford
Advertising Manager :
Justin Griffiths
Sales Manager
Photographic Editor :
Colin Broad
Cartoonist: Stuart Senior
What's On : Dick Middleton
With: Colcutt, Alan Stapleton,
Andrew Perry, Anita Furness,
Colin Harrison, Caroline,
Patsy, Dave Potter, Patrick
Rotherham, Ann Wheatley
Ken Simpson, Bob Lewis
Pete Chapman
Late News Editor: Dick Reeves
Production Manager: John Probst John Sommer, Ron Bass
Advertising Agency: Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.
CHA 6081
EMPIRE BUILDING
AT IC
The suspense is over, and the difficulties have been brushed aside.
In 1972 I.C. will embrace a fourth College—that of the School of the
Architectural Association.
The matter has been under consideration for some time; the
plan for the amalgamation was formally agreed upon in 1964, but its
implementation ran into difficulties of a purelyfinancialnature. .When
the A.A. amalgamates with I.C. its mehibers will officially become
university students. The University Grants Committee must then
necessarily meet the annual operating costs of the school and its 380
undergraduates—a total of approximately £210,000 per annum. It was
hoped that the U.G.C. would also provide the initial capital for a new
site for the school—on the I.C. " campus," close to the Royal College
of Art—and the construction of a building to house the school. The
sum required was estimated at £670,000, but due to the freeze and
other considerations, the U.G.C. held back, and the situation was
deadlocked until August 1967. By this time the matter had acquired
some urgency. The lease on the Association's present premises
expires in mid-1972. Before accepting students for this academic year
(the course takesfiveyears) they had to be sure of a building to house
the school from 1972 on.
The situation has now been partially solved—the U.G.C. have
agreed to meet the annual running cost of the school, and to make a
minor contribution to the cost of its new building. Where the rest of
the £670,000 is to come from is as yet unclear.
Alan Lirtlewood, chairman of
the Architectural Association
student body, photographed
at a recent interview
Architectural Aethetes
First impressions of the school
are of an academy far removed
from the impersonal efficiency
that characterizes the lecture
theatres and laboratories of I.C.
Their present premises in Bedford
Square consist of a series of large
rambling rooms, partitioned into
working sections by decaying
beaverboard. Sartorially AA is
years ahead of I.C.'s dull display.
The attitude to work is somewhat
different and drawing boards tend
to be lined with guitars and anti-
LBJ posters rather than slide
rules and logarithms. The sense
of urgency and pressure so pre-
valent in I.C. lecturesand;tutorials
(particularly near June) is notice-
ably lacking. There are two im-
portant points to make about the
school. First, that it is much
more arts-oriented than one might
expect, the policy being that
actual calculations and practical
application of ideas are best dele-
gated to the engineer. Second,
that the school runs on the basis
of staff-student equality to a de-
gree unheard of in I.C. If the
students feel dissatisfied with their
lecturers and principal they can
readily apply pressure to dispose
of them. But on the other hand,
the system pays dividends if the
lecturers are worth their wage.
uninformed
The students of the Architec-
tectural Association are not over-
whelmingly in favour of joining
I.C. Alan Littlewood, the stu-
dent chairman, in a recent inter-
view with FELIX, said that this
was because they had not been
sufficiently informed of the issues
in question. " I wish I could tell
you what our negotiating council
is doing," he said. "All they have
given us is a deceiving silence. I
don't think that they, are cap-
able of negotiating efficiently with
I.C." Deceiving silence or no,
Littlewood's readily apparent
concern with the negotiations has
a point. The greatest asset of the
school is its informal organiza-
tion. Littlewood feels that when
the A.A. amalgamates with I.C.
this informality and flexibility
may well be swallowed up in
I.C.'s super-efficient teaching ma-
chine. He is against the idea of
giving permanent posts to the
school's teaching staff; this may
well come to pass with the trans-
formation to University status,
but it would be a blow to the
school's staff-student equality.
reluctant Union.
Then there is the student union
side of the merger. Littlewood
said, " I don't want to go out on a
limb, but I want the school to
have complete say in what hap-
pens to the school's students' sub-
scriptions." It's indicative of the
general fear in the Architectural
Association that when the amal-
gamation takes place, the A.A.
will simply disappear into the
cavernous maw of I.C. With this
in mind, they would like to re-
main as autonomous as possible.
Again, there is a significant point
behind this. At present most of
the student subscriptions goes in
hiring speakers to discuss extra-
curricular architecture, and there
is no question of a massive clubs
structure such as there is at I.C.
Presumably the A.A. would pre-
fer to continue this way, rather
than drain resources into I.C.
clubs. But in all fairness it seems
an unrealistic attitude and raises
questions about places in Halls of
Residence, membership of I.C.'s
clubs, and even the right (gosh!)
to eat at Mooney's emporia.
Given time, the A.A. will prob-
ably change their views. It would
be a great pity if they did not—
I.C. could only gain by joining
with 380 arts students. Whether
the A.A. feel they will gain by
merging with nine times as many
science students is another mat-
ter. As one student put it: "I
think you're going to get more out
of us than we will get out of you."
The opinions expressed
by correspondents
are not necessarily
these held by the editor.
LETTERS
DIANE
REED
It is with deep regret that we
announce the death of Mrs.
Diane Reed, wife of Bill Reed
of third year Maths. Diane was
killed in the Hither Green train
crash last week.
Diane and Bill were married re-
cently in Kensington and had
their reception in Southside.
Felix, on behalf of the Union,
offer Bill their deepest sympathy.
MORPHY DAY
Sir,
I was present at the Morphy
Day so called festivities and, to
say the least, I was disappointed
in the behaviour of some of the
crowds who went along. It seems
that the battle is only an excuse
for an afternoon of petty van-
dalism—such as;
Temporary disruption of tube ser-
vices by packing carriages, pul-
ling the emergency handle, stink
bombs etc.; tearing down posters
in the tube train and on the sta-
tions ; removal of a ticket collec-
tor's hat; etc., etc., etc.
However the happenings listed
above are not my main concern.
This is, the inconvenience to the
general public. The people in the
tube train were not amused and
one lady was prevented from get-
ting off at one station by the sheer
numbers in the carriage. (You
will be pleased to hear that she
got off at the next station). Motor
cars were shaken violently if not
moved bodily, as was the parked
M.G. in Exhibition Road, and one
van owner had part of his roof
rack removed when he accelerated
away with an engineer clutching
the offending part.
The police did a superb job of
control, under quite severe pro-
vocation, and they must be
praised..
This is not to say that I am
condemning Morphy Day. Pack-
into tube train carriages is fun—
jumping up and down on Putney
Bridge to find its resonant fre-
quency is fun but not at the ex-
pense of the general public. This,
completed with acts of sheer
hooliganism help reduce the level
of Morphy day to its lowest.
IS MORPHY DAY NECES-
SARY IN ITS PRESENT
FORM?
PAUL MELLOR
Elec. Eng. I
KALEIDOSCOPE
RC.S. Carnival
Blow your mind in colour and sound
30s double
FOLK JAZZ, CABARET Dress: Colour

