Page 10 F E L I X 19th February. 1974
S O C I E T I E S ' P A G E
WINE-TASTING
SOCIETY
The Wine Tasting Society suffered a major blow
to its sobriety earlier this term when F. & E . May pre-
sented eight Hungarian wines.
Hungary tends to specialise in luscious fruity wines
but also produces some very good drier wines, perhaps
the better known as Bulls Blood (Egri Bikaver) and
Pecs Riesling. The vines are mainly of French origin
and renamed. The Balatoni Furmint was an excellent
full bodied white, light golden yellow in colour retaining
both sugar and acidity, an excellent nose, reminiscent
of both chablis and the riesling. A Badacsonyi Szurke-
barat was lighter and more delicate with a 'steely'
flavour and a white burgundy nose. Another facet of
white Hungarian wine was revealed by Debrai Hars-
levelu which was sweeter with what we can now
recognise as the Hungarian flavour.
Twe red wines were also represented. The Hun-
garian Caberrelt a very light balanced wine with a dist-
inct bordeaux nose. This would be an ideal wine to
drink with a picnic in the summer and might be im-
proved by slightly chilling. Nemes Kadar is claimed
to be a rose but it is deeper red than most, a delicate
wine showing a hint of strawberries with a spicy taste.
By ithis time we were happily contemplating the
"King of Wines", the famous Tokay when a quick Bog-
lari Muskatoly surprised us all, a very feni quality
sweet wine indeed, luscious fruity reminiscent of apri-
cot and raisins. Tt certainly took away from the Tokay
which followed.
The evening was rounded off by a sparkling wine
of above average quality called Charmanit DOux.
The Wine Tasting Society was most impressed by
the quality of the Hungarian wines, it is a pity you
missed them. Further meetings of quality wines will
follow every Tuesday at 5.45 usually in Physics level
8. There are a few vacancies left. More information
about the wines (i.e. purchase and tasting notes) and
the society are available from the chairman, T. C.
Fein, bio-chemistry. We would be delighted to see you,
expert or novice, at any of our tastings.
j Next tastings:—Tuesday, 19th February, Sherry.
GAYSOC
Now that the need for a Gay Students' Society
(Gaysoc) has been recognised by the SCC this seems
an appropriate time to set out our aims and appeal for
members.
The aim oj Gaysoc is to inform the herterosexual
about the true nature of homosexuality and by doing
this to destroy the prejudice and ill-feeling shown
by so many people towards gays. T o this end we hold
weekly discussions (on Wednesday evenings, in South-
side bar) and occasionally invite speakers to talk on
subjects related to homosexuality. Everyone is invited
to attend these meetings. We also hold social events
such as parties and discos so that Gay students can
meet each other and have a good time.
New members are always welcome. So far our
membership includes homosexuals, bisexuals and he-
terosexuals, male, female, British, foreign, undergradu-
ate and postgraduate students, and members of staff.
The only criterion for membership is a genuine concern
for the plight of homosexuals — you don't have to be
gay yourself.
We recognise that many gay people feel genuinely
anxious about the consequences of the fact that they
are gay being known in college. This is probably the
main reason that our membership does not already
include all the 300 as so gays studying here. So that
these people need not feel left out we shall be holding
our next parity in Chelsea College some time towards
the end of February. Meanwhile why not come to the
discos in the small lounge of University College Union
(Gower Place) on every alternative Thursday from Feb-
ruary 7th or attend some meetings or parties of the
U L U Gaysoc held in the Union Building, Malet Sitreet,
on Fridays.
Further details of the IC Gaysoc may be obtained
from Dave Duce (Chem. 1) or Averil Dewing (Phy-
sics 2) and of the U L U Gaysoc from the Secretary,
Gaysoc, U L U , Malet Street, WC1.
Dave Duee.
ELECTRONIC MUSIC GROUP
The Electronic Music Group has nolt been well
publicised in the past and many of you hay not have
heard of it before. We have, however, had lectures,
visits to recording studios and, to a certain extent,
produced our own music. We have not been as active
as we would have liked in the past, due It© the lack of a
permanent synthesiser owned by the society. The syn-
thesiser is an essential component in the electronic
studio, in fact it is the very heart of an electronic music
system. The Union has now approved our application
for a synthesiser and we hope to create a lot of good
music in the future.
We hope to exploit the synthesiser to the full and
we would like to co-operate with any college club on
joint projects. The Jazz Club, STOIC, and the Dramatic
Society are already interested i n the use of the syn-
thesiser. We would also like to give performances of
electronic music (depending on the number, if any, of
in any way intereslted watch the notice boards. A t
record evenings we play our records and discuss the
techniques used on them. We have been considering
running teach-in sessions on the technical aspects of
electronic music (depending on the number, if any, of
people who need them), and no-one should be scared
away by a lack of technical knowledge.
We are hoping to construct some equipment our-
selves (a seventy waltt per channel monitor amp is under
consideration). If you are at all interested in electronic
music come along to one of our meetings.
The synthesiser we hope to gelt is a VCS3. The
basic sound sources are three oscillators capable of
producing various tone colours and covering a wide
range of frequencies (from sub-sonic to ultra-sonic)
and a white noise generator. Why subsonic frequencies
since they can't be heard? This conveniently introduces
us to the subject of voltage control which is the prin-
ciple on which modern synthesisers work. The low fre-
quency varying voltages can be used to control other
synthesiser circuits. For instance, by using a slowly
varying signal from one oscillator to vary the frequency
of another, a vibrato effect can be produced. Most of
the properties of a sound (e.g. pitch, loundness, tone,
colour and duration of note) oan be varied by varying
an applied voltage. This is the reason why synthesisers
are so versatile. They can also be controilled by external
instruments such as the electric guitar.
Examples of the ways in which the synthesiser
can be used are firstly Dalek voices, which are pro-
duced by processing voices with a ring modulator. The
second example is a sophisticated wah-wah effect.
("Qoops. I've sat on the cait"). This can be produced by
a voltage controlled filter, again any circuit can supply
the control voltage.
Using all the modules in the synthesiser one can
produce a good approximaltion to a l imaginable
sounds, given enough time and a good tape recorder
(usually available).
Synthesisers are not just for making silly sounds,
but are genuine musical instruments and an integral
part of electronic music. (If you don't think so then
listen to Walter Carlos' versions of Bach and Beetho-
ven pieces).
Jimmy O'Shea and Mark Egfcr.
JAZZ CLUB
Although Jazz Club canX claim a very large mem-
bership (about 40 at the last count), most of these mem-
bers are very active. Alt present the activities of the
club consist of 1. playing, and 2. putting on concerts,
although other events such as talks aimed at both
the coveted jazzman and the layman, might well be
put on, if demand for this by members became appar-
ent.
Playing
The club has its own room, conveniently located
above the Union bar, which is for members' use. It is
equipped with various items — piano, trombone, double
bass, amplification devices, and drum kit, in assorted
states of repair. One of the main aims of any jazz
club must be to encourage the formaltiion of hands
amongst the members, and the jazz room provides an
ideal rehearsal facility. There are, in fact, several
college bands currently in action, spanning the field of
jazz from blues to modem jazz.
There are many musicians, however, in jazz club not
yet in bands, so there is a latent talent in the college,
for anyone wishing to find others to form one, Drum-
mers are especially welcomed, as our president seems
to be the only drummer in college, and has to pour his
talents into four different bands! There is also ample
opportunity for public performances in our (free)
Sunday sessions, which take place in the Lower Lounge
every Sunday (would you believe?). In fact if you
are interested why nolt come along to a Sunday Session,
and see the sort of thing that goes on?
Concerts
Concerts have frequently been put on this year in
the Biology Common Room, featuring some of the
biggest names in British Jazz, and happily attendance
at these has rocketed to sixty or so —• a veritable mul-
titude at a jazz concert! Look out for more concerts
this term — they'll be on till the money runs out! In-
cidentally, the choice of who is booked for these con-
certs is influenced almost entirely by the views of
members.
The Future
Considering the interest in blues and rock, and also
that there is no club catering for the playing of such
music, the jazz club committee has wondered for some
time about enlarging the scope of the dlub to incor-
porate these, and related forms of music, especially i n
view of the current trend towards the breaking down
of musical barriers, to quote the beslt music papers.
Opinions from any blues and/or rock men would be
appreciated — we might hope to double our member-
ship next year by It'heir addition, with the correspond-
ing increase ih vitality within the club.
In the more immediate fulture (i.e. this term), we
can expect to see the usual Sunday sessions — as adver-
tised on numerous posters, and also Jazz Week — in the
past a major non-evenit, but not this year! Concerts dur-
ing the week (17th-24th Feb.) will feature Modern Jazz,
Jazz-rock and Trad Jazz, in fact something for every^
one.
More details
For more details about anything, from membership
(50p) to concerts, please contact our president, Paul
Goose (Physics 11), either byfeltlter,or better still at a
Sunday session, where most, if not all, of the Jazz Club
committee are usually present either playing, listening
or drinking, not necessarily in that order.
Steve Marshall (Deputy President)
I I. C. JAZZ WEEK I
S U N D A Y 17 FEBRUARY
T H E
8.30 TYGER
BAND
(TRAD JAZZ)
LOWER UNION LOUNGE
WEDNESDAY 20 FEBRUARY
Talk: G R A H A M COLLIER
on 'JAZZ A N D JAZZ COMPOSITION
HALDANE LIBRARY FREE
*
UNION SAT., 23 FEB. 8,00
GRAHAM
COLLIER
SEXTET
30p Members. 40p Non-members
UNION SUN., 24 FEB. 8.00
F R A N K
R O B E R T S
LOWER LOUNGE FREE
EMBRYO
*
I
*
if
i f
i f
i f
if

