Page 2 FELIX 19th February, 1974
Letters
ASTMS SAGA
( C O N T ' D )
Sir,
As an " A S T M S leader" 'slammed by the Rector'i
(Felix January 8th) I found it a 'painless process' and!
it so happened that we met the Rector (and College:
Secretary) at a 'get-to-know' meeting that very day,
January 8th. Our Branch has existed here since 1918,!
our Branch Rules were revised in 1970: we call a spade
a spade, we think hard and deep and long. Most of the
points in the 'Rector's Plan for College Development'
(Felix January 8th) were in our Document to the Col-
lege Growth Points Committee submitted in A P R I L
1970. We did ask the Rector to let us have in writing
the examples of the 'deliberate misrepresentations' to
which the Rector alludes in his letter. We were not told
which was the 'intemperate language' to which the
Rector referred. We understand that the sentence which
most shocked him was, taking it out of its context,
"We find it incredible that the management of this
College, one of Britain's leading university colleges,
should act in a manner that would disgrace the most
backward of back street profiteers."
However, we have now formally replied and a copy
of our letter is enclosed. May I ask, kindly, for it to be
printed in your next issue of Felix.
Yours sincerely,
H . F A I R B R O T H E R .
Dear Sir Brian Flowers,
M y Committee has now given a very full considera-
tion to your letter of December 21, 1973.
Since you took steps to ensure full publicity for your
views, you will, we are sure, appreciate that our reply
must be broadcast on exactly the same scale.
Your letter appears to have two themes: on the one
hand it expresses indignation and resentment at what
you term "intemperate language", and speaks of
"deliberate misrepresentation and crude threats" on
our part: on the other, it recognises that problems
exist and suggests a willingness to seek solutions on
your part.
Unfortunately, however, you did not deal with any
of the specific complaints that we make and of Which
you were fully aware, since as your letter makes clear,
the College Secretary had reported them to you.
We utterly reject your assertion that we conduct
business on the basis of "deliberate misrepresentation".
Indeed, had you in your letter attempted to answer our
specific complaints you would have found, as you wor-
ked through the points we raised, that you would not
then have been able to make such an astonishing
statement.
Our complaints have been published and they are
known to yourself. Some of them concern National
Agreements between A.S.T.M.S. and the Universities,
which we claim are being broken by your administra-
tors. Others concern purely local questions. When will
something be done? Surely you do not expect us to
accept this state of affairs without protest. Presumably
the "crude threats" to which you take such exception
are the decisions of our members to take the normal
sanctions which any Trade Union will apply in such
circumstances.
We met Mr. Malone on December 17th, 1973 and
discussed some of the outstanding questions. It is now
almost the end of January and only on two matters
can we discern movement. The first concerns a matter
on which we agreed to send in a letter which would
be forwarded to the appropriate College Committee.
The second concerns the College Training Committee.
Our request for direct representation was answered by
a statement that our views can be conveyed to that
Committee and it appears that this is the best the
College can offer. Possibly these kinds of barriers set
up against us are in line with the statement in your
letter than "1 intend to do what I can to ensure that
all sections contribute to the life of the College in
the way best suited to their talents and to the general
good." Perhaps you feel that the talents of the Tech-
nical Staff and of their representative organisation are
such that on matters, which are of vital concern to
them . . . namely . . . their own safety at work and
the effective trade and professional training of their
junior colleagues . . . they cannot make any effective
contribution at the Committee Table but must leave
their messages at the door. We hope that we have mis-
understood you.
Many matters cover a very long span of time. The
Personal Case of a member in Maintenance started in
April 1973; a job description has been jointly pro-
duced and agreed between us, but we cannot now get
a i meeting to reach any conclusions. This, despite it
being one of the matters reported to you by the College
Secretary in • December, and despite requests for a
meeting in this month of January, 1974.
We could go. on extensively in this vein. However
we note the more positive part of your letter. If it is
your intention to seek a better relation between the
College and this Union then we for our part will
gladly respond, but issues exist and they need dealing
with. Should we not jointly apply ourselves to this task?
Yours sincerely,
H . F A I R B R O T H E R ,
Secretary
WOTIZICWA
Less well known as Imperial College Women's
Association, I C W A is not an organisation destined
to fight for the liberation of females at IC, nor is it
something which seeks to establish and perpetuate
a WI system within college.
I C W A exists to enhance the social life of every-
one at college and holds a variety of events during
•the year. Although Mr. I C W A is the only male mem-
ber of the association none of its events are exclu-
sively for I C W A members and a happier ratio is
found at these than in general pertains at IC.
The election of Mr. I C W A 1973/74 took place
at the freshers' dinner early last term. He was chosen
from numerous IC cassanovas, some of whom are
renowned for their palpitating pattellas.
If perchance you find yourself in Beiilt Quad-
rangle next Tuesday lunchtime you will doubtless
notice an exceptionally high degree of humidity. The
annual pancake race between IC Union Exec and
ICWA will be taking place and the co-operation (?)
of all students is traditionally expedted.
The main event in the I C W A calendar is the
Easter Bail! which is on Friday, 8th March. Tickets
for this are available to everyone and it is thus more
likely to be peopled by a more complete cross-sec-
tion of IC characters than the C C U formal dos.
The I C W A lounge is situated directly above the
Union Bar and if you feel inclined to wander in dur-
ing Friday lunchtimes and partake of a little caffeine
sustenance you will be most welcome.
Sir,
The majority of stu-
dents at Imperial College
are not Communists and
have no interest in or
sympathy with the Com-
munist Party or its aims.
This axiom can be exten-
ded to all students in
London and in Britain as
a whole with undeniable
certainty.
It is accepted by many
students and others, in-
cluding the Rector, that
we should have an in-
crease in grants, so a
campaign is mounted to
present our case to the
Government and to win
the support of the people.
But instead of a plain,
straightforward procedure
what do we get? We get a
'grants' campaign dressed
up in Communist garb,
obscuring the main issue
with phrases straight out
of the Communist hand-
book —• join the struggle,
smash phase 3, solidarity
with the miners, unite
with the workers and
other corny crap.
Is it surprising therefore
that only a small propor-
tion of students in Lon-
don took part in the re-
cent demonstration? Who
wants to march behind a
Communist banner shout-
ing 'Heath Out' when all
we want is a higher grant?
It is surely an absurd sit-
uation that our elected
'representatives' are acting
in a manner contrary to
the desires of the students.
Not only are they doing
us little good but could
actually be damaging our
claim and certainly har-
dening public opinion
against the students.
What can we do about
this scarlet fever? Con-
vince our 'leaders' they
are way off course? Elect
new ones?
Or leave things as they
are and say deal me out?
This last approach
could have far-reaching
consequences on the poli-
tical state of the country
— some want it to — but
straightening out the cam-
paign leaders might prove
a little difficult. Electing
new reps seems the only
answer although we could
come out of the frying
pan into the fire because
those elected are lassoed
by the N U S with the
Communists pulling the
strings.
It seems like a pretty
hopeless situation for the
silent majority. Doesn't it?
P. V A U G H A N
Maths 1
ICWA invites all £jC. Students and friends to
T H E EVENT OF T H E Y E A R
E A S T E R
B A L L
FRIDAY 8th MARCH
7.00 College Block
Ticket includes:
5 Course Meal 1
1
1
Mystery Guest Speaker
Cabaret - Folk Singer
Diz Disley
Rock V Roil Band
Bar till 3J
Disco
Double Ticket only 600p I
Please send me a double ticket for the I C W A |«
E A S T E R B A L L on F R I D A Y , 8th M A R C H . \ \
i »
i a
i «
I enclose a cheque for £6 (payable to ICWA) :
ii
i ' - - *.»
i
if*
| M
Name (Block capitals please) „., «
Dept.
Guest's Name
I would like to sit in close proximity to
Signed
Date

