Page 6 F E L I X 19th February, 1974
Most students are members of the National Union
of Students just by virtue of the fact that they are
members of a students' union. This is undoubtedly a
necessity, since the N U S , for all its faults, is univer-
sally recognised as the spokesman and negotiator for
Britain's students. When the Government, mass media,
or am industrial or other organisation want an opinion
from the students, they ring up the NUS. Whether we
U\e the leadership or not, N U S is O U R National
Union. It is fortunate, indeed only natural then, that
there is a method for us to control the leadership of
the N U S .
We, the students, can exercise our democratic
control over our National Union, only by putting over
what we want at National Conferences. These are held
twice every year, and they decide the policy of the
NUS until the next conference. Every student Union,
SRC, or Union Society is represented at these confer-
ences.
However, the only way for the conference to be
democratic, sensible, and related to students, is for the
students to tell their representatives what they want
discussed, what point of view they want put forward
and how they want the interests of students to be
furthered by the N U S .
This means participating in the deciding of motions.
Have already called one meeting of the External
Affairs Committee to talk about the submissions. It is
not possible for them to go through any U G M because
of the lack of time. It was relatively well attended, but
I want to make it clear that these committee meetings
are O P E N . E A C is not a club or a cuque. There is
already too many 'in-crowds' in IC. A l l are welcome,
and all points of view must be given consideration.
There is, of course, an opportunity to amend the
motions; the amendments must be into N U S by March
8. I hope to call an E A C this week to discuss the
nature of these. Watch out for notices.
Finally, do not be misled by people who say that
N U S is the business of a few Union Officers. It is your
Union. It has a democratic structure. But remember
that with democratic rights you must also have re-
sponsibilities. And you have a responsibility to parti-
cipate—to tell your representative what you want. Let
us know—NOW. Trevor Phillips,
E A O .
PS If you have any comments, drop me a note in
Cliem 3 or the Union; or just stop me in the J C R , or
wherever you see me.
Postgraduate
Education
Conference Notes:
1 That postgraduates carry out much of the research in
many departments and as such are an indispensable part of
the universities. Without post-graduates there would be
little research in many departments.
2. That the postgraduate is often looked upon as some
intermediate stage between a member of staff and an under-
graduate.
That staff and administration may often be more willing
to listen to student views expressed by a post-graduate group
than by a similar undergraduate group. That post-graduate
Students have easier access to staff than under-graduates and
thus have a special position that may be useful in staff-
Student negotiations.
3. That some post-graduates, unlike under-graduates,
are in a position to take direct and effective sanctions against
University authorities and student unions should be in a posi-
tion to protect any strike adtion by PG members through
solidarity and regular links with Campus trade unions.
Conjernce believes: —
4. That postgraduate education is another stage in the
development of an educated society and as such the value
of the post-graduate Student should not be solely assessed
on the result obtained from research.
5. That post-graduates should not he considered as cheap
labour for the collection of information on an in progress
project, but should at all times be encouraged to develop
their own lines of investigation.
6. That the value of the post-graduate students in univer-
sities Ls considerable in that they help to maintain 'the inde-
pendentnature of university research, and that by carrying
out a large part of the research allow teaching duties to be
performed more effectively by academic staff. Without
Q U O R U M
C H A N G E
The following change relating to the quorum of Im-
perial College Union Meetings will be proposed by Mr.
N. Scdwick at the next Union General Meeting.
1. Change quorum for general meetings from 300 to
100.
2. Include in para 22 " A meeting shall be deemed
quorate until there is a challenge thereto."
This then means that para 2 in the standing orders
should be deleted and the standing orders renum-
bered accordingly.
For this to be passed it is necessary for it to gain a
two-thirds majority at two union meetings not less than
28 nor more than 40 college days apart.
postgraduate students academic staff would have to carry
out much more research and also have a higher teaching
load. It is also possible that without post-graduates to con-
tinue research many staff would not take teaching posts if
there was no time to carry (out research in laboritaries, and
this could lead to decline in the standards of university
teaching thus adversely affecting the undergraduate education
programme.
7. That post-graduates trained in industry or in con-
junction with industry should be ensured of (i) a solid theo-
retical background in their research (ii) that their research
will not 'be solely dictated 'by 'Considerations arising from
the commercial aspects of that company, (III) that their
research be allowed to develop along lines not directly
related to a limited section of (the company's projects if
such development is necessary for the fullest understanding
of the post-graduate work..
8. That where government or international agencies or
industrial concerns sponsor research in universities the spon-
sorship should not be such that the style and nature of
the reearch is rigidly dictated. Neither should the research
be such that it will be used for military purposes, or in any
way further the aims of projects Which will not be beneficial
tn mankind. Further, any joint research work involving
South African companies or Universities should be termi-
nated forthwith.
9. That all awards to post-graduates 'from industry or
from any other organisation providing maintenance finances
for post-graduates, should be at least equal to the awards
made by the DES and the research councils to PGs and that
those awards include such items at dependant's allowances,
and travelling expenses as determined by the relevant regula-
tions.
10. That all postgraduates places should automatically
carry an award provided by the DES or some other source,
which will provide finance for the full period of the course.
11. That all tuition and registration fees be paid by the
grant awarding body. As an immediate interim measure,
all htose accepted for postgraduate training and not awarded
a grant should have their tuition, registration and examina-
tion fees waived. Special emphasis should be placed on
having overseas PG Students exempted from paying their
excessive tuition fees.
12. That all fees and costs incurred by the students in the
preparation of the thesis be paid for by the grant awarding
body.
14. PGs should not be used as teaching assistants merely
to relieve the load of the academic staff, but that teaching
should be designed and .supplemented such that the post-
graduate learns teaching methods.
15. That as not all postgraduates undertake demonstrating
and not ail of these become teachers, teaching duties do not
form an integral .part of the postgraduate education system,
but that such duties should be made available for those post-
graduates who wish to undertake such duties as demonstrat-
ing and tutorial work.
•16. That to prevent post-graduate Involvement in teaching
remaining a source of cheap labour, payment for teaching
duties should be tied to the basic rate of the University lec-
turer's pay scale.
That payment for demonstrating and tutoring should be
adequate and take account of the time required for prepara-
tion.
That opportunities for demonstrating should be clearly
advertised and equitably distributed among post-graduates.
17. Demonstrating at all times should be voluntary.
18. Postgraduates should be insured against accident
While at work and that the cost of such insurance be met
by the college.
19. That postgraduates have their national insurance
stamps paid in full by the grant awarding body so that
they face no loss of benefit in later years
20. Departments ought to provide individual working
space for each PG which should consist of at least a desk and
some storage space for filing and personal effects.
21. Departments should make readily available access to
the necessary Information sources so that research is geared
to the most recent development in the field.
22. 'Ready and frequent discussions with the supervisor
is essential.
23. That there should be established in all places where
postgraduates work a system by which the student may
appeal against the actions of his supervisor or any other
member of Staff as their actions relate to the particular stu-
dent.
24. Should a supervisor be found to be inadequate then
it must be possible for him to be replaced and account taken
of the change in supervisor in assessment of the work done.
24. Should a supervisor be found to be inadequate then
it must be possible for him to be replaced and account taken
of the change in supervisor in assessment of the work done.
25 That all post-graduates should be involved in the
selection of the external examiner, be informed of his or her
identity well in advance, and Should have the right to appeal
against the application of any individual examiner. A PG
who, after examination is not awarded a higher degree, should
also have the right to appeal.
26. Accommodation in college and university halls and
other forms of accommodation be actually available to both
post-graduates and under-graduates, and particular attention
be paid to first year post-graduates who have changed uni-
versity after their first degree and to students who have
recently arrived from overseas.
27. That in view of the difficulties involved in obtaining
suitable accommodation for married couples near many
institutions of higher education, and the high proportion
of qmarried post-graduates an increase should be made
in the number of places for married couples in halls of
residence and student house.
28. That post-graduates are an integral part of student
unions.
29. That in discussions with trade unions the emphasis
should be on Co-operation between the trade union and the
student unions or post-graduate organisations and that the
post-graduates themselves should always retain negotiating
rights for their interests.
30. That PGs Should seek representation of the bodies
that control the various universities with a view to ensuring
that staff and college administration are fully aware of the
problems facing post-graduates.
31. That the NUS policy on postgraduate grants should
be fully supported.
32. That the Commons' select committee's recommonda-
tions for loan financing of post-graduate education, and in-
creasing overseas PG fees to £1,500 is extremely unfair, and
as such shoull be totally opposed.
33. Conference welcomes the fact that NUS Exec has pub-
licly condemned the report.
34. That loans for PG's would raise further barriers to
working class Students obtaining PG education and training,
and may be used later as justification of loans for all students.
35. Conference rejects the idea that no student be allowed
to do PG research without experience in industry since in
many fields continuity of training.
B. Overseas Graduates.
(1) In view of the Government's plans for placing the bur-
den of solving its economic crisis on to the working class, and
other strata, such as students, the third report from the Ex-
penditure Committee (Education and Art Sub-Oommittee)
for the ession 1973-74 on Postgraduate Education comes at an
extremely opportune time for the Government.
(2) That in view of the crisis, the report is likely to gain
wide support from M.P.'s.
.1(8) The proposals in the report for supplementary loans
for British Post-graduates.
(4) The proposals that graduates spend a period of a year
in industry before starting post-graduate Studies, and that
those studies be more related to the needs of industry.
(5) The proposal to cut back post-graduate numbers from
19 per cent to 17 per cent of student numbers that given the
proposed cut backs in total student numbers, this would
mean a substantially larger drop in_ post-graduates.
(6) The proposal that Overseas students' fees be raised
from £250 pa. to £1,500 p.a., thus making study in this
country virtually impossible except for those on large spon-
sorships.
(7) The fact that overseas students form 25 per cent of the
postgraduates in this country.
Policy.
Conference welcomes the fact that:
(1) NUS Exec, has publicly condemned the report.
Conference believes that:
(2) CO's should initiate a campaign to show the member-
ship's total opposition to (a) Cutbacks in post-graduate num-
mbers, ('b)-the loan financing of post-graduate education.
C. The tying of Post-graduate Education to the whims of
Capitalist Industry.
(3) NUS expresses its opposition to any increase in fees
for overseas students, and launche a campaign aimed at gain-
ing full grants for all overseas students. This campangn
'to be an integral part of the Grants campangn, with equal
priority with all other demands. Instructions To Exec. Areas.
CO's (1) To carry out mandate as outlined in proposals above.
(2) To organise a delegate conference on the problems of
overseas students.
CO's and Arrears: (3) To take local initiatives to secure
these aims and publicise these alms.
NUS. Exec. (4) To liaise with CCOSA over this campaign
Content of
Education
A. Conference notes:
1. The rapid growth
of higher education since
the War, i.e. in 1970
there was 677,000 full-
time students at College
and University compared
with 70,000 at the end of
the war.
2. That during this
rapid expansion of post-
school education over the
last 10 years the influence
of the State and big busi-
ness has increased mark-
edly, in the spheres of
course content and sub-
jects for research.
3. That grants from
industry define the domin-
ant areas of research in
universities and polytech-
nics; and that while power
is increasingly centralised
on the governing bodies of
educational institutions
the amount Of representa-
tion granted to industry
and big business is grow-
ing rapidly.
4. The comments of
Lord Stokes and other in-
dustrialists on the nature
of higher education and
the relative merits of the
universities and the ser-
vices.
5. The Russell Report,
the White Paper "Educa-
tion — A Framework for
Expansion", and the Re-
port of the Commons Ex-
penditure Committee on
PG Education.
6. That the White
Paper represented the lat-
est in a series of recon-
structions of Higher Edu-
cation designed to make
Post - school education
more "cost-effective", i.e.
more closely Itied to the
needs of the big monopol-
ies iin industry.
B. Conference r e c o g -
nises:
1. T h a t postschool
education in Britain today
fulfills two main func-
tions:
a. Provides a highly-
skilled work-force.
b. Passing on ideas in-
volving stailus-quo in soci-
ety.
2. That during the
rapid expansion of the
last 10 years in posit-
school education, the in-
fluence of big-business has
increased markedly. This
increased influence is
shown in a number of
ways, including: the fact
that grants from the big
monopliies increasingly de-
fine areas of research,
that power is increasingly
centralised upon the gov-
erning bodies of educa-
tional institutions and that
there is much greater
representation of big in-
terests on these governing
bodies.
3. That 'the White
Paper "Education — A
Framework for Expan-
sion" represented the lat-
est in a series of restruc-
turings Which is designed
to make post-school edu-
cation more responsive to
the needs of the big mono-
polies.
4. That these pressures
from monopoly and state
not only affect the organ-
isation of poSt-school edu-
cation, but they also
powerfully influence its
content.
5. Therefore concern
with the content of post-
school education is a cen-
tral responsibility of NUS.
Conference therefore re-
solves that N U S should
lead consistent, co-ordin-
ated analysis and activity
about the nature of the
education we receive.
To organise a
C. Instructions:
Exec 1
one-day conference on
pressures by monopolies
and Govt, on H E .
Exec 2. To set up a
working party on this
question and related ones
of state control of re-
search and the values and
content of H E .
Exec 3. To produce a
booklist of alternative
works to prevailing ortho-
doxy.
CO's 4. To set up
working parties within
departments or disciplines.
CO's 5. To supply mat-
erial from the local situ-
ation for the conference.

