19th February, 1974 F E L I X Page 7
Northern Ireland
A . Conference notes. (1) the present situation in
Northern Ireland.
(2) the allegations by both the I R A and the U D A
. that U F F is run by British Intelligence.
(3) The continued use of British troops as an army
of occupation in the six counties of Ireland.
(4) That the training being given to the Troops in
Ireland, means that they can be used for civilian pur-
poses in this country eg. as strike breakers as in the
Glasgow Firemen's Strike.
(5) That the total integration of the Police and
Army in Northern Ireland is now being extended to
Britain, through such measures as the Heathrow Man-
oeuvres and secondment of Army personnel to major
Police stations.
(6) The imprisonment of the Belfast 9 after the
Winchester bomb trials, alleged offences committed
in London, and the fact that Winchester is a major
Garrison Town.
(7) The subsequent hunger strike by Marion and
Dolours Price, Hugh Fedy, and Gerald Kelly in
support of their demand to be treated as Political Pri-
soners, and to be returned to Ireland to serve their
sentences.
(8) The force-feeding of the prisoners, which violates
the European Convention of Human Rights to which
Britain is a signatory, and the fact that they are gett-
ing increasingly weak, hence the urgency of taking
action on their behalf.
(9) The fact that Protestants have in fact been
classed as "Political Prisoners" and transferred to
Scotland to serve their sentences.
(10) The fact that Marion Price, Dolours Price and
Hugh Fedy are members of N.U.S., and as such, should
be defended by N.U.S. •
(11) The appeal by the Irish T. and G.W.U. to the
British T . G . W . U for them to take up the case of the
Hunger strikers, and for their demands to be met.
Conference condemns the repression in N.I., being
carried out by the British Goverment.
B. Conference recognises:
(1) That the causes of the present crisis in N.I. are
a) partition of Ireland in 1920 by British Imperialism
b) British Imperialism's policy of repression and divi-
sion in Northern Ireland, which is intended to keep
Ireland divided and ensure the continued domination
of Ireland by British monopolies.
(2) That the elected assembly and new Executive
can in no way solve the crisis since they are just "fig"
leaves" hiding the continued repression of N.I. and the
fact that the real power still resides in Westminster.
(3) That the " A l l Ireland Council" is not a step
towards an independent and united Ireland but simp-
ly a vehicle for British Imperialism put up by broad
anti-unionist mass organisations such as the *N.I.
Civil Rights Association, which unites the poor sec-
tions of both the Catholic and Protestant peoples,
against British domination. Only a united mass move-
ment such as this can have the strength to change
British Government policy.
C. Policy.
Conference calls for:
(1) A joint meeting of the General Council of both
the British and Irish TUC's in order to discuss how
the Trade Union Movement in both countries can
unite in the campaign for a United Ireland.
(2) The release of all internees.
(3) The repeal of all repressive legislation.
(4) A Bill of Rights, as demanded by the 1971 annual
conference of the British T U C . to guarantee democra-
tic freedoms and an end of discrimination.
(5) The withdrawal of British troops to barracks,
pending their complete withdrawal.
(6) A Non-sectarian police force, under democratic
control to replace the Royal Ulster Constabulary.
Conference believes that, unless these steps are taken
forthwith, a situation where the basic problems of Ire-
land as a whole can be solved, cannot be created.
Conference:
(7) Condemns the continued use of British Troops in
Northern Ireland as an army of occupation.
(8) fully supports the troops out movement.
(9) Condemns the force-feeding of the four prisoners
on hunger strike, and fully supports their demands to
be accorded Political Prisoner status, and to be return-
ed to N.I. to serve their sentences.
(10) Condemns the harassment of the prisoners and
their relatives, through the refusal of the authorities to
allow visits to the prisoners, on numerous occasions.
Instructions.
Exec, and CO's (1) To work for maximum support
for organisations campaigning on all or some of these
policies and to work large scale involvement of students
in these activities.
Exec, Areas, C.O.'s 2) To affiliate to, take part in,
and publicise the activities of the troops Out Movement
and hence, to call for the withdrawl of troops from Nor-
thern Ireland.
Exec, Areas C.O.'s 3) to publicily condemn the force
feeding of any prisoner, and to campaign for the
granting of Political Prisoner status for the four, as
well as for the return to Ireland of all Irish Political
prisoners that wish to serve their sentences there.
Exec. (4) To publicise the fact that three of the
nine are N.U.S. members, and to publicise the campaign
in the national press.
Student Finance
A . 1, Conference believes
that the recent cutbacks in
education spending are
part of the government's
policy to maintain profits
at the expense of the wor-
king class and other strata
such as students.
2. Conference consid-
ers that if our demands are
not mat there must be an
immediate militant res-
ponse by students. Stud-
ents must show the gov-
ernment that they are not
prepared to sacrifice their
own interests to those of
a rich minority.
3. Conference consid-
ers that the grants cam-
paign must continue
throughout the summer
and autumn terms.
4. Militant action in
support of the grants cam-
paign.
6. Unions should be
encouraged to hold rent
strikes as a tactic in the
grants campaign. But it is
up to each union to make
its own decision. This is
what is actually the case
at the moment and to
talk of a national rent
strike is quite clearly ludi-
crous.
7. Conference wel-
comes and supports the
call for a General Election
However, Conference re-
cognises that in the event
of a Labour victory, the
necessity for the mass ac-
tion of students and work-
ers remains in order to
compel that government to
carry out policies that be-
gin to challenge the power
of big business. Therefore
under a Labour Govern-
ment the need for militant
mass action by students in
support of the E C . re-
mains.
Conference Notes: 1) In
view of the Government's
plans for placing the bur-
den of solving its econom-
ic crisis onto the Working
class, and other strata,
such as students, the third
report from the Expendi-
ture Committee (Educa-
tion & Arts Sub-Commit-
tee) for the season 1973-
74 on Postgraduate Edu-
cation comes at an ex-
tremely opportune time
for the Government.
2) That in view of the
crisis, the report lis likely
to gain wide support from
M.P.'s.
3) The proposals in
the report for supplement-
ary loans for British Post-
graduates.
4) The proposals that
graduates spend a period
of years in industry before
s t a r t i n g postgraduate
studies, and that those
studies be more related to
the needs of industry.
5) The proposal to cut
back postgraduate num-
bers from 19% to 17% of
student numbers, that
given the proposed cut
backs in total student
numbers, this would mean
a substantially larger drop
in postgraduates.
6) The proposal that
Overseas students fees be
raised from £250 p.a to
£1,500 p.a., thus making
study in this country vir-
tually impossible except
for those on large sponsor-
ships.
7) The fact that over-
seas students form 25%
of the postgraduates in
this country.
Policy.
Conference welcomes
the fact that:
1) NUS Exec. has
publicly eondemed the re-
port.
Conference b e l i e v e s
that:
2) CO's should initi-
ate a campaign to show
the membership's total op-
position to a) Cutbacks
in postgraduate numbers,
b) the loan financing of
postgraduate education.
C. The tyiing of Post-
graduate Education to the
whims of Capitalist Indus-
try.
3) NUS expresses its
opposition to any increase
in fees for overseas stu-
dents, and launches a
campaign, aimed at gain-
ing full grants for all
Overseas students. This
campaign to be an integ-
ral part of the Grants
campaign, with equal pri-
ority with all other de-
mands.
Instructions.
To. Exec. Areas, C.O.'s:
1) To carry out mandate
as outlined in proposals
above.
Exec. 2) To organise a
delegate conference on the
problems of overseas stu-
dents.
C.O.'s and Areas. 3) To
take local initiatives to se-
cure these aims and publi-
cise these aims.
NUS. Exec. 4) To liaise
with C C O S A over this
campaign.
Exec. To press for auto-
matic national insurance
stamps for all students, to
prevent loss Of benefit for
students.
Racialism and
Immigration
Legislation
A. General
(1) Conference notes the increasing discrimination against
Black people in Britain through direct and indirect depriva-
tion in the following areas:
(a) Housing, (b) Educational opportunity, (c) Police har-
assment, (3) anti-immigrant legislation, eg, the recent
Court of Appeal decision to apply the 1972 Immigration
Act retrospectively.
(2) Conference recognises the implications of the present
crisis and the intentions of the government to impose an
era of austerity and the prospect of an accompanying per-
iod of recession. Conference believes that the Government is
again likely to use minorities as scapegoats for shortages
of accommodation, employment, etc., and take the opportun-
ity to attack them via more stringent legislation and depriva-
tion as above.
(3) Conference believes that students have a major role
to play in stepping up the fight against racialism and fascist
organisations.
(4) Conference recognises that the sources of racism today
cannot toe separated from Britain's colonialist past; that
racism is in the natural product of imperialism since the
European states mported workers from the newly indepen-
dent States of Africa, Asia and Ithe West Indies and employed
them in the hardest and worst paid jobs.
(5) Conference recognises Ithat racialism is a tactic used
to divide the working-class 'by providing a scapegoat for di-
verting the dissatisfaction Of ordinary people from the sys-
tem, on to an under-privileged and easily identifiable section
of the community.
(6) Conference recognises that the fight against racism
within Britain cannot be divorced from the fight against
racism and apartheid in Southern Africa.
B. Immigration.
1) Conference notes the increasing isolation of and
mountings attacks upon migrant workers in .Europe, eg. in
Marseilles.
(2) Conference notes:
(a) The decision of the House of Lords of June 1973 making
the 1971 immigration Act "retrospective".
(Jb) The refusal of the CPSA to obey the instructions of
Sir Keith Joseph, to demand to see the passports of blacks
and ask for insurance cards.
(c) The attempts of immigrant workers' trade unionists,
and other organisations to oppose the House of Lords judge-
ment.
(3) Conference utterly rejects the view that racist atti-
tudes stem from the presence of black people iin this country.
C. The Government.
(1) Conference recognises that government, both Con-
servative and Labour, have sought to isolate blacks through
racist ideology, by discriminating legislation of the immigra-
tion Act and the retrospective clauses.
(2) Conference believes that the machinery of Race Rela-
tions remains ineffective in the face of racist ideology perpe-
trated through education and the mass media.
(3) Conference believes that this is a consequence of the
bureaucratic nature of the Race 'Relations machinery, which
is totally separated from the community. Conference recog-
nises that this only serves to alienate blacks and discourage
them from using the various organisations, particularly in
view of suspicions of racism inside the Race Relations
industry (eg Lyttle case).
(4) Conference condemns the Government's refusal to take
vigorous action against racist activity and propaganda and
its failure to investigate satisfactorily the complaints by
Black People against the Police.
D. Organised Racism.
(1) Conference notes the disturbing increases in racist
attitudes, from which no group, including students, is
entirely free. Conference notes thai, the activity of tascist or-
ganisations, notably the National Front, has increased re-
cently, appealing with racist propaganda and inciting v.o ence,
against black people. Conference views with alarm the in-
creasing electoral support for the National Front.
(2) Conference calls for an extensive and intensive oppo-
sition to raslsm and fascist organisations in conjunction with
anti-racist and progressive forces; and calls on CO s not to
provide platforms or any assistance to rasiet and fascist
organisations.
(3) Conference recognises that racists have found a new
weapon in the theories of inequality between races propa-
gated by Jensen, Eysenck, Shockley, etc. (ad nauseam). Con-
ference rejects this spurious and unscientific "research" and
reaffirms its belief in the quality of all peoples.
E. Education
(1) Conference recognises that, while not providing a
panacea, the education system can play a major role in re-
shaping attitudes and preparing children to cope with a
multiracial society; but to do this must become much more
progressive.
(2). Conference welcomes the decision of the DE.S to stop
the "numbers game", i.e. keeping misleading statistics on
"immigrant children".
(3) Conference condemns the racist argument that blacks
must be "educated" to "fit in", i.e. abandon their own cul-
tures.
(4) Conference believes that the idea of racial minorities
being forced to adopt the culture of white society is racist
since it denies cultural identity.
(5) Conference condemns the racialism existing in the
education system, reflected in tne nature of the test toooka
and syllabi.
(6) Conference notes that a large proportion of children
in F S N schools are black; this represents a cop-out on the
part of the system in not coming to grips with the special
problems of black children.
(7) Conference believes that criticism of the education
system is essential for failing
(a) to reflect <the history, culture and achievements oif
people from the 3rd World.
(to) to provide the training for teachers and social work-
ers necessary to deal with the problems of immigrant child-
ren.
F. Overseas Students.
(1) Conference recognises that a section of our member-
ship, i.e. overseas students, suffer particularly through racism
and the actions of racist and fascist organisations.
(2) Conference notes the firm stand taken by N.U.S. and
Student Unions against racialism, in particular the actions
against the increase in students' fees in 1967.
(3) Conference notes the recommendation of the Commons
Expenditure committee, that overseas post-graduates should
pay the full fees (for their tuition (£1,500). This proh.iOitive
cost would prevent overseas ipostgrads (some 30 per cent
of all pg's) from studying in 'Britain. Conference opposes
this recommendation as discriminatory, and reiterates its
opposition to discriminatory fees.
(4) Conference notes that there is often active discrimin-
ation against overseas students in the field of accommoda-
tion.
G. Activity.
(1) Conference welcomes the development of mass and
for community-based organisations amongst black people
which
(a) serves to counter the increased discrimination and police
harassment
(to) and try to develop a stronger, self-respecting commun-
ity which can undertake its own defence.
(2) Conference notes the survival of the three centres for
homeless black youth and recognises this as a significant
development.
(3) Conference believes that NUS should Work with such
groups, for the urgent need is to be build the unity of all
anti-racist forces.
Instructions
Exec. 1. To organise the fullest co-operation with organ-
isations committee to fighting racialism, e.g. JCWI, Libera-
tion, Institute of Race Relations, TRJ, AAM.
CO's 2. To affiliate to the above organisations where pos-
sible.
CO's and Areas 3. To participate in the establishment of
local anti-racists committees wherever possible. 'Where these
do not exist, to approach Trades Councils, trades union
branches and other organisations to consider the possibility
of establishing such a committee involving the organised
movement and immigrant organisations.
Exec/CO's 4. To step up opposition to higher fees for over-
seas students, in co-operation with CCOSA.
Exec. 5. To circulate a document outlining the implications
Of the report on PGS for overseas postgraduates.
Exec/CO's 6. To fight all academic links with South Africa
and Rhodesia and to publicise those links which do exist.
Exec. 7. To campaign for training for teachers to equip
them to deal with the problems of immigrants.
Exec. CO's 8. To campaign for the introduction of courses
to teach the history, culture and achievements of third world
peoples.
Exec. 9. To campaign for the repeal of the retrospective
clause of the Immigration Act and its eventual repeal as a
whole; and for the strengthening of the Race Relations Act
and machinery.
Exec. 10: To prepare a major report on the question of
racialism.
a. within the education system.
to. within the community as a whole.
CO's Areas 11. To establish links with local immigranit
organisations to assist in the fight against harassment, by
the use of mass action.
Exec. 12. To prepare, publish and distribute to CO's mater-
ial critically analysing the work of Eysenck et al.
CO's 13. To refuse to provide platforms for racist and
fascist organisations, e.g. iNF.

