June 4th, 1974 FELIX Page 11
FELIX
S P O R T
1
PURELY
A
SPACE
FILLER
Put your own caption
here —
FENCING CLUB
E N GARDE, PRfeT?, A L L E Z , SPLAT
(Or how we foiled the Froggies)
Having won our section of the London League
and with our considerable achievements in the Inter-
national Leamington Spa contest — which our Olym-
pic fencer, Roman Gomez, won, it looked as if our
tour of Paris would be too easy. But Alas, not so.
On the day before the tour began Roman was struck
down with 'flu and so it was a somewhat weakened
team of ithe I.C. fencing club that set off at 6.30 on
Friday morning to tour Paris. Unaccustomed to being
awake at this early hour, the driver and navigator,
who shall remain nameless (thanks for the hush
money, Kay), promptly fell asleep and we got lost
in South Kensington. Otherwise the journey to Rams-
gate was made unbearable by Steve (I'm not a sheep)
Thompson spotting buses, counting the legs of pubs
and deciphering school names.
ARRIVAL
A n uneventful hover ride later we were driving
at a leisurely pace through the sun-drenched French
countryside, regretting not having to attend lectures
like all you other lucky students. Our first encounter
with the French was an attempt to acquire a cork-
screw. Despite the efforts of our linguist, we never
did. However, wine was procured and from, there on
the journey definitely livened up. Paris was eventually
reached, by superb timing, at rush hour. Thanks to
the combined skill of Julian and eleven backseat dri-
vers, we survived a hair-raising journey across the
whole of Paris. It was only when we had arrived at
the luxurious Hotel Star in the tres chic Avenue
Ernile Zola, that the locals managed to score a hit,
which was only a slight glance anyway.
WORLD CHAMPION
A quick unpack and we were off again — to the
exclusive Racing Club of France. After we had fin-
ished drooling over the superb fencing equipment
we settled down to some practice matches with the
resident fencers, who included some international
sabreurs and woman's foilists, not to mention the
odd American. Some of our more talented fencers
were honoured with the presence of no less a maes-
tro of the pointed steel stick than Christian Noel, the
current world champion foilist. (I was unlucky to
lose — Wine taster). The fencing instructor took a
fancy to our three ladies and abducted them to the
nearest cafe. Being a gentleman as well as a French-
man, he paid for the rest of the team's wine as well.
We finally rescued a by now rather inebriated Jo
from his clutches and retired to another local cafe
for some steak and chips (and wine).
Breakfast revealed our inadequate mastery of
French. Thanks to Mike's efforts we sat for twenty
minutes with no bread on which to spread our
rhubarb jam. (Steve and Gordon's absence was noted
—perhaps they're sharing a room?)
Saturday morning saw ten frantic fencers sight-
seeing Paris. One of the sights was Mike and Chris
imitating gargoyles on the rood of the Notre Dame
Cathedral. Fortified by some V I N superior, the team
set off to find the mini bus, which was eventually
located hiding behind a forty franc parking ticket.
Despite the efforts of our many French scholars, the
exact nature of our crime was never ascertained.
1st WIN
Julian had by now become thoroughly French in
his approach to driving and a few U turns, red lights
and anguished cries of "Oh les Anglais" later, we
arrived at the Cerde D'Escrime De Vincennes. ( A
fencing club located in the cellars of a school on the
outskirts of Paris). Despite a nasty brush with French
plumbing facilities, we started our tour in grand
style and proceeded to tear our opponents to pieces.
The mens foil, consisting of Lawrence, Julian and
Richard won 7-2, with Lawrence in superb form.
The free alcohol was then brought out (unfair that),
which resulted in Lawrence losing his first epee bout,
before recovering to win the last two and so help
Andrew and Julian score a 5-4 victory. The sabre
team of Steve, Julian and Mike won 6-3 as did the
woman's foil of Kay, Julia and Jo, against much
more experienced opposition.
LOSS
Having thus demolished our opponents 24-12, we
proceeded to take advantage of their tremendous
hospitality (expressed in terms of lavish quantities of
free alchohol). Eventually we had to leave, as we
were already supposed to be fencing another match.
A hasty trip through Paris (which included walking
up the Rue de Martyrs in full fending gear —
Andrew had to be rescued from some rather funny
looking Frenchmen) brought us to the Club de la
Tour D'Auvergne, a famous club with a history
going back to the French revolution. Unfortunately
the wine was beginning to tell, especially on the
women's foil team, whose opponents included iden-
tical twins, both of whom had considerable exper-
ience, (fencing, that is). Julia didn't even realise that
they looked alike — she was also very prone to fits
of giggles and saying strange things. Despite this she
actually won a bout. The men's foil team also lost,
but the epee and sabre teams both fought well and
both won 6-3. Julian was thriving on the wine and
outfenced his opponents in all three weapons. In fact
his fencing was almost as good as his driving. The
overall result of the match was a narrow defeat for
us, but the excellent meal that was brought for us
by Maitre Lebland more than made up for this.
The ride home, which began by us reversing into
the car behind, included a superb rendering of the
engineer's song, interrupted only by a near broadside
hit from a rather large tourist bus. Steve announced
his changing from bus spotting to' bust spotting as
we flashed past the Follies Pigalle. Other places we
avoided were Maxims and Dirty Dick's. Steve had to
be restrained from spitting into the Seine and admit-
ted that his great ambition was to spit into the Grand
Canyon. The evening was rounded off by waking
up a rather irate manager to gain access to the hotel.
CHAMPIONSHIPS
On Sunday, the more able fencers rose at 7.30 to
take part in various competitions. The Ladies foil
contest was a final preliminary competition for the
world championships and Kay Nicholson did very
well, only missing the 4th round by one hit. Joe
Grut and Julia Harris also took part. Meanwhile,
at the opposite end of Paris, a Sabre contest was
being held. The 120 entrants included the entire
French international squad as well as Dutch and
American teams. Mike Burke reached the second
round, whilst Julian Tyson and Steve Thompson
both reached the quarter finals, which gives them the
distinction of being unofficially ranked within the
top 24 French sabreurs.
The rest of the group, ably led by Lawrence (Cul-
ture Vulture) Boyd put in a spot of advanced tourism
and visited both the Louvre and the Impressionist
museum. This proved more than adequate to quench
the aesthetic thirst of IC students, and so some wine
(and a very costly and inedible mis-translation of
the menu by Richard) later, we headed for the flesh-
pots of Montmartre. Apart from the odd fire brea-
ther, Richard attempting to borrow 60^ francs (she
wasn't bad), Lawrence disappearing for an inordin-
ate length of time (listening to a service at Sacre
Coeur was his excuse) Gordon inspecting all pissoirs
and Chris hunting frantically for "Dirty Dick's", it
was just like any normal Sunday afternoon.
STREAK
That evening some aimless street wandering was
followed by an exuberant Metro ride to the Eiffel
tower, which was judged to stand on a base precisely
one -hockey pitch and a fencing piste long by an
expert in these (and other) matters. A streak down
the Champs de Mars was ruled out by an unplea-
santly cold wind and we had to be content with funny
jokes about Richard and a certain young French
lady.
Monday morning saw us studying the rather inter-
esting positions Rodins figures managed to pose in,
whilst Richard lay ill in bed, with some ailment that
apparently afflicted him from the waist down.
Visit to France
April '74
PARIS UNIV
In the afternoon Steve, Gordon and Chris were
left to "do" Paris whilst the rest headed to Versailles,
intrigued by Jo's account of what the cherubs in the
paintings really do. A picnic lunch on the steps of
Versailles (which included the dreaded Goats Milk
cheese) was,followed by endless halls of mirrors and
state rooms, all with paintings of cherubs, which
were examined for interesting behaviour. Lawrence
fought hard with his Scottish nature before P A Y I N G
to use a toilet and we then headed back to the
Avenue Bmile Zola to pick up the rest of the team
for the match with Paris University. Here, in an
excellently equipped Sports complex, with an entire
gym for fencing and judo, our epee team continued
their unbeaten run, massacring their opponents
13-2. The men's foil, weakened by Richard still being
ill and thus not able to fight lost their match, despite
Steve's use of the foil as a sabre. The sabre team
came up against some very tough competition, the
opposition having had one semi-finalist and one
quarter-finalist in the previous day's contest, and
without Roman, we never really had a chance and
went down 6-3. The ladies foil were also up against
a very god team, including one member of the French
team at the World student games, and were beaten.
The second foil team did well, fencing the same
team as the first foil and losing by the same margin
(though winning 2-1 on broken blades).
Once again .we were superbly entertained, in a
basement restaurant in the Latin Quarter. The meal,
which included a genuine I.C. sugar cube fight, and
Steve stripping down to his new purple vest, finally
finished at one in the morning, with Miss Harris
refusing to apologise for her terrible gluttony in con-
suming two steaks. We then indulged in a final ride
round the fleshpots of Montmartre before returning
to wake up the manager of the hotel again.
R E T U R N
The homeward journey was marked only by our
being thoroughly questioned, one at a time, by the
British Customs officials. It was only after the sixth
person confessed to having bought a fencing blade in
France, that we were dismissed as misguided but
harmless eccentrics.
London was finally reached and a pint of British
ale had by each member of the team at 7 p.m. that
evening — marking the end of a very enjoyable and
successful , tour. Outstanding performances were
Julian's fencing over 50 bouts, and winning more than
half of them, and Andrew Barbut (our junior Bri-
tish Pentathlete) only losing two of his bouts. Our
overall score, in the three team events, was 62 for,
59 against, a very pleasing result.
Back Row: Mike Burke, Julian Tyson, Lawrence
Boyd, Julia Harris, Steve Thompson (Captain),
Richard Annett.
Middle: Kay Nicholson, Jo Grut, Gordon MacKay.
Front: Chris Murray, Andrew Barbut.
Photographer: Roy Rosser

