Page 12 FELIX June 4th, 1974
T A B L E T E N N I S
Yes, there really is a T T
club at IC. Indeed, over
70% of players represent-
ing London Universities
teams are from this col-
lege, which probably ex-
plains the apparent lack of
activity here.
About half - a - dozen
friendly matches were
played and IC, frequently
putting out weak teams to
give the opposition a
chance, managed to lose
most of them. However,
our superiority remains
undisputed.
Inside IC the club cham-
pionships reached a climax
(?) last Tuesday when the
finals were played. Three
of the four seeds reached
the final — the other
through a severe attack of
apathy failed to play any
of his matches.
Andy Beal unfortunate-
ly failed to play up to
expectations and lost both
matches two — straight,
though he should continue
to improve as he gains
more match experience.
This left Graham King
and Gerwyn Edwards
(both of whom collected
their purples the day be-
fore) to play the deciding
match. B o t h players
showed the inevitable
signs of match practice,
and in a fairly scrappy
match King ran out win-
ner 21-10, 21-15.
It is hoped that the han-
dicap K O competition can
be finished before the end
of term. It is (at last)
through to the semi-final
stage with O. Ogundipe
(+10) to play H . Kumar
( + 8) for a place in the
final against King (—8) or
Beal (+1).
G O L F I N G
C O M M E N T
Warm congratulations to John Mendonca for gaining
his first full international cap. In his debut appearance
for Portugal he defeated the current French National
Champion 2 and 1. A remarkable feat to crown an
excellent season with both IC and London University.
Also to be congratulated is Bill Calderwood for gain-
ing a full 'purple' for his performances in numerous
London University matches.
T E N N I S v Q E C
The men's 1st V I tennis
team began the season
with a convincing 8-1 vic-
tory against Q E C at Har-
lington last Saturday.
Although the turnout for
the trials of Wednesday
was rather disappointing
(finals taking its heavy
toll) the general standard
of play was quite good and
certainly matched that of
last year.
The team was represent-
ed by J. Price (capt.), D.
Tunner, M . White, S.
McKechme, R. Manson-
King, B. Finney.
Next Saturday in the
first round of the U L U cup
the team face Guy's Hos-
pital which should be a
very tough match.
If the weather holds this
term, there promises to be
a wealth of fixtures
played. Anyone who is in-
terested please contact
either C. Steele, Linstead
Hall, or J. C. Price, Gar-
den Hall.
J. C. Price.
C
R
O
s
s
w
o
R
D
Across: 1 Helicon; 3 Fire-
man; 7 Abracadabra; 9
Hoove; 10 Treat; 12 Peril;
13 Stir Up; 14 Resign; 18
Early; 19 Extra; 20 Alarm;
22 Stool pigeon; 23 Hanging;
24 Magnify.
Down: 1 Hirstute; 2 Orach; 4
Image; 5 Nightly; 6 Lagoon;
7 Adventurous; 8 Aggrega-
tion; 11 Tardy; 12 Paste; 15
Debauch; 16 Clamps; 17
Naughty; 20 Acorn; 21
Magma.
A
N
S
w
E
R
S
BOAT
CLUB
Fourteen members of the Boat Club took off from
Gatwick Airport on Monday, April 1st, on a DC10,
having first made sure there was a good strong bit of
sticky tape around the vulnerable door. The flight to
New York could not have been more comfortable. We
arrived at Kennedy Airport around 5.30 p.m. and were
met by an airport official carrying a card "Imperial
College Crew" blazoned across it. After a long delay
awaiting our baggage, the airport official escorted us to
a coach that took us on a 3J hour journey to Amherst
where our hosts, the University of Massachusetts, are
situated. Here at midnight we were met by Mike
Vespoli, the U . Mass. crew coach, who very quickly
and efficiently had us bedded down for the night in our
quarters.
Awakening the next day to a very rainy morning, it
was decided to settle in after the long journey, and leave
our rowing until Wednesday. This gave us the oppor-
tunity to look at the University Campus, which extends
over a couple of square miles and has at the moment
22,000 students.
Mike Vespoli, the perfect host, acquired us a very big
car for our transport to and from their boathouse,
which lay on the Connecticut River, six miles away.
The crew settled in the boat after a few adjustments
and were given a set of Aylings oars which we used the
entire time.
Massachusetts
On Wednesday evening, University of Massachusetts
gave a welcoming party for us which was attended by
the Heads of Departments and other celebrities. A huge
cake was made for us—of around 4 sq. ft. iced in blue
and white with " W E L C O M E I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E "
on it, with tea made in our honour and of course a
special "Punch" was also available. The President of
their boat club made a speech of welcome to us and
extended their best wishes for a pleasant time during
our visit—and hopes for further trips between the two
boat clubs. I was able to reply before the punch took
hold and to thank everyone concerned for what they
had already done to make our stay very enjoyable and
present them with the I.C. Crest, suitably inscribed, as a
mark of our appreciation.
After two outings on Wednesday and two on Thurs-
day, Friday had to be given up for the boat to be trans-
ported to Boston, approximately 100 miles away. On
Saturday the crew left Amherst at 6.30 a.m. for their
race against M.I.T. (Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology) and U . Mass. The travelling proved too much
for us, plus the fact of the little time we had been
together as a crew. Hence the result was U . Mass. 6
min. 23 sec, M.I.T. 6.30 and I.C. 6.45. In the afternoon
the lads looked over Boston and although disappointed
at the race results were not dismayed.
I.C. Ex-President
On our arrival back from Boston a pleasant surprise
was waiting for us. John Levy had been able to contact
Dr. A . Kitchener, President of the I.C. Union '53, who
was living in New York. He arrived at the Campus
where a number of the crew and John, Professor Steiri
and his wife, Sally and myself, enjoyed a meal. After
dinner, drinks were then served. After the main party
left, Kitch, John and I went to Amherst and settled in
the bar of the Lord Jeffery Inn and past feats and
memories were discussed and a lovely round- off to a
pleasant day was had. Kitch, wearing the blazer of the
Staten Island Cricket Club is Vice-President of the
New York Cricket Association and organises Rugby
Football referees in and around New York. He had
been refereeing a rugger match at Providence that after-
noon. What an ambassador from I.C!
Kent and Ice
On Monday, we rigged the boat, had two outings and
greatly improved. On Tuesday with the temperature
below zero and everything co.vered with ice, we decided
on one long outing and then called it a day. On Wed-
nesday morning we left by car with our oars on top at
9 a.m. for Kent School approximately 150 miles away.
For this trip Hayden Thomas borrowed a car from a
U . Mass. friend which allowed us to take everyone,
considering Hayden had only just passed his driving
test, great credit must be given to him as the roads were
still pretty icy. We arrived at Kent around 1 p.m. and
were given a boat that only needed a few adjustments.
The crew really went well and at 3 p.m. we accom?
panied Kent School first boat and rowed six times for
I j minutes. Each time Kent would start well up, and
made sure we did not catch them until the fourth row.
On the fifth, we made sure we were level and were able
VISIT TO USA
APRIL 1974
to hold them and the last row of all saw us really beat
them. This was indeed their best row yet. So much so as
to make Kent fight shy of any further racing; the crew
can be proud of this performance. Our hosts, Hart
Perry, the Dean of Students, and his coach, Stuart
McDonald, then took us to the dining hall and enter-
tained us to dinner. Afterwards, some of us were shown
around the school and its new sports centre. Others had
a look at Kent itself, a quaint little place. We then all
met in a School House Lounge for a chat and refresh-
ments. The beer was very good.
On Thursday morning breakfast was at 8 a.m. and
Hart Perry presented us all with a glass tankard with
the School Crest and the 50 years of Kent School Book
autographed by the Headmaster and Hart Perry. Our
stay with Kent was really something to be remembered.
Yale and Sun
We left Kent at 11 a.m. Thursday and arrived at
Yale, 80 miles further south at 1 p.m. We were met by
Jerry Romano, the Yale rigger and given a boat to try
and after a couple of quick try-outs we basked in the
sunshine, with the temperature around 70 degrees. We
awaited the arrival of the Yale first boat and their
heavyweight freshmen, most of whom had rowed at
school with their Coach, Tony Johnson. We boated
with these two crews for a series of starts and rows of
various lengths, finishing with a three minute row.
Whilst holding the heavyweights most of the time, the
Yale first boat was decidedly stronger and had the
better of us in the long pieces of rowing. But consider-
ing the change of boats, plus the travelling, the crew
did very well. After the boating we then motored a few
miles to Yale University for dinner and after an hour's
look around, we left at 8.45 p.m. for Amherst, arriving
back around midnight.
The Big One
On Friday we had a couple of outings to get ready
for the big race on Easter Saturday against U . Mass.
and L a Salle University. The crew settled back into their
U. Mass boat very quickly and were improving every
minute. On Saturday the weather man gave us his third
change and let the rain down quite heavily. The three
crews lined up with U . Mass. and us both leaving L a
Salle rapidly. But U . Mass. clashed with L a Salle—so
the race was stopped and re-started. This time U. Mass.
had the better start and went ahead after a minute. I.C.
again drawing away from L a Salle. At half-way U .
Mass. were rthreequarters of a length up on I.C. with L a
Salle about the same down on us—and from there to
the finish U . Mass. drew away from I.C. with I.C.
drawing away from L a Salle. The finish being U . Mass.
6.26—I.C. 6.40—La Salle 6.55—a very good row indeed
for I.C.
Technique
The main comment from the American coaches about
the I.C. crew was that their technique was better than
the Americans', but strength through the water needed
improvement. This I thoroughly agree with. I do thank
our two very Senior men, Chris George, and Neil James
for accompanying us and really boosting our crew and
for our 2nd VIII lightweights who made up the crew
with only four 1st VIII. I think the trip was a tre-
mendous success and I pay tribute to all the lads for
their conduct on and off the water. It was in keeping
with I.C.'s reputation of good sportsmanship. I should
also like to thank everyone who made this trip possible
for us. and to our American hosts wherever we went.
I can only say "thank you" and "please invite us again".
I must make special mention to one Steve Wise. On
the eve of the trip I needed one man to keep the party
number up, so John Levy, who we have lent to Thames
Rowing Club to be their captain, gave permission for
me to ask one of his boys—and Steve at very short
notice came with us. His ability as an oarsman and his
companionship throughout the trip was true Boat Club
spirit. We do thank him very much and hope he en-
joyed it as much as we enjoyed his being with us.
Finally I must say a special thanks to John Levy for
being the instigator of this trip and for all his help and
support at home and with us in America. With John,
was Professor Otto Stein, his friend, and now the friend
of I.C. Boat Club and Mike Vespoli, the U . Mass.
Coach, who made it his prime object to make our stay
as pleasant and enjoyable as one could hope it could
be. There was nothing that was too much trouble for
Mike to immediately attend to; he arranged all the
races and trips to Boston, Kent and Yale; he was just
the perfect host. I only hope I personally can return-his
hospitality in the future, as I know the Boat Club as a
whole would wish to do.

