Page 4 FELIX June 4th, 1974
Thursday evening found us congregating in the
Union Bar with three members of IF and the driver
John. As the crates were loaded into Ithe coach rt
was remarked that these three gave very good
French lessons and hopes were running high.
Wo finally Clinked and rattled down the road and
had an uneventful journey to Dover supplemented
by cans of lager and one or two Newky's. The cross-
ing to Boulogne was calm enough and we drove
ed at this time for the hostel, about half an hour on
the metro, had a meat and generally relaxed in what
seemed like acres of padded black leather, a luxury
after ten hours in a coach seat.
Once more, our energy replenished slightly, we
returned to the school and found the 'Bar' in full
swing, our crates of Newky being rapidly consumed
together with equal quantities of Cognac and Per-
nod. We were willingly taught to 'rock and roll'
sand-pits and some caught the opportunity for a
rugby practice, being not quite totally exhausted
by this time.
Upon arriving late at the Champagne Chateau we
were not in a very receptive mood, and when told
there were 18 miles of tunnels beneath the grounds
holding 40 million bottles of champagne, certain
members of the parity were heard to ask with glazed
expressions if Ithey 'had finally passed out and was
P A R I S T R I P
overnight to an obscure French village 60 km from
Paris where it was thought we might get some
sleep. However this was proved wrong. By now
previously unknowns had become acquaintances
and acquaintances had become firm friends, various
relationships being born overnight. So we drove on
to Paris, the Back Third Rabble making various con-
tacts with women drivers and beer lorries in the
morning rush hour traffic. We met our counterparts
and went finally to the school of Chemistry where
we were Whisked round the department at a high
rate of knots—spurred on only by the thought of
the buffet lunch to come. By now tiredness had been
overcome once more and as one lab. blended with
another the only sounds heard were 1es stomaches
recomblant. Metro tickets materialised from no-
where and we made our way across Paris to the
plush reception with large plates of meat and pate
salad and delicious gateaux—as much as we could
eat to replenish our dying energies. And so the main
purpose of the weekend—the wine. Which flowed
like Tartan in the Union Bar, enough for everyone
and more. Some were seen to be clutching two full
glasses, others just the bottle, and chicken legs flew
ever/where.
Speeches were made by those capable (even
Norm) in French and English, fluency mainly due to
over-lubrication, and everyone thanked everyone
else for the truly great time we were having. By now
we were feeling much better for the sustenance.
Then back to the school Where three lectures, in
English, were heard by those still capable and it was
good to see Newky being downed during these by
the French Profs. M . Fayard, M . Cadiot and M .
Strauss. M . Strauss, his now well known sense of
even though "Je t'aime" would normally be thought
too slow for this in England.
By now the relationships were floundering on
some fronts and being re-established on new ones
with confusing regularity. Surplus English males,
could be observed practising their French in dan¥
corners only to be turned down upon asking "Voulez
vous danser avee moi?". It must have been the
accents which were wrong. The early departure of
the last metro to the hostel threw in a small amount
off confusion, especially When Dave Turner, men-
tioning no names, returned declaring that he
couldn't even find one station let alone the right
one.
Sleep came easily in the early hours and an early
rise afforded a seat on the coach for a three hour
trip round Paris. However this was not attended by
everyone, some inadvertently remaining asleep un-
til a later hour.
The afternoon and evening were free to see the
sights and integrate with the Parisians. Most man-'
aged to see the main things of interest and to sit in
the famous street cafes 'drinking very expensive
refreshment, watdhing the world go by. Those of us
'in student flats were able to stay out until the early
morning as Paris life seemed to continue all night,
the weather was fine, and interest was provided
by van-loads of Gendarmes patrolling, probably due
to Ithe elections. Other interest was provided by
the many shapely forms of Parisienne females, the
number and quality of which need to be seen to be
believed!
Norm, it is sad to say, was not seen very fre-
quently during the weekend, though several sight-
ings were reported as he dashed from one "toilette"
this really the Heaven they had come to seek. Aif
attempts to get tost in the tunnels remained unsuc-
cessful and the inevitable refreshment was provided
Which only served to tantalise the appetite for more
alcohol.
At last farewells had to be made, some tearful
and very touching and promises of future trips and
'meetings made, with many addresses changing
hands. We all hope these Will materialise and be
successful.
And so to the coast again, perceptibly faster than
before as the boat was certainly waiting for us in
Calais. Maintaining the tradition, vast quantities of
wine were consumed on the return journey, partially
due to the half bottle each provided by our Leader.
The bra on the aerial and pants on the back window
of the coach served as an indication of the mood of
the occupants.
We missed the boat at Calais, although every
effort was made to arrive on time.
As the second one was being repaired for the
first time in memory a five hour stop in Calais was
unavoidable, and sleepy figures could be seen
wandering (staggering?) around in the dead of
night. DT earned the title prize PA both on the
coach and in Calais. Congratulations from all those
concerned.
Customs provided the normal hold-up but we fin-
ally crossed the Channel as dawn arose and Dover
loomed in the morning mist. The driver remembered
(to drive on the left and we arrived at the Union in
time for first lectures on Monday morning, but most
of us slept all day.
I'm sure those on the trip would like especially to
thank Norm for the work he put into making the trip
MAY '74 EXCHANGE WITH ENSCP
humour once more proved to us his great wit and
mastery of English.
A serious fall in alcohol level was detected and
we could now look forward to the 'Bar' or party to
be held later that day. The new relationships were
flourishing and those established on the first trip of
the French to IC were resumed by those concerned.
Several of us were to share student flats whilst
the others stayed in a student hostel. We all depart-
to the next.
Sunday arrived very quickly and after minimal
sleep breakfast was taken in street cafes with a
"what the hell" attitude about the prices to which
we had now become accustomed. The coach left
for Epernay, E of Paris by some 100 km. The French
students, by now our firm friends, departed with us
—some in the coach, others in cars. The three hour
drive was broken by a pleasant picnic amongst some
possible, and Paul Gee for his fluent French without
Which we would probably still be on the Continent.
Shucks. Also, of course, the French students for
being hospitable and John Who got us there and
back.
iP.S.—They say the Chariton Festival was good
too.
J. SHMITT. .
P I N P O I N T T H E
P O L I T I C O
Here is a chart of
vario js sides of political
awareness (IS is Interna-
tional Socialist, IMG is
international Marxist
Group, W R P is Workers
Revolutionary Party, NF
lis National Front). All
you have to do is indi-
cate where on the scale
the following people
should be placed.
Trev Phillips
John East
Paul Watkins/John Lane
(either)
Paul Gee
Stuart Paul
John Randall
Phil Hemmens
Jock Veall.
The first fully correct
answer will win the in-
credible prize of one
year's hard labour in a
Russian salt mine. Sec-
ond prize is two years.
If you feel there is
anyone else who should
be pin-pointed on the
above scale then by all
means include them.
W
R
P
| IM3
Revolution
~ l —
3
IS
7 8 9 8
*-T5 1 >
P o p u 1 u s
-r —r~
3
..Broad Left
action for
comes; fight political
fni» it! J awareness
Liberal.
1
Unaligned /
5 *
"•conservative1
NF
Monday Club
soci nl iwt
RESIGNATION
At the RCSU annual
general meeting on May
14th the president of
RCSU, Martin Turner,
announced his resigna-
tion.
He declined from giv-
ing reasons but it is
thought that it arose
from the result of many
Clashes that have hap-
pened during the year,
being brought to a head
with the troubles arising
from the early finish of
the Silwood Ball.
The Union secretary,
Mr. Thomas, has taken
over as acting president.
ACROSS D O W N
1. Poetry source (7) 1. Hairy (7)
3. Arsonist or not? (7) 2. Goosefoot plants (5)
7. Spell (11) 4. Statue (5)
9. Cattle disease (5) 5. Mornings too? (7)
10. Deal with (5) 6. French idiots pool! (6)
12. Danger (5) 7. Rash (11)
13. Rouse (4,2) 8. Cohesion (11)
14. Relinquish (6) 11. Sluggish (5)
18. Not late (5) 12. Gum (5)
19. One run (5) 15. Pervert (7)
20. SOS (5) 16. Fastens (6)
22. Bird decoy? (5,6) 17. Wayward (7)
23. Not electric chair (7) 20. Oak-fruit (5)
24. Lenses do (7) 21. Fluid rock (5)

