Page 6 FELIX June 4th, 1974 June 4th, 1974 F E L I X Page 7
I have just returned from a visit to Chile as part
of a delegation organised by the International Union
of Students. I was in Chile from 23 to 29 April
visiting Santiago and Valparaiso.
I saw there the most blatant forms of suppression
and terrorism, and although I have been involved
with solidarity movements since September, I was
shocked by the callousness and cold-bloodedness of
the junta's tactics.
This is a brief summary of information the delega-
tion received about major areas of investigation.
Chris Proctor
N U S Executive.
The delegation was sent by the IUS to Chile in
order to study the general situation as well as the
situation in the university and cultural spheres, and
instructed to report its findings to the IUS Congress.
The delegation consisted of Miguel Lombardi (FUA),
Konrad Tiburzy (VDS), and Christopher Proctor
(NUSUK).
The delegation stayed in Santiago (making one
visit to Valparaiso) for seven days, from 23 to 29
April, and spoke with representatives of the forces
of resistance, with students, teachers and non-
academic personnel, including persons who had been
expelled and those still teaching in the universities.
The delegation spoke with refugees in embassies,
with the families of some of the 67 officers and
soldiers of the F A C H air force of Chile now being
tried by court martial, with lawyers and with other
sectors of the population.
E C O N O M I C S
The economic situation is characterised by enor-
mous inflation, with price increases since the putsch
of about 1500 per cent in the basic living items: at
the same time, the minimum wage is 16,000 escudos
per month (740 escudos = one dollar). This repre-
sents a rise of less than 80 per cent over the Unidad
Popular minimum wage of 9,000 escudos. The price
index is no longer available for public reference, but
a few samples are helpful. A normal meal in a res-
taurant costs 3,500, a pair of shoes cost 20,000
escudos, and a chicken 1,000 escudos. Bus fares have
risen by between 900 per cent and 1900 per cent.
Many of the approximately 180,000 enterprises
existing in Chile under the U P government have
'been forced to close down because the people can
no longer afford to purchase anything. Even the
bourgeoisie are enraged by the situation. Only short-
term loans are available, which offer no solution.
The "Club of Paris" made a small loan recently,
but has made any further loans conditional on
political reforms as well as economic factors. Even
the monopolies are unwilling to invest in the face
of the economic chaos created by the junta and the
reactionary bourgeoisie.
The great burden of economic and social hard-
ship has of course been placed on the backs of the
working and peasant classes and the progressive
forces in general. They have been persecuted and
driven from their work and studies into prisons, con-
centration camps and exile.
M E D I A
The fascists have a monopoly of the mass media
and, in league with the ruling-class Edwards family,
control all the newspapers and periodicals produced
in Chile. The news is completely distorted, books
are confiscated and burned Nazi-style, television is
exclusively in pro junta hands and radio stations
are brutally repressed for the slightest deviation
from the official line. For example, radio Balmaceda
was closed for six days for a mild comment that
offended the junta.
T O R T U R E
All the weapons of the junta are those of fascism
and its major weapons in terrorism. General Leagh
said two weeks ago that he did not know of one
person who had been tortured in Chilean concen-
tration camps, which he called prisons. The dele-
gation can, without fear of contradiction call this
man a liar as well as a murderer. The delegation
met one young girl still unable to walk after being
released from the National Stadium last December.
She had been subjected to electric shocks on all
parts of her body, forced to undergo a mock execu-
tion, been paraded naked in front of her male
comrades, been forced to watch her male comrades
being tortured by being given electric shocks, been
in solitary confinement in a dark rat-infested cellar
for 36 hours with no food. She had been blindfolded
for days on end thrown out of moving vehicles
bound and gagged. She had been raped and forced
to watch her comrades being raped, had been threat-
ened with violence to her family and been beaten
around the kidneys to such an extent that she was,
An Eye Witness View
and still is, seriously ill. It is very significant, too,
that one of her torturers was a Brazilian, and that,
one of the comrades imprisoned on the prison ship
"Lebu" was a witness to the presence of two US
soldiers on the ship.
The blatant terrorism has not stopped. Four weeks
ago in the La Victoria district of San Miguel, San-
tiago, a working-class area, soldiers broke into homes
and took away about 1,000 people. By April 28 only
200 had returned. The delegation does not know
what horrific methods the military used, but those
two hunded could not remember where they had been
or what had happened to them.
There are concentration camps the Red Cross is
same terrorist tactics. They employ forced confes-
sions, biased judges, nonsensical accusations and
illegal charges. The defendants know that so far as a
result of torture, two of their comrades have died
and one gone insane. The charges include "failing
to obey the commanding officer" when the order was
to attack the democratically elected government, and
"giving information to the enemy" i.e. the democrat-
ically elected government.
There was one terrorist act witnessed by the dele-
gation which, although disgusting, must be examined
in this report. On Saturday 27 April in the afternoon,
the delegation had arranged to meet in a cafe in
Ahumada near the Plaza de Armas in the centre of
Santiago. The streets were full of people. It could
have been a city anywhere—until 1.15 p.m. Then a
police car stopped at 285 Ahumada and a carabinero
with a gun got out of the back and shot a girl
through the head in cold blood. It was an act of
blatant terrorism, intended to frighten the people
into submission. The blood soon dried on the pave-
ment, but rest assured, General Pinochet, the mem-
ory will live on. The people will have their revenge.
S T U D E N T S
Today in Chile, between 25 and 30 per cent of
the students have been expelled and the figure for
teachers is somewhere between 35 and 50 per cent.
not allowed to visit, ones they did not know about,
and ones they can enter but can only see limited
parts of. Entire communities have been moved to
other areas. Trials in Chile are a shameless farce,
especially the courts martial going on at the mom-
ent with charges that are obviously false and a War
Council of three sitting as judges, one of whom stole
weapons from a military camp to use against the
Unidad Popular.
The junta's further blatant acts of repression and
terror have included forced labour in the arid dist-
ricts of northern Chile. We know that around 14,000
people convicted by the fascists of political crimes
are now being brutalized in the north.
M E E T I N G S
Not all the junta's tactics are so obviously blatant,
although people still have a nightly reminder of
repression with the strictly enforced curfew. Secret
police, for example wait at tables in the University
of Chile, where students are not allowed to sit more
than four at a table, and students are followed to
the toilets to make sure that no discussions are
held and no political slogans appear. They cannot
stay in the classrooms when lectures are over. It is
a malicious campaign, meant to sow insecurity and
- doubt among the people of Chile.
The junta also see to it that people who oppose
them or are suspected of having opposed them do
not receive their official papers, without which they
cannot work, study or claim the small unemployment
benefit. The atmosphere of uncertainty, insecurity
and fear is strengthened by the lack of information
about where friends who have been arrested are,
what has happened to them, whether they are dead
or alive. They are afraid because the junta acts
quickly and ruthlessly when a person is denounced
as a supporter of the U P .
C O U R T S
The courts martial are being conducted with the
The military rectors have absolute control over every
aspect of university life. There are no statutes to
limit their power. Participation consists of the rector
choosing any student willing to fall in with the
standards of fascism to represent the student body
in the newly-creaaed "centros" of each faculty in
place of the democratically elected representatives
from the Unidad Popular era. In fact the military
rector has the right to impose his will on the univer-
sities in all respects. The universities are now insti-
tutions whose aim is to produce bureaucrats, bolster
up the position of the ruling class, and destroy what
used to be an important centre of Chilean culture.
Academic freedom has become a cruel joke. Maximo
Pacheco, an eminent dean at the University of Chile
in Santiago, was sacked in March 1974 for trying to
run his Faculty of Law on the basis of academic
ability alone.
The junta must make the attempt to destroy the
universities, as they have a long history of philo-
sophical, cultural and educational excellence, and
during the Allende era they belonged to all the
people of Chile. The junta cannot afford to tolerate
free thought. Any hint of Marxism must be eradi-
cated because it is the most dangerous weapon of
the working class. The junta knows that it will not
have control until the last progressive is dead, the
last academic imprisoned. It it is pursuing this aim
today, with so many academics and progressives
being tortured in the prisons and concentration
camps.
IDEAS
One goal of the junta is to prevent the spread of
ideas. Any ideas, inside or outside the universities,
are dangerous to them. In the universities, soldiers
with machine guns are to be seen everywhere. Sud-
denly, in a fourth-year class in the medical faculty,
new students appear who, strangely enough, seem
to lack basic information in their subject. More
openly, soldiers and other agents of the fascists sud-
denly appear in classrooms to tell the students of
the wickedness of the U P and the left and of
Marxism as a theory. In one university the military
rector informed the academic staff that Marxism
could be taught but it could not be propagated.
Faculties of social sciences, political economy,
education, journalism, architecture and medicine
have been closed down either permanently or tem-
porarily because no teachers are available with the
"right poltiical outlook". Any mildly progressive
course has been cancelled or at least reviewed. A
REPORT BY CHRIS
PROCTOR ON THE
IUS/NUS
DELEGATION
VISITING CHILE
number has been permanently stopped, and more
have reappeared in an unrecognisable form. Sociol-
ogy has been completely eliminated, except at the
Catholic Unuiversity of Santiago. In education
courses only the basic techniques of how to perform
in a classroom are taught. Because suitable replace-
ments cannot be found for denounced academics,
primary school teachers, social workers and assistant
teachers are brought in to replace university teachers.
The delegation brought back from Chile a sad list
of courses not being renewed in the faculty of
economic sciences and administration at the Norte
branch of the University of Chile, which clearly
shows the extent of the attack on education. This list
and brutality towards the Liberals, the .Christian
Democrats, and the apolitical they have added a
whole new group to the vast forces opposing the
junta. More and more Christian Democrat students
and teachers are joining the anti-fascist front.
The delegation believes that the progressive forces
—the resistance forces—are continually gaining more
support for their aims and objectives and that a
junta with no popular support cannot continue to
control a mass movement by force of arms. Every
action that they take assures them of fresh enemies
and makes new revolutionaries. For three years
Chile was on the road to socialism, and this pro-
vided a lesson that will not be forgotten despite the
forces of fascism.
The junta has only disposed of the top leadership
of a mass movement, and its methods have ensured
that many more will now join that movement. The re-
sistance forces are active, although underground, and
when they are able to organise these potential new
recruits a new Chile will emerge.
It became apparent to the delegation that the
solidarity of other nations is not a gesture to political
ideology. It is a concrete help to those people in
Chile struggling for a free and just society. Our
solidarity is not only wanted by the Chilean people,
it is a necessity and an important tool in the fight
to liberate the Chilean people. I believe that every
Union in this country must express its solidarity with
was compiled by the junta and is no piece of propa-
ganda issued by the resistance forces. In the news-
paper " E l Mercurio" one of the official organs of
the junta, lists of the same vacant positions have
appeared day after day and week after week.
During the Unidad Popular era, courses were
made available to working-class children. This prac-
tice has ceased. The junta cannot aff:ord to educate
the working class. The entrance fee of 3000 escudos
makes it difficult for working-class students to reg-
ister at a university, tuition fees and living expenses
make it impossible for them to stay there. In Chile,
all members of working-class families who can work
must do so seven days a week so that the family can
live. A l l attempts at the construction of a system
of continuing education, adult education, further
education and cultural activities for all the people
of Chile, which the Allende government was aiming
at, have been dismissed out of hand by the fascist
junta.
A "prosecutor's Council" has been introduced
into each university. This is a tribunal presided over
by a designate of the junta whose function is to
decide on the fate of all students, teachers and ad-
ministrative staff accused of subversion. Lists ap-
peared with vague meaningless charges against indi-
viduals and they were told that their defence would
have to take the form of obtaining character refer-
ences from other members of the university. In fact
this was a lie. The only means of defence was the
support of a soldier. Without this, the accused were
expelled. They now have no job, no pay, no security,
no future. Expelled teachers are stripped of their
qualifications so that they can no longer work either
in Chile or abroad and While this is not important
for well-known academics, it can mean total disas-
ter for young lecturers. Some teachers have been
arrested, tortured and then approached at a later
date and asked if they wish to resume their employ-
ment. This is a low form of terrorism, using the inno-
cent as an example to the apolitical.
The junta failed to realise that by their persecution
Chile in as many concrete forms as possible. The
rest is up to you.
Appendix
Text of a telegram sent by the X I Congress of the
International Union of Students to Harold Wilson.
WE, T H E P A R T I C I P A N T S I N T H E X I
C O N G R E S S O F T H E I N T E R N A T I O N A L U N I O N
O F S T U D E N T S S T R O N G L Y U R G E T H E
BRITISH G O V E R N M E N T T O P R E V E N T T H E
S A L E O F A L L A R M S T O T H E C H I L E A N
M I L I T A R Y J U N T A A N D E S P E C I A L L Y T H E
T W O W A R S H I P S A T P R E S E N T N E A R L Y
C O M P L E T E D STOP.
W E M A K E THIS C A L L F O L L O W I N G T H E
D E B A T E O N C H I L E A N D A F T E R H E A R I N G
T H E R E P O R T O F T H E IUS D E L E G A T I O N T O
C H I L E STOP.
W E F E E L T H A T T H E S E W A R S H I P S W O U L D B E
USED B Y T H E J U N T A A G A I N S T T H E R I G H T S
A N D INTERESTS O F T H E C H I L E A N P E O P L E
STOP.

