N E W S
ssue No. 252
D: D. Reeves
TTH: Patsy
Paul Heath
Paul Miller
Pat Shanahan
Mary Ford
Ron Bass
John Probst
QEC. SMEAR OfeAlGN.
On the night of Thursday 23rd of November, a reading party from QEC. broke into the
Union and painted "Keep the Home Fires Burning" across the wall of the lower refectory.
When contacted last Saturday, Susan ?(i,istead, secretary of QEC. Union denied a l l
knowledge of the raid, but the circumstantial evidence against them is overwhelming.
Last year "(JSC. Rag" mysteriously appeared in the same place, and last Friday morning,
the pillar box on the .'"b-ar.-t Hall side of the Union was painted white and "QEC Rag"
scrawled on the pavement beside it. The additional fact that "Keep the Home Fires
Burning" is QEC's motto must clinch their guilt.
More surprising s t i l l is that yesterday, Tuesday 28th, 5days after the happening,
Mr, Jock Henry, College security Officer, stated that he did not know that the raid
had occure^.. This can only sreve to illustrate the poor state of Union Security, which
was revealed in the last issue of FELIX. QEC. must now be hoping to make this an
annual event and, unless something is done about security, it is hard to see how they
can f a i l ,
1
3 r.3 THE MINES VICE IRESIBENTS M
U
G
?
W
e know that miners can not hold their beer, but on Saturday night they couldn't hoM
their beer mugs either. Return it filled with half pennies for lukaemia research,
FALMOUTH LOSES MOTHER TELEVISION SET "
A few weeks ago, as reported in FELIX, the television was stolen from Falmouth Hall
gallery. It had been on hire from Radio Rentals, who replaced it without difficulty. This
new set was stolen last Thursday night.
After the first theft, Falmouth Hall Committee had discussed Security, deciding that,
the security of the gallery depends on improved security of the whole building,
possibly involving taking on extra staff. Such decisions take time. At one time there
was a. fair amount of minor thieving from Southside, which was cut down by the install-
ation of doors on the external stairs.
Presumably it will not now be easy to get another replacement set, Sub Warden Peter
Hills states: "for the sake of everybody's property in these Halls, security on
entrances to the buildings must be improved".
Naturally Mr, Hills will be pleased to hear from anyone who saw anything on Thursday
nig. i . t .
IZARD TELLY Early last week; a l l the valves were stolen from Tizard Hall's. television
SELKIRK TELLY Early last week a l l the valves were stolen from Selkirk Hall's television
KEOC-r TELLY Ecogh Hall never had a television
"UNIVERSITY CHALLENGE"
Once again, IC is entering a team. The. organiser, Chris Eriksson, informed us that
the telerecordings will be made on either Thursday 11th Jan, or 18th Jan. As. in previous
years, a coach is to be provided by Granada. TV to carry between thirty and forty
spectators free of charge to and from Manchester on the day of the contest, and a l l .
those interested in going should sign on the l i s t . The team this year will consist of B..
Barker^ Tony Smart, M.F.Wright and J.P.Conrad, with Steve Mallinson as reserve,
EMERGENCY DOUGHNUTS : When the second blood doning emergency arose at 5-15 on Monday the
doctor rang up Sou'/hside and a Tannoy call asked for six orange positive donors. A short
time later a puzzled Mooney-minion asked him why the Health Centre wanted six orange-
doughnuts in a hurry<
, Nevertheless, within k-5 minutes of 0. S. S. being contacted six
Gang* of blood were being rushed to the heart hospital.
DEAR SIR,
I would like to inform the members of IC Union that their mascot Mike will return
to its plinth on Thursday. I thank R„N.C. and J.I.M. for their help in the re-Instation,
particularily the latter.
The first general meeting of the W.H.O, will be at 1900 on Thursday, 30th November,
in Guilds Union Offices. (Go into Mech. Eng. entrance and ask porter.)
ICI Who's got Carrot? Who's got Reggie? Who's got Horace? Who's got Oswald?
Where is Phineas? F.J.M. President W.H.O.
ENOCH POWELL SPEAKS OUT
Enoch Poweel reviewed the world's monetary system at a Consoc. General Studies yesterday
and advocated a system of "floating" currencies, instead of the present "irrational"
system,, He refuted De Gaulle's suggestion that Britain should return to the gold
standard. On Vietnam, he regretted. British support of the US action, which was something
in which we were not involved and should not interfere. He finished his talk with quick
and effective answers to the audiences questions.

