4 FELIX
f \ EDITOR'S
Lromment
For Student Loans
Much is said in student circles about the rigours of a system of
loans to replace or supplement our present grants, but little or nothing
is said in defence of loans. Could it be there is no defence, or is it
that the case for loans is so clearly reasonable to everyone except us
that for our own peace of mind we choose to ignore it?
Whereas on a personal level I am quite happy with the present
system, which educates me virtually free and then allows me to emi-
grate or do just as I please, seen from the point of view of the
Government, as representative of the British people, we are not being
educated as of right, or out of love; nor does the Government give it us
free exclusively to keep them in power at the next election! We
are being educated at the State's expense as a loan; so that when we've
finished we will be of greater use to the country and so repay the
country's investment. In return for this we have the satisfaction of
an education and a greater range of jobs available for those with
suitably trained minds.
If then on graduation a significant proportion of the country's
youth leaves for greener pastures, the Government is saddled with an
unpaid debt which, under the present system, they have little hope of
recovering. To offset this loss, which at present we as a country
cannot afford, it seems reasonable that the Government should say
that our grant is in fact a loan that must be repaid either in money or
man hours of work, and that if we leave the country within say eight
years of graduation then we must pay back a proportion of our loan.
Alternatively a system of loans that was being suggested last year
that also seems eminently reasonable is that there should be available
additions to the present grants, which should be in the form of a loan.
As the current living allowance is, in almost all cases, perfectly
adequate, that any addition should be repayable is not an undue
imposition.
However, whatever action may be taken in the future towards
introducing loans, let us at least approach the suggestions with an open
mind—considering that on a national level they may be reasonable.
Further should we decide (or should I say " when we decide ") to
protest against them, let's do it in a responsible way.
To lobby M.P.'s, as individuals, and as a body, through the
president of the Union, would carry much more weight than to stage
boycotts of lectures—not, surely, dignified behaviour for the future
professional man.
Sabbatical Year for Sennet Editor ?
Yet again Sennet is infinancialdifficulties—yet again it is faced
with a number of staff resignations and statements of disillusionment.
Last time this happened, the Sennet Board took the logical step of
cancelling the charge of 4d. in the hope that the increased readership
would attract more advertising and so make the paper pay. This
time though they have acted with what can only be viewed as complete
incompetence. To cancel one issue at a week's notice may well
repel potential advertisers and to reduce photographs to the level of
the issue of 14th November demotes the paper to the level of a third-
rate news letter.
A unit as large and diverse as the University of London needs
an informed and outspoken press. It will only achieve this if it has
an assured income and a staff with time to put in the necessary work.
Both of these may be achieved by installing an editor with a sabbatical
year. This move would have many advantages, amongst which are
firstly, that he would have time to find advertising through his own
efforts to supplement that provided by the agency; secondly, he would
have time to make personal contact with colleges within U.L.U. and
so positively get news as opposed to the present system which, judging
by the results, simply allows the news to drift in; thirdly, for the rest
of the staff, producing the paper could re-assume its proper pro-
portions as a hobby instead of a " millstone;" and,finally,the paper
would have a constant annual character through being assured of a
good editor—I feel that many good people would be willing to do the
job if their degree was not at stake.
The opinions expressed in this
column are those of Roderick J.
Redmayne,—not necessarily of
Imperial College Union.
F m
^ I X Imperial College
London, S.W.7
Internal 2881
Tel. KEN 2963
Editor : RORY REDMAYNE
Asst. Editor : John Mullaly.
Sports Editor : Phil Hopwood
News Editor : Paul Heath
Features Editor : Les Pryor
Business Managers :
Dave Cooper and Mary Ford
Advertising Manager :
Justin Griffiths
Sales Manager : Chris' Slee
Late News Editor : Dick Reeves
Production Manager: John Probst
Photographic Editor:
Colin Broad
Cartoonist: Stuart Senior
What's On : Dick Middleton
With: Colcutt, Alan Stapleton,
Andrew Perry, Anita Furness.
Patsy, John Sommer, Patrick
Rotherham, Ann Wheatley
Ken Simpson, Bob Lewis,
Advertising Agency: Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd.
C H A 6081
Whither
I C W A ?
a report by John Mullaly
Pearson, the President of I J C . W . A . ; photographed while talking
to John Mullalv recently
WHITHER ICWA ?
Whither ICWA ? or without it ? Will it nourish ? or not ? Will
Icwarians come to hive at Southside ? Will there be an ICWA at
all ? Or just a Lady Vice-President ? Will there still be Executive
Pancake Races ? Will Snoopy get the Red Baron ?
For the answer to most of these questions, Felix padded up to
the top of Beit Hall to speak to the present ICWA President, Jane
Pearson.
Perhaps this is the right place for the President's potted profile.
Jane Pearson came to IC from Bishop Fox's Grammar School for
girls (on her head mistress's advice) and—doubtless a dyed-in-the-
wool-Tory—became chairman of the Conservative Society. In the
same year she was ICWA's junior treasurer. This year she has
taken up the post of President of ICWA just in time to be involved
in discussions of its possible demise.
Representation
This is not to say ICWA will
necessarily be abolished in the
next five or ten or more years:
only that it is possible. It has
been noised abroad the Union
that there is no need for ICWA;
that if the ICwomen want student
representation they should stand
for it in the normal manner, and
not take up posts allotted to them:
that, in short, ICWA should be
done away with. If men can look
after themselves without an
ICmen's association (or is IC just
one vast men's association with a
few exceptions here and there)
then why not women ? Perhaps
the most unjx&iaal consideration
here is what lewarians think
about the matter, leaving aside for
the moment the extremist views
of those who " hate ICWA—it's
an institution," or those who
spend their time peeking into
Desolation Row from the ICWA
lounge ; what does Jane Pearson
think about it ?
Success by Suicide
First, that ICWA is still neces-
sary, and that it will continue to
be so until IC has at least twice
as many Icwarians as it has now
(at present there are 230). Se-
cond, that even if ICWA were
abolished there would still be a
need for a Lady Vice-President of
IC to represent female interests.
Last, and almost certainly least,
where would female competi-
tion in the Executive Pancake
Race come from if not, as tradi-
to Southside ?
tional, from the upper hierarchy
of ICWA ? Basically Jane Pear-
son feels that there will be a need
for ICWA for a long time in
order to look after fresherettes in
theirfirstfew weeks in IC's beer-
and-blue-jokes atmosphere, and
also to provide a centre for those
interests that are exclusively fe-
male. Significantly and accurately
she adds that " the success of
ICWA depends on its self-de-
struction "; that it would be a
good thing for ICWA to permeate
itself as much as possible
throughout IC.
Next year the plan is for
ICWA to colonise another floor
of Beit Hall, thus bringing up the
number of Icwarians in Hall from
22 to 47. What next ? Where
will they spread to ? Will they
take over a staircase in Southside
or permeate down to occupy the
remaining floor of New Beit ?
Jane stresses that the latter is the
last thing that Icwarians want as
it was only a few years ago that
Beit achieved the distinction of
becoming one of the first mixed
halls in the country. At present
Icwarians are not noted for being
too forthcoming about the Union
(" it's difficult to be forthcoming
when you've got such a strong lot
of men "
1 and a single sex Beit
could onlv tend to make ICWA
more introvert. It would be a
significant improvement for
iCWA to branch out and take
over a mrt of Southside. At pre-
sent this is only a pipe-dream
let us hope that it does not re-
main so.
P h o e n i x
o n
L o n l i n e s s
Anyone who believes that I.C.
is full of dull, illiterate scientists
need only read the next issue of
Phoenix to be proved wrong.
" But," a critic might say, " thesz
are only the efforts of a small
group of people numbering
less than two dozen." To this,
editor Colin Harrison would
reply that he received so many
good articles that he increased
the size of the magazine by a
half and even cut out his own
editorial.
About half the articles follow
the general theme of loneliness.
This problem is approached from
several angles ranging from a phil-
osophical dissertation to a short
story. This story, called " Sha-
dows Fall Between," is possibly
the high spot of the magazine,
for it captures exactly the feeling
of aimlessness and desire to feel
wanted when one is lonely. If
this is not quite your taste, there
is an article on " dropouts "—
—people who fail their examina-
tions. It is almost a self-analysis
by someone who is now on a
pass degree course and has some
harsh things to say about the se-
lection proceedure.
Unlike previous issues, this edi-
tion of Phoenix does not offera
free pin-up on the cover, but has
a rather startling drawing which
will probably be of more lasting
interest. The high standard of
artistic work is kept up through-
out. Phoenix is published on
Monday, 4th December.
n e w
R C C
v a n
The RCC has replaced its
sickeningly inefficient (mechanic-
ally!) van with a 12 seater Ford
Transit bus. Althoueh the Scout
and Guide club and the YHA has
booking preference, the bus is
often available to clubs, especi-
allv on weekdays. Booking appli-
cations can be made through the
RCC transport sub-committee
(via the it-ion rack). The cost
of hiring the bus is 9d. per mile
for the first 30 miles (in any one
day) and 7-Jd. thereafter—thec
e
prices include the cost of petrol.
Obituary
C h a r l i e
P a r s o n s
Died on Tuesday, 21st Novem-
ber, 1967, aged 71 years 10
months.
Mr. Parsons' early career was
spent in hotels and restaurants in
Switzerland and France until it
was interrupted by thefirstWorld
War, where he saw service in
France prior to being captured by
the Germans. He subsequently
finished the war as a P.O.W.
He then went to sea and re-
turned to J. Lyons and the Troca-
dero Restaurant in Piccadilly for
some 10 years.
He joined the College in 1957,
being the first Wine Butler ap-
poined to the enlarged Union.
He was an honorary member of
Chaps, Links and 22 Clubs.
It is with great sorrow that
Felix reports Charlie's death—
this cheerfulfigurewill be greatly
missed and the competence with
which he led our dining etiquette
is irreplaceable.

