FELIX
The opinions expressed
by correspondents
;
are not necessarily
thot* held by the editor. B l o o d Sweating -
Sir the Solution ?
Turn coats
Felix
Sir,
Despite the apparent 46.6 per
cent I.C. content of the U L U De-
bating Tournament audience, the
I.C. team were surprised that
King's College block vote man-
aged to account for 60 per cent of
the final count. Was it by strange
coincidence that 6.6 per cent was
the exact preponderance of Felix
reporters in the audience? In the
face of the massed forces of
King's College, was a fifth column
revealed? We have his name.
Yours sincerely,
DENYS B E N N E T T
Pies. Debates
I would like to make generally
known the good response within
I.C. to the recent appeals for
blood donors. At last week's
sessions 433 donations were made
by members of I.C. and the usual
contingent of museum staff.
This figure compares most
favourably with last session's
total of 479 when one considers
the 152 (and still increasing) hall
residents now enrolled with the
emergency doning unit. Response
to this scheme in the Halls has
been particularly encouraging
and already at least 35 pints have
been given through the scheme.
A lot more will be required by
the National Heart Hospital to
aid during the serious short-
age of blood which will occur in
early December. So still more
donors are required.
I want to thank Tim Burley
and his helpers for their most
efficient organisation of tbe regu-
lar doning service.
C O L C U T T
Next year is vital to the-interests of our community. Because we
know that you are worried, too, about the increasing dangers to our
society, we are sure that you will accept the tenets of this manifesto.
"We must change things" say most people and then go away
and forget about it. " We.don't want to change too drastically " say
the rest: "It should be a slow process." Slow but steady—and
usually non-existent.
You all know things that annoy you about I.C., things that could
be changed but haven't been because you couldn't be bothered. You're
only here for about three years, most of you, and by the time you
can do anything, it's too late. People in the future, like you, will
suffer through this attitude.
Basically we want to bring I.C.'s top-heavy union down to earth
to its grass roots. Essentially this consists of involving everybody in
decisions of any importance to students here. The year rep system
which droops so sadly in many parts of the college will be upgraded
as an I.C. rather than constituent college organisation. These year
reps will represent their years on a council which have the power to
take policy decisions. The views which reps, put forward will be those
of their years, decided at twice-termly year meetings chaired by the
rep.
This system will effectively take over much of the power exercised
at present within the I.C. student body. The floor of the union will
remain the dominant body but policies, as such, cannot be formed
there : the ideas must be thought out outside. The executive will be
lose much of its present powers, gained to a large degree through the
tacit acceptance by_ council of its authority. The executive will be
reduced to taking decisions which need to be taken in a hurry.
Council will be the body which will lose most as its present size
approximates most closely to the new reps council size. Council, as
it stands at present, will become the Union's financial advisory com-
mittee and no more.
The number of clubs within I.C. will certainly be savagely cut—
this applies particularly to the social clubs which continue to prolifer-
ate as long as Britain makes colonies independent and as long as
George Harrison finds new ways of praying. Many clubs are being
subsidised for very few active members and the onus should.be on
the clubs to show that they are providing facilities which are sufficiently
required.
The constituent college unions will be removed from the rule
book and their activities integrated within I.C. union. There is no need
to maintain the present splits between the wresters of mineral wealth,
the pure ones, the crude ones. People will be active in what cOmes their
may and Mackman, Wells, and O'Donnell would have been active in
ICU, had not their own colleges existed. Academic affairs do not need
a college to run therm As RCS experience shows, these things are
best done on a primarily departmental basis. The sports activities will
be covered by I.C. because, it is confidently expected, those who
organise in the colleges will move over into the I.C. fold.
Finally the executive would he completely elected by a ballot of
all I.C. students. It would remain at a size of six. The executive
should need to put themselves over to the student body because it is
the students they are representing. They do not at present put
themselves over because they do not need to do so. It "is
a fallacy to belive that a self-perpetuating hierarchy is the best way of
being governed. It has a habit of corrupting itself. The executive
should have opinions which it should be pushing at every opportunity.
This must be done fast; we believe in democracy and you must elect
us to carry out this revolution. We need a palace revolution; if it is
.done slowly the same bureaucrats will continue to run a different
bureaucracy. A bureaucracy is impersonal and so only if we do it
fast, will people become interested enough to carry it right to the heart
of I.C.—YOU.
Sir,
Judging by the articles in Felix
re. " Sweat-in" etc. some dis-
satisfaction is obviously felt over
the S.S. heating system. As my
father was responsible for the
design and installation of the heat-
ing system I feel I am duty bound
to defend it if possible.
The problem seems to be that
while the Penthouse is too cold
the other rooms are too hot. The
system is arranged in several
parallel circuits; hot water is
pumped from the basement junc-
tion with the main boiler house
up the building and returns via
a cooler downward pipe. On each
landing a tapping is made from
the hot pipe and water flows
through the finned heating pipes
to the return pipe. On each
parallel line there is a valve which
regulates the flow. Thus if the
valve for any one line is open too
wide this line will receive too
much hot water at the expense of
the rest of the system.
The problem is to balance each
line with respect to all the others.
The lower landings will probably
need a smaller flow because the
water is marginally hotter there.
Alternatively the upper rooms in
any stair well will be hotter since
hot air will funnel up the stair
wells, this can be restricted by
keeping the landing doors closed.
Once the system has been ba-
lanced, i.e. all levels are at the
same temperature, the overall
temperature an be regulated by
adjusting the flow temperature.
This can be achieved at the main
boilers which supply the whole
college. Obviously one cannot
change the temperature of the
whole college for the benefit of
S.S. so temperature regulation
can be achieved by regulating the
flow into the S.S. building simply
by changing the outlet valve
setting.'
The system worked initially,
but has become unbalanced either
due to furring of pipes etc. or
somebody altering the valves
The whole lot should be reset.
I hope this has given some am-
munition with which to bombard
the appropriate authority. If
anybody requires more detailed
facts in order to get something
done please contact me.
D. S. SWEATING
Security
Sir,
I have just been reading your
article on the Security of the
Imperial College, and I should
like to know your informant on
this subject. So the weakest part
of the system is the men them-
selves. Thank you!
Maybe you would like to work
27 days a month for a basic wage
of £12 5s. Od. and have to work at
all holiday periods.
So our ages are over 50 and we
are lame, cripples, and only come
here for the sole purpose of put-
ting stamps on our cards. Rub-
bish.
Maybe one of your staff would
like to spend Christmas with us
and pound round these buildings,
whilst every one else is at home
with their families.
At a time when there is unem-
ployment is it not strange that
we are understaffed and have to
be grateful for any type of person.
I should like to know which
building does only a two hour
patrol? I shall be looking for a
transfer, I must be in the wrong
job.
Your article is most disap-
pointing and your informant is a
clown or a comedian; come along
and do a 13 hour to 15 hour shift
with me and see if you are able to
go out the next day and do an-
other job.
I was always under the impres-
sion that I lived in a free country
and Freedom of speech, and espe-
cially Freedom of the Press was
one of our greatest assets. Who
then put the M U Z Z L E on Felix'}
Yours truly
J. A. PARRY
Ed.: The article that appeared in
the last issue of Felix.was not, as
Mr. Parry seems to suppose, an
effort to denigrate members of the
Security guard, but an attempt to
point out, as accurately as pos-
sible, inadequacies that Felix sees
in the Security System of buiiuings
that include our Union. Facts and
opinions that were printed about
their job were obtained from the
guards themselves, and it is un-
deniable that if a man isemployed
as a secuity guard because " he is
physically able to do only light
jobs," then the security will suf-
fer by not having a more able
man. To employ such men is
presumably a college policy de-
cision and as such cannot reflect
upon the men employed. Felix
does not so much question the
performance of the men them-
selves, as the policy that en-
courages these men to be em-
ployed.
In Unilever,
management is more
than a career...
... it has acquired the status of a profession and, as such, requires
highly developed skills - skills that are never found ready made. For this
reason we have evolved a comprehensive system of management training and
development for young men and women of outstanding calibre.
Unilever is the sixth largest company in the world, with about 300,000
employees in 80 countries. We make and sell consumer products which are
household names and produce raw and manufactured materials for other
industries.
A high proportion of the management of this widely diversified company-
are graduates. For 40 years we have been systematically recruiting students
from Universities.
C h a l l e n g i n g O p p o r t u n i t i e s f o r S c i e n t i s t s a n d A r t s G r a d u a t e s
In Unilever, we do not simply accept change, we play a large part in
creating it. Keeping the company in the forefront of itsfieldmeans many
intellectually exacting and satisfying jobs for scientists and technologists,
for economists, mathematicians, sociologists and all types of Arts graduates.
No matter what your discipline at University, you have a wide choice of
career in Unilever. A physicist might well turn to Market Research. Or a
Zoologist to running a factory. The direction you take is largely up to you.
If you are interested in a career in Unilever, our booklet on the Unilever
Companies' Management Development Scheme gives simply and factually
much of the information you will require - the structure of the Company,
prospects, how training is carried out and an indication of some of the things
you mightfindyourself doing if you joined. It also contains details of the
selection procedure and how to apply.
Ifyou would like to know more about the U.C.M.D.S., and about
Unilever, ask your Appointments Officer for our booklet,
"Careers in Unilever 1968", or write to: C R. Stewart, Personnel Division,
Unilever House, London, E.C.4. <
A manager from Unilever will be visiting your University during the
Spring Term to interview students. Details of bis visit can be had
from your Appointments Officer.

