12 Rag Special 18 January 1999
Who? What? Wherel
Date: Saturday 23rd January
Event: SNKPJ ,
That old favourite the naked run from Harrods back to the Union. Have you got what it takes? ie Complete
insanity, and the ability to run and hold your bits at the same time! Oh and I'm afraid you have to be male.
But it makes I d spectating for us few IC females!
Runners and sponsors needed.
CONTACT: mark.Jellnek@lc.ac.uk
Date: Monday ist February
Event: C&G Slave Auction
s
Your chance to buy and make use of a number of crazy volunteers. This is the annual event where you
get to get your own back on a number of people, including ICU President Dave I lellard and DP(C&S) Chris
Ince. If you fancy having a slave for a day, why not come along, or if you are interested in being a slave,
get in touch. If you don't think you can afford one on your own, grab some mates and you can share!!
12.30 Union Concert Hall CONTACT: r.connolly@ic.acuk
Date: Tuesday 26th January
Event: Variety Show
Come and see people showing off in Ihe name of charity. So far we'\e got a stand up comedian, a jazz
band and the all new Spice Girls! Think you could do better than the rest? Acts still needed!
8pm, dB's only £1 CONTACT: farhad.cooper@lc.ac.uk
Date: Wednesday 27th January
Event: Manic Street Collection
y
We have managed to get permission to collect within the bounds of Westminster, so let's go! This could
prove to be a huge collection, so why not join us? We intend to raid Oxford Street and the nearby area,
but if anyone wants to go anywhere else, let me know! If your club or society fancies molesting unsus-
pecting members of the public all in the name of charity now's your chance! Drop us a line at rag@ic.ac.uk
and all can be arranged. If you just want to come along and help shake a bucket.
12.30, Belt Quad CONTACT: sarah.cobum@lc.ac.uk
prunken Swine '99
18 January 1999 Rag Special 13
When? How much?
Date: Thursday 28th January
Event: Hypnotist
Former IC student turned professional hypnotist and magician Martin Taylor returns to the Union to do a
special show for Rag. J s hypnotism really in the realms of astrology and crop circles, or should IC be run-
ning courses in it? Well maybe courses would be taking it a bit far, but Martin helps to explain how it's all
a state of mind. A big hit last year, Martin does his show with the help of the audience, so if you've ever
wondered what it's like to be hypnotised, come along and find out! He has promised not to do anything
completely evil, but I'm sure it will still prove to be an entertaining evening! A bargain night for just £3!
Advance tickets are available from the Union Office. You must be over 18, and a member of ICU to attend.
8pm, dB's Tickets £3
Date: Saturday 30th January
Event: The Field Cup
>
Permits allowing this could prove to be a huge; collecting pub crawl! In teams of four, you have to follow
the clues to the next pub, once you get there answer questions to win points. And we all know what points
mean! There are prizes in a number of categories (including most money collected, best team name/mas-
cot and best fancy dress), although only C&G teams can go home with the cup. If you are interested in tak-
ing part grab three friends and get hold of an entry form (from C&G Union, or email the contact below). If
you don't think taking part is your scene, how about spending a day sitting in a pub with some mates? Sounds
like a normal Saturday? Well, why not help raise money at the same, time? For details about being a mar-
S shal just get in touch with the contact!
A ,V f mk \ H I I I M P i .
11.45am, Belt Quad. CONTACT: p.h.mitchell@ic.ac.uk
PINT GLASSES FOR SALE
Having a party? Don't want to get your glasses smashed? Why not buy some
of ours! Old Beer Fest pint glasses for sale! One day these could be collector's
items! Who knows they might make it to the Antiques Roadshow! We need to
get rid of them, so all donations gratefully accepted.
Just email us at rag@icac.uk and we can arrange collection!

