14 Rag Special 18 January 1999
A n d t h e p o i n t is....
Rag Chair Sarah Coburn explains what Raising & Giving is all about and gives a
rundown on just who will be benefiting from the money raised this year.
After a somewhat hectic couple of months as Rag chair, and with the
help of some brilliant people, we've finally managed to come up with
something vaguely resembling a Rag Week! All I'm going to say about
it is please give us your support as it's all for very good causes. If you
don't like what we're doing then don'1 just sit there moaning about how
crap we are - DO SOMETHING! We always welcome new Ideas and we
definitely don't bite!
Ihe fundraising doesn't just start and end with Rag Week. So far
we have raised over £1500 for various charities including the Poppy
Appeal, Alone in London, and our own nominated charities. Although
I'm really pleased that we raised this money in one term, compared to
the likes of Nottingham, Bristol the IC Medics and others this is
absolutely pants! Why? They are all raising thousands rather than hun-
dreds of pounds. I his is where you come in; we need your help, so
that we can begin to make our Rag as successful as some of these other
universities. After all we're up there academically, so why aren't we
up there in other ways!
I'd like to say thanks to loads of people for helping to get Rag week
off the ground and for keeping me on the ground! So here goes! I elix
guys: Ed Sexton and Dave Roberts. Union people: Mandy, Michelle,
Neil, Jane, and Mark Home. And also: Dramsoc, Gareth Morgan,
Jenny Ldwards, I arhad Cooper, Martin Lord, Phil Mitchell and Pete I lan-
nam for giving me somewhere to live!
RAG MAG NOW ON SALE
Available for a mere 70p from the
Union Office and at all Rag events
SheLterjk
A well known charity who help homeless people and those who are
in bad housing situations. The money helps rehouse people or help
them to find somewhere to live.
f Imperial Cancer
m£i Research Fund
Another big charity whose work is well known. The money helps to
provide for research into all forms of cancer, and hopefully one day a
cure will be found.
T R I N I T Y H O S P I C E
A hospice in Clapham, which provides residential care and support for
those terminally ill and their families. Ihe money goes towards the care
of the ill, and to help provide support services for their families.
A I D S E
E D U C A T I O N &
A R C H T R U S T
Another smaller charity, who help to fund ground-breaking medical <
research into AIDS and HIV. They also focus on educating people about
the disease, and how it can be prevented.
For more information on anything to do with Rag or Rag Week, email:
rag@ic.ac.uk or sarah.coburn@ic.ac.uk, or ring the office on ext 58099.

