•PUZZLES
Tinker
The puzzles this term will be a little easier than last, so that more
people can have a go at them. The first puzzle falls easily into
this category.
Four Heads of Department have decided they can stand it no
longer, and have decided to end it all with a one-way visit to the
Queen's Tower. Each Head faces the tower, which is 70yds
away from them, in the directions N,S,E&W.
Sadly, although each has read a great deal about the history
and architecture of the building, none recognise it in front of
them. After a few moments' thought each decides that it would
be easiest to follow someone else, hence turns to the person on
their left and follows them at 1yd/sec.
If they are to reach the tower at all, how long will it take them
to do so ?
Solutions to the FELIX office by Wednesday.
Now for the three remaining solutions to the Christmas
puzzles.
The problem of connecting the six matches was solved as
indicated.
The paper-folding puzzles were folded as follows, and is one
entrant pointed out, are considerably easier to solve than to
fold, draw or explain.
Slide butt through to dotted line, then press flat.
Tuck corner in slot whilst folding 1/2 boundary, then put V
section behind 2.
4
Now to what everyone agreed was by far the most difficult
puzzle. The answer to the sphere cutting problem is NO.
I received three different solutions to the problem. One
argument was of a similar order of complexity to mine, one a
great deal easier, my admiration goes to the inventor of the third
method which was apparently to draw out the majority of the 42
segments by hand.
I give a varient of the most elegant method sent in by Jeremy
Smith of Physics III
We begin with a sphere centred on(0,0,0). If we cut this with 3
planes X=0, Y=0 and Z=0 each doubles the number of pieces
leaving us with 8 pieces. The 4th cut, however, can only cut 7of
the 8 pieces. The single point generated by the 3rd cut must
prevent at least one segment from being cut. This may be
proved with the following argument.
The said point may be considered as cutting in half each of
the 3 lines that pass through it.
Since the 4th plane may only cut each line once, there will be
three half lines uncut by the 4th plane.
These three uncut lines bound a segment which cannot itself
be cut by the 4th plane.
Thus each cut can at best double the number of volumes,
minus the previous number of points.
As we cut the shape we increase the number of points by the
previous number of lines and increase the number of lines by
the previous number of planes.
Hence the maximum number of segments may be tabulated
as follows.
PLANES/CUTS LINES POINTS VOLUMES
0 0 0 1
1 0 0 2
2 1 0 4
3 3 1 8
4 6 4 15
5 10 10 26
6 15 20 42
This gives the maximum number of segments less than 43.
It seems likely that since all four completely different
approaches gave the same maximum of 42 segments, that six
planes are indeed sufficient to cut a sphere into 42 segments. I
would be interested to hear from anyone who can show this can
actually be done, and hence whether this really was the
question of life, the Universe and everything!
Prizes
There were seven correct solutions to both the area
dissection and the folding puzzles.
DAVE CRUST a Physics PG and TONY CHURCHILL the
FELIX printer were the winners.
To the volume puzzle there were five solutions, JEREMY
SMITH of Physics III was the lucky winner.
Three people managed the volume dissection puzzle, and
they all gave correct solutions to the six other puzzles as well.
PETER BEARDWOOD of Chemistry won the £10 prize for his
seven correct solutions and although he generously offered any
possible winnings to the famine appeal, he remains at liberty to
take his cheque and do with it as he sees fit.
Jeremy Smith won the prize for the volume dissection puzzle
but as he had already won £5 he kindly donated his prize money
to the only other person to get all the puzzles right without
getting a prize: M Moutoussis of Physics I.
What a nice lot!
Friday 18 January 1985 FELIX

