FEATURED
BIOTECHNOLOG
Biotechnology Packs Punch
There are ten departments at Imperial College involved in
Biotechnology. That is not really very surprising if one
knows what biotechnology includes. You do not have to
be heavily into ancient biotechnologies like beer, wine,
sauerkraut, cheese or bread. For example, the Centre for
Biotechnology and the Electrical Engineering
department are developing machines that can taste and
smell! Mineral Resources Engineering have projects on
mining metals with microbes. Chemistry and Physics are
both involved in a project to engineer enzymes, in effect
customising nature's most sophisticated catalysts.
Fundamentals of fermentation, bioreactors, genetic
engineering of plants, water treatment and digestion of
wood are just some of the other biotechnological projects
exercising the talents of Biochemistry, Chemical
Engineering, The Centre for Biotechnology, Civil
Engineering, and Pure and Applied Biology.
L
An investigator from the US Environmental Protection
Agency examines a site near Chicago where toxic
substances were dumped. Biotechnologists are trying to
develop microbes that will 'eat' the toxic waste.
BUILDING BOARD
> Molasses • Sugar
Refine Ferment^ (1)
0) Ferment
/
(2) Ferment
Enzyme
Chemical"* Hydrolysis (3)
hydrolysis Sugars Ferment
— • AROMATICS
Animal feed
METHANE
STEAM
\ ( 6 )
*
—
} Residues « 1
Lignocellulose utilization: a route to ethanol from sugar cane being
developed by the IC Centre for Biotechnology.
Biotechnolgy is also about money. Billions are spent
worldwide. The dynamics of industrial investment, jobs,
and patents come into the picture. The financing of
Imperial Biotechnology Limited (a private company set
up to use the fermentation pilot plant behind the the
Biochemistry building) made national headlines.
Biotechnology is also often apropriate technology forthe
agriculture and industry of developing countries.
The College Biotechnology Society (CBS) has just
been set up. There are obviously plenty of reasons to be
interested in biotechnology and CBS is a way of
becoming involved or at least informed. There will not be
any heavy academic lectures, but instead a programme of
diverse events. The idea is to reap the interest and have
some fun in the process. CBS will be a way to make
contacts with industry, too. Collaboration with
Biochemical, Chemical, Industrial, Wine, Beer, and Third
World societies is planned. The newsletter will bring
together the interdisciplinary strands within college and
include any real news of biotechnology developments
putside.
In April, IC Union is hosting an International Students
Conference (INCOST) whose topic this year is...
biotechnology. It will be a great way of meeting students
like ourselves from all over Europe as well as learning
about current issues. Find out more from the Union office
or, of course, CBS.
Look out for the lurid yellow posters announcing CBS
events. If you want to be on the CBS mailing list, contact
one of the following:
Jeremy Green, room 217 Biochemistry
Nigel Shipston, Biochemistry UG letter rack
Janet Horrocks, Tizard 451 or Biochemistry UG.
CBS is for undergraduates and postgraduates in all
subjects.
FELIX Friday 18 January 1985

