EFEATURE FEATURED
The National Union of Students
holds biannual conferences at which
delegates from most student unions
in the UK meet to decide the Union's
policy. Since IC Union is not in the
NUS, students at Imperial rarely
hear much about the work of the
National Union, so J Martin Taylor
went along to the Christmas
conference held last term in
Blackpool to report on it and give his
impressions to FELIX readers.
The train arrived at Blackpool nearly an hour
late and hundreds of students swarmed off,
heading for their hotels then the elegant
splendour of the Winter Gardens. Once
there, a long queue snaked along the foyer
outside the conference hall as delegates
arriving late waited to register and obtain
their all-important badges and cards before
being allowed in to see the NUS President,
Phil Woolas, make his opening speech. They
couldn't fail to hear him anyway since the
conference proceedings were being relayed
through the public address system in the
foyer. Posters and leaflets promoting an
astonishing range of political viewpoints and
highlighting the world's trouble spots were
adorning every square metre of wall space
and being eagerly thrust into every hand.
The first impressions of the Conference
exceeded my expectations. I knew that in
student politics this is the main event, the
one no-one who's anyone can affort to miss
— but this was a political jamboree to end all
political jamborees. Even those who detest
the organisation, from both sides of the
political spectrum, could not bring
themselves to stay away.
The disruption that was to be the most
notable feature of the next few days began
even as the Conference started with the set
piece opening address, which was mainly for
the benefit of the press. Any delegate can, at
almost any time, go to a microphone and
raise a point of order and if 50 delegates
support him or her then they get a minute's
speech. Since at least 50 people always
seemed to put their hands up as a reflex
action, any irrelevant or looney speech could
be made. Not surprisingly there were often
queues at the microphones to make such
speeches. The particular issue to upset
certain delegates even before conference
began was the suspicion that the bouncers
employed by the NUS to police the
conference were non-unionised and had
made sexist remarks to female delegates.
After the opening session the Conference
split into three sector conferences for Friday
evening and Saturday morning. The sectors
are: Universities; Public Sector Higher
Education (PSHE), ie polytechnics; and
Further Education (FE). Each has its own
national committee (for which elections were
held at this Conference), and debates and
adopts its own policies.
The most notable event of these largely
tedious proceedings was the near riot caused
by the appearance at the Universities sector
meeting of the Under Secretary of State for
Higher Education, none other then our very
own Peter Brooke. Mr Brooke had been
invited, along with Tom McNally of the SDP
and Andrew Bennet of Labour, to speak and
answer questions from university delegates.
Immediately he appeared on the platform
there were shouts of 'No Tory Scum' and a
group formed in front of the platform
shouting and screaming at Mr Brooke.
Despite repeated requests from the chair the
demonstrators, the majority of whom were
not university delegates, refused to leave or
remain silent. As Peter Brooke attempted to
speak a loud hailer was produced to prevent
him being heard. Tom McNally addressed
the Conference over the heads of the
demonstrators, warning the NUS that it
The NUS Executive on the platform during the Conference Photos: J Martin Taylor
must overcome this type of behaviour if its
case was to be heard properly. At this point a
jug of water was thrown at Peter Brooke,
after which the chairperson adjoured the
Conference and left the platform along with
the MPs.
The Conference was only returned to
order after Phil Woolas took the chair and
threatened to expel the demonstrators from
the entire Conference if they continued. The
university delegates supported his in closing
the sector conference to delegates from
other sectors. The debate with the three
MPs finally went ahead, with Mr Brooke
struggling with many of the questions he was
asked. He was forced to admit that student
grants had been cut contrary to promises
made by Mrs Thatcher in 1978, and that
some students might not be able to complete
their courses as a result of the latest cuts.
The other two MPs had an easy time
attacking the government although they
seemed a little sketchy on facts with some
questions. Overall, Tom McNally probably
come out best.
Of the other sector conferences the main
point of interest was the continuing assertion
of the FE sector. One speaker at the FE
sector meeting condemned NUS as the
'National Union of University Students' a
sentiment which echoed the general feeling
of FE delegates. The NUS is having to look
more and more to this sector which
comprises around 500 of the NUS's 850
student union members. Policy on Further
Education was later adopted by the whole
Conference, and FEs are pressing for a
larger share of NUS's resources and for
better representation on the Executive.
Saturday afternoon and evening were
devoted to Commissions. These are small
meetings of interested delegates held to
discuss particular sections of the Executive's
report. I attended sessions on Sport,
Entertainments, Services, Postgraduates
and Racism and Fascism. Altogether over 40
Commissions were held, at each of which an
Exec member responsible for that area of
work was present to answer questions and
rebuff criticism. Most of the time the Exec
were on the defensive, finding it hard to
prove that anything concrete had been
achieved. The standard way of making it
appear you've done something is to organise
a specialist conference on the subject — it's
probably possible to attend one such
conference almost every weekend
throughout the year!
The idea of the Commissions is to smooth
the way when the Exec Report is put to the
whole Conference on Sunday. This may
have worked, or it may be that so much time
was wasted on points of order that delegates
were too concerned that there may not be
enough time to debate their pet motions that
they didn't want to waste time questioning
the Exec Report. Either way, the Exec got off
extremely lightly since many sections of the
report were wishy-washy to say the least.
TUCsE-WTS
SUPPORT THE
PICKET
THE. - R o y A L SCHOOL O F
M/iVVE- ARE C R ^ a n i z j / ^
A SAinVj AFRICA S A r x
A f r i c a n / e m s a s s y
P i c k e t W e d n e s d a y (2*05:1
S Kews/A/(5nT)NJ T U & E S7/^JC>M 1
P
' a
OKU,
s. o.
Ci-rt;
T m s i
ti&m
fen*
Eb
Poster at the Conference about the RSMU
bar night - note the spelling!
This is a pity because, to my mind, the
Report should have been the most important
debate at the Conference. The most notable
act of dissention was whilst the Endsleigh
Insurance part of the report was being
debated. Four Endsleigh banners hanging
from the balconies around the hall were
pulled off by demonstrators to show their
dissatisfaction with the 'NUS name for
insurance'. This section of the report was
referred back.
Two guest speakers were heard during the
Conference, chosen by a ballot. The first was
a speaker from the Polytechnic of North
London (PNL) about the Harrington affair,
and the second was Betty Heathfield, wife of
the N U M General Secretary. These
speakers reflected the two issues which
dominated the Conference most. I had
expected the miners' strike to be most
prominent, but even this was eclipsed by the
PNL dispute. This was mainly due to a fierce
argument between PNL student union and
the NUS Exec over the best way to achieve
the agreed goal of 'No Nazis on Campus'. In
the end the emergency motion on the issue
was amended to reflect the Executive's view.
The debate on the miners' strike didn't
provide much ground for dissention. The
main contention was whether to give £1000
or £20,000 to the striking miners. The option
supported by the Exec (£1000) was passed.
No anti-NUM speech was heard and the only
anti-NUM amendment was not debated due
to lack of time.
Other motions debated were on the NUS
'New Deal for Students' (basically a souped-
up grants claim), the Grants Demonstration
on 28 November (criticizing the Exec for
poor organisation) and Student Financial
Support. In general a lot of time was spent
discussing the differences between
moderate (ie Labour) and more left-wing
amendments which called for such things as
affiliation to the TUC, support for ultra vires
payments disregard for the law and
mobilization of students in a joint struggle
with the working class to overthrow the
bourgeois establishment to end repression of
students and workers (or something similar).
The latter were routinely defeated.
One other notable decision by the
Conference was to end individual
membership of NUS for students at colleges
not in NUS. If ratified at the next conference
the dozen or so IC Union members who have
joined NUS on this basis will lose their
membership. This step has been taken to
emphasise the NUS's status as a federation
of student unions, rather than an individual
membership organisation. This is in
response to allegations that NUS is a 'closed
shop' made during some reaffiliation
compaigns in Scotland.
The Conference was marred by
disruption, intimidation and occasional
violence. The conflict existed almost entirely
between right-wing members of the
Federation of Conservative Students and
extreme left-wing Trotskyist groups such as
the Revolutionary Communist Party. Both
were present in insignificantly small numbers
in terms of votes, but only a few people can
easily cause a lot of disruption. The FCS
members deliberately provoked the Trots,
who responded predictably. The tactics of
FCS caused them to be shunned not only by
the Conference as a whole (when they were
making election speeches nearly everyone
stood and turned their backs on them), but
also by moderate Conservatives led by NUS
Exec member Chris Davies, who formed a
separate organisation to work at the
Conference, with some success.
The NUS is at present completely in the
control of the National Organisation of
Labour Students (NOLS) who have
superceded the cross-party Left Alliance.
However, like the Labour party, NOLS is in
the throes of a.fierce internal power struggle
between the 'Democratic Left' (Kinnock-
style Labour) and Militant, as well as other
groups. In addition, there was much
evidence of general dissatisfaction with the
NUS leadership from many at the
Conference, particularly the FE sector
(amongst whom Militant is strong). How
these factors will affect future control of NUS
promises to be interesting at least.
It wasn't possible for me to go to the
Conference with a completely open mind
since several years of involvement in student
politics has provided me with some
knowledge of its workings. Before I went I
was impressed by some of the work the NUS
is doing, although I was concerned that much
effort (and money) is wasted on irrelevant
issues. The Conference explains a lot.
Basically, the useful work NUS does
happens in spite of the Conference, the
irrelevant work because of it. The whole
thing costs around £200,000 but I can't see
that any useful purpose was served or that
the work of the NUS was helped very much.
It's great fun, if you enjoy that sort of thing,
but at a cost of £20,000 for IC Union it just
can't be worth reaffiliating.
6 Friday 18 January 1985

