Letters
More Saridakis
Sirs,,
The apology to Dominic O'Kane has been made
through FELIX and therefore I feel that there is
no more grounds for me to take legal action in
defence of his (and PATA's) interests.
I could take legal action on similar grounds for
my letter being obviously falsified (my English
is bad but understandable nevertheless) and my
X-ray photograph being disadvantageously
altered, to hide the fact that I am a homo sapiens
sapiens (twice) of height lm60.
As for your operator's allergy, I wish to defend
mvself: my ambition was to create a regular
column ('Saridakis' Letter') within you letters
section, to promote a common sense (a
nonsensical, depending on a scientist's definition
of 'sense') approach to College life.
You are complaining about the apathy of IC
students whilst you thank your writers for their
articles every week. You also encourage new
students to join FELIX: what is wrong therefore
with my glorious name? If you want to give me
another column instead of 'Letters', or even print
only my initials, I don't mind.
If you knew me personally, you would know
that I am a rather shy, non-violent person, with
a slight dismay towards dogs: Your ' W o o f
feature instead of my letter, though pleasing for
A L F ('dogs enter higher scientific education'),
was therefore doubly insulting to me.
In doggy faith yours,
Saridakis Emmanuel, Physics I
(Biophysics group-dogs' behaviour).
Grant Askant
Dear Sir,
I'd like to take this opportunuty to answer some
of the points raised in last week's letters page.
Firstly I'd like to correct Paul Tubman's
presumption that I believe that no one from a low
income family goes to University. I am from a low
income family, indeed my father generally works
over 50 hours a week, takes one week's holiday
a year and still earns less than I can easily pick
up on graduation.
I believe that the problem facing Higher
Education is how to increase student numbers
and especially- how to increase the numbers of
'lower class' students. I believe that the best way
to do this is to introduce students loans. N o w I
realise that this is not a popular view in College,
after all it is hard to argue against someone's self
interest.
Perhaps we should look at the rest of the world
to support my view. A s Stephen points out,
British Higher Education is better funded than
in the rest of Europe, yet produces less students.
It is the grant system which artificially limits
student numbers and produces the much derided
'elitism' of the present Higher Education system.
The evidence from abroad would also seem to
destroy the argument that loans discourage
students from poor backgrounds, the rest of
Europe has many more 'lower class' students
than we do.
To answer Stephen, I don't want to see a world
full of 'engineers, acountants and lager louts'
(although a few more engineers would not be a
bad thing). Loans need not discourage students
from studying the arts because loan repayments
are deferred if you earn less than 85% of the
national average income.
Finally I'd like to point out to Mark that no one
has lost out from tax cuts for the rich. Since tax
rates have been lower tax revenues have
increased substantially, allowing more to be spent
on such things as the N H S and Higher
Education.
To finish I'd like to say that I agree that the
letters page is probably not the best place to
continue this discussion so I'd be happy to take
up Mark's offer of a chat over a pint.
Yours,
Ahsley Unitt, DoC 3.
Tantrum
Editor,
On behalf of the sincere students at IC I
apologise to the students of St Mary's.
I accept that your Union secretary behaved
badly, but he did nothing in comparison to the
actions of I C U .
We have suffered from an election committee
who have shown all the love of democracy that
President Marcos showed to the people of the.
Phillipines.
We have suffered from a FELIX Editor, who
actively biased the outcome of a U G M by
'advising' students how to vote.
A n d we have suffered from a majority of
student at IC who have the same mean-minded
self-interest that Mary's students are accused of.
ICU democracy is dead.
I have burned my Union card.
Simon Cholerton,
Physics 3.
Elections blah
Dear Bill,
Further to the U G M ' s upholding of Elections
Committee's ruling not to consider the St Mary's
votes, I feel I must write to explain the reasons
for this in the hope that the issue is considered
with respect to the election only.
Many people feel that the decision simply
represented the U G M ' s nonchalent a n d
destructive attitude towards merger with St
Mary's, yet it only upheld a decision which had
been passed through Executive and Elections
Committees and more importantly arose due to
a recommendation by myself as Chair of the latter
subsequent to a complaint from a candidate.
Apart from the poster indicating certain
candidates as preferable which was put up by
Graham Price, the S M H M S U Secretary. I heard
various reports that people at St Mary's had been
told which way to vote.
This situation is not necessarily one which I
blame on the Mary's Exec. Certainly, I feel that
people elected to such positions should have
more sense, yet it is ironic that the problems that
have arisen and will probably affect merger
negotiations might not have occurred had the
merger already place.
In the light of the situation and without blaming
anyone, I felt that there was no alternative but
to discount the votes, drawing the analogy that
had C & G Union put u p a similar notice, the
candidate who referred the Mary's matter to the
U G M would have been the first to storm into my
Office had his name not appeared on it.
If it is any consolation, counting the St Mary's
votes could not have resulted in their preferred
candidate for President being elected.
I am very sorry that these problems occurred
and hope that next year's H o n Sec will have an
easier time.
Yours sincerely,
Ian Morris, ICU Hon Sec.
St Mary's v IC
Dear Mr Goodwin,
After many months of trying to avoid writing
to FELIX i n order that no 'slanging match'
between our institutions could be started in a
forum that allows no discussion, I have finally
decided to write. (Bill—I respect your Editorial
power and will not complain if you do not choose
to publish).
1 have only one thing to say about the 'rigging'
allegations and that is there was definitely no
Union meeting to discuss who to vote for. I could
argue more but at the end of the day the election
is over, and, rightly or wrongly, a decision was
made in as near a democratic fashion as is
possible at IC.
The Merger? Well in my opinion it is not going
to happen. When I ask 'the people' that M r
Motteram seems incessantly to talk about, they
say they don't want to merge and that appears
to be true of IC students as well. I am afraid that
I have been guilty(?) of listening to the I C U Exec
and asuming that they represented student
opinion at IC and very helpful (and skillful)
negotiators they are. However, it seems that IC
students want us as much as we want them—
quite understandably really as logically I see no
reason for us to merge in fact I can see many
reasons why we should not:
1. Each Union has a long history. This means
we have our own procedures and rules. A t
Mary's we run more efficiently as we have no
sabbaticals and do not come under the blanket
purchasing rules of IC—per capita we have less
money and achieve more in the way of sporting
acitivities and political campaigns. That is not
meant to knock I C U who, with a larger institution
to look after, have many more committees etc to
attend.
2. The Institutions are on separate sites.
Regardless of what the more senior
administrators say about cycling at Eddie Merx
speed across the park we will not integrate to any
great extent as we each have our o w n social
infrastructure and one is no better than the other
in providing for what their students want. Also
the merging of clubs is a non-starter, our clubs
are successful and an integral part of Mary's with
a proud tradition. Would the R S M Rugby Club
merge with ICRFC, I think not and they are on
site! We each have our own superb sporting and
other clubs to merge them for the sake of saving
money would be nothing short of criminal.
3. We have separate Concerns. Recently we
Page 2 FELIX March 22 1989

