Letters
have been fighting against Student Loans, The
N H S white Paper and Doctors hours all things
that effect medics alone or differently to students
at IC. Would I C U sanction the enormous cost
involved in these fights?
There are other points I am willing to discuss
but I feel the pressure of the Editor's knife.
So what is the answer? We would be happy
with carrying on as we are with our grant fixed
at a reasonable percentage of the total Union
subvention—Mary's students do not use I C U
facilities so why should we pay for them when
we have our o w n site? We would (nor should)
expect no more representation on IC committees
than the C C U ' s do at present but should be kept
informed of any meeting which will effect us.
However we will not come under the rule of ICU,
surely as FELIX Editor you have criticised them
enough to know why? We will, however, work
with I C U o n matters that effect IC Students,
through decisions made at our own U G M s .
Finally are, as you suggest, Mary's Exec making
a fuss about something the average Mary's
student doesn't care about? I think the 240 Mary's
students that trooped across to the IC U G M may
have cared just a little. W e are both student
bodies attached to two great institutions, each
with its own identity and long history—we are
different from (not better than) each other and
1 feel that we can never be together like the other
CCUs for the reasons above. Therefore I propose
that we stop this bickering and reconcile
ourselves to this difference so that we can reap
what little advantage both sets of students can
gain from this merger.
There will be an open debate at Mary's after
the Easter break for all students from both
institutions. I will write with further details nearer
the time.
Cheers,
P j Drew, President SMHMS Students' Union.
So much for
Public Relations
Dear Bill,
1 have finally got sufficiently pissed off to write
and complain about the complete lack of
politeness and consideration in this year's Union
Office Sabbaticals. After having to put up with
Nigel's tirades, Wendy's insults and Chas'
idiocies, I've had enough!
1 shall just give one example, which has been
the final straw. 1 have just attempted to attend
a Union Working Party, scheduled for 6.30pm
Thursday, in the Union Office. Unbeknown to
me, the delayed election count was going on
there. I am met by an irate Wendy Morris
determined to get his own back on anybody and
everybody who's caused him hassle. ' N o you
can't come in', 'Cancelled' and not so much as
an apology for not being told.
While Union Officers could be expected to put
up with the Exec's personality defects as a part
of their job, the occasion when the sabbaticals,
principally Nigel, have vented their spleen at the
street, are unacceptable. This could very easily
have a lot to do with the 'public relations'
problems the Union has had this year.
I do not expect any reply to this at all, except
perhaps the odd frown or dirty look in the Union
Office. Too many people up there follow Jen's
sound advice never to reply to a letter in FELIX,
but even Jen must admit to the reality of this
problem, since it is the Union staff who usually
have to pick up the pieces after the latest outrage.
Yours,
looking forward to escaping,
Dave Clements.
Well done, Bill
Dear Bill,
It is becoming obvious that this year's FELIX
supersedes and outshines all those of the past.
This is thanks to the brilliant leadership of that
mild-mannered and softly spoken hero, Bill
Goodwin. He is strong, yet sensitive, slow to
chide and swift to bless, praise Him, praise H i m ,
praise H i m , praise H i m , widely as His mercy
flows.
Praise my soul the king of FELIX
To his feet thy tribute bring
Ransomed healed, restored forgiven
You, like me his praise should sing
Praise Him, praise Him etc.
Yours Sincerely,
Bill Goodwin.
Rant, rant,
rant, rant
Dear Bill,
I'm just about fed up, I am. Week after week,
term after term people write stupid senseless
ranting letters to you. Letters which have no
object other than to rant, excessively. This is not
right—you should monitor your letters page. Cut
the crap, cut the bullshit, get to the point. People
out there in the big wide world of Imperial
College don't want to read the ranting, drivelling
letters written by people who having nothing
more stimulating to say, no interesting views to
express. I hate people who moan about nothing
and take half a column over doing so. We should
get rid of their letters. We should let them know
how worthless thev are. This is a typical example
of the time-wasting, moronic activities so
abundant in IC. Don't you have anything better
to do? Stop writing letters. Get the important
things in life such as problem sheets done. It
doesn't make any sense and I despise the whole
business.
Yours faithfully,
Mark Reeves.
A N Dogbiscuit
writes
Dear Bill,
In the wake of the elections I feel that a major
concern should be aired. In this day and age not
enough attention is paid to that workhorse of
Western democracy, the bicycle pump.
It is a sad world and one where bicycle pumps
are merely a tool to be used for filling little tyres
with air. Has Thatcherism taken hold to such an
extent that there is no concern for such a humble
but useful implement?
For was it not the bicycle pump that served R A
Butler so well in the creation of the welfare state?
Archimedes would never have made his fateful
discovery of bath overflow systems if he did not
have a bicycle pump in his possession. H o w
would he have pumped up his favourite rubber
duck?
The situation is now so serious that people only
care about having their bicycles stolen, not the
pump. 1 remember the halcyon days of youth
when a bad day was having your pump stolen.
Lnless of course somebody decided to empty a
chamber pot on you. That wasn't very nice either.
Is that enough, Bill? O h good, I can go home
now.
Yours sincerely
Lunchtune O'Dogbiscuit.
Youare
cordially invited
Deaf Bill,
Splendid news! Jeremy's having a cocktail
party this eve. The Ritz again I'm afraid—it's
getting a trifle boring now. Remember the last
one—what a wheeze, especially when Nigel, the
little darling, showed us all his Union Jack y-
fronts. It was all so sweet. A n d Ian, the super
chap, had so much Moet he could barely
remember the name of his girlfriend , let alone
the design on his y-fronts. Most embarrassing for
the poor darling but he did have a splendid time.
Anyway, this little fling is to celebrate Jeremy's
new baby—a biscuit-beige Rolls Royce
Corniche—not my taste but there we a r e -
Jeremy's still the 'nouveau-riche' cliche really—
not quite there yet. He's booked some jazz pianist
for the evening—couldn't afford the Chas chap
I really wanted. Most disappointing.
Must pop off now. The food hall's shut soon.
Do join us, Billy, we've made a special exception
for you—it was only supposed to be open to
sabbaticals you know, but since you were such
a jollv wheeze at the last one I decided to make
vou my very o w n guest.
Splendid kisses and fondest regards,
Fifi Trixibclle.
Election
section
Dear Sir,
I find it incredible that the H o n Sec (Events)
should think that at every ballot box each
candidate receives roughly the same proportion
of votes. I wonder how many candidates and
agents would have liked to have seen the odd
ballot box from the 'wrong' part of the
constituency suddenly spontaneously combust.
Surely the votes from St Mary's are bound to vary
the most. Still, being a returning officer is fraught
with interesting surprises.
Yours,
Andrew Robinson, Physics 2.
March 22 1989 FELIX Page 3

