Felix
Editorial
W o m e n
This week FELIX presents an in-depth feature examining the the opinions
and problems of women at Imperial College. As everyone knows, the 'ratio'
is is the perennial talking point at IC, but surprisingly, most women do
not find the atmosphere at IC overly daunting.
When it comes down to it, the problems that women face at Imperial
are very much those faced by all students in heavily work orientated
College in the most expensive part of the country. The 'ratio' can and
does create problems for IC's male population and some men do leave
the College without any real idea of how to deal with women. A night
spent in the Union Bar will confirm the sentiment expressed by some of,
the women FELIX interviewed that some men become 'desperate' and
'predatory'.
And yes, there are women who exploit the fact that they are female
in a College full of males.
The College has done well in recent years to attract more women to
Imperial through courses for sixth formers such as ICWISE. Let's hope
the trend continues. Unfortunately", the nature of society, which still pushes
the girls into arts and the boys into science, will mean it will be a very
long time before we can see males and females here in equal numbers.
Drink
I have been challenged by Fiona Nicholas, Hon Sec elect who would like
to prove that she can drink more than me in order to raise money for rag.
The event will take place in the Union bar at the end of the year and rag
will be running a sweep stake on the outcome. In the meantime I will need
to put some training in, so if you see me in the bar an alcoholic beverage
or two would not go amiss.
Blub B l u b B l u b
Scab Chairman Roger Davies is one of the most unpleasant, obnoxious
people I have ever had the misfortune to encounter.
Mr Davies is sulking because I forgot to print an article he wrote. So
upset was he that he proposed a vote of censure in the FELIX Editor at
last night's council. The move was thrown out on abstentions by the
majority of Council, who quite frankly didn't give a shit about Roger or
his article.
I have lost count of the number of times that I have pointed out in
Editorials that I cannotrjarauntee to include articles in a given issue. Nor
will I promise not to cut or edit them.
Oddly enough, when putting together a twenty page FELIX there are
a far more important things to worry about than one shitty clubs article,
as anyone who has worked on FELIX will testify. Ironically if Roger had
put his article in the clubs or reviews pigeon holes like every other club
does, instead of expecting it to be given some sort of preferential treatment
it would have automatically gone through the system.
It seems that Roger has a chip on his shoulder and is intent on ruining
the good working relationship that FELIX has with Dramsoc. Thank
heavens the rest of Dramsoc are not like him. I wonder what shit Mr Davies
will try and stir at the next Council; as far as I am concerned he can piss off.
Party
Today at 3.00pm in the FELIX Office followed by trip to TEXAS Lone Star
ant the Ferret and Firkin. All welcome.
Credits
Ernormous thanks to Liz Warren, Ramin Nakisa, Andy Garside, Robin
Davison, Sumit Guha, Simon Bradshaw, Sez Wilkinson, Dave Smedley,
Jason Lander, Mike Morton, Simon Thompson, Dan Homolka, Mike Dalton,
Ian Morris, Yishu Nanda, Adam Harrington, Keith Adeney, Wouter van
Hulten, Noel Curry, Adrian Bourne, Wine Soc, Paul Barton, Wendy 'cool'
Kite, Ardy Byat, Steve Marshall, MB Khan, Chas Brereton, Phil Hopkins,
Doug King. Particular thanks to Week's Hall who stayed up all night to
collate last week.
S m a l l a d s
A N N O U N C E M E N T S
• Want some students to key
data on computer during Easter,
1-2 weeks, £5 an hour. Konrad
Walerstein, Economics Advisory
Group Limited, 35 Albemarle
Street, London W1X 3FB. Phone
01-629 7209.
A C C O M M O D A T I O N
• Single room in shared house,
central heating, washing
machine, etc. £53 p.p.w.
Available almost immediately.
North London Piccadilly Line.
Phone 368 1234 ext 2234 (work)
or 361 4941 (home).
• Random Male body wants in on
flat share for next year, Southside,
Evelyn. If Lexham, shove it where
the sun don't shine. Must be
certified dork-free. Contact Mike via
FELIX.
F O R S A L E / W A N T E D
• Sweatshirts going cheap! The
original Nike Oregon design at
only £8 each. Black, large and
some medium. Contact Dave
Knight (Physics 2) or Cross-
country Club.
• H I FI sale. Rotel A m p
RA-820BX, Rotel tuner RT-820L,
B & W speakers 100. £180 ono.
Contact B T N g (Computing 4).
• V H S video recorder, 2 months
old, perfect conditions, £180.
Phone (0474) 332657.
• Ricoh YF20 35mm automatic
compact camera. Still in box. £40.
Contact Simon Nuttall, Civ Eng 3
or on 749 4450.
P E R S O N A L
• BaronSoc. Would like to thank
all those vaguely-awake students
who noticed their Q T nose.
• Want to join BaronSoc? Write
to 'Baron' via all departmental
'B' pigeonholes.
• Phallixword: A n d the horse
you rode in on! The Last Main
Block.
• Phallixword: Yowsa! Yowsa!
Yowsa! I've got it—yooooou're an
Italian!—The Strawberry
Flavoured Last Main Block.
• Is that OK?
• Are you suave? Sophisticated?
Do you want to go to a really
classy event? Then buy your
Silwood Ball tickets from the
R C S U Office now.
• When you go home tonight,
take a look in your wardrobe.
Doesn't your ballgown/DJ look
lonely. Give it a treat—put it on
and go to the Silwood Ball.
Tickets from the R C S U Office.
Will anyone propose this year?
Come along to the Silwood Ball
and find out. Tickets from the
R C S U Office.
• I k n o w nah-thing - Steph Snell.
• G l y n n . You can put your pick
in m y mine anytime. Snowwhite.
• If anyone saw a car accident
occur in the car park outside
Chemistry on Tue 7th March at
about 5.45pm could you please
contact C Denekamp (ext 4645,
Chem PG).
• Nutford House, Latest...House
News to be relaunched as The
Nutford News. Bigger and better,
and don't think you got away
with last term's gossip.
• The Vice President will get
more videos next term.
• Watch out for the news round-
up of the year's events,
especially Giaia.
• Easy Meeeech.
• Fisher Hall Wakey Wakey
Squad would like to thank all
those who 'woke up' for Comic
Relief.
• Are you suave? Sophisticated?
Then stay away from the R C S
Ball!
• What are Nicky and Rob doing
locked in Bill's back office.
• A p p a r e n t l y , they're playing
Charades
• Bill is on the look out for a
partner for the Ball—this could be
your lucky day Simon!
• Simon says: 'Yes'—as long as
he can wear the trousers.
• N e w services rendered in the
H U B Office—see Photo Love
Story for details.
• John—We love you really.
STOIC.
• The division of death Scientists
in a joint production with
RlP(?)Soc bring you Legionella II
at a cooling tower near you from
Sunday.
• Nicky wears a red bra with a
hammer on one nipple and a
sickle on the other.
• Well done Dramsoc—the play
was brilliant but the reviews page
was already pasted-up. Nicky.
• W i l l the guy who lost his
lighter one the Firkin Run please
contact Fiona Nicholas (Rag
pigeonhole in ICU) as Rag found
it when they were cleaning the
mini-buses.
• Sex W i l k i n s o n is a spelling
mishtake.
• Happiness is the inability to
appreciate what a really lousy place
the World is.
• Anj, you're not stupid, honest.
• Sod it, I'm going for a cup of
coffee, JL.
• D o u g Queen. Is he?
• Wendy, Wendy! H o w can we
keep our love secret when I've
already blabbed to everyone.
• Jon Denham is N O T fat. Space
merely distorts around him.
• STOIC - Wot no camera?
• For Sale random lump of brass.
One previous careless, subterranian
owner. Apply Black Hole do RCSU.
Page 4 FELIX March 22 1989

