Dramatic problems
Hie organisers of Theatre West End
(TWE), the Edinburgh festival theatre
venue run by Imperial College Dramatic
Society, have appealed for help. The
production company is seriously short of
staff and may have difficulty running the
venue which is already fully booked for
two of the festival's three weeks.
TWE have asked for volunteers to help
convert the venue, St John's Church, into
a viable theatre; to set up and control the
lighting, to produce publicity and to man
the box office. Training will be provided
and no previous experience is required.
The company also intends to produce
a version of 'Look Back in Anger' which
needs a cast of five but, as yet, no would
be actors have come forward. TWE co-
ordinator, Zoe Hellinger estimates that a
further 20 helpers are needed.
The company says that it will provide
cheap accommodation for the volunteers.
Anyone interested is asked to phone TWE
on extensions 3531 or 3533 or to contact
Helen Roberts (ext. 7479) or Mark
Lahaise (ext. 7482).
Asked why the response had been so
poor, Ms Roberts and M r Lahaise told
FELIX that they blamed general apathy
and the fact that some of this year's
Dramatic Society plays had been too
obscure. This, they felt, had put people
off the society but said that things would
be different in future. They claim that,
with a full quota of helpers, individual
volunteers need only work a couple of
hours a day making it an ideal opportunity
to visit the festival cheaply.
Union manager resigns
Imperial College Union Manager David
Peacock has resigned. M r Peacock, who
is one of the Union permanent staff,
formally handed in his notice last Friday
and will be leaving in three months time.
He has been in the post for the last three
years.
The Union Manager is responsible for
the day to day commercial running of the
Union and its outlets. During his time
here, M r Peacock oversaw the refitting of
the Union Snack Bar and helped put the
loss-making book shop back on a sound
financial footing after organising the
takeover from college.
Union President, Neil McCluskey, told
FELIX that he was 'quite sad' that M r
Peacock had been forced to resign but said
that 'for a number of reasons' the post of
Union Manager had not worked. The
Union is now looking at ways in which
the job description can be changed. The
post may even be abolished although Mr
McCluskey says that it is almost certain
that a replacement will be found.
When he finally leaves, Mr Peacock will
spend several months travelling while
considering his future. He has a number
of plans, some of which involve further
work with student unions. David Peacock, making his reservation on thefirstflightto Rio.
Bored of studies
Imperial College's Board of Studies
approved a draft of the College five year
plan on Wednesday. The meeting, which
lasted under half an hour, was one of just
three during the year.
The plan, which is still confidential, is
wide ranging, covering administration,
academic affairs and college finances. The
meeting was the first chance for heads of
departments and Imperial College Union
representatives to have their say. ICU's
representative, Deputy President Dave
Williams, told FELIX that he was unable
to attend as he was 'working in the bar.'
Sources have revealed that the board
also considered the bids which the college
is required to submit to the University
Funding Council (UFC), giving the
number of students who are expected to
take courses here. These bids directly
affect the amount of government funding
the college receives. The document will
officially be released after it has been
presented to Governing Body on Tuesday.

