Under construction
Degree stop
on rents
Students who do not pay college accommodation bills
now risk not being allowed to continue their degrees.
The new provision, which was approved at the last
Governing Body, was described by College Senior
Assistant Finance Officer, Malcolm Aldridge as 'a
more humane way' of persuading students to pay.
There has always been a provision under college
rules to withhold degree results until bills have been
paid although not to withhold the degree itself. Mr
Aldridge told FELIX that this had meant that debts
could remain uncollected for two years. He believes
that threatening to stop a student continuing his or
her course will encourage more first and second years
to pay. He estimates that there will be about ten degree
stops in any one year.
The details are still being worked out, but Mr
Aldridge believes that students with unpaid bills will
automatically receive two reminders before any action
is taken. A third reminder, usually sent out in the last
week of term, will include a warning that if the cash
is not paid before the end of the summer vacation,
the student's degree will be stopped. He emphasised
that the residences are run as a 'commercial operation'
and that debts, which account for between 1/2 and
1 % of the residence turnover, must be recovered.
Students will be able to appeal to either the finance
office or to the registry if they feel that they have been
unfairly treated. As a last resort, some departments
may be able to provide loans if they feel a student
is of good academic standing.
It's that
time of year
This year's Imperial College Summer Fair will be held
on the Queens Lawn on Sunday 10th June. Entrance
will be £1 for students and children and £2.50 for
others. Tickets are available from the refectory and
the senior common room at lunchtimes.
Careers
magazine
Imperial College Careers Service have launched a new
publication, 'Student Newsbriefing'. Careers Adviser
Russ Clark claims that the publication, which is still
only on trial, will contain 'news rather than teaching
material'. If it is successful, the Careers Service hope
to sell advertising space within it to prospective
employers. Copies of 'Student Newsbriefing' are
available on departmental noticeboards or from room
310 in the Sherfield Building.
More job advertisements will be available on the
newly installed hoardings in the Junior Common
Room (JCR). The hordings are fully booked for the
next year and any profit made will go to Imperial
College Union.
Imperial College Union's new barbecue cost almost
£100 to build and then almost £150 to rebuild after
Union Deputy President decided to demolish it.
Would-be architectural critics had succeeded in
knocking holes in the original. £60 of the money spent
on barbecue 2 went to pay a professional bricklayer
to do the job properly. Doug King, speaking on behalf
of the first construction crew, admitted that they had
been 'pissed' but added that the barbecue had
Charlies
Security around the Southside halls of residence has
been stepped up again in an attempt to stop people
throwing things from windows. Chief Security Officer
Geoff Reeves told FELIX that in an incident on
Tuesday evening, a full champagne bottle, dropped
from Southside had narrowly missed a passer by.
Security guards will how go on one extra patrol a
night. A memo has been sent to all Southside residents
informing them of the changes and warning them of
the consequences.
Golden
years
The first generation of Imperial College chemical
engineering students started their degrees almost 50
years ago and, the department claims, this makes it
the longest running course in the United Kingdom.
They will be marking the Jubilee by inviting as many
as possible of the 2000 graduates to a celebration in
mid-September 1990. They are also preparing a
pictorial history of the course.
'character.'
Mr Williams paid 24p a brick while retiring Union
Manager Dave Peacock, who was given charge of
operation barbie mark II, managed to obtain bricks
at just 17p each. The barbecue is to be used to provide
hot food on summer evenings.
Dave Williams will be leaving the Union at the end
of July.
Collators
The last FELIX of the year
will be collated on Monday
18th June. We will be
collating all day with alcoholic
assistance. Please pop in and
help if you have a spare half
an hour.
Festival
Eye
Copies of the guide to this
summer's festivals around
Britain are now available.
Contact the FELIX Office
for further details.

