The Package
If The Hunt For Red October was the last gasp of the
pre-Glasnost thriller, The Package is definitely part of
the inhalation of the new post-Glasnost thriller. The
world is on the verge of peace. The Russians and
Americans are about to sign a treaty that will end the
nuclear threat, just in time for Christmas, the season
of peace and goodwill to all men. Unfortunately
various elements of the Armed Forces on both sides
are none to happy about these developments. Well its
reducing their job description isn't it? So they plan to
assassinate one of the leaders. This is where Johnny
Gallagher (Gene Hackman) gets involved. He is
ordered to escort a 'package' (a courtmartialed
serviceman) back to the good 'ole USA to serve time.
Once the arrive, Gallagher is assaulted in a men's toilet
(isn't that a criminal offence?) allowing his package
to abscond. Gallagher then chases up his ex-wife, a
personnel officer, who discovers that the package
isn't who they thought he was...
There is one problem with this film. In a thriller there
needs to be some element of doubt as to the outcome.
When you are talking about the assassination of a
Terry Pratchett has quite a pedigree; The Colour of
Magic, The Light Fantastic, Equal Rites, Mort,
Sourcery, Wyrd Sisters and now the seventh in the
line, Pyramids. Each received more acclaim than its
predecessor, while the quality of the books decreased.
The trend continues.
Set in a world where magic rules, the dawn drifts
in and pieces of luggage have legs, anything could
happen. The world is a disc resting on the back of four
giant elephants which in turn stand on the back of a
huge turtle, Great A-Tuin (sex unknown).
The first couple of books follow Rincewind and 'The
Tourist' through perilous adventures that were
narrated in a friendly and subtle humourous way, the
jokes just happening naturally.
In Pyramids he has branched out, completely
deserting all of the original characters apart from
Death, and has traded the gentle humour for a more
Creator
Peter O'Toole plays a British eccentric. This does not
come as a surprise, as that's what he does these days
[High Spirits, Jeffery Bernard is Unwell). This time
round his eccentricity manifests himself as a crusade
to clone his dead wife. This he hopes to achieve in
the shed in his backyard, with equipment he has
appropriated from the University at which he works.
Added to this is a randy new male undergrad assistant
whose hormones are busy in a pursuit of a young
female. Mix in a self professed 19 year-old
nymphomaniac who muses 'How can a man respect
a woman who comes five times between him ringing
the bell and her answering the door?' and a obnoxious
fellow scientist (David Ogden Stiers from M M *S"H,
doing what he does best) and set the ball rolling.
Improbable is perhaps somewhat of an
understatement for this film, whose science is
somewhat dubious at best, including such gems as
the "Love Formula" which is subject to the
Heisenberg Uncertainty Principle. The emotions are
even worse, with the females in the cast falling in love
brutal 'I've got a joke and I'm going to use it' style.
There are occasional glimpses of the old Pratchett but
with the majority of the puns and quips that he is
famous for found in the post-scripts the story flows
along like tar on a carpet.
The story is fairly standard for a Pratchett book, i.e.
completely stupid and impossible, although it does
have more than a passing resemblance to Wyrd
Sisters.
Teppic, who has trained as an assassin, becomes
king of Djelibeybi a small kingdom with a fetish for
pyramids. During the building of the latest
monstrosity, the largest yet, weird and bizarre things
start happening. When the kingdom eventually
disappears into another set of dimensions he escapes
on the back of the best mathematician on the Disc.
What follows is the script for what could have been
a brilliant book, exploding pyramids, walking
world leader there really isn't that much. Mind you this
wouldn't be a problem if there was some sort of
feeling of suspense. There isn't. The plot is explained
in little chunks and so we get a steady drip of
information instead of one climatic revelation. The
suspense is missing, so one is left reclining securely
in one's seat, not perched tension-ridden on the edge
of it.
Beyond that the film is technically sound, with
imaginative cinematography and competent
performances, aside for one or two walking hams. Its
nice to see a more mature leading lady, wrinkles as
least as prominent as those of Hackman, with little
sign of the obligatory bimbo. Anti-Russian feeling is
still in evidence though as it is implied that it is their
operatives that are the ring leaders. Aside from that
is quite ideologically sound, for an American movie.
A film that will make a nice evening's video
entertainment, but which is not up to the full London
entrance price, with better, similar films such as
Internal Affairs about.
Adam T.
Book
mummies (and daddies) and gods that come to life but
refuse to do what they are told. By being so blatant
and obvious he manages to kill it.
Something I find hard to understand is why he has
received such praise from the press. It's not the
funniest book ever, it didn't make me cry with joy and
if it was the best British science fiction book of last
year the rest must have been very poor. At the
moment he appears to be living on his reputation but
soon that will dry-up.
To those who haven't read any Discworld novels
before, start at the beginning and only graduate onto
the latter books if you love the style. If you are an
ardent fan then nothing will stop you, all I will say is
that hopefully he will see the errors of his ways and
correct himself soon.
Ian Hodge
Film
for such diverse reasons as having an orgasm while
an egg is removed or being told all night long that 'I
mean, what girl wants a guy to spend all night long
going over every part of her body just because it feels
good?'. The only moderately believable character is
Dr. Harry Wolper, and this is solely due to O'Toole's
uncommon talent, which lifts him far above the
mediocrity of the rest of the cast.
The rest is pathetic sentimentalising and second
rate blue movie, complete with neck licking and ear
sucking. The entire thing seems to be singlemindedly
directed towards telling us that love is the 'Big
Picture', ie everything, a message that has been told
far better in numerous other films. Sexist, emotionally
deficient and lacking in humour which is actually
funny, it should be perfect for the typical IC student.
Adam T.
Page 3
Pyramidsby Terry Pratchett

