LSO: Mahler Symphony No.2.
'The programme notes are excellent,' Tilson Thomas
said, 'but I'd just like to say a few words.' He then
talked at considerable length about the spiritual roots
of the 'mystical' Carl Ruggles, whose three works,
Angels, Organum and Exaltation, opened the concert.
Only eight pieces were published by this American
composer, who destroyed much of what he wrote.
Angels is for muted brass, all of which seem to be
trying to be as discordant as possible. The second
piece is more harmonious, whilst Exaltation, a hymn
tune written in memory of Ruggles' wife, is pleasant
enough, but ultimately uninteresting. Tilson Thomas
is obviously a Ruggles enthusiast, but his opening
remarks were embarrassing and unnecessary.
On to Mahler's second symphony. Although the
work explores death, it is ultimately an optimistic
piece concerned with the resurrection after the Final
Judgement. The powerful and unsettling funeral
march themes of the opening movement give way to
rejoicing in the choral setting of Friedrich Klopstock's
Resurrection Ode in the last movement.
This performance can only be described as
magnificent. Tilson Thomas coaxed the orchestra
through the spectrum of sentiment found in the work
and handled the sudden changes of mood and tempo
with a highly sensitive touch. The LSO exhibited their
usual excellence, especially evident in such a
demanding piece, with the brass section deserving
School for Scandal
Conducted by M. Tdson Thomas
special credit.
Of the two soloists, the contralto, Alfreda Hodgson,
started hesitantly and was disappointingly weak in the
Urlicht section. However she strengthened in the
Finale when accompanied by Alison Hargan, who
sang the soprano part with passion. The London
Symphony Chorus provided competent support.
Dragging the audience through the extremes of
emotion contained in the symphony, the LSO certainly
gave it an airing equal to its epic intentions. Their
attack on Mahler's ninth symphony on June 10th
should be eagerly anticipated.
Liz W.
Theatre
A delightful evening at The Theatre begins with a
crowd of seventeenth century socialites, spreading
malicious rumour, overlayed with the amplified sound
of whispering. Mrs Sneerwell (Jane Asher) and
Joseph Surface, together with a Mr Snake, both
intend to use lies and scandal to their amourous
advantage. But the plot thickens as we meet the other
characters, with equally revealing names like Mrs
Candour (Prunella Scales) and Mr Backbite. The very
tools Surface and Sneewell are using backfire on them
with amusing consequences.
Richard Brinsley Sheridan's classic restoration
comedy is well suited to the Olivier Theatre's stage
and is brought to life with harmonic costumes, an
impressive set and highly enjoyable performances. His
bitter-sweet satire and portrayal of sexual profligacy
are just the thing for Londoners immersed in
Twentieth Century excess. Flawless.
The School for Scandal is on at the National
Theatre. The Olivier box office is on 071-928 2252.
Student standbys cost £5.
Adrian Pagan.
We're No Angels
Film Theatre
Sean Penn and Robert De Niro play a couple of Laurel
and Hardy type criminals resigned to life inside a
demeaning prison. When a condemned prisoner
makes his escape, however, they are inadvertently
swept up into the jail break. If they're found, they too
will be executed by the sadistic warden. Luckily they
manage to hitch a lift into town with an old woman
who mistakes them for travelling priests. From the
town, all they have to do is cross the river (and the
border) into safety. Unfortunately they are again
mistaken for real priests and are taken into the local
monastery. A blockade is put across the bridge and
prison guards start a house to house search. From
their hiding place, they plan a daring escape...
At this point you may be forgiven if you're thinking
'Sounds like a Nuns on the Run rip off. This is
unfortunate as many people may decide not to risk
seeing the same film twice, whereas this film is
actually completely different. Nuns on the Run is a
straight comedy. 'We're No Angels' tends to be a
thriller but with some comic patches.
At the beginning, inside the prison, with views of
squalid conditions, and brutal oppression leading to
a tense jail break, this seems like a normal thriller,
simmering nicely. Once outside though we wonder
why the duo were in such a degrading place to start
Page 4
with; they don't seem ruthless or intelligent enough.
Making the escapees fairly inept is supposed to offer
potential for farcical situations to occur where a thriller
might have an explosion or two. This certainly cuts
down on costly explosions, but does it make a good
film?
The combining of thriller and comedy is not
attempted often, and this time the mix of genres tends
to separate and become somewhat lumpy. Generally
the comedy involves the duo's mistaken identity,
priest's vows (Demi Moore is the shapely temptress
here) and their lack of knowledge of church affairs.
This is often quite amusing, but it doesn't tie in well
with the thriller aspects of the hunt by the warden and
the third psychopathic escaped prisoner. This third
man, an escaped killer, is put in some ludicrous
situations that, although amusing at the time, are
unconvincing and weaken the film.
Penn and De Niro play their parts well, but many
of the supporting cast are more believable and could
have come from a serious drama. I feel that some of
the 'in-built' jokes such as the thick and dopey guards
should have been dropped, but the rest does not fail
to please.
Toby Jones
Hanging the
President
Michele Celeste's powerful new play, first performed
at last year's Edinburgh Fringe, seems to be on the
first stage of a 'world tour'. Set in a condemned cell
in a South African prison, the play presents a 'shit and
all' view of the last hours of the lives of two white
murderers and the bizarre sexual power games they
play with the warder and with each other. They feel
cheated that the (South African) President is allowing
them to hang: especially when a black political
(prisoner) who is to be executed with them is flung
into their cell. They feel that that is the ultimate form
of degradation.
As the time draws nearer their desperation
increases and drives them to extremes as they wait
for a reprieve. You cannot help being drawn into the
intensity of this production which is admirably crafted
by a powerful and fearless cast and although the script
seems a little dated (after the events of the past few
months) Hanging the President is a wrenching
commentary on apartheid and South Africa today.
Shockingly good.
Adrian Pagan.

