Has the art of creativity died at Imperial College? Kenan Ardali gives his views.
Motivation
The problems of student motivation seem to be very
much in the news lately. Naturally, departments
within the College are concerned with student drop-
out and underachievement which correlate closely to
this lack of motivation. Indeed, it is fair to say that
a fair proportion of students who arrive with very good
A-levels and high expectations do underachieve at
Imperial. This is partly attributable to the unnatural
environment of university life which demands self-
motivation, discipline and dedication in a highly
specialised subject. What academics seem to overlook
is that most fresh undergraduates do not fully realise
what they are letting themselves in for. The strains
of acclimatisation to campus life coupled with new
life experiences can affect a student's performance
and outlook.
However, what is under scrutiny here is Imperial
and, in particular, its engineering courses. Why do
most students feel that if they could do it all again,
they would go elsewhere? Certainly, to some extent,
'the grass is greener on the other side', but the facts
speak for themselves: many of Imperial's engineers
choose to turn their backs on at least three years of
dedication on some of the toughest courses at one
of the world's premier technical universities.
Why? Short- to mid- term financial gains are very
lucrative in the City and, admittedly, engineering
needs a lift both in its rewards and status within British
society, but the fact remains that students leave
because they do not like 'engineering'. The
engineering student is rarely 'engineering' at Imperial.
Rather, he is learning a lot of science with a fair
smattering of maths. Too much emphasis is placed
on number crunching and factual learning. Imperial has
its proportion of narrow-minded bookworms who
have an innate ability to memorise and analyse but
not to synthesise.
Almost superficial to our engineering courses is
what engineering is all about: the process of individual
and collective input through practical application. This
was what I naively expected engineering to be all
about. The so-called practical lab and project work are
on the whole outdated, uninspiring and far removed
from industry. One is made to feel that no matter how
hard one tries, it has been done better by someone
before. One has no chance to assimilate and cross-
relate material before more work comes piling in.
The student has no alternative but to rush work and
keep trekking the eternal treadmill of work. By the
time the student can input his own ideas, say through
a final year project, he has usually lost his drive to do
so. It becomes impossible to take pride in one's
vocation. Finally, the salt is scoured into the wound
with the nervous trauma of the dreaded exams: That
wonderful week or fortnight preceded by the panic
hours of revision, spent desperately cramming half-
comprehended past questions which will hold no value
let alone interest for the sufferer beyond the day of
the examination.
Yes, the Imperial grail works for the blinkered
student who loves and lives science and is happy to
continue as such, but for most promising school
leavers, arriving bright eyed and bushy tailed with
hopes of living full lives, it does not.
So, what can be done? The engineering
departments have begun in their own uncoordinated
ways to make improvements. The Mechanical
Engineering department seems to be taking the
initiative, nicknamed ME20O0, with a radical proposal
to change their course in preparation for European
unity. Chemical and Aeronautical Engineering will
hopefully continue to strengthen their ties with
industry and the Continent through their various
undergraduate projects. The Electrical Engineering
department, extolling their course's virtues of 'the
traditional, but very sound education', have
nonetheless recognised the motivation problems of
their students. The Head of Department, Professor
Aleksander, in conjunction with his colleagues, has
taken several positive steps forward in order to
improve the deteriorating situation. For example, fresh
undergraduates will spend the last few days of
freshers' week discussing open-ended group design
projects intended to give the student some
Come on kid, you can do it.
perspective on the genuine need for engineering
knowledge in industry and the real world.
Considerable time has been allocated to this project
later on in the year. This development will allow
students to provide personal input from day one.
Another interesting development is the short term
appointment of psychologist, Maureen Parr, who is
currently looking at the possibilities of wider access
for engineering departments.
Maybe part of the problem lies in the type of student
who becomes an engineer. Engineering is not and
should not be pure science. It is about being practical,
creative and objective in approaching real problems.
However, inherent in our education system is a
restriction on the pool of potential engineers. The
system limits this reservoir exclusively to 'A' level
students who have studied at least maths and
physics. There is a school of thought that proposes
that students who have limited themselves almost
exclusively to scientific disciplines from the age of,
say, 16, are not sufficiently broadminded to be able
to tackle engineering problems with creativity and
originality.
As a remedy, it has been suggested that engineering
departments admit students with a broader range of
'A' levels, with the engineering departments providing
students having only arts 'A' levels with a preparatory
year of study that would bring them up to the levels
of maths and physics required for an engineering
degree. This would provide a more varied cross-
section of students and may attract a much coveted
commodity lacking at Imperial: women. As a means
to the latter, the possibility of undergraduate degrees
in humanities could be discussed.
Alternatively, students could be instructed in
creativity techniques, such as brainstorming,
synectics, lateral thinking, etc. Such techniques have
been proven to improve an individual's creativity and
will add to the individual's desirable skills, since most
companies employ forms of idea generation and
problem solving techniques. The psychology and
application of creative thought is a fascinating area
in itself but it also has numerous beneficial secondary
effects: what better way to get to know someone
than to discuss a problem with them? How better to
learn about teamwork, communication and dealing
with people than through a problem solving session?
Indeed, how better to get a person motivated in their
subject than giving them real problems to discuss in
their subject area?
So come on Imperial, the ball is in your court. There
are plenty of proponents for change, not just within
the student body. In adapting to the changing
environment, we are lagging behind other countries
and even our own polytechnics. Our courses are on
the whole too inflexible and archaic. Follow the
examples of other forward looking universities and
realise that you are not getting the most out of our
most precious resources: raw intellect, enthusiasm,
youth and hope.
Page 5

