Union Welfare Adviser, Yve Posner, outlines the benefits you will and won't be getting over the summer and
Welfare update
The aim of this article is to provide an update on the
position regarding some key welfare issues for
students.
Housing Benefit
It is 99.9% certain that the majority of students will
no longer be able to claim Housing Benefit from
September 1 1990. The 0.1 % margin of doubt is due
to the fact that the ammendments to regulations
which will remove entitlement are yet to be laid before
Parliament. However as there is no legislation to be
passed it is unlikely that the proposed ammendments
will be changed even if the matter is debated in the
House of Commons. Therefore we must assume that
benefit will not be available from next term and this
needs to be taken into account when looking for
accommodation for next year. UK undergraduate
students entiteld to a Local Education Grant will be
able to claim a student loan of up to £460.00 in
London (£420.00 outside London); however in most
cases this will not cover the amount lost in Housing
Benefit.
There are some groups of students who will still be
able to claim Housing Benefit:
tSingle parent students
• Students with disabilities
• Students with non-student partners and/or children
Also if you claim Housing Benefit during the Summer
Vacation you will be able to claim benefit up to the
beginning of the Autumn Term (2.10.90). The
essential condition is that you must be in receipt of
benefit or make a claim before 1.9.90 in order to
qualify for a payment until 1.10.90.
Housing Benefit claim forms for most London
Boroughs are held in the Welfare Office as well as
further information about how to make a claim etc.
Unemployment Benefit/Income Support or 'Dole'
The ammendments to the Benefit Regulations also
apply to Unemployment Benefit and Income Support.
Up until now students could sign on as unemployed
in the Summer Vacation and claim benefit. From
September 1990 this will no longer be possible.
However as with Housing Benefit a student who
claims UB/IS before 1.9.90 will be entitled to benefit
up until the beginning of the Autumn Term.
If you have never claimed UB/IS before and want
to do so this summer you need to follow these
procedures:
1. Signing on-as soon as term ends (ie Monday
June 25) you should go to your nearest
Unemployment Benefit Office to register as
unemployed. Details of addresses can be found in the
Welfare Office or telephone directory. At the UBO you
will see the new claims receptionist who will make
an appointment for you to see the New Claimant
Adviser. You will also be given form UB671 to
complete which you must take to your interview.
2. UB671 -this form has 27 questions to answer and
is designed to test whether you are 'available for and
actively seeking work'. If any doubts are raised by the
Page 6
way you answer these questions you may be refused
benefit. It is therefore essential that you take you time
when completing this form. You should also bear in
mind the following:
• indicate both the type of job you would like and also
what you would be prepared to accept.
• where you are asked for the minimum wage/salary
you will accept, you should put the going rate for the
job. If in doubt put 'the going rate'.
• state that you will be flexible about hours and/or
where you can travel to-you could say that you are
prepared to travel to anywhere within reasonable
distance of your home.
• you must indicate that you are prepared to take up
a suitable vacancy straightaway.
3. Interview-at your interview with the New
Claimant Adviser you will be asked what steps you
are taking to find work and the adviser will make a
note of your 'intended job search activity'. As a
student you will be expected to consider 'all' types
of temporary work even if it is badly paid. You will
also be told that 'job search activity' can be reviewed
at any time. However for students making a short
term claim this is unlikely to happen.
4. Claim for UB/IS -during your interview you will
make your claim for Unemployment Benefit on form
UB641. You should also be given form B1 to claim
Income Support. Most students do not get UB
because they have paid insufficient National Insurance
Contributions. If you are not automatically given a B1
ask fo one and say that you are a student. The
completed B1 must be sent to the DSS Office
covering your address.
5. Payment-Benefit is paid fortnightly by
Girocheque. You will have to wait at least two weeks
before your first payment. You will then continue to
receive benefit provided you sign on when required.
6. Holidays if you are going abroad you will not be
entitled to Benefit whilst you are away and you will
have to reclaim on your return. If you are going away
in the UK you must go to the UBO and complete a
to loans
'holiday form' giving details of where you can be
contacted. You are expected to give an assurance that
you would cut short your holiday if offered a job.
Overseas Students
Overseas students from EEC countries and the
following non-EEC countries: Iceland, Malta, Norway,
Portugal, Sweden and Turkey and eligible to claim
Housing Benefit and UB/IS. Those overseas students
with settled status or right of abode can also claim.
However these students will also lose entitlement
when the changes to legislation become effective in
September 1990.
Health Benefits
Help with NHS prescriptions, sight tests, glasses and
dental treatment is not affected by the changes in
legislation.
Health benefits are available to both UK and
overseas students. The Benefits are means-tested (ie
based on income) and can provide full or partial help
towards the cost of treatment. To claim you need
form AG 1, available from either the Welfare Office or
you local DSS Office. If you qualify for help you will
get a certificate which lasts six months at the end of
which you will need to reapply.
Other Benefits
Family Credit-this benefit will still be available to
students with children whose parents are in full-time
work (at least 24 hours per week). It is a means-tested
benefit and also classed as 'public funds' which
means that some overseas student families are
ineligible to claim.
Child Benefit, Disability Benefits (eg Mobility
Allowance)
The rules for claiming these benefits are unchanged.
They are equally available to both UK and overseas
students.
If you would like further information about any of
these benefits please call into the Welfare Office.
Health Care Abroad
If you are planning a trip to an EEC country this
summer you will be able to get free or reduced cost
emergency medical treatment provided you are:
• A national of the UK or another EEC country
• A stateless person or refugee
The help only applies to treatment under state health
care schemes. In order to receive treatment you need
form E111 which can be obtained from the Post
Office.
Poll Tax
Most students will have received their bills by now
and have started to make payments. As Poll Tax was
the subject of a feature article in FELIX earlier this year
I will not go into any detail here. If there are still
problems or queries please call into the Welfare Office
or contact your Community Charge Office.
Accommodation/Housing Rights
The IC Union Housing Rights Pack is available from
the Welfare Office or the Accommodation Office. If
you are looking for private rented accommodation you
should get a copy as it contains invaluable advice on
finding accommodation, signing a tenancy agreement
and your rights as a tenant.
Since the 1988 Housing Act came into force on
15.1.89 the rights of private tenants including
students have been considerably changed. The types
of tenancy agreements that tenants now sign are far
more restrictive than those covered by the previous
Housing Act. If you want to do something that is not
included in the agreement then it is unlikely that the
landlord will agree to any changes after you have
signed it eg if the agreement does not include a notice
to quit clause ie allowing you to leave before the end
of the tenancy after giving one month's notice then
you will be tied to the agreement.
It is therefore essential to read over an agreement
before you sign it and if there is anything that you
are not sure about then seek advicel The Housing
Rights Pack contains details of organisations that
provide advice so make sure you get your copy.
Student Loans
The Education (Student Loans) Act comes into force
in September 1990. It provides for interest free loans
to be make available to undergraduate students
entitled to a Local Education Authority grant. The loan
will not be given automatically but will have to be
applied for. Application forms will be available in
College. The 'claims' will be administered by a
Government agency based in Glasgow. The amount
for 1990/91 will be:
• up to £ 4 6 0 for London students living away from
home
• up to £420 for students outside London living away
from home
• up to £330 for student living at home
Further information about the scheme will be
publicised as soon as it is available.
Yve Posner, ICU Welfare Adviser.
Page 7

