Chris Onof describes the repercussions of last year's events in Tiananmen Square.
China one year on
Prisoner of conscience—Wang Dan, once one of China's most wanted student leaders.
One year ago, on June 4, the whole world was
appalled by the news from China; at least 1,000
people were killed that night as heavy troops moved
through the streets of the city of Beijing and into
Tiananmen Square to crush the peaceful student
demonstration-charred protesters and onlookers
were killed at random, shot, crushed by tanks and
beaten to death.
Since that day, unknown numbers of people have
been executed there. The Chinese media have
reported 6,000 arrests, but Amnesty International
believes the true number to be in the tens of
thousands; moreover it is believed many detainees
have been tortured.
In all cases, they will not have received a fair trial—
for example, defendants often do not see a lawyer
until right before the trial. The practice of 'verdict first,
trial second' is also common in China and has been
acknowledged in the legal press. Moreover, some
prisoners do not receive a trial at all since Chinese
laws permit detention without charge or trial for up
to four years for 're-education through labour' for
those with 'anti-socialist' views.
These appalling abuses of human rights are not new
in China-Amnesty has been concerned by such
violations of basic human rights in that country long
before the Tiananmen Square massacre last June. For
instance, Prisoners of Conscience also include Roman
Catholic priests accused of supporting Tibetan
independence and students and workers who were
active in the 'democracy movement' of the late
1920s.
In January of this year, 573 detainees were
released, but these moves were seen as cosmetic by
many observers. Amnesty remains concerned about
the thousands of other people who are still in
detention today.
Amnesty is appealing to all students in the UK not
to forget their fellow students who died during the
massacre of June 1989. One way in which Amnesty
International is asking students to become involved
in this work is by campaigning for an individual
student; Wang Dan.
Wang Dan is a history student at Beijing University
who. became a key figure in the pro-democracy
movement last spring. He was chairman of the
Student Society of Contemporary Social Problems and
declared that he would never join the Communist
Party because it d id not live up to his ideals. After the
attack on Tiananmen Square, he was seen counting
the dead and wounded in nearby hospitals. On June
13, a warrent was issued for Wang Dan's arrest as
one of the twenty 'most wanted' student leader. He
tried to escape abroad but was arrested and
apparently beaten up during interrogations.
Wang Dan is believed to be in Qingcherg Number
1 Prison, in solitary confinement and on reduced
rations of food. He is reported to have had both legs
broken and to have been blinded in one eye.
What you can do is to send letters demanding:
• That Wang Dan be released immediately or charged
with a recognisably criminal offence and that the
details of any charge be made public.
• That if charged, he be brought to trial as soon as
possible allowing him the opportunity to form proper
legal defence. Any trial must conform to international
standards of justice.
• To ensure that Wang Dan is safeguarded against
possible torture or ill treatment while in custody.
• That the authorities grant Wang Dan access to
lawyers, medical care, family and friends whilst in
custody.
The addresses are:
Li Perg Zongli (Prime Minister)
Guowuyuan
Beijingshi
People's Republic of China
Liu Fuzli Jian chazlang (Procurer General)
Zuigao Renmin Jiangchoy-wan
Beijingshi
Zhongma Renmin Gong Leguo
People's Republic of China
Sending letters will help as part of a China campaign
which culminated with demonstrations in London on
June 4.
If you want a brochure about the campaign, come
and see me (Chris Onof, Civ Eng PG, Room 307A,
extension 4856). -
FELIX
BOUND EDITIONS
Will be £30 this year
Please see Dave in the FELIX Office
Bring your cheque book
Chaplains—a bunch
of Charlies?
You are invited to the
C H A P L A I N C Y O P E N D A Y
10am, Sunday 10th June 1990
Senior Common Room
Level 2, Sherfield Building,
Imperial College
A chance for you to find out more
about what we do...
WEST LONDON CHAPLAINCY
Page 8

