F e l i X
Dave Williams
The College's Board of Studies meets three times a
year. It is the highest body which reports to the
Governing Body on academic affairs. Mr Williams'
failure to attend the meeting is inexcusable. Whether
he forgot or was just too busy working in the bar, his
priorities were certainly in the wrong place. He is now
beneath contempt, and no longer worthy of comment
as a sabbatical of the Union. Come back Chas
Brereton, all is forgiven.
David Peacock
I was sorry to hear of David Peacock's resignation.
As Union Manager, David has achieved a great deal
for the Union during his three years here. His presence
has added a continuity to the Union's long term plans,
which was often lacking in the past. Perhaps his
greatest achievement is the Union Bookstore, which
he has worked on this year. David has turned the
outlet round from a loss making enterprise to a
success story, to which the college should aspire.
The Bookstore was one area in which David Peacock
was given a large say in the reorganisation and
refitting. The refitting of the Union Snack Bar in
1988/89 was an area in which David had little say.
The difference is clear; whilst the bookstore has a
professional appearance, the snack bar has been
redecorated in a shoddy fashion (who suggested a red
floor and blue tables and walls?) In the past,
sabbaticals have tried to be what they are not: from
expert caterers to computer consultants. I hope the
Union has learnt that a professional member of
permanent staff should be allowed to work
professionally. The new role of the union manager
should involve the management of the day to day
running of the union's trading outlets and the
implementation of carefully planned marketing
campaigns as well as the introduction of outside
consultants when they are needed.
The Union has lost its greatest asset in David Peacock.
I hope they will join me, however, in wishing him all
the best for the future.
Bound Editions
Bound editions of FELIX will cost £ 3 0 this year.
Anybody requiring a bound edition should see me with
a cheque for the full amount by the end of term.
Subscriptions
If you are leaving college this year and would like to
continue receiving FELIX, you can subscribe for just
£11, which includes postage to your home address.
If you are reading this and already subscribe to FELIX,
please note that you will not receive a free issue after
the last issue of this term. Subscriptions for next year
should reach the FELIX Office by July 31st. Please
make cheques payable to 'Imperial College Union
Publications Board (FELIX).'
Next Issue
FELIX will not appear next week whilst the end of year
edition is being produced. Rose Atkins' Birthday will
be on Friday 22nd June, there will be a special bumper
end of term issue to celebrate. Rose is 32, and likes
looking after children and old people.
Staff meeting
There will be a staff meeting on Monday at 12.45 to
discuss final arrangements for the last issue. Please
turn up, I'm buying the drinks.
Credits
Many thanks this week and last to Jason Lander for
news; Adam Tinworth for reviews and patience; Chris
Tamdjidi for tidying the camera room and help all
round; Toby Jones, Adrian Pagan, Liz Warren and Ian
Hodge for reviews; Rose and Andy; Jeremy Burnell
for business, tidying my office and general help; Sarah
for bromides; Mylan Lester, Benjamin Turner, Richard
Eyers and Jason Lander for collating last week.
Thanks also to this weeks contributors: Steve
Gargett, BJ, Kenan Ardali, Chris Onof and Yve Posner.
FELIX is published by the editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union
Publications Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit,
Prince Consort Road, London, SW7 2BB (Tel. 071-589 5111 ext 35151.
Editor: Dave Smedley. Business Manager: Jeremy Burnell. Advertising
Manager: Chris Adams. Copyright FELIX 1990. ISSN 1040-0711
U R G E N T !
Science/Maths graduates for September
1990 to work in: Caribbean, Gambia,
Ghana, Kenya, Tanzania and Zibabwe.
Open afternoon:
JUNE 13th
2pm
Come and discuss these opportunities with
Kate Hemmingway at VSO headquarters,
or ring for further details
VSO
VSO sends men and women to share their
skills with the people ot the Third World
317 Putney Bridge Road, London SW15 2PN
Tel: 071-780 2266
W O R L D
C U P
1990
Live coverage in the
Union Snack Bar!
Bar open for all these matches:
11th June Scotland vs Costa Rica 4pm
England v Ireland8pm
16th June England vs Holland8pm
20th June Scotland vs Brazil8pm
21st June England vs Egypt8pm
BETTER THAN A PIZZA!

