Annual Report—Wouter van Hulten, Overseas Students Officer
This report sums up most of the activity of the
Overseas Students Committee during the year
1989-90.
New Societies
This year, the constitutions of two new societies,
Indonesian and Japanese Society have been agreed
to by the Union Council, after operating for one year.
Both societies are running succesfully.
Old Societies
Several societies have not been organising activities.;
Brazilian, Egyptian and Lebanese Societies were all not
active.
Asian Society
Asian Society, under the leadership of Bhartendu
Vyas, created at the end of 1988-89, has experienced
some hard times. Various allegations have been made
at the Societies' Committee, contributing to the
entertainment of the readers of Felix. The financial
control on the society is not 100% secure. The OSC
has decided that the society can only continue to
receive Union monies with a new Committee.
Chinese Society
Chinese Society also encountered allegations of
keeping an external bank account. However, this was
based on a mistake by the Bank, and the matter was
solved satisfactorily.
International Night
A lot of effort was put into the organisation of the
International Night and this year's International Night
has been very successful, generating over 1000
pounds profit, compared to a loss in 1989.
Publicity
In a UGM decision at the end of 1989, foreign
language was banned from all publicity posters put
up around College. Only English language is permitted.
It is argued that, if foreign language were allowed on
posters, many people would be excluded from
knowing what was happening around College. This
rule has certainly not been popular with the Overseas
Students Societies, many which have been fined
because of it.
Haldane Library
From discussions with College and Union people, it
has been revealed to the OSC that during the Summer
of 1989, Nigel Baker, then Union President, had
informed the Haldane Library that the Union would be
pleased to keep the Overseas Students newspapers
somewhere in the Union. These discussions
proceeded without informing the OSC. The agreement
has never been minuted and can therefore not be
verified. The Union has not made any facilities
available, though Neil McCluskey has given a lot of
help in trying to find a solution.
At this time, the OSC has raised the matter at the
College Committee on Overseas Students, it has
made the members of the College Student Welfare
Committee aware of it, and the OSC has written to
the College Librarian, Mrs Magda Czigany, asking the
return of our newspapers to the Haldane Library. No
reply has yet been received to this request. They just
don't give a shit.
Finance
The OSC has now also introduced tighter financial
bookkeeping measures, making it more difficult for
Societies to overspend.
Elections
Andreas Massouras (Computing 2| is the new
Overseas Students Officer. Roberto Siletti (Elec Eng
2) is the new OSC Treasurer.
Wouter van Hulten Overseas Students Officer
1989/90
Annual Report-Tim King, Recreational Clubs Committee Chair
It has been a vintage year for the RCC. In any other,
the 60th Birthday of the Gliding Club would have been
the pinnacle. Nick Lay has capped his high profile in
the Union with a great job as Captain, organising a
superb Dinner with the guest list reflecting the high
quality of Imperial graduates.
However, the crowning glory has been the success
of the Dance Club. Amanda Green, as President, has
tirelessly worked to get the club to Florida, where they
won trophies in half of the competitions entered. This
mirrored achievements in British events and the
completion of a 24-hour dance marathon.
Clive Dodimead has kept the RCC accounting system
(as now used by all other MSC's) in good shape. We
are now working on a database to manage non-
financial information.
The RCC has introduced a Colours sub-committee to
consider 175-word written nominations and a supply
of newly-designed ties is on order.
The current run of success in RCC management is
founded on strong continuity in the Exec. Next year,
for the third in succession, close personal ties through
Scout and Guide Club or Mechanical Engineering are
present.
Chairman
Vice-Chairman
Hon Sec
Asst Hon Sec
Transport Officer
Clive Dodimead, Mech Eng IV
Amanda Green, Mech Eng IV
Jim Tinnion, Physics III
Tim King, Mech Eng PG
Dave Jackson, Mech Eng III
However, I wish to end by highlighting that our Senior
Treasurer, John Harrison, continues to provide an
excellent supply of experience, despite his many other
interests.
Ents
Wine tasting
Scanning through a restaurant wine list can be an
extremely self-defeating experience which we all
encounter some time or other. Instead of choosing a
wine which compliments the meal we somehow end
up with an unpleasant ten pound tipple. The truth is
that the majority of wines featured alongside
restaurant menus are drunk far too young. For many
of us this is one of the few occasions on which we
drink wine. Perhaps not an impressive introduction?
Most people take a little nudging to appreciate wine.
Having spent some of my childhood in France I vividly
recall the ever-present bottle of claret with every meal
except breakfast. Despite my French background I
barely drank until I was sixteen. The wine was merely
one of several efficient substances used to get drunk.
The final nudge came at Imperial when I risked a Wine
Tasting meeting. I was relieved to find that I
recognised several members whom I knew weren't
synonymous with 'boring'. In fact it was down to the
bar afterwards to neck a couple of pints and chat
Page 10
about the week's absurdities.
The concept of drinking first-rate wines with meals
is unrealistic on a student budget. However, every
Tuesday evening the Wine Tasting Society sets the
stage for you to taste a selection of eight wines under
the guidance of a guest speaker. Occasionally there
are also blind tastings which are my favourite events
since they offer the ideal opportunity to fraternise
whilst trying to determine as much as possible about
the wines from their appearance, smell and taste.
Imperial can boast an excellent competitive record in
this, further enhanced by the recent victory in the
University Wine Tasting Competition.
The outlook for next year looks promising since
many of the contacts with wine suppliers and
speakers have already been made. Perhaps you will
flirt with the idea of starting Tuesday evenings tasting
wine. I hope so.
Steve Gargett, IC Wine Tasting Soc Treasurer.
The last Ents gig of the year will take place in the
Union Lounge on the last day of term (June 22)—and
what a gig it will be! We have two bands lined up, a
disco till late, a happy hour from 8-9pm and a bar
extension until 1am.
The main band of the night is The Levellers. A folky
rock outfit with that Irish sound along the lines of The
Men They Couldn't Hang and The Pogues. An
excellent band who have just released a new album
A Weapon Called the World which will be one of the
classic LPs of all time. In the present raggle taggle
hysteria created by certain music papers these boys
can do no wrong so put your fighting boots on and
your drinking trousers and haul ass over to the Union
Lounge tonight for 9pm
Supporting these funsters is a new band doing the
rounds called Boy, Girl Soup. They are a very new and
promising act with a sublime collection of great pop
songs drawing from such talent as The Wonderstuff
and the Hooch Gurus.
Entrance to the evening's entertainment is nowt but
please bring a Union card, preferably your own.
Thanks to everyone who has helped this year,
congratulations to Emma, Gwyn, Rufus and Andy and
sorry Natasha and Louise. See you all then, or else,
and at next year's Freshers' Week.
BJ.

