Government continues loans
plan as banks pull out
The Government's student loans proposals
are expected to go through despite the pull-
out of the high street banks. Last Tuesday
Labour MPs forwarded a motion to
adjourn the committee on student loans
complaining that they had not been
informed as to how the scheme will work.
They were defeated by 10 votes to 9.
Mr. Robert Jackson, minister for higher
education, said that the banks had agreed
to pay £500,000 in compensation to the
government. He explained that now the
scheme would be administered by a
company owned by the Department of
Education and Science (DES). The two
directors of the company will be Mr John
Vereker, deputy secretary for higher
education, and Mr Tom Jeffery, who was
formerly private secretary to Mr Kenneth
Baker when he was in the DES. It was not
made clear whether the 250 staff would
be civil servants or from the private sector.
The government was accused of wasting
£2.7 billion on the scheme, as it will take
20 years for the graduates repayment to
match the expenditure on the proposal.
Opposition MPs claimed that the
scheme was now unworkable. Mr Simon
Hughes, of the Liberal Democrats, said
'The Government has had the centre shot
out of this extremely important piece of
legislation. It is only a figleaf of a bill with
nothing behind it.'
Conservative MPs responded by saying
that the only difference was that now
students would find it more difficult to
apply for loans. Mr Jackson dismissed the
bank problem, saying 'The withdrawal of
the banks makes no difference at all to the
principle of student loans and it makes
very little difference to the administration
of the scheme. We are well on course for
the start we had planned for the autumn
of 1990.'
This is despite the central role assigned
to banks in the Price-Waterhouse report
of May 1989.
Recruitment of staff for the 'Student
Loans Company' has started with
advertisements in Scottish newspapers for
a business manager at a salary of upto
£32,000.
Bar cash withdrawal
A total of £1430 was stolen from the union
bar safe last weekend. The theft was
discovered by Adrian Johnson, bar
manager, on Sunday night. The Criminal
Investigation Department (CID) are
looking into the case and 'are confident'
of finding the culprit. They are seeking
a man to help them with their enquiries.
The safe was not forced, and the thief
is believed to have had access to the k'eys.
Mr Malcolm Aldridge of the finance
department, was unsure of the insurance
situation. 'The union money is covered by
the college policy—a £1000 policy on any
safe, but a basic principle of all money
insurance policies is that they do not cover
for employees' fraud,' he said. Mr
Aldrdige added that the College had a
separate policy insuring against
employees' fraud, although he said that
this only covered claims between £10,000
and an upper limit. He commented that the
'only likely place for this to happen is the
Sherfield Building.'
Imperial College Union are searching for
a new Assistant Bar Manager, following
the unprompted departure of Mr Andrew
Carson last Monday.
j mm
Imperial's communists
Mr Valentin Ceausescu, the eldest son of
the ex-Dictator of Roumania, was a
graduate of Imperial College in the 60's,
it was revealed this week.
He entered the college in 1967 and
graduated in 1970 with a third class
honours degree in physics. Professor
T.W. Kibble said that his memory of
Valentin was of an intelligent and pleasant
young man with a serious interest in
particle physics, though he added that this
was a long time ago.
Dr I.G. Halliday, of the Physics
department, said that his impression was
that Valentin 'tried to avoid the politics
of his family, which was quite hard to do.
He tried to be a professional research
scientist, though not of a high order.'
The fate of Valentin Ceausescu, who is
40, is not known in post- > evolutionary
Roumania. He was last known heading a
Roumanian Nuclear Power Research
Institute, living in comfortable obscurity
in Roumania with his family.
His only known argument with his
father was over his father's rigid views on
Valentin's favourite game, which was
bridge.
The expected first woman leader of the
Communist party of Great Britain, Ms
Nina Temple, 33, was also a graduate at
I.C. She entered in 1974 and left in 1977
with a 2B degree in Materials. She is
expected to be elected this weekend.

