Judo black belts
IC Judo Club is pleased to report that two club
members achieved senior grades at the London Judo
Society Dan Gradings held just before Christmas.
Peter Swettenham (Physics 3) gained his second Dan
Black belt while Jonathan Lean (Pet Eng 3) won his
first Dan Black belt. Both fighters gave excellent
performances, easily overcoming all opposition to win
their respective belts.
Both these fighters as well as other senior club
Carnival next
The Men They Couldn't Hang, the finest jigging band
in the whole wide world are playing live at this term's
New Years Carnival. Next Friday (19th) the whole
Union Building will be awash with entertainment of
all sorts with The Men as top of the bill.
Still raving after all these years, their last LP
Silvertown sold reasonably well, gigs were very
warmly received and here they are again with their
political jigs and ancient songs of resistance. Always
a lively bunch, there won't be a dry body in the house.
Support comes in the sophisticated form of That
Swing Thang, a tight Scottish jump-jive outfit, reliving
the 50s era of loud ties, wide suits and fat
saxophones. Hep-hep! First band of the night will be
The Devil Dudes playing in the Concert Hall who are
an action packed, fun loving band.
While the bands do their thing in the concert hall,
DJ Gwyn's dancewise disco will be pumping away in
Wednesday 17 January sees an assortment of various
real live people fighting it out over the question: 'What
legislation is required to address the problem of
computer hacking?'.
Speakers at the debate include: Emma Nicholson
MP whose private members' bill failed last session due
to lack of time; Michael Colvin MP who has introduced
the bill this session which doubles the penalty
recommended in the Law Commission's report for
basic hacking which would now result in a £2,000
fine and six months in jail; Guy Kewney, who writes
the Newsprint section in Personal Computer World,
and has said 'Emma Nicholson MP has also been
reciting the buzz-words and phrases of computer
systems in her attempt to get noticed by the Prime
Minister...
'As long as MPs are prepared to talk about viruses
redirecting nuclear bombers, they will get the
members are now training hard with the London Judo
Squad in readiness for the National BUSF competition
set for early February in Glasgow.
The replacement of the floor in the Union Gym has
disrupted training to some degree. Members should
consult the club noticeboard (foyer) for alternative
training sessions. Once normal training resumes the
club intends to run another beginners course to which
all IC students are more than welcome.
Friday
the Lounge. This electric mix of the latest and best
in dancefloor music will keep you dancing all the way
to the 3am curfew. This disco is guaranteed mango-
funk free.
The bar is open until 2am and the Rugby Club will
be doing their ever popular cocktails. If you think
you're a bit of a gambler, head for the casino where
you could win a glittering array of prizes if your luck
is in.
Tickets are £3.50 in advance from the Union Office
and you won't get a better eight hours entertainment
for less anywhere in the city.
Future events include a cabaret night sometime in
the term, and next Friday (26th) Imperial plays host
to an Indie Pop Spectacular featuring Rain live on
stage, with a yet to be announced support band.
Rufus Isaacs.
headlines and-unfortunately-they will also get 'long
private audiences with Margaret Thatcher" (PCW,
December 1989); Judith Vincent, Head of Company
and Commerical Law at the CBI, which has been
campaigning on behalf of its members for legislation
on hacking; Jolyon Jenkins, the Assistant Editor of
the New Statesman & Society; a spokesperson for the
Law Commission, whose report last October triggered
the recent wave of interest; and a spokesperson for
the Data Protection Registrar.
What promises to be a lively debate starts at
1,30pm in Huxley 311 -entry is free to all.
Anyone interested in helping with publicity should
contact: Steve Lacey, SE4, or Dave Edmondson,
Huxley 205, phone 5085.
Come along to express your views or just to see
what other people think—get informed on an issue
that could soon affect a lot of people.
Union posts
Papers are up for the following posts:
External Affairs Officer
Phoenix Editor
Ordinary Member, Academic Affairs Committee
(2 posts)
Ordinary Member, Welfare Committee
Ordinary Member, ICCAG
Handbook Editor
Women's Officer
Secretary, Academic Affairs Committee
Swimming & Water Polo
....the Swimming and Water Polo Club is back in
action again after the Xmas hols! Burn off your festive
excesses in a fun and friendly way-in the pool.
As since time began, training is on both Monday and
Friday evenings. Swimming from 6.30pm until
7.30pm. Water Polo from 7.30pm until 9.00pm. Beer
follows.
Additionally an hour long ladies-only Water Polo
session will be held on Wednesday evenings from
6.30pm.
New members are positively encouraged to come
and join in at the Sports Centre. Current members
know they're fools if they don't.
Thanks to all who attended and helped make the
Christmas Dinner such a blast in it's first year. We'll
do it again.
Summer tour plans, to Bordeaux/Biarritz in southern
France continue apace...
PS. Sweatshirt/T-shirt designs wanted ASAP.
S m a l l A d s
ADVERTISE IN THE FELIX SMALL ADS SECTION
FREE IF YOU ARE A MEMBER OF IMPERIAL
COLLEGE UNION
ANNOUNCMENTS
• GET FIT and stay fit whilst having fun! IC
Swimming and Water Polo Club is back helping
you get back into and staying in shape! New
members welcome.
• FAT & FRUMPY? Swim and slim! Gentle
training for all to help you get back in trim! Come
to the IC Swimming and Water Polo Club. New
members/Victims wanted.
• Keep Fit Club-Due to intense public pressure,
Alice will be holding another 'Hi Energy' workout
every week on Tuesdays, 6-7pm in Southside
Gym. For a trial lesson or membership come to
any of Vicki or Alice's lessons. (Details in What's
On guide). Everyone welcome.
ACCOMMODATION
• Male PG needs single room in flat/house/drain
close to College. Can supply own microwave,
pressure cooker and collection of crap chemistry
textbooks. Ring Chris on ext 4637 for fun and
photo.
PERSONAL
• For Sale—Slightly used Asian Soc. £300 ono.
• Where's the money?-Treasurer, Asian Soc.
• When I said Carol was small
I actually lied
Though she's not very tall,
she is rather wide.
PLEASE SUPPLY YOUR NAME AND DEPARTMENT
WITH YOUR ENTRY (WE DON'T HAVE TO
PUBLISH IT). WE CANNOT PRINT ANY
ANONYMOUS SMALL ADS.
Page 11
Computer hacking debate

