Appealing Luv Jen?
• The earthquake in Australia on 28th December
last year measured 5.5 on the Richter Scale. It was
centred on the city of Newcastle which is about 90
miles north of Sydney. Twelve people died and nearly
two hundred were injured. Australia does not lie on
the Pacific Ring of Fire which passes through
neighbouring New Zealand. However tectonic plate
movement along this fault is believed to cause
stresses leading to the earthquake in Australian plate.
An updated risk map will shortly be published by the
Australian Seismological Centre, using the new data
gathered, to aid revision of civil engineering
regulations.
• Proteins grown in space on board NASA's space
shuttle have been reported to be larger and more
ordered in several cases than their counterparts grown
on earth. The reasons for this apparently lie in the
convection currents which occur in the solution on
earth when a crystal precipitates. These currents are
set up by localised changes in density which under
gravity move away from the cyrstal. The end effect
is that the cyrstal precipitates earlier and grows less
evenly than in the absence of gravity. Using X Ray
crystallography these space grown proteins show
more detail, enabling their structure to be determined
more precisely.
• The sex of a foetus can now be determined from
a blood sample. The test utilising the 'polymerase
chain reaction' which amplifies sequences of DNA
ribonudeotides to be associated with the Y-
chromosone indicating that the foetus is male. This
method doesn't carry the risks of infection or
miscarriage associated with current techniques, like
amniocentesis. It is expected to be used to decide
whether further tests are necessary for inherited sex
related disorders such as haemophilia.
• British power stations are predicted to fall outside
EEC target levels for air pollution according to a recent
report commissioned by Greenpeace. The
Government estimtes that the overall emissions of
sulphur dioxide will have fallen by 22% by 1993
compared with the 1980 reference level. However the
authors of the report claim that this will only be 10%.
The EEC specifies a 20% reduction for both sulphur
dioxide and nitrogen oxides.
Three years ago the CEGB announced plans for a
£2 billion fitting of desulphurisation equipment to
larger coal fired plants, of which only a third of this
sum has been agreed, involving the 4GW Drax power
station in North Yorkshire. To add to the uncertainty,
the two companies PowerGen and National Power
which will replace the generating division of CEGB
after privatisation later this year have yet to decide
how the desulphurisation programme will be
allocated.
• Anyone wishing to write an article of general
scientific interest or to publicise departmental
research, please contact Simon Haslam via the FELIX
Office or the Physics UG pigeonholes.
Page 12
Dear Dave,
Last Monday a meeting was held at St Mary's to
try and sort out events that will contribute towards
the £7M joint IC/St Mary's fund.
Such a horrifically large amount of money will take
a lot of fundraising and so we need ideas of how to
get that cash. The only proviso is that it must be
enjoyable!
So please can your readership send their ideas to
me via the Mech Eng pigeonholes.
Yours sincerely,
Gavin Pearson, Mech Eng 1.
Scrooge
Dear FELIX,
Here is a sad tale of Christmas Past, well Autumn
anyway. Bob Student is off on the annual task of
searching for accommodation.
Scrooge looked gloomily at the terminal of his vdu
and drummed his fingers on the desk. Things were nor
good. Imperial College PLC's profits were down again
and even the CRAY II had not been able to come up
with a new money making scheme. The problem was
the students-they were becoming a liability again,
surely there must be some way he could bring in a bit
more cash. Then it hit him. But of course! A wry smile
crossed his face and he began to type...
'I'm sorry, we can't renew your tenancy
agreement-Imperial College refuse to sign for any
more comoany lets as of this Summer. Don't ask me
why,' continued the estate agent, 'we've already lost
two-thirds of our trade. If the other London colleges
follow suit we're finished!'
Bob Student shook his head in disbelief. This was
the first he'd heard. But things were soon confirmed
at the housing office:
'Yes,' said the housing officer glumly, 'I'm afraid
it's true. It's not our fault you understand, somebody
up there.' She pointed to the ceiling. 'Company, err,
college policy-it costs too much in administration.'
'But we pay to sign the agreement,' wailed Bob.
The housing officer shrugged. 'We've got some
spare places in Fisher Hotel if you want, £ 5 0 per
week-bring your own ladder, of course,' she
suggested.
The student left. There was only one thing for it,
he set about forming his own company.
Meanwhile, Scrooge was doing some explaining...
They can stay in halls, well a few of them anyway,
and there's always the five private landlords—I know
them all personally. Very trustworthy.'
The M.D. looked down his nose at him from behind
the huge oak desk. The news of riots under Waterloo
Bridge as students fought for their cardboard boxes
had disturbed him, as had the reports of individuals
commuting from their homes in Manchester, Durham
and Swansea. If the press got to hear of this...
'Do something, and do something fast,' he boomed.
Scrooge nodded, and backed hurriedly out of the
room, following the swath he'd cut in the thick pile
carpet on his way in. Frantically he racked his brains
for a solution. What now? Turn the heating off? No,
he'd had the boilers removed years ago. Then it struck
him. Why it was obvious! All they had to do was to
continue the company lets, and charge a levy of 5%
on the rent. Simple! And there was still a week left
to the start of the Autumn term-plenty of time for
the students to rearrange their accommodation.
Boris tJames Hampson), Elec Eng 3.
Dear Sir,
In the interests of correct reporting we have to point
out that your article in the Christmas edition on the
Christmas Caper hamper raffle contained a glaring
inaccuracy.
The Union Finance Office, Mr Reggie
Blennerhassett, DID win a hamper at this event. We
are sure you will join us in congratulating him.
Happy New Year and UP YOURS.
The Union Staff.
Post Script
Dear Dave,
We know we can trust you to print this letter in the
next edition-first FELIX in the Spring Term.
Luv Jen.
Embryonic
Dear FELIX,
In your article on the forthcoming Embryo Research
Bill, you suggest that amid all the clamour of
conscience voting, the 'the purpose of the bill could
easily be forgotten'. Your idea of this 'the purpose'
wasn't really very clear, though your view that
research must proceed at all costs was evident. I
disagree.
Research proceeds from man and exists solely for
the benefit of man. Clearly, when investigations begin
to harm man-his person or his dignity as a human
being, they should be stopped, however interesting
or useful the results might be. It's a cliche, I know,
but the ends don't justify the means. We all
instinctively recognise this-why else the horror when
the atrocities of Nazi medical research were
discovered? Indeed, the Helsinki declaration states
that no medical research is ethicially permisible on one
human individual that is not designed to help that
person but merely the rest of the human race.
So we come to the true purpose of the bill-to
define the status of the embryo. Is it a human being?
One of the reasons the Warnock Committee gave the
14 day limit was that after this, the nervous system
is laid down and so the embryo can feel pain (though
why this implies humanity I fail to see. Anaesthetics
are generally thought to make operations humane).
But, as most scientists agree, this limit is only
arbitrary. The only definitive change occurs at the
moment of conception. The fertilised egg, or pre-
embryo, as it is now called, is a complete entity.
Nothing is added to the genetic information it contains
and nothing is taken away. There is no other logical
point in the development that can claim to be the start
of human life-and does not our science pride itself
on its logic?
Yours sincerely,
Sarah Cassidy, Physics.
LOST
Please has anyone found my black
jacket-with gold braiding. Lost the
evening of Wed 10th Jan.
Reward £20
Felicity Marsh, Life Sci 4
Beit Hall Room 89

