Parenthood
Steve Martin has an impressive list of comedy film
credits behind him; Roxanne, The Man with Two
Brains, Little Shop of Horrors, to name but three.
Parenthood is a film which allows Martin to display
more of his acting talents while still providing him with
a chance to show his comic genius.
Martin stars as Gil Buckman, father of three young
children. His childhood wasn't very happy and he
thinks his own father was lousy at being a parent. Gil
had determined to be a better father to his children
but finds that despite all his efforts, his children still
have problems.
Gil's father, Frank, thinks that his days of parenting
are over until the return of Larry, his youngest child
and the black sheep of the family. Larry is into get-
rich-quick schemes and is forever having to be bailed
out of trouble. When he returns he brings with him,
much to everyone's surprise, his son Cool.
Gil's older sister, Helen, is a divorcee struggling to
bring up two teenage children on her own as well as
coping with the demands of work. Her sixteen year
old daughter seems to want to grow up too quickly
while she cannot communicate at all with thirteen
year old Garry (Leaf Phoenix) who is feeling rejected
by his father.
The younger sister Susan and her husband Nathan
(Rick 'Little Shop of Horrors' Moranis) have one child
Patti for whom they have great hopes. She has karate
lessons, French lessons and reads Kafka-and she is
only three years old.
The film, while concentrating more on Gil and his
problems is essentially about the whole of the
Buckman family, all four generations, including
Grandma-a typical fictional granny, and dithering,
Miss Marple-like old lady, whose ramblings at first
seem meaningless but really offer sound advice. She
relates a fairground anecdote from her youth
comparing life to a roller coaster and a merry-go-
round. An admirable idea, but a little cliched perhaps.
Earth Girls Are Easy
Three aliens are flying over earth in a spaceship when,
as a result of trying to ogle earth women, they
crashland in a backyard swimming pool. Their ship
needs repairing so they have to stay on earth for a
day or two. Sounds corny? Don't worry, it gets worse.
The film starts off with Val (Geena Davis) being
increasingly dissatisfied with her fiance, Ted, and
finally throwing him out when he brings another
woman home thinking Val's away. The ensuing song
she sings while she thrashes the house is rather
monotonous and totally unnecessary, adding nothing
to the plot. It merely serves to demonstrate, as does
an earlier song and dance routine how unsuccessful
this film is as a musical.
The aliens look like multicoloured gorillas and act
like them too, especially when they go into her house
for the first time.
Val takes them to the beauty salon where she
works, and asks her friend to try to make them look
more human. After momentary hysteria Candy does
so and Mac (Jeff Goldblum), Wiploc and Zebo emerge
as three good looking young men. A nice touch is that
Zebo is found to be black.
Soon Val and Mac start falling in love (well it was
inevitable, wasn't it?) but when his ship is repaired
he will have to go back to his planet, Jhazzala...
The plot, if rather hackneyed, did, I feel, have
potential, but it has been wasted. The film never
seems to go anywhere-one has the feeling that all
the plot elements are incidental -and there is no sense
of satisfaction at the end.
There are a couple of interesting details-for
example the size differentia!—a neat way of solving
the problem of an apparently large spaceship landing
in a small backyard swimming pool. There is a device
inside the ship for scaling the aliens up (or down) to
the appropriate size.
Of course all the old cliches are here, the car chase
(the monotony of which is only relieved by the humour
of Jim Carry as Wiploc) the aliens able to mimic every
sound perfectly, the hair breadth escape and the love
affair between an earthling and an alien.
Merely a formula film which doesn't deserve the
title of 'science-fiction'.
Parenthood has a good story line and the subject
material is dealt with competently-it has its
moments, some, (intended to be funny)
embarrassingly cringesome, others rather amusing.
Although humourous the film has a serious side. It is
just a pity its overall effect is spoilt by a rather weak
ending, full of marriages, happy-ever-after couples and
multitudes of babies.
JAY.
Last Exit to
Brooklyn
Hubert Selby Jr wrote a novel in the 60s which
shocked the world. It was the source of an obscenity
trial which ensured its infamy. This film goes a long
way towards continuing that reputation.
Set in Brooklyn in the 1950s the film looks at the
lives of the strike community~and their social fall from
grace. Tackling strike leader Harry Black's (Stephen
Lang) realisation of his homosexuality, the film
portrays his embezelment of union funds and
subsequent downfall. Discovered molesting a boy on
the street, Harry is brutally beaten up.
What sets this film apart is its refusal to tone down
such scenes. In the case of local prostitute, Tralala
(Jennifer Jason Leigh) her sad demise ending in a gang
rape is protrayed in all its hideous detail.
The film cuts between these stories as well as a
local family's shotgun wedding and christening and
the homosexual affairs of the local transvestite
population. If you are easily shocked this film is not
for you. If you are not, at the least you will leave
feeling disturbed. With a good film score by Mark
Knopfler, this could be the nominee for a number of
Oscars, it is expected to face tough competition,
however, from Tom Cruise's performance in Born on
the Fourth of July, later this year.
DS.
Want to review
• Exotic theatre?
• Hot films?
• Horny music?
Ask for Adam T, Toby or
Del in the FELIX Office
Page 3

