Robin Hood &
Mad Marion
Tired of all the traditional run of the mill Christmas
pantomimes-the same old stories and the same old
jokes? Well here's a panto with a difference-not
billed as such but in the same tradition.
The year is 1189 and the first ever free elections
in Sherwood Forest have been held. The two main
candidates are Robin Hood and Mad Marion-a
wicked witch type of character.
The first person on stage is Heme the Hunter who
sets the scene. In true pantomime tradition the hero,
Robin Hood is played by a woman and the dame, Little
Joan's nurse, is played by a man. Audience
participation is encouraged, but fear not! This is not
of the 'Oh no he isn't, oh yes he is' variety but they
do ask the audience to join in a couple of songs and
also involve them in the play especially when they are
a bit slow on the uptake with some of the jokes.
This pantomime is essentially for adults-not that
there is anything in it that is not suitable for children-
merely that they would not appreciate much of the
humour.
The play is allegorical—a fact which starts to
become apparent at the beginning with Robin Hood
and his Green Party and Mad Marion's plans to cut
down all the trees in Sherwood Forest so that she can
rear cattle for her madburgers. The character of Mad
Marion is obvioulsy satirising Margaret Thatcher-she
had ruled Sherwood Forest with an iron hand for ten
years, she is power mad and she wears a blue (Tory)
dress. At the end the moral is spelled out, leaving us
in no doubt whatsoever.
The stars of the show are undoubtedly Heme the
Hunter who, whenever he gets too excited, bursts out
of his jerkin, turns green and changes into 'the
incredible g-g-g...', and Little John/Little Joan. Heme's
manner is just right for his character and Helen Copp
as Little Joan strikes exactly the right note of little
girlishness.
The songs for the show are highly original and very
amusing adding greatly to the performance. The
humour is also good and enhanced by the characters
sometimes talking directly to the audience.
I have only one thing against the play and that is
its weak ending. They opted for a happy-ever-after
and moralistic ending which detracted somewhat
from the impact of the play.
All in all, a good evening's entertainment let down
only by a rather poor ending-well worth a visit.
Robin Hood and Mad Marion is on at the Cafe Canal
Theatre, Bridge House, Delamere Terrace, London
W2, 01-289 6054 or 01-722 5395. It runs until
Januay 28, Tuesday-Sunday and concessionary
tickets are £4.50.
JAY
Page 4
The Liar
A young man arrives in Paris after having been away
at Poitiers studying law. He feels like a fish out of
water and longs to impress the lovely local ladies and
his old school fellows. To hide his feelings of
inadequacy he spins tales of his exploits in the army
in Germany and of elaborate parties he has thrown.
This is the plot of The Liar, featuring Alex Jennings
as Durante, the liar. The story is complex with many
twists and turns, sometimes leaving one breathless
trying to keep up.
Somewhere along the line Durante and his stories
incur the wrath of his friend Alcippe, who thinks
Durante is trying to seduce his fiancee. Meanwhile his
father, for whom, Durante, his only son, is the apple
of his eye, is trying to do his best for his son by finding
him a suitable wife. Durante, however, thinks he has
someone else in mind and tells another lie to get
himself out of this predicament.
Eventually he is caught in his own web of lies and
has to be truthful for once.
The play by Pierre Corneille, was originally written
in French and has been translated by a modern
playwright in as much of the style of the original as
possible. An unusual feature is that it is in rhyme a
fact that does not become apparent immediately but
which, once realised, can later be slightly irritating at
times, although providing scope for humour, for
instance when an expected rhyme is not forthcoming.
Although Durante is the character around whom the
plot revolves, the real star of the play is undoubtedly
Durante's valet, Cliton, played by Desmond Borrit with
a Welsh accent, whose shrewd commonsense and
honesty is at first shadowed by a veil of apparent
obtuseness.
Good use is made of asides to give a better insight
into the characters' minds and to add humour.
The Liar is an amusing, lighthearted, comedy
satirising human nature and life in seventeenth
century Paris (do French people really make jokes like
that about the English?) and if that sort of thing is up
your street then it is certainly worth a visit.
You can see The Liar at the Old Vic, Waterloo Road.
Performances run from Monday-Friday at 7.30pm
with a 2.30pm matinee on Wednesdays. Tickets cost
between £ 7 and £15.
JAY.
Oliver and Company
Walt Disney have had a stab at Dickens before-
remember Mickey's Christmas Carol? Well, how does
this latest offering, based (somewhat loosely) on
Oliver Twist fare?
A typical Disney recipe has been used, first make
most of the characters into animals, Oliver becomes
a 'cute' kitten, Dodger and the gang become a pack
of streetwise dogs. Throw in the odd human to taste.
Need a heart rending beginning? Right, abandon Oliver
in a box, somewhere in modern day New York City,
and then wash him away in a torrent of rain. (All
together now-aaahhl). Sprinkle with songs and leave
to simmer for 74 mins.
The animation is as superb as ever, my only quibble
being that on occasions, the foreground characters
and the backgrounds didn't fit together very well. The
characterisations are nice, with Francis, the ever-so-
cultured Bulldog, and Tito, the lively hispanic
chihuahua stealing the show, although Georgette the
pampered poodle, with gorgeous vocals by Bette
Midler, is nearly as good. The songs are competent,
as one would expect with names like Billy Joel and
Huey Lewis involved, although snatches of a familiar
tune from Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs evoke
nostalgic memories.
Here lies the crux of the problem. Somewhere along
the line that something which turned a good animated
film into a Disney has been lost. So instead of a gem
of a film, which would have appealed to people of all
ages we have a good animated movie, whose post
He-man-action-adventure style will apeal to younger
kids. It really does look as if the Don Bluth Studios [An
American Tail, The Land Before Time) are the true
holders of Walt's legacy, not the company which
bears his name.
Adam T.

