(
Pop Will Eat Itself &
Ned's Atomic Dustbin
London Marquee 18/12/89
The end came and went on December 15. Hoardes
of students set free from the shackles of work; exams
and tests over, lectures no more. Only three weeks
of festive debauchery lay ahead (work, January 7 of
course). Everyone who's anyone just wanted to party
the night away and someone must have told Ned's
Atomic Dustbin and Pop Will Eat Itself at the Marquee,
this gig beat popping down to Southside for a drink
or ten.
Ned's Atomic Dustbin are currently riding high with
a successful tour with The Wonderstuff (Miles of the
Wonderstuff even graced this gig with his presence)
and now touring with The Poppies, their most devoted
groupies.
Ned's Atomic Dustbin immediately brought the
Marquee to life and over the next half hour took us
all to Hell and back in a blender, fortunately by the
scenic route. John (vocals), Brass (guitar), Alex (bass),
Matt (another bass) and Dan (drums) give a set of solid
thrashy pop, with a powerful bassline backing a manic
electric guitar and vocals. Everyone danced while they
still had the chance, but only the groupies could sing
because the band are still without anything down on
vinyl; one quote from a girl in the crowd epitomises
our feelings, 'Shit, why haven't I got any of this?'.
Another Siouxsie and the Banshees (lack of) record
company saga?
Pop Will Eat Itself came on and the stage was set,
the crowd had been excited but all were here for this...
'Music is the most powerful medium in the world,
ladies and gentlemen, music is a gift of God', launched
the Poppies into a lively set continuing the party. Their
music was mostly from Box Frenzy and This is the
Day...This is the Hour...This is This, but backing tapes
made the musical additions of the Poppies almost
superfluous. But still the Poppies made the day with
a convincing performance enciting people to dance 'till
they dropped. 'Show me you can do the side to
fucking side' shout from Clint to the sound of Infect
Me left flattened corpses smeared on each of the side
walls, it was as if he had everyone by the short and
curlies and was swinging them from side to side, there
was no escape, but who wanted to anyway?
Graham sat high above on his 'throne' due to his
broken leg, waving his megaphone and Clint bare-
chested and glistening in sweat cavorted on stage
beneath the strobe lights driving fans into a state of
frenzy, people took their chances and swarmed the
stage and then 'stage-dived' back into the oblivion of
the crowd, happy with their ten seconds of glory
dancing on stage with Clint Poppie. Clint was so
impressed he even had a go himself, leaping from the
stage for about a minute to dance in amongst the
crowd at the risk of being pulled limb from limb.
An encore filled with goodies like Let's Get Ugly and
Love Missile F1-17 ended the party, so we poured out
into the rain, wishing to go to the next two nights
when they play again; but I would be surely satisfied
with Ned's disc to annoy the folks over Christmas.
Perhaps I'll write to Santa, we can all dream.
Pat Metheny
DEL.
Hammersmith Odeon
Despite continued critical acclaim and massive
popularity for a jazz artist you could have walked into
this show for nothing. It is lovely to see the ticket
touts lose money for a change! At the end of a
European tour to promote his latest disc, Letter From
Home Pat Metheny was clearly pleased to be able to
speak English to his audience but it is not his style to
consort with his paying public and forty minutes
elapsed before he introduced his band.
There is a strong latin influence in much of his music
and having a South American percussion section
comprising Armando Marcell and Pedro Azarr aided
the carnival atmosphere. However, the faithful had
come to see Metheny's stylish guitar soloing. Playing
mainly semi-acoustic with occasional switches to a
discordant electric he plundered much of his back
catalogue to give an all encompassing 'best of show
including old favourites like Hermitage, The First Circle
and Are You Going With Me?.
His recent recorded output has been likened to Los
Angeles shopping mall muzak as lush production has
taken precedence from the music. Heard live pieces
such as Better Days Ahead, Spring Ain't Here and the
C Ballad show that Metheny has lost none of his
melodic ability to make sophisticated jazz accessible
despite keyboards wizard Lyle Mayes efforts to play
his solos in unrelated keys and tempos. This kept
everyone mesmerised throughout the two hours and
twenty minute show and left the faithful sated for
another two years before he visits these shores again.
CDL.
Page 5

