Fulham Greyhound 22/12/89
Senseless Things & Snuff
A week past the end of term and a week since The
Ned's/PWEI 'Xmas Party', by which time most
students had been tucked back into their cosy home
lives, the more devoted of us packed the Fulham
Greyhound on Dec 22 to see Snuff and the Senseless
Things and just to party some more.
Santa playing trombone, a Xmas tree playing with
himself, a semi-naked drummer eating a banana
(horny!), people throwing themselves from the stage
like lemmings and some hitting the floor like lemmings
too, and self-electing singers from the crowd helped
The Snuff set to degenerate into one of the most
farcical but fun sets I've ever seen. And it wasn't even
organised, except of course for Santa and the Xmas
tree. The music, mainly from the Snuff Said LP threw
the place into turmoil and people into a frenzy. When
it was good is was very, very good and it just didn't
get worse. Things did get extreme, ending in twenty
extra people on the stage and a broken amp! Their
version of / Think We're Alone Now reduced Tiffany's
to insignificance, I mean at least this version had
bollocks!
The Senseless Things have been having an
awkward time of late with some very successful
support slots, but they followed this with their first
LP Postcard CV, which was not as well received as
their music should be.
Whether their fault or not, they were headlining
above Snuff who had just given us a manic three
quarters of an hour, and their reputation was surely
on the line.
They pulled out all of the stops and the place shook.
This was not as spontaneous or manic, but it was
good. People danced and shouted, and songs like Too
Much Kissing and Trevor took things from good to
better and beyond. Although it all sounded good, the
lack of communication with the audience showed
tonight that their priorities lay in reliability. They are
definitely still a force to be reckoned with in the
hardcore scene, but Snuff herald much greater things
than they have now, so make sure you catch up with
them. Watch out, they move fast.
The whole gig was recorded to be edited into a
video fanzine with other live recordings of Fugazi, Wat
Tyler, Jesus Jones, The Sugarcubes, Shrug,
Sofahead, Celestial Orgy, Crane, Bomb Disneyland
and Mega City 4.
For details get in touch with:
The Idea Video Franzine,
8, St Paul's Road,
Thornby,
Cleveland TS17 6LH.
Well worth a slice of the grant cheque.
DEL.
Closing the dustbin lid on Chapter 22
'They've done it, by George, they've done it'; after
weeks of successful touring with The Wonderstuff
and Pop Will Eat Itself, Ned's Atomic Dustbin have at.
last signed a record deal, with Chapter 22 and hope
to release a single soon.
Incidentally, Pop Will Eat Itself are also signed to
Chapter 22; cor, what a coincidence, would it be their
fanatical following of the Ned's which helped them
into a record deal?
Ned's also played a great gig at Camden Palace on
Tuesday 9th Jan which will be reported in full next
week as well as an exclusive interview with the band.
Ned's Atomic Dustbin are definitely gonna be big
in the pop hardcore scene and don't forget where you
heard it first.
DEL.
Page 6
Solo Guitarist
Playing at Mendelssohn's Wine Bar (1 High Street,
Bromley) next Monday (15th) is an up and coming solo
guitarist and singer Briggin. Her music is in a field quite
removed from that of any preconceptions one might
assume, and is between the strains of folk and new
wave music.
Having already had successful shows in Islington
and at the Mean Fiddler, a night out in Bromley should
be well worth a visit. See you there.
DEL.
Spot the Dog
Spot the Dog recently sold a quarter of a million copies
of his latest book Spot on His Owners Leg. He also
hopes to release a single in the near future, Doin' the
Spot. We hope to continue the Spot the Dog series
soon with an exclusive interview. Remember where
you heard it first.
Stone & DEL.

