Desperate Don
University students are on the whole a stable and
resilient lot, but very few of them are likely to spend
the whole of their student days floating on a sea of
calm tranquility. Things go wrong sometimes. The
kinds of things that go wrong are as varied as human
life itself and students are in no way immune to the
contingencies of illness, of broken relationships, of
loneliness and major disturbances as to goals, value
and meaning. Nor, of course, are they immune from
worries about money, accommodation and a
multitude of other such mundane things either.
Generally speaking, students' problems do not in
themselves mark them off from their contempories
outside university. What is special about the student
is the degree of impact which such problems can have
upon his work activity. Academic work, with in-built
time limitations, by common consent increasingly
intense and demanding a sustained high level of
by Don Adlington
pastoral role, remains the same. Women students
should be aware that there is a College Tutor (Mrs
Sandra Dawson in the Management School)
specifically appointed to talk to them. Hall and house
wardens are another group of people who are easily
approachable-and who would readily accept a first-
line responsibility for discussing personal problems.
For reasons which may or may not be valid,
students may in some circumstances feel reticent
about taking their difficulties to teaching staff. The
student-run Nightline service offers one alternative
source of help and support and, besides being totally
separate from the College establishment, is available
when other people are not. Similarly the Chaplains
offer confidential help to all students of the College
irrespective of religious allegience. There is no doubt,
however, that the most obvious and conspicuous
sources of help outside Departments are the Health
intellectual efficiency, is peculiarly susceptible to the
destructive impact of anxiety and distress, whatever
the source. In this special sense therefore, students'
problems are always urgent.
It seems to me that when things go wrong the first
thing to do is to talk about it, In one sense it doesn't
really matter who you talk to, provided that you're (?)
listened to. The chance acquaintance in a pub or at
a party might do, or, more likely, a personal friend.
People frequently underestimate, and are
subsequently surprised by, the real relief which flows
from sharing one's distress or worry with another
person. In the nature of things some students may
turn as a matter of course to their parents, and indeed
where a problem appears to have long-term
implications, most students will not feel at ease until
they have taken the family into their confidence.
Sometimes however, these informal sources, of
support may not be available, or sufficient, in which
case it may be sensible to approach people in College
who have an institutional responsibility for helping
students. The most obvious person is the personal
tutor, or the departmental senior tutor. Postgraduate
students, and certainly research students are in a
slightly different position, but all Departments have
a designated post-graduate tutor, and the basic
principle i.e. that academic staff have inter alia, a
Centre; the Student Welfare Adviser, Yve Posner,
whose office is in the Union Building; and, in some
circumstances, the Student Accommodation Office.
While, clearly, they have different and well-defined
objectives, they have in common an express wish to
be constructively helpful to the large number of
students who use their services each session.
The student counsellor is in a slightly different
(some would say privileged) position, in that he is, in
principle, employed to do nothing else but talk to
students. For this reason counsellors see far fewer
students than doctors or student services staff, and
for the same reason a counsellor's role is much less
well understood. This is especially true perhaps in a
college of science and technology where a lot of
students-and some of their tutors too-tend to see
human behaviour in rather mechanistic terms. This
way of looking at things almost always leads to over-
simplification of complex situations because it ignores
the fundamental fact that we live in a world of feeling.
What dominates our lives, what motivates us, what
stimulates us, what depresses us, what sustains us,
are feelings about ourselves and about other people.
When things go wrong for people, in any other than
the most trivial matters, the opportunity of expressing
feelings, and of having these feelings acknowledge
by someone else, becomes important.
StAQ0
00-
Counselling as a technical activity then, is
profoundly concerned with the salience of feelings,
of the emotional infrastructure of human life. It is also
profoundly concerned with honesty, and it is this,
perhaps more than anything else, which distinguishes
a counselling relationship from other relationships.
Counselling is nearly always friendly, but it isn't
friendship. When we talk to our friends or our relatives
we are often seeking the comfort of an endorsement
of our views. We don't really welcome insightful
comment, analysis of motive, or any other honest
reaction, unless it happens to line up with ideas about
ourselves that we have a strong wish not to disturb.
Such an aversion to the disturbance of our
preconceptions is, of course, normal in everyday life.
The point is however that at times of crisis it may be
important, for a while at any rate, to look below the
surface of what is going on. It is this component of
m
honesty which gives counselling its 'cutting edge',
and which, by the same token can sometimes make
it a slightly disconcerting experience, though always,
I would hope, a supportive one.
Counselling then is concerned with feelings and
with honesty. It is also concerned with confidentiality.
Discussions in my office are private, and I am not free
to talk to tutors, supervisors or indeed anyone else
about a student, unless the student himself explicitly
and fully agrees to it. One implication of this is that
from time to time I have to accept that students will
choose to act in ways which would seem to me to
be unwise or even potentially disastrous. My job is not
'solving people's problems'-it is helping people to
solve their own. In reality the sources of anxiety and
distress may well be things which cannot be changed,
and the task of the individual may therefore be that
of making a better shot at adapting to them and
thereby minimising the damage they may cause.
If there are things you would like to talk about I
would be very glad to see you. I can usually see people
at very short notice and I am easy to contact by phone
on Internal 3041, or by calling at my office on the first
floor of 15, Prince's Gardens, immediately next to
Week's Hall.
Page 7

