An interview with Julian Clary after a recent show at the Hackney Empire in aid of the Hackney Ambulance Hardship Fund.
A s t i c k y m o m e n t w i t !
Julian Clary, also known as Joan Collins Fan Club,
shot to fame on Saturday Night Live with his dog,
Fanny, and then on Trick or Treat with Mike Smith.
His own TV series Sticky Moments proved also to be
a great success, although it has been described as
'tacky and pointless' by some narrow-minded viewers
and critics.
He has just finished his Mincing Machine tour of
Page 8
England, concluding with a superb show at the
Gatehouse Theatre in Stafford.
Justine Mercer caught up with him on December
14 '89 at the Hackney Empire where he was hosting
a comedy show in aid of the Hackney Ambulance
Hardship Fund, others taking part in the show were
Tom Robinson, Jack Dee, Kit Hollerback, Jungre and
Parker, Arnold Brown and Jeremy Hardy.
JM: Was Fanny the Wonderdog part of the act then?
JC: No, she wasn't part of the act until I was
Gillean Pie Face. After Linda went off to be an
actress, I was on my own so I did an act on my
own and called it Gillean Pie Face and then after
a few months Fanny worked her way in.
JM: Did you find that when you first started out you
were immediately liked?
JC: No, I wasn't.
• JM: When did you become 'The Joan Collins' Fan
Club'?
JC: I think it was about '83, or was it '84, round
about that time anyway. All the stuff that was
Gillean Pie Face was kept in one holdall and it was
stolen from the back of the van so then I thought
that I'd wear clothes that I wanted to wear rather
than clothes that I'd got from the Oxfam shop.
JM: How long have you been working with Russell
your pianist and how did you discover him?
JC: Two and a half years, and I auditioned him.
JM: Do you prefer working on stage or on television?
JC: On stage definitely. I'm much more in control
so it's much more exciting.
JM: Do your family watch your shows on TV and do
they like them?
JC: Yes, they watch them all and they like them
all.
JM: Which show did you prefer filming, 'Trick or
Treat' or 'Sticky Moments'?
JC: Sticky Moments because I wrote the material
for it as well.
JM: Have you thought about doing serious acting
ever?
JC: Yes, I've thought about it, but I don't think
it would be a good idea.
JM: Do you think of the ideas for your stage clothes
or does Michael Ferry, your designer?
JC: It's usually Michael Ferry, although
sometimes I say 'I fancy an outfit with tassles on',
you know the old black one with the long tassles,
well that was my idea, but the others are his.
JM: As well as fan mail, do you receive much hate
mail?
JC: I do get some, but I never read it, it's all taken
out before it gets to me.
JM: Do you find it strange that you have so many
female admirers and are you flattered by it?
JC: No, I don't find it strange...and yes, I'm
flattered by it.
JM: What do you enjoy doing in your spare time?
JC: Well there isn't much of that. I love being at
home, staying at home and not going anywhere
and having a fridge full of food. I like taking the
dog for a walk and not having anything to do, it's
bliss.
J u l i a n C l a r y
JM: What music do you enjoy listening to?
JC: T-Rex, Patsy Klein, Tom Jones, Erasure,
Handel's Water Music, Boy George, although I
haven't got him on CD. I've got a couple of his
albums which I used to play at lot.
JM: In which part of the country were you born and
brought up?
JC: I was born in Surbiton in Surrey and when I
was seven I moved to Teddington in Middlesex
and that's where I stayed until I was 18.
JM: How long have you lived in London?
JC: Since I was 18, when I started going to
College.
JM: What sort of school did you go to when you were
a teenager?
JC: I went to a Catholic public school run by
Benedictine monks called St Benedicts and it
wasn't very nice because I was bullied. I didn't
like it at all.
JM: How did your parents react when they found out
about your true sexuality?
JC: Well, I never made any great announcement
about it. I'm sure that it dawned on them, they are
very, sort of, liberal people so it was no big hassle
for them.
JM: I know that you achieved three 'A' levels and
went to university. Which university did you go to and
what did you study?
JC: It was the University of London and it was
Goldsmith's College in New Cross and I studied
Drama and English, BA.
JM: What jobs did you do before entering the comedy
scene?
JC: I didn't do any really, when I left college I was
unemployed for about two years. I did a cabaret
act with a friend from college, I was a waiter for
one afternoon and I hated it so much I didn't go
back, it was in a cafe in Greenwich, I was not
good at that. I didn't do anything really.
JM: What was your first ever comedy act?
JC: It was called 'Glad and May' with my friend
Linda from College. It was based on the
characters Amanda and Elliot from Private Lives
but also on these two cha-ladies called Glad and
May. The opening line was 'Hello, I'm Glad and
I'm glad to be here', that's what Linda would say,
then I'd say 'Hello, I'm May and I may be glad to
be here', and we used to do a handbag
competition. You know when I grab somebody's
handbag from the audience, well we used to both
grab a handbag each and have a competition over
who had the most interesting contents.
JM: I understand that you have become interested in
re-birthing, can you tell me what this involves and how
you first became interested in it?
JC: Well the girl who used to be my acupuncturist
gave up acupuncture and then took up re-birthing
and body harmony as a kind of therapy that she
was practising, so I got into it entirely through
her, and I'd also previously read the Louise Hayes
book 'You can hear your life', which is a very
interesting book and it talks about re-birthing
which also made me want to try it.
JM: What actually is it?
JC: You go to a re-birther, and it takes about three
hours, it's a breathing technique and you go into
an altered state of consciousness and you go on
a strange sort of psychic journey.
JM: You've also written a book 'My Life With Fanny
the Wonderdog' which is hiliarious, is it actually based
on fact?
JC: It's a mixture of fact and fiction, for example
I was brought up in Teddington but I didn't get
arrested for playing with the pixies at the end of
the garden.
JM: In the book it says you did a Tarzan-a-gram, is
this true?
JC: That is true, I was a singing telegram.
JM: I have also heard, there should be another single
on the way. Is this true.
JC: Yes, and it should be 'Wandering Star'.
JM: Although your TV career has now taken off
dramatically, you have been around for a long time.
Why do you think it has taken this long for you to
become well known?
JC: I think it does take time really, it doesn't ever
happen overnight, not unless you've got a very
accessible talent, mine's a bit odd, you know, it's
not of a type. Impressionists, like Rory Bremner,
get on quicker because it's great TV fodder, and
it's quite easy and it's been done before. My kind
of thing was a bit different, a bit off the wall and
it took longer.
JM: What would be your ultimate dream for the
future, careerwise?
JC: To be able to write new material effortlessly.
I find it very difficult writing and the problem with
TV is it uses up all of your material, so what I need
to do is take a few months off in January and
February to write before I can go out on the road
again. This act is all out on video now so it's no
good repeating that next spring. I've been
criticised for being repetitive.
JM: Finally, are you looking forward to spending
Christmas with your family and have you done all of
your Christmas shopping?
JC: Yes, I am looking forward to it. I haven't even
started my Christmas shopping. I haven't bought
nobody nuffink.
Page 9

