Wish you were here
w hv our Florida a
by our Florida correspondent Neil McCluskey
A Happy New Year to you all and welcome back to
a new term. Congratulations are in order to the Rector
on gaining a knighthood and to the various banks in
pulling out of the government's top-up loans scheme.
At the time of reading I'll be out of the office visiting
Florida for the purposes of competing in an
International Dance Competition. My apologies to
anyone trying to get hold of me, I've every confidence
that Fiona and Dave can cope in my absence.
For those of you that were complaining last term
about lack of notice for Union General Meetings, here
are the dates. Cancel ALL appointments, book them
in your diary and come along.
Thursday 25 Jan, 6.00pm, Union Concert Hall.
Thursday, 1 Mar, 6.00pm, JCR (Elections hustings
with bar available)
Thursday, 8 Mar, 6.00pm, Great Hall (Results UGM)
Watch future reports in FELIX to find out what will
be discussed at each of these meetings.
Loans
You should all have heard the news over Christmas
that several of the major banks have pulled out of the
government's loan scheme. This does not, however,
mean that the Government is going to drop the idea.
In going to the committees discussing the loans
proposals in the House of Commons it has become
apparent to me that any amendments to the bill simply
get voted out by conservative MPs toeing the party
line. Whenever the time to vote comes, MPs hurriedly
rush back in to the committee and vote against the
opposition. So much for voting in local MPs that are
supposed to represent your views. Pressure still has
to be maintained on MPs. However, many back
benchers are against the scheme so if you haven't
contacted your MP please do so soon. Even Governing
Body members at December's meeting were
persuaded to write and use their contacts in the
political world.
Overseas Students
Does anybody remember the atrocities that occurred
in China in the middle of 1989? Do you remember the
thousands of people slaughtered? I hope you do
because all of that trouble is not yet over. After
quashing the uprising in the fight for democracy, the
Chinese government started a programme for re-
education with a crude and blatant programme of
Page 10
propaganda and brainwashing. Some Chinese
students at Imperial don't really know what they are
going to be going back to and some helped out during
the disaster by relaying information back to China of
what was happening seen through western eyes.
Many of the students poured their own finances into
sending faxes, organising demonstration, buying
wreaths, making publicity. Imperial College Union
helped out with these finances and last year launched
a fund-raising appeal to recoup this money. Last week
the Rector and his wife kindly made a personal
donation and persuaded the College to donate as well,
my thanks to them.
If anybody else would like to make a donation,
please pop in to the Union Office or send us a cheque
made payable to 'Imperial College Union' marked
Chinese Students Appeal.
Accommodation
Last term the proposed rents for the coming academic
year were published in FELIX. I was expecting some
discussion of these to come up at Governing Body last
term; it didn't. This means one of two things. Either
discussion will come up this term or the Rector is the
single person that decides the rents. If the latter is the
case then you would be right in joining me in being
very, very worried. All along the line the college has
ignored warning from myself, the students and the
wardens of the effects of any rent increases. Instead
of simply stinging the students for refurbishing what
are rapidly becoming decrepit and dangerous halls of
resident, surely the College should be looking for
innovative ideas to generate cash for the upkeep of
these halls. Instead, an appeal has been launched to
generate monies for a new residence, adding to the
stock which we can't afford to keep, can't sell and
can't maintain. Last year applications to Imperial were
way down, last term 40% of students attending a
UGM said they would not have come to London if they
had known the real expenses involved; only this year
College had to fill up spaces in nearly every
department through UCCA clearance.
Personally I am not happy that College is doing its
best to look after the financial welfare of its students.
So how about some advice:
1. Freeze the rent levels.
2. Ensure adequate maintenance of halls.
3. Get companies to sponsor individual rooms.
4. Get companies to donate furniture and furnishings
in return for advertising.
5. See if first-year students do actually want to live
in halls of residence.
6. Provide an adequate service to place students in
the private rented sector.
If the College does not look at these seriously and
come back with replies then I'll be making sure I'll be
doing my job by looking after the welfare of the
students and advising that they simply can't afford
to live in London. An addition to the Alternative
Prospectus will go out and articles will go in the
National Press. Let the prospective students know the
truth and if it's not all rosy, then so be it.
Welfare
Yve Posner, the Union Welfare Adviser, has been
working very hard preparing a housing pack for
students. This will be ready shortly and in plenty of
time for those of you in halls of residence that have
never had to find your own place. I'm looking to stage
a 'housing roadshow' in the halls with Yve so that we
can answer questions on private rented
accommodation.
At the very beginning of the summer term we're
hoping to organise a welfare campaign on coping with
stress. This, hopefully, will cover minor stress
problems resulting in, say, lack of sleep up to major
build-up of stress which can result in breakdowns. I
think this will be particularly useful, especially during
the exam term.
Transport
The new van is here, it runs well and I hope it stays
that way. Deadline for van applications for the Easter
vacation is Friday, 16th February.
Anybody wishing to go abroad please give me a few
weeks notice so that I can arrange a green card (i.e.
insurance).
Finally....
Imperial College Union is at last coming to grips with
modern technology...it now possesses an answering
machine. The answering machine will be used on
extension 3500 in the evenings and during weekends.
If you have any difficulties or questions, simply leave
a message and the sabbatical who is on duty will
collect the message and get back to you.

