NEWSPAPER OF ER1AL COLLEGE 1
3
ALL TALK, NO PROMISES
John Smith, College Secretary, yesterday refused to give any guarantee
that student rent increases would not exceed grant increases. He was
speaking at an open meeting called to discuss the policy laid out in his
recently issutJ notice on the management of student residence. It was
also revealed at the meeting that whilst Mr Smith had had some
reservations about putting staff wardens back in the Southside penthouse
Hats (as reported in last week's FELIX), he has now been overuled by the
Rector who has decided the extra wardens will definitely be appointed.
Mr Smith in his opening would necessarily lead to large
remarks laid great emphasis on rent increases.
the College's commitment to
increase the number of places in
residence. He pointed out that
the total number of places had
nearly doubled whilst he had
been College Secretary, and he
wished to see further increases.
A large number of questions
were asked by the audience,
which included many people
involved in residence such as
wardens, sub-wardens, head
tenancy managers, finance
personnel and the entire Student
Services Office staff. Union
President Gaynor Lewis asked
about the implications for
student rents of the new policies,
and asked for assurances from
Mr Smith. He was unable to give
any guarantee about rents, but he
said he did not think the policies
Several questioners referred to
the security patrols in Princes
Gardens, the cost of which is to
be transferred to the residence
account. M r Smith believed the
cost of this would effectively be
covered by an increase in
vacation lettings income, and
that anyway it should be for the
residence community to decide
the level of security they require
and to pay for it. He claimed
that any future reduction in the
subsidies would be dependant
upon the improved performance
of the summer lettings scheme,
and would not occur if the
vacation income did not increase
to cover their withdrawal.
He was questioned about the
need for a Managing Surveyor
( R e s i d e n c e s ) to oversee
maintenance and cleaning of
residences. In the most forceful of
his answers he emphasised that
residence was 'big business' with
a £2m turnover, and that it was
essential to have a proper
management structure rather
than the present ad hoc situation.
He felt that the appointment
would also enable wardens to
concentrate more on the social
and pastoral aspects of their job
which he saw as particularly
desirable because of the low level
of social intercourse between
staff and students compared with
ten to twenty years ago.
The proposed appointment of
a staff warden in Evelyn Gardens
was also mentioned. M r Smith
said the College's policy was to
appoint such a warden if more
houses were acquired in the area.
It was felt that the appointment
would be necessary to provide
continuity in relations with the
neighbours as the student
wardens usually remain in the job
for only two years.
He was able to answer all
questions about the new
residence policy in a reassuring
John Smith
manner without giving any
guarantees or closing any of his
options for the futures. Clearly,
as an exercise in allaying anxieties
without restricting his room for
manoeuvre the meeting could be
considered as something of a
success for M r Smith. However,
senior Union officers present at
the meeting s t i l l appeared
sceptical about M r Smith's good
intentions when interviewed after
the meeting by F E L I X . The
reality of the matter will perhaps
be revealed in a clearer light after
the announcement of next year's
rent increases, expected in May.
Ian Thomas
No 6681
Beauty and the Beast
The R C S Hustings U G M took place yesterday amid controversy
surrounding the presidential election. One of the candidates, Ann
Collins, has complained that she was not notified of the deadline for
submission of manifestos for inclusion in RCS Broadsheet. However,
the Broadsheet Editor, Simon Banton, claims that he personally
informed Miss Collins of the deadline, and that the deadline was well
publicised. There is one other candidate for RCS President, Ian
Thomas.
The meeting heard hustings speeches from Miss Collins, presently
the Chemistry Dep Rep and M r Thomas, RCS Transport Officer. Miss
Collins criticised RCS for failing to provide for more than a small
minority of its members. M r Thomas was confident that with a wide
experience of R C S U over three years he was the best candidate.
Hustings were also held for the post of Vice-President. The candi-
dates were Sean Davis, presently I C U Hon Sec, and Simon Banton,
Broadsheet Editor. The Hon Sec post was unopposed with the election
of Paul Bloomfield bieng ratified by the meeting.
Election for the two contested posts will take place by paper ballot in
all RCS departments on Monday. Ballot boxes will be open from
9:30am to 5:30pm and you will need a Unioncard to vote.
• n H H H B a f l B I FELIX. February 24, 7 9 8 4 H H H B H H H H 1
Ann Collins
I Free/

