vs Bristol: wen 2-0
vs Exeter: drew 1-1
vs City: lsts won 2-0, 2nds won 2-0
Two weeks ago the sailing team travelled to
the West Country to take on teams from
Bristol and Exeter at Starcross Yacht Club,
Devon.
Imperial sailed Bristol first in very light
conditions. Led by their skipper, Jones, the
team took command of the first race from the
start and finished with a convincing 1, 3,4. In
the second race, Imperial set off on the right
foot giving a green to the opposition on the
starting gun. Unfortunately Bristol recovered
best from the melee at the start and at the first
mark were 1st, 2nd and 3rd. Jones, obviously
assisted by his thermal underwear, realised
the desparation of the Situation and casually
roll-tacked through the entire Bristol fleet.
On seeing this the Bristol team gave up and by
the finish had allowed the other two Imperial
boats to sail through to 3rd and 5th.
The match against Exeter was less dramatic
with Imperial securing a strong 2, 3, 4 in the
first race. In the second, the speed of the
supposedly slower alternative helms from
Exeter caught Imperial off guard and they
dropped a race to the home team.
On the Sunday, Kennedy notched up a
further three capsizes in the club race to take
his total this term to seven.
Last weekend Imperial took two teams to
Queen Mary SC to sail City University. City
conceded even before the first race, and after
the formality of sailing around the course in
front of them had taken place, Imperial raced
amongst themselves for the rest of the
afternoon. Many thanks to Brunei University
for lending City a rudder and tiller at such
short notice so that the match could take
place.
Castaways Cup (the London College's
sailing championship) is being held this
weekend at the Welsh Harp, where Imperial
are entering two teams. Any supporters will
be most welcome.
Astrix and the ferret
F o o t b a i '
• *
This year's I C A F C annual dinner will be held
on Tuesday 13 March in the trophy room at
Chelsea F C , Stanford Bridge. Subsidised
price will be £9.50, including three course
roast beef dinner, silver service, etc. There
will be a bar extension until 1:00am. Guest
speaker to be arranged. Cheques made
payable to ICU A C C should be given to team
captains before Wednesday 7 March.
To give us a better idea of numbers could
you please add your name to the list if you
intend coming to the dinner. Anybody
wishing to go on the tour to Gloucester on the
weekend 23-25 March please sign the list on
the noticeboard, as soon as possible.
Page 10WKkWBWWMBSMMMWWWBBBWWM
On Sunday the Orienteering Club attended a
classy event in Aldershot. The event had
attracted many of the South's top orienteers,
so the standard of competition was high.
The terrain, a military training area, was of
mixed rough open land and woodland. As
expected trenches, pits and earthbanks were
in abundance to provide an interestingly
detailed map.
Most of the men ran the premier course,
with impressive overall results. The planner
had provided 11.6km of mentally challenging
navigation, covering the most physically
demanding terrain. A n added twist was a
bushfire at one of the controls to be visited!
Several of the club's novices successfully
completed Wayfarers courses—less demand-
ing but still containing the essence of
orienteering; challenging navigation under
competition conditions.
Watch out for the red, white and blue of the
Orienteering Club as a guest team at the Hyde
Park Relay tomorrow!
Punchdrunk
W a t e r s k i i n g
The thing to remember, we found out this
week, is that the important bits are the
extremities. Keep those warm and the
problem is cracked. By this week we hope to
have arranged a discount on wetsuit socks
and gloves, and there should be enough
around for new members to borrow. When
you're all togged up, it's warm—honest!-
After tense negotiations with Moscow,
Washington, oh, and I C U too, we've got the
price of skiing down from £4.00 to £2.90. Not
only that, but the boat has been fitted with a
training bar that almost guarantees that
beginners get up first go.
If you don't believe that warmth is possible
at this time of year in the water, or- that ten
minutes behind a 240bhp boat isn't tiring,
allow us to convince you otherwise. Even if
you'd just like to get up first time or are into
kinky rubber wetsuits, we can help!
You can arrange to come waterskiing on
Wednesday by finding us above Southside
Bar on Monday at 12:45pm.
IC Hockey 2nd X I
IC 2nd XI hockey team sailed into the second
division of the Middlesex League on
Saturday. A crushing 6-0 victory for the home
side ensured the team has an opportunity to
enjoy a different standard of hockey next
season.
Despite fielding an understrength side,
positive play and accurate passing, allowed a
two goal lead at half time. After the interval,
concerted pressure led to three goals in as
Friday, February 24, 1984 JHHI
many minutes and an excellent goal from the
left wing put the icing on the cake.
Special mention should be made of centre
r
B o a t
Henlev Fours Head
Henley Fours Head of River proved to be a
happy hunting ground for IC crews again in
1984. Having won three events there in 1983
the College crews picked up the tankards for
three out of the five events entered.
The Senior Squad entered an elite coxed
four as its first boat. This performed a long
way below potential and striking a laboured
30 strokes per minute over the 2'/4 mile
course, took 11.31. It lost the section by 1
second and came fifth overall.
The senior A coxless four, hastily put
together towards the end of last week,
performed well to win their section. With
dynamic strokeman Greg Harding striking a
steady 32spm the four took 11.33 coming in
sixth overall.
The Senior B coxless four won their section
by a convincing ten second margin, despite
Kevin Steinlechner steering the boat into the
bank near the finish.
The novice also won their section by one
second, whilst the women's novice four came
fifth in their event, rowing well below their
best.
In another action-packed week down at the
range, Guilds came second closely behind
RCS in the inter-CCU pistol competition.
Despite heroic performances by Messrs
Bowser (club captain, contact via Elec Eng
letter-racks), Harrison, Stewart, Williams
and Ashford, the massive skill of Miss
Hollows, assisted by Constantinople, Huggs,
Fudge, and Marvin (the Android) Baguettes
proved slightly too much. In an exclusive
interview with the Rifle Club editiorial board,
Gluids captain Steve Harrison commented
'Sick as a pawrot, Briain.'
Ed Asford and Gareth Fones were selected
to shoot for the London Counties Junior
Team by accident, and demonstrated their
remarkable skills by shooting well below their
capabilities. However this is clearly another
step up the ladder to an international
shooting career.
As promised in our FELIJC article some
weeks ago, the 'Down the Dogs' evening has
now been fully planned by our ents
committee, and is scheduled for Thursday 1
March. Meet at the range at 6:30pm.
The prone rifle handicap competition is
now reaching a climactic conclusion after
club hotshots Fuggs and Bowser were
knocked out in the semi-final. Harrison and
Baguettes now meet in the final in what will
be a hard fought match of nerves for these
wimps. Steve is already in training for this
event (or is it something else you're training
for?)
B H n n H n n n n i FELIX

