Residence: What next?
John Smith demonstrated his training in the diplomatic service to
good effect yesterday afternoon at the open meeting on residence. He
spent a great deal of time not saying very much, sidestepping
questions and being deliberately vague on specific points. He
outlined the policy and explained the reasons for its implementation
but refused to say anything concrete on important issues. He refused
to guarantee that the increase in student rents would not be above the
grant increase or that residence services like security and
maintenance would not suffer. These things he said 'would have to be
discussed' College work very slowly and deliberately. The Rector's
policy committee has already decided that it is going to remove
subsidies on residences whether it is practical or not. Most objections
to the new policy have been over-ruled and all the students union and
Students Residence Committee can do now is reiterate its
dissatisfaction.
What must be made quite clear is that the students union will not
accept increases in rents above the student grant increase, even if it
means going on a rent strike.
Elections
Elections are upon us once again and after 5:30pm today be prepared
for an onslaught of posters, leaflets and canvassers.
This year we have the usual selection of wimps, self-publicists and
crack-pots standing for posts. You can read their works of fiction (ie
what they are going to do to improve the Union next year if elected,
etc) in next week's F E L I X . There will be a special elections
supplement in F E L I X next week containing the election manifestos
of all the sabbatical candidates. Manifestos must be no more than 300
words and should be submitted with a photo or line drawing by
Monday 1:00pm.
Make sure you go to the Hustings U G M next Thursday where you
can hear the candidates for the four sabbatical posts make speeches,
and answer questions in an attempt to persuade you they are the best
people for the job. The Hustings speech and particularly the
questions from the floor afterwards are a very good test of the quality
of a candidate and whether they know what they are talking about.
Ballot Boxes
If anyone would like to earn £1.75 an hour sitting on ballot boxes on
March 5 and 6 they should hand their names in at the Union Office by
next Tuesday.
Credits
Hugh Southey, Jon Jones, Lynne James, J Martin Taylor, Nick
Shackley, John Burgess, David Jones, Steve Bishop, Dave Parry, Matt
Fawcett, Malcom Gray, Ulysses, John Scott, Simon Nield, Pete
Coleman, Paul Griffiths, Nigel Atkinson, Jonathan Gerson, Michael
Newman, Maz and Pete.
A special thanks to Ronald Reagan for holding up this week's
bingo number.
Pallab Ghosh
Sharpshooter's Puzzle
One Saturday, as the football results were coming
in, the teleprinter broke down and six results didn't
come through. The matches involved Arsenal,
Chelsea, Tottenham, Liverpool, Everton, Man Utd,
Sunderland, Middlesbrough, Newcastle, Birming-
ham, Coventry and Wolves.
Four of the matches were between teams from the
same area. David Coleman, with typical fluency,
summed up the six results as follows:
1. There were 13 goals scored altogether.
2. No match was goalless.
3. Wolves didn't score.
4. Sunderland won.
5. Only one scoreline occurred twice, the rest
occurred once each.
6. Tottenham achieved the best result.
7. No team scored more than two goals.
8. Arsenal played Everton.
9. If Newcastle has scored one less, and Liverpool
had scored one more than they did, they would each
have achieved the same result as Arsenal.
What were the matches played and the results?
G o o d luck, everyone.
Solution, criticisms, comments to me at the FELIX
Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday please. £5 from
Mend-a-Bike for the randomly selected winner.
Last week's solution
Since the requests for chess puzzles came from
chess players, the problem did not state which way
White was playing. Those who do not play much
chess will not know the convention that White
always plays up the page, and will find the
straightforward solution that Rook takes Knight,
checkmate. Those of you who do know that White
must play up the page, or suspected that there must
be something more to it, will have been looking for
the following:
White cannot move his pawn, rook or queen for
various reasons, so it is the white king which must
win the game. White's strategy is to take his king
from the bottom left-hand corner to the top right-
hand corner, take the knight and promote his pawn
to a queen to win, or simply checkmate as Black will
have to move his bishop.
Black must move his knight to and from the square
which it now occupies to stop the white pawn from
promoting, as he cannot move any of his other
pieces. If White tries to move his king across the
board on the black squares, he will arrive at the
wrong time, ie when the black knight is covering the
squares, so White must arrive at either one move
sooner or one move later. He may only move on the
black squares to avoid the black bishop, as the black
. bishop can move out and put him in check, then
queen his pawn, but there is one white square on
which he is safe; the one in top left-hand corner. So
he moves on black squares to that corner white
square, back onto the black squares, and will now
arrive at the correct time to capture the knight,
promote to a queen, and win.
Of four, mostly correct, answers Richard Fox of
Chem Eng 3 was the randomly selected winner and
can collect the prize from the FELIX Office after
1:30pm on Monday.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print Unit Prince Consort Rd^XJ
Tel 01-589 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh, Business Afono3er.PeterBod3ers,AducrrisingMonoger:Hu3hSouthevCopvrightFEL/X 1984

