IC HUSTINGS UGM
Thursday March 1 st
1:00pm Great Hall
A G E N D A
1. Minutes of the meeting of 6th December
2. Minutes of the meeting of 24th January
3. Matters A r i s i n g .
4. President's Report.
5. Deputy P r e s i d e n t ' s Report.
6. Honorary Secretary's Report.
7. Returning O f f i c e r ' s Report.
8. Other O f f i c e r s ' Reports.
9. Motions.
10. Any Other Business.
President's Report
1. UGC Response
At the end of last term a small group of Union Officers discussed the
issues of the UGC letter concerning the financial restrictions that
are likely to be imposed on institutions of higher education. Over
the Christmas period both Peter Burt, External Affairs Officer, and
I drafted separate responses based on the discussion. W
e found it
difficult to combine the two replies although both agreed on essential
issues, they expressed these views differently. As such both responses
were submitted to College. W
e are expected to reply to the College
draft later this month. Professor A. Swanson, Pro-Rector, will be
outlining the College's response on March 6th, at a meeting which
everyone is welcome to attend.
2. £4,000
At the end of last term I discussed with the College Secretary the
possibility of College financing the installation of showers in the
Volleyball Court area. John Smith agreed that College would finance
this project to the degree of £4,000.
3. Southside Disco
After various communications with regard to the noise level on a
Friday night and College concern for neighbours, I met with various
College representatives to discuss the issue. After a lengthy discussion
they agreed that there was no cause for concern at present. However, i f
different, i.e. noisier, events were held in the area,certain provisions
would have to be made. College accepted the responsibility of improving
the sound proofing of the area.
4. Suggestions and Complaints
I was asked by College to chair this sub-committee for the remainder
of m
y term of office. Although an extra College commitment, I feel this
.can only benefit the Union as,in theory,we now have an increased ability
to attempt to convince College of the numerous improvements necessary in
the refectory system - an immense task when dealing with the present
people and circumstances. Please make your views of the food known to me.
PRESIDENT'S REPORT
The appearance of a new magazine earlier this term started a debate
within ICU. The magazine was produced by members of the College adminis-
tration without m
y knowledge. Throughout last term the sabbaticals were
approached on several occasions about the editorial style of Felix. W
e
consistently maintained that editorial freedom was an established right
for Felix within IC Union and that we werenot prepared to attempt to curb,
that freedom. At the beginning of session several queries were received
in the Union Office from members of the College administration about the I
running of Felix. Expecting some sort of problem from College we began
to consider the implications i f College persisted. W
e were not expecting
to see the publication of a rival.
I discussed with the Rector why this magazine had been published. There
appeared to be two primary reasons:
(i) It was to be used to increase communication between College s t a f f . - »
(ii) College felt that as the sabbaticals were unwilling to attempt to
change the style of Felix, then they had to produce a magazine
making their dissatisfaction known.
This issue has been discussed at length in Council with Pallab present.
There is no indication at present whether any further issues of Fido will
be produced. Several members of College have commented on the improved
attitude in recent issues of Felix. (Soon fix that-Feiix-Ed)
College Dinners
I discussed this issue with the College Secretary - we established
that the price of College Dinners for students was too high to be
considerec" as subsidised and as such agreed that the student rate
would now be £5. It was also decided that certain dinners warrant
a bar extension and a jazz or swing band. The first of these Dinner
and Dances will be in Hay at £10 a double ticket'.
Student Residence Policy .
I was asked at fairly short notice to reply to the College response
to the Lauwerys Report on the Management of Student Residence. The
College policy document was at the third draft stage when I was first
asked for the Union's comments. There were a number of points I was
unhappy with in the document. It advocates the appointment of the
Managing Surveyor for Residences, whose salary would be a direct cost
to the Residence account, as would the wages of the present messenger
and security personnel. This increased cost is hoped to be offset by
an increase in the Vacation Lettings income - however, the implications
of further costs being attributed to the Residence account could have a -
severe effect on student rents in the future.
I have questioned these points and others, including academic staff
warden occupation of the Southside penthouse flats, at various committee
levels but continue to get the unsual noncommittal replies. There is
an Open Meeting with the College Secretary to discuss the recent policy
which I hope will be well attended. I will report the outcome of
further discussions verbally at the UGM.
Southside Fire Alarm and Security
I have continually raised these issues with the Estates Secretary and
a
m extremely dissatisfied with the answers Don Clark has given. The
latest "official waffle" to the Union's queries is that nothing can
be done without the GLC representatives approval (security) - they
visited the Halls two weeks ago. The new automatic fire alarm system
was commissioned yet again last week and once more failed dismally.
It appears to m
e that Estates get more and more incompetent as the
weeks go by'. The only apparent reasons for their ineptness seem to
be stupidity or gross mismanagement (see the continuing saga of the
central launderette below!).

