9. 199th Episode of the Central Launderette and Southside Saga
The central launderette and gym facilities are due to be completed on
5th March, 1984, i.e. very soon. As accustomed as I an to the incom-
petence and total ineptness of the Estates section, even I find it hard
to believe that for a project originally intended to begin in Easter
1983, they could have mismanaged the project as effectively as to be
an estimated 5 weeks behind the third schedule! The original deadline
was mid-September 1983 - a mere 6 months ago!
It appears the Martial Arts Clubs that have been waiting over six
months for the new Southside gym will now have to wait at least another
two months before they are able to use the facility. As the project is
the responsibility of the Estates section perhaps Martial Arts would
care to do their training in Room 527, Sherfield*unti1 the gym is
available.
*presently inhabited by the ever-industrious Mr. Don Clark
10. Harlington Gravel
I have discussed this project with Dr. J . Stocks, the Union's
advisor on this issue. The project is long t e n , Test bore holes
will be driven over the Easter period and tenders invited over the
summer. ACC are satisfied that no disruption to sporting activities
will occur during the test bore hole development. Obtaining
planning permission could take anything between two and six years,
and the exploration is estimated to take a minimum of ten years
after that.
11. Harlington Bar
Due to the profit being made on the bar this year, the student
representatives suggested the possibility of lowering the prices.
I made a rough financial assessment of the bar at Harlington and
then,with the ACC Chairman, approached Peter Mee, (Chairman,
Athletic Ground Committee) with the Union's recommendations. The
end result being a decrease in the prices of between 6 and lOp per
pint. Discussions about reducing the prices even further are
continuing at present.
12. Sports Centre Charges
Last term College suggested the possibility of raising the admission
charges in the Sports Centre. The Union was obviously against such
a move and undertook to compile information regarding charges at
other universities. 40 questionnaires were sent out and I have
received 23 replies. The student representatives on South Kensington
Sports Committee will have presented the results of the questionnaire
to College by the time of the UGH, thus I will report verbally on the
outcome at the meeting.
13. Job Descriptions
The Executive Job Descriptions have been updated and were approved
at Council on February 13th. The 1984/85 Sabbaticals will be elected
on the updated versions.
14. Conference Committee Report
As mandated by the U
G
M of 6th December, Peter Rodgers attempted to
call a meeting of the designated individuals responsible for invest-
igating the nature of, and representatives attending, conferences.
Unfortunately, only three representatives were able to attend. The
committee's recommendations are outlined below:
a. ICU should continue to send delegates to worthwhile conferences.
b. Insufficient information was available to discuss INCOST.
Two delegates should be sent to NUS Conference i f the opportunity
arose in the future.
Council discussed the relevant issues of the report, including the
fact that to send delegates to NUS Conference required a change in
UGM policy. Council decided to send Jim Boucher and Steve Bishop
to the 1984 INCOST Conference in April.
Estimates
I shall be seeing the Financial Secretary in the first week of March to
discuss the estimates of income and expenditure for 85/85. I have n
o
w
discussed claims with most of the officers and a
m producing a first draft
of the estimates for College.
Self-Defence
College has made an application to the Metropolitan Police for the provision
of a Self Defence course at Imperial. These courses, which consist of
four 2-hour lectures/demonstrations, are run by the Special Constabulary
and are much in demand in London. I a
m collecting names of students
Interested and shall be informing them as soon as w
e have set up dates
for the course. If successful, I hope w
e can run the course regularly
at Imperial, particularly when the n
e
w intake arrives next October.
Carnival
The biggest event of this term will take place tomorrow in the Union
Building - Carnival. Featuring bands, bar extensions, etc., this event
will cost £4.00 (or £4.50 on the door). Tickets are available from the
Union Office and CCUs.
Transport
Steve Lane and Bruce Bricknell are now sharing the responsibilities
of Transport Officer after the resignation of Frazer Wigley, due to
academic pressure.
W
e are presently looking at the demand for vans by priority and non-
priority clubs, with a view to making the vans more widely available.
A questionnaire has been sent out to all clubs and by the time of this
meeting w
e should have discussed the replies. W
e are in the process
of replacing 0BW, our oldest van, and are considering buying a 17-seater
van rather than the normal 13-seater van.
Volleyball Court, Union Building, JCR
Netting has n
o
w been placed over the shutes and in the roof of the
Volleyball Court, and benches provided in the changing rooms. College
has agreed to pay for the installation of showers In the mens and
ladies changing rooms. I had hoped that this work would have started
by n
o
w but a lack of communication between one end of Level 5 and the
other seems to be holding this up.
The East Staircase has n
o
w been painted and w
e hope to have the Concert
Hall painted at Easter. Other changes in the Concert Hall include the
installation of a permanent control box at the back of the Hall and,
hopefully,a change in the lighting control.
Several improvements are being made to the JCR. The orange chairs are
being recovered and several chairs repaired, new tables are being
acquired and lighting bars are to be installed in the ceiling, Estates
willing. Hooks are also being provided in the buttery ceiling for
party decorations, obviating the need to remove the ceiling tiles.
Honorary Secretary's Report
Deputy President's Report
Union Equipment
Inventories are s t i l l coming In from Union Clubs (very late) -
there now only being about ten clubs which have not yet filled
one in.
At present some clubs are under the Impression that i f they
borrow a piece of equipment from outside College It Is automat-
ically insured. However, this is not so - the borrowed equipment
is only insured i f I a
m told beforehand (so X can inform Commercial
Union Assurance). This present situation will continue until C.U.
have completely drawn up the new "Block" policy which they are
presently doing.
STA
I have had several meetings with STA to consider possible sites for a
student travel centre at Imperial College to replace the old London
Student Travel Office. I a
m n
o
w discussing with College the possibility
of using the seldom used Bar Counter in the north-west corner of the
Junior C
o
m
m
o
n Room. STA has provided plans of the proposed office which
is similar to their offices at Q
M
C and ULU, W
e hope to have the travel
office installed and open by Easter but at present progress depends on
the College so it is anyone's guess as to whether anything will have
happened by this meeting.
Bars and Refectory
On Friday, 24th February, I shall be attending the third meeting between
the Finance Section and Refectories to discuss Bars Pricing Policy. Over
the past few months I have been working to get the prices in the bars
reduced to those of other Student Union Bars in Colleges In London. I
have shown College that it is possible to reduce prices without affecting
the profitability of the bars by managing purchasing better. Despite
the fact that I have identified several areas where College could make
great saving they have remained sceptical. The meeting on Friday should
be the last and I hope to be able to report (he outcome at this meeting.
There has been a lot of discussion and rather more criticism about the
availability and accuracy of information on the management of the
refectories, particularly with regard to trading figures-. Eventually
I a
m receiving useful figures for the bars (by force of personal persuasion)
but there is still very little useful information about Refectories. What
information there Is points towards several problems in the
Refectories of which managers cannot help but be aware. Whether they will
act on this information is a matter of concern. Despite the fact that
College has neve' repudiated the criticisms I made of Refectories last
December, absol.i ly nothing has happened since. Discussions about the
appointment of a lew manager seem to be the usual hot air and the
attitude of administrators seems to be one of condoning gross mismanagement
rather than having to introduce change.
Having negotiated with Commercial Union Assurance for some
months about the premium paid for the four Union vans, they came
•back to me with a new estimate of approximately £2,750 for the
coming year - this being a 10% increase on this year's premium.
However, Prudential Insurance (through NatWest) have offered the
same policy for a mere £1,220. W
e therefore changed - on the
12th February, 1984, when the motor policy was due for renewal -
from Commercial Union to Prudential as it will mean a saving of
over £1,550 a year.
Key Cards for parking barriers
In spite of a l l m
y efforts in trying to get a l l those people who
s t i l l have key cards from last year to return them, we are s t i l l
about twenty down on what we should have. College have so far been
unwilling to make up this deficit due to security reasons - so let's
hope that for next year a new key card will be issued or College will
listen with a more sympathetic ear.
Union Duplicating Service
For the first time this year, everything is working well. W
e have
now got two gesteners, one photocopier and one typewriter available
for general use (I.e. clubs and societies) in the Union office.
If you don't know how to use a gestetner snd need to produce something
on one - come along to the Union office and I will show you how.

