MOTION O
N ILEA
Proposed by:
Seconded by:
Peter Burt
Simon Neild.
1. Government proposals to cut the budget of the Inner London Education
Authority b
y £12Cm in-the coming year, and plans to remove the right of
Londoners to directly elect representatives to the Authority.
2. The National Day of Action on 24th January in support of the ILEA.
ICU Believes:
1. Adequate state funding is essential if educational standards are to be
maintained and If there Is to be open access to education.
2. Cuts In the rate support grant and new "rate capping" proposals will lead
to a serious underfunding of LEA's which will in turn lead to a decreased
quality of education.
3- The higher costs and particular social conditions found in inner London
mean that education here will be more expensive than otherwise.
1. Cuts in discretionary awards to ILEA students and underfunding of the 36
Polytechnics, Further Education and specialist Colleges assisted by the
ILEA would result from Government expenditure proposals. Higher education
as a service to the whole of London will therefore w
e wrecked.
5. The proposals outlined above would mean that it is Central Government
that decides upon the level of educational provision for inner London.
Abolition of the ILEA and its parent body, the GLC, is a flagrant erosion
of local democracy in the face of all-party opposition.
ICU Condemns:
1. Direct political interference with education.
2. Plans to reorganize the ILEA and abolish the GLC.
ICU Supports:
1. The "Save the ILEA" campaign.
ICU Instructs
1. That the President writes to Mr. Patrick Jenkln, Secretary of State for the
Environment, Sir Keith Joseph, Secretary of State for Education, Mr. Peter
Brooke. Local MP, and the local press stressing full support for the ILEA.
That the above motion be proposed on behalf of Imperial College Union at
the ULU General Union Council.
MOTION ON PIMPS
Proposed by:
Seconded by;
Michael M
e
t men
IAN House
1. Prostitution is the act of being paid for promiscuous sex,
2. A pimp is someone w
h
o solicltes for and/or profits from prostitution.
3. Hard-Core pornography Involves paying adults and children to have sex and
therefore prostitution.
it. R
S
M
U Rugby dub held on the last week of last term an event involving
hard-core pornography In order to raise funds.
ICU Concludes:
1. He can only conclude R
S
M
U Rugby Club are pimps.
2. As R
S
M
U Rugby Club is an integral part of RSMU, as R
S
M
U la an Integral
part of ICU, all members of Imperial College Union are pimps.
ICU Instructs:
1. That copies of this motion be sent to all national newspapers, the local
M.P., the Archbishop of Canterbury, the Prime Minister and all opposition
leaders.
2. That this motion be proposed to the students* Governing Body of the
University of London omitting ICU instructs part 1 and 2.
— - - - ffflf

