MA5TERFIE.CE5
J» fAKAti pAHfElf
Sarah Daniels' new play about the sexes is
little short of brilliant. Aggravating in its
inconclusiveness it raises questions which
are inescapable and persistently recurrent.
Rowena is a happily married woman
zealously going about her job with pardon-
able naivety. Her mother is very happy for
her and would do anything to keep her from
glimpsing the troubled marriage of her
inadequate middle-aged parents. Her close
friend, Yvonne, also has an unhappy
marriage. She cannot relate to her husband
and, catalysed by a stressful career as a \
woman teacher in an all-male comprehensive
school she establishes a frigid wall between
men and herself. Under both these influences
Rowena's view of man is peeled like an onion
before her eyes, her hereditary neurosis
begins to break through and in a fit of anger
she pushes a man who harasses her into the
path of an oncoming car.
Masterpieces forces its audience to be
subjective. One may argue that Rowena's
actions are excusable because she is latently
unbalanced, that her friends are impassive
and impenetrable towards men, that her
husband is immature and demanding. This is
what makes it so disturbing. But each of
these characters have been created, indeed
overcreated in oraer to give every member of
the audience someone to whom they can and
must relate, inescapably, to the play's end.
What separates feminism and feminity in a
supercilivised and over permissive society is
a complete inability for people to communi-
cate at any level. This Miss Daniels makes
perfectly clear. The view, partly promoted
by class, that either sex can exist inde-
pendently of each other presently
emphasised by major advances in medicine is
absurd and nihilistic, but is sustained. The
gap between the sexes is filled by the media
and each must view the other through it.
Masterpieces is sparsely produced and
only competently acted. Some of it is
remarkably funny. Alas it only runs till early
February although I hope it makes an
appearance again in the not distant future.
The playtext (available from Methuen for
about £1) is a cheaper alternative and is
money well spent for any one.
John Burgess
Little Shop of Horrors at the Comedy
Theatre.
Strange things are happening on Skid
Row. There's been a total eclipse of the sun,
and in Mushnik's florist shop, a curious new
plant is starting to grow. And then people
begin disappearing mysteriously
The trouble begins when Seymour the
pathetic unloved dogsbody of Mr Mushnik,
feeds his plant Audrey II with drops of blood.
But Audrey II is a man-eater and only
Seymour has any inkling of Audreyll's
cannibalistic tendencies. For the meantime
life on Skid Row continues as normal.
Mr Mushnik despairs for his decaying
business—soon he'll have to shut up shop
permanently. Seymour has a hopeless
passion for Mushnik's beautiful assistant, the
lisping Audrey, and namesake of the plant.
Audrey, however, has problems of her own.
She's got a shady past; and somewhere
lurking in the background, a real mean
boyfriend who beats^hemp BU'bad she'sloo
afraid to leave him. Later we see her
boyfriend Orin in the leather and chains of his
trade—a truly professional sadist, who gets
his kicks from nitrous oxide. But, as in all
good musicals, all ends well as it always
should.
Little Shop of Horrors is a zany new
musical and warmly recommended to
anyone with a sense of humour and fun. It
boasts an engaging collection of characters,
. supported by an energetic be-bop trio of
supposed truant high school girls. But, best
of the lot, is T H E P L A N T , which just grows
an' grows until it fills the stage; and has a
definite personality all its, own. 'Feed me' it
plaintively whines to the distraught Seymour
one moment, and 'FEED ME' it deafens him
with the next. Who, what, can check its
growth? And if you think its a pure fiction,
stop, and think again. After all, as the brightly
coloured souvenir brochure tells me. The
show first sprung up in New York, spreading
to Los Angeles a year later and now has flung
a tendril across the ocean to London. New
offshoots are sprouting in the form of T-
shirts, records, badges and posters
Claire Moss
THE BIKO
I N Q U E S T
by Jon Blair and Norman Fenton
at the Riverside.
This is the first production at Riverside from
(the) United British Artists, a collection of
established actors and actresses including
Glenda Jackson, John Hurt, Albert Finney
(who appears here) and very recently,
Harold Pinter.
The Biko Inquest is an abridged recon-
struction-of—the 3Q.day trial following the
death of Steve Biko, allegedly from a brain
injury sustained whilst in custody at Port
Elizabeth, South Africa. It is not, as
suggested, a 'courtroom drama'. The pro-
ceedings are relaxed and sedate and those
who seek gavel-happy justices keeping order
over chic swooning juries will not find them
here. Indeed, due to the inescapable
atmosphere inside Riverside, the cast may
find things a lot more sedate than either they
or their audience require.
In fact, short of being highly informative, I
found the play held little to keep my
attention. At present the production is highly
unpolished (it appears some of the cast still
rely heavily on their scripts). The testaments
drag and the cool-headed bureaucratic
dissection of a man's controversial death
becomes monotonous lip-service to estab-
lished facts and frankly, a tedious bore.
The production is to be screened for
C h a n n e l 4, a n d I dare say will
improve before then, appealing more to that
form of medium. In the meantime, I can only
wish U B A success in this and any future
drama at the Riverside. John Burgess
(Below)
Strange goings-on in The Little Shop
Horrors.
Page 6| \ Friday. February 24, 1984
FELIX

