E d i n b u r g h F e s t i v a l
F r i n g e
During the latter part of August and early part of September artists, critics
and audience flock from all over the world to take part in the Edinburgh
Festival. The Festival itself consists of six components. The main interna-
tional arts festival, the much publicised military tattoo, the film festival, jazz
festival and book festival. However, it is the fringe festival that most people
come to see. The fringe provides much freshness, innovation and originality
and has become the largest and most famous aspect of this annual arts
jamboree.
Edinburgh Festival Fringe
The Fru.je consists predominantly of
drama, in all its forms. There are musicals,
mime, children's shows, serious drama,
comedy and the inevitable revues. To many,
it is these revues for which the Fringe is most
famous; Cambridge Footlights has been I
given considerable press coverage, with such
famous performers as Rowan Atkinson.
Other groups also do well with revues; IC
Dramsoc's 1982 Tour—under the name of
Artsux performed The Wire Guided Revue
in the Fringe Club with much success.
However, revues remain one of the most
difficult forms of drama to perform well. After
seeing London University's Midnight Excess |
one critic exclaimed '...there must be O N E
funny revue on The Fringe!' Despite the
difficulties and the bad reviews, half the
medical schools in London can be seen,
bedpans and bad jokes at the ready. Just
don't fall ill during The Fringe!
While many of the revue performers are
hoping to be spotted by the ubiquitous Radio
4 producers who are supposed to roam The
Festival in search of script writers, others set
their sights on one of The Scotsmans' Fringe
Firsts. The Scotsman is a daily newspaper
printed in Edinburgh which reviews most of
the Fringe shows and make 12 awards to the
best productions. These awards guarantee
performances outside Edinburgh, if not
television coverage; many of BBC's' Plays for
Today' gained Fringe Firsts. Last year,
adaptations of novels proved to be the
winning formula with two different
Cambridge groups gaining Firsts, one of
'Metamorphosis' based on a Kafka novel,
and the other 'Circe' based on Ulysses by
James Joyce. Both shows sold out very
rapidly after the announcement of the
awards.
F R I N G E F I R S T S
With only twelve awards, the majority of
groups just hope for a favourable review to
boast both audiences and egos.
FELIX H B H a ^ H R H R H B H !
Most groups expect an audience of about
20 which is not many considering the effort
required to produce a show.
The location of the venues is a major factor
in audience attendance as well as the amount
a group pay for a slot. Two major venues
attract the professionals-the Assembly
rooms, who boasted Shiela Steffal, Tom
Robinson & Radio 4's 'Fundation', and the
Circuit, which made a heavy financial loss
last year. It is these venues which attract the
national press (both have a number of bars
open for most of the day-pure coincidence?)
and hence the coverage. Yet there are a total
of 130 venues, from schools, church halls to
purpose built theatres used by the 494
participating groups.
How To Get Involved
Imperial College has its own connections
with The Fringe through IC Dramatic
Society. Not only does Dramsoc perform
regularly in College—a production of
Brecht's Galileo is being performed in a
fortnight—but, for the past three years, it has
also performed at the Fringe. In 1981
Dramsoc ran its own venue and performed
plays written by College members. In 1982,
under the name Artsux, Dramsoc performed
its own revue and two other shows. Last
year, however, proved to be the most
successful with the society running its own
venue and performing three shows: Between
Time and Timbuktu by Kurt Vonnegut Jr,
What do you say before you say goodbye by
Melody Shahan and a dramatic anthology of
metaphysical verse.
WKWMFriday. February 24. 1984MMMW
Dramsoc's Box Office
D r a m s o c ' s v e n u e , w h i c h they r u n
;
themselves,is situated on the west end of
Princes Street and is called Theatre West
End.By running their own venue,Dramsoc is
able to generate sufficient funds so that its
own shows can occupy prime evening slots
and make use of their own,wide range of
equipment.Running the venue involves
much hard work by members both in
attracting other groups and converting the
bare church hall into a theatre. •
Much of the enjoyment of going to the
Fringe with Dramsoc results from the social
life-from meeting other actors in the Fringe
Club,drinking until 2.00am and seeing some
of the other shows on the Fringe.Also.by
performing alongside professional and semi-
proffesional companies in front of an app-
reciative audiences is a total change from
the usual college atmosphere.For both the
actors and the technical people,the exper-
ience is most rewarding.
Dramsoc are now making detailed plans for
their 1984 Tour and are interested in seeing
anyone-whether actor.directer or anyone
willing to help-as soon as possible.The work
for the Tour starts just after exams with
rehearsals and set building taking place in
London through July and August.The set-up
of the venue starts mid-August with people
travelling to Edinburgh by car and train.The
accomodation is provided by Edinburgh
Universityjboth travel and accomodation is
paid for by individuals. Dramsoc shows run
for either a week or a fortnight.If you are
interested in going on tour then pop up to
the Dramsoc store (above I C U Office,Beit
Quad) any lunchtime.
The Edinburgh Festival-and Dramsoc's
Tour-provide a unique opportunity to see
and experience the world's biggest arts fest-
| ival.lt is an opportunity not to be missed.

