Hope you went to the Hustings U G M
yesterday. Monday is voting day and you
must have your IC Unioncard to vote. Results.
U G M is on Tuesday at 1:00pm in Chem L T B.
That night is the Results Barnight in the
Union Bar from 7:00pm onwards.
Finally, the Inter-CCU swimming gala is
on Thursday 1 March in the Sports
Centre—so come along and watch R C S U
smash the untermensch of the other CCUs.
PS: Don't forget to vote and put your
deposits down for the Amsterdam Trip
(postdated cheques accepted).
Well the Rag Mag trip made £257, thanks to
everyone who turned out.
On Thursday 1 March there is the inter-
C C U swimming gala. Anyone interested in
swimming for Guilds come and sign your
name in the Guilds Office. It starts at 5:30pm
on Thursday so all supporters will be
welcome.
On Monday 5 March we have a theatre trip
to see You Can't Take It With You at the
National Theatre. Tickets are £4.50 reduced
from £10—there are only 20 tickets so hurry
and sign your name in the Guilds Office—
please bring a cheque as well.
Sponsors are needed, as well as people to
take part, for a sponsored Firkin Pub Trip.
We visit six Firkin pubs, you sponsor us per
pub, and try and guess the total mileage—if
you guess correct you get 5% of the takings.
All proceeds go to Rag. Anyone interested in
taking part should sign their name in the
Guilds Office.
Finally we are still running a Table Football
Competition so hurry and put your name on
the chart in the Guilds Office.
After the hopefully completely zero response
to the R S M 'day of inaction' yesterday, we
are doing something very positive
tomorrow—a street collection for Rag in the
form of the ' R S M Mass Busk'. Yes, we are
going to entertain all those lucky Londoners
with our varied talents and collect something
to boost the Rag total this year. The pewter
pot in the Union Bar for the highest collector
of the year is also still up for grabs. Everyone
is welcome to come along and help us do our
bit, meet at R S M at 9:30am tomorrow. On
Sunday it is the annual mining colleges rugby
sevens at Nottingham. We shall also be
fielding a soccer 6 and a squash team. The
, usual rowdy supporters will be there yelling
away and selling Rag Mags. Coaches leave
R S M at 8-9am. Be there!
F a i x n n m i H H H n M i
Clubs
Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Programme
At the Education Forum meeting last week it
became obvious that very few students know
about the U R O P scheme.
This is a College-wide scheme which allows
undergraduates to participate in research
either in their own or a different department.
Participation is the name of the game; it is not
a formal project-type activity with an
examination at the end of it. You are free to
join or opt out at any time—it is up to you,
since you will be working in your own time.
To get into the scheme you should get hold
of the U R O P Directory, which is available in
your departmental office, or else from Prof J
C Anderson, Room 714, Elec Eng. The
Directory lists the names of staff members
offering to take U R O P students and briefly
describes their field of research. The idea is
that you choose something that looks
interesting and go and chat up the member of
staff. If you take to each other you're in!
The amount of time you spend on your
research is your affair, but the more you put
in the more you get out of it. The first reaction
is always T hardly have time to keep up with
the course, never mind anything else'. Past
U R O P students will tell you it's surprising
how much spare time you find you've got,
once you get involved and interested.
Quite a few U R O P research programmes
llead on to a summer job and we have
lorganised matters so that you can be paid a
.bursary during the summer vacation to
Icontinue working on your research. This does
inot attract any tax or other deductions, but
won't make you rich! The money has to be
found by your supervisor, but if he's keen to
jhave you he will usually find a way of raising
I the necessary. There is a (very) small amount
I of central funding to help out and we've had a
Tew bursaries from the Nuffield Foundation.
I One thing that emerged from the discus-
sion at the Education Forum was that U R O P
programme in the second year can give you a
'flying start for your official, formal project in
ithe third year. But 'the main thing was the
jtremendous satisfaction and enjoyment that
the active students had got out of participa-
tion.
Since our Directory is getting a little long in
the tooth, we propose to run U R O P small ads
in F E L I X each week to up-date information
on the research programmes currently
accepting students.
J C Anderson
T h i s House Believes:
I m p e r i a l C o l l e g e
N o t N e e d k !!
D o e s
A topical debate featuring
Marc-Henri Glendening
Vice Chair,Fed. Cometvatire
Students
And
J.Martin Taylor
Former IC External Affairs
Officer
Jane Taylor
\al Sec.XCS, XVS
Presidential Candidate
and
Philip Nathan
Former Chairman IC
Liberal Club
Chem. Eng LT2
Tuesday
28th February
at 1.00pm
A L L W E L C O M E
Wine Tasting
Next Tuesday's tasting will be wines from the
Loire Valley. This region stretches for six
hundred miles westwards from Nantes, and
within it there are wide variations of climate,
soil and production methods. The wines are
mainly white, light and have a pronounced
and refreshing acidity. One of the best known
Loire wines is Muscadet from Seure-et-
Maine, a soft, very dry wine. Also from the
Loire are the sparkling wines of Vouvray and
Saumur, as well as the pale and piquant wines
of Sancerre and Ponilly-Fume. The tasting
will be given by Oddbins, and it should be
good!
WMWBWmFrlday, February 24, 1984WMWM
MAD MARCH II
The Carnival
If you've had the courage to get within
reading range of the orange posters currently
lying around College you will realise that
there is to be a Carnival next Friday 2 March.
Rather imaginatively titled Mad March 2 this
promises to be one of the best carnivals for
several years.
The main attraction (no, not the late bar!)
is not one, not two, but FIVE of the best
new(ish) bands around at the moment.
Ranging from John Peel favourites The
Orson Family through to Cook da Books one
of Liverpool's best new pop groups this is one
of the best line-ups seen anywhere in London
for quite a while. For a rather more detailed
preview of the bands see the F E L I X music
page next week.
In addition to this there is an alternative
cabaret including John Hegley and the
'Popticians' writers of some truly wonderful
songs about spectacles! There is also a steel
band, Jazz in the Lower Lounge and two
separate discos. One of these discos will
continue well into the not-so-early hours and
for those feeling slightly less energetic films'
will be shown all night. Hopefully, the
provision of toast and free coffee should
enable you to keep going and stagger out into
the morning. Tickets are available at £4 from
the Union Office and appointed salesmen and
£4.50 on the door.
Incidentally for those of you who are
interested in a spot of drinking the bar will be
open until 2:00 and the event is in the middle
of the cheap-price promotion week.

