Founded in 1949 The Newspaper of Imperial College Union
JAMES DEENY GOES SW
Theft in Lexham
Gardens
A thief ransacked three rooms in the basement of 48 Lexham
Gardens, a College head tenancy, last Friday. A large carving
knife which was removed from one flat andfound in another, may
have been used to force the other doors or even as a potential
weapon.
Two of the rooms (occupied by M r J . Martin Taylor, I C U External
Affairs Officer, and M r Tom Owen, R C S Academic Affairs Officer)
were unwisely left with only a small Yale top lock to secure them, the
stronger Chubb bottom locks being left off. These doors were easily
forced and access to a third room was gained via a window. The thief
quickly looked through the contents of the rooms and took money from
electricity meters as well as any loose change that was lying around.
Residents returned to the basement soon after midday Friday and
discovered the three open doors. A fourth room which had been
securely locked was undisturbed. The police were notified and in the
evening detectives looked for finger prints and took short statements.
The thief has not yet been apprehended and residents are advised to
double lock their doors whenever they leave the premises.
RCSU Bolt
With Spanner
A T A P P R O X I M A T E L Y 1:45pm yesterday a team of 20 R C S U
students successfuly violated Spanner and Bolt, the mascots of City and
Guilds College Union.
A raid was carefully planned, centring on yesterday's Guilds U G M .
The plan suffered numerous setbacks but eventually succeeded owing
to the initiative of the team members.
The house where the two mascots were kept was located and two
R C S U members approached the door in the guise of Council
workmen. By some means they managed to gain access and, with a
further group following them, kidnapped both mascots.
Spanner and Bolt were taken away to a secret destination,
somewhere in the U K .
It was revealed earlier this
Scottish first year physicist,
Wednesday afternoon.
His action was prompted by
finding his long lost swimming
trunks amongst his home beer-
making kit last Saturday.
M r Deeny was reported to
have said that although the water
was a little cold he found the
exercise both refreshing and
invigorating. H e encouraged
other IC students to make more
use of the marvellous Olympic
sized swimming pool, but not on
Mondays and Wednesdays.
M r Deeny expressed his
intention to swim twice a week
on a regular basis as part of his
keep fit campaign. His campaign
was heralded last weekend with a
walking trip in Dorset. As well as
giving up smoking, M r Deeny
expressed a desire to generally
live a more "healthy and ful-
filling life from now on," and
get "that old twinkle" back in his
eye.
week that Mr James Deeny, a
went swimming on Monday and
An exclusive picture of
Mr James Deeny.
But perhaps this drive will
prove too much for M r Deeny
who was seen downing a few on
Wednesday night in the South-
side Bar and dozing during Thur-
sday morning lectures.
Above, the recently completed Southside Bar which opened last Thursday
evening. With a few minor changes to complete, the bar is now in full use and is
often visited by Mr James Deeny himself.
N o . 6 0 4 Friday, F e b r u a r y 5,1982 Free!

