.—y / iM&/2jlfT0 ' n w n i c n n e
clearly hears orchest
The Hypochondriac by Moliere. Trans-
lated by Alan Drury. Directed by Michael
Bogdanov. The Olivier, National Theatre.
"Oh, the powers of nature! She knows what
we need, and the doctors know nothing."
Benvenuto Cellini, Autobiograpy (1558-66)
"Doctors cut, turn, and torture the sick, and
then demand of them an undeserved fee for
such services."
Heraclitus (c 500BC)
Moliere would doubtlessly have nodded with
mocked approval at these words. He was
obsessed with illness, medicines and doctors
all his life, and no less than six of his plays are
comic but biting attacks on the medical
profession.
The incomparable Daniel Massey plays the
totally self-absorbed hypochondriac, Argan, in
Moliere's play Le Malade Imaginaire, otherwise
known as The Hypochondriac. Argan draws
comfort in his pitiful life from only two sources:
his loving wife and enemas (liquid medicines
injected into the rectum). In between hurried
shuffles to the toilet catalysed by ingesting his
beloved medicines he tries to marry off his
daughter (played by Emily Morgan who also
plays her very young sister in a truly comic and
unforgettable way) to a doctor. With Michael
Bogdanov directing in his typically exuberant
style, the result is a hilarious and delightful
evening of buffoonery.
The Hypochondriac, like all Moliere's plays,
is based on the Italian Commedia delVArte, a
form of rough, improvised theatre abounding
in earthy humour and bursting with vitality. It
is an art-form that is currently enjoying a great
popular revival and it is one that 1 personally
have taken a great liking to. The National
Theatre production retains these elements
which materialise in the form of revels,
masques, street plays, acrobatic displays and
song and dance. The Commedia delFArte
consists of popular 'stock' characters and I
was surprised to discover that Moliere took as
his model (he himself acted in his plays) the
character of Scaramouche who clownishly
personifies a cowardly braggart. Scaramouche!
Now there's an interesting aside! Are we not
forced to the inevitable conclusion that the
FELIX puzzle-setter with his self-adopted pen-
name Scaramouche, is no more than a self-
confessed cowardly braggart, so cowardly he
has to conceal his identity under this
pseudonym?
The Hyprochondriac must be one of the
most enjoyable plays currently on stage in Lon-
don. However, it is unfortunately coming to a
close and its last four performances are on
February 15, 16 and 17 (matinee and evening). I
am very tempted to go again—something I very
rarely do.
Nick Bedding
Good by CP. Taylor directed by Howard
Davies. The Royal Shakespeare Company
at the Warehouse.
This is the first time I had been to The
Warehouse and I was somewhat overawed (or
perhaps the word should be 'underawed') by
its interior, and coming in with only a few
moments to spare meant that I wasn't paying
the attention I should when the play began.
The small theatre occupies the loft of an old
building and the overall appearance is one of
shabbiness and temporariness, but it does
possess a rather likeable intimacy. The
Warehouse is the R S C ' s experimental
platform, and such current successes as
Educating Rita began life here.
C P . Taylor, author of Good, unfortunately
died at a tragically early age only a few weeks
back, just when his work was achieving
national recognition. Good is a mature and
intelligent play about a 'good' man, a lecturer
in German Literature, who gets caught up in
the maelstrom of the Third Reich and
eventually becomes its turning force. This
character, Haider, is played with commanding
presence by Alan Howard, who has just won
The Standard Award for Best Actor for his
performance in the play. Haider unintentionally
becomes involved with the forerunner of the
Nazi party and although he vaguely perceives
in the distance the injustices and horrors Nazi
policy is leading to, his immediate personal
problems are of more importance to him. His
Jewish friend tries to awaken him, but to no
avail. Haider suffers from a mental disturbance
in which he clearly hears orchestral music in
moments of personal drama. This is a clever
device employed by Taylor to add lighter
touches to the play, the actors bursting into
song now and again to the accompaniment of a
trio, but I did feel slightly uneasy about this at
times; the subject upon which the play is based
is of the type that demands a finely tuned
balance between humour and d r a m a .
Unaware of the maelstrom inexorably pulling
him towards its centre, Haider is only
conscious of the people and the problems
immediately around him.
The play is based on documentary material,
including unpublished transcripts of interviews
with SS officers who played an important part
in administering the Nazi concentration
camps. But above all the play is a work of
imagination and of the present day; of people
not having the time, the foresight or inclination
to appreciate where world events are leading
and by their very inaction bring about the
arrival of horrendous situations which those
world events foreshadowed. Hitler said in
c o n n e c t i o n with the Jews " t h e art of
leadership....consists in consolidating the
attention of the people against a single
adversary and taking care that nothing will
split up that attention." This 'art of leadership'
is again being practised today, but this time
across the Atlantic
Good has been a sell-out success since it
opened last September but discussions are
underway about a possible further London life
for the production at the end of the
Warehouse session in March, followed by a
season in Broadway.
Nick Bedding
The Battle for the Labour Party by David
and Maurice Kogan, Fontana, £1.75, 151
pages.
This book is about the activities of the left
wing groups in the Labour Party. It takes a
fairly objective approach, it's not the sort of
book Denis Healey might write, but it's clearly
sympathetic to the right of the Labour Party, it
concentrates on what's happened between
1979 and the end of 1981, with a little
background material about dissent in the
Labour Party since 1900. The organisations
described in the most details are the Campaign
for Labour Party Democracy (which pressed
for the constitutional reforms) and later the
Rank and File Mobilising Committee (which
supported Tony Benn's election campaign.
The RFMC recently appears to have been
superseded by 'Labour Liason '82').
If you think that that paragraph was boring
then you aren't going to like the book, which is
written like a textbook. It's a pity about the
style because the subject matter is important,
so long as there's still a chance of Labour
forming a future government. The book makes
it clear that the left are much better organised
and more intelligent in the way they persue
their aims than the right wing of the party. But
you can see this already from the big changes
the leftist groups have accomplished in the last
few years (compulsory reselection, the
electoral college, the SDP). More interesting
are the descriptions of exactly hou; the
activists go about getting support for their
aims. They depend on the fact that local
parties are always controlled in practice by a
small number of people who bother to turn up
to meetings and stand for committees (just like
ICU). "The C L P D bombarded every constitu-
ency with campaigning material which
included the standard resolutions to be
proposed at that year's conference." So at a
conference, forty or fifty constituency parties
might all propose the same resolution (skillfully
drafted for them by the CLPD) giving the
impression of enormous popular pressure for
constitutional change. There's nothing
underhand about such tactics of course, and
the book emphasises that the left are generally
careful to follow constitutional methods.
The book also deals with the deputy
leadership campaigns, involving the Rank and
File Mobilising Committee (partly Trotskyist,
the Kogans say) and its backing for Tony
Benn. Then there's fourteen pages or so about
Ken Livinstone and the G L C , then the last
chapter which is a mildly pretentious and
boring discussion of the 'theoretical' basis for
the left's campaigns. The authors are better at
reporting and describing events than they are
at getting at the reasons why they happen and
the postcript, added a few months after the
main text was finished, is one of the most
interesting parts of the book. They recount
how the parliamentary party is becoming more
left wing: "Of 25 MPs retiring, 17 had voted for
Healey and were replaced by candidates of the
outside or inside left." It looks like a race
between the activists and the SDP to se who
can finish off the Labour Party first. On the
whole, 'The Battle for the Labour Party' is a
reasonably interesting but not very well written
book.
N. Willson
FELIX, February 5, 1982 Page 7

