FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
12
Fairtrade: the lowdown befo
What is Fairtrade?
ow many of you drink
coﬀee or tea to get you
started in the morn-
ing? Or sneak a ba-
nana/bar of chocolate
to get through afternoon lectures?
How many of you wear clothes to
uni? hroughout our daily life we reap
the beneﬁts of consuming all manner
of products made using cash crops
– most originating in developing na-
tions. Crops such as cotton from In-
dia or Brazil, coﬀee from Ethiopia or
Colombia or bananas from innumer-
able Caribbean and South American
countries. And yet, many of those in-
volved in the production process re-
main in poverty, strong-armed by the
power and resources of multinational
corporations they work for or com-
pete with.
Ethical consumerism is not a new
phenomenon; increasing numbers
of people are willing to pay more for
everyday items in the knowledge that
they were produced without harming
anything. Some even boycott com-
panies due to unsavoury practices,
leading many to use Corporate Social
Responsibility as another marketing
tool. On a less cynical note, there have
long been organisations and business
movements that have aimed to pro-
vide a good service without compro-
mising on ethics.
More recently, the trend in ethical
consumerism has tended away from
simple charity to promoting initia-
tives aimed at developing infrastruc-
ture or economy in a morally sound
manner in order to provide a tangible,
long term contribution. However,
most of these eﬀorts – such as those
backed by the Rainforest Alliance or
Soil Association – are centred on ef-
ﬁcient resource consumption such
as energy eﬃcient practices or sus-
tainable agricultural methods. his
protects the land, but does not neces-
sarily include the people aﬀected by
these issues within their outlook. his
is where Fairtrade comes in.
he Fairtrade mark is slowly be-
coming recognised the world over.
he bright blue and green swirls co-
cooning the triumphant stickman is
the stamp that conﬁrms that a prod-
uct has been bought while adhering
to Fairtrade standards (see below).
hese standards cover a vast array of
categories all intended to empower
workers to have more control over
their conditions of employ, such as:
• All produce must be sold at a min-
imum price required for workers to
earn above the minimum wage limit.
• Working conditions are safe and
equitable for everyone including pro-
vision of adequate health and safety
and the right to join independent
trade unions to ensure their rights are
always supported.
• Crops are grown in a sustainable
manner and without use of certain
chemicals that could cause damage if
released.
In practice, this means that farm-
ers form co-operative organisations
to collectively barter with buyers, al-
lowing them to negotiate from a posi-
tion of strength and increase the price
at which they sell goods well above
the minimum. his protects farm-
ers from market crashes elsewhere in
the world, and gives them access to
more resources from which they can
increase both the quality and quantity
of their produce. In addition, the Fair-
trade premium takes a small percent-
age of the price you pay and places it
into a community fund. From here,
the co-operatives can vote where the
money is spent. his could be roads,
schools, water, or anything else re-
quiring investment.
So how did Fairtrade become as big
as it is now? he ﬁrst Fairtrade or-
ganisation was set up in 1987 in the
Netherlands under the name ‘Max
Havelaar’ and focussed on supporting
Mexican coﬀee growers. From this,
the movement spread, and slowly
across Europe similar organisations
sprouted with the UK’s Fairtrade
Foundation being in 1992. However
still they were very independent and
it took a further ﬁve years before the
Fairtrade Labelling Organisation was
created so as to “unite the labelling
initiatives under one umbrella and es-
tablish worldwide standards and cer-
tiﬁcation.” From here, the movement
has ﬂourished and evolved beyond
just food and textiles. You can now
pamper your loved ones with Fair-
trade cosmetics, as sold by Lush (who
will be visiting us during Fairtrade
Fortnight) and wear Fairtrade jewel-
lery made from Fairtrade gold. Believe
it or not, you can even have Fairtrade
sex using Fairtrade condoms!
Slowly the Fairtrade certiﬁcation
process is moving towards certifying
entire companies as Fairtrade rather
than focussing on solitary products
– something that has been helped by
companies such as Cadbury’s and Ben
& Jerry’s committing to achieve Fair-
trade status. his means that all prod-
ucts made by a Fairtrade company
contain 100% Fairtrade materials. In
addition, towns and universities (in-
cluding our very own Imperial Col-
lege) are also earning the right to call
themselves ‘Fairtrade’ by virtue of the
suppliers they use. here still remains
a way to go in the quest to reduce
wealth disparity in the world, but by
going Fairtrade we choose to use a fair
system making us one step closer to
eradicating poverty.
Aditya Narayanan fills you in on what Fairtrade entails
H

