FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
ore Fairtrade fortnight
mperial is one of only a few
universities in the U.K with
its own student led Fairtrade
society. Back in 2007 Imperial
became one of the ﬁrst univer-
sities to gain Fairtrade university status
showing a clear demonstration of stu-
dent support for ethics in the trade sys-
tem. Meeting the goals for this involved
setting up a Fairtrade policy within the
university, ensuring Fairtrade products
are available at all outlets and events,
setting up a Fairtrade steering group
with representatives from across the
college to inﬂuence change and run-
ning events aimed at raising awareness
through the university. I hope you see
where we ﬁt in!
Although the status was lost many
years ago, this year we have reclaimed
it and as a society we are working hard
to ensure that we do not lose it again!
In the past we have been involved in
the steering group, achieving Fairtrade
status and a push to get Fairtrade prod-
ucts into the union shops. he impe-
rial catering department is especially
supportive in our activities providing
much of what we need for our events.
We are eternally grateful to them for
this.
Year on year ICU Fairtrade has had
a growing member base and our pres-
ence is being felt more strongly as time
passes, we hope you too have felt this.
Although we aim to spread events
across the year, the main focus of our
campaign lies in the next 2 weeks, Fair-
trade Fortnight, where we make sure
that all of you know everything that we
are all about.
Last year many of you may remem-
ber the ambitious plans to hold an
event on every single day for the whole
two weeks. hrough the gruelling ef-
forts of a committed team, Fairtrade
fortnight 2012 was an incredible suc-
cess and will stick in the memories of
everyone involved. his year however,
we take a diﬀerent tack: focusing spe-
ciﬁcally on quality rather than quantity,
learning through our past experiences
of what works (see www.icufairtrade.
org.uk/private/wiki) and adding some
new variations. We are also spreading
eﬀorts wider that before by collaborat-
ing with as many other societies as pos-
sible to get everybody involved. With
all of our eﬀorts, we hope to pull oﬀ the
best Fairtrade fortnight yet!
• Ben & Jerry’s all you can eat ice-
cream nights are pretty self-explanato-
ry so I wont talk too much on that as-
We go to a Fairtrade university
I
pect. his time however, to spice things
up, the debating society is using the
event as a platform for a live debate on
Fairtrade to kick oﬀ our events.
• Next, I’m sure many of you have
enquired into the thrill of knitting but
have never actually picked up a set of
needles. Join us in the SAF where Knit
Sock will show you how to knit the
range of winter wear shown in their re-
cent centrefold!
• Cosmetics company LUSH is kindly
coming in to show us how Fairtrade in-
ﬂuences their products and they will
give a short beauty class so you can see
exactly what goes into what you buy!
• he Political Philosophy Society has
set up a future trade conference where
speakers will talk about the current and
future structure of trade and how Fair-
trade relates to that.
• Divine are sending us some genu-
ine cocoa farmers to give a short talk
while we sample FREE chocolate! his
is combined with a ﬁne selection of
Fairtrade teas, courtesy of Teasoc.
• To top things oﬀ, our grand ﬁnale:
the Cheese and (Fairtrade) Wine night
with the standard raffle and quiz, only
this time, the event is kindly hosted in
BaRCM with live music performed by
students of the Royal College of Music!
All in all, a good opportunity to enjoy
a sophisticated environment with com-
plete with non-Imperial students.
I hope you are looking forward to
the next two weeks as much as we are.
Please do get involved, you may even
win a 1kg bar of Fairtrade chocolate
just for doing so! We will be selling Fair-
Nicholas Greenwood gets you ready for the week ahead
trade ICU Fairtrade society T-shirts
over the coming weeks which can be
purchased from the union website.
Finally, a special thanks to our spon-
sors who provide us with many of the
essentials ingredients for our events:
Divine chocolate, Peros, Epona cloth-
ing, qi teas, cafe direct and LUSH.

