CLUBS & SOCIETIES felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
14
Keep calm and discover Islam
here seems to be a ‘KEEP CALM….’ slogan
for every situation including ‘KEEP CALM
IT’S ONLY THE OLYMPICS’. But here’s one
you may not have thought of, ‘KEEP CALM
AND DISCOVER ISLAM’, perhaps because
mainstream media has done such an eﬀective job in por-
traying that word ‘Islam’ with terrorsism…‘Islamism’...
radicalism…list goes on. But just how much do you really
know about it? here are loads of misconceptions and
Discover Islam Week aims to address them.
Questions that you probably won’t see in your exam
paper during your scientiﬁc degree include questions
such as why are we here. What is the meaning of life? Is
there a ‘purpose’ to life and if so what is it? It’s easy to let
these questions sit at the back of our mind and to not re-
ﬂect on them because our routine makes it easy to do so.
DIW is an opportunity for everyone on campus to take
a step back from the work, challenge the way you think
and to ﬁnd out more about a religion followed by over a
billion people.
he coming week and today marks the start of Discover
Islam Week 2013, the annual project organised by the Is-
lamic Society. here are events every day kicking oﬀ with
today’s talk, which is by a former priest at the Vatican
who will be speaking on ‘Jesus, Moses and Muhammad:
Brothers in Faith’ at 6.30pm. Tuesday’s event hosts a pan-
el discussing their reasons for becoming Muslim, includ-
ing former MTV presenter, Kristiane Backer. ‘Great Brit-
ish Islam’ is on Wednesday afternoon, which includes a
short documentary on Britain’s Islamic history. Wasim
Kempson will be speaking about the Prophet Muham-
mad (peace be apon him) on hursday, addressing why
Muhammad is a true inspiration for every Muslim. DIW
ends with an informal and relaxed dinner on Friday with
some light entertainment.
So whether you’re an undergrad, postgrad, male, fe-
male, of faith or not of faith, join us for any of the days
or just pop by the exhibitions on Monday and hursday
in SAF for a bite to eat and a wander round, we look for-
ward to seeing you there!!
T
Islam Society warmly invite you to their week of events

