Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
College are Acton up
alls in North Acton
is a terrible idea and
should be immediately
reversed. It’s a terrible
idea. Evelyn Gardens
are the way forward for now until you
find a better alternative to North Acton.
In an ideal world Evelyn Gardens would
be kept on as halls for the foreseeable
future. If there needs some redoing on
the inside, then that is something that
needs to be done. Some are better than
others. In particular, I remember Wil-
lis Jackson basically being fine. I really
enjoyed it and didn’t for a minute think
it was not a pleasant place to be. Stu-
dents want halls that are near by, not
too expensive, obviously not run down
but they don’t need to be a palace.
This is what students want from halls:
a bed, wardrobe, access to a shower
near by, washing and drying machine
for clothes, a kitchen, and to be near
campus. That’s it. Luxury and every-
thing else is nice, but students would
rather be close in a less well furnished
halls that is affordable, then further
away in a better furnished halls. That’s
the too long didn’t read summary, and I
thought I’d put it up at the front.
Unfortunately,theNorthActondevel-
opment looks pretty close to being set
in stone. We own it now, and it would be
hard to back out. If College were willing
to, I would shave my head. (Wait, hang
on, if they do I can back out right!? If
your reading this Sir Keith, I would hate
to shave my head, so maybe you can
reverse it just out of spite towards me?)
So what can be done to make things
right? A great, and difficult, question.
Well, perhaps we could become land-
lords to other students? Particularly
those whom the development is more
suitable to? Perhaps we could turn
them into apartments for young pro-
fessionals and rent them out? That
way Imperial won’t lose money, and a
new commercial interest would be de-
veloped for the College. Don’t know if
any other universities do this, or if this
is even a possibility. Maybe it sounds
like a daft idea, but why not? Loads of
companies own space and rent it out.
Why couldn’t Imperial. Could be a nice
alternative stream of income to the ail-
ing HEFCE money.
What definitely isn’t set in stone is
Evelyn Gardens and Garden Hall. We
should stall for as long as we can to try
to extend the lease.
Now, unless their heads have all been
collectively in the sand, they will have
heard the opposition to North Acton
from the Union during the discussions,
and, soon enough, after taking one
look at this paper, will see the opposi-
tion from students. It’s amazing to see
so many students speaking up and
speaking out about this; a big factor
COMMENT #AgainstActon ARTS
Paragon nightmare Show your support Actually vintage
Comment have pumped out a
whole 8 pages of stuff. Every-
thing from banking to Sri Lanka
to memes. The number of pag-
es isn’t TOO DAMN HIGH.
Fresher in halls? Take this
out and stick it on your
window. You get to see
the centrefold from your
side!
Forget pretentious people
with their Instagrammed, Fa-
cebooked photos taken from
their iPhone, this is some old
school photography.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>>18 >>27 >>38
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon
Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor
Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy
Editors Thomas Lim Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen, Aaniya Ahmed Correction Last week, in a news article entitled “Student in final of BP Ultimate Field Trip” it was incorrectly stated that the students would
visit and oil rig. Felix apologises for this error.
H
for this being incredible to see is that
it is a decision that won’t affect current
students, and so I am genuinely incred-
ibly excited that so many are actively
speaking out against something to
stand up for other people (in this case
freshers who have not yet arrived).
Now to explain the main reasons for
being as against as possible to human-
ly be to the North Acton move. This is
as detailed as I can be in the space pro-
vided.
The distance to South Kensington
is way too far for freshers. This really
is the headline concern. It’s possible
to write a very lengthy piece on just
this. It’s going to be about 40 minutes
each way (I’m being generous). I don’t
know about you, but in your first year
especially that feels very far away. It’s
enough to make you not want to bother
with lectures. It’s enough to make it
really annoying getting home after a
long night in the Library/on campus. It
is close to the new campus, which is
being built, but, as Paul so beautifully
put it, there aren’t going to be any un-
dergraduates using that new campus.
North Acton is just too far to travel eve-
ryday to and from campus. You want
halls to be close and essentially a crash
pad near campus. You want to be able
tocomebackafteranightoutandsleep
off the hangover while still being able to
get in for lectures. When you’re working
late in the Library, you don’t want a long
ordeal to get home. You want to be able
to get back soon.
The price, once you include travel
costs, will still in all likelihood be more
expensive than just getting a house in
Fulham (like most second/third years
do Lillie Road/Ongar Road anybody
– come on, everyone knows some-
one who has lived in that eight person
house). Besides, whom would they get
a house with and when would they get
timetohuntandgetone–justtwocon-
cerns with that. Even if private accom-
modation were an option, halls is a spe-
cial and unique opportunity to embrace
university life, make friends, enjoy your
youth, and have a great student experi-
ence (I believe that is the catchphrase
everyone uses nowadays). Saying it is
in a price band is intentionally mislead-
ing. If I said I am going to charge you
between 50p and £50 for a bottle of
orange juice, you agreed, and then I
charged you £45 you would rightfully
say you’re being duped into accepting a
bad deal. While we talk about the price,
it is worth mentioning students want
cheaper halls near campus. They do
not care much about furnishings. Be-
ing near campus and in halls that isn’t
grotty is enough.
Evelyn Gardens will likely be closed
and turned into something else. This is
a travesty as these halls were amazing.
I lived in Willis Jackson, and my older
sister also lived in EG. They were both
great halls that the vast majority of peo-
ple look back on with fondness.
Another thing that is very annoying
in all of this is the lack of honesty and
openness from College. Due to it being
commercially sensitive, nobody that
knew were allowed to say anything
to anyone (least of all say anything to
Felix). I do not blame them for not leak-
ing as they would have been breaking
trust and confidentiality agreements;
it would not have been hard to iden-
tify the source of the leak. Yes, it would
have been a great, bold move to do
so. It would have allowed students to
be fully informed of everything before
College Council had made a decision.
Then everyone would have been able
to show their dissatisfaction early on.
The fact that they had silenced eve-
ryone until now, when the decision is
further along the line, is a very cynical
move indeed. It means they can’t see
the student reaction before the deci-
sion is made. This allows them to tell
students that students were consulted
before they properly consult students.
I would like to end by saying that I re-
ally must commend Paul for his efforts
behind the scenes on this. Him (and the
Union) have really fought the corner on
thisone.Nowgetoutthereandgetyour
views heard!

