COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
Visakan
Balakumar
The Execution of a 12-Year-Old Boy
It is vital that the international community acknowledge the reali-
ties of the war in Sri Lanka, argues Visakan Balakumar
t is a war that has produced
some of humanity’s most
shocking and depraved imag-
es. But the new photographic
evidence, released by Channel
4 News last Monday, is perhaps the
most disturbing yet. he ﬁrst photo
shows Balachandran Prabakaran, the
12-year-old son of a Tamil Tiger, being
held captive by the Sri Lankan army
and looking up anxiously from a for-
tiﬁed bunker. A second photo shows
him nervously eating a snack, whilst
being watched by a government sol-
dier. Less than two hours later, he will
be taken, executed at gun point – and
then photographed a third time.
he third photo taken of Balachan-
dran shows the 12-year-old collapsed
on the ground with ﬁve bullet holes
in his chest. Digital image analysis
points to the fact that all three photos
were taken with the same camera. A
separate piece of video footage places
the child’s corpse lying alongside the
bodies of ﬁve dead male LTTE cadres.
his too, appears to have been a war
trophy ﬁlmed by government soldiers
and shows the dead men, presumably
Balachandran’s bodyguards, as having
been stripped, bound, blindfolded and
then shot in the head.
“he new photographs are enor-
mously important evidentially be-
cause they appear to rule out any sug-
gestion that Balachandran was killed
in cross-ﬁre or during a battle. hey
show he was held, and even given a
snack, before being taken and execut-
ed in cold blood,” claimed the ﬁlm’s di-
rector, Callum Macrae. “It is diﬃcult
to imagine the psychology of an army
in which the calculated execution of
a child can be allowed with apparent
impunity. hat these events were also
photographed and kept as war tro-
phies by the perpetrators is even more
disturbing… With every month that
passes, the evidence of systematic exe-
cution of prisoners grows. he pattern
of apparent sexual violence against
female ﬁghters is disturbing in the ex-
treme.” Most of the LTTE leadership,
including the 12-year-old’s father and
leader of the LTTE, Vellupillai Praba-
karan, were killed by the Sri Lankan
armed forces as they advanced on re-
bel territory. he Sri Lankan military
stands accused of a long list of war
crimes and crimes against humanity,
including shooting LTTE members as
they tried to surrender.
hese photos are the latest in a series
of ‘trophy’ images and videos taken by
Sri Lankan army personnel to have
found their way oﬀ the island, includ-
ing bound and blindfolded men being
summarily executed and naked bodies
of female combatants being sexually
assaulted. hey are part of the new
evidence, due to be shown as part of
the forthcoming documentary No Fire
Zone: he Killing Fields of Sri Lanka.
he feature-length documentary will
be screened at the Geneva Human
Rights ﬁlm festival. No Fire Zone, the
culmination of a series of three ﬁlms,
documents the war crimes committed
by both sides in the ﬁnal stages of the
armed conﬂict in Sri Lanka.
he conﬂict has its roots in decades
of violent oppression and state terror-
ism unleashed upon the Tamil nation
in the Northeast of the island, by suc-
cessive Sri Lankan governments that
were democratically voted in by the
numerically greater Sinhalese com-
munity, concentrated in the south.
Liberal Democrats deputy leader, Si-
mon Hughes, echoed the sentiments
of a majority of Tamil people when he
declared that the ongoing ethnic strife
was “unarguably a genocide”. It was
out of this struggle, for the right of Ta-
mil people to exist, that the Liberation
Tigers of Tamil Eelam (or LTTE) were
formed and began to wage an armed
war in order to create a separate state,
Tamil Eelam, in the Northeast of is-
land. he return to sovereignty for
the Tamil nation, which had existed as
an independent entity until the entire
island was brought under a single ad-
ministration in colonial times, enjoyed
overwhelming endorsement by demo-
cratic means with a Tamil separatist
party winning an unprecedented 80%
of seats in Tamil areas of the island
in the 1977 Sri Lankan parliamentary
elections.
he documentary follows on from
the “Petrie Report”, the UN’s own
damning internal report released in
November last year. he report criti-
cised the UN leadership, UN Secu-
rity Council and top UN oﬃcials in
Sri Lanka. here was “a grave failure
of the UN to adequately respond to
early warnings and to the evolving
situation during the ﬁnal stages of the
conﬂict and its aftermath, to the det-
riment of hundreds of thousands of
civilians and in contradiction with the
principles and responsibilities of the
UN,” one extract from the report read.
While the Sri Lankan government has
staunchly and repeatedly refused any
kind of independent mechanism in-
vestigating the ﬁnal months of the war,
the UN estimated in 2011 that at least
40 000 Tamil civilians were killed. his
estimate has since increased.
he report stated that “a large ma-
jority of the civilian casualties re-
corded by the UN had reportedly
been caused by Government ﬁre, but
the UN did not present this data”. It
went on to say that “the UN was plac-
ing primary emphasis on LTTE re-
sponsibility when the facts suggested
otherwise.” One may wonder how the
Sri Lankan government would have
reacted had the UN reported these
ﬁgures, and as a result, there had been
a high level of pressure on the regime
from the international community. It
is perhaps most distressing that the
death of tens of thousands of civil-
ians could have been averted had the
UN, a body with a mandate to protect
those very civilians and indeed people
across the world, adopted a harder
stance.
It is abundantly clear that the UN
must adopt a much stronger and more
proactive role in the future. With the
outbreak of full scale civil war in Syria,
the onus is on the UN Human Rights
Council to take measures to make
sure that justice and accountability,
for the war crimes and crimes against
humanity such as those shown in “No
Fire Zone”, is provided not just to the
Tamil nation in the island of Sri Lan-
ka, but to people all around the world.
With the US conﬁrming that they will
sponsor a resolution against Sri Lanka
in the March session of the UNHRC,
whether that resolution passes, and
the strength of it, will be an important
ﬁrst step in the UN repairing its heav-
ily damaged credibility.
If you are further interested, please
visit noﬁrezone.org, the website of the
upcoming documentary.
“
The Sri Lan-
kan govern-
ment has ...
refused any
kind of in-
dependent
mechanism
investigat-
ing the final
months of
the war
I

