COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
24
Leonardo Ialongo
A European Citizenship (Part II)
Leonardo Ialongo discusses the value of European sovereignity in
an increasingly competitive world
n last week’s article I dis-
cussed some of the reasons
why European integration is
necessary. However in recent
years, due to the economic
crisis, it has been the shortcomings of
the union, rather than its advantages,
which have been under the spotlight.
his ﬁnancial crisis, although it origi-
nated in America due to the private
debt bubble, soon spread in the fertile
ground of European public debt. he
banks that were impoverished by the
crisis could not lend money to the
states, which in turn struggled to pay
back their debt. he countries not able
to cope with debt, and unable to de-
value their currency like in the past,
were forced to ask the European Un-
ion for help. his started the process
of bailouts and austerity. It also started
to draw criticism towards the Euro. It
was deemed too weak and, according
to some, destined to fail. I could not
agree more. However it is not because
the Euro project is wrong or utopic;
the Euro was doomed due its systemic
weakness. he European jurisdiction,
in fact, divides the powers between
the ECB and the national governments
in a way that does not let them to ef-
fectively confront their debt. he ECB
has powers to oversee the monetary
policies, and yet no control on public
debt and no right to issue European
bonds; on the other side the national
governments have little or no control
on monetary policy. his creates an
instability that will necessarily crush
any attempt at a single currency. here
are therefore two options: one is to
abandon the Euro; the other is to re-
move these systemic ﬂaws. If we are to
keep the Euro, the symbol of European
economic integration, more central
European oversight on national debt
is necessary, and it needs to be accom-
panied by the famous Eurobonds. his
should be and is the aim for the EU in
the short term.
If the analysis of the crisis reveals the
systemic weakness of the monetary
union, there is another lesson to be
learnt. he globalised economy has di-
minished the power of single states. In
the past, a state was a political entity
of suﬃcient power to prevent the mar-
ket and the private companies from
endangering the interests of citizens.
Now it seems that the markets and big
corporations can inﬂuence national
policies to the extent of driving coun-
tries to impose unpopular legislations,
sometimes arguably against the will
and interest of their people. To me
it seems that this is the real threat to
national sovereignty, and that the EU
is the best option we have to main-
tain it. he concept of sovereignty is
quite complex, and for clarity, I will
be using it in the sense of an institu-
tion capable of defending the inter-
ests of its members against foreign
intrusion. he EU in fact might not
always represent the interests of your
particular country, but it will defend
the wellbeing of the European people
as a whole. herefore if the European
Union is more eﬀective in preserving
the interests of the European popula-
tion, it will achieve, on a global scale,
the sovereignty that the individual
state does not have the power to main-
tain. So long as the European Union
remains a democratic government, it
can therefore be the means of protect-
ing popular sovereignty. Recently he
Independent aﬃrmed in an article by
Mary Dejevsky that: “membership [to
the EU] has given the Scots and the
Welsh a sense of security that allows
them to aﬃrm their national identity
in a positive way they were not able to
before.” his perfectly underlines the
message I am trying to convey. More
European economic integration will
give the economic security necessary
to express national identity and pre-
serve popular sovereignty from exter-
nal interference.
If I agree with the direction in which
Europe is heading, I do not agree with
the way it is doing it. he project of a
stronger union, to the extent of a feder-
al state, has always been part of the EU
since it was envisioned by its found-
ing fathers. However until now, in the
words of Jacques Delors, “l’Europe
avance le visage masqué” (Europe ad-
vances with its face masked). A federal
Europe has always been a project of the
European political elite, rather than of
the people. If this was to begin with a
good approach – as it laid the founda-
tions for economic integration – it is
now becoming its major drawback.
he reason is that this elitist approach
has alienated the European popula-
tion. his is further aggravated by the
internal organisation of the Union. All
the major posts are appointed by the
national governments and the only
directly elected body is the European
Parliament. However the parliament
has very limited powers: it can in fact
only vote legislations and amend them
but not propose them. Furthermore,
the most important leadership ﬁgure,
the President of the Commission, is
appointed by the national govern-
ments through the European Council
and the parliament can only veto it.
All of this complicated bureaucracy
undermines the principle of direct
representation. If Europe wants the
support of its people it needs to start
a process of democratisation of its in-
stitutions. his way it will also gain the
democratic legitimisation it needs to
legislate and continue the process of
integration.
he issue however lies in the ref-
ormation of these institutions. It was
often the national governments that
stopped such a process for fear of los-
ing their national sovereignty. As sum-
marised in the Spinelli Group’s Mani-
festo,
“[…] whereas the formidable chal-
lenges of a manifold crisis demand
common responses, drawn at least at
European level, too many politicians
fall tempted to believing in national
salvation only. In a time of interde-
pendence and a globalised world,
clinging to national sovereignties and
intergovernmentalism is not only
warfare against the European spirit; it
is but an addiction to political impo-
tence.”
National salvation is an illusion fed
to the public by demagogic Euroscep-
tics, who use a narrative that appeals
to the nationalist feelings of European
citizens. his is especially strong in
Britain where the shadow of the lost
empire still triggers national pride. he
problem lies in what I will call cultural
integration. he feeling of being a Eu-
ropean citizen, and caring about what
happens outside your borders is fun-
damental for the progress of the EU.
If this sentiment is in some way de-
veloping in some Eurozone countries,
in Britain – where Europe still means
across the channel – it seems like an
impossible request. It is therefore cul-
tural integration that should be having
the highest priority for the EU. his
reminds me of the famous words of
Massimo D’Azeglio, one of the found-
ing fathers of Italy, “Pur troppo s’è fatta
l’Italia, ma non si fanno gl’Italiani”
(Translated to: “Unfortunately we have
created Italy, and yet not the Italians”).
Similarly in Europe, until the con-
sciousness of European citizenship
develops, Europe will remain a weak
entity. he crisis and the lack of direct
democratic representation seriously
undermine any attempt at cultural
integration. I feel it is our responsi-
bility as European Citizens to make
our voices heard and demand more
democratic representation, so that the
European Union can become a direct
expression of our popular sovereignty.
“
If Europe
wants the
support of
its people it
needs to start
a process of
democratisa-
tion of its in-
stitutions.
I
A crisis of
integration

