COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
25
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
In Defence of Memes
Pietro Aronica thinks persecution of memes is TOO DAMN HIGH
emes, meant in
the sense of those
internet jokes very
fond of cats and
stylised shouting
faces, are often misunderstood. hey
are seen as part of a nerdy, self-refer-
ential culture keen on meta-humour
and pushed beyond the limits of com-
mon human discourse by its anonym-
ity, and while all of this is absolutely
true, they do display some character-
istics that can be associated with art.
I do not wish to imply that they are at
the same level of Dante, Shakespeare
and Tchaikovsky, but perhaps they
deserve more love and respect than
they are currently given.
For example, advice animals are
the modern day equivalent of stock
characters: in the same way that the
crafty, smart servant and the miserly
old man and many others in classi-
cal comedies can be identiﬁed within
their ﬁrst two lines on stage and con-
vey a certain set of characteristics to
the audience, so the mememakers
know which animal they need to use
in order to give the idea of social awk-
wardness, foul bachelorhood and bad
jokesmanship. Regardless of cultural
background and language barriers, all
denizens of the internet can recognise
the trait these characters are sup-
posed to represent, getting remark-
ably speciﬁc at times.
Not only do these characters help
express emotions and situations bet-
ter than words could, they also allow
everyone to tell their own version of
the story. Again, this is not dissimilar
to the artists of the past giving their
personal rendition of mythological or
Bible tales: any given event can be re-
told in diﬀerent ways, and because all
macros and images are public domain
and easily modiﬁable, sharing them is
very easy.
his is perhaps the greatest achieve-
ment of the internet culture: the es-
tablishment of a common language, a
common set of rules and conventions.
Art has helped the spread of ideas
throughout the ages thanks to its abil-
ity to entertain as well as educate,
and much progress has been had due
to art making people come together.
While memes obviously cannot do
this in the same capacity, they do oﬀer
a convenient, bite-sized, standardised
tool to communicate, and this shared
culture can do many great things.
here are misogynistic memes, and
racist ones, and an oﬃcial mascot for
paedophilia, that’s true: when given
anonymity, many will turn to their
dark side. But they are merely a few
of the possible expressions of the in-
ternet, which, by and large, are of
creativity, ingenuity, cleverness and
humour. Memes can be the shared
language that the web needs to talk to
each other on level pegging, and they
should be treated with respect.
Except for Dolan. hat thing is an
abomination.
Pietro Aronica
M
Driving Lessons For Imperial Students
•A special offer for Imperial students
from Denis Smyth
•Driving Standards Agency (DSA)
Accredited Instructor
•Mock Test Examiner
5 Driving Lessons for
£95
"Denis is a fantastic teacher and knows how to get people from completely
inexperienced and utterly hopeless driving up to the standard to pass their test. He is
always calm and his comments are constructive; his knowledge of London and his
knack of engineering driving routes that test the learner make the lessons more than
worth it. Since I have met him he has shown a great desire to offer cheaper lessons to
Imperial students and with the backing of other students I am more than happy to
support him."
- Alex Kendall, IC Union President 2010-11
Free Mock Test from
retired Driving Examiner
"I learned to drive in one of the busiest cities in the world. I passed first time. Would I
recommend Denis? Without hesitation."
- Leon Vanstone, Aeronautical Engineering
To make inquiries and book lessons,
call 07808 610 898

