FOOD
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
34
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
hink vegetarian food
is boring? hink again!
VegSoc, Imperial’s Veg-
etarian Society was cre-
ated ﬁve years ago to
celebrate how amazing and diverse
vegetarian cooking can be. We have
regular events and always aim to do
something unique, exciting and in-
ternationally inspired from hands-on
vegan sushi rolling to American vegan
pumpkin pie night.
his tradition of experiencing the
diversity of vegetarian cuisine has
continued throughout the past term,
which began with a free trip to a local
vegetarian Indian restaurant, SAGAR,
where members enjoyed a selec-
tion of their favourite Indian snacks
and meals. his was followed by ve-
gan Mexican night which involved a
choice of Mexican delights from faji-
tas and tacos to corn bread.
Monday lunch time saw the third
event of the term which took the form
of a vegan buﬀet lunch with a selec-
tion of homemade pasta salads, tasty
sandwiches, choc chip sponge loaf,
juices and more. he event was at-
tended by many of our members and
their guests who enjoyed a chance to
have a free, healthy lunch.
Where have I been all year? Have I
missed out? I hear you call, well, the
answer is no, you haven’t missed all
the VegFun, we still have more events
to come over the next few months.
Our next event will involve going oﬀ
campus to 222, a well-known veg-
gie restaurant on North End Road,
Fulham. 222 oﬀers a relaxed atmos-
phere and serves a variety of freshly-
prepared delicious dishes from all
over the world-from stroganoﬀ to
risotto, all with the promise that all
dishes are low-fat, low-salt, non-GM
and never deep-fried or micro-waved.
he event will take place on Tuesday
the 26th of February and we will meet
at the restaurant at 6.45pm (a quick
Google search will tell you where it is)
-–a group of us will be setting oﬀ from
outside the Union at 6pm, if you don’t
fancy arriving alone. he restaurant is
reasonably priced and this trip, unlike
our other meetings which are be free,
cannot be subsidised by the society
due to low membership.
he ﬁnal event of the term will be
vegan cupcake icing, the event will
be free for members (so please join
up asap). here, each member will
have a selection of vegan chocolate,
vanilla and carrot cupcakes as well as
a selection of toppings (some Easter
themed) and icings to assemble you
own creation.
During the summer term we will
still be here to disrupt your revision
time with a scrumptious veggie buf-
fet picnic as well as another outing,
the location of which is yet to be con-
VegSoc do Sushi
ﬁrmed. If free all-you-can-eat food
sounds like your thing then join us to-
day by visiting the Union website and
buy membership! You don’t have to be
veggie, you just have to enjoy the food.
For more info please email us at:
vegsoc@imperial.ac.uk.
Sophie Middleton on how good vegetarian food can really be
espite the oft-heard
claims of how great it
is to be studying in cen-
tral London, many of us
rarely dare to venture oﬀ
campus during lunch, resigned to eat-
ing JCR fried chicken or soggy home-
made sandwiches. South Kensington
is not ideal for the student lunch habit,
but with its 10% discount to Imperial
students and location mere minutes
away on Exhibition Road, Greenﬁelds
is hoping to change your ways.
With its label of “sandwich empo-
rium” one might expect Greenﬁelds
to fall into one of two categories; a
down market deli selling nothing
more than you could make yourself,
or a posh eatery, providing morsels
that wouldn't satisfy an anorexic ger-
bil, with extortionate prices. It was
much to my delight, then, that I found
a nicely rounded and varied menu,
including the occasional daily spe-
cial. However, it is not the sandwiches
that stand out here, although I'm sure
they would satiate those interested. It
is, rather, the hot food that makes the
trip worthwhile. Ranging from toasted
ciabattas to grilled goats cheese with
roasted peppers via jacket potatoes
and omelettes, it is some of the best
available in the local area. A good,
albeit smaller, selection of smoothie/
milkshakes compliments the meals
nicely (although if you aren't a fan of
bananas you may wish to ignore that
part of the menu, since every single
milkshake contains them). Other,
more mainstream, beverages are avail-
able.
he highlight of my small sample of
the menu was undoubtedly the but-
ter bean and vegetable casserole. A
beautiful blend of textures was imme-
diately apparent, with the soft casse-
roled vegetables nicely balanced with
crunchy ones buried in the ﬂuﬀy cous
cous. Also worthy of mention is the
salt brisket of beef toasted ciabatta,
which was served with a well thought
out garnish including gherkins. Un-
fortunately, my personal preference
tends towards a saltier meat, which
this certainly wasn't and I felt as
though perhaps this was a conscious
decision in a misguided attempt to ap-
peal to a larger audience.
he accompanying drink, the choc-
olate and banana frappé milkshake
was divine, but strangely came with
a warning from the waitress that it
wasn't very sweet, so might require
the addition of sugar. I couldn't help
feeling that the staﬀ expected their
customers to have very uncivilised
palates, a sentiment which made
me slightly uncomfortable. his was
quickly forgotten, however, given the
excellent quality of the unsweetened
drink.
A meal at Greenﬁelds, though of
good quality, is not something the av-
erage student will be able to indulge in
many a time. Even with the 10% dis-
count, the prices remain too high to
compete with on-campus options, the
jacket potato a prime example. Whilst
under £2 in the Library Café, a com-
parable one at Greenﬁelds will set you
back over £5, and whilst some dishes
are cheaper as takeaway options, the
appeal of the café itself is lost. You are
best advised to have your student head
on when it comes to ordering.
Hope is not lost for Greenﬁelds
though. With its charming, cosy in-
terior, it is the perfect destination
for casual one on one meetings and
lunchtime dates. It's away from the
real hustle outside, yet retains enough
of a busily London feeling to ensure
the atmosphere is not that of a coun-
tryside cafe at a National Trust castle.
It has real appeal, due in part to its
plentiful, enthusiastic staﬀ and won-
derful decor, and I was sad to leave
and ﬁnd myself on the cold harsh
streets of London. If you are looking
for somewhere special to visit for that
important lunch, you needn't look fur-
ther than Exhibition Road.
The grass is greener at Greenfields
D
T
Chris Witham reviews the independent café Greenfields

