ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY 37
Snowdonia
landscape
colours
Sherfield green
Eva Rosenthal Arts Editor
With each passing year, the Artsfest
annual exhibition increases in impor-
tance. his show is the result of a col-
laboration between two of the largest
arts societies on campus: Leonardo
Fine Arts society and Photgraphic so-
ciety. Last week, Rocio Molina gave us
an insight into the trials and tribula-
tions of putting on an exhibition. What
was the outcome?
Slightly woozy on free white wine
that tasted fruity and delicious and
went down like grape juice – it should
become common knowledge to the
average student that so-called ‘private’
views are always alcoholically provided
for – my eyes can perhaps be forgiven
for initially only managing to focus on
the great expanses of white wall that
remained free of art. he Blythe gal-
lery being a ﬁne small space, eventually
coming upon the collaborative piece
was not quite unlike hunting for green
ﬁelds in Antarctica; the landscape cer-
tainly popped up out of the lightness.
Whilst the exhibition can seem a bit
sparse, it is also quite a feat of bravery
and rather weirdly charming in a way
that only unpolished things can man-
age to be.
he piece itself is a photograph – tak-
en on the Photosoc trip to Snowdonia
– deconstructed into square segments,
some of which have been taken over
by artists from Leosoc. Each of the
contributors has a unique style and it
is this that makes the piece most inter-
esting to the viewer. From mad purple
and jade colouring of the ﬁelds to well-
realised landscapes in an Impressionist
style, seeing the diﬀerent approaches
to the same romantic scenery are a
wonderful way of looking, ﬁguratively,
through the eyes of many people.
Not an Italian job
Giant fried
egg terrorises
naked people
The Renaissance is generally consid-
ered to be an Italian affair. No one
could doubt the profound part that
the works of the Italians, such as
Michangelo and Leonardo da Vinci,
played in this era. But this is not the
whole story. The 130 plus artworks
which are currently on display at
The Queen’s Gallery depict the flip-
side of the Renaissance, from the
darker lands of Northern Europe.
These artworks are certainly a far
cry from the soft, sensuous curves
of Botticelli’s The Birth of Venus and
they may lack the alluring quality of
da Vinci’s Mona Lisa, yet these art-
works were constructed with skill
and talent comparable to the Italians
and are a real feast for the eyes.
During the 15th century, Europe
experienced a burst of social, cul-
tural and economic change. The in-
creased use of gold, rather than land,
for exchanging wealth enabled mon-
ey to flow to artists, musicians and
scientists, rather than just amongst
landowners. The demise of feudal-
ism, coupled with the decline in the
Roman Catholic Church’s influence
on North-westerly Europe allowed
new philosophical views to arise and
pave the way for new artistic expres-
sion. Although the two sub-genres
of the Northern and Italian Renais-
sance were in constant cultural ex-
change, there are notable differenc-
es between the styles. This is mainly
attributed to the grounding of the
Jemma Pilcher Writer Northern Renaissance works in the
Protestant Reformation, thus chal-
lenging the teachings of the Catho-
lic Church. The distribution of new
texts and the subsequent escalation
of new thinking was fuelled by the
invention of the printing press. It
was the contribution of the German
Renaissance giant, Albrecht Dürer,
to use printing as a chief method in
creating visual artworks.
A significant quantity of the gal-
lery space is dedicated to his work,
with his woodcut prints establishing
a definite highlight of the exhibition.
His prints for The Book of the Rev-
elation of St. John (a.k.a Apocalypse)
are especially awesome to behold,
as these violent scenes are depicted
with such incredible intricacy. The
lack of colour makes it difficult to
focus on a particular character, es-
pecially as each image is crammed
with action and chaos. These im-
ages would have seemed particularly
poignant in 1498, two years before
the heralded end of the world.
This exhibit also comprises a col-
lection of sumptuous paintings. A
fine example of this is Lucas Cra-
nach the Elder’s Apollo and Diana
(c. 1526), which shows the sun god
and his twin sister, the moon god-
dess, hunting in the nude. The in-
tense contrast between their pale
skin and the dark, luscious foli-
age behind them is quintessential
for Northern Renaissance paint-
ings. Depicting the dominant force
of nature was a popular theme
amongst German artists of the era
but this image also shows the primi-
tive strength of humanity. Diana
is perched on the back of a stag,
with her curly hair gently wrapped
around its antlers. The fastidious at-
tention to detail is what really makes
this painting such a marvel, from the
delicate highlights on the stag’s eye,
to the tiny swan gliding on the lake
in the distance.
Within the corridor, between the
main rooms, sits an alcove of glass
cabinets containing some of the
most exquisitely decorated armour
that I have ever seen. Each item is
covered with fine etching, depicting
scenes from myths and religious sto-
ries. The Parade Shield (ca. 1562-3)
is particularly beautiful. The entire
surface of the blued iron is adorned
with embossed figures, portraying
four episodes from the life of Julius
Caesar, illuminated with overlays
of silver and gold. It has been sus-
pected that this shield was a gift for
Henry VIII, which is hardly surpris-
ing, as it looks like it was crafted for
a king.
The furthermost room within the
gallery is devoted to the incredible
technical skill of the artists from
the Netherlands. At opposite ends
of this room hang two embellished
Flemish tapestries, The Triumphs
of Petrarch and The Redemption of
Man, surrounded by oil paintings
of rich, saturated colours. My fa-
vourite of the paintings on display
is the double-sided, stand-alone
panel called Martyrdom of St. Ur-
sula, attributed to the anonymous
artist known as Master of the Mag-
dalen Legend. One side delineates
the quayside massacre of Ursula’s
company of eleven thousand vir-
gins and her betrothed, Conon, the
son of the pagan King of England.
They were returning to Brittany
from their pilgrimage to be baptised
in Rome, when their vessels were
attacked by the Huns in Cologne.
The entire party was slaughtered,
including Ursula, when she refused
to marry the barbarian leader. This
painting is very beautiful despite the
graphic scene. Amongst the chaos
Ursula stands with grace and integ-
rity, whilst being targeted by three
archers. The other side of the panel
depicts St. Hugh and St. Bruno.
The exhibition closes by pay-
ing homage to the great Hans Hol-
bein the Younger. As an important
court artist (most notably for Henry
VIII) Holbein’s collection is com-
posed mainly of portraits. The life-
like quality of these pieces is truly
breathtaking and reinforces the in-
credible talent of the artists working
in the renaissance.
The masterpieces that run
throughout this exhibit transport
you into a rich and colourful world,
where infamous kings and brave
knights dominate; a form of escap-
ism which I highly recommend.
The Northern Renaissance: Dürer
to Holbein at The Queen’s Gallery.
Tickets from £8.50 for students.
Until 14th April.

