ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Before Instagram
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
toarts.felix@ic.ac.uk. ThisdoodlewasdonebyAaniyaAhmed.
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
38
It can be said that photography is a
method of preserving time. A mo-
ment is captured and immortalised in
a 35mm negative, retained and treas-
ured. he years may march on, but the
picture will remain the same, retain-
ing the ability to transport the viewer
instantaneously to a certain time and
place. If this is the case, then the ex-
hibition of portraits by Man Ray, cur-
rently on display at the National Por-
trait Gallery, have captured not just a
moment but an era.
he subjects of his portraits, mostly
shot in Paris between 1920-40, read
like a who’s who of the European
avant-garde: Duchamp, Dali, and Ma-
tisse all make frequent appearances,
but there are also pictures of Le Cor-
busier, Gurtrude Stein, Hemmingway,
Joyce… the list could go on. Almost
exclusively in black and white, these
works show Man Ray as a master of
light and shade, comparable to his
contemporaries Brassaï and Cartier-
Bresson – a remarkable achievement
when one considers that photography
was never his central medium.
Man Ray invites us into a world that
has now gone forever. His pictures
are intimate, almost confessional, and
display the human side of the artistic
visionaries of the 20th century. Picasso
in his studio, Stein in her apartment,
these pictures show us places that were
often oﬀ limits for the public. When
contrasted with today’s obsession with
sharing photographs (Facebook is es-
timated to receive 3,000 photos every
second) one realises how privileged we
are to have an insight into such a re-
markable time.
However, that’s not to say this is
an exhibition is without its ﬂaws.
he sheer number of famous names
captured by Ray’s lens, all displayed
together, can become slightly over-
whelming; deadening the impact such
photos would have if seen individu-
ally. At some points in the exhibition
it felt as though the focus was not on
the man behind the camera, but rather
those in front of it. his is not helped
by the fact that we are presented with
copies of Vogue featuring Man Ray’s
shots of authors and models. his feel-
ing continues into the last section of
the gallery, which looks at Man Ray’s
life in Hollywood and Paris from 1940-
76. he centrepiece is a series of pho-
tographs from the Sunday Times por-
traying Catherine Deneuve. hese are
neither inspiring nor intriguing. Plac-
ing this at the end creates an anticli-
mactic ﬁnish to what had largely been
a solid collection of Man Ray’s work
Luckily the exhibition manages to
turn the attention back to Man Ray
by featuring some of his artistic pho-
tography. His famous work Le Vio-
lon d’Ingres, showing a woman’s back
adorned with the F-holes of a cello,
is present, along with stills from the
four ﬁlms he produced. However, for
me the highlight of the show came in
his solarised portraits. Solarisation, a
process in which the image’s tone is
partially or completely reversed, was
perfected by Man Ray and his assis-
tant Lee Miller, who features in many
of these works. Man Ray used this ef-
fect to create oﬀ-kilter, somewhat oth-
erworldly photographs, which are all
exceptionally beautiful
Man Ray’s work with colour is also
exhibited here. Early pieces, which had
to be painstakingly assembled from
separately coloured negatives, possess
wonderfully muted tones. His later
work, by contrast, has lost some of
this magic. When using more modern
techniques, Man Ray’s work simply
Fred Fyles Writer
fails to impress. It could be that this
is something to do with our society’s
fetishisation of all things ‘vintage’ –
see Instagram if you want an example.
However, I feel that this phenomenon
is due to something else. Man Ray’s
work is a product of his time. he
equipment he used, the people he
photographed, the way he collaborat-
ed with a circle of artists. hese are all
things that have been conﬁned to the
early 20th century, and it is this that
makes the exhibition so special. When
we enter the rooms of the National
Portrait Gallery we are, no matter how
brieﬂy, stepping into Man Ray’s world
– one of splendour, beauty, and glam-
our.
Man Ray Portraits at NPG. Tickets
from £10.90. Now - 27 May.
TheBrideandtheBachelors:DuchampwithCage,Cunningham,RauschenbergandJohns
@TheBarbican–ReadymadeforyourdelightacoupleofmonthsfilledwithDuchamp.
Central to their series of events is the exhibition The Bride and the Bachelors, a perfor-
mance-basedshowdelineatingtheinfluenceofDuchamponsomeofthegreat20thcen-
turyartists,choreographersandcomposers.Ticketsfrom£7.Now-9June.
BecomingPicasso:Paris1901@TheCourtauldGallery–Beforehewasagenius–surprise,
surprise – Picasso was no genius. This exhibition shows the work of a young, naïve and
aboveall,eagermanonthevergeofexplodingintocreativityandinvention.Ticketsfrom
£4.50.Now-26May.
Medea @ English National Opera – Some people can listen to Baroque music for hours
onend,feelingonlydelight.Ifthisisyou,IurgeyouwholeheartedlytogoMedeaatENO.
Ifthisisnotyou,butyouenjoyagoodtragedy–oneinvolvingthemurderofrivalsinlove
by poisoning with golden dresses - staged with a certain stylishness… I also urge you to
go.
Art&Science@GVArt–Thisgalleryhasformwhenitcomestothemesaroundartand
science. Their current exhibitions aims to question the inter-disciplinary relationship
held between Art and Science. Their current show features work from Susan Aldworth,
AnnieCattrellandHelenPynor.Now–March16

