MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
40
erzbow is widely
regarded as the
biggest name in
noise music; the
man’s been blister-
ing eardrums in over 350 recordings
since 1979. Like most of the experi-
mental music world, in addition to co-
pious solo albums, there are copious
collaborations, often live.
his album, mastered by James
Plotkin, sees him collaborating with
Swedish saxophonist Mats Gustafs-
son and Hungarian drummer Balázs
Pándi. It’s always interesting to hear
Merzbow blending his style with that
of another band or artist, to which his
many and vastly diverse work with Bo-
ris or even he Haters is a testament.
his album is certainly no exception,
not least because Merzbow has cited
free jazz artists such as Albert Ayler
as big inﬂuences and suggested that
his sound was like mixing elements
of these inﬂuences with electronic
AMS album of the week
Veronica Falls released their self titled debut
album back in 2011 to a smattering of applause
from the indie pop scene. Adding shoegaze ele-
ments and some great little indie guitar riffs to
the basic Camera Obscura template made for
a very listenable and fun album. It never really
clicked for me though, and after a few listens
I’d pretty much forgotten about the band. That
is until a few weeks ago, when I saw they’d re-
leased a new album, and decided to give it a go.
I expected very little, since bands with forget-
tabledebutstendtoreleaseevenworsesophomorerecords.Instead,Iwasblown
away. This could well be my favourite twee pop release for a couple of years.
There’s not really anything new here. It’s the same basic formula of twee pop
with a bit of noise pop and shoegaze. It’s got the same male / female vocal inter-
play. It’s got the same little indie guitar riffs thrown in a few times every song.
It’s just better at all of them. The songs seem to be a lot more well thought out.
The choruses are catchier. The first album had a few great tracks (the new album
remindedmeofthat)suchas‘BadFeeling’and‘ComeOnOver’andalotoffairly
average ones. The lows of this might be the same tedious twee pop filler but the
peaks are truly fantastic. ‘If You Still Want Me’ and ‘Buried Alive’ are already two
of my most played tracks over the last 6 months or so and I’ve only had them a
few weeks. ‘Broken Toy’ and ‘Waiting for Something to Happen’ are also some of
the best modern twee pop around as well.
As with the vast majority of twee pop albums, there are a few that don’t work.
It’s tough to make 12 consistent tracks of catchy fun without a couple of clangers
(evenDearCatastropheWaitress[Belle and Sebastian]had‘StepIntoMyOffice
Baby’) and ‘Falling Out’ and ‘Last Conversation’ tick that box here. However, the
vastmajorityisgoodandthereareafewtracksofabsolutegold.Thisisdefinitely
a record I’d recommend to indie pop fans and one I imagine I’ll still be listening to
in months to come (with a few skipped tracks...). I definitely won’t be forgetting
about Veronica Falls again any time soon.
ColdCutsofNoise
Riaz Agahi reviewsthemightycollaborativealbumCuts
pioneers like Karlheinz Stockhausen
through pure electronic noise.
herefore, it is great to see him
working with one of the true heroes
of modern free jazz in Mats Gustafs-
son. Although much younger, Gus-
tafsson has been just as proliﬁc and
has notable projects such as Fire! and
he hing to show for it, as well as an
extensive solo output. He’s from the
Swedish town of Umeå, which has
produced many notable artists, such
as Meshuggah and Refused, and ac-
cording to Gustafsson had a punk and
hardcore scene running in parallel
with free jazz, and perhaps Gustafsson
could be viewed as a product of his
environment. He is often known and,
unfortunately, pigeonholed for the ag-
gressive use of a squealing saxophone
but in fact he has also been known
to perform with live electronics too,
something which is present in this al-
bum, and for another example of him
breaking with this stereotype of his
work, see the more measured and ac-
cessible album Exit! by Fire! Orches-
tra released earlier this year.
Balázs Pándi has performed in an
amazing variety of projects, having
worked with Venetian Snares, Italian
noise-jazz-rock group Zu, personal
favourites he Kilimanjaro Darkjazz
Ensemble, for the past few years, been
a live drummer for Merzbow. Unbe-
knownst to me, I actually saw them
perform together at Supersonic last
year, with Niko Wenner and Eugene
Robinson from Oxbow also making
appearances.
Although most people have focused
on the interaction between Merzbow
and free jazz, which is certainly inter-
esting, I can’t help but feel that Pándi’s
drumming is the place to start. Once
again, everyone has described it as
free jazz based, and although mostly
true, this ignores some beats that are
more common in metal, not least of
all, the use of a blast beat. Of course,
since 1994’s Venereology, chaotic
metal drumming and electronics that
blend noise and grind has intermit-
tently been a part of Merzbow’s sound.
Merzbow’s role in all of this is argua-
bly a lot more restrained than normal,
with him and Gustafsson sharing the
role that Merzbow usually occupies,
and at times Merzbow’s sound even
achieves some bassy tones while Gus-
tafsson’s saxophone hits the high ends
pretty hard. his restraint in Merz-
bow’s noise means that instead of the
dominant force in the music, a wall
of enveloping sound, it sits in the mix
as merely another instrument, with
much less of the entropy normally as-
sociated with a Merzbow release. his
interpretation is confounded by the
fact that sometimes it is hard to dis-
tinguish Merzbow and Gustafsson.
A good example of their interplay is
demonstrated in ‘Deep Lines. Cuts’
where they exchange noisy squeals like
Veronica Falls: WaitingforSomethingtoHappen
M
Stuart Masson
2 shredding guitarists trading licks in
a solo.
One complaint, perhaps, is that the
bassy end of the spectrum is not too
well covered, with a gap in the mix
only occasionally plugged by Merz-
bow, although it sounds great when he
does. Other bands who have a similar-
ly (yet also quite diﬀerent) noisy jazz
sound such as Supersilent cover this
area pretty well, so this was one source
of moderate disappointment for me.
It is interesting to note, perhaps,
that Pándi’s drumming facilitates what
I would describe as a convergence of
the styles associated with Gustafsson
and Merzbow, sitting nicely between
noise and the noisier end of free jazz.
More chaotic than Fire!, for example,
but less intense and face melting than
the likes of Government Alpha. No-
tably the opener, ‘Evil Knives. Lives’ is
particularly catchy; although I’m sure
to the uninitiated it’s simply unpleas-
ant. he short tracks are a little more
conventional, in that Merzbow takes
a back seat, droning away nicely in
the background, while the saxophone
takes centre stage in a standardly Gus-
tafsson noisy free jazz solo. Although
this is less cutting edge and less abra-
sive it is still top quality stuﬀ and it is
interesting to hear, especially in these
tracks, but also in the album as a
whole, Merzbow as a more laid back,
restrained cog in a machine rather
than simply an overpowering machine
on his own.

