NEWS
4 FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Students object to plans
continued from the front page
>>
North Acton halls,
artistic impression
the tube station winning “Tube Sta-
tion of the Year”. College estimated in
their announcement that it will take
around 30 minutes by tube to South
Kensington. his has been criticised
for not taking into account the door-
to-door travel time. It has been ar-
gued that with the walk from South
Kensington and congestion added, the
journey could take 45 minutes either
way. he Union estimated the jour-
ney as 35-40 minutes. Harding-Roots
acknowledged that it would be a tube
ride every day, but said that busses to
and from the Union were something
that they were working out. Of the
distance issue, Harding-Roots said:
“We need a dose of reality”, and that it
“would be great to have them in Kens-
ington & Chelsea or Hammersmith
& Fulham, but [it is] not aﬀordable”.
He said that people need to be “real-
istic” and that “W3 ticks most of the
boxes”. he Union disagrees with this
evaluation suggesting Hammersmith,
Fulham and other such areas would be
more appropriate, as well as highlight-
ing that the Evelyn Gardens and Gar-
den Hall also tick the correct boxes.
Harding-Roots said that the location
was “frankly one area we couldn’t ﬁll”,
and that they “looked at major new re-
development projects in Earl’s Court
and Hammersmith”. He said: “Earl’s
Court would have been fantastic” and
that the development plan of the area
“used to include student accommoda-
tion… but not any more”. He said that
there were “some student accommo-
dation options in Hammersmith” but
rents would have been around £200
per week. Discussing the halls and
location in the announcement on the
College’s website, Jane Neary, Direc-
tor of Campus (formerly Commercial)
Services, said: “No stone has been left
unturned in the search to identify op-
portunities for student accommoda-
tion. Numerous other developments
have been considered, including pro-
jects in Fulham, Hammersmith and
Ealing. hese were rejected however
because they were either too expen-
sive, too far from Imperial campuses
or they couldn’t achieve the critical
mass to create a vibrant student com-
munity of at least 400 bed spaces in
one location.” he validity of the 400
ﬁgure and where it is from has been
questioned. Felix contacted Jane
Neary with questions about the halls,
but, at the time of going to print, she is
yet to reply.
he distance has been highlighted
as a problem for the student experi-
ence. Having to travel in such a long
distance could reduce students’ ability
to participate in Clubs and Societies as
well as reducing the sense of commu-
nity that they feel with course-mates
who live closer to the College. In a
Union website blog post Becky Lane,
Deputy President (Welfare), pointed
out how “in 2015, there will be 700
students who may not engage with
South Kensington based services such
as Ethos gym, the Disability Advisory
Service, the Counselling Service and
the Health Centre”. As well as this, the
Union question the “business case”,
stating that prices would be above that
of private accommodation in the same
area and closer to South Kensington.
hey also noted that the “only appli-
cable evidence is unfavourable – that
a nearby University of the Arts (UAL)
hall isn’t full”. At Imperial once a room
is oﬀered you must either take it or
ﬁnd private accommodation.
he price of the halls has been an is-
sue that the Union has raised. Hard-
ing-Roots said that “aﬀordable rents”
were the “main focus”. He said that
College needed a “balanced portfolio,
including lower band rooms, which
are under £150 per week. He went
on to say “People will want diﬀerent
things and people have diﬀerent views.
North Acton will double the amount
of rooms in the lowest price band”.
he rooms are likely to cost £146 per
week at the latest estimate from Col-
lege. his doesn’t take into account the
cost of travel. Which would depend on
whether or not the student in ques-
tion had a weekly, monthly, annual,
or just a normal oyster card. With an
annual travel card for a student be-
tween zones 1-2 being about £16 per
week, this puts the halls at roughly
£162 per week. his is in a similar,
and occasionally higher, band than the
Evelyn Garden halls, whilst being fur-
ther away. his is the cheapest possi-
ble travel card. It also means that with
the price is above the £150 price band
described above. he Union estimates
the price to be £165 per week due the
cost of a weekly student travel card.
he future of Evelyn Gardens is in
doubt, with the possibility that it will
be closed. College has 32 years left on
the lease, which is owned by the Well-
come Trust – who have indicated that
they want the properties back at the
end of the lease. Imperial are trying
to see if they can extend the lease, but
current indications are that this is not
possible. College has said that to redo
the halls for the long term would cost
too much money. he Union says that
this is simply due to neglect in the past
and is “self inﬂicted”. he Union have
urged College to protect Evelyn Gar-
dens. Currently North Acton is said to
be an insurance policy.
Garden Hall (which is the most
oversubscribed hall) will close at the
end of this year if the new part of Wil-
son House is ready, a move which the
Union have criticised due to Garden’s
price and location. Wilson House was
praised as “a brilliant example of what
we would like more of as it is close and
aﬀordable” by Harding-Roots. Speak-
ing of Garden, he stated that it is in a
poor state and that it needs “urgent re-
medial works”. He noted that College
would “look at redoing [redecorating]
Garden or alternatives for all College
uses as [we are] very short of space
on campus”. his furthers speculation
that Garden will be turned into oﬃce
space.
he announcement of the North Ac-
ton halls says that feedback from stu-
dents was used for the survey, which
the Union contests, saying that most
students ﬁlling in the Accommoda-
tion survey wanted to have a travel
time of less than 30 minutes and in
Zone 1. he Union went further to say
that “this project ignored the feedback
from students taken in the 2011 Ac-
commodation Survey”. Most students
taking part in the survey highlighted
that the current halls were in a good
location. On the survey, the Union
claims that only 13% of respondents
favoured halls such as North Acton.
he Union also stressed that most
amenities – such as an onsite bar –
were not asked for by the students.
he Union has stated that College
should oﬀer a range of accommoda-
tion and set out the three parameters:
“High speciﬁcation and close, but not
cheap. Close and cheap, but not at
such a high speciﬁcation. High speci-
ﬁcation and cheap, but a little bit fur-
ther away from campus.”
here have also been fears over the
wardening facilities in the halls. Hard-
ing-Roots said that there were “no
plans to drop wardening”, and there
will be a 24/7 staﬀed reception. he
warden to student ratio that will be in
North Acton is, at the minute, unclear.
he Union have hinted that they think
that the new halls will ﬁnd it diﬃcult
to recruit a wardening team.
As well as pastoral care, safety con-
cerns were raised. he walk from
North Acton through to Hammer-
smith has been deemed unsafe and
is advised against. College have said
that no ﬁrst years are accommodated
at Hammersmith, but that they could
look into providing transport as they
would not want undergraduates to
walk through an unsafe area.
When asked by Felix if the plans
were a done deal and the new halls
would deﬁnitely be in North Acton
Harding-Roots said “it is”. He said that
there was no chance of reversing the
payment but Imperial now can guide
the layout and design, saying “we want
to engage with students to ﬁnd out
what they would like to see there”.
he information was made public
at this time due to the purchase of the
halls being commercially sensitive,
with Harding-Roots suggesting that
Imperial did not want another univer-
sity to sweep in and take the halls.
he search for new halls has been
going on for three years, and North
Acton has been on the cards for one
year. he Management Board ap-
proved the plans in December, and
College Council approved it in Janu-
ary. College now own the halls after
buying them oﬀ of Berkeley First, who
are a specialist student halls developer.
he have been involved with Impe-
rial before as they are part of the joint
venture at Griﬀon Studios, which had
some problems reported by Felix last
year, as well as Paragon.
Editorial: page 2
>>
Union President Comment: page 18
>> DPW Comment: page 19
DPE Comment: page 21
Letters: page 21
>>
>>
>>
Berkeley first
Masterplan for
the new halls
Berkeley first
Aemun Reza
Signs put up
by the Union

