COFFEE BREAK
Coffee Break Boss: Matt Colvin
felix@imperial.ac.uk
49
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
Coffee Break offers a few handy hints to help resolve the whole situation amicably...ish
How do you solve a problem
like #AgainstActon?
cton. Acton. Acton. Eve-
rybody’s going on about
Acton. he word’s lost
all meaning, now repre-
senting some Mordor-
esque land of ruination and desolation.
Treats such as the London Transport
Museum Depot (that’s right folks, de-
pot!) may await Acton aﬁcionados but
the possible plans to close Evelyn Gar-
dens and ship 700 or so Freshers be-
yond Westﬁeld haven’t been that well
received by students, to say the least.
So, in our inﬁnite wisdom, we’ve de-
cided to lend a hand and recommend a
few new locations which would doubt-
less be better received.
The Scottish Highlands
If you’re going to banish students to
Zone 3, then you need to go the whole
hog and ﬂing them to the other end
of the UK. Enjoying renewed tour-
ist interest because of Daniel Craig’s
Macaulay Culkin-inspired rampage
in last year’s Skyfall, the rolling land-
scapes and greenish-brown vistas
would be perfectly suited to a new
hall of residence; not only because of
the prime development land on oﬀer,
but because of how singularly diﬃcult
it would be to travel to College. Who
wouldn’t enjoy a twenty hour round
trip for two hours of lectures – daily!
hat said, you could take the opportu-
nity to recreate quintessential Sunday
evening viewing Monarch of the Glen,
but for real. Go Laird or go home.
Heathrow Airport
One of the big touted positives of the
proposed accommodation in Acton is
the close proximity to Heathrow, es-
pecially since that if there’s one thing
Freshers enjoy, it’s regularly hopping
on the Piccadilly Line and going to
Venezuela with their inﬁnite bank bal-
ance. his could, of course, be solved
by just building some new rooms right
there in the airport. You’d have bars
already in place for one, along with
prime duty free shopping. Students
would have the time to run backwards
along those charming ﬂat escalators,
beating any Ethos treadmill. I imag-
ine one could also engage in some
wacky adventures, such as becoming
acquainted with airport staﬀ and scor-
ing free plane tickets to America and
visiting MIT to see what lecture pod-
casting is actually like.
A
If you want to experience the
Felix Oice ﬁrst hand, drop us an email.
We always need writers, illustrators,
photographers and probably more.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
South America
Yeah, that’s right, the whole continent.
Just parachute Freshers in and see
how they get on. Life Science students
could at the very least take advantage
of the outstanding biodiversity. hose
of a more business and criminally
minded persuasion could have a crack
at one of the Colombian drug cartels.
The Moon
Space is ace. Everyone loves it. Loads
of room for scientiﬁc discovery. Surely
there’s a little bit of overlap with Im-
perial’s purview? Yeah that’s right, I’m
saying that we should build a cam-
pus on the moon. Student satisfac-
tion would literally skyrocket and you
wouldn’t even need to go to South Ken
– unless you’re a medic I guess. But
of course, for those career ﬁends out
there, it’d be the ultimate CV booster,
being an astronaut and all. Heck, you
probably wouldn’t even have to take
part in any cringeworthy telephone
interviews where the signal’s so terri-
ble you can’t even hear the questions.
Generic Conclusion
So let’s just ditch this whole #Pray-
ForActon campaign and set our sights
beyond the M25. he sky’s the limit!
here’s a whole world out there just
waiting for another hall of residence
and 700 students and if we simply re-
strict our view to Zone 3, then we’re
simply missing out.

