NEWS
5
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Views from Twitter
Imperial RCSU @RCSU
Are you #AgainstActon ? Raise your voice at http://bit.ly/VFoXSt - @RCSU
unequivocally supports @icunion in this cause.
Imperial CGCU @IC_CGCU
In case it wasn’t clear enough, CGCU wholeheartedly supports @icunion’s
#AgainstActon campaign. Raise your voice! http://bit.ly/VFoXSt
Thomas Whiley @Trwhiley
Knowing I would of been put in paragon, i wouldn’t of applied. People won’t
come here if you put them a 40 minute tube away. #AgainstActon
Dot Overington @dwu_22
#AgainstActon ‘cos it took being a postgrad to be able to afford £140+ pw rent
and £20pw tube pass. I loved Evelyn Gardens! Big mistake IC.
Angus Turnbull @ajt108
hugely #AgainstActon - i would have much preferred a less well done up evelyn
gardens! appalling idea
Juliet Kernohan @JulietKernohan
State of @imperialcollege student housing is poor enough already without put-
ting students 45 minutes away from campus #AgainstActon
Hugh Gledhill @GledhillH
As a former Evelyn Gardens IC student, and a current North Acton resident, I’m
#againstacton - removes all flexibility from uni life
Luke Neal @luke_neal1
I think moving halls to Acton would genuinely put off a lot of prospective stu-
dents, esp. those who need cheaper accomodation. #againstacton
Harveen Heey-yaah @Indie__an
Ridiculous. Acton is too far. My friend is exhausted from travelling to and from
Paragon. Living close to college is essential #AgainstActon
Chris Carter @chriscarter_303
I’m in private accommodation, North Acton is TWICE the distance from my flat
to Imperial. #AgainstActon
Arianna Sorba @AriannaSorba
Acton isn’t just far from campus, but from EVERYTHING that central London
has to offer and made people accept originally #againstacton
Niki K @thetrickyniki
Students would rather live in mediocre halls if it means it’s cheap. It’s only 1 year
anyway. No posh expensive halls please! #AgainstActon
Henry Bickers @henrybickers
#impcol can be pretty infuriating sometimes. Acton as a location is a terrible
idea #AgainstActon
Official Chris Darby @ChrisDarby89
If @imperialcollege had more than a cursory care for students, they wouldn’t
move them a half hour commute from college #AgainstActon #NSS
Mika Niwa @mikachu_niwa
Imperial, officially bans their students from a social life #againstacton
Tom Phillips @tomwphillips
Tbh I doubt @imperialcollege even cares about #AgainstActon. International
students who pay huge fees will pay the crazy £150+/week rents.
R Davies @Quinnfeld
@icunion the obvious corollary of students being distant from college is that
college will seem distant to students. #AgainstActon
John Golden @johngolden10
@icunion central London halls are one of the main appeals to undergraduates
of @imperialcollege #AgainstActon
George Rapley @george_rapley
#AgainstActon. Personally, massive reason for coming to IC in first place was
living in central London, 10 mins walk from campus..*facepalm*
Union requests to College
1. An Imperial affordable for every capable applicant
Retain Garden Hall as a Hall of Residence in the College Space Master plan.
As the most oversubscribed Hall the College needs to realise that there is strong demand for this type of accommo-
dation. A range of rooms to suit all budgets and tastes are necessary for a diverse student community – there will
always be some students who prefer (or can only afford) triple rooms, and so it is essential that these are retained.
Renovations – if absolutely necessary - do not need to be of the highest specification available; students are quite
content with basic specifications if it’s all they can afford, and it means they are close to College.
2. Protect Evelyn Gardens
Continue to seek out alternative, superior solutions to Evelyn Garden’s ending lease than the North Acton project.
The North Acton project is to be viewed as an ‘insurance’ policy should nothing else be possible, but all options of
retaining Evelyn Gardens or finding alternative accommodation closer to South Kensington, at an affordable price,
must be actively pursued.
3. Accommodation designed for education, not the other way round
Review the whole Accommodation Strategy given the discrepancies between the Accommodation Survey 2011 data,
the Strategy’s interpretation of that data and the backlash from students over the results of that Strategy.
Data from the survey (even if correctly used) is insufficient to build a strategy in itself. A wide ranging consulta-
tion with students and staff similar to that which is being undertaken for the Education Strategy must be followed.
Whilst the current strategy claims to be focused around ‘feedback from students’, this cannot be the case if the
Union and students disagree with it. College Management should agree a methodology for this consultation with
the Union: asking students if they like double beds and TVs is not evidential.
4. Good governance means a dialogue with students and academics
Hold formal consultation with students and academics on North Acton and on all future projects before committing
to a development – whether they be accommodation related or otherwise.
The Union requests that the College Management responsible for this project present to all interested students
and staff the North Acton project. All future developments should have a similar level of consultation before they
are proceeded with – we should not have a situation where students and staff, the College’s most important com-
munities, are kept in the dark until actions of the College Management are complete.
5. Recognise the true value of Wardens, not just the cost
Don’t reduce Wardening ratios any further; and retain Wardens as College staff who undertake the role alongside
their College careers.
As the backbone of the College’s welfare & social provision in halls, it is imperative that Wardening numbers are
maintained. Wardening provision is something that the College has been proud of for many years: this sentiment
must be maintained. These people make the student experience in first year – something that is certainly preferable
over Campus Services being able to sell a few extra rooms. Financial considerations are only one aspect to be consid-
ered when planning changes.
During my degree, and my Sab-
batical term, I was always con-
cerned with the prospect of fu-
ture students being priced out of
accommodation.
Though the majority of people
within the College do believe in,
and actively support, the widen-
ing participation agenda – provid-
ing sizeable bursaries, enhancing
scholarships etc. – it is clear that
people do not understand the
negative implication of accommo-
dation costs.
No greater emphasis of this was
the Open Day held last spring,
where potential applicants with
their parents/guardians were
taken to see some of the most ex-
pensive (and naturally glamorous)
rooms on offer as opposed to see-
ing a spread of available rooms.
I fundamentally believe that
all students deserve a relatively
comparable student experience.
Obviously we cannot give every
student an apartment in South
Kensington, though some people
will have the means to get one, but
ensuring good proximity to Uni-
versity, similar durations of com-
mutes and a halls structure that
doesn’t encourage separation of
the ‘richer’ and ‘poorer’ students
is essential. By forcing students
with less financial support to
travel for longer, thus reducing the
amount of available study time as
All students deserve the same experience
well as making it harder to go to
and from the library will naturally
provide an academic advantage to
students who live closer.
The ultimate question to ask is
why Acton? If the University feels
it must leave the Evelyn Gardens
properties, why aren’t they con-
sidering Battersea? Not only is it
half the distance away from South
Kensington but with huge pros-
pects for the future it would surely
be a good place to build.
It is clear that the College has
many answers to the questions
from students, both past and
present. What I would encourage
them to do is be open and honest
to the student body. Hold a public
meeting and answer the questions
of students. If they approach this
situation with closed doors and
the issuing of ‘PR-approved state-
ments’ they will only increase sus-
picion and create further concern.
Scott Heath
Union President 2011-12

