SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
54
On a cool Friday February afternoon a
rag-tag team of students (and alumni
that can’t seem to get away) gathered
in the shadow of the Royal Albert Hall
to take a van-load of trestle tables into
Imperial College’s Union Dining Hall
in preparation for an event that has
been a long time coming – the 2013
edition of the Imperial College Chess
Congress.
For the last two weeks entries
were ﬂying in thick and fast, to the
point where we were worried that we
wouldn’t be able to accommodate all
the players! For this congress we used
the improved venue of the dining hall,
which was opposite the space used at
the last one (but had the gym above
and bar below so potentially noisy).
he downside of our new space is that
we had a capacity of between 80 and
90 players compared to the old room’s
110-120 – luckily, the number of en-
tries peaked on the day at a cosy 88
which meant that despite promising to
potentially turn cash-on-the-day en-
tries away, we didn’t have to in the end.
he round on Friday night got oﬀ to
a lovely start. here was a brief scare
as Metric (Imperial College’s night-
club) was directly below the venue
but it turned out not to be a problem,
with the faint hum of a Gangnam Style
remix barely audible at about 10pm
as the games ﬁnished and provided a
background beat to tidying up in the
evening.
Saturday brought a fresh, crisp start
and the free tea, coﬀee and snacks pro-
vided to the players throughout the
tournament assisted in waking every-
body up in time for the morning round.
We also had the pleasure of Ray Mor-
ris-Hill of Battersea chess club drop
by to take some lovely photographs of
the room and players with the morning
light streaming through the windows.
his presented a rather interesting
challenge, as the angle of the light shift-
ed throughout the morning and two
boards were moved to areas where the
light wasn’t in a player’s eyes – sunlight
in England admittedly wasn’t high on
the list of things we thought could in-
terrupt a chess tournament and we will
be petitioning the Union to assist us
with some curtains for next year. here
was a lot of ﬁghting, aggressive chess
being played as well with players eager
to start their Saturdays oﬀ with wins.
Several very exciting games in both the
morning and afternoon sessions lasted
all the way through the 4-hour sessions
(and in a few cases even longer owing
to the 90min+30sec/move time con-
trol).
In-between rounds the players tend-
ed to ﬂock towards either Gloucester
Road or South Kensington where plen-
ty of food and drink outlets were avail-
able for lunch – Sandwich World (sim-
ply known to Imperial College students
as THE Sandwich Shop) on Gloucester
Road was a particularly popular desti-
nation with a large number of freshly
made baguettes making appearances in
the playing hall at various points.
he amount of sugar (biscuits) and
caﬀeine consumed by the crowd was
also impressive, and underestimated by
us as we had to go back to supermar-
kets to buy more supplies on no fewer
than four occasions after the start of
the congress – but completely worth
it despite foam cups now becoming an
endangered species as players and staﬀ
alike stayed in high spirits throughout
the day.
Going into the last round, the Open
had two players race ahead of the pack
in IM homas Rendle and FM Miguel
Navarro-Cia of Imperial College on
4/4, and the resulting draw in the ﬁ-
nal round guaranteed them joint-ﬁrst
place in the tournament as their near-
est competition was on 3/4 going into
the afternoon round, due to homas
Rendle grinding a very hard-earned
victory over IM Augustin Madan in the
morning.
he next section to be determined
was the Minor, where Pascoe Rapacchi
was sole leader on 4/4 going into the ﬁ-
nal round but was successfully caught
by the resurgent Anup Sinha (Imperial
College Chess Club President all the
way back in 2004-05!) who was on 3/4,
and they therefore ﬁnished joint-ﬁrst in
the Minor.
he battle for the Major was the last
to be settled, going down to the wire
between Bob Kane of West London
and young Michele Donati of Italy well
after the winter sun had set. In a very
charged position Michele was down to
using his increment for each move to
Bob’s 20 minutes. Michele, however,
held strong and after a very tense and
drawn out while a draw was agreed,
guaranteeing both of them a share of
ﬁrst place.
Games all over the room were ﬁn-
ishing late on the ﬁnal round though
with potential prize money on the line
– additional grading prizes were an-
nounced to a satisﬁed crowd at the start
of the second round, with two (U2100
& U1950) in the Open, two (U1800 &
U1700) in the Major and one in the
Minor (U125). Despite having fewer
players than the Open and Major, an
additional U100/Ungraded grading
prize was introduced for the Minor af-
ter Rafael Larios generously donated to
make this possible (ungraded players
were eligible for this grading prize).
continued from the back page
>>
John Sargent Sports Writer
Checkmate at Chess Congress
crews in front did not help. Calls after
2km of “we’ve halved Newcastle’s gap
boys” were in fact entirely mistaken and
Sullivan has been booked into a Spec-
savers appointment later this week.
hey eventually ﬁnished with a silver
medal, in similar fashion to the women’s
champ 4 of Caterina Buizza, Harriet
Cross, Lily Beadle and Hannah Patter-
son. he girls cited a ‘ﬁrm but fair’ pre-
racechatfromtherestedSullivanbefore
division 2 as the reason for their strong
row, following IC’s only bronze of the
day earlier in the morning as half of the
8. he other half of the 8 were formed
from the women’s quad, and the secret
to Olympian Mel Wilson’s success was
spotted before division 2 in the form of
considerable amounts of generic-bear-
shaped-jelly-ﬂavoured-sweets. Top tip
for you there aspiring GB rowers!
A ﬁnal mention should go to the In-
termediate 8, who in-keeping with IC
traditions caught an unfortunate crab
in the run in to the line. I have searched
long and hard for the video of the Matt
Lunt classic which still brings a tear to
my eye but unfortunately I think his
lawyers have had it removed from the
internet.
So, 2nd in the Victor Ludorum, 3
golds and 7 medals in total. All-in-all a
thoroughly successful weekend in the
ICBC camp and with both Heads of the
River coming up soon (and of course
#LadsOnTour in Amsterdam) it’s go-
ing to be an action packed few months
for ICBC. he overall goal has to be to
steal Durham’s self-appointed crown of
most successful undergraduate rowing
program in the UK and continue rack-
ing up the BUCS points. And with 125
points gained from BUCS head alone,
it’s your move fencing!
Previously in the season, IC 1’s ven-
tured to muddy Hertfordshire with
some usual players missing and some
turning up hungover to take on RVC
1’s in the BUCs league, so understand-
ably we suﬀered an unfortunate loss.
However, with 2 more chances to play
them, we were determined to show
them what we’re made of.
his Monday, our ﬁrst chance
came- a LUSL match in our home
turf of Ethos. With every player intact
(except WA Kirsty who managed to
break her shoulder at the beginning
of the season...) we were ready for a
win. he ﬁrst quarter started badly,
with a quick turnover from RVC 1’s
they scored 4 goals in succession be-
fore we had scored any! heir GS in
particular surprised us with her quick
movement and superb aim. However,
this made us yet more determined and
with some of the best play we’ve seen
through the centre court we quickly
pulled back into the lead. Our shooter
Tamar showed she was equally capable
of scoring from anywhere in the D with
shot after shot going in, (this is a girl
who once showed up slightly drunk to
a match and was still able to shoot per-
fectly – albeit sometimes her catching
wasn’t quite as on form). By the end of
the ﬁrst quarter we had a lead of 14-8,
extending 10 goals ahead of their 0-4
lead.
It seemed GK Sophie had the hard-
est job to do with their shooter easily
being their stand out player. Using her
height to our advantage, Sophie pres-
sured RVC into doing loopier passes
that often the GS couldn’t even reach.
Furthermore, Sophie’s blocking skills
are superb meaning the RVC GS occa-
sionally tried to shove Sophie out of the
way which luckily the umpires saw and
called contact. On the other side of the
court, WA Nancy, GA Poppy and Cen-
tre Sam were perfecting their centre
passes. With Nancy only joining the 1’s
just before Christmas, this has been a
diﬃcult area in recent games. Howev-
er, on Monday something just clicked
and they began working seamlessly
together, easily getting the ball into the
D and scoring within 3 or 4 passes. Of
course, nothing ever works perfectly
all the time, and the odd pass into GS
Tamar went a bit astray, with one send-
ing her ﬂying back onto her bum.
In the ﬁnal quarter, we intended to
neaten our game, as against a better
team every mistake would probably
cost us a goal. We saw fast turnovers
as WD Tereze and GD Verity came out
of nowhere to steal the ball from under
their noses. Verity just seems to have
endless energy when she plays, leap-
ing across the court to intercept pass-
es. Due to some contact from RVC’s
WD, Nancy managed to get ‘Netball
ﬁnger’ due to the ball pelting the tips
of her ﬁngers at full speed, causing a
fair amount of pain. Luckily Claude,
who usually plays WD/GD, was able
to quickly come on to play WA. Con-
sidering she rarely plays attack, Claude
showed her versatility as she ﬁt in well
and by the end of the game the score
was 61-39.
IC 1’s position in the LUSL league
only goes to show that they should be
in a higher BUCs league. Currently 4th
in LUSL, below Medics 1’s (1 league
above in BUCS) and Kings medics 1’s
(2 leagues above in BUCS) and above
plenty of teams that are in higher
BUCs leagues too. Unfortunately, due
to some undeserving losses the 1’s are
looking at ﬁnishing second this year in
the BUCs tables but with most of the
team returning next year, we’re looking
up. Roll on varsity...
Animal Cruelty as Netball Puts Down RVC
Poppy Pinnock Sports Writer
Stroke, stroke, harder, harder.
Celebrate. Same old rowing!

