Issue 1541
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
22/02/13
@SportFelix
>>54
If Carlsberg made Boat Clubs...
Devils sharpen tridents for UCL
Tim Runcorn Sports Writer
Forget the Medics, everybody knows
Imperial’s true rivals are UCL. hey
may have a more girls, reading weeks
and the arguably the biggest Harlem
Shake in Europe but they certainly
don’t have the best university ice
hockey team in London. A point that
will be emphatically proven on Fri-
day 1st March when the mighty Im-
perial Devils take on the UCL Yetis
in the biggest grudge match of the
season, the London Ice Varsity. he
adrenaline-ﬁlled, full-contact contest
will see the oldest London uni ice
hockey club (us) take on the new kids
on the block in front of hundreds of
noisy supporters providing an elec-
tric atmosphere at Brixton Ice Arena
(a couple of mins walk from Brixton
underground station on the Victoria
line), a place both teams call home.
Past ‘friendlies’ promise a ﬁnely
poised battle, with the Devils play-
ing in the division above but with the
Yetis having a recent run of form in
their favour. With the bragging rights
of clinching the inaugural London Ice
Varsity title up for grabs, it will un-
doubtedly be the team who rises up to
the occasion on the day who will take
the honours. One thing is certain – a
great night’s entertainment, not only
with the hard-hitting action of the
fastest team sport on earth but also
ﬁgure skating demonstrations, a skills
contest and DJs running throughout.
Doors open at 7.45pm for an 8pm
puck drop so BYOB for the most en-
tertaining pre-lash ever; the game will
ﬁnish by 10.30pm and food and drink
(alcoholic and non-alcoholic) will be
available at the rink. Tickets are just
£5 from tinyurl.com/icevaristy (use
QR code) so come and show your
support as Imperial crush UCL in a
cracking game of real hockey. Check
out fb.me/imperialdevils for more in-
formation.
In a highly successful weekend at Bos-
ton, ICBC laid claim to having the fast-
est 8, the fastest 4 and the fastest wom-
en’s quad, as well as medals left, right
and centre in other categories. We also
ﬁnished 2nd in the Victor Ludorum for
BUCS points and medals, narrowly be-
hind Newcastle. You cannot argue with
that.
he BUCS men’s 8 has not been
won by an IC crew since before any-
one I asked from the Boat Club could
remember (BUCS results archiving
not the best!); and for the crew of Hal
Bradbury, Sam Cottrell, Jonny Rankin,
Ali Hudson, Ben Spencer-Jones, Henry
Goodier, Wilf Kimberley and Tim Rich-
ards with cox Ellie Smith it was a day to
remember. When Ali put head coach
Don McLachlan on loudspeaker in the
minibus on the way home to announce
the result, you could cut the tension
with a knife. Scenes of jubilation greet-
ed the results, with tops immediately
being removed and beats dropped.
he eight won the event over Durham
by 7 seconds, and ﬁnished 10 seconds
ahead of Newcastle. It was the perfect
way to top of a fantastic weekend for
ICBC, which began on the Saturday
with the Beginner men in their ﬁrst race
against other Unis. here was an excel-
lent 8th (out of 33) for the beginners 4+
of Tom ‘Baby, It’s Cold Outside’ Jones,
Bastian Winklehake, Zhehou Cao and
Nikola ‘David Guetta’ Spasojevic with
cox Hena Begum. hese lads were feel-
ing the pain after racing earlier in the
day (in the eight with Karl Steevens,
Shaun Nicol, Will Joyce and Kevin Ng
SiJie, who ﬁnished 17th of 41), and their
faces show it in one of the best rowing
photos I have seen in a long while (see
our website)!
On the Sunday, the senior squad ar-
rived in force at a cold but remarkably
calm Boston RC. In the ﬁrst division the
IC lightweight men’s four were the fast-
est of the day, beating all of the heavy-
weight coxless and coxed fours (almost
unheard of at BUCS head). It was the
start of an incredible day for Richards
and Kimberley in combination with
Myles Holbrough and Paul Jones. IC’s
third gold medal came from the wom-
en’s championship quad of Mel Wilson,
Myriam Goudet, Georgie Phillips and
Klara Weaver. hey showed their class,
winning by a phenomenal 35 seconds
and bringing another 20 BUCS points
to the table.
he next best result of the day must be
the women’s lightweight quad. he crew
of Josie Bowler, Jade Hubbard, Nadine
Nalowe and Nicola Mason did brilliant-
ly to take the silver, pushing Durham
into 3rd place. Boom. hree of the girls
later raced in the 4- with Nina Dalton in
place of Nadine however the exertions
from the ﬁrst division showed and they
were pushed back into 5th. hese excel-
lent results from the lightweight girls
came despite a trauma ﬁlled day before,
which included Sam Cottrell’s suspect
driving of a mould ﬁlled minibus, din-
ner at a restaurant in Peterborough with
Ali Hudson and ﬁrst-hand experience
of Captain Spencer-Jones’ ‘Goat’ (what
would his parents say?!).
he morning division on the Sunday
had seen further evidence of ICBC be-
ing the only boat club who have any fun.
On the way to the start the IC heavy and
lightweight fours met the champ quad
(who eventually ﬁnished 6th) and de-
cided that a ‘warm-up’ drag race was in
order. Sprinting three abreast the wrong
way down the Boston course was thor-
oughly frowned upon but was just the
thing to get the ﬁres burning on a chilly
morning.
Following this huge expense of energy
the heavyweight four of Rory Sullivan,
Ben Spencer-Jones, Henry Goodier
and Jonny Rankin found the headwind
a little tiring, and Sullivan’s wildly inac-
curate distance measurements of
Rory Sullivan Sports Writer
Typical Oxford, always on their knees
It must be huge...

