NEWS
7
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A&E department
closures announced
Aemun Reza News Editor
THE WORLD BEYOND
COLLEGE WALLS
By Laurence de Lussy Kubisa
Diamond raid in Belgian
An innocent cargo of diamonds
was kidnapped in Brussels,
Tuesday, just as they were about
to board a flight to visit their
family in Sierra Leone. Just as
the blameless diamonds, who
were mined by overworked and
underpaid miners to fund ques-
tionable government activities,
were seized by a well organised
group of raiders who are yet to
demand a ransom.
Google invests in new ‘shops’ trend
Tech giant, Google, announced this week that they are to open a series of in-
novative ‘shops’ across the USA to sell Google products. The ground-breaking
new concept whereby people venture to the ‘shop’ and spend money on
items they wish to purchase has been enthuastically announced by Google
spokesperson. “It’s a fantastic new technology and we feel people are going to
love it” stated the spokesperson before adding “you can find the locations on
the internet, just use Bing to find it”.
There is a world beyond South Kensington...
PM to spend the rest of tenure single-
handily tackling corruption in India
After assuring the Indian Prime Minister,
Manmohan Singh, that he would help them
tackle the issue, David Cameron donned the
first of many potential disguises, slipped out of
the press conference and began to investigate
corruption from the bottom up. Just before
melting away into the crowd, Cameron
stated that he would “deal with the
AgustaWestland company” but added
that it “won’t be before I’ve tackled
the whole rotten system”. Rumours
that the PM has been simultaneously
sighted in Dehli, New Dehli, Hy-
derabad, Mumbai and Chennai are, as
yet, unconfirmed.
The hope that the Charing Cross A&E
department was to be saved has been
overturned after the official meeting
was held on February 19. This comes
after speculation that the A&E depart-
ment was going to remain open as a
smaller A&E.
Andy Slaughter, Hammersmith and
Fulham Labour MP, announced that
the A&E department of Charing Cross,
Hammersmith, Central Middlesex and
Ealing hospitals would be closed. He
stated that this decision would mean
that “Charing Cross Hospital will be
demolished and most of the site sold
for private development”.
He also added that the “NHS use of
the site will be 3% of current levels. All
500 beds at Charing Cross will go and
all acute services will be lost”.
This means that all ‘blue light’ emer-
gencies will be diverted to other hos-
pitals and that there will be no A&E
department in the London boroughs of
Hammersmith, Ealing and Brent.
The replacement to the closure of the
A&E department will be ‘Urgent Care
Centres’ (UCC) at each of the hospi-
tals. They are centres that have to be
‘staffed by at least one GP at all times’
and are ‘able to treat minor injuries (in-
cluding minor fractures)’
The Save Our Hospitals campaign
claims that these closures will affect
2 million west London residents and
that petitions with over 100,00 signa-
tures opposing the closures have been
ignored.
In a letter to Fulham & Hammersmith
Chronicle, Carlo Nero, the chair of the
Save Our Hospital – Hammersmith and
Charing Cross campaign said: ‘We now
feel deeply betrayed by our elected rep-
resentatives who have meekly given in
to NHS bosses at the eleventh hour
without any prior consultation with the
community whatsoever.’
In the full press release by North
West London NHS, it states that ‘These
proposals will now take 3-5 years to
implement, ensuring that improve-
ments in out of hospital care are in
place before major changes to hospital
services are then implemented’. This
would mean that current medical stu-
dents might not be affected by these
changes.
The Shaping a Healthier Future pro-
gramme stated that it would be ‘Invest-
ing over £190m more in out-of-hospital
care to improve community facilities
and the care provided by GPs and oth-
ers. Most of these improvements will
be put in place before any major chang-
es to local hospitals are made’.
Jeff Zitron, Chair of the Joint Com-
mittee of Primary Care Trusts (JCPCT),
said: “This is an important decision for
the NHS in NW London. I am delight-
ed that, after thorough and careful ex-
amination, we are able to fully recom-
mend what clinicians feel will deliver
the best possible care for local people
for years to come. We have not taken
this decision lightly, and have been
very careful to consider the many thou-
sands of responses we received during
our extensive consultation last summer.
I am confident that this is the best deci-
sion for the people of North West Lon-
don and for the NHS.”
A statement released by Imperial
College said that: ‘Imperial College
Healthcare NHS Trust and Imperial
College London welcome the decision
to move forward with the plans to re-
configure health services in North West
London.’
It also mentioned that ‘Throughout
this process, we have also maintained
the importance of the Academic Health
Science Centre’s mission to link up ed-
ucation, research and front line health-
care. Our support for these proposals
has therefore been conditional on the
NHS’s commitment to fund any relo-
cation of our existing medical school
facilities.’
Hammersmith, Charing Cross, Central
Middlesex and Ealing hospital A&E
Departments set to close.
‘U-Turn’ shown to be false.
No A&E Departments for the boroughs of
Hammersmith, Ealing and Brent.
Petition with 100,000 signatures ignored.
Changes will take 3-5 years to implement

