NEWS
9
FRIDAY 22 FEBRUARY
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Think tank: £9000 fees cost more than save
he Treasury has estimated that £1.7
bn will be saved by having higher
tuition fees and putting an end to the
teaching allowances.
However, the loss in potential earn-
ing by students not pursuing a degree
will cause an increase of £3.6 bn, this
ﬁgure was quoted by the university
think-tank million+. Furthermore, the
end to the teaching subsidy will cause
worker skills to decrease. Million+
also found that the ramiﬁcation of in-
creasing the tuition fees means it will
cost the government 6.5 times more
than the estimate made by the Treas-
ury for their cash savings in 2012-13.
he Chief Executive of million+,
Pam Tatlow, commented: “he shift
from the direct funding of universi-
ties to indirect funding via student
Nida Mahmud News Editor loans has protected student numbers
and, on paper, helps the Government
reduce the structural deﬁcit. he real
question is how to maintain a thriv-
ing, eﬃcient higher education system
which is good for students, good for
universities and good for the taxpayer.
Once the total economic costs are tak-
en into account, the jury has to be out
as to whether the Government’s re-
forms are the most cost-eﬀective way
of funding higher education.”
It has also been found that the in-
crease in tuition fees will add 0.24%
to the consumer prices index of inﬂa-
tion. Last week, Sir Mervyn King, the
Bank of England Governor, criticised
the Government for having “an own
goal” with their policies pertaining to
tuition fees. As ministers has previ-
ously claimed that fees of over £6,000
will only be charged in “exceptional
circumstances”.
he Oﬃce for Fair Access has stated
that a third of the universities in are
charging the maximum for fees at
£9,000. Approximately 75% of them
charge the maximum for at least one
degree.
his leads to graduates entering uni-
versity in the 2012-13 academic year
incurring £1.46 bn more is costs in
comparison to those who began uni-
versity in 2010-11. Million+ also said
that these ﬁgures take into account
“up-front costs of higher tuition fees,
all forms of student support, as well as
the longer-term subsidies and write-
oﬀs on loans in the 30 years following
graduation.”
he matter of raising tuition fees to
£9000 caused a large controversy due
to the Lib Dems making a pledge to
not raise tuition fees in the run up to
the last General Election. It sparked
widespread student unrest.
“Jury has to be out” about cost-effectiveness of funding says CEO
Imperial College London
VA R S I T Y
L A U N C H P A R T Y
17 JANUARY 2013 / 20:00 - 01:00 / METRIC / £2.00Entry
THE CLUB WITH THE MOST ATTENDEES WINS THE TAKINGS ON THE DOOR
R e d & B l u e S O U R Z £ 1 . 1 0 A S H O T
IMPERIAL COLLEGE IMPERIAL MEDICALS
WWW.IMPERIAL.AC.UK/SPORTS/VARSITY
/SPORTIMPERIAL
imperialcollegeunion.org/whats-on
Engaged with the
ceremony... clearly

