Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 1 June
Summer Elections Results
Become a Student Trustee
Name our House Cider
Hello ICU
One of the many upsides to changing our bar supplier on 1 August? We get
to name our house cider. From about 100 suggestions, we have created a
shortlist of four.
Mr. BrightCider: Regulars to Metric or Reynolds on Wednesday and Friday
nights will recognise it as a fave tune, so why not name our house cider after
it?!
Psi.dr: Psi is the Greek letter , used in physics to represent wave functions
in quantum mechanics. dr is the differential with respect to r, usually distance
in the radial direction in polar coordinates. Duh.
Malus Principia: Malus is the scientific genus under which apple trees are
classified. Principia translates to principles and is also the name of Sir Isaac
Newton’s theory on gravity. Potential translations: ‘principles of evil’, ‘a bad
beginning’ or ‘fundamental truth of apples’...
The Chipper Piglet: Because, why not?
What ‘s your fave?Tell us at imperialcollegeunion.org/cider-poll.
There’s an exciting opportunity now available for two Imperial students
to sit on the Board of Trustees of Imperial College Union and help
make important decisions on how our charity is run. You’ll make legal,
financial and governance decisions as one of four Student Trustees on
the 15-member body. Two of the Student Trustees are elected in the
Leadership Elections annually, while the others are appointed from
qualified applicants.
The Board of Trustees meets six times a year and provides a great
development opportunity for successful applicants. To learn about the
criteria, responsibilities, time commitment and Board configuration,
visit imperialcollegeunion.org/studenttrustee.
Deadline for applications is 5 June 2018.
To apply, visit at advice@imperial.ac.uk
Help us welcome new Imperial students next term as part of the HelloICU
Crew. It’s one of the most rewarding volunteering opportunities available
on campus as you get to make a difference in the lives of our exciting
new cohort of students.
Members of the HelloICU Crew help provide directions and advice, staff
stalls and events, help with the move into halls or just provide reassurance
and a friendly face.
We provide training, a shirt so you’re easily recognised and everything
you need to be a great volunteer!
Sign up at imperialcollegeunion.org/helloicu
Results are expected today, 1 June in Summer Elections 2018. Polls close
online at noon, after four days of voting. Positions were open across the
biggest Clubs, Societies and Projects, Constituent Unions, as well as the
Academic and Wellbeing Representation Networks.
Scores of students submitted nominations to contest the elections to
fill the positions left open, following the Leadership Elections in March.
Imperial runs three main elections every year: Autumn Elections,
Leadership Elections, and Summer Elections. Each provides Imperial
students the opportunity to shape the student experience by standing
and voting for the change they wish to see.
To vote today before polls close at noon, or to see the results later, go to
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Apply to be a
Student Trustee
Join our
Summer
Ψ

