16 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.03.2015
Science Editor James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Climate Change is like an unwashe
Lauren Ratcliffe gets you up-to-date and busts some common my
You guys already know that
global warming is not a myth,
nor an April fools trick. It’s a
growing concern that we and future
generations are facing. Earth’s
blood, so to speak, is on humanity’s
hands and it is our responsibility to
acknowledge, understand and find
solutions to this challenge. I talk
about ‘humanity’, but in reality it is
the actions of every individual, both
you and me, which shape the course
of our amalgam.
In the last 3.5 billion years, Earth
has harboured the lives of 4 billion
species in all their myriad forms. 99%
of these species have gone extinct
and one day, Homo sapiens’ time
will come. What remains in question
though is how will we compare to
all those by-gone species. Will we
fight to survive? Or will we bury our
heads in the ground as we juggle our
individual lives around and hope that
someone else deals with it?
Popular amongst scientists and
politicians, you might hear about a
‘safe operating space for humanity’.
These are nine arbitrarily defined
biophysical boundaries that
should not be crossed in order to
ensure Earth is able to sustain and
provide for our persistence and
wellbeing. Ones that have already
been surpassed are biodiversity
loss, climate change and acquisition
and alteration of nitrogen and
phosphorous cycles, and increasingly
we are creeping up and stepping over
the limit for habitat destruction and
land-use change.
Climate change is undisputed
but the world isn’t going to freeze
overnight or be plagued with some
terrifying disease, that can all be left
for a Friday night in front of the TV
with a bag of popcorn. What I’d like
to do right now is to bust some myths
and give you a low-down on some
major impacts of global warming
and what’s going on in the world of
politics to stop it.
Climate change 101
Just so we’re on the same page.
Greenhouse gases (GHGs) come in
a variety of forms, creating a pretty
damaging chemical cocktail. This
lethal recipe includes infamous
carbon dioxide, methane and nitrous
oxide as well as some harder-to-
pronounce chemicals: sulphur
hexafluoride, hydrofluorcarbons and
perflurocarbons. Their emission into
the atmosphere is primarily through
industrial outsources, car emissions,
shipping vessels, domestic appliances
and deforestation.
So how do they cause climate
change? Well, about ¼ of all
anthropogenic carbon dioxide
has gone into the oceans where it
reacts with water to form carbonic
acid, which readily dissociates
to create ionising hydrogen ions
and bicarbonate which causes
ocean acidification. On top of this,
increased GHGs in the atmosphere
contribute to a thickening of the
greenhouse gas layer, which increases
re-radiation of heat back to Earth’s
surface and the lower atmosphere,
increasing ocean warming and
atmospheric warming. Voila.
Climate change is natural
and normal. It's happened
before… right?
Yep. Climate change has happened
in the past, but it’s not been pretty.
Also, crucially, it is the undisputed
causal link between increased GHG
emissions and changes in Earth’s
climate as well the relative change
and magnitude of change that are the
issue here.
Around 11.5-13 thousand years ago,
as the planet warmed after the last ice
age, melt from polar ice caps caused
a great ocean circulation current, the
Gulf Stream, to shutdown, making
European temperatures plummet 6
degrees into another ice age. The Gulf
Stream is what’s responsible for west
Europe’s mild climate and recently
scientists have found evidence to
support the theory that the melting
of major ice sheets such as Greenland
and West Antarctic due to global
warming could make the Gulf Stream
shutdown again and ironically cause
another glaciation period.
Also, what’s interesting is not
what’s changing but what’s staying
the same. The North Atlantic
Oscillation Index (NAO), a two-way
pressure system that partly controls
Europe’s climate, has two phases –
positive and negative. The strength
and position of these pressure
systems usually changes from year
to year. However, since 1970s, as a
result of increased GHG emissions,
the NAO has remained in the positive
phase meaning that both the low
and high-pressure systems have
intensified.
This causes the sea level to rise and
increases ocean warming, resulting
in reduced nutrient upwelling as
well as other things, depriving fish
of essential food resources. These
fish include species that we expect
to see on supermarket shelves and
in fishmonger markets. In addition,
the NAO controls seasonal variation
and its persistent positive phase
has caused a shift towards earlier
Springs and later Autumns creating
phonological mismatches.
It’s also important to consider
the magnitude of change. Change
could have happened in the past but
the rate and amplitude varies. The
Southern Oscillation is another,
arguably greater contributor to global
climate patterns and is responsible
for the periodic El Nino/La Nina
climate fluctuations in the East
Pacific that are characterised by a 0.5
degree increase or decrease in ocean
temperature, respectively. Since the
industrial revolution and increased
atmospheric warming, the amplitude
and frequency of El Nino cycles
have increased and if we look back to
the 1997/8 El Nino, which wreaked
havoc for Peruvian anchovy fisheries,
decimated the native wildlife on the
Galápagos Islands and cost the US $20
billion dollars in damage, this is no
light matter.
So it is true that climate change
Obligatory photo of a sad looking polar bear. Photo: Zasavki
Projected changes in surface temperature. Higher latitudes are predicted to be most affected Photo: IPCC, 2007

