THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 17
06.03.2015
FELIX
Science Editor James Bezer & Lauren Ratcliffe
Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
activity. Most deniers said that there
was either no evidence for global
warming, or that the recent warming
of the Earth was due to natural
climate variability. In contrast, 87%
of scientists from the American
Association for the Advancement of
Science (AAAS) surveyed believed
that the burning of fossil fuels
has caused climate change. The
American public’s ignorance and the
gap between scientists and general
society’s opinion highlight the need to
promote a greater understanding and
public engagement in climate change.
Small but mighty
First appearances can be deceptive.
So you’ll hear a lot of statistics being
flown about, such as atmospheric
temperatures have increased by 0.74
degrees over the last decade. Perhaps
you’ll think “so what?”. However,
these seemingly insignificant changes
environmental conditions can have
much greater consequences for the
Earth and humanity than you may
initially think.
Increased emissions of strongly
ionising chemicals (nitrous oxides and
sulphates) cause ocean and freshwater
acidification, which directly impacts
biodiversity, destroying coral reefs
and any calcified organisms around. A
projected decrease of 0.4 units on the
pH scale in the forthcoming decade
may not seem much but considering
that the scale is logarithmic, this
translates to a 100-150% increase in
acidity which is more than we have
seen over the last 50 million years.
The two major ice sheets that are
melting at an accelerating rate are
Greenland and West Antarctic,
contributing an 8 and 6 mm/year
rise in sea surface levels respectively.
Overall the sea level has increased
1.5m in the last decade and is
predicted to further rise 0.75-2m
during our lifetimes. This may also
seem pretty puny but will have
huge consequences for regions such
as New Orleans and Miami. None
of the Maldives is more than 1.8m
above sea level, and according to
IPCC predictions the island will be
rendered uninhabitable by 2100.
So, what's being done?
Climate change is now taking more
of the limelight within international
political agendas. Obama wisely said
“this isn’t something in the distant
future, climate change is already
affecting us now.” Compare that to
2002 when former president George
ed dish. Don’t believe me?
has happened in the past and it is
a natural part of Earth’s history.
However, the difference this time is
that it is us that have caused these
changes.
Not all scientists agree
Nope, they do. Well, the majority of
them anyway. In 2013 a survey of
thousands of scientific papers taking
a position on climate change found
97.1% of the scientific community
believed that humans were causing
climate change. In addition, the
latest assessment report from the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC) stated “most of
the observed increase in globally
averaged temperatures since the mid-
20th
century is very likely due to the
observed increase in anthropogenic
greenhouse gas concentrations”.
Of course there are always sceptics
out there. Just this week Senator
James Inhofe, a Republican from
Oklahoma and long-standing climate
denier, threw a snowball in congress
to prove that global warming was
a myth. His facile argument was
that if it’s cold enough to snow
in Washington, D.C., then global
warming must be a hoax. This is not
just some nut off the street, he could
potentially be a leading controller of
environmental legislation, which is
pretty terrifying. This also touches
on another myth that should really
be squashed flat. Temperatures can
go up and down month-to-month,
year-to-year, but the overall trend
is upwards. It’s true, this February
has been the capital’s coldest in 36
years but that holds no ground as
evidence to undermine the argument
that greenhouse-gas emissions are
warming the planet over the course of
decades.
At the end of this January a major
survey of around 4,000 US citizens’
opinions on global warming revealed
that only half the population agreed
with the IPCC that climate change
was mostly driven by human
Bush rejected participation in the
Kyoto protocol and you can see
we’re going in the right direction.
Obama here also hits on something
that is very important. Historically
humanity cannot be trusted with
the future tense, trading short-
term gain for long-term pain. So
international agreements are needed
that emphasise the effect of climate
change to us now, rather than in some
distant future.
One of the most important
international actions against climate
change in recent times has been the
Kyoto Protocol, which binds member
states to reducing GHG emissions.
This international agreement
recently evolved during the Lima
climate change conference back in
December last year. Ever since the
UN Framework Convention on
Climate Change was signed in 1992,
countries’ obligations have been
defined according to their level of
development in that year. The rich
so-called ‘Annex 1’ countries have
had compulsory obligations, while
poorer ‘non-Annex 1’ were required
to attempt voluntary efforts.
However, this division has grown
ever more obsolete as developing
countries such as Brazil, Russia,
India and China are getting more
industrialised and becoming major
emitters of GHGs, so they are all
now being committed to compulsory
obligations. In addition, the
ubiquitous limit to global warming
of 2 degrees above pre-industrial
level has been agreed on. It’s worth
knowing that this threshold has not
actually been agreed by scientific
advisers but by politicians.
We’ve also seen the disinvestment
movement grow from strength to
strength in the last few months
as environmental policy changes
threaten to render fossil fuel
investments worthless in the
forthcoming years. One to watch out
for this winter is the next United
Nations Climate Change Conference;
it will be interesting to see how
different nations will agree to limit
their greenhouse gas emissions. So
watch this space.
Climate change is like an unwashed
dish, left in your bedroom, pushed
under a bed and forgotten about.
Tackle it straight away and you’ll
save yourself a lot of trouble in the
long-term. Leave it and surrender
to blissful ignorance and you’ll find
yourself with the marigolds on,
disinfectant in hand, scraping away
fungal growth or throwing out the
dish altogether.
yths surrounding this global conundrum

