THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 23
FELIX 06.03.2015
Politics Politics Editor Joshua Renken
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Why don’t more young people vote?
With just 61 days to go
until polling stations
open across the United
Kingdom, party election campaigns
are well under way. In 2010, voter
turnout was at 65%. The over-65’s
demographic had an overall turnout
of 76%. Amongst 18-24 year olds,
however, turnout was only 44% and
recent polls indicate that number will
be even lower on 7th
May.
This is a big problem in UK politics,
and a relatively recent phenomenon,
with only a 4% difference in turnout
between the young and old in 1987.
In our democracy politicians have to
focus their efforts to maximise votes,
so they will inevitably dangle more
voting incentives to the segments of
the electorate that are more likely to
get out and vote.
When you look at the disparity
in voter turnout between the young
and the old, it’s no surprise that in
this government University tuition
fees have increased when the welfare
entitlements of pensioners have
been steadfastly protected. Young
people are being disproportionately
neglected because there aren’t enough
votes to persuade those in power to
shift their focus towards them. The
silver vote gets courted while the
youth of today get hit hardest. And
it is a worrying reality that this only
makes young people even less likely
to cast their vote on 7th
May.
The Shadow Secretary of State for
Justice, Sadiq Khan, recently summed
up the situation: “If you have got a
candidate with an hour spare and
a choice to go to an old people’s
home or a sixth form college, 99% of
campaign managers will say you’ve
got to go to an old people’s home.”
There is an asymmetry of voting
influence on our representatives and
it’s only getting worse, with an aging
population and fewer young people
voting.
Politics is where principle clashes
with pragmatism, and young people
are the victims. And this is simply
due to politicians responding to
incentives. There’s no conspiracy
here. No evil plotters behind the
scenes. But that almost makes the
situation even more depressing.
So why don’t more 18-24 year
olds vote? Many reasons have been
put forward. Some believe that
young people are simply too lazy to
participate in politics. They think
that we are too busy texting, taking
pictures of our food and ogling Kim
Kardashian’s arse to look up and
think about who runs our country.
But this explanation is a lazy
stereotype and completely untrue.
It is abundantly clear that across the
country there are young people who
are fiercely passionate about social
action.
It could be argued that young
people don’t vote because they don’t
yet feel as though they have a stake
in wider society, and that it is only
as a person begins to settle down and
have children that they sense that
they have a direct interest in issues
such as affordable housing, taxation,
healthcare, education, the job market,
transport and childcare – the bread
and butter subjects of politics.
One reason why lots of young
people don’t vote is that many of
them are not exposed to political
discussion. There is very little, if any,
formal political education in schools.
This means that if a child’s family
does not discuss politics at the dinner
table then there is no initial stimulus
for that child to even think about it.
And there’s evidence to suggest that
if people don’t engage in politics early
on, they never will. If this continues
then a few decades down the line we
might live in a society with a passive
majority who don’t vote or even voice
their opinions about the issues that
affect all of our lives.
Russell Brand has tapped
into the public’s widespread
disenfranchisement and frustration
with Westminster and the ‘political
class’, and has done a good job of
drawing people’s attention to causes
that would otherwise be overlooked
by the mainstream media. But for
all his well-meaning intentions,
Russell ‘fuck-the-system’ Brand
is not helping the situation when
he encourages people not to vote.
He talks about bringing down our
current democracy without offering
a viable alternative and argues that
people shouldn’t bother voting until
he gets his revolution.
What’s so alarming here is that
the people who agree with Russell
about not voting are not doing it out
of apathy, but out of anger. Russell
undoubtedly has some good points
to make but in the time between the
upcoming general election and his
desired parliamentary revolt he must
Left: Comedian and political activist Russell Brand has been encouraging young people not to vote and has written a book on modern politics titled Revolution. Right: TV Presenter and
political activist Rick Edwards works with the Swing The Vote initiative and recently gave a TED talk called ‘How to get young people to vote’ Photos: 2014 Getty Images
Off his tits on politics, Joshua Renken tackles the issue of low voter
turnout amongst the millennial generation.
urge people to express their political
preferences in the current system.
Discussing political, social and
electoral reform is imperative and
there are huge problems that need to
be addressed, but change will never
come about if people do not organise.
Otherwise they lose their influence.
Politics is far more interesting than
it sometimes appears to be, and the
decisions made at the top make huge
differences to the quality of people’s
lives.
Politics is also very complicated,
and large sections of the mainstream
media have done a poor job of
untangling the issues and informing
the electorate, which is vital for a
healthy democracy. After all, the
first step in solving a problem is
recognising there is one.
Politicians could certainly do more
to bridge the gap between themselves
and young people, but we can only
place so much blame on the media
and public officials. Now we have to
deal with the problem ourselves and
get young people engaged in political
discourse, because the problem of
voter turnout amongst the millennial
generation is self-perpetuating. The
less young people vote, the more
politicians will be able to ignore their
concerns without being punished at
the ballot box. The less politics has to
offer young people the less likely they
are to turn up to polling stations the
next time round. It’s a circle, and it’s
vicious. Which is why they call it that.
This May millions of young people
will have their first opportunity to
vote in a general election. There are
5.6 million 18-24 year olds in the
UK; that’s 11.3% of the population.
If the opportunity is seized, the
millennial generation could make a
decisive difference in what is a very
tight race. 18-24 year olds represent
a huge amount of latent political
leverage that could tip the balance
strongly in their favour. Politicians
would have no choice but to respond
by catering better to the needs of this
demographic and real change would
be made.
Most young people are not
apathetic. They are angry and
alienated. We are disproportionately
ignored by the powers that be and
those that do vote feel demoralised
under this administration, but the
only way to change that is for young
people to start flocking to polling
stations en masse.
To those people who have problems
with the status quo in this country
but don’t vote or get organised: you
have limited scope to complain.
Because, and there’s no easy to way to
say this, you are part of the problem.
Despite what some people say, it
matters who is in power. We have
the collective ability to decide who
determines the future of the United
Kingdom but if people do not get out
and vote the government will never
receive a proper mandate from the
people. The millennial generation
needs to vote, for all our sakes.
You can register to vote in the
constituency of either your home or
term-time address. Make sure you’re on
the electoral register before the April
20th
deadline.

