28 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.03.2015
My Favourite...
The Felix Culture Editors tell us about the culture that inspired them
...Album — The Shape of Jazz to Come
KAMIL McCLELLAND
ARTS EDITOR
1959, probably the most
important year in the history
of jazz, a turning point away
from bebop and its roots in blues and
dixieland, towards a new path for
jazz: free jazz. In the same year Miles
Davis released Kind of Blue and Dave
Brubeck came out with Time Out, a
lesser known artist called Ornette
Coleman came out of the shadows to
release his album The Shape of Jazz to
Come. The implications of this album
cannot be underplayed; it heralded
the advent of free jazz: more a way of
thinking than a genre in itself, that
would revolutionise music for the rest
of the 20th
Century.
Jazz is often seen as either lounge
music or so abrasively complex as to
make it effectively unlistenable. The
Shape of Jazz to Come was my gateway
drug that took me beyond this
misrepresentation. It contains just
enough of the old school of jazz and
conventional harmonic structures to
make it enjoyable and not completely
baffling, whilst simultaneously
introducing new musical concepts
that completely blow the artform
wide open. Retrospectively, this
album is by no means free jazz, not
at all free of the musical shackles
defined by jazz and blues standards.
In fact, you can certainly hear the
influences from Thelonious Monk
and Charles Mingus in the album.
However, you cannot doubt how
avant-garde it was at the time, with
Miles Davis describing Coleman after
its release as “all screwed up inside”.
Yet he was simultaneously described
as a genius by Leonard Bernstein,
such was the controversy of the
album’s release.
How bold a statement to call an
album ‘The Shape of Jazz to Come’!
Coleman originally wanted to entitle
it ‘Focus on Sanity’ but fortunately
just in time, his producer suggested
the name, recognising the album’s
potential for revolution. It was also
just in time for Coleman in another
way. For before this producer,
Nesuhi Ertegun, picked him up, he
was considering abandoning music
altogether and becoming a pastor.
Coleman had always been an
innovator as a saxophonist, much
more interested in the timbre of the
instrument as opposed to playing
the ‘correct’ notes. In fact in 1954 he
started playing a plastic saxophone,
unable to afford a metal one, giving
his playing an extremely unique
sound that is a lot drier and more
piercing than other saxophonists.
However, whilst his work can
sometimes be quite affronting, it is
also some of the most emotionally
rich and complex that I have ever
come across. From a hyena-like
cackle to a lamenting weep, he
truly encompasses the beauty of
dissonance. Harmony is unimportant
to him, emotion through melody and
timbre are what counts, embracing
a raw energy rarely seen in any jazz
artists before him. He also did not
view pitch in the same way as his
artistic counterparts. He appreciated
it was a spectrum and made use of
microtones like no other, insisting
the same pitch should sound different
at each performance depending on
the context and mood. It was truly
revolutionary thinking!
And this is why I love this album
so much, the work of a maverick
innovator miles ahead of the curve –
truly the shape of jazz to come.
...Author — Margaret Atwood
FRED FYLES
ARTS EDITOR
The first book that I can
remember being upset at
finishing, not just sad, but
actually physically hurt, was Margaret
Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale. A
story of a future in which radical
Christians have transformed America
into a theocracy, and the declining
fertility rate has led to the remaining
fecund women being enslaved as
‘handmaids’, The Handmaid’s Tale
kick-started in this prepubescent boy
a love of dystopian fiction; 1984, Brave
New World, We, these all followed
in rapid succession, but none could
match the joy I felt when reading
Atwood’s carefully crafted prose.
Luckily, I found a fellow confidante
in my mother: a big fan of Atwood,
her collection stood proud on our
bookshelves, their green spines and
bitten apple logo indicating that they
were printed by feminist publishers
Virago Press. And so I gorged. Gorged
myself on cannibalistic rituals
involving women made of cake; on
themes of Canadian nationalism
and a return to nature; on the inner
thought of artists, and writers, and
paleontologists, and students, all
brought to life thanks to Atwood’s
deft wit. Reading Atwood’s novels,
so many of them are concerned
with rural Canada, a dichotomous
environment of majesty and fury,
beauty and pain. They made me yearn
for a country I have never visited yet
could clearly picture, for a place that
could not be more different from my
North London living room but which
still seemed familiar.
Her body of work is enormous,
not only in scope but volume too:
fourteen novels; fifteen books of
poetry; nine short story collections;
three libretti; the list goes on. Her
novels wilfully defy categorisation.
When people started saying that she
was a feminist writer, she politely
corrected them: “The Edible Woman,
[Atwood’s first novel] is protofeminist
rather than feminist: there was no
women’s movement in sight when
I was composing the book in 1965...
though like many at the time I’d
read Betty Friedan and Simone
de Beauvoir behind closed doors”.
Instead of giving her Oryx and Crake
trilogy the moniker of science-fiction,
she instead calls them speculative
fiction, telling us in no uncertain
terms that there are “no martians”.
This slipperiness, this struggle against
conformity, which has continued
throughout a career that has entered
its fifth decade, is what sets her work
apart, lifting her higher than any
writer currently working
Sometimes, if I am feeling down,
I get up a picture of her on my
computer screen; she’s the only
person I know in whose physical
features genius is manifestly evident.
It’s there, in her eyes. A glimmer. A
gleam. And in her mouth too, the way
her lips curl slightly upwards at the
ends, as if constantly laughing at her
own private joke.
They give an indication, a
suggestion, of a mind at work; a
mind that’s constantly ticking over,
scheming, laying out plans, keeping
itself busy. A mind for which we
should be thankful. A mind that
makes the world so much bigger than
I can possibly imagine.
Culture Celebrating the 1600th issue of Felix

