30 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.03.2015
...Comic Series — Sex Criminals
GRACE RAHMAN
MUSIC EDITOR
Iwon’t lie, I don’t know shit about
comics. I only started frequenting
Soho’s GOSH! Comics for the
sexy men and proximity to good
record stores. Before I started lurking
in the graphic novel section of
Waterstones, I thought comics simply
provided fuel for Marvel Studios
to re-hash into a new blockbuster
every summer. Don’t get me wrong,
I know my Aquaman from my Iron
Man, but beyond the necessary
general knowledge to get me through
a rogue DC/Marvel question during
Mastermind, I just wasn’t interested.
And I’m still not interested in the
world of superhero comics, despite
recent expansion from the cis
white male template that the genre
traditionally serves so well. The latest
incarnation of Ms Marvel, written by
a female Muslim convert, is a teenage
Pakistani living in New York. Her
parents are terrified she’ll have sex or
not become a doctor.
Despite these totally identifiable
themes, the stories themselves do
little for me. I like sci-fi, but I also
like comedy and beautiful pictures.
I want mature stories, an exciting
premise that can be snappily summed
up in a sentence and a little bit of
smut. Behold Sex Criminals. Forget
stolen kisses between Superman
and the odd mermaid, Sex Criminals
provides it hard, fast and from page
1. With drawings by Chip Zdarsky
who’s just been given the reigns by
Marvel to reinvent Howard the Duck,
and words from Matt Fraction of
Hawkeye fame, it’s a fantasy comic
by people who admit they don’t have
a lot of loyalty towards the genre.
And I think this shows, for the most
part, making it a nice introduction
for the comic novice. There are no
backstories to get bogged down in, no
arguing in the forums over nuances
implied way back in ’87 and it passes
the Bechdel test. The first volume,
‘One Weird Trick’, introduces our
main characters, Suzie and Jon, who
feel like the world stops when they get
down on it. Except it literally does, so
they decide to rob banks during their
post-coital bliss.
This premise alone sold it to me,
and as well as straight up sex jokes
throughout, the subtle background
puns make it a re-readable buy.
Zdarsky’s futuristic and downright
sexy layouts are the perfect
complement to the cheeky content.
At one point, Apple deemed it too
rude to read on their devices, and
prevented its download on iOS via
iTunes or the huge comic viewing
platform comiXology. This was a
multifaceted error on their part;
people weren’t stopped from viewing
the first issue after Apple realised
they didn’t want to publish the
second and this arguably fuelled
people’s intrigue.
Like anything forbidden, it
became far more interesting. Plus,
quite embarrassing for a forward
thinking company that prides itself
on empowering creative types to
have banned Time magazine’s Comic
of the Year. Most importantly,
the decision was ill-informed. Sex
Criminals is not for getting off on.
Zdarsky uses his mates as models for
Susie and Jon, which he says limits
the amount of gratuitous sexiness
since he has to direct his friends into
simulating said acts (Love Actually-
style). It’s certainly not all smut, and
the second volume that came out
last week sees Jon and Suzie move
beyond the honeymoon phase. The
bank robbing has lost its shine and
the young couple are suffering under
all the strains that being able to stop
time when you climax brings. There
was more depth and humour than I
was expecting in my first dalliance
with comics, even if it’s too rude to
read on the tube.
Sex Criminals: Volume 2 is out now on
Image Comics
Sex Criminals: Volume 1, our Music Editor’s comic of choice Credit:
Image Comics
...Musician — Taylor Swift
TESSA DAVEY
COMMENT EDITOR
Anyone who knows me will
know that I have a particular
penchant for Taylor Swift.
Whether I’m posting new Swifty
(while I realise that Swiftie is the
tumblr-accepted spelling, I prefer it
with a y, okay?) videos on people’s
walls on Facebook with overexcited
captions, OMG!!!1! ITS SO GOOD I
DIDNT THINK TAYTAY COULD
OUTDO HERSELF BUT SHE DID
OH MY GOD, or forcing the entire
Felix office to listen to nothing but
Taylor Swift for an entire day, I don’t
exactly keep my love to myself.
I know Taylor Swift isn’t exactly
the epitome of cool, and I would love
to name one of the generic indie
bands that I generally listen to, in
order to maintain some pretence of
sophistication, but actually, when it
comes to TayTay, I’m not sure that
I care if people know that I love her.
Every girl loves Taylor Swift, and
those who say that they don’t are liars.
You see, Taylor Swift appeals to
the very essence of the female being.
I’m going to be very cis-hetero-
normative here, but I’m pretty sure
this actually extends to all genders/
sexes/sexualities/etc, but I can only
speak for myself. And Taylor Swift,
obviously.
Taylor Swift is the manifestation
of girl-cray. She is the feelings
that you would love to display, the
obsessiveness that you’re a little bit
ashamed of, she is all the emotion
that society tells us that makes girls
crazy and they should suppress.
This is obviously ridiculous, and an
example of our patriarchal society’s
female-shaming, or even alpha-male-
emotion-shaming. Everyone feels this
way – whenever someone is upfront
about it, they are lauded for their
honesty – but for some reason, people
try and hide it as much as they can,
and are ashamed if they let it show.
Taylor Swift is honest about it. She’s
frequently mocked for being a bit
And look, isn’t she just so gosh-darned pretty? Credit: Taylor Swift
over-emosh, for falling in love too
hard and then writing songs about it,
and while people might laugh along,
there’s no denying that Taylor Swift
is SO relatable.
Don’t you think that it’s incredibly
liberating to be completely honest
about how you’re feeling, to admit
that you completely illogically want
to get back with your ex who didn’t
treat you right, because you miss the
excitement, or to confess that you
spend most of your time fantasising
about your best friend breaking up
with his girlfriend, because obviously
you are really the girl for him.
Swifty’s latest album has several
songs where she addresses her cray
reputation, mocking people who
say she’s just an overly attached
maneater. But Taylor Swift isn’t
crazy, she’s just honest. And on top
of this, she’s a little bit basic bitch
embarrassing, which she’s not afraid
to embrace, and her songs are hella
catchy. And that makes her better
than us all.
Culture Celebrating the 1600th issue of Felix

