THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 31
FELIX 06.03.2015
A Wonderfully Inappropriate Comedy
Desiree Akhavan in Appropriate Behaviour, which chronicles a bisexual Iranian woman’s life in Brooklyn Photo: Gravitas Ventures
Fred Fyles takes on Desiree Akhavan’s New York sexual romp
When asked where she
gets her oddball sense
of humour from by the
interviewer, Desiree Akhavan pulls
no punches: “My genitals,” she
replies, “my humour comes from
my genitals.” Akhavan is here, being
interviewed at the ICA, to promote
her debut film Appropriate Behaviour,
a drama-comedy revolving around an
Iranian bisexual woman living and
loving – or at least, attempting to – in
hip New York. While the film has
received numerous comparisons to
Girls, no doubt helped by the fact that
Akhavan has a recurring role in this
season of Lena Dunham’s brainchild,
it is clear from the beginning that
Akhavan’s vein of humour is more
brash, nuanced, and utterly unique.
The indie comedy equivalent of
a triple threat, Akhavan has both
written and directed the film, and
appears as the main character Shirin,
who we first meet as she collects her
stuff in preparation for moving out
of her girlfriend Maxine’s (Rebecca
Henderson) apartment; throwing
the whole lot in the bin, she then
reconsiders, pausing to retrieve a
strap-on, which she half-heartedly
carries along the streets of a summer-
time Brooklyn. Told through a
series of flashbacks, a move that is
obviously indebted to Annie Hall
– Akhavan has herself admitted as
such – we follow Shirin as she tries
to forget that she was once loved
by making a series of increasingly
unwise, and hilarious, life decisions.
As a second generation immigrant,
Shirin is walking precariously along
a tightrope, one day attending a
Persian new year’s party, the next
heading to an art show to see a
friend “dress up like a farm animal
and touch herself”. It is this strain,
magnified by the fact that Shirin
has a ‘Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell’ policy
with her parents when it comes to
her sexuality, even when they are
confused as to why their daughter
is living with another woman in a
one-bed apartment, that leads to
the break-up of the relationship. As
part of the healing process, Shirin
decides to get a new job, taking up
the offer of the friend of a friend
to teach filmmaking to a group of
“really talented, clever Brooklyn
children”, who turn out to be a group
of 5-year-old boys. With her grief and
libido increasing, she soon begins to
regress to her students’ level, pulling
ever more immature stunts to try and
make Maxine jealous.
While Akhavan is the obvious
star here, the supporting cast are
equally strong. The ex-girlfriend
is a particularly difficult role, but
Henderson shines in it, managing
to make Maxine somewhat brittle
nature seem utterly sympathetic.
Within cinema, there seems to be
a trope that true love cannot exist
within a relationship that has gone
sour; that if their love were ‘real’, if
neither of them were ‘bad people’,
then why would they ever break up?
Akhavan and Henderson use their
performances to make it clear that,
sometimes, shit just happens like that,
and their relationship isn’t any the
less for it.
The film has an episodic structure,
which is clearly due to Akhavan’s
experience producing her online
web series The Slope; made with her
then-girlfriend Ingrid Jungermann,
The Slope revolved around the
lives of a couple of “superficial,
homophobic lesbians” living in
Park Slope, Brooklyn. Brilliantly
accurate, the pair received a great deal
of media attention thanks to their
open willingness to be hypocritical,
confusing, and messy individuals.
It was this attention that helped
lead to the generation of Appropriate
Behaviour, something for which we
should all be thankful (so remember,
when you’re “constantly wasting
your life” watching YouTube, you’re
actually helping the independent
cinema industry. Take that mum!).
One thing that Akhavan does
brilliantly is draw attention to
the navel-gazing, self-indulgent
tendencies of millennials, within
both the queer community, and the
general population. Alongside the
gags about pretentious art shows and
taxidermist roommates, there is a
subtle commentary on how perhaps
Akhavan’s generation is horrifically
self-involved. In one scene, for
example, Shirin attends a workshop
on queer justice, which she knows
Maxine will also be attending; as one
man tells the group how the ‘Crime
Against Nature’ laws resulted in him
being branded a sexual predator,
Maxine and Shirin ignore him
and argue in the corner about the
plans they have made, until Shirin
eventually puts her hand up and asks
the facilitator – a law professor at
NYU – out for a drink. In another
scene, Akhavan reveals the two-
facedness of Maxine, showing her to
be a woman who makes her girlfriend
read a copy of Stone Butch Blues for
self-improvement, but will also call
Shirin’s bisexuality “just a phase” in
one of the most chilling scenes of the
film. Akhavan shows this all quite
bluntly, but never aims to be mean;
instead it is just a gentle reminder
that a narcissistic streak is inevitable,
not just for Generation Y, but for all
young people.
While the break-up comedy
genre will inevitably be bittersweet,
Akhavan manages to keep things
from becoming cloying thanks to an
acerbic wit that is both oddball and
cynical, a fact that sets Appropriate
Behaviour apart from other, similar
films. As mentioned earlier, Girls is
an easy reference point, as is Noah
Baumbach’s Frances Ha; after all,
they all feature slightly off-beat
20-something year old women
trying to make their way through
life in Brooklyn. But while it is easy
to see such films as merely more
content in an genre that probably
reached its peak when people gave
up $3 million to ensure Zach Braff
can make another film ($3 million!),
Akhavan has created a piece that is
not only welcome, but downright
vital. With her background as a self-
identifying bisexual Persian woman,
Akhavan is the very definition of
intersectionality, and it is up to
people like her to commit their
experiences to film.
Appropriate Behaviour is out now on
Peccadillo Pictures.
Culture
Celebrating the 1600th issue of Felix

