THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 39
FELIX 06.03.2015
es House, which bowed out at the end of its eighth series in 2012.
himself. Forever popping Vicodin
pills in his mouth as though they
were tic-tacs, in later series House
begins to blur the boundary between
physical and emotional pain, at one
point justifying his substance abuse
to Wilson by saying, “the pain doesn’t
discriminate and neither do the pills.”
His actions become more radical and
lead to stints in both a psychiatric
hospital and a prison. It would be
fair to say that House is more of
a meditation on misery or a deep
character study of a compromised
genius than it is a medical procedural
drama.
House himself is an enigma. His
brain means everything to him
and he has recognised that solving
obscure medical cases somehow
lessens the chronic pain in his leg –
as though he were too busy with the
puzzle to think about his physical
vulnerabilities. While House portrays
himself as very lazy, he often goes
out of his way to prove a point or be
in control; he rarely takes the path
of least resistance and is always his
own worst enemy. House is reluctant
to form relationships because
it makes him vulnerable and is
constantly evading and deflecting in
conversations. He tends to make light
of morbid situations and never fully
opens up to communicate honestly
with those around him. This means
that despite his inner demons, House
is often very funny.
Forever trying to escape his clinic
hours – where he actually has to
meet patients face to face – House
also generally avoids visiting his
non-clinic patients, since he believes
that removing emotional biases
and keeping objectivity makes him
a better doctor, an opinion not
disproved on the show. The short
clinic scenes, however, provide light
relief and make great use of Hugh
Laurie’s comedic sensibilities – the
series will make you laugh more
thank you might think, largely due
to the hugely satisfying ‘Houseisms’
that grace the series. In one episode
an inspector remarks, “Dr. House, I’ve
heard your name.” to which he replies
“Most people have, it’s also a noun.”
In one confrontation over a colleague,
House tells Cuddy “I don’t want to say
anything bad about another doctor...
especially a useless drunk.”
House has an uncanny ability to
‘read’ people and diagnose their
ailments simply by looking at them;
this talent is just one of the many
similarities between House and the
fictional detective Sherlock Holmes.
House’s intelligence, deductive
reasoning skills, social awkwardness
and powers of observation are near
identical to Sherlock’s. Furthermore,
both House and Sherlock play
instruments, take drugs and have one
true friend (Wilson/Watson). House
even lives in flat 221B, essentially
making the series a modern day
Sherlock, albeit with a medical degree.
It is often the case that actors do
a great job in their roles, and it is
easy for the compliments made
about their achievements to lose
their punch, but it has to be noted
that Hugh Laurie puts in a truly
mesmerising performance as House.
As discussed above, the titular
character is one of the most nuanced
and demanding parts that has ever
been played on the small screen, and
Laurie delivers in full.
Hugh Laurie has said that when he
first read an early sample of the script
he instantly felt that he understood
this cranky doctor. Assuming that,
due to House’s personality and
conversational style that, he was
planned to be a “quirky” side member
of the cast, it came as a surprise to
Laurie that House’s life, work, and
opinions were in fact the whole
foundation of the show.
David Shore explained that when
he and others got hold of Laurie’s
five minute audition tape, one of the
executive producers said, “See, this is
what I want; an American guy.” This
is impressive in itself, but even more
so when you consider that Hugh is in
fact about as quintessentially British
as it is possible to be.
The rest of the cast put in a
universally top rate performance
and the quality of the writing never
dropped. The scripts remained as
witty and thought provoking as they
were at the beginning, an incredible
achievement when you consider the
sheer number of episodes.
This series was nothing if not
bold, being one of the first television
series to put an anti-hero as the main
protagonist. Before the turn of the
century the vast majority of leading
men and women were depicted
as moral supermen. House wasn’t
the first, but it was certainly one
of the very best shows to embrace
the idea of having a leading role
that on paper the audience should
dislike, if not actively hate. House’s
character was a controversial figure,
steadfastly holding views that were
not all that popular and often taboo.
But the show’s success has led to the
mainstream adoption of this new
direction for television; we have seen
a huge influx of more conflicted,
damaged and all round realistic
central performances ever since
House’s premiere way back in 2004.
The quality of television has never
been higher than it is now and House
is one of the shows that forged the
path towards this exciting new era.
When the producers announced
that the eighth series was going to be
the last, fans were not demanding for
the show to continue – instead, many
of them were appreciative. Despite
adoring the characters and the
concept, the audience recognised that
it was time for people to move onto
new projects. Millions of people were
heavily invested in House and wanted
closure. Some went as far to say that
House should not have continued
past the sixth series, as it had lost
its freshness and sense of humour.
Regardless, the show’s commitment
to character development gave House
a limited shelf life.
The pilot episode was titled
‘Everybody Lies’, a phrase that is
uttered countless times throughout
the eight seasons that make up this
nuanced medical procedural drama;
the final episode was appropriately
titled ‘Everybody Dies’.
A hospital whodunit with a twist,
House’s enlightened cynicism and
addictive tendencies made him
an endearing character that you
empathise with. This series was
amongst the most thought provoking
and intelligent pieces of television
in recent history and there is over
125 hours of it to experience. All
told, House was a hugely successful
and influential medical drama that
deserves to be watched. Even if
its ideas are never executed to the
same exceptional standard, House’s
television legacy will be felt for a long
time to come.
All eight series of House are now
available on Netflix.
"House is
one of the
shows that
forged
the path
towards this
new era of
TV"
The cast of House (L-R): Jesse Spencer, Olivia Wilde, Hugh Laurie, Robert Sean Leonard, Lisa
Edelstein, and Omar Epps Photo: FOX
Culture
Celebrating the 1600th issue of Felix

