THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 51
FELIX 06.03.2015
Grace Rahman takes us through the five best bangs in pop music
Live by the fringe. Die by the fringe.
Long before Kate Moss brought the fringe back into the mainstream in 2007, these indie babes were rocking some seriously vision-
impairing styles. Forget Cara Delevingne; where we’re going there are no eyebrows. It’s not about seeing the audience anyway, as long as
they can see your fringe and you can see your guitar, and the rain doesn’t hit it, you’re away.
1Arguably leading to a whole era of indie chicks running down to Headmasters clutching a copy
of the NME, Lily Allen circa 2007 starts the billing with her heavy set, statement bangs. They
start high, making them a real commitment; when it starts sticking to your forehead two days
into Glastonbury, all the Kirby grips in the world aren’t going to stop this mother from flowing
free. Add hoop earrings and sing in a mockney accent to disguise the fact that you actually went to
Bedales.
2It’s well known that the more dominant sister in First Aid Kit commands attention through
fringe presence alone. This eyelid skimming look is teamed with mermaid length in the rest
of the hair, which can only be achieved by constant attention. It might not look like it, but this
woman is braver than all of us; she is a genuine hair’s breadth away from total blindness. A small
price to pay to sell out the Royal Albert Hall.
3What was the boldest thing about Natasha Khan’s (AKA Bat for Lashes) cover for of The
Haunted Man in 2012? Was it the naked man she had in a fireman’s lift, whose skinny limbs
were only just covering her modesty? The shift in her musical style from sweet, feather-and-
unicorn-inspired folk to a darker, much more grown-up chamber pop? No, it was that blunt fringe
and bob combo that really filled column inches.
4Back in the days (and fringes) of Myspace, relationships could be made or broken by the order
your mate decided to put you on their friends list. So too, could careers, and when veteran
fringe Lily Allen put Kate Nash at number eight on her list, she was instantly catapulted to
stardom. The twee-as-can-be debut House of Bricks aided this endeavour, as did her fringe. Nash has
had quite a style change of late; her last record saw her favouring a ‘40s quiff or perfectly rollered
fringe; but back then she was the indie archetype: naturally ginger with a scruffy side-swept fringe –
the ultimate in low-maintenance.
5When it comes to the evolution of fringes, few women have achieved what VV Brown has.
Much like the total overhaul of her 2009 debut sound, her image (read: fringe) has changed
dramatically. Her 1950s pin-up fringe was epic and perfectly suited to the sickly sweet ‘Shark
in the Water’. Not just a structural achievement, but with flicks and attitude, it was a fringe of the
moment. Then in 2013 she emerged with a new album and look. It had higher aspirations than the
first; the retro bangs had been replaced with a staple choppy style and with cheekbones that high,
she simply couldn’t go wrong.
Lily Allen
Bat For Lashes
VV Brown
Klara Söderberg
Kate Nash
Lily Allen at the 2007 BRIT Awards. Note how the gaudy bow draws attention to her razor-
sharp barnet. Credit: Press Association
A fringe can be difficult look to pull off when your head slopes majestically like a Swedish
mountain peak. Klara clearly has no fear. Credit: Micke Bayart
Button nose? Check. Doe eyes? Check. A fringe that can kill a man without a second thought?
Fucking check. Credit: Coup de Main
Like a carefully constructed bird’s nest, this fringe may appear messy, but has a structure all
of its own. Bow down, bitches. Credit: Creative Commons
Like the existence of aliens and the Bermuda Triangle, VV Brown’s fringe is a mystery. Does
it curl over or under? We will never know. Credit: Capital Records
Culture
Celebrating the 1600th issue of Felix

