8 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.03.2015
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It’s time for football fans to reap the benefits
Afortnight ago, the Premier
League unveiled their latest
deal for broadcast rights in
the United Kingdom. In an increase
of a massive (and unexpected) 70%,
the deal for 2016-2019 is valued at
£5.1 billion. This keeps the Premier
League comfortably at the top of the
revenue charts of football leagues
around the world. In fact, its two
nearest rivals for that title – the
Bundesliga in Germany and La Liga
in Spain – will only receive £1.8
billion and £1.7 billion respectively.
Sky, who have again bought the
majority of the rights, have agreed to
pay more than £11 million per game,
while secondary broadcaster BT will
fork out £7.76 million, and this deal
sells only the rights in the United
Kingdom.
The Premier League prides itself
on being one of the world’s most
marketable sports leagues. In fact,
it’s third in the list of most valuable
leagues in the world, behind the
National Football League and
Major League Baseball in America.
However, once the international
rights are sold, the figure for the
Premier League is expected to rise to
a humongous £8.8 billion.
When I first heard about the size
of the new television rights deal I
had two thoughts. The first was that
we should be ecstatic that we have a
football league that is truly global.
It’s a league that the whole world is
watching. Most footballers speak of
their dream to come and ply their
trade in English football – and one
would suspect that that’s not just
about the money.
The other thought is the ticket
prices.
The BBC run a survey every year –
The Price of Football – in which they
ask every club in the professional
leagues of English football questions
about their ticket prices, and the
prices at their concession stands. It
found that the average price of the
cheapest adult ticket at a Premier
League game was £28.80. The most
expensive ticket was at Arsenal at a
price of £97.
If we were to compare this to prices
in Germany, there is a shocking
difference. The BBC surveyed the
top four German clubs from the last
season, and the results put English
football to shame. The average
cheapest ticket price of those four
clubs is as low as £12.12, with the
most expensive ticket priced at
£54.82 at Bayern Munich. The prices
in France are even cheaper – the
average cheapest ticket from the top
four clubs is just £9.79.
How does this relate to the latest TV
rights deal? It was announced as part
of the BBC survey that ticket prices
in the Premier League had increased
by 13% on average since 2011. That’s
almost double the rate that the living
wage has increased (6.8% over the
same time period). As a Manchester
United season ticket holder, I have
been pleased that my ticket to the
Theatre of Dreams has been at the
same price for the last three years,
and has not increased in price like at
other clubs. But I feel it is now time
for clubs to make a gesture. A gesture
to fans that have been there for their
team through thick and thin. A
gesture to fans that want to be there
for their team, but simply can’t afford
it. A gesture for those who care.
Last season’s bottom club, Cardiff
City, was awarded more than £62
million from TV rights and prize
money. That’s more than the previous
season’s champions, Manchester
United, were awarded for their title-
winning efforts. Given the numbers
involved with TV rights and prize
money, it is inconceivable to think
that ticket prices have to be increased
for clubs to survive.
The Premier League rights deal
is split into three parts. 50% is
divided equally between clubs,
25% is awarded based on a club’s
final position in the table, and the
Kunal Wagle thinks that a gesture is due to those of us who care
remaining 25% is distributed as a
‘facilities fee’ – effectively a fee per
match televised per club. Under the
deal, the team finishing last each
season will earn at least £99 million,
whilst the champions will get £156
million as a minimum.
Those numbers make remarkable
reading when put in the same context
as ticket prices. It is estimated that
the windfall from the new television
rights deal could pay for a reduction
in each and every Premier League
ticket by £40 without decreasing
their revenues, when compared to
this season. Speaking about this exact
scenario, Conservative MEP Dan
Dalton summed up my thoughts
perfectly. He said: “This may be
implausible, but substantial cuts
for tickets should be a priority. Put
simply, clubs can afford to help their
fans and communities at this time.”
It’s obvious that Premier League
clubs can’t decrease their ticket prices
by such an amount – they have to
use some of the money to create an
advantage for themselves against
Europe’s top clubs (otherwise what’s
the point?). By this day two years
from now, all twenty Premier League
clubs will be amongst the world’s
top 30 richest clubs. They will all
be members of an elite set of clubs
at football’s richest table. But all
the other clubs in those top 30 have
KUNAL WAGLE
SPORTS EDITOR
significantly cheaper tickets and
aren’t suffering one bit.
The Premier League will point to
attendances (and quite rightly too)
to show that the system is working.
Premier League attendances are at an
all-time high. Despite this, the seeds
of discontent are beginning to show
through. Manchester United have
lost numerous season ticket holders
to nearby rebel club, FC United of
Manchester, while fans from Arsenal
have staged protests against the
extortionate prices to see football
at the Emirates. Crystal Palace fans
unveiled a large banner at Selhurst
Park two weeks ago, captioned “£5
billion in the trough yet supporters
still exploited. Share the wealth,
pigs.” And in June 2013, fans from
Tottenham, Liverpool, Arsenal and
Manchester United descended on
the Premier League headquarters
in London, shouting, “You greedy
bastards, enough is enough.” Clubs
in the Premier League need to decide
whether they’d be comfortable
looking into the eyes of their fans as
they try to justify increasing prices
again in the face of this new deal.
We are at an exciting crossroads
in the Premier League. The new deal
will bring higher wages and therefore
better players.
Let’s just hope the fans don’t get left
behind.
Football fans have started to fight back against the increasing ticket prices. Photo: David Price/Arsenal
"the seeds of
discontent are
beginning to
show through."

