84 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.03.2015
What is going on inside
the Blue Cube this week
We have an exciting stretch ahead of us,
with lots of chances to come together and
truly collaborate, propelling ourselves into
the bright future.
All-Staff Group Trust Meeting
On Monday at 12pm, there will be our
monthly Group Trust meeting, where we
will be learning the importance of synergy
and balance.
Don’t forget your yoga mat! Green Tea will
be provided. (All staff must attend)
Sweeping Statements Masterclass
On Tuesday, College Communications
are running a seminar you are welcome
to attend, about the importance of
communicating Campus Portfolio
Evolution.
There are murmurings of disquiet
concerning Weeks hall, but rest assured,
these changes are all part of the optimal
Ten Year Plan. Come to this seminar at 2pm
to learn all about how to deal with specific
inquiries about the present with sweeping
statements about the future.
Note: students in the building on
Wednesday
On Wednesday, there will be a meeting on
the second floor and several students are
invited to attend, so do not worry if you
spot any wandering the corridors. Politely
point them towards the lift and they will no
doubt drift away.
These students are “elected” Sabbaticals
from the Union, meaning they are the
cleanest and most polite of the student
body, so do not be alarmed.
We advise you keep contact to a minimum;
the students are here for our biannual
“consultation” meeting, and we will be
discussing our continued dedication to 24
hour library access, a topic we know they
are continually concerned about.
What is going on outside the
blue cube this week
Peace and tranquillity throughout campus
no doubt!
We here are sure your walk through Dalby
Court at the end of the day will reveal to
you many a smiling student face, all excited
to be on the same path to excellence
we are embarking upon as a world class
institution.
Alice Gast: Thought of the Week
“To move forward as a World Class Institution,
we must collaborate, communicate, consolidate
and collaborate again. Only through acheiving
excellence in these fields, along with our alumni,
friends, supporters and rich alumni friends,
can we continue to be excellent in the world of
research. Oh! And Education. We need to try to
be good at Education too. If we have time.”
The weekly newsletter of the Faculty Building
Blue News
Provost Post
of the Week
Every week, a member of
our esteemed Provost board
shares their thoughts with
our collaborative, cohesive
community. This week, we
welcome Dee Creaserent,
the Vice Provost (Hall
Demolition), who has been
working extensively with
the student body on what
matters to them.
What a month it has been!
Estates, our wondrous
development team, and myself
have been looking at all the
ways we can improve our
new beacon of hope, Imperial
West, to ensure it offers the
best facilities for world-class
research, based in the heart
of the metropolitan sprawl
of White City. If it is good
enough for our flagship British
Broadcasting Corperation, it is
certainly good enough for our
scientists!
We had another ribbon
cutting ceremony there only
last week, where we celebrated
the thousandth breezeblock to
be laid at the site, yet another
milestone worth mentioning
in the ongoing Imperial West
development.
I was a guest on the students’
very own little television show a
few weeks ago, which they just
loved. I spoke to many students
about our amazing work in
building the new halls, and how
we have kept our longstanding
promise of making rents
reasonable at Woodward, our
new and exciting state of the art
accommodation in the heart of
Acton, another up and coming
part of the metropolitan sprawl
out in West London.
I also gently reminded our
students that we all need to
embrace change, we need to
be continually evolving, or
else we will never improve and
never grow! Resisting change
is resisting excellence, and
although we have made some
tricky decisions now, they will
form the basis for world-class
facilities in the future.
We will now be looking with
what to do with our new site
once we have demolished
Weeks Hall: onwards and
upwards I say!
Hello all,
We hope you are all having a productive and forward thinking week here
in the Faculty Building! We have a lot of news since last week, so take a
breather from your heavy workload of consulting, communicating and
fiddling amenities fund expenses to catch up on the latest Blue News!
The most exciting news this week is that we finally have decided what to
do with Garden Halls! This will be our new staff canteen, serving a variety
of healthy foods and beverages, and will also feature a staff gym and
sports hall, for Compulsory Cube Squash sessions on a Saturday.
With these provisions in place, we can now move Ethos’ equipment to
Heston, freeing up even more space for our ambitious Central Services
takeover of the north side of Rising Prices Gardens (whoops! Freudian
slip there!).
We also plan to announce the exciting news of our new halls, Imperial
Very West (Heathrow Campus), next week to the rest of our community.
With our Heathrow based halls, we will be able to offer accommodation
for even more first year students at the low price of £148 a week, and
they’ll only be 60 minutes away from all the exciting, London based
action.
We can’t wait to hear what our active, vocal and attentive student body
will say when we tell them the good news!
In sad news, we are saying goodbye to Vice Provost (Student Voice) as we
decided their services are no longer needed. We hope they will be very
happy at one of the “lower-ranking” universities (not that rankings are
the be all and end all! Unless we come second, but I jest!), but one that
values student experience nonetheless.
Since all of our students are so happy here, we don’t need to waste so
much money on a pointless role, and can use the funds to pay for the
installation of a fountain for the foyer. Research shows that free flowing
water features install a sense of purpose into the office environment!
Have a productive, cohesive, collaborative and happy day!

