THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 91
FELIX 06.03.2015
C & S Editor Ben Howitt
Clubs and Societies
felix.clubsandsocieties@imperial.ac.uk
Miles Taylor-Robinson’s improbable Mission with
Hackspace and Robotics Society
Geeks with Frickin’ Lasers
In a collaborative first, the Imperial
College Advanced Haxckspace
(ICAH) and the Imperial College
Robotics Society (ICRS) teamed up
to put on a brand new hackathon
entitled Mission: Improbable.
The theme was inspired by classic
heist and adventure movies, from
Ocean’s 11 to Indiana Jones. First,
each team was tasked with designing
and building a security device to
protect a precious idol on display in a
museum. Sadly, the British Museum
were unable to lend us any suitably
valuable items from their collection,
so we went with 3D printed Yoda
heads instead. At the end of the week
(with a strict time limit of 3 minutes)
each team had the chance to steal
from a rival team’s device undetected.
The emphasis of the brief was on
detection rather than prevention.
We wanted there to be no physical
barriers to hacking; teams won points
for the openness of their design.
The more the inner workings of the
devices were accessible, the better.
The onus was on the participants to
use clever electronics as the defence
mechanism.
The event kicked off on Friday
20th
February with an open evening
in the EEE building. Josh Elsdon,
multi-talented ICRS Lab Manager
detailed the rules to the assembled
hackers. We then brought out a box
of pre-purchased parts to get the ideas
flowing: everything from lasers and
pressure sensors to mirrored acrylic
and development boards. Next the
drinks came out, plus enough pizza to
wallpaper the entirety of the Business
School. The teams started to take
shape and the last participants headed
home around 21:30, full of new ideas.
Over the course of the week we
sourced components for all the teams’
devices, including a smoke machine
(seemed legit). We also ran a midweek
hack in the ICRS lab for the teams to
get some help from Josh and Aksat.
The Mission Improbable
Finals!
Saturday 28th
February began bright
and early as the early risers ambled
into the ICRS Lab at around 09.30. By
around 11:00 there was at least one
member from each team beavering
away on their hacks. The last four
hours were an increasingly frantic
blur of hurried chatter, laser cutting
and soldering; with a bacon buttie
breakfast break in between.
Just before the 14:00 deadline our
panel of judges started to arrive. We
had Keith from Aviva with his son
James, Shaun from Resin.io, Munir
from Imagination and Imperial’s very
own Mark Witkowski. With everyone
assembled, we pried the last of the
teams from their desks in the ICRS
lab and headed over to the Skempton
lecture theatre where the showdown
was to take place.
Amazingly, all 7 teams had
managed to complete their devices.
The first half of the afternoon saw
each team explain the ins and outs
of their devices and field questions
both technical and comical (“Is it
waterproof?”). no stone was left
unturned.
It was great to see such a variety
of systems used in the Hackathon.
‘Team Aether’ went with an elegant
design which fitted the brief perfectly.
With fully open electronics, they used
theramins to sound the alarm if an
intruder came too close. Team Force
created a beautifully laser cut triangle
plinth with strips of mirrored acrylic
to bounce lasers all around.
‘Team Furry Shoe’ went for a novel
approach- building their plinth out
of lego they enclosed their electronics
in a motorised spinner, thus making
hacking a difficult prospect! All seven
teams had interesting and exciting
designs, most of which included
multiple layers to the security.
Drawing from a hat, each team was
assigned their target device. Over
lunch the teams grilled one another
about the specifics of their devices;
the competition rules mandated full
disclosure! Some headed to the Pink
Room to make widgets to help them
hack. By 16:30 everyone was ushered
back into the lecture theatre to begin
the hacking phase.
For each device we ran through a
system of simple disturbances – to
Lasers really do make literally everything cooler. Photo: Miles Taylor-Robinson
simulate the practical realities of
life in a museum. This was also to
demonstrate if a device was too
sensitive to false positives. The test
was threefold and involved testing
for minor vibrations, gusts of air and
torch light directed onto the idol.
After a short description of the
plan of attack, the hack teams had
3 minutes to steal the Yoda bust
undetected. The excited crowd
alternated between raucous noise and
pin drop silence; is there anything
more tense than absolute silence
followed by the solitary sound of
wires being cut?
Once all the hacks had been
completed, the judges adjourned to
make their decisions. While each
team produced a strong entry, the
winner chosen was ‘Team Force’ for
their beautifully realised laser plinth
plus their successful hack. In second
place was ‘Team Invulnerable’ and in
third came ‘Team MD’. ‘Team Furry
Shoe’ took the Haribo prize.
A big thank you to Aviva, Resin.io
and Imagination for their generous
sponsorship of the prizes, plus special
thanks goes to Josh and Aksat from
ICRS for all their hard work in the lab
and Eifion for his fantastic videos!
Left: Competitors assemble to discuss their plans for protecting Master Yoda. Right: a laptop running the security team is bypassed bya rival team.
Photos: Miles Taylor-Robinson

