94 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
06.03.2015
Sport Editor: Kunal Wagle
Imperial Falcons finish third in Loughborough
In the second day of the M1 Series
Tournament, the weather looked
ominous as dark clouds rolled
in following the Falcons’ arrival
in Loughborough. Thankfully, the
weather held for their first game
against the Loughborough Thunder
and the Falcons got off to a decent
start, opening the scoring with a run
coming in off a passed ball as lead-off
hitter Ashley came round to score
after drawing a walk and stealing
two bases. Centre fielder Chris and
shortstop Edoardo also managed
to get on base but were unlucky
to get tagged out at home in two
consecutive plays before the inning
ended with left fielder Stephane
grounding out to shortstop. The
lead was short-lived however as the
Thunder’s return salvo at the bottom
of the inning yielded four runs and
gave them a commanding three run
lead.
The Falcons failed to score in the
second, despite right fielders Min and
Chris both drawing walks, as rookie
debutants Hriday and Zayd grounded
out before Edoardo popped out to
the Thunder’s catcher. The Falcons
made up for the abysmal hitting
however with a strong defensive
inning to hold the Thunder to single
run in the bottom of the second. The
third inning started off slowly with
pitcher Ben Hollis grounding out to
short. Rhys and Stephane however,
managed to draw walks to get on base
before stealing to third and second
respectively. With runners in scoring
position, the Falcons’ rookies came
out in a big way with two consecutive
RBI hits to bring in 2 runs for the
Falcons and make it a two-run ball
game.
Despite the mounting pressure
as the Falcons closed the lead, the
Thunder came out strongly in the
bottom of the inning to score two
runs of their own and re-establish
the four run lead. As the clock ran
down, the umpire announced that no
more new innings would be played.
This left the Falcons needing to
score four runs to stay in the game
and Loughborough finally brought
on one of their more experienced
pitchers to close out the game.
Despite the stronger pitching, the
Falcons came out strongly as catcher
Ashley got on base off a walk and
eventually came round to score on
a passed ball after having stolen to
third. Chris then gave up the first out
as he struck out swinging on a 1-2
count. Edoardo then drew a walk and
stole second before taking third as
Ben got on base off a K-E2 (dropped
strike out ball). With one down, the
tying run, Rhys “The Beast” Jones
stepped up to the plate and hit a
line-drive between first and second
to score Edoardo. Ben however was
tagged out at home trying to close
the lead as Rhys made an ill-advised
attempt to lengthen his single into
a double that resulted in an easy
double play for the Thunder to close
out the game and shutdown the
Falcons’ hopes of turning the game
around.
With the score now at 7-5 to the
Thunder, the bottom of the inning
was played out due to the tiebreak
rule, with Loughborough hoping
to lengthen their lead and increase
their run differential. This was
not to be however, as the Falcons
finally found their groove and shut
down the Thunder offense, holding
them to zero runs with two strike
outs delivered by reliever Vincent
“Demon Pitcher” Li.
As the Falcons took a 20 minute
breather before their next game
against Nottingham, the first drops
of the previously forecasted rain
started to fall. As the game started,
the weather grew more menacing
with ever darker clouds closing in
on the skies above the field. Despite
the weather, the Falcons started
strongly off some strong pitching
from their ace, Edoardo Lisi. They
held Nottingham to only one run
before hitting a mercy rule inning
to take a commanding 5-1 lead off
consecutive over-the-fence ground
rule doubles from first baseman Ben
and second baseman Rhys.
As the second inning came round,
the weather grew progressively
worse and the Falcons slowly started
to freeze. This was reflected in
their fielding as the Falcons gave
up three runs to allow the Thieves
back into the game at a score of 5-4.
Fortunately, the lead wasn’t the only
thing to disappear in the inclement
weather as the score sheet dissolved
in the rain, taking away all record
of the abysmal inning. The Falcons
offense then failed to replicate their
first inning success, scoring only
one run while giving up three easy
outs to the Thieves. With the rain
now in full force, the Falcons offered
to end the match then. However,
the northern-bred Thieves would
not give up, and banking on their
cold-resistant northern blood,
they proceeded to hit in a mercy
rule inning of their own to take a
commanding three run lead.
Things were now looking dismal
Ashley Ng carries on from last week, reporting on the second day of the tournament
for the Falcons as they needed to
score three runs in the bottom
half of the inning to tie the game.
The inning started off with Rhys
getting on base off a walk before
Vincent popped out to second.
He subsequently stole to third as
Stephane drew a walk to get on first.
Rhys then came home on a passed
ball to bring the Falcons within two
runs as Stephane stole to third. The
Falcons hope were dealt a huge blow
however as rookie third baseman
Zayd was put out to bring the Thieves
within one out of sealing the game.
With two outs, debutant right fielder
Hriday stepped up to the plate and
drew the walk to load the tying run
on first and bring the Falcons back to
the top of the line-up. With the tying
run at the plate, the tension was
palpable as Hriday stole second to
put the tying run in scoring position.
The Falcons’ shortstop then hit a
blistering line-drive that careened
off the left field fence and scored
Stephane to bring the Falcons within
one run of tying the game.
With Hriday on third, centre
fielder Chris took the strike to let
Ashley steal second and get the
winning run in scoring position. A
missed swing later, the Thieves were
now one strike away from ending the
game and the intensity could be felt
throughout the pitch. As the fateful
pitch left the pitcher’s fingers all
eyes were on Chris as he turned and
brought the bat to bear. The next few
moments would come to highlight
the Falcons’ M1ST experience as the
hard-hit line-drive sailed over the
Thieves short stop and dropped for
a single. With Hriday safely home
and the game tied, Ashley rounded
third without breaking pace and
went full speed into home plate to
score the fourth run and take the
game for the Falcons. With the game,
and third place safely in the bag, the
Falcons then rushed to pack their
equipment before making a beeline
for the warmth and dryness of the
Loughborough University Fitness
Centre to celebrate their emphatic
victory in what was effectively a
third place playoff.
Despite losing out on a spot in the
final by only two runs, the Falcons
will take a lot of positives from
this competition with the strong
performances of debutants Hriday
and Zayd as well as greatly improved
hitting from the team in general.
With these encouraging signs,
the Falcons will train even harder
over the next month and return
to the Spring Cup with the aim of
finally bringing home that coveted
championship trophy.
Photo: Baseball Softball UK
Photo: IC Baseball

