Don't forget....
It's Tiddlywinks
Tomorrow morning!
* Jane Aire
(see Ents gigs
on next page)
THEATRE IN THE WEST END
According to Time Out', West-end theatre
is half-dead already. Nevertheless, there are
some enjoyable shows, and if you've not done
much theatre-going, the West-end is the
obvious place to start.
The following reviews, although brief,
should provide a few hints on some of the
plays currently showing.
"The Rocky Horror Show", which has
recently moved to the Comedy Theatre in
Panton Street, from the Kings Road, is
probably the funniest show in London and is
certainly the only science-fiction musical.
Dreamed up by Richard O'Brien, it tells of the
fateful stormy night when two American
teenagers, Brad and Janet, are forced to take
refuge in an old castle when their car is
stopped with a flat tyre.The castle turns out to
be the home of a colony of Transylvanian
transvestites, under the leadership of Frank-
N-Fuster.
Alan Ayckbourn's play, "bedroom Farce" is
running at the Prince of Wales Theatre. The
'stage' is set one Saturday night, in the
bedrooms of the three middle-class suburban
couples, as a fourth couple attempt to sort out
their marital problems. Mildly funny: OK for
an undemanding night out.
In its twenty-seventh year (it will probably
go on forever) is Agatha Christie's "The
Mousetrap". This is not her best play - it is not
as good as "Witness for the Prosecution" for
example - and there was some miscasting in
the production I saw. However, it compares
favourably with "Murder at the Vicarage",
which contains the most unconvincing acting
I've ever seen. "The Mousetrap" is on at the
St. Martins Theatre and "Murder at the
Vicarage" is at the Fortune.
Written in 1970 by Andrew Lloyd Webber
and Tim Rice, "Jesus Christ Superstar" is
now in its seventh year at the Palace Theatre.
It portrays the last seven days in the life of
Jesus of Nazareth. Its great success resulted
in the production of an unsuccessful film of
the same name. Worth seeing, especially for
Herod's song.
(Evita is showing next door, at the Prince
Edward Theatre. Book now for the new year.)
Susan Hampshire and Keith Michell are
appearing in "The Crucifer of Blood" at the
Theatre Royal, Haymarket. Based on Conan
Doyle's book "The Sign of Four", the action
begins in India during the Great Mutiny, at the
Red Fort of Agra, and is concluded in Holmes'
s t u d y in B a k e r S t r e e t in 1887.
The play has some spectacular special
effects and Keith Michell's performance as
Sherlock Holmes is superb.
A more varied selection of plays can be
seen at the National Theatre on the South
Bank and more unconventional drama is
produced by London's many 'fringe' theatres.
AGAINST THE
Since I96.7, Britain has had an Abortion Law
which entitles women to obtain abortions,
providing certain conditions are fulfilled, opto 28
weeks into pregnancy. But a private members bill
tabled by John Corrie (Conservative member for
Bute and North Aryshire) threatens to change this
law to restrict severely the number of abortions
available and the terms underwhich they may be
obtain etl.
There are lour main areas which the proposed
bill (which takes its third and final reading in
February) effect:
1
. THe time limit for abortions will be reduced
from 28 to 20 weeks.
At present only l°o ofabort ions are carried out
after 20 weeks - but these are the most desperate
and serious cases - making them illegal will only
increase the hardship on the women concerned.
Pregnancv is confirmed by about (he eighth
week - the new restriction leaves a woman as little
as eight weeks allowing upto lour weeks error in
the dale of conception to obtain an abortion and
this at a lime when National Health Services are
being cut:
The choice of abortion for all women will
become a desperate race again si I ime.
2. The grounds tor abortion are to be
changed. The risk to the life of a pregnant woman
will become a "grave risk". The injury to her or her
family's phvsical or mental health will be a
"'substantial risk" of "severe injury" il the
pregnancy continues.
Kmoiive words like '"grave", "substantial"
and "serious" only aggravate the situat ion. Courts
w ill divide what is "grave" etc. - women will have
their late decided by judges who have no
qualifications oxer the lives of these women.
But the real reason for these changes is that
under the present law any abortion is legal since
statistically abortion is safer than a nine-month
pregnane)' and birth. The clause in the I967 Act.
which states that "abortion is permissible if the
risks to the woman is greater than if the pregnane)
is continued", is the most hated by the anti-
abort ionisis.
'X Every agency which carries out abortions
or advises women about abortions must have a
licence (including those carrying out pregnancy
tests). Licences will not be issued if there is any
connection whether financial or in personnel
between the agency and the abortion clinic or ifthe
CORRIE BILL
agency is not managed by a qualified doctor or
nurse.
This smashes the British Pregnanes Advisory
Services and the Pregnancy Advisory Service, the
two biggest charities that carry out abortions.
Their work is vital in both filling the gaps in the
NHS and in areas where NHS abortions are almost
impossible to get. They provide a sympathetic
service at a reasonable price.
The 25% of women who get their abortions
through the charities will be thrown on the
unscrupulous money makers of the private
medicine market.
Voluntary groups advising for example school
girls, about abortions will have to simply give up.
4. The rights of conscientious objectors to
abortions who work in the health service will now
have legal rights.
This means,that doctors will be able to put
their moral views first and the quality of service
they provide for their patients second.
As can be easily seen the effects of this bill will
impose on thousands ofWomen. We must have the
right to control our own bodies. There are no
foolproof contraceptives. We mav make mistakes.
We may be abused. We will continue to abort:
Corrie's Bill, anti-abortionists or not.
Does Corrie's Bill provide for all the children it
will force into this world!? Will it look alter then0
Have we the right to bring children into a world
when we feel we can not look after them - through
material reasons, social pressures or whatever?
Having children is an important decision and we
will not let John Corrie deride our fate. We will
have the right to control our bodies.
At IC then, we must campaign to prevent this
bill from becoming law. There will be a list, in the
ICWA Lounge, of those MPs who voted against the
second reading. If your MP does not appear, write
asking why and for re-consideration.
There will be a meeting in the ICWA Lounge on
Thursday, llth October, at 1:00 p.m. with a
speaker from the National Abortion Campaign to
discuss the "campaign against Corrie's Bill",
Please attend, all will be welcome.
There will also be a march "No Return to the
Backstrcets" on 28th October, to defend the 1967
Abortion Act. Assemble 11:30-12:30at Hyde Park.
M E R C H E CLARK.
ICWA President

