We wish any student
who doesn't own a
Texas Instruments calculator
the best of luck.
At Texas Instruments we know how important
precision and accuracy are to the student.
Without them results become just lucky-
or unlucky guesses. But when
you use one of our student
calculators, luck doesn't
come into it at all.
Choose a student
scientific calculator from
the new TI Slimline L C D
range that includes the
newTI-53
A powerful scientific calculator
with 32 step programmability that
comes complete with an applications
book that ensures you get the very best
from your Tl-53, no matter what your subject.
With leadership like this, is it really worth risking your money
on other calculator brands, or in factjust leaving your future to luck?
We think not.
Tl-53
()ur powerful new scientific
calculator with 32 step programmabilit y
and constant memory that protects
your programmes and data even when
the calculator is switched off. (Iffered
with the Tl-53 is a new Applications
Library of 84 pre-written programmes
in maths, finance, natural sciences and
areas of general interest. Calculator-
book combination
£29.95, including VAT.
TI-50
A 60-function scientific with
statistics anti factorials. This unique
machine retains data in its two
memories as well as statistical
registers even when switched off.
£27.50. including VAT.
TI-44
For students and professionals alike,
a pre-programmed financial calculator
with powerful statistics and constant
memory. Ideal for time/money, profit
margin and forecasting problems
encountered in business studies.
£36.95, including VAT.
TI-35
Our economical new 54-function
scientific with single constant memory
statistics and factorials.
£19.95, including VAT.
All new TI LCI) scientifics feature the time-saving algebraic operating
system (A.O.S.) which allows you to enter problems as they're usually writtt
from left to right. LCI) scientifics and the Tl-44 also have battery life of m o i "
than 1.000 hours with automatic switch-off and battery level indicator.
T E X A S I N S T R U M E N T S
A l w a y s o n e s t e p a h e a d .
Texas Instruments Limited, European Consumer Division, Manton Lane, Bedford. MK41 7PU. Tel: Bedford (0234) 67466

