LOOTERS
O U R
Stolen
Pot
Dear Sir,
On the evening of Tuesday the 12/3/85,
the night of the election result celebrations,
the theft of a Union Pot occurred, in the
Union Bar at 9.30pm. The Pot, R C S U N o 12,
the Motor Club Chairman's Pot, is valued at
about £120. It has an RCS crest, a line
drawing of Jezebel as well as 30 years of
names engraved upon it. It looks slightly
dented and mishapen and has the unusual
feature that it has no lip at the rim.
Extensive inquires have been made, the bar
and Union building have been searched
extensively but to no avail. It has therefore
been decided to offer a substantial reward for
the return of the pot, unless the returner was
found to have stolen it. Any information
should be given to either myself, 471C Mech
Eng Dept, int 6289, or Pascal Carr, Physics 2,
or to Dave Parry, IC Union. Pascal Carr, the
current holder of the post has said that he
would give anything for the return of the pot.
Yours,
Gareth Fish
'Down
with
Israel'
Dear Sir,
I was reading your last issue of F E L I X (20
March) on my trip back from IC from an
interview when I came across two letters
directly insulting to the intelligence of the
ordinary man!
Both had criticised the large slogan 'Down
with Israel' sprayed in red on College walls as
childish and crude. Although I am no
supporter of vile tactics myself, I believe that
sometimes the most genuine and deeply felt
pains find no other way of expression. What
else can one do when even the U N resolution
condemning the occupation of Israeli forces
in Lebanon is vetoed? If Jewish Soc sincerely
seeks some other means of communication,
let them watch the news on T V concerning
Israel's daily crimes in South Lebanon. More
. over they should not be offended by the 'red'
colour letters of the slogan, since their
brothers in the Israeli army don't mind
shedding the red blood of defenseless
civilians every day. In fact everything in that
slogan is a reminder for those who reflect.
I hope that the Jews all over the world
would return to the true teachings of Moses
rather than cling blindly to the state of Israel,
after all the shameless and unique atrocities
she has committed in Lebanon.
A prospective IC student
T Mohammad
THE
KWALITY
TAND00RI RESTAURANT
The home of authentic Indian cooking
Fully Licensed — Newly opened
Nearest Tube, South Kensington
Open Mon-Sun 12 noon to 3 p.m.,
6 p.m. to 12 midnight. Incl. Bank Holidays
38 THURLOE PLACE, LONDON, SW7
Tel. 589 3663
FELIX
The Jarratt report must be the cause of a few
smug faces in Sherfield (see news pages).
Many of its recommendations have already
been put into operation at Imperial,
particularly the establishment of a 'rolling
academic and institutional plan'.
But there are still important lessons to be
learnt from Jarratt. Among the 'performance
indicators' that universities should look at
are teaching quality and success rate ofhigher
degrees. The U G C weren't very
complimentary about either, when they
visited College recently. But more important
than a low indication of performance is a
falling one. And there is no doubt that in
some subjects, IC's market share of
undergraduates applications is falling. The
chief reason for this is not difficult to see. As
long as Imperial fails to provide sufficient on-
site accommodation it will fail to attract the
best quality students. Thus begins the vicious
circle of decline.
The Jarratt report should be compulsory
reading for all Union Officers. Student
Unions must be among the most inefficiently
run bodies. At IC, anyway, there is no 'rolling
plan', indeed no forward or strategic
planning at all. This can partly be explained
by the fact that the officers change every year.
But this increases the importance of forward
planning. Any sabbatical will tell you that it
is difficult to achieve anything of great
consequence in the Union in the space of one
year. How much more could be achieved if a
succession,, of Presidents had even the
opportunity to work towards a long-term
objective. As it stands at the moment,
though, the President of one year rarely
follows through the initiatives of the previous
year. Perhaps the establishment of a small
committee to monitor and record long-term
plans would be a step in the right direction.
Finally, F E L I X wishes good luck to the
University Challenge team next Tuesday,
when they compete against Jesus, Oxford in
the final.
Acknowledgements: Many thanks to Richard,
Grenville, Hugh, Martin, Jon, Debbie,
Michael, Tinker, Don Adlington, Pete, John,
Rosemary, Tony and all the collators.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial
College Union Publications Board and is printed by the Union Print
Unit, Imperial College, Prince Consort Road, London SW7.
Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1985. ISSN 10140-0711.
2 Friday 26 April 1985 FEUX

