NEWSD
Tory rampage
toffs slam press
CONSOC LEADER G R A H A M Brown has dismissed press reports
of the Federation of Conservative Students (FCS) Conference as 'wild
exaggerations and grotesque distortions'.
The reports surrounded a party held at the Loughborough
Conference on April 1, which 200 delegates attended. It was alleged
that windows were broken, doors were smashed down, walls were
daubed with paint and excrement and photographs of Mr Edward
Heath were daubed with Hitler-style moustaches. The Federation
deny this, while admitting that a fire-extinguisher was discharged, a
door handle was removed, carpets were stained with beer and vomit,
and a shower was used as a toilet.
It was also admitted by Graham Brown that pictures of Heath were
turned to the wall, and T-shirts were worn displaying the legend
'Morning Cloud—Remember the Belgrano'.
The press were alerted to the damage by leading 'wet' Chris Davies
(NUS Exec Member) who held a news conference the morning after
the party. Journalists were denied access to the part of Loughborough
University where the party was held, say FCS.
Party Chairman John Selwyn Gummer reacted strongly to the
damage by launching an Inquiry and freezing FCS funds. Three
Scottish delegates were expelled from the Conference.
The IC delegates at Loughborough were Graham Brown, Charles
Tweed, J Martin Taylor and David Burbage.
Eddie and Pat
welcome you to
the HOOP and TOY
One of South Kensington's finest traditional
English Free House Pubs with excellent choice
of beers and home cooked fare at a
reasonable price.
and FAGINS WINE BAR
An Old English Wine Bar with an extensive
range of wines and foreign beers, hot and
cold food including veal in lemon sauce, beef
bourginion, chicken frascatti, jacket potatoes
with choice of fillings etc etc., lunchtime and
evening.
Come along and see us—it's well worth a visit!
Travel
award
THE OLD Centralians Trust will
award a travel scholarship in the
region of £200 to assist an
undergrduate of the City and
Guilds College to undertake a
study project abroad during the
summer vacation of 1985.
To compete for the award, the
Holbein Travel Scholarship,
applicants must submit detailed
plans of their project—a scheme
of investigation in the general
field of science, technology or
engineering. The subject of an
applicant's project must be
approved by their Professor or
Tutor.
Each project must include an
approximate time-table and a
budget giving details of expenses
including travel, accommodation
and any special equipment.
Application forms and further
details can be obtained from the
Old Centralians Office, Room
303, Sherfield Building. The
closing date for applications is 13
May 1985.
THERE WILL ONLY be one
UGM this term, the Annual
General Meeting to be held on
Tuesday 21 May at 1.00pm in
Mech Eng 220. This meeting will
receive the annual reports of the
Sabbaticals and the Major
Subcommittee Chairmen.
In addition, elections will be
held for the following positions:
Haldane library record buyer,
four delegates to GUC, FELIX
Business Manager, two ordinary
imembers of Union House
[Committee, two ordinary
Imembers of Council and
Publicity Officer.
Papers will be put up at 9.30am
on Tuesday 7 May on the
noticeboard in the Union central
foyer, and will be taken down at
5.30pm on Thursdays 16 May.
Nominations will require one
proposer and two seconders.
Provision exists in the Bye-
Laws for there to be more than
one U G M this term, if there is
sufficient demand. Anyone who
feels that there should be another
UGM should contact one of the
Sabbaticals.
Put The World In
Your Pocket
Pick Up
A Copy-Get Ahead
6 4 Fact Packed Pages to help plan your summer break
Free from your Student Travel Office or Student Union
ULU Travel
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
THE JUNIOR COMMON ROOM
SHERFIELD BUILDING
PRINCE CONSORT ROAD
SW7 2AZ TEL: 01-581 8882
A Service of
sim
4 0 ~ IB-
The W o r l d ' s Greatest Student and Y o u t h Travel Organisation.
Government Bonded under A T O L 8 2 2 in Association w i t h S A T A C Charterers Ltd.
FEUX Friday 26 April 1985 3

