NEWSJ
ANOTHER
SHOCK HORROR PROBE
"Arthur was SS Officer"
IT WAS ALLEGED this week that Michael Arthur was a senior officer
in the notorious imperial SS'. Indeed some extreme sources suggest
that he still holds office in the SS.
'Prince' Michael was quick to refute these allegations, citing his
extreme youthful appearance as evidence that he could not possibly
have held more than 'honorary rank' during the last war.
The following press release was issued from Imperial SS
headquarters in 'Princes' Gardens.
SUMMER V A C A T I O N W O R K
Introduction
During the Summer vacation, many of the
College's residences are let to visitors from
outside the College. The income from these
schemes is essential if reasonable rents in the
residences are to be maintained. The various
Summer Letting Schemes offer a number of
jobs for the vacation period. These vary from
challenging full-time managerial posts to
part-time cleaning work. In general the work
is well paid and interesting and free
accommodation is provided.
The schemes fall into two distinct
categories. The S A C scheme operates in
Linstead Hall and part of Southside and
provides a standard hotel bed and breakfast
service catering for conferences and other
short stay visitors. This is run under the
auspices of the Conference Office. The other
category includes Evelyn Gardens, Hamlet
Gardens and Beit Hall and provides a more
basic and less expensive form of
accommodation where the clients tends to
be students from other colleges staying for
fairly long periods. These schemes are run by
Student Services. For all the schemes,
marketing is carried out centrally but during
the actual period most of the work of running
and maintaining the schemes is carried out
by students.
The Schemes
SAC
This is the most prestigious of the four
schemes and requires a large work force
necessary to maintain high standards. The
office and reception desk is based in the
foyer of Linstead Hall and is run by a member
of the Conference Office staff together with
Assistant Managers, Night Managers,
Cashiers and Receptionists. The reception
desk is manned day and night throughout the
Summer vacation. Guests are welcomed
registered and billed on arrival by the
reception team and shown to their rooms by
a porter.
Behind the scenes, the cleaners prepare
up to 400 rooms which involves changing and
making beds, cleaning wash basins and
bathrooms and vacuuming carpets. All this
has to be done in the morning in four hours.
Cleaners work in pairs, under the
supervision of the Housekeeper and a co-
ordinator, servicing 24 rooms and three sets
of bathroom facilities on a staircase.
Evelyn Gardens
This is the largest of the three schemes
operated by Student Services, with up to 400
guests at any one time. All three schemes are
run by assistant managers under the
supervision of a co-ordinator. The Evelyn
Gardens scheme is staffed by four assistant
managers and eight cleaners. The assistant
managers run an office, act as receptionists,
maintain booking charts, collect rent,
operate the accounting system and
supervise the cleaners. The cleaners clean
rooms, change sheets and act as porters.
Hamlet Gardens
At Hamlet Gardens, three assistant
managers run 39 flats which provide
accommodation for around 250 guests.
Traditionally, the three managers have done
the cleaning themselves in order to increase
their earnings. Whether or not we have
cleaners this year will be decided in
consultation with the new managers. The
managers duties are similar to those of the
Evelyn Gardens managers. Many of the flats
are organised so as to provide fairly basic
accommodation but a number of the best
flats are let fully equiped to families at a
higher rent.
Beit Hall
Beit Hall is sonjewhat different from the
other schemes in a number of ways. In the
first place it is much smaller with only 110
rooms. Also, the housekeeper of Beit Hall is
heavily involved with the Vacation Lettings
and the S A C office provides the reception
facilities for the Beit Scheme. As a result of
these factors we only need one assistant
manager and two cleaners for Beit. The
assistant manager is responsible for raising
all invoices, making sure that guests pay on
time and also acts as an assistant to the
housekeeper.
All students who work in the Summer
letting s c h e m e s are offered free
accommodation and a competitive wage.
Those who work for the whole Summer, are
eligible for a bonus. Wages, hoursand bonus
rates are as follows:-
Position Hours/week Wages
Assistant Managers 39 £85pw £100-£300
Night Managers 33 (average) £70pw £t00-£300
Receptionists
m £70-£200
Cashiers £52pw £50-£150
Cleaners and
Co-ordinators
•11 •HI • £L80/hr £30-£100
Porters 1I • 1
1 • I 1
£1.80/hr £30-£100
Co-ordinators receive a £10 per week
responsibility payment in addition to the
above rate. The hours given for co-
ordinators, cleaners and porters represent a
guaranteed minimum it is anticipated that
additional hours will be available for those
who require them. The hours given for other
staff represent normal hours but there will be
times when extra hours are required.
Although overtime is not paid for these,
extra hours will be taken into account when
The Summer Lettings schemes offer an
interesting and generally rewarding kind of
vacation work. At rimes the work is very
hard, particularly at the beginning and end of
the schemes. Those working in the
management type jobs need a lot of stamina
and patience to deal with large numbers of
guests while working under considerable
pressure. At the same time, most people who
work on the schemes fend to enjoy
themselves as well as gaining useful work
Application forms and the answers to any
questions you may have are available from
student Services, 15 Princes Gardens.
Closing date Friday 10 May.
FEUX Friday 26 April 1985

