•Designing new plants, making cheese
mature more quickly, and cleaving DNA. All
this and much more has been achieved in the
fascinating field of BIOTECHNOLOGY.
•Our Science Correspondent reports on this
fast-developing subject which has already
brought together researchers from
disciplines as far apart as Chemistry and
Electrical Engineering.
Only in recent years has biotechnology received a great deal of
attention—but people have been successfully using the
principles involved for thousands of years for the preparation of
such things as bread, wine and cheese. However for
biotechnology to reach its full potential in the future close
collaboration is needed between scientists with many different
areas of expertise, such as biologists, chemists, physicists and
engineers. It was with this in mind that Professor Brian Hartley
initiated the setting up of the Centre for Biotechnology at
Imperial College. The Centre was established in 1982 in parts of
existing College buildings which were refurbished. In late 1984
the new seven floor building was completed and is attached to
the Chemistry and Biochemistry Departments and adjacent to
the Fermentation and Extraction Pilot Plant of Imperial
Biotechnology Ltd.
Friday 26 April 1985
Pilot Plant
The Pilot Plant was built in 1965 and is
unique in that there is no other plant like it
attached to an academic institution in this
country. In 1982 Imperial Biotechnology Ltd
came into existence, and has an exclusive
ten year lease on the Pilot Plant, with the
Centre still having access to its facilities. The
company undertakes contracts from
industry, and academic and government
institutions from all over the world, and is
also hoping to market its own products
which will mainly be enzymes. For example,
in the production of cheeses such as
cheddar, the ripening process takes six to
nine months, and an enzyme is being
developed which will reduce this period to
two to three months, without affecting the
quality of the cheese.
Mr G Banks is the Director of Operations
at the Pilot Plant and also a lecturer at the
Centre. He has been involved in the
developement of a wide range of new
fermentation processes both for the Centre
and for outside contracts. Collaboration
between Biogen and the Pilot Plant led to the
first large scale (3,000 litre) production of an
inteferon by a genetically engineered
organism. The material produced has been
used for clinical trials, and the process
developed at the Pilot Plant was used on
production scale in Austria.
The Centre has an academic core staff of
six and there are many staff throughout the
College involved in work relevant to
biochnology. Research at the Centre
includes work on genetic and protein
engineering, biosensors, microbial
metabolism and fermentation technology.
Computers Smell
Computers that can taste and smell are
reminiscent of science fiction, but the work
of Dr Case with biosensors shows it could be
a real possibility. The biosensors that he is
working on combine the high specificity and
catalytic activity of enzymes with
sophisticated modern electronics to produce
sensitive and specific analysers. A
paracetamol sensor which could be used by
hospital staff to rapidly assess the extent of
an overdose is being worked on, along with a
pesticide sensor to measure the extent of
water pollution.
Biosensors with the potential to do rapid
quantitative analysis, can be manufactured
cheaply and can be used by untrained staff.
Clinically the fact that they can be used for an
analyses on livng systems is a major step
forward.' They provide an economically
viable alternative to existing analytical
methods which may involve lengthy
laboratory analysis. The work is a good
example of how interdepartmental
collaboration can work, with Biotechnology
Centre working closely with members of the
Departments of Chemistry and Electrical
Engineering on the developement of the
biosensors.
• ;
New Plants
The work of Dr C Lichtenstem with plant
genetic engineering is aimed at producing
new plant varieties. Plants could be given
resistance to herbicides, making weed
control much easier, or resistance to viruses.
If the protein quality of plants can be
improved they will be more nutritious
providing an alternative food source to meat.
The production costs for plants would be
considerably less than those for meat. The
work is based on the fact that some bacterial
can induce tumour growth in plants, with the
tumour resulting from the transfer of DNA
from the bacteria to the plant leading to
expression of the foreign genes in the plant.
Enzymes are used to cleave the DNA so
that the genes responsible for the tumour
formation can be replaced with the desired
genes. The major advantage over classical
plant breeding methods is that the plants can
given exactly the required properties and no
others.
Stereospecific
Micro-organisms can carry out an
enormous range of chemical transform-
ations and by understanding the pathways
involved it may be possibly to steer the
metabolism to new and desired products.
Professor D Ribbons and Dr D Leak are
looking at microbial metabolism and
physiology, which has a number of
applications for work in the Centre and in
other departments. There are some micro-
organism able to carry out chemical
transformations producting intermediates of
known stereochemistry which would
otherwise be difficult to produce. Joint
research with the Chemistry Department is
using this ability in the chemical synthesis of
analogues of naturally occurring pesticides.
They are also looking at the possibility of
using micro-organisms to carry out other
chemical transformations which involve
problems such as low yields and mixtures of
products when standard synthentic methods
are used. Another collaboration involving
members of the Metallurgy, and the Mineral
Resources Department and the
Biotechnology Centre is using a micro-
organism to leach ores out of laterite
minerals such as bauxite, and to concentrate
them. Some micro-organisms are able to
accumulate up to four times their weight of
the metal. There is also joint work within the
Centre using1 3
C, 'H,2
H,3 1
P, and1 9
F nuclear
magnetic resonance spectroscopy to obtain
measurements on living micro-organisms. In
this way information can be obtained about
the regulation and times scales of microbial
metabolic pathways.
Although the Centre has only been in
existence for a short while it has already
forged substantial research links with the
rest of the College and hopes to increase
these in the future. The fact that Imperial
College has a great strength of research in
most areas is a great advantage for
interdisciplinary work. The Centre also has
links with government institutions and links
with industry which include funding. There is
an MSc course available at the Centre for up
to twelve students, with a BSc in
biotechnolgy available via the life sciences
course. It seems that the Centre is now able
to meet the needs for interdisciplinary
teaching and research that initiated its
development.
9

