F E L I X
HEATED DISCUSSION AT UNION MEETING
An ordinary I.C.Union meeting
was held an Thursday December 5 t h .
The accounts far the previous f i -
nancial year were presented and ap-
proved; Mr. Garnett managed to ax-
plain how £142 were inadvertently
"lost" at the 1956 Commemoration
Ball.
Mr. Chadwiok informed members
that in the future spot checks of
Onion Cards would be made.
G U I L D S D O T H E I R N U T S
O V E R S P A N N E R .
"If the Spanner goes up in this
bracket i t will disappear within throe
days".
This prophecy by Dave Stevens at
the last C. and 8. Union Meeting was
fulfilled. Mounted on the last
Tuesday of term, It had gone by Thurs-
day evening.
There were two attempts to ' l i f t '
It that day, one in the afternoon -
when a band of R.C.S. boys and girls
assembled below the bracket.
Watched by at least three guilds-
men, one of the maidens climbed up the
wall, but went round the bend on the
appearance of the Guilds porter.
Late that evening (at 9.15 PPO
R.C.S. returned to Guilds and, while
one of the girls led the porter into
the basement (.'), took It and bracket.
The booty was taken for coffee, whence
It reached R.C.S., and was hidden in
an open locker.
Next morning It had gone from the
locker, leaving the "Spanner-lifters",
going around in ever-decreasing
circles, finally vanishing in their
own confusion.
Apart from a rumour that"some
nasty l i t t l e fellow has threatened to
chop It up and float the pieces down
the Thames," and a statement from
Chad1
in the bar "I know where It is",
there seems to be no clue as to the
spanner* s whereabouts at the time of
going to press.
Guilds had a Union Meeting yesterday!
The distribution of political
pamphlets by societies and individ-
uals was disouised at length and Mr.
Chillow proposed a motion that Union
Council be instructed to take action
against the person or persons res-
ponsible. Action against societies
oould, as at present, take the form
of suspension of funds, and against
individuals of suspension from the
Union.
Mr. Blok introduced the subjeot
of petty thefts and needless damage
to Union property. Mr. Chadwick com-
mented that, "We are getting to the
stage where we need to police the
building." Someone cited an example
at the R.C.S.Smoking Concert when,
although there were only two free
pints per person, over fifty glasses
wore broken. "The drinking of a l i t -
tle beer i s no licence for hooliganism?
A motion proposed by Mr. Blok instruct-
ing Union Council to take stronger
action against the vandals was carried.
Mr. Emerson expressed disquiet
at the present cloakroom system hav-
ing himself lost a duffle coat on
the night of Guilds' Carnival; he
thought that a small charge might be
instituted. In reply, Mr. Stevens
informed him that the matter had
been discussed and i f necessary the
regulations would be tightened until
they became a matter of habit.
Commenting on Union lighting
Mr. Chadwick said that a l l Union
rooms should be lighted (this, how-
ever did not apply to the hostel -
"Par be i t from the Union to res-
trict social activities").
The meeting closed with ques-
tions on the Refectory situation.
P R E S I D E N T S E T S
P R E C E D E N T
On January 3rd a select company
assembled in the Bar to celebrate the
first anniversary of its re-opening in
the Union. As on the October Com-
memoration Day, the Student Orator
was Richard Garnett, who delivered the
opening proclamation with the dignity
and zest we have come to expect of him.
From his hot seat in front of the
roaring fire our August President,
Mr. Chadwick himself, announced that,
as befitted the occasion, he would
stand a drink for a l l those present.
Vfhen the gathering had regained i t s
composure he expressed the hope that
future Presidents would see f i t to
follow suit - this was received with
acclamation and the fetching out of
diaries. A toast was drunk to The
Bar, and to Ted Smith, who has served
behind i t so faithfully, and whose
last year with us this i s .
Later in the evening, by courtesy
of the Union, hot sausages with rolls
and mustard were served to the Assem-
bly Some diversion was caused by a
tremendous conflagration. A l l the
logs having been consumed, a certain
Mr. Oggi picked up the carton in
which they had reposed and thrust i t
upon the flames. Not quite, however.
A portion jutting out of the fireplace
caught alight, and smoke rose billowing
to the ceiling. Ted Smith, however,
rose equally to the occasion. Sound-
ing the Alarm on the Cricket Club Bell,
he snatched up a soda syphon and poured
in a broadside. The inferno, thus
threatened, cowered and then 3ub3ided.
The soot remains on the ceiling - a
moment of heat i3 recorded for ever.
TOUCHSTONE SIN. CRIME 8. MORALS
Dr. Bailey took the Wolfenden
Report as a point from which he plunged
his audience into Sin, Crime and Morals.
After reviewing the history of the Wolf-
enden Committee and Report Dr. Bailey
explained why i t was decided to deal
with homosexuals and prostitution tog-
ether, there being no visible link on
the surface. However they 3hould not
be isolated from antisocial behaviour.
The effect of the part of the
Report relating to Criminal Law i s to
declare a kind of no-man's land in sex
behaviour where actions can be sinful
and immoral but not criminal. On this
basis prostitution i s not a crime.
The criminal element arises in solici-
tation and the problem of street order.
The Committee felt the need of action
by driving the prostitute off the
roads, and therefore treating i t as a
female problem and not as the male pro-
blem i t is. Men are at both ends, as
exploiters and clients. If prostitutes
are driven underground rackets would
start endangering the women. A pro-
stitute i s not a depraved and a licen-
tious woman but an inadequate person
who drifts through without finding a
niche for herself and who cannot be re-
formed.
Dr. Bailey carefully differentiated
between homosexual condition and homo-
sexual behaviour. A homosexual i s a
mentally and psychologically handicapped
person and a3 such i3 a problem for
society. It is wrong to assume th.it
a heterosexual fornicates, likewise i t
is wrong to assume that a homosexual
necessarily practises. The Law3 on
homosexuality need drastic revision;
in their present form, they are un-
just, and discriminating to handicapped
persons.
It is significant that each of the
three discussion groups considered that
sex eduction i3 a psychological, as well
as a biological problem. A more com-
prehensive sexual education before and
during adolescence would in time prove
a useful weapon in the battle against
prostitution and homosexuality. The
balanced and non-sensational elucidat-
ion of the problems of sexual behaviour
in society enlightened the minds of
everyone who attended this Weekend.
There was a handsome majority
of R.C.S. man and wanes present,
Guilds had 5, Mines 3, and the Royal
College of Art 2 representatives.
Whether because of the interesting
discussion, or the lack of billiard
players, one discussion groan lasted
until 2 sum. - an a l l time Touchstone
record.

