The environmental movement has; hafne e web to spread the green gospel
But pages devoted to the environmental backlash an* growing in force and niimber. This week Insight surfs
the net in search of anti-green propaganda, and asks it there an* any lessons the environmentalists can learn
from them.
S
eed your W W W search engine with
the word "environment" and you will
reap a rich harvest of greenery.
Movements like Save the Earth are
flooding the internet with heart-warming pro-
environmental literature. But in direct
opposition to this news groups like Pave
the Earth (http.//k/intemet/news/faq/
arcbve/pave-the-earth.html) are setting *&
their own distinctly anti-green agenda.
Pave the Earth has a single objective: to w
cover the entire surface of the planet in
thick, black asphalt so that we can all
amuse ourselves by driving round end-
lessly at reckless speeds whilst chugging
beer and eating juicy burgers. (They also
advocate covering the moon in chrome
- for purely aesthetic reasons). Some of
the positive advantages of paving the
earth, they say, are the total depletion of
natural resources and the extinction of
all plant life and "critters" (except for
cows, which will be cultivated under-
ground to provide us with those all-
important burgers). Governments have
made noble but feeble efforts to pave
the earth, they say, but freeways and interstates
are just not good enough.
If this meat is too strong for your palate, try
the self-proclaimed evil twin of Save the Earth,
Destroy the Earth (http://frodo.hiof.no/
~gunnarVadtefaq.html). This is "the refuge of
persons tired with today's rampant ecohysteria...
a safe haven where you can cheerfully cry out
that you like to spray CFC's about just for the
hell of it, declare your love for the fur of some
particularly rare animal, gloat over the extinction
of some miserable, unfit species, publish designs
of innovative methods of messing up recycling
operations and delight us all with ridiculous
results of environmental drinking". People do so
in their droves. Which all goes to show that there
is plenty to access on your PC
which is not at all PC. And it
gets worse. People f o r
*• ffrjjfi- \ t h e E x t i n c t i o n of
'mJHKSk . Animals (http://www.
MJf primenet.com/~srdrake
/peafaq.html) advocates the
elimination of all the useless
creatures the world could do
without. (The threat is
extended to that pesky
environmental wacko
neighbour of yours too). The
basic objection to animals is
that they get in the way and
use up resources. Endangered
species are particularly
irritating. They are, in fact, a
plain nuisance. The best course
of action is to incinerate them
and use the energy to generate
electricity. At least then they will have had a
moment of usefulness in their otherwise futile
existences. People for the Extinction of Animals
also has a lucrative sideline publishing recipes for
making tasty dishes out of species on the brink
of extinction.
Whilst newsgroups like this have their tongues
planted firmly in their cheeks, there is an impor-
tant lesson then greens can learn from them.
What we have here is the start of a genuine back-
lash, an expression of disgust at the self right-
" E n d a n g e r e d
s p e c i e s a r e
p a r t i c u l a r l y
i r r i t a t i n g .
T h e y a r e , i n
f a c t , a p l a i n
n u i s a n c e . "
eousness and holier-than-thou attitude of much
of the environmental protest movement and its
sister organisations - animal rights extremists
and vegetarians. As long as these movements
remain associated with counter-culture they are
exposing themselves to the powerful forces of
reactionary conservative opinion. This is not to
Man the organiser : A satellite image of Kansas
showing the grid system. All roads and boun-
daries run either north-south or east-west.
say that the environmental cause is not a just and
important one, nor to deny that there is a place
for radicalism vWthin the movement. But the
greens need to tbink hard about the way they are
presenting themselves to the outside world or
their actions could become entirely self-defeat-
ing.
Graham Lawton
X

