• s i m o n e r
•ililllllljiiiiiil
I l l l l l l S g l l
i g i l l i l l l l
l l l l l l l l l l l l l
Happy New Year! It's great to be
back. As Felix reported last week, I
have been on holiday for the last
couple of weeks, and since most of
you will have simply been lazing
around over Christmas, I thought
that it would be nice to tell you
what wild and wacky things I got
up to. Revision. Sleep. I knew you
would be green with envy. Not
everybody's idea of a 'holiday', but
I'm not bitter. Speaking of the
exams, I do hope the cheques didn't fall out of
my answer booklets. I made them out to Cash,
since I wasn't sure who got which questions...
Still, two exams and a bottle of paracetamol
later, it's time to bang the world to rights. You
leave the place for a few weeks and look what
happens? The blue sign men have made a com-
mando raid on the College after their initial foray
last term and completely overwhelmed us. Does
this mean a Royal Visit is imminent? Now don't
get me wrong, they look very nice, but at what
cost? When one considers the inevitable com-
mittees involved in choosing the design - I bet
this project has been at least 10 years in the off-
ing- and putting the damn things up, the total
price of them would probably bale out a dozen
Rag fiascoes or build some new Chemistry lec-
tures theatres. Speaking of which...
The Portakabins arrived. The fence went up.
Some signs went up. The fence was painted.
Some signs went up. Arrows were painted on
the road. Some signs went up. What is it about
Imperial and bloody signs? Does Ian Caldwell
have shares in the company that's supplying
them? The public should be told. As for the new
medical building, I understand that they still do
not have planning permission. Dear reader, isn't
it a•funny old world? When Sherfield was being
planned, permission was not granted and went
to appeal, before which we appar-
ently sent the bulldozers in to rip
down the glorious Imperial
Institute. Now we have a building
that looks like Blitz damage is wait-
ing to be put right and we're playing
it by the rules. We are a much more
virtuous bunch at IC these days.
And besides, 170 Queensgate is a
tad more salubrious than
Wormwood Scrubs. If that new
building is up in 18 months time, I'll
eat my hat. If that old building is
down in 18 months...
One of the bones of contention seems to be
the provision of social facilities for the medics.
Having seen some of our dear colleagues from
Mary's at the Management School Christmas
dinner, I suspect this means that they are hold-
ing out for a boxing ring. The rest of the campus
manage without enormous social provisions for
individual departments, so why are they so spe-
cial? You're not shy, are you? All we need is to
boot a few paper shifters off the tbird floor of
Sherfield and the problem is solved.
Among the unusually large number of good
TV programmes on at Christmas was a brilliant
documentary about the Royal Yacht Britannia on
its last State visit to South Africa. Here we have
one of the most powerful symbols of British
prestige, projecting an enormously positive
image to the world, that never fails to leave
onlookers awestruck. And yet despite such obvi-
ous diplomatic and economic benefits, and a rel-
atively low operating cost (£12million per year,
which is 21 minutes of government spending),
her future is in doubt, as is a replacement. How
can the government allow such penny-pinching
to jeopardise our public image? For God's sake,
we are not a Third World country, and if we can-
not afford such a relatively small sum, then do
we really deserve the institution of monarchy?
t h e a t r e : r e s o l u t i o n ! Stephen and thalia
We often get so overwhelmed by the well
known shows that we don't notice the interest-
ing stuff happening on the sidelines. Resolution is
a very big idea which hardly anyone knows
about. A showcase for new dance companies or
experimental work from here and abroad, with
a different show each night, this a chance to
experience contemporary dance of all kinds.
Stephen:
I'll begin at the end and proceed in an
orderly fashion to the beginning. The last of
Wednesday's three performances was
Subcutaneous HaUucination by 4D. Five min-
utes of pure fun and a perfect ending to the
night. The Isigi Company's Scream1
.1
.1
, was an
emotional and very powerful piece of political
expression, which brings me to my favourite
performance, Chiaroscuro by Whoopee Stomp.
If the second piece was thought provoking,
then this was question provoking. Wow! Go
and see them. Overall I've never experienced
such a wide range of reactions to a piece of per-
formance.
Thalia:
The Dance Xchange Ensemble opened the
evening with a piece about twins, shown mainly
through 'mirror dancing'. Symmetry was hated,
lost and embraced, but it all ended happily with
a kiss after some violent hak-pulling. It would
have benefited from being a bit tighter, though.
They followed that with Solo, a group piece
which involved a lot of enthusiastic women
jumping up and down and fainting. I couldn't see
a theme but their big grins caught on -1 loved it.
The second company...? There is only so
long a dancer can stand stock-still in a spotlight
listening to a heart beat.
So all awards go to the last lot, Momentary
Fusion. Their use of trapeze and ropes was bril-
liant. The last two girls were dancing in the air as
if gravity didn't exist, falling and catching each
other, eyes closed in mid air. I can't think how
strong they must have been. My money's on this
bunch if they enter Gladiators. Fab.

