a l b u m : t h e s t y l e c o u n c i l - -
t h e c o l l e c t i o n ittle jack home-y
The Cappuccino Kid steps from his white lam-
bretta, feather cut highlights glinting in the
Parisian sun. Merton Mick is already here - The
Style Council are back in session. The Cappucino
Kid smiles. "Was that really us, Mick ?"
You can
understand the
r e - c a n o n i s e d
m o d f a t h e r ' s
doubts. Infrontof
him are a collec-
tion of musical
snaps from a peri-
od of musical re-
invention, when
he left the angry
young man of The
Jam behind, and
replaced it with
the white boy soul of The Style Council.
like all reminders of the past there are good
times and bad times, and this collection is a true
mirror reflecting both. It starts well, with bursts of
'espresso pop' - short, bitter songs that leave you
buzzing - and the sweet coated pills of "Speak Like
a Child", "Long Hot Summer", and so on.
Unfortunately, the perfect French cut and loafers
rapidly seem to become more important than
songs and by side two, The Cappucino Kid has
lost his froth, and he and Merton Mick look
doomed to a world of muso-soul and half-baked
manifestoes.
Merton M c k smiles back, knowing that he
and the kid have
come through,
and that for a time
they had managed
to produce intelli-
gent, cosmopoli-
tan pop, in a grey
world. If only the
record company
hadn't got grubby
and issued this
album. He knows
that 'The Singular
Adventures of
The Style Council' served their memory better.
Merton M c k looks up but The Cappucino
Kid has gone, his mac under his arm, Fred Perry
V-neck draped over his shoulder, headingforthe
street named "Re-assessed & Re-packaged."
(7) for the singles.
(3) for side 2.
a l b u m : k o r n - k o i r u
Imagine the most harrowing thing you've ever
seen or read. It could be a film, or a scenefroma
film (the rape scene in The Accused' is a good
example), or maybe just a newspaper story so
shocking in detail that you can't forget it. Now
imagine if you could harness all the emotions that
this film or story conjured up in you - the fears,
the paranoia, the shame, the aggression and the
fury - and put them to music. Actually, don't.
Someone else has already done it for you. They're
called Kom and their debut album is fear's very
own soundtrack.
I suppose that this all sounds a little bit melo-
dramatic. It probably is, but if you can manage to
listen to all of this in one sitting without having to
take a break to unscramble your senses then I'll be
impressed. Perhaps things are best summed up by
the closing track, 'Daddy'. As with all of Kom's
music, the song is structured around a low, rum-
bling bass sound that never settles and conse-
quendy never allows you to settle. A menacing
drumbeat and almost dissonant guitars break in,
followed by Jonathan Davis' vocals. Ah yes, those
vocals. Vocals that make the Sister of Mercy's
Andrew Eldritch sound like a castrated wuss.
Vocals that could sing 'Happy Days' and make it
sound like the theme tune to your worst night-
mare. Vocals that are agonised and pained as they
rip into a detuned, guitar infested chorus that
speaks of the unspeakable - child abuse: "I scream,
no-one hears me, it hurts, not a lot... Mummy,
why?'
It ends with minutes of tormented wails and
sobbing and you're left feeling numb, helpless and
wondering if it's all been a bad dream. This is not
exactly the sort of music you want to relax to. But
it is exactly the sort of music that you want to get
disturbed to.
File under uneasy listening. (6)
a l b u m : v a r i o u s a r t i s t s -
g o a t r a n c e 2,,m
I remember when Goa Trance was known as
plain old Trance' but then naming a style of music
after an exotic location does make it sound more
interesting. 'Goa' is the buzzword in dance at the
moment and so, of course, it leads to an excellent
marketing opportunity. In this case, the bandwag-
on is used as an outlet for many tracks which
sound as if they have been sitting in the record
company vaults since 1994.
DJ. Cosmix & Etnica open the album, fol-
lowed by Tufaan. These first two tracks are excel-
lent - there's a sense of urgency about them which
is enough to get you quite excited about the night
ahead. Transwave follow a similar line, while Syb
Unity Netwerk do a brooding number with a
dark, staccato effect.
Unfortunately, the rest of the compilation
sounds like an old Eat Static track, or is unoriginal,
wibbly-wobbly, semi-ambient stuff. I'm sure that
there are better Trance tracks out there than this
lot, which is a shame because their inclusion
means that this album is not much of a go-er
(groan). (5)
A |x
1
This is a band to watch out
'^^k'l Bf'BBSB':
i
better than average track that
Brilliant new singlefromthe
sdf-prxxJaimed fathers of gui-
tar-based Britpop. It doesn't
Il6:\ :
. . . .
they don't sound Swedish. A
a rebirth o\ 'grunge'.
It
SS,

