. g i g : t h e r a p y ? + j o y r i d e rvader
- l1
^ iin - astoria - £8.50
liMfm'yW:My >M:
I arrived at Brixton Academy a little bit late to see
Northern Irish quartet Joyrider, but what I did see
was very promising. Their set was punchy, tight,
and blessed with a raw edge that has been lacking
in their singles to date. Those singles, three-
minute rants that have charted the progress of a
maturing band, were delivered tonight with the
conviction that belongs to a band who obviously
believe in their own talent. 'It Moved', erm,
moved, while new single, Tabulae' was, erm, fab-
ulous(!) Hopefully their debut album, 'Be
Special', will be too...
It was soon afterwards that we learned of the
riot outside and you could feel the tensionrisein
the crowd. This tension exploded into adulation
as Therapy? bounded on stage and straight into
'Epilepsy', the opening track from their last
album, 'Infernal Love'.
Therapy? are one of the most exciting bands
at the moment and they didn't disappoint live,
playing a well-rounded set consisting of material
that ranged from the hauntingly subversive
'Diane' to the techno-edged tension of
'Teethgrinder'.
The only criticism I do have is that the end of
'30 Seconds' went on a bit too long - they could
have played another song instead! Thankfully they
remedied things by finishing with the old classics,
'Potato Junkie' and 'Screamager'. It was a fitting
end to a fine gig and I left so happy (and knack-
ered) that I wasn't even upset when I found
Brixton tube station closed due to the riot.
a l b u m : v a r i o u s a r t i s t s -
b r i t h o p a n d a m y l h o u s e . ™
This is a compilation of continuous mix dance
music by a number of artists that includes Bomb
The Bass, Renegade Soundwave and, of course,
The Chemical Brothers, who have a hand in two
of the tracks here. The opening track, 'What's
That Sound?' and Depth Charge's 'Shoalin
Buddha Finger' are among the outstanding tracks
here while the classic, played to death, 'Leave
Home' is here for completeness.
The compilation was apparendy meant for
'all the party people' which sounds like a dubious
reason for any kind of album. The music mixes
are pretty interesting although the nature of the
compilation means that it lacks the impact that it
might have. It's a bit like listening to a top 20 indie
compilation.
Speaking as someone new to this, it will
probably make a good introduction for those
whose previous exposure is limited to 'Leave
Home'. The more discerning listener will proba-
bly find all of this rather mundane after a while. A
rather respectable (6).
BRIT HOP
AND
AMYlHOUSE
• a l b u m : m i k e p e t e r s -
s e c o n d g e n e r a t i o n v o l . 1vik
Oh yes, here at Felix, we like Mike Peters (I use
the word, 'we', in its royal sense, you understand).
Why do 'we' like him? Well, because he re-
records and re-interprets old Alarm obscurities
and releases the album through his fan club for
£10.99; because the songs are fuelled by integrity
and enjoyment and prove that you don't need an
electric guitar to whip up a storm; because 'Elders
and Folklore' is a masterful piece of humble
Dylan-try; because 'What Kind of Hell' is the
most potent, lyrically mature piece of punk rock
you'll hear; because, all in all, the man makes sim-
ple music sound simply great.
Pick up the phone, call 01745-888911, and
order your own copy. It may be 'Second
Generation' but it's second to none. (8)

