liiJll
ILL;
Tfrf £H?^U Students 3X\o.
L5" lT0,G30; 8.5(3
T.ti, k.4 1st ptif, StU- 1
- f i l m : s o m e t h i n g t o
t a l k aboutarah turner
Well, this film seems to have had pretty good
reviews on the whole. But I dare to be different:
I disagree. In fact, I don't think its anything
worth talking about at all.
Julia Roberts plays Grace, the Southern
wife of Eddie (Dennis Quaid), who has a very
annoying daughter (Haley AulTj. (She's very sim-
ilar to Hannah in Neighbours, if you watch that.
I don't, honest.)
Grace's life falls apart when she finds out
that Eddie is cheating on her. In one of the film's
better scenes, in the middle of a women-only
charity meeting, she blurts out, 'Could everyone
else who has slept with my husband please put
up their hand?'.
She turns to her family for help, but gets no
support from her overpowering and over unsym-
pathetic father, who can only think of the effect
his daughter's broken marriage is having on his
business. In fact, the only one who seems to care
is her sister, who doesn't hesitate in letting Eddie
know what she thinks of him!
After threatening to wreck almost every
other marriage in town, and even poisoning her
husband when he asks for forgiveness, Grace
starts to rebuild her life. She then quits her job,
goes back to college, and evenfindsherself a new
man. But there is just one problem - she is still in
love with Eddie.
There's not much sex, and little violence in
the film which revolves around nothing more
than a family and its horses. Only the bit of tad'
language gives it an undeserved 15 certificate. Its
also supposed to be funny, but I can't remember
laughing much at all.
I agree with Xan Brooks, writing in The Big
Issue. He describes the film as, a glossy, up-
market soap opera - neat enough as it stands but,
considering the quality on offer, nothing really to
unite home about.' And the ending is a real let
down tool
film: t h e k i n g d o m ^
This was definitely the longest film I have seen,
or am likely to see for a long while. The main rea-
son is that The Kingdom was not designed as a
film, but was originally shown on Danish T V as
a sort of mini-series.
Set in an all-mod-cons hospital, it is a mix-
ture of incompetence and malpractice from the
doctors, couple with the paranormal and bizarre,
starting form the cries of a child heard in a lift by
the hospitals resident hypochondriac and spiritu-
alist.
Most reviews therefore describe it as a cross
between the X-Files and ER. This is however a
rather limited description. Where you had
Mulder and Scully, you have a nonagenarian spir-
itualist being reluctantly wheeled around by her
son, a hospital porter who looks like he wants a
heart attack. As for the doctors, they all belong
to a mason type lodge, into which is initiated the
new head of neurosurgery, a very gruff Swede.
He likes to spend evenings on the roof, praising
the beauty of the Swedish nuclear power sta-
tions he sees through his binoculars, while curs-
ing the Danes he has inexplicably decided to
work for.
There are some down side to this film. It is
pretty tiring reading subtitles for over four hours,
though you can see the film in two parts. The use
of hand held camera through out can also
become a little too jerky. And the ICA should
give people more leg room. However, overall a
heartily recommended film for all those who like
the bizarre and are not squeamish, and if anyone
can get me a copy of the main theme track I
would be eternally grateful!

