ADVERTISING FEATURE FELIX FRIDAY 1 9TH JANUARY 1 9 9 6 . SEVENTEEN
CClic OaUjj (telegraph
O P E N
MIC
AWARD
S T A N D U P &
B E C O U N T E D
QTbr 9ailj! telegraph
O P E N
MIC
AWARD
Have you ever wanted to be famous? Do you think you could handle the pressures of lounsins by a
sun drenched LA pool while a team of lackeys brins you the finest champasne and silver platters bearins
mountains of red M & M's? Do you like the idea of being chauffeured in an air conditioned limousine to
your workplace and then, once there, arsing around like a manic five year old? Hmm... sounds as if you
have all the qualities required to be of a stand-up comic. Now you can bypass the boring old hard graft
part of the star process and leap straight into the snorting caviar and opening supermarkets bit. And when
we say you, we mean just that. No matter your gender, age, colour, creed, sexual orientation, height,
weight, social class, favourite football team or preferred brand of hot chocolate, you to can become an
instant household name with the Open Mic Awards. Sound good? You bet it does.
So, how can you get involved? Well, first you need to write ten minutes of material. This may feature
the kind of pithy one-liners you delight your many friends with at the local swimming baths or perhaps be
a rambling monologue about your parents, the government, the meaning of life and the price of Wispa
Golds. As long as its funny we don't care.
Next, you have to take ten minutes of world beat ;.q material along to The National Comedy Network
night at your Student Union or locai:comed|jyenue you will bemadded to the list of hopefuls per-
forming in the Open Mic spot andafter a couple of M&P guzzling professionals have whipped the crowd
into a frenzy you'll step up to face the hardest judging panel on the planet your own drunken, foolish,
hyper-critical mates.
This is where the Open Mic Awards really come into there own. B
y leaving the all important judging deci-
sion to the very people who pay to see live comedy, rather than a couple of clueless has-beens who think
that Reeves & Mortimer are a firm of chartered accountants, the award manages to keep in touch with th
taste of Hie genera public and neatly side stepliny kind of u
r
n ! comedy industry shenanigans.
Better still, the fact that local people will bellsessing a local comedian means the Open Mic Award
remains free of London bias. The most Important thing about this comes: is actual comic talent and with
next Harry Hill, Frank Skinner or Jenny Eclair a chance to m
a
k
e a dent in both nation-wide and London
comedy scene with their unique perspective.
Once past the opening stages, you'll join the|||ier megastars-to-be in the May semi-finafsTOnce again,
these are judged by the public and should you w;i through this round, you'll appear in the Grand Final,
which is held in the last week of the Edinburgh Fringe Festivahand judged by the audience and a panel of
P celebriti-
After that lies stardom, untold wealth and the adoration of millionsj3h, and £1000 prize money aid a
booking on the National Comedy Network at a professional comedian. Winning this award will, in a very
real sense, change your life. "Yes," confirms last year's champion, Julian Barrett, who's now making a healthy
living as a stand-up, "The Open Mic Awards did change m
y life. Now get off m
y land, before I set the
dogs on you." Julian is currently developing a new show for B
B
C Radio 1FM.
At the end of the day, of course, the decision lies with you. Do you want to spend the rest of your years sweat
ing blood for The Man at Megabucks PLC for a mere handful of;beans a week, or, like Julian Barratt and 17
year old 1994 finalist Daniel Kitson, do you fancy telling a couple of jokes in front of a bunch of supportive
mates and then frittering your life away on such delirious pursuits as cavorting with supermodels and holidaying
in far off climes9
YOU know What tO do. (See Mark Home, ICU, for more information.)

