TWENTY . FELIX FRIDAY JANUARY 1 9TH 1 9 9 5 DIARY
t h u r s d a y
2 5
January
Yacht Club Meeting
12.30pm. Lecture Theatre 2, Physics. (R)
Fitness Club
12.30pm. Die Hard circuit training
5.30pm. Beginners aerobics. (R)
Gliding Club
lpm. Aero 266. (R)
Mountaineering Club
7pm, Social, Southside Upper Lounge. (R)
Christian Union
6.30 - 7.45pm. SCR in the Union.
(Right above the bar). (R)
ICCAG
8.15pm. Weeks Hall basement. Soup run for
the homeless. (R)
Skate Soc
Night Skate - everyone welcome. Contact
Alex a.cinelli@ic.ac.uk 01 71 352 9111 (R)
RCS Ents
9pm - 12am. Ents lounge. Jazz and Funk
night, live band & DJ. £1 (R)
Ents
Sophistication and small plastic animals at
ICU Cocktail Night. Davinci's 5 - 11pm.
t h u r s d a y
Gliding Club
Snowed in at The 'Mynd...
f r i d a y
2 6
January
Rag Meeting
1.10pm Ents Lounge. (R)
Islamic Society
Friday Prayers
lpm. Southside Gym. (R)
Pakistan Society
3 - 5pm. Basketball practice in the union
gym. Bring trainers! Contact Kashif, Aero II,
k.ahmed@ae.ic.ac.uk. (R)
Fitness Club
5.30pm. Advanced Step Aerobics (R)
Ents
Flares, tanktops, action ! It's back and this
time it intends to be badly dressed... Shaft.
A night of 70's and 80's pop, disco and party
tunes.
And to get you all in the mood, it's free
entry to anyone in oxfam style bad taste
funky and fab gear. So make a sequinned
effort! Upstairs U D H is The Cheesy
Wotsits Easy Listening Lounge - chilling out
with a difference, as the spirit of Mike
Flowers takes us over. It's only £1 to get in,
or free before 9pm, if you've got an
entscard, or if you've dressed to distress. We
particularly liked the ents manager's slinky
red satin shirt as being an especially lovely
little number.
f r i d a y
C a r e e r s I n f o r m a t i o n
"Improve your interview skills - a
session for postgraduates" is a short course
for all on Wednesday 24th January in
Huxley Room 343 from 2.00 - 4.00pm. Sign
up in the Careers Office.
Milkround Closing Date Four is on
Monday 22 January. Hand in your
applications on the day by 4pm. Details of
interviews are put up on the notice board
outside the Careers Office a few days before
the interview date.
Summer Vacation Training
opportunities are now available on the
database in the Careers Office. Apply to
U R O P for research opportunities.
For more information and careers
advice come to the Careers Office, Room
310 Sherfield Building, which is open
between 10am and 5.15pm Monday to
Friday.
P a i d W o r k A v a i l a b l e
Student needed to set up rooms for
morning classes, 7.30am - 8.30am Monday-
Friday.
Contact Michelle in the Union Office,
extension 48060.
C a l l i n g a l l
E x - L i n s t e a d i a n s
Ex-Linsteadian cards are now available
from Richard Hamilton (subwarden). These
will enable present residents to let you in
during bar hours. To obtain one please
phone the bar and ask for a re-app to let you
in. Bring £1 and a passport photo with you.
S i n g l e R o o m t o L e t
£60 per week, in West Kensington.
Phone Pauli on 0171 603 0543
As I looked round the bar of the Midland Gliding Club on our first night the place was
certainly living up to its reputation. The evening had become an away meeting of the Circus
Skills society when one of the locals produced a large bag of clubs, balls and diablos to
entertain us after a day with no flying.
We rapidly adjusted to the fact that there would be no flying at all on this gliding trip -
the snow and ice prevented our gliders from even getting up the hill to The Long Mynd airfield
- they stayed at the bottom all week! Even the cars were hurriedly moved down when it was
pointed out to us that they would have been snowed in for several days after we planned to
leave.
The trip had seemed such a good idea last term..
After the success of our visit to the Midland Gliding Club last Easter our tales of sharing
the landing area with sheep, flying beneath the clubhouse and midnight dunkings enthused the
club with a desire to come back again. The locals parting comment at the time of "How about
New Year?" sealed it.
Despite the poor weather and our buying up the local town's stock of toboggans some
flying of sorts was done during the week - Matt managed to pass his Bronze " C " written paper.
When he completes the bronze with a few more solo's he will be ready to fly cross country on
his own...
New year itself was celebrated in style, with many of the locals walking up the hill for the
party. Although the beer was discovered to be frozen (!) a heater was quickly applied so that
we could see 1996 in in appropriate fashion. A good time was had, but when the water ran out
the following morning (for the third time) we decided to quit while we were ahead! Anyone
for an Easter trip?
Forthcoming Events:
On 20th January (tomorrow!) Bill Giles, B B C Weatherman, will be giving a talk at
Lasham and I C G C will be running a minibus down there. Contact jhm@doc.ic.ac.uk if you
want a place. Our annual dinner will also be this term - watch out for details.
As always, if you haven't had a go at this flying lark yet, and fancy a go, come to a
Thursday meeting (Aero. 266, l-2pm) or mail gliding@ic.ac.uk. See you soon!

