Feature Felix Friday 1 9th January 1996 . five
What do you do when you see someone
homeless, lying in a doorway? Do you
look away? Ignore them. Walk on by.
When you hear them say, "Spare some
change?" do you listen?
When they beg for money, you give them
change, or you don't. It's as simple as that. You do,
because you don't want to feel guilty. Or you don't:
they'd only spend it on drink or drugs. Either way,
you've walked past and they're forgotten, just anoth-
er statistic in six hundred thousand.
I wanted to write this article to tell you about
some of these people. So that you might get to know
them. And then maybe afford them a little human
dignity, and the right not to be ignored.
We do the "Soup Run" twice a week, taking hot
drinks, food and blankets to homeless people at
Lincoln's Inn Fields and down the Strand. There are
regulars we see every week, and other people I've
only met once, but little things about them stick in
my mind: a man crossing the Kingsway with a chess-
board - taking his move to a friend sleeping on the
other side of the road; the bloke who told me about
the merits of French prisons versus English ones; the
man who showed me a photograph of the daughter
he hadn't seen in five years, saying I looked just like
her.
There's things that make you sad inside: a preg-
nant woman asking me for an aspirin; a man with
bronchitis selling the Big Issue in the rain; a little old
man sniffing glue Irom a dirty plastic bag: when he's
high he runs round laughing maniacally. I can under-
stand why, though: what else has he got? Sometimes
drugs or alcohol are the only escape for many home-
less people. I thought this man was about sixty, but
I've talked to him when he's been sober, and he said
he's only thirty one. That's such a cliche: being home-
less ages you. But it's only cliches that come true on
the streets.
There's a girl we've met several times, sitting in
a doorway on the Strand. She's all alone except for
her dog, and she looks about fifteen. There's the old
man outside the post office on the Kingsway. He
always seems cheerful and he loves his cups of tea.
He looks like someone's grandad: he shouldn't be
there, he should be at home, in the warm, with
grandchildren around him, not sleeping on wet con-
crete, hoping his thermos flask doesn't get nicked.
There's people I've met who make me laugh so
much: Paddy, with his hundred and one jokes with no
punch lines; George and Chris who took the piss out
of everybody: their concern for Nathan after his
lobotomy operation was touching! I've been threat-
ening to chop off Chris's
ponytail for ages, but if I did
I don't think my hair would
last much longer! I hadn't
seen Chris since before the
summer until I ran into him
a few weeks ago: he was on
the other side of a soup run,
helping out. He's doing a
N V Q now, and seems to
have got himself sorted.
Then there's John, who
warned us not to laugh at
him when he turned up in a
Santa suit. He's got multiple
sclerosis: the first Santa I've
met on crutches. He was
collecting money for Great
Ormond St. Hospital. We
didn't know quite what to
say when he gave us money
for the soup run.
Every week we used to
see this old man who slept
down by the law courts. He was in the merchant
navy during the war and he always kept us talking for
ages about Faraday and magnetic mines. He'd had
five or six wives in his time and he proposed to some
of our volunteers! Once when we saw him, he said it
was his 90th birthday - mind you the week after, he
said it was his 91st! He always seemed really frail.
He's been moved on now - there's building work
where he used to sleep. I've no idea what's happened
to him, and we've never seen him again.
Chris, who organised the soup run last year, but
only comes occasionally now, turned up one week
and was offered a cup of tea by some freshers who
thought he was homeless. There's no difference
between people with somewhere to live and people
without: it could be anyone, it could be you, ten years
down the line, a failed marriage or an alcohol prob-
lem. We meet a City & Guilds man most weeks on
the Strand. He's old and deaf, but he knows his
Fourier Transforms.
Not everyone's appreciative of what we do.
People get fed up of the same cheap sandwiches
dished out by charities and churches - we've had our
food thrown back in our faces and told to fuck off.
It's fair enough: people need a home not a cup of tea.
I've never felt so powerless in my life as when some-
one asks me if I know anywhere they can stay
tonight. All I can say is, the soup run's been the only
time anyone has said "God Bless You" to me and real-
ly meant it.
I C C o m m u n i t y A c t i o n G r o u p n e e d v o l u n t e e r s , b l a n k e t s a n d m i n i b u s d r i -
v e r s f o r t h e s o u p r u n . E v e r y T u e s d a y a n d T h u r s d a y , 8 : 1 5 p m , W e e k s H a l l :
j u s t t u r n u p , o r c o n t a c t c d o l b e a r @ i c
by Cathy Dolbear
E
o
I

