Feature Felix Friday 1 9th January 1996 . seven
Cruelty or Progress?
Felix e x a m i n e s t h e v i v i s e c t i o n d e b a t e a n d w o n d e r s i f e i t h e r s i d e
k n o w s w h a t t h e y ' r e t a l k i n g a b o u t .
The animal experiments versus anti-
vivisection debate is as hot as ever.
Since it became a major issue in
the 1980s the lack o f
coherent c o m m u n i c a t i o n
between the two sides has meant that
the ethical issues at the heart o f the
problem still have not been addressed in
a clear-headed and useful way.
Scientists are often accused of being bad
communicators in whatever field their
research lies, but when this is compounded
by a "siege mentality" brought on by threats
and abuse from the anti-vivisection lobby
they tend to clam up altogether
Scientists involved in anima
research in labs which have been
bombed or threatened are often
unwilling or too frightened to
speak about their research and
why they feel that it is necessary.
On the other side of the fence
there is a very vocal anti-vivisec-
tion lobby many of whose more
orthodox members think that all
animal research is harmful, painfu
and unnecessary. Their argument can
be very emotional with hard-hitting pictures
which are shown to the public, while all that
the science community can respond with are
dry research papers.
This polarises the debate and is a self-
perpetuating situation. Those opposed to ani-
mal testing often don't understand its
motives or aims and all too often the scien-
tists' response is to retreat from the public
scene. This is a very unsatisfactory posi-
tion and it has led to a situation in
which the general public do not /;';'"
understand why animal testing
should take place.
This is not an insurmount
able problem, it is merely a lack
of communication. The self-
reinforcing cycle of mis- s'y
trust can be bro-
ken. The eas-
iest way to begin to do this is probably for the
science community to become more open,
and to spend more time and resources mak-
ing its objectives clear. This would make a
wider and more open debate possible and
C^thus there are grounds
for hoping that the
current polarisation will
not persist indefinitely and that this particu-
lar problem can be resolved.
Beyond the problem of communica-
tion there exists the deeper problem of
the actual ethical issue, the debate over
necessity and benefits versus hardship.
Here one frequently hears the charge
that scientists care only about their
work and don't spare any considera-
tion for the animals involved. To help
dispel this it has been suggested that future
scientific papers relating to the subject
should contain a section on any adverse
effects of certain techniques on the
animals thus helping future
researchers to avoid the same
mistakes. Additionally, there rx
is an increasing awareness
that the conditions in which
animals are kept is also
important. Many scientists /
have pointed out that con- /
ditions in labs are signifi-
cantly better than in some j
livestock farms, and point to A
the all-too-frequent cases of
abuse of animals kept as pets.
Having said that, there is increasing evi-
dence that for animals psychological and
physical well-being it is better that they are
kept in groups and not confined to a solitary
existence.
With regard to the experiments
themselves, in some
cases alterna-
tives may be
used, but
x where no
alternatives
^ \ S > exist then given that
obtaining a particular piece
of knowledge requires ani-
mal testing it reduces to a question of how
necessary is the research in question. This can
be a very subjective matter; 'the necessity of
the research is in the mind of the experi-
menter.'
It can sometimes be argued that research
will lead to a cure for a particular disease or
that it is necessary to test the toxicity of a
certain material, but it is often the nature of
science that no such obvious or immediate
pay-back exists. Indeed, it is not pos-
sible to do "good science" if one is
only pursuing limited short-term
goals in which science is reduced to
the level of being just another
form of investment. Often
research is in pursuit of a more funda-
mental or general understanding
which can be controversial
enough when it consumes tax
payers' money but when it involves
animals, explaining the necessity of such
research becomes a more complicated issue.
Research with animals is on a different ethi-
cal level from other areas of science.
On a par with the difficulty of assessing
f\ the necessity of the research is the
/ I difficulty of measuring the amount of
: X / pain inflicted on the animal, and yet
this is obviously very important in
any discussion of benefits ver-
*gfc|gH» sus hardship. There are no
objective criteria by which to
do this; merely anthropomorphising
the animal doesn't help, since what
J may make a human struggle and
scream may render another animal
motionless, as a natural tendency to hide
stress and pain as a defence against predators.
There can be no strict formula, there-
fore, for determining whether or not a spe-
cific piece of research is justified and the best
that we can probably do is to develop a
technique to give both sides of the
argument a fair hearing and then
reach some kind of consensus.
This will appear to be a very
unsatisfactory solution to many
not least because it leaves the
issue open, but it would be a sig-
nificant step towards an improve-
ment. The current polarised situ-
ation must not be allowed to per-
sist, not only since it is damaging to science
but also because its emotional, confrontation-
al nature frequently turns the issue into a
shouting match and therefore leaves it unad-
dressed.

