Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
RAG is the charity fundraising society of Imperial College Union. 83
Imperial students set off around the world - they had 36 hours to get
as far away as possible from Imperial. Not allowed to spend their own
money on travel, the teams had to collect donations for any travel costs.
The Big Jailbreak 2016 supports Noah’s Ark Hospice, The British Heart
Foundation, Cancer Research UK, and Actionaid. Teams raise money
either by collecting it beforehand, or getting by-the-mile sponsors. This
year was marked by the most ever money raised, over £10,000 with a
further £5,000 still to come.
It has been a record breaking event, seeing more money raised for
charity than we’ve ever seen before, and seeing more teams travel
further distances. Well done from all of us at Imperial College Union;
we’re proud of you, and you should be too!
The team who took home the prize for furthest distance travelled are The
Brownian Motion - they got to Bali!
To check out the stories and tips shared by the top three teams, visit:
imperialcollegeunion.org/rag-jailbreak
Imperial RAG’s Jailbreak celebrates best year yet
Imperial College Union are hoping to hear your voice in what is a very important conversation. College have been urged by the Union to review the
current zero-tolerance late submission policy due to the dissatisfaction it has caused certain students.
Following an initial spot-poll released by the Union, we are now looking to hear your opinions and comments on the best proposal via a second
consultation survey.The results of this consultation will crucially inform the stance which the Union eventually put forward to College.
Ensure you have your say at imperialcollegeunion.org/latesubmission
Late Work Submission policy - tell the Union the policy you want...
Student Academic Choice Awards 2017 - Autumn term nominations now open
Who has been a great lecturer, or an amazing administrator, or a top-
notch demonstrator?
Has someone in College helped you through tough times, or gone the
extra mile to explain a concept or support your research? If there’s anyone
who stands out to you, then let them know - by nominating them for a
Student Academic Choice Award (SACA).
Every nominee will receive a famous SACAs mug - and the shortlistees
will be invited to the glitzy SACAs Ceremony in May 2017
.
You can nominate as many people as you like, in as many categories as
you like - and if your nominee is shortlisted, you might win a free ticket to the Ceremony!
The eight Student Academic Choice Awards available are Best Supervision, Best Tutoring, Best Graduate Teaching Assistant, Best Teaching for
Undergraduates, Best Support Staff, Best Innovation, BestTutoring, Best Feedback and BestTeaching for Postgraduates.
To find out more about previous SACAs winners, and to nominate go to imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas

