36 felixonline.co.uk/millennials millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk Friday 9 December 2016 Friday 9 December 2016 37
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials
felix M I L L E N N I A L S
felix
M I L L E N N I A L S
SEX Foreplay
Remember, it’s not okay to get with someone in an Uber. The drivers don’t get paid enough for
that. Finally, you get to their place. Sadly, you tidied up for nothing. They’ll offer you a drink.
Accept, stay hydrated. If you’re drunk, maybe call an Uber and tell them to take you home. If
they’re drunk, definitely do that.
But you’re not drunk, you’re a responsible adult and you’re going to get laid tonight. Now
you’re in their room, all over each other. You’re about to get laid, but aren’t you forgetting some-
thing? #foreplay
Take it slow, oral comes as standard. Feel free to explore your partner’s body. Make sure
they’re cool with everything as you go. Find that spot that makes them moan. If they moan some-
one else’s name, well, that’s your name from now on. If you have a penis, it should not be the first
thing to go anywhere. If you have a vagina, you are the conductor. You control the trains!
The sex
1. Use a condom/alternative barrier
protection
2. Bumping uglies
• In
• Out
• Repeat until satisfied
3. Don’t ignore the clit. Acknowl-
edge the prostate.
Leave
You have a ten minute window after sex in which to get up, get
dressed, and get the fuck out of there, no questions asked. If that
window passes, you have to stay there and pretend that you’re
enjoying cuddling until they fall asleep. We don’t make up these
rules, society does, and you’d better obey them.
Once they’re asleep, and you’ve liberated all your limbs, raise your
head and scout around the room for your belongings like a meerkat.
Anything you can’t immediately see is gone forever. See, we told
you not to bring anything valuable. Pick your shit up and exit the
bedroom – you can get dressed in the hallway. Now get out before
anyone notices. If you’re so inclined, take a memento (nothing valua-
ble, you’re not a fucking thief. Take a protein bar or a juice box!).
So you fucked up. You haven’t left.
It’s the morning. Hey, maybe this was on purpose. Maybe they live in Dulwich, and
you’ve got to wait for the first tube. Regardless, there are two scenarios.
Scenario 1: You woke up first.
You’ve lost the advantage of the darkness of
the night, but you can still salvage this – try
and actually follow step 6 and leave now.
Congrats.
Scenario 2: They woke up first.
They haven’t noticed that you’re awake yet, so you have some time
to think. You really have to pee, but you need to consider whether
you want to get morning sex out of this. If you do, you have to do
it before you get out of bed. It’s not morning sex if you’ve got out
of bed, it’s just sex that happens to be in the morning. Morning sex
counts as part of the one night stand, but if it’s sex in the morning,
you’re technically seeing this person steadily. You are now in a
relationship. Congrats.
4
The journey
home
6
7 Ugh, mornings.
5
Why haven’t you
left yet?
conductor
#prostate
Aknowledge
me
How to have a one night stand (in Metric)
I know this says that this is about Metric, but really it could apply to any place, at any time, with
any person.
JUST THE TIP
Preparation
If you’re planning on pulling, you need to prepare yourself and your
environment. This means making sure that your personal grooming
is on point and your fridge is stocked. Sex is 90% preparation, 10%
copulation.
Be warned: Don’t take anything you’re particularly attached to BUT
DO TAKE CONDOMS (and maybe lube. And maybe a portable
douche. No, don’t take a douche. You’re prepared, you’ve already
douched. Unless you’ve been eating Mexican food. In that case pack
your portable douche and some faith.)
First contact
Identify your target (not in a predatory way). They’re usually found
waiting at the bar. Don’t go for the hottest person (they’re out of your
league). Go for their second most attractive friend.
Initiate eye contact (if you’re a gay man, eye contact for over three
seconds mean you have given them a licence to touch you.) If they
don’t reciprocate, move on. Quantity over quality, it’s a numbers
game. If it gets too late in the evening, lower your standards and keep
trying.
Once someone has returned your daring glances, stop. Immediately
stop. No seriously, stop. The fish has been hooked. Do not go up to
them and deliver a one liner. Do not buy them sambuca. Tequila on
the other hand…
Go to the bar, stand next to them (order a drink, don’t be creepy),
and try and talk to them. Now we can’t tell you what to say or how to
say it (other than with confidence). If we could we’d be millionaires.
Give it a go. You still have plausible deniability. You’re just getting a
drink. Talk to them for a bit, get a drink and return to your group. Pat
yourself on the back.
Sealing the deal
You’ve made a few contacts, you’ve found someone that you really click with. You like them, and they keep
finding excuses to touch you (not inappropriately, you perv. If they’re touching you inappropriately, call Secu-
rity.). It’s almost time for the kiss, but first, make a really bad joke and see if they laugh.
They’re laughing. Good. Once the laughter has subsided, just keep your chill (you’re getting closer). Maintain
strong eye contact, with the occasional glance to the lips. If the feeling is mutual, gravity will do the rest.
If the night is young, don’t be too keen, let them know you’ll see them later and go and hang out with
your friends. Get their number first though. When you’re ready to go, find them, or if that fails, send them a
message.
When you’ve finally located them, make sure that making out with them is still A-okay. It is? Good. Ask, “Do
you... wanna go someplace else?” There’s literally no other acceptable way to phrase this. If you’ve done
everything correctly, they will.
Good things to have
• A clean bathroom
• Spare towels (clean spare towels if
you’re feeling fancy)
• A tidy room
• Oral hygiene
• An underwear strategy (are you going
for comfort? Sexiness? Are you gonna
go commando?)
2
Make sure you’re
prepared!
Blonde or
brunette?
3
1

