Friday 9 December 2016 41
felixonline.co.uk/C&S
felix
C L U B S
& S O C S
The Imperial Cinema Winter All-Nighter
I
t’s that time of the year again… days draw shorter, nights
colder, students huddle in the Library, longing for the
Christmas holidays and some freedom from revision and
the misery of Autumn term. Could there be a more perfect
time for going to the cinema? Could there, in fact, be a more
perfect time to spend an entire night at the cinema? That is
clearly what our Imperial student ancestors thought when they
established our most dearly-held tradition of Imperial College
Union Cinema, the All-Nighter. Imagine, if you will, the Union,
on what may seem like an average Tuesday. Grizzled third-years
sipping overpriced pints in FiveSixEight, freshers pale with exam
worries hurrying across Beit Quad, all is calm, all is… wait! A
buzz from upstairs heralds unusual ongoings. One is met with
a most outrageous sight: Reams of students and non-students
alike, carrying pillows and dressing gowns, filling the staircase
to the Union Concert Hall almost down to the ground floor!
Boisterous, optimistic chatter abounds. Determinedly they march
into the Hall, choosing their seats wisely for the optimum viewing
angle and napping position, settling in for no less than thirteen
and a half hours of motion picture delights. Eyelids may droop,
coffee cups may spill, but the All-Nighter veteran knows to battle
The time-honoured tradition of the Imperial Cinema All-Nighter returns on Tuesday 13th
De-
cember for an almighty end-of-term cinema binge-fest. Sophie Sagawe
\\Walt Disney Studios Motion Pictures
\\Entertainment Pictures/EYEVINE
18:00 Arrival
Amy Adams kicks off the night in the Oscar-tipped Arrival, playing a linguist
enlisted to help the military communicate with the aliens which have landed on
Earth. Is it sci-fi? Is it drama? Is it, in fact, not about the aliens at all? One thing is
sure, it’s absolutely fantastic, with the most haunting soundtrack you will hear this
year. We highly recommend you keep yourself as spoiler-free as possible for this
one!
20:30 Doctor Strange
What would be All-Nighter be without a superhero film? The latest addition to
the team is Stephen Strange, once unsurpassed neurosurgeon (and doesn’t he just
know it) turned Sorcerer Supreme after going on what must be the weirdest gap
year to Nepal ever. The mind-bending action and Marvel-standard humour come
thick and fast, just remember to keep an eye out for the inevitable Easter Eggs and
make sure you stay for the traditional post-credits scene!
on with iron will, wrapped tightly in a blanket like a cinephile
burrito. Speaking of burritos, in between the films, participants
are fortified by a vast array of foods and drinks on offer. Forget
about popcorn and Mars bars (although those are available,
too). Here, tea, coffee, soup, hotdogs and freshly-made toasties
provide the sustenance required to survive all night. As dawn
breaks, those who have endured enjoy watching the last film with
the clarity of mind that only severe sleep deprivation can bring.
They assume their rightful place in the noble circle of All-Nighter
survivors. Many years later, here we are, continuing this ancient
tradition with unrelenting spirit. Six fine films are on offer this
Winter All-Nighter, which we hope to share with you on the 13th.
The 2016 Winter All-Nighter takes place on Tuesday 13th
December. Tickets are £10 online (until 4pm on the day) and £12
on the door. If you don’t fancy staying all night, tickets for individ-
ual films can be purchased at £3 each on the door.
An additional £5 buys you all-night, all-you-can-eat hot food
and drinks including tea, coffee, toasties, hot dogs, soup, and pot
noodles. The usual variety of snacks, including popcorn, crisps,
chocolates, and fizzy drinks will also be on sale on the night.
Tickets can be purchased from tickets.imperialcinema.co.uk
Full Line-Up:
18:00 Arrival
20:30 Doctor Strange
23:00 Nocturnal
Animals
01:15 The Girl on the
Train
03:30 The Girl with All
the Gifts
05:40 Hunt for the
Wilderpeople

