42 felixonline.co.uk/C&S Friday 9 December 2016
felix C L U B S
& S O C S
01:15 The Girl on Train
The bestselling book finally makes it onto the big screen, with Emily Blunt in the
title role. A woman attempts to drown her boredom in alcoholism and observing
her fellow commuters while on the train, but soon, her life becomes ominously
intertwined with that of a couple over which she has been obsessing. Like most
thrillers, this one is best enjoyed spoiler-free, that is, if you have managed it until
now!
\\Fade to Black Productions, Focus Features, Universal Pictures
\\Universal Pictures
\\Poison Chef
\\The Orchard
03:30 The Girl with All the Gifts
Another awards darling stars Gemma Arterton as a post-apocalyptic teacher
desperate to protect the titular Girl with All the Gifts (Sennia Nanua) while also
trying to… not get eaten by her protégée. Director Colm McCarthy’s credits include
episodes of Doctor Who and Sherlock, and the subversive humour and whip-smart
style shine through, although this is far darker in tone. This isn’t just another dumb
zombie movie, it’s original, provocative, and really gets under your skin.
05:40 Hunt for the Wilderpeople
If you enjoyed the wacky Kiwi vampire roommate comedy What We Do in the
Shadows (and if you haven’t seen it, you really should), its director Taika Waititi
has more for you in this sincere and funny coming-of-age story. “Bad egg”
teenager Ricky is sent off to yet another foster home, but strikes up an unlikely
friendship with his grizzled foster father Hec when they embark upon an involun-
tary trip deep into the New Zealand forest.
23:00 Nocturnal Animals
Wait, haven’t we seen this lady already? It’s Amy Adams again! In this Tom
Ford-directed feature (Yes, the designer Tom Ford), she plays an impossibly stylish
art dealer who is confronted with her past when her ex-husband gives her a novel
he has written. You’re quickly sucked into the disturbing parallel story of the novel
which contrasts sharply with the clinically immaculate present time setting, and it’s
guaranteed to stay with you for days.

