6 Friday 9 December 2016 Friday 9 December 2016 7
felix.news@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/news
felix
felix N E W S
felixonline.co.uk/news felix.news@ic.ac.uk
N E W S
percentages allocated to such learning. What has the reaction been to
a degree that has severely cut face-to-face teaching?
I don’t know enough about that so I have to be careful not to be
talking for them. I just know what they want to do and I’ve seen an
outline of a plan. It’s one of those things that I’d like to support them in
so we make sure that it actually influences the student experience in a
good way. Online learning needs to always follow from the strategy
and it’s not a way of saving time – it almost never is. There’s so
many things you can do with online pedagogy that can help the
student experience
With online technology, you can take the lecturing out of the
curriculum in the traditional way, with the professor in front of
the class and you can videotape that, make students watch it
at home and you use the classroom time for other things. So
if you use that [classroom time] well and build on that lecture
that they’ve watched at home then you can actually increase
the learning and give the students a much more positive,
engaging experience.
And doing online things doesn’t necessarily mean it’s not
engaging, because in smaller groups students can peer review each
other’s work, teachers can be part of that too and we will always need
the actual physical experience. But it’s best if you do that in a more
engaging way. It’s almost like a waste of everybody’s time if you use the
physical, on-campus experience in this traditional lecture style. I think
that’s what online learning is about. How can you enhance the student
experience?
You guys tend to break up the categorisation of different types of
learning into seminars and lectures etc., and then in independent
learning. So in this particular case, for example, 17% would be seminars
and lectures and the rest of the course would be independent learning.
A lot of people will look at it and ask, “Wait a minute, if I’m spending
the majority of my degree learning independently, why do I need to
come here, why do I need to pay £9,000 a year?”
Again I’m not commenting on this particular degree because I really
don’t know what they will be doing.
I think students are traditionally very conservative because they don’t
know what it’s like when things change. They’re critical of different
ways of teaching. You need to explain to them why you’re
changing things and what they’ll get out of a different way of
teaching. But in general i think having 100% not independent
learning is not the modern way of teaching. And I think 30%
of independent learning is not that much. So what students
need to do is they need to learn independently. They need
to build the skills to find information on their own, to compile
information on their own to actually start working with the
facts. If you use all teaching for facts students will never go
beyond that.
Where do we draw the line? In Biology for example 80% of
the course is independent learning. Is it worth the hype?
We shouldn’t necessarily confuse contact with one professor in front
of the whole group with value for money and it’s very important that
both students and staff think about what students should get out of their
time at imperial and do that as well as possible. I personally think that
sitting quietly in a room where you get taught stuff by someone isn’t the
best value for money. And if 20% is that kind of teaching and 80% is
other stuff I don’t think there’s anything wrong with it if that’s a ratio that
has come out of careful thinking.
Back to the NSS scores: there is a lag factor, are you preparing for the
possibility of our score continuing the tumble?
I would love for our NSS scores to improve, because it’s also part of
the TEF (Teaching Excellence Framework), but I don’t want to do this
just for the NSS. We want to change our curriculum, our pedagogy, our
student experience to make it fit for a purpose in the 21st
century and I
think as a fringe benefit at some point we’ll see our NSS score go up.
But it’s not the other way round.
Having said that do you not find there’s a lot of pressure at the moment
to do as much as possible to improve the scores due to the current
political climate? With everything going on I can imagine everyone
in college is panicking. We need to improve or lose the ability to
recruit international students.
I think we just need to keep our calm and be really British.
What is it – ‘Keep calm and carry on’? I don’t think we should
get into panic mode and try to do quick fixes just because
we’re worried about our position in the rankings. I think
there’s enough of a problem with the NSS that could make
us do things that we don’t really want to do. We know some
students like easy courses and predictable exams etc. But you
don’t want to make your course so easy that your students will
love them when you’re not actually teaching them anything. So
sometimes having very challenging curriculums may lead to lower
scores. If that’s what we feel the students need we should be able
to give that to them. We need to be careful not to be following surveys
that are inherently not perfect in something as important as the strategy
to improve learning.
I guess that’s the main concern. If the interest that college has exhibited
in improving is not genuine and is fuelled by wishing to merely improve
the NSS scores, the changes that will be implemented...
They’re not sustainable, exactly. They may be the wrong ones and
they may not be sustainable. My conviction is that if we do this seriously
evidence based, thorough, with students, with the right outcomes in
mind, go through all our curriculums, make sure that they’re right, that
will be reflected in the NSS scores at some point as well. It would be
daft to do it the other way round.
If this doesn’t happen, if we struggle to show that we’re a top university,
if we’re not allowed to bring is as many international students, what will
the effect be?
That would be really bad, but there’s lots of ifs in that sentence
and I don’t think that’s going to happen. If we’re really serious
about this strategy, if we communicate it, if the world starts to
find out that really exciting stuff is happening at Imperial I
think we’ll actually be ok. I’m convinced that in three to five
years we could really be leading in evidence based STEM
education that’s modern and technology driven.
It’s definitely a race against time though, what with Brexit
looming over us. If our strategy is really long-term, there
are real effects in the near future that might Impact Imperial.
What’s the contingency plan?
We’re doing everything we can. Alice is constantly in the
newspapers talking about visas and the effects of lowering the
number of international students. I think we’re doing a really good
job in explaining why this would be a bad thing. But there’s only so
much you can do. Panic is never a good thing, It’s never good to do
short term fixes because you’re afraid of what may happen. It need
to be serious, sustainable. I’m an optimist and always really positive
but I’m also a realist. I’m pretty sure that if we’re going to do what
we’re promising and if we’re really going to take student experience
and education seriously and modernise the experience in an evidence
based way, I think that’s going to help us in our branding, in the way
we’re being perceived by the world. And I think we’re really going to
be able to attract good students and we’re more likely to win a battle
with the Government if that comes, if we show them we’re really serious
about education, than if we just do quick patch up work that people will
just see through. We have to continue feeling confident and calm and
thinking ‘Hey you know, we’re Imperial’ [laughs].
\\ It’s almost
like a waste of
everybody’s time if you
use the physical, on-campus
experience in this traditional
lecture style. I think that’s
what online learning is
about \\
\\ Rob Deutscher
felix talks NSS and Imperial’s teaching
strategy plans with VP for Education
Simone Buitendijk talks online learning, Brexit and more
Lef Apostolakis
I’m going to be working on it this fall and spring so up until Christmas
time we’re going to be talking to lots of people. We have pop-
up stands, we have town hall meetings, so we’ll be gathering
information and listening to students and staff and we’re
already getting lots of really thoughtful comments. It’s really
great, I’m very happy with the way it’s going.
And then we’ll need January, February, March and part
of April to put that into a comprehensive plan, with a
budget and that needs to be in time for a planning round
because a lot of what we’re going to be doing is not just
thinking about new pedagogies, new ways of teaching,
new ways of making students aware that we’re at a
research intensive university, trawling them into research.
It’s also about how to do that: how to make change happen
in a place that’s so decentralised.
There are lot’s of things happening that no one knows of and
if you want to make big changes you need to make sure you
make people aware of this central strategy and make sure that it
gets translated to the lower levels. And it means people need time and
support and hence money to actually go through with the change.
Change always costs time and Imperial staff and students are already
working so hard. I can’t ask them to do a little bit more without making
sure that they can give up something to focus on the changes.
So you’re hoping by the end of this academic year to have a budget
for departments to dip in and try and elevate their teaching. When
do you think we’re going to start seeing the first overhauls of teaching
structure at IC?
I think we’re already going to be seeing little things this academic
year, because I have the endowment that Alice [Gast] has graciously
given part of for teaching and research innovation. So we’re having a
call for proposals now for inovation in teaching and people can ask for
up to £15,000 which is quite a bit of money. Well it’s not that much but
compared to what they were given in the past it is quite a bit of money.
How much were they given in the past?
Well, pretty much nothing. There was never a call for
proposals of this size. So I know there quite a few groups
that are excited and are right now thinking up plans. So
they can start this Spring with innovation. And then of
course there is the online learning innovation which we’re
also going to be seed funding this academic year. So I think
we’ll see the first changes in the spring of 2017 and then the
bigger ones next academic year.
We’ve maybe spotted one of your big overhauls. In the next
academic year The Biomedical Science degree is going to be
transformed into a Medical Bioscience degree and one of the
major changes is more online learning. One of the changes that
has come under scrutiny is that time allocated to lectures and seminars
will only be 17% of the degree, probably one of the smallest time
So I guess we should probably start by welcoming you to Imperial.
How are you finding it so far?
It’s amazing, I’m having a great time. It’s the best job I’ve
had ever I think, at least that’s what it feels like right now, it’s
only been four months.
There’s a lot that needs to be done, which of course is
great. I’m not the kind of person who likes sitting still and
not achieving goals. It’s great.
It’s a very interesting time for you to come here because
we have this new strategy from 2015 and the new NSS
scores that haven’t exactly been a pleasant surprise, and
then of course there’s Brexit. So how are you finding the
challenge so far?
I like a good challenge and Imperial is a wonderful place.
The students are amazing and there is so much knowledge and
enthusiasm from staff, there is so much material to work with and so if
that’s the starting point for a challenge...
That’s true and Imperial students can be quite opinionated especially
when it comes to their course as the NSS scores have shown. We
have consistently been doing poorly in a number of areas including
Assessment, Feedback and Support, with variation in Teaching Quality
as well. Do you have any insight so far into why that is?
Well, especially for Feedback and Assessment, what I found really
illuminating about the NSS results were the qualitative bits, where
people wrote little stories, because that tells you a lot – it gives a depth
to the quantitative scores. And in terms of the Feedback and Assessment
I think there are quick wins that we can do and are actually doing right
now to change things.
One of the things lots of students talk about is the zero tolerance
policy for handing in coursework. So if they’re two minutes late they
get zero points but then lecturers and teachers go over deadlines
and don’t seem to adhere to similar standards. I think it’s those
kinds of things that are really difficult to accept and I totally
understand that.
And one thing I think that’s hard at Imperial is we have
pockets of excellence – there are lots of people who’ve
been working very hard and are doing excellent teaching
and providing an excellent student experience but it’s
not everywhere, it’s not across the board. And students
talk to each other, they talk in halls, they talk to students
from other universities in London, even in the rest of the
country and they compare. And when you can’t explain as
a university why certain students have a great experience
and others don’t then you get this kind of disgruntlement.
You talk about refining the 2015/2020 teaching strategy. Is there
a time frame for when we can start to expect changes?
\\ We’re having a call for
proposals now for inovation
in teachign and people
can ask for up to £15,000
which is quite a bit of
money \\
\\ Imperial College

