V
ive la resistance! Never has it been
known in modern history for a section
of a community to rebel so absolutely
against the order of the day. Riots all
over northern Parisian suburbs, and even last
night in central areas, have continued for ten
nights straight. Assuredly, more riots are to
follow. The spirit of the Resistance seems to
have embedded itself in a paradoxically vicious
manner with members of France’s economically
deprived North African community. Such is the
effect of the perceived meaningless loss of life,
no matter the number. Two or two million, the
emotional effect is the same. These actions mark
a totally frustrated and deprived set of people.
Yes, the violence is their own fault, but the rage
of those particular individuals could be seen as
intoxicating.
Comparatively, the student reputation of
being politically active and making their voices
heard does not even register. If our lives were
truly changed for the worse, if first years were
made to live on the streets due to Southside’s
demolition, if tuition fees were so high that
only those with actual “inheritances” could go
into higher education, we would act decisively.
And if necessary, angry or hurt enough, we
would all fight (and indeed burn) like those that
are doing the same in France, perhaps as we
speak. It is a harsh reality to bear, but if we or
society take enough from people, the equal and
opposite reaction to pain spirals out of control.
Don’t get me wrong; I’m not “inciting” anyone to
anything sinister. But what a spectacle it would
be for students to find some real excitement
in their lives. Heroes are made only when the
circumstances are there for true courage to
show. Yet there is no modern war that affects all
today, no great cause to rally the masses, no idea
to change the governance of life. Each shade of
grey masks the opportunity for glory. Perhaps
we should be happy. It means that for the most
part our lives are taken care of, and that each
day we are assured of a mundane existence. No
evil to fight, no cause to be won.
Over the horizon, however, there is much
turmoil. Natural disasters and war are
commonplace. One could not be blamed for
asking “what is wrong with the world?” Its
inhabitants and its habitat. There, people are
moving. Insurgencies, repression and truly
beautiful acts of compassion often draw well-off
boredom-heads like ourselves to areas where
we can feel some special kind of life. There is no
hope for ultimate success, with shockingly little
faith in our leaders to govern well, let alone to
achieve world peace, its nigh on impossible. But
what a life to live! It sure as hell beats the essay
I have to write now that’s already late and had
20% deducted. Damn the stress.
I
n last week’s Felix (No.1333, “ULU in
chaos”), we saw coverage of some of the
latest homophobic remarks of University of
London Union (ULU) Council Chair, Luca
Manfredi. On a notice board, he said that should
a future son of his introduce him to his boy-
friend, he would “take out a big gun and make
sure he [would] not dishonour my family”.
He was subsequently forced to apologise, but
rather than do so with any sign of remorse, he
tried to qualify his remarks by saying that “the
comments were intended for use against one
very restricted group of people”. This shows he
does not understand that it was his comments
that were offensive and unacceptable and not
against whom he intended them. As Chair
of ULU Council, Luca Manfredi is regarded
as a representative of London students. His
comments concerning homosexuality give
no confidence in his ability to represent all
students, especially those that he believes are
living in sin.
Even if he had given a full and sincere
apology, which in my opinion he did not, I
would not be satisfied with simply letting this
go. What Luca posted was not a light jibe – it
was a threat of shooting someone because of
their sexuality. Nor is this the first time Luca
has aired his candid and bigoted views. Just a
year ago, he posted similar comments, one of
which supported the idea of parents telling their
children to commit suicide rather than come out.
He said that he would stick to that “until they
introduce me to their same-sex friends; at that
point I would commit two murders”.
The wider problem we face is not just bigots
like Luca, but those that seem to think that such
bigoted views are acceptable. Just imagine a
student representative saying that he’d shoot his
son if he converted Islam – or if he came home
with a black girlfriend. Homophobia isn’t as
visible as other hatreds – and we must tackle all
forms of bigotry head-on. It matters not whether
they affect ten percent of the student population
or just one – prejudiced discrimination should
not be tolerated.
Our welfare and equal opportunity
representatives need to take homophobia and
Islamophobia seriously – not just as issues
that can be swept under the carpet. It is not
good enough to accept as a justification for
intolerant comments that they were only
intended to ‘provoke’. Nor is it adequate to allow
a representative like Luca to give a half-hearted
apology and think that that should be fine.
Intolerance does not just affect those it is
aimed at, but all of us as students who believe
in a decent society. Our union should take
a more proactive approach in challenging
discrimination of all forms. We should celebrate
our involvement in Rise Student Week, tackling
racism and Islamophobia. And I hope that
our union will get involved in ULU’s London
Liberated campaign and Equality Month in
February. We cannot allow our representatives
to stand by, pleading impartiality. Only by
stamping out hate can we live in a community
that values people for their worth, and to live
free from fear, violence and prejudice.
I
n Anushri Patel’s recent column, she asked
some big questions about God’s nature in the
light of some of the natural disasters we’ve
seen recently. We want to be thinking people,
and the Bible is God’s word and has answers to
these profound questions.
It’s important to keep God’s character in mind
here. God is Love, and He is Justice. We know
what love is, because that’s what God is like. Do
you see? If God did not love, or was not just or
even good, then we wouldn’t even have words for
these things.
We have this weird concept of what the world
ought to be like. We feel that natural disasters
ought not to happen, and that there ought not
to be any suffering or sadness. In a world with-
out a loving or just God, why shouldn’t these
things happen? In this world, suffering happens
regularly, but everyone, whatever they believe,
feels instinctively that the world is not the way it
ought to be. We feel a crushing sense of injustice
and outrage at the suffering we see and experi-
ence every day. Even Jesus felt this way.
The big question is: how can anyone deserve
to die in a natural disaster like Kashmir or
Katrina? In Luke 13:4-5, Jesus talks about a
crowd of people crushed by a collapsing building:
“those eighteen on whom the tower of Siloam
fell and killed them: do you think that they were
worse offenders than all the others who lived in
Jerusalem? No, I tell you; but unless you repent,
you will all likewise perish.”
You see, we often think sin is like cream cakes:
a little bit naughty, but at the same time sort
of nice. No big deal. It doesn’t hurt anyone. As
long as we don’t do anything too bad, like kill
someone, then God shouldn’t be angry about it
– because after all, we’re just doing what we feel
like.
But that’s not what Bible says. Sin is much
more serious. The Bible tells us that all sin is
rebellion against God. It destroys us and our
relationship with him. It is a grave offence before
God, because every sin primarily stems from a
compromise to do evil on our part. A God who
is perfectly upright can never come to terms
with evil, never. There can be no compromise,
because if there ever is, then he has allowed evil
to prevail, and has failed to be ultimately good.
So where do we stand before God, the perfect
judge? Ecclesiastes 7:20 says: “There is not a
righteous man on earth who does what is right
and never sins”, and Ezekiel 18:4 says “The soul
who sins is the one who will die.” It’s as simple
as that.
What does the face of sin look like – Hitler,
Stalin? Yes, but also people like you and me.
What hope can there be for us? We are account-
able to God. The suffering we see in the world
today is simply a curtain raiser for the time
when God’s justice is finally poured out.
This can be very hard to swallow. We usually
simply judge ourselves by our own standards,
and when we do that, of course, we come off
looking pretty good, but before God and his per-
fect standard we are guilty. No matter how good
or bad any of us think we are, we are all in a
desperate state.
This is the good news of the Gospel – that rath-
er than leaving us lost in our sin with no future,
God sent his own Son, Jesus Christ, to die in our
place. The punishment that I deserve has been
put on him – he is my substitute. “For all have
sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are
justified freely by his grace through the redemp-
tion that came by Christ Jesus. God presented
him, as a sacrifice of atonement, through faith in
his blood.” (Romans 3:23-25).
Jesus himself says “I am the resurrection and
the life. He who believes in me will live, even
though he dies; and whoever lives and believes
in me will never die.” So, even though we are all
sinners who stand utterly guilty, bankrupt, and
without hope, God in Jesus Christ has opened
the way for the relationship with him to be
restored. God’s justice and love are finally satis-
fied. It’s a free gift; all we have to do is believe in
him. He will do the rest!
Suffering has existed in this world for as long
as sin has, but that sin and pain have been fully
and finally defeated by Christ Jesus – no wonder
he’s the most famous man in history! No one
else has done what he has, not even close.
Revelation 21, has this prophecy about heaven:
“And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying,
‘Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will
live with them. They will be his people, and God
himself will be with them, and be their God. He
will wipe every tear from their eyes. There will
be no more death or mourning or crying or pain,
for the old order of things has passed away.’”
Every week, the Christian Union runs Impact,
an event held in the Union Dining Hall between
12 and 1pm on Tuesdays. It’s a chance to inves-
tigate the claims of the Bible in a relaxed and
friendly environment and to ask any questions
you may have. All are welcome, and we’d love to
see you there.
We must not tolerate intolerance!
On belief and suﬀering
Alon Or-bach
Joel Holdsworth
Omar Hashmi
When in Paris, do as the French
18
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 10 November 2005
A response to Anushri Patel’s “A good God would not kill people” in Felix 1331

