to be a practice aiming to disprove
religion. Then why is this spat per-
sisting? It would be outrageous for
science to be strong-headed and
dismiss ID as ridiculous. Yet as a
scientific alternative to Darwinism
it is. Why can ID not be taught in
religious classes, evolution in biol-
ogy classes, and let those in the line
of fire – the children themselves
– choose between them? Or is that
a compromise beyond the grasp of
these two gladiators of society? One
thing is for certain, though: we live
in troubled times.
of incremental mutation. Even more
outrageous arguments (such as why
we do not see missing links, say, a
bird with a bony tail and teeth in
its beak in the world today) appear
to undermine Darwinian evolution
superficially. These concepts elabo-
rate on one aspect of evolution, such
as animals evolving from ancestors,
whilst ignoring the associated idea
of ancestors becoming extinct due
to competitive exclusion.
How can an idea that rivals evolu-
tion maintain a viable challenge if it
selectively ignores those aspects of
its adversary which it finds too awk-
ward to explain away? It appears
that ID is mounting a challenge
based on half-truths and misconcep-
tions. Its proponents protest it is not
about God per se, yet God is merely
replaced by an abstract “higher
power”. This is illustrated further
by the fact that ID is a repackag-
ing of “creation science” which was
banned by the US Supreme Court
in 1987. Why? For amounting to
religious teaching in schools, some-
thing which contradicts the First
Amendment. Even the central text-
book of ID, Of Pandas and People,
was originally drafted as a creation-
ist textbook.
The ultimate paradox of ID is
that it professes to be a scientific
theory whilst not being based in
any way on observations gathered
from research, and has no falsifiable
hypotheses. Yet still its supporters
wish to replace evolution with it,
arguing that evolution itself is based
on assumption and has no ground-
“ID professes to be
a scientific theory
but is not based on
observations and
has no falsifiable
hypotheses.”
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Ancient enemies stir in battle
Will Gates is dismayed at the continuing advance of a rebranded creationism in America.
science
The TfL Graduate Programme
Where theory becomes reality
Salary from £22,500 plus 30 days’ holiday, free travel
on TfL services and other benefits
There is probably only one thing that everyone in the capital has in common.
They all have to travel in the city.
How they do so is our responsibility. We’re Transport for London. We manage,
develop and integrate the capital’s transport network - from roads, buses and
the Tube to taxis, cycle paths and the river. And the challenges we face are
almost endless.
How can transport be made better? More reliable? More integrated? How do
we keep costs down and efficiency up? How do we optimise performance
without compromising safety? And how do we prepare for the future?
On our graduate programme, you'll make a tangible contribution to some of
these issues. Because whichever scheme you enter on the programme - Civil
Engineering, Information Management or Software Engineering - you'll be helping
to provide a modern, responsive service for everyone who uses the network.
For more information on these and the other schemes we offer, please visit
www.tfl.gov.uk/graduates
We want to be as diverse as the city we represent and welcome applications
from everyone, regardless of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, faith
or disability.
11 million people
travel around London
every day.
How would you keep them moving?
Transport for London
MAYOR OF LONDON
4
felix
www.felixonline.co.uk Thursday 10 November 2005
S
cience versus religion,
it seems, just got ugly.
This age-old squabble
has reached the courts
in America, where eleven
parents have sued the board of the
Dover Area School District for intro-
ducing Intelligent Design (ID), an
alternative to Darwinian evolution,
into biology classes. A subsequent
eruption of conflict has emerged
between those who see ID as the
first step on the road to a religiously
oriented state and society, and those
who see it merely as the antith-
esis to scientific understanding and
knowledge.
The general thrust of ID is that
it sees life as being far too com-
plicated to have arisen by chance;
instead, it must have been designed
by a “higher power”. Furthermore,
it argues the concept of “irreduc-
ible complexity” – remove one of
the stages in a metabolic pathway,
then it falls apart, so it could not
have evolved in a Darwinian sense
ing in fact.
True, evolution remains a theory,
but a theory with a huge amount of
evidence to support it. For a concept
devoid of such extensive evidence
and reasoning to prostitute both
itself and its “higher power” muse
as a viable, nay, a factual alterna-
tive, is absurd. A leaked ID docu-
ment in 1999 described the “Wedge
Strategy”, which intends to use
ID as a rapier, piercing scientific
understanding and reasoning at its
perceived weakest point – evolution
– and slowly prise it apart with fur-
ther “theories” based rather on reli-
gious teachings, to end the discord
between the two disciplines. If ID
were to replace Darwinism, the cha-
rade of redefining science should
be dropped; for science itself would
have been ousted, not replaced.
What is wrong with co-habitation?
The conflict between science and
religion has always been one of mis-
understanding and mistrust, where-
as science does not necessarily have
The return of the pandas.

