The N e w s p a p e r Of Imperial C o l l e g e U n i o n F o u n d e d 1949
IC buy the blues
IC Boat Club have purchased the boat
that Oxford rowed to victory in this
year's University Boat Race. The
rowing-eight has cost £9,000 and has
only been used 5 times: it cost over
£14,000 when new.
The boat was ordered at the
beginning of March by College
Assistant Secretary Michael Arthur,
and the money has come from the
College Activities Loan Fund. It is
planned that the money will be
reclaimed from the Union and the
Queensgate Trust—a fund to pay for
recreational facilities at College.
Discussions started in January
between the Boat Club. Michael
Arthur and IC Union. ICU Deputy
President Jackie Peirce could not
make any assurances about any Union
money being available to pay for the
boat, as it would come from money
allocated for next year's equipment
plan. Claims have to be passed by
Union Finance Committee and the
boat cost nearly half the total amount
available to clubs and societies for
equipment. Despite this. Michael
Arthur ordered the boat at the
beginning of March. When contacted
by FELIX he said he had made "no
assumptions" about where the mone\
would finally come from although he
did mention the Queensgate Trust and
the Union Equipment Plan. He said
that the money would be recovered
"as soon as the Boat Club has the
money to pay for it".
The Union sabbaticals were
surprised to hear that the boat had
been ordered, however, as they had
not heard from the Boat Club and
Michael Arthur since January and the
Boat Club had not mentioned it at the
last Union Finance Committee (UFC)
meeting in mid-March. Jackie Peirce
said she was unhappy about not being
kept informed, and said that if the
UFC decided it could not afford to
pay for the boat then the Boat Club
would have to find the money itself.
The matter is likely to be brought
up at the next UFC to be held in a few
weeks time, a number of Union
officials are unhappy about not being
informed about such a large
expenditure and being presented with
a 'fait accomplis'. They are also
unhappy about the Boat Club claiming
that they had lost the chance to buy
the boat at the UFC meeting in mid-
March when the Boat Club put in an
increased claim of £14.000 to buy a
new boat even though the Oxford boat
had alreadv been ordered.
Michael Arthur
New faces in
Presidential election:
Excitement reaches
fever-pitch
There were three late entries in the ICU sabbatical presidential
election this week. Roger Loughney (Physics), Junichi Imura
(Met & Mat) and Symon Corns (Chem Eng) entered the race
on Wednesday, only one day before the papers were due to
come down. They join Ian Howgate (Geology) and Paul Bailey
(Physics) who put their names forward before the Easter
Holiday.
The contest is being rerun because of a decision by Elections
Committee to invalidate last term's presidential election because
the candidates had breached publicity rules.
The hustings UGM will take place at 1.00pm in the Great
Hall next Thursday and the manifestos will appear in the next
issue of FELIX. Voting is on Tuesday 12th and Wednesday 13th
May.
Firemen fight the soot
in Hamlet Gardens
A Hamlet Gardens flat was severely
damaged by fire last weekend. The
fire broke out in the kitchen of
basement flat 201 on Saturday
evening at around 8pm. The flat was
unoccupied at the time, and the fire
was not discovered until 10.30pm
when Andrew March, another
resident, noticed smoke in the
stairwell and alerted the Hamlet
Gardens Warden Geoff Hungerford.
Mr Hungerford attempted to enter the
flat immediately, fearing that one or
more of the residents might be asleep.
There was so much smoke inside the
flat, however, that he was initially
unable to get very far inside. The fire
brigade were called and arrived at
around 10.50pm. when it was
discovered that the fire itself was
confined to a very small area in the
kitchen. The whole of the flat was full
of thick smoke, though, and the walls,
carpets and furniture were covered in
heavy soot. Only one of the occupants
had returned to the flat after the Easter
vacation, and so not many personal
belongings were damaged in the fire.
The landlords' representatives
inspected the flat on Wednesday. The
flat will have to be redecorated
completely, and the cost is estimated
to be in the region of £1000. This will
be covered by the landlords' insurers.
All but one of the students are still
living in the flat, despite the extent of
the damage. One of the occupants told
FELIX that only a small number of
personal effects were damaged. He
added that the students had not been
given any assistance in clearing up the
flat.
F r e e ! F r i d a y , M a y 1 s t 1 9 8 7 N o . 7 6 9

