Letters FELIX, Friday May 1st 1987 2
Forget the Empire!
In the mid 1970's 1 was a pupil at
a junior school in the North of
England. During my stay there I was
continuously confronted with the
imperial measurements. Having come
back to the UK more than a decade
(3.2 * 10s
s) later and now to a
scientific and technological
environment. I am quite surprised to
see the situation unchanged. Over the
past 1.43 * 10"s of my presence here
I have had to cope with 'kg-forces'.
lb in:
. atm. bar. A. in. ft. yd. miles,
(long) tons. °F etc.
I shall not object to using years,
weeks. =
C . "of arc. metric tons etc
as units in daily life. In many cases
there is too much of cultural or
historical background attached to
these units. For scientific purposes I
do however advocate only making use
of SI units.
The examples mentioned in the first
paragraph are only the tip of the
iceberg. Not only do people
frequently use non-SI units, often they
use strange combinations, wrong
abbreviations, no units at all or
(possibly even worse) express
physical quantities in units belonging
to another quantity (power in
newt on!).
Indeed industry does tend to stick
to old units. It has often become
virtually impossible to change (eg oil
industry: pipe diameters), but do
universities therefore have to preserve
the old units too? Has science
(possibly as a result of (supposed?)
underfunding and subsequent
industrial sponsorship) lost that much
of its independence?
Britain is an island (and attempts to
change this are not exactly being
stimulated). Tourists like to see
Lords, bowler hats, doubledeckers.
and...inches. However, there is more
to this world than tourism. Britain has
vast scientific and technological
potential. Maybe the best way to
convey this to the British politicians
is via international recognition. Surely
one needs the Systeme International
d'Unites to achieve this.
I suggest forget the empire and
admit defeat to Napoleon!
E A Mante, Geology I.
Unfair Judgement?
Dear Dave,
Has Catherine Manolopoulos
actually seen Children of a Lesser
God or as she writes herself, did the
music in the film stop her from
thinking? Her review in FELIX 18
March leaves grave doubts as to her
ability to gain any real insight into a
particularly difficult subject.
To say that it is 'typical American
crap' in her opening sentence and yet
in the same paragraph tell us that the
actors were actually deaf seems to
suggest that it is far from typical. Can
authentic deaf actors really make the
film "seem incredible in its badness"
as she says, and if so, why?
I disagree with Ms Manolopoulos'
appraisal of Sarah (Marileen Martin)
she was in fact an incredibly bright
student who forfeited her own abilities
and refused to join the hearing world.
She preferred to be a lavatory cleaner
in a deaf institution because it was
something she could do well in a
seemingly sympathetic environment.
Her refusal to learn to speak stemmed
from a tragic past history (was Ms
Manolopoulos asleep whilst this was
revealed?). Sarah was sexually abused
when a teenager by her sister's
boyfriends. Sex to Sara was a form
of communication, and it was
something she could do well without
speaking (like cleaning loos!). Instead
of bringing this sad fact to light, Ms
Manolopoulos. portrays Sarah as a
seductress, a mermaid no less. This
is an unfair, misleading and sexist
view of her nature.
In fact the whole review is full of
unfair judgements and ill-thought-out
comment. I suggest you re-read your
work Ms Manopoulos it is an
illjudged appraisal, your crass
criticism and glib remarks make me
doubt your worthiness as a critic.
Jane Hosking
KQC College
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications
Board and is printed by the Imperial College Union Print Unit. Prince Consort Road, London,
SW7 2BB (Tel 01 589 5111 ext 3515). Editor. David Jones. Business Manager, Jane Spiegel.
Copyright FELIX 1987 ISSN 1040-0711.
Gay News Blues
It is three months since IC Union co-
opted a Gay Lesbian Welfare Officer.
I had expected that my original
comments in FELIX of January 30th.
that nearly no one is 100%
heterosexual. would prevoke an angry
response. The majority of people I
have spoken to agreed with me. and
nearly all the derogatory remarks I
have heard have reached me second
hand (I was quite proud to hear IC
Radio playing Tom Robinson's 'Sing
if you're glad to be Gay' as a
dedication for me). A few days ago
I met an IC student who thought that
my editorial was a 'terrible thing to
write' and was quite genuinely upset
by the implication that he and other
students should be able to recognise
some degree of homosexuality in
themselves.
I am still convinced that the men
(and I shall restrict this to men for the
moment) who go through adolescence
without experiencing any physical
feelings towards other men are in the
minority. I am not trying to make out
that we were all sharing beds as fourth
formers (I did not attend a boarding
school) but simply that sexual feelings
are extremely complex and not
restricted to a desire to penetrate other
peoples bodies. I regard the progress
the Union has made on the gay rights
front as the major success of the year
and I will support this wholeheartedly
as long as 1 am editor of the student
newspaper. 1 raise the subject again
for no other reason than to invite
comment. This issue is not going to
be forgotten and 1 welcome any
correspondence.
Election fever grips IC!
Another round of sabbatical elections
is upon us. and at the last minute
several fresh faces have joined the
presidential race. If another round of
hustings and ballot boxes seems
tedious, particularly in the middle of
the exam period, then please consider
the influence the sabbatical officers
can have on the lives of all IC
students. Good sabbaticals may seem
to achieve little of consequence, but
poor ones can really leave their mark.
My advice on voting remains the
same; decide which candidate is
standing for the right reasons and
please take the trouble to vote for
them.
Credits
Many thanks to Dave Burns, Judith
Hackney, Kamala Sen, Mark Cottle,
Dave Williams, Hamster, Chris
Martin, Andy Bannister, Francis
Miers, Liz Holford, Neil Motteram,
Sean MacRae, Steve Kilmurray,
Jane Spiegel, Aaron Kotcheff, Steve
Shackell and Rose Atkins.
A N N U A L REPORTS
The ICU A G M is on Tuesday M a y 1 9 t h .
Annual reports will be published in
FELIX on M a y 1 5 t h . All Union
o f f i c e r s / M S C chairmen w h o wish to
submit reports m u s t hand t h e m in to
the FELIX Office by 9 . 3 0 a m M o n d a y
M a y 11th.
ELECTION PUBLICITY
All candidates for ICU President should see me as soon
as possible if they require any printed publicity for the
election. There will be a manifestos issue on Friday
May 8th. Manifestos must be no more than 300 words
long and will be printed with a photograph when
supplied.
The deadline is 1.30pm on Tuesday May 5th, ie Next
Tuesday. Manifestos which are submitted late will not
be printed.
David Jones.

