beginning to look a little old fashioned
these days. To compensate in this film
we have a nice ecological plot about'
saving whales and a liberal
distribution of humour. This is not a
picture which will strain the mind.
Home of the Brave is effectively a
concert video by performance artist
Laurie Anderson. Ms Anderson is
noted for her weird and epic live
shows. This film is a recording of a
live performance of the album of the
same name in front of an audience in
New York, and features guest
appearances by avante garde writer
William S Burroughs as well as a
number of notable musicians. Laurie
Anderson is best known for her hit O
Blue Velvet is a strange film. It is also Perhaps this is done deliberately in the Superman and also had chart success
a violent and controversial film. But hope that people will construe their with the single Language is a Virus
despite the more obviously own hidden meanings. There is which concludes the film. Home of
provocative aspects of the story it was certainly a strong theme of good the Brave sees the perhaps inevitable
the underlying weirdness that struck versus evil but there are other facets influence of oriental style showing up
me most. which simply left me dazed. in the music. But perhaps the best
The plot concerns a boy who finds Director David Lynch was also aspect of the film are some odd
a severed human ear in some long responsible for Dune and for the black humourous links between numbers. Blue Velvet is showing at the Lumiere
grass behind his home. Not content and white cult film Eraserhead. The Whilst the beginning and end were and in Notting Hill Gate
with just reporting it to the police he second of these is possibly the single better than the usual bland concert Star Trek is at Leicester Square and
becomes nosey about a woman living weirdest film ever made and would photography I felt the pace slackened all over London
nearby, Isabella Rosselini, who is perhaps give some clues to the man's mid-way through. Nevertheless this Home of the Brave will open at the
somehow implicated. Rapidly he thinking if anyone could figure out is worthwhile if vou're into art rock. ICA in June
THE GOOD, THE BAD OR THE UGLY?
becomes embroiled in a disturbing
and violent relationship and in a
sinister conspiracy centring on Dennis
Hopper. Hopper plays perhaps the
most repugnant psychopath ever to be
written into a film. The controversy
centres on his relationship to Isabella
Rosselini who plays perhaps one of
the most disturbed women in film.
This is not a soft porn video, unlike
9'A Weeks which also dealt with SM
overtones; where there is violence it
is portrayed as warped and disturbing.
The real problem is to figure out
whether the film is in any way
allegorical. The small town middle
American setting is shown in an
almost surreal way and many of the
turns of the plot do not make sense.
Reviews
what it was about. Although Blue
Velvet is a fairly low budget film its
subject matter makes it heavily
debatable.
In complete contrast the continuing
epic of the Starship Enterprise in the
form of Star Trek IV is definitely light
entertainment. This episode sees the
usual bunch of galactic heroes
hurtling back to the wild and primitive
20th Century to save Earth in the
future. This is obviously a very neat
trick if you can do it. It is of course
giving little away to say that the good
guys scrape back into the future neatly
in the nick of time to save the day so
that Star Trek V can begin with
everything intact. It must be said that
23rd Century spaceships are
Letting us down?
If there is one thing one can be sure
of when Mr Bowie announces a new
album it is that it is likely to be quite
unlike anything he has done before.
Never Let Me Down is now different
in this respect. Unfortunately the
album is distinguished from his
previous works by a complete lack of
musical originality and turgid lyrics.
Mr Bowie has attempted to join the
social awareness bandwagon with
songs about nuclear war, AIDS and
drugs. He succeeds only in producing
some very cliched songs which quite
frankly are very dull indeed. His
Glass Spider fairy tale monologue for
example is reminiscent of the
Diamond Dogs introduction, but
seems shallow in comparison.
In spite of the ten or so musicians
credited on the album cover the music
sounds very computerised and
overproduced to the point where it
grates. Yet here and there there are
touches of the genius Bowie once
was. I think Bowie still has the
potential; whether or not it will be
reawakened remains to be seen.
R2D2
ew Spandex for
Old Cliches
The Queerboys—Marquee
The Marquee Glam-Gang were out in
force on Saturday, the occasion was
an up-and-coming British rock band,
The Queerboys. They have over the
past year built up a strong reputation
and following. They already
command the attention of established
rock musicians from the likes of
Hanoi Rocks, The Babysitters, Torme
and UFO (the bass player, Nigel, is
Phil Moog's nephew).
Their style is tough rock 'n' roll,
with the blues rythms of the early
Rolling Stones, to the hard rock
melodies of Kiss or Aerosmith.
The audience loved every note and
movement of a band that have the real
potential to strike their own mark as
a British name in a, now, American
dominated rock world.
From the opening song, That's
Right, through old favourites like Sex
Party, Pretty Girls and 7 O'clock,
they held the audience in a web of
excitement and sheer good time rock
'n' roll.
They are currently on a small UK
tour and will be back at the Marquee
on May 23rd. BE THERE and enjoy
yourself.
David Williams

