TECHNOLOGY Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
techology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Get your Christmas tablet
Max Eggl compares four of the latest student friendly tablets to
he original Kindle con-
vinced everyone that eb-
ooks were a winner, the
Kindle Fire convinced
everyone low-budget tab-
lets could work. The question is now,
does the Kindle Fire HD have enough to
convince you to buy it? Well that is up to
you,buthereI’llgiveyouthejuicydetails
to help you make your choice!
TheKindleFireHDisalsoa7inchtab-
let, ﬁtting in your pocket snugly. Its aver-
age of 8 hours of battery life isn’t spec-
tacular but it could be worse, and the
screen,withits216ppi(pixelspersquare
inch), is much sharper than that of the
iPad2andothercomparabletablets.The
CPUison-parwiththatoftherumoured
iPad Mini, which will lead to lag-free
use. Most tablets speakers are good at
sounding tinny, but not much else, and
here Amazon is trying to change the
game! Working with Dolby, they have
added speakers that try to achieve that
eardrum-bursting surround sound that
Dolby usually achieves. Once we get our
hands on this device we hope to conﬁrm
that this coming together has worked!
On the software side the Kindle uses
a highly modiﬁed version of Android
4.0, also known as Ice Cream Sandwich,
which is almost unrecognisable from
the original, and from that you can draw
the conclusion that Jelly Bean and fur-
ther iterations of Android will probably
not come to the Fire HD anytime soon.
However, Amazon tries to make up with
that with free unlimited cloud stor-
age for all your Amazon content. This
may seem limiting, but when you own
a Kindle you end up only buying from
Amazon. Talking about buying, the Fire
HD has a huge library of ebooks, movies
and music, which is to be expected. It’s
in the app department where Amazon
fails to be strong. Since the Fire HD (all
Kindlesasamatteroffact)don’thaveac-
cess to the Google Play store, they are all
limited to the Amazon app store, which
only has...(drum roll)...50,000 apps. That
may sound like a lot, but when you think
that ios has 250,000 iPad apps alone, it’s
quite meagre.
All in all, the Amazon Kindle does
cater to all other needs and at its cost of
£159forthe16GBand£199forthe32GB
(with sponsored screen savers!) it’s quite
a good deal, and if you have an Amazon
prime membership you get to download
ebooks for free. That’s a steal!
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
10
easons come and go, but Christmas never changes, it’s always 25th December.
Considering that it’s only 66 days away (that’s only 65 shopping days), you might as
well get started making your wish list (parents do need something to spend money
on!). So to help you get an idea, here are 4 budget tablets that might tickle your fancy!
S
iPad Mini
O
T
n the 18th of October
2010, Steve Jobs famously
said: “seven inch tablets
should come with sand-
paper, so users can ﬁle
their ﬁngers down.” Now, almost two
years to the day, the Apple rumour mill
is going crazy about what will be released
within the next weeks. Yes ladies and
gentlemen, it seems Apple is releasing a 7
inch tablet. However, will this be the end
of Apple and their marketing genius?
The new iPad, referred to as the iPad
Mini or iPad Air is not yet released, and
oﬃcially Apple denies its existence. So all
I can relay here are rumours painstak-
ingly gathered from the internet.
First to the basics, Mini is rumoured
to be a 7.85 inch (diagonally) tablet with
a screen resolution similar to that of the
iPad and iPad 2. Also it seems that the
iPad Mini will stick with the 16:9 ratio in-
troducedwiththeiPhone5,whichmakes
sense as most movies are ﬁtted to this ra-
tio. Furthermore the Mini will sport dual
Kindle Fire HD
We apologise to any Apple fanboys who just ejaculated in their lecture
The Kindle Fire HD has Dolby speakers, for book worms who like sound
Surface - Microsoft products shouldn’t look this good or colourful
Google endorse Transformers? I’m not trusting their judgement anymore
cameras (front and back) as well as the
same chip as the iPad 2. Thus it will not
beasfastasitsnewestbigbrother,butthe
CPU will clock in at a respectable 1GHz.
Unfortunately it seems that the Mini will
use the 8-pin dock connector introduced
with the iPhone 5, so if you have tons of
“old-school” accessories then perhaps
you should ﬁnd something diﬀerent.
Logic dictates that the software of
the iPad Mini will be iOS 6, however it
seemslogicdoesnotdictateAppleMaps.
Yep sorry folks, you don’t seem to get a
choice for the software if you want to
purchase this pocket-sized Apple tablet.
However, iOS 6 does have several posi-
tives, which perhaps will make this buy
sensible for you; ﬁrst and foremost the
App Store. I cannot emphasize how big
the iOS App store is: it drives the whole
ecosystem.Withmorethan500,000apps
you will never be left wanting in your
search for the perfect app. The question
is, with Apple’s constant fragmentation
of its devices, are they heading the way of
Android? How many of these half a mil-
lion apps will work out for the Mini? We
will have to wait and see! Another pro of
the iPad Mini exists in the co-ordination
it shares with the other Apple devices, so
if you are one of those people who owns
oneorseveralApplethings,thenperhaps
this is for you.
Now to the price. If you’re thinking, I
want it, how much do I have to spend?
I’ll tell you that the price bandied around
on the internet is quite intriguing! For
diﬀerent memory sizes (8GB, 16GB and
32GB) the web states a price in the range
of £180 to £250! That’s right guys you
could own an iPad for less than 200 quid!
Now, if you are already mentally running
totheApplestoreinRegentStreet,Ihave
one last caveat: the release date! Sadly, we
do not know the exact release date, as it
seemsproductionproblemsarehaunting
Apple’s production of the Mini, but with
a new Apple conference titled “we have a
littlemoretoshowyou”on23rdOctober,
we’re pretty sure it’s then.

