TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
treat early with Felix Tech
hen Microsoft
ﬁrst showed
oﬀ its tablet in
2000 it was an
absolute... fail.
However, now, after Apple deﬁned the
tablet market, the Redmond-based
company is trying another time to
crack this growing market and this
time it seems it may be a success!
The “Surface” comes in two diﬀerent
ﬂavours; their main diﬀerence being
the OS they run. Sadly here we only
discuss the Windows RT version, al-
though there will be a Windows 8 pro
article later on, so don’t worry!
Before we talk about the software,
let’s talk hardware. The Surface has
many diﬀerences to the other low end
tablets that make it quite attractive
for anyone looking at a purchasing a
tablet. Not only does it have a beauti-
ful 10.6 inch screen (something none
of the other tablets discussed here
have), it also has the option to add a
micro SD card, and, perhaps the most
amazing, a USB port! The USB port
may not sound like such a big deal,
but when you think about all the tab-
lets that have been released through-
out these past few years, less than
ten have USB ports. This will allow
external hard drives, computer mice
and many other things to be attached
to your tablet. Also the Surface has a
very good CPU (Tegra 3 (T30) that
clocks in at a very fast 1.4GHz, which
will allow you to use your tablet with-
out lag. One worrying thing about
the Surface though is the silence
about the battery performance that
Microsoft is practicing. Usually this
is something that companies brag
about so perhaps this is may not be
spectacular.
Windows 8. What else can one say.
Windows 8 is Microsoft’s newest OS,
and it has been praised as well as
criticized, so what will this operat-
ing system do for the Surface? I am
quite excited actually, as it seems this
will be the ﬁrst attempt at a tablet
that will give you a full desktop ex-
perience on a device you can hold in
one hand! However, since this is the
budget version, we can not expect
the whole shebang, but what is still
achieved is really impressive. This
includes something that we expected
on tablets but never got, but that Mi-
crosoft has promised us, and this is
the “true multitasking experience”.
On the Surface, Microsoft claims
that you will be able to run two apps
simultaneously, next to each other,
which adds to the ability of the sur-
face to work like a desktop-on-the-go
for a student. When you purchase
the Surface with Windows RT, you
get the Word, Excel, Powerpoint and
OneNote thrown in, which for most
students is a bonus! Two cons that
I do have to mention, is, ﬁrstly, the
apparent worries that many experts
have about Windows 8. So when you
buy the Surface, you will be buying
into something that is new and un-
tested. Secondly, programs can only
be downloaded from the Windows
store (“metro style”), but when you
are used to tablets today, this sounds
like what we all know and love. The
problem with this, similarly to the
Kindle, is the limiting app store. The
Windows Marketplace has only about
100,000 apps. So what you ask? Well
how many are going to be optimised
for the Surface?
The Surface seems to be a great
tablet, and it surely will make some
kind of impact into the tablet market.
Hopefully we will be seeing cheaper
iterations of the Surface in the future,
but, honestly, for what you are getting
it is a bit cheeky wanting it to be less
than 400 pounds.
buy before the Christmas rush: pre-order before Halloween!
11
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
The Summary*
* for those too lazy to read the reviews
We have looked at 4 different tablets, from 4 different companies
with 4 (almost) different Operating systems. So now you are scratch-
ing your head and wondering, which one is for me? Well let’s com-
pare them and see which kind of person they fit. Before we make any
comparisons, we can safely ignore the hardware (unless its something
radically different) because all of these are relatively the same, and
thus software is the real variant.
iPad Mini
With Apple you always know what you get, you know that everything
will be high quality and will work. Nothing will feel cheap, and if you
own other Apple products it is only a plus. If you are a person who is
happy to be confined within the eco-system of Apple and aren’t really
that techie, this may be the tablet for you.
Price: £180 to £250
Release Date: 23th
October (rumoured)
Memory: 8GB to 32GB
OS: iOS
Kindle Fire HD
The Fire HD is the one who doesn’t seem to have a real target audi-
ence, but when you really look at it has a lot to offer. The people who
will want to look into the Fire HD, are not really that focused on apps,
but more into the ebook/music scene. The speakers as well as the un-
limited cloud storage seem promising. I, however, really like this free-
ebok-if-you-are-an-amazon-premium-member thing, maybe you do
too!
Price: £159 - £199
Release Date: 25th
October
Memory: 16GB and 32GB
OS: Modified Android 4.0 (Ice Cream Sandwich)
Microsoft Surface RT
The Surface, if it comes out as described, will be a game-changer in the
tablet business. The fact that you have a USB port, a touch keyboard
cover, as well a kickstand for it to stand on its own, makes this tablet
pretty much a laptop (or “hybrid”). This may be the best option for a
student, considering you get most of Microsoft office as well as a 10.6
inchw screen, but sadly the price may put some people off.
Price: £400
Release Date: 26th
October
Memory: 32GB and 64GB with options to add more
OS: Windows RT
Google Nexus 7
Google’s foray into the tablet market has been a successful one, and
this tablet is for those who are not happy to be limited. Android is
the Windows of the tablet world, and such modifiability will appeal to
many tech-oriented students. The inclusion of NFC will also appeal to
those who have a Android device with Android beam.
Price: £159 - £199
Release Date: Out Now
Memory: 8GB and 16GB
OS: Android 4.1 (Jelly Bean)
Microsoft Surface RT
he Nexus 7 was hoped to
be the Android answer
to the iPad in the low-
budget tablet market and
from the reviews it really
does seem that way. The tablet, made
by Acer and Google, is the most suc-
cessful Android to date (barring the
Kindle Fire if you count that as An-
droid), so perhaps this is the one for
you!
The Nexus comes with an extremely
sharp 7 inch screen, as well as good
battery life, wiﬁ and NFC technol-
ogy. This allows you to use Android
beam with other Android devices
with NFC, which makes sharing ﬁles
even easier. Sadly the Nexus does
not come with a rear camera, which
means if you want to take pictures
with your tablet (but honestly, who
really does?) you not only have to get
a camera app, you also have no op-
tion to see a preview of your picture.
Compared to the other tablets looked
at here, it’s quite a bit heavier consid-
ering its size.
The hardware might not sound so
awe-inspiring, but it’s the software
that really does this trick for this tab-
let. The Nexus is the ﬂagship of the
Android tablet world, and thus it has
the newest Android version (Jelly
Bean) and will most likely will be the
ﬁrst to get further updates. Further-
more, if you are someone who likes
to get inside the guts of their pos-
sessions, Android is the way to go, as
it (along with other Nexus devices)
comes with a Boot Loader, which al-
lows the user to get privileged con-
trol of the devices subsystems. Thus
you can modify how your Nexus 7
will work. This freedom is unique
to the Android experience and a big
selling point for people who want to
control their environment and not be
controlled by it. Another positive of
Android is the integration that it has
with your Google account and more
importantly with Google Maps, as the
whole Apple Maps ﬁasco shows how
important mapping really is to users.
This tablet is the only one out at
this very moment, and so you could
go and buy it right away. Maybe you
will when you hear the price: £159
& £199 for the two variations. This
is deﬁnitely an absolutely amazing
deal for what you get, and if you are
an Android person you should really
consider this tablet for Christmas or
generally to buy.
Google Nexus 7
W
T

