SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
16
Suffer from hayfever? A so
A new clinical trial from joint research with Imperial College an
w
w
w
What is hayfever?
A little history...
First scientifically described in 1819 by John
Bostock, hay fever, also known as allergic rhi-
nitis, is an allergic reaction to small particles
in the air that most commonly causes nasal
inflammation but may also result in watery
eyes and itching throat. These symptoms are
the result of the airborne allergens triggering
the production of histamine, which produces
inflammation. While most people experience
only mild effects the condition can cause se-
vere disruption in people lives and may exac-
erbate the symptoms of asthma.
Allergy or something else?
Despite the condition’s name, hay very rarely
produces an allergic reaction. Sufferers in-
stead find themselves hypersensitive to wind
distributed pollen, most commonly that of
grass, which is responsible for some 90% of
cases, but also that of certain trees (such as
birch) and other plants.
While pollen levels are generally highest
in late spring and early summer, different
weeds flower through the entire period from
early spring to autumn; hay fever symptoms
may also be caused by dust, pet hair and
fungal spores — meaning that some people
experience the condition year round. In rare
cases ‘cross-reactivity’ may occur — with hay
fever sufferers experiencing an allergic reac-
tion to certain foods, such as apples, which
contain similar proteins to those found in
pollen grains.
Some one fifth of the population experi-
ence hay fever, and while it can affect any-
body it is most common amongst those with
a family history of allergies. The condition
usually first manifests in the early teens and
reduces in severity in the sufferer’s 20s — in
up to 20% of cases, all symptoms permanent-
ly dissapear in the end.
What is PollenLITE?
Natural Remedies
Contributions by Philip Kent, Mimi Li, Maciej Matuszewski, Annina Sartor, Philippa Skett, and Jacob Ward
PollenLITE is a new type of vaccine aiming
to prevent hay fever symptoms triggered
during grass pollen season. Instead of treat-
ing the symptoms, like the over-the-counter
anti-histamines found in your local pharma-
cist, pollenLITE prevents these symptoms in
the first place by “turning off” the allergic
reaction.
The potential for a vaccine like pollenLITE
was first hinted at in a study published in
2011, where researchers at Imperial discov-
ered that long-term tolerance to grass pollen
is accompanied by special “blocking” anti-
bodies remaining in the body.
Earlier this year, a study by the same group
found that repeatedly exposing people to
low doses of grass pollen beneath the skin
can cause these antibodies to appear, and so
create a long-term tolerance to grass pollen.
The evidence from these studies triggered
the clinical trial for pollenLITE – a potential
hay fever vaccine that uses smaller doses and
shallower injections compared to previous
versions.
PollenLITE is currently in the recruiting
phase for volunteers, with an advertising
campaign including Tube adverts, for trial
injections starting in early 2013.
pollenLITE [...]
“turning off”
the allergic
reaction.
DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2010.12.1080
DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2012.06.052
In numbers...(data from the University of Worcester
78% of hayfever
sufferers feel it
detrements their
quality of life
95% of hayfever
sufferers are
allergic to grass
pollen
Sufferers
say their
productivity is
reduced by 63%
54% of sufferers
feel less
attractive using
peak periods
For all the hippies out there, you will be sorry
to hear that alternative cures are somewhat
lacking when it comes to significant reme-
dial properties. Complementary Alternative
Medicine, also lovingly referred to as CAMs,
consist of yoga, homeopathy and herbal
medicines, and up to 70% of sufferers have
been known to give these a go in there times
of need. Meanwhile, some literature sug-
gests that acupuncture may relieve some
symptoms.
Acupuncture is an age old Chinese remedy
that is based on the principle that humans
have energy “flows” throughout the body,
and that the balances of these such “flows”
can be disturbed, resulting in pain. Naturally
the correction of these flows is done via the
insertion of needles into exact points on the
body surface, and some people truly swear
by it.
However, if you are a sceptical scientist
like all Imperial students should be, consider
with caution the legitimacy of this, as pub-
lished trials are sketchy in both the method-
ology and the results they present.
But if you still can’t face putting money
into GSK’s ever expanding pocket, consider
“herbal medicines”. Despite modern medi-
cine having primarily plant-based deriva-
tives anyway, many Earth-lovers consider it
acceptable to categorise their own, poorly
standardised medicine niche as “herbal” to
rid them of the guilt of using them.
If this applies to you, at least aim to use
plants such as butterbur (a girly little daisy),
which was proven by one trial to be similar
in effect as fexofenadine, a commonly used
anti-histamine.
However, as with all herbal medicines, you
run the risk of suffering from adverse side ef-
fects and potentially high toxicity exposure,
alongside pharmacological interactions with
other drugs that may be taken that are still
not understood.

