SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
olution may be at hand...
nd King’s College could bring an end to the summer sneezing
Current remedies
Similar treatments
Antihistamines
Antihistamines are a group of over the coun-
ter drugs currently used to treat hay fever
and other allergic reactions. As the name sug-
gests, they work by counteracting the effects
of histamine. They do this by acting as an-
tagonists on the H1 histamine receptor. His-
tamine is an inflammatory mediator released
by mast cells in response to immunoglobulin
E activation (caused
by an allergen such
as pollen). Its release
in the nasal mucosa
causes inflammation,
leading to the symp-
toms of hay fever: na-
sal congestion, runny
nose, itchiness, and sneezing.
There are two broad classes of antihis-
tamines: first generation and second gen-
eration. First generation antihistamines are
“sedating”. They cause drowsiness because
they can cross the blood-brain barrier and
act on the central nervous system as well as
the periphery. Examples of these include pro-
methazine, chlorphenamine and clemastine.
Second generation antihistamines are larger
and less lipophilic molecules. This means they
cross the blood-brain barrier less readily, and
are therefore less likely to cause drowsiness.
For this reason, they are usually recommend-
ed over the first generation drugs. Examples
of second generation antihistamines include
cetirizine, loratadine and fexofenadine.
Corticosteroids
Corticosteroids are a form of steroid treat-
ment, and this come with the usual warn-
ings that steroids usually have: mood swings,
weight gain, and acne. However they have
the benefit of being an incredibly effective
form of treatment. They also have the benefit
of being a usable form of treatment for preg-
nant women, and those who do not respond
to antihistamines.
There is also a difference
in the method of administra-
tion, with most corticoster-
oids being in the form of eye
drops or nasal sprays. This
makes them incredibly use-
ful if a hay fever sufferer has
severe eye irritation, though
tablets are also available. It
is also possible to obtain an-
tihistamines in eyedrop form.
Approaches that involve training the im-
mune system to prevent hay fever from man-
ifesting are called immunotherapy, of which
there are two kinds.
The first of these is called SLIT, or sublin-
gual immunotherapy, involves placing a pill
under the tongue, which dissolves. This pill
contains a small amount of pollen.
A clinical trial, in association with Royal
Brompton and Harefield NHS Trust, was
conducted last year to investigate the long-
term effectiveness of two much-praised pills,
Alutard SQ and Grazax. This includes a cam-
paign to attract volunteers, including the ad-
vert seen above in Felix last year.
This research was led by Professor Ste-
phen Durham, from the faculty of Medicine
at Imperial College London, who has large
amounts of experience in this field. The aim
was to find whether the pill form was as, or
more, effective than injections, which would
remove the need for the inconvenient meth-
od of administration for people who use this
form of treatment.
The second type is called SIT, or systemic
injection immunotherapy, where the pollen
is injected into the skin.
PollenLITE is an example of this kind. Such
an approach is not new, with vaccines having
existed for a long time, however the differ-
ence between this and previous approaches
is a less intrusive way of administration,
thanks to the shallower injection needed.
Both kinds of immunotherapy require
multiple administrations to build up the
necessary level of immunity, with it possibly
requiring up to a year until the symptoms
of hay fever are no longer felt. With this in
mind, less intrusive methods are always
desired.
r and the NHS)
High pollen
days per
region
Birch
Grass
Nettle

