Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana Science Editors
Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George Barnett, Navid Nabijou,
James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon Hunter, Íñigo
Martínez De Rituerto Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editors
Veronika McQuade, Simon Carnochan Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina
Sartor Copy Editors Al Norman, Matt Colvin, Christopher Witham, Chris Richardson, Laurence de Lussy Kubisa, Lizzy Griffiths, Julia Gherman, Illustrators Lizzy Griffiths, Outi Supponen
LOLCATZ OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Can’t get no
satisfaction?
The NSS results are in, and, predictably,
we once more rank fairly low down the
list. Turn to page 4 to see the full cover-
age.
Now for the yearly ‘why is this?’ ques-
tion. The answer is probably the old cop
out: it’s not just one specific thing, it’s
multiple factors all weighing in. I hate
reading a sentence like that as it makes
me feel like an arse for writing it, but I’ll
have a go at dissecting it a bit.
First of all, let’s ask: are we really all
unhappy? Or, alternatively, are we just
a lot more honest, frank, brutal, and, at
times, bitter with our university experi-
ence? Perhaps we all just love a good
moan, and other students are all about
bigging up how great their university is?
Perhaps I’m going to ask another ques-
tion? I probably will at some point, don’t
you panic, you panicky reader you.
Here’s problem number one with the
survey: it’s subjective. That’s true of
all surveys, but when it can determine
how highly a university is regarded, and
possibly what quality of students it can
attract (i.e. top students, such as you
reading this) the issue of subjectivity
becomes important. One student’s idea
of “good feedback” is by no means the
same as another students. This is the
point of asking everyone: normalising
(if that’s the word?) the results a bit, so
that individual extremes don’t bias them
too much. However, that really doesn’t
always work. If you have an entire body
of students that have different expecta-
tions, then of course they will skew the
results.
Ihonestlycan’tsayforsurewhyweare
unhappy, or even if we are. I know that’s
not a bold statement, but it’s a true one.
However,I’llgivemytwocents,andthey
may be wrong, but I’ll speak my mind.
I think that the workload hits us. Think
about it: if you’re at XYZ wasteman uni-
versity doing 1 hour of work a week and
being told you’re God’s gift to your cho-
sen discipline (i.e. getting a first), then
when someone says “are you satisfied
with your course”, the answer is bound
to be an expletive filled proclamation of
it being incredible.
Feedback is where we really get
kickedsquarelyinaplaceyoudon’twant
to get kicked. Why do we score so low
on this year after year? I think that there
really is one factor that is the primary
reason: we expect a lot. This is actually a
good thing. We are at a good university,
which always tells us that they are in the
Golden Triangle and are battling it out
with Oxbridge for Galactic dominance or
something. So, yeah, we should expect
a lot. If we didn’t, we wouldn’t exactly be
aiming for the stars like a daredevil with
a newspaper’s name now would we?
Enough pontification. Thinking is
good, but action is sometimes needed.
In my humble opinion, the best way to
improve feedback is standardisation. I
hate bureaucracy as much as the next
person, but if you have a non restrict-
ing, non time consuming method of
feedback, which sets a bare minimum
that the marker must do and say, you
will be on your way to a better system.
From there onwards, you can drive up
the standards of feedback. Those go-
ing above and beyond are able to do so,
and are not restricted. Those doing the
bare minimum would at least be doing a
level deemed to be good. This would, of
course, have to be done in conjunction
with the PhDs, lecturers, and everyone
else marking the work. Then a system
that the undergraduates are happy
with, and that is not dumping absurd
amounts of work on the postgraduates
would be found. College should search
for this, as I’m sure they can come up
with something if they put their head’s
together.
One last point to note is that this is not
a thorough dissection on my part. I wish
I had more time to think about this, and
more space to write about it. Therefore,
I apologise for the brevity and lack of
depth in this editorial.
FEATURE SCIENCE PUZZLES
Getting a first Hayfever cures? FUCWIT returns
It’s a little bit too late for me
(damn it!), but this, frank
and brutally honest guide
may just help you up that
grade.
If you were the per-
son that dreaded field
trips because of being
allergic to the field
part, this is for you.
That’s right people, it’s back.
This time, we have six month
long Netflix subscriptions to
give away for free! Get solv-
ing that Crossword ASAP.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
Medical Summarizer Wanted
Looking for 4th, 5th or 6th year medical student with medical understanding.
15 hours a week.
Crompton Medical Centre
London W2 1ND
For further details please contact Mr. Faisal Ahmed on 07776126204
Job Description - Sum marizing all medical letters and discharge summaries
from Secondary Care (Hospitals) into the medical records for each patient at
the practice, clinical software used is EMIS LV.
All Saints Church, Fulham
Altos wanted
The choir of All Saints Fulham is an excellent, semi-professional choir of ap-
proximately 20 amateur, auditioned singers.
We are currently looking to expand our alto section. The choir sings weekly
Sunday Eucharists, with sung Mass settings on feast days, and Choral Even-
songs. The positions would be ideal for, but are by no means restricted to,
a young professional, or London student looking for somewhere friendly to
sing, but which provides a high standard of music making.
This term’s music includes a Bach cantata Evensong with orchestra, masses by
Palestrina, Vierne and Briggs, Howells’ Reqiuem, and the world premiere of a
composition by Francis Pott, as well as the usual cathedral-style anthems and
settings.
The choir is extremely welcoming, and has a busy social life! The director of
music is always interested in hearing from prospective singers, and is very
happy to chat about any aspects of the position.
Jonathan Wikeley (Director of Music)
dom@allsaints-fulham.org.uk, tel: 07966 969 746
http://www.allsaints-fulham.org.uk/music.htm
>> 8 >>16 >>44
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
JUST DO MY
F**CROSSWORD

