COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
completely accept that few
will care. And, I completely
accept, that, at the minute,
the changes will aﬀect very
few people. Changing the Un-
ion’s Constitution is important though
– and, as well as explaining why I want
to do it, I’ll try and explain what needs
changing, a little briefer than the four
thousand word ‘guide to the twenty-
thousand-word constitution’ I’m pro-
posing.
Most of the changes proposed focus
on how the Union operates structur-
ally at the top: so few people will even
realise there’s been a change, unless
you get disciplined, sit on the Union
Council or are a sabbatical oﬃcer. So
what’s the point of changing it then if
it won’t aﬀect anything practical?
The Union has to register as a Char-
ity, following the Charities Act 2006
which removes our exempt status. Not
registering, and losing our charity sta-
tus would mean we have to pay corpo-
ration tax. Inevitably to cover the cost
of running the Union if we had to pay
out more (on taxes), we’d have to ﬁnd
more income, and the only place re-
alistically to ﬁnd more income would
be by rising bar prices. Remember
that the commercial income and the
College subvention are the only two
things that make the Union money.
Everything else costs: running the rep-
resentation system costs; running a
Welfare Advice service costs; subsidis-
ing Clubs & Societies costs; cleaning
and maintaining the buildings cost.
We have to make money somewhere.
So let’s register and keep the amount
of money we need to raise to keep op-
erating at a minimum.
Registering as a Charity will mean
that our constitution is locked down
considerably more tightly than it has
been in previous years: we’ll now need
the Charity Commission to approve
any changes we make to our Constitu-
tion too, not just the College. So now –
just before we register – is the perfect
time to reform the governance of the
Union. Over the last few years, we’ve
all witnessed a failing of governance
within the Union: substantial ﬁnan-
cial losses in both 2010 and 2011; the
Summer Ball 2011 (I’ll say no more);
delays to releasing elections results
due to bureaucracy – causing people
to lose faith in the system. It needs re-
form. Not only does it need reform –
it needs it now, so I can then concen-
trate on things that will have a more
direct eﬀect on students throughout
the year, for instance writing more re-
sponses to government proposals to
the Higher Education sector that have
been submitted already!
To allay fears that these proposals
are going to be anything like those
that were suggested at the end of last
year, they’re not. We’re going to keep
the Deputy President (Finance & Ser-
vices), and we’re going to keep regular
student involvement in the ‘Executive
Committee’ by scrapping proposals
made last year to have only sabbatical
oﬃcers on the committee.
Currently, there are three ‘parts’ to
the Union: what are described as an
‘executive’, a ‘legislative’ and a ‘judici-
ary’. These are three parts more com-
monly known as the Executive Com-
mittee, the Council and the Court.
No other Union in the country has a
‘judiciary’, and we simply aren’t a big
enough organisation to bother. More
than anything, the Court creates con-
fusion and bureaucracy – something
I’m keen to avoid. They handle the
serious complaints I can’t, and some-
times they can be very serious. So
serious that, in all other Unions, the
Paul Beaumont
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
20
I
Changing the rules. Why
bother?
Trustee Board of the Union (the body
that is legally liable and can be sued)
handle them directly. This is so they
can take full control of a situation, and
decide the best route of action. By cre-
ating a sub-committee of the Trustee
Board (the ‘Governance Committee’)
that will concentrate on matters like
this, feeding back information to the
whole Board, there is no longer a need
for a ‘Court’. And the name annoys
me: it’s a bit up ourselves, no?
Historically, the Executive Com-
mittee used to be the de-facto Trus-
tee Board. But, then in the 2007 gov-
ernance review, the Board split into
its own entity. Many of the powers
you’d expect to be reserved for only
the most senior of committees (for
instance, the ability to sign oﬀ £500k
of Union funds) were kept for the Ex-
ecutive Committee too though. This
makes it into a mini-trustee board,
with no legal accountability – and
leaves the Trustees stricken with a po-
tential £500k black-hole to ﬁll should
something get authorised outside the
budget without them knowing. Ouch.
The Executive does serve some pur-
pose though – which is why I’m not
proposing getting rid of it: instead I’m
proposing that it executes the policy
set by Council in a more nitty-gritty
way, and handles the more low level
authorisation of Club, Society & Pro-
ject expenditure over £50k (subject to
the funds being available!).
Making the Executive report to
Council turns the most diverse and
democratically elected body of the
Union into the most powerful one: the
largest body of students has the power
to make policy, repeal it, debate and
discuss all of the issues facing us as
students – both within College and in
the wider world. Surely this is right?! I
have removed the speciﬁcs of what de-
ﬁnes policy from the proposed consti-
tution so that Council discussions can
now encompass what used to happen
in Exec(utive) discussions.
One of the biggest shake-ups is
something everyone should know
about, but pretty much will (hope-
fully) be never useful. The plan is to
put all of the Deputy Presidents onto
the Union’s Trustee Board. This is for a
few reasons: it is the legally liable body
of the Union, so these people can be
held to account for the decisions they
Union President
This is basically what
every Union Council
meeting is like
Paul Beaumont makes the case for altering the Union Constituion
io
–
t
c
th
Continued on next page...

