COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
Sir,
May I suggest that we reform the cur-
rent single-lane system operated on the
Sherﬁeld walkway to make the provi-
sion of two new lanes in either direc-
tion – one designated for fast and one
for slow moving traﬃc. I am at my
wit’s end with sedentary groups of peo-
ple ambling along in rows and forcing
the rest of us to resort to levels of side-
stepping previously unseen outside of
the South Kensington Underground
tunnel.
“Frustrated”, via note
Letters
Irritated? Bored? Turgid? Send your angry
letters to comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
or write to us anonymously at
felixonline.co.uk/contact
Sir,
With reference to the letter printed last
week regarding the irritatingly regu-
lar and uninteresting emails from the
CGCU President, he appears to have
taken the hint! I hope I’m not speaking
too soon...
Anonymous, via email
We do occasionally edit letters and comments we receive to improve spelling,
grammar, and clarity of expression.
Online
Our pick of the most intriguing comments from felixonline.co.uk
Sir,
As a member of staﬀ for Commercial
Services and a parent who is support-
ing their two children who are current-
ly at university, I am fed up of watch-
ing my own division wasting any proﬁt
or surplus funds they may have on
parties (see invitation below) for staﬀ
members rather than ploughing this
back into the College or even oﬀering
it to sponsor less fortunate students.
These events are just free drinks and
food all night for staﬀ who do a good
job but no more than any other mem-
ber of staﬀ at Imperial.
Anonymous, via post
Sir,
The author of the letter criticising the
personal hygiene habits of Computing
students in last week’s issue needs to
meet some of the staﬀ!
Anonymous, via website
are making on a day to day basis as we
all try keep the Union aﬂoat (not like
we’re sinking or anything, but you’d
be surprised how much time in each
day is spent keeping up with things
and dealing with urgent problems
over being able to press ahead and
“make change happen”). So if you ever
do need to hold a sabb to account for
something serious, students will, and
the sovereign body of the Union will,
be wholly empowered to do so.
A dic(k-tator) President has their
power lessened by more representa-
tion on the Trustee Board of the whole
sabbatical team. It is after-all the team
that students elect to run the Union –
not just the President.
Not that this is a ‘reason’ as such,
but the Deputy Presidents are the least
powerful sabbs in the country – most
other Unions have all (or a large per-
centage of sabbs) on their governing
bodies. This doesn’t make the rest of
the student voice weaker by any means
though: sabbs are still going to be out-
numbered massively on the Board. In
fact: the Board will be majority elected
(campus-wide). The Board will be ma-
jority students. And any member of
the Board will be removable by a 2/3
majority vote of Council.
Changes that probably more people
will care about include ‘ﬂattening’ the
Faculty/Constituent Union structure,
so there are simply just constituent
parts of the Union. All Unions within
the Union (CGCU, GSA, ICSMSU,
RCSU, RSM, Silwood) will be the
same.
A body that creates and co-ordi-
nates the Union’s responses to govern-
ment policy changes should exist. At
the minute, it’s the President, DPE and
some of the Union’s representation
staﬀ. This doesn’t involve any ‘proper’
students, and as such is something we
should change. By splitting our pretty
redundant ‘Representation & Welfare
Board’ – which, as a subset of Council,
has failed to produce anything worth-
while in recent years – into ‘Education
& Representation Board’ and a ‘Com-
munities & Welfare Board’, I hope to
form groups that will direct and drive
forward policy responses from stu-
dents – making the Union truly stu-
dent (not sabb) led.
Speeding up the Elections process
can be done a few ways. The big ques-
tion is how do we make sure we’re fast
and fair. One problem the Union has
wrestled with in the past is how to ap-
pear non-biased. A student Returning
Oﬃcer (the person who decides who’s
right, who’s wrong in a complaint situ-
ation) has to be completely detached
from the people involved in the elec-
tion, and has to be utterly unbiased.
Perceptions that this may not be the
case (even though it is…) have grown
as the people involved in the elections
have complained about the decisions
the Returning Oﬃcer has made to en-
sure the elections are fair to all con-
cerned and it’s taken the Union a while
to release results until all complaints
are satisﬁed.
The proposals are to take the politics
out of the elections before they start
– by appointing an external, discon-
nected person to oversee the process.
This person – with no contact to can-
didates prior to the election – will be
completely impartial, and will be the
ﬁnal authority to complain to: speed-
ing up the process of providing results
to the student body.
So there we are – a less-than-two-
thousand-words summary of eve-
rything that is going on. If you have
any questions – big or small – on the
changes, I urge you to ask me. I’m
around the Union from 08:30 ‘til 20:00
pretty much six days a week (some-
times working, sometimes in the
bar…). The full proposals are available
on the Union website. They are being
taken to Union Council on 30 Octo-
ber, which will next meet at 18:30 in
the Union Dining Hall on Level 1. All
full members are able and are welcome
to attend with full speaking rights.
Sir,
Is there some kind of competition be-
tween the Film section editors to sneak
in the most suggestive headlines? Keep
them coming... (See what I did there!)
Anonymous, via website
In response to: “Con man near campus takes student’s money” (12th Oc-
tober)
personaly i think if youre dumb enough to give someone your money you deserve
everything you get! and if ure “too timid to say no” then do 1 and grow a pair!!!
In response to: “London’s Embarassing Dad” (5th October)
So, essentially, you don’t ﬁnd Boris amusing or aﬀable (fair enough, I guess), but
more than that you’re annoyed that other people *do*?
Seriously, grow up. There’s not need to be so sensitive that the fact others are easily
entertained by the beloved Mayor’s sends you into spasms of rage. If you’re not
amused, just roll your eyes and ignore him.
There’s no way this can be some kind of permanent frustration for you, either. I
move in quite political circles and I only rarely hear mention of Boris’ latest esca-
pades. If, as you say, you’re no fan of Conservatism, and thus prefer to spend your
time with normal people, then I can only imagine your exposure to Boris-based
banter is even lower than my own.
Untwist your knickers, my good man. If someone mentioning once in a blue moon
that our Mayor made a lovable fool of himself lately is capable of inducing such
vitriolic RAGE as is displayed in this column, then I can only prescribe a whole
bottle of Chill-Pills.
Sir,
I’m totally loving the new Pie Shop
near the JCR. The only snag is that the
plastic cutlery is not currently rigid
enough to pierce the pie itself.
Anonymous, via website
Jula Humphries
hen I was born
– hopefully a joy-
ous occasion for
my family – my
father trotted oﬀ
to the post oﬃce to send a telegram to my
Babcia & Dziadek (that’s my grandfather
and grandmother) in Poland. This was
only the early nineties; I’m not as old as
the hills yet. I don’t really need to go into
the technological boom of the past two
decades, but just consider for a moment
what life is like now. For instance, I’ve just
opened an email from my Dziadek and
only yesterday I spoke to my grandpar-
ents via Skype. And they are both Face-
book users.
In fact we manage our long-distance-
relationship quite well. I’m not the only
one in this boat, many I know have par-
ents on their account and some have
grandparents too. It must vary from fam-
ily to family. Mind you, rumour even has
it that the golden oldies are the fastest
growing group of users on the social net-
work. This cannot be veriﬁed from data as
of this year but it was reported so in 2011.
So what’s the deal? Well, unless you’re a
perfect little angel, there are certain rules
that maybe should be followed if you’re
going to have your family on a social net-
working site. But this depends on what
kind of grandparents you’ve got. If they’re
the über strict type, it might not be wise
to connect via this medium at all.
Actually, I’ll scrap that and cut it down
to one rule.
The golden rule: set it so you have to
approve what’s posted on your timeline.
If you do this, you can ﬁgure out what’s
acceptable and what’s not on a post by
post basis. And to be perfectly honest,
social networking sites represent you as a
person, so you ought to be careful of how
you display yourself to others, regardless
of who you are friends with.
Beware what you share
... Continued from previous poage
What a beautiful
thong, dear!
W

