COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
22 FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
Are the Coalition reforms fair?
George Howard Luke Sheldon
YES NO
Head-to-head: Welfare
or those of you fortunate enough to
have read my last two forays into these
hallowed pages, you will perhaps be
aware that my articles have a certain
propensity (apparently) of aligning
themselves with the minority view: that, some
might claim, of the so-called “1 percent”. This
week, after a brief sabbatical from my literary
endeavors, I return once again – but this time
(perhaps surprisingly) on the side of the majority.
In a recent poll, just 19% of those questioned be-
lieved that beneﬁts were too low; compared with
62% who felt spending on welfare needed to be
reined in.
At the end of the 2010/11 tax year, the Govern-
ment had spent £202.6 billion on the welfare sys-
tem. Considering the total spending budget was
£701.7 billion, and the fact that only around £500
billion of tax revenue was collected in same peri-
od, the cost of welfare handouts and ensuing de-
bate is not a topic to be scoﬀed at lightly. It does
not take much mathematical acuity to notice that
these numbers don’t add up: the Treasury’s books
don’t tally, not by a long way. In fact, this deﬁcit
is being plugged by record levels of borrowing,
which in the current economic market has a gar-
gantuan cost. The interest on debt for this ﬁnan-
cial year was nearly £43 billion, and will continue
to rise until this imbalance is corrected. This is
not sustainable, and so by consequence, nor is the
welfare system. Reform is desperately needed.
The idea that anyone should receive something
for nothing deﬁes any sensible logic. Especially
here, where many of you freshers are paying sky-
high fees to garner the privilege of a university
education; accruing vast amounts of debt in the
hope that one day your future earning power will
be suﬃcient enough to pay it all oﬀ, this is a ridic-
ulous proposition. Why should anybody cruise
through life on the back of free money, courtesy
of the hard working members of this society?
One might ask how we found ourselves in this
mess in the ﬁrst place? Well, like many other
problems with the UK, this can be blamed on the
previous Labour governments. Firstly, the new
government of 1997 failed to reform the system
after not having the balls (pardon the expression)
to force the legislation through Parliament after a
few nutcase protesters chained themselves to the
railings of Downing Street. With hindsight, it is
obvious to see that, like many of these childish
protests (Occupy included), their removal should
have been ordered ‘tout suite’ by the authorities
and civilized order restored. There is no place for
louts like that in modern society (but more on
this another time). However, it was the Brown
administration’s failure to address the problem
(in a failed bid to gain support amongst the more
ignorant) that led to the costs of welfare rising
to unsustainable levels. Instead, in a move to lift
as many people as possible above the EU’s oﬃ-
cial deﬁnition of poverty, this government raised
beneﬁt payments by miniscule amounts to cre-
ate a few quotable statistics.
In terms of the recent Act, the primary pur-
pose of the legislation is an annual welfare cap
of £26,000. One does not have to muster great
intellectual capacity to realize that this is by far
enough – too much, even. Even living in Lon-
don it is possible to live on less than £20,000,
and that’s a very conservative estimate based
on the London Living Wage – a well-known
benchmark for an acceptable standard of life.
Of course, this isn’t a copious amount of money,
though it follows that if one is struggling to live
on this amount, then it may be prudent to stop
spending money on frivolities such as alcohol
and cigarettes (which are – contrary to some be-
liefs – not an essential item), cut back on other
extraneous costs such as Sky TV, and cease buy-
ing whatever other ‘bling’ the latest Argos cata-
logue is spewing forth into today’s homes. And
maybe, just maybe, get a job. It’s not as if it’s a
right to have all these trappings of ‘luxury’ life
funded by the hardworking taxpayer, who actu-
ally has to get oﬀ the sofa each morning to do
more than just get another beer out of the fridge.
At the recent budget, George Osborne pre-
dicted that, even taking into account the Welfare
Reform Act, the welfare budget would grow to
be one third of total government spending by
2015. For a country running at a considerable
deﬁcit, at a time when the world economy is in
its worst shape since the Great Depression, this
is a completely nonsensical position. Put simply,
the country cannot aﬀord it, and it is certainly
not a necessary expenditure. The last 30 years
has seen the United Kingdom become a nation
too dependent on the State, mostly due to the
vote grabbing, short-term policies of successive
Labour governments. Now ﬁnally, as the people
awaken to realise the catastrophic situation they
ﬁnd the country in, we need to wean the para-
sitic few oﬀ this unnecessary lifeline. Welfare
reform could not come too soon, nor can it go
too far.
he current and proposed welfare re-
forms are a masterclass in post-Blair
spin. Not only is the media awash
with willingly repeated misinforma-
tion from the government but even
the name, “reform”
, attempts to re-brand what
are actually violent attacks on the poorest in our
society. ‘Welfare reform’ suggests improvement,
not the complete dismantling of support and the
continued transition of a system – meant by name
to be for care – into one whose sole purpose is
punishment.
Whilst people wait in dreaded apprehension of
changes coming in April to housing beneﬁt and
council tax, which will drive them deeper into
poverty and out of their homes, this government
has not even gone through the etiquette of prima-
ry legislation to already force through other major
changes to our welfare system. No thanks to La-
bour who put the starting blocks in place for them.
These cruel changes have been seen in the light-
ning roll-out of “workfare”
, sanctions and Atos as-
sessments for those claiming to be unﬁt for work.
One workfare scheme saw nearly 50% of the
people referred on to it drop oﬀ the welfare rolls
in the run-up to starting the forced, unpaid work.
The majority will now have to survive on nothing.
The government’s response to this data was merely
to expand the scheme as they said it showed it was
working. And if they cannot indirectly force you
oﬀ the beneﬁt you are entitled to when in need,
they will kick you oﬀ by just taking your money
away using sanctions. These have been shown in
a Guardian investigation to be targeted at those
with learning disabilities and mental illness as Job
Centre staﬀ were forced to meet government im-
posed targets. The use of arbitrary targets to deny
people vital beneﬁts has also been found to be the
centre of the humiliating assessments carried out
by Atos on people’s ability to work – leaving half
of all people deemed ﬁt for work with no beneﬁt
at all.
This willingness to whip away the meagre sup-
port demonstrates either absurd naivety, or pure
cruelty from those in power. From statements it
is assumed that either people are working in an
apparently booming black market (an explanation
that fraud ﬁgures seem to contradict) or the lack
of money causes a job to appear from no where
in this dead economy. These fairytale endings to
a punitive welfare system are a signal of how de-
tached from modern life politicians are. The real-
ity is that of a 30 year old man I met who had to
go foraging for food or the thousands ﬂooding
to food banks each week as they have literally no
other way to survive.
Although David Cameron championed the dis-
turbing growth of food banks this takes away the
vaguely reliable support of the welfare state and
replaces it with ad hoc and uncoordinated char-
ity. Not only is charity accompanied with a giant
dollop of judgment and moralising that Orwell
was only too aware of (though it’s not like this
is absent from the job centre either) but also it
is only there at the will of the providers and not
for those in need. Too often food banks have bare
shelves as donations are too small and the need
too great. Nearly all limit people to only 3 claims,
which with the maximum sanctions going up to
3 years will barely get people through a month of
their 36 months of punishment. The replacement
of state support by charities has had tragic conse-
quences in the death of an immigrant child and
mother which has been brought to light by West-
minster council. Not provided with the welfare
to survive they were left to an inadequate char-
ity system that ended with the child starving. As
Lambeth council prepare to provide direct fund-
ing to local food banks as they simultaneously cut
council tax beneﬁt the case of the asylum seekers
in Westminster paint a bleak picture of the future
of welfare under these “reforms”
.
As support at the bottom is ripped away in the
name of “budgetary responsibility” private com-
panies are happily lapping up this welfare cash.
Companies such as Argos are replacing staﬀ with
job seekers, paid for out of the beneﬁts budget.
The work programme, a monumental failure at
getting people into work that has managed to
miss even the employment targets that were ex-
pected if no money was spent at all, is sending £5
billion the way of companies – many of whom
have had fraud allegations against them as they
seek to steal more money. Atos is also making a
round £100 million from denying disabled peo-
ple vital funds whilst McDonald’s slyly pocketed
£10 million from an employment scheme without
creating a single job. And as Cameron announces
£10 billion pounds of fresh welfare cuts at the
party conference last week he’s giving the ﬁnal
go ahead for £2 billion pounds to be splashed
on IT companies putting together the doomed
universal credit. These handouts are not a sign of
austerity, but as social insecurity soars from these
“reforms” we will be left with only a corporate
welfare system.
T
F
Thename
“reform”attempts
tore-brand
violentattackson
thepoorest
“”
Welfare reform
could not come
too soon, nor
could it go too
far
”
and
nd
attackson
attackson
rest
est
“
Thename
Thenam
“reform”at
“reform”at
t b d
t b

