BOOKS
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
Gentlemen Bastards?
Maciej Matuszewski talks about Scott Lynch’s debut series
aving been turned
on to large scale
heroic sword and
sorcery fantasy by
Patrick Rothfuss’ ex-
cellent and much acclaimed Kingkiller
Chronicles I was very eager to read
Scott Lynch’s similarly highly praised
Gentleman Bastard series (currently
consisting of The Lies of Locke Lamora
and Red Seas Under Red Skies). Set
in a fantasy world clearly inspired by
renaissance Italy, the books follow the
Gentlemen Bastards, a gang of thieves
and conﬁdence tricksters led by the
charismatic Locke Lamora.
The Lies of Locke Lamora certainly
did meet my expectations. Very well
written for a debut novel, it had in-
teresting and likeable characters and
a fascinating setting in the city of
Camorr, a Venice-like metropolis with
scattered remnants of ancient build-
ings constructed of indestructible
glass by a mysterious, long gone civili-
zation. It dealt with complex and mor-
ally ambiguous themes of revenge.
The plot was interesting and well de-
veloped, with several unexpected de-
velopments. While not reaching the
depth and quality of Rothfuss’ work it
was still a very good book.
Red Seas Under Red Skies was more
disappointing. While still having sev-
eral good moments – Lamora’s heists
are particularly interesting – the novel
has a fatal ﬂaw with in its characters.
While in the ﬁrst book our heroes re-
sorted to some pretty unsavoury tac-
tics to survive and get back at the men
who killed some their friends here they
continue behaving in the same way for
seemingly no reason. Looking at the
situation objectively they are clearly
the villains of the story – their tactics
are no better than that of their main
opponent and their goals are far less
noble. There would be nothing wrong
with this if Lynch didn’t persist in por-
traying Lamora and his accomplices as
the good guys. Instead of what could
have been a thoughtful exploration of
the consequences of the mistakes of
the main characters the way the story
is framed constantly presents them as
the for the most part as innocent vic-
tims of circumstance.
Despite this large annoyance, the
book remains very readable – I ﬁn-
ished it oﬀ in a single weekend. I’ll cer-
tainly be buying the next novel when it
comes out – I hope that it will turn out
that the second novel is just a small
blip in what is a very promising series.
H

