ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
26
Maurizio Cattelan @ The Whitechapel Gallery – Love taxidermy and dark hu-
mour? We have just the thing for you. Cattelan is famed for using surreal, witty
stunts to draw out his themes of power, dogma and death. Free, 17 October - 2
December 2012.
Art Macabre @ Cass Art Islington – For a creative artistic distraction this Hallow-
een try some death themed life drawing. These nights are great fun even if they are
no longer held in the backroom of a pub. £8, 30 October 2012.
Turner Prize 2012 @ Tate Britian – Its here again! If Freize has not left you sick to
your teeth of contempory art, there is only one place to get your fix. The four
shortlisted artists are vying for a £25 prize to be anounced in December. Now - 6
January 2013.
Out of Focus @ Saatchi Gallery – Saatchi turns his laser vision on contemporary
photography. This is a not to be missed snapshop of inovative photography now.
Now - 4 November 2012.
The White House Murder Case @ The Orange Tree Theatre – A play written in the
70’s about a USA election taking place 40 years later i.e. now. Look out for a full
review in next weeks edition of Felix. Now - 10 November 2012.
A squirrel looses his nut
Classically, bronze is thought of as the
material of antiquity. The discovery
of the endurable properties of such
copper alloys certainly allowed our
ancestors to make more robust tools
and weapons than their stone-age pre-
decessors. Its use as an artistic medi-
um, however, from the ancient world
to the modern day, cannot be over-
looked. The impressive exhibition of
Bronze, currently running at the Royal
Academy, eulogises the versatility and
beauty of this abiding material, with
a collection of artworks and artefacts
spanning over 5,000 years of history.
As the arduous process of casting
was perfected by the Greeks, it is only
just that the exhibit opens with the
Dancing Satyr. Despite displaying the
Ancient Greeks’ obsession with the
muscle architecture of the male form,
this stunning statue is far from the
generic images of Grecian Gods and
Heroes, wrestling with foul beasts,
which we are so used to. Instead it
depicts a satyr vigorously throwing
himself into a dance. At ﬁrst it may
appear to be a human ﬁgure, howev-
er, while encircling and studying the
form, his satyr features become visi-
ble; pointed ears, wild expression and
the hole from which his tail would
have once protruded. The metallic
green colouring, due to a high copper
content in the bronze, gives the ﬁgure
an earthly glow and his fragmented
limbs add to the mysterious quality
of the piece. I ﬁnd it very ﬁtting that
he was discovered by ﬁshermen oﬀ
the coast of Sicily. Researchers have
dated this statue to the Mid-Late 4th
Century BCE and believe that he was
originally one member of a whole
throng of dancing satyrs. As this soli-
tary ﬁgure has been tantalisingly po-
sitioned in the centre of an otherwise
empty room, the viewer is provided
with the physical space to imagine
the rest of his party, dancing around
in the twilight.
Dexterously, this vast collection has
been organised thematically, rather
than periodically, making it an ab-
solute feast for the eyes. Where else
would you see a medieval Sanctuary
Ring door knocker from Durham
Cathedral alongside a bronze Basket-
ball by Jeﬀ Koons? Or how about ex-
quisitely decorated vessels from the
Shang dynasty next to Jasper Johns’
1960 Painted Bronze (Ale Cans)? The
scope the curators have given for the
comparison of these objects allows us
to gain an appreciation for the adapt-
ability and the fathomless impor-
tance of bronze throughout the ages.
The endurance, hue and ﬁnish of
bronze have proved it to be an ideal
material for creating giant, impos-
ing statues of Gods and Heroes. I feel
myself cower beneath the colossal ﬁg-
ure of Perseus, as he stands over the
writhing body of Medusa and holds
aloft her severed head. This sculpture
is the 1844 cast of Benvenuto Cellini’s
masterpiece from the 1550s, ordered
by the Second Duke of Sutherland,
representing within the collection
the long-established obsession that
the British have with the Florentine
High Renaissance.
Bronze animals are also profoundly
delineated in this exhibition, most
notably by the intimidating Etrus-
can beast, the Chimaera of Arezzo.
I am overwhelmed by the sheer skill
it would have required to create such
a ridiculous looking creature; a ﬁre-
breathing lion, with an extra goat
head on its back and a snake for a tail.
Other fabulous animals on display in-
clude The Porcellino, a life-sized boar
by Pietro Tacca’s, Louise Bourgeois’s
1996 Spider IV and Picasso’s car-
faced Baboon and Young. Juxtaposed
against these comparatively modern
pieces, is the exquisite Danish Nordic
Bronze Age statue the Trundholm
Chariot of the Sun. According to
the Norsemen, everyday Sól, the sun
goddess, with her horses Arvak and
Alsvid, carried the sun across the sky
on a chariot. It is, therefore, highly
possible that this sculpture once had
a rider. It is very sophisticated, espe-
cially for such an early piece (dated
to 14th Century BCE) and the em-
bossed gold leaf on the sun is simply
gorgeous. This, along with Alfred
Gilbert’s St. Elizabeth of Hungary;
depicted with a forlorn, ivory face
amongst cascades of bronze roses
and ﬁnery, are my two favourite ob-
jects within this extensive collection.
They demonstrate how bronze can
be manipulated into ﬁner and more
delicate objects, rather than just gi-
ant, majestic characters of grandeur.
Bronze will run at the Royal Acade-
my until 6th December. It is deﬁnitely
worth visiting; many of the artifacts
on display have never before been
exhibited in England, and possibly
never will be again.
Bronze at the RA, until 9 December.
Tickets from £9 for students.
Jemma Pilcher
Gold for Bronze
The Royal Academy succeeds with an exhibi-
tion on bronze sculpture throughout history
Hard body; bad skin
The spirit of Egypt is subtly evoked in the ENO production of Handel’s longest
opera, Julius Caesar. It tells the story of the conquering Caesar and the passions
exposed and aroused by his arrival. Grief, anguish, desire, cruelty and joy are all
distinctly explored by the music. Each aria develops one particular emotion, the
turmoil in a character taken to its limit. At the end of each of these, one feels as
though one had been taken by the hand and led to empathise with this emotion.
I had never before seen a Handel opera; the music was completely unknown to
me, as was the progression of the drama. Being this unknowledgeable is of course,
both a blessing and a curse. I can only write about such, rather useless and silly,
things as the feeling of elatement that took hold of me for the duration of the mu-
sic. I can say something perhaps, on the richness of the voices of the three coun-
tertenors (these roles were originally sung by Castratti) or that I loved the way the
end of each aria was disguised by a couple of ‘false endings’.Clearly, I cannot write
with any amount of confidence on the musical success of the production.
However, unprejudiced and unbiased with respect to the production, I thought
it to be a great success. I found the set design to have a great deal of elegance, giv-
ing the audience member a whiff of Egypt whilst allowing them to perhaps see the
individual emotions of the arias as a separate entity to the general drama. Not that
the production was low on drama. The highly stylised violence – think buckets of
blood poured over white shirts in death scenes – went very well with the simplic-
ity with which the plot progressed. Finally, there was the dancing, which has been
criticised for drawing attention away from the singers. But the choreography,
whilst nothing ground breaking, was simple and musical. The dancers and their
shadows on the walls were reminiscent of Egyptian gods, a world at a distance
from the singers, but aiding them in their adventures.
There are a few performances left, and since the theatre was relatively empty, it
will be very easy to get cheap tickets.
In brief: Julius Caesar at ENO
Eva Rosenthal Arts Editor
Writer

