Flicks on bricks
An evening of cutting edge video art
Last week from October 11th to 14th,
the Bargehouse of Oxo Tower Wharf
hosted the annual Moving Image fair,
London’s only fair solely dedicated
to moving image and contemporary
video art. This meant four ﬂoors cel-
ebrating the video installations, pro-
jections and other forms of moving
pictures of 35 artists from 15 diﬀer-
ent countries. With the easy access to
digital technologies, video art is a still
oﬀbeat yet increasingly popular form
of art – which should not be confused
with experimental ﬁlm!
One of the main events held as part
of the Moving Image fair was the sec-
ond session of Bring Your Own Beam-
er (BYOB), a presentation held on the
opening night and organized by Clare
Holden and João Laia. For this event,
a mix of over 39 pieces was displayed
in the attic of the Bargehouse; an op-
portunity opened to any interested
video artists ready to bring their own
materials, collaborate to set up an im-
promptu display and showcase their
moving image performance for a free
one-night exhibition.
Being appreciative yet not tremen-
dously zealous for contemporary art,
my expectations were to ﬁnd a pell-
mell of lights and sounds – even just a
cacophony – because of the spontane-
ous way artists have to set up for the
event. Yet I was surprised to ﬁnd that
everything ran quite eﬀortlessly well
together, as if it had been a long time
planned. But in fact, artists had to
turn up just a few hours ahead of the
event, to set up anywhere in space of
the attic, using any of its walls, ﬂoors,
or ceiling. While there was a lot going
on, it was far from being overwhelm-
ing; even feeling somehow more natu-
ral than our usual gallery spaces where
hushes and stillness are almost de fac-
to characteristics.
Growing from last year’s event,
which brought together 8 artists, the
presentation boasted a huge variety of
pieces. That is one of the main points
of interest in video art: the diversity
of end results that can be delivered
by playing with the several dimen-
sions movement give to static 2-D
images. While some installations fo-
cus on content or storyline, others
centre on the delivery methods and
the tricks video art is able to play on
the audience. Some pieces were hu-
moristic and veered towards a farci-
cal approach: Charli Clark’s Moles
Underground depicting a trio dressed
up as moles exploring London’s un-
dergound was most entertaining yet
clearly highlighted the unnatural en-
vironment of the Tube. Other pieces
Emilie Beauchamp
ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
were purely contemplative, such as
Olga Koroleva’s purist play with milk
bottles and Carole Villain’s aesthetic
Standing Pythia.
There is no particular theme to
BYOB, except one of giving the chance
to artists to expose their work. The
BYOB concept ﬁrst emerged in New
York in 2010 but has by now spread
to more than 45 cities in the world
to gather momentum in video artist
communities. In fact I’ve learned that
contemporary video art often ﬁnds
it logistically and commercially hard
to present pieces – mostly because
of the space requirements. Unable to
pigeon-hole video art because of the
range of topics and styles it includes,
the objective of the movement doesn’t
ﬁt with society’s traditional focus on
purely contemplative art or highly
informative expositions. It’s a shame,
because video art might just be the
best way to express, communicate and
provoke in the fast-paced and over-
loaded 21st century. For those who
missed last week’s event, take note that
the Moving Image fair will be coming
back next year around this time. In the
meantime, you can track on Film Lon-
don Artists’ Moving Image Network
(www.ﬂamin.ﬁlmlondon.org.uk) or
LUX’s (www.lux.org.uk) websites for
the latest video art exhibitions and
events around in London.
The current exhibition at the Royal
Festival Hall at the Southbank Centre
consists of paintings, poetry, sculp-
tures, textiles, and videos by oﬀend-
ers, secure patients, and detainees.
The fact that this is the premise for
the exhibition makes it an interesting
one, as it inevitably leads to a strong
focus on the psyche behind the art-
work coming from an individual re-
moved from the mainstream of so-
ciety and how they decide to express
this distance. You can’t help but have
expectations before arriving, and it
is worth going to see whether or not
they are met.
What was surprising was how
skilled many of the artists were. It
came as a surprise because not only
were all pieces done by amateurs, but
the stereotypical preoccupations of
an oﬀender can sometimes negate
this expectation.
Convicts in the frame: from gaol to gallery
Lily Le Most of the artwork is not abstract,
meaning it is easier to interpret the
intentions behind it.
Indeed, many of the pieces centre
on the frustrations of being detained
and the longing for freedom; being
ostracised by society and removed
from daily pleasures. One striking
painting depicted the public ha-
ranguing of an oﬀender by personi-
ﬁed foxes, wolves, and other beasts
in a dark and dirty land. Its pop sur-
realism style takes the serious edge
oﬀ the piece and makes it to be more
oﬀhand.
Bizarrely, there are also many
paintings of Bob Marley by several
diﬀerent artists.
Videos ranging from oﬀenders
working out in a prison gym and a
cartoon about Scotland with poetic
narration are also part of the exhibi-
tion. Audio works are present, such
as spoken-word poems and a choir-
chimed Stand By Me.
An insight into the display is given
by a video where Sarah Lucas (the
curator) explains how she enjoys the
raw nature of many of the pieces. She
states that the toilet bowls used as
painting stands were not brought in
especially for the free exhibition, al-
though, ironically, they do pair well.
Lucas also explains that she uses con-
crete blocks to display the sculptures,
an eﬀect which many probably would
not notice or appreciate had atten-
tion not been drawn to them.
She also comments on a painting
of Queen Liz in aviator sunglasses,
which is quite rightly amusing.
The pieces were entered into the
Koestler Awards, for which winners
won small cash prizes. Artists with
a substantial body of work receive
a year’s mentoring from a Koestler
mentor. These projects are a way of
allowing oﬀenders to focus on educa-
tion and can be therapeutic for pa-
tients in psychiatric hospitals.
Free at Southbank Centre, until 25 No-
vember. Entrance is free.
Tweezer shortage af-
fects Wayne Rooney

