ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
28
Frieze Art Fair 10
The best that can be said about most of the contents at Frieze is that is in some
way decorative but there was much this did not possess even this lowly merit.
Ross Knight’s Form of Togetherness (right) is the worst form of meaningless,
ugly rubbish. The sculpture, made from patinated steel, iron, foam, twine, silicon
and a massage tool stands as a testament the all that is bloated, ignorant and
obfuscated in contemporary art.
I understand the place for conceptual art, taking seeming innocuous objects
and placing them together in some way that they acquire meaning. What I do
not understand is deliberately obscure, pretentious collections of literal crap.
The problem with much of the work that galleries had chosen to bring to the
ﬁar was intended to be either pleasantly decorative or ﬁt in with the zeitgeist. In
other words, because everyone else was jumping on the bandwagon of a certain
artist of approach, they were going to as well, regardless of actual merit. There
was very little that showed and bravery of vision. Anything that was is lost in a
sea of blandness.
This is hardly a surprise. Art is big business and London is currently vying
with New York to be the art capital of the world. Frieze is the battleﬁeld and art
is the victim.
I was nonplussed by a yellow cube-
with a barbecue on top and barbecue
utensils hanging from the sides (see
left). Completely, utterly, confused. I
suppose that it is completely valid for
a work of art to produce confusion as
an emotion in the unsuspecting view-
er. Nevertheless, combined with the
cynicism I was already experiencing
after a couple of hours of wandering
around what must surely be one of the
most clinical, soulless markets in the
world, confusion led to a mere dis-
taste. What was I looking at? Yellow
is, coincidentally, one of my favourite
colours. The cube was done in quite
a warm, pleasant yellow, reminiscent
of sunlight through some trippy sun-
glasses of mine. Was it representative
of sunlight? Of blazing coals? Of the
golden luck that those people able
to own a barbecue experience? This
train of thought took me to suburbia,
America and the dads who love to
grill surf n’ turf on Sunday evenings.
Was the piece a representation of the
banality, the platitudes, of this style of
life? Of it slowly but surely turn-
ing into embers? Perhaps. But
I’m grasping at loose ends
here. In the end, it was
just a barbecue mount-
ed on yellow block.
We hated...
Frieze Art Fair, for those of you who have missed the press coverage, is big. It at-
tracts over 60,000 visitors a year and generates enough acres of print to cover the
enormous canopy in Regents Park housing the whole circus. Tickets sell out well in
advance of the fair, which only lasts a few days. Every year the show kicks off hack-
neyed argument about the value of contemporary art and profiteering in the art
world in general. This is the tenth London fair and nothing has changed.
Just so you get an idea of scale, 175 galleries attend the fair, with some big names
that you will recognise, like White Cube, next to smaller galleries from across the
globe. This year for the first time there were actually two fairs, with a second one
dedicated to selling older artwork. While sales figure have not been released for six
years, the last published value was £26 million. This is likely to be a huge underes-
timate of the revenue that will be generated in the coming weeks. Guesses for the
total value of the art have been quoted at one and a half billion.
There are a few really big names; the Gagosian Gallery boasted artworks from
Damian Hirst, Andy Warhol, Glen Brown, Jeff Koons. Most of the work however
is from smaller galleries with artists you probably will not have heard of. The rich
and famous weave their way through the crowds, their advisors struggling to stay
in their way. Astronomical quantities of money are talked abut as though they were
small change.
Frieze is a temple to commercial art. It is very difficult to block out the distractions
and focus on the perennial questions. What on earth are you looking at? Is it really
worth that much and you about to walk past something that will be hanging on the
walls of the Tate and 30 years time.
Eva Rosenthal & Meredith Thomas pontificate on Frieze
WTF is Frieze?
Hipsters deported in
sea container

