ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
So, being a complete and utter plebeian when it comes to art, I was talked
into going along to the Frieze Art Fair in order to critique the cutting edge of
modern art. Oﬀ to Regents Park I trouped, accompanied by my VIP guide.
On arrival, I essentially became lost in a world of hipsters, art snobs and people
with too much money and too little to do, all of them wandering around, drawing
the meaning of life out of a colourful square or a picture of a penis. One of my per-
sonal favourites was a set of eight photographs of a man casually smearing his willy
in mustard although, I must admit I wasn’t quite able to grasp what the piece was
trying to tell me.
In amongst all the senseless colours and random shapes, some beautiful things
were to be seen and these did make the trip worth its while. In general though, I
have to say that almost the entire show flew over my head with one pretentious
squeal informing me that the world of modern art was still outstripping my mental
capacity.
I conclude thus, that had I been high, drunk, or on mushrooms, Frieze could po-
tentially have been a life changing experience. My sober slob self however, slump-
ing around, was fundamentally intrigued. It didn’t quite understand whether it was
intrigued because of a random stunning piece or because it was trying to work out
the aesthetic appeal of a stack of tyres.
This was OK... View from an art virgin
by Anthony Montpal
There were rays of light and plenty of good art scattered around amongst the
dross. Yasumasa Morimura’s Self Portrait as Marcel Duchamp is great, clever
and concise. Duchamp was famous for misappropriating other people’s work.
This is exactly what Mormimura has made a career doing. She creates self por-
traits referencing a series of artists and artworks from history, some of which
can be seen in the background of this image. Even the title is misleading as she
takes the part of Duchap’s female companion in this image. Like good art the
piece wraps up layers of meaning and questioning whilst retaining a striking and
unique aesthetic.
Other personal favourites were Kevin Crosgrave’s beautiful paintings of work-
shops and Richard Patterson’s piece Male Nude. If you had some spare cash you
also had the opportunity to take home a piece of Exhibition Road, with two small
sculptures on sale from Tony Cragg.
Frieze Masters
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk.
In general, I was in a cynical mood for Frieze. You have to be willing to submerge
yourself in a quagmire of emotions; you have to want to let yourself go, which can
be impossibe after attending an emotionally draining lecture on fluid flow. There
are few emotions left over for the art. So, I was unable to choose a favourite piece.
My favourite moment however, took place as I was queueing for the cloakroom. A
tall and skinny blonde woman, wearing long black gloves studded in gold, became
one of the best examples of bitchiness posing as politeness that I have ever wit-
nessed. Being wondrously bitchy didn’t help her appreciation for the cloakroom
queue cloakroom and she took her ire out on a girl working at the Fair. Surpris-
ingly, for someone who had probably just spent a literal fortune at various galler-
ies, she didn’t get her way.
There was a sober elegance in the disposition of space at Frieze Masters and
many exquisite things on display. However, the art suﬀered from being sunk in
the same market atmosphere that was present at Frieze itself. It was vaguely de-
pressing to wander around the various galleries and ﬁnd oneself unable to ignore
the bored gallerists on their iPads. Nonetheless, there was a lot in the marquee
that would have transcended the aura of money for even the most cynical of visi-
tors. My favourite things, probably because they came as something of a surprise
were two pieces by American conceptual and minimalist artist Sol Le Witt. He is
perhaps most famous for his wall drawings, but at the Lisson Gallery, it was pos-
sible to see a sculpture of his; stacked white cubes forming a staircase – perhaps
to a minimalist heaven? The second of his pieces, diagonal lines in four direc-
tions (on paper) was not only incredibly aesthetically pleasing, but also brought
to an image of clarity and calmness after the madness of the fair.

