FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
The best films from the 1950s
John Park Film Editor
10. The Killing (1956)
One of Stanley Kubrick’s less-known
but by no means inferior works, this
is exactly how you should do a short,
snappy, smart heist movie. An in-
genious conning scheme, a group of
shady characters, and a whole load
of complications that messes up the
protagonist’s carefully planned ex-
ecution. It’s certainly compact, full of
exhilarating twists, and unexpected
outcomes that ﬁt so perfectly with the
build-up; an underrated, under-rec-
ognised classic from a director whose
diversity in his work amazes and in-
spires even to this day.
9. Rashomon (1950)
When it comes to law and the justice
system, the great Patty Hewes once
said “trust no-one.” And this solid,
tightly scripted and structured of-
fering from Japan’s internationally
acclaimed ﬁlm director, Akira Kuro-
sawa, shows exactly that. People see
things, observe and interpret events
with their own eyes, in their own
views, and when it suits them, they
can downright lie, even the ones we
never expected. It’s foreign, black-
and-white (two big turn-oﬀ factors
for some people) but it’s an endlessly
fascinating quest for the truth.
Recently, the British Film Institute
(BFI) released the results of their
celebrated poll, “THE GREATEST
FILMS OF ALL TIME”, in which they
surveyed ﬁlm critics and directors to
list their ten favourite ﬁlms. Now the
Felix Film team, as much as we’d love
to, doesn’t have that kind of time or
resources. And so we decided to split
the ﬁlms up according to the decades
in which they were released. So every
week, we will present you with our
top ﬁlms of each decade.
8. Rear Window (1954)
You can’t talk about thriller without
the name Alfred Hitchcock. The BFI
ran a tribute programme aptly named
“The Genius of Hitchcock: Master of
Suspense” and the mentioned ﬁlm is
a ﬁne example as to why he is consid-
ered to be an extraordinary ﬁlmmak-
er. A wheelchair-bound man (James
Stewart), whilst observing his neigh-
bours with his binoculars, suspects
he’s witnessing criminal activities, a
suspicion that lands him in a lot of
trouble. Grace Kelly, at her glamor-
ous, luminous best, also stars in his
stylish ride.
7. 12 Angry Men (1957)
What could have been a potentially
monotonous courtroom drama turns
into a tense, incredibly detailed and
layered ﬁlm that uncovers hidden
pieces of evidence that make up the
case twelve jurors are deliberating.
We know very little to begin with,
and assume the defendant is guilty.
But one man (Henry Fonda) punches
holes in the prosecution’s case, slow-
ly but surely winning over the stub-
born group of men more interested
in getting out of their claustrophobic
setting (expertly mounted by Sidney
Lumet) than serving justice.
6. Singin’ in the Rain (1952)
The ﬁrst musical to enter our “best
of” lists and a worthy one at that, as
whenever it rains, we all ﬁnd our-
selves secretly humming to the titu-
lar song, with a dance sequence that
remains as famous as the song itself.
A deﬁnitive crowd-pleaser and one
that screams happiness and joy in
all forms without ever overdoing it,
with songs and dance-numbers to
match the colourful liveliness, it not
only tells a love story, but also looks
at the ﬁlm industry going through an
important transition, from silent to
colour and sound.
5. Some Like It Hot(1959)
It’s a delightfully odd, eccentric, but
most importantly, timelessly hysterical
screwball comedy that never shows its
age in its head-spinning dialogue and
cleverly devised comedic chaos. As two
musicians (the two perfectly matched
Jack Lemmon, Tony Curtis) go on the
run for witnessing a deadly mob hit,
they decide it would be best to dis-
guise themselves in drag, entering an
all-female band. There, they both natu-
rally fall for the ditzy, blonde lead singer
Sugar (Marilyn Monroe). Nobody’s per-
fect? Well, this ﬁlm is pretty darn close
to perfection.
4. On the Waterfront (1954)
Everyone tries, and fails, to recreate
the speech made by Marlon Brando
in one of the most iconic roles of his
career. Yes, the “I coulda been a con-
tender” scene is so famous that Bran-
do’s performance here is considered
one of the most remarkable acting
achievements anyone has ever put
on screen. The story of dockworker
Terry Malloy’s struggle against cor-
ruption and moral obscurity makes
for a deeply touching and fascinat-
ing watch, with Eva Marie Saint, in
her ﬁlm debut, as sweet, likable love
interest.
3. Sunset Boulevard (1950)
Sitting alone in her worn-down man-
sion is Norma Desmond, played by
the ﬁery Gloria Swanson ﬁring oﬀ
icy one-liners. She is a silent movie
star who has faded away into obscu-
rity ever since the “talkies” started
making more money. Enter Joe Gillis
(William Holden), an aspiring Holly-
wood writer who hasn’t quite cracked
the industry yet. Dreaming of glitter-
ing careers, the two decide to work
together, although inevitably not eve-
rything can go that smoothly. Tragic,
disturbing, funny, and unforgettable,
this is Billy Wilder at his best.
2. All About Eve (1950)
Fasten your seatbelts. It’s going to
be a bumpy night. The ultimate cat/
bitch-ﬁght and showdown between
two headstrong women take place in
Joseph L. Mankiewicz’s Oscar win-
ning ﬁlm set in the cutthroat, ruth-
less world of stage actors, directors,
writers and whatever signiﬁcant oth-
ers they may have and the conﬂicts
that come along. Hoarse-voiced,
wide-eyed Bette Davis is superb as
the ageing, insecure star threatened
by the sneaky, snarky Anne Baxter,
slowly working her way up the ladder
with her innocent yet deadly smirk.
1.AStreetcarNamedDesire(1951)
“Stella!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Hey Stella!!!!!!!!!!!!” is a
line of dialogue so simple yet power-
ful and perfectly timed and delivered
(…by the great Marlon Brando, who
else?) that its resonance in the dra-
matic ﬁnale is without a doubt one
of the most memorable parting shots
ever. Paired with the exceptionally
talented and seductive Vivien Leigh,
the two give master class perfor-
mances, marking a true high in their
careers. Elia Kazan’s toned down
script, to ﬁt the industry codes back
then, may frustrate some, but its en-
ergy is still very much felt.

