FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
33
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
Celebrate your Halloween with these
special spooky screenings
Frightnight All Nighter 2012:
Frightfest – which claims to be ‘the UK’s biggest, best and most beloved horror fantasy festival’ – is bringing its hugely
popular Halloween event to the Vue West End (Leicester Square) for Frightfest 2012. Six international horror films played
back to back over an intense twelve-hour period on the night of Saturday 27 October mean you’ll be in for a thrilling
evening of 765 minutes of new and popular horror films, including a surprise world premiere film. Book tickets now to avoid
disappointment at www.myvue.com.
Chills in the Chapel 2012:
Back for another year of Halloween Fun, ‘Chills in the Chapel’ returns to Union Chapel for night of terrifying horror. Prepare
yourself for a shocking night, with late night showings and fancy dress celebrations galore. In collaboration with Flying
Fleas Productions, ‘Chills in the Chapel’ will be showing the spine-chilling vintage horror movie, Young Frankenstein in the
gothic chapel itself, which with its haunted corridors, secret passageways and hidden vaults, is the perfect place to be on
a Halloween night in London. Also including live performances, music and entertainment throughout the night, ‘Chills in
the Chapel’ at Union Chapel will take place on Saturday 27 October 2012 at 7pm till late, and tickets for the event will cost
£10.00.
Sing-along Rocky Horror Picture Show:
This is your chance to get dressed up for Halloween and head to the ‘Singalonga Rocky Horror Picture Show’ evening.
Taking place at the Prince Charles Cinema this year, the screening promises plenty of interactive fun for fans of the cult
hit. Join in with the best known hits from Tim Curry as Dr Frank-N-Furter, along with Susan Sarandan and Meat Loaf in
the tongue-in-cheek ‘70s musical smash hit.. The Singalonga Rocky Horror Picture Show London screening for Halloween
starts 8.30pm, Friday 26 October –Tuesday 30 October 2012, and tickets cost £14.50.
Halloween Screening and Afterparty at Club de Fromange:
Who you gonna call? Ghostbusters! Starring Bill Murray and Sigourney Weaver, Ghostbusters has been a much-loved classic
since its release in 1984. The hilarious film is this year’s (not very scary) fabulous choice for the Halloween Screening at
Club de Fromage and is a great way to kick off the fancy dress Halloween extravaganza that will be going on for the rest of
the night. Movies and music won’t be all you can expect at the Halloween Screening at Club de Fromage, as the bar will be
serving Halloween cocktails and fun activities and games will be held during the evening, such as apple bobbing and other
classics. Screening at Club de Fromage takes place on Saturday 27 October 2012 from 7pm. Tickets cost £15.00 for the whole
evening or £5.00 for just the film.
Lucy Wiles Film Editor
Grave Encounters 2 - OUT NOW:
Grave Encounters was a found-footage
horror phenomenon that many people
believed was just a movie. But in Grave
Encounters 2, film student Alex Wright
is out to prove the disbelievers wrong.
Alex is as obsessed with the first film as
the 20 million people who viewed its
viral trailer on YouTube. While he and his
friends research the events and visit the
real psychiatric hospital depicted in the
original film, they find themselves face-
to-face with unspeakable evil – and have
hope that their knowledge of the original
film will help them survive the sequel.
New Halloween Releases of 2012
Lucy Wiles Film Editor Paranormal Activity 4 - 19/10/12:
Set in 2011, five years since the goings-on of
Paranormal Activity, this new twisted tale
follows the life of teenager Alice and her
family–anicesuburbanbunchwhohappen
tobethenewneighboursofareturningKatie
(who, if you’ll recall, killed her boyfriend
Micah, sister Kristi, and her brother-in-law
Daniel in the first film) and her kidnapped
baby Hunter (now named Robbie for some
weird reason). Funnily enough, the same
weirdstuffthathappenedinthefirst,second
andthirdfilmskicksoffalloveragain.
Frankenweenie - OUT NOW:
A stop-motion, animated film, Franken-
weenie was filmed in black and white
and rendered in 3D, which enhances the
old-fashioned style to a whole new ex-
perience. From the never-ending genius
of Tim Burton comes Frankenweenie, a
heartwarming tale about a boy and his
dog (that doesn’t star Johnny Depp).
After unexpectedly losing his beloved
dog Sparky, young Victor Frankenstein
uses the power of science to bring back
his best canine friend – albeit with a few
minor adjustments. Although Victor at-
tempts to conceal his dodgy doggy, the
new Sparky escapes the confines of his
attic, and the entire town learns about
this new way of creating life – and de-
cided that it was potentially monstrous.
Sinister - OUT NOW:
Struggling true-crime novelist Ellison
stumbles into a supernatural mystery
thatthreatensthelivesofhisentirefamily
in this nightmarish horror story. Seeking
inspiration for his latest book, Ellison
(foolishly) moves his wife and children
into a home where a family perished
under rather nasty circumstances. Terror
soon hits home when he discovers a box
of old movies in the attic of the house,
and finds to his horror images of various
families being murdered. The deeper
Ellison investigates, the more he fears he
has stirred an evil that won’t rest until it
has claimed his entire family.
1. Taken 2
2. Hotel Transylvania
3. Sinister
4. Looper
5. The Perks of Being a
Wallflower
6. Ruby Sparks
7. On the Road
8. ParaNorman
9. The Campaign
10. Untouchable
Top 10 Box
Office Films
Silvio Berlusconi
probably says:
“Write for Film”
Send in your articles to:
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk

