MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
34
You Don’t Have To
Call It Music
Pt. 2 a new ear for classical
by Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
Classical music has been all but abandoned by the generations following the
XX Century iconoclasts. Swept aside by the hormonal avalanche of the baby
boomers, modern music since Elvis turned to Africa for salvation from the
amorphous excursions of the decades before. Percussion has informed practi-
cally all non-classical music since then, from rock’n’roll to jazz, and eventually
hip-hop and techno. Rhythm and simplicity were the order of the day. Hour-
long orchestral narratives were no longer acceptable. In an age of accelera-
tion, brevity was the only way to be heard.
In 2005, techno machinist Jeff Mills performed a selection of his tracks
with the Montpellier Philharmonic Orchestra. Tunes typically reserved for
sweaty dancefloors in inhospitable locations were now met with cheers of
“Bravo!” The audience now danced to the conductor’s lead, rather than po-
litely nodding their heads in their seats. Recently, two legends of the Detroit
and Berlin techno scences, Carl Craig and Moritz von Oswald, collaborated
on a reworking of two of classical’s best-known pieces, Mussorgsky’s Pictures
at an Exhibition and Ravel’s Boléro. Taking a studio recording from the Berlin
Philharmonic Orchestra as their source, the two sampled, recomposed and
remixed the classics into an electro odyssey, mixing 4/4 beats with blaring
trumpets and scintillating violins.
With 2010’s 1-bit Symphony, American sound artist Tristan Perich simul-
taneously redefined established recording practices, while contextualizing
classical music in the presence of modern advancements in technology. He
programmed an entire symphony onto a standard microchip using 1’s and 0’s
(binary assembly code), representing frequency simply as periodic sequences
of digital bits. Packaged in a jewel case which held the circuitry instead of a
CD, a flick of the switch ran the code and played the music. The symphony
itself is composed of wonderful polyharmonics weaving in and out of each
other, swelling in consonance and stupefying beauty.
Some artists have taken the old guard not merely as a model but as an inspi-
ration. Rene Hell’s Porcelain Opera and The Terminal Symphony achieve the
same form of elegance as Mozart’s most moving pieces, using only electronic
instruments like modular synthesizers and effect pedals more usually reserved
fornoiseortechno.Thoughnotalwayspresentbeneaththecrumblinghiccups
of failing circuitry, the harmony of an orchestra always lurks beneath the deep
streams of fuzz. But when they come up for air, they whisper something of an
enlightenment to the ears, suddenly drenching the panorama with swathes of
colour and melody. Equally fragile and violent, teetering on the edge of col-
lapse and always basked in some sort of orgasmic splendor, he makes circuits
sing as if revealing a personality beneath them, one with emotions and memo-
ries. His most recent split album with Oneohtrix Point Never is warmly remi-
niscent of Glenn Gould’s recording of Bach’s Goldberg Variations, where the
pianist can be heard intimately humming behind the microphone.
C. Spencer Yeh is another tantalizing figure to blend the artistry of classical
music with the chaotic tendencies of noise. He runs his electric violin through a
plethora of signal processing units, endowing walls of fuzz with searing melodic
flourishes. Challenger is one of the most arresting and awesome offerings in re-
cent years. The juxtaposition of sensitivity and power is incredible to behold.
Perhaps unsurprisingly, classical music has also made some moves in break-
core, a genre who’s drug-addled exponents revel in complexity. Last Wednes-
day saw Aphex Twin perform at the Barbican with the Heritage Orchestra
and Choir. A year ago, he and Radiohead guitarist Jonny Greenwood adapted
Krzysztof Penderecki’s Threnody for the Victims of Hiroshima in celebration
of the Polish presidency of the EU.
In 2005, Venetian Snares, another venerable actor of the breakcore scene,
released an album of unrelenting beats cut with samples of Bartók, Stravin-
sky, Mahler, Paganini, Prokofiev and more. Already proficient in the exploi-
tation of computational power to deliver his aural assault, he now used his
tools to manipulate the magnificent works of more orthodox composers.
There has been some custom at the outer-limits of modern music to bow
down to the cornerstones which made phenomenological physiology of vi-
brating particles. The paradox lies in the movement from such unorthodox
ends of music to pay homage to ancient harmonic methods. After decades
when technological progress informed the bounds of creativity, the avant
garde somehow harkened back to the craft and delicacy only human hands
could unravel.
Van She do Koko
Various London clubs have oﬀered
Fresher’s Week deals, yet none of
them were quite as enticing as Koko’s
in Camden; an old theatre, with the
stalls replaced with a dance ﬂoor,
the circle with a bar and a 21st cen-
tury sound system squeezed onto the
Victoria stage. It’s a beautiful venue
which still retains its classical archi-
tecture and oﬀers some of the best
in ‘up and coming’ live music. Last
Friday, it was the turn of the Aussies
with Van She, supported by Sans
Cisco to provide the entertainment
for its Club NME night.
Normally £2 before 10:30, £4 before
12 and £7 after, the night was open
for free in celebration of freshers’
week and once your correspondent
had bagged himself and his friends’
entry, we joined Sans Cisco’s sup-
porting set.
Sans Cisco dot the ‘i’ in indie. Or at
least try to. Top buttons done up and
beards carefully groomed, they were
fun and likeable, if only a little bit like
any other indie-pop band. They per-
formed live well though, each player
distinguishable and useful, prevent-
ing the crafted melodies being lost
in a decibel intensive live mash. They
also moved their drummer, Scar-
lett Stevens, forwards to front left.
It’s nice to see a drummer showing
presence and not just relying on be-
ing loud to be seen. Some songs were
predictable – “na na na na na” is no
longer a good enough theme, it just
isn’t. Finishing on their single ‘Awk-
ward’ though, a soulful duet between
the lead and the drummer, they left
the stage as a successful support, but
with the audience very much aware
that the highlight was when a rando-
mer jumped on the stage and shouted
into the lead singer’s mic.
It was then the turn of head-liners
Van She to take the stage. Hailing
from Sydney, they’ve supported Yeah
Yeah Yeahs, Daft Punk, Bloc Party
and Phoenix. No pressure then. Elec-
tro-pop reminiscent of the ‘80s with
big synthesiser sounds, listening to
their recordings they are thoughtfully
produced if a little repetitive. A less
diverse Django Django if you like.
Live; well, very similar, except that
now repetitive isn’t such a bad thing.
They played their new music, be-
cause, well, nobody knows their old
stuﬀ so they may as well. Highlights
included ‘Kelly’, ‘So High’ and ﬁnish-
ing with ‘Jamaica’, so called because
it features a steel pan sample which
disappointingly wasn’t performed
live. Perhaps they save that for Daft
Punk. That said, it’s a brilliant song
which forced even myself to pretend
to dance. It was going so well.
More venues need to incorporate
live music into club nights, so much
more fun than having a DJ blast the
same old songs in your general direc-
tion. The atmosphere was friendly,
progressive and lacked the leery men
in the corner or the bikini clad door
girls. Give it a go.
Disappointed by the support act. Screw this, let’s go shopping. I need a haircut.
Movements in the deep of night
Fellow Bristolian Vessel’s 2012 of-
fering, Order of Noise, manages to
successfully intertwine dark ambient,
glitch, dub and techno to throw us
back to those grimy Bristol moments
where the stims have ran out and eve-
ryone is desperately caning the keta-
mine, milking the absolute last out of
the depraved party that has just run its
course.
Released on newly famous ‘witch-
house’ label Tri Angle, which tends to
represent a whole plethora of left-ﬁeld
electronica (e.g. Holy Other, Clams
Casino), Order of Noise presumably
stemmed from ideas born in raves un-
der disused railway bridges. Its main
skeleton consists of reﬁned wobbles
that make hooded heads bob com-
bined with beats darting from quietly
thumping industrial-techno 4/4 to the
barebones militaristic breakbeats so
often associated with dubstep; subtle
but utterly danceable.
In ways, the record is somewhat
reminiscent of Actress’ fantastic R.I.P.
Vessel lays found sound and lo-ﬁ sam-
ples over a darkly sparse soundscape
that really forces you to focus on the
minutiae of his work. Orchestral
sweeps, dragged through muddy ﬁl-
ters, similar to William Basinksi’s The
Disintegration Loops; slowed down,
grunting vocal samples; and short, jar-
ring bursts of glitch noise add to the
disturbed euphoria proﬀered.
Perhaps the most arresting element
of the album is how on a ﬁrst listen it
seems, whilst still great, fragmented
and ﬂeeting – too broken and empty
to have any drive, nearly an ambient
album. As you listen again, the album
starts developing this drive, small and
hard to detect though it is. Beats (no
matter how quiet) constantly running,
layers very slowly building in density
until the fantastic climax of ‘Court of
Lions’. Swelling ethereal synths run
in conjunction with more standard
dance fare like a perfectly developing
pulsing synth, dancing under and over
the soft, restrained and steady beat.
As eluded to in the opening para-
graph, whilst this is a special listen
any time of day (especially for anyone
who is well acquainted with the Bris-
tol music and club scene), the time
it truly shines is at 8am after going
hard all night. Next time you’re feel-
ing burnt out after 6 hours of clubbing
and 2 hours of night buses, instead of
reaching for your skins and The KLF’s
Chill Out, grab some hard depressants
and dive deep into the world of Vessel.
George Butcher
Congratulations to
Will Pote
and
Jeany Tan
for destroying last week’s
MS Paint competition
Ross Gray

