MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
35
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
Kaleidoscopes of Canada
Padraic Calpin
Heineken Open’er Festival 2012
The ﬁrst thing all Polish attendees of
Open’er said when I explained that was
British was how crazy I was to go to
Poland when Britain has some of the
best festivals in the world. They may
have a point, but international festivals
are deﬁnitely underrated.
As Open’er was an evening-only
event, this provided time during the
day to wonder around the cute lit-
tle seaside town. A free shuttle bus
departs every ten minutes from the
campsite to the centre which made it
incredibly easy to make the most of
Gdynia.
Although there were not very many
tourist attractions, getting up at 11am
and joining the epic queues for the
hot (yes hot!) showers and having to
return by 6pm meant there was not
much time during the day to sightsee
anyway. This made Gydnia the perfect
sized town to spend the waiting time.
Highlights included Barracuda, the
best seafood restaurant in Poland
overlooking the Baltic Sea, the market
square, Cold War style milk bars sell-
ing traditional Polish meals for around
£3 (main, dessert, and drink), and any
café with a clean toilet.
To answer the obvious question of
why was I able to get up as early as
11am which is pretty lame for a festi-
val-goer is because of my over-the-top
disgust of portaloos.
This meant that I missed out on the
diuretic nature of £1.50 Heineken/
Desperados pints. Unfortunately any
other alcohol onsite (including the
campsite) is banned. This isn’t really a
problem as everything is so cheap that
pre-drinking in a bar wouldn’t set you
back much.
Getting around ﬁve zloty for £1 is
one of the best parts about Poland as
a festival destination. Tickets cost £70
for four evenings of music and seven
nights’ camping. Bargain!
The festival itself echoes the cosy
nature of the town it is in. There were
only two main stages, with four others
exhibiting smaller bands. There was
also a fashion stage, cinema and small
art exhibition. Although this meant
there was not much choice in terms
of acts, it is very convenient if you like
most of the artists as it means no sac-
riﬁcing and it does not take too long to
get from one stage to another.
Headliners were Bjork, Justice,
Franz Ferdinand, and the XX; al-
though my personal highlight was
M83 who managed to get the crowd
disgustingly sweaty. It was a good
chance to check out Polish music, but
having three quarters of the line up as
some of the best British acts at the mo-
ment, it is diﬃcult to not want to miss
them.
Lily Le
AMS album of the week
If there’s one band who can wear the post-rock tag
without shame, it’s Godspeed You! Black Emperor,
famous for being able to capture the view of a city sky-
line burning and turn it into song. And they’re back, af-
terleavinguswiththesomewhatdisappointingYanqui
U.X.O. in 2002. The eight person instrumental ensem-
ble now offers 54 minutes of new music, in the form
of two 20 minute epics (which is by no means unusual
withanaveragetracklengthataroundthismark)anda
pairofdronetracks.So,hastheapocalypsereturned?
Apparently, it has returned, but it hasn’t changed – the bulk of this album has been
performedlivesince2003,andanydiehardfanwillownseveralbootlegsfeaturingsec-
tionsofthepieces.Thisleadstoadisconnectedsensewhenlisteningtothealbum,asit
couldbeinterpretedastwowell-rehearsedlivejamsconnectedbyambientinterludes.
Worsestill,theseinterludessoundmorelikethebandpickedanoteandplayeditforsix
minutes alongside a dissonant audio sample, rather than the carefully paced ambient
sectionsthatmadepreviousepicssodynamic.They’realmostthedefinitionoffiller.
However, the epics most certainly aren’t filler. ‘Mladic’ sees the entire band
rocking out louder than ever before in a storm of carefully paced yet frantic riffs,
buildingtoastellarclimaxinits18thminute.Godspeed’smassivesoundcomespri-
marily from the wide variety of instruments (three guitarists with a stunning range
of effects, two drummers, two bassists and a violist) and their unparalleled under-
standing of how to create immersive atmospheres. It doesn’t run the full gamut
of moods expected in a Godspeed epic, but that’s where ‘We Drift Like Worried
Fire’ steps in, the second lengthy track. The first 10 minutes are especially good and
remind us that Explosions in the Sky can’t hold a candle to Godspeed.
Eventhelastambientsongredeemsitself–arisingorganemergesthroughthenoise
and holds until the end of the song, ending the album on a slightly warming note. This
album isn’t a progression for Godspeed, but that’s not what it tries to be. Allelujah!
Don’t Bend! Ascend! is simply them clearing a backlog of old material, paving the way
for the next release (whose songs are already being played live), and creating some
memorablematerialintheprocess.
Robin Thomas
Godspeed You! Black Emperor: Allelujah!Don’tBend!Ascend!
Akin to the parting of red sea...
just with more drunk people
IDM (which, unfortunately, is short for
intelligent dance music) is an incredibly
interesting genre. Also dubbed “Arm-
chair Techno” , it’s a loosely deﬁned term
for experimental electronic music. The
sounds lumped under this label can vary
wildly, from the hauntingly nostalgic to
tracks with beats that go beyond the lim-
its of danceability and syncopation into
the realm of pure fetishism. I want to
talk about a group from the former end
of the spectrum: IDM mainstays Boards
of Canada (BoC).
The world of Boards is a strange one:
members Marcus Eoin and Michael
Sandison ﬁrst began making music to-
gether in the 80s, releasing cassettes un-
dertheirownlabel,Music70;nowsigned
to Warp Records, they’ve been working
for decades in the Pentland Hills, Scot-
land, having only emerged to play live
ten times in their entire career; most of
the material they produce remains un-
released (their second album, Geogaddi,
contained 22 songs culled from 400 frag-
ments and 64 full tracks.)
Using a mixture of analogue synths,
drum machines and live recordings,
theirs is the reverse of the usual produc-
tion process. When creating music, BoC
take individual sounds and progressively
destroy them, until they appear aged and
worn. Part of this drive comes from their
early inspiration, the soundtracks to old
educational documentaries produced
by the National Film Board of Canada,
from which their name is drawn.
Nowhere is this eﬀect better demon-
strated than on the aforementioned re-
cord Geogaddi, released with Warp in
2005. Each track on Geogaddi is cracked
and broken, giving this strong impres-
sion that you’re listening to an ancient
cassette, some long lost album that’s
been sitting in the glove-box of your
parents’ car. But because of this mental
association with old equipment, height-
ened by BoC’s preference for analogue
synths, the album actually feels infused
with warmth and nostalgia.
Therein lies the dichotomy of Geoga-
ddi; whereas the timbre is warm and
rich, many of the songs themselves are
dark and haunting things. Whether it’s
the warped vocal samples, often from
children, droning synths or some other
unfamiliar sound, nearly all the songs on
the album have an eerie edge to them.
They feel charged with some unknown
intent, infused with unfathomable
meaning. In a way this is often true, as
there is more to the music of Boards of
Canada than initially meets the eye.
Take the track ‘Gyroscope’
. It features
a heavy, rolling beat, a synth line that
sounds like it’s running backwards and
an unnerving sample of a child reading a
sequence of numbers over and over. This
sampleisinfactarecordingtakenfroma
Numbers Station, unidentiﬁed radio sta-
tions that broadcast female or child voic-
es reading seemingly random sequences
of numbers, possibly for espionage.
Every single track on Geogaddi is ﬁlled
with tiny details like these: voice clips
played backwards, forwards or slowed
down; samples of radio-wave phenom-
ena; references to Branch Davidian
cultism and hypnotism; a sample from
a dream sequence in a 70s horror ﬁlm.
This is an album so intricate that some-
one actually reversed the whole thing
and made it available to download on
The Pirate Bay, in some vain attempt to
cast light on it’s hidden details.
The sum of all these pieces is that Eoin
and Sandison seem to take on the role
of a pair of mad scientists performing a
series of experiments on the notion of
nostalgia itself, bending it and warping
it into diﬀerent forms until it’s no longer
dependable or familiar.
But, what makes Geogaddi, and in a
broader sense all BoC’s work, really in-
teresting is that their songs are not all
dark and oppressive. This band is equal-
ly capable of producing upbeat dance
tracks (‘Roygbiv’
, ‘Julie’ and ‘Candy’),
haunting but beautiful melodies (‘Tur-
quoise Hexagon Sun’), and even soar-
ing euphoric pieces like my personal
favourite ‘Dawn Chorus’
. Sandison de-
scribed Geogaddi as a “twisting journey
that takes you into some pretty dark ex-
periences before you reach the open air
again”
, and ‘Dawn Chorus’ marks that
point on the album. It’s a gorgeous piece
of retro-futurism, evocative of the space
race and the era when man envisaged
colonies on the Moon, with wobbling
synths and rich bass notes that wash
over you like waves.
As I said near the beginning, the world
of Boards is a strange and seemingly al-
ienating one, but it is also incredibly rich
and rewarding. In a world where pop-
music is homogenising, this is a band
with an entirely unique sound, who
have done much to push the boundaries
of electronic music.

