Gamer girls get the shaft...
Michael Barclay ponders the roles of women in gaming culture
he fact that the major-
ity of gamers are male
is hardly a controversial
statement. It’s almost
tautological. Guys like
games, girls don’t. Yet, fundamentally,
I don’t see why one’s fondness of gam-
ing should be so dominated by a per-
son’s sex. Games are, at their most ba-
sic level, just interactive media. When
you think about games a bit more you
can see why they’re so male dominat-
ed; you can see why I spent a lot of my
childhood playing on my Sega Mega-
drive and my sisters didn’t. Maybe it’s
some ingrained gender pigeon-holing
but little boys seem to prefer playing
with toy soldiers, whilst little girls end
up playing with dolls. When you look
at the majority of games out there
they generally seem to involve shoot-
ing and killing stuﬀ and I guess that’s
more appealing to a 7 year old boy
than a 7 year old girl.
Even when you move to games mar-
keted for more adult audiences, the
gaming industry has hardly helped
things. The origins of Lara Croft,
perhaps the ﬁrst mainstream female
gaming protagonist are a rather du-
bious tale. Maybe it’s just an urban
myth, but apparently Lara’s most
prominent features is the result of one
of the developers playing around with
the character model, giggling at the
results and deciding to make that the
ﬁnal design of the character. Female
characters in gaming were rife with
perhaps derogatory stereotypes that
probably put many girls oﬀ gaming.
In the world of RPGs the male char-
acters had the big swords (Freudian
maybe??) whilst the female characters
were weak and squishy casting spells
safe in the knowledge that the big,
burly (if androgynous) men would
protect them.
I’d like to think that over the last
decade or so things have moved on
somewhat and yeah, to some extent,
they have. There is a decent repertoire
of games out there that have realistic
female characters that aren’t deﬁned
by huge breasts, little clothing or
their tendency to die easily. I’m talk-
ing about Jade from Beyond Good and
Evil, or Alyx from Half-Life 2. There’s
also the development of games that
aren’t just about killing crap or driv-
ing fast cars – things that stereotypi-
cally, guys seem to enjoy more than
girls. My girlfriend – who before
meeting me had absolutely no interest
in ever playing games – has recently
fallen in love with Catherine, a puzzle
game about adultery and the conse-
quences of it. The Wii has led to the
development of games that appeal to
people who normally disregard them,
opening it up to a wider audience.
It all boils down to the fundamental
question I stated before: why should
the idea of sitting in front of a TV and
controlling the actions of the charac-
ters on screen only appeal to men? I
don’t get why it should.
Yet this still doesn’t deal with a very
diﬀerent issue. Are girls welcomed as
gamers? There are countless stories of
women getting a hard time on online
services like Xbox Live. A game of
Call of Duty with a bunch of drunken
guys, when suddenly a girl appears on
the voice chat. Oh my god an actual
girl!! Then she has to suﬀer the entire
game getting hit on and abused by a
bunch of idiots whilst all she wants to
do is shoot a few people like everyone
else there. Recently I went to the Eu-
rogamer Expo like Ross, the Games
Editor, who wrote about it a few
weeks ago. It’s my third expo and it
seemed to me that this year had more
female attendees than I’d seen previ-
ously. Women dressed up as video-
game characters, groups of friends,
both male and female, and middle
aged couples all there to check out
some games. Maybe some of the girls
were dragged along by their partner
or friendship group, but still perhaps
it’s a sign that attitudes to gaming are
changing. And then something hap-
pened. Booth Babes. If you’ve never
heard of that term, it is infamously
attached to gaming expos, describing
a woman paid to stand next a gaming
booth wearing very little. Her entire
purpose is to lure men to come over
to the booth and play the game she
is advertising. Eurogamer has since
apologised for the signiﬁcant pres-
ence of booth babes this year, saying
they didn’t know any of the compa-
nies attending had hired any and will
not let any companies do such next
year.
Now I have nothing against wom-
en doing this for their profession.
It’s more about how it labels the en-
tire idea of computer games. “Video
games are for men. Men like scantily
clad women. Hire women to advertise
games.” Most of all it’s a lazy and terri-
ble advertising ploy. Moreover though
it just tells every woman attending
these expos that they are not welcome
– “Girls, we don’t give a shit if you like
games; we don’t care if you came here
to try out the Wii U or maybe play the
new Halo, this event is not for you.
Go home and watch Sex and the City.
This place is for guys. Not just guys.
Straight guys. Guys who like boobs
and girls with QR codes on their hot
pants” (yes they really did have QR
codes on their hot pants).
To be fair to the majority of the gam-
ing industry, the main oﬀenders were
not really development companies.
I’m not going to name any names,
but only one game booth had booth
babes. Mostly it was supplementary
companies. Companies that sell prod-
ucts involved in gaming, but not nec-
essarily only for gaming. I think most
developers understand that girls can
and do like games, and if they don’t
make female characters that are ab-
surd and sexist, girls might play them.
Maybe I am just wrong. Maybe
there is something I’m missing about
why gaming is so male dominated;
if so, let me know. However, regard-
less of that, the outward image needs
to change. Purely from a marketing
point of view surely making over 50%
of the population feel unwelcome in
your industry is a damn stupid tactic.
T
HERP DERP. IMMA GUUUR-
RRLLLLLLLL.
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
36
Simulator Woes
am going to keep this short: I’ve a massive pile of simulator games in the Felix
office that just beg to be played. There are classics such as Farming Simulator
2011: Platinum Edition, and the award-winning Farming Simulator 2011: Of-
ficial Add-On, as well as Ski Region Simulator (banned in all countries apart
from Wadiya) and Stone Quarry Simulator. I am going to play through these, but
I can’t bring myself to choose the order in which I play them. So, I’m opening up
the vote to those that’ll actually read the article. Unfortunately, your parents were
unavailable for contact, so I guess I’ll ask you guys instead. This week’s choices are:
1: Disaster Response Unit
2: Stone Quarry Simulator
3: Bus & Cable Car Simulator - San Francisco
I’lldoapaperreviewforFelixandImightevendoafewvideo-reviewsandputthem
up on Youtube. Email me at games.felix@imperial.ac.uk with your vote!
I
Ross Webster
Careful there, Ezio. One wrong
move with those hidden blades
and there could be some
serious silicone leakage...
I spent hours looking for
some good Lara/Alyx ‘fan-
art’ pics, but came up short.
The things I do for you guys...
I now can’t help but feel I’m
part of the problem.
superscatman.deviantart.com
Games Editor

