The White Horse
In the northern corner of Parson’s
Green stands the long established
Fulham favourite, The White Horse.
Known for its unpretentious seasonal
menus, extensive drinks selection
and reasonable prices. Its location
makes this restaurant perfect for the
large proportion of Imperial Students
who live in or very close to Fulham.
There are two main eating areas, the
upstairs, in which you feel as though
Nelson could have plotted his defeat
of the French over a cheeky pint, the
second (and my favourite), the down-
stairs conservatory, which has an in-
timate feel, with candles set into the
exposed brick walls.
I’ll start with the food, which is su-
perb and excellent value for money,
The White Horse oﬀers a typical gas-
tro pub menu, and is regularly changed
to suit what’s in season, from game to
seasonal vegetables with the specials
board updated even more frequently.
My favourite dish over summer was
the Seared Duck’s Breast Salad (£12).
The breast was perfectly cooked,
crispy on the outside with a pink, ten-
der centre and was accompanied by a
delicious salad of green beans, grilled
feta cheese, dressed mixed leaves, baby
new potatoes, sweet plum tomatoes
and beetroot. The saltiness of the feta
really complemented the sweetness of
the beetroot, tomatoes and balsamic
dressing. But don’t worry, this isn’t a
place known for its poncy, complicat-
ed salads: a favourite of my boyfriend
is the hearty portion of classic Brit-
ish ﬁsh and chips, served with fresh
mushy peas and hollandaise sauce
(£11), you deﬁnitely get your money’s
worth with this dish. I can also recom-
mend the lamb shank and the sea bass
(but some dishes are meant for pay-
ing parents to treat the hardworking
sons or daughters to!). The puddings
also come in decent portions, enough
for two to share, and the cheese board
(including some excellently chosen
cheeses) could easily be stretched to
three. Personally I cannot resist the
Chocolate, Almond Torte (£5) when
it’s on the menu. It is a classic example
of a beautifully balanced, bitter, sweet
pudding, and is complimented by
thick crème fraîche, the texture of the
torte made more interesting by the use
of ground almonds instead of ﬂour.
At The White Horse there is no
drinks menu, instead they have an A4
drinks book. Being, what feels like, the
only person at Imperial who doesn’t
drink beer, I cannot personally vouch
for The White Horse’s renowned beer
and ale selection (from £2.80 a pint),
but I have it on good authority that it
is fantastic. The ever helpful waiters
and waitresses will happily help you
tailor your drink to your meal (The
White Horse also hold regular beer
and food matching lessons). How-
ever I can tell you more about the
amazing wine selection, as a student
their cheapest wine (at £3.70 a glass)
is excellent value, very drinkable and
a perfect accompaniment to the red
meat dishes (and the duck salad!). At
the White Horse there is no concept
of a cheap, bland, acidic ‘house’ wine.
Having taken a complete wine buﬀ on
a couple of occasions, I’m pretty sure
you won’t be disappointed with the
selection.
For me The White Horse is the per-
fect place both for a romantic meal or
a relaxed dinner with friends, I’ve nev-
er come away feeling disappointed,
neither with the food nor the prices!
The atmosphere fuels conversation,
and even if you’re talked out, you can
always resort to people watching: The
White Horse is normally full of ‘Tar-
quins’!
Elizabeth Crow
FOOD
Yiango’s Coconut Cake
Ingredients
1 cup ﬂour
1 cup semolina
1 cup sugar
1 cup coconut
1 cup milk
6 tbsp ground ﬂax seed 1 1/5 cup water
3 tsp baking powder 1/6 cup vanilla ex-
tract 1 cup oil
For the syrup:
1 cup sugar
1 cup water
1⁄2 tsp lemon
Procedure
Lightly grease a 9-inch cake pan and
preheat the oven at 180 degrees.
Make the syrup by boiling the sugar
and water for about 7-8 minutes. Re-
move from the heat, add the lemon
and let it cool.
In a cup mix the ﬂaxseed with the
water and set aside. In a bowl mix
all the dry ingredients and in a sepa-
rate bowl mix all the wet ingredients
(including the ﬂaxseed mixture).
YiangoMavrocostanti Food Editor
39
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food: Passionate
about food?
Keen on writing for us? Get in touch!
Halloween’s coming up so if you
have a guide to cutting the perfect
pumpkin or you know some great
recipes that uses all those left over
pumpkins in Novemember – get in
touch!
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Bond is back. The girls,
the music, the martini’s,
the awfully brilliant
one-line quips (“Where
the hell have you been,
Bond?”… dramatic pause
… “Enjoying death”).
And the cars. Nothing
beats an Aston Martin
DB5. Aston Martin has
done so much to be cool,
to be sexy, so why did it
insist on producing the
Cygnet? A hideous, squashed-faced joke of a car. It’s not just Aston – luxury
brands seem steadfast on cheapening their image at the moment; think of
the Ferrari Store on Regent’s street, all those luxury brand high street col-
laborations (Karl Lagerfeld and H&M, etc.). And, here’s the seamless link,
Heston Blumenthal with his ready meal collection at Waitrose. For around a
fiver, you can buy his version of shepherd’s pie, chilli con carne, and prawn
cocktail, which differ from other versions of the same dishes by, well, err, not
much really except for the nicer packaging.
Heston Blumenthal is a brilliant, brilliant chef. His one-star Michelin res-
taurant, Dinner, is superb. His Meat Fruit starter is at the same time fun,
different, delicious and memorable. The Broth of Lamb with Slow Cooked
Hen’s Egg divine, rich, with layers of flavour that surprise you with delight as
each new one unfolds. He even makes chicken an interesting dish to eat, so
tender you could eat it with a spoon. His Tipsy Cake is hearty, wonderfully
sweet and nostalgic. There’s even the élan of having your ice-cream made at
the table with liquid nitrogen. This really is fantastic food. And for not much
more than a meal at more buzzing but far less delicious joints like Le Caprice,
Boisdale, and Daphnes – per head, with wine, you can have three courses for
around £80. The set-lunch menu is £36 for three courses – an absolute steal.
This simply makes Heston’s descent to pre-packed, just-pierce-the-trans-
parent-film-and-heat-in-the-microwave-for-4-minutes hell all the more dis-
appointing and shameful. Dinner by Heston is stupendous, like an Aston
Martin DB5, something that blurs the lines between practicality and art. But
just as much as Bond doesn’t belong in a Cygnet, Heston Blumenthal dishes
do not belong on neon-lit supermarket shelves next to the Chinese meal box
for four. His ready meals leave you shaken and stirred, but for all the wrong
reasons.
Mandarin Oriental Hyde Park
66 Knightsbridge
SW1X 7LA
Charles Betts
Now mix wet and dry ingredients
until they have just combined. Do
not overmix. Bake until you insert
a toothpick in the centre and comes
out clean. Right after you remove the
cake from the oven, pour the cold
syrup on it and then sprinkle some
more coconut.
A very posh pub. darling
Heston you sell out
The food review
Dinner

