SPORT
47
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
Ben Bell Sports Writer
On Wednesday the netball ﬁrst team
played Essex 1’s at home in Ethos to
kick oﬀ their BUCS season. With only
3 returning members no one was quite
sure how the team would perform under
match pressure and there were a lot of
nerves before the ﬁrst whistle.
The match got oﬀ to a shaky start for
both teams with quite a lot of mistakes
made on each side, but slowly as the
teams found their feet goals started to be
scored. The ﬁrst quarter was very close
and ended 9-8 in IC’s favour but the
whole team knew they should be win-
ning, and winning by more.
In the second quarter the passing im-
proved and with some great defence IC
found more of a rhythm through the
court.SophieAndrewwasonforminter-
cepting passes in the circle and Sam Kil-
lick was starting to control the play well
from the centre. At half time the score
was still close but IC was on the up.
In the third quarter something re-
ally clicked with the IC team and they
started to pull away. The Essex defence
were marking the shooters very tightly
in the circle but some lovely passes in
from Kirsty Roy and amazing shooting
by Tamar Loach gave IC the edge.
With a solid last quarter IC came away
with a good win of 39-25 to start the sea-
son. The team holds a lot of promise so
hopefully there will be a lot more wins to
come!
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Only Way Is IC Netball
Netball 1s Captain
IC Hockey Men’s 2s show the Medics who’s Boss
Results:
Imperial 1s 39
Essex 1s 25
Imperial 2s 18
Essex 2s 15
ICUNC 2’s kicked oﬀ the BUCS
season with the dreaded game of Es-
sex away. Inevitably it was diﬃcult to
convince 7 players to come all the way
to Essex, but with the help of 3 fresh-
ers and Harriet Rumgay who had been
drafted up from the 4’s we were able to
set oﬀ with 8 players on board.
3 hours later we arrived at Essex
to play in the dark with a very good
chance of rain, but this was not going
to dishearten IC 2’s as it was captain,
Abi Johnston Hume’s, 21st birthday
and she still found the dedication to
take her team all the way to Essex.
The ﬁrst quarter got oﬀ to a rocky
start, with a team who had never
played together before. Essex looked
like they wanted every ball much
more than we did and slowly started
to pull away. The quarter ended 7-3 to
Essex. Still, even this wasn’t enough
to dampen IC’s mood and with heads
held high we went out for the 2nd
quarter ready to ﬁght.
Essex had ﬁrst centre after the
break, but a fantastic interception by
Sarah Simmonds turned the ball over
and went straight to a goal. IC then
capitalised on their centre and were
ready to take another goal from Essex.
Some brilliant defending ensured that
this was the case and IC scored an-
other turnover. Harriet and Izzy start-
ed to work really well together and
brought the aggression up enough just
to stop Essex thinking they could push
around. Harriet was then claimed by
the slippery corner, showing us just
how ﬂexible she is by doing the splits.
A commotion around the defending
‘D’ saw Toni Semmence knocked to
the ﬂoor and her game ended due to
a recovering ankle injury. The quarter
ﬁnished 10-8 still in Essex’s favour.
The second half saw Emily Rolfe
come on and make an immediate
impact with some fantastic intercep-
tions. IC were looking conﬁdent and
the game was starting to look like
theirs. Some great defending from
Emma Dixon and Rebecca Tyne en-
sured that every rebound and loose
ball was ours. The slippery corner
decided taking Harriet wasn’t enough
and Rebecca was soon on the ﬂoor not
once, but twice. Great work around
the attacking ‘D’ by Abi Johnston
Hume and Sarah ensured that Izzy
and Harriet could continue to score
goal after goal. Fantastic marking of
Essex centre passes ensured IC were
getting turnover after turnover and by
the end of the quarter we were leading
14-12…#suicidequarterwhat?
IC 2’s were struggling to contain
Netball Hon Sec
their excitement going into the last
quarter, but needed to ensure they
kept their discipline and didn’t throw
the game away. Essex took their game
up a notch and really gave a hard ﬁ-
nal push. Some questionable umpir-
ing decisions saw the ball being taken
away from IC on a regular basis, but
this only spurred the girls on to work
harder to ensure they secured the win.
The game ended 18-15 to IC: Happy
21st birthday Abi!
ICUNC are undefeated so far this
season with the 1’s, 2’s and 3’s all
bringing home a win. This year’s teams
have certainly gelled much better right
from the oﬀ. With some quality train-
ing sessions in store and the possibility
of some coaching from some England
netball players, I deﬁnitely don’t think
it’s too early for the promotion calls to
be thrown around.
With an impressive 3-1 pre-season
victory over RUMS 2nd XI last week, IC
2s arrived at Harlington keen to keep up
the high standard of hockey and register
a win in our ﬁrst competitive ﬁxture of
the season. Having been defeated at the
end of last season in a close-fought Var-
sity match, we were wary of the threat
posed by the ICSM 2s.
After a rather longer than expected
warm-up while we waited for the um-
pire to arrive, the match got underway
with both sides moving the ball around
well in midﬁeld, though without posing
much threat to either goal. As the half
progressed, IC began to impose them-
selves on the game and after a period of
possession managed to make the break-
through. A well worked long corner
routine delivered the ball to right back
BM-Briggs on the 25-yard line, who
ﬁred in a trademark hit into the crowd-
ed penalty area. Several IC forwards at-
tempted to deﬂect the delivery into the
goal, however it was an ICSM defender
who managed to get the ﬁnal touch and
unfortunately put the ball into his own
net.
IC continued to pile on the pressure
throughout the half but it was by no
means a one-sided match, ICSM look-
ing particularly dangerous down their
right hand side with some excellent
stick skills from their right-back who
was a constant threat overlapping down
the wing. However some solid defend-
ing, particularly from 2nd XI debu-
tant Lars Mejnertsen who (fractured
a thumb in the process) ensured that
the IC keeper remained untroubled.
As the second half drew to a close, the
IC pressure began to tell with the game
increasingly played in the ICSM half. A
series of short-corners led to two solid
saves from the ICSM keeper denying
the IC drag-ﬂicker CBE from a ﬁrst goal
of the season, but IC would not be kept
out for long. CBE dummied a drag-ﬂick
and slipped the ball left to Brickney
who struck a ﬁrm shot past the helpless
ICSM keeper, courtesy of a slight deﬂec-
tion oﬀ a defenders stick.
IC were not as dominant as they had
been against RUMS the week before,
but crucially managed to capitalise on
good possession and build up play to
ﬁnish the half 2-0 up. The second half
started scrappily with IC perhaps a little
complacent having ended the ﬁrst half
with a comfortable lead. ICSM had their
ﬁrst truly dominant period of the game,
only some excellent last-ditch tackles
from ‘Fresher’ Mikey in particular and
some poor ﬁnishing on the part of the
medics kept the IC goal untouched. De-
spite the pressure it was IC who again
made the breakthrough, a well-worked
short corner led to a simple tap-in for
Fresher Mikey to make it 3-0 and soon
afterwards the victory was conﬁrmed by
another goal from the very same man.
The ICSM keeper made an excellent
save but was helpless to prevent Fresh-
er Mikey from scoring his third in two
games – not a bad return from a defen-
sive midﬁelder!
ICSM continued to press for a con-
solation goal, and it was only a magniﬁ-
cent save from the IC goalkeeper diving
high to his right hand side that denied
an excellent drag ﬂick in the closing mo-
ments of the game. The ﬁnal highlight
of the game was an outrageous aerial
from the IC left-back Meatspin, it was
diﬃcult to decide which more surpris-
ing; the fact that he had tried to throw
an aerial or that it had actually worked!
Either way, his arrogance on top of an-
other solid performance at the back was
rewarded with a well-deserved Man-of-
the-Match award. The match ﬁnished
4-0 to IC and while the scoreline was
not an adequate representation of what
was actually a very closely fought match,
IC will be delighted to have scored three
goals from short-corners as this was a
particular weakness last season. The
eﬀort and intensity of the whole team
was excellent throughout, and an ICSM
team that is always good going forwards
was countered with a very good press
and good defensive work throughout
the team. IC will be hoping to build on
the unbeaten start to thie season and
with the introduction of several promis-
ing freshers into an already strong team,
it looks to be an exciting year ahead for
IC Hockey 2s!
Debate raged about
how good this shot is
Back row, 2nd from the
right. Blue steel.
Poppy Pinnock
Toni Semmence

