continued from the front page
Local residents opposed to tower height and traffic
been entirely decided and conﬁrmed..
It seems, from the planning permis-
sion, that it could house Biomedical
research, health, and teaching facili-
ties.
The plans, however, have met with
strong opposition from local resi-
dents, with over one hundred letters
objecting to the proposals having
been received by Hammersmith and
Fulham Council. Some half a dozen
groups, including the Hammersmith
Society and the Hammersmith and
Fulham Historic Buildings Group,
have voiced strong concern; with the
St Helens Residents Association cre-
ating a website — imperialfolly.org.
uk — to articulate their concerns. In
Kensington and Chelsea, there were
160 objections.
Many of the objections concern
the relate to the height of Campus’
buildings. While the highest BBC
Worldwide Buildings on the site were
4 stories tall Imperial College is not
planning on building any buildings
with less than ﬁve stories. The tallest
building will be a 35 story, 110m tall
residential tower which will, to Felix’s
current knowledge, contain 133 units
for private sale and 59 apartments for
Imperial postdoctoral researchers.
Residents fear that this will impact
negatively on low rise housing in the
Oxford Gardens Conservation Area.
The College dismissed concerns that
overshadowing by the buildings will
lead to an excessive lack of sunlight for
existing houses, saying that the worst
aﬀected buildings will be commercial
properties, and that the College used
the “industry leader” to consult on the
daylight and overshadowing of build-
ings.
There are also concerns about in-
creased traﬃc, especially in light of
separate plans to extend the nearby
Westﬁeld shopping centre. The St
Helens Residents Association believes
that “it is hard to see how Wood Lane,
which will provide the access and
egress for [both] developments, will
not be gridlocked at all times”. They
believe the problem will be exacer-
bated by the number of parking spaces
on the site, 240, being far too low to
meet demand.
Despite the opposition it looks un-
likely that the College will alter its
plans. Imperial claims that the devel-
opment will bring numerous beneﬁts
for the local population, pointing out
that development plans include the
building of a new healthcare centre
and a publicly accessible square. In a
statement earlier this year John An-
derson, Project Director for Imperial
West, added: “Imperial West will pro-
vide real and lasting beneﬁts for the
capital, helping to grow the London
economy, and has the capacity to gen-
erate and sustain over 3,000 jobs. We
have consulted widely with the plan-
ning authorities and local residents
and this process has helped inform
the basis of our planning application.”
Felix contacted College to ask about
more recent developments. Speciﬁ-
cally, Felix asked about how the Col-
lege is working with the residents in
the local area to ensure that the resi-
dents are not left unhappy about the
development. A College spokesper-
son replied with the following state-
ment:
“In developing the masterplan pro-
posals for the former BBC site, the
project team has incorporated feed-
back from a variety of stakeholders
including Hammersmith and Fulham
Council, the Greater London Author-
ity, and local residents. Among the
reﬁnements made to the proposals
before submission to the planning au-
thority included:
• Introducing a stepped build-
ing form on Wood Lane to take
on board concerns of residents
living nearby.
• Reductions in the height and
massing of buildings along the
eastern boundary facing the
residential area of North Kens-
ington.
• Locating taller buildings fur-
ther to the west and south of
the site, and reﬁning the tallest
building in an east/west ori-
entation to make it more slen-
der, minimising its proﬁle and
tapering in relation to north/
south views.
Local residents have been actively
involved in the development of the
community space, ‘Brickﬁelds Hall’
on the junction of Shinﬁeld Street and
Eynham Road, working with the de-
sign team on the layout, ﬁxtures and
ﬁttings. The new community space
will open at the end of October.”
NEWS
6
News Editor: Aemun Reza
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 19 OCTOBER
>>
Theme Hospital
just got a
graphics update
thegreatsocoff!
25 October 2012 / 20:00 - 00:00 / Metric / £1 entry
Dress as your department. All the £1 entry fees go back to the top Dep Socs (based on who gets the highest percentage of their students to come)
Compete against other departments in our challenges e.g. apple bobbing, pass the mascot etc.

