In the 1930s, soon after Einstein came up with
his equations on general relativity, Karl Schwar-
zchild developed a solution that predicted what
became known as a black hole. Essentially a
mass compressed into such a small volume that
its gravitational pull is literally irresistible; not
even light is fast enough to escape. But then you
already knew that.
Since then, black holes have been thought to
exist at the centre of just about every galaxy and
acts as a cosmic plug hole, pulling matter in and
cutting it off from the rest of the world. Small
wonder then that they have such a reputation as
destroyers of stars and planets. However, one in-
ternational team of astronomers is studying an
opposing side effect – black holes may help stars
to form.
Stanislav Shabala of the University of Tasma-
nia, Mark Crockett of University of Oxford and
Sugata Kaviraj of Imperial College led a team to
investigate this phenomenon within the nearby
CentaurusAgalaxy (a cool 15 million light years
away). Their results were published in Monthly
Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society.
Since most black holes are not static but spin-
ning, they can distort the space around them into
spiral patterns. This means that the stars and
stellar dust around the black hole are constantly
in motion, being compressed, stretched, rapidly
heated and quickly cooled. When enough of
this dust comes together in a small enough area,
gravity acts and clusters form, eventually grow-
ing into the bright stars of the sky.
Using one of the Hubble Space Telescope’s
cameras, Wide Field Camera 3, the astronomical
team studied what is known in the business as
NGC 5128, more easily recognised as the Cen-
taurus A galaxy, near (in an astronomical sense)
the Centaurus constellation. Scientists observed
a belt of dust running across the galaxy in the
visible light spectrum. But inspecting the ultra-
violet and X-ray frequencies, they saw that the
belt extends almost a million light years from
the black hole in the centre. Analysis of this data
provided the astronomers with an exceptionally
accurate map of the history of the stars forming
in this area.
It appears that the distance from the black hole
and the age of the stars has a correlation; the
stars at the very extremes of the cosmic outflow
are younger, increasing in age as you get closer
to the black hole. This supports the theory that
the denser regions of dust near the black hole
are able to compress into stars, forming at earlier
times.
Black holes: cosmic creators
Artist’s impression of a black hole
So why do astronomers look up into the sky
and take pictures of the stars? Well, one of the
largest areas of research in 21st century phys-
ics focuses on the conditions of the early uni-
verse and what was going on then that led up
to what we see today. As Dr Shabala comments,
“This enhancement of star formation by out-
flows would have been even more important in
a younger universe, where dense clumps of gas
were much more common. Our study highlights
the need to consider the role of ‘positive’ feed-
back from outflows in our current paradigm of
galaxy formation. It adds an exciting new piece
to a great puzzle – that of understanding how
galaxies came to be the way they are today.”
Autistic Spectrum Disorder (ASD) affects ap-
proximately 1% of the population. The main
characteristics of ASD are difficulties in social
interaction, communication, and repetitive be-
haviours. It is a difficult condition to diagnose,
especially in young children, but researchers
at Birkbeck College have just published some
promising findings that open a new path to early
diagnosis.
At the moment, ASD can be diagnosed from
the age of two by doctors and psychiatrists with
the Autism Diagnostic Observation Schedule
(ADOS) which observes social interaction be-
tween the patient and the examiner. Mayada El-
sabbagh, from Birkbeck College at the University
of London, and her colleagues, have published a
study in Current Biology measuring the brain’s
response to viewing faces gazing directly toward
or away from infants aged between 6 and 10
months, from a sample of 104 infants (54 with
familial risk for ASD and 50 control infants).
Event Related Potentials (ERPs) were measured
by electroencephalography as the children were
shown faces gazing toward or away from them.
At 36 months, the infants were clinically tested
forASD.
The results showed differences between the
control group, the risk but no ASD group and the
risk ASD group. More specifically, the amplitude
for gaze shifts away versus toward was higher
for the infants not diagnosed with ASD. More
research has to be done, but by developing this
method, a diagnosis for children as young as 6
months old could be possible.
Most symptoms of ASD are not observed be-
fore the child is one, but this study has shown a
clear difference between infants with and without
the disorder. The starting point of the study was
the observation that autistic people often find it
difficult to look at others in the eye. Describing
this difference in sensitivity to eye gaze at such
a young age could provide an explanation of the
other symptoms of autism. Sensitivity to eye gaze
is linked to social and communication skills. This
insensitivity in infants affects the development of
the brain and could provide an explanation for the
social – communication difficulties that define
ASD.
ASD is still a very misunderstood disorder. It is
thought to be caused by genetic and environmen-
tal factors and some researchers are working on
diagnosing from the genome of patients. This is a
difficultandcomplextaskaseachpatientisdiffer-
ent and many combinations of genetic variations
have been known to lead to some form of ASD.
Early diagnosis however is crucial. It provides
parents with the information necessary to explain
their child’s behaviour and take care of them.
More importantly, the earlier ASD is diagnosed,
the earlier it is possible to ‘treat’the child and put
in place the necessary care and support structure.
There is no cure forASD, but some methods exist
and offer the tools to encourage the development
of the child and his/her social integration. One of
these methods,Applied BehaviourAnalysis, uses
systematic teaching and behavioural learning the-
ory which is, amid some controversy, successful.
Marie-Laure Hicks
FELIX
Friday 24 February 2012
10
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
Pavitar Singh Devgon
Alzheimer’s Disease affects almost 30 million
people around the world but it remains a poorly un-
derstood condition with no cure and few effective
treatments. However, recent studies by scientists at
Columbia and Harvard universities provide tantalis-
ing evidence of how the disease spreads through
the brain and even offer hope of way to stop it in its
tracks.
Tau proteins have a vital function inside neurons
in stabilising microtubules, which transport vital
chemicals around these brain cells. In Alzheimer’s
patients, however, these proteins become distorted
and begin to clump together – causing the tubules
to collapse and the cells to die. This is known as
tauopathy. Tangles of tau protein, along with plaques
consisting of the beta amyloid peptide, are main bio-
chemical indicators of Alzheimer’s.
Previously scientists had been divided on whether
this tauopathy spread from one area of the brain to
neighbouring regions or whether it developed in dif-
ferent areas independently, with some regions being
affected first since they were more vulnerable.
Studies on humans had proved inconclusive. Re-
search on mice genetically engineered to produce
the distorted human tau was suggested, but was
initially abandoned since scientists previously were
only able to create mice that produced the faulty
protein across their entire brain at the same time,
making it impossible to map how it spread with time.
However, in a paper published in PLoS One, the
Columbia team describe how they managed to en-
gineer mice which initially only produced the protein
in the entorhinal cortex, an area of the brain respon-
sible for memory production that is one of the first to
be affected by Alzheimer’s in humans.
Examining the brains of mice of different ages
showed clear evidence that tauopathy spread slowly
outwards from the entorhinal cortex with time. While
scientists are as yet unsure of the exact mechanism
that causes this spread they believe that their find-
ings may apply to humans as the dissected mice
brains showed striking similarities to those of de-
ceased Alzheimer’s sufferers.
Better knowledge of how Alzheimer’s works may
lead to people being able to be diagnosed earlier.
More importantly, since these findings seem to
prove the theory that the disease originates in one
part of the brain, it may be possible to protect neigh-
bouring areas from ‘infection’ – thereby preventing
further progression of the disease.
Further research with the genetically modified
mice may help to identify specific treatments that
accomplish this. Scientists also suspect that other
degenerative brain diseases, such as Parkinson’s,
might spread through the brain in a similar manner,
meaning that it is possible that treatments for them
will also be found.
Marie-Laure Hicks
New research into Alzheimer’s
New autism diagnosis in infants
Last year’s announcement by the OPERA particle
physics collaboration that they had seen neutrinos
travel faster than light may have been down to noth-
ing more than dodgy wiring, it was announced yester-
day. One of two possible causes was a faulty optical
fibre, and the other concerns an oscillator used in
GPS clock synchronisation. OPERA is still studying
the extent of these two effects. New measurements
are planned for May.
Kelly Oakes
Fast neutrinos foiled by wiring

