same likelihood as tossing a coin eight
times and getting eight heads; five-
sigma would correspond to getting 20
heads in a row.
This step up in energy is great news
for the scientific community. It is in ev-
eryone’s interest that the LHC continues
to fulfill its task and help us unravel the
beautiful mathematics that regulates
our Universe. In the eventuality that the
Higgs boson is not discovered, our cur-
rent theories will have to be completely
revised and researchers would have to
face whole new challenges.
http://press.web.cern.ch/press/PressRe-
leases/Releases2012/PR01.12E.html
SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 24 February 2012 11
Exploring the God Particle
Michele Tonutti explores the Large Hadron Collider’s main experiment
Physical Sciences Laboratory, University of Wisconsin-Madison
I
f the God Particle is real, 2012
will be the year of its discov-
ery. Scientists at CERN have
been searching for proof of the
existence Higgs boson since
2008, when the construction of the
Large Hadron Collider finally came
to an end. Now, after four years, the
LHC – a 27-kilometre ring of super-
conducting magnets located in Geneva,
Switzerland – is ready to take up a new
challenge. On 13 February, CERN an-
nounced that in the next year the Col-
lider will fire proton rays at an energy of
4 TeV. Until now, the LHC has run at a
beam energy of ‘only’ 1.18 TeV (Phys-
ics fun fact: 1TeV is about the kinetic
energy of a flying mosquito). Up until
2009, the highest energy used for this
kind of experiment was less than 1 TeV;
this record was held by the Tevatron ac-
celerator at the Fermi Laboratory in Il-
linois, USA.
So far, researchers have been hesitant
to boost up the working energy of the
LHC, even though the system is meant
to sustain collisions of protons up to 14
TeV. The major quench incident that oc-
curred in 2008, just a few months after
the inauguration, showed that extreme
care is needed when dealing with such
highly energetic particles. In that case,
faulty connection between magnets
caused six tons of liquid helium to be
dispersed in the tunnel. This caused
heavy damage to the instrumentation,
forcing CERN to stop the experiment
for several weeks. Money and time
were wasted, and people’s safety threat-
ened.
Moreover, in March 2010, the new
research program officially started with
a 7 TeV proton collision (3.5 TeV per
beam), causing mass panic around the
world and rumors of a possible catas-
trophe. Despite the general fear, the
LHC has been functioning as smoothly
as ever. However, the potential risks of
these experiments are not to be ignored.
In the press release following the an-
nouncement, CERN’s Director for Ac-
celerators and Technology Steve My-
ers said: “When we started operating
the LHC for physics in 2010, we chose
the lowest safe beam energy consistent
with the physics we wanted to do. Two
good years of operational experience
with beam and many additional mea-
surements made during 2011 give us the
confidence to safely move up a notch,
and thereby extend the physics reach of
the experiments.”
Myers also mentioned that the LHC
will undergo a long shutdown at the
end of the year. During this 20-months
break, new technology and improve-
ments will be implemented, so that in
2015 the collider will be able to work
at the maximum energy of 7 TeV per
beam. However, Research Director Ser-
gio Bertolucci believes that it is likely
that major results will already be seen
by the end of the year. “By the time the
LHC goes into its first long stop at the
end of this year, we will either know
that a Higgs particle exists or have ruled
out the existence of a Standard Model
Higgs,” he claims in the press release.
“Either would be a major advance in
our exploration of nature, bringing us
closer to understanding how the funda-
mental particles acquire their mass, and
marking the beginning of a new chapter
in particle physics.”
The Higgs boson is often referred to as
the “God Particle” because of its central
importance in modern particle physics.
According to the Standard Model – the
currently most accepted theory on inter-
actions between particles and forces –
its existence is necessary to explain why
all the other particles have most of their
mass. Its discovery would therefore
constitute a major step forward towards
a better understanding of how the laws
governing our Universe work.
The LHC is the main contributor of
data regarding the Higgs boson, and
the announcement strengthened the al-
ready widely held feeling that we are
now closer to finding this particle than
we have ever been before. The results
produced by ATLAS and CMS, the two
main experiments looking for the Higgs
at CERN in the past few years, allowed
physicists to narrow down the hypo-
thetical mass of the Higgs to a window
of merely 16 GeV. This mass is now
thought to be around 124-126 GeV.
However, for the results to be consid-
ered a real discovery a year’s worth of
consistent observations are needed. Sta-
tistically speaking, particle physics has
a well defined definition of ‘discovery’:
data must have a five-sigma (or five
standard deviations) level of certainty.
This is simply a scale of how unlikely
it is that the results are only a product
of chance rather than an actual effect of
a physical phenomenon. In a nutshell, a
three-sigma level would represent the
The Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) general purpose detector at CERN, used for studying the effects of proton-proton collisions
Are we on a collision course with the Higgs boson?

