COMMENT
FELIX Friday 24 february 2012 13
COMMENT
FELIX
A
nyone that knows me
well will know that over
the past few months I
have fallen hopelessly in
love. Forgive me for us-
ing such a tired cliché, but it really was
love at first sight. Yes, since the moment
I first clasped my eyes on a Chanel hand-
bag, I was infatuated.
I have a friend who is a designer hand-
bag junkie, Yves Saint Laurent, Chanel,
Balenciaga… the list goes on. They are
all beautiful bags, but I never used to un-
derstand her obsession. Then, one day, I
saw her classic Chanel Flap Bag and I
suddenly understood. There was some-
thing about the thick, textured, quilted
leather – sumptuously soft, yet firm.
There was something about the inter-
twined gold chain and leather strap that
hugs ones shoulder like an old, comfort-
ing friend.And don’t even get me started
on the exquisite finishings – perfectly
crafted inside pockets, the gold hall-
mark on the inside flap, and of course
the trademark Chanel clasp. I would
drool over this bag like a lovesick teen-
ager whenever she had it on her. Then,
in December, my fairy godmother friend
offered to loan it to me for a few months
and made my Chanel dreams come true.
It took a short while for us to get
comfortable with each other. But after
a few awkward outings we became best
friends and lovers. My pet name for the
bag was simply ‘The Chanel’. Over the
Christmas holidays The Chanel came
home with me to meet my parents, my
sister, my friends, and my extended
family. Everyone (apart from, unsur-
prisingly, my Dad) fell in love with The
Chanel, just as I had. This year, we even
spent Valentine’s Day together. But this
is no Hollywood movie. Very soon, The
Chanel will have to be reunited with its
rightful owner, and our love affair must
end. As I mourn the loss of a great love,
I can’t help but reflect upon what it was
AFrench love affair
that I really loved about The Chanel...
In our society, material goods pro-
vide a vital language through which
we communicate with each other about
the things that really matter – family,
friendship, community, and purpose in
life. We use the language of goods to
communicate status, social identity, af-
filiation, and even our feelings. Our
society is constructed so that material
goods facilitate our participation in the
life of society. As marketing guru Er-
nest Ditcher poetically puts it: “hollow
hands clasp ludicrous possessions be-
cause they are links in the chain of life”.
Material goods have always possessed
some kind of intrinsic, symbolic value
for humans. But in modernity, and this
age of wealth, goods are becoming more
novel, less meaningful, and more rap-
idly replaced. We buy novel goods, get
bored, buy more goods, get bored, all the
while keeping society locked into con-
sumption growth. Our relationships with
material possessions have become more
like fleeting summer romances, rather
than great, life-long loves.
Psychologist Tim Kasser highlights
what he calls the ‘high price of ma-
terialism’ arguing that values such as
popularity, image, and financial success,
‘external factors’, are psychologically
opposed to ‘intrinsic values’such as self-
acceptance, affiliation and a sense of be-
longing in the community. Our society
is obviously more heavily fabricated
on external factors. This is particularly
problematic since it is actually intrinsic
values that contribute most to our sense
of happiness and well-being, not exter-
nal factors such as, say, a Chanel bag.
In fact, “voluntary simplicity” has be-
come an entire philosophy for life, draw-
ing on Mahatma Gandhi’s teachings
such as “live simply, that others might
simply live”. There is even a scientific
basis behind the philosophy that our
lives become more satisfying when we
engage in activities that are purposeful
and materially light. This all makes com-
plete sense, and I find myself agreeing
with this notion. Outwardly simple, in-
wardly rich. I totally get it. However, er,
now how can I best put this? I’m sorry
Mahatma Gandhi, but I am still in love
with Coco Chanel...
So what exactly is it about The Cha-
nel? Mademoiselle Coco Chanel was
born into humble beginnings in Saumur,
France in 1983. She grew up in an or-
phanage, became a seamstress, and then
went on to redesign the way women
dressed during the 20th Century. She lib-
erated women from their common ste-
reotypical uniform, turned clothes into
works of art, and then turned the fashion
industry upside down. In short, she had
a dream, made that dream a reality, and
changed the world for the better. The
reason that a Chanel bag is worth more
than other bags is because it celebrates
Coco Chanel.
I think that owning luxury goods can
be about more than just portraying an
image to society about who you are.
Owning luxury goods can also send a
message to others about what human
characteristics you valuable or admire.
Material goods have, and will, always
have an important place in our lives.
However, it is time for our relationship
with them to change. Rather than just
blindly chasing novelty goods, (which
are more familiar to us 90’s babies than
anyone else – Tamagotchis, Yo-Yos,
micro scooters, Furbies... the list is end-
less) we should make more selective
choices about what we buy. Our pos-
sessions should be less about following
novel trends, and more about champion-
ing great design or expressing our indi-
viduality. Some companies have already
cottoned onto this – the NikeiD label is
one example of how consumer goods are
becoming more personalised. But there
is still a long, long way to go.
The Western world, at least, needs
more quality goods, and less of this
mass-produced crap. We can all do our
bit to help advocate quality over quan-
tity.As Coco Chanel said herself: “Some
people think luxury is the opposite of
poverty. It’s not. It is the opposite of vul-
garity.”
The reason that a
Chanel bag is worth
more than other
bags is because
it celebrates Coco
Chanel
“
The reas
The rea
Chanel
Chanel
”
s Coco
s Coco
Oh Coco, smoking isn’t cool, it just sort of looks it. Damn
Caroline Wood
Library doors: a refutation
I
n training for long distance things,
you have to train for quite a long
time. Whether I’m in the pool, on
the bike, or on a run I usually get
some ‘quality’ time with my own
thoughts. What follows is the result of this
time alone…
Recently in Felix, Laurence de Lussy
Kubisa wrote a remarkable article in
praise of the new library doors. In typi-
cally electrifying prose, he has prostituted
your loyalties. Your faith and trust should
rest forever more with the old doors, not
these young pretenders.
In calling the old ‘face-on’style of door
‘outrageous’, he confuses as much as he
outrages. The old had dignity, a certain
majesty. You knew where you were with
these faithful beasts. These new contrap-
tions, by contrast, are a menace. By in-
troducing a highly dangerous 90 degree
swerve to the entrance procedure, the new
doors are an HSE nightmare. To anyone
who has not tried the new geometry, heed
my warning – your inner ear can only take
a limited amount of abuse.
To those who make it inside, a gladi-
atorial spectacle is your prize. Turn back
and you’ll see carnage: freshers who can’t
hit that magic 90 degree bend, some pull-
ing 135 degrees and hitting the wall, the
lucky ones managing a 180 degree in-out
shimmy; medics forgetting to turn at all
and continuing straight on out; institution-
alised PhD students walking, mystified, at
the glass where the old doors used to be.
How Mr de Lussy Kubisa can claim
that there are “clear benefits to students’
comfort and safety” is frankly scandalous.
What management have managed to pro-
duce with this new vestibule is Nascar in
human form without the banked edges and
without the onsite paramedic team.
In the words of Mr. Fernandez Garcia,
a 3rd year PhD student in physics, “I
can’t go back in there. It was terrible”. A
glazed look came over his eyes before he
softly added, “you weren’t there man, you
weren’t there.”
In the light of this debacle, I seriously
think that Felix should have a closer look
attheiremploymentpolicies.Onecanonly
imagine that Mr. de Lussy Kubisa is some-
one who disagrees with labels on fruit,
among other things. Everyone knows that
individual blackberries, raspberries and
dried apricots should be stickered – allow-
ing someone to express their opinions who
thinks otherwise is ill-informed at best.
Ned is also doing Ironman Wales to raise
money for the Cystic Fibrosis Trust. You
can sponsor him online by visiting www.
justgiving.com/NedsIronman.
Ned Yoxall

