COMMENT
FELIX Friday 24 february 2012 15
L
ate on a Tuesday night, a
monster was born. One that
would increase exponen-
tially with size; prove that
Imperial students, for all
their academic brilliance, follow the same
behavioural patterns in a crowd as anyone
else; and leave many of us sleep-deprived
during our 9 o’clock lectures the follow-
ing day.
The phenomenon fizzled out as soon
as it exploded onto our screens: most of
the activity was within the first 24 hours;
another 24 hours later and the group’s
activity had mostly ceased. I know a few
people have looked upon it and wondered
how something like this hasn’t happened
before: there are a huge number of jokes
to be made from the relatively mundane
gripes about everything from Imperial’s
email system to the shortcomings of vari-
ous campus eateries. Nothing remotely
insightful,butthingsthatpeoplecanrelate
to. Indeed, upon the afternoon/evening
when everyone was done with lectures,
serendipitously on a Wednesday when
everyone is free after 12, the “memes”
came thick and fast, rapidly expending
any joke that is vaguely Imperial-related
or funny. I put the salient word in quota-
tion marks because technically these tem-
plates with text aren’t a meme – a meme
is only formed if it becomes popular and
spreads. You can’t just “create” one.
By Thursday, the Facebook page was
dominated by increasingly wordy pic-
tures, reposts and somewhat nonsensical
contributions – signs that the low-hang-
ing fruit such as the sex ratio or Imperial’s
workload have long since been eaten. It
takes insight, effort, or considerable luck
that you’ve stumbled upon an observa-
tion nobody else has in order to be funny.
Once all the easy jokes have been made,
you quickly find yourself scraping the
The great Executive Committee blunder
Imperial Memes: a post mortem
barrel since there’s no new input mate-
rial. Jokes are not a renewable resource.
On a positive note, among the convoluted
additions there were several genuinely
witty ones that were borne from an ear-
nest attempt to be original.Alot of people
simply don’t care enough to spend a good
hour thinking up something clever, so
they fart out the first thing that comes to
mind so they can be part of this fad. Fair
enough, it’s not something to be taken se-
riously, and if this annoys you then you
need to chill out: being unfunny is as-
ymptomatic of any remotely pathological
behaviour.
Two weeks on from the page’s incep-
tion, and activity has slowed to a trickle.
You still get the odd Slowpoke who com-
pletely neglects that someone else might
have actually taken the mickey out of
Huxley building’s labyrinthine layout al-
ready, but now most of the posts seem to
be made by those who make a genuine ef-
fort to make a new joke, since it’s no lon-
ger a bandwagon to jump upon as quickly
as possible any more – which encouraged
people to slam on their keyboards and
crack out a “meme” as quickly as pos-
sible.
One of the real “memes” in the Impe-
rial Memes page turned out to be making
jokes about the eastern Asians at Impe-
rial, which progressively ventured into
the realms of outright racism. In theory,
there is no problem with making a joke
about a stereotype as long as it ends with
that. However, issues can arise with the
very existence of a mild “racist” joke that
might well be quite clever and innocu-
ous within the right context: there is the
danger that without any sort of criticism
or way of keeping things in check then
increasingly more offensive comments
become acceptable. I suspect this is how
time after time you see once-hilarious
T
he Union’s Executive
Committee is charged
with deciding how the
Union is run on a day-
to-day basis. It approves
things like the Summer Ball, and the
whole Union’s, budget to make sure
things are progressing how the stu-
dent body wants them to. Three weeks
ago the Executive Committee chose
to reallocate nearly £35,000 away
from Clubs and Societies funding.
The rationale given by Michael Fos-
ter (Deputy President for Finance and
Services) for this 10% cut was that
“the total grant underspend [by clubs
and societies] last year was greater
than the changes to funding.” Grant
money left unspent at the end of the
year by a club is reabsorbed by the
Union and generally deemed as un-
necessary funding. Foster then went
on to say “the reallocated money will
be much more effective invested in
support mechanisms.”
It has since emerged that this figure
of 10% is incorrect and that an ac-
counting mistake led to the Executive
Committee being misinformed as to
the magnitude of the underspend. The
true figure is now understood to be
3.9% yet the reallocated amount still
stands at 10%, leaving clubs without
money which in the past has been put
to good use. This cut is going to have
a much greater effect than previously
thought by club officers – and indeed
the Executive Committee who made
the decision. Club budgets will be
decided by the Clubs and Societies’
Board (CSB) on the 27th February,
leaving the Executive Committee no
time to reconsider the cut undertaken
with erroneous information. The CSB
therefore has no choice but to cut 10%
of last year’s pot from needy clubs
and suggest that the members of these
clubs will have to make up the differ-
ence themselves.
The Executive Committee clearly
has a big impact on how Union societ-
ies and bars are run but many of these
decisions, including the one over
club funding, are made behind closed
comedians fall from grace: their mate-
rial slowly adopts a tinge of blue, slowly
enough for their audiences to get used to
it, until one day someone who’s never
watched any of their shows complains
to Ofcom and highlights what’s now
become Klansman-level racism. There’s
no danger of this slippery slope if you’re
taking a stab at faulty College facilities –
despite my sincerest hope that the new Li-
brary doors can feel it every time they’re
cursed at, their marginalisation will never
be a problem. Even the inter-departmen-
tal snobbery that as a physicist I dabble in
is fine: there is nowhere for “engineering
Does this caption help clear it up? Probably not
Two weeks on
from the page’s
inception, and
activity has slowed
to a trickle
”
slowed
slowed
“
Two we
Two we
from th
from th
is just applied physics” to develop into
anything more sinister than light-hearted
banter. You don’t need to resort to racial
stereotypes to be humorous; and con-
sidering their potential for corruption it
scarcely seems worth it for a hundred or
so likes on Facebook.
Imperial Memes were good, harmless
fun for about a day: there were definitely
a lot of laughs to be had, before “ME
RIVE IN RIBRARY” set the standard for
humour and jokes being recycled. Like
most things on the internet, the whole
thing mercifully burnt out just as quickly
as it came to life.
doors. The student body therefore
has no capacity to review financial
or commercial decisions made by the
Sabbatical Officers. These Executive
meetings offer a means for personal
views to be approved by an often ill-
informed committee. Clearly an over-
haul of the commercial decision mak-
ing process is required – either the
membership of the Executive needs
to be opened up in order to break the
Sabbatical’s strangle hold on it, or the
Union Council needs the capacity to
review these closed-door decisions.
Until then, we’ll still be burdened by
the risk of our elected officers making
poor commercial and financial deci-
sions.
Henry Abbot
Veli Akiner

