Arriving on the tenth floor of the Blackett
Building to watch Musical Theatre Society’s
(MTSoc) newest performance, their big spring
show The Wedding Singer, I get the feeling that
either the powers of my imagination will have
to be used to their fullest extent or I should
keep my expectations pretty low. I have to ad-
mit, I was rather happily surprised by the end.
I’m sure most of you know (and love) the
Adam Sandler classic comedy that goes by the
same name. Those of you who do will prob-
ably hear the words “musical adaptation” and
cringe – give it a second though! For those of
you who live in a box, The Wedding Singer
was a 1998 Rom-Com set in the 80s, starring
Adam Sandler (Robbie, a lowly wedding sing-
er) and Drew Barrymore (Julia, a loved-up ca-
ter-waitress). The story itself winds around the
‘Will they? Won’t they?’ scenario with plenty
of hilarity to drag it away from the romance
and into the comedy.
Having originally been an American film,
brimming with typical All-American charac-
ters, the dreaded American accent, without
fail, came into play in the MTSoc adaptation.
However, what was noticeably uncomfortable
in the first half hour slowly died down to the
point where the audience would barely no-
tice it at all; the numerous other distractions
onstage outshine the minor bother of the US
drawl.
One of the highlights of the evening was
the energy-filled ‘Saturday Night in the City’
where you will get your fill of group dancing
and 80s pop culture. George and Rosie’s – typ-
ical best friend character and the protagonists’
grandmother (played to great effect by Conrad
Godfrey) respectively – humorous duet ‘Move
That Thang’ will undoubtedly bring a smile to
your face and put a spring in your step. The
choreography, devised by MTSoc’s James
Perry, was executed sharply, tightly and with
vigour; the majority of songs were eagerly
belted out with a pleasant lack of bum notes.
Nigel Fullerton as Robbie and Lucy Forman
as Julia promise to bring real integrity to the
protagonists, putting their all into the songs,
dances and acting in general.
This is a great offering from MTSoc, and
once tech, props and costumes are in place
(they hadn’t gotten round to it yet on Monday
evening – hence the lack of information on de-
sign in this review!) I have great hope that this
musical will be as popular with the audience
today as the film was in ’98.
The Wedding Singer at the Union Concert
Hall. From 29 February – 3 March. Tickets
are on sale now: £6 students, £8.50 non-
students.
FELIX
Friday 24 february 2012
16
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
The Poet’s Column
Probably the Secret Police
By Nick Eisen
– But Britain isn’t like Russia –
It hasn’t got a secret police force.
– On the contrary.
It’s probably got a more efficient secret police
force than Russia.
The British secret police are probably so secret
that the people don’t even know they exist.
– They’re probably so secret that the government
don’t even know they exist.
– I prefer it that way.
– So do I.
– Ignorance is bliss as they say.
– Maybe you’re one of the secret police.
– Maybe you are.
– Maybe we both are.
Emily Pennington
MTSoc
serve up
some
matrimony
cheese
Tim Arbabzadah
If you go down to the woods tonight you’ll be in
for a surprise, as there will be a teddy bear’s pic-
nic. Alternatively, if you go to the Blyth Gallery
(fourth floor of Sherfield) you will find another
surprise. It’s a shocking day for you, isn’t it.
Twisted is a collaborative effort between
LeoSoc and PhotoSoc. It consists of multiple
pieces of string forming a maze. This represents
the mind, and walking through it is a journey
through the disorder of thoughts, or at least
that’s what I got from it. Moving down the cor-
ridor had the aim of feeling claustrophobic; im-
mersed in the overbearing activity of the mind.
Unfortunately for me, due to the fact that my
stature is roughly that of Tom Cruise, it wasn’t
quite as claustrophobic for me.
The creative process was very much organic.
The concept was conceived and developed at
Twisted exhibiton
gets us all strung up
house parties. Luckily, everyone remembered
what happened and what was decided on, so the
project could go ahead.
The final finished article really is impressive.
The straight pieces of string form a corridor
with curves that don’t seem possible. When
looking at it from the inside, the way the string
bunches together is very reminiscient of scien-
tific, textbook, diagrams of neurones. It will be
there until Monday, so make sure you go and
check it out.
Utopia Competition
This summer, Soho Theatre presents a brand new
selection of short plays from a mixture of emerg-
ing and established writers, around the theme of
Utopia. To accompany this exciting collection of
plays, Soho Theatre are looking for 6 young art-
ists to join the project with accompanying visual
art works around the same theme.
Any artists, under the age of 26, should send a hi-
res image of the artwork they’d like to enter, 100
words about the piece along with a short biogra-
phy of themselves, and contact details to utopia@
sohotheatre.com by 16 April 2012.
Photos by Yilei Wu

