BOOKS
FELIX Friday 24 February 2012 17
Never let Ishiguro go
Sure, this book involves a parallel soci-
ety, human cloning, and organ farming,
narrated through the eyes of an inde-
pendent and vaguely rebellious protag-
onist, but still: Never Let Me Go isn’t
what you would expect from a work
of science fiction. With little futuristic
technology and absolutely no extra-
terrestrial life forms to be seen, Kazuo
Ishiguro’s most recent novel captures
the reader’s attention not with ray guns
and worm holes but with characterisa-
tion and imagery.
Before I go on, I have a confession to
make: I watched the movie first. I know,
I know; I’m doomed to picture the char-
acters as the actors that portray them,
I couldn’t possibly approach the novel
in quite the same way, everything’s hor-
rible, why would I ever do that, et ce-
tera. And while I certainly suggest you
read the book before seeing the movie
(which may or may not have something
to do with Keira Knightley), the latter
doesn’t ruin the former. Don’t let hav-
ing seen the film put you off. (Just as
long as you remember that Robbie is,
in fact, not the newest incarnation of
Spider-Man.)
Set in England during the late twen-
tieth century, the novel’s premise is
an alternate history in which medical
technology has already advanced to the
point of human cloning. Seeing this as
a possibility for the improvement of
medicine as a whole, society has estab-
lished clones as a source of spare parts:
they are raised like cattle (except with
more instruction in the arts) in institu-
tions eerily reminiscent of boarding
schools until they reach adulthood, at
which point they begin ‘donating’ non-
vital organs one by one until they ‘com-
plete’. As a result, human lifespans
have been expanded – and collective
conceptions of ethics eliminated.
The protagonists are three such clones
who have grown up together at Hailsh-
am, one of the ‘schools’. Narrated by
Kathy, one of the three friends, the sto-
ry is a series of recollections from her
past. It is split into three parts – repre-
sentative of three stages of their lives –
with less than ten pages taking place in
the present tense. This structure opens
itself up to a lack of plot focus: more
time is spent layering flashbacks within
flashbacks, their context often ruled by
Kathy’s thought processes, than retell-
ing key events.
The book is narrated in the first per-
son and so the reader’s only window
into this parallel world is through
Kathy’s mind. Her passively observant
personality colours this window with a
strange sense of detachment. It is not
until the reader puts the book down and
again begins to look at things through
his own eyes that certain absurdities
of their society reveal the full extent
of their strangeness. Kathy, like all the
other clones, is, for most of the novel,
so complacent with what is done to her
that the reader initially struggles to find
the events as revolting as they truly are.
The novel is thus an exercise in self-ex-
ploration for the reader as much as the
characters; I, for one, thought it shock-
ing how non-immediate my moral re-
sponse to the story was.
‘Completion’, the euphemism for
death used by all characters throughout
the book, is one example of the way
characters confront the world they were
born into: they don’t. Even though they
are (mistakenly) informed about their
fate at a young age, the trio of protago-
nists rarely questions its nature and, if
they do, it is in the form of throwaway
comments rather than fundamental con-
siderations of the value of their exis-
tence. While each character is aware of
the truth, they seem to refuse to admit it
to each other, allowing each individual
to continue life in their own bubble of
fictitious safety.
Having read only one other of Ishig-
uro’s pieces, The Remains of the Day,
I suppose I’m not really qualified to
make sweeping generalisations about
his writing voice and stylistic idiosyn-
crasies. But certain elements are still
apparent. Without spending significant
amounts of time simply describing the
scenery, Ishiguro manages to create
strikingly beautiful images to accompa-
ny his stories by relying on the reader’s
own memories and imagination. Also,
in both novels, the characters and their
relationships are all Very British: emo-
tional restraint and tact underline their
interactions. Fellow Eddie Izzard afi-
cionados will remember the compari-
son: “Oh, I’m... oh. Well, I –” “What is
it, Sebastian?” “I thought you... I better
go.” It is not the kind of drama you eat
popcorn to.
The downside of this is that, occa-
sionally, conversations become almost
A call to arms in the fight to save our libraries
I first found out about The Library
Book in a small addendum to a piece
in the Guardian by Lucy Mangan,
one of my favourite columnists, an-
nouncing that she was one of the
contributors. Investigating further, I
became even more interested upon
finding out that the contributors
also included such impressive fig-
ures as Stephen Fry, China Miéville
and Alan Bennett. Yet, even having
known beforehand the amount of tal-
ent involved I have to say that the
book far exceeded my expectations.
In essence The Library Book is
simply twenty five highly skilled
journalists, writers, broadcasters and
other public figures coming together
to each write a short piece, whether
a fictional story, essay or deeply per-
sonal recollection, focusing on their
love of libraries. The book comes in
at under 200 pages and yet manages
to include a breathtaking degree of
variety. From Mangan’s hilarious de-
scription of the rules she would put
in place if she were ever to set up her
own library, to Bennett’s engrossing
and fantastically detailed account of
the importance libraries played in
his early life and education, to Ju-
lie Myerson’s story of how libraries
helped her become a writer – which
was honestly the most inspirational
thing that I have read in the last year.
Given the situation that many li-
braries now find themselves its no
Kazuo Ishiguro applies his unique writing style to the realm of science fiction
“Movement through
the novel is guided
not by actions or
events but by memo-
ries and realisa-
tions.”
Maciej Matuszewski surprise that many of the contribu-
tions have a political spin. While
references to specific politicians
may quickly become dated the cen-
tral message – that libraries are vital
resources that can not only help the
disadvantaged but also bring com-
munities together – is timeless. In
the words of Karin Slaughter – “Kids
who read become students who do
well in school. Students who do well
in school go to college. College stu-
dents graduate to good jobs and pay
higher taxes. Libraries don’t service
only left-wingers or right. They don’t
judge by class, race or religion. They
service everyone in their commu-
“This should be re-
quired reading for
all those ... who are
considering closing
down libraries.”
nity, no matter their circumstances.”
Indeed The Library Book shows
how these fantastic institutions in-
fluenced successful people from all
backgrounds and walks of life. This
book should be required reading
for all those in government who are
considering closing down libraries.
In short, this is both an entertain-
ing and stimulating read that should
appeal to anyone who loves books.
The skill of the contributors is visible
from the outset and the short length
only serves to make its laudable mes-
sage all the clearer and means that
the book it accessible even to those
who don’t have much free time.
too stilted for comfort. As a whole,
however, it works; Ishiguro’s style
only enhances the impression that the
characters are living next to each other
instead of together, that many of their
relationships (with the exception, per-
haps, of Tommy and Kathy’s) lack a
certain element of depth because they,
as a mechanism of self-defense, refuse
to open up. The presence of this closed-
ness throughout the novel makes rare
moments where it is broken all the
more powerful. One scene, in particular
(and I shan’t spoil it) carries such raw
emotion that, in less than two pages,
it brings to the reader an explicit un-
derstanding of the character’s strug-
gles, and a revelation of the author’s
purpose. This would not be nearly as
powerful were it not for the context of
the rest of the novel, which gradually
builds up the backdrop onto which the
truth is painted.
Movement through the novel is
guided not by actions or events but by
memories and realisations. Don’t get
me wrong: it’s not boring. It’s beautiful.
(Granted, this is coming from someone
who much prefers character-based writ-
ing. If, browsing the sci-fi shelf, you are
looking for action-packed adventures
and heroic acts, you may be disap-
pointed.) Page by page, Kathy comes
to terms with her past and, as a conse-
quence, her future. Ultimately – and I
say this at the risk of being incredibly
cheesy – it is a story of love and the
meaning of life. The element of science
fiction is used as a foundation for the
development of characters and messag-
es that are as applicable to our world as
it is to theirs.
Call me cynical, but I find the quality
of writing in this genre rather hit and
miss. Never Let Me Go can safely be
filed under ‘hit’.
Annina Sartor
Kazuo Ishiguro is one of Britain’s most celebrated authors
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk

