MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 24 February 2012
18
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Sleigh Bells
Reign of Terror
Mom & Pop
2012
On Monday, Azealia Banks will play at Heaven.
Sadly, I will not be there. Those damned academic
commitments trumped my desire to go see the
hottest female rapper since Missy Elliott said she
wanted to search around in my trousers for Lord
knows what (well, I assume she was talking to me,
but one can never be quite sure when it comes to
mass-distributed music).
Missing the gig is a bit depressing for two rea-
sons: 1) It’s probably the best opportunity I’m go-
ing to get to throw myself at Azealia Banks’ feet
and propose to her, thus beginning what I term,
‘My Incredible Awesome Life as Mr B.’; and 2) I
haven’t been to Heaven for a looooooong time and
I’m beginning to miss it.
The last time I was at Heaven (a gay club which
moonlights as one of London’s best music ven-
ues) was Valentine’s Day 2011 – I assure you, it
was moonlighting as a music venue on that date.
Sleigh Bells were playing that night and my friend
Jamie and I had gone to see them. It was a great
night of delightfully unnecessary guitar riffs, pum-
melling rapid-fire drums, and gratuitous crowd-
surfing by vocalist Alexis Krauss. Admittedly there
was also a bit of moshing with 16-year-olds but
hey, kids, if you’re going to get rowdy at a gig, be
prepared to get owned by a skinny Imperial socio-
path on a power-binge.
Sleigh Bells are a band who are on a sort of
a power binge. They know they’ve got big musi-
cal guns, and they know that if they point them
in our general direction things are going to get
freaky. Like their debut album Treats, Reign of Ter-
ror is full of clashes, thumps, and bangs that are
designed to make you go a bit mental and try to
break your neck. They suffuse this unashamed
brashness with Alexis Krauss’ caramelised peach
voice in a way that makes you want to piss off
your neighbours by turning the volume up to ‘Bro,
that’s quite loud’ at 4am in the morning.
My good friend, and doppelganger, Matt Allinson
recently posted on Facebook that the “jury is still
out” on this album. I’m planning on breaking into
his flat in the middle of the night, sneaking into
his room while he’s sleeping, and jumping onto
his bed with with a boombox blaring ‘Comeback
Kid’, screaming “THE JURY’S DEAD FROM ALL
THE AWESOME!!!”
If you have experience in breaking into people’s
homes in the small hours of the night, tweet me
@kadhimshubber and lend your expertise. If you
think things are getting a bit out of hand and ille-
gal, tweet @sleighbells and say, “Look at what your
music has done!” Better still, tweet @AzealiaBanks
and tell her what great husband material @kad-
himshubber is...
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Alex Ramadan
as it thought it was and had a rather grating
chorus. These annoying patches are only fleet-
ing and the album has enough beautiful mo-
ments to be deemed a successful return to ac-
tion for the band. The end track, with the same
title as the album, is a shimmering joy which
leaves the listener in no doubt that The Shins
are back.
Subpop, which the band used to be on, are
one of my favourite ever labels. The Seattle
record label which has had everything from
Nirvana to Fleet Foxes on is normally a
sure-thing for me if I am ever in need of some
bands to get me through the day. I was there-
fore disappointed to hear that The Shins would
not be releasing on Subpop, as it seemed to
me to be a marriage made in heaven. It strikes
me now though, after listening to the album
as a whole, that by self-releasing, The Shins
have been able to produce a more mature and
polished album. It may not reach the heights
of Wincing the Night Away but Port of Morrer
does bring a freshness which was sorely miss-
ing in 2012. The lolloping indie pop that was
once plastered wall to wall at the beginning of
the new millennium is now only done well by
a few bands and this album shows that Mercer
and co deserve to be considered contenders.
The latest album from The Shins, Port of
Morrer is released on March 19.
before reaching Coldplay levels). There is an
underlying message of hope throughout the
album which I never garnered from the three
previous albums which all had quite dark un-
dercurrents. The Shins’ new found maturity
brings with it a more expansive sound includ-
ing string sections and a glockenspiel, with
some tracks even verging on funk.
There are certain times, however, when the
songs fail to hit the mark, including ‘It’s Only
Life’, which was not as heartfelt and moving
I
would like to be honest and say that I
had little hope for The Shins in 2012.
Their Grammy nominated delight,
Wincing the Night Away, shoved lead
singer/songwriter into the limelight but
nearly five years have passed and the musical
landscape has changed significantly. When I
heard the announcement that The Shins were
going to release a new album, Port of Mor-
rer, in March, on frontman James Mercers’
own label Aural Apothecary, I pondered as to
where the poetic indie pop which I used to so
enjoy would fit; guitar music has dropped en-
tirely out of the charts and the young dreamers
who would once have been exposed to jangly
alternative rock through watching the OC are
now transfixed on the overproduced pomp that
is Glee. Let us say that it is not 2007 anymore.
I am pleasantly surprised to report then, that
after listening to Port of Morrer, none of these
issues matter. Mercer has returned with a ma-
ture and elegant album, and the wait has cer-
tainly done him and the band no harm.
The album kicks off with the energetic
‘Rifle’s Spiral’ which is certainly one of the
standout tracks for the album. The next track,
‘Simple Song’, was released as a taster to the
album and so the keen-eared among you may
have heard it already. It is thoroughly enjoy-
able with a catchy chorus that nearly verges on
epic (but thankfully manages to contain itself
The Shins are back, but should I care?
Mark England ponders the question on everybody’s lips
Reviewed in 60 Seconds
Mark England
Simon Hunter
Everything looks better in the dark
Having been released 40 years ago, this re-
view is probably a bit late. For those of you
who are less than familiar with the work of
David Bowie this album is a great place to
start.
The Rise and Fall of Ziggy Stardust and the
Spiders from Mars is about the human-like
alien, Ziggy Stardust, sent to earth to bring
humanity hope in the last five years of its ex-
istence. This is one of the shortest and most
accessible of David Bowie’s albums, and in
my opinion his best. It is full of cracking pop/
glam-rock songs, some of which you will be
more than familiar with, all of which will
leave you keen to press repeat.
Alex Ramadan
Usually, listening to Snares would be a great
way to burn calories through hearing. This time
around, Aaron Funk stretches time out into a
groove, letting shine through all the intricacies
so deeply ingrained in his work. The result gives
the sensation of atmospheric electrocution in
slow motion.
The title sums it up: a kaleidoscopic take on
an otherwise somewhat monotonously upbeat
genre. Less expected are the orchestral samples
interspered between percussive jabs akin to
sticking a knife in a toaster.
The aural equivalent of realising that the
paracetamol you took to help you sleep contained
a significant amount of caffeine.
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Last June saw the release of Hollie Cook’s self-
titled debut album. Unfortunately it passed me
by at the time – the wonderful lilting reggae
rhythms would have been the perfect accompa-
niment to summer.
Many parallels can be drawn with Lily Allen;
both are London-based daughters of famous
musicians (even if Keith Allen is better known
for his acting) and both make their own, indi-
vidual brand of pop music. Despite this, there
are large differences in their output; Cook’s
vocals more dreamy, floating effortlessly over
catchy reggae hooks. It may still be gray outside
but this album is one sure to convince you that
summer is only just around the corner.
Simon Hunter
Venetian Snares
Cubist Reggae
David Bowie
The Rise And Fall of Ziggy Stardust
and the Spiders from Mars
Hollie Cook
Hollie Cook
★★★✩✩
★★★★✩
★★★★★

