MUSIC
A few of you may remember an article which ap-
peared in Felix Music last term about a trampy
man who played an acoustic gig on a boat. Well
this man is about to have his Imperial fame replen-
ished as this week I acquaint you with UK post-
hardcore masterminds Meet Me In St. Louis.
The band, fronted by aforementioned trampy
man, Tobias Hayes, are once again from Surrey,
and after forming in 2005 only had a very short
lifespan of 3 years. Despite their massively pre-
mature demise, Meet Me In St. Louis are loved
so dearly within the UK independent music scene
that they even have a day dedicated to them (24th
September, the day their debut album was re-
leased) so everyone can remember how amazing
they were. This widespread affection for the band
is completely justified and I can quite proudly say
that they are possibly the best band I’ve ever laid
ears on (not literally, don‘t be trying any funny busi-
ness).
As you may have noticed, their name has been
stolen from an old American musical and this
theme continues with every one of their tracks be-
ing titled after lines from films (10 points if you
know which films they’re all from). But moving on
to the more important matter: their music. Meet
Me In St. Louis have an absolutely unique sound
and it truly is incredible to witness. They get the
mixture of sliding mathy riffs and intense break-
downs absolutely perfect and then incorporate
continually changing time signatures to keep you
on your toes. As musicians, the members of this
band will not fail to amaze you. It’s very rare to
listen to a track that the bass part catches you
doing some air-bass but bassist Lewis Reynolds
has well and truly made a slapper out of me (not
like that, I meant as in slapper of the bass – the
guitar, not the fish).
I don’t mean to undermine the other members of
the band; believe me, after listening to MMISL you
will be a master of the air-everything. Their debut
(and only) album Variations On Swing is essential
to your life and is by far one of the best pieces
of post-hardcore I’ve heard. So go get your filthy
hands on it, check out the recommendation and
see you all next week!
Writer’s Recommendation
Listen to ‘All We Need is a Little Energon and a Lot
of Luck’ (that’s a quote from the old Transformers,
by the way).
George Jeffery’s
A beginner’s guide to
post-hardcore
Lesson 7: Meet Me In St. Louis
FELIX Friday 24 February 2012 19
O2 Academy, Islington
Monday 27 Feburary
Be sure not to miss...
Dilated Peoples
At a loose end on Monday night? If
‘Worst comes to Worst’ go see the
old school hip-hop legends Dilated
Peoples. I can’t, so please do it for me.
Alex Ramadan
on you.
In conclusion, the band isn’t actually very
good. But to be honest, being good isn’t re-
ally the point of them. One doesn’t listen to an
AxCx album for the music in the same way one
doesn’t buy a Bugatti Veyron to use as a car, or
an Apple Mac to use as a computer. It’s about
the concept behind the product as opposed to
the product itself. Anal Cunt are just about be-
ing monstrously offensive in every possible
way, and by fully committing to the cause, be-
come so much greater than their sum of their
parts.
and incomprehensibly screeched lyrics. The
songs have little to no structure and barely last
more than 40 seconds. They are undeniably the
most difficult band to listen to ever. It is impos-
sible to take them seriously and herein lies their
beauty and the root of their enduring success.
AxCx were, for their entire 23-year existence,
a joke, and the joke itself is the key to their sur-
vival.
It’s not to say that Seth Putnam and the vari-
ous others that joined him in the band’s line up
over the two decades hated extreme metal and
were maliciously attacking it, rather they re-
alised that by making music that was so offen-
sive it could only be justified by having horrific
lyrics and song titles, and vice-versa. That the
joke itself was never explicitly stated made it
all the better, with a notable moment being the
release in 1998 of Picnic of Love, an album of
acoustic guitar, falsetto vocals and song titles
such as ‘I Respect Your Feelings as a Woman
and a Human’.
It’s not entirely clear who the joke was on.
Perhaps on the people who don’t get the joke,
or it’s actually on the people who do get the
joke but listen anyway. If you think about it too
hard however, you realise that you’re trying to
derive some profound definition of satire from
a 47-second long segment of white noise and
screaming entitled ‘I Pushed Your Wife in Front
of the Subway’ by a band called Anal Cunt and
get the sneaking suspicion that the joke is in fact
I
was exceptionally upset to hear about
the death last June of Seth Putnam, lead
singer of Anal Cunt (or AxCx). For
some reason, his death wasn’t reported
that widely in the mainstream media, and
in my post-teenage years my involvement in the
metal scene has been dramatically diminished,
so his passing passed me by. I loved his band
more than can possibly be explained in anything
approaching logical terms, but I hope to make
you want to listen to them anyway.
I rarely make it through an entire AxCx al-
bum, and never in polite company. I generally
dip in and out for about 5 minutes or so be-
fore having to not listen to anything else for a
couple of hours. To call this band challenging is
similar to calling World War II bad: undeniably
true, but so wildly understated as to make the
description seem fatuously incorrect. Simply
reading the track listing of an AxCx album is an
uncomfortable experience, and most of the song
titles are un-printable. For the full horror expe-
rience, I recommended going to the Wikipedia
page for their 1999 opus, It Just Gets Worse.
If you manage to do that without contacting
The Daily Telegraph, I would recommend pop-
ping the album on. The songs are the logical-
extreme of what can be considered music, and
that is exceptionally dependent on how loosely
one is willing to define “music”. Their sound
consists of a completely distorted guitar being
played semi-randomly with blast-beat drums
Featuring the ballad, ‘I Respect Your
Feelings as a Woman and a Human’
A very print unfriendly band
Matt Allinson mourns the loss of a beloved eccentric
Rama’s Hip-Hop
Tune of the Week
Hip Hop Tune of the Week’ and it comes from
someone I only came across for the first time
this week whilst bored and surfing the internet.
As his tumblr helpfully informs me Dunson,
formerly known as Kenton Dunson, is an in-
vestment advisor turned rapper from Mary-
land. ‘Count On It’, the first release from his
up-coming mixtape The Investment features a
sample of the song ‘Pinball Number Count’
which many will recognise from The Count
in Sesame Street. As a fan of the children’s
TV show I would have been sold on the song
based on the sample alone however Dunson’s
delivery and lyrics on this track are impressive
and with tight production from Phatboiz this
song is a definite winner.
Dunson
‘Count On It’
I vant to sack your Courvoisier
In a week where there have been many tracks
surfacing from artists of whom I am a big fan,
picking one in particular has been tough. Ulti-
mately though there can only be one ‘Rama’s
SWAG?
Tyler the Creator, showcasing this season’s ‘wigged Centaur’ look

