Lolcat (and loll-
emur) of teh week
So... sorry about the delay.
It’s taking its time, but it’ll be worth the
wait. There’s some serious data correlation
going on behind the scenes, with ‘crucial’
and ‘important’ findings winging their
way towards next week’s issue. Burning
questions will be tackled head on, that I
can guarantee.
At the same time, we’re busy preparing a
comprehensive pullout for your enjoyment.
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Tim Arbabzadah Alexander Karapetian Philip Kent Features Editors Katy Bettany Stephen
Smith Sports Editor Indy Leclercq Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editors Chris
Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Mark England Simon Hunter Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex Ramadan Fashion
Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors George Barnett James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors
Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett Philip Kent Jonathan Kim Puzzles Admiral James Hook Photo Editor Miles
Robertson Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah Iulia Gherman Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor Christopher Witham
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for services bought or sold, capiche? Good.
What’s on SEX SURVEY RESULTS...
...will be here next week
Our one response is set to yield most excellent conclusions
Tuition in Statistics and Computer Programming
– W9 1ET
We are looking for a statistics and computer pro-
gramming tutor for 1-2 hours tuition, two evenings
a week. Programming expertise should include:
Python, Php, Linux, Networking in general (such as
setting up a proxy server). For statistics: General
stats, plus knowledge of practical implementa-
tion including statistical translation. £40 an hour.
Please email Jessica@bonasmacfarlane.co.uk if
interested.
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 24 february 2012
2
Education Matters
As part of Teach First’s 10th anniversary, we will
be running a series of events across university
campuses in the UK entitled Education Matters.
Join us as we look at what we need to do to
close the gap in achievement, access and aspira-
tion between Britain’s poorest and wealthiest chil-
dren. High profile speakers will lead the debate on
what needs to be done, and you can have your say
on why education matters to you.
Confirmed Speakers
Richard Aung | Partner Engagement Director,
Teach for All
Rich graduated from Imperial in 2005 with a Mas-
ters in Biochemistry and used his passion for the
subject to teach Science as a Teach First teach-
er in London. After two years, he joined BT as a
consultant before moving to Teach For All (TFA), a
global network of over 20 charities whose mission
is to expand educational opportunity. As the Part-
ner Engagement Director for Teach First he acts at
the link between Teach First in the UK and the rest
of the global network.
Professor Becky Francis | Director of Education,
RSA
Becky’s expertise and extensive publications
centre on social identities (gender, race & social
class) in educational contexts and feminist theory.
Becky has been involved in the commissioning of
social research via her work for the Economic &
Social Research Council and British Educational
Research Association, and contributes to the
shaping of the field in social justice and education
via her media work.
Brett Wigdortz | Founder and CEO, Teach First
Brett has led Teach First as its CEO since its
launch in July 2002. Brett wrote the original busi-
ness plan for the charity whilst working as a man-
agement consultant at McKinsey & Company and
then took a leave of absence to develop the idea.
Brett is a co-founder and trustee of Teach for All,
serves as a trustee of PEAS (Promoting Equality
in African Schools), and was named the 2007 UK
Ernst & Young Social Entrepreneur of the Year.
To book your place, email getinvolved@teachfirst.
org.uk.
CLASSIFIEDS
LT 220, Mech Eng Building
South Kensington Campus,
27 February 18:30-20:30

