FELIX
Friday 24 February 2012
22
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Time to place your bets an
Felix Film gazes into the future and predicts the winners for this year’s Oscars – read at
Best Picture:
The Artist
Who knew a black and white silent film could be this
charming, crowd-pleasing and moving? In this advanced
day and age of sound, colour and computer graphics, Mi-
chel Hazanavicius (director) grasped the hearts of audi-
ences worldwide by taking cinema back to its roots. It’s a
love story between the two leads, but also a loving tribute
to Hollywood. Scooping up pretty much every single Best
Picture award there is in America, it’s hard to see such a
revolutionary film not walking away with the top prize. The
only real potential competition this faces is from another
critics’ favourite, Alexander Payne’s The Descendants, but
the buzz around The Artist is far too strong to topple at
this point.
Best Actor:
Jean Dujardin – The Artist
Without any audible spoken dialogue, the little-known
French actor managed to make everyone fall in love with
his handsome and likable George Valentine. The range of
his facial expression is astonishing, and the same can
be said for his tap-dancing skills. With Cannes, Golden
Globe, Screen Actors Guild Award, BAFTA and numerous
critics’ circle award wins already under his belt, it would
be a safe bet to assume that he is a shoo-in for Oscar
glory. George Clooney (The Descendants), the next best
in the category and the potential upset for the night,
needn’t be too disheartened. He’s already won an acting
Oscar back in 2006 for Syriana; and the Academy isn’t a
fan of repeat-winners.
Best Actress:
Viola Davis – The Help
A tough one to guess, since she faces such a strong
competition from the always amazing Meryl Streep, who
gives yet another superb performance in The Iron Lady
(the other nominees, I’m afraid, can all forget it). But the
tides seem to be turning in support for Davis. Having
won over her peers as evidenced by her Screen Actors
Guild Award win, the much underrated actress who has
always impressed in dozens of supporting roles, it only
seems right for her to be credited for her tremendous
performance here. It’s a shame to say that Streep’s third
Oscar win will just have to wait another couple of years.
There is also huge support for Davis’ film, whereas very
little exists for Streep’s Thatcher biopic.

