nd win big at the Oscars
t your own risk
ACADEMY AWARDS SPECIAL
FELIX Friday 24 February 2012 23
Best Supporting Actor:
Christopher Plummer – Beginners
It’s great to see so many veterans (i.e. old and have been
in the industry for a long, long time) in running for this
category and if/when Plummer wins on Sunday, he will be
the oldest Oscar winner (82) for acting. After decades in
the business and several major films, this is only Plum-
mer’s second nomination, but it will be wise to start pol-
ishing up on his acceptance speech. His restrained yet
absorbing performance as a gay father and recent wid-
ower who comes out of the closet in the last few years
of his life has won the critics over, having already scored
more than a dozen prestigious awards for this role. It’s
never too late to win an Oscar, and Plummer certainly
proves that.
Best Supporting Actress:
Octavia Spencer – The Help
Not much room for debate here. Spencer is hands-down
the most memorable performer of the lot as the straight-
talking, strong-spirited Minny Jackson. The fact that there
is much critical acclaim around the film is also a strong
pushing point, a key factor a couple of her competitors
seem to lack (Melissa McCarthy – Bridesmaids, Janet
McTeer – Albert Nobbs). The only real visible threat is
Bérénice Bejo who, if The Artist decides to clean house
on Sunday can cause an upset with a surprise win in
her category, but Bejo herself hasn’t been the subject of
much attention when it came to actual winning. Spencer
is a relative unknown, but this awards season will do won-
ders for her career.
Best Director:
Michel Hazanavicius – The Artist
It takes guts to make a silent, black and white film, but
Hazanavicius (above, with the canine star of The Artist,
Uggie) managed to create something truly enchanting
and extraordinary. It has been years since the Academy
paid attention to a black and white film, let alone a silent
one, but The Artist has been the talk of the town and Ha-
zanavicius is the man responsible for this miracle. Hope-
fully he has paved the way for filmmakers to take more
bold, unusual steps, but only time will tell on the legacy
he will leave behind with his latest work. But for the time
being, he should enjoy and soak up all the applause and
acclaim he and his film are currently receiving. He de-
serves it.

