FILM
Extremely long and incredibly clumsy
with his ridiculously dense brother, Gary
(Segel) and Gary’s also pretty dim fian-
cée Mary (Adams) – both of whom are
human, by the way – when he learns that
the old Muppets’ Theatre is closed and
about to be razed by an evil Texas ty-
coon, the imaginatively named Tex Rich-
man (Cooper), who wants to drill in the
area for oil. Horrified, Walter and Gary
search out Kermit (Steve Whitmire),
who is depressed from his dull post-the-
atre life, and together they round up the
old Muppets Gang.
They find Fozzie Bear (Eric Jacobson)
playing with a tribute group called the
Moopets in Reno, Gonzo (Dave Goelz)
running a firm selling toilet bowls and
Miss Piggy (Jacobson again) editing Par-
is Vogue. Among the guest stars is Emily
Blunt, amusingly reprising her role from
They’re back! YES! The fantastic Mup-
pets gang are back on the big screen with
a whole new feature length movie for the
first time in some years. Yes the story is
ridiculous, yes the jokes are cheesy, yes
the whole thing is mental but come on –
you’ve got to admit you’ve missed them.
In this latest tale of hilarity, the Mup-
pets’ greatest fan Walter (Peter Linz),
who is himself a muppet from Small-
town, USA, is on holiday in Hollywood
Director James Bobin
Screenwriters Jason Segel,
Nicholas Stoller, Jim Henson
Cast Jason Segel, Amy Adams,
Chris Cooper
The Muppets
Lucy Wiles
The return of the Muppet puppets
The Devil Wears Prada as Miss Piggy’s
secretary. Can the old gang pull together
for one last show and raise the $10m
needed to buy back the old studio from
Tex Richman?
The film is actually cleverly done. Us-
ing the Muppets’ long absence from the
television as a premise, this film neatly
taps into us old nostalgic former fans,
who still feel for these anarchic and
loveable characters, whilst also winning
over new followers. And even though
it’s very silly, it’s still hugely enjoyable.
The film’s humour and big-heartedness
are refreshingly disingenuous, the self-
referential jokes very well-handled.
As it always has been, the beauty of
the Muppet is the insincerity; in fact the
only sincere thing about it is the affection
emanating from the audience. Clearly you’re never too old to love The Muppets – he’s 32 and she’s 37
Director Stephen Daldry
Screenwriters Eric Roth, Jonathan
Safran Foer (novel)
Cast Tom Hanks, Sandra Bullock,
Thomas Horn
Extremely Loud and
Incredibly Close
John Park
A lot of negative hype surrounds the
latest film from Academy Award nomi-
nated director Stephen Daldry. As the
overly sentimental, manipulative film
that stole the much-coveted Best Pic-
ture slot from Drive, the lowest rated
film on Rotten Tomatoes that made it to
the nominations list in this year’s Os-
cars, it looks as though Daldry’s most
recent work won’t be receiving similar
attention his previous films such as Bil-
ly Elliot and The Hours enjoyed.
9/11 is a delicate subject that cannot
be taken lightly in fictitious work. Set
a foot wrong and you will most likely
offend those who were involved in the
incident. It remains a fresh wound, and
therefore the subject needs careful di-
rection. But with Extremely Loud and
Incredibly Close, Daldry is too careful
– and is so worried of doing anything
ever so slightly wrong that he struggles
to aim higher. The story centres on a
young, intelligent boy, Oskar (Horn),
who may or may not have Asperger’s
Syndrome (“the tests were inconclu-
sive”), who loses his father (Hanks) in
one of the Towers. He and his father
were close, and the many expeditions
his father sent him on, a set of elaborate
treasure hunts riddled with fascinating
clues and investigations, are no more.
A year goes by, and finally working
up the courage to enter his father’s
room which has been left untouched by
his mother (Bullock), he finds an enve-
lope with the name “Black” written on
it, and inside, a key. Interpreting this as
his deceased father’s one last expedi-
tion set out for Oskar to embark on, he
makes it his mission to find out what
this key opens and why his father left
it hidden for him. His hunt takes him
all over New York, as he slowly works
his way through visiting every single
person in the city named Black, asking
about his father. He meets a variety of
characters, none of whom can help him
regarding the key.
Every encounter he has with a differ-
ent stranger is somehow a new lesson
learned. A long list of fantastic support-
ing actors surround Oskar in his jour-
ney: Viola Davis and Jeffrey Wright
play a couple going through a divorce,
John Goodman is the sympathetic door-
man, Zoe Caldwell is the caring and
concerned grandmother, Bullock as the
mother he doesn’t quite appreciate, and
most memorably, Max von Sydow as
an old renter in Oskar’s grandmother’s
house who he befriends. He doesn’t
speak, and communicates by writing
notes, and with the words ‘yes’and ‘no’
written on the palms of his hands. With
absolutely no dialogue, von Sydow en-
ters the film with warmth, immediately
befriending Oskar, becoming the only
person the young boy can vent his an-
ger to.
The problem with Daldry’s film is
this: it only makes a lasting emotional
impact using its supporting characters.
Nothing substantial ever materialises
from the boy alone, and his quest to
finding the right lock for his key loses
steam very quickly, because something
this far-fetched will not have a mean-
ingful answer – and surprise, surprise,
the mystery behind the key is nothing
more than a simple misunderstanding,
almost rendering the long build-up use-
less. Oskar is furious when he finds out,
and chances are, you will be, too.
Horn, a new discovery in his remark-
able screen debut, doesn’t have the
luck of playing a likable part – often
the boy’s naive yet relentless obses-
sion is irritating to watch – as he lashes
out at those trying to help him. The
constant flashback that shows Oskar’s
painful reaction to his father’s death is
often too forced for its own good, and
it’s far from a pleasant experience be-
ing repeatedly bombarded with heavy-
handed scenes. Oskar is a unique child
but the film fails to explore any deeper
into the boy’s upbringing or surround-
ings that attempt to explain his charac-
ter.
Much like this year’s string of dis-
appointing films (J. Edgar, The Iron
Lady), Daldry puts together a won-
derful ensemble of actors, but doesn’t
know quite what to do with all the
talented individuals in the cast. There
are unquestionably moving moments,
thanks largely to Bullock (watch as
she steals the final few moments of the
film) and Davis, but even all of these do
not add up to much, leaving the central
protagonist with a lame little adventure
with hardly any sense of fulfillment.
The final scene is an even bigger disap-
pointment, brutally trivialising the rest
of the film. We spent two hours watch-
ing the trials and struggles of an im-
mature little boy with far too much to
handle at his age. But what does this all
mean and come down to? Shockingly,
not a lot.
Now listen, that headline up there is in no way sexual. I swear!!!
FELIX Friday 24 February 2012 25

