FOOD
FELIX
Friday 24 february 2012
28
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Dessert of the week
Blueberry Cobbler
A super easy dessert with which you can im-
press! Enough for two ramekins.
Ingredients:
The filling:
1 cup blueberries
2 tsp vodka
2 tsp all purpose flour
2 tsp sugar
1 tsp lemon juice (optional)
½ tsp lemon zest (optional)
The biscuit:
½ cup all purpose flour
90ml cold milk
1 tsp baking powder
3 tbsp cold butter cut in small squares
1 tsp sugar
A pinch of salt
Preheat your oven at 190°C.
In a mixing bowl, combine all the filling ingre-
dients but be careful not to mash the blueber-
ries. Place the filling in two ramekins. It should
be enough to fill 3 quarters of each ramekin.
In a separate mixing bowl, combine the flour
with the baking powder, the sugar and the
salt. The butter should be cut in small square
pieces and it should be very cold. This will en-
sure that the biscuit will have a good texture.
Mix the butter with the flour mixture but be careful
not to overmix. If you overmix then the biscuit will
be very hard. The milk should be cold and this helps
to achieve the required texture. Add the milk slow-
ly into the mixture. Again be careful not to overmix.
Place the biscuit batter on top of the blueberries
and brush with milk. In a tray put some foil and then
place the ramekins on top. This will ensure that your
tray does not get dirty from the blueberry juices.
Place it in your oven and bake for about 15
minutes or until the biscuit is golden brown.
Note that this recipe could be made with almost
any kind of fruit that you have in your fridge. It is
great made with apples or bananas or strawberries
but my personal favourite is the blueberry cobbler.
A great dessert to share!
Yiango Mavrocostanti
veggiewiz.blogspot.com
H
annah and Clare are two real
foodies who have become
vegan for a month to raise
money for the Multiple Scle-
rosis Trust. They’ve decided
to make the most of this opportunity and are
on a quest to find really good vegan food.
Follow their progress in their weekly column
to see if they really can find vegan food that
satisfies the meat-eaters among us.
Hannah’s Cheap and Easy Vegan Medi-
terranean Couscous – serves 1
Ingredients
70g giant couscous
Drizzle of olive oil
1 crushed clove of garlic
1 courgette
1 can of chopped tomatoes
½ teaspoon of sugar
1 medium red onion
Pinch of salt
1. Fry couscous (2mins) in oil or until gold-
en brown, before covering in water (approx.
two times the volume of couscous) and boil
until soft.
2. Chop onion into chunks, sweat in oil until
soft. Chop courgette into chunks and add to
onions along with the crushed garlic.
3. Drain chopped tomatoes and add to veg-
etables.
4. Add sugar and season before cooking until
piping hot.
5. Mix in soft giant couscous and serve.
This was the first week of our vegan chal-
lenge to raise money for the MS Trust. Al-
though we were dreading it, we secretly
hoped that this new lifestyle would make us
feel healthier, slimmer and happier; so far
it’s been a bit of an uphill struggle.
Although it’s been tough, we have dis-
covered the delicious Bear Granola Nibbles
sold in SAF (the tropical crunch flavour is
particularly good). They serve as a really
good snack to satisfy our food cravings, and
on the back of this we thought we’d sample
some snacky dessert delights. In Whole-
foods we bought a “Banoffee Cream” Tart
and a Banana Walnut “Chocolate” Chip
iced cupcake. To be honest both would be
topped by a good hobnob, but if we had to
pick one it would be the “Banoffee Cream”
Tart. It’s fresh, creamy and would be satisfy-
ing for any sweet tooth. On the down side
we don’t like that we can’t figure out what
the “creamy” topping is made from, and to
be honest there’s an overriding sense that the
whole thing is artificial.
For now our quest to find amazing vegan
food is still ongoing. Tune in next week! For
now we’re off to make a cup of tea (with
soya milk of course), and remember this is
all for the MS Trust so please sponsor us
at uk.virginmoneygiving.com/team/go-
ingvegan.
First week dish for the vegans. Alternatively, visit Gaucho for a juicy steak
Apologies to Clare and Hannah...
dients, nothing too complicated.
The preparation of the meal is quick and
very simple. Chop the vegetables, fry them for
a few minutes in olive oil, add the mince and
any herbs that you like (salt, pepper, paprika,
cumin etc) and fry until the meat is cooked.
Then add the tomato sauce and wait until
You have finished lectures, you have just re-
turned home and you are starving. The worst
thing is that you’re sick of eating fast food,
but you don’t have that much experience with
cooking.
Relax, this article is dedicated to you! There
are a lot of simple recipes, even for those of
you who have little time to go to the super-
market and prepare your meals. And the most
important thing is that these recipes have a
low budget and will save you a significant
amount of money if you make them often.
Remember, the secret of success in cooking
is to be creative, so let’s get our hands dirty
and try the following dishes. I call the first
one the “Easy Choice”. The usual ingredients
are some tomato sauce, an onion, a tomato,
some parsley, a lemon, pita bread and as much
mince as you like. Cheap and common ingre-
it is absorbed by the meat. At the end, add
some parsley and lemon and enjoy this deli-
cious mixture in a pitta bread, as shown in the
picture. You may find this recipe very helpful
if you have some meat left in the fridge, or if
you have small portions of various different
meat and vegetables that you don’t know how
to combine.
The second recipe has as prerequisites a few
potatoes, one or two tomatoes and an egg. Cut
the potatoes into small pieces and fry them.
Remove the oil from the pan, chop the toma-
toes into small pieces and add them to the pan
with the potatoes.
Finally, add the egg and wait until you get
an even mixture (this should take only a few
minutes). Add some salt and pepper, and your
meal is ready! See? Cooking is easier than
you think. Just give it a try, let your creativ-
ity shine and remember that practice makes
perfect.
Clare Cheng and Hannah Cox have survived the first
five days of their quest in veganism
Vegan Diary: Week One
Get creative in the kitchen after lectures
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Blood-red cobblers with a touch of booze

