The celebrations of Fairtrade Fort-
night start on 27 February – but what is
“Fairtrade” actually?
The Fairtrade Foundation is a non-
profit organisation that ensures that any
product marked with the Fairtrade Mark
conforms to the established standards.
These standards are in regards to ethics,
for instance, any hired labour producing
the consumable must be paid at least the
regional average wage. The Fairtrade
Foundation also sets a cap on the mini-
mum selling price of the products. This
ensures that the farmers’ labours will al-
ways bring in enough money to sustain
their families and communities. This
is not true for non-Fairtrade producers
who have to work for zilch in famine or
when demand and subsequently selling
price drops to nothing, meaning not be-
ing able to make ends meet.
Another example is that health and
safety must be enforced to ensure that
machinery is handled correctly and the
dangers are known. Specific hazardous
materials are also banned to ensure the
safety of workers, while environmen-
tally sustainable and natural methods in
farming are promoted.
On top of ensuring that producers are
not being ripped off, the Fairtrade Foun-
dation invests into a community fund to
be spent democratically by cooperatives
in the area on schools, clean water, new
roads etc.
Most people nod and agree that
Fairtrade is the right way to conduct
business, but are worried that being ethi-
cal means that your wallet has to suffer.
This is an untrue myth: 100g of coffee
has the standard price of £2.68 while the
average Fairtrade price is £2.50 while a
pack of 8 bananas typically costs £1.38,
Fairtrade bananas cost £1.15. As stu-
FOOD
FELIX Friday 24 february 2012 29
The Imperial Fairtrade Food Awards have started!
Cook your favourite dish including as many Fairtrade products
as possible and send your recipe and photos to food.felix@
imperial.ac.uk
Prizes:
1st : £30 voucher for EthicalSuperstore.com
2nd: Leon: Ingredients and Recipes
3rd: Just Desserts: 50 sweet surprises using
Fairtrade ingredients
Each participant will receive free entry to a Fairtrade
Fortnight event of their choice, including the popular All You
Can Eat Ben & Jerry and Cheese & Wine nights! Therefore, the
earlier the entry the greater the choice of events!
dents it may be hard to think of anything
but Sainsbury’s basics, so when you
are considering buying your 55p half
a kilo of rice, really question: how on
earth can it be so cheap? Who is stand-
ing behind this product and hence what
it would mean to them for you to invest
50p more?
What was that relationship between
price and quality again? Oh yes – in-
versely proportional.
So to help you with taking the step
towards more ethical buying, during the
Fairtrade Fortnight the Union Newsa-
gent will be selling Ubuntu cola along
with the usual Fairtrade products, Ca-
tering across the university will be of-
fering prizes for buying Fairtrade via a
stamped card system, as well as the ICU
Fairtrade society will be hosting a vari-
ety of events.
The products will be easy to spot – it’s
those marked with the Fairtrade Mark.
Olivia Tillbert
Food and the Fairtrade Fortnight

