More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut
and shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by
highly experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
To book an appointment,
call 0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
NEWS
FELIX Friday 24 february 2012 3
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Postgraduate panel highlights issues
at the old BBC Worldwide site near
Shepard’s Bush, but the price that the
College will charge remains unknown.
There are also plans to provide a £25
per week subsidy to postgraduate ac-
commodation, but many who attended
the meeting were left sceptical whether
this would be enough.
As Felix reported last month the Rec-
tor justified the decision by referring to
a 2011 postgraduate focus group which
revealed “that students wanted the
College to provide accommodation in
areas within 30 minutes travel time to
the South Kensington campus [which]
provides students with opportunities to
socialise as they wish”, which is not the
case for Clayponds. Since then many
Clayponds residents have spoken out
in praise of Clayponds, with one com-
mentator on the Felix website saying
that “the suggestion that there’s nothing
to do around Ealing is silly, especially
in light of the busy Clayponds social
calendar”, and that he can make it from
the hall to College in “35 minutes”.
Thursday’s forum also questioned the
College’s interpretation of last year’s
focus group, with it being pointed out
that it showed that while postgraduates
were “willing to accept a commute” as
long as it was under “90 minutes”, that
“the preferred rent for postgraduate ac-
commodation is £145 per week”.
Speaking at the forum Scott Heath,
Union President, said that he would
raise these issues with the College Ac-
commodation Office, the Rector and
the College Council. Speaking to Fe-
lix he admitted that the Management
Board decision meant that getting a
reprieve for Clayponds would be “dif-
ficult” but said that he “will push hard”
to increase the accommodation bursary.
Views about the Holland Club, offi-
cially a private members club for non-
academic staff but in practice frequent-
ed by many postgraduates, were more
mixed. Heath indicated that while the
Union will fight to ensure that student
have a say in the running of the Club
he believes that the College’s proposed
renovation of the space could have
many benefits, including providing a
common area for taught postgraduates,
who are currently barred from the Se-
nior Common Room. Others, however,
pointed out that many postgraduates
are happy with the Holland Club as it is
and Club manager Kevin Young com-
plained of the lack of communication
from the College. Director of Commer-
cial Services Jane Neary did not attend
the forum.
Tang has told Felix that while he has
reiterated “the importance of student
input in this project” he wants to em-
Future of Clayponds and Holland Club remains unconfirmed
phasise to students that “the proposed
plans is to convert Sherfield Building
level 0 into a 24/7 PG social space
with a refurbished Holland Bar and
not a closure as previously reported”.
He said that he believes “PG (Taught),
who cannot currently use the SCR, can
really be benefitted from this change
and I expect the new space can be used
by PGs who are not normally based at
South Ken.”
Feedback provided by attendees to
the forum showed that the vast major-
ity of attendees were still opposed to
the Holland Club proposals. Heath,
however, pointed out to Felix out that
with only 35 people of the 100 or so
invited to the event on Facebook actu-
ally attending it was unlikely that the
forum was truly representative of the
postgraduate population. He said that
“change can be a good thing if done
right” and that those who did attend the
forum where the ones most vocally op-
posed to the changes.
The Union is planning to run a post-
graduate survey in the coming weeks,
which will include questions on accom-
modation and the Holland Club. Heath
hopes that he will be able to persuade a
large proportion of the student popula-
tion to participate, giving both the Col-
lege and Union a more accurate idea of
what postgraduates want.
Clayponds residents have voiced their support for the continuation of the postgraduate accommodation
Neville Miles
...Continued from Front Page

