Hyderabad city, India. Capital of the
state of Andhra Pradesh, the second
largest city in South India, and my
hometown for the first few years of my
life. Having lived in Hyderabad for
almost a decade, and visited the place
virtually every year since, you can
understand why the city is extremely
close to my heart. It would undoubted-
ly be impossible for me to write about
everything Hyderabad offers in a mere
few hundred words, and I wouldn’t
dare attempt it, so I’m going to tell you
about a few of my favourite sights.
Hyderabad is a perfect mix of al-
FELIX
Friday 24 february 2012
30
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel Editors: Chris Richardson
Dushi Arumuganesan
TRAVEL
Vaidehi Konteti luring historical charm, reflecting the
town’s heritage, and bustling mod-
ern areas: a clear demonstration of
the town’s progress. Quirky narrow
streets, beautiful mosques and packed
bazaars are unquestionably the defin-
ing features of Old City. Here, you also
find Hyderabad’s most famous land-
mark, Charminar. The word Charminar
literally means “four towers”, and this
is an apt description of the monument.
Charminar, which artfully houses a
beautiful mosque, is an ornate structure
consisting of four minarets connected
by arches. Climb up the 150 steps to
the top of a minaret, and experience
impressive views of the immediate Old
City area and beyond.
Just off one of the side roads from
Charminar is Laad Bazaar, famous for
its bangle stores. The bazaar is a spec-
tacular sight of shimmering stores and
throngs of people bartering for the best
prices. The shopkeepers have always
reminded me of hawks as they wait
around the shop entrances, swooping
down on us at first sight, and luring us
into their stores.
“Hyderabad is a per-
fect mix of historical
charm and bustling
modern areas”
A whistle-stop tour through the sights of the famous Indian city
The Heart of Hyderabad
While the Old City does have its at-
tractions, my favourite spot is actually
a more modern sight: Birla Mandir.
This is a handsomely designed temple,
of Sri Venkateshwara (a Hindu deity),
built entirely from white marble, which
is situated on top of the hill “Naubath
Pahad”. The graceful beauty that the
edifice radiates never fails to draw me
in; and with fine, intricate carvings, the
charm is definitely not lost when seen
up close. Furthermore, the panoramic
views of Hyderabad from the court-
yard outside the temple, are simply
spectacular; seeing the pinpoints of car
lights and hearing the distant noise of
busy city life below, a feeling of calm
always envelopes me.
From the vantage point of Birla Man-
dir another signature sight of Hyder-
abad is visible. The mammoth Buddha
Statue, particularly beautiful when lit
up against the evening sky, is located at
the centre of Hussain Sagar, a massive
artificial lake in the heart of the city.
Surrounding these waters are an ar-
ray of noteworthy attractions. Firstly,
Tank bund. This is a popular prom-
enade, where families go to buy ice-
cream and coconut water from the
street vendors whilst absorbing the
view of the lake and the monument.
Necklace Road, where one may come
across the famous NTR gardens, is a
recognized hangout for Hyderabadis.
Here you can also find “Eat Street”; I
am not exaggerating when I say that
every imaginable type of cuisine can
be found here. I tend to stick to the In-
dian delicacies, but you’ll be more than
spoilt for choice, whatever your taste.
Beware though, during holidays it can
feel like the whole city has flocked to
this area, so unless you particularly
want to battle for seats and devote
hours to queuing up for your food,
steer clear of this zone.
Over the years, I have travelled to
many parts of India and each place
appeals to me in its own way. Hyder-
abad’s rich Indo-Muslim-British his-
tory and its geographically almost-cen-
tral location within India, has shaped it
into a city of many influences and this
is what sets it apart from the rest. The
city has so much to offer and I could
continue to write about Golconda Fort,
Faluknama Palace and so on, but I
would never be able to do it full justice.
Experience it for yourself, and like me,
you may just find a spot for Hyderabad
in your heart.
“The graceful beauty
that the edifice radi-
ates never fails to
draw me in”
“Hyderabad’s rich
history and location
is what sets it apart
from the rest”
Get shopping... So much to see, so little time

