and the unmissable psychedelic rock
band Neon People.
Of course, we’ve also catered for
those with a slightly softer preference
in music with a couple more gentle acts:
Youtube singer-songwriter Aniya Das
and acoustic musician Danny Adams.
So, whether you’re going for the great
music, our fantastic raffle prize draw,
to support our project in Tanzania or
simply for a night out at Metric to have
a couple of drinks, don’t hesitate to get
tickets in advance for £3 or on the door
for £5.
Find out more about Raincatcher’s
projects and events at www.Raincatch-
erImperial.ac.uk!
Music for Charity
Raincatcher Imperial has been working
tirelessly for the past months to fund-
raise for a water harvesting system in
Tabora that will give clean, drinkable
water for local schoolchildren. Coming
up tomorrow (Saturday 25 February) is
one of our biggest events of the year,
our Metric Night: Let it Rain.
Getting people involved in a charity
is never easy, not least because it usu-
ally involves asking people to give you
money and get nothing in return! This
is why it is becoming more and more
widespread for charities to mix music
and charity. Listen to good music while
helping children in third-world coun-
tries – what more could you possibly
ask for?
For tomorrow’s Metric Night, Rain-
catcher has invited several notable art-
ists to perform live. Space Heroes of the
People, for example, are guaranteed to
liven up our event with nothing but a
double bass, some random drumming
and their charming voices inspired by
(quote) modern architecture, medieval
history and soviet science fiction!
We’ll be having in-house acts as well,
by performers from within Imperial
College including acoustic performers
Carmay Lin and Edward Myung, our
rock guitarist and singer Oli Clipsham
Matthew Murchie
Raincatcher Imperial hosts a night at Metric in the name of charity
Raincatcher Imperial took over Metric last year as well
L
ast Saturday, I went with
my housemate to watch
Solemates, the event put
on by Singapore Society.
I had never been to any
of their events before and didn’t really
know what to expect. I found a packed
Great Hall, which had been converted
into a theatre. The first thing that hit me
was the Great Hall could actually be
used for things other than exams.
The show started with a couple of
videos and then the two hosts came
on. They were genuinely funny, got the
crowd in a good mood, and really set
the tone for the evening.
The main event took the form of a
musical complete with a live band be-
hind the sets. The basic story was a re-
imagination of the classic Cinderella
story. The hero is the quiet, sensitive,
and obedient Umber Ella (Bennett Tan).
His two loud, obnoxious twin brothers
always boss him about and make him
do their chores. To add to his woes, his
father doesn’t let him go to the ball,
where he’d hoped to meet the princess.
His Fairy Godfather (played by the bril-
liant Lei Ting Wei) comes to his rescue
by helping him and his mop go to the
ball. There he loses his shoe, in a comi-
cally over done way. The princess finds
him by using the smell of his feet, and
they are united.
The script was injected with humour,
and managed to pull off the boy gets
girl ending without being too cheesy.
The comedic aspects of the show were
pulled off with ease, certainly no awk-
ward “pause for applause that doesn’t
come” were in sight. One part I particu-
larly enjoyed was when during a dance
sequence something is knocked over.
Then, right at the end, the workers are
fixing the table – it was a call-back that
everyone appreciated and didn’t really
expect. All of comic relief characters
were on point – the audience certainly
seemed to think so as well. The twin
brothers always got a laugh for there
back and forth exchanges. I think that
the Fairy Godfather was probably my
favourite though. In the words of one
person I talked to after: “I’ve never
heard someone talk Singlish so fluent-
ly”. Luckily for me, there was a guide
to Singlish included. That’s not to take
away from the main character, who suc-
cessfully portrayed the shy, everyman
character that you were rooting for.
The dance routines were all sleek and
well-rehearsed, and looked quite com-
plicated. Admittedly, my dancing expe-
rience consists of drunkenly waving my
hands slightly, but still, it was impres-
sive. The singing was all pretty good as
well. I would reserve special praise to
Esther Chan, who played Mop and had
a great voice.
At the end of the night, when the cast
and production team all took a group
photo, you really get a sense of how
many people are involved in this. Hav-
ing tried before to organise a group of
friends to meet up at a certain time in
a certain place, I can appreciate how
much of a headache it is to get people
together.
The show had two directors, Jaren
Soo and Yap Chinhua. They seemed to
relish the opportunity to be involved
in something so large. Yap Chinhua
said: “The opportunity I was given to
freely create a little world in which the
story and the characters inhabited was
amazing. There was much excitement
within the individual teams – dance,
chorale, acting, logistics, music, lights
and sound – but it was the final synthe-
sis and pulling together that I really en-
joyed.” He made sure to point out that
the show took a lot of effort. “It was
almost magical, but there was actually
no magic, only hard work and the sheer
desire to create everything from noth-
ing.” He then went on to say why the
show is so important to the society: “the
musical – an imperative component of
our events calendar – allowed us Singa-
poreans to come together, to move and
breathe with one aim. It created what
our Society holds dear- a home away
from home.”
At the very end, outside, they gave
out some snacks and a free beer. A lot
of people remained outside Sherfield
to talk, and overall I went home happy
and impressed that a group of people
doing this in their spare time could
come up with something as polished as
it was.
Singapore Society’s Solemates
Tim Arbabzadah goes to the Great Hall for something that isn’t an exam
I would photoshop a love heart, but that may be hard to justify to my supervisor in terms of time well spent...
Imperial College Singapore Society
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
Friday 24 february 2012
32
felix@imperial.ac.uk

