Seek knowledge and be the judge
Falling into a set routine of university
life, we can find ourselves sinking into
a certain state of mind where nothing
really matters much beyond the next
deadline or what we are planning for the
weekend. When we switch off like this
we can sleepwalk through the days and
find that life simply passes us by. As we
watch time slip past, we seldom take the
chance to ask the important questions:
Why are we here? What is the meaning
of life? We leave these questions unan-
swered in the back of our minds.
Doesn’t university offer us a place
where you discover more about the
world and search for truth? Imperial
seems to equip us so well at answering
questions of how the world works, in all
its angles and complexity and yet, de-
spite this diligence, we don’t ever seem
to consider why the world works the
way it does. Questions of what it means
to be human and what purpose life
serves (if any) should not be limited to
lectures in the humanities department
or late night ramblings after watching
The Matrix.
Maybe we can blame Imperial for not
putting enough emphasis on humanities
or that they give us too much work as
excuses for why we never have a chance
to stimulate such debates about the soul
and purpose of life. Whatever the rea-
son, maybe you could take a moment
and think about it for a second. Wheth-
er you are agnostic, atheist or religious,
people always think about where we are
and where we are going. The idea of a
soul is one that everyone has considered
and yet not discussed.
The Islamic Society will be looking
to ask some of these questions dur-
ing its ‘Discover Islam Week’ (DIW)
that kicks off on Monday 27 February
where we will begin by examining the
nature of the soul and exploring ideas
of spirituality and asking what it fun-
damentally means to be human. On
Tuesday 6 March, Dr Timothy Winters
will be asking what it means to be free
and whether ideas of faith and liberty
are fundamentally in opposition. What
does it mean to be free? Do you have
free will? Does being faithful mean you
aren’t free? Come discuss these ques-
tions in the Q&A.
The week will also feature exhibi-
tions on Tuesday 28 and Thursday 1
March in the SAF building on all as-
pects of Islam. The exhibitions will
consist of both informational posters
and decorative Islamic cultural decora-
tions. On the Tuesday there will be live
calligraphy and on both days there will
be food from parts of the Muslim world,
such as food that has been mentioned
in the Qur’an. There will people around
to talk to and answer any questions you
may have about Islam.
DIW is an opportunity for everyone
on campus to take a step back from the
work and explore these questions as a
collective. It is a chance to ask ques-
tions and get answers. So join us for one
of our talks or just pop by the exhibi-
tions for a little bite to eat and a wander
round, we look forward to seeing you
there.
IC Islamic Society
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 24 february 2012 33
“... people always
think about where
we are and where we
are going.”
IC Islamic Society presents a week of events inviting you to discover Islam

