SPORT
FELIX Friday 24 February 2012 37
Sport Editor: Indy Leclercq
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
It’s actually getting pretty tough to re-
member how many polo nationals I’ve
been to these days. However, this year,
with a new venue in the Midlands, we
were expecting something a bit different
and a bit special. With some stunning
new club shirts courtesy of the extreme-
ly generous Rydges Hotel Kensington
and the attached Polo Bar on Gloucester
Road we felt confident that we were go-
ing to at least look the part; with mar-
ginally more practice as a team this year
than on previous occasions we had fin-
gers crossed for a strong finish.
With the expense and the requirement
for time off of college it’s often pretty
tricky to get people to commit to the
event, but this year we managed to pull
together a lower intermediate team for
the third nationals in a row. By combin-
ing our weight with Oxford Brookes
(who train at the same school as us) we
managed to twist a couple of beginners
arms enough to make them play in a
mixed team as well.
Early on the morning of the 9th of
February we converged on Euston sta-
tion, with Miss Sheena Cowell meeting
me early for what she termed “moral
support” as I lugged the club kit across
London. My teammate and club chair
Mikaela Bryant-Meisner and other new-
bie Miffy Oliver showed uncharacteris-
tic punctuality and we all managed to
collect our tickets and board the 08:45 to
Rugby without issue. None of us envied
final teammate and polo stalwart Jon
Matthews’ decision to drive his motor-
bike up rather than joining us.
In true SUPA style, despite rocking up
with hours to spare before our first match
everything had changed by the time we
arrived. Miffy and Sheena would now
be split playing between 2 mixed teams
involving themselves, Oxford Brookes
and RVC and the ensuing confusion was
an excellent source of stress for the 4
or 5 people in charge of various differ-
ent things for the rest of the weekend.
As it turns out the first chukka (match)
of the tournament would involve Miffy
and two equally confused compatriots
from Oxford Brookes. The scratch team,
never having played together, did well
to hold their own and Miffy managed to
score the goal that kept them to a slim
defeat at 2-1. Later on, it became appar-
ent that the match had been recorded as
a draw rather than a loss, a mistake we
weren’t complaining about.
Later that afternoon Sheena and Miffy
got the chance to play together for the
first time; they had been bumped up a
division from the relatively slow Be-
ginner 3 section to the much more vi-
ciously contested Beginner 2s and a
team of West Country thugs from UWE.
The UWE lads had just the testosterone
level required to play at what was argu-
ably a dangerous pace for riders of that
level and the muscle to bully their way
around the pitch. Despite some obvious
fouls they clearly had the better of the
Brookes/Imperial combo. Regardless of
what some might call a whooping the
girls both claimed they enjoyed the op-
portunity to play at the faster pace. That
said, they barely had time to take it in
as their next chukka, another Beginner 2
match, came up pretty quickly.
Playing with a slightly different team
yet again we had to cross our fingers that
the girls would manage to gel quickly
and come away with a strong result. In
a scrappier but less one-sided match we
looked on with cheers of encourage-
ment and advice. Sheena, not wanting
to be outdone by the younger Myfanwy,
looked set to get her goal tally off the
mark as well but her consistent hitting
and well-timed run left her just wide of
the mark to get the equaliser. However,
you can never quite rely on your pony to
be entirely on your team and an unfortu-
nate ricochet from an opposing pony’s
leg finished the job Sheena started as the
match ended in a draw.
After this the confusion really set in.
The snow started coming down and the
pony providers and tournament officials
started looking at moving chukkas from
other days. Hungry, cold and tired it
took quite a while for us to figure out
that Sheena would have one more chuk-
ka that night, the final one of the day.
With the addition of Steff from RVC
and Sam from Oxford Brookes, the girls
made for a strong team and came away
with a runaway victory.
With the way the draw worked this
year our teams all got Friday off so we
settled in for a long night at the pub fol-
lowed by drinks in our rooms. There
was some pretty excellent food at the
B&B, a lot of drunken banter with
Brookes (which somehow resulted in us
owning the Brookes Polo T-Shirts) and
more rum, gin, vodka, wine, beer and
cider than I care to admit to. After an
extremely lazy day, Friday night saw us
slightly more sedate at our instructor JJ
Spark’s 40th birthday party. Needless to
say the B&B staff were not polo’s big-
gest fans by the end of the evening, and
with our Lower Intermediate team set to
play against Brookes first thing in the
morning the quest to leave each other
in a worse state in the morning provided
some additional amusement.
The stress of the morning hit new
heights when a lorry breakdown meant
our horses arrived late and we took to
the field significantly later than our op-
ponents only to realise that one horse
had taken a knock in the lorry and was
limping too much to play. A desperate
swap to another unknown pony left us
ready to play our training partners and
Mikaela, Jon and I got stuck in and were
surprised to find ourselves 1-0 up early
on. Georgie, Charlie and Tess were on
form though and a close fought match
ensued with Brookes keeping us at bay
and with a goal from Jon the buzzer
went with the score at 2 all. Needing a
result the match went to penalties and
taking the first one from 15 yards de-
spite a smoothly hit shot my attempt hit
the boards just to the side of the goal
and Georgie Haycraft’s level head and
increased experience sent us into the
lower half of the knockout. Our sec-
ond match saw us pitted against 3 girls
from Nottingham. We’d been on a high
during the Brookes match, working as
a team, lots of good natured yelling at
one another and pretty relaxed given
we were playing some familiar faces.
This didn’t last and our communication
started to fall apart in a scrappy match
ending one apiece. Jon got his chance to
make me feel slightly better about miss-
ing a penalty during the match and so
the resulting sudden death penalty fell
to Mikaela… unfortunately, this was the
second match we lost on penalties. Very
British – well, except Mikaela.
We were all pretty ready to drown our
sorrows and fortunately SUPAwere well
prepared for us with a fancy dress party
set to start at 9pm. As a white knight, his
faithful steed, an evil dragon and a dam-
sel in distress we were continuing the
very British vibe. However, for all you
freshers out there, a warning as to the
dangers of pre-drinks. If you pass out on
the bed in a onsie before the party you
are likely to earn yourself the nickname
“Drunken Dragon” or something much
less forgiving and less printable. Things
got pretty messy from that point and our
white knight totally failed to protect our
Ponies, snow and a broken jaw at polo nationals
Polo
Alex Savell
damsel in distress from falling over and
managed to lose his faithful steed and
roommate (who had the keys) at some
point during the evening.After a confus-
ing, and in some cases extremely hun-
gover morning we were just about ready
to look at getting on ponies.
Our rematch against Notts did not
go great; a strong game plan from the
Nottingham girls left us unable to really
impact the game as we wanted and one
slightly lucky backhand to score was the
only consolation in an otherwise very
one-sided match. The 2 chukka final of
the B3 was hard-fought and fast. De-
spite Sheena managing to finally get her
goal tally off to a proper start and both
players saying it was one of their high-
lights of the weekend the girls had to
settle for second place. The LIs, on the
other hand, were in the running for the
wooden spoon against ULU, one more
grudge match to conclude.
Things didn’t get off to a great start.
Left waiting in the warm up arena, we
trotted around, until in a moment of ex-
treme intelligence Bumble decided that
4 legs were too many to keep track of
and proceeded to trip over them. I took
an unceremonious tumble while a con-
fused looking Bumble clambered back
to his feet entirely unaffected. Things
didn’t get a great deal better on the
pitch; us against ULU is always pretty
physical and this wasn’t any different.
Lots of fouls, lots of ride-offs, lots of
action – inevitably, injuries happen. A
stray elbow connected with Jon’s jaw
causing an impressively swollen tongue
and what turned out to be a fracture.
All in all the clearly talented beginners
came out of the tournament with hang-
overs and exhaustion as scars, whereas
the club chair Mikaela managed to come
out of the LI tournament unscathed
and we expect her to proudly carry the
wooden spoon home. Still, some silver
ash trays, a good time, Jon lost for words
and the summer nationals yet to come;
I’ll take that.
There’s nothing My Little Pony about this
Classy outfits for a classy sport (no, that was not a class-based joke)

