NEWS
FELIX
Friday 24 FEBRUARY 2012
4
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
A paper by ICU Cinema which has been
passed by Imperial College Union’s Execu-
tive Committee, the policy-executing branch
of the Union, requested compensation for
£94.50 in predicted losses from showings
during the Film Festival, running from 10
January until 20 January, due to entry charg-
es to enter the Union building.
It is common knowledge that the Union
charge for access to Union facilities (name-
ly the bars and Metric) on Wednesday and
Friday nights, with access to other rooms
(such as the basements) permitted without
charge. However, on 13 January, the night
of a Stooshe event in Metric, the entry bar-
rier was being enforced “so tightly” that ac-
cess to the Union Concert Hall, the venue of
ICU Cinema productions, was not permitted
without paying.
The extra charge of £3.50 required by the
Union thus raised the cost of seeing a film
at ICU Cinema to £6.50 or £7.50, depending
on membership status. ICU Cinema also not-
ed that they were not aware of this restricted
access until “one of our committee members
was refused entry without paying”.
Reduction in attendance due to the addi-
tional charge has resulted in losses for the
society, which resulted in the paper request-
ing “compensation from the Steward and
Ents team for lost ticket sales totalling[sic]
£94.50”, a figure described as “conserva-
tive” by the paper.
ICU Cinema told Felix in a statement that
“ICU Cinema were happy that the union
exec committee acknowledged the difficul-
ties encountered by our event by approving
our compensation request. While a long
term solution to the problem of access to
club and society events in the union building
on Wednesday and Friday evenings has not
yet been reached, we hope one will be found
and implemented soon.”
A Union steward, who was not on duty on
the 17th, and also wished to remain anony-
mous, told Felix that there is a form that so-
cieties should submit when an event is held
within the Union building, to allow access
without charging. When someone attempts
to access such an event, the senior steward
checks the paperwork to see if the event re-
ally is being held. He continued to say that
the form may “not have been filled out cor-
rectly” or “may have been lost, or filed in
the wrong folder”, so causing the issue.
In addition to the approval of compensa-
tion, alternatives to the current arrangement
of the entry barrier were discussed – it is
partially required to ensure that the rooms
are not filled beyond legal capacity. It was,
however, acknowledged that this issue was
a one-off, with a lack of communication
from both parties being part of the issue.
The union also wishes to support societies
such as Cinema, especially as they want to
provide entertainment and activities for stu-
dents who do not wish to drink.
A loss of over £90 is significant for the
society, who is experiencing a “financial
deficit”. Running a film currently costs the
society £120, making the compensation,
which was given, a large proportion of their
running costs.
ICU Cinema awarded compensation
for Friday night Union losses
Philip Kent
Who’s game?
Varsity 2012
Imperial College vs Imperial Medicals - Wednesday 21 March
Matches at Harlington, Wilson House, Ethos and The Stoop Stadium, Twickenham, home to Harlequins RFC
56 teams, 28 matches
10 sports, 1 winner
www.imperial.ac.uk/sports/varsity
Tickets FREE for
Imperial students!
You must register for your free JPR Williams match ticket online by 7 March, or you will need to pay the full price of £10 at the gate.
In Brief
Deputy President (Education)
seized by hitsquad
On Friday 17 February, Deputy President (Educa-
tion) Jason Parmar was attacked in his office by
the RAG hitsquad and dragged to Queen’s Lawn,
where he was tied to a bench and left to rot. It is
as yet unknown who the perpetrators were, only
that they were wearing masks, RAG T-shirts and for
some reason had bags and rope (possibly from one
member’s special draw in his/her bedroom).
Their ransom demands were as follows:
– JP goes Bungee Jumping AND skydiving. Appro-
priate arrangements were made.
– JP leads the bucket collection on the Monday
Morning of RAG week at South Ken Station
– JP does a yard of ale, at his own expense, at a
time that the RAG Chair sees fit.
And he knows that if he doesn’t carry them out to
the letter, the same will happen again but involve
the Rector’s Office and a mankini.

