NEWS
FELIX Friday 24 february 2012 5
the students were stirred because “[the
Archbishop] is in some respects a rep-
resentative of the college”. There was
a widespread outcry amongst the ma-
jority of undergraduate students at the
University, showing their dismay at an
advocate of their institution “promot-
ing discrimination”. Through engag-
ing in the public discussion Selwyn
College have shown that Archbishop
Sentamu’s views are in the minority,
the majority of which support complete
marriage equality.
Alfredo Carpineti, President of IQ,
Imperial’s LGBT Society, commented
on the Archbishop’s interview, seeing
him as “hiding behind the banner of
preserving tradition and history”. Car-
pineti insists that following this view
would have meant, “women wouldn’t
be allowed to vote, the slave trade
would still be legal and most of the
advances in Science, Technology and
Medicine wouldn’t exist”.
He concludes that, “gay marriage is
long overdue and it’s not happening
overnight. I long for the day in which
discrimination of gender identity and
sexual orientation is no more. I cannot
wait for IQ, the Imperial College social
club that I represent to become redun-
dant: until we are all equal nobody is
really equal”.
However the former Archbishop of
Canterbury Lord Carey agrees with
Archbishop Sentamu, but goes one
step further, declaring “[we] cannot al-
low this act of cultural and theological
vandalism to happen”. This view ap-
pears to also be backed by an alliance
of Bishops, Tory MPs and other legal
figures. Lord Carey informed press at
the launch of Coalition of Marriage
that he was worried and disappointed at
the Cameron’s move to redefine the na-
ture of marriage. “The government has
no mandate from the people to redefine
marriage”, he assured, continuing to
say his gay friends felt “uncomfort-
able” and “exploited”.
Both Archbishop Sentamu and Lord
Carey both put emphasis on the fact
that this issue is not about same-sex
relationships, the Archbishop stating
“I support civil partnerships”. The big
breakthrough of 2005 gave same-sex
couples many of the same rights as het-
erosexual ones, such as custody of chil-
dren, social security, and inheritance.
However currently same-sex couples
cannot be married in the same sense as
heterosexual couples.
Britain seems to be behind the times
in this respect as for example some
states in the US have legalized same-
sex marriages. The most recent state to
join this group is Washington. Gover-
nor Christine Gregoire signed the new
bill this month, saying, “I’m proud
our same-sex couples will no longer
be treated as separate but equal”. This
came about just before the Governor of
New Jersey vetoed a bill for the same
cause, despite it being cleared by the
state Senate, renewing a call for a refer-
endum. Democrats supporting the bill
were disappointed at this move, argu-
ing gay marriage to be a civil right that
should not be subject to referendum.
Even in a country where Christian-
ity has more influence same-sex mar-
riage has been legalized in seven states.
However seven out of the fifty states
still shows that there is a long way to go
in the ‘land of the free’. Over time the
UK has become an increasingly secu-
lar society, so why should the meaning
of the word marriage be isolated just
to that of being between a man and a
woman? The meaning of marriage has
already changed over time with the
changing of society. Previously mar-
riage used to be for status, family honor
and politics (as pointed out in the letter
by Selwyn College). Today the major-
ity of people marry because they are
in love, no matter their religion, race,
or social background. So why is it that
same-sex couples in Britain today can-
not do this also?
Archbishop “hides behind banner of preserving
tradition” over gay marriage statement
“Gay marriage is long
overdue and it’s not
happening overnight”
...Continued from Front Page
Selwyn College, Cambridge, gave Archbishop Sentamu’s views a cold reception following his statement
James Mottram

