2
2012
the
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Top of the tree – the GSA President is the public face of
all 5,000 postgraduate students at Imperial. As an active
member of senior College and Imperial College Union
committees, you will be responsible for overseeing all
events and representational activity. If you have a talent for
leadership, can be the voice of your fellow students, and
want experience in the inner workings of College, this is your
chance.
As the President’s right hand woman (or man), you will take
charge of all information and communication within and from
the GSA. By keeping in touch with the President, the Academic
& Welfare Officers, the Events Team and Focus Groups, you
will make sure that all PGs are up-to-date with the latest GSA
news and events. If you want to take the GSA in new directions
and serve postgraduates in innovative ways, this could be your
chance.
You’ll be responsible for the
GSA’s non-financial matters
our meetings, paperwork, and
electronic resources such as
the GSA website and wiki.
You’ll also work closely with
Imperial College Union staff to
keep the GSA in line with Union
developments and policies.
If you want experience of
volunteer management and
building organisations, apply
now.
You’ll be responsible for the
money – a four-figure annual
budget that covers events,
publicity and planning. You’ll
be crucial to the success and
viability of events such as the
Postgrad Mingle, Ball and Film
Nights. If you see a gap in
the market for postgraduate
socialising, and want to stake a
claim for postgraduates in the
social life of Imperial, then take
up this position now.
GSA President GSA Vice President
Secretary Treasurer
Have you ever felt there should be more to life than labs and reports?
Thought so. This is your chance to improve the life of Imperial postgraduates.
Break the mould. Every postgraduate is busy. Every postgraduate asks for
more social events and services. Can you help us end the cycle?
Attention all
Postgraduates

