The Sabbatical Interviews continue
Matthew Colvin talks to the remaining Deputy Presidents about the year’s highs and lows
FELIX Friday 24 february 2012 7
W
hat have you enjoyed
most?
That’s hard to say – it’s
been brilliant, it’s been ex-
citing, but most of all I’ve
enjoyed seeing actual change for students. Im-
perial has never had any support for students
who aren’t in halls and with a bit of effort I’ve
managed to secure funding for them directly
from college because they saw that that was
something that needed doing. I guess it’s just
the general thing of asking for something to
happen and if it’s reasonable it usually happens.
For example, in the cafeteria, there was no glu-
ten-free signposting. A group of students said
they wanted it so I took the issue to catering and
it happened. In addition, there wasn’t enough
storage capacity for cycle storage in Beit Quad;
students said that they wanted more and now it’s
more than doubled. It was also really satisfy-
ing working on the student experience survey
because we got a 50% response rate. College is
working on that and once that’s fully unpicked
a lot of interesting things will come out of it.
What have you enjoyed least?
Frustration: trying to get staff and students to do
things when they’re just too busy. Very rarely is
it lack of will – it’s almost always that it just gets
left by the wayside. There’s also the frustration
of not having enough time to get everything you
want to do done this year. However this is going
to change as I’ve created training for welfare
officers, so they’ll be better equipped to do their
jobs so, in turn, students are better equipped to
achieve their goals in terms of campaigns. It’s
also incredibly frustrating occasionally not be-
ing kept in the loop with big decisions. Some-
times you come up against a wall and are unable
to change things that seem easy but for bureau-
cratic or logistical and legal reasons that can’t
be done. It is also hard to let people know what
you’re doing and to maintain dialogue – it’s not
easy.
How far have you delivered on your mani-
festo points?
I had seven objectives. I would say the introduc-
tion of a GUM clinic at the Health Centre isn’t
possible, however I’ve been in contact with
charities to see if they’ll provide screenings on
campus, which is looking hopeful. As for the
rest of them, I’ve done them. Revamping volun-
teering is really exciting; we’ve engaged a staff
volunteer who is going to create a brokerage
service to help students achieve their goals. For
campaign weeks we have a new system – any
student can campaign on anything they want.
They just have to fill in an application form;
they don’t have to be a special officer to do that.
Apart from that I’ve come up with a billion new
objectives. We’re soon going to have poster
boards around college with welfare informa-
tion on them in the toilets. We ran the welfare
survey. We’re having Imperial’s first ever blood
drive – that’s coming up in the next few weeks,
and we are about to regain our fair-trade status
which we lost two or three years ago.
Is there such a thing as an average day?
There is no average day! For example, yes-
terday I was on the interview panel for a new
disabilities tutor from 10am to 5:30pm, after
which i had to catch up with 80 new emails in
my inbox. The day before that i had 5 hours of
meetings and emails in-between! However, in
an average week I have two or three big col-
lege committee meetings, five or six meetings
with senior college staff about issues such as
security, accommodation, counselling, and the
Health Centre. Then I have several meetings
with students, the welfare officers and some-
times students come to me with campaigns they
want to run or other personal issues.
What have you gained from being DPW?
I would say an appreciation of the importance
of prioritising big projects. If you spend all
your time answering emails or going to meet-
ings then you don’t actually get anything done.
I’ve also learnt how much the Union does and
how much you can get done in this position.
I’ve also been inspired meeting senior people
who have similar values and care about similar
things.
What advice would you give to those consid-
ering running for DPW?
You really need to think carefully about what
needs to change. You should find out what is-
sues there are, learn about quality legislation,
about how many different areas the DPW looks
after, and how completely different your year
could be depending on where you decide to pri-
oritise. You also need to realise how important
it is to decide and to have good officers so that
they can focus on certain areas while you look
after others.
W
hat have you enjoyed most?
I’ve enjoyed having an excel-
lent insight into the higher ed-
ucation system. I get to meet
representatives from other
Russell Group Student Unions at the Aldwych
Group where we talk about a whole host of top-
ics. Seeing how other institutions deal with issues,
and seeing how Imperial is unique in its own way
has been fantastic. I’ve also enjoyed learning time
efficient techniques that you can only learn where
you’re balancing a huge amount of things. I’ve
done things I didn’t think I could do in the past
by effectively organising my time. I was also for-
tunate enough to attend the IDEA league and take
charge in running my own projects, like Represen-
tation Week 2012 and working in a representation
team to produce the White Paper Response and the
National Student Survey Response.
What have you enjoyed least?
It was hard at the start to get things done as quickly
as I wanted. There are more bureaucratic processes
both in the College and Union than I naively antici-
pated. Although we aren’t one of the most bureau-
cratic institutions, occasionally it can be frustrating
when things move more slowly than you’d initially
planned. But a larger contributor to “Sabbatical
dissatisfaction” is probably the sheer amount of
meetings and e-mails. Some can feel like an inef-
ficient use of time as you often create a large work-
load through your meetings and then can be in the
position where you don’t have time to complete it!
How far have you delivered on your manifesto
points?
Obviously there aren’t any 8am starts, but the Col-
lege Working Day is still a contentious and very
much ongoing issue. It’s definitely not over yet,
and we’re trying to make sure we get involved with
all the future strategic conversations. One question
that’s in the back of my mind is ‘is an hour too long
or short for a lecture?’
This year we made sure our voice was still heard
by the government by writing our response to the
Government’s White Paper. Interestingly, the gov-
ernment actually listened to us and have scraped
penalties for early repayment. I’d like to think that
it wasn’t just coincidence and we helped the gov-
ernment make the decision. Soon, we’ll introduce
Notebox, which is a site for shared learning for all
Imperial students. It has notes, past papers and fo-
rums for every module in every department.
Regarding e-learning in general, it’s been fantas-
tic to see the idea of podcasting being resonated
around the university (mostly with students) in
line with my manifesto 11 months ago. We might
still be years behind places like MIT but we’ve ap-
proved Panopto as the method for video podcast-
ing after an extended pilot scheme where some
200 lectures were trialled. I ideally hope for an
rollout before the end of the year, but most likely
I’d be pleased if it can be fully rolled out by the
start of next year.
Is there such a thing as an average day?
Just like I’m sure every other sabbatical in the
country says, “there is no such thing as an aver-
age week”. But it’s true, our remits mean we cover
so many different areas that we’re always doing
something different each week, it’s what makes the
job so interesting. usually there are one or two of
the many large committees I sit on that are usually
two-three hours long, along with meeting with se-
nior College figures. The rest of the time is spent
with the huge amount of emails/tasks and some of
my own projects. Finally, for a break I’ll play some
squash and get out some of that excess stress.
What have you gained from being DPE?
I’ve gained an incredible insight into how a mul-
timillion pound company and university works,
the experience has been amazing. I’ve been privi-
leged to proudly represent all 14,000 students at
Imperial College. I get the opportunity to work
alongside world leaders, which is amazing. I’ve
gained more public speaking experience, and defi-
nitely improved my leadership and communica-
tion skills. I’ve been able to significantly improve
my non-academic skills in this role, which nicely
compliments the excellent education I’ve had so
far at Imperial.
What advice would you give to those consider-
ing running for DPE?
There’s a huge amount of emails and meetings. I
was surprised coming in and not being able to just
get on with your projects. There’s a large remit and
s it’s almost like being a consultant at times. I think
it’s really important that next year’s DPE remem-
bers that you won’t always get the quick results
you expect, there’s often complications, approvals
or financial issues. Also, a lot of the job is think-
ing strategically. You can’t and shouldn’t always
expect immediate results as much of what you do
will be sowing the seeds for future generations
of students, so some of your work often won’t be
seen for years to come.
Jason Parmar
Deputy President
(Education)
Nicolas Massie
Deputy President
(Welfare)
The DPW helps students with vari-
ous welfare issues that they could
potentially encounter in their time
at Imperial College
The role of DPE exists to serve the
academic needs of the student
body through liasing with academ-
ics and College staff
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
NEWS

