FEATURE
cle in the Guardian, Reilly stresses that
her work was compulsory, “I thought
the ‘training’ was optional, and it came
as a shock to be told I was required to
attend;” but the government’s website
for sector-based work academies (the
scheme in which Reilly was made to
participate) clearly states “taking part
is voluntary”. So which is it?
The government seems to have made
finding the answer to this question rath-
er challenging. Unlike other aspects of
Get Britain Working, the sector-based
work academy schemes seem to have
no formal regulations (or if they do,
they are not publicly available).
But it is possible to find regulations:
simply a matter of discovering an ob-
scure inter-departmental memo from
15th June 2011 stating that, “Service
Academies ... should now be known as
sector-based work academies.” Now,
Service Academies do have formal reg-
ulations (though they are a challenge
to find) and they make for interesting
reading.
“The decision to participate in a Ser-
vice Academy will be voluntary” ac-
cording to the regulations, but, “once a
claimant...has opted to participate in a
Service Academy, taking up the place
and attendance on the training becomes
mandatory.” You can agree or disagree
to a work experience placement, but
if you agree you are not allowed to
change your mind.
It sounds like Cait Reilly was the
victim of a very unfortunate misunder-
standing. Her adviser rightly told her
the training was optional, but neglect-
ed to mention that she would have to
stay for the entire training period if she
agreed to it. Moreover, in her Guard-
ian article, Reilly claims she was told
the training would last for one week,
rather than two: one week would have
been fine, two weeks forced her to quit
her museum job. Her adviser’s stupid-
ity cost her her job and, quite possibly,
spoilt her chances of ever becoming a
curator.
We might reasonably ask why Reilly
was offered the training at all. Accord-
ing to the DWP, “sector-based work
academies are one of the services that
Jobcentre Plus offers to help you get
back into work.” But clearly Reilly’s
job at the museum was more practical
than a Poundland training scheme, es-
pecially given that she “already had re-
tail experience,” as she claims. Presum-
ably her careers adviser simply forgot
to take this into account.
Who, then, is at fault? If we believe
the right-wing press, then we must
blame Cait for complaining at all, but
in truth Cait was completely right to
complain about her dreadful treatment.
A
spectre is haunting our
futures – the spectre of
unemployment. Most of
us are soon-to-be gradu-
ates: some of us, inevi-
tably, are the soon-to-be unemployed.
With every month, increasing numbers
of young people are finding themselves
jobless, and increasing numbers are
turning to the government for support.
But what kind of support do they re-
ceive? The “Work for your Benefits”
scandal has flooded the media with
allegations and insinuations about the
government’s treatment of the unem-
ployed: is it supportive help or slave
labour? As graduation day approaches,
we all need to be aware of what is re-
ally going on; we need to be prepared
for when unemployment comes for us.
A case study: Cait Reilly
You might be familiar with the story of
Cait Reilly, an unemployed Birming-
ham University graduate who wanted
to be a curator. Jobless for 18 months,
she eventually managed to find unpaid
work in a museum to gain experience
while looking for a paid job. But a
museum was not good enough for the
government: she had to cancel the work
and take up “training” at Poundland
instead, or lose her £53 per week Job-
seeker’s Allowance.
“It was not training, but two weeks’
unpaid work stacking shelves and
cleaning floors,” she wrote in the
Guardian, “I came out with nothing;
Poundland gained considerably.” Her
story started a wave of popular dis-
dain for what has come to be known as
“workfare”.
As part of its Get Britain Working
programme, the Department for Work
and Pensions (DWP) has introduced
new work experience schemes for the
unemployed “which aim to fight pov-
erty, support the most vulnerable and
help people break the cycle of benefit
dependency.”
But critics argue that the reforms are
nothing more than forced labour, that
they exacerbate unemployment and
that they provide corporations with
free work paid for by the taxpayer. “We
were doing exactly the same work as
the paid staff,” said Reilly, “If the Gov-
ernment subsidises high street chains
with free labour, they don’t have to
recruit. It causes unemployment rather
than [solving] it.”
Reilly has become a divisive figure: a
hero for those on the left, a lazy elitist
to those on the right. But for all its emo-
tional power, the truth behind her story
has remained elusive. In her own arti-
If we believe the left, then we must
blame the government for having this
scheme in the first place: understand-
able, but again wrong. The blame can
only be left with the careers adviser,
and her employers.
The fact that Reilly’s adviser evi-
dently caused her suffering raises the
question of how much power advisers
actually have. What do they have the
authority to do, who do they work for,
and are they accountable when they
make mistakes?
Forced labour or not?
The DWP’s Get Britain Working
homepage is a chaotic mixture of vari-
ous overlapping schemes, programmes
and initiatives. Aside from Reilly’s
sector-based work academies, the gov-
ernment also offers two other alleged
“forced labour” schemes: Work Expe-
rience and Mandatory Work Activity
(MWA). These are the source of a lot
of the popular anger about the Get Brit-
ain Working programme, and, as with
many things that cause anger, they are
not fully understood.
Writing in the Guardian, John Har-
ris said of people on Work Experience
schemes, “they can refuse to take part
or pull out during the first seven days,
but thereafter the work becomes com-
pulsory.” This is not quite true. Benefits
can, in fact, be removed from any job
seeker who, “has, without good cause,
neglected to avail himself of a reason-
able opportunity of a place on a train-
ing scheme.” In other words, if your
advisor suggests a Work Experience
scheme and you refuse it, you risk hav-
ing benefits stopped for anything from
one week to six months.
But fear not! There is a way to avoid
Work Experience: you must first agree
to it, then attend the first meeting, and
then within seven days you must tell
your adviser in writing that you wish to
leave the job. Simple! Not only is Work
Experience rather more punitive than
John Harris claimed, but it comes with
a prohibitively complex set of regula-
tions that take a lot of time to under-
stand: it must be easy to get caught out
by them, and get punished as a conse-
quence.
The Mandatory Work Activity
schemes are altogether more contro-
versial. “Where advisers believe a job-
seeker will benefit from experiencing
the habits and routines of working life,
they have the power to refer them to
a four week placement,” according to
the Department for Work and Pensions.
But according to John Harris, “people
are forced – via the threat of their job-
seeker’s allowance being suspended –
to put in 30 hours a week doing work.”
Again, rhetoric about MWA is every-
where but facts are harder to come by.
The content of these schemes is very
like Work Experience, the real differ-
ence is in the sanctions for failure. A
job seeker cannot choose whether or
not to participate in the scheme, it is
aimed at those who lack the motivation
to voluntarily take part in Work Experi-
ence. If you refuse the scheme, you lose
13 weeks’ JSA; if you miss a day of
work, you lose 13 weeks’ JSA; if your
supervisor is dissatisfied with your per-
formance, you lose 13 weeks’ JSA. If
you fail your Mandatory Work Activity
twice then the penalty increases to 26
weeks. And if the Welfare Reform Bill
becomes law, a triple failure at MWA
will cancel your benefits for 3 years.
If 26 weeks with no income (and pre-
sumably no food or shelter) were not
bad enough, note that there is no way to
appeal against the decision, even if you
believe the punishment to be a mistake.
The only way is to take the govern-
ment to court, a high-stress prospect,
even worse at a time when you have no
money to pay for travel or a lawyer.
If you are able to demonstrate “hard-
ship” then you may be able to keep
your benefits, but in the MWA regula-
tions the definition of “hardship” fo-
cusses almost exclusively on those who
are severely disabled, pregnant, or with
young children. There is little hope for
an able-bodied, childless job seeker.
It is disconcertingly easy to describe
all three kinds of work experience as
“forced labour”. In the case of MWA,
the work is genuinely forced; the other
cases provide ways of avoiding the
work, but the regulations are so un-
necessarily complicated that knowing
how to quit is a huge challenge in it-
self. I believe it is likely that the gov-
ernment made the regulations complex
on purpose: this way they can claim the
schemes are voluntary, while in prac-
tice they are not.
The advisers’ authority is also worth
questioning. In all these cases an ad-
viser has the power to force someone to
work, even when, as with Cait Reilly,
the work spoils their future prospects.
The MWA regulations tell us where
this authority comes from: the power
to force someone to work “may be ex-
ercised by, or by employees of, such
person (if any) as may be authorised by
the Secretary of State.” Up until now, I
had believed that the advisers were em-
ployed by the state as civil servants: I
was wrong.
The Job Centre Myth
In the popular imagination, Jobcentre
Plus is a government agency and its
careers advisers work for the govern-
A cartoon demonstrating the popular perception of workfare
FELIX
Friday 24 FEBRUARY 2012
8
features.felix@gmail.com
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
Truth, lies and tall tales abou
Stephen Smith conducts an in-depth investigation of the Workfare scandal. Is it really force

