ment. For example, Jim Murphy, a
lawyer who has been very critical of
the Get Britain Working scheme, said
that it “amounts to exploitation, de-
cided at the whim of a Jobcentre Plus
adviser.” None of this is true. In fact,
as of last year, Jobcentre Plus doesn’t
even exist at all. It is now merely the
public face of the DWP.
In its place are a series of private
employment consultancy firms. In
London, for instance, the MWA is
provided by a company called Seetec,
in the South East by A4e. A4e has a
particularly bad reputation. On Mon-
day, the Mail published an article stat-
ing “Labour MPs claim A4e’s record
on finding people jobs is ‘abysmal’”
and demanding that Emma Harrison,
the head of A4e, should stand down.
It seems that while Harrison was in
charge of A4e, she was also advis-
ing the government on its Get Britain
Working programme. Presumably not
just an innocent coincidence.
Nor is Seetec scandal-free. Ac-
cording to the unemployment rights
blog Intensive Activity, Seetec do not
provide refunds for travel expenses,
though they are obliged to do so in their
contract. MWA participants in London,
then, are forced to choose between
losing all their JSA, or spending it on
transport to and from their compulsory
work. A weekly London bus pass for
a JSA recipient is £9.40: for an unem-
ployed young person, this reduces total
weekly income to around £44. MWA
therefore makes life extremely uncom-
fortable for a jobless young Londoner.
It is worth remembering that the
careers advisers mentioned above are
employees of these companies. They
have the authority to make someone
take up Mandatory Work Activity, and
therefore the power to cause serious
suffering to an individual whenever
they so desire. Being private contrac-
tors, they are accountable to no one but
their managers, and there is no formal
means of complaint except, of course,
through the courts. It is impossible,
then, for even the Secretary of State to
sack a bad adviser.
The MWA contract between the gov-
ernment and Seetec is available online,
and it includes a clause stating that
Seetec (and presumably also the other
companies) are paid according to how
many people they get onto MWA. Pe-
raps advisers would force job seekers
into MWA in more situations than nec-
essary, just to make more money. Af-
ter all, making money is what private
companies do.
Government statistics released this
month (see above graph) show that
the ratio of MWA to Work Experience
participants – a ratio we would expect
to stay roughly constant – sharply in-
creased in September and again in
November; funnily enough, Septem-
ber was the month in which Jobcentre
Plus started being replaced by private
employment consultants. The joys of
privatisation...
Given all the above, I think it is fair
to say that the switch from Jobcentre
Plus to private consultants was a bad
idea. There is the corruption at A4e,
the illegal behaviour at Seetec, the very
high possibility of unnecessary forced
labour, and the unaccountability of the
advisers, and all of this just since Sep-
tember 2011. Conservatives... What
will they do next, privatise the NHS?
Who benefits?
All premeditated crimes have motives,
and the same can be said for the Get
Britain Working programme. Who
benefits? There are at least five parties
to consider: the job seekers, the gov-
ernment, the taxpayers, the employ-
ment consultants, and the corporations.
All could lose or gain from the work
experience schemes; looking at who
gets what might enlighten us to the
truth.
First, the job seekers. The scheme is
intended to help them, as the Depart-
ment for Work and Pensions says, they
mean to “fight poverty, support the
most vulnerable and help people break
the cycle of benefit dependency.” But
the latest unemployment figures reveal
8.4% unemployment, which rises to
22.2% among 16 to 24-year-olds, and
unemployment is rising all the time: so
the work experience scheme will not
have an appreciable effect on youth
unemployment. It is arguable that the
jobless are gaining skills for their CVs
for when the recession is over; but this
argument must be set against the fact
that job seekers are being forced to
work for under £2 per hour. I think we
can confidently say that, except in per-
haps a few circumstances, job seekers
do not benefit from the scheme.
The media and (to an extent) public
hysteria about “benefit scroungers”
was fairly ubiquitous in 2011; the Dai-
ly Mail’s infamous Jan Moir, for exam-
ple, said of Cait Reilly, “nobody owes
this girl a living. Least of all those who
work.” Then, Get Britain Working
probably seemed like it was working
for the government. Now, however, the
same Daily Mail has criticised the gov-
ernment’s handling of the scheme, and
on top of this there are public protests
and suggestions that the government
wants to return us to Victorian Britain.
As yet there are no reliable polls on the
matter so it is hard to tell, but I would
guess that the weight public opinion
is against the government in this case:
they thought they would benefit from
the scheme but they haven’t.
If taxpayers benefit from the scheme
it can only be because fewer people
are accepting Jobseeker’s Allowance,
either because they have returned to
work, or because they have had their
allowance removed as punishment.
Unemployment is rising, and has been
for some time, so the former cannot be
true. As for the latter, it is impossible to
tell how many people have been pun-
ished, since the published statistics are
so minimal they could hardly be called
statistics at all.
We do know, however, that 24,010
people were referred to MWA between
May and November 2011. If we as-
sume that 10% of these were punished
and lost their benefits for 13 weeks, the
government will have saved about £2
million, a negligible quantity. Since
MWA is the most punitive and the
most used of the three work experi-
ence schemes, we can guess a total of
about £6 million gained from the work
programme in 6 months. The taxpayer,
then, can hardly be said to benefit.
Comparatively, employment con-
sultancy firms must adore Get Britain
Working. Not only does the privatisa-
tion of Jobcentre Plus provide com-
panies like Seetec and A4e with very
lucrative contracts, but the govern-
ment is a customer which can (hope-
fully) never run out of money. There is
no doubt that these companies benefit
greatly from the programme.
With corporations it is a much more
complex story. Let us take Tesco, for
example. At first, they benefited slight-
ly from the scheme: for each MWA
placement, they got 120 hours of la-
bour for free. That’s £730 saved per
person, at minimum wage. But Tesco
is a vast corporation, so the amount of
money which they saved in this way is
negligible.
Recently, however, Tesco has suf-
fered from serious public anger. After
an advert was placed on the Jobcentre
Plus website advertising work at Tesco
in return for Jobseeker’s Allowance,
thousands of angry consumers attacked
Tesco’s Facebook wall threatening to
boycott the company until they stopped
employing MWA participants. Soon
afterwards, angry campaigners staged
a protest at a Tesco store in Westmister,
forcing it to close.
Over all, Tesco has not benefited
from Get Britain Working, and the
same can be said, though to a lesser
extent, of the other participating cor-
porations.
Stupid or evil?
We are left, then, with a government
scheme in which the only beneficiaries
are private employment consultants.
Although, were it not for the unan-
ticipated public anger, the government
and some corporations would have
benefited also. Job seekers, for whom
the scheme is allegedly designed, come
out worse off over all.
Which leaves one question: is Get
Britain Working a very poorly de-
signed scheme or a cynical attack on
the unemployed? I know which side I
come down on: government advisers
are surely not stupid enough to unin-
tentionally create such a dreadful pro-
gramme.
What we have here is a nasty scheme
which punishes the unemployed and
benefits only a few companies; which
puts power into the hands of unac-
countable advisers, and pays them to
abuse it; which has the ability to totally
ruin the lives of those it is explicitly in-
tended to help. But it is a scheme which
many of us may soon have to face.
As graduation day approaches, and
youth unemployment rises, the Job-
seeker’s Allowance looks like an in-
creasingly likely possibility. But we
must be wary: this is a programme
designed to trick the jobless, not help
them. From the moment we graduate,
we could all be Cait Reilly.
A fully referenced version of this arti-
cle can be found at rustylight.blogspot.
com
31% 33% 36% 46% 48% 55%
WE
MWA
Graph showing Mandatory Work Activity (MWA) referrals as a percentage of the total, compared with Work
Experience (WE). A sharp increase in September 2011 coincides with the privatisation of Jobcentre Plus
Graphic by Veronika McQuade
June
July
August
September
October
November
FEATURE
FELIX Friday 24 february 2012 9
ut “Work for your Benefits”
ed labour? Who is benefitting from it? And what is our government doing in our name?

