S a v e E n e r g y
Read this in the dark
control their breathing and heart rate at
will.
This article contains only a fraction of
what is k n o w n about snakes. Nothing has
been said about the diverse adaptions
species have made for living in varied
habitats, but to give some idea, here are
some examples.
The most hostile habitats in the world
are deserts. A well k n o w n desert snake
species is the Side Winder, these move in
the peculiar fasion as their name suggests
in order to not only gain a purchase on
the every shifting sand, but also to touch
as little of this hot sand as possible.
There are extensive deserts in
Australia. One snake that lives here has a
leaf like tail. It lies buried in the sand
with its tail exposed, attracting ants. The
ants attract lizards which the snake
catches and eats.
Another Australian snake is a green
tree snake w h i c h lives in forest habitats.
It holds onto a branch with its tail and
stretches itself out laterally, catching
birds, insects and even bats.
Snakes are not very social animals, but
when they do get together, they do so in
their hundreds. Rattle snakes for example
gather in caves and hibernate through
the winter, sharing each other's body
heat.
Snakes have equally wierd and
wonderful breeding habits. One of the
wierdest is the garter snake. The female
garter attracts the attention of several
males b y exuding perfume (pheremone)
as human females do, but a certain
number of males mimick her by exuding
their o w n perfume. This attracts males
away from her and the 'false female' goes
and mates with her.
Many snakes have ritualised mating
displays. For example w i t h the adder
males wrestle for females, doing what is
k n o w n as the adder dance, but they
rarely bite each other for this would be
fatal, too easy to do, and wastes v e n o m .
W h e n it comes to laying eggs, different
snakes have different ideas o n where to
lay their eggs. Some snakes, eg vipers,
keep the eggs within their bodies and end
up giving birth to live young. The grass
snake, on the other hand, decides it
wants nothing to do with its children and
ends up laying its eggs in decaying
vegetation and compost heaps where
rotting plants and fungi give off heat.
Other snakes, especially pythons, are
very motherly and wrap themselves
around the eggs, occasionally twitching
their muscles to generate body heat and
incubate the eggs.
So y o u see, snakes are variable in their
habits and lifestyles and not a lot is
k n o w n about them. Perhaps by learning
more we may be able to w a y lay our fear
of them.
Sustainability is the core of the Green
Party's thinking and they beleive that it is
the solution to our energy crisis, since the
fossil fuels that we use currently are
bound to run out sometime. It has been
estimated that, at the present rate of
consumption, the U K coal reserves will
only last for another 54 years. Other
fossel fuels, as well as nuclear, are finite
and so soorer or later all countries will
have to look for other souces of energy.
At the moment the U K has no set
energy policy. T h e Green Party beleives
that one should set be up w h i c h includes.
1. Care about future generations.
2. Care about other populations.
3. Ensure equal availability of fuels to all
nations.
4. Improve the amenity of our o w n
population.
However, saying something is needed
does not necessarily mean that it will be
incorporated into a countries policy. This
is because policies are always connected
to politics and every government prefers
to act is such a way as to ensure its o w n
popularity in the short run. This was
evident three weeks ago during the
second W o r l d Climate Conference in
Geneva. More than 130 countries agreed
to w o r k on drawing up an interenational
convention to deal with global warming.
Unfortunately specific international
targets for the reduction in carbon
dioxide emissions were not set as the
ministers could not agree on a level. This
is not surprising since each minister has
to look after his/her o w n counties
interests. A n d so with the privatisation of
the 12 regional electricity companies on
the 5th of December, M r Chris Patten
(Enviromental Secretary) could not afford
to agree to tough emission controls which
would make the electrical companies look
unfavourable to potential share holders.
This is the kind of thinking that needs to
be replaced b y a more long-term attitude
of looking into the future by 50 or even
500 years.
With regards to the world's population;
the future holds a rapid increase which
will result in an upsurge in the demand
for energy. Developing countries will
want to acheive the high standard of
living of their western counterparts and
so will increase their energy consuption. I
do not think that anyone has any
objections to people increasing their
standard of living, but the question is, can
the world afford this with regards to its
energy resources? Consider our current
methods of energy production and the
answer is N O . In the case of fossil fuels
the damage done to the climate from
various emissions is the m a i n obstacle,
whereas with nuclear power the waste
produced is the main problem.
So, what are the options? Well, for one
thing energy loss can be reduced so that
we can make the most of what w e have
now. Energy efficency can be improved
both in industry and in the home. Houses
can be designed with energy conservation
in mind; and even the insides of our
homes can be made more efficent. The
use of low energy bulbs saves 80% of the
energy a n o r m a l bulb w o u l d use.
In industry taxes and incentives can be
used to encourage a move towards l o w
energy systems and products at suitable
market prices. Transport and agriculture
can also be made more enegy efficent. In
the case of transport it should be stressed
that accessibility is more important the
mobility, and public transport should be
improved to such a level as to decrease
the need for private cars without loss of
amenity. W i t h agriculture energy can be
saved by decreasing the distance of
distribution as well as m a k i n g the actual
farming methods less intensive.
As well as increasing energy efficency
we need to gradually phase out fossil
fuels. Eastern European countries are
already facing a decrease in the amount
of oil available to them (because of a
double oil shock, resulting from the
increase in the price of oil and the
removal of Soviet oil). A similar situiation
will have to be faced by m a n y countries
in 30 years time w h e n w h e n fossil fuels
become scares. For the pahseing out
process natural gas can take the place of
oil, coal and nuclear fuels. This is because
the emissions from natural gas are 6
times less than those for coal.
The rest or our energy demands will
have to be met by renewable resouces
such as: solar, wind, wave, biomass and
geothermal. So far because of the heavy
investment into nuclear power renewable
resources have largely been ignored. But
they are bound to become important in
the near future, as even the govenment
agree that renewable resources can meet
20% of the national energy needs. The
technology is available but without
governmantal action and public pressure
the move to renewable resources will be
slow, and time is of the essence.
Therefore developed contries need to
review their energy production systems
and consider more efficent alternatives, in
order to set an example for the
developing countries hoping to follow in
their footsteps.
Shadi Khoroushi
11

