ff
FELIX
Loretto O'Callaghan on the new self-catering residence in Ealing.
Clayponds
Location
The residential site is located at South Ealing, on the border of
Ealing and Hounslow. It is just to the west of Gunnersbury Park,
close to the South Ealing Road and within cycling distance of
the College.
In January 1991, Phase 1 of the new self-catering project at
Imperial College's South Ealing Residential Estate, Clayponds,
will be completed.
W h e n the project is wholly completed (by September 1991), it
is envisaged that 400 students and some staff will live on the
Estate in a m i x of single rooms, double rooms and bedsitters in
housing as illustrated above.
This attractive accommodation is modern with bathrooms and
kitchens—ratio 1:2 students and not more than 1:5 students. A l l
kitchens are fully fitted with cooker, fridge and washing
machine facilities.
Each unit of accommodation is situated in landscaped gardens
with adequate on-site car parking facilities.
Local Amenities
A good range of local shops is to be found on the South Ealing
Road, a short walk from the site. The main shopping centre is
in Ealing Broadway a n d housing the Ealing B r o a d w a y Centre.
This provides a wide range of 'High Street' shops, banks,
restaurants and bars.
Eligibility of Applicants
The accommodation is available to persons studying until the
end of this A c a d e m i c Year, people w h o wish to remain in
London for the Summer a n d those w h o require accommodation
for the next Academic Y e a r 1991/92 Session. A n y b o d y doing a
four year course or extending studies will be welcome to remain
at Clayponds.
Exclusive Rents
Rents for the 1990/91 Session are:
£42 per week for a single r o o m
£30 per week for a bed in a double room
£82 per week for a couple (no children)
Bills such as gas and electricity are payable in addition to rent.
By Road
The site gives read access to Junction 2 of the M 4 M o t o r w a y
which, to the east, feeds into the Great West Road. This leads
directly into the South Kensington campus. T o the north of the
site is the Uxbridge Road which leads into Central London and
the Paddington campus. The journey into the centre is no more
than 8 miles.
By Underground and British Rail
South Ealing Underground Station, on the Piccadilly Line, is just
over half a mile to the north west of the site, and provides a
quick and frequent service to South Kensington. T h e journey
takes 15 minutes. Changing to the District Line at Earl's Court
provides a route into the Paddington campus. Alternatively,
there is a frequent British Rail local service to Paddington from
Ealing Broadway. This takes ten minutes.
Bus
Bus services are most useful for local travel in Ealing and there
is an extensive service. Buses, running at intervals of 15 minutes
or less for most of the day, connect Little Ealing and Ealing
Broadway, the main shopping centre. A similar service runs to
Acton—useful for access to sports and leisure facilities.
Cost
The most cost effective w a y for students to pay for their travel
is a weekly or monthly Travelcard, giving unlimited travel on
the underground, buses and British Rail within the designated
zones. The current cost is £12.40 for a weekly card and £47.70
for a monthly one. Single fare is £1.30 and return fare is £2.60.
A daily Travel Pass can be purchased for £2.30.
Recreation Facilities
Ealing has 11 sports centres, three with swimming pools. T h e
closest to the development is Ethertone Park which caters for
most indoor sports. The nearest s w i m m i n g pool is in Acton and
has just been refurbished. In addition to sports centres,
Gunnersbury Park provides outdoor tennis courts and a boating
lake.
Whilst Gunnersbury is the closest park, across K e w Bridge to
the south there are the Royal Botanical Gardens and
immediately to the west lies Osterley Park. In the summer the
local parks become a focus for activity, with the council
organising sports and cultural events.
Further Information
For further information please contact:
Loretto O'Callaghan or Alison Hollingworth
Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine
The A c c o m m o d a t i o n Office
15 Princes Gardens
London SW7 1 N A
Application forms for accommodation at Clayponds are available
now!
Closing date for applications for Phase I is Friday 14
December 1990.
WorldLeaders
in Student Travel
Low Cost Flights on Quality • Well Travelled Staff to
Airlines
• Special Fares for Students
3 Weekend Breaks, Tours &
Group Bookings
Guide You
Over 100 Offices
Worldwide
ULU Travel
Imperial College
Sherfield Building
London S W 7
ULU TRAVEL

