W I N A W E E K I N T H E U S A H&ilg (EfteJPP^Il W I N A W E E K I N T H E U S A
Enlighten the public
with science
A recent Gallup poll showed that many members of
the public view scientists as poor communicators reluctant
to discuss their work. For the sake of future science it is
important for a new generation of scientists to convey their
ideas clearly and to be willing to do so.
Professor Colin Blakemore of Oxford University
has urged scientists to dispel the ignorance about
science and technology recorded by the poll. "The time
has come," he said, "to tell the public what we do and why
it is important." With this aim, The Daily Telegraph
launched the Young Science Writer Awards in conjunction
with the British Association for the Advancement of
Science and Technology.
Entrants do not need to possess the literary abilities
of Dickens. The important thing is that enthusiasm should
shine through the writing, which will be judged by our panel
of scientists and science writers.
One of the judges, Sir David Philips, FRS, Chairman
of the Advisory Board for the Research Council and one
of Britain's most influential scientists has said of the Awards,
"We hope to encourage young scientists to take seriously the
problem of explaining what they do to the public at large."
The competition is open to young scientists in two age
21 and 22-28, whether working or students.
groups, 16-
Your article published
in The Daily Telegraph
Entrants are required to write a short
article of about 700-800 words that presents
any exciting scientific discovery or topic of
research in a vivid way. Your article needs
to be understood by the general newspaper reader. So avoid scientific
jargon and make your writing clear, informative and entertaining. Write
about any scientific discovery that you feel will be of interest to readers.
t w$xv& mu%u
BRITISH ASSOCIATION
Promoting Science mitlTeclniolofii)
Young Science Writer
Awards 1991
For example, you could write about research being
undertaken at a local hospital or laboratory, or something
you have read about in recent scientific publications like
New Scientist or Nature. Dinosaurs, the environment -
they're just some of the possibilities.
If you are involved in original research do not worry
if it is incomplete, citing other work is acceptable if your
own has not yet borne fruit.
Whatever you choose, you must identify your
sources. If you feel diagrams or illustrations would be
helpful, include them in your entry. It doesn't matter how
sketchy they are.
Many winning entrants and runners up from each age
group have already seen their work published in The Daily
Telegraph's Monday Science page.
Win a week in the USA
The best article in each age category will win the
entrant an all expenses paid trip to Chicago for the world's
—J biggest and most exciting science jamboree, the 1992
• F Meeting of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science, plus £500.
The second prize is a year's subscription to Nature and New Scientist,
£250, plus an invitation to attend
SCIENCE 91, the British Association's
annual festival of science and technology,
to be held in Plymouth, August 26-30,1991.
Further runners up will also receive
subscriptions, £100, and the opportunity of
having articles published.
In addition - for every school pupil
reaching the final round of judging, a prize will be awarded to their
school. For a more detailed guide and copies of last year's winning
entries, please write to the competition address shown below.
Send your entry to: Mr. Justin Wyllie, British Association, Fortress House, 23 Savile Row, London W1X 1AB,
to arrive not later than February 23,1991. Make sure that your entry clearly shows the age category you are entering, your full name,
date of birth, school/university/place of work, contact address and telephone number.
T H E J U D G E S . Professor Sir David Philips: Chairman, Advisory Board for the Research Council. Dr. Mary Archer: Scientist and Company Director. Nuala Moran: Managing Editor, Nature Magazine.
Mr. Richard Fiheld: Executive Editor, New Scientist Magazine. Professor Heinz Wolff: Institute of Bio Engineering, Brunei University. Dr. Roger Highfield: Science Editor, The Daily Telegraph. Sir Walter
Bodmer: Director of Research, Imperial Cancer Research. Professor Lewis Woipert: A Vice President, British Association. Dr. Peter Newmark: Managing Director, Current Biology Ltd. The judges will assess
your articles on content, quality of writing, your age, and any graphic illustrations you propose.
C O M P E T I T I O N R U L E S . 1. Entrants must be aged between 16 and 28 (inclusive) at 23.3.91. 2. Entries must be typed or legibly written in ink or ballpoint. 3. Entries over 800 words in length (not
including description of any graphic illustration) will be disqualified. 4. The judges' decision is final and no correspondence on the nature of assessment or the results will be entered into. 5. Competition is open
to UK residents only. Employees (and their families) of The Daily Telegraph pic, subsidiary or associated companies, advertising and promotion agencies are not eligible. 6. The Daily Telegraph Standard
Competition Rules apply. They can be obtained by sending a stamped addressed envelope to Mr. Justin Wyllie at the address shown above.

