Arts
Week
The Arts W e e k is an annual festival
held at IC, sponsored by the West London
Chaplaincy in conjunction with IC Union,
celebrating the 'Arts' in all shapes,
manners and forms.
The Arts W e e k consists of F R E E
lunchtime gigs by professional artists
everyday, for a week, in the Union
Lounge, along with a gallery in the
Sherfield A n t e r o o m .
The Arts W e e k aims to broaden the
horizons and increase the awareness and
expressive ability of all IC students, as a
constrast to the very scientifically
dominated environment, w e live and
work in. For the first time this year, w e
are planning to hold two participation
orientated workshops on the Wednesday
afternoons, opening and closing the week.
The first with a bias towards 'Rock' styles
of music and the second, more biased
towards classical skills. Both will give an
informal opportunity to perform.
The Arts W e e k will be from the 23rd to
30th January 1991, so ink the dates in
your diaries and watch this space for
more information and previews of the
talent.
Orienteering
This year the November Classic was held
in the New Forest, fortunately it was the
same area as the U A U back in Easter.
This time the weather was against us. W e
ran through m u d and swamp in an
attempt to gain the shortest time, only to
be just out-classed. Tome gained a 3rd in
the women's U21, Jermy Tomge managed
valiently to come in 4th position in the
men's 194.
The Cambridge Sprinto was held in
Epping Forest this year for some strange
reason. A s usual we all started off
together in a circle to complete the
familiar figure of eight. After much
fighting with the wilderness, Tome
returned to find she was 7th and through
to the next round where she was beaten.
Hans Ruhyn came very close to a
position in the mens B Final.
Northamptonshire—Churchill Cup '90.
The foggie A u t u m n a l morning gave way
to a bright afternoon as we left London
for Northampton. The area w e used was
just outside a small village with a friendly
pub. W e all ran hard in an attempt to
beat Birmingham and Aston Universities
but were well beaten on the day. Only
T o m e managed anything like a fine run
and achieved a 4th place in the womens
event.
Splot Soc
At 7.30am on Saturday November 10 an
assortment of camo-clad warriors met
outside Beit, m u c h to the concern of the
police. A t 10.30 we arrived at Finmere,
near Oxford. This is a Survival Game site
and hosted the 1990 European
Championships. For the 'Virgin'
paintballers it was to be a baptism of fire
as this was one of the best woodland sites
we have seen.
The group was split into orange and
yellow teams and the games commenced.
The first game was w o n to Orange but
the second drawn. Game 3—'Mercenaries'.
Here an independent 'blue' team
wreacked havoc, while the yellows and
oranges attempted to play a normal flag
game. Yellow win.
Game 4—'Spies'. Normal flag game but
with undercover team members trying to
cause as m u c h confusion as possible.
Orange w i n due to severe depletion of
yellow team by the D y n a m i c Duo, Lester
and Leo.
Games 5 & 6—'Fort'. Both games were
won by the defending team; although the
fort was severely 'redecrated'.
Game 7 & 8—'Speedball'. This was
played in a 50 yard netted square, behind
plastic water putts, in the open. The
games were fast, furious, expensive and
chaotic, with targets clearly visible and
people leaving the field every other
second. 1st game to oranges, 2nd game
to yellows.
Game 9—'Topgun'. Played in the
gathering dusk and worsening rain, this
game redefines the w o r d paranoia. It's all
against all, the winner being the person
who bags most of the others. Winners
will say its d o w n to skill, stealth and
accuracy (well done Steve Halleyard). It's
my opinion that it's blind luck.
A n d so the games concluded with
Orange victory, due mainly to the success
of the yellow spies. Outstanding
performances included all the Flag
Grabbers, all you people w h o zeroed a
'big gun' and everyone w h o had a good
time.
Canoeing Report
ICCC took off on its second 'beginners
weekend' at 7 o'clock on Friday
November 9. Our destination was a
school field course centre somewhere
near the Brecon Beacons, which we
reached after five hours of fog-bound
speeding and one memorable emergency
stop.
On arrival we discovered that the key
was probably still stuck in a jam on the
M4 and so we called upon one of our
more flexible members to invert himself
through a small top window. This
accomplished, we entered and found we
were to spend the weekend in
remarkable luxury.
Most of Saturday was a disappointment
as we shuttled to and fro in search of a
peaceful stretch of water away from the
farmers and busybodies w h o had so far
foiled any attempts on our part to use
our equipment, and who succeeded in
infuriating most of our negotiators, the
most experienced canoeists.
It was late once the canoes did contact
water, and half an hour later it was dark,
precluding any further outdoor activities
on our part.
Midday saw us on the River Ithon,
tributary of the Upper W y e and the first
bit of real action for most of the starters.
The trip was spent mostly o n slow
flowing peaceful waters amidst idyllic
scenery and colourful wildlife, with the
odd 'beginners' rapid' during which
multiple pile-ups happened.
The river stretched on and on and on,
and by dusk, the pick up point had not
yet been reached. The first group,
containing one beginner, had to brave an
unexpected rapid, more severe than
before, in bad light, and the leaders
decided it was too risky to continue.
Despite numerous blisters, several
soakings, exhaustion and mild
hypothermia, all the beginners enjoyed it
and will be back. For the pros', well they
found it a bit tame.

