41
I N I 4khM\
H I M « A l £ l
am ir~ Red Lion Appears Overnight
Late on Tuesday evening, a student
reported that somebody had painted red
one of the two lions outside the entrance
to the Queen's tower. The deed took
place between 7.00pm and 1 l.OOpm.-
Distressed I C U H o n Sec, Murray
Williamson, was asked whether he knew
anything about it. He had spotted the
words 'Reggii' on the base, and a red
'KCR' on the door nearby, and assumed
that King's College were responsible.
Ben Turner, Union Deputy President,
thought the prank was funny as the
Union will not have to pay for it.
The vandals used a red vinyl emulsion
paint to coat the lion. It was removed on
Wednesday afternoon using a high
pressure water hose and de-emulsifier.
Brad Swan, General Expenses and
Travel (College), said that the cost for
cleaning will be between £ 2 0 0 and £230.
A similar incident happened five years
ago, when both lions were painted. The
bill then, for sand blasting, was in the
region of £400.
Cleaning was performed by 'European
Specialist Cleaning', the same company
that cleaned the lions previously. One of
the men doing the work said that it was
'quite a job' to clean. Geoff Reeves, Chief
Security Officer, said that 'if we have to
sandblast the lions much more, we'll end
up with a couple of bloody mice'.
No-one could say whether the College is
insured against vandalism, most security
being concerned with patrolling inside
and not outside the buildings.
Chris Turner, King's College Union
Societies and Services sabbatical, admitted
that 'it seems to be the w o r k of King's'.
He said that there was no rag raid
planned and that 'rag is not until next
term'. He suggested that it was 'a few
people who got pissed and went a bit
over the top'.
LSE Drops Fees
The London School of Economics (LSE)
has dropped its plans to charge tuition
fees. Students would have been charged
an amount above the mandatory grant to
cover rising costs.
University College London (UCL) still
has plans to introduce tuition fees for
Law and Medicine, their two most sought
after courses, and discussions on fees are
certainly on Imperial's agenda.
The Provost of U C L believes that
introducing fees will not reduce the
Reggie
Resigns
Reggie Blennerhassett, the Union Finance
Officer, resigned yesterday. He will be
taking up the post of Deputy Finance
Officer at the Royal Veterinary College in
Camden from the 1st January 1991.
Reggie joined the Union in January
1988 and started to sort out the Snack
Bar accounts. Since then he has moved
onto clubs and societies, reducing the
work of the auditors each year and
allowing clubs to sort themselves out
financially. H e will be sorely missed by
the Union. Soon after Reggie's
resignation, Margaret Thatcher threw in
the towel herself.
number of applicants for the two courses.
This could also apply to some of
Imperial's oversubscribed courses.
The action by L S E puts more" pressure
on U C L to drop their plans, a move that
would please the students' union there as
they have stated that they will encourage
prospective students to apply elsewhere if
fees are introduced.
Benjamin Turner, Union Deputy
President, said that dropping plans for
fees was 'a bloody good move.'
Correction
Tonight's Guilds Carnival will cost £ 5 on
the door. Bring your Union Cards. 'This is
straight from the horses' mouth' said
Lucia.
IC Rag in
A storm has blown up this week between
IC Rag and Cardiff's 'Rag Caerdydd'.
There has been bad feeling building up
for some time and it came to a head last
Friday when a letter received by FELIX
was released to Steve Farrant, IC Rag
Chairman. Written by Sue Bourne from
Cardiff, it contained allegations against IC
Rag and the Rag Executive in particular.
The most w o r r y i n g aspect of the letter
Security
Last Friday saw another cycle coding
session, run by college security to try to
reduce the large number of bicycle thefts
that occur around the college. Mr Brilley,
Security Officer, said that there had been •
'a very good response, we're very
pleased.' 130 people had brought items in
to be coded.
Two cycles that had not been coded
were stolen on Tuesday, one from outside
the Science Museum, the other from
outside Huxley. M r Brilley complained
that neither had been fitted with D-locks
and that chains are not strong enough to
secure bicycles.
Mr Brilley added that any loss should
be reported to him on internal 3370. This
includes items stolen from halls of
residence since insurance claims, which
must be assessed by security, should be
backed up with a report of the theft.
Dispute
are suggestions of dishonesty and theft
amongst the Exec, especially during the
recent Monopoly collection. Steve
strongly believes that if theft did occur it
was not the fault of 1C Rag members. He
suggests that the organisers, Mencap did
not take adequate security measures.
There is not enough space to cover the
matter fully, but the complete story will
be covered next week.
2

