x o r c i s t III
REVIEWS
(This is the official sequel to The
Exorcist, which naturally enough
'makes it the third in the series.
Ignore the second as it is an enormous
turkey which gobbles at anyone w h o will
listen. This new film can also be called
'Legion' for those of you w h o haven't lost
us by now. Having said this, the film
possesses (sorry) very little semblance to
the original ie. a distinct lack of
swivelling heads, fluorescent vomit and
Linda Blair. In her place is 'Patient X '
(Jason Miller) w h o while not possessing
the flair for regurgitation of his illustrious
predecessor has a nifty way with a
syringe and an uncanny resemblance to
Father Karras (the unfortunate exorcist
from the first film). The w o r d 'exorcism'
is m u c h too hard to spell and will
henceforth be replaced by the w o r d
'poodle'.
The story revolves (sorry again) around
a series of HORRIFIC serial killings. These
dastardly deeds (Muttley snigger) are
perpetrated in the exact style of a killer
who fried crispy in the electric chair
fifteen years ago, U N C A N N I L Y close to
the first poodle.
Our hunky hero in this merry jaunt is
F r e d
FRED HRD REACHED CHAPTER TWO.
'THE ART OF FOREPLAY'
I
As a graduate of the University of
Life (where you go if you can't get
into UCL), Rupert Fawcett has
created Fred, who, along w i t h supporting
cast tries to show a funny side to
everyday life.
The cartoons range from the profound
to the confusing, some are actually funny.
The style of single frame cartoons is not
my favourite, it is too dependent on your
sense of humour. Indeed, many of the
panels could not be described as funny,
just odd, 'social comment' if you want to
be pretentious.
The quality of drawing is nothing
special although this means very little as
some of the best cartoonists cannot draw
very well.
A reasonable book but quite expensive
at nearly £ 5 , but maybe a good Christmas
present.
Ian Hodge.
played by the indomitable George C.
Scott w h o wavers between dis/belief and
seems undeterred by the catalogue of
V E R I T A B L E ATROCITIES taking place
under his v e r y nose (formidable organ
that it is). He is an honest bobby who has
a curious inability to notice grannies
crawling fly-like above his head. Our
doughty hero wades through a morass of
confused religious iconography with
troubled retrospection. Nothing very
frightening happens for an hour except
Prisoner X claiming that he is not only
responsible but doubly possessed. George
agrees.
At this point the film shifts into true
willy-tremblingly frightening mode with
one exceptionally unsettling sequence
(details of w h i c h we will not give here).
This is the high point of the movie; after
this we are treated to rabid grannies and
garden shears; a priest turns up without
very much justification and attempts a
quick poodle.
To sum up: this film features a very
good performance from the possessed
gentleman in his solitary cell and most of
the violence is implied; the only gore is
saved for the climax. V e r y tense in places
and very slack in others, but probably the
best horror movie around for some
months. This said, it doesn't capture the
spirit (sorry yet again) of the original.
There are no donkeys in this film.
This film is no way connected with
'Repossessed' or any of its sequels.
Honest.
The Amazing Flying Gerbil Machine
H e n r y & J u n e
In the late summer of a 1930's Paris
begins the true story of Henry and
June. T h e film follows the secret
desires of Anais N i n and explores her
relationship with the writer Henry Miller
(author of Tropic of Cancer). Anais has a
passion for the erotic, unbeknown to her
ever-loving husband, and spends m u c h of
the film either having affairs or
fantasising about sex in its many forms.
Her most persistent obsession is that of
June. June is Henry's wife. Henry and she
met when she was a hostess in a sleazy
bar, which covers much of her character,
and have g r o w n apart through her use of
a sugar daddy to support them while he
wrote. June is both beautiful and
manipulative, using any method at her
disposal to gain what she desires. She
wants to be written about, but Henry's
work is too real and Anais's too poetic.
Her changing moods and depth make her
the most interesting character and yet
she appears the least. By far the majority
of the film is spent with Anais hopping
between beds and saying that she feels so
innocent. H e n r y is a brash American w h o
writes books that make D H Lawrence
seem childish. H e not so m u c h woos
Anais as takes her roughly after she,
almost timidly, seduces him. The result is
much love making and her introduction
into the darker side of Paris with its
prostitutes and pick pockets. The latter
add much needed humour and are purely
superfluous.
As with Philip Kaufman's last film, The
Unbearable Lightness of Being, the
cinematography is superb and the setting
is captured in full. However, the film is
rather overlong, tends to be
melodramatic at times and overall lacks
purpose. There is no 'torn between two
lovers ' cliche with Anais rather enjoying
having the separate attention of two very
different men (at least). This is the kind of
film you leave feeling you've learnt
something, but can't for the life of you
remember what. Not big o n good old
fashioned entertainment or romance and
it would be a bit of a disappointment for
anyone purely after a hardcore sex
movie. One for the art crowd.
The Amazing Machine.

