On The Road
FELIX talks to the
band before
discovering that life on
the road isn't all lager,
groupies and kebabs.
Porl demonstrates how to
deal with groupies—snarl
After the sordid frenzy of the Electric
Ballroom, the masses were once again
hypnotically beckoned to the entrancing
smoke. The dark hordes cramped into the
tiny Trapdoor, tailored as ever to suit the
clientele, as City University began to
awaken. Then, briefly, as the many hands
clasped for the light, the haze lifted to
reveal Rosetta Stone, two lads from
Liverpool and a drum machine with
enough dry ice to rank their gigs as a
serious threat to the environment.
In trepidation and awe, w e approached
their backstage sanctuary, only to be
ordered to take the piss out of them by
their manager, Ray. The pair proved to
be instantly likeable, with Porl's talkative
nature complimenting Karl's quietness.
'We're both a bit shy really', so that's
w h y they hide behind a veil of smoke.
'No, 1 think people would get bored if
they could see us all the time.' However,
it would be nice to be able to see them at
least some of the time!
W h e n the cloud does lift, it is almost
shocking to discover that there are only
two of them. Although he is modest,
Porl's ability to perform intricate guitar
melodies and sing over them is as
impressive as their huge sound. In fact,
the only point they admit arguing over
was the choice of vocalist, as neither
wanted to sing! The band is completed
with bassist K a r l , w h o m any band would
be eager to employ. Obviously, they are
slightly limited live by lack of numbers
and so the music is simpler live than on
vinyl, but by no means less enthralling.
'We add more in the studio and make it
better. Y o u hear a lot of albums by new
bands and think, 'Fuckin' 'ell, that could
have been a live gig."
Their music has been likened to early
Sisters and Mission, as they themselves
admit. 'It's not a rip-off, smiled Porl,
guitarist and frontman. 'We're not the
most original band in the world, but
there's something there. The Sisters and
Mission and the like have all gone over
to rock, so we're filling in the gap. The
main thing is that we're fans of the music
we play. Hopefully it will be our career.
It's either this or sitting at home on the
dole watching telly.'
Hallowe'en Madness
D r a w n by some craving summons, the
intrepid reviewers abandoned the security
of London to head for Leicester for the
All Hallow's Eve Solemnization. This
turned out to be at a pub bedecked with
luminous tridents and bats. T h e tackiness
even rivalled a T V game show. 'We try to
be d o w n to earth. Some fans think that
when they talk to us, we'll have an echo
on our voices. You've got to realise that
you're in the entertainment business and
that's it. W e ' r e not gods or anything.'
A s for pretention and daunting titles,
(eg, The Preachers of the New
Armageddon), they are again only for
effect, like the ominous smoke. 'Some
places are so big, it's just like someone
smoking a fag i n the corner.' Names such
as Cimmerian, the name of the first vinyl
track, is that of a mythical race of
shadow dwellers, but it sounds good, 'a
bit like a girl's name, W e use a lot of
religious language, but we're not
religious. It's just the w a y w e write. I
used to be anti-religion, but now I don't
care.'
Inevitably, the gig went triumphantly,
as ever, and w e were given our first view
of The Ancestry, Rosetta's tour support.
Described as a cross between Skeletal
Family and Lush, they again deserve to
do well.
The standing joke in Rosetta is their
drum machine. Not only was it offered
cheaply, but turned out to be identical to
Dr. Avalanche, the Sisters' mean sounder.
Not only this twist of fate, but their debut
E P was recorded in studios frequented by
The Mission and was produced by their
own T i m Palmer. They seem fated to
follow the trail of their music heroes.
'We go out there for straightforward
entertainment. W e try to make our songs
more poppy and more accessible without
selling out, just to get into the T o p 40. A
song's got to be good enough to stand up
on it's o w n , so Joe Bloggs will hear it on
the radio and think, 'That's a good song,'
not 'They're a goth band, I'm not going
to buy it.' The die-hard goths are
probably disappointed.'
Rosetta Stone have got the insight and
dedication to make it huge, as Porl
painstakingly explains how 'goth died a
death', w h e n the goth bands turned to
rock and ended up in no- man's land
where nobody wants to see them. A s for
the current music scene, 'We ignore it.
Bands just chase after what's happening.
One band makes it then another takes
over and the first is forgotten. No, I'm not
going to slag it off - you'll quote me!'
Quarriers
Rosetta's lack of pretention is further
emphasised by the following, self
christened The Quarriers (Rosetta STONE,
groan). Apparently united by their
sexiness, the multicolour grebos are
dedicated to following Rosetta's every
move, but revealed exclusively that they
were only after Porl's body. They are a
charmingly raucous bunch of Tads' (even
the girls) from Worksop, Macclesfield,
Preston and everywhere nice. A n d r e w
Eldritch wanted to be a Quarrier but he
wasn't 'ard enough.
Porl admits they're the spokespersons,
'the go-betweens in a w a y because
they're more mouthy. The following's
like dead important 'cos they've always
1
8
Rosetta Stone
been there before the band are.' Yes, The
Quarriers have been everywhere, it's
quite astounding. Their song 'actions' are
also astounding, a farce only to be
believed when seen. Chas' spider is also a
keen fan and Mick 'can pull all't girls with
a big coat'. They're well'ard.
The 7 Year Hitch
A n d so, with a genuine invitation to
turn up any time, we ventured out into
the dark rain to attempt to travel the 130
odd miles by the next evening. T w e l v e
hours of wind, police patrols and
countless service stations later, we
staggered into Liverpool, Home Of The
Beatles as every pub and poster seemed
to shout. A little vandalism later, that was
soon put right to Home Of Rosetta Stone,
by far the more prestigious of the two.
The bedraggled journos collapsed onto
the doorstep, and there w e may have
remained as the code is four rings at the
doorbell. Eventually, an extremely
surprised K i m ('the wife', and general
lights and info person) let us in (poor
fool). She turned out to be nicer than the
proverbial Julianne Reagan, selflessly
offering us tea, toast and the use of their
vital crimpers. Porl was out buying a new
toy, which later turned out to be £400
worth of effects pedal.
Neither have w o r k e d since leaving
school, trusting their music to pay the
bills. Even their E P was released on their
o w n label, financed by a friend's loan.
'We knew it was good enough to pay it
back,' grinned Porl, as the record ran to
a second pressing within days, advertised
only by w o r d of mouth. T h e y have just
signed, after m u c h deliberation, and plan
Chas and his spider
Karl narrowly avoids GBH with his bass
for a mini L P for the New Year.
So on to Liverpool Poly, the home gig
dreaded so m u c h . Rosetta Stone feel they
are one of the most hated bands in
Liverpool just because they have actually
made it out. They both admit that they
would indeed like to leave the city.
Despite their trepidation, the turnout was
good but a mess over ticket sales meant
that they only just managed to break
even.
After another successful night, it was
back for the traditional post-gig kebab
and chips and breaking open of the
Student W e l c o m e Packs so thoughtfully
left backstage for us. Back at the flat,
anyone w o u l d have marvelled at what
wild party had occured, with peanut
butter, Pot Noodles and M & M s strewn
between the exhausted bodies of two
bands and assorted fans trying to doze.
Then, reluctantly, we were forced to
part, to head back to the world of daily
lectures and routine, so far removed from
the unpredictability of life o n the road.
The one reprieve was a return to the
band, this time at the Marquee.
Backstage, tensions ran high as the
crowds swelled but slowly. The first
appearance in August had seen queues
down the road before the doors opened,
but tonight Rosetta were to play against
the Cocteau Twins and PWEI. They need
not have worried as the turnout was still
excellent, despite an extremely dodgey
support band, Reptile, thrown on at the
last minute by promoters. T h e larger
venue showed both The Ancestry and
Rosetta to their best in a momentous gig,
despite the non-appearance of the
specially hired lighting.
The mood in the dressing-toilet was
triumphant, w i t h hoards of Quarriers
vying for FELIX's cover and impressed
scouts offering future gigs. But still we
could not leave them. The final date on
the tour was a few days later at Leeds
Warehouse. A s the last gig and a smaller
venue, as well as the presence of almost
all the Quarriers, this gig became very
informal, with heckling at the fore. The
atmosphere became the focal point
(through the smoke?), rather than
technical precision as both band and
followers revelled in the near party
mood. It could almost have been in their
front room.
Rosetta Stone have the talent and
deserve to go m u c h further. Both are
genuinely surprised at the amount of
success they've had. With an album in
sight, the future is promising. This band
should stand out in the ever-increasing
dilution of this stream of music.
Epilogue
'We usually read the stuff afterwards and
really regret it and say, ' O h god, did I
really say that?" So Karl, what are your
ideas on where the band is going? 'We're
going to Liverpool tonight!'
9

