Sugoto Ray explores the world of snakes from
Hissing Sid to Kaa...
Trust in Me
Snakes are either the object of intense
fear or obsessive fascintion, and there are
many myths and remarkable facts
surrounding these mystical serpents.
To begin with snakes aren't just legless
lizards. Lizards are reptiles w i t h earholes
and eyelids, snakes are reptiles without.
There are two major types of snakes,
venemous and non-venemous. Let's begin
with the poisonous type.
These snakes have poisonous spit, ie
venom, w h i c h they can either inject with
hollow teeth (fangs) or spit with water
pistol like teeth, as with the spitting
cobra. These can spit in your eye from a
distance of up to twelve feet.
V e n o m itself is a very variable
substance. In some species it acts as a
digestive enzyme, so any unfortunate
animal which has been bitten and yet
manages to escape soon finds that it is
slowly being digested anyway, by which
time the snake has caught up with it and
proceeds to swallow it head first and
finish the process.
Other venoms act as blood clotting
agents or paralysing neurotoxins so any
bitten animal w h i c h tries to escape soon
slows down and goes into a spasm, while
the snake catches up with it and swallows
it in the preferred, streamline, head first
position.
Venemous snakes have many
physiological adaptions to suit their mode
of living. A l t h o u g h snakes cannot hear,
they can feel vibrations on the ground,
warning them of approaching prey or
enemies, and of course snakes have that
famous forked tongue.
This flickering organ collects particles
from the air and takes them into a
specialised taste organ, the jacobsons
organ, giving the animal a very enhanced
sense of smell. Another snake speciality is
the ability to sense infra-red heat
radiation from w a r m blooded animals.
This is done via two facial heat sensing
pits, so any rodent (the preferred prey of
venemous snakes) which thinks it is safe
simply because it is dark, or because it is
in a dark burrow, is sadly mistaken. B y
'smelling' it and feeling its b o d y heat our
reptile friend can trace its movements
and follow it.
Venemous snakes are feard by most of
the human race. They m o v e very fast
and their bites are often fatal, but,
although they deserve respect, such fear
is unjustified. V e n o m is a precious
commodity, made in small amount. A n y
snake on confrontation will rear up, hiss
and generally m a k e a lot of noise, (as
with the rattle snake). They try to scare
off enemies w i t h false strikes, rather than
waste the v e n o m on which their life
depends.
Venemous snakes aren't generally very
long, and although King Cobras can grow
up to twenty feet long, six to twelve feet
is the norm. Often the v e n o m has very
little effect on humans anyway. It is a
fact that in Britain, more people die from
bee stings than adder bites. If y o u are
bitten by an adder you should feel no
apparent illness apart from occasional
bouts of mild fever, which can be cured
by taking antihistomine tablets (hay fever
pills). Bites from more poisonous species
are often treatable in a variety of ways.
The latest findings show that high voltage
electrical shocks can be used to treat
snake bite victims, although so far, three
people have died from the shocks
anyway.
Bites from tropical snakes generally
sixty years or more. They can take large
prey but there are no k n o w n examples of
adult humans every being eaten, and,
although on dissection, small children
have been found in their guts, larger
constrictors don't usually eat animals
larger than wild pigs, small antelopes and
birds. Anacondas however have been
k n o w n to eat six foot caymens, an
amazonian crocodile species.
There are no records of snakes eating
vegetable matter, although some pythons
are believed to supplement their diet with
rotting fruit and there are claims that an
Indian cobra species succles on milk from
cattle.
There are m a n y remarkable facts
need to be treated very quickly if death
is to be avoided.
The other types of snakes are
constrictors. These rapidly wrap
themselves intimately around prey, and,
contrary to popular belief, kill by
suffocating lungs rather than crushing.
What happens is this; the prey animals
inadvertantly steps on a constrictor w h i c h
is often hidden in leaf litter on jungle
floors. The snake wraps itself around the
animal, concentrating as we humans do,
on the thorax. The prey then runs out of
breath and breathes out, and the snake
coils tighter preventing breathing in.
W h e n the animal dies, the snake squashes
it into a nice shape and swallows head
first. Constrictors are generally slow
moving, although the initial wrapping is
very fast. These snakes are generally
much fatter and longer than venemous
varieties. B o a constrictors, rock pythons
and anacondas for example have been
k n o w n to grow to thirty feet long, have a
girth of twenty six inches, and live for
surrounding snakes. For example, snakes
swallow prey several times the size of
their head. This is because they can
dislocate their jaws, a phenomenon used
by the egg eating snake w h i c h swallows
whole eggs to be eaten. This is equivalent
to humans swallowing basketballs. O n
swallowing, spines lining the snake's gut
remove the shell which is later ejected as
a neat package.
Because snakes swallow their prey
whole, a meal takes a long time to digest,
and there are records of pythons not
having to eat for up to nine months.
Several species of snake can go without
drinking for months on end. This is due
to the fact that the faeces is dry and
snakes do not urinate or sweat (hence
their dry skin). The only water they lose
is when they breathe. Desert species even
have specialised breathing apparatus
which collects the moisture from their
breath and from the air, preventing water
loss as well as providing water. Some
python species are believed to be able to
10

