4 F E L I X
GENTLEMEN OF MINES
CLEMENTINE AUCTION
With nearly 50 per cent of Mines present, various " objets d'arts "
and various miscellaneous items w;ic auctioned off at incredibly
low prices. The first item, a pair of rubber boots, described as
" holely self-contained " went for a half-penny and was followed by
a repair outfit for 1/-. Item upon item followed in quick succession,
60 in all, raising the sum total of £9 14s. The proceeds all go into
the- foreign students' fund, which provides for the entertainment of
visiting students.
Many articles of course-work fetched high prices, and one notable
3rd-year student was the victim of false 'bide'ing and lumbered him-
self with a 1st year report. Hank Janson books were well bid for
along with a weighty volume on igneous rock
Other articles went to unsuspecting buyers for 2/-, either due to
their over-exuberence and excitement, or on a manual signal. Articles
of clothing and footwear were modelled by our esteemed Vice-Presi-
dent, to the whistles and the jeers of the crowd. In fact, the most
competitive bidding was for article No. 27, an article of lady's lingerie,
size 36, 4d. secured the aforesaid.
More serious articles included a television set, coffee table, -a
set of trays, a moose head, and a packet of photographic paper which
the Felix photographer present was induced to buy for 6d.
Finally, there was unanimous affrmation for the changes id the
Constitution.
The next Union Meeting will be held on Tuesday, 2nd March,
when the question of mascots will be discussed.
— Guildfinger
The column born of our age,
replacing the oM Spamerama.
The column that gives you the
news and views of Guildsmen.
Dinner Dance
Already fully judged by other,
better scriveners as the. best
Engineers' Dinner and Dance for
a decade, it merely remains to
give Joe Collins and his henchmen
the official Guilds seal of " good
housekeeping." The Radio So-
ciety also deserve a bouquet for
the excellent visual coverage*of
the speeches: the upper Refectory
is no television studio, and one
glutted, hirsute gentleman claimed
to have lost " interlace." Never-
theless, no turgid euphorea this.
Union Meeting
Constituent College Union
Meetings have in recent time
tended towards some kind of
officially recognised bi-termal
revue. The meeting on February
11th presented, at the same time,
the zenith and azimuth of this
characteristic.
After the normal prologue,
President Bishop gave a full
synopsis of what he and his co-
horts in Guilds had, has and" hopes
to achieve. The meeting ap-
praised the situation with effica-
cious vivacity. For the more saga-
cious and dogmatic reader, not
one member appeared to be
" half-drunk," even though the
Union Bar was open throughout
the whole proceedings.
Having satisfied itself that the
foundation of Guilds Was still of
rock, the meeting put on a more
flippant face for the awaited Festi-
val of Music and Culture.
The 2nd Year Civils' decor-
ously demonstrated " Sounds
Crap" on guitar, klaxton, and
Comb and Bronco. Mr. Hender-
I found it in mv bedroom
Chris Wright wins the Festival
son adequately impersonated
Dusty Springfield, vocally of
course! Mr. Rayner was liveli-
ness and light on his first day of
manhood.
Mr. Saxton (representing 2nd
Year. iElec.) was obviously per-
turbed by the sanctity of the
occasion. Consequently, he sang
of his " cocaine " problem. The
house was moved, and he was
called back to do a quick " as-
pirin " for an encore.
1st Year Civils exhibited
laudable imaginatio I in a free-
form interpretation of" Hamlet."
Quoth Bill," Twas a bloody mur-
der." Ophelia was, and a grave-
digger unearthed, from thin air,
Guilds lecturer downs his J-pint of champagne
after judging the festival
well-known sk'dl Of gether with the heady wine of vic-
a recently,
" Yogi," with hilarious results.
Mr. Lamboujaae. (lately Miss
Cinders Lambourne of 3rd Year
Elec.) sang of his Wife's (?) infi-
delity. He also claimed to be
myopic, for he seemed unable to
differentiate between her lover
and a new born babe.
Finally, Mr. Wright, of 3rd
Year Civil, gave a tally profes-
sional rendering of two songs, ac-
companying himself on the auto-
harp. The second song was a
dubiously accurate analysis of
I.C A personal* " blues " in the
full sense of the word. This re-
markable performance earned
him a well-deserved rosetta, to-
torv. Second was the "Ham
Omlette."
The entire meeting was re-
corded on stereo, but Mr. Collins
(Phil.) did not consider that this
was sufficient utilisation of the
electrical talent in Guilds. He
therefore revealed that he had
built an amplifier, which he had
concealed in the R.C.S. Union
Meeting, together with a micro-
phone. This was relaying all the
interesting points of the R.C.S.
agenda to the entire Guilds meet-
ing via a telephone line. Both
exciting seconds were enjoyed,
Mr. Sadhvani, and please, Mister,
could we have our amplifier back.

