F E L I X
felix
EDITOR
ASSISTANT EDITOR
D. I. WILLIAMS
Production Manager Alan Oxley
Sports Editor Dare Hunt
Late News Editor Ted Needham
Photographic
Editor John Gawson
NEWSPAPER
OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
Circulation, 1700
N . J . W A L K E R
Business Robin Webster,
Peter Combes,
Geoff. Bean,
Barry Pichler
Andrew Mayo,
Jocetyn Mackintosh
Production Asst. M . Leppard
Secretary Miss G . Steele
Sales
MAKING OR BREAKING A
STUDENT NEWSPAPER
What are the functions of a Student Newspaper ? Surely, i is
to provide ar.icles of general interest, which may be controversial,
but should not be sensational, to provide a diary of coming even s,
to report on meetings of interest and to provide stories with which
the general student is not aware.
What makes or breaks a newspaper is news. News cannot be
made out of nothing, but it can be made from any titbit of informa-
tion which may reach the editorial office.
Large portions of National Newspapers are made up with short
news items submitted or telephoned by the general public. A student
newspaper is not fed with news to this extent; it is, therefore, up to
the newspaper to ferret out the news.
B A D G E R E D SENNET
Sennet this year has tried to make do without news, last term
it carried "sensational" features and its sales rose. This rise is
obviously too the good—-however, when Tony Berry, U L U President,
decided things had gone far enough, where could Sennet turn ?
For the last year or more, Sennet has apparently been badgered
by its Board of Governors with "do this" and "don't do that."
Again it seems that these directives have often been reversed from
one month to the next. What is the Editor to do ? He is bound
to be criticised and until a definite policy has been decided by U.L.U..
it is likely that Sennet will wander on from One editor to the next
and from term to term.
F E L I X A N A L O G Y
A definite general policy should be laid down—as has been done
in the case of Felix—by the Board of Governors. And Sennet should
be given complete freedoom within this general policy.
Last year Felix came under fire from the then Union President
for being sensational, which it was, and a motion was put before a
Union General Meeting deprecating this. The motion was thrown
out overwhelmingly.
A similar fight has taken place recently at King's and L.S.E., with
the same result. The general student prefers an Independent news-
paper to one all powerful Union Executive. It is a pity that Sennet
has no Union to turn to so easily.
This is not say that iSennet was a good newspaper last term.
It was lousy! But at leastjt had something to commend it—sales
were high. This term it has nothing—no news, sensationalism is
verboten and sales are tumbling.
NEW ORGANISATION NEEDED
A University Newspaper should be highly organised, it should
be flourishing, not only in copy (which Sennet isn't> but also with
staff (which again it isn't, issue No. 215 contains yet another appeal
for staff).
There should be a definite plan for staff with promotion over the
three years for worthy members and with the Editor and Managing
Director drawn from its own ranks. The Editor should be elected
for a whole academic year (preferably with a year's leave of absence
from his academic work.
It is impossible to run a weekly paper with a new editor each
term, especially with a new editor with little experience of Sennet,
let alone student journalism. Sennet is bad not because of the last
lew editors, but through the fault of the President, Tony Berry.
Until the Sennet Board decide a possible general policy and until
Sennet has built up a staff oil two or three in each college as well
as a central nucleus, there will be no University newspaper—only a
weekly rag with a sprinkling of news overshadowed by reams of wet
uninteresting features.
c
o
L
C O M M E N T
A recent edition of Gimic, the AScW's publica-
tion for postgraduates, contains the following
interesting phrase: " . . . Since the way that we
(the AScW; bring problems forward for discussion
with the College administration is the most reason-
able way . . . quietly, firmly and without fuss or
publicity." We live and learn.
It is pleasant to be able to record a vote of
thanks to the Beit refectory staff for the excel-
lent .quality of the meals now available there.
In wishing Mr. Mooney a speedy recovery from
his recent operation, I hope that his return will
herald a similar improvement in the food stan-
dards in Southside.
I hear that the RCS Carnival on March 5th is
incorporating some of the "' new look " ideas I
suggested last term. With four rock groups and
a steel band, none of whom have been heard at
College before, and entertainment going on until
a later hour in the morning (followed by break-
fast), it should once again become the best " value
for money " event of the year.
HUMOROUS A P A T H Y — A N A P P E A L
The word apathy has been bandied about a lot
recently. Let's get this straight. The whole idea
of a university is that, unlike school, a student
has a completely free hand to decide how he uses
his spare time. If he wants to spend all of it
working, then that is up to him, but there is
nothingvwrong about this. A H the Unions can
say is that they think that a greater number of
people could enjoy themselves more, and get more
out of their brief passage through college, if they
took, part in some Union, Club, or Society acti-
vities. From my experience, especially of people
who have " come into " Union life late in their
course and wished they had done so earlier, I'm
sure this is true. Admittedly Union meetings are
a slightly different kettle of fish—members have a
duty to express their views on policy at meetings,
a duty that might be felt more keenly if people
had to pay their membership subscription out of
their own pockets!
Finally, a plea for more humour! People
seem to me to be taking themselves far too seri-
ously these days. It is possible to be humorous
without being frivolous, and there is nothing like
a touch of humour to put the whole business of
" 'Union Politics " into the right proportion. We
are not, after all, debating the affairs of the world,
however much some people would like to.
c
u
T
T
HALDANE LIBRARY
13, Prince's Gardens
Sorry! You won't find text-
books or scientific treatises in
this library, but you willfindoyer
10,000 good books of general
interest including all the latest
novels!
And it's Free too !
Open 11—530 p.m. and
until 7.0 p.m. on Tuesday
and Thursday
KENSINGTONS
MOST COMPREHENSIVE
BOOK SERVICE
NEW BOOKS
SECOND HAND BOOKS
PAPERBACKS
GRAMOPHONE
RECORDS
H. KARNAC (Books) LTD.
56-58 GLOUCESTER RD.,
S.W.7
KNI 7908/0177

