ICSE’s Summer tour
tands, music and instru-
ments packed up, the Impe-
rial College String Ensem-
ble headed oﬀ on the 13th
of September to Speldhurst
in Kent for their annual Summer tour.
A long weekend of music, socializing
and charity events was to follow.
After a full cooked breakfast (an ICSE
speciality) the 16 ensemble players
rehearsed intensively at mastering
Vivaldi’s Winter, Corelli’s Concerto
Grosso “Christmas Concerto”, the Im-
perial ArtsFest favourite “StopPlaying
Your Homework And Do Your Video
Games” by Gen Kim, and an arrange-
ment of John Kander’s Caberet for
string ensemble. All of this was per-
formed at the concert in St Mary’s
Church in Speldhurst raising a fantas-
tic £150 for St Mary’s Church and the
Tunbridge Wells Winter Shelter.
The main social event of the tour, a vil-
lage Barn Dance, allowed members to
play as part of a Ceilidh band, try their
hand at calling and entertained the lo-
cal community, all whilst raising £70
for their newly launched “ICSE young
conductor scheme”. This will enable
one Imperial student to gain training
in conducting through conducting
lessons whilst beneﬁting from ICSE’s
new conductor, Dan Shilladay’s expe-
rience. Prior to the Ceilidh the ensem-
ble split into two groups rehearsing
and arranging “Swedish” (originally
recorded by Blazin’ Fiddles) and “Jigs”
(originally recorded by Last Orders)
for the dance, an entirely new chal-
lenging but fun departure from ICSE’s
usual repertoire. Free time was spent
exploring the local area and playing in
small groups, all whilst consuming tea
and biscuits, in quantities only ICSE
could manage! A barbecue and party
rounded the weekend oﬀ and wet
everyone’s appetite for the next year
of ICSE ﬁlled Friday evenings, social
events and future weekends away!
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
Do you have a cloud of ideas?
What if the word “career” meant “fun”,
“passion”, and “entrepreneurship”, in-
stead of “oil-platform”, “ﬁnance”, or
“academia”? We want to show a diﬀer-
ent set of doors the education at Impe-
rial College unlocks for you far from the
obvious and spineless paths Imperial’s
ﬂocked careers fairs hold. Imperial Col-
lege Design Collective (ICDC) demon-
strates how knowledge acquired at Im-
perial can be applied in all design ﬁelds.
On Wednesday students from Civil
Eng, Electrical Eng, Computing and
Mechanical Eng (to name but a few)
worked on “Enhancing the cycling ex-
perience in London”. Concepts were put
forward by members of diﬀerent teams
and developed through the afternoon.
Ideas such as a new brake distribution
system or a bike detection system for
buses were developed. Designer Larissa
Kunstel assisted the workshops in the
creation and deepening of ideas. We will
work on bringing the ideas to real pro-
jects this Wednesday and the designer
Dominic Thomas, of the legendary
award winning Genesis Bikes, will come
and review them in person!
This year holds a very exciting pro-
gramme: our four themes for 2012-2013
are Interactive City, Toys, Emotions and
Personality, and Barriers. Members of
the society will enjoy an in-depth view
of each theme through hands-on work-
shops led by professionals and academ-
ics from Imperial and the Royal College
of Arts.
No speciﬁc skills are required, but a
smile, a cloud of ideas and a will to share
them. We encourage people from all
diﬀerent backgrounds to join as there is
no such thing as irrelevant knowledge
when it comes to creativity as we saw in
our ﬁrst workshop.
ICDC maintains connections with
distinguished and prominent designers,
architects and manufacturers who will
provideuswithinsightandguidance.By
organising regular talks, oﬃce visits and
exhibitions, we will further allow for
Design to play a larger role at Imperial.
If you believe that Design, Science
and Technology are complimentary
ﬁelds and if you want to see what kind
ofremarkablethingscanhappenattheir
junction, then like our Facebook page
“Imperial College Design Collective” to
access our talks and events and come to
our workshops!
Imperial College Design Collective
felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
Cora Xydas and Rebecca Stenning gently play you through a
quick guide to what they got up to in their break from work
S
Stringfellow jokes at the ready
ICSE casually
playing with
each other in a
garden... What?
Not like that
Email:
bonerges@imperial.ac.uk if you signed up!
TEAM BO
They lost their sign-up sheet at Freshers’
Fair.
“Totally just stealing
this Macbook”

