CLUBS & SOCIETIES felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
14
RCSU on top
Plabon Saha says: seriously, we stole everyone’s shit
Fresher’s Fair 2012 saw an
unprecedented rise in mas-
cotry and the RCSU-CGCU
rivalry was re-ignited with a
burning vengeance. After the
capture of the ICSMU’s Phoenix head
last year the RCSU went a step further
as it is currently holding onto City and
Guild Union’s Bolt and Spanner and the
ICSMU’s Phoenix feet. However, it pains
me to say that our beloved mascot Theta
was violated as well and one of its four
parts is currently in the hands of the dirty
engineers in CGCU.
After numerous failed attempts by the
engineers to steal Theta during fresh-
ers fair they ﬁnally struck gold (or steel)
when I was taking Theta apart. Michele
Tonutti, the CGCU Events Oﬃcer ran
oﬀ with a pole while someone else ran oﬀ
with the bulb. By the time the bulb had
been recovered, Michele was safely away
to the CGCU oﬃce, which was only a
ﬂight of stairs away. The irony of the situ-
ation is that Theta was being taken apart
just so it can be safely put away.
Further eﬀorts were made by other com-
mittee members to ﬁnd a way to make
Theta whole and once we realized that
our eﬀort was going in vain, the com-
mittee decided to exact revenge on the
CGCU by stealing their mascot. Despite
CGCU members’ watchful eye, RCSU
Events Oﬃcer Ali Ibrahim was able to
swipe the 35kg Bolt and bolted for the
door where he met resistance in the form
ofMicheleTonutti.Butatthispointasix-
way tussle broke out near the Mech Eng
entrance to Dalby Court as other RCSU
committee members rushed to Ali’s
help. They helped to pin Michele down
on the ﬂoor and Ali was able to safely
ﬂee with the bolt. Michele was later seen
distraught alongside Bolt bearer Yuchen
Wang.
Furthermore on Wednesday night,
CGCU’s hope of salvaging any form
of pride vanished as their Spanner was
captured. With the Spanner bearer
Melanie Singh intoxicated, I was able to
convince her to let me borrow her col-
lege card, which gave me a sure-ﬁre way
into the CGCU oﬃce. While on a mis-
sion to retrieve Theta, I found the Span-
ner carelessly lying on the ﬂoor. Unable
to ﬁnd Theta’s missing part I decided to
make-do with the Spanner, which leaves
CGCU mascotless. In other news, dur-
ing Fresher’s Fair the Medics also lost a
part of their mascot to RCSU. During
mid-day Ali and I made our way to SAF
for reconnaissance as we tried to locate
Phoenix. At this point we were spotted
by some medics and were escorted out of
the area. However, I was cunningly lying
in wait and went back half an hour later
to ﬁnd the feet of the Phoenix carelessly
lying under one of the desks. I made a
quick grab for it and made a run for it
before the medics could realise what
hit them. The ransom demands for the
Phoenix are the ﬁrst four terms of the
mascot negotiations where “CGCU” is to
be replaced by “ICSMSU”
.
RCSUPresidentJamesTsimwantstouse
this chance to issue a warning to all the
faculty unions that the RCSU’s love for
Theta is eternal and the lengths we’ll go
to protect it is immeasurable. As evident
by the mascotless CGCU’s hopeless situ-
ation, anyone who tries to violate Theta
should know that the RCSU will show no
mercy. We will look for you, we will ﬁnd
you, and we WILL HAVE REVENGE.
F
Undercover reporting allows for the
scythe of truth to cut through wrong-
doings like a wieldy knife through
butter. Corruption can be unmasked!
Bureaucracy criticized! All with a sin-
gle tap of the keyboard, preferably fol-
lowed by several more. But how could
one possibly decide what deserving
targets to strike? The answer, in this
case, was determined by the fact that
there was nothing better to do on
Tuesday night. The ﬁckle ﬁnger of fate
fell upon the RCSU Autumn Ball, held
at Soho’s Gem Bar.
What deadly secrets would the
event be hiding? None, it turns out.
For the uninitiated out there, all
students of the natural sciences be-
long to the Royal College of Science
Union, or RCSU. The Autumn Ball
marked one of the ongoing festivities
of its ‘Freshers’ Fortnight’, which con-
cluded with its ‘Buddies Bar Night’ on
Thursday. But anyway, to business.
Was it worth it?
The RCSU has undoubtedly had
somewhat of a legacy in the past year
or two, racking up events with as-
tronomical bar tabs. Could the new
committee compete? With three free
drinks on oﬀer for a £12 ticket, it cer-
tainly allowed for easy mingling to
ﬁnd out just what people thought of
the event themselves. Luckily I’d been
to a networking event earlier in the
evening – ironically, of course. Armed
with a repertoire of buzzwords and
catchphrases that would make Roy
Walker balk, my newly acquired skills
in jargon and my own sheer natural
charisma saw me through.
I avoided asking certain individu-
als about what they studied or what
year they were in, but instead went
far more profound, oﬀering such
scintillating brainteasers designed to
stimulate and evoke a deep response.
“What do YOU hope to gain from to-
night’s event?” “What do YOU think
about the economy?” The questions
ﬂowed and the answers ranged from
“What do you mean?” to “I can’t hear
you,” due to the music. (Top marks for
remembering to have music, RCSU
folks! I literally cannot fault the fact
that there was music in a club envi-
ronment.)
While some events in the past have
been a bit crowded, the choice of ven-
ue this time was deﬁnitively spacious.
In the words of Another compatriot
remarked that it was “pretty big.”
And yet… and yet the opening
strains of R Kelly’s seminal classic
‘Bump n’ Grind’ were cruelly snatched
away by a far less musically interest-
ing composition. Seeking solace away
from this crushing disappointment, I
ventured outside.
The RCSU’s perennial ﬁre en-
gine Jezebel turned up to oﬀer rides
around the Soho backstreets to inter-
ested parties, and then drove oﬀ by
midnight, presumably because it was
past its bedtime.
“It was great riding it and all but I
thought we were going to head down
Oxford Street at 60mph,” complained
a second year Biochemistry student,
demonstrating a clear lack of knowl-
edge about speed limits.
Events took a sour turn when my
freshly pressed chinos suﬀered the
misfortune of coming into contact
with what could, in retrospect, have
been a pile of salt, judging by the hid-
eous white mark I found on them on
the bus back. How a pile of salt wound
its way into such an establishment
will undoubtedly remain a mystery,
but I implore the committee to in-
vestigate ways to prevent this kind of
mishap from happening again.
I could say that the event was life-
aﬃrming, but unfortunately I’m not
studying for a degree in hyperbole. It
was the one below life-aﬃrming. Two
thumbs up.
One night, in Gem bar
Felix sends undercover reporter MC Hämmer on a night out...
Plabon grabbing his spanner, as always...
The RCSU is issuing the following
ransom demands to CGCU:
1. The CGCU President will come to the
next RCSU Bar Night and do a Fresher’s
Yard.
2. An E-mail must be sent out to the
Faculty by the President where the sole
purpose of the e-mail is to accept RCSU’s
superiority.
3. £200 must be donated to RCSU Rag.
4. The CGCU will buy a keg for the next
RCSU Bar Night.
5. The missing part of Theta will be safely
returned.
6. The President and the Spanner and
Bolt Bearers must go through a form of
public shaming at the next RCSU Bar
Night where they must stand at the en-
trance in ragged clothes and hang their
heads in shame while wearing signs
around their necks claiming RCSU’s
superiority.
A quick panoramic view of the venue

