From stem cells to sex cells
Stemcellresearchreceivesanothervitalboost.Fiona Hartleyreports
apanese researchers have
created viable eggs in
mice from skin stem cells
which produced healthy
fertile oﬀspring that suc-
cessfully had their own progeny. This
breakthrough could hopefully lead to
treatments for human infertility in the
distant future.
Stem cells give rise to all special-
ised cells in the body, and are also
self-renewing to produce more stem
cells. Stem cells in humans come in
two basic forms: embryonic stem
(ES) cells and adult stem cells. ES
cells were ethically controversial be-
cause of the embryonic destruction
required to harvest them. In 2006,
Shinya Yamanaka succeeded in repro-
gramming adult stem cells to an ES
cell-like state. These cells were named
induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells.
Yamanaka won the Nobel Prize for
Physiology or Medicine for this work
just this week.
Mitinori Saitou and his team from
Kyoto University, the authors of this
study, have previously made func-
tional sperm cells from adult cells in
mice, which were used to successfully
fertilise eggs. Their new study, pub-
lished in Science last week, shows that
a modiﬁed version of the system they
used to make sperm can also make
eggs that, importantly, give rise to
healthy progeny.
The group applied a mix of signal-
ling molecules to turn ES cells and iPS
cells (derived from skin stem cells)
into primordial germ cells (PGCs), the
precursor cells to sperm in males and
oocytes (eggs) in females. The PGCs
were then added to embryonic ovary
tissue, making “reconstituted” ovaries.
This mixture was transplanted into fe-
male mice, where immature oocytes
developed. The immature oocytes
were removed, and allowed to mature
in vitro. The team then fertilised the
mature oocytes with mouse sperm.
The resultant embryos were trans-
planted into surrogate female moth-
ers, and these embryos developed into
fertile mice.
Saitou and colleagues are now inves-
tigating whether PGCs can be made
from adult human stem cells. This may
prove diﬃcult because of diﬀerences
between mouse and human cells, but
the ultimate hope is that one day this
technique could be used to make eggs
to help infertile couples have children.
Scientists have cautioned that a lot of
work remains before this goal is re-
motely achievable though, including
ethical considerations about using hu-
man ovary tissue to culture the cells.
The immediate impact of the study
will be to provide a robust system for
further investigation of mammalian
female germ-line development, the
poor understanding of which is one
of the reasons why the research does
not yet have any current clinical rel-
evance.
J
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
16
nationalgeographic.com
The Battle of Ideas is a weekend long
festival of talks and debates hosted by
the Institute of Ideas, an independ-
ent think tank. On the 20th and 21st
of October, 350 speakers and 2000+
attendees are expected to gather at
the Barbican centre for 80 talks and
debates on some of the most press-
ing contemporary issues in politics,
culture and science. The battles are
an opportunity, says the Institute, to
be fearless in the face of controversy
and to explore the intellectual legacy
of our generation, summed up by their
punchy tag-line: FREE SPEECH AL-
LOWED.
The Science and Ethics strand of
talks, entitled ‘Ethical Battles in Sci-
ence and Medicine’ promises to be
particularly exciting; speakers include
Sir Professor Mark Walport, direc-
tor of the Wellcome Trust and future
Government Chief Scientiﬁc Adviser,
and the award winning science ﬁc-
tion writer Ken Macleod. This strand
of talks will aim to dissect the ethical
questions surrounding emerging sci-
ences; biotechnology, and embryology
for example. It will look at if and how
science should inform policy on a wide
range of areas from climate change to
organ donation, and the ways in which
it could reshape our cultural attitudes
regarding issues such as homosexual-
ity and abortion. The attitudes of the
public and the inﬂuence of the me-
dia will be examined in this context,
highlighting the ever-pressing issue of
good and bad practice in science com-
munication. Student discounts are
available; for more information visit.
http://www.battleofideas.org.uk/
Battles of Science and Ethics
Jamie-Li RickmanScience Writer
Deadly snake venom better pain-killer than morphine
Nick Kennedy Science Writer
Few of us associate the black mamba,
one of the world’s most venomous
snakes, with pain relief.
But ﬁndings recently published in
Nature show that black mamba ven-
om may be a more eﬀective pain-killer
than morphine.
The black mamba, Dendroaspis pol-
ylepis, is feared throughout southern
and eastern Africa for its extreme
speed, length, aggression and lethal
toxicity.
However, the French scientists in-
volved found that its venom not only
served to abolish pain in mice, but did
not cause any side-eﬀects. Morphine,
commonly used in anaesthesia to re-
duce pain, has myriad side-eﬀects, the
most dangerous of which is respira-
tory failure.
Snake venom can be so deadly be-
cause it attacks key ion-pathways
across neuronal membranes. We rely
on this transport of ions to commu-
nicate vital information around our
brain and body. If these pathways are
prevented from working as normal,
our entire neuronal super-organism
breaks down – signals cannot be
passed around the body. But some sig-
nals communicate unpleasant sensa-
tions, like pain.
Black mamba venom contains pain-
killing proteins called mambalgins.
These mambalgins block the acid-
sensing ion channels (ASICs) in the
cell membrane. ASICs are principal
players in the pain pathway.
But a perplexing question remains:
why does venom of such legendary
toxicity contain pain-killing proteins?
This is a question nobody seems able
to answer.
The black mamba is not the only
venomous snake with a potential ben-
eﬁt to medicine. There are already
three drugs on the market based on
snake venom proteins. Eptiﬁbatide
and tiroﬁban are derived from antico-
agulant proteins found in the venom
of the southeastern pygmy rattlesnake
and African saw-scaled viper, respec-
tively. Both drugs are used to treat
suﬀerers of angina or heart attacks.
Contortrostatin, a component found
in copperhead venom, is being used to
attack breast cancer cells and to pre-
vent cancer from spreading.
In fact a plethora of highly toxic ani-
mals – and of course plants – exhibit
this ‘poison paradox’.
Cone snails are predatory sea snails.
They hunt and immobilize prey using
a radular tooth and a poison gland
containing neurotoxins. In 2004 the
Food and Drug Administration ap-
proved the pain-killer Ziconotide, de-
rived from snail cone toxin, for use as
a non-addictive pain-killer substitute
for morphine.
The venom of the Israeli yellow scor-
pion contains a protein that binds to
cancerous cells found in gliomas, a
type of brain cancer. When combined
with a radioactive solution, this pro-
tein can target and destroy glioma
cells – and ultimately the cancer. As
research progresses the number of
these highly useful animal and plant-
derived compounds will only increase
in number.
So it seems there is a charitable ﬂip
side to these venomous creatures that
are making up for countless lost lives.
DOI: 10.1038/nature11494
I’M TIRED OF THESE MOTH-
ERFUCKING SNAKES IN THIS
MOTHERFUCKING ARTICLE
news.wisc.edu
The recent successes will help aid
research into germ-line development.
Meanwhile, the mouse thinks: “hmmm,
definitely smells like an arse”

