BUSINESS Business Editor: Deepka Rana
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
18
Dr. Magdalena Bak-Maier
Productivity solutions
Dr. Magdalena Bak-Maier responds to students’ queries
ersonally, I do not
think that procras-
tination is entirely
bad. While we delay
the work, we may ﬁnd
out a shortcut or a better way to ﬁnish
the work in short time. As Aaron Burr
wisely said, “Never do today what you
can do tomorrow. Something may oc-
cur to make you regret your premature
action.
” Do I really waste something
while I decided to put oﬀ the work?
Could I be productive as well when I
am waiting for an idea to come up? –
Guang Yang, EEE undergraduate.
Procrastination is not bad in itself.
In fact our brains procrastinate for a
reason: this may be to gather infor-
mation, generate ideas or simply be-
cause of other priorities. Some people
appear to be procrastinating because
they are not doing any explicit or vis-
ible work, and yet, their brain is ac-
tually gathering relevant information
and working things out. If during
the ‘procrastination’ phase ideas are
created, links are made, information
is gathered however unconsciously,
resulting in a sense of readiness and
preparedness and ample time to ex-
ecute the work, then that’s good. The
issue here seems to be about using
procrastination as a strategy to de-
lay action/decision to avoid doing
something that may turn out to be
less than ideal. Procrastination where
nothing is done out of fear of doing
something wrong, is equal to avoid-
ance. Such procrastination will leave
the person having to face last minute
pressures, work under unnecessary
stress and often delivers less than
perfect result. This is not productive.
Many procrastinators mistakenly be-
lieve that they do their best work un-
der pressure of the last minute. More
often than not, they lack any bench-
mark around work which they did not
have to rush. In my experience, when
they try to tackle a project in a more
planned way, they are amazed at the
quality of the results and realise the
power of eﬀective procrastination.
Only by increasing self awareness and
learning about oneself can one make
best choices when to procrastinate
and how to do so productively.
How diﬃcult is it to discern between a
person who is just having trouble stay-
ing on point, from a person who may
be suﬀering a lack of productivity be-
cause they have chosen the wrong ca-
reer for themselves and are unhappy?
In the latter case, does your coaching
strategy shift from productivity devel-
opment to career advice? – Clinton
Cahall, Physics postgraduate.
To discern whether one has trouble
staying on point because one is not
motivated or whether there’s some
other reason for lack of results one
has to be really honest with oneself.
This is probably the hardest thing
to do in my experience and yet also
a sign of true strength. Sometimes
talking to a learning professional or
a coach can help, as conﬁdence fea-
tures strongly in this equation. For
example, a person lacking conﬁdence
may self-sabotage without being
aware of this. This is done to ensure
that their original thinking that they
can’t do it turns out to be right. How
unfortunate you may think. Accord-
ing to Daniel Pink, author of Drive,
there are three characteristics that
ensure motivation, or as Daniel calls
it, drive. Drive makes people work
hard for a result. To have drive one
needs to have autonomy to make in-
dependent decisions (Example: If I
am studying economics it’s because
I really want to and not because my
parents thought it was a good idea),
being able to see/notice one’s skills
and mastery grow (Exp: As I have a
passion for the subject, studies be-
come a pleasure because I am really
interested in what I discover and learn
and I become more knowledgeable)
and having some certainty that the ef-
fort contributes to something larger;
a greater purpose (Exp: My studies in
material design will help create recy-
clable fabrics that adjust to people’s
mood and are inexpensive). If you
can say yes to all three conditions and
yet still feel not ‘on point’, then it is
possible you may lack speciﬁc skills
or knowledge to help you realise re-
sults. I often ﬁnd that we all lack spe-
ciﬁc skills and that’s what’s diﬃcult to
face as it requires extra work. Coach-
ing as a developmental intervention
does not give advice. A coach helps
you ﬁnd your own answers by work-
ing things out for yourself in a similar
style to the exercises in my book Get
Productive. Sometimes, our thinking
can get very muddled, and decisions
can be made for the wrong reasons.
We all make mistakes but to persist in
one is silly. Working with a coach or a
mentor can help unravel the underly-
ing causes for how come something
is the way it is and help you take ac-
tion to improve it. So be honest with
yourself and then talk to other people
whose opinion you value and respect
and get to clarifying your thinking. It
may also be worth to explore the oth-
er attractors that are making you not
appear or be ‘on point’. They may well
hold the answer to your question.
P
CONGRATS!
Clinton Cahall has won a signed
copy of Dr. Bak-Maier’s Get
Productive!
Good service vs. good marketing
What should you do if you stumble
upon a great idea for a product with
high demand in a certain market seg-
ment? Many ﬁrst-time entrepreneurs
have found themselves in this situation
before, and most of them do not manage
to turn their idea into a successful busi-
ness. While there are many things that
can go wrong in the process (within or
beyond your control), a very common
mistake you could make is thinking that
the quality of your product will undoubt-
edly lead you to success. Unfortunately, a
good product will not be enough if you
don’t have a good business model back-
ing it up.
Amongst the many people that have
madethesamemistakeinthepastisbud-
ding entrepreneur Andrew Strube. As he
describes on his website, Andrew moved
into a house inundated with stink bugs
in 2009. He tried to ﬁnd a solution for it
but he couldn’t ﬁnd any product in the
market that worked eﬀectively against
the bugs, so after running out of options
hedesignedandinventedtheworld’sﬁrst
indoor stink bug light trap. He had come
up with a good product that worked per-
fectly and fulﬁlled a need that was unsat-
isﬁed until then. He patented his product
and started taking orders online, what
could go wrong?
During the ﬁrst two months Andrew
took in almost $100,000 in sales. How-
ever, sales have been ﬂat ever since. Even
though the start looked promising, his
company did not have a good growing
business model. As soon as the product
was out in the market, corporate com-
petitors developed their own, and they
have now taken the entire market share
with what is an inferior product, but bet-
ter delivered. As a lone entrepreneur,
Andrew had limited ability to compete,
but with a solid business model he could
have found investors or corporations
willing to invest or partner with him.
This happens to be a constant for any
business, and is one of the reasons why
branding is so important for a company:
if your product is not good, you need to
know how to sell it; but even if you have
the best product in the market, you still
need to know how to sell it! We’ll illus-
trate this with a couple of very clear ex-
amples.
McDonald’s, Burger King and big cor-
porate fast food chains sell a product of
very little quality. In fact, probably most
of the freshers that have just arrived to
Imperial clueless about how to fry an
egg will be able to produce a better ham-
burger in a few months’ time than the
one you get with your Big Mac. However,
I can assure you that they won’t make as
much money if they decide to start sell-
ing them. Fast food corporations priori-
tise their food making and delivering sys-
tem over the quality of their product, and
that is a business model that has proven
to be successful for them. It allows them
to scale up their business fairly easily and
build a strong brand so that the company
can grow far beyond the size of small and
medium enterprises.
Let’s now look at Rolex, a company
whose aim is to make the best looking,
most precise watches in the world. They
havebeenproducingthebestwatchesfor
over a hundred years, but the quality of
their product itself would not have been
enough to for the company to reach their
current dimensions. They follow a solid
business model that has made Rolex
watches a status symbol rather than just
precise watches. Their branding allows
them to sell their product as a luxurious
good, obtaining high margin proﬁts for
it.
As you can see, these are both exam-
ples of extremely successful companies,
and what they have in common is not
that they provide a good product or ser-
vice, but the fact that they are driven by
a good business model that allows them
to create a solid brand. That being said,
we should not underestimate the impor-
tance of delivering a good product, but
without a proper business plan you will
not be able to grow your business to its
full potential.
So let’s go back to the key question:
What should you do if you have a great
idea you want to turn into a business?
First of all you should identify your mar-
ket segment (who your potential cus-
tomers are) and the value you deliver to
the customer. That’s what makes your
product good: the fact that it fulﬁlls an
existing need and the fact that it works
thewayitshould.Youshouldthinkabout
how you will deliver your product: the
channels through which your customers
want to be reached and the relations you
want to develop with your customers.
Think about the resources you need and
whether you can partner up with some-
one else that can provide them to you. By
solving all these issues you are eﬀectively
elaborating your own business plan.
Finally, you will have to create a brand
that people can identify, and this is the
tricky bit. There is plenty of material on-
line and on textbooks on how to build
a successful brand, but you will have to
make sure that this brand is consistent
with your business model. You will want
to focus on diﬀerent areas depending on
the strengths and weaknesses of your
service, as well as the nature of your tar-
get market segment. Finding the appro-
priate balance between a good product
and its successful marketing will enable
your company to reach its full potential.
Maximo is a representative of Imperial
Entrepreneurs. For more information see
www.imperialentrepreneurs.com
Máximo Sanz Hernández

