What’s for breakfast?
You don’t need me to rehash that old
cliché about breakfast being the most
important meal of the day, seeing as it’s
been nattered on enough. Some of you
who skip breakfast might even want
to stab my eyeballs for even bringing
it up. However, for the majority of you
who skimp on it because you rolled
out of bed with precious little time to
spare, this one’s for you. A major plus
is that these things won’t give you a
severe sugar crash afterwards. Thank
us for the improved concentration in
lectures later.
Most of these things can be partially
made the night before, and then eaten
on the walk to lectures with minimal
utensil use (or even in the lecture thea-
tre if you can get away with it – be
discreet though, and if it says it’s not
allowed in your lecture theatre then
don’t do it). Trust me, I’ve tried!
Dressed-up Yogurt: I’m a sucker for
ﬂavoured yogurts from time to time;
but this is deﬁnitely far better for you
as you have more control over cost and
the stuﬀ that goes into it. Grab a small
tub of plain yogurt (normal or Greek,
full-fat or low fat, we don’t discrimi-
nate) and slap on a couple of teaspoons
of your favourite jam – use honey to
sweeten. Add a handful of your favour-
ite chopped nuts or fruit (anything
works) and you’re good to go!
I’ve managed to whip these up in
about a minute when severely rushed.
My favourite combo both in colour
and ﬂavour: strawberry jam and pista-
chios. To save even more time, you can
pre-chop your nuts and fruit – or you
could even make a serving of this the
night before and then grab it on your
way out the door!
Fruit Quesadilla: Yeah, this one may
a bit of a weird-sounding idea – es-
pecially since Granny Smith apples
replace the meat. But cheddar cubes
have been known to coexist with ap-
ple chunks in salad, so it’s not that
far-fetched. You can make part of this
ahead by prepping a ﬂour tortilla –
scatter some grated cheddar over it
and pre-slice your apples thinly (use
lemon juice to stop them browning.)
In the morning, scatter your apple slic-
es on the cheese-laden tortilla and top
with another tortilla. Blast in the mi-
crowave on high for a few minutes so
the cheese melts, then cut into wedges.
Arriba!
Peanut Butter Waﬄe: Forget the
syrup-laden waﬄes you know – apart
from the sugar spike/low, they’re just
too sticky and messy to eat on the
go. Spread a warm bran/whole-grain
waﬄe with peanut butter (chunky or
smooth, your call) and top with some
dried fruit/extra nuts. This ensures
that you get your energy in a slow and
steady release, thanks to the peanut
butter. You also get a protein and ﬁbre
boost in this meal!
Pop Toast: We haven’t gone mad try-
ing to re-invent the wheel – these are
better than Pop Tarts because you get
so much ﬂexibility (apart from the sug-
ar overload of the latter, tsk tsk). For a
basic jam Pop Toast, butter two slices
of bread lightly, and then top with jam
leaving a half-inch border around the
edges. Cut the crusts oﬀ and seal the
“tart” by pressing the edges together
with a fork – just like how you would a
pie crust. Slide it into the toaster (you
get to control how “well done” you like
it) and that’s brekkie done! You could
try other combinations including thin-
ly-sliced fruit, peanut butter, Nutella
(for you chocoholics) – or even cream
cheese and ham slices if you want it
savoury.
(Loosely adapted from Not Without
Salt)
Carol Ann Cheah Food Editor
FOOD
Delicious “green“ dishes!
Yes, the food at SAF restaurant is
green, and by green I mean good to
the environment. Most of the dishes
are raw, which means that they are
prepared at temperatures below 48°C.
You would never believe that raw
food can be so exciting! We had a two
course meal which included starter
and main course.
This is the ﬁrst starter, called Dol-
mades with Tzazyki.
Very nice presentation but I was not
impressed with the taste. Very diﬀer-
ent from the traditional Dolmades,
which are stuﬀed with rice and vegeta-
bles. Instead, these are ﬁlled with cau-
liﬂower rice, pine nuts, cumin, lemon
juice, and dill. They were served with
a vegan yoghurt and cucumber dip.
What I did not like was the cumin,
as I believe it overpowered the other
great, fresh ingredients.
The second starter is the Pesto au
Poivre. Now this was amazing! On the
left is the cashew cheese with the layer
of the basil pesto, in the centre is the
rocket salad and on the right some
raw ﬂaxseed crackers. I cannot de-
scribe how delicious the cashew
cheese was. Its creamy texture and the
YiangoMavrocostanti Food Editor
19
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Boisdale of Belgravia
I hadn’t been to the Belgra-
via branch of Boisdale for
around three years. You
see, the last time I went I
had the worst date of my
life. Not one to judge some-
one for their job title, I took
an Exotic Credit Trader at
Barclays Capital to dinner
for what should have been
a stonking night out. But it
all went wrong at the wine.
Faced with not so much a wine list but what can better be described as a leath-
er bound encyclopaedia of vintages, I asked my companion if she had a prefer-
ence – she said she did not. “Red or white?” I asked. She said red. I ordered a
bottle of Sancerre Rouge, described in the book as “showing a great finesse, the
tannins soft and elegant.” Classy, I hoped she’d think. I hoped wrong. I tasted
the wine, it was fine. She tasted the wine, pulled a face and blurted “Eurgh, I
can’t possibly drink that, it’s not full-bodied enough.” Stunned, not quite sure
how to react or what to do, I watched as she ordered her own glass of wine.
Vulgarity may be no substitute for wit, but all I could do was curse. I pretended
to need the loo, got up, walked past the bar to pay for my wine and escaped
from the restaurant.
Last Friday, I went back with my girlfriend. And, wow, what a night! The food
is fantastic – we had Colston Bassett Stilton ravioli (rich and warm), Hebridean
handpicked crab (fresh and light), Rabbit and Scottish girolles pie (creamy and
tender) and Sirloin steak on the bone with béarnaise sauce (proper steak, just
how it should be). But the greatest triumph, the truest charm of the place, was
first a foot stomping piano player who assaulted the keys with tunes such as
Don’t Get Around Much Anymore and then a New Orleans style quartet blast-
ing out numbers like When You’re Smiling. The place was alive, oozing, buzz-
ing, teeming with atmosphere. Restaurants like this are what makes living in a
big city worth all the hassle; the overcrowding, the overpriced rent. Who cares
if it was raining outside, if the District line was partially suspended?
Top food, top music, top company. And the wine? We drank a roaring full-
bodied Sangiovese di Romagna.
The food review
15 Eccleston Street
London
SW1W 9LX
If nothing else,
a sexy red
Charles Betts
pink peppercorn crust on top went so
well together.
And the main! This was a real mon-
ster. I had the SAF Pad Thai and I am
very glad I chose it. The ﬁrst thing that
made me very excited was the enoki
mushrooms on the side of the plate
because they really are expensive and
I haven’t had the chance to try them
before. I was not disappointed. That
huge mountain is made from Julienne
strips of carrot, mangetout and cour-
gette. It also has mung beans and spicy
cashews, which added a great crunchy
texture. The chillies and the lime on
the side was a nice touch, ensuring
that both the people who like citrus
ﬂavours or spicy food will enjoy this
dish to the maximum. And I should
not forget the Nori sheet, which made
me believe I was eating ﬁsh.
I’m going rogue and pouring
LOADS of milk on the cereal

