Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana Science
Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Clubs & Societies Editor VACANT APPLY
NOW Comment Editors George Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski
Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon Hunter, Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors John Park, Katy Bettany Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar
Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editor VACANT APPLY NOW! Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commander Sotirios Karamitsos
Copy Chief Annina Sartor Copy Editors Al Norman, Matt Colvin, Christopher Witham, Chris Richardson, Laurence de Lussy Kubisa, Lizzy Griffiths, Julia Gherman, Dan Wan Illustrators Lizzy Griffiths, Outi Supponen
LOLCATZ OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
League tables
This week, we have painstakingly (sort
of) gone through all of the league ta-
bles so you can see where we stand.
Also, importantly, you can see where
your subject is placed. I hope it’s inter-
esting and that you enjoy the pretty in-
fographics. We’ve tried to strip out the
boring waffling from us and just give
you the facts and figures.
League tables are a tough one re-
ally. It’s impossible to really measure
how good a university is. It’s definitely
not an exact science at all. The main
problem is that a lot of it can be subjec-
tive, and some parts can be swayed by
people massaging the truth like their
working on a pleasure cruise. By this I
mean both the academic assessment
and the NSS. The NSS is, of course,
the most subjective, and the most
open to people attempting to cheat
their university into a higher slot. I don’t
blame people for that. Wanting to have
a high value degree and excellent job
prospects because of it isn’t exactly a
crime.
It really does boil down to what you
say it actually is that makes an insti-
tution good. It could be the teach-
ing standards, the satisfaction of the
students, the quality of the research.
There are many different factors that
all contribute towards making a uni-
versity a good university. In my humble
opinion, sometimes a name of an insti-
tution proceeds it, and they can always
count on being thought of as excellent.
I’m not convinced that, at this point in
time, the wider public are as intently
aware of who Imperial are.
When discussing league tables it re-
ally is impossible to not talk about The
Guardian really. They have become
notorious (sort of, well, amongst me
at least) for the use of their strange,
stupid, and downright absurd “Value
Added Bullshit” (actually called “Value
Added Score”, but that gets the gist of
it across). What happens with this is
that it takes your entry tariff (your IB,
A levels, whatever you needed to get
in) and then looks at the degree you
achieve from your university. It then
says that if you get very low grades
at A Level and come out with a high
grade at university, then the university
is excellent at teaching. This is, to put it
mildly, a bit of an odd perspective. The
question that I’m sure you’re shouting
into your sandwich is “couldn’t that
just mean that the course is really piss
easy?”. The answer, that I’m hastily
writing on a Thursday night with too
much caffeine and too little sleep, is
yes. I really think that it does mean that
the degree is not as challenging. If you
come in with high grades and don’t get
a first, to me, that indicated that the
course is pretty tough going.
Imperial is very high in most of the
tables. This indicates that we are, in-
deed, a truly great university (with a
truly great newspaper...). In my mind,
considering we are consistently within,
at least, the top 30 in the world, I find it
odd to think that I could have been ac-
cidentally allowed to waltz in through
the doors. It’s a surreal feeling looking
at those tables and figures and think-
ing “hey, I am at one of the best uni-
versities in the world”. Well, according
to what we found, you are. Now pat
yourself on the back. Now stop pat-
ting yourself on the back as people are
watching you and you look slightly odd.
However, my only perception of a
degree is actually this one that I have
done. How can I know what a degree
is like elsewhere? How can I say that
chemistry (which is what I “studied”)
is not better at, say, Bristol, or even (I
shudder at the thought) UCL? The
reason I close with this statement is to
give you a word of caution to pass on to
everyone that will listen. Don’t blindly
take ranking tables to be absolute fact
and undeniable truth. There’s method
to the madness, but is it the correct
method?
HANGMAN FEATURE FASHION
Twatter is right RPS at Imperial Fashion week
See what Obie is up to this
week.Manyofyoumayhave
spottedtheterribleerrorlast
week. This week there aren’t
any such atrocities.
Finally, the moment
that literally no-one
thought would come
to Imperial (as they
hadneverheardofit).
This week we report back
on the Fashion Weeks that
are going on. It includes the
(I’mtoldthecorrectwordis)
chicest toddler ever.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
Medical Summarizer Wanted
Looking for 4th, 5th or 6th year medical student with medical understanding.
15 hours a week.
Crompton Medical Centre
London W2 1ND
For further details please contact Mr. Faisal Ahmed on 07776126204
Job Description - Sum marizing all medical letters and discharge summaries
from Secondary Care (Hospitals) into the medical records for each patient at
the practice, clinical software used is EMIS LV.
All Saints Church, Fulham
Altos wanted
The choir of All Saints Fulham is an excellent, semi-professional choir of ap-
proximately 20 amateur, auditioned singers.
We are currently looking to expand our alto section. The choir sings weekly
Sunday Eucharists, with sung Mass settings on feast days, and Choral Even-
songs. The positions would be ideal for, but are by no means restricted to,
a young professional, or London student looking for somewhere friendly to
sing, but which provides a high standard of music making.
This term’s music includes a Bach cantata Evensong with orchestra, masses by
Palestrina, Vierne and Briggs, Howells’ Reqiuem, and the world premiere of a
composition by Francis Pott, as well as the usual cathedral-style anthems and
settings.
The choir is extremely welcoming, and has a busy social life! The director of
music is always interested in hearing from prospective singers, and is very
happy to chat about any aspects of the position.
Jonathan Wikeley (Director of Music)
dom@allsaints-fulham.org.uk, tel: 07966 969 746
http://www.allsaints-fulham.org.uk/music.htm
>>34 >> 6 >>17
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER

