Superhuman
Meredith Thomas ventures into the weird land
of the cyborgs at the Wellcome Collection
hat do dildos,
wheelchairs and
steroids have in
common? There
are probably
only two places in London you will
ﬁnd these three things in conjunc-
tion. One of them is not suitable for
a family newspaper, the second is the
Wellcome Collection. In the latter
case their justiﬁcation for sharing a
room is their function as devices with
which humans have tried to improve,
repair or augment their bodies. This is
a theme that should excite scientists
and artists and equal measure.
Cannily placed in the middle of an
Olympic summer, Superhuman ex-
plores the theme of human enhance-
ment. Despite the timing, the show
expands the premise to wider contexts
than simply sport. The curators have
pulled together an unapologetically
idiosyncratic show with a rambling
scope, sitting somewhere between
gallery, museum and Coney Island
freak show. This will be familiar to an-
yone who has visited the venue before.
However the 100 artefacts, including
artworks, videos and archaeological
curiosities, deﬁnitely make for an im-
pressive collection.
Typically of the Collection, you are
not permitted to simply browse and
enjoy. The curators seek to poke your
conscience and provoke your imagina-
tion with every step. The ﬁrst question
the curators ask is what we mean by
enhancement. We probably all agree
that medical innovations designed to
repair or replace function lost through
illness or injury count. This would in-
clude prosthetic legs and pacemakers
but are we willing to count sex toys,
high heels and recreational drugs?
How conﬁdent do we feel about a fu-
ture where transhumanist dreams of
implants and robotic limbs start to
look a lot less far-fetched?
The result is an inclusive and slightly
subversive exhibition. The very ﬁrst
thing you see as you enter the space is
a tiny 2000-year-old stature of Icarus.
This one tiny ﬁgure is a concise alle-
gory for the timelessness of mans’ im-
perative to enhance and the inherent
pitfalls that result. What follows is a
journey past Egyptian false toes, goth-
ic devices for assisting thalidomide
victims and photographic histories of
drug scandals from the early days of
the Tour de France.
What really hit home from the ex-
hibition is that the instinct to add an
augment is so very old. Previously aes-
thetic enhancement has been a domi-
nant theme. Jewellery, make-up and
clothing are very familiar examples of
this desire to artiﬁcially change one’s
image.
The second thrust historically has
been medicinal and restorative. How-
ever thought has been limited to sim-
ply replacing lost functionality. These
eﬀorts have often been abysmal, clum-
sy failures.
There are more speculative and
reﬂective exhibits too. There are ex-
amples of comic book heroes with
superhuman abilities and interviews
with futurists fretting about the social
impact of cybernetics.
The show has undoubtedly beneﬁted
from the interest in Paralympic sport
over the summer. One the interesting
themes that emerges is the changing
attitudes to disability prompted by
technical advance.
One of the exhibits, a rare screening
of Matthew Barney’s ﬁlm Cremaster
reveals athlete and model Aimee Mul-
lins (pictured top) in all her unconven-
tional beauty.
In case you are unaware of Mullins,
suﬃce to say she is gorgeous from the
knees up. Her extraordinary athletic
prowess and a widely viewed TED
talk, discussing her disability, have
made her an inﬂuential proponent of
this change in attitude.
She now has designers ﬁghting for
the chance to create prosthetic legs for
her and ﬁlm makers like Barney queu-
ing up. His piece shows her wearing a
range of unconventional prosthetics
aimed at challenging ideas of body
image. These include animal inspired
works and jellyﬁsh tentacles.
Things are certainly changing, with
technology oﬀering real potential to
ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
22
The Tanks @ Tate Modern – Don’t miss out on making your way to the experimen-
tal performance space currently found in the stark and industrial galleries of the
Tate Modern. Closes October 28.
Three Sisters @ Young Vic – This sounds like a particularly modernised retelling of
Chekhov’s play, keeping only its spirit alive. Until November 3.
Moniker Art Fair 2012 @ The Village Underground – The alternative to Frieze Art
Fair this week in London. If you are not a fan of the contemporary art world, per-
haps this is the show for you, showcasing the best of urban culture. October 11-14.
Admission can be free if you choose the right time.
Tuesdays @ The Flying Dutchman – An exhibition space in Camberwell, dedicated
to promoting young local artists. Every Tuesday, 5pm until midnight, entrance is
free and drinks are 30% off for students. What more could you want?
Richard Hamilton: The Late Works @ The National Gallery – Previously unseen
works, some expressly comissioned for this show, by one of the inventors of Pop
Art. Until January 13 2013.
move beyond aesthetic enhancements
towards ones that give us new or im-
proved abilities, there are some that
believe a new tranche of functional
implants and modiﬁcations are on
the way. Does it, however, follow that
merely because we have the technol-
ogy, we should use it?
At the end of the show the we are
led into the realm of the the hardcore
transhumanist. We are introduced to
the concept of enhancements directly
integrated with the body, not to re-
place missing function but to add new
abilities.
There are strange videos of patients
overcome by cybernetic infections
and the wheelchair of dead artist Don-
ald Rodney roams freely around the
gallery, tracking lonely trajectories.
These artworks speak of our fears and
discomfort surrounding the idea of
changing and adding to our own bod-
ies. We recognise tattoos and pierc-
ings as fairly normal, are bionic devic-
es a natural extension of these ancient
practices?
Dreams of a new bionic dawn re-
main largely in the realm of science
ﬁction, due to cost, legality, ethical
concerns or the harsh reality of what is
possible. Occasionally however, these
realms do drift closer to reality. Out
there on the fringes is where things
get a little weird. Black-and-white mo-
rality starts to give way to some rather
uncomfortable shades of grey.
You have one week left to catch Su-
perhuman at the Wellcome Collec-
tion. Your thoughts will be forcibly
provoked. After all, with glasses on
our heads and the phones in our pock-
ets, we are all cyborgs already.
W
Tonight, Tonight
Today I found you trying.
Tonight I feel you breezing.
A cold wind blows to tease me.
Aw bleeding never ceases.
Today I heard you talking.
Tonight I meet you screaming.
A dense smoke fills a clearing.
A language dies of meaning.
Today I left you shining.
Tonight I find you freezing.
A wolf’s howl makes it easy.
A scarecrow never pleases.
Today I saw you walking.
Tonight I hear you breathing.
‘Portrait of the woman as the artist’ by Hamilton
My caption-writing skills have finally
been rendered useless
Go to Sleep
My eyes are a star-shaped gift
from the sky;
I hope to believe their version
of life.
My heart is as soft as snow
glowing white;
It feels bitter-sweet, but
warm deep inside.
My fear is confusing shadow
and light,
Dreaming until I forget which
is mine.
Got a sonnet up your sleeve, a verse in your purse or a haiku in your
trousers? Submit your work to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk!
by Paul Cosma

