MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
You Don’t Have To
Call It Music
Pt. 1 Contemporary classical
by Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
I was brought up to disown classical music. When I wanted rock & roll, I got
baroque. Admire conventional wisdom as sacrosanct and do not touch. Un-
fortunately, it took years for me to gain any sort of interest in classical music,
and when I did, it was decidedly towards the anarchic end of the spectrum.
Despite the polite waltzes and majestic sonatas of centuries past, the shape of
modern composition takes an altogether more tumultuous form.
This convention is what deteriorates the so-called “serious music, domesti-
cated under the barbarous name of classical so as to enable one to turn away
from it again in comfort,” as Theodor Adorno put it in his essay, On the Fetish
Character of Music and the Regression of Listening. In fact, not only the audi-
ence but even the composers grew tired of the servile rectitude of the simplis-
tic, predictable, and almost patronizing plays of harmony. One Arnold Sch-
oenberg, all but single-handedly banished conventionality in music with his
twelve-tone technique, dubbed serialism, decidedly defenestrating tonality
altogether. His cacophonic approach was equally revered and reviled by the
new and old respectively. Regardless, it came at a time when music was more
hackneyed than ever. Opening our ears to atonality was a way of breaking free
from convention and exploring new ground in an agoraphobic art.
Before this explosion into unknown territory, some composers had already
begun to unravel the creases in the partiture. Hungarian Béla Bartók is said to
have been the first to use a method akin to serialism in 1908, before Schoen-
berg concretized it in 1921. Two years before, Richard Strauss sonified per-
versions on biblical characters, which culminated in necrophilia, in his opera
Salomé based on the play by Oscar Wilde. His most famous work, Thus Spoke
Zarathustra, was inspired by the Nietzsche’s opus, which claimed that “God
is dead.” Later, Igor Stravinsky would incite a riot in the concert hall with his
orchestral ballet The Rite of Spring. Truly, the times of genteel eloquence and
pompous balladry were now reserved for the ignorantly arrogant.
After the collapse of Europe in the wake of WWII, when harmonic excess
and euphoric beauty was no longer fit to entice the hearts of a broken con-
tinent, a new resurgence in dissonance took form. Krzysztof Penderecki’s
Threnody to the Victims of Hiroshima is perhaps one of the most chilling and
illustrative documents of the zeitgeist. The violins open with a single chord,
merging a million crying voices into one agonized shrill, shivering in terror.
The cacophony quickly falls apart as the glissandos turn to staccatos like col-
lapsing footsteps, eventually giving way to a void of silence. These elements
permeate the entire piece, painting a terrifying vision of man’s greatest dis-
covery turned into its greatest misfortune. The pristine face of the orchestra
turned into an ominous and macabre portrait of the depths of mankind. The
listener was plunged beneath the safe space between whole notes and half-
tones, into a flood of dissonance and conflicting harmonics. Yet this was not
merely a chaotic mass. The dissonance induces a calculated state of terror. It
was mankind recoiling at the mere thought of itself. Something stranger than
taboo, something seemingly unnatural, but so innate.
This tendency towards abstraction from our imperfect nature was further
elevated by Iannis Xenakis. Xenakis used his training as an architect to make
up for his lack of musical background. After fleeing his natal Greece, following
the ruination wrought the fascists (where the then student’s visage was se-
verely disfigured while fighting in the resistance), he found a place in Parisian
brutalist-extraordinaire Le Corbusier’s architecture studio. Not long thereaf-
ter he met composer Olivier Messiaen (who famously scored bird songs for
orchestra) who spurred the anxious expat to use the tools at his disposal to
pursue his musical passion, even when a classical education had been missing.
Xenakis used his knowledge of structural engineering and stochastic process-
es - such as those found in nature, from bird flight to cellular organization - to
extract music from the rigid foundations of mathematics. His most famous
piece, Metastasis was composed using the same formulas as those used in de-
signing the emblematic Phillips Pavilion for the 1958 World Expo in Brussels.
The New Yorker’s Alex Ross recently recounted these tremors of the XX
Century in his book The Rest is Noise. The Southbank Centre are curating a
festival from January to June of next year inspired by the Pulitzer Prize finalist.
It features concerts from many of the above, as well as more manageable and
certainly more beautiful works by Debussy, Mahler, Prokofiev, Satie and
countless others. If you ever felt a curiosity but never dared confront the vast-
ness of the repertoire, this may help to make some sense of it all.
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
24
MS Paint Comp!
Can you name the album covers that we’ve reproduced with the ac-
curacy of that Spanish woman who tried to fix the painting of Jesus?
Send us your answers to the 12 album covers drawn above to music.
felix@gmail.com. Up for grabs is the eternal (5 day) fame of having
your name printed in this illustrious publication, we may even print it
inboldtype.(Seriouslythough,theFelixMusicbudgetdoesn’tstretch
to actual prizes.)

