Bestival: It’s in the name
Monday morning at Bestival provided
one of those typically British end-of-
summermoments.As50,000hung-over
festival goers packed up, or, in many cas-
es, abandoned, their tents and gazebos,
a distinct air of conclusion could be felt
in the rainy skies of Robin Hill Country
Park on the Isle of Wight. The preceding
four days could not have been in starker
contrast, with intense sunshine ensur-
ing unfortunate burns and tan lines all
round, accompanying a barmy weekend
of wide-ranged music and comedy.
Not many people will argue with me
when I say that there were some extraor-
dinary performances at Bestival this
year, not least from the 62-year-old soul
legend Stevie Wonder, who produced
such a hit-packed two hour set that it
left many in a daze, including covers of
John Lennon’s ‘Imagine’ and the Beatles’
‘She Loves You’
. This was, in fact, a trend
at Bestival this year as the older genera-
tion of performers generated the loud-
est cheers, with the exception of Gary
Numan, who decided the crowd would
prefer to hear him reel oﬀ his new brand
of heavy metal at the expense of his clas-
sics. Saturday’s headliners New Order,
with 56 year old Bernard Sumner at the
helm, captured the imagination with an
immaculate delivery of their hits, com-
bined with several Joy Division songs
including the show-stopping ‘Love Will
Tear Us Apart’
, played to a backdrop of
Ian Curtis with the words “forever Joy
Division” displayed across the screen.
Sister Sledge (of ‘We Are Family’ fame)
and ever-present funk group Earth
Wind & Fire also raised the proverbial
roof despite a sizeable age gap with the
Bestival audience. That is not to say that
the current generation of indie bands
delivered lacklustre performances. Two
Door Cinema Club were as good a
warmupforNewOrderasanyonecould
have hoped for, working the main stage
crowd into a frenzy with a combination
of new songs from recently released
album Beacon, and well-known crowd
pleasers from Tourist History. Friendly
Fires also proved to be a massive hit
late on Sunday evening for those brave
enough to stand through lead singer Ed
Macfarlane’s ridiculous dancing, as they
raced through their unique brand of in-
dietronica. Bestival organisers however
did not prove to be the most popular of
ﬁgures on Friday evening as an awkward
clash between post-punk band, The
Horrors, and minimalist three-piece,
the XX, presented itself to the Besti-
val crowd. The contrast between these
two performances could not have been
greater, as the main stage crowd were
rewarded with the XX’s only UK festi-
val performance this summer, sending
shivers down the spine of those watch-
ing. The Horrors however, blitzed their
way through a 45 minute set, under a
cloud of smoke created by their overly-
exuberant spliﬀ-smoking fans. Friday
evening had already provided us with a
clash between Mercury hopefuls Alt-J
and psychedelic quartet Django Djan-
go. Alt-J, spurred on by an expectant
crowd, overcame early nerves to show
exactly why their album, An Awesome
Wave, reached a peak position of 19 in
the charts earlier this year. Friday night,
however, was dominated by one woman
and her band; Florence Welch owned
the night with her humongous stage
presence and extraordinary voice. From
what I recall, she did not miss a single
note, even on her recent number one
‘Spectrum’ which the crowd tried (and
failed) to sing along to.
Although wildlife was the oﬃcial
theme of Bestival 2012 (and impeccably
observed by the majority), curator Rob
Da Bank had clearly placed an empha-
sis on dance and electronic music in his
lineup to go with the usual indie and
rock acts. Friday evening in the Big Top
was a prime example of this, as a rousing
DJ set from Radio 1 DJ Zane Lowe was
followed by London DJ SBTRKT and
concluded by Belgian duo 2manydjs, by
which time the crowd had been pound-
ed from all sides by irrepressible bass
for 3 hours. Saturday evening followed
a similar trend as a rousing rendition
of ‘Pon De Floor’ by Major Lazer was
followed by many peoples’ highlight of
the weekend, as Justice taught a lesson
in how to work a crowd into an absolute
frenzy, accompanied by a quite incred-
ible stage setup and lighting. By the time
they reached their encore, the crowd
was so large many stood outside the tent
to catch a glance of the duo.
I like to think of Bestival as a quirky
festival. It likes to do things a bit diﬀer-
ently to other festivals, as shown by the
annual fancy dress theme. You’re sur-
rounded by people who have a com-
mon passion for a certain kind of music
(not always the case at R&L). The one
thing Reading does have in its favour,
however, is location- who ever thought
it would be a good idea to host a festi-
val on an island? I would recommend
Bestival to anyone who goes to a festival
for the music and is not put oﬀ by the
queues.
This photo makes me hate the fact
it is not summer anymore...
Alex Hooftman
MUSIC
French Radio: Pourqoui pas?
It seems as though the older you get,
the less time there is for doing fun
things, like having sex or keeping up
with the best new music. (Or maybe
that’s just because you have a frigid
boyfriend from Imperial and you ﬁ-
nally have better things to do with
your time than read the slightly ridic-
ulous and shit NME). Although the
getting-more-sex issue hasn’t been
resolved, a great solution to the latter
is the Laura Leishman Project, a show
on French radio station Le Mouv.
“Le French music? Le merde!” I
hear you cry. Much of the time this
is the case. Many students studying
French and trying to improve aural
skills will come across the inability to
ﬁnd a good French radio show which
plays good music. There probably are
very few others apart from LPP which
ticks both these boxes.
Hosted by the lively Laura Leish-
man, she does a right job of engaging
the listener and making them pas-
sionate about the music she plays.
Even her voice is a pleasure to listen
to. Being of Swiss origin and ﬂuent
in English, the eﬀect on her accent
makes it easier to connect to her as
a DJ, rather than feeling distanced by
the posh tones of a typical French-
from-France accent.
For those who don’t speak French,
the playlists in themselves are usually
worth tuning in for – that is for fans
of electronic music and hip hop (both
Anglophonic and Francophonic). Be-
ing French, obviously the station has
the best access to artists from the
French electro scene, who feature
strongly in the tracklists. Longer ex-
clusive mixes are also a bonus and
can usually be easily found on inter-
net searches.
For French speakers, regular in-
terviews are a chance to get a good
insight into French musicians when
English interviews may restrict their
expression. English-speaking artists
are interviewed and have their re-
sponses translated. Reviews on new
music by guests are also featured,
similar to the format on British ra-
dio shows and public interaction is
sometimes encouraged through the
medium of suggesting songs for silly
themes at the end of the night. De-
spite this, the best part of the show
is its lack of gimmicks and cringey
phone-ins from listeners.
If all this takes your fancy, and your
Imperial man is still not being man
enough for your evenings, you can
listen to LLP live between 9pm and
11pm Monday-Friday by streaming
from Le Mouv website or re-listen at
anytime.
Lily Le
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
25
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
AMS’ album of the week
TameImpalareleasedtheirdebutalbum,Innerspeak-
er, in 2010. A 60s throwback made of fuzzy guitar and
big psychedelic hooks, it was filled with catchy pop
songs and hum-along melodies. Their new album is a
muchmorecomplicatedaffair.Lonerismistheclassic
sophomore album. It’s a band maturing, diversifying,
experimenting, but ultimately, running out of hits.
There is definitely a lot to like here. The opener Be
AboveItisareallyniceintro,withspokenwordhiddenunderwavesoffuzz.There’s
a really nice bass line carrying the track along in Apocalypse Dreams and there’s a
great synth part in it as well. In fact, the whole song is great until around 3 minutes
when it goes a bit Pink Floyd. Why Won’t They Talk To Me is probably my favourite
onthealbum.Thedynamicchangesfeelnaturalandthebubblingsynthintheback-
ground is really pretty. Feels Like We Only Go Backwards is lovely too. The laughter
in the background of Keep on Lying is a personal highlight, it’s a shame about the
ending to the song. The last track is an absolute treat as well; a Tame Impala song I
can’t think of a lazy 60s comparison for. A piano and vocal affair followed by over 2
minutes of flange effects. It might not be that much of a treat.
The problem with the album is that it consistently overruns. The intro is great,
but it should be just that, an intro, not a full length song. Long songs need to go
somewhere and that doesn’t seem to be something Tame Impala excel at. There
are several 5 or 6 minute tracks here and they all either go nowhere and become
really dull (Music To Walk Home By and Keep on Lying) or go somewhere that re-
allydoesn’twork(ApocalypseDreamsandNothingThatHasHappened…).SheJust
Won’t Believe Me is really shit as well. It sounds like a proper song and then just
stops. I don’t see the point, it doesn’t sound good, it’s not clever. It’s trying too hard
at it’s most bizarre.
This album is not bad, but I don’t think it’s particularly good either. Instead, I’m
goingtopatronisinglycallit“promising”.There’senoughherethatIthinktheyhave
a great album in them, it’s just not quite there yet.
Tame Impala - Lonerism
Music Writer
Music Writer

