FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
26 FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
Emma Watson’s tasty wallflower
Adapted and directed by the author
himself, Stephen Chbosky’s The Perks
of Being a Wallﬂower is an enthusias-
tic, somewhat rushed, American teen-
age rite-of-passage story. Although a
good premise and a best-selling novel,
the ﬁlm itself is distinctly over-full
and does appear to have been put
together a little hastily – or not ed-
ited well enough to reduce the book
to ﬁlm length. That said, this modern
classic tale is generally well acted and
well scripted.
Back in the Nineties, young teen
Charlie (Logan Lerman – Percy Jack-
son and the Lightning Thief) is a quiet,
sensitive, emotional type, and is just
starting out at a new high school in
Pittsburgh, USA. Here, his stepbroth-
er Patrick (Ezra Miller – We Need to
Talk About Kevin) and stepsister Sam
(Emma Watson – do you really need
telling?) take him under their wing
and attempt to guide him through the
early twists of adolescence and the
ﬁrst few semesters of high school. As
the school year progresses, Charlie
ﬁnds himself the half-reluctant, half-
delighted centre of attention within
the friendship group. However, the
mystery surrounding both Sam (who
is supposedly more hip and music-
savvy than her mainstream peers, but
fails to recognise Bowie’s Heroes on
the radio) and Patrick (bitchy as hell,
but appears to be hiding something
signiﬁcant) leaves naïve Charlie con-
fused, upset and emotional. Is this re-
ally any better than his old, lonely life?
Still trying to cast oﬀ Hermione’s
Hogwarts robes, Watson does a good
job in a role that is a little compli-
cated. One false move and it could
have been horriﬁc, but thankfully
Watson’s convincing American ac-
cent and quirky acting style proved
very eﬀective here. Lerman, too, is
solid in his role as the nervous, lonely
Charlie – despite being relatively un-
known alongside Watson. After his
signiﬁcant success in the role of Kevin
in Lynne Ramsay’s We Need to Talk
About Kevin, expectations were ris-
ing surrounding Miller’s performance
in this, his latest venture. Sadly, al-
though he does his best, one could
say he is ridiculously miscast as the
‘gay best friend’ – a weak role, poorly
scripted and apparently mostly used
to bulk the story out.
Throughout the ﬁlm there is an un-
derlying thread of child abuse, suicide
and suﬀering (we see Charlie in a lab-
coated therapists oﬃce on a few occa-
sions, seemingly to deal with past de-
mons), supposedly to emphasise the
key points of the tale. Unfortunately,
the drama fails to support this theme,
and the brief moments of excitement
are more Eastenders than ﬁve-star
ﬁlm. The drama, too, seems like it is
only actually dramatic to the teenag-
ers throwing the tantrums.
All things said, it is an enjoyable and
steady ﬁlm, but the idea that ‘less is
more’ may have been a good notion to
follow here.
Lucy Wiles Film Editor
Ethan Hawte Hawke gets sweaty, wet, tense, and hard
It’s a shame characters in horror ﬁlms
leave things until too late to put the
pieces together. They spend an ago-
nising part of the running time going
through all sorts of danger and jump
scares but refuse to admit that there’s
something wrong with the house
they’re living in. It’s not entirely clear
just what Ellison Oswalt (Hawke) is
trying to achieve when he moves into
the house where an entire family was
hanged in their garden. Sure, he’s a
true-crime writer but did he really
need to drag his family into the scene
of the crime? He of course keeps this
little secret to himself, with his wife
Tracy (Juliet Rylance) and two chil-
dren completely unaware of what
they are in for.
Following the pattern most strug-
gling writers do in ﬁlms, he looks to
Scotch for his inspiration. Knocking
back a bottle every evening without
the much feared consequences of a
hangover, he sets up his own inves-
tigation “wall” where photographs,
maps, print-outs and articles are
put up and tied together with bits of
string. It makes very little sense to us,
but Ellison seems to be pretty content
and know what he’s doing. But it’s not
until a miraculous discovery of home
videos that really kicks oﬀ his novel-
writing process.
So what exactly have been recorded
in these family home videos? Initial-
ly they appear harmless, of various
happy looking families. But in a series
of bizarre twists, the videos go on to
record some horriﬁc murders. Well
crafted and meticulously planned
and executed, the families helplessly
fall victim to some grizzly, nasty mas-
sacres. But what do these seemingly
diﬀerent victims have in common?
As he embarks on his investigative
journalism, often aided by a wannabe
helpful but slightly dim police oﬃcer
(the excellent James Ransone who
provides priceless oﬀbeat comedy),
he discovers links that aren’t too fas-
cinating or complex, and it frustrates
us to see how long he spends to con-
nect the dots. For a man who has sup-
posedly written popular crime novels
in the past, he’s not too sharp when it
comes to actually doing his job.
In the meantime he hears odd nois-
es, loud thuds, opened doors which
were surely locked, electronic equip-
ment that was surely switched oﬀ,
and this carries on for several nights,
as Ellison is incapable of taking a hint.
Plus there’s the obligatory young
daughter who sees things no one else
does. Young girls in horror ﬁlms tra-
ditionally turn out to be more crucial
than they seem. Cryptic dialogue,
spoken in a soft, high-pitched voice
of an assured child showing very little
emotion, drawing random pictures
on the house wall; these are all text-
book methods of throwing together a
bunch of overused ideas.
But why does this ﬁlm actually
work? Despite its unnecessarily
lengthy running time, it’s Hawke’s
John Park Film Editor
Director: Stephen Chbosky
Screenwriter: Stephen Chbosky
Starring: Logan Lerman, Emma
Watson, Ezra Miller
Ron and Harry got hotter......
gripping central performance that
holds everything together from start
to ﬁnish. Forget the mystery, forget
the horror, and forget the clichéd
scares. What Sinister has done so well
better than any other horror ﬁlm is
that it has truly found a capable lead,
a rarity in horror ﬁlms that normally
choose to go for the young ones with
looks rather than talent. He inhabits
his role with commitment and com-
pelling energy that helps to sell the
story, no matter just how ridiculous
everything builds up to.
The familiar ideas do sometimes
work – but the overused cycle the
ﬁlm gets itself stuck in is a tiresome
one. It starts oﬀ with an intriguing
premise: The Ring-like story a char-
acter stumbling across a horriﬁc
footage that marks you for all sorts of
terror and violent demise. But from
that point on it never builds up to
anything truly substantial. The end-
ing is a shocking one, not the kind
commonly seen in ﬁlms that decide
to play it safe, but with Sinister, it
does redeem some points with a dar-
ing ﬁnale.
Director: Scott Derrickson
Screenwriters: Scott Derrickson, C.
Robert Cargill
Starring: Ethan Hawke
Put... the lanyard... down

