56th BFI London Film Festival
Caesar Must Die
The big winner at the Berlin Film Festival
earlier this year, this low budget but in-
tricately directed and intimately staged
Italian prison drama lives up to its repu-
tation, as inmates of a prison in Rome
rehearse for their very own production
of William Shakespeare’s Julius Caesar.
Beautifully drifting in and out of their
world and one written by Shakespeare
himself, the prisoners (all of them actu-
ally serving time for various crimes, with
no prior acting experience, but giving
such raw, powerful performances) ﬁnd
parallel between the lives they’re lead-
ing, and the characters they’re playing.
Very little is told about the details of
prison life, but a lot can be deduced
during their audition and rehearsal pro-
cesses. A short, concise but undeniably
stirring and surreal experience.
John Park Film Editor
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
Like Someone in Love
A young Japanese student working as
a prostitute gets a call to pay an elderly
professor a visit. She reluctantly goes,
naturally assuming that the service she
needs to provide would be sexual in na-
ture. Turns out the old gentleman has
very little interest in actually sleeping
with her. What follows is a dull, plodding
series of conversations between the two,
covering a range of topics that are clearly
supposed to have some sort of a deeper
meaning. The two brilliant actors are giv-
en plenty of room to breathe, as director
Abbas Kiarostami has no problem stand-
ing back and letting the leads do all the
talking, but the criminally abrupt end-
ing that provides absolutely no sense of
closure will surely leave everyone dumb-
struck without fail.
Crazy Eyes
There is nothing wrong with exploring
the dark and twisted sides of wealth,
women and alcoholism, but when han-
dled distastefully, as it is with Adam
Sherman’s latest feature, it can turn
into nasty, unpleasant viewing. A rich
young man (Lukas Haas) with a long list
of problems turns to heavy drinking for
comfort and solace. He has a string of
eccentric lovers but the one he is truly
interested in doesn’t return his feelings.
His obsession is creepy, her money-
grabbing, quirky behaviour is frustrat-
ing, and the ﬁlm fails to truly hone in
on either of their true nature. Lacking
a single character worth giving a damn
about and bombarded with meaning-
less, pretentious narration, there are
far too few redeeming factors on offer
here.
Grassroots
Two jobless best friends decide to take
on the supposedly corrupt incumbent
council member in Seattle. Their method
is to heavily campaign the use of the
city’s electric monorail for a cleaner, less
grid-locked neighbourhood. That strat-
egy, along with the running man’s genu-
ine, earnest albeit quirky desire to im-
prove the area does gain a lot of support.
For the campaign manager (American
Pie’s Jason Biggs), who started this with
a half-hearted belief, it becomes an im-
portant project that could really become
something legitimate. The ﬁlm is simple,
light on details and the brisk pacing does
not help with the ﬁlm’s political aspects
wanting to be taken more seriously, but
the ensemble of various talents does
bring out the occasional outrageous
laughs.
Antiviral
In a distant future where celebrity cul-
ture has grown wildly out of control,
members of the public pay to receive
injections of diseases that were once
carried by the big shot superstars them-
selves. It’s an odd concept difficult to
fully accept, which is a part of the reason
why this social satire never fully works.
Despite a strong, unsettling perfor-
mance from Caleb Landry Jones, as one
of the employees of a mass pharmaceuti-
cal ﬁrm that provides such eccentric ser-
vices who purposefully acquires the lat-
est “disease” only to discover its deadly
consequences, there always exists that
feeling of disbelief that undermines the
ﬁlm’s narrative drive. Still, the ideas be-
hind the story, as well as its reflection on
modern day’s ﬁxation on fame provide
some food for thought for the audience.
In the House (Dans la Maison)
French director Francois Ozon’s latest
offering is a warm blend of intriguing
drama as well as downright hysterical
comedy that handsomely unveils the
many hidden layers in his characters and
plot points with his controlled pace. A
frustrated high-school literature teacher
ﬁnally ﬁnds a young student who shows
talent in the subject. The only hiccup is,
all the boy wants to write about is his ob-
session with his friend’s mother. It’s fas-
cinating, disturbing, amusing all in one
big swoop, which is why he lets his pupil
carry on with this task. But as time goes
by the situation gets slightly out of hand,
and the two ﬁnd themselves in precari-
ous positions. Sounds dead serious, but
often it’s not, which is one of the ﬁlm’s
greatest strengths.

