FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
28
On the road, to nowhere
John Park Film Editor
Director: Walter Salles
Screenwriters: Jacques Kerouac
(novel), Jose Rivera
Starring: Garrett Hedlund, Sam Riley,
Kristen Stewart, Viggo Mortensen,
Amy Adams, Kirsten Dunst, Elizabeth
Moss, Steve Buscemi, Alice Braga,
Terrence Howard
Here is a repetitive bore of a movie
in which the three main characters
(Hedlund, Riley and Stewart) spend
far too much time chasing three
things: alcohol, drugs and sex. Yes,
they’re either getting drunk, getting
high, or getting laid. One of them
fancies himself as a bit of a deep-
thinking writer, and he serves as the
ﬁlm’s narrator. We see things in Sal
Paradise’s (Riley) point of view, who
records every single wild experience
he shares with various people in his
life.
Plans to adapt Jack Kerouac’s clas-
sic novel of the same name have been
around for decades, and here it ﬁnally
is, in year 2012, with a fresh, good-
looking large ensemble that tries to
bring out the complexities in each
character. And the talented cast does
truly give it their all but what this
ends up looking like is a series of arty
short ﬁlms strung together with no
real clear sense of purpose or direc-
tion. Plus it goes on for far too long,
and without a real story to tell, even
a standard two-hour ﬁlm feels like an
unbearable chore.
Sal has lost his father, and whilst
living with a writer’s block, ponder-
ing the meaning of life, meets Dean
Moriarty (Hedlund), a suave, enig-
matic youngster who he is captivated
by. His energy, his spirit, his attitude,
just everything about him clicks for
some reason, and Moriarty immedi-
ately becomes his inspiration to ven-
ture out into the world, live his life,
and the two hit it oﬀ becoming best of
friends. The two of them travel a lot,
and we get many shots of them driv-
ing across empty roads in America,
comfortably drifting along to their
next destination, wherever that may
be.
Of course, a fair share of women
enter the picture: Stewart is the dim,
horny young girlfriend of Dean, a
shallow role the actress has played
many, many times in the past in the
vampire franchise that made her a
global sensation whereas Dunst tunes
in for a ﬁne supporting turn as the
one woman who genuinely tries to
make something out of the irrespon-
sible and reckless Dean. Braga’s Terry,
a cotton picker who Sal has a brief but
passionate aﬀair with, is never fully
explored, neither is Adams’ eccen-
tric Jane, who makes a brief cameo
appearance but not adding anything
substantial to what the ﬁlm is trying
to say. Four potentially interesting
characters, played by four talented
actresses, all put to no good use as the
ﬁlm is far too busy trying to tackle
the budding, complex relationship
between the two men.
But the ﬁlm also has trouble div-
ing into the male leads. Dean is de-
ﬁned by the mad way with which he
chooses to live his life. So we see a
lot of monotonous, tedious scenes of
Dean hitting rock bottom. He drinks
a lot of spirits, smokes a lot of weed,
and screws a lot of women. Being with
Sal ups his mood even more, and his
drunken antics get worse. Exactly
what Sal is so captivated by is any-
one’s guess, and the ﬁlm fails to truly
address the bond that keeps these two
together.
Credit has to go however, to the two
actors with an enormous burden of
bringing to life the two aimless drift-
ers who are diﬃcult to ﬁgure out.
Riley, driving the narrative forward
with his narration, conveys a lot of
feelings during his time of growth
and change, always keeping us updat-
ed with what is going on, when, why,
where and how. Although the real
revelation and breakout star here has
to be Hedlund, who brings out such
natural, classic alpha-male macho
charisma so readily to his role, and
the untamed ways he goes about his
life is captured with much dedication
and power. But his impressive range
doesn’t end there, as he also brings
out the more grounded, tender side
of his character, a calmer alternative
that is rarely shown. It’s obvious he
has trouble following him wherever
he goes, and he does have several mo-
ments of rather depressing revelation,
intermittent reality checks, that tell
him no good can come out of any of
this. This is where the more sensi-
tive expression of Hedlund’s superb
showing stirs up a lot of sympathy
and emotions which are otherwise
very lacking in the ﬁlm’s dry duration.
Basically, it all comes down to the
two kids needing to grow up and
face the harsh truths of life. And no
prizes for guessing who comes out as
the eventual winner, and who needs
to come grovelling back after his fu-
tile attempts to lead the more “fun”
years don’t quite work out. And due to
barely developed characters and a su-
perﬁcial look at their relationships, it
is diﬃcult to feel anything for anyone
in the end. But thanks to the excep-
tional cast trying their best, and some
lovely colourful shots of the peaceful
countryside, On the Road avoids be-
coming an absolute disaster.
Edward and Jacob got hotter...
Death to Hipsters!
Insert inappropriate sexual
moaning caption here... baby
15 or 29 October, 18.00 - 19.30
Queen’s Tower Rooms, South Kensington Campus
+PJOGFMMPXkSTUZFBSTUVEFOUTGPSBOFWFOJOHPG
DPPLJOHJEFBTBOEUJQT|XBZTUPSFMJFWFTUSFTT|TFMGEFGFODF
:PVSTVSWJWBMLJUGPSMJGFBTBTUVEFOU
Book now at l www.imperial.ac.uk/students/startimperial
start
imperial
cooking stress relief
self
defence
TVSWJWOHZPVSkSTUZFBS

