A DayZ by any other name...
Ross Webster is looking for friendlies in Cherno
ombie games have taken
all shapes and sizes over
the years, from Wii-
based Evil Dead-style
games within the Resi-
dent Evil universe (Umbrella Chroni-
cles) to frantic rooftop gunﬁghts in
the Left 4 Dead series. They all bring
in the element of isolation into the
mix, surrounded by crumbling cities
and smoking ruins, but they just man-
age to miss that feeling of desperation
- you die, and then you respawn or re-
load, not that far back.
Enter DayZ (pronounced day-zed, or
day-zee depending on your horoscope
and the phases of Jupiter’s moons) –
a zombie survival simulator. Firstly,
a little bit of background. DayZ is a
mod for Armed Assault 2 (ArmA 2),
a military combat simulator. The base
game, developed by Bohemia Interac-
tive, is massive – hundreds of realisti-
cally modelled weapons and vehicles,
along with bullet physics and wind di-
rections – and has been quite popular
within the mil-sim community, since
its release back in 2009. One of Bohe-
mia’s developers started making DayZ
for fun, and it quickly went viral, push-
ing the lacklustre Steam sales of ArmA
2 to the top of the charts for months
(quite a feat for a 3-year old niche
game) during spring/summer 2012.
So, the game. You (and up to 39 other
players, depending on the server size)
are stranded in 225km2 of pseudo-
Russian countryside. You can go any-
where and do anything. There are sto-
ries of kidnappings, urban legends and
large clan-battles in the larger cities.
As a fresh-spawn, you start with some
odds and ends, including a torch, a
bandage and a box of painkilers (earli-
er versions of the mod had you spawn
with a pistol) and that’s it. You have to
scavenge the rest of your equipment,
but the problem is that the best loot
is found in the more once-populated
areas of Chernarus. Or other player’s
bodies. The closer you get to a built-
up area, the more zombies spawn
around you. “Fine” you might say, “I’ll
just shoot them all and if I run out of
ammo, I’ll just run away”. Good luck
with that, little Timmy. The preda-
tors of Chernarus are not your jovial,
slow-moving zombies; they are the 28
Xs Later (where X is a unit of time)
style of zombie that will run at you,
zig-zagging like a ziggy-zaggy thing.
Zombies are attracted by noise, so by
the time you’ve killed your groupies,
the next lot is on the horizon, running
straight for you. When you die, you
respawn along the south, or south-
east coastline, back with the original
starting equipment. Death is mean-
ingful. This isn’t a game you can win.
The aim is to live as long as possible.
The base game is buggy, with zom-
bies being able to walk and melee
through concrete walls. Lying down
on the ground can break your legs,
and lag issues can cause you to go ﬂy-
ing. As such, a standalone version of
DayZ, has started development, which
will hopefully remove the majority of
engine problems and other game-play
issues such as people alt-F4-ing in
the middle of a ﬁreﬁght, as to not die.
Douchenozzles.
Some people don’t like the coun-
tryside – maybe it’s the parachuting
cows, or the rocks that look like peo-
ple. Maybe they have allergies. Those
people have been working on more
maps for DayZ, and have brought us
the bottle-necked-by-bridges island
of Lingor, and the city of Fallujah.
That’s right – instead of rolling hills
and 30-minute runs between villages,
the whole map is a massive city, with
loot and zombie spawns all over the
place (it’s not too kind on your com-
puter though, if you like things look-
ing pretty).
Now, in all the lives I’ve had, it’s not
been the bugs that have killed me the
most, nor the zombies. It’s everyone
else trying to survive, who thinks that
it’s a good idea to shoot an unarmed
freshly-spawned player. But then,
that’s simple humanity for you - kill all
your competitors, no matter the chal-
lenge. I’m not bitter at all.
Being a survival game, its not just
bullets and teeth that can mess up
your murder-streak (your HUD shows
zombie kills, PC kills a.k.a. murders,
temperature, number of zombies on
the server, etc) but you also have to
worry about hunger (assuaged by cans
of beans or pasta), thirst, bone break-
ages, blood loss and a bad case of the
sniﬄes (no, really. Let your tempera-
ture drop too low for too long, and
you’ll catch an nasty infection).
Team-work is the name of the game
– your limited inventory allows for
little hoarding, so making camp sites
with tents, and spreading the work
load over multiple servers can make
your life easier, especially when it
comes to ﬁnding parts to repair your
helicopters and ATVs. Trusting your
group to shoot the hostile PCs and
zombies, rather than yourself is quite
a hurdle (especially with no easy way
to recognise a player), and is one of
the reasons I love DayZ. It’s actually a
game where I fear dying.
I truly love the slow approach that
you can take to the game running and
gunning results in premature deathu-
lation and the patient, slow and steady
route gets you the best loot and gives
you the best chances. Keeping quiet
and out of the way is often the wisest
tactic.
The bean wars have been long and
painful, but remember that your en-
emies may take our brains, but they’ll
never take our FREEDOM!
Z
GAMES
Next Week’s Felix
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER 29
Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
DayZ Diaries
Day Two
Dear Diary,
Something’s wrong with the world.
I dragged the body into the woods, to leave it for the wildlife. The adrena-
line had worn oﬀ from our earlier altercation, and I’d made my peace with
his crumpled remains, when I heard some rustling behind me.
I turned around with my axe out and saw nothing apart from ﬁreﬂies,
bouncing around in the distance, and heard nothing apart from the roar of
the sea and the crickets in the night. It was getting cold, and I looked to ﬁnd
somewhere that was dry and didn’t smell of death.
I kept on walking – west, I think – but I let my mind wander. Never again.
I didn’t hear them until it was too late – the men standing around me, with
chem-lights clipped to their bags, and axes in their hands. A few seconds
later and it all went black. I awoke, tied to a tree and aware of the heat on
my face, and the glow through my eyelids. Fire. I didn’t notice at ﬁrst, over
the crackling of the logs, but there was a murmuring. It was as if you asked
someone to speak as quiet as humanly possible, but without resorting to
whispering, and the noise was everywhere. I was surrounded. I couldn’t
make out what they were saying. If it was a man-made language, I had never
heard it before. I pray I never hear it again.
A bespectacled man with a heavily scarred face and a pair of round read-
ing glasses crouched down in front of me and pulled out a knife – an old
military-issue knife, I believe. Maybe this is the remainder of our armed
forces? He was chanting, until he pointed the knife at my throat, and moved
an index ﬁnger up to his lips, like I was being let in on a 5-year old’s big
secret I shouldn’t be telling anyone. I’m pretty sure his parents wouldn’t
be happy.
Considering the slit throat of the woman on the next tree over, I nodded.
Two arms from behind me removed the bonds, and lifted me from the tree,
towards the ﬁre. I was brought towards a makeshift altar – the hood of a
car, bent over a pile of logs. Candles had been lit and were placed at the ends
of the table, where the spread of molten candle wax had dried with streaks
of red. I was forced down to my knees, and my head was held down onto
the cold, rusty surface. I could feel my pulse quickening, and the adrena-
line pumping again, drowning out the chanting and the spitting ﬁre. The
librarian-turned-serial killer moved to the opposite side of the altar and
held the knife to my neck, the cold metal of Death’s scythe wavering mil-
limetres away from the darkness.
The chief gave a guttural scream and my vision ﬁlled with blood, as the
crimson sprayed over the altar, covering the candles.
His body slumped onto the table, and I felt the grip on my shoulders
loosen and fall away. More shouts and screams ﬁlled the air, as bodies fell to
the ground. From the darkness, 4 men came out, alert and in military uni-
form. The one in front, with a blue-painted face and aviator glasses came
up to me, lowered his weapon and said “Come with me if you want to live.”
His sentiments were echoed by his cohort, with calls of “LOL”, “epic” and
“You better not be another crazy axe murderer.”
I smiled, and grabbed my new friend by the hand. It looks like Death has
other plans for me.
Next Week’s Felix
We’re reviewing FTL, discussing the role of girls within gaming culture, and may-
be, maybe we’ll throw in a review of Borderlands 2. Because we like you. Some
of you, at least.
Meanwhile, I hope you’re all clocking up your hours in the Planetside 2 Beta,
and getting ready to play Dishonored. I’ll be sitting here eating Maoam.

