”
“
COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
iall Ferguson’s cover
story in the latest is-
sue of Newsweek is
still generating buzz
on the blogosphere.
His lengthy editorial “Hit the Road,
Barack” took on a barrage of criticism
shortly after it hit the shelves (well,
the internet). However, the criticism
wasn’t about the subjective conceptu-
al hang-ups or reasonable diﬀerences
of opinion that the right and left usu-
ally bandy back and forth.
In his “Conscience of a Liberal”
blog, Paul Krugman put the match to
the powder keg, asserting that Fergu-
son’s premeditated aim was to mislead
readers. In typical fashion Krugman
used a concise and incisive example
to make his point. After dealing with
Ferguson, Krugman set his red pen
upon Newsweek itself, saying:
“We’re not talking about ideology or
even economic analysis here — just a
plain misrepresentation of the facts,
with an August publication letting it-
self be used to misinform readers. The
Times would require an abject cor-
rection if something like that slipped
through. Will Newsweek?”
For Ferguson, fact checks sprang
up like cold sores with most major
news organizations delivering salty
impugnments of his article almost
line by line. Matthew O’Brien’s piece
in The Atlantic lays out a play-by-play
of the article with accompanying com-
mentary from a fact check carried out
by the news team.
Ferguson set out to deliver a blister-
ing condemnation of Obama. With
a little directed oversight, trunca-
tion and manipulation he was able
to ﬁt a square peg into a round hole.
His accusations against the President
were so egregious that hyperbole was
bound to be afoot. Any public oﬃcial
guilty of such incompetence would
likely be impeached, castrated and
cruciﬁed in a public square. With a
career chock-full of adulation and
fawning students, Ferguson likely be-
lieved that his piece would be a feather
in his mortarboard. On the contrary,
it has ended up undermining his cred-
ibility. It was a takedown piece turned
on its head. Through his tendentious,
misrepresentative attempt at a coup
de grace, Ferguson ended up snook-
ering himself. A humbling experi-
ence for a man used to getting patted
on the back. How could he put such
a cultivated reputation on the line?
This can’t be an easy blow for a profes-
sor; the veracity of his highfalutin de-
meanour now in question every time
he enters the classroom.
Enough about Ferguson – despite
his questionable lack of judgment,
he is still one the most thought pro-
Joseph Kaupp
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
30
N
Ferguson, Newsweek and the
Huffington-postisation of the News
Any public
official guilty
of such
incompetence
would likely
be impeached,
castrated and
crucified in a
public square
voking historians kicking about. His
book, Civilization, is a testament to
that fact. So, how about Newsweek
then? Are they desperate enough to
publish such a cheesecloth piece of
work? Are they cavalier enough to
let such a dubious article ﬁnd its way
on to the cover without a scrupulous
fact check? The Daily Beast has put
up a short video clip with Justine
Rosenthal, Executive Editor of News-
week, discussing the piece. The clip
is quick to point out the commercial
success of Ferguson’s article. It boasts
of making it to the top of Drudge Re-
port as well as accruing 10,000 likes
on Facebook.
While Krugman is justiﬁed in most
of his accusations, he is wrong in
claiming that Newsweek was somehow
a pawn in Ferguson’s game. Newsweek
isn’t new to the rodeo. They knew
the storm that was coming. Not only
did they know it – they orchestrated
it from the moment they called up
Ferguson and asked him “what is the
next big thing that you want to say?”
Newsweek is primarily a business, run
by businessmen. (The news business
and the newsmen fall somewhere
further down the hierarchy.) The cost
and the beneﬁts for “Hit the Road,
Barack” were undoubtedly weighed.
This article, along with others, such as
“America’s ‘Oh Sh*t’ Moment,” signal
a shift in Newsweek’s strategy toward
the ‘Huﬃngtonpostization’ of the
news. Although the prospective cost
of Ferguson’s article was Newsweek’s
damaged credibility, this was appar-
ently outweighed by its prospective
beneﬁt – accessing a new market seg-
ment. Perhaps they are looking at the
ﬂoundering business model of their
industry and wondering how to stay
aﬂoat in a time of disruptive change.
Newsweek has to attract and lock-
in an audience that wouldn’t dream
of visiting its website (it will, after
all, become just a website). Perhaps
this move will strain their relation-
ship with the well informed, but – as
Newsweek knows – the well informed
are a small minority who know how to
access their news on the Internet – for
free. Newsweek is going for a volume
play. And that naturally entails cast-
ing a wider net, which, in turn, entails
dumbed-down, sexy and incendiary
content. Newsweek is after a new au-
dience: one that enjoys the trappings
of intellectual life but ﬁnds its suste-
nance in the broth of entertainment.
Regarding the debate between Fer-
guson and Krugman, Ms. Rosenthal
states: “I’m not sure there is a clear
delineation of what is right and wrong
here.” There probably is, but for now
keep an eye out for a Kardashian-
Kayne cover story.
line by line. Matthew O Briens piece he is still one the most thought pro Americas Oh Sh t Moment, signal Kayne cover story.
In a 2009 panel discussion Ferguson contended that the Oba-
ma administration was both Keynesian and monetarist – an
incoherent mix (or so we’re told, we’re not really qualified
economists over here I’m afraid). Krugman extended his argu-
ment to both China and the EU and claimed that Ferguson’s
view was “resurrecting 75-year old fallacies” and containing
many basic errors. Oh and he also called him a “poseur” who
relies on “snide comments and surface cleverness to convey the
impression of wisdom”. Ouch.
Krugman 1–0 Ferguson.
Previous Bouts

