COMMENT
Are extradition treaties justified?
Navid Nabijou
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
Eleanor Angwin
Last week, Babar Ahmad, a British Muslim who worked at Imperial College, was ex-
tradited to the United States to face terrorism charges (see News for full story). So
are these extradition justified? IC Debating Society weighs up the arguments:
YES NO
The head-to head
hough they are certainly not per-
fect, our current extradition treaties
are absolutely necessary in order to
capture and convict terrorists in
an increasingly globalised world.
Against any harms brought about by this legisla-
tion, this crucial beneﬁt must be weighed.
Modern terrorism is a truly global enterprise.
Its backers have diverse origins and motives, and
are spread all over the world. Its targets, too, can
be found in any country on Earth. The rhetoric
of terrorist organisations appeals increasingly to
religious and political convictions, rather than
nationalistic ones; a result of this is that the pool
of potential recruits is indiﬀerent to national
borders, far too dispersed to be explained in the
simplistic terms of political geography (as Amer-
ica and its allies discovered, tragically, in Af-
ghanistan). This globalism means, for instance,
that an Egyptian man who trained in Pakistan
can travel to a European capital and detonate a
bomb that was assembled in Yemen. And this in-
ternationalising trend is continuing relentlessly,
aided by the spread of the World Wide Web and
the increasing interconnectedness of modern
society.
As such, no terrorist act is conﬁned within a sin-
gle border. Even the simplest plot depends upon
the joint eﬀorts of a number of people spread
across several diﬀerent countries. When some-
one is implicated in terrorist activity, therefore, it
often happens that the evidence required to pros-
ecute is only to be found in another country.
But therein lies a problem. Law enforcement
agencies are typically wary of passing evidence
on to other countries (usually citing national se-
curity concerns). Now, this is a truly regrettable
state of aﬀairs, and steps should certainly be tak-
en to encourage greater openness and transpar-
ency from these agencies. However, with public
nervousness already high and governments loath
to appear soft on security, it seems unlikely that
things will change any time soon.
Given these restrictions, then, we must be
pragmatic and seek the best possible compro-
mise. We ﬁnd ourselves with three options. One:
simply let the suspect walk free. Two: detain the
suspect indeﬁnitely without charge, arguing that
they are too dangerous to be released, but that
there is at present insuﬃcient evidence to pros-
ecute them. Three: extradite the suspect to the
country in possession of the evidence and allow
them to stand trial.
The ﬁrst option – allowing them to walk
– would inevitably result in more deaths. Of
course, not all those accused are guilty, but a sig-
niﬁcant proportion of them are: if released, they
would almost certainly resume terrorist activity;
leading to further acts of violence.
The second alternative – detaining the sus-
pect indeﬁnitely – is in many ways even worse.
Scores of innocent people would lose their lib-
erty, and many citizens would be left to live in
a state of constant fear, at the mercy of the ca-
pricious whims of the police and judiciary. The
consequent erosion of public trust would be
catastrophic.
Now consider extradition. The suspect stands
trial, in a country whose judicial system aﬀords
them all the same rights and protections as our
own. They have every chance to defend them-
selves against the allegations. This last point is
important: the suspects are only extradited to
countries with strong legal systems, which en-
sures that they receive a fair trial.
The use of extradition is admittedly the result
of a compromise, but considering the other op-
tions available, to reject it is to embrace a host of
far more odious measures. For that reason, the
treaties are justiﬁed.
xtraditing criminals is both damag-
ing to overall world justice and an
example of snide and sneaky back-
door politics.
When someone commits a
crime, there are always victims and there will
always be consequences. Whether it is as-
sault, where the victim has been physically
harmed, or theft, where the victim’s liveli-
hood takes the hit, breaking the law always
leads to someone being emotionally damaged
by the perpetrator of the criminal act. Deci-
sions based upon emotions that you have felt
tend to be biased. For example, if someone
had killed your brother, you would want them
to be sent to prison for the maximum amount
of time, or worse. In your eyes, that would be
the only way to ease your pain: knowing that
the killer was brought to justice. However,
that decision may be a bit harsh, especially if
the death of your brother had happened by
accident. That’s why we have judges and ju-
rors, people who are impartial and not emo-
tionally biased towards either the victim or
the criminal. We trust in them to make the
right decision.
Now think about this on a larger scale.
When 9/11 happened, there were thousands
of victims who died in that crash, leaving be-
hind grieving families. Not only that, it was a
massive attack on the American way of life,
meaning that every American felt the pain of
9/11. When a whole country is left emotion-
ally damaged from a crime, who becomes the
judge, supposed to hand down impartial sen-
tences proportional to the crime? The Presi-
dent. He, however, can’t be impartial, because
he is elected by the people who are feeling the
pain. This means that he has to pander to the
wants of the public, and so justice becomes
perverted into the vengeance of the mob.
So now we have a whole country of irrational
actors. Anything even related to 9/11 is an at-
tack on America, but not only that; the allies of
that irrational country are bound to support-
ing their actions. Governments apply pressure
to the courts, forcing through decisions that
ensure criminals are extradited to the country
where they will face the biggest charge. This
isn’t justice proportional to the crime; it’s al-
lowing the victims to decide the sentence.
What makes things worse is that the country
a suspect is extradited to depends massively
on that country’s economic and politcal stand-
ing in the world. According to the US-UK ex-
tradition treaty of 2003, the US can extradite
UK citizens for offences against US law, even
though the offence was committed in the UK
by a UK citizen. There only needs to be rea-
sonable suspicion that the person committed
the crime in order for them to be shipped off
to America, where they won’t face a free trial
and will not have access to legal aid from the
UK. There is no comparable measure for ex-
traditing US citizens to the UK. This glaring
judicial imbalance is a direct result of the eco-
nomic imbalance between the two countries.
Although we tend not to extradite criminals
to countries where they could face the death
penalty, what if there was “reasonable suspi-
cion” that a UK citizen breached Uganda’s
Anti-Homosexuality bill? In this case they
wouldn’t be extradited, because the UK doesn’t
receive as many benefits by allying itself with
Uganda as it does from the US.
If extradition continues the way it is, the
UK government will always be treading on
eggshells, trying to appease whichever super-
power is giving them the most money. Justice,
my arse.
E
T
To reject extradition
is to embrace a host
of far more odious
measures.
Extraditing criminals ...
is an example of snide
and sneaky backdoor
politics.

