SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
38
Testing Triathlon waters
After a successful Fresher’s Fair and
ﬁrst run (with a record turnout of
80) Cross Country and Athletics club
travelled up to Manchester for our
ﬁrst race of the year. Expecting cold
temperatures, mist and rain we were
surprised to ﬁnd ourselves faced with
a lovely sunny day!
Birthday boy Sam O’Neil was ﬁrst up
for Men’s A ﬁnishing in the top third
whilst new member Ed Hallett took
the lead representing Imperial Triath-
lon Club in the B team. Fresher Liam
put in a great run for the club and the
A team ﬁnished a very credible 13th
place against some strong teams from
the northern universities. The B team
was largely made up of new runners
but still put in a good time to ﬁnish in
30th position. Thanks to Sam and Phil
McCorquodale for running twice!
Meanwhile in the women’s race, due
to a certain committee member miss-
ing the bus the team was down to just
two (insert classic Imperial ratio com-
ment) and it was up to Club Captain
to run twice. The muddy but ﬂat 2.1
mile course was no trouble for sea-
soned cross country runner and social
sec Insa however and as a result the
team ﬁnished a great 36th place.
The real highlight, and main event
of the weekend, couldn’t come soon
enough: showing the ‘northerners’
how partying is done in the south!
An unusual alliance with Leeds Uni-
versity was made such that we could
take on Edinburgh Uni in a ‘chanting
war’; their cries were soon silenced
with calls of “You’re not really Scot-
tish”. After a traditional curry, the
highly anticipated boat race required
our men’s team to step up to the mark.
A great performance from Frenchman
and newbie Davy Martin put us in
true contention for the title with a sub
2-second pint; unfortunately though
Matt didn’t put in enough training
over summer and we were pushed
back a place or two. However the
highlight of the evening was the tune-
ful rendition of ‘Naan Bread’ to the
tune of Hey Jude; I’m sure we will all
have this in our heads for many weeks
to come!
We are now looking forward to fu-
ture weekend races away, and the Lon-
don Colleges Cross Country League. If
you want any more information about
Cross Country and Athletics Club
email run@ic.ac.uk
Sophie Kirk Sports Writer
Steve Ndumbe Dodgeball Chair
I joined Imperial’s triathlon club in
October 2011, with no real intention
of ever competing in any triathlon; all
I wanted was to come to the swim-
ming sessions so that I could keep eat-
ing pies while a stress fracture healed.
But even as Christmas rolled round
and my foot went back to working or-
der, I somehow didn’t manage to quit
swimming. And every morning, no
matter how gentle my intentions as I
left home, I’d arrive at the lab a sweaty
mess, after half an hour of silly com-
muter racing on my rattling, pannier-
laden bike.
By the spring, I wanted to enter a
triathlon. Come summer, another
running injury and several conferenc-
es had meant I’d missed out on both
BUCS triathlon events. Still, the itch
needed scratching so I looked at the
calendar and picked a race, ﬁnally opt-
ing for the ‘Olympic’ distance: 1500m
lake swim, 40km bike on country
roads, and 10km run around a park.
It turned out to be the Triathlon Eng-
land National Championships. Was I
even allowed? Hmm ... nothing about
any qualifying times... I’d just have to
go and do it, and hope to be swept
along by the super-ﬁt crowd sometime
in the process.
Blessed are those who race with a
club. I look forward to the camara-
derie and minibus transport of the
TriIC 2012/13 racing season. Get-
ting to this race was a lonely faff: up
at 3am to drink coffee, eat porridge,
get my borrowed bike and a heap of
kit into the car, and drive to Milton
Keynes in the dark. I was so con-
vinced I’d forgotten something that
I asked a stranger to check over my
kit.
The race begins with a mass of
competitors treading water in the
lake, going off in several batches or
‘waves’ separated by 10 minutes.
Everyone knows you can slipstream
on a bike, but I was surprised to
learn you can do the same swimming
--- something I only realised after
an annoying training session where
someone kept swimming up behind
me and tickling my feet, then slow-
ing down as soon as he overtook.
In open water there’s another reason
to ‘ﬁnd a good pair of feet’ and follow
them: it helps you navigate when your
goggles have fogged up. Alas, it’s dif-
ﬁcult to do in opaque water, and pos-
sibly cheating, so I mostly splashed my
own way round, at a conservative pace
since–even for a girl who loves a swim
with the swans in Hyde Park–hyper-
ventilating in the middle of a big deep
lake sounds scary. Volunteer marshals
dragged us up the slippery exit ramp
as we ﬁnished swimming. No matter:
I had already traded my dignity for a
wetsuit.
Next task: removing said wetsuit.
After a dispiriting session in my par-
ents’ garden with a tube of KY jelly
and a hosepipe, I found the perfect
lubricant (it’s called BodyGlide), so
this was a breeze. I even remembered
where my bike was parked. Swim hat
oﬀ, goggles oﬀ, helmet on, shoes on,
slurp some sugary goo, grab the bike,
get going, stop to tie forgotten shoe-
lace, get going again, out onto the road
where I am allowed to jump onto the
bike and I’m free, chest heaving, ped-
alling out into the countryside and
trying to get a bottle of sugary drink
down ASAP because I know if I leave
it to just before the run, it won’t stay
down.
With most of the drink spilt down
my front and legs, I gave up on it and
put my head down. In this, as in most
triathlons, riding in someone else’s
slipstream was illegal. There’s an ex-
clusion zone of a few metres around
each cyclist; you can overtake as long
as you don’t spend more than 15 sec-
onds in that imaginary box. Despite
various tactical quandaries, it turned
out the bike was my strongest leg: the
sun came out and I was able to over-
take some people.
A veteran triathlete had advised me
previously that ‘the run is just about
holding it together’. With jelly legs
and stomach cramps, all I could do
was put one foot in front of the oth-
er and hope that meant I was going
forwards. It was horrible, but I liked
it. By lap 2 of 3 it was hot and a man
with a hosepipe appeared and started
sprinkling us. Ladies of ambiguous
leg-letter overtook me and smiled
sweetly. Later I heard footsteps be-
hind me winding up for a sprint ﬁnish
so I hoofed it oﬀ up the ﬁnal straight,
but it turned out to be a ghost.
I did the whole race without seeing a
watch, bike computer, or clock - even
the one at the ﬁnish line was broken
- but expected to ﬁnish in anything
between 2:30 and 3 hours. Imagine
my delight, therefore, to ﬁnd I snuck
round in 2:28:57! Clearly, champagne
and Doritos are the way forward in en-
durance sports nutrition.
We clapped in the last ﬁnisher, who
won a ‘ﬁrst prize’ and got the biggest
cheer of the day (since separate prizes
are given in each ﬁve-year age-band)
when it occurred to me to ask about
showers. “Most people just jump back
in the lake”, they said– silly me!–and I
dived back in to rinse oﬀ the sweat and
lemonade. I think I’m hooked.
Imperial Wolverines dodge victory
The Imperial Wolverines had a fan-
tastic start to their season with both
teams taking home medals after a sus-
pense-riddled day in Hatﬁeld.
The morning started oﬀ in standard
fashion, with the Wolverines discover-
ing the endless delays away from Hyde
Park due to the Royal Parks half mara-
thon, culminating in an hour-long
detour taking them on a stressful tour
of Central London. However, the ev-
er-reliable driver Alan Soltani maxed
out the minibus’s solid top speed of
62mph in his desire to get to the venue
on time, driven on by a strengthening
urge to go to the toilet (despite repeat-
ed refusals to just stop at a petrol sta-
tion) and to prove he could drive for
longer than 5 minutes without stalling
(which he deﬁnitely couldn’t).
Thus the Wolverines turned up
fashionably late, arriving in Hatﬁeld in
shirts and ties with just 20 minutes till
the ﬁrst matches kicked oﬀ. The team
was looking pretty ﬂy, apart from Jus-
tin ‘The Defendant’ Ioanna, thinking
that matching a shirt and tie with jog-
ging bottoms and trainers was a good
look. Blunder.
Both teams struggled to warm up
in time, with the 2nd team unfortu-
nately losing all three of their group
matches placing them into the playoﬀ
stages, while the 1st team won the ﬁrst
and the ﬁnal matches and just lost the
second group match against eventual
winners The Meteors.
The 1sts then played a relatively easy
Quarter Final game before coming up
against their rivals Reepham Raiders
in the Semis in a best-of-7 match. This
was always going to be close, but the
Wolverines came out on top, thanks
to some hard hits from Jan ‘Janimal’
Kosco. Meanwhile, the 2nd team were
cruising through the ‘best of the rest’
matches, and despite several calls of
questionable reﬃng from the opposi-
tion, made it to the playoﬀ ﬁnal.
After witnessing a beautiful double
catch from Zain Abbas and Justin Io-
anna during the 2nd team’s demoli-
tion of Bedfordshire Mixed Bulls II to
win the playoﬀ medal, it was the turn
of the 1sts to face The Meteors once
again in an attempt to do the double
for the Wolverines, and win only their
second-ever tournament in club his-
tory. The only time the 1sts have ever
played The Meteors twice in one day
was at East Anglia, where the Wolver-
ines won their ﬁrst ever gold medal.
Were The Meteors about to win their
ﬁrst ever gold in the same fashion and
beat us for the second time?
Unfortunately it was not to be for
the Wolverines. Despite solid perfor-
mances across the team, the expertise
of the Imperial Alumnus Adam Cut-
more as well as the fastest-recorded
thrower in the UK proved too much
for the 1sts, losing 4-2 to take home
silver.
Man of the tournament for the 2nds
was Will Robinson for his superb
catching and countering, whereas
for the 1sts it was a tie between Alan
Soltani for his club record-breaking
4 catches in one game and Steve
Ndumbe for some strong throwing.
Congratulations must also be given to
Jan Kosco and Nuno ‘Too Easy’ Cunha
for their excellent debuts for the 1sts
and 2nds respectively, and to Tom
Peake for his incredible leadership as
1st VI Captain for the ﬁrst time (even
Alan ‘The Dictator’ Soltani listened to
him (most of the time…)). Overall, it
was a solid start to the season for the
Wolverines, who are hoping to build
on this performance with the help of
some amazing fresher talent. Here’s to
a successful year! Dodgeball run free
sessions in Ethos, Weds 8-10pm.
Mud in Manchester
Sarah Lewis Sports Writer

