SPORT
39
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
IC Rowers take on World U23s in Trakai
The Under-23 World Championships
were held in Trakai, Lithuania be-
tween 11th- 15th July. This year medic
Tim Richards and biochemist Wilf
Kimberley donned the triple hooped
vests to represent their country and
defend Imperial’s honour which they
did in style.
The road to Trakai was by no means
easy for Richards, who was rowing
the lightweight quad. In spite of in-
juries to other athletes who may have
strengthened the crew, the foursome
of Tim, Rupert Price (Cambridge
Uni), Kieren Brown (Edinburgh Uni)
and Alex Robertson (Leander) ﬁn-
ished a respectable 9th overall in an
event where the standard was at an
all time high. The crew placed a disap-
pointing 5th in a tough opening heat,
with last year’s bronze medallists
Switzerland only a second in front,
forcing them in to the repechage. In
spite of giving their all in the rep, the
quad missed out on qualifying for the
A-ﬁnal by less than three seconds be-
hind the Netherlands. Forced into the
B-ﬁnal, the crew battled it out to ﬁn-
ish just the wrong side of the Brazil-
ians whom they had narrowly beaten
the day before in the repechage.
Meanwhile, Kimberley was put in
to the lightweight pair, in what was
a previously unthinkable partnership
with Matt Bedford from arch-rival
boat club University of London. How-
ever, the two managed to put their
diﬀerences aside and the partnership
worked remarkably well with wins at
Metropolitan Regatta and the Hol-
landbeker Regatta in Amsterdam, be-
fore ﬁnishing the domestic season at
Henley with a nail-biting half-length
defeat by the Greek U23 heavyweight
pair.
The Regatta started strongly for
the guys, winning their heat with no
great diﬃculty to progress directly to
the semi ﬁnal two days later. Despite
a sub-par race they ﬁnished second,
being overtaken by the French crew
whom they had beaten two days pre-
viously, but this still meant progres-
sion to the A ﬁnal. A World Champi-
onship ﬁnal is a rather nerve-racking
situation to be in, and it can cause
one to do some rather silly things as
Wilf found out way back in his junior
days when, getting into his boat raring
to go, he completely forgot his oars.
However this time it was his crew-
mate in the wrong, and the pair were
swiftly awarded a yellow card on the
start line due to Bedford wearing the
all-in-one he was meant to change out
of after weighing in two hours before
the race. The pair had a strong race
but narrowly missed out on a podium
ﬁnish to come in 4th over all after be-
ing rowed through in the second half
of the race.
With the new season now well un-
derway, the two IC rowers will now
join forces for the pair’s head of the
river. With a strong intake and several
returners for ICBC, it looks like this
year’s going be a good one.
Ben Smith Sports Writer
This year’s summer weather wasn’t the
greatest for polo and for the ﬁrst time
in a number of years the weather fore-
cast looked extremely grim when we
headed oﬀ to Royal Leamington Spa
for the Schools and Universities Polo
Nationals. On the upside the Jubilee
weekend fell perfectly to give us a full
four days of play and a chance to get
through even with the looming rain.
We pitched our tents at midnight on
Friday under the headlights of the un-
ion minibus and started a few relaxing
drinks and cigars as the rain began to
come down.
Bleary eyed but awake we got down
to business, which for the Lower
Intermediate (LI) teams primarily
meant a hair-of-the-dog as we waited
through the two days of lower level
play before our matches began. For-
tunately, we had a Novice team with
team captain Mo and his mixed uni-
versity team in Novice 1a. We clearly
had the best shirts so let the rag tag
bunch of friends from across the na-
tion sport our red, white and blue as
we introduced them to our pony pro-
viders Greenpoint for the ﬁrst time.
Matching polo pony to rider is not just
a skill it’s an art form, and with two
unknown players and with only a sen-
tence or two regarding their ability it
was anybody’s guess what would suit.
Though they took to the ﬁeld with
more enthusiasm than I’ve seen in a
long time, only Mo looked settled on
his pony and the slightly more expres-
sive gait of one of the other ponies left
one player unable to keep his seat and
he hit the (fortunately) soft ground
with only a muddy patch to show. The
ﬁrst match, or chukka, never really got
oﬀ the ground for the boys and they
came away with a loss and less than
sparkling whites.
The rest of us busied ourselves with
the usual drinking, merriment and
occasionally helping out the organis-
ers until a damp evening came about
and the polo concluded to give way to
BBQs, even more drinking and gen-
eral revelry. A much appreciated ga-
zebo was assembled to keep the worst
of the weather oﬀ. It was at this stage
that one player admitted to remem-
bering the BBQ, cricket set, minibus,
polo gear, tent and space blanket…
but not his sleeping bag. As such he
spent his second night shivering un-
der some silver tin foil, beer jacket not
quite covering the distressingly un-
summery conditions.
With the novices up to play again
the next day things looked set for
change. For anyone that hasn’t seen
polo it’s possibly the fastest, most in-
tense sport out there. For those unbe-
lievers; when you’re going 25mph on
the back of a ball of muscle ﬁve times
your size with a 52 inch wooden mal-
let it’s hard to name something more
intense. Add to that the other players
trying to get their stick in the way of
yours, and adrenaline isn’t going to
be lacking. Periods of play last just 7
minutes, but that’s more than enough
to get your blood racing. On their new
mounts the novices, who were hur-
tling around at breakneck speed, had
obviously managed to ﬁnd their feet a
bit more and progress was swift, the
victories started to come and we be-
gan to look forwards to the LI matches
to come.
By this stage though the rain was
starting to come down, and the pitch-
es were starting to suﬀer. A football or
rugby pitch gets cut up a bit after a wet
match, but half a dozen or so ponies
charging around can really churn up
a wet ﬁeld so mutterings of cancella-
tions were starting to circulate. Huge
thanks go to Oﬀchurch Bury polo
club for letting us carry on, in the polo
world your ﬁelds are your livelihood
and they took a huge risk and a great
expense in order to let us carry on.
The slippery grass took its toll on one
member of the team that afternoon;
with Jon tearing a ligament before
even getting on a horse as he was run-
ning to judge a tiebreak while working
for the organiser.
This sent us scurrying to ﬁnd a sub-
stitute for our LI team, not only that
but it needed to be someone our pony
provider knew and could mount.
Eventually a suitable alternative was
discovered in the form of Nick, even
if he was a Cambridge student. Do-
nating him an ICU shirt that instantly
made him look better; we mounted
up and yelled a few frantic words at
each other before the carnage com-
menced. The big pitch for the higher
level matches had seen relatively light
play so far and despite a fair number
of dodgy bounces and a warning to
be careful about turning too fast to
avoid slipping, the pace of the matches
quickly got up. Communication was
an issue to begin with and between
trying to ﬁnd a shape as a team and
getting to grips with the ground and
the ponies, we unfortunately didn’t
fare too well and lost.
The last, rival IC team fared better
with their ﬁrst two matches coming in
as victories and putting them into the
two chukka ﬁnal. We struggled our
way to a frustrating defeat as the team
ﬁnally started to coalesce into a func-
tioning unit. The tide of the match
turned just too late for us to capitalise
and secure a victory, leaving us ﬁght-
ing to avoid the wooden spoon. Mean-
while the novice pitch was forced into
switching to the larger inﬂatable arena
polo balls as the pitch had become a
quagmire and the small hard ball tra-
ditionally used for grass polo simply
sunk into the mud on every hit. This
wasn’t slowing the novice team down
though and their big hits looked fan-
tastic.
It wasn’t all fun and games though;
the odious duty of partying the night
away was left. Many of the ﬁnal day
matches are decided upon which team
does better at avoiding the hangover,
or very occasionally, on who ends up
with least company. Fortunately, no
one that was to be riding in the morn-
ing misbehaved too much and after
merrily toasting the Jubilee we were
all just about safe to get on horses in
the morning. A goal from a penalty hit
at 60 yards was still not quite enough
to save us from the dreaded wooden
spoon, though the Novices ﬁnished
their weekend strong. The ﬁnal Impe-
rial team fought a close ﬁnal where at
the end of the ﬁrst half things didn’t
look great, but grit and determination
set in and they pulled ahead in the dy-
ing stages to take the victory.
With the winter season just begin-
ning, our training for the February
winter nationals has had a little head
start with the wet weather and a few
of us are raring to get back in the sad-
dle now. As such there is an exhibition
match to top oﬀ the summer season
on October 20th alongside the Begin-
ner taster session. If you think you’d
like to try one of the fastest, most
exciting sports around why not come
along and have a go… and get a bit of a
show thrown into the bargain!
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
IC Polo “wets” appetite
Alex Savell Riding and Polo chair
Image courtesy of edphillipsimages.com

