“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1526 felixonline.co.uk
12/10/12
uly 2012 saw thirty intrep-
id Imperial College Hock-
ey Club members travel to
Portugal for two weeks of
sun, sea, sand and hockey.
This followed on from successful tours
to Malaysia, Croatia/Slovenia and In-
dia in the last three years.
Leaving early in the morning the
day after the last day of term was al-
ways going to be risky. Many of the
touring party still bore visible signs of
the night before but everyone made it
onto the plane with a quick trip to the
most expensive Wetherspoons in Eng-
land for a spot of hair of the dog. Upon
touch down in Porto, the ﬁrst hurdle
of the tour presented itself. No one on
the tour spoke Portuguese so contact-
ing the coach driver that was to take
us to our hostel proved tricky. Even-
tually through much running around
and arm waving, the tour found them-
selves on a bus into central Porto.
The accommodation in Porto was
unlike any other previous tourers had
experienced: clean, friendly and actu-
ally like the pictures online.
The ﬁrst full day of tour saw our ﬁrst
two matches against scratch teams
from Sport Club do Porto and The
Porto Lawn Tennis and Cricket Club.
This was when we found out the true
meaning of Portuguese time as our
opposition arrived a full 2 hours af-
ter the scheduled push back. This had
two eﬀects on the party. Firstly, it gave
them the chance to sleep oﬀ the ﬁrst
hangover of tour. Secondly, it exposed
some of the fairer skinned hockey play-
ers to their ﬁrst round of lobsterfying,
Bergamasco most notably leading the
charge after he fell asleep in the sun.
Rather worryingly, when the opposi-
tion did arrive they proudly announced
that they had several ex international
players. This did not ﬁll us with con-
ﬁdence as we were barely able to walk
let alone run in our current state. The
two games were hotly contested as the
heat on the pitch rose to match that
of the surroundings, with many of the
Portuguese frustrated with the strict-
ness of the umpiring and the IC players
frustrated at the local’s use of their size
advantage to try to bully IC oﬀ the ball.
Eventually the games ended in a 1-1
draw (BT) and a 3-1 loss (2s Captain)
with the heat eventually proving too
much for IC to handle.
The next day presented the opportu-
nity for a spot of culture as we walked
the city on a free tour. If you ask any
lecturer they will tell you that keeping
30 students entertained for a hour is
hard work but our lovely guides kept us
enthralled for over 3 hours as we took
in all the culture we could, from J. K.
Rowling to the rather odd sexual ex-
ploits of some of Porto’s most famous
residents. The tour ended up by the
river where we ate the local speciality
Francesinha which is sure to clog even
the ﬁttest arteries with cholesterol.
After lunch a quick pop across the
river found us in the heart of Porto’s
famous Port district. Despite what
many members may have hoped, it is
the fortiﬁed wine that takes its name
from the City rather than the other
way around. Taylors was generally
agreed to be our favourite producer
and so we paid a visit to their Lodge
and Wine Cellar where all sorts of
intelligent questions were asked and
many diﬀerent ports sampled. Unfor-
tunately no one could quite aﬀord the
Scion which came in at £2500 a bottle
and we never found out the answer to
the question “How many grapes does
it take to make a bottle of port?”
That evening we found ourselves
enjoying cocktails served in buckets,
for only €5, by the river side. Meas-
ures don’t seem to apply in Portugal
with the rather simpler equation of
half a bottle of spirit per drink seem-
ing to be the rule of thumb. This con-
tinued into the early hours with those
hardy souls still awake watching the
sunrise over Porto from the bridge
Dom Luis, wiith one member of the
trip attempting to get intimate with a
slow moving train.
A rather sleepy 4-hour coach jour-
ney saw us arrive in the capital, Lis-
bon, which also heralded the return
of more familiar tour accommoda-
tion with the rather less habitable Ta-
gus Homes. Without warning and in
muddled English the tour group was
split into two groups with six brave
souls being led oﬀ to a diﬀerent build-
ing 500 yards down the road. These
six had to put up with the creepy Ma-
ria who reminded one and all of a fe-
male Sweeney Todd and so the door
to the dorm remained locked at all
times. The other tour party had the
main hostel booked out but with only
4 toilets between 25 the morning rush
proved diﬃcult at times.
More culture was to follow as the
group soon discovered that it gener-
ally seemed to be a pretty eﬀective
hangover cure. However some of the
group was a bit shocked to ﬁnd that
Sintra is pretty much just one big hill.
A gruelling walk up to the top most
castle was dodged by some as they
chose to get the bus, which despite
being overprices left many wishing
they had forked out.
The remaining members of the tour
decided to visit the botanical gardens
and its neighbouring zoo. This result-
ed in the small child in each resurfac-
ing as they ran from enclosure to en-
closure to see, and sometimes attempt
to imitate, every animal.
Before our third match we visited
the world famous aquarium in Lisbon,
the Oceanário de Lisboa. The dark-
ened corridors proved the perfect
surroundings for pre game naps and
the ﬁsh confusing to those who were
yet to reach the hungover stage.
Our third game was a men’s match
vs the Lisbon Casuals at the Olympic
park. Their name lulled us into a false
sense of security before we saw their
highly professional warm up and a
quick investigation found that several
of the opposition played for Portugal
in their respective age groups. A hard
fought match ensued with IC eventu-
ally going down 3-0 with a stunning
defensive eﬀort by all in the swelter-
ing heat. Special mention must go to
Skid Mark, Trinh-Duc and Fresher
Rob for their performances.
The fourth game took place the
next day at the same venue against
the Lisbon Casuals mixed team. The
mixed game ended 4-4 (Poore Choice,
Stumpy, 3>2, Brown Love) which re-
ﬂected the evenness and good spirit
the match was played in.
A ﬁnal long journey deposited us in
Albufeira in the heart of the Algarve.
Unfortunately our match in the south
was cancelled at short notice but with
the temperature another 4-5 degrees
hotter than in Lisbon it may have
been a blessing in disguise. Much of
the rest of the trip was a bit of a haze
with the Strip stripping away all inhi-
bitions and the tourers diving into the
“culture” and mixing with the diverse
range of “locals”.
The highlight of Albuﬁera had to be
the boat trip on our last full day. On
board a 40 foot yacht sailing down the
coast, lunch on a secluded beach and,
as ever, glorious sunshine. Many felt
so relaxed that they decided a spot
of exercise would do them good and
chose to swim back to the yacht de-
spite the rather arctic temperature of
the water. All but Bergamasco and To-
ken managed the 400 yard swim back
as they had to be to be rescued by the
landing boat that was keeping close
tabs on “the crazy English people”.
It was a great tour and although we
returned home winless it’s the taking
part that counts. For anyone consid-
ering joining ICHC, whether you have
picked up a stick before or not, please
contact ic.hockey@imperial.ac.uk.
ICHC is proud to be sponsored by
KPMG and MEM Consumer Finance
Ltd.
ICHC party in Porto
SPORT
Jonny Clowes dishes the dirt on Hockey’s latest foreign travels
Send your match reports in to sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
J

