NEWS
ndon is ranked in tables
5
News Editor: Aemun Reza
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
Imperial’s academic staﬀ are making changes to improve the NSS score but it
takes a few years for the cohort that is beneﬁting from this to ﬁll out the sur-
vey in their ﬁnal year. So we won’t see immediate results but know that the
academic staﬀ are working hard to give you a world class education, while
trying to improve your satisfaction.
However there still is large potential for improvement and more needs to
be done to increase student’s satisfaction, for example 86% ranked us 67th
but 89% would rank us 25th for satisfaction due to it being so densely popu-
lated at the top of the table. A signiﬁcant number of Imperial College Union’s
2011 NSS response recommendations have not been acted on and it is up to
the College to decide if they want to put more resources behind accomplish-
ing these, which will result in a signiﬁcant rise of student satisfaction.
The Union is taking this seriously because unless your teacher or parent
tells you to apply for Imperial, you are going to generally go by the league
tables when you are 17 or 18 years old.
Some league tables are misleading for talented prospective students, for
example the Guardian doesn’t take into account research as a metric and
heavily relies upon the NSS results, while using the the value added score,
which is a useless metric since it measures how much a student has improved
from their entry standards to their ﬁnal graduating honours, which of course
is an idiotic way to analyze a university where everyone gets at least three A’s
at A-level.
The disparity between international and national rankings is based on
what they wish to assess. So international rankings focus on hard reliable
facts, while national rankings use unreliable student satisfaction results.
Subject Tables Responses
Doug Hunt
Deputy President (Education)
The Guardian
In the overall table, Imperial College London ranks 13th. In terms of the NSS feedback score,
Imperial is 3rd from the bottom (with the bottom institution not actually having figures
for the NSS response). However, the entry tariff, which is the UCAS points required to be
offered a place, is the third highest at Imperial, with only Cambridge and Oxford above.
Below, the infographic shows the rankings in the different subjects.
Earth and marine sciences: 1st
Materials and mineral engineering: 3rd
Mechanical Engineering: 4th
Civil Engineering: 12th
Chemical Engineering: 4th
Medicine: 11th
Physics: 12th
Chemistry: 26th
Biosciences: 11th
EEE: 6th
Computer Science: 4th Mathematics: 10th
The Complete University Guide
While league tables can be met with mixed emotions, we must keep in
mind that they inﬂuence perceptions of the College and inform the deci-
sions of prospective staﬀ and students. It is therefore a welcome boost that
Imperial has kept its position as the eighth best university in the world
according to the THE, in good company alongside three other UK uni-
versities in the top twenty. We cannot rest on our laurels but we can be
proud that we are ﬁrmly embedded among the world’s leading univer-
sities, unshaken by competition from Asia where massive investment in
higher education and research is paying dividends.
From the Union
From the College
Sir Keith O’Nions
President & Rector
Compiled and written by Tim Arbabzadah and Aemun Reza
Illustrations by Lizzy Griffiths
In this table, Imperial currently ranks 4th overall. In this table, Cambridge is first, with LSE
being second and Oxford being 3rd. From 2010-2012, Imperial was 3rd overall, and so has
fallen by one spot. In all of the subject tables, shown below, Imperial ranks very highly. In
terms of graduate prospects, Imperial actually is 1st, with Cambridge coming in 2nd.
Aeronautical Engineering: 4th
Biosciences: 3rd
Chemical Engineering: 2nd
Chemistry: 6th
Civil Engineering: 2nd
EEE: 4th
Geology 2nd
Materials: 3rd
Mathematics: 3rd
Mechanical
Engineering:
4th
Medicine: 5th
Physics: 5th Computer Science: 3rd

