FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
“Better than the Olympics”
ast Friday, the game fa-
mous for ending disputes
amongst friends and ac-
quaintances worldwide ar-
rived at Imperial. In what
can only be described as probably
the most eventful lunchtime of the
term so far, Imperial played host to
the inaugural Imperial College Lon-
don Rock Paper Scissors Champion-
ship (or RPS, as it’s called by almost
nobody). Felix brings you an on the
ground report of the lunchtime’s
events.
Students and staﬀ from all depart-
ments assembled beneath the Queen’s
Tower to participate in the momen-
tous event. The Imperial College Lon-
don Rock Paper Scissors Champion-
ship was oﬃcially declared open by
Denis Wright, Dean of Students, and
Jane Neary, Director of Commercial
Services, as they gave participants an
exemplary demonstration of how to
play the game.
After an energetic warm-up, partic-
ipants battled against each other val-
iantly, showing impressive dedication
and commitment to the sport. Bru-
tally, however, ﬁfty percent of players
were wiped out of the competition
with each round, whilst the remaining
contestants progressed up the ‘steps
of glory’ towards the Queen’s Tower.
After just four rounds, the Ladies’
Imperial College London Rock Paper
Scissors Champion, Sonali Campion
of Imperial Hub, and Men’s Imperial
College London Rock Paper Scissors
Champion, Alan Soltani from the
Physics department, emerged from
the participants. Sonali and Alan then
went head-to-head in a battle to be-
come the ﬁrst ever Imperial College
London Rock Paper Scissors Cham-
pion of Champions.
In a tense ﬁnal, the skill level was
upped to ‘expert’ level – the winner
was crowned after not the best-of-
one, not the best-of-three, but the
best-of-FIVE matches of Rock Paper
Scissors’. Sonali and Alan took their
stance on the third step up.
Match one. A point to Alan! The
crowd cheers! (Well, one of Alan’s
friends cheers.) The next match yields
a draw. And the next, another draw.
And then... SONALLIIIII! The Impe-
rial Hub cohort goes wild and chant
“So-na-li, So-na-li!”.
Silence descends across the crowd
in preparation for match number ﬁve.
Alan just clinches it and takes us into
a nail biting sixth match. Draw. The
tension is prolonged and the handful
of remaining spectators still watching
fell silent. Another draw. (OK, when
will this end?) And then, out of no-
where, match nine... goes to... ALAN!
He is triumphant! He basks in the
glory! Alan Soltani from the Physics
department is the ﬁrst ever Imperial
College London Rock Paper Scissors
Champion! The Imperial Hub team
rush to comfort Sonali, who seemed
surprisingly unemotional.
Felix managed to get an exclusive
interview with Alan just after he’d
received his new title. We asked him
how it felt to be the ﬁrst Imperial
College London Rock Paper Scissors
Champion. Elated and slightly over-
whelmed he said: “It’s an amazing
feeling. The ﬁnal was really tense and
for a minute I thought I’d lost. But
I pulled through after some great
coaching and with mental strength.”
As a friend called to him telling him
they were late for their next lecture
(or something like that) he was heard
saying “I can’t talk to you now, I’m a
celeb.”
We later spoke to Sonali who told us
“I’m still in shock! It started oﬀ fairly
relaxed but as I climbed the steps it
got more and more intense.”
She added, “I was disappointed to
miss out on the overall title... but Alan
was a worthy winner.”
Both Sonali and Alan have secured
their place in the National Rock Paper
Scissors Championship this Saturday.
Sonali has been swatting up on tips
and also practicing with friends in the
hope that this time she might claim
the top prize. Encouragingly, she is
yet to be beaten by anyone except her
boyfriend. (Awkward?)
The event really was a great success
and Sport Imperial should be thanked
for arranging the tournament. Neil
Mosley, Head of Sport Imperial, told
us: “Sport Imperial has always been
devoted to enhance students and staﬀ
experience at Imperial. We hope this
event gives people, especially new
students, a diﬀerent way to meet new
people. This is our ﬁrst Imperial Rock
Paper Scissors Championship and,
given everyone’s involvement and
response today, we think it could be-
come a new tradition at Imperial!” Fe-
lix couldn’t agree more, and we can’t
wait for the return of the Imperial
College London Rock Paper Scissors
Championship next year.
(Oh, and in case you were wonder-
ing (which you probably weren’t), I
came last after losing four consecu-
tive times, which is actually just as
probable as winning four times in a
row. Therefore technically I am a win-
ner too, right? Right?)
L
Global celebrity Alan Soltani.
Known as the “Tiger Woods of RPS”.
Hopefully for the right reasons
Caroline Wood reports on the newest sports craze to hit campus
Alan and his big trophy
Alan basking in glory
Tense...
RPS, or throwing gang signs?
Everyone swears at each other
FRIDAY 12 OCTOBER
8
STUDENT BLOGGERS WANTED!
Are you a keen and creative writer? Maybe you always
have a camera handy to capture the moment?
Simply send us 600 words about your start of term experience,
whether you are a fresher or a returning undergrad or postgrad.
Alternatively, submit a photo-blog entry about Welcome Week –
don’t forget to add captions!
Send your submission by noon on Monday 15 October
to studentblogs@imperial.ac.uk
£www.imperial.ac.uk/studentblogs

