N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
No. 156. TUESDAY, 7th FEBRUARY, 1961. Price 4d.
Y
O
U A
N
D Y
O
U
R G
R
A
N
T
by T. Feldbsrg
Towards the end of the last Union
meeting considerable interest was shown
in the report of the Andersons Commit-
tee, the Means Test, and in particular
the N.U.S. Grants Week. In this article
I hope to give an account of the events
•which lerl to this nation-wide student
campaign (in which Imperial College did
not take part).
In 1958 a committe of experts was set.
up by the Minister of Education, Sir David
Eccles, to go into the whole question of
student grants and University selection.
It had interviews and received memo-
randa from numerous organization*
either directly concerned or interested in
higher education such as Local Educat-
ional Authorities, N.U.S., political par*,
ies. etc. The work of the Anderson Com-
miHee lasted two years and submitted
its findings to the Government latt
Summer.
The most important recommendation
of the Anderson Retort oalls for the total
abolition of the Means Test, i.e... that
students should receive grants without
reference to the income of their parents.
Here are some of the arguments in fav-
our of its abolition:
a. Full time study should be regarded
as a full time job. After all salaries and
wages for a job in industry are not de-
pended on parental income, so why
should grants be.
b. Dependanoe on parents' income for
maintenance often prevents students
from taking up places at University be-
cause their parents are either unable or
unwilling to maintain them.
c. The Means Test very often enables
parents to exert on students an un-
desirable amount of ooeroion by threat-
ening to withold financial support unless
they arrange their lives as their parents
wish. This ocours more often than is
imagined, particularly amongst women
students who wish to marry.
d. The abolition of the parental con-
tribution would encourage more parents
to keen their children to sixth form level
nt sohool, making it possible for them
to go to Universitv. This would help to
achieve the declared aim of the Minister
i.e., the training of as many graduates
as possible as a matter of vital import-
ance to the Country, instead of losing
every year, as must be the case, a con-
siderable number of potential students.
e. Surprising as it may seem, the
cost of administering the Means Test
would be greater than the cost of abolish-
ng it.
Thr* Report, also recommends the abol-
ition of State Scholarships and the in-
troduction of a uniform grants to cover
Scotland as well as England and' Wales;
that all those with two G.C.E.'s at "A"
level who have been accepted for a first
degree should reoeive awards from public
funds. Other recommendations of the
Report deal with dependant allowances,
National Insurance contributions, admi-
nistration of awards, etc., for which I
have no space to go into here.
The Government attitude to the recom-
mendations of the Report has been dis-
appointing, to say the least. The Minister
of Education has refused to abolish the
Means Test and is eommited to partial
abolition only. In a statement in the
House of Commons he declared that the
minimum parental income at whioh con-
tribution is required would be raised from
£525 to £700. This rise in the minimum
inoome for contribution is very small in-
deed, especially when increase in average
earnings since 1958 (when the £525
lower limit was fixed) are taken into ac-
count. In doing this the Minister has com-
Iceberg* *tt Qenhmmlmn*
EXPLORATION SOCIETY
bv John Sheard
The Exploration Society has held a full
programme of meetings this term. Five
lectures come from members of last year's
expeditions and three other talks will be
given by Tony Smvst, leader of the 1961
Royal Air Force Karakoram Expedition,
Dependencies Survey and by Dr. John
Francis who aocompanied the 1953 I.C.
Carribean Expedition.
We have held our first Hop and the
'Exploration Review' has again been publ-
ished and is now on sale.
The Annual Dinner, to be held shortly,
promises to be most successful. The Soc-
iety and its members have invited many
guests of distinction in the field of ex-
ploration. We feel that this is one of the
few ways in which we can show our ap-
preciation for the extremely generous help
and advice we are constantly receiving.
The programme is completed by a
General Studies lecture to be given bv
Professor G.E. Finch, F.R.S., on March
16th. Full details of all the meetings will
be found on the Society's notice board in
the Union Entrance Hall.
Finally, it is now time to be thinkine
of expeditions in the 1962 season, and if
you are at all interested in exploration
please come to our meetings. The Society
has a wealth of experience amongst its
members and if we cannot answer your
queries, we will certainly be able to put
vou in touch with someone" who oan.
— OLD HOSTEL —
DESECRATED
ICWA ATTAKS.
Never before, in the whole of its long
and colourful historv. has the Old Hostel
kno.m such dreadful outrages as those
which Dccured on the night of Friday
20th January. With the noise of a baby
elephant three ICwarians descended upon
a poor defenceless, but eminently respec-
table and in-offensive young gentleman en
the fifth floor. Armed with six-foot long
poisonous spears they launched an entire-
ly unprovoked attack. Vicious onslaught
followed vicious onslaught and it was not
long before the poor victim was trodden
remorselessly underfoot. Not satisfied
with this the three barbarians began to
plug the ventilation holes in the ceiling,
hoping no doubt to suffocate their victim.
In this they failed, however. They were
beaten back by the sheer number of holes
— 42,000 of them. Undaunted they turned
their attention to the window. "Let us
help you out." they offered. It was a
good seventy foot drop to the back of
Mooney's kitchen. "Do have some coffee."
said the victim, in despair. That was it.
He was saved. He had found the focal
point of the weakness. With their insat-
iable addiotion to coffee they could no
longer resist. After two oups they were le-
duced to a state of complete docility and
being quite incapable their ejection then
offered no problems.
pletely disregarded the recommendations
of the Anderson Report, whioh were the
result of two years investigation by a
committee of experts in education of Ms
own choosing.
However, the matter is not necessarily
settled by the Minister's statement. In
spite of the Minister's statement, I do
believe that the Government can be
brought to appreciate the full extent of
student feeling on this question of the
Means Test. A way to So this is to take
some kind of action which would make
our opinion known to people in positions
of resposibility and to the public at large.
Here are some examples of what other
Colleges and Universities have done:
The University of Southampton: wrote
to all M.P.s representng constituencies in
their area and arranged to meet many
of them.
London School of Economics: The Union
sent a delegation of students which inter-
viewed about 25 M.P.B.
University of Exeter: The President
wrote to M.P.s and also to "The Times".
University of Oxford: arranged a petit-
ion to Parliament against the Means
Test, which amassed 1500 signatures in
4 days.
A group of students from University
College, Goldsmiths and other London
colleges saw Mr Peter von Straubenzee,
Parliamentary Private Secretary to the
M'nister of Education who told them
that he had been asked by the Govern-
ment to circularize all Conservatives
M.P.s with a document giving the pros
and cons of the Means Test so that they
would be sufficiently aquainted w"th the
problem when meeting students in the
lobbies. So much for those who say that
sending petitions, lobbying Parliament,
etc. is useless and has no effect.
Yet this seems to be the attitude of our
Union, which has done nothing about
•rants for a a verv long time indeed. T
hope this state of affairs will gradually
improve. Alreadv a resolution on the
grants question is beine prepared for the
next Union meeting which seems to be
a step in the right direction.
UNION
MEETING
In the Concert Hall at 1 p.m. on Thurs-
dav 9th February. The agenda includes a
motion from Mr. W.S. MpAuley that
"This Union meeting supporters the abol-
ition of the Means Test as recommended
bv the Anderson Committee, and instructs
Council to organize activities in support
of this policy." The motion will be
seconded by Mr. T. Feldberg who has
written the above article.
REVULU PRESENTS
D O N T JUST STAND THERE
U.L.U. FEBRUARY 14TH-18TH

