FELIX
FACES IN FOCUS
LIBEL UNLIMITED
by I.L. Gibsor
With the presentation of Kenneth Mc-
Millan's new ballet, "The Invitation", at
Covent Garden earlier this year, sex in-
vaded the realm of the ballet. This hour-
long piece in five scenes, set to
the music of the late Matyas Soiber,
tells the story of the sex education
and rape of a young woman and
the inevitable effects of this on her
relationship with her boyfriend. We see
the transition from the young and fresh
innocence of the boy and girl, recentlv
emerged from the school room, to the
saddened and disillusioned young lady
who, with her new knowledge and exper-
ience, automatically shrinks from her boy-
friend when they meet again in the clos-
ing scene of the ballet.
Tt can be seen, therefore, that instead
of the more usual "fairy tale" story for a
ballet we have a fragment from real life;
although the setting is Edwardian, the
ballet is essentially straight from the
1960s and is a strangely moving and force-
ful addition to the Covent Garden repert-
ory. Two furthur performances are sched-
uled for February 10th and March 17th.
Frederick Ashton's latest work, "Les
Deux Pigeons" will receive its first per-
formance at a Gala night on Februarv
14th, while Ashton's most successful work
from last season, "La Fille Mai Gardee"
will be revived on March 8th.
This is perhaps the most delightful and
charming new ballet we have seen in Lon-
don for some years. The story of the
widower is simplicity itself and combined
with some lovely decor by Osbert Lan-
caster, and a light and carefree soore by
young farmer for the daughter of a rich
nineteenth century composer Herold,
the total effect is one of gaiety and charm.
The title roles wil, as last year ,be danced
by David Blair and Nadia Nerina per-
haps technically the finest Ballerina at
Oovent Garden at the present time.
HI from SI
Surprisingly the carnival organisation
is still proceeding in approximately the
right direction even though it is burdened
with the necessity of doing something.
The carnival week events starting Mon.
day. May 8th will be something similar
to the following list:
Monday — Garden Barbeque and official
opening of Carnival Week,
Tuesday — Domino Marathon.
Wednesday — Casino Night (tentative).
— Ballroom Baoe.
Thursday — Carnival Debate.
Friday — Fancy Dress Ball and crowning
—, of Carnival Queen.
Saturday — Procession
— Offioial opening of tKe Fete.
— Closing Dance.
— Fireworks Display.
You will hear more about each of theso
as w
.
e approaoh CAENIVAL WEEK.
The patrons for this year's carnival 'ire
Sir Patrick Lintead, the Hector; Lord
Hailsham, the Minister for Scienoe;
Councillor J. Gordon Bawle, the Mayor of
the Boyal Borough of Kensington; Coun-
cillor B. L. Everest, the Mayor of the
City of Westminter.
It is the hope of the Carnival Committee
to raise a large proportion of the funds
from the publio support as in this way
the week of festive events will be at a
minimum cost to the students, but the
fund for Oxfam will still be large. How-
ever, to do this we need your support as
we must establish the interest for this
carnival amongst the public. This means
we need people to distribute posters.
Carnival Magazines, raffle tickets, and to
participate in door to door collecting
Can we oount on you?
a quiok lunch?...
A GOOD LUNCH?...
a g a y l u n o h ?...
A Satisfying Lunoh?...
A CABNIVAL LUNCH I
Monday — Concert Hall — 12.80 to 2.00.
GALA OPENING CEREMONY at 1.10
! I I With alL-star I.C. oast I I !
Music by the Chris Adams Band.
Buy your
ticket in
advance...
it may win you
a theatre date
with the Queen
of Jezabel t 1 t
IAN HILL
by Jim Carter
By now it must dawned on most
members of the Union that the initials
I.D.H. do not refer to a refeotory but
to our refectory President.
Ian is one of those rare characters
who believes that England begins at
Croydon, in other words a Londoner.
Often to be seen in the bar, one might
think that the phrase "convivial intel-
lectual" describes him to a tee. Accurate
analysis, however, will indicate a certain
element of doubt.
In the first year, he grew a beard,
and, as a result, he joined the Phoenix
staff.. This was the first Prelim, year and
contained many other notables, such r.s
N,B. Greaves, whose parents must have
had a sense of humour, D.J. Irving, about
whom we still say nothing, and others.
Ah! those palmy days of yore, when
one could pick up Phoenix and read "Mr.
Hill's Social Page". It is not everything,
T fear, that has ohanged for the better.
Living up to his principle of anything
for a laugh, he decided to djo Chem.
Eng., and to take part in Union activit-
ies. Rising fast in the social world, he
was eleoted chairman of the Chem. Eng.
Society and Chairman of Entertainments.
In this dual role he had many triumphs,
not the least of which was an incredible
Chem. Eng. dinner, which even today is
spoken of as a remarkable example of
what one man can do when he really
tries.
It soon became apparent that the star
of deBtcny was to alight on him, and
he assumed the purple with a grace and
charm whioh utterly vanquished his bit-
terreet opponents. IWith a dignity alto-
gether regal, he oan win the hearts of
all sorts of unlikely people, as can be
seen from the fact that he has talked
JIM CARTER
by Ian Hill
Jim Carter was born in Blackburn be-
fore the Second World War, in which
event he played but a small part. After
a fascinating ^education at St. Mary's
School, Jim arrived at City & Guilds in
October 1955. Like many infamous men
before him Jim took four years to gradu-
ate in his chosen subject — Aero. En-
gineering, and is now, by some peculiar
quirk of a chance doing "valuable" re-
search work m the same department.
With a voice like his it was no surprise
that Jim beoame involved in Union act-
ivities. Doing sterling work in goal for
the I.C. Hockey XI and not quite so
sterling work for the U.L.U. Bridge
Club led to Jim beooming Vice President
of Guilds last year, a year during which
his voice was used to advantage (?) on
I.C. Counoil.
This year Jim's activities are as varied
as ever, apart from being Hon. Sec. of
T.C. Union he is Captain ,of a highly
unskilled and highly unfit Rugger team
of which he is most highly unskilled and
highly unfit member.
— Long Live Jim —
EDITOR'S FOOTENOTE:
Jim was recently heard to say: "I'm
not sex mad, just healthy."
his wav into doing a P.G. course in Con-
crete Technology.
Finally, we believe that there is no
truth in the rumour that he is to become
engaged. When questioned about this, he
said, "We are just good friends."
JO.
Personal Opinion
Dear Sir,
I am more than glad to provide the
comment requested by Mr. Jeffrey Turner.
I agreed with him for three years jnd
only recently have I had second thoughts
on this matter.
The lack of ULU-mindedness among
I.C. students has two aspects. The mere
failure to use the facilities of ULU is
easily explained. It is Bimply a matter of
geography. Is it reasonable to expect
students to go as for as Bloomsbury when
there facilities almost as good here in
South Kensington? Several do so, I know,
but the majority do not, and I do not
blame them.
The failure to join in ULU activities
may appear more serious, but I no longer
th;
nk it is. It certainly does ULU no
harm. For example, last year's ULU car-
nival realised a record sum without our
help. Indeed, had we put as muoh effort
into the ULU carnival as we did into
our own, the result in terms of cash would
probably have been less than we raised
ourselves. It is simply a case of the Law
of Diminishing Returns. ULU is quite big
enough without us, and we, for that
matjter, are big jenough without ULU.
Remember I.C. itself is as large as some
universities.
To those who argue that more ULU-
mindedness would help to make I.C. less
of a "glorified polyteohnio" I would point
out that we can do far more in this dir-
ection by putting our own house in order
as Mr. Cox suggests.
"Imperialist"
Dear Sir,
The following are from a report issued
by the British Association, led by Sir
Patrick Linstead, Reotor of the College.
"Universities should cut down unneces-
sary memorising of scientific faots which
can be looked up in reference books.'?
"Many of Britain's most able scientists
are now so specialised that they cannot
be classed as educated."
"Universities will turn out young
scientists more and more ignorant outside
their specialised subjects unless their cur-
riculum in schools and college is widened.'*
I feel that we, as students, are being
subjected, not only here, but recently in
the whole of the national press, to the
platitudes of people who ought to know
better. Science, at its most conservative,
is more concerned with assimilating know-
ledge than with original thought. At its
most liberal, it is concerned with the ap-
plication of known facts to new situations.
In either case, a oomprehensive. basic
knowledge is required. This, sir, cannot
be obtained by reading Shakespeare and
listening to Beethoven, and I have no
desire to spend an extra vear at college
to enable artistic appreciation to be in-
cluded in the curriculum. The only way
to turn out more cultured scientists is to
tench them less science. Is this too hisrh
a price to pay? Is your own house in
order, Sir Patrick?
Yours faithfully,
C.E. Arnev
WINTER BATHING.
by an R.C.S. Trophy Officer
Thursday 26th January
Upon this day the ducks of the Round
Pond witnessed an unusual sight. About
sixtv undergraduates were escorting one
hardy individual towards the water's
murky depths. For one moment this man's
sacrifice seemed not to be forthcoming,
for three uniformed individuals were seen
approaching the festive crowd at an alarm-
ing rate. For a moment the swimmer stood
poised on the brink, then plunged, aided
by many brawny arms. He sunk into the
crystal clear depths of the frozen fresh
water, then surfaced, breaking the crisp
crystals of ice that were freshly formed
on the surface.
A top hatted individual in tails, together
with a bonneted beardless ruffian then ap-
proached the pond, laughed, and the lead
the crowd in a furious war chant .The
swimmer crawled up onto the bank find-
ing the crowd pacified, for retribution had
been met. The constitution had demanded
that one man should be sacrificed, and
one had been sacrificed, purified in the
icy depths of the Round Pond.
Laughing and chattering gaily the
now peaceful mob made their way back
to the Union, leaving behind them a bed-
raggled, cold, wet, but peaceful man. He
was content, yea. for justice had been
dealt and justice itself was met.
P.S. Reported missing. One long thin
stick with a ball on the end. Painted
back, white and purple. Anyone who has
any knowledge of the whereabouts of this
object is requested to notify the nearest
R.C.S. Union officials.
SERIOUS SIDE
Bagging and childish behaviour in
plenty. That was all part of letting off
steam bv the few B.C.8. men at the last
Union Meeting.
Those out for maturity by more serious
dealings took up the business of looking
into the B.C.S. Constitution and the be-
haviour of the Union Officers, aiies^nin"
the functioning of our dictatorial Com-
mittees and loosly worded constitution.
The discussion reached a climax when Mr.
Mcpherson's request for n oonv of Hip
constitution to be sent to C V - T V mAmtwr
of the Union, and its complete review by
th^ Executive, was meekly accepted by
the President.
Soon every member of R.C.S. will get
a copy of the Constitution and be asked
to read and comment on it. If they all
did this and picked out its numerous flaws
the thousand-and-some criticisms which
came in would be enough to shake a
mountain, and enough to knock the
R.C.S. Union and its Officers off their
feet.
Let us try; it will show where we
stand, what the Union can do for us, and
how strong it is.
ADVERTISING
A Tonic OF Coarse.
by George Turner
What is the place of advertising in our
economy? Does superior advertising sell
inferior goods? In persuasion through the
subconscious moral?
These were but a few of the
questions Mr. Desbrow of the Advert-
ising Agency, Garland Compton tackled
in his talk "Persuasion is my. Busi-
ness'' to the term 'B first meeting of
the Huxley Society. In its beginning with
limited media and intuitive techniques,
advertising was a dubious gamble. Today,
with the backing of market research and
psychology and working through moss
media, advertising is a powerfull economic
force. The producer who ignores or neglects
is taken over; the customer cannot ignore
Top people and bottom people have their
minds guided, goaded, and regulated by
subtle or direct, factual or emotive advert-
ising.
Some agreed that here was a healthy
stimulant to the production of quality
goods at competitive prices. Others saw
the appeal to the emotions and subcon-
scious as an immoral and dangerous prop
to our economy. The problem is not an
isolated one. Where to draw the line in
a continuum of technique from simple re-
quest to brain washing is a problem in
political, relieious, indeed any form of per-
suasion. To be consistent, Mr. Desbrow
declared, we must make the some limits
for all. He was satisfied with the status
ouo. Are you?
DANCE TICKETS
and other club printings by:
WEST LONDON OFFSET CO.
86, Lillie Road, S.W.6. (rear entrance)
Buses: 74, 30. Tel.: FUL 7969.

