FELIX 3
LOVE
THAT UNION
by Diogenes
Under the title "What's wrong with
T.C.?", Mr Cox discusses the question of
how to increase the effectiveness of a
University education. Not a new question,
but one that cannot be raised too often,
it seems. One fears that he is beating
h«B head against a Red-Brick wall. The
fact is that rao^t students resrard the
Union as they regard National Health
at all times as incidental, even irrelevant,
to their lives as a whole. This attitude
does sees to be at variance with the trends
of modern democratic life, I admit.
Nowadays participation is the theme; we
should each see ourselves as an integral
part of the society in which we live.
I agree that a University Education
should do more than impart scietific
knowledge. Since the development of the
human r
,nimal is a restatement of an evol-
utionary process, the object of any educ-
ation is surely to bring the process up
to date. Social education is that at least
as important in these as the assimilation
of historical facts, of which scientific dis-
coveries form a small part. No person
whose education is strongly biased in any
one direction whilst almost totally lack-
ing in others could be said to be mature.
One asks, though, whether maturity in
this sense is a desirable oharachteristic to
possess nowadays. It would require a
longer, more expensive (and unproduc-
ive) period of education. Worse, it seems
to imply the idea of invidual respons-
ibility of action, which is going rapidly
out of fashion. Why think things out for
ourselves when there are others better
qualified to do it for you? Act as you
think everyone else will think best; after
all, we've never had it so good! When
Mr. Cox says that he is passionately at-
tached to certain rather revolutionary
ideas, he is treading on dangerous ground
indeed. Dispassionate aquiescence is the
thing. Forward the Young Conservatives!
One notes that the extensive use of
antibiotics results in resistant strains cf
bacteria. Could it be that excess cf
"Organisation" in our environment is
producing organisation-resistant strains (.f
students? If they cannot ignore the
demands of society in the form of Univer-
sity "education" they can at least ignore
the Student's Union.
Mr. Cox diagnoses, quite correctly, that
we should increase the doses of organisat-
ion and participation to counteract this.
Some new and more drastic forms are
needed too. How about an advert "Love
your Union" during the break in "Mav-
erick"? Another obvious line of attack
would be to builcf up the President as
a Father Figure, or something.
£etU%dtothe CdUox
T)enr Sir, / ^"1 CARNIVAL QUEEN
MUMI WHY WAS I BORN? -
So often these days it seems a la mode
to lack an ideology. Things may be taken
so far that it not unusual to crash into
people who make an ideology out of not
having an ideology. Almost to the point
of chaining themselves to the railings of
Parliament, they claim their heritage is
the Suffragette Movement; deny us our
vote, or we throw ourselves beneath the
Queen's horses.
This particularly so with students,
Imperial stock with a vengeance. So
jealously do they guard their lack of pur-
pose that they run in great danger of pre-
mature senility through voluntary isolat-
ion. Existentialism; their articulate
mouths sieze up, their fertile brains ore
unable to distinguish between quality and
quantity, and God knows what happens
to their souls.
As my New Year's Resolution, according
to the Union caretakers, is not to speak at
Union meetings, I feel obliged to proffer
a solution on paper to the above dilemna.
It is easy enough these days to find an
ideology, purpose, cause, or all three. All
that is required are the initial assumpt-
ions that our contempories are worth liv-
ing with, sharing things with, co-operating
with and enjoying. The only real dific-
ulty is developing an open mind and NC-
cepting that a mutual intercourse is bene-
ficial, constructive and in no way involv-
ing a sacrifice of principles we don't hold
anyway. We of the C.N.D. like to think
that we are at least moving towards a
state of ppen-mindedness, and to em-
phasise our progress we intend to hold our
"C.N.D. Mission to I.C." on the 13th
to the 18th of February. In this period
we are expecting a great rush of folks to
our meetings where we look forward to
many and great opened-minded deliber-
ations. By the 19th we anticipate that
the I.C. Aldermaston contingent will l
>
e
either non-existent or 1000 strong. Which
is it to be?
D. Finney
WHAT'S RIGHT WITH I.C.
Dear Sir,
I am often asked why 1 am so passion-
ately attached to such ideas as I.C. Union
not joining NUS, ICWA not being
allowted in the bar, etc., etc, and in
this article I intend to say why and
not, like Mr. Cox, make a number of as-
sertions of doubtful validity.
If one looks at the Blue Boob, one can
read therein the terms of reference (f
the I.C. Union. They are, briefly, to foster
the social and athletic, as opposed to the
academic, welfare of the individual
student. In this I think the Union suc-
ceeds. We can be justifiably proud of
our sporting record, second to none in
this University, and our social and recre-
ational clubs cater for very nearly all likes
and dislikes. One can do practically any-
thing, within reason, in this Union, and
I think everyone agrees that's how it
should be.
But one thing makes me feel like adopt*
ing a policy of unlimited physioal violence,
and that is the eternal whining and moan-
ing of one section of the Union. 'Why
don't we join NUS?" they cry, We must
have equality of the sexes; let ICWA in-
to the barl" they yell. And all the time
they are emphasising what a large major-
ity of the Union already know: that the
yellers and the cryers are nothing but
power-seeking demagogues, who allow
the mouth to function when the brain is
I have often had occasion to complain
of the apathy of some Union members,
but most of tb^m, thank Heavenl, have
their heads screwed on the right way.
For a small fee Mr. Cox oan join NUS .
Mr. Finney can maroh to Timbuctoo for
all I care; but until the majority of Union
members take leave of their senses, the
I.C. Union will continue to aot sensibly
and moderately.
Yours faithfully,
J. Carter
What's wrong with I.C.? Whv it
that, at regular intervals. Union officinls
and various others tell us that if we are
to obtain a Universitv education, we must
write articles, buv magazines, attend
Union meetings, run carnivals, etc., etc.?
Surely this is putting the proverbial cart
before the horse. These student activities
are praise-worthy enough, but are no more
than evidence of a state of mind; the
problem is not solved by producing more
outlets for interest, but by producing the
interest.
As I see it, there are two main faults
with I.C. Primarily the over-specialisation
of the oollege as a whole. This i sworsened
by the segregation, which comes so natur-
ally to such a large organisation from the
rest of the Unversity. Secondly, there is
the well worn criticism of the lack of
Hostel accommodation. Both of these
faults are easily overcome by the inter-
ested student, and many do overcome
them, but there is no denying that they
are aids to narrow-mindedness. Ah, but
there are General Studies and Touchstone
weekends, we are told! I would suggest
that these are not by any means sufficient
replacements as stimulants, although both
in themselves praise-worthy attempts.
In any case the picture is not as black
as some would paint it. As a fresher I
have been most impressed by the wide
range of societies and activities of the
Union. Further, there is a marked tend-
ency, when others do not share "our"
interests, to dismiss them as people with-
out interests. I have as yet met few of
the "morons" that I have been told so
much about.
Neither does all the fault (if fault there
is) lie with I.C., for we must puss s
goodly share to the general educational
policies of the century. I believe that
much harm is done by our crammer
school system and "You can't make a
silk purse out of a sow's lug' not tven
at I.C.
Your sincerely,
George Turner.
V i e w p o i n t s
C O M M E N T .
by J. Cox
People have often asked me who
"R.T.L. Fotheringham" is. Many appear
to believe that I write oounter-comment,
purposely using silly arguments to show
up my case better. This is not so. "R.T.L.
Fotheringham." is a pseudonym for a
gentleman who writes, and believes in
counter-comment. His article is written
after mine has been received by the
Editor.
I have never objected to him having
the last word, because I doubt whether
my "Comments" would have been publ-
ished otherwise. But I do object to him
becoming a censor as well. This week,
I would like to amplify a statement
"Fotheringham" deleted from my last
Commen. I hope that his will not mean
the deletion of the entire article.
I attempted, in my last article, to
deplore the fact that i.C. Union has no
policy' on grants. Virtually every other
Student's Union in Britain has some sort
of policy; in virtually every other college
in Britain, students will have discussed
various aspects of higher education at one
time or another. But at I.C. some of our
leaders seem to think that there is some-
thing degrading in discussing student
affairs.
Surely, in a healthy community, every
citizen should be well-informed about his
own affairs. If a student does not attempt
to understand student affairs, will he,
when he leaves oollege, take a wide inter-
est in industrial affairs? If a citizen is
incapable of assessing the validity of pol-
itical propaganda in his own field, is he
justified in voting at an eleotion?
I believe that it is necessary for us to
do our training as citizens while we are
in college. Our society's administration is
elected on the principle of "one man —
one vote". At every level of society, in-
cluding I.C., we should always try to en-
sure that this becomes "one thinking man
— one vote".
Surely we should realise that I.C. is
different to other colleges not because of
its superiority, but due to its lethargy.
We are now the only students of a major
college not affiliated to NUS. We accept
all the benefits won for students by NUS,
but beoause of the ignorance of student
affairs at I.C. it is still possible for some
to say, "NUS is ineffective.' '
With the affiliation of K.C.L. and
Bangor to to NUS, it is no longer possible
to speak of colleges inside or outside NUS.
P A M G R E G O R Y I N C .
COMPANY NOTICES.
fed February 1961.
C O U N T E R C O M M E N T .
by R.T.L. Fotheringham
I am sorry to see that Mr. Cox is now
using his so-called 'Comment' column for
personal attacks. However, hiB article is
ideal for presenting the case for the neces-
sitv of 'Counter-Comment'.
,In his articles Mr. Cox presents one
side of a controvercial topic; it is surely
reasonable that the other side should be
represented. Also the 'Comment' column
often contains material errors which must
be corrected. An example of this was last
issue's suggestion that the Student Union
should take over the Refectory, which it
does not even own.
I shall now correct this week's inac-
curacies.
1. I do not necessarily believe in what
I write. When this series was started T
was commissioned to write a weekly artiole
presenting the opposite point of view to
Mr. Cox.
2. Mr. Cox's articles reach th'e Editor
on Saturday. The paper goes to bed on
Sunday, If Mr. Cox was available on
Sunday, or willing to write his article
earlier, he would be able to read Counter-
Comment and amend his own column
accordingly.
3. His article would be printed even if
there was NO Counter-Comment.
4. I did not censor his last article.
The Editor cut part of this last article
because it was too long for the new pro-
cess, four page Felix. The cutting was
done in such a manner as to cause the
least distruption to his rambling discourse.
Mr. Cox was informed of this cut and
the reason for it.
As to the rest of Comment this week
I should like to point out that the reason
I.C. are not members of N.U.S. is be-
cause a Union Meeting last year decided
that we did not want to join. Here we
have an example of Mr. Cox's much
lauded demooraoy in action, but he is
the last person to accept the majority
decision. For the fifth issue in succession
we have the usual 'plug' for N.U.S. I
wonder if he gets a commission 1
We are now an insignificant minority, years
behind the rest of British students in the
understanding and appreciation of our own
affairs. At I.C. we lack completely one
of the main ingredients of a balanced Uni-
versity education.
I hope "Fotheringham" will not try to
excuse his censorship on the grounds that
grants have nothing to do with "What's
wrong with IC?"
Personal Dept. Miss Fam. Gregory has
graciously consented to accept nomination
for the Imperial College Carnival Queen.
Sales Dept. To mark this occasion we are
introducing three entirely new lines:
1. Pam Gregory lapel buttons (1 inch
diameter, gold plated pin and centre
photo on white base with slogan
PAM'S A WHAM).
2. The new P.G. Perfume "S H Y"
(one hum and he'll succumb). 19
guineas an ounce.
3. Full length colour pin-ups (Men, jne
look at our selection and vou'H want
to paper your walls with Pam). 1/—
each.
Llason Dept. Miss Gregory will give a
press conference at her town residence,
Beit Hall, at 9.00 p..m on Wednesday
8th February 1961.
Oomramnh]ae to FIB Ctab. Miss Gregory
thanks her many fans for all their letters
and is trying to personally answer each
one. However, she has to deal with 3,000
per week, so don't worry if you don't get
a reply immediately.
Nottoe to all suitors. The answer is
still NO.
SMALL-AD.
JOE AND JOAN Commiseration —
.Dave, Keith, Geof, Bill Fred, Chad,
John,Dave, Gordon.
BRIGET wants a warm home. Good
looking, fast nice body. Doesn't drink
much. Taxed, but not unduly. Yours for
£88. Morris tourer-1938. C. Heaton,
Guilds Rack or HIL T250.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE BOOKSTALL
TYPING, DUPLICATING
AND PRINTING SERVICES
These facilities are avaiable at low cost
to all Union members.
There are still a few Club ties left at
the Sale Price of 2/6d. each.
R.C.S. MATHEMATICAL
AND PHYSICAL SOCIETY
All members of the College are invited
to a lecture:
THE THEORY
OF THE EARTH'S MAGNETIC FIELD
To be given by:
SIR EDWARD BULLARD, F.R.8
TUESDAY 7th FEBRUARY
at 5.30 p.m. in Physics Lecture Theatre
Tea at 5.00 p.m. in the Lower Refectory.
WELCOME.
to Barry Treves who has volunteered to
manage FELIX advertising business.

