4
SPORT
SPORT INJURIES
Every year many sportsmen must sus-
tain injuries during training and compet-
ion. Some of these ore serious enough to
cause loss of work, but most, while not
preventing the athlete from earning his
living will affect his abilitv to take part
in his own sport. The National Health
Service is not really concerned with re-
storing a patient to the degree of fitness
required for participation in amateur
sport, and has fully discharged its ob-
ligation when the patient is able to per-
form his day-to-day duties. Before an at-
temp can be made to give more help to
the injured sportsman, some important
facts must be collected, relating to fre-
quency of injuries, how they are treated
and the length of disability both regard-
ing work and sport.
The facts are being collected and an-
alysed by J.G.P. Williams (Luton and
Dustable Hospital) and H. Evans-Robson
(Loughborough T.C.), who have been
sending out questionnaries to olub secret-
aries. They have asked the Imperial Col-
lege sports clubs to help in thier injuries
survey, and if as an individual club secret-
ary you have not received a questionnaire,
and feel you have information which will
help the survey, please contact J.H.
Collins through the I.C. Union rack.
Although the weather did not look too
promising at first, this year's Ski Club
trip to Davos in the New Year proved a
highly successful venture. Of the many
ski runs situated within easy walking dist-
ance of the .hotel the Persenn was un-
doubtedly the most popular with the
better skiers. The beginners, most of
whom had graduated to Class i n of the
Swiss Ski School by the end of the eleven
days skiing also had a great time and three
of them'obtained Bronze Medals,
Apart from skiing there was much to
oooupy one's time — in faot something
to suit almost every taste. Many members
spent afternoons skating on the world
famous rink or horse riding. Others went
on trips to nearby ski resorts suoh as St.
Moritz whilst some of the more energetic
individuals went toboganning. From a pos-
sible choice of a virtually infinite num-
ber of night spots: cabarets, beer stubes
and the like most people had quite a hetie
night life too, rarely returning to the hotel
before 3.00 a.m.
The plaee itseif was both salubrious and
very invigorating. The panoramic views
NEW SKI CLUB
TRIP TO DAVOS.
by D.H. Rouvray, President.
t
ft
C O L U M N
Setter.
2nd Round U.L. Cup.
Goldsmith's 1st 0 — I.C. 1st 2
Premier Division U.L. League.
Chelsea 1st 1 — I.C. 1st 3
I.C. let 6 — Chelsea 1st 3
let-Round U.L. 2nd Team Cup.
0.C. 2nd 0 — LC. 2nd 2
Judo
1.C. Beginners 3 wins, 1 draw.
King's Beginners 1 win, 1 draw.
Hookey.
I.O. 1st T — King's 1st 0
I.C. 1st 1 — Harrow H.U. ist o
I.C. 1st 2 _ C.E.M. 1st 1
I.C. 1st 3 — Southampton U. 1st 2
Table tennis.
I.C. 3rd 8 — West Ham let 2
Rugby.
I.C. 1st 17 _ St. Edmund's Hall 3
I.C. lBt 8 — St. Oath's Camb. 5
CROSS COUNTRY W —
On Saturday, 10th December, 1960,
I.C. retained their position as University
cross-oountry champions. Over a muddy,
hilly course in bitterly cold weather the
I.C. team were convincing victors, having
seven runners in the first) eleven The best
individual performance was given by John
Cleator who finished second to Mitchell
(U.C.), the reigning champion. The I.C.
second team with George Wenk in 9th
place also did very well, coming 4th in
the overall plaoings. The I.C. third team
finished 11th out of 14 teams.
Result.
1. I.C. (A) 33 pts.
2. U.C. (A) 106 pts.
3. Q.M.C. (A) 106 pts.
4. I.C. (B) 130 pts.
5. St. Mary's Hosp. 176 pts.
6. L.S.E. 187 pts.
7. London Hosp. (A) 217 pts.
Last event of last term was a handicap
race over the Club's home course at Peter-
sham. This was a very successful event
with eight of the twelve runners finishing
within a minute of each other. The handi-
cap winner was Dick Burt who, doubtless
striving to win the magnificent prize of-
fered, ran the course nearly 2 minutes
faster than he ever done before or since.
The fastest time of the day was 28.58
by Dave Hammonds who had finished
a fine 6th in the Championships the pre-
vious Saturday.
The new term started on a victorious
note with victories over London Hospital.
Sandhurst, and the Milicarians. The Lon-
don Hospital match was an easy victory
for I.C. by 21 pts. to 59, with I.C. men
in the first three places. The match against
Sandhurst and Milioarians on the fol-
lowing Saturday (14th Jan) showed the
*eturn '
D
o true form of {he Unversity
Captain, John Collins, who finished
second to Wood of Sandhurst. With Ted
Williams 4th and a pack at 8th, 9th and
10th (J. Greenleaf, D. Hammonds, and
P. Warren), the I.C. team soored a very
good win the scores being, I.C. 45, R.A.M.
Stndhurst 54, Milioarians 83.
On the following Wednesday we had twe
matches and with the teams thus devided
we oould only force a draw agains Shore-
ditch, beating a very weak Royal Vets
team in the prooess, and losing an other
match against St. Mary's College at
Strawberry Hill by the close margin of
2 p t S
' 1. St. Mary's "(A) 30 pts.
2. I.C. (A) 32 pts.
3. St. Mary's (B) 80 pts.
On Wedensday, 25th January, we were
hosts at Petersham to the teams compet-
ing in the University Cross-Country
League Division n, and also to Brent-
wood School. The raoe was won bv Ted
HOCKEY REPORT.
from the hotel windows of the sun rising
and setting over splendid, majestic mount-
ains all thicklv dotted with snow bed-
ecked Christmas trees was impressive in-
deed and the clean dry air had a strong
tonic effect on all of us.
Some rather unexpected events partic-
ularly enlivened the whole trip. Thus one
member was arrested upon landing in
France whilst another was lost for ever
upon becoming engaged. Also some mem-
bers (of the feminine variety) were ob-
served to fall rather frequently during in-
struction periods and then to call for as-
sistance from their bronzed he-man type
instructors. What is more, one young lady
was found in a prone position at 1.00 a.im
under a table in one of the more fashion-
able hotels I
In conclusion, I would like to take this
opportunity of expressing my thanks to
the oommittee who worked so well to make
this trip a success and to the whole group
for their admirable co-operation. Further-
more I look forward with relish to that
happy combination of ski-ing and she-ing
on next year's trip.
> by C M . MacRoc-
*(Fhe first team started the term disastr-
ously, losing the first three matches, two
of them by.rather large margins. The first
match of the term was against Kingston
6.S., who beat us by 7-4, the score at
half time being 4-4, in a fast and very
enjoyable game Against Indian Gym-
khana, a team whioh has beaten both Ox-
ford and Cambridge Universities, we did
very well to be only one goal down it half
time but they proved too strong for us
and eventually won 5-0. The following
day we lost to King's College in a U.L.
'Cup replay by 2-1, the less said about
that the better, but on the day they were
tli: batter side and fully deserved to win.
"Since then the 1st team has been play-
ing far better and has achieved the fol-
lowing results:
v King's College won 7-0 (which just
shows what an unpredictable game Hockey
is: without their University players they
were no match for us).
v. Harrow H.C. lost 1-3 (on a terrible
pitch they scored three goals before we
settled down, but from then on it was a
very even game).
v. C.E.M. won 2-1 (a fast hard game
which we just deserved to win).
v. Southampton U. won 3-2 (onr best
performance so far this season against the
reigning U.A.U. champions).
The second team has played three
matches this term:
v. Indian Gymkhana lost 3-4 (this was
a very good result aohieved against a side
above the general standard of most of our
fixtures).
v. Harrow H.C. lost 1-5 (one can only
conclude that we were not fully recovered
from the previous match).
V. Southampton U. won 10-1 (playing
good fast hockey on a very muddy pitch
we ran riot — this is without doubt the
biggest win we have had for several years).
We look forward now to some very good
fixtures and to the Holland tour during the
Easter vacation.
Williams of 1.13., but Marts Hosp. with
2nd, 3rd, and 4th places easily won the
team event.
The league result was:
1. Barts 107 pts.
2. I.C. <ni) 96 pts.
3. Battersea 61 pts.
4. Guvs 59 pts.
5. N.C.L. 57 pts.
6. Goldsmiths 48 pts.
10 teams running
The result of the maton against Brent-
wood School was n close win for I.C..
36 pts to 43.
SOCCER
On Wednesday 18th January both the
1st and 2nd teams were engaged in U.L.
Cup matches. The 1st team, playing awav
against Goldsmith's College, won by 2-0.
Olding scoring both the goals. The 2nd
team continued their long cup series
against U.C. II, end, as in the three pre-
vious games, it proved to be a close tussle.
The score was 0-0 after 80 minutes, but
during the last 10 minutes the I.C. team
pressed hard and were rewarded with two
well-taken goals: the scorers were Wil-
Shaw and Marshall. The 1st team now
go on to plav Battersea in the semi-final
on King's College ground; the match will
be played on Februarv 11th. The last
time the two sides met in the competition
was in the 1958-9 semi-final, when I.C.
won 3-2. The other semi-final is between
L.S.E. and King's, who also met in the
1958-9 semi-final. King's won this match,
but were well beaten by I.C. (3-0) in the
final at Motspur Park.
I.C. 4th team played Institute of Edue-
ootion in a friendly match, and had a 4-1
win. The 5th XI, also playing well, beat
Q.E.C., 5-0, while the 6th KI beat West
Ham College 2-1.
The 1st XI match against Swansea Uni-
versity on Saturday 21st January was can-
celled by the opposition, but those 1st
team players wanting a game fitted into
lower teams. I.C. H . playing against St.
Mark and St. John n, lost 3-2 in a verv
interesting keenly fought match. I.C. TIT
plaved King's n in an away league match,
and did well to gain a point, the score
strengthened bv the inclusion of 1st XT
being 1-1. The 6th team, somewhat
nlavers, beat Norwood Tec 12-2 in a
friendly match. Hurburn, the first team
strengthened by the inclusion of 1st XI
centre-half, playing at centre-forward for
the 5th team scored six goals. I.C. VI
lost to Westminster Hospital 3-0 in a
home match.
On Wednesday, 25th January, the 1st
XI played Avery Hill T.C. at Harlington.
The Training College was no match for
the confident I.C. team, and the result
was 3-0 for I.C. Mousset-Jones played
Q.M.C. II in a league match at Harling-
ton. I.C. were 3-0 up at one stage, but
Q.M.C. fought back to score twice and
I.C. were hard-pressed to keep their 3-2
lead. The 3rd XI, also playing in a league
fixture, lost to King's TJI by 1-3, but the
6th XI defeated St. Mary's Hospital 2-1.
I.C. V lost to Avery Hill T.C. i n 0-3
In a friendly match.
On Saturday 28th January I.C. 1st XI
played Chelsea College I in a league
match. The I.C. XI's convincing 6-1 win
showed that they have the abilitv to win
the Premier Division title. The I.C.
scorers were Codling 3. Harburn 1,
Mousset-Jones 1, and Olding 1. I.C. II
lost to Emmanuel College 12-4, after
taking an early 2-0 lead. I.C. V, however,
playing Chelsea College II in a home league
match won 6-1.
One of the most disappointing features
of this season has been the large number
of away fixtures cancelled bv provincial
colleges. The biggest offenders have been
New College (Oxford), Christ's College
(Cambridge), and Swansea University,
who have all cancelled games on S'aturdav
morning. This irresponsible attitude has
caused a great deal of worrv and extra
work for the I.C. club officials, and it is
distressing to think that onlv Southamp-
ton and Leicester Universities oan be re-
lied upon to arrange a fixture in a respons-
ible manner.
TABLE TENNIS
Not many matches have been played
so far this term. The first team had a
walk over against King's II who failed to
turn up for this match. Perhaps the most
exiting match of the term, so far, was
that in which our Vlth team drew 5-5
with St. Bart's I, one of the chief con-
tenders for their league. The IHrd team
played the chief opposition for the first
place in their league, West Ham I, but
I.C. rose to the occasion by winning 8-2.
I.G.C.
Published by FELIX BOARD Imperial College, London, S.W.7.
Plates & offset printing by WEST LONDON OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road, : London, S.W.6. Teli: FUL 7969

