Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Friday 27 April
Nominations open
Help with exams #icuHereForYou
Last chance to get tickets Get a life membership
It’s almost time for Summer Ball 2018 and if you don’t have tickets, you’re
risking serious regret. We’re celebrating the biggest party of the year on
Saturday 23 June with a 1920s theme, headliners Blonde and James Hype,
and loads of fun activities.
The party starts at 19:00 and runs until 02:00 on South Kensington Campus,
with an after party at Beit Quad until 06:00. There’ll be fireworks, a fun fair, live
performances, facepainting, photobooth and more.
Get the last of the tickets at imperialcollegeunion.org/summerball
If you can’t sit an exam, you’re having trouble revising, or you need to
appeal an exam result, our Advice caseworkers can help. We’ll assist
with mitigating circumstances, appeals, money issues or anything that
may affect you during the exam period.
Come have a chat: 08:00 -16:00, Monday - Friday
Level 2, Imperial College Union
We know this period can be stressful and we’re here for you with tips
and tools to help you cope. The Union will be giving our helpful goodies
on select days during exams. We’ll also share tips online. Learn more at
imperialcollegeunion.org/exams, or get in touch with the Advice team at
advice@imperial.ac.uk.
If you’re coming to the end of your course, you may be feeling bitter
sweet. But the fun doesn’t have to stop - become a life member of
Imperial College Union and enjoy the perks forever!
For only £40, you’ll be able to join any CSP
, access our bars, book spaces
at student prices, and attend flagship events with guests at student
prices after you graduate. It’ll be like you never left! What’s more, £30 of
your joining fee will go towards any CSP of your choice.
Become a life member now at imperialcollegeunion.org/lifemembership
Nominations are open for The Union Awards 2018. Reward someone
who’s done amazing work in the Union this year by submitting their name
for consideration. Nominations opened Monday 23 April, and are set to
close on Monday 21 May.The awards will be held on Monday 11 June at
Imperial College Union.
The Union Awards celebrate the huge impact and hard work of our
volunteers and are an annual showcase of the best of Imperial College
Union and our membership.There are 14 categories and the winners are
decided by students.
Nominate someone amazing at imperialcollegeunion.org/awards

