'
•
1
;
F E L I X
Council has met three, times this session and Felix
is publishing a resume' of some terms of general interest
to the Union:-
More Hoatel Accommodation
The University Grants Committee visited I.C. i n
December. Some members of Council were given the op-
portunity to submit a written memorandum and to meet
the 0
.
G
-
.
C
. Council's recommendations were concentrated
on the provision of more residential accommodation for
J.C students in the Kensington area as soon as possible-
It was 'urged that accommodation for at least 1,000 stu-
dents should he available by the completion of the college's
expansion in 1962.
C'onmeiaoration Day. 1956-
This will take plaoe on Thursday, October 25th, 1956.
The Commemoration Ball will be held on the evening of the
same day, in Claridge's.
November 5th.
Complaints had been received from the Athletic
Ground Committee that after each year's celebrations much
broken glass, china and even pieces of jagged twisted
metal had been found strewn across the rugger pitch.
Some fragments were extremely difficult to find and might
cause serious injury to players. Most of this had been
caused by a few irresponsible individuals who had ex-
ploded home-made devices and fireworks.inside bottles
and glasses. It was agreed that special precautions
should be taken i f November 5th celebrations were held
at Harlington again, including a printed reminder on
each ticket.
Phoenix
Phoenix lias been discussed a great deal on Council
this year. It is felt that Phoenix should he regarded
as an outlet, or club, for those in the college who feel
the urge to do creative writing. A l l clubs meet peri-
odic fluctuations in membership, and Phoenix has passed
through a particularly lean phase recently. It was
agreed that Phoenix should be continued provided the
financial loss which i t incurred did not become prohibi-
tive. An annual report to Council on the state of Phoenix
is to be submitted by the editor each summer.
Overseas Freshers
Overseas Freshers are to be invited to the ordinary
Freshers' Receptions, but after the usual speeches they
will be invited to a separate room to hear talks about
their particular problems. This year's special recep-
tion for overseas freshers was too sparsely attended to
make i t s repetition worthwhile.
Mew Union
Most of the Union's recommendations for the interior
deooration for the nevr Union were completed last session.
However, one or two details and problems have been con-
sidered.
The combined recommendations of several committees
with regard to the new Bar have been amalgamated and th
latest plans and drawings from the architect are consid-
ered satisfactory.
Wooden panelling of a suitable nature has been ob-
tained for the Upper Dining Hall. The floor of the
Union entrance hall and the stairs will be made of.
tarrazzo, an artificial stone, and not wooden blocks as
recommended by the Union.
The enlarging of the absurdly small windows un the
north-east side of the first floor will be oompleted
without delaying the work as a whole.
Reciprocal Union Membership
( The question fo I.C.'s reciprocal membership with
other.college and university Unions in the British Isles
will be fully reconsidered before the end of the session.
It ia felt that I.C. should make i t s own arrangements for
reciprocal membership, independently of U.L.U.
Typewriters?
Christopher Shoies was tht
tfrst man to produce a really
workable typewrite*-. In 1873 he
contracted the firm of E- Ren*
ington and Sons for its manu-
facture , and now the name is A
household word. We buy, even
loan and repair not only Rem-
ingtons, but also many other
makes. We havs speciaiitcrms
f o r students and our name le
TUCKER OF H8ct CROMWELL ROAD, S.W-7-
MACHINES HIRED WEEKLY OR MONTHLY
BOOK REVIEW
We ha—s here a phrase book with a difference ,af inesti-
mable use to vacation workers and to those who require trans-
lations of the menu i n Queenies before making thalr choice.
This book gives 4049 everyday phrases similar to 'la
plume de ma tante' in four languages but i f you are unable to
pronounce the word there are illustrations a. g. show the per-
son you are addressing the illustratiom of 'plume' and a
photograph of your aunt and you will gst what you deserve.
The illustration N. 3151 shows a person drowning - presumably
Brian Oggy swimming the Thames.
The only phrase of use for work abroad for a c i v i l would
be under 'at the dentist'. l:'.y bridgewiork has broken loose
do you think i t can be fixed? With a sit of practice you
can become adept in choosing ' la mot juste'. As the whole
reason for going abroad is to become better acquainted with
the local attractions whether they be Fraulein, Mile., Froken.
Senorita . . . (otherwise you would go and work at Butlins).
I will give an example of useful sequence of phrases.
5444 Lat oss dansa igen (Swedish, pity i f you have not
danced before but there i s no phrase for that.)
Becoming romantic.
5678 There i s moonlight to-night.
3615 (Under bridge) Let us draw for partners.
5447 Puis je vous reconduire a l a maiden?
3507 Ich muchte zu Bett gehen.
5073. Baissez les phares (Dim the lights.)(in Garage
Weigenheber. (German for Jack) repairs)
This book i s the Sohlman Conversation Guide in English,
French, German and Swedish hut i t osn' &e obtained in other
languages. - hours of happy reading.
(411 } Pommes de terra en robe de chambre to you
TOUCHSTONE WEEKEND
More than forty attended the last Touchstone Weekend at
Silwood Park when the subject for discussion was 'Understand-
ing the U.S.A. as a WorUt Power.1
This was introduced by
Professor Koening, the cultural Attache to the U.S. Embassy
in London.
In opening the discussion, Professor Koenig pointed
out that the United States have developed in, sixteen decades
whereas Europe has taken as many centuries.- In considering
the states one must bear in mind that during this time the
country has risen from insignificance to dominance, from un-
certainty about itself to leadership. The people tend to be
provincial in outlook whilst they are also internationalists
and have rejected intemationrj. responsibilites yet have had
i t forced on them; they have had no desire for world power
yet have attained i t .
The discussion, was thrown open to the .louse and the
•speaker was attacked by questions covering a wide range of
toplos. Later the company divided into two groups and
the Americans present were called upon to defend their
way of l i f e , this they managed to do without conceding a
single point. It was decided that both sides of the
Atlantic had far to go to attain mutual understanding;
in the summing up a stucjy of 'Marx and Lftvin dogma was
recommended to obtain understanding of American foreign
policy. This was the first Touohstoae Weekend that the
subject was of a politioal nature.
LC, CXROTTT HUB
The Film Society has been living up to i t s reputation
this term in presenting an interesting and varied seleotion
of films. Following "Seven Samourai", which drew a capacity
house of 120 came a classics programme of "The Cabinet of
Or Calagarl" and"Don O
,
, Son of Zcrro", the latter a real
romp with Swashbuckling Fairbanks everywhere.
Last Friday came the Spencer Tracy-Kathleen Hepburn
•Adam's Sib", accompanied by three of Norman McLaren's
cherts on Doodling toJaxz. Next Friday the Society i * shoving
"rfbe Good Earth" which vividly describes l i f t in China before
the war,last Anglian Holiday", a companion film to "My Heart
ia Highland", and the "Romance of Transportation", a McLaren
short which was an Edinburgh Film Festival prizewinner.

