felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Bronze
medal for
Freeman-
Pask
Jovan Nedić
Editor-in-Chief
Adam Freeman-Pask, a current Impe-
rial College student, has won a bronze
medal at the World Cup Regatta held
in Banyoles, Spain.
The World Cup Regatta is an inter-
national race featuring some of the
best rowing nations across the globe
and it was Adam’s first ever appear-
ance on the senior scene. Freeman-
Pask replaced Olympic Gold medallist
Zac Purchase, who couldn’t race due to
illness, in the lightweight single skull
race and went on to win his first sen-
ior medal.
In the final of the Lightweight Men’s
Single Sculls (LM1x), Freeman-Pask
was up against some stiff opposition,
including several Olympic medallists
such as Denmark’s Mads Rasmussen
and Greece’s Vasileios Polymeros. At
the start of the race Rasmussen shot off
to a commanding start with Polymeros
close on his heels. At the halfway
point, however, it was Italy’s 33-year-
old Lorenzo Bertini who was in the
lead and with 500m to go he had been
taken over by Polymers. In the final
stretch of the race, Rasmussen had be-
gun to fade which gave Freeman-Pask
the opportunity to capitalise. At the
finishing line, it was Polymer who went
away with the gold medal, with Bertini
getting the silver and Imperial’s Adam
Freeman-Pask getting the bronze.
Freeman-Pask described the whole
experience as “pretty scary with all
these big names. At the end [sic] really
felt well. It was a really good learning
weekend.”
Adam is no stranger to rowing at a
high standard and during his time at
Imperial he has taken part in several
GB training camps. Despite not being
invited on the GB training camp this
year, he managed to win the final set
of the trails in a commanding style and
has certainly caught the attention of
the GB selectors.
His performance in the trials and
continued on page 23
IC 8+ Win Forster Cup at MET Regatta
Blistering sunshine shone down on
Eton’s prestige rowing facility at Dor-
ney Lake for the Metropolitan Regatta
last weekend.
The regatta runs as two separate days
of racing allowing crews to combine in
different categories. For IC this was
a chance to speed test the women’s
Henley crews and for the men to test
some Henley Royal Regatta combina-
tions. Overall squad performances fell
well below expectation over with just
one win for the men’s Intermediate 1
8+ on Sunday.
The 8+ (Cox: Henry Fieldman/
Danny Bellion/Alex Gillies/Adam Se-
ward/Josh Yerrell/Leo Carrington/
Henry Goodier/Tom Arnott/Gareth
Brown) faced a straight final on Sun-
day evening allowing plenty of rest in
preparation. There were several delays
throughout the weekend of racing due
to boats being unable to attach to the
stake boats efficiently. Fieldman’s vast
coxing experience shone through as
Christina Duffy he managed to attach the boat imme-
diately: “Oh yeah! Ten out of ten for
speed onto the stake boat!”
Inspired by the recent news about
Freeman-Pask the crew shot off from
the start taking ½ length on the field
in the first 250 metres. Fieldman left
no room for doubt about what he
wanted the crew to do: “LEGS, LEGS,
ON THE LEGS, LEGS!” This slightly
upset Carrington as he has testified on
many occasions that “All I want to do is
sledge it.” The 8+ finished in 06:19.33 a
length ahead of Cambridge Composite
(06:22.30) with Putney Embankment
neighbours Thames and Vesta down
the field over 10 seconds behind.
Drained from a weekend of crew let-
downs Trapmore was close to tears
with the win: “You have restored my
faith in you.”
The crew collected their gigantic
trophy which Bruce immediately fell
in love with requesting multiple pho-
tographs to be taken. “Guys that was
awesome… if we could just go on to
win Henley that would be great.”
Photo by Peter Spurrier of Intersport Images
Doing the Trapmore: Men’s Intermediate 1 8+ celebrate winning the Forster Cup at MET Regatta

