4 felix Friday 5 June 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
The world beyond
college walls
While General Motors (GM) has
declared itself bankrupt in the
United States, its operations in
China are going strong.
The collapse of GM in May 2009,
despite the efforts of the US govern-
ment to keep it afloat, is probably as
big a deal as the collapse of Enron in
2001 or Lehmann Brothers in 2008.
A symbol of globalisation and American economic power, GM employs a
quarter of a million people in 140 countries.
The Detroit-based firm is dropping several unprofitable products in order
to emerge as a leaner company. This includes its Hummer brand which the
Chinese manufacturing firm Tengzhong has signed a tentative agreement to
buy.
Additionally GM’s China operations are not affected by its bankruptcy sta-
tus, so it continues to operate profitably there, enjoying a 33% rise in sales
since the beginning of this year and even planning to open a new factory. The
thirst for new cars is still strong in China where most people will be first time
car-owners, which has caused automobile companies to flock to the booming
market in recent years.
USA & China
Australia is launching a formal inquiry into violent attacks on its Indian
students.
While crimes like robberies and assaults are not uncommon on the streets
of Victoria State, the country’s Indian expatriate community of around
200,000 (90,000 of whom are students) believe an unusually high number of
the crimes are racially motivated. Comments from the Indian Prime Minister
Singh, and a protest attended by thousands of Indians in Melbourne got that
point across.
Some observers have said that because most of the violent crimes were
suffered by Indian students working part-time as salesmen or taxi-drivers, it
is symptomatic of feelings of economic insecurity among locals. But others
have argued the crimes are being committed by ordinary opportunistic gangs
making money, and that there’s no need to jump on the racist bandwagon.
The inquiry will determine the extent of racism involved and recommend
actions for the government to take.
Australia
Three US soldiers have died in a car accident on a German autobahn
(motorway).
Another two soldiers were also injured when their rented Audi drove off
the side of the road. All five belonged to a division that had just returned
from a 15-month deployment in Iraq.
The first doctors on the scene suspected that alcohol may have been in-
volved. The soldiers were on a reintegration program designed to help them
adjust to life after combat deployment, in which alcohol abuse is a known
documented problem.
The United States has several military bases across Germany, including as
part of NATO, ever since the end of the Second World War.
Germany
Edited by Hassan Joudi & Raphael Houdmont
More election results than
you can throw a stick at
Election fever well and truly hit the
students of Imperial this week when al-
most 2 % of students raised their heads
from revision for long enough to elect
current Sabbaticals Hannah Theod-
orou, as Equal Opportunities Officer,
and Mark Chamberlain as council
chair. Chamberlain had a tough fight to
succeed the Little Guy with Big Ideas,
beating Jamie Henry by only ten votes.
Joseph Freer successfully fought
off RON to become Community Ac-
tion Group Chair for the coming year,
pledging to make CAG ‘flourish’ and
move beyond ‘the Sunday soup run.’.
RAG chair was won by Alexander
Dahinten, who, for a week last term,
was known as the dishiest clown on
campus. Dahinten’s main pledge was
to avoid another ‘Dashless’ year with
the indroduction of a RAG dash organ-
iser. Rumours that the felix team are
already planning ways to ‘miss-place’
incoming editor Dan Wan through
clever use of the RAG dash are thought
to be unfounded.
Alex Gill narrowly defeated RON
to become Welfare Campaigns of-
ficer, using his manifesto to proclaim;
“This is for my CV” and “I come up
with around 5 ideas a week, admittedly
these aren’t all relevant to the welfare
of Imperial College students, but I be-
lieve that approximately 10% of these
ideas could be implemented on cam-
pus”. With promises like that, students
can expect particularly strong welfare
representation this year.
The newly formed position of Inter-
Alice Rowlands
national Students’ Officer was, some-
what embarrassingly, unfilled with the
only interested candidate ‘forgetting’
to put themselves up for nomination.
Aside from the Central Union Of-
ficer Elections, the Graduate School
Association elections took place with
a surprisingly high 1% turn out. Re-
turning officer Hannah Theodorou re-
mained up-beat however, telling felix:
“While the turnout was disappointing,
I think we have an excellent comittee
that will take the GSA from strength to
strength next year.”
Ali Mozaffari will chair the GSA
joined by Stefan Nubert as treasurer
and Patrick Wray and secretary.
Neki Patel was elected Physical Sci-
ences Postgraduate Representative and
Shuoying Cao as Engineering Post-
graduate Representative.
The GSA elections left a number of
positions unfilled; Business School
Postgraduate Representative, GSA
Activities Co-ordinator. GSA Post-
script Editor, Life Sciences Postgradu-
ate Representative and Medical School
Postgraduate Representative. Anyone
interested in filling the remaining po-
sitions should contact the returning
officer Hannah Theodorou at dpew@
imperial.ac.uk
Letters to and from the Editor
Dear Editor
I’m afraid the pie charts used in the
story about the MP Diane Abbott’s
apartheid comments in page 5 of last
week’s felix were a case of misleading
statistics, albeit unintentionally.
The pie charts show the proportion
of home and international students
at Imperial College and LSE, and the
continent of origin of those interna-
tional students. Using this ‘evidence’
you then proceeded to diminish Mrs
Abbott’s argument of too much white
people and too few black people at the
two universities.
Without trying to second guess Mrs
Abbott’s intentions too much, she
probably doesn’t care much for in-
ternational students. What her com-
ments were really talking about were
home students, the 52% blue chunk
for Imperial College and 30% for LSE.
Your statistics were analysing a differ-
ent issue to the one Mrs Abbott was
rambling on about, namely the entry of
black students from UK schools to top
Pie charts were
misleading
We are ever vigilant
about fluent
speakers
Dear Editor,
I was saddened to read in the Times
Higher Education Supplement that
Imperial is massively cutting back its
provision of languages and humanities
tuition.
The opportunity to broaden study
options was one of the reasons I, and
I’m sure many other IC students and
alumni, chose to go to Imperial. En-
gineers and scientists at other uni-
versities tend to just get a handful of
frankly boring management courses.
As a practising engineer I can confirm
that the wide opportunity to study lan-
guages and humanities produces more
rounded graduates better equipped to
fulfill the leadership roles required in
today’s multi-disciplinary and multi-
functional workplaces. It’s something
I’ve always considered just as impor-
tant as the wide range of student clubs,
societies and sports.
Language tuition is also essential
to widen students’ opportunities for
a year abroad or overseas internship.
Many of my friends at IC were able
to pursue these. In every case it con-
tributed much to their personal de-
velopment. Most had not studied the
language before university and would
therefore have been excluded under
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
Good on you Diane
Abbott
Dear Editor,
I have been a silent observer for the past
one year or so in the university campus
and the label given by the Hon. Diane
Abbott M.P. to this university is justi-
fied to some extent. “Apartheid” is es-
caping the views of the professors and
other members of the alumni because
all of them are busy in the rat race to
complete their tasks and achieve their
set objectives. The society at large has
lots of loopholes to defend their self-
ish behaviour and segregation into
own taste groups; and even if a lonely
soul does try to join or mingle amongst
them he is called “pushy” or even some
people ideaology is that “dogs and cats
don’t mix”.
Universities were established to
solve problems like apartheid or any
other related ethnic minority issues at-
tached to such type of social confron-
tations. If the educated people do not
practice tolerance, equal treatment,
equal opportunities, then who will?
The uuniversities should try to inject
this vitamin of “peace” with awards of
degrees and doctorates in excellence
of subjects examined. Multiculturaled
educational institutions need to have
flexible, openminded professors and
staff rather than colonial type majors
who ruled with fear-of-the-master
philosophy. Thus treating the ethnic
minorities in a negative manner can
oly result in a negative impact on the
university. By Newton’s Law, to every
action there is an equal and opposite
reaction.
Because the graduates are at the
mercy of the university, so they play
dumb hence I wish to congratulate
Hon. Lady M.P. Diane Abbott to rais-
ing shy-hidden student’s secrets and
taboos which all add up to their im-
posed stress obstacles.
Regards
Anon.
universities which a lot of her work as
an MP involves.
While I am disgusted at Mrs Abbott’s
use of the word apartheid its helpful to
use relevant statistics - even though
they may be hard to find - so the reader
can compare like with like rather than
be misled, which statistics can all too
easily achieve.
Regards
Hassan Joudi
............................................
Dear Hassan
The article was based around her use of
the word apartheid. We looked up sev-
eral definitions of the word, all of which
stated that it was “An institutionalized
regime of racial segregation or oppres-
sion, in which crimes against human-
ity are committed with the intention of
maintaining one group’s racial domi-
nance.
” It is very easy for people to as-
sociate the word apartheid with the re-
gime in South Africa where the blacks
Africans were oppressed and attacked
by the white Africans, however, the
word can be applied to any race of peo-
ple, wether they be oriental, hispanic,
slavic, celtic etc...
The pie charts were there to sup-
port our claim that there was no clear
apartheid at either institution, based
on the definition of the word that we
had found.
I too am disgusted by the her use of
the word apartheid, and it was the
main reason that we ran with the story.
Kind Regards
5
Friday 5 June 2009 felix
the new plans.
Imperial’s provision is, I believe,
unique for science students in the UK;
but not amongst the Ivy League in-
stitutions that we now know the Rec-
tor is so keen to emulate. It’s perhaps
worth noting that the condemned Ro-
man History module was introduced
at IC in 2005, in response to MIT an-
nouncing that it was their most popu-
lar option amongst their engineering
students.
Perusing felix online I was surprised
to see a comment that languages are
seen as a soft option. That might be
true of a small number of students
who cover up their existing language
proficiency but it’s an extraordinary
generalisation to make. I’m sure most
students whose natural talent is in nu-
merate, scientific disciplines find both
language and essay-type subjects diffi-
cult and hard work. Certainly I found
my French, Italian and political phi-
losophy courses much harder than any
engineering module. I know it’s been a
couple of years since I graduated but
we always used to consider the man-
agement courses as the noddy ones:
does anone seriously think “account-
ing” is even in the same league as “fluid
dynamics”?
I know protests have been planned.
I hope IC students are able to reverse
these plans and the College is able to
find a way to keep humanities and lan-
guages alive.
Regards
Mustafa Arif
DoC / EEE 1999-2003
IC Union President 2003-2005
Jovan Nedić
felix Editor-in-Chief
T
he last week or so has seen
a flurry of interest in hu-
manities teaching at Im-
perial following proposed
changes to the depart-
ment’s delivery of teaching. I believe
there have been some misconceptions
amongst students following the re-
lease of this information, including the
process of the review and the reasons
behind it and I feel it’s my responsibil-
ity to shed some light on them. The
decision to review the activities of the
Humanities Department was origi-
nally made in May 2008 by the Stra-
tegic Education Committee. The aim
was not to cut courses, save money
or remove jobs but to provide some
rationalisation to the way we deliver
the various courses. Money wasn’t a
driver- at this point we were blissfully
unaware of the financial turmoil that
was to come. Availability of classes had
been determined by sporadic demand.
The growth was uneven- we don’t cur-
rently teach Level 1 and 2 French, but
do so for Spanish for example. There
were also disparities across the Col-
lege which needed to be addressed in
light of the College’s intent to make all
courses Bologna compatible (transfer-
able across Europe). When I first heard
of the review around Christmas it was
already common knowledge amongst
the Humanities staff and the academ-
ics in Engineering and the Natural Sci-
ences. By this point most of the infor-
mation gathered for the review panel,
which consisted of both academic rep-
resentatives and humanities staff, had
been collated and a set of recommen-
dations drafted. These encompassed
issues ranging from the role humani-
ties plays as part of undergraduate
degrees, provision for Postgraduates,
ECTS scores and the structure of the
College day which currently includes
protected lunchtimes for humanities
teaching. The release of this informa-
tion following Senate has seen the for-
mation of facebook groups, petitions,
national press coverage, letters to Felix
and numerous emails popping up in
my inbox suggesting that on this oc-
casion I have not been representative
of student views which I fully take on
board.
Contrary to popular belief, the dis-
cussion about the place of Level 1 and
2 languages as credit courses has been
a debate that has been rumbling for
years. However, this was the first time
it had been put forward for a decision.
Senate is designed to be the ultimate
representative body- if a proposal falls
here then it won’t be implemented.
When the paper went to Senate there
were some comments but in the end
the proposal passed with little objec-
tions from the academics. The only
way students are going to win the ar-
gument that Levels 1 and 2 should be
kept as credit courses is if the academ-
ics (who, in addition to the Student
Union, are there to represent your in-
terests too) turn around and say they
value the part they play in their degree
courses. It’s not a message I have heard
loud and clear so far. Many students
and languages staff have called the
other cuts arbitrary, as we see some
languages disappearing from the cred-
it programme altogether. Far from be-
ing arbitrary cuts, the reason Italian,
Russian and Arabic will no longer be
offered for credit is because they are
currently only taught at Levels 1 and
2 only (apart from Russian which ex-
tends to Level 3). Teaching hours for
credit are also decreasing, the reason
being the Languages staff have said
this will not compromise the teaching.
If employability is the most impor-
tant attraction for students who come
to Imperial, the College’s educational
strategy needs to focus on this. Feed-
back from employers has been that
despite the excellent academic calibre
of our students, they simply aren’t per-
forming sufficiently well at interviews
and assessment centres. It sounds
harsh, but sometimes we’re not viewed
as team players or good communica-
tors. Language skills are, of course,
invaluable in a global workplace.
However, employers are looking for
advanced-level European languages as
a whole, not pre-GCSE. The ability to
communicate to a wide range of audi-
ences, and understanding the wider
social implications of the work that we
do by all of our students by integrat-
ing this into the undergraduate pro-
gramme has long seen to be of utmost
importance, particularly at institutions
with a strong Science and Engineer-
ing base where we were tradition-
ally trained to be knowledge focussed
instead.
Don’t get me wrong- I understand
the important role that Humanities has
played in a lot of your university expe-
riences and employability isn’t the only
reason students choose them. On a
student experience note, Imperial has
to set priorities that they believe and
understand to be important to our stu-
dents. Students fit into the setting of
this agenda, through representation on
College Committees and other means
such as national and internal surveys
well as other things we don’t immedi-
ately appreciate such as letters to Felix.
From first hand experience, your con-
cerns are being listened to.
I do believe that further tweaks could
and should be accommodated, but I
Hannah Theodorou discusses Humanities
While not known for its democratic institutions, on Sunday 7 and Thurs-
day 12 June the Middle East will be watching on as Lebanese and Iranian
citizens respectively vote in significant elections.
In Lebanon the parliamentary elections will be a showdown between the
two main coalitions, dubbed March 8 and March 14 after two gigantic rallies
which took place in 2005. But reducing Lebanese politics to two broad coali-
tions is perhaps the over-simplification of the century. The tiny country on
the Mediterranean Sea is a cocktail of ethnicities, religious sects and political
interference by foreign states which was once lethal as the 1975-1990 civil
war testifies to.
Meanwhile in Iran the seat of President, the official head of state, is up for
grabs. Current President Ahmadinejad is campaigning for re-election against
two reformist candidates: Mir-Hossein Mousavi and Mehdi Karroubi.
With US President Obama’s shrewdly timed visit to the region this week, it
is another vital cross road on the story of the Middle East’s political landscape.
Lebanon & Iran
Alex Dahinten and Mark Chamberlain both got elected
Statement from the Rector:
C
olleagues may have seen
reports in the media over
the past few days stat-
ing that I wish to free
the College from govern-
ment control. To actually do so would
require a proposal, a debate and a
decision within the College and at its
Council that has not taken place. The
media’s emphasis is inevitable but the
headlines obscure the real debate I
am calling for, which I hope to explain
here, and have consistently stated in
recent press interviews.
As I have said in Q&A sessions with
staff (http://www3.imperial.ac.uk/rec-
tor/yourquestions) at Hammersmith
and Silwood in the last week, the Col-
lege is facing very tough economic
times. We are going to see significant
cuts in UK public expenditure on sci-
ence and higher education in the com-
ing years, which will be felt for a long
period hereafter. Imperial must argue
forcefully against these cuts being ap-
plied equally across the sector and in
particular to the detriment of the UK’s
world class universities.
In addition there are three key issues
we must confront.
We must have the freedom we need
to set our own fees for all our courses.
The value of an Imperial degree is not
reflected in the income we receive. A
serious debate about student fees is re-
quired and we have to raise its visibil-
ity. However, in any changes proposed,
we must be absolutely confident that
they would not deter prospective stu-
dents who would flourish at the Col-
lege. I have repeatedly stressed we are
committed as a College to encouraging
students from any background and
to try and prevent financial circum-
stances acting as a barrier to entry to
Imperial.
Secondly, we must seriously con-
sider the opportunities open to us on
the global stage. In the growing de-
mography of highly qualified potential
students from overseas, in particular
China and India, there will be a huge
demand for British universities to pro-
vide their high quality education to the
world.
Thirdly, and touching on a matter
flowing directly from Imperial’s found-
ing mission: universities are the source
of discoveries that, if commercialised,
can be used to assist the UK economy
in its recovery. When this country
is crying out for a long-term indus-
trial strategy, and our universities are
placed so well to support this through
the supply of people and ideas, we can-
not stay silent and must position our-
selves to influence thinking.
It is an often-overlooked fact that
the UK is excellent at providing higher
education. It is an industry worth £45
billion to the UK. The fact that we have
four universities in the world top 10
underlines Britain’s standing. To harm
these ‘brand leaders’ would be to hurt
the whole sector.
The UK’s leading universities should
be properly supported and nurtured; if
they can’t be, we should debate wheth-
er they should be set free. But doing
nothing would imperil a unique culture
and an international asset. My respon-
sibility is to lead the College through
this period of economic difficulty and
to build a platform for its future suc-
cess, and in doing so I believe we have
much to offer the UK.
As ever I warmly welcome your com-
ments direct to me at rector@imperial.
ac.uk.
Sir Roy Anderson provides some context to Imperial staff about
the recent media coverage over his recent statement to privatise
Higher Education
Sir Roy Anderson
don’t think the answer is fighting for
everything to be saved with no other
reason than ‘because we want them’.
In an ideal world, we would continue
to let students study any language that
they choose for free but in an unstable
financial climate we have to set pri-
orities. I feel that sometimes Imperial
makes life difficult for itself on occa-
sions- I believe the expectations of our
students exceed those of most other
British universities. When we started
charging for laundry in halls, in line
with every student residence in the UK,
it upset scores of students. It doesn’t
necessarily mean that it was the wrong
thing to do. Residences didn’t respond
to requests to revert to the old system.
Instead, they listened when we asked
for an extension to the drying time and
increases in the number of machines
available in certain halls. Other things
I do think we take for granted, such as
unprecedented free access to a gym
which most Londoners would kill for
are only fully appreciated when we are
threatened with their removal.
In summary, I’m open to hearing
your views and I will pass them on as
long as we have our own feasible rec-
ommendations. The first step is a dis-
cussion at our Student Union Council
on Monday the 8th of June at 6.30pm
in the Union Dining Hall which all stu-
dents are welcome to. If you can’t make
it, carry on sending me emails (dpew@
imperial.ac.uk), posting on facebook
and Live and writing to felix I look for-
ward to engaging with students on this
debate.

