Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 5 June 2009
Science
Science Editor – Mićo Tatalović
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 5 June 2009 felix
Interior Traces:
The Drama of
Brain Science
James Wilkes
When the first anatomists lifted the
brain out of the skull, they profoundly
changed our understanding of its rela-
tion to the mind. Today, imaging tech-
nologies allow us to observe the struc-
tures of the live brain in incredible
detail, and link its activity to thoughts,
feelings, and actions. This has already
changed how we think about ourselves,
as newspapers report the discovery of
areas of the brain apparently respon-
sible for everything from optimism to
religious belief.
This scenario is exciting, but raises
serious questions about how we want
to use and regulate these technologies.
On the one hand, our ability to diag-
nose and treat mental illness and brain
damage should improve beyond recog-
nition. On the other, the use of brain
scans in interrogation, or to predict fu-
ture criminality from a particular pat-
tern of brain activity, is troubling and
far from unimaginable. Indeed, a com-
mercial company in the US has already
tried to bring fMRI ‘lie-detection’ evi-
dence to court, despite concerns from
scientists about its reliability.
These were the kinds of issues that
Louise Whiteley and I wanted to bring
to a wider audience. We agreed that
the question of exactly when and how
we ought to look inside people’s minds
is one that we should discuss as a soci-
ety. And we decided that the best way
to do it was through radio drama, cre-
ating a series of short narratives that
translated these abstract philosophical
questions into concrete scenarios that
people could relate to.
The stories that we chose to focus on
involve two characters, a middle-aged
woman who develops a brain tumour
that causes changes in her personal-
ity, and a young man with psychopa-
thy who comes into conflict with the
law. By imagining the experiences they
might have had in 1906, the present
day, and in 2030, we were able to ex-
plore how our society is changing in
its ability to understand and cure brain
disease, but also in its attitudes to
criminality and madness. And project-
ing into the future, we were able to im-
agine some of the advantages, but also
some of the worrying possibilities, that
the brain science of tomorrow might
bring.
Interior Traces is being broadcast on
Resonance 104.4fm, with two shows
still to go on the 5th and 12th of June
at 3.30pm. We’re also going to be at the
Secret Garden Party Festival from the
23rd – 26th of July. Visit our website,
www.interiortraces.com, to find out
more and join in the discussion.
Louise Whiteley is a student on Im-
perial’s Science Communication MSc
course, and James Wilkes is a PhD stu-
dent at the London Consortium.
Actors Anna Turnland, Nick Romero, and Michael Roberts perform Episode 2 of Interior Traces at the
Wellcome Collection on the 7th of May, 2009. Episode 2 is set in 1906, and follows a psychopath called
Mick, and his encounter with an asylum doctor who is convinced that he is ‘criminally insane’.
Music helps stroke victims’ visual awareness
Olivia Sharp
Science Correspondent
Music stirs the emotions, inducing a
kaleidoscope of feelings in a person,
be it blissful reverence from a Handel
Mass, or subdued melancholy from
one of The Smiths’ odes to the futility
of existence.
The profound effect of music is com-
monly agreed, but what if you were
told the emotions music induces can
improve the way your brain functions?
Neuroscientists from Imperial College
and the University of Birmingham are
looking into this phenomenon, study-
ing the effect of pleasant music on
patients who have lost part of their
visual awareness through brain dam-
age caused by stroke.
Impaired visual awareness or ‘ne-
glect’ affects as many as 60% of peo-
ple who suffer a stroke to the periortal
cortex on the right side of their brain.
It causes patients to neglect the left
hand side of their visual field. In ex-
treme cases, sufferers might dress half
of their bodies, and eat only the food
on the right side of the plate.
Previous studies have shown a posi-
tive attitude can improve the efficiency
of cognitive processing; the research
team used this as inspiration to see
if positive emotions caused by music
might help stroke patients improve
their visual neglect. Three stroke pa-
tients who suffer from chronic visual
neglect took part in the study, and were
asked to pick some of their favourite
music. A popular choice was coun-
try and western singer Kenny Rogers,
who has since publicised the research
on his website. The patients’ visual
awareness was tested by asking them
to press a button when they could see
a red light appear. All participants saw
an improvement when they heard a fa-
vourite tune. One patient noticed the
light in 65% of the cases when his fa-
vourite music was played; compared to
just 15% when there was no music or
music he did not like.
So what is happening in the brain
when a good feeling seems to make the
visual neglect much better?
Dr Pia Rotshtein from the University
of Birmingham was a researcher on the
study, and admits they are not entirely
sure of the connection - “there is a the-
ory, but this is really handwaving.” She
explains, “Visual neglect is an atten-
tional problem, its not that they don’t
have the visual information, it’s just
that it doesn’t reach their conscious-
ness. There is a metaphor that says vis-
ual attention is like a spotlight. You can
move the spotlight in the environment,
you can light specific objects and see
them much clearer. You can tend to a
very local area in your visual field, or
you can attend, like, broadly.”
‘The theory suggests that if you are in
a positive mood, your visual attention
is broader, you attend to a larger envi-
ronment. So we thought to ourselves
this is a possible explanation.’
Using MRI scans to monitor brain
function the team also found pleasant
music stimulated the frontal region of
the brain, responsible for emotion and
decision making, to help the region of
the brain affected by stroke.
As Rotshtein puts it, ‘once you’re in a
good mood, you have the frontal cor-
tex being recruited to help the perior-
tal cortex, to kind of kick it and get it
going.’
When asked if they are recommend-
ing the treatment to doctors, Rotshtein
replies, ‘I think music is generally good
for everyone right? You don’t need sci-
ence for that!’
New incentives
to encourage
chlamydia testing
“Do you fancy a free drink?” Why of
course I do. Why else would I have
just walked into the Union Bar. “Well,
you’ll have to take this test first.” Ok,
but why do I need a plastic pot in order
to take a test. “It’s a Chlamydia test.”
Oh right, I see.
The NHS in West London’s Chlamy-
dia screening programme is targeting
15-24 year olds. One in 10 of which,
when tested, are infected with the dis-
ease. Over the last month it stepped
up a gear with the MAYbe advertising
campaign and celebrity endorsements.
You can even get a £10 HMV voucher
in return for a home testing kit. Just go
to https://www.check-kit.org.uk/.
It might seem like Chlamydia is just
a public health issue. We know how it
works, how to treat it and now we just
need to stop it spreading. But this week
a group of UK scientists published re-
search showing how these bacteria can
still surprise us.
In Sweden in 2006, a new variant of
Chlamydia appeared: one that was in-
visible to the tests used at the time. The
new study reveals why this happens.
A single bacterium grew without
part of the DNA code normally found
in the plasmid – floating DNA not part
of the bacteria’s chromosomes. This
bit of code was exactly what Swedish
labs used to test whether an infection
is Chlamydia or not.
“It turns out that this piece of the
DNA is not essential to the Chlamy-
dia. Therefore, an accidental deletion
of the DNA won’t kill the bacterium,
but it will stop it being identified,” ex-
plained Helena Seth-Smith, from the
Wellcome Trust Sange Institute.
She said that they had never seen
this kind of mutation before. Most cell
mutations occur because of interac-
tion between bacteria. But Chlamydia
grows inside human cells. And so, bac-
teria have little chance to interact with
one and other.
The new type of mutation is a warn-
ing for tests on other bacterial infec-
tions. If the bacterium of another
disease undergoes a similar test, “it’s
possible that another chance deletion
could make that bacterium invisible.”
The researchers also identified what
they think are the essential parts of the
Chlamydia DNA. These make more
reliable targets for diagnostic tests be-
cause if they mutate the bacterium is
unlikely to survive anyway. Seth-Smith
is hopeful that future tests will be bet-
ter designed as a result.
This new research shows just how
much we can still learn about diseases
we thought we already understood.
And it shows how useful these lessons
can be for keeping the diseases under
control.
Of course, public awareness drives
are necessary. And maybe screening
campaigns will help London lose its
label as the UK’s ‘Chlamydia capital’.
But the lesson from this study, is that
Chlamydia is not just a public health
issue. Good public health policy still
needs to be backed up by good, de-
tailed genetic research.
Chlamydia close up: a bacterial
infection which is usually passed
on during sex, it is the most
common STI with up to 70%
of those infected having no
symptoms.
Model predicts juvenile
raven behaviour
Gangs of teenagers roaming the land
are generally bad news, but not when it
comes to ravens. Juvenile ravens hunt-
ing in packs have gotten some scien-
tists very excited, as this behaviour was
predicted by a mathematical model be-
fore ever being seen in the wild.
Dr Sasha Dall lectures in mathemati-
cal ecology at the University of Exeter,
and in 2002 set out to solve an evolu-
tionary puzzle: why do young ravens
share their food? Natural selection tells
us organisms should only help them-
selves and their relatives. It seems that
no one told the ravens.
Typically, juvenile ravens spend their
winters drifting in and out of communal
roosts. They scavenge for food, usually
sheep carcasses, by themselves. Hav-
ing found a tasty meal they return to
the roost and recruit other ravens for a
feast the next day. These shared dwell-
ings can house up to 100 individuals,
but they don’t stick around. Each bird
will move on every few days to another
roost and likely won’t encounter their
former roommates again.
“From an evolutionary perspective,
this is a bit weird,” says Dall. The ravens
are unrelated so will not pass on their
genes by helping out others. They also
don’t encounter the same individuals of-
ten enough to build up a sense of co-op-
eration. Using a technique called game
theory, in which many different strate-
gies are played out, Dall built a model to
explain this unusual behaviour.
The favoured hypothesis amongst
ecologists was roosts act as a kind of
“information centre” to the advantage
of all the juveniles. Individual birds
are unlikely to find a carcass by them-
selves, but if every bird shares informa-
tion about food locations then they all
benefit.
Dall’s model showed that this strategy
emerged naturally when ravens try to
maximise their access to food. “In the
long run, they find more carcasses than
they otherwise would,” he says. Bringing
a few friends along also allows young
birds to chase off any adults who might
lay claim to carcasses in their territory.
Problem solved then - except the
model didn’t provide just one answer.
“I did manage to predict this typical
behaviour, but my model came up with
another evolutionary stable strategy,”
explains Dall. According to the model,
gangs of juvenile ravens should also fly
around looking for food together, and
never roost in the same place twice.
But no-one had ever seen this kind of
behaviour.
Perhaps this would have been dis-
missed as purely mathematical curi-
Jacob Aaron
Jessica Bland
Musicians Carla Rees and Oliver Coates
The scientists are thinking about calling the discovery ‘The Kenny Rogers Effect’
osity, if weren’t for Jonathan Wright,
professor of biology at the Norwegian
University of Science and Technol-
ogy. Wright was studying a large raven
roost in North Wales when he noticed
that the juvenile birds were organising
themselves in to hunting packs, just as
Dall predicted.
“I was surprised to discover that this
behaviour had been observed some-
where,” says Dall. The variables used in
the model, such as the size of the ravens’
search area, matched the real world ex-
actly. The two scientists wrote up their
findings in a joint paper, published ear-
lier this year in the journal PLoS One.
So what will Dall turn his mathemati-
cal predictions to next? “The evolu-
tion of animal personality differences,”
he says. Dall plans to investigate why
animals of the same species behave dif-
ferently within social groups. Perhaps
game theory has the answer.
Just like students, juvenile ravens live communally
The Colours of Nature: Ed Sharp took this photo in Boracay,
Phillipines. ‘Boracay, the Philippines: Getting a tow from another boat
through the strong currents provided the perfect photo opportunity
with the sunset in the background’

