10 felix Friday 5 June 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 5 June 2009 felix
Arts
Tackling mental illness through art
Emily Wilson goes to her favourite London museum, the Wellcome Collection, for two exhibitions that
offer contrasting views of mental illnesses and how they can affect, and be affected by, the arts
C
urrently Wellcome are
displaying two exhibi-
tions side-by-side on
mental illness. This is a
tough topic to take on,
and the two exhibitions do so in polar
opposite ways and to quite different
levels of success.
Madness & Modernity focuses on
the interplay of art and mental illness
in Vienna around 1900. This struck
me as a weirdly narrow scope for a
major exhibition, reading like the title
of an obscure PhD thesis. It includes
the architecture of sanatoria, art-
ists’ interpretations of the mentally
ill and art produced by the mentally
ill themselves. The exhibition space
is smoothly designed, arranged with
thought, logic and precision. The use
of architectural shape and design is
a consistent underlying theme. The
layout and structure was so elegant it
was almost art in itself. As always, the
exhibition space and indeed the whole
of the Wellcome Collection had some
pretty vicious air conditioning. This is
pleasant when you arrive out of the hot
summer sun, following a sticky tube
journey, but less nice an hour or two
into your visit and you’re shivering. I
suppose it does add to the atmosphere
of this particular exhibition.
It kicks off with a film walking us
around Narrenturm, a Viennese sana-
torium known as the ‘Tower of Fools’
and now a museum. This is a wonder-
ful start to the exhibition, taking you
round and round the circular corridors
in a way that tricks the mind. Its am-
bient clunking and breathy whir can
be heard across the gallery, keeping it
very slightly sinister.
Fans of Sigmund Freud may find
Madness & Modernity worth a look.
That’s the era of psychiatry we’re talk-
ing about, and his name gets banded
about throughout. There are some odd
little objects from his study on loan
from his London museum. They’re
quirky and pleasant to look at, though
I don’t entirely see their relevance.
The exhibition as a whole isn’t as
sickening or disturbing as I had ex-
pected, though the electrotherapeutic
cage raises a shudder, as do some pho-
tos of patients with physical deformi-
ties taken by Jean-Martin Charcot. The
final section on ‘The Patient Artist’ is
an uplifting highlight containing the
charming drawings and scribblings of
Josef Karl Radler, confined to a private
Viennese asylum. Ornate and fasci-
nating, they have intricate details and
sad faces in ink line and crisply used
watercolour.
It’s difficult to draw a verdict on this
exhibition. It’s well put together and
informative but I don’t really see the
point of it. It doesn’t tackle any issues
or offer a substantial enlightenment. It
selects a period of cultural and social
history and picks out a few relevant ar-
tifacts without offering an underlying
theme or take-home message. It’s nice
to look round but wouldn’t be worth
travelling to see in its own right.
What makes your trip worthwhile is
Bobby Baker, performance artist and
mental health patient, and her incred-
ible drawings. This delight leaves the
more traditional Madness & Moder-
nity display of fact and artifact in the
dust with its bright, light and funky
journey through Baker’s dealings with
the mental health system.
This exhibition of her doodled diary
both acts as an in-depth commentary
on the modern experience of mental
illness and the failings of the health
This is a model of Narrenturm, a big spooky mental hospital in Vienna, now a museum. We like museums! One of a series of crazy grimacing heads in Madness & Modernity
care system on offer, and as a light-
hearted jaunt on the funny side of go-
ing crazy. It’s astounding how tender
but in-your-face Baker is about her
experiences. Interwoven are her fam-
ily, work, daily routines, chats with her
therapists and her days of darkness,
self-harm and hallucination. Tears
come to my eyes several times, nota-
bly when a finally recovering Bobby is
diagnosed with breast cancer. Howev-
er, smiles and giggles appeared much
more often.
I am a big fan of doodles and the doo-
dlers who produce them, and I get ex-
cited when they pop up amongst more
highbrow art. And here a whole gallery
of doodles being displayed as the fasci-
nating insight into the human psyche
that they are was an utter delight. This
is a perfect way to tackle mental health
issues as well as entertaining and fas-
cinating viewers. I strongly urge all to
drop into the Wellcome and see this.
It is, after all, completely free to do so.
Go for Bobby, but walk round Mad-
ness & Modernity on your way.
Madness & Modernity
Until 28 June
Bobby Baker’s Diary Drawings
Until 2 August
A sample of the wonderful doodlings of the fabulous Bobby Baker. There’s a whole room full of these!
R
ed is recognised as a highly
symbolic colour. In terms
of emotions, it can repre-
sent the hue of passion,
spirit and anger. Countries
use red as national symbols: Japan has
the red sun, Poland the red earth and
Russia had the red star.
As part of the recent re-hang at the
Tate Modern, under the display theme
‘States of Flux’ was a room titled ‘Red
Star Over Russia’. Here, eighty-five
propaganda posters are on display,
flooding the room with an electric
humming of red, ornamenting the
powerful subject matter. Red is also, as
we well know, the colour of blood.
The history of these posters begins
with the end of the First World War
and the collapse of the once power-
ful and immensely rich tsarist regime.
The October Revolution in 1917 was
described by John Reed, an American
journalist, as the “ten days that shook
the world”. During those days, the Bol-
sheviks seized power and Vladimir
Lenin began to mould Russia into Karl
Marx’s socialist design of a unified,
‘communised’ state.
To generate public support, the
printing presses were seized during
the revolt and a river of newspapers,
leaflets and posters made their way
through the cities and towns – reach-
ing out to the common man and wom-
an with their bright colour and bold
messages.
The Soviet poster has its own picto-
rial history and recognisable themes,
from the repetitious duplication of
photographs of Lenin, to the grotesque
depiction of capitalists as fat cats and
greedy golems – these posters embod-
ied the art of propaganda in a rich vis-
ual way. The posters on display in the
Tate Modern vary in examples of pho-
tography, architectural display, carica-
ture and the abstract – sometimes an
amalgamation of all those things. The
colour varies also, mostly alongside
monochrome – yellow, blue, green and
above all, red.
One of the most striking was de-
signed by Iosif Gerasimovich for ‘The
Mullah’s Third wife’, a silent film made
in 1928. The poster depicts a beautiful
siren, of an illustrated style very similar
to the film posters of 1920s America.
The woman’s dress however, consists
of a structure of bold, colourful lines –
suggestive of a garment, yet contrived
figuratively, implying an illusion.
The story of the film, following the
misadventure of a young woman in a
man’s world was meant as a criticism
of the lack of freedom for women in
the East.
Sadly, the same was true of Soviet
Russia, even though those in power
seemed unaware of this. The Soviet
woman was granted the ‘freedom’ to
work alongside Soviet man, yet the
inequality arose when man, coming
home from work demanded to be fed
and cared for, refusing to aid in other
chores such as cleaning the house and
caring for children and the elderly.
These the Soviet woman had to man-
age, without complaint, because of this
gift of ‘freedom’ that a life of commu-
nism had blessed her with. We can see
the Soviet woman worker in posters of
the era – sometimes triumphant, her
fist punching the sky in victory, some-
times bordering on the sexual – mouth
parted, collar open – certainly an at-
tractive image to both men and women
to aspire to.
Finally, even more strangely – but
common to Soviet ideals – as an an-
drogynous sort of non-man, non-
woman – simply a Soviet ‘comrade’, fo-
cused on the ideal of the greater good.
The ‘socialist experiment’, as it was
known, was just that – a theory forced
into reality by a group of radicals who
wanted the best for their people, but
also who appeared to miss a funda-
mental step in the social evolution, as
fundamentally laid down by Marx in
his ‘Communist Manifesto’. This being
the fact that communism should be the
next logical step after capitalism from
feudalism. Russia had been largely feu-
dal, with serfs serving their lords (and
the tsar owning everything). What was
to become the USSR – a huge expanse
of Asia and Europe swallowed up by
‘Matushka-Rus’ – was far from being
capitalist. Some of these areas, such
as the more remote places of Siberia
or even closer to home in Romania,
are still struggling in the aftermath of
communism from being cajoled into a
socialist regime. A typical communist
attitude was for ‘2+2=5’.
One poster from 1931 explains this:
“Fulfill the Five-Year Industrial-Finan-
cial Plan in Four Years”, typically hur-
rying physical progress without really
considering mental growth. Wisdom
of this kind led to expansive visions
of futuristic cities and Vladimir Tatlin
is one of the most recognised utopian
constructivists. Edifices such as his
‘Monument to the Third International’
are well-recognised in the visual his-
tory of Soviet Russia, even though its
construction never came to fruition
(like many other towering visions,
the basic needs of the people over-
took). The aim seemed to be to reach
for the stars, to outdo every other de-
veloped society with technology and
man-power. Historian Boris Groys at-
tributes this egotistical, phallocentric
thinking to a historical national para-
noia of inferiority. Whether or not this
psychosis still remains is something to
contemplate.
It seems easy in retrospect to reflect
upon the nature of communism as in-
herently flawed, but the truth is, those
born into communism yearn now for
the time when they felt secure in the
knowledge that someone was watching
over them at all times (readers famil-
iar with Orwell would shudder at the
thought). Perhaps there is some sense
in this sentiment however, in an age
and so-called civilised society where
babies are snatched from their beds
and we fear teenagers more than any
other.
At least in communist Russia they
had goals to work for and a neighbour
to watch their back.
Rosie Milton goes to see the ‘Red Star
Over Russia’, temporary room in the Tate
Modern
A bright red
star over the
USSR
“People and the army united”
Imperial students UNESCO artwork exhibited in Portugal
Next week:

