10 Opinion / Puzzle Page
College Maintenance's Open Door Policy
Dear Bee,
If there's one thing that you would assume
every student in hall is entitled to it's the
knowledge that for one year at least your room
is somehow yours. When you lock the door it
stays locked and you are safe in the knowledge
that no-one else can get their hands on your well
collected stuff.
The vital exception to this of course is
maintenance staff who have the right to enter a
student's room in hall to do the sort of fun
exciting stuff that maintenance staff do: like
giving you a new carpet or even a new bed (!).
However you would at least expect them not
to leave your room open - that would be like
fetching your jumper from a friend's car, only
to leave it unlocked (the car, not the jumper)
when you return to the pub .
As you can imagine, I was not impressed
when 1 returned to my room tonight (Tuesday)
to find it unlocked. I knew I was due to get a
new bed (I had been given a letter saying one
would be delivered the day before) and as it had
arrived when I got back 1 can only assume that
it must have been the trusty maintenance men
that had left my door unlocked.
To add to my concern, they had left my room
in a tip (well even more of a tip than usual), not
the sort of situation to come back to after a hard
day of work.
The letter 1 received had promised that there
would be no inconvenience, which I had
stupidly assumed meant for me. Well as long as
the maintenance men were not too
inconvenienced then I guess it's alright.
If this was just an isolated incident then I
may have found it in my heart to forgive such
gross negligence, but no! A few months ago I,
along with others in hall, was promised a new
carpet. Great, at last! (or so I thought). The
carpet itself was fitted fine, but as with this
latest incident I was somewhat surprised to
return to my room one lunchtime to discover
that not only was my door wide open and all of
my furniture was out on the landing, but there
was no-one about to be responsible for it. But at
least I wasn't alone - the other three rooms on
the landing were in a similar state.
For both incidents I was promised that the
work would be supervised at all times, and it
probably was at the time, but that's really of
little help when either my furniture is left out
for all to steal, or worse it's left in my room
with the door unlocked for all to steal - it was a
nightmare! For the carpet fitting I'd even been
asked to clear all of my stuff off of the floor,
desk, bed and table, leaving me as a typical
junk-hoarding student to pack it all in to boxes,
making it even more convenient for any
potential would-be thief to lay their greedy mitts
on.
In times when we are actively encouraged to
'lock our rooms at all times' especially to
discourage 'opportunist thieving', I do think
that the people in charge should keep a tighter
reign over the one thing that is out of the
students' control - namely maintenance work,
after all it's their responsibility, not ours!
Yours from a locked room somewhere in
Southside,
Miss J Decock & Co.
St Mary's Hospital LINKS Group
We are the student body of St John's
ambulance and provide first aid cover for
West End theatres, London venues eg.
Wimbledon and also public events.
We will be running a course, 'Communication
With The Deaf And Blind' on the first three
Tuesdays in October. Anyone interested in
attending should contact us via the LINKS
pigeonhole at St Mary's.
CrOSSWOrd de Sphinx et Pestilence
A light, delicate taster lovingly marinated in red wine and served on a bed
of amusingly shaped but pitifully small Welsh parsnips.
Across
1. Fool in escape from intelligence (8)
5. Been stiffed? (4,2)
9. Enough trouble in the Royal Society makes things stormy (8)
10. South Africa left with 30 fish (6)
12. Least favoured are the United Nations and the German hounds (9)
13. Give thanks to the sailor for the Mongol (5)
14. Prospects for gold and breaks back (4)
16. A form of support for Munster in trouble (7)
19. Show a preference for Lima revolution - it's for the best (7)
21. Short-lived fashioned of the East will pale into non-existence (4)
24. Not even liar is rude to a landowner (5)
25. Confront with the best make-up (4,5)
27. They are for watching students (6)
28. At House No. 50, ULU makes capital (8)
29&30. An Apology for saying "Merde"? (6,2,6)
Down
1. A green issue about the King (6)
2. Beats with old weights (6)
3. Alien and woman put together an organic compound (5)
4. Mod cons used to offer some protection (7)
6. Political system Edith sorts out after a division (9)
7. Relegating display for the first time before a gin cocktail (8)
8. View gold in South American country (8)
11. Employs the first undergraduates satisfying every specification (4)
15. I roll a concoction round mad animal (9)
17. Contraceptive brought up through a coil - how sweet (8)
18. Flashy performer! (8)
20. It's not right to be abandoned (4)
21. Plant in artifact or yellow pot (7)
22. About to go, then come back (6)
23. Take by surprise with a brief "Morning, Mr President" (6)
26. Love rich organisation of singers (5)
Answers to this crossword are on the next page (no peeking!)

