Clubs and Societies
Arty Summer Bridge Victory TWE Go Off
To Edinburgh
This summer will see a number of IC students
from all over the country converging on
Scotland, or more specifically Edinburgh. The
reason? Well, Theatre West End will be
building a theatre during the Edinburgh Fringe
Festival. We'll then be hosting our own, as well
as other theatre companies', productions.
Do you fancy seeing the biggest festival in
Europe? Can you afford a small amount of
money for (subsidised) accommodation? Are
you willing to work for a couple of hours a day
in the TWE box office or guiding people to their
seats in the theatre?
It doesn't matter if you don't act, direct or
sing, in fact, if you don't even know your arse
from your elbow when it comes to all things
thespian and helping TWE at the Edinburgh
Fringe Festival. If you are interested, then ring
Phillip on 081 675 0817 for more information.
And remember, the licensing hours for the
pubs in Edinburgh go on long into the wee small
hours of the morning...
Now that the academic year is over, many of
you will want that much needed break, while
some of you will still be working, be it in
UROP, MSc, PhD, jobs or whatever. In either
case, you might feel like taking up art - from
scratch or as a once-forgotten hobby.
To encourage you, IC Union's Leonardo
(Fine Arts) Society will be holding art
workshops, taught by Royal College of Art
students over the summer holidays. The classes
over the past two terms have been a great
success. The exercises that we have done not
only helped our technique but also released
creativity (the best so far have been 'energy
release' exercises where we wildly draw and
paint over a massive sheet of paper - the size of
two tables!). You might have seen some of our
members' work in our recent exhibition.
The classes over the summer should only
cost about £2 per session. They will probably be
on Monday evenings from 6pm to 8pm in Civ
Eng Room 101. If you are interested, leave a
note for us in the Union Office pigeonholes
before the end of term. Get cracking, get arty.
You don't have to be experienced in art, only
interested in experiencing art.
Thursday 16th June saw the long awaited clash
between IC and ULU. IC produced its full quota
of eight players. Unfortunately ULU could only
offer four players through ill health.
Consequently, two IC Bridge Club players
defected to the other side, resulting in A
Stallone and M Schaffer playing for ULU. This
was a fitting penalty for them as Stallone
wangled his way into the IC Bridge Club
despite not being an IC student and Schaffer
having forgotten to wear his sweatshirt.
The rivalry between ULU and IC brought
out the best in our players, notably J Todd and
D Goodwin who bid a difficult six club slam,
producing a swing in IC's favour. The overall
score reflected IC's domination of the match: IC
108, ULU 42. The teams were:
IC ULU
D Goodwin S Greaves
J Todd G Deakin
A Joyner
M Bradley
R Cannings
C Purvis
M Abramson
J Schryber
M Schaffer
A Stallone
10th International Medical Sciences Student
Congress in Istanbul
Having spent almost six months of the past
three years travelling abroad, the opportunity of
spending a week in sunny Turkey (perhaps
unideally three weeks before exams) was not
going to be passed up. Seven St Mary's students
converged on Heathrow on Tuesday 3rd May
eager to present the results of their BSc project
work at their first international conference.
We arrived in Istanbul, the only city in the
world to be built on two continents, to be met
by students of the Istanbul university faculty of
medicine. A short drive to Detam and the
conference headquarters followed, where we
registered and had our first opportunity to meet
the 150 delegates from all over the world.
In the evening, we made our way to our hotel
in Beyogluh. We spent the rest of the night
sampling the culinary delights of the local
restaurants.
In order to allow the 200 or so people
involved in the conference to get to know each
other, Wednesday morning was spent visiting
the Topkapi palace - seat of the Ottoman
sultans. A superb three-course lunch followed in
the palace restaurant.
The afternoon was spent on a Bosphorus
steamer going up the straits separating Europe
and Asia lined with millionaires' villas, palaces
and forts. We continued to the Black Sea before
returning. The evening was spent attending a
lively concert by the student band 'Cool White
Coats' and a cocktail party. We were then
shown around the Taksim square area by three
local medics until the early hours.
Refraining from hurling verbal abuse down
the phone, we were woken at 7am by an alarm
call provided by 'Mucko', one of the Turkish
medics. Thursday morning was spent at the
opening ceremony, with welcome addresses by
the Dean, Head of the Scientific Research Club
and the Mayor of Istanbul. Following a coffee
break, there was a discussion on Andrology.
The afternoon provided an opportunity to
visit the covered bazaar - a labyrinth of
passage-ways and 4,000 shops with metalcrafts,
leather goods, carpets and fake designer labels
much in evidence. We visited the ancient hippo-
drome and the awe-inspiring Blue Mosque.
Tired and hungry, we returned to our hotel and
ordered the inevitable Pizza Hut takeaway.
Following a leisurely breakfast on Friday
morning, Session V of the conference was
monopolised by St Mary's students with
presentations by H Sheth, C Roberts, R Sarwar
and L Wiseman. Remaining presentations
followed in sessions VI and VII. Our topics
included 'Endothelin-1 Production by Human
Breast Cancer Cells' and 'The Effect of the
Menstrual Cycle on Muscle Function'. All the
talks were well received and many prompted a
number of detailed questions.
Relieved that our task was now over, the
afternoon was spent sunbathing and writing
postcards. I took the opportunity to be shown
round the hospital, faculty of medicine and the
student research laboratories - all sited on a
single campus. All the delegates were adamant
on not wasting our only Friday night in Istanbul.
The St Mary's delegates joined forces with
groups from Japan and America and individuals
from Germany, Turkey and Bulgaria. The
evening was spent amongst the bars and clubs
on the shores of the Bosphorus. This gave us
time to relax, recall the past week and meet
some locals before retiring to a roof-top bar.
Saturday saw 20 presentations on offer to
those who could make it out of bed to catch the
8am coach to Detam. We opted for a lie in and
last minute sightseeing, arriving in time for the
closing ceremony of the conference. Everyone
then proceeded to a farewell party, the last
chance to strengthen new friendships, exchange
addresses and eat authentic kebabs. The atmos-
phere was undoubtedly jovial, with a 'drink as
much as you can for free!' policy at the bar.
To travellers, Istanbul comes highly
recommended - a magnificent city with fascin-
ating buildings, enchanting scenery, endless
shopping possibilities and always vividly alive.
To other medics out there, this international
congress which has been running for a decade
now, also comes highly recommended. The
opportunity to exchange views and ideas with
like-minded students from all over the world in
a friendly and stimulating atmosphere should
not be passed up.
There was a genuine aura of friendship in
evidence, throughout our whole week in
Istanbul and, indeed, many speakers emphasised
to the delegates, who had travelled from over 30
countries, that science crosses all boundaries of
religion, race and culture and is an important
contributor to good world relations.
Hiten Sheth, 3rd Year Medical Student
An open air performance of Hamlet in Regent's Park - see page 7

