Feature 5
Dennis Saw talks about genetic engineering and its implications on our
society. Will we ever be in a position to engineer the perfect human being
White Mice Can't Jump
It's true. And neither can brown ones, nor
agouti ones. The fact of the matter is, the
common laboratory mouse, Mus musculus, has
been so domesticated that, unlike its ancestors
or its wild counterpart, it'll never make money
from Nike Air (TM) commercials.
The up side is, of course, that it's much
easier to catch the Speedy Gonzales that can't
Kanga out of your grasp each time you corner it
(or approach it menacingly with a carving
knife). And all this happened before we'd even
heard of genetic engineering.
Unsuspectingly, we as human beings have
been playing with modifying genes since that
first homo sapien decided: 'Bugger it. I'm not
going to spend my time running after my meal.
I'll catch a few and have my curry tethered to
that olive tree. Heck, and for nan, I'll grow that
new Emmer wheat hybrid that's been lying
around the front porch.'
If we aren't brave
enough to try, after
calculating the risks
involved to our best
ability, MacDonalds
would never have
existed.
The result? Chihuahuas, race-horses (and the
silly names that accompany them, eg. Thrice
Lucky Rubber Duckie), bread wheat and mice
that can't jump.
Biologists call something that stands the test
of natural selection an 'Evolutionary Stable
Strategy' (ESS). If we were to take the strict
definition of that term, then there are a number
of rather non-stable creatures that we have
created. Would you ever ride off into yonder
wild country with your trusty 12-bore shotgun,
ever ready for the menace of a killer pack of
poodles? Bread wheat is an even stranger affair.
Much like seedless grapes, they cannot
perpetuate without the help of man. Not only is
the ear difficult to break up, if it does, the grains
enjoy a brief second or two of flight, jettison the
chaff (much like jumbo jets jettisoning their
wings), describe a perfect parabolic arc and fall
to the ground much like jumbo jets that have
jettisoned their wings would. In evolutionary
terms, they are ESS's only if human beings are
around. We have, either advertently or
inadvertently (industrial melanism of moths
won't occur in a world populated with hari
krishnas). become an inextricable part of the
natural histories of many species of organisms.
So, why is the thought of genetically
engineered organisms so abhorrent? We cull
bulls to select ones that will result in bigger,
better cow udders. The Victorians have been
responsible for altering the face of many a dog
and petunia. Indeed, it was because of their
predilection for little furry rodents that the
modern lab mice can't do the steeple chase.
Perhaps it is because genetic manipulators
yield enormous power. So much power, in fact,
that they are akin to a child with the knowledge
of fusion. He/She can create limitless energy for
the world but also limitless destruction. A
technological Sword of Damocles. But isn't that
a property of all new-born technology?
Genetic engineering has suffered more from
the wild imaginings of science fiction authors
than, say, virtual reality (bar Ben Bova!). I
contend that poets, artists and authors are the
voices of our collective social conscience. If this
is true then we are indeed worried that some
superbug might be released into the biosphere
(or a super-rabbit into Australia); and we are
worried that someone may one day try to
genetically engineer the perfect human being,
much like what Hitler attempted with his now
outmoded technique of culling. Our social
conscience is shaped by our history and those
who are ignorant of our sometimes painful past
are condemned to repeat it.
However, we are poised in a unique
situation. In the past, much of society was left in
the dark when technologists went about
fervently knitting their sweaters of U t o p i a , only
to discover much later that there are no holes for
the head or arms but one for the belly-button.
The technology of recombinant DNA is unique
because:
a) it is freshly emergent and the public can be
informed from the start;
b) we also wield the disseminatory power of
today's mass media; and
c) the public is genuinely aware and concerned
Humankind at large
cannot be ignorant of
the potential side-
effects of such research
and clinical trials
of the potential of new genetics.
If genetic engineers are those sweater-knitters,
then the public is in a position to check that the
right holes are being woven in the right places.
But this will happen only if scientists keep the
public informed of the state of play. Similarly,
the public has to understand that much of
science is intelligent, informed and intuitive
trial and error. I stress the latter. Remember that
old maxim of learning from your mistakes? If
we aren't brave enough to try, after calculating
the risks involved to our best ability,
The common laboratory
mouse, Mus musculus,
has now been so
domesticated that it'll
never make money
from Nike Air TM
commercials.
MacDonalds would never have existed.
Let's face it: we have been blessed with a
tool that can do wonders; that has the potential
to cure cancer, to relieve babies from the
devastation of Tay-Sach's disease. Whilst
working towards such goals, we will most
certainly generate information that could result
in the genetic ostracism of sectors of society. As
smokers have to pay the price of higher
insurance premiums, will individuals
predisposed to heart disease (that we can detect
with a simple genetic test) have to contend with
the same? Think of the problems we would
generate if we discovered the nerd gene!
Saint Thomas Aquinas once quipped: 'We
can will something only if we have already
recognised it to be good.' [Actually in the
modern context it should read as: 'We can will
something only if we have already recognised it
as giving us an advantage.'] I do not doubt that
gene therapy and the like will be a major feature
of future medicine. We can see its advantages,
but we cannot ignore the more tricky
sociological effects in the short term and the
evolutionary effects in the long term.
As a scientist, I am sometimes appalled at
the likes of Jeremy Rifkin. However, his job is
important not for repeatedly painting doomsday
scenarios and inciting wheelchaired
demonstrations, but in reminding us that the
new genetics cannot be performed in polished,
sterile labs in ivory towers isolated from
humankind at large. Similarly, humankind at
large cannot be ignorant of the potential side-
effects of such research and clinical trials.
Perhaps one day we'll be able to put that
spring back into Mus musculus; but the
questions of whether mice that can't jump are
genetically diseased is one that has to be asked
and answered by all of human- and rodent-kind.
Acknowledgements: I'd like to thank Dr Peter
Little for inciting discussion and a riot of ideas.
See page 9 for a review of Beverly Hills Cop 3

