6 Reviews
Aurian
by Maggie Furey
I don't read fantasy of the 'sword and sorcery'
type very often. That's the first thing. I usually
get put off by the words 'Book One of...' on
front covers. That's the second thing. I picked
this book up and finished it (all 600-odd pages)
in less than three days (less time that it'll take to
finish this review!). That's the third thing.
Not that this is a real heavyweight of a novel
(despite its size!) - it treads the well-worn path
of 'quest for mystical artefact with which to
fight the forces of evil'. The difference between
this one and others is the very high quality of its
narrative - you have wonderfully developed
characters, (mostly) good dialogue and a
beautifully atmospheric backdrop to a well-told
(if oft-used) tale. What more could you ask for
from recreational reading?
The story follows the growth of Aurian,
from impetuous Mage-child to mature young
Mage-woman through love, anger, grief and
finally redemption. Although the book centres
on her, the story is told by many characters:
Forral, a swordsman and her Mortal lover; her
devoted servant Anvar; Miathan the Arch-Mage
(and arch-villain) to name but a few.
Maggie Furey examines all the characters in
great depth and as a result the plot becomes a
composition of their lives and personalities
rather than just a sequence of events involving
people with odd names.
Rich and colourful, page-turningly good
writing - this is fantasy as it should be. (I might
even buy the sequels, when they appear.)
Catfish
Published by: Legend
Price: £4.99
New Knight of the
Szymphony
Even if Sir Simon Rattle (above) cracked open a
whole case of Cordon Rouge a fortnight ago, he
couldn't have hoped to enjoy a headier
celebration of his appearance on the birthday
honours list than this new EMI disc.
The Polish composer Karol Szymanowski (I
think that's 'Shummernoffski', more or less)
died in 1937, aged 55. His Third Symphony,
'The Song of the Night' for tenor, chorus and
orchestra, sets a Polish translation of a text by
the 13th century Persian mystical poet Jalal ad-
Din ar-Rumi. The music is like a blend of
Scriabin and Debussy; ecstatic, swooning,
perfumed impressionism. Violin and horn
melodies aspire giddily, while strands of
counterpoint teeter along the brink of tonality.
The playing of the City of Birmingham
Symphony Orchestra is ravishing and the
recording spectacular. No-one who has heard
what Rattle and his band can achieve live will
doubt that the EMI engineers have been
anything less than totally faithful in their
rendering of the orchestra's dynamic range,
from a wisp of pianissimo violins to tweeter-
jiggling climactic tuttis.
The main competition comes from Antal
Dorati's early digital version with the Detroit
Symphony Orchestra on mid-price Decca.
Dorati is grittier, with a more immediate lower
register to his recording and a more involving
soloist. I found myself wondering momentarily
if Szymanowski ought to sound as French as
Rattle makes him. But the EMI performance is
in a different league in terms of tone quality and
pacing. Dorati sounds rushed in the Scherzo;
Rattle starts off slowly, but after an Ali shuffle
of an accelerando, he and his players float like
butterflies.
The other main item on the new disc is the
Stabat Mater. Szymanowski's setting of a Polish
version of the lament of Christ's mother at the
foot of the cross dates from 1926, ten years after
the Third Symphony. His style has become
more austere, but the music is if anything even
more beautiful - try track six. Rattle's first rate
trio of soloists steal the show; soprano Elzbieta
Szmytka in particular is radiantly pure and
lustful. [/ think you mean 'lustrous' - Ed.]
Indeed I do, bless your cotton socks.
Patrick Wood
Monty Python's Flying Circus
Monty Python's Flying Circus is unlikely to
need any introduction to most readers. Almost
everyone knows a Pythonite who will at every
opportunity launch into reciting entire scripts
with vehemence worthy of a demonic posession.
Such is the totemic influence of the show on
modern comedy.
The good news is, on the show's 25th
Anniversary, you can now get some peace. A
new collection of videos with every episode in
chronological order has been released, almost as
sure to silence a comedy anorak as nailing their
lips to a wall.
To the uninitiated, the show can seem like a
televisual version of the freemasons. The
stream-of-conciousness flow of the sketches and
the furious surrealism of Terry Gilliam's
animation bemuse some people and induce
hysterical laughter in others. The Monty Python
team's flippant contempt for any convention
created a comedy show in contradiction of all
others. As Michael Palin says: "There was
really no reason why we did it, but of course,
there was a reason why we did things for no
reason at all."
The first volume (series one, episodes one to
four) certainly contains many recognised Python
classics, including 'Mouse Organ', 'Working
Class Playwright', 'Nudge Nudge' and 'French
Flying Sheep Lecture'. The best way to choose
which one to buy is to check the handy show
summaries on the back of the boxes.
Even if you aren't a Python fan, buy these
videos now. Your sense of humour may never
forgive you if you don't.
Pestilence
Videos priced £12.99 each, available from all
good retailers.
'O, nie spij, druhu, nocy tejF

