Reviews 7
Hamlet
The New Shakespeare Company presents three
plays this summer: Hamlet, A Midsummer
Night's Dream and The Card. These three plays
are being shown at the Open Air Theatre in
Regent's Park. If it is a beautiful day with a
clear blue sky which leads to a summer night
where the starry heavens are revealed, then I
believe the night is well accompanied by a
Shakespearean play. However, having an open
theatre near a popular park is always dangerous,
especially if the actors have to shout to be
audible. But the company comes up with a neat
trick by using the metal concave set to reflect
their voices into the audience. And a very fitting
set it is too, where the apparitions which Hamlet
sees and the scenes where Hamlet is missing is
well integrated with it.
The play is a shortened version; there is a
jump in the script where the confrontation of
Ophelia and Hamlet is cut out for example, so
the play can be confusing in some parts.
For those not familiar with Shakespearean
texts, the following is the outline of the plot! A
king dies and his queen marries his brother and
in the meantime the son, Hamlet, is in the
middle of this and cannot understand the
iili:
The Egg
Or The
Scorpion
Despite the small cast in this production, each
role is essential and professionally portrayed.
Initially, the play progresses slowly, but it picks
up and becomes a rather emotional and intense
experience. I felt that I gradually became as
absorbed as the cast in many parts of the play.
It is an effective play and has a modern
theme. "How civilised are we after 2,000 years
of civilisation?" - this is the question that we
have to find an answer to during the play. The
topic arises from conflicts caused by different
ideas and reasoning between each character.
A very successful woman, Joan (Anna
Kirke), is on her way to a very important dinner
at the peak of her career. She and her father,
Peter (Bill Bingham), arc confronted suddenly
by Julie and Ned (Justine Glenton and Michael
Brophy) whose appeals and demands lay a path
to the past for Joan and her father to explain.
The part Julie played by Justine Glenton is
particularly convincing. The make-up and
costumes are subtle and the play is excellent
1!
M
What is wrong my friend? (Hamlet is played by Damian Lewis)
suddenness of all that has happened. From his
ghost-father he learns that treachery is involved.
From this background the story is unfolded.
This is definitely a play not to be missed.
However, I believe this particular production
couldn't carry a lot of the weight which the play
requires. Bright fading lights, beautiful intricate
costumes and such a large set with loud sound
effects give the grounding for my feeling that
the director placed more emphasis on modern
entertainment value than on the exploration of
the play. It seemed to run in such a manner that
so long as you just let the atmosphere soak in
and didn't concentrate too much, this
production could be entertaining. I don't think
this play is for the Shakespearean play critics; it
wasn't too bad, but could have been a lot better.
Jack
Open Air Theatre, Regent's Park. Tube: Baker
Street. 071 486 2431/1933. Tickets: £7-£16.50.
Season ends on 10th September.
Joan (Anna Kirke) catches up with her past life when she meets Julie played by Justine Glenton
overall. However, the sound effects are
disappointing in parts.
Tom
a bit Etcetera Theatre Club, Camden High St. Tube:
Camden Town. 071 482 4857. Tickets: £7.50
(cones £5). Runs until 2nd June.
Find out why White Mice Can't Jump on page 5

