Reviews
Lush
Split
Lush have their own sound which I bet brings
sixteen year olds to tears: at least if I was
sixteen I'd want a piece of it. But the naked
lightness. I duly realise, that's residing beneath
the welding sparks, acetelyne and melting metal
could even be derived from a careless
adolescent listening to Smashing Pumpkins. It's
the unbearable lightness of nothing being there.
It's a vacant lot.
See. Lush are pop. They are Europop
spending its student loan down Kentish Town
and even when they try to come over all Come
in 'Desire Lines' it perks up into Sweet Sorrow.
1 have never heard their 'Spooky' incarnation
but apparently it was very My Bloody Valentine
and footwear fixated. Makes sense: but here
their overlayed guitars sail out through the
window after four bars, cut short, one following
another. A long chain of false starts and
forgotten pedals sailing toward the four minute
horizon. Which isn't to say the effect is
unpleasant, just disconcerting. Put it together
with the symbiotic harmonies and vocal solos of
Emma Anderson and Miki Berenyi and the
experience becomes an increasingly
schizophrenic one.
'Light from a Dead Star', the opener, is a
stand-out marvel. A glockenspiel clockwork
crescendo that falls away from its choirboy peak
as delicately as it arrived, it's a revelation. 'Kiss
Chase' follows and sets the tone; sounds
gorgeous and bristles with punkish indignation,
but for a song about child abuse it smiles too
merrily away. 'Blackout' is a stormer and
'Hypocrite' spits where the others stammer. But
looking for a lyric, my mind is blank. (Except a
half forgotten Rose Chronicles refrain: "There's
nothing there, there's nothing there...")
'Invisible Man' is an exploration of S&M
that squelches with cheap musical thrills and the
well named 'Undertow' disarms the appaling
failure of 'Never-Never'. Things perk up with a
Sunday's polka-dot trot called 'Lit Up', and after
'Starlust' we can only point our fingers and
shout exactly. Then it ends with 'When I Die',
"a chewn!" exclaims a techno-friend who should
stick to his Black Dog and drugs. Here in indie-
angst land we hanker for substance abuse and
'Split' is pretty but pretty substanceless stuff.
Lush - a good idea? Probably. But given their
past, I have to say 'still' not yet. (6) Owain
Sunny Day
Real Estate
Diary
Yet another great band on Sub Pop, it makes
you wonder where they keep finding them.
While the majors release garbage like 4 Non
Blondes and Stone Temple Pilots, Sub Pop
release fine albums from Sunny Day Real
Estate. Even though they have lost most of their
roster within the last few years they are still the
most consistent indie label - end of laudanum ed.
SDRE themselves are emo-core. This stands for
emotional hardcore which mixes heavy music
with intense lyrics, in a way reminiscent of
Fugazi and Arcwelder but also incorporating the
wackiness of Pavement. (8) Mr. Happy
8 Storey
Window
8 Storey Window
This starts off with promise. 'I Will' is a fine
Nirvana/Pixies influenced song but good
enough to be original. Unfortunately none of the
following eight tracks manage to recapture the
intensity of that opening. The songs themselves
are alright but you can't help but wonder when
the crunching sound of guitars is going to start.
The album is produced by Levitation
frontman, Terry Bickers, which could be one of
the reasons for their lack of intensity, Levitation
themselves have never been known for loud
guitars. But 8 Storey Window are trying hard,
they're just missing that vital ingredient at the
moment. (6) Mr. Happy
A curtain begins to fall, it's time to fiddle
around in the bottom of my belly button and
remove all that fluff which has accumulated.
Sphinx coasts out to the end of term, as Sheryl
Crow is'Leaving Las Vegas'. "Just because
she's got a sexy voice and projects a rock-chick
image doesn't make her public property. She's
seen it all before and is now just singing about
it. No doubt Sheryl Crow has at one time left
Las Vegas." Huh? that man is on the pulse, and
so he quickly pressures up to the Beastie Boys.
On 'Gel It Together' he is succinct to the point
of, well I don't know. "The first one is complete
crap. The second one is more like it." 1 only
wish that I could write like..."Jon, you're a slag.
That wasn't my Beastie Boys review. I told you
I was going to write it later and here it is."
Eeeerkk I've been rumbled, Sphinx continues
properly: "How do you interpret the Beaslie
Boys when they rap so aggressively but the
dialogue smacks of baby-faced naivety? I'd
rather slide down a razor blade into a vat of
lemon juice than listen to 'Get It Together'
again." Well I'm glad we sorted that out.
Helmet remain a part of one dimensional
macho grunge rock machine on 'Biscuit For
Smut'. As Mr Happy quoths, "in the past,
Helmet have been accused of being one
dimensional macho grunge rock but this is the
usual start-stop song fuelled by angry shouts."
We'll end on a note worthy of all the music
page has tried to encourage this year with Fuzzy
and their single, 'Flashlight'. More Bostonians
bursting out of the metalwork of a modern pop
city. The guitars are crisp and the twin vocals
are interconnected like the synchromesh on a
1953 Buick. Of the three tracks available there's
even one called 'Thurher, which maybe after
the American writer and illustrator, and even if
it isn't I remain impressed 'cos they fooled me.
Defluffed and fancy free, 1 wipe away some
saline solution from my eyes, au rcvoir. Tintin
Cos I'm leaving Las Vegas today

