Reviews 9
0
Beverly Hills Cop III
Slurring: Eddie Murphy, Judge Reinhold,
Hector Elizondo, Theresa Randle
Director: John Landis
Where ' I' was an outright comedy and '2' was
just a piece of good-looking rubbish, '3' is a
true action-comedy, very typical of director
John Landis whose credits include Into The
Night and An American Werewolf In London.
The opening car-chase is a good one,
punctuated by some very funny moments and
it's soon clear that Eddie Murphy is back on
form after twaddle like Harlem Nights.
The plot concerns a bunch of counterfeiters
posing as a security firm for a Disneylandesque
theme park in order to use the park as a base for
their printing operations. When they kill a
bunch of Detroit carjackcrs who've recovered a
truck containing forged notes, the ensuing
shootout takes the life of Axel Foley's boss. As
a result, Foley traces the suitably camp
(heh-heh-heh) bad guys back to Beverly Hills
where he follows them to do that whole
vengeance thing.
The film suffers a little from some rather
ropey special effects and a rather vacuous (why
am I not surprised?) love-interest, albeit one
which leads to the best gag in the movie. On the
plus side there're a couple of quite big
explosions and as you'd expect from Landis
The return of Eddie Murphy as the cop with attitude
cameos abound from, among others, director
Barbet Schroeder, ye olde effects man Ray
Harryhausen and George Lucas. Although some
of the sets look a tad cheap and the script is
distinctly lightweight, Cop 3 has enough action
sequences and some rather odd humour while it
lasts to keep most popcorn-movie fans like me
happy. For all you Arnie fans out there, it's got
a reasonably high body count too. Definitely
worth watching in a good mood, Saturday night
kind of way.
jk
Out today. MGM Fulham Road, £6 (£3.50
before 6pm).
tSSSKifSi
RoboCop 3
Return of the cyborg cop with altitude
Starring: Robert Burke, Nancy Allen, Rip Torn
Director: Fred Dekker
If you didn't like the first RoboCop film then
don't even read the billboards for this one. Even
if you liked both of the first two, then read the
billboards for this one and don't go any further.
The RoboCop series is on the wrong end of a
1/x asymptote.
Let's play a game of word association. I'll
start:
S RoboCop 3
P Asinine special effects
S RoboCop 3
P Heinous acting
S Um, RoboCop 3
p Hugely objectionable dialogue
S La la la RoboCop 3
p Nicely chunky soundtrack
This word game is getting boring, not unlike
the RoboCop films themselves. So, let's have a
quick narration of the storyline.
With immunity from the police department,
an international corporate giant is tearing down
the not-so-affluent middle-class neighbourhoods
of Detroit with a view to creating Delta City, a
Utopian super-metropolis. As our cyan cyborg
observes the ruthless methods of this Japanese-
headed construction company, he manages to
have his priorities reprogrammed and thereby
joins the community's resistance movement.
Three robotic ninjas are the only
surmountable obstacles for our fashion-
conscious friend but, with aid of a prototype jet-
pack (conveniently stumbled upon), Detroit and
all its happy families are saved.
The series' makers also reveal that RoboCop
himself is DOS operated - we know from
seeing 'command.com' on his function screen.
Maybe this is why he don't work so good.
RoboCop 3 is intended to tug at your heart
strings and make you wonder about the
humanity of cyborgs. Purse strings, we think.
You merely wonder what a cyborg with half a
face is doing wearing quite so much lip gloss. It
is actually a different guy under all that armour
plating but you can't tell because he wears the
same shade of lipstick.
Why waste your time?
Sphinx & Pestilence
Out today. Odeon Kensington, £6, £6.50 (£3.50
before 6pm).
Monty Python's Flying Circus is out on video - see page 6

