food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
20 felix Friday 6 February 2009
Food
Food Editors – Afonso Campos & Rosie Grayburn
Rosie Grayburn
Food Editor
What do snowmen
eat for lunch?
1.2 litres of vegetable stock and simmer
for 20 minutes and liquidise. Season to
taste. Get some naan breads from your
local Indian takeaway to make a meal
of it.
4. Borscht (4 servings) – Fry 1 onion,
1 potato and 450g diced raw beetroot
in 25g butter until the veg have sof-
tened. Add 2 pints of vegetable stock, 3
tbsp vinegar, 1 tsp marmite, salt, pep-
per and a pinch of nutmeg. Cook for
30 minutes then blitz. Serve with sour
cream and NOT your favourite white
shirt/dress.
5. French Onion Soup (4 servings) –
Fry 5 sliced onions in 20g butter until
the onions are sticky and brown. This
can take up to 30 minutes, so be pa-
tient. Then add a couple of glasses of
wine and 750ml beef stock. Simmer
for 10 minutes and season. Make some
cheese on toast and place it in the bot-
tom of bowls. Pour the soup into the
bowls and play ‘Find the Crouton’.
6. White Chocolate soup.... oh baby
– Heat 300ml double cream, the zest
of an orange and the zest of a lime.
Once heated for a few minutes take off
the gas and add 100g of white choco-
late. Whisk this until the chocolate has
melted, then pour into a bowl half-
filled with of orange segments, cherries
and marshmallows. Eat and be careful
not to wet yourself with excitement at
how good this is.
This week’s food section should, if it
hasn’t already, warm you right to the
bones as your gran would say. David
Wallis, our resident Gastronaught,
knows how to do just that – his lentil
dish is bound to warm you right to the
cockles... whatever that means. Our Vi-
king cousins also know how to do cold
weather food, as I discovered when I
visited Masden, our new local Scan-
dinavian restaurant. It turns out that
it isn’t all meatballs and reindeer and
banana curry (long story). Incidentally,
the Scandinavians also know how to
do student discounts, so please take
advantage of the offer in February. Just
cut out the voucher below and have a
good old Viking time! Meanwhile, en-
joy the snow and good luck with try-
ing out that old “my problem sheet is
snowed in” excuse.
Just going out for a Danish
in ten minutes or it’s free” tag line. For
this you get two reduced sized Smør-
rebrød and a drink which isn’t at all bad
for South Kensington.
Of course, Masden isn’t just a cool
café. When the sun sets and the candles
arelitonthesustainablysourcedwood-
en tables, the room is transformed into
a romantic, yet welcoming restaurant,
serving hearty Scandinavian meals
at great value for money. It was this
warm atmosphere that drew Hungry
Accomplice and I through Masden’s
doors, like moths to the flame. The
simple wooden Scandinavian décor of
the dining room works very well with
the flickering tea lights and reflects the
completely unpretentious nature of the
restaurant and the cuisine it serves. All
in all, the ambience in the restaurant is
relaxed and natural – the perfect anti-
dote to a stressful working day.
Hungry and I chose from the evening
a la carte menu which is a mix of tra-
ditional Scandinavian and just whole-
some dishes of meat, veg and potatoes.
Now, I always judge a restaurant by its
bread. After ordering, a plate of warm
bread arrived at our table. This scored
top marks as it reminds me of eating
homemade bread straight out of the
oven with salty butter. Soon after, our
fishy starters arrived. Hungry Accom-
plice has only just become a fish con-
vert but he tucked into his soft cheese
filled salmon with relish. The salmon
was thick, generous and extremely
fresh – just close your eyes and think
of Sweden! My herring was sweet and
delicious and I enjoyed the rye bread
croutons that accompanied it. Not only
were our starters delicious but both
plates were very pleasing on the eye,
which is half the fun of eating out, I
think. It’s just not the same eating your
own creations which look like they’ve
been presented by a three year-old!
Now, whenever someone men-
tions ‘Wednesday’ we automatically
think Orange. At Masden, it is Dan-
ish Wednesdays when the daily special
comes from Denmark, while Swed-
Madsen HHHHH
20 Old Brompton Road, SW7
3DL
020 7225 2772
www.masdenrestaurant.com
Best: The Danish Beefburger
Worst: Being unable to finish the
epic dessert!
Price: £25 per head
ish Tuesdays follow the same pattern.
Hungry went for the Danish Wednes-
days’ dish as soon as our waitress said
the words “thick bacon”. For a big rugby
player like Hungry, nothing could make
him happier than a plate full of inch-
thick bacon, a huge bowl of potatoes
and a jug of parsley sauce. However all
Hungry could say on the subject of his
main course was “Mwohwhmmh”. My
reaction was similar (albeit more lady-
like) when my Hakkebøf med bløde løg
arrived. The menu’s translation of this
dish as a “beefburger with gravy” gave
this traditional dish no credit – it was
possibly the best meat dish I have ever
eaten. The “burger” was juicy, mouth-
watering and accompanied with a
perfect balance of onion and delicious
gravy. I enjoyed the accompaniment
of beetroot and plentiful potatoes es-
pecially as it made the meal extremely
good value for money.
When you think of Scandinavia, you
tend to think of endless forests, saunas,
lakes and meatballs. Puddings do not
tend to come to mind. The people at
Masden clearly wish to dispense with
this stereotype and serve epic Scandi-
navian desserts. Perhaps we have just
become used to weedy puddings at
restaurants but I was surprised when
a pile of caramel parfait and yoghurt
arrived at my plate. No complaints
about the dessert itself – the yoghurt
was marshmallow-fluffy and the par-
fait, addictive – but there was just too
much of it! Even Hungry struggled
with the traditional Æblekage, a simple
pot of stewed apples and cream.
But if the only complaint I can make
is one of too much dessert, then I can’t
see any problem in giving Masden
five full felix stars. Charlotte, the res-
taurant’s founder, is a charming and
knowledgable host and was happy to
tell us about the cuisine of Scandi-
navia and about her restaurant. I will
definitely be going again to Masden,
and if it was up to me it would be Dan-
ish Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays,
Thursdays… You get the idea.
L
ads, we’re going out for a
Danish” are not words we
often hear in this country.
Despite being just a short
distance across a cold pond
to the shores of Scandinavia, we would
more often choose to eat food from
3000 miles away in the Far East rather
than from our neighbours. However,
this is the joy of living in London – you
can experience a thousand cultures in
just one neighbourhood.
Just opposite the Lamborghini ga-
rage, Masden is the new kid on the
block in the heart of multicultural
South Kensington, and I can describe
it in no more than a word – cool. By
day, Masden is a chic café serving hefty
portions of Danish lunchtime Smør-
rebrød to famished workers and stu-
dents. Smørrebrød means “bread and
butter” but the vast quantity of sand-
wich in Masden’s Smørrebrød makes
this translation from the Danish rather
measly! As expected with the clean and
crisp characteristics of Scandinavian
food, fresh rye or sourdough bread is
topped with a healthy pile of toppings
– herring, roast beef, salmon, egg… It
makes me especially happy that this
fresh, more-ish lunch, is available for
the same price as the equivalent at Pret
a Rubbish over the road.
Lunch at Masden is not just about
open sandwiches, however. Hot lunch-
es are also available to suppress those
rumbling lunchtime tummies. If you’re
in a hurry, Masden offer a quick lunch
for a tenner with the obligatory “served
This lentil stew works really well on its own with a hunk of bread or
with some grilled meat. Any leftovers can be whizzed into a soup or
even a pate if it’s thick enough.
Serves 4
Green lentils (such as puy) soaked in cold water for 15 minutes,
rinsed and drained.
4-5 slices of streaky bacon or pancetta (preferably smoked) cut into
small pieces
1 onion finely chopped
2-3 garlic cloves finely chopped
2 carrots finely chopped
3 sticks of celery finely chopped
A good sprig of rosemary, 2-3 sprigs thyme and a handful of chopped
sage
100-150g of mushrooms roughly chopped
Glass of red wine
2 tbsp red wine vinegar
3 tbsp olive oil
100 ml Chicken stock
Salt and freshly ground black pepper
Handful finely chopped parsley to serve
Cover the lentils with boiling water in a pan over a high heat. Reduce
to a rolling simmer for 15-20 minutes, or until cooked. Meanwhile,
heat the oil in a large, deep frying pan over a medium-high heat.
Add the bacon and fry until it starts to crisp up slightly and the fat
turns golden. Add the vegetables and herbs (don’t add the mush-
rooms just yet). Cook for 5 or so minutes, stirring occasionally until
softened but not coloured. Now add the mushrooms and cook for
another 2-3 minutes. Season with a pinch of salt and a few turns of
the pepper mill. Add the wine. Simmer for 5 minutes to allow some
of the wine to cook off. Meanwhile, check to see if the lentils are
cooked (taste a couple – they should be quite soft but still retain a bit
of bite) and, if so, remove from the heat and drain. If the lentils need
further cooking, return to the heat and turn down the pan containing
your other ingredients. Remove the bay leaves, rosemary and thyme
stalks where possible. Add the lentils followed by the chicken stock.
Simmer quite briskly for another 4 or 5 minutes and allow the stew
to thicken up a bit.
Written and Created by David Wallis
A Warming Winter
Stew of Lentils
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 6 February 2009 felix
Food
It’s not just meatballs and reindeer, says Rosie Grayburn
A
ccording to one liberal
snowman in Batter-
sea bearing a “Free the
Weed” sign, snowmen
like to have a massive
bong for lunch. Otherwise the answer
to this very, very poor joke is Ice. Well,
it was either that or the bloke-joke
about all women being like snowflakes
which fall on your face...
In a country of mildness, it’s nice to
see a bit of violent blizzard outside my
window while I write this – it is mak-
ing me feel warm and smug inside. If
this Russian weather is not doing the
same for you and you are freezing
your hypothetical bollocks off, then
you may need external help.Hot soup
is universally renowned for seeing off
the cold and giving you a big soupy hug
in the process. From Thai Tom Yum
to American Chowder, soups fend off
those winter blues. So, get yourself a
hand whisk (£5 Tesco Value works just
fine) and get liquidising! It’s the easi-
est and cheapest thing in the world.
You can bond with your flatmates over
a pan of soup, a loaf of bread and a
chunk of cheese or alternatively, take
a thermos into college for soup breaks
and JCR avoidance.
1. Broccoli and Cheese Soup (4 serv-
ings) – Boil 2 large potatoes in 850mL
of vegetable stock for 15 minutes. Add
500g of broccoli and simmer for a fur-
ther 15 minutes. Get your whisk out
and blitz the soup. Melt 100g of grated
cheddar into the soup and season. Eat.
Done.
2. Cauliflower and Nutmeg Soup (6
servings) – Fry 2 chopped onions and
2 diced carrots until softened. Add
2 litre of water, 6 cloves of garlic and
75g of red lentils. Bring to the boil then
add 1 chopped head of cauliflower
and 300g of other green veg you have
lying around. Simmer for 20 minutes
then whack out your hand whisk. Blitz
the soup to oblivion then add 100 ml
of milk or cream. Season and add 1/3
nutmeg, grated. There you have it: flat-
ulence in a bowl.
3. Butternut Squash Soup (4) – Cook
1 onion with 2 tsp curry paste until
softened then add 700g of butternut
squash and cook for 3 minutes. Add

What does the scheme entail?
 Undergraduates/Postgraduates undertaking a 3 week placement in June/July
in a school/college
 Working alongside experienced teachers and assisting in classroom teaching
 Groups of up to 10 students can be placed in one school
 Placements arranged by Exscitec
What are the benefits of the scheme?
 Receive a £600 tax free bursary for completing the 15 day placement
 Receive a free CRB Disclosure check
 Have something different for your CV
 Develop new transferable skills and communication experience
 Gain first hand experience of what a career in teaching involves
Support secondary school Maths, Physics or Chemistry in London
For more information or to apply contact Sarah Cooper: Pre-requisites : A- Levels in Maths, Physics or Chemistry
sarah.cooper@exscitec.com
01730 235683
Links : www.tda.gov.uk / www.imperial.ac.uk/outreach / www.exscitec.com
Student Associates Scheme (SAS)
Student Associates Scheme (SAS)
The majority of placements are in the London Region – Placements outside
London can be accommodated by request

