Clubs & Societies Is your club cooler than the cat that
got the cream? Write to us.
clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Clubs & Socs Editor - Alice Rowlands
All in a weekend for fellwanderers
Heather Jones reports on the Fellwanderers’ weekend trip to the Yorkshire Dales
I
t was not an auspicious start.
Maybe the seven fellwanderers
who dropped out before we de-
parted on Friday night had some
inkling of what was in store for
those who braved the Yorkshire Dales
at the end of November, hoping for
crisp blue skies and beautiful views.
The exodus from London was
straightforward and both minibuses
made good time to Warwick where we
stopped to visit a fish-and-chip shop
for dinner. The first error of the trip
was made after Warwick; the fish and
chips clearly having addled Nathaniel’s
brain causing the second minibus to
miss the junction for the M6 and take
a 10-mile detour via Burton-on-Trent
before rejoining the motorway.
Continuing north it was the turn of
the other bus to take the scenic route
and after persevering down some very
icy and steep single-track roads both
buses arrived in Garsdale together. Al-
though the gap through the hall’s gate
posts was perilously close to the width
of a Union minibus both drivers man-
aged to safely negotiate the minibuses
into the parking field, where it soon
became apparent that they weren’t
going to escape so easily. So, after a
good measure of pushing and spinning
wheels, we retired for the night hoping
for the ground to freeze enough to get
the buses out in the morning...
Upon entering the hall it didn’t take
long for suspicions about the water
supply to be aroused. The bathrooms
smelt unpleasantly of sulphur, in fact,
all running water at Garsdale’s village
hall smelt the same and occasionally
had peculiar black flecks in it for added
interest. I persevered and brushed my
teeth with it (trying hard not to notice
the black bits). Others, wisely, were
not so brave and used the little water
we had brought from London. So, with
the grim sceptre of contaminated wa-
ter and the possibility of no transport
the next morning, we went to sleep,
at least those with good sleeping bags
did… the heaters in the hall weren’t
producing quite as much heat as some
of us would have liked…
The next morning we boiled the
water and hoped that despite the lin-
gering smell we would have killed any-
thing dangerous. With water supply
issues “solved”, attention turned to the
buses. Luckily the ground had frozen
overnight and while one bus escaped
relatively easily the other required a
little more coaxing. Eventually it was
jacked up, and a road was built beneath
its back wheels allowing us all to drive
to the start of our walk, Kilnsey…
Or maybe not. The first bus, driven
by Nathaniel and Rachel, thought we
were all going to Kilnsey. We were.
However, bus two driven by Rafal and
Chris took an alternative route and
when the first bus saw it turning off the
road they were confused into think-
ing it was heading to not-so nearby
Malham and went there instead. Forty
minutes and a number of confused
calls and texts later, it was discovered
that bus one was in Malham and bus
two was in Kilnsey. Happily, this gave
the Kilnsey bus time to visit nearby
Grassington to buy essentials such
as chocolate and drinking water, plus
squeeze in a pre-walk hot chocolate at
the pub, conveniently making us pub
patrons so we could leave the buses in
their car park.
Eventually we were reunited and
began walking. Due to cold, clear and
mercifully dry weather, the views were
beautiful although the dying rabbit
lying in the middle of the path damp-
ened the mood a little. We stopped for
lunch at Malham Tarn, and admired
the thin layer of ice over the lake as we
ate. Most people had decided against
drinking any more of the water from
the hall by this point. However, this
precautionary measure came too late
for Jim. Shortly after lunch he felt so ill
it was decided that he and some others
would return to the bus directly instead
of completing the walk. Those contin-
uing decided to take the path rated as
“difficult” down to Malham pub from
which a couple of people could be dis-
patched to walk back collect and the
other minibus.
The “difficult” path kept giving
warnings of how challenging the de-
scent was going to be and as we got
closer and closer to an impressively
steep-looking gorge we realised that
we needed to get to the bottom. As the
sun got lower and lower in the sky, it
became apparent that the warnings of
difficulty perhaps should have been
heeded as we effectively climbed down
a waterfall clinging onto freezing, wet
rocks. It took the intrepid scramblers
the best part of an hour to go less than
100m down the waterfall but having
safely made it at dusk the fellwander-
ers were split into three groups; Jim’s
group, the group on the way to the
pub and the group going back across
the moors for the other minibus. Af-
ter some amusing walking across the
moors in winter, at night with no light,
we were all reunited at the pub and set
off back to Garsdale for dinner.
The drive back to the hall was inter-
esting to say the least. The roads were
extremely icy and steep, with what I
consider inadequate protection from
drops on either side. At one point we
stopped on the way up a hill, put the
brakes and found we were still mov-
ing… back down the hill. However
thanks to some very skilled, although
at times alarming, driving we all made
it back to the hall ready for dinner.
We decided to get cleaner water to
cook dinner with and it was at this
point that we realised how peculiarly
empty Garsdale was. Sure there were
houses, but there was no evidence that
any of them actually had residents.
Upon knocking on the door of one
house we were met by a lone man in a
half-renovated house with what looked
suspiciously like a sniper rifle sitting in
one corner. After revealing he hadn’t
spoken to anyone all day he proceeded
to make us feel comfortable in Garsdale
by telling stories of the babies’ bones
that had been found at the abortionist’s
house in the village and the supposedly
haunted village hall…
The excitement for the evening was
not yet over though. After dinner,
whilst the playing the traditional were-
wolf game, an ex-Imperial student who
happened to be passing by and noticed
the minibuses came in to let us know
where the best places to walk were.
He seemed to assume (correctly) that
walking unannounced into a village
hall in the middle of nowhere at mid-
night wouldn’t be a problem for any-
one. However, his advice on the best
walks to do in the area was gratefully
received and Sunday’s walk was more
challenging, but also more spectacular,
than Saturday’s.
On Sunday we gained enough height
to have a clear view of the Lake Dis-
trict, Howgill Fells, the Pennines and
the Dales and were treated to snow at
the top for our banner photo. Everyone
was happy that the stunning weather
continued although high morale on
Sunday may also have had something
to do with squeezing in a second break-
fast at a café before the walk. At this
café the reason for our hall’s dodgy wa-
ter supply became apparent. The café
owners told us that Garsdale didn’t
have mains water and all the water they
used came off the mountains and was
filtered to become drinkable. Interest-
ingly, being from Imperial, we took a
water sample and upon analysis found
that it did actually meet the minimum
standards for drinking water.
Happy fellwanderers got back into
the buses on Sunday afternoon hav-
ing had a lovely walk and were eagerly
looking forward to a well-deserved pub
dinner. Sadly this was not to be. Whilst
driving along a single track bridge on
the way to the M6 the car in front of
one of the minibuses stopped suddenly.
The brakes were slammed on and we
stopped in time but couldn’t pass it and
were shocked when an angry man got
out and started running at the bus wav-
ing his fist! In a moment of panic the
driver reversed to try and get away and
unfortunately bumped the car behind
him. The crazy man in front saw this,
laughed and drove away before anyone
could do anything. The car behind was
almost undamaged but unfortunately
the minibus had a significant dent in
it… As time passed sorting things out,
the chances of a well deserved-pub
meal were diminishing but we needn’t
have worried. All hopes of a pub meal
were dashed as we entered truly hor-
rific traffic. Due to an accident on the
M6 a whole junction was closed and
the motorway was backed up, practi-
cally stationary, for miles. We man-
aged to crawl just three miles in three
hours, in the cripplingly cold (at the
back of the buses at least) and mind-
numbingly boring traffic jam with the
only points of interest being the many
cars overheating on the hard shoulder
occasionally sending clouds of smoke
over the buses.
By the time we escaped the M6 it
was around the time we had expected
to be home and we were only as far as
Manchester. Stopping at a petrol sta-
tion with an attached Chinese to re-
group seemed to be the best plan, even
though their toilet facilities had clearly
been used by everyone else who had
escaped the M6 that night too… It was
2am by the time we got back to London
andtheminibusdriversnoblydrovethe
majority of the fellwanderers home to
bed. The whole trip had lasted an im-
pressive 56 hours and most of us would
agree that whilst it was a significantly
more eventful fellwanderers excursion
than the average perhaps not all of the
excitement ought to be repeated!
If you would like to join the adventure
or find out more we meet for lunch
on Tuesday’s in dB’s from 12:30. Or
check out www.fellwanderers.com
The crew attempt to scale the rocks next to one of the waterfalls in the dales
29
Friday 6 February 2009 felix
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org/safercampus
Your Guide to Staying Safe on Campus
Sadly, students can be affected by crime
and Imperial students are no exception.
In a survey last year, most of you said
you felt safe on our campuses but felt
less so when going further afield. There
are a lot of things you can do to reduce
your chances of being a victim of crime,
both on and off campus. These include
protecting your property against theft,
staying safe when drinking and staying
safe on the streets. The following advice
has been taken from governmental
websites- for more details please visit
www.crimereduction.homeoffice.gov.uk
Immobilise- protecting your
property
Immobilise is the UK National Property
Register, and should be a first stop
for all students. The idea is that you
register your property such as laptops,
phones and MP3 players using their
serial number on your personal portfolio
which is completely free. If it is then
lost or stolen, you use Immobilise to tell
law enforcement, your insurer, and the
second-hand trade to assist in recovering
your property and catch the thief.
Immobilise is the world’s largest FREE
register of possession ownership details
and with its sister site CheckMEND
(www.checkmend.com ) the largest
database of stolen property and blocked
mobile phones. This online checking
service is used by all the UK Police
forces to trace owners of lost and
stolen property. In addition Immobilise
is checked daily by a huge range of
recovery agencies and lost property
offices including the Transport For
London Lost Property Office.
As a direct result of Immobilise there are
over 250 cases a week where property
is returned or information collected that
assists the Police in investigating criminal
activity involving stolen goods.
Visit www.immobilise.com for details.
Bike theft
With an the ever-increasing popularity
of cycling, the South Kensington
campus has seen a weekly increase
in the number of bikes parked on site.
Unfortunately we still see a number
of thefts from the campus. The bikes
that have been stolen are often those
that haven’t been locked up, ones with
insufficient bike locks and those parked
in insecure areas.
When you purchase your bike:
• Take out insurance, either by extending
your home contents insurance or
through a separate policy. Cycling
organisations and bike shops may offer
specialist cover.
•Register your bicycle model, make and
frame number. This assists the police
in returning recovered bikes to their
rightful owners.
• Take a clear, colour photograph of
your bike and make a written record
of its description, including any unique
features, so that you can report it
accurately if stolen.
• Security mark the bicycle.
When locking up your bike, try to take
the following into account:
• Always lock your bicycle, even if you
are just leaving it for a couple of minutes.
• Lock your bike to an immovable object.
Use a proper bike rack/ground anchor.
Remember that thieves can remove
drainpipes and lift bikes off signposts.
• Lock your bike through the frame.
• Secure removable parts. Lock both
wheels and the frame together. Take
with you smaller parts and accessories
that can be removed without tools, for
example lights, pumps, computers,
panniers and quick-release saddles, or
fit security fasteners on items such as
wheels, headsets and seat posts.
• Make the lock (and chain, if used) and
bike hard to manoeuvre when parked
– to stop thieves smashing the lock
open.
Cabwise
• Always use a licensed minicab, taxi,
nightbus or the Tube to get home-
never get into a minicab on the street
that you haven’t booked.
• Text HOME to 60835 to get the
number of one taxi and two licensed
minicab firms, in the area you are
texting from, sent directly to your
phone. Texts are charged at 35p per
message plus your standard message
rate.
• Never leave the lock lying on
the pavement – a lock can be
sledgehammered easily when it’s
resting on the ground.
• Locks can also be picked, so face
the lock towards the ground (but not
resting on it) so it can’t easily be turned
upwards for picking.
There are many different locks on the
market and price is not necessarily a
reliable indicator of quality. The most
important factor is how long the product
can resist attack.
• You should look for products that have
been tested against attack. Check out
www.soldsecure.com for certified
locks, or ask your local bike shop for a
recommendation.
• Invest in a quality lock. Hardened steel
D-shaped locks are recommended
as the minimum standard. It is worth
spending proportionately more on a
lock for a more expensive bike.
Drink spiking
Drink spiking is when mind-altering
substances, such as drugs or alcohol
have been added to your drink without
you knowing. Sadly, this is increasingly
common in the UK, with the most
common motive being the intention to
carry out sexual assault, rape or theft.
11% of drink spiking victims are male.
The most common drugs used are GHB,
rohypnol and ketamine. These drugs
act as an anaesthetic when mixed with
alcohol, reducing a person’s ability to
resist sexual assault or robbery. They are
usually tasteless, odourless, and have
no colour. Therefore, it is hard to tell if
your drink has been spiked by tasting,
smelling, or looking at it.
If your drink has been spiked with
GHB, rohypnol, or ketamine, symptoms
normally come on within 5 to 20
minutes, and can last as long as 12
hours. However, your symptoms can
vary depending on what drug has been
used. Common symptoms include:
• dizziness and difficulty with walking,
• confusion or feeling of disorientation,
especially the next day,
• nausea or vomiting,
• hallucinations,
• tiredness and fatigue,
• difficulty speaking, or slurred speech,
• visual problems, blurred vision,
• paranoia
• memory loss
If you begin to feel really drunk after a
small amount of alcohol, or you think
that your drink has been spiked with
drugs, get help from a friend, relative,
or a senior member of management in
the club or pub you are in. Tell someone
you trust immediately. Get to a place of
safety as soon as possible, and only go
home with someone who you totally
trust. If you are with people you do not
know, contact a trusted friend or relative
and ask them to pick you up and look
after you.
If you are experiencing symptoms such
as drowsiness, vomiting or hallucinations,
go to an Accident and Emergency (A&E)
department immediately. Tell the medical
staff there that you believe your drink
was spiked, and they will contact the
police for you as drink spiking is illegal.
The police may ask to take a blood or
urine sample from you so that it can be
tested for any unusual substances.
Most drugs leave your body within 12-72
hours, so it is important you are tested
as soon as possible if you think your
drink has been spiked.
If your drink has been spiked, it is
unlikely you will be able to see, taste or
smell any difference, so it is important
that you try to prevent it from happening.
Follow these guidelines to lower the risk
of your drink being spiked:
• keep your drink in your hand, and hold
your thumb over the opening if you are
drinking from a bottle,
• keep an eye on your friends’ drinks,
• do not leave your drink unattended at
any time, even while in the toilet,
• never accept a drink from anyone you
do not know or trust,
• if you go on a date with someone you
do not know, tell a friend or relative
where you will be and what time you
will be back, and
• try to drink from a bottle rather than
a glass when possible, as it is more
difficult to spike a drink in a bottle.
Personal Safety
Self-defence and safety awareness
classes may help you feel more secure.
There are some student societies that
offer this such as the Filipino Martial
Arts Society and other organisation. Visit
www.suzylamplugh.org for some more
information.

