4 felix Friday 6 February 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News
The world beyond
college walls
Edited by Hassan Joudi & Raphael Houdmont
In a joint statement the US and the UK (Sri Lanka’s former colonial rul-
er) have urged a ceasefire to allow civilians to evacuate the war zone.
For the past few weeks the Sri Lankan government has stepped up a mili-
tary offensive against the Tamil Tigers, which it has been fighting in a 26-year
long civil war. The Sri Lankan army has encircled the Tigers, but aid agencies
say 250,000 people are stuck in Tiger-held areas. Many have sought safety in
a government-declared no-fire zone or hospitals, but even those have been
hit by artillery attacks and cluster munitions.
The International Red Cross and the United Nations have long been active
in delivering aid throughout this conflict, but both have been careful not to
accuse either side of being responsible.
Sri Lanka
The Japanese electronics giant Panasonic has announced it will make re-
dundant 15,000 people from its 300,000 global work force as it attempts
to cut costs.
Due to plummeting demand for its plasma TVs which is part of a wider glo-
bal trend of lower consumer spending on luxury goods, Panasonic made its
first annual loss in six years. Half of the redundancies will be made in Japan,
while the other half in overseas
manufacturing factories.
Japan is the world’s second
largest economy and it de-
pends heavily on exports, con-
sumer electronics being a large
chunk of this. Panasonic’s an-
nouncement has come on top
of similarly massive job cuts by
Japanese firms NEC, Sony and
Hitachi.
Japan
Libya
The African Union’s (AU) newly elected chairman, Colonel Muammar
Gaddafi, has criticised democracy in Africa while speaking at this week’s
AU summit in Ethiopia.
Libya’s leader, who seized power in a military coup d’état in 1969, said that
Africa’s tribal political parties, which reflect the social structure of many
parts of the continent, have only led to bloodshed. Instead African countries
should model themselves on his own country’s system, where no opposition
parties are allowed.
The AU’s decision to select Colonel Gaddafi as its head for the coming
year is a controversial one. Despite his recent openness, he has a history of
confrontation with the west, and a poor human rights record. However his
plan to drive forwards African unity through the ‘United States of Africa’
modelled on the EU may offer new-found hope for many struggling nations.
ArtsFest is coming… and
this time it’s bigger
T
his year’s committee have
cooked up a feast of crea-
tive little treats for you to
get your teeth stuck into,
liberally sprinkled over
the week of the 16th to the 20th Febru-
ary. Whether you’re a secret Spielberg,
budding ballerina or veritable virtuoso,
get your cha-cha-cha out of the closet
and get on down to one of the plethora
of events that will be happening across
campus. It’s all in aid of Hospices of
Hope, which helps terminal children
in Romania and the surrounding
countries.
If the whole Strictly Come Dancing
thing managed to pass you by, aside
from being an obvious sign of spend-
ing far too much time in the lab, Arts-
Fest offers another chance to see what
all the fuss is about. Dance, one of
Imperial’s most popular clubs, will be
holding the final round of their version
of the competition as part of Friday’s
finale concert, seeing your favourite
lecturers (and DPCS Lily Topham)
pairing up with (arguably the most pa-
tient) members of the club to rumba,
waltz and tango their way to victory.
If you’re uneasy in the ballroom, you’ll
also find performances around campus
from ghetto-fabulous Funkology and
the boys’-favourite-on-a-Wednesday-
night-in-Sherfield, Dance Company.
And of course there are the won-
derful musical offerings from Impe-
rial’s String Ensemble, Wind Band,
Choir and highly acclaimed Symphuni
2008-winning ICSO, not to mention a
special performance from the grown-
up accomplished professionals that
make up Onyx Brass, held every lunch-
time in the College’s Main Entrance. By
finding these mellifluous gems snug-
gled between the Tanaka and Mech
Eng buildings on your way back from
that cheeky Subway visit (because the
JCR just isn’t the same…), hopefully a
rare and tiny smile will be brought to
those geeky and neglected sandwich-
encrusted lips. If you can’t tell Stravin-
sky from Strauss, Monday’s Music
Tech and Tuesday’s Jazz & Rock nights
in dB’s cannot fail to excite even the
most modish of auditory nerves, whilst
Wednesday’s Barnce (barn + dance
= see what we did there?) is hillbilly
enough to leave all red in the neck.
If you’re really after something differ-
ent, look out for Parkour, Wushu, Ca-
poeira and Filipino Martial Arts, who
will be tumbling and fighting their way
through College solely for your pleas-
ure. And you don’t have to be well-
rehearsed or fully-versed to take part;
one can tread the boards at DramSoc’s
workshop, or engender some potential-
ly Turner-worthy doodles on the Blank
Canvas in Sherfield. If all this sounds
like you’ll be enervated by mid-week,
why not put your feet up on Thursday
at FilmSoc’s movie screening, or take a
wander to LeoSoc and PhotoSoc’s ex-
hibition in the Blyth Gallery?
And if all this still fails to tickle
your fancy, ArtsFest 2009 still has
something up its little purple sleeve.
Wednesday sees the Village Fete Until
Late; with cakes, a tombola, balloons
and bunting just like the good ol’ days
when we were all so tiny and innocent,
except with added booze from Real Ale
and Fine Wine societies, inflatable sex
sheep, and a Kissing Booth, where for
a nominal fee you can be graced simul-
taneously by the lips of two attractive
girls both named Lauren. It’s almost as
if we had delved into your most sop-
ping of dreams and made them all
come true…
For a full list of events: www.icarts-
fest.com
Finale concert tickets can be bought
online from the Union, on the door or
from a member of the Committee all
week for £6 or £4 if you’re a student
(which most of you pretend to be)
All other events are FREE so there is
no excuse.
Lauren Machin tells us about the forthcoming ArtsFest
Snow storm brings joy and
disruption to Imperial campuses
Just like the rest of the UK, the
snow that began to fall in London
last Sunday evening has been al-
most unprecedented and not in 18
years has the capital seen so much
of it.
Akin to the rest of the country,
Imperial College students and staff
suffered some altercations of their
own when faced with the harsh
conditions in the morning.
London’s transport infrastructure
is ill equipped to deal with such un-
expected weather scenarios and as
such, much of the network suffered
closures, part closures and severe
delays. Bus services were stopped
altogether for the majority of the
day and even South Kensington
underground station had to be shut
down.
With little if any warning, depart-
ments decided to cancel all teach-
ing activities on the Monday citing
safety concerns and the inability of
staff to arrive promptly. This in-
formation was not relayed to the
students in a promptly fashion, and
despite the immensity of the snow
and failure of public transportation,
droves of dedicated students still
found their way to lecture theatres
and labs early in the morning. Upon ar-
rival, these students found themselves
almost alone and understandably up-
set after the tardiness of departments
in sending out emails informing of the
day’s plans.
While the weather conditions eased
significantly on Tuesday and with pub-
lic transportation almost back to nor-
mal, most engineering departments
and the humanities department still
felt it necessary to cancel lectures for
another day.
Around South Kensington, filled
with a sense of euphoria, students
filled their time with typical snow day
activities. A giant snowball fight broke
out in front of the Royal Albert Hall
and saw hundreds of Beit and South-
side Hall residents engaging in some
light-hearted inter-hall rivalry. Police
cars were reported on the scene. A Beit
Hall senior mentioned that despite the
friendly nature of the fight, authorities
“feared a riot”. Hyde Park also played
host to a myriad of Imperial students’
antics and proved to be the perfect
place to engage in fort-building and
canoeing down slopes.
Despite melting snowmen around
campus, departments and College
services and facilities are now fully
operational.
Afonso Campos
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 6 February 2009 felix
News
While casually flicking through the BBC news website, I came across a story about
a radiographer who spent over 8 hours, including 18 miles walking, a train journey
and hitch-hiking in order to get to work at Guys Hospital in London. What is excep-
tional is that his bosses weren’t even particularly surprised at the level of commit-
ment he had shown to getting into work, but please he had managed to make it in.
This tale of commitment to a job was thrown into stark contrast against the ‘snow-
days’ taken by the people elected to run Imperial College Union. President, Jenny
Morgan, is reported to have told her fellow Sabbs not to bother coming in on Mon-
day or Tuesday as the snow was causing transport difficulties and there probably
wouldn’t be anyone in the Union. What felix cannot understand is why the Union
go to so much trouble to get places in halls for Sabbs, when college struggled to find
places for all of the freshers this year. Surely the idea of having Sabbs within walking
distance of campus is that they can make it into college come rain, shine, or mass-
breakdown of the transport system?
While the felix editor braved the ‘snow’ on Tuesday to make it into work, having
spent Monday ‘researching’ how the snow was affecting students, the DPEW and
DPCS were nowhere to be seen on either days, despite living minutes from campus.
Surely if there was one day of the year where decisions on the education and welfare
of students were being taken in fast and pressurised situations in every department,
it was this Monday? And while services all over campus were struggling to cope
or decide whether to close altogether, the Sabb in charge was presumably making
snowmen in Princes Gardens, or tucked up in cosy student halls. Other sabbaticals
have elected not to stay in halls and so could be forgiven for being thwarted by the
crippled public transport system, along with the rest of us mere-mortals.
Students who trecked for up to an hour through the snow, with no busses in sight,
might be slightly hacked off to learn that the people elected to work for and repre-
sent them, thought a five-minute walk was too much to ask.
Alice Rowlands
Sabbs take Snow Day
photos by ravi pall and richard lai
Israel
With national elections com-
ing up this week, Israeli vot-
ers are transfixed in an elec-
tion campaign dominated by
the recent war in Gaza and
issues of national security.
Israel has a proportional rep-
resentation system, meaning the number of seats a party wins is directly pro-
portional to the number of votes received. Thus a single party is unlikely to
gain a majority in the Knesset (parliament), meaning coalition governments
have to be formed which has caused instability in the past.
The three major parties, Likud, Kadima and Labor are the major players
but each are not expecting more than 30% each. About 40 other parties with
hugely varying interests and objectives are also competing. The outcome
of these elections will certainly be influential in the coming years, as the
Arab-Israeli conflict continues to overshadow the Middle Eastern political
landscape.

