8 felix Friday 6 February 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
Thinking abouT heading off
on a Round The WoRld TRip
Come to our free Round the World talk at STA Travel Victoria
on Wed 4th March at 7pm.
Hear tips, tricks and expert info
Plus prizes and free drinks and snacks available on the night!
To book your place
call 0871 468 0649
or email victoria@statravel.co.uk
U
ni has brought a great
deal of conversation; re-
ligion, politics and sex.
But none seem to con-
jure such rage as the top-
ics discussed by Imperial Girl. So much
so that one of my friends went as far as
to eat a piece of her most recent article
in protest (it was her face).
What is it about her that angers so
many of the men and women around
me? Delving into her most recent ar-
ticle “Imperial Girl pays to look at-
tractive, so dinner’s on you”, IG tries
to justify her opinion that men should
pay for the first date because making
yourself pretty is expensive. IG then
goes on to suggest that, for a woman to
pay for dinner is perhaps a little taboo.
Seriously? The only part of that article
that I agreed with was her comment on
being spoilt. Now at this point I think
it is important to clarify that I am not
objecting outright to the idea the guy
should pick up the bill. That is between
the two of you and what the both of
you think. However the very idea that
it is justified by the sheer cost of hav-
ing to make yourself look pretty is
quite frankly; childish. I am aware that
women like to smear expensive beauty
products onto their bodies in the hope
it will make them feel prettier.
It is fair to say this is something that
will probably escape us man-animals
for a long time to come. But what lit-
tle I have gathered from this ritual is
that it is not done for the benefit of the
bill payer, it is for you – the woman.
To make you feel more secure, con-
tent in the idea that your ‘worst bits’
are safely tucked away under layers of
paint. Once more I feel the need to
point out this is also not an attack on
women, as men have their own special
blend of emotional crippling and social
conditioning.
In fact many of the men I know do
not like their women caked in make
up. We like the idea that when we wake
up next to them the morning after they
will be as good as they were when we
decided to go to bed with them (beer
goggles not withstanding). This is not
to say I like a woman poorly presented
but being clean, smelling clean, shav-
ing and combing your hair cost very
little. IG also doesn’t seem to realise
that I do not wake up every day clean
faced. I too have to shave and while my
hair style could politely be referred to
as ‘elegantly dishevelled’ many men do
spend a lot of time and money on their
appearance. Not that I am claiming it
is as much work for a bloke to fall into
that socially decided norm of what is
acceptable. But that comes down to
time more then money and barring
various analogies, they are generally
not the same (or over that long sum-
mer break we would all be very rich).
Ultimately all this comes down to ap-
pearances and preconceptions, a topic
already raised by IG and much more
successfully then any of her more re-
cent articles.
IG then goes on to suggest her fa-
vourite methods of running away when
Indeh_fish’s friend ate Imperial Girl’s face. It was papery
Letters
I
take great issue with Jovan
Nedić’s article ‘What is the
point of the letter C?’. Consider
the changes recommended.
Presence will become presents
giving presents a third meaning (this
would alsohave to be split phonetically
into two words, one meaning the act
of presenting and the other a synonym
for a gift).
With regards to the low literacy
rates in the UK , the UN Developmen-
tal Programme estimates that the UK
has the same literacy rate as Ireland,
Sweden, Switzerland, France and Ger-
many. On elaborate words, indeed
they can be abused but they have a
definitive meaning. They are created
to more precisely describe something.
Indeed without ‘elaborate’ words, sure-
ly we will end up with Newspeak. As
Orwell wrote in 1946, ‘[language] be-
comes ugly and inaccurate because our
thoughts are foolish, but the slovenli-
ness of our language makes it easier for
us to have foolish thoughts.’
For those who have learned English
as a foreign language, the difficulties
in its initial learning are not with spell-
ing but instead with words, such as set
and get, which have many meanings.
Phonemics gets about 80% of spellings
right so spelling is not really a great is-
sue except with more elaborate words.
English is difficult to master but is
this a bad thing? One of the great fac-
ets of reading is that either we learn
new words and phrases or the writer
expresses a common feeling in a far
more appropriate way than we would
be able. Words such as get (which has
eighty entries under it in the Oxford
English Dictionary) have many mean-
ings which a non native speaker must
become accustomed. The fact that
then the meaning of a clause (such as
‘get up’) is also ambiguous (awake or
arise) adds more confusion.
On phoneticising itself, there are in
the English language (according to the
OED) 27 consonant sounds, 24 vowel
and diphthong sounds and about 25
more adopted from foreign languages.
To suggest phoneticising suggests a
way to write at least 50 distinct letters.
Let us assume that we do phoneticise
the language. By which convention?
Suppose we adhere to Received Pro-
nunciation. The Americans, Austral-
ians, South Africans, New Zealanders,
etc. might adopt their own spellings
(the language is after all now phonet-
ic). Many, especially the British, would
argue that RP should be the standard
phonetic spelling but the fact is that
there are now more English speakers
in the US, India and Nigeria than the
UK. Indeed we also encounter prob-
lems of dialect. If we just tell people
to spell phonetically, Cheryl Cole will
have a completely different way of
spelling almost every word from most
people. Indeed, spelling and grammar
became fixed with the introduction of
printing because it became ridiculous
to keep three or four spellings of each
word. Now with not only dialects with-
in countries but international varieties
of English this problem will be expo-
nentially greater. What would be worse
is if we phoneticise and the rest of the
world does not. The English will write
gibberish while the rest of the world
writes in English. When we read in our
head, we read in our own voices. Thus
attempting to emulate the accent of the
writer or of the intended character to
read a book would be a very difficult
task. Indeed, anyone who has tried
reading Trainspotting can attest this.
Within language, lies the history of
those who speak and spake it. English
is composed of 28% words of French
origin, 25% Norse/Dutch origin and
28% Latin origin. The rest includes
words of Greek origin, words with-
out any particular etymology, proper
name derivatives and others. Not only
this, but someone who speaks another
language can thus pick up parts of the
English language very quickly. This
advantage usually comes from reading
the language changing the spelling of
words will hide their etymology thus
removing this possible advantage.
The causes associated with the Serbian
phoneticisation of Cyrillic do not apply
here ; there is no widespread illiteracy
and there is already a standard conven-
tion for writing particular words. Fixing
an unbroken problem is unnecessary
and in this case probably quite foolish.
Viren Jeram
the bill comes. Is she five? This is what
I really believe to be the problem, Im-
perial Girl is just that – a girl. While all
the women around me desperately try
to distance themselves from the very
body IG claims to represent. IG con-
tinues to be childish, running around
in her ‘fuck-me pumps’ and complain-
ing men won’t sleep with her. Combin-
ing this childish attitude with her idea
that being female and paying for din-
ner is taboo tends to generate certain
preconceptions as to her standing in
society, with many of those around me
coming to some conclusion that fea-
tured the word ‘sloanie’. So at the risk
of looking like an idiot (a risk I often
take) I am going to say that being rich,
or at least spoilt, has not done IG any
favours.
So if you’re reading this, IG, and you
plan to retort, then I welcome what
you have to say. But please remember
I have no issues with women, make
up, paying the bill or the rich. My only
gripe is the increasingly childish way in
which you present yourself; I actually
found your first article quite insight-
ful. Also, if your retort constitutes an
article whereby you declare me an idiot
because you say so and announce you
win.
Then let me save you the time by
saying you win, if only to prevent you
the embarrassment of another A. Geek
styled incident.
“IG then goes on
to suggest her
favourite methods
of running away
when the bill
comes. Is she five?”
You’ll find
there’s more
to LIFE
at KPMG.
Quite simply, things are bigger here. There’s more of everything;
more development, more ambition, more international opportunities
and a lot more work/life balance too.
So, whatever you want from LIFE, visit www.kpmg.co.uk/careers
and find out when we’re visiting your campus.

