science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix Friday 6 February 2009
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mico Tatalovic
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 6 February 2009 felix
Science
Snowball Earth hypothesis says that
ancient Earth experienced periods
of global glaciation when ice sheets
and snow extended all the way to the
Equator.
Last such snowball earth condition
happened some 635 million years ago.
But what exactly triggered snow and
ice to first enslave our planet and then
to melt to create the conditions we are
more familiar with today?
After some 35 years of research that
was suggesting that enormous ice gla-
ciers existed in the tropics, research-
ers finally came up with a possible
mechanism that would had pushed
the planet into snowy conditions.
Snowball Earth could have been
started when the living organisms
used up much of the carbon dioxide
from the atmosphere, which triggered
global cooling and eventually lead to
the entire planet being locked in ice,
including the frozen oceans. This
version of events was published it in
Science back in 1998 by Paul Hoff-
man from Harvard University and
Alan Kaufman from the University of
Maryland in College Park, who. This
event that lasted over 10,000 years
would have resulted in extinction of
many living organisms, most of which
were microbes in those days. Hoffman
and Kaufman suggested the planet de-
frosted thanks to the volcanic activity,
which returned much of the carbon
Is global cooling causing another Ice Age?
The Snowball Earth hypothesis
dioxide back to the atmosphere allow-
ing for global warming.
A more recent paper suggests a
different scenario. A huge release of
methane, a potent greenhouse gas,
may have triggered quick melting of
the last snowball Earth, a study pub-
lished in Nature in May 2008 suggest.
According to the lead author Martin
Kennedy, a geologist at the Univer-
sity of California, Riverside, a similar
abrupt temperature spike could occur
today if abundant methane deposits in
the Arctic permafrost and the conti-
nental margins of the oceans are sud-
denly released.
“I would suggest that this particular
type of feedback is one scenario that
we could be looking at in the future.”
Kennedy told National Geographic
News.
Snowball Earth hypothesis is still
somewhat controversial with scien-
tists coming up with evidence both for
and against it. So for example,
Yonggang Liu and John Crowley,
from Harvard, University co-authored
the paper, published in Nature in 2000
that, for the first time, demonstrated
that while huge deep glaciations did
exist, a large amount of water near the
equator was left unfrozen.
At the time, adherents to the “snow-
ball Earth” theory coined the term
“slushball Earth” to describe Peltier’s
findings.
Also, in 2002 BBC said that “Snow-
ball Earth theory melted” reporting
about a paper published in journal
“Global warming? Looks more like
global cooling to me...” Now how
many times have you heard this one
before? I certainly heard it a few times
this winter, especilly while I was in
Canada for winter vacations.
In fact, back in 1974, Time magazine
published an article “Another ice-age?”
in which it raised concerns about the
global cooling trend observed in tem-
peratures and the negative effects it
would have on people and our civili-
zation. It said “Whatever the cause of
the cooling trend, its effects could be
extremely serious, if not catastrophic.
Scientists figure that only a 1% de-
crease in the amount of sunlight hit-
ting the earth’s surface could tip the
climatic balance, and cool the planet
enough to send it sliding down the
Geology that found some evidence in-
consistent with the theory.
But just this January another study
in Science found one of the predic-
tions of the Snowball Earth confirmed.
road to another ice age within only a
few hundred years.” And it did men-
tion some causes of the global cool-
ing as well, one of them being human
activity: “Man, too, may be somewhat
responsible for the cooling trend.
The University of Wisconsin’s Reid
A. Bryson and other climatologists
suggest that dust and other particles
released into the atmosphere as a re-
sult of farming and fuel burning may
be blocking more and more sunlight
from reaching and heating the surface
of the earth.”
In 1975, NewsWeek magazine pub-
lished a controversial article about
how we’re headed towards another ice
ag, with global cooling taking place.
In 2006 Newsweek published another
article, a web exclusive (something that
didn’t exist back in 1975) remembering
its original global cooling feature, this
time saying “The point to remember...
is that predictions of global cooling
never approached the kind of wide-
spread scientific consensus that sup-
ports the greenhouse effect today.” and
ending jokingly “Al in all, it’s probably
just as well that society elected not to
follow one of the possible solutions
mentioned in the NEWSWEEK article:
to pour soot over the Arctic ice cap, to
help it melt.” [!!]
It is quite ironic then that now we are
trying to escape the global warming,
this time definitely taking place and
definitely caused by us.
And global cooling isn’t something
to worry about anymore, it’s in fact
a ‘catch-all’ phrase for various ways
we could intervene further with the
climate to try and reverse the global
warming.
Wired magazine reported just last
week that “Many global cooling ap-
proaches have been floated. The broad
range of the proposals — from inject-
ing the upper atmosphere with sun-
blocking particles to creating plankton
blooms by feeding them extra iron to
burying carbon-filled “biochar” in soil
— has made comparing them very dif-
ficult.” and that a new study published
in the journal Atmospheric Chemistry
and Physics by earth scientists Tim
Lenton and Naomi Vaughan of East
Anglia University in England found
“By 2050, only stratospheric aerosol
injections or sunshades in space have
the potential to cool the climate back
toward its pre-industrial state.”
So perhaps we should just enjoy this
localcoolingandallthesnowitbrought
to us this week and keep in mind that
global warming is the real bad guy to
pursue these days.
Mico Tatalovic
Science Editor
Mico Tatalovic
Was Earth once entirely under snow and ice?
Large parts of Europe and North America were covered by ice
during the last ice age, some 12,000 years ago.
If Snowball Earth ever existed, we cer-
tainly got the feel of what it might have
been like earlier this week.
Perhaps a good way of comparing
to what Snowball Earth looked like
would be looking at Saturn’s frozen
moon Enceladus. It is an inner most
Saturn’s moon with atmosphere, fro-
zen ocean and average temperature of
-200 degree Celsius.
1975 NewsWeek article about global cooling.
Eight inches of snow caused London
to come grinding to a halt on Monday.
Pens and keyboards were discarded as
people picked up snowballs for an epic
battle on Queen’s lawn. Mayor Boris
Johnson quipped “Well, it was the
right kind of snow... in the wrong kind
of quantities”.
So why did we have the worst snow
for 18 years? There are several effects
which contributed.
Firstly the jet stream was further
South than usual, because of a large
area of high pressure over Northern
Europe (see pressure map). This same
high pressure system allowed cold
wind from the east to blow across the
UK, as winds like to follow lines of
constant pressure. These cold dense
winds from northern Europe met the
air warmed by the Atlantic, cooling it
and as the air cooled water vapor con-
densed and fell as snow.
Predicting the movements of these
areas of high pressure is notoriously
difficult. Sometimes they can be
stationary for weeks and are termed
‘blocking highs’.
Similar conditions normally cause
snow to falls on Scotland, as the jet
stream is usually further north. The
same high pressure system over north-
ern Europe would then cause chilly,
but dry conditions.
“The year it reminds me of most at
present was 1962/1963. There we had
the same pattern of a lot of the winter
with the wind coming off the conti-
nent, instead of off the Atlantic and so
it was colder. But in 1962/1963 it was
a lot colder than this year so perhaps
that is telling us something.” Brian
Hoskins, Director of the Grantham
Institute for Climate Change.
The movements of the jet stream
are often to blame for unusual weath-
er. The flooding last summer can be
linked to the jet stream moving south.
“On longer timescales there is some
evidence that climate change is tend-
ing to force the average latitude of
the jet stream, and thus the Atlantic
storm tracks, slightly further north re-
sulting in warmer and wetter winters
in N. Europe and drier conditions in
southern Europe. The current situa-
tion, however, just shows how hugely
variable the climate is!” says Jo Haigh,
Professor of Atmospheric Physics”
The jet stream flows about 10km
above the earth, between the tropo-
sphere and stratosphere. It forms at
the boundary between the cold polar
air to the north and the warm sub-
tropical air to the south. In the scarce
On Monday why did we have the worst (best!)
snow for 18 years?
Chimpanzee (and media) politics
Two new studies published this week
claimed to shed light on our under-
standing of chimpanzee social lives.
The first, a 10 year study (published in
the American Journal of Primatology)
at Gombe National Park, Tanzania,
found that smaller male chimps rely on
building coalitions to rise to the top of
hierarchies. The researchers, from the
Jane Goodall Institute at the University
of Minnesota, followed three different
alpha males from 1992 to 2001 and re-
corded the amount of social behaviour
shown by each.
Frodo, the largest male at 51kg, re-
lied almost entirely on physical ag-
gression and rarely returned groom-
ing favours; Wilkie, a relative weed
at just 37kg, had to work on gaining
broad support by obsessively groom-
ing everyone, male and female; and
Freud (44kg) used a combination of
the two strategies.
While chimps have been known to
be political animals for a long time
(Frans de Waal’s 1982 book ‘Chim-
panzee Politics’ catalogued the power
struggles, scheming and backstabbing
in a group of zoo chimps) this is one
of the first wild studies to find such a
clear link between body size and so-
cial behaviour. While it is tempting
to draw parallels between their be-
haviour and our own – talk of Machi-
avellian apes and dumb brutes and
comparisons to various world leaders
being all too common in the popular
press – the authors caution against
such lazy generalisations. Indeed,
one of the prime difficulties with wild
ape studies is their woeful replication
count (can you really take anything
with confidence from a sample size of
three?).
The second chimp story of the week
was right up the Daily Mail’s street. A
University of Portsmouth psycholo-
gist, Prof Kim Bard, worked with 46
orphaned or neglected chimp infants
at the Yerkes National Primate Re-
search Centre in Atlanta. Her findings
are interesting on two counts. First,
young chimps are better adjusted
when raised with ‘responsive care’,
psychobabble for a mother’s touch.
In Prof Bard’s words, they were “less
easily stressed, less often attached to
‘comfort blankets’, had healthier re-
lationships with their caregivers and
were less likely to develop stereotypic
rocking.”
Cue much talk of the importance of
family, broken Britain, etc. in the tab-
loids. Second, her results appeared to
show that young chimps outperform
human babies in cognitive tests up to
around 9 months. We will no doubt
see headlines bemoaning the current
state of schooling in our broken soci-
ety, and how young babies are allowed
access to knives and drugs at far too
early an age.
The fact of the matter is, neither of
these studies is particularly ground-
breaking. Desmond Morris was talk-
ing about human “grooming talking
– the meaningless, polite chatter of
social occasions” back in the 1960s,
and it has been known for some time
that young chimps, as well as goril-
las and orang-utans, are better at
problem-solving than young humans.
This is simply an evolutionary result
of their (relatively) harsh environment
of upbringing.
What is most dismaying is the pre-
dictable reaction of the media, to latch
Felix Whitton
Daniel Burrows
atmosphere at that height, there is
not much to slow the winds, and they
have been measured at speeds of up to
400mph.
Planes therefore obviously would
like to use the streams, to save both
time and fuel. However the edges
of the streams are often very turbu-
lent and can cause difficult to predict
‘Clear Air Turbulence’ (CAT). CAT
is to blame for at least two airplane
incidents. United Airlines Flight 826
dropped 100 feet suddenly, but luckily
managed to make an emergency land-
ing with only one fatality.
Food for thought, but on a hap-
pier note Carol Vorderman, the ex-
Countdown maths supremo, claimed
enough snow fell in Britain yesterday
for everyone in the country to make a
quarter of a million snowballs each.
Meteorology of this week’s snow storm.
Not chimpanzees at all, but clearly smart. These wild macaques in
Japan escape the cold snow by bathing in hot springs.
their anthropomorphic tentacles onto
anything ‘cutesy’ that our closest rela-
tives do – “Ooh look, they can drink
tea out of china cups!” – while selec-
tively ignoring our ancestry when they
do something less savoury (for exam-
ple, cannibalism or group hunting).
This desire to pick and choose at
will seems to echo the general public’s
distrust of science and, in particular,
evolution (that is, if you believe a du-
bious but well-publicised recent poll).
All very ironic given that an emi-
nent birthday and anniversary is fast
approaching.
10
More macaques just chillin’

