12 felix Friday 6 February 2009
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science
Concentrating less could actually help
improve memory recall, in patients
with confabulation, a type of memory
disorder where ‘false memories’ are
unintentionally created. According to a
new study by the Centre for Studies and
Research in Cognitive Neuroscience at
the University of Bologna, confabula-
tions can be reduced by distracting at-
tention away from a memory task
Unlike people with some types of
memory loss, confabulators are not in-
tentionally creating memories to cover
up the embarrassment of memory
loss. Instead, they are not aware that
they have created false memories; this
makes sufferers vulnerable as they can-
not distinguish between real memories
and their confabulations. The condi-
tion can be caused by brain damage
to the prefrontal cortex. Dementia, a
type of memory loss often associated
with Alzheimer’s disease, can result in
confabulation. Another cause can be
the severe malnourishment that re-
sults from repeated continued alcohol
dependence. It is specifically vitamin
B1 (thiamine) deficiency which also
can lead to this confabulatory memory
disturbance.
Dr Elisa Ciaramelli and her research
team carried out a study involving
patients with lesions in the prefron-
Scientists have developed a math-
ematical model to explain why dating
can be a drawn out process, claiming
that dating statistically gives females a
better chance of successfully evaluat-
ing males as suitable sexual partners.
The researchers used game theory
to construct a dating game, allowing
them to investigate the strategies men
and women employ during the dating
process. The game only ends when the
female agrees to mate or when one of
the parties gives up.
Professor Robert Seymour, Universi-
ty College London, one of the authors
of the study suggests that the findings
“may help explain the commonly held
belief that a woman us best advised
not so sleep with a man on the first
date.”
The model classifies men as either
“good” or “bad”, where bad males are
those who are less likely to care for
children after mating. Good males are
prepared to court the female for long-
er than their bad counterparts. Men
score points if they mate with any
female, whereas women only score if
they mate with one of the good males.
The results suggest that women ben-
efit from a longer courtship process,
not only because they have more time
to assess the man but also because bad
mating partners are more likely to give
up earlier.
The co-author of the study Dr Peter
Sozou, London School of Economics,
explains: “The strategic problem the
female faces is how to screen out bad
males, and this is where long courtship
comes into play. A male is assumed to
Think less, remember
better?
New research published this week
in the journal Neuron suggests that
newborn brain cells ‘time-stamp’ our
memories providing them with a time-
code unique to all memories formed
around the same time.
Until now, scientists struggled to
explain why we tend to remember
things that happened at the same time
more easily than events that occurred
at different times. For example, when
you think about a movie that you saw
a few weeks ago, you are also likely
to remember the cafe you went to
afterwards.
Brad Aimone, a neuroscientist from
the University of California, San Di-
ego, and his colleagues set out to ex-
plain why a certain part of the brain,
the dentate gyrus, continuously pro-
duces new cells.
“At least one percent of all cells in
the dentate gyrus are immature at any
given time” says Aimone. “Intuitively
we feel that those new brain cells have
to be good for something, but nobody
really knows what it is.”
They plugged all the existing biolog-
ical data about these cells into a com-
puter programme designed to simu-
late the neural circuits in the dentate
gyrus. The results showed that these
young cells were easily excited by all
the incoming information that they
were forming into new memories at
the time; however, as they matured
they assumed their fixed place in the
memory circuitry and did not respond
to new information.
This means that independent events
that have nothing else in common but
the fact that they take place around
the same time become linked because
they all stimulate the same young
brain cells that are storing memories
of those events.
The team concludes that “By labe-
ling contemporary events as similar,
new neurons allow us to recall events
from a certain period.”
tal lobe, including patients with and
without confabulation, and healthy
individuals. In two experiments they
found that memory retrieval was bet-
ter in confabulators when they were
only allowed diverted attention on the
task. Distracting attention it seemed
reduced false memory creation, hence
reducing mistakes amongst the con-
fabulators. The Italian research team
believe, the confabulators over-process
irrelevant information leading to false
memory retrieval. So by paying less at-
tention during memory processing, the
memories are less likely to ‘go wrong’.
The findings that were published
in February edition of the journal
Cortex could pave the way forward
for new cognitive treatments to train
confabulating.
Paving memory
lane
always want to mate with a female, but
a good male is more willing to pay the
cost of a long courtship in order to
“A good male is more willing to pay the cost of long courtship in order
to claim the prize of mating”
Researchers have captured images of
bleeding inside the human heart after
a heart attack the first time.
The research shows that the extent
of bleeding after a heart attack can in-
dicate how damaged a person’s heart
has become. The researchers, from
the Clinical Sciences Centre at Impe-
rial College London, hope that this
kind of imaging will be used with ex-
isting tests to assess a patient’s chanc-
es of recovery. Dr Declan O’Regan
from the Clinical Sciences Centre
said: “We hope that this will help us
to identify which patients are at most
risk of complications following their
heart attack.”
The researchers captured images
of bleeding inside the heart of 15 pa-
tients who had recently suffered a
heart attack, using Magnetic Reso-
nance Imaging (MRI). The MRI scan-
ner could detect the bleeding because
of the magnetic effects of iron which is
present in blood. Analysis of the scans
revealed that the amount of bleeding
correlated with how much damage
the heart muscle had sustained. Those
patients who develop bleeding inside
their damaged muscle have a poorer
chance of recovery.
The small study, published in the
journal Radiology on 19 January, of-
fers new insights into the damage that
heart attacks can cause. But it is not
yet known how significant the bleed-
ing is. Dr Stuart Cook, the study’s sen-
ior author said: “We still have a lot of
unanswered questions about whether
the bleeding itself may cause further
damage to the heart muscle and this is
an area that needs further research.”
The research was funded by the
Medical Research Council, the Brit-
ish Heart Foundation and the Depart-
ment of Health, UK.
Bleeding hearts revealed by
scan
Umia Kukathasan
Mico Tatalovic
Science Editor
Louisa Garnier
Bell Seth
Scientists to explain the
benefits of dating
Less concentration=better memory?
The colored area on this MRI scan shows a cross-section of the heart
muscle, with the area of bleeding shown in red. Credit: Imperial
College London
claim the prize of mating.”
The research is published this month
in the Journal of Theoretical Biology.

