politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 felix Friday 6 February 2009
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 6 February 2009 felix
Politics
Iraq: A promising Arab democracy?
Hassan Joudi
International Editor
The news coming out of Iraq is of a
more positive nature these days. Iraqis
exercising their right to vote were vis-
ible once again on Saturday 31st Janu-
ary 2009 when they went to the polls
in local government elections. They
brandished their purple-stained fingers
to the cameras as they left the polling
centres having cast their vote for one of
14,000 candidates, 4,000 of whom are
female, who were competing for only
440 seats in local provincial councils.
For the last few weeks, Iraq’s streets
have been awash with campaign post-
ers from over 400 political parties ad-
vertising their candidates. It is a far cry
from the last election in 2005 where
most candidates were too scared to
put their faces on campaign posters,
for fear of terrorists knowing who they
were, instead campaigning under their
party list. Now TV stations have been
filled with politicians debating in per-
son, vying for the votes of viewers. It
is an even further cry from the show
elections of 1995 and 2002, when then-
President Saddam Hussein was re-
elected with 99.96% of the vote.
Last week’s elections were an im-
portant test for the country’s young
democratic political system which
was established after the US invasion
in 2003. The period of campaigning
was relatively violence-free with only
five candidates killed and election
day itself took place without any ma-
jor bloodshed. UN observers said that
procedures were good, and the aver-
age turnout was 51%, lower than the
76% seen in 2005. Of course there have
been claims of violent intimidation
and cash handouts for bribes in some
areas, and despite the plethora of can-
didates, the five major political parties
with the most funding dominated at-
tention. But by adopting democracy,
Iraq has adopted its virtues as well as
its vices.
These provincial elections have also
been seen as a precursor to national
elections to be held at the end of 2009,
which will mark the completion of a
full four year term of Prime Minister
Nouri al-Maliki’s government which
was formed after the last national elec-
tion in December 2005. Good results
for political parties now will foretell
good results in the coming national
elections too. Many never thought
Maliki’s government would last its
full term, predicting its collapse in the
face of numerous crises during the last
three years.
There are those within Iraq and out-
side it, who have criticised Maliki and
his government, calling them ‘puppets
of the Americans’. The USA invaded
Iraq in 2003 and installed a regime that
was friendlier to its oil-related inter-
ests in the region they argue. Let’s look
at what Maliki had to say about the
recent conflict in Gaza: “All Arab and
Muslim countries should cancel their
diplomatic relations and stop all con-
tacts – public and private – with this
[Israel’s] murderous regime.” Earlier
in 2007 Senator Hillary Clinton (now
US Secretary of State) called for Maliki
to be removed from office, to which
Maliki hit back by saying Democratic
senators were acting as if Iraq was
“their property” and that they should
“come to their senses” and “respect
democracy”.
Conversely Nouri al-Maliki has
also been criticised for acting like an
autocrat by establishing himself as a
strongman, leading to comparisons
being drawn between his government,
and the previous one of Saddam Hus-
sein. For Maliki it seems like a case of
“you’re damned if you do and you’re
damned if you don’t.” If he is receiving
criticism from both sides, he must be
doing something right.
Democracy in Iraq is still develop-
ing of course; its 25 million inhabitants
had never experienced such a system
of governance before 2003. Living
memory consisted of 35 years of dic-
tatorship by Saddam Hussein and his
Ba’ath party. Iraqis got used to fearing
the police and other security forces,
journalists were not accustomed to
the concept of criticising the govern-
ment and civil servants were used to
giving and receiving favours and other
corrupt practices. In short the whole
political culture in Iraq was turned on
its head after 2003 and the democratic
system cannot be expected to function
perfectly straightaway.
That said a remarkable amount of
progress has been made in the almost
six years since the fall of Saddam. For
example30%ofMembersofParliament
are women, as required by the mini-
mum quota of 25% stipulated by the
constitution – that’s a higher percent-
age than in the US Congress and UK
House of Commons. In neighbouring
Kuwait women only received the right
to vote and stand for election in 2005,
and even then not a single woman won
a seat in their last elections; other Arab
countries average 10%.
The fact is that Iraq is only the sec-
ond democratic Arab state, the first
being Lebanon. Men like Hosni Mu-
barak of Egypt, King Abdullah of Jor-
dan or the Sheikhs of the various Gulf
States don’t have to worry about win-
ning elections. Other Arab states have
secretly delighted in seeing Iraq mired
in daily suicide and car bombs which
peaked in 2007. It reassured them that
a Shia-dominated government in the
region will be short-lived and served
some of their anti-American agendas
as they could point to Iraq and say to
their people – “this is what democracy
and freedom brings, you don’t want
that here.” But with the reduction in
violence since early 2008, this is no
longer the case. The so-called purple
revolution, a reference to the ink-stains
marking the index fingers of Iraqi vot-
ers, in this election and past elections
after 2003, is making the autocrats and
dictators of the Arab world shaky and
increasing the calls for change from
their people.
Outside of politics, improvements
are visible in many areas of Iraqi so-
ciety. Now instead of contracts being
given to foreign companies to build
presidential palaces and supply mili-
tary equipment, there are contracts
for infrastructure like roads and power
stations. In December 2008 the Min-
istry of Electricity placed an order to
Siemens for 16 gas turbines for new
power stations. During the period of
violence, the only businesses that were
flourishing were coffin-makers and
concrete manufacturers (to make blast
walls). Now that a degree of security
has returned to the streets, small busi-
nesses and shops are starting to pick
up where they left off, boosting the
local economy. Regular international
flights have recently begun operating
from Baghdad Airport again, Kurdish
cities like Erbil are implementing mas-
sive reconstruction projects and over-
all a degree of normality has returned
to many areas.
Admittedly Iraq still faces dozens of
problems. There are still car bombs
and the security situation is still meas-
ured by the number of civilians killed
per month. Public services, especially
in health, education and sanitation,
still suffer from years of neglect. There
is also the danger of the US military not
keeping to its promises in the With-
drawal/Status of Forces agreement.
Despite these challenges, the progress
of the past few years – as symbolised by
last week’s elections – is a strong sign
of a bright future for ordinary Iraqis.
American soldier passes a wall covered in posters in Baghdad’s hotel district, promoting the recent elections
Few thought that Nouri al-Maliki’s government would last their four year-term in the face of criticism
Peer attacks our freedom of speech
Parliament as an entity and political
institution which has developed over
hundreds of years and out of time has
grown into two houses; the House of
Lords and the House of Commons.
The history of the House of Lords dates
back to the late 12th century when the
kings of old required some advice on
what to do with England. As a result
councils were held with the barons and
archbishops and it is the latter, which
in this context, is important. Today in
2009, Lord Ahmed, the only Muslim
peer in the House of Lords, has man-
aged to threaten his fellow house into
submission over matters spiritual. Not
even when England withdrew from
the then-mighty Catholic Church in
1534, through the Acts of Supremacy,
did Parliament falter – whose liber-
ties have been forged through centu-
ries of religious intolerance. Yet when
one intolerant Muslim peer decides to
admonish the entire corps of Lords,
they succumb... In the words of King
George III “What? – What?”
A member of the House of Lords en-
joys the same freedoms which are be-
stowed upon a member of the General
Public, those of freedom of expression,
freedom of association and other more
specific parliamentary privileges in
place to protect their function in the
legislature. It must have come as quite
a surprise to one of the Lords when she
found out that Lord Ahmed threatened
to take her to court because of one of
her devious deeds. The Lord in ques-
tion had invited a fellow parliamentar-
ian from the Netherlands to a private
viewing of his ‘documentary’ with her
colleagues followed by discussion and
debate.
The Dutch MP in question was
Geert Wilders, writer of the controver-
sial ‘documentary’ Fitna – a ‘documen-
tary’ of 17 minutes in length which
features a selection of Suras from the
Qur’an, interspersed with media clips
and newspaper clippings showing and
describing acts of violence or hatred
by Muslims in reference to the Suras.
The intent of the feature was to dem-
onstrate that the Qur’an and Islamic
culture in general incites violence.
The sheer bigotry and extreme bias of
Mr. Wilders aside; the ‘documentary’ is
not in question here but the actions of
a member of Parliament. Lord Ahmed
raised nothing short of hell, for reasons
yet to be disclosed, when he discovered
that the Lord in question was going to
privately screen Fitna in the House of
Lords with her colleagues – possibly
he was not invited and wanted to make
his feelings known. Nonetheless Lord
Ahmed is reported to have “threatened
to mobilise 10,000 Muslims to prevent
Mr. Wilders from entering the House
and threatened to take the colleague
who was organising the event to court.”
Aside from this statement transmitting
disturbing waves of Stalinism, Lord
Ahmed appears to have forgotten that
his own government passed the, al-
beit draconian and arbitrary, Serious
Organised Crime and Police Act 2005
(sections 132 to 138) which banned all
unlicensed protests outside of West-
minster. Thus even if Lord Ahmed
managed to assemble ‘10,000 Muslims’
to prevent Mr. Wilders from entering
Westminster, it is questionable if he
would get a license to prevent a demo-
cratically elected MP of the Nether-
lands, entering the governing house of
Great Britain as a guest of a baroness,
one wonders what he would put on the
application form. Possibly it is implied
but for the sake of distinctness, the
screening has been cancelled.
Lord Ahmed is manifesting a no-
tion of Divine Right. His execution of
the Labour peerage is laudable; he is
one of the founding members of The
World Forum whose aim is “to become
a global platform for World Peace,
where discussions are held with a view
to promote a “Dialogue among civili-
zations” and with the hope of build-
ing bridges of understanding among
people, cultures, religions, and civili-
zations based on principles of mutual
respect, tolerance and human values,
and justice.” Why this does not apply
to the British Parliament remains an
enigma. On the contrary, Lord Ahmed
is not concerned to protect freedom of
expression or freedom of speech but
to stifle debate and ensure that Parlia-
ment only engages exclusively in dou-
ble-speak. Alas the last line of defence
for the baroness remained the Lords
Spiritual. It was hoped that they might
enter the melee, it was hoped that they
might defend the rights of the House
to extend an invitation to anyone
whom they so wish, even a democrati-
cally elected foreign MP. Their silence
is deafening. They no longer believe
anything strongly for fear of causing
offence and to the eyes of men it was
thus unveiled who the true cowards
were and are forevermore to be.
So, finally when Parliament could
not be shamed further, the noble Lord
Ahmed went to the Pakistani press to
boast about his achievement; he had
successfully curtailed the two corner
stones of a liberal democracy; freedom
of speech and freedom of association,
and this he calls “a victory for the Mus-
lim community.”
Neil Dhir
The Houses of Parliament in Westminster have been under much scrutiny by the public and the media recently especially within the House of Lords.
An insight by our Politics correspondent into the controversial inner-workings of the House of Lords

