arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 6 February 2009 felix
Arts
16 felix Friday 6 February 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
M
onday the second of
February dawned,
yielding snow, fewer
cars and eerily lack-
ing ubiquitous red
double-deckers which left the city with
a somewhat post-apocalyptic feel – al-
beit a calm, peaceful, pretty one.
It was the same morning on which
the press view for the Tate Britain’s
Triennial exhibition, Altermodern, was
held – the white, blank canvas of Lon-
don symbolising perfectly the oppor-
tunity for a new wave of contemporary
art which the exhibition is celebrating
and exploring.
The curator, Nicolas Bourriaud, has
spent the last two years painstakingly
interviewing artists and visiting their
studios in search of this new breed of
art which is springing up as post-mod-
ernism recedes. Rosie Milton will re-
view the Tate Triennial exhibition here
next week.
Trajectories, as opposed to destina-
tions, are a unifying theme in the ex-
hibition and one which is beginning
to spring up in other exhibitions, too.
Indian Highway at the Serpentine Gal-
lery explores this theme of travel and
displacement in India.
Although only dealt with in terms
of India, the ideas put across sum up
the globalisation occurring through-
out the world and all the travelling that
takes place as a result of this. Theme
aside, this exhibition is a must-see on
account of the sheer beauty and origi-
nality of the works contained in such a
small space. Highly recommended for
anyone seeking an exotic and exciting
alternative to concrete and rain. The
Serpentine is five minutes from Impe-
rial, in Kensington Gardens, and is free
to boot.
But for this week, Arts has some
reviews that will banish the winter
blues for when the snow disappears.
We have a distinctly vernal theme this
week with a book review set in a hot
summer in Brooklyn and a theatre re-
view by Emilie Beauchamp of one of
Shakespeare’s best loved comedies, A
Midsummer Night’s Dream.
In addition to this we have a preview
of the Sadler’s Wells production, Eon-
nagata, where we sent Jessica Bland to
report back and enlighten us on con-
temporary dance in London – watch
out for next week’s review of Canadian
dance troupe’s show, Traces, too.
Thank you once more for the huge
amount of enthusiasm we have re-
ceived to cover all manner of shows and
exhibitions. Keep it coming: culture (in
moderation if exams are looming) is a
brilliant alternative to studying.
Email us at arts.felix@imperial.
ac.uk for requests and to send us your
reviews.
A white blank
page
Love, fun and frolics in the Forest
Emilie Beauchamp resists winter’s chill with a succesful modern adaption of Shakespeare’s MSND
F
or the past three years, the
Novello Theatre has hosted
the Royal Shakespeare Com-
pany for its winter program,
revisiting the classics of this
proclaimed playwright. As the first
play (to be followed shortly by The
Taming of the Shrew), the RSC presents
A Midsummer Night’s Dream in all its
flamboyant comedy and ridiculous-
ness, marvellously played by the whole
cast.
Whilst Shakespeare’s plays have
proven over and over again to be time-
less, almost eternal, it is always a relief
to see such a play enshrined in a con-
temporary setting without the loss of
the traditional touches of Shakespeare’s
time, language included. In fact, many
have tried to reinvent and reintegrate
Shakespeare into the modern world be-
cause of the everlasting topics his plays
address but few have really succeeded
in creating effectively something with
the proper effect. On most accounts,
Gregory Doran’s A Midsummer Night’s
Dream can be counted within these
few. Accents suitable to Shakespeare’s
time are used and all verses are kept
in, matched with good intonation and
pronunciation for those unused to
the old style of English. The magic of
the woods at the border of a modern
Athens is perfectly presented in a set-
ting of light bulb-lit nocturnal skies
and elevating moon crescents, with a
large mirror at the back reflecting all
the actors and spectators creating the
illusion the entire forest is alive but
also working as a witness to the play’s
moral and emotional symmetry. The
costumes are just as well-designed,
the Athenians dressed in smart busi-
ness suits and cocktail dresses whilst
the fairies parade a mix of punky-trash
ensembles, along with voodoo-esque
puppet-mimics of themselves. All of
this confers true personalities to each
of the characters as soon as they step
on the scene and astonishingly every-
thing is very well performed through-
out the long tirades of the play and
even includes some accompanying
songs and dances.
This can easily be explained by the
all-star cast performing; from Peter de
Jersey’s powerful and God-like Oberon
to Andrea Harris’ passionate Titania,
without forgetting Shakespeare-learnt
Edward Bennett playing a sincere
Demetrius, it was set to be a stellar
evening.
With a range of discussion includ-
ing Indian babies, love, friendship,
drama, treachery and a crew of at
least 20 actors, A Midsummer Night’s
Dream could sound like a confusing
Bollywood love story, but after the
first scenes direction is established and
maintained until the last minute of the
show... three hours later! If the play
is a delight and enchantment for the
first two hours, one wonders why risk
to overstretch its success by enduring
even more languishing Hermia or ri-
diculous Bottom who makes us laugh
so much. The last scene is still very
amusing, but one notices more easily
the continuous physical representa-
tion of all the wordy imageries of the
text; the “moon” is accompanied by all
staring at the sky, reference to “love” is
never pronounced without all six lov-
ers looking automatically lost in each
other’s eyes... Great acting or overem-
phasised emotional depth? In the end,
one could have skimmed off these ex-
tra theatrical moments, though none
of them really affect the overall result
of the play.
Revisiting such a classic is definitely
warming up the ghastly winter and one
would wish the fairies’ touch to linger
in your mind for a little longer. If it
can be afforded, A Midsummer Night’s
Dream is definitely one of London’s
must-sees of this year so far.
On at the Novello Theatre until
7th February Andrea Harris (Titania) and Peter de Jersey (Oberon)
He loves me, he loves
me not. He loves me!
W
riter. Mother. Mu-
sician. Lover. Fight-
er. Thinker. Poet.
Gemma Weekes
appears as all this
and more after reading her first novel,
Love Me, published this month. Do not
let the fact that a bright, young, female
musician/poet ‘transitioning’ into
writing prose (especially that concern-
ing love and romance) fool you into
thinking this will be anything short of
beautiful; anything other than potent,
for this is anything but chick lit.
Chick lit, the romance novel, trash
(call it what you will) has received a bad
name and for good reason, too. Bridget
Jones’ Diary spurred on a generation
of literary works continually rehash-
ing the same old theme of disappoint-
ing men, remorse at overindulgence
and the woes of one’s dreary career. It
would be a pity if Love Me were to be
associated with this brand of fiction.
The subject of love is indeed where
the roots of this story lie but is also
the fuel which sets ablaze a gripping
story that pulls you into the grey drab
of London then flings you into a sticky,
hot summer in Brooklyn whilst occa-
sionally shuttling you to-and-from St
Lucia, as you live through protagonist
Eden’s obsessions, pains and cathar-
sis as she battles an ongoing infatua-
tion with first love, Zed, and comes to
terms with horrors from that first sum-
mer with Zed.
Weekes magics up every sight, sound,
smell, touch and even taste in her own
unique way – descriptions which con-
sist of only a few words yet manage to
echo much louder.
She has the true nature of a poet and
breaks apart conventional ways of us-
ing words: sounds waft, light is loud,
humid nights overflow. Love is like a
drug, with Eden being drawn in “like
a crack dealer attracts stinking, wild
eyed cats.” The author’s refusal to ‘sug-
ar-coat’ love and put romance in com-
fortable terms, for example her disre-
gard of the expected similes, puts this
Gemma Weekes harkens back to first loves in her first novel,
Love Me, reviewed here by Caz Knight
book in its own category of novel.
Blown apart are black stereotypes
with characters such as the tee-total,
brooding, guitar-thrashing Spanish
who abstains from herb yet takes mag-
ic mushrooms to break apart the walls
of reality. Then there is Eden herself,
locked into adulthood yet harbouring
all the hallmarks of teenage awkward-
ness. Through her narrative Weekes
offers insights into the constraints
imposed on black musicians being ex-
pected to conform to a narrow range
of music and also alludes to love’s dark,
macabre side.
The novel is pure sensory escapism
and a sure fire way to ban these winter
blues with much to please both sexes.
You make me feel like dancing...
Jessica Bland gives us a beginner’s introduction to contemporary dance: a fresher, funkier and distinctly
cheaper alternative to your average play or exhibition.
“R
ight foot. Left foot.
Wiggle a bit. Right
foot... Wobble.
Whoops. Step be-
hind – style it out.
And left foot. Just keep nodding. It’s
OK if you just keep nodding, that way
you’re still dancing, still on the beat,
still in the groove.”
Except that you’re not really dancing.
You’re lolling round a dark room on a
Friday night, limbs slightly less under
your control than normal. And what-
ever it might be that led you to be there
(booze, lust, caffeine pills...), it’s mak-
ing you perform the kind of body jolts
that stretch the definition of “dance”
about as far as it will go.
But it’s this form of dancing that many
of us participate in most regularly.
Whether on the dancefloor of one of
London’s array of night-time establish-
ments, or at home on a computer game
dancemat, the bopping-head-whilst-
shuffling-from-one-foot-to-the-other
is the most complex dance move we do
or see. So perhaps this kind of move-
ment isn’t stretching the definition of
“dance” at all – maybe it’s exactly what
we mean by dancing?
I hope not. Dance is a lot more besides;
it’s traditional, social dances like ball-
room or flamenco. It’s a storytelling
artform like ballet or kathak. Each of
these genres has its own technique,
community and often also a wider cul-
tural familiarity. However, there is one
kind of dance amongst these that is
equally well-defined and equally well-
supported, but when asked to define it
most people draw a blank; this is con-
temporary dance.
Contemporary dance is not the same
as modern dance. Modern (and cer-
tain types of jazz) dance are what you
might expect to see on-stage in musi-
cal theatre. Nor is it the same as hip
hop, breaking or ballet. Contemporary
dance traces its roots back to the US
in the early Twentieth Century, when
choreographers started to move away
from the constraints of traditional
ballet.
At about the same time, movements
such as expressionism and cubism
took art further away from its classi-
cal routes. Indeed, the development
of modern art is a pretty good parallel
for the way that contemporary dance
evolved. In much the same way as art-
ists tried to break free from technical
and conceptual constraints and ended
up developing their own techniques
and conceptual frameworks, contem-
porary dance’s struggle has resulted in
several techniques and philosophies of
its own.
These techniques form the backbone
of what is now a burgeoning interna-
tional scene. In London we have The
Place (home to London Contempo-
rary Dance School) which was estab-
lished in the 1960s and has been a
beacon of contemporary dance in Eu-
rope ever since. Even the Royal Opera
House stages occasional contemporary
performance.
This then begs the question: why have
most of us never heard of contempo-
rary dance? And to this there is no
clear answer. You could argue that the
scene built around it is inward look-
ing and doesn’t make enough effort to
reach beyond its current participants:
beyond trained dancers and loyal au-
diences. You could also argue that
contemporary dance is akin not to
modern art in general but only to its
very abstract parts, and so we should
not expect it to be any more widely
known about than the runners-up in
the Turner Prize.
But, whatever the answer, there are
several good reasons to get to know a
bit more about it right now.
The first is that there are several shows
Some impressive feats from French-Canadian dance troupe the 7 Fingers. Their sell-out production Traces is reviewed here next week
on at the moment that manage to com-
bine the artier end on dance with things
like circus, breaking, and thumping
sound systems: making going to see
them less like two hours of Rothko and
more like an episode of Skins.
The second is that dance performances
are generally cheaper (and often short-
er) than mainstream theatre. Whereas
the average theatre ticket in London is
now £30 or more, you can often find
dance tickets for £10 or even £5.
So what, you might say, it’s still not
Fabric on a Friday night.
Well, you’d be wrong. One dance work
is to become part of exactly that Fri-
day night experience. A multimedia
dance installation that contorts the
movements of passerbys will be set up
outside Fabric on selected nights over
the coming months. City of Abstracts
is much like a high-tech fairground
house of mirrors: creating movement
on a screen by distorting the move-
ments of anyone standing in front of it
– much more fun than the warm can of
beer that Fabric queuers normally have
as their amusement.
This installation is part of a new season
of offsite dance events commissioned
by Sadler’s Wells Theatre. Another
highlight of which is Hofesh Shecter’s
gig at The Roundhouse. Award-win-
ning choreographer Hofesh produces
political and gritty works that are al-
ways accompanied by very cool music,
most of which he writes himself. On the
27th and 28th February, he is putting
this music in the limelight when he
puts on the first ever contemporary
dance gigs. 20 musicians and 17 danc-
ers will take over the main space at The
Roundhouse to present a reworking of
two of his current works.
Away from their new, slightly left-field,
offsite programme, the Sadler’s Wells
retains its reputation for accessible
dance, making it a good place to start
if you are thinking about dipping your
toe into the dance world. They often
have cheap ticket offers and also host
events like the annual hip-hop dance
festival Breakin’ Convention. And their
West End venue, The Peacock Theatre,
is currently showing the hugely suc-
cessful Traces, which combines acro-
batics, film and music to create a whole
new brand of circus.
They are also host to one of the most
widely awaited premieres this season.
Opening on the 26th February, Eon-
nogatta is a new collaboration between
Sylvie Guillem, Russell Maliphant and
Robert Lepage. Created and performed
by all three, this piece draws on the
Japanese art of Kabuki to tell the story
of the 18th Century French spy Charles
de Beaumont. What makes it so spe-
cial is that each artist involved is at the
top of their game: Sylvie as a dancer;
Russell as a choreographer; Lepage as
a director. It’s a bit like ‘fantasy league
theatre company’ has come to life. And
when you add costumes by Alexander
McQueen to the team, I can’t help but
get a bit over-excited.
Dance, whether it’s straight-up con-
temporary, an installation piece or fla-
menco, is not just bopping your head
whilst shuffling from one foot to the
other – we all know that. It can also be
a cheaper, edgier and more entertain-
ing alternative to theatre or art. So if
you are looking for a credit-crunch
sized, skinny-jeans friendly arts fix,
then I can’t think of anything better to
recommend.
Further information:
www.sadlerswells.com (video
previews as well as show
bookings)
www.theplace.org (for perform-
ances and great adult dance
classes)
www.danceumbrellla.co.uk (an-
nual autumn dance festival)
Action from Sadler’s Wells: Award-winning choreographer Jasmin Vardimon’s Yesterday

