Page 12 FELIX 6th February, 1969
Only a fivepenny bus ride away
The slums of Notting Hill and North Kensing-
ton breed social and racial tension as they breed
vermin.
The inhabitants crowd into dark, squalid
rooms. Water drips down the wall and collects on
the floor.
Everybody knows.
Few people care.
Even fewer help.
m u m
Li':-:. ;
i
A common sight in the slums of North Kensington and Notting Hill.
In an area of half a square mile in Notting Hill, one child
is injured on the roads every five days because there is
nowhere to play, while the local council has firmly made up
its mind to spend million pounds on a new town hall.
This in itself seems exorbitant.
The only factor which seems to justify this extravagance
is that the council also serves Chelsea which can surely
afford the construction of a luxurious town hall. A few bob
on the rates wouldn't even be noticed.
Only a couple of miles away, people are living in slums
in Notting Hill and North Kensington. I must confess I didn't
realise quite how atrocious the conditions are until I went
up there to see for myself.
I was appalled to see the squalor of their existence.
Families of six people are living in one room, sharing a
kitchen with two other families with a similar arrangement
for the loo in the back yard. Bathrooms simply don't exist.
You think you are badly off with a few damp patches on the
walls; they have wet walls. In the particular room which I
saw, the ceiling was literally falling down about their ears
and the electric lighting was distinctly unsafe. These people
move around from room to room trying to find a slightly
less dilapidated place than the previous one and the poor
kids are shipped about from one school to the next. It is
not really surprising that one generation follows after
another without improvement of circumstances.
The council seems to be doing precious little about this
at present. They will agree to a play area if pressed hard
enough and fork out grants for property improvement.
Improve a room for six people as much as you like, it's still
housing six people !
Reasonable rents
The task of rehabilitation in the area has been, to a certain
extent, undertaken by the Notting Hill Housing Trust, formed
in 1964, an entirely independent organisation financed by
private donations and Shelter. It was the I.C. Carnival
Charity for two years. Property is purchased (with money
borrowed from the council) and converted into flats and
bedsitting rooms, which provide people with dry, sanitary,
adequate self-contained accommodation at reasonable rents.
According to the Housing Manager of N.H.H.T., the people
rehoused in this way lead a much more stable life. Previously
the parents " could not even have a good row in peace ".
I was shown some of the houses in the process of conver-
sion into flats. The alteration inside and out is remarkable :
a bathroom and kitchen or kitchenette in each flat and no
longer any signs of damp. They are now in the process of
erecting a new building containing similar flats and adminis-
trative offices for the N.H.H.T. The majority of the decorat-
ing is carried out by voluntary assistance such as students
from the I.C. O.S.S. The trust even has a rent rebate scheme
for families in dire hardship.
Not 'one of them'
One of the initial problems of the N.H.H.T. was in com-
munication with the inhabitants of these squalid little rooms.
As I walked along the streets I sensed this feeling of
hostility in the people around me. They knew I was not
' one of them', which is something I have never experienced
previously in London. It would have been virtually impos-
sible for me to communicate with the majority of the resi-
dents.
This is probably the root of the problems in negotiations
between the council and the people. To give the council its
due : there is a plan afoot to spend 15 million pounds on a
council rehousing plan in Notting Hill. In connection with
this plan, there was a public meeting the other day which
ended in uproar because the people concerned think " their
future is being taken out of their hands " according to the
welfare officer employed by the N.H.H.T. Then trouble arises
because the council is discouraged, thinking its work is not
appreciated and plans of this description are delayed.
I noticed one block of council flats on my travels, the
most distinctive factor being that there was no provision
'for children in the way of play space. In fact the only
place for a decent game of football in the area I visited
seemed to be in the road. It strikes me that the 3\ million
pounds for the town hall could be well spent on adventure
playgrounds and other recreation grounds.
Hilary Parkinson

