Page 6 F E L I X 6th February, 1969
From a centre
of academic
excellence . . .
^IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII'llllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllH
j§ They come from backgrounds ranging from small African villages with grass-thatched 1
E houses to the technological dream homes of the United States; from the so-called civil- =
i ised West to the hotbed of the emerging third-world. Yet together they are categorised |
i under one catch-phrase—Overseas Students, a phrase which glosses over, and causes 1
= us to forget, the infinite social and political divisions of these students whose only =
= common point is that they do not originate from these shores. §
^^iisi-iiiriiviniiiiiiiifiiiiitiijiiiiiiiiiiiiiiii|]i
In all, the Overseas Students at I.C. come from eighty-five
different countries. As might be imagined these cover a large
part of the world including such diverse (both geographically
and politically) places as Rumania, South Vietnam, Swazi-
land, Eire and Sierra Leone. There are also a number of
Czechoslovak refugee students who were found places after
fleeing from their country following the events of August
1968.
Together the Overseas Students constitute slightly under
a quarter of the total student population of the I.C., with
students from the Commonwealth forming the majority of
the group. The number of postgraduate students is in excess
of the undergraduates by a ratio of almost four : one. Not
surprisingly students from the developed countries form the
majority of those doing postgraduate courses, since the
undergraduate degree courses are that much more numerous
in their own countries. Thus Australia and Canada are
together represented by 79 students, all postgraduates,
whereas Malaysia has 14 postgraduates and 18 undergradu-
ates, and Zambia provides only undergraduates.
Most students have heard of the reputation of I.C. before
they have been confronted with the task of applying to a
University, as an example, a Kenyan student first heard of
I.C. whilst still at secondary school. The British Universities
which have a good reputation abroad differ from country
to country. Thus Newcastle is well known in Greece for its
Marine engineering course, which would obviously be attrac-
tive to a student from ship-building Greece. There seems,
however, to be a group of Oxford, Cambridge and I.C. all of
which are reknowned throughout the world (L.S.E. might
also be included in this group); Oxbridge for its social life
and I.C. because of its excellent academic standard, which
is not, as at Newcastle, restricted to one particular discipline,
and which thus appeals to many different countries.
Despite differences in background, all overseas students
are faced with one similar situation : they are all outsiders
in English society. The way they view this obviously depends
again on their origin : a student from Canada or Australia,
speaking the same language and coming from a not dissimilar
society, finds he is less of an outsider than one from say
Japan. Because of this difference in outlook, most overseas
students tend to be restrained from forming friendships with
English students, and not unnaturally restrict themselves to
mixing with fellow country-men. This reticence is due not
only to the strangeness of the society, but is also effected by
language problems and a general feeling that we do not
do all we can to make them welcome.
When discussing the problem of getting to know an English
student all are agreed on one point; it is more difficult
than getting to know anyone else. Many students compare
this with the position of foreign students in their own
countries, where they are immediately accepted as fellow
students rather than as foreigners. A Czech student, only
recently over here, was especially critical of our sociability
compared to that which he had expected, not only towards
overseas students, but also towards other English students.
He felt, however, that on breaking the ice we tended to be
more genuine in our friendship than his own people.
Narrow-minded, insular
One advantage of being outsiders in our society is that
they are able to level uninvolved criticism. English society
is described variously as " narrow-minded, irrational, soci-
ally stratified and insular ". Overseas students compare this
with the impression they had of this country when living in
their own countries—one of a well educated people willing
to apply rational thought to all their problems. Our politic-
ians are described in terms of being hypocritical and bigoted,
although some overseas students reacted with : " at least
politicians in England don't assume they have a right to
rule as in Africa ".
A great percentage of overseas students are faced with a
problem over and above those of living in an alien society
and speaking a different language, the problem being that
of having a different coloured skin in a society that considers
this unforgiveable. For many such students the first time they
were aware of their colour was when they first came to this
country. An African student: " To read in my first English
newspaper comments on racialism gave me a real shock.
I had never been conscious of being black before and never
expected to find that because of this I would be the object
of racialist marches on the House of Commons. I completely
lost a sense of belonging, and didn't know who would want
to talk to me or who I should talk to." Some coloured
students now feel that, with the obvious ill-feeling felt
towards immigrants, that Enoch Powell's solutions will have
to be accepted if the position is not to emulate that in
America. These people feel that many of those who speak
against Powellism do so merely to impress their friends.
This is particularly felt to be true of the public living in
the South Kensington area. A specific example was quoted
by a coloured student, who, having dinner with a family
living near college was told in a forthright manner : " Of
course, you're just as white as the rest of us really ".
Feeling of confidence .
Living in England does help them to gain a new perspec-
tive of their own society, and of their personal position as a
member of that society as compared to the members of
other countries that they meet. Many students who come
from ex-colonial countries tend to feel inferior to Europeans,
and a period of living in this country helps to remove this
feeling and replaces it with a feeling of confidence. While
adopting those Western values which they find worthwhile,
they are also made aware of the value of their own society
by comparing it, not only with our own, but also with the
many others represented by Overseas Students here. Students
from certain countries are, however, restrained from taking
an active part in politics whilst in this country. In the case of
a few societies, the Chairman and committee members even
have to be ratified by the appropriate Government. This
position is the case where the political situation back in the
home country is such that the Government does not have the
confidence to allow criticism of any kind, they thus feel
it necessary to vet students in this way.
What do students from Overseas do when they have com-
pleted their degree courses ? They almost invariably return
home, apart from those few who are refugees. For a student
from a developed country, the fact that he has had an English
education has no particular relevance over and above the
market value of his degree. For those from the developing
countries though, the fact that they have had a Western
education will mark them as being different from the people
who haven't: there will be a reaction of respect mingled
with a certain fear that living in western society has caused
them to reject the values of their own coutries. Their degree
will also not necessarily mean they will automatically get
the best jobs, although this depends largely on the country
they are returning to; there are still countries where tribes
and race count for more than education.
None of those returning feel any particular need to mimic
all they have found in our own culture, and this is surely
what we would wish.
Words: Malcolm Williamson
I.C. Photograph: John Rogers
i l l
X
. . . to homes
throughout the world

