A
s the “Arab Spring” un-
folded, many Syrians
looked on with envy,
hoping for a chance
to ride the waves of
change. Yet, after a few failed at-
tempts – the first being on February 5
2011 – many had lost hope. However,
no one had envisioned the regime it-
self providing the spark for the revo-
lution.
Syria’s regime has long been known
for its ruthlessness and brutality, and
its people for their calm and peaceful
nature. However, the Assad regime
crossed a line on February 27, which
destroyed the fear barrier in many Syr-
ians. Twenty primary school children
had been arrested and tortured for
writing anti-government graffiti on the
school building. When an attempt to
free their children resulted in the hu-
miliation of the parents by the mayor,
protests erupted in the city with the
chant “death rather than humiliation”
echoing loud in the protests. The re-
gime tried to use brute force to bring
back order, but all that did was cause
anger among Syrians and start coun-
trywide protests.
For the past year the Syrian revolu-
tion has defied all the odds. Many had
predicted its demise very early on, but
it seemed that the more force the re-
gime used, the more determined the
people became. Every attack by the
regime led to more areas joining the
revolution. Every death led to a funer-
al-turned-protest.
The regime intensified its operations
to crackdown on the freedom move-
ment. Deraa, the suburbs of Damascus,
Idlib, Hama and the coastal cities all
faced heavy military operations. The
regime closed off these cities, causing
shortages in water, food, electricity,
and fuel, and systematically detained
and tortured the citizens, in an attempt
to force the people into submission.
But all that was nothing compared to
what Homs went through. The city
was systematically bombed using
artillery shells and multiple missile
launchers; the water, electricity, food,
fuel, and communications were totally
cut off and the army drove people out
of their homes to use them as sniper
dens.
Hospitals became slaughter houses
– injured protesters faced torture and
even death in hospitals, which led to
the formation of field hospitals – make-
shift clinics where doctors treated pa-
tients with rudimentary equipment. It
became a crime to carry medication,
blood bags or medical equipment – an
attempt by the regime to eradicate any
kind of opposition it faced. However,
this was far from sucessful. Jacques
Beres, one of the founders of MSF,
visited one of the field hospitals in
Homs and was surprised at the amount
of work done with the few tools avail-
able to the doctors.
The regime tried to adopt certain
reforms to reduce the intensity of the
protest movement and reduce pressure
on it. However many people saw these
reforms as too little too late, most
never meeting the demands of the
people. The new constitution would
have been very well received if it had
been brought in at the beginning of
the revolution. However, the regime
began by accusing the protesters of
being conspirers, American opera-
tives, Mossad operatives or al-Qaeda
extremists, among many others. It at-
tacked the protests and incarcerated
many activists as it looked to quell the
rebellion.
When that failed, the regime tried
declaring an amnesty but firstly many
of those detained during the revolu-
tion were excluded. Anyway, by the
time the amnesty came protestors had
changed their demands from asking
for freedom to asking for the fall of
the regime.
Finally, the regime tried to pass off
the new constitution as a very worth-
while and forward reform. To be hon-
est I wasted my time reading the full
constitution. It began by lining out
all the rights of the citizens and the
Dulce et Decorum est
Homs’ latest celebrities: Though low in numbers, armed rebels are high in popularity
Got something to say?
Send your articles to
politics.felix@ic.ac.uk
responsibilities of the government to-
wards its citizens. Anyone reading it
would have assumed they were read-
ing a constitution of a country that
fully respected human rights, not one
that at the same moment was carrying
out mass atrocities across the coun-
try. That aside, there were many other
small laws that caused people to have
many objections to the constitution.
Examples of these include: giving the
president two seven year periods in
office that don’t include any previous
time in office, meaning that Bashar
will be in office until 2028, know-
ing how the election process will be.
Secondly, it gave parliamentarians
immunity from law as well as giving
them the right to offer people an am-
nesty from any previously committed
crimes. Many thought that this will
just lead to the same situation as we
have now, where people can do what-
ever they like without fearing any
repercussions. However, the biggest
and most fundamental flaw was the
fact that on the day of the referendum,
POLITICS
FELIX Friday 09 MARCH 2012 11
Basel Chamali argues that there is no peaceful solution in Syria
Homs, Hama and Idlib were heav-
ily attacked and their citizens did not
vote. Regardless of the outcome, the
flaws of the constitution and the time
it came at made many Syrians reject
it out right.
Another possible way out was sug-
gested by Tunisia: give Bashar Al-
Assad immunity and allow him to
seek refuge in Tunisia and so stop
the bloodshed in Syria. This plan
has many flaws. Firstly, the regime
is not only Bashar; taking him out
of the equation will bring his brother
or some other family member in to
fill his place and the situation won’t
change. This family regime has been
in place since 1970, a change to the
figurehead will do little to change the
way it is run. The only way to effec-
tively change the current situation will
be to completely uproot the regime.
That aside, many Syrians, myself in-
cluded, would not accept this sugges-
tion to end the conflict. It is an insult
to the thousands who lost their lives
and others who were affected by the
brutality of the regime. I don’t think
many Syrians can bring themselves
to tell these people, especially the or-
phans who lost their parents, that their
sacrifices were in vain as we have de-
cided to let the culprit go free.
Finally, militarisation, although con-
troversial, is something that many Syr-
ians agree on. The revolution began as
a peaceful movement to gain freedom
from an autocratic, dictatorial and op-
pressive regime. However, people can
only take so much, and after months
of vicious and inhumane attacks on ci-
vilians and after seeing whole families
slaughtered for opposing the regime,
people began losing hope in a peace-
ful resolution and decided to take the
armed route. It began with army de-
fectors creating brigades to defend the
civilians against the attacks from the
regime. Now it has spread to normal
civilians. These freedom fighters are
funded by donations from Syrians
and other friends outside Syria and
buy weaponry one or two rifles at a
time, which then have to be smuggled
into Syria through the border. How-
ever, despite all these restrictions and
limitations, they have become a for-
midable force in many cities that the
regime’s forces fear. Take Homs as an
example. It is well controlled by the
rebels- the army forces bombard the
city from a distance but can hardly
make their way into the city without
fearing an attack that will eliminate
more than half of the group.
Personally, I feel that the only sal-
vation is by force. The regime knows
that it has no way out and is fighting to
the last man, so it would be delusional
of us to think that at some point they
will rethink their strategy. They will
continue to kill and their methods and
manner will only intensify. The free-
dom fighters are growing in numbers
and strength by the day; they were able
to hold off the regime’s attack on Baba
Amr for around a month, protect the
journalists in Homs, and even smug-
gle them out to safety, which is much
more than can be said for their respec-
tive governments. These fighters have
no fear – talking to them fills me with
hope as I see their determination and
strength. Whenever an alternative so-
lution is suggested their response is to
refuse. Their goal is to eradicate the
regime that for years has done nothing
but kill, torture and abuse Syrians.
Regardless of what route the revo-
lution takes or how long it lasts, one
thing is for certain: Syrians have de-
cided on their goal. This regime will
lose this battle; it’s but a matter of
time. The question remains however:
how many Syrians are willing to still
stand by it as it kills their fellow broth-
ers?
“The only salvation is
by force. The regime
knows it has no way
out.”
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk

