New international rail station
Ever since its conception, the future expan-
sion of Heathrow airport has been the topic of
discussion of many a government. Generations
of our ‘representatives’ have used the topic to
their political gain, including the current co-
alition, who opposed the famous 3rd runway
to help them garner support in the leafy west
London suburb of Richmond Park. Now worry
not, this is not an article about government
policy; you’ve had enough of those from me
for a while. Instead, I’d like to take a moment
to outline what is possibly the most exciting,
and vital project for kick-starting the UK’s
failing economy: the Thames Hub.
Proposals for an airport in the Thames es-
tuary have existed since the 1940s, but none
have caught the public attention as much as
the current offering from Foster & Partners.
This is the same firm that brought you Hong
Kong and Beijing Airports, Wembley Stadium
and London City Hall, amongst many other
projects. Widely publicized by Boris Johnson,
Lord Foster’s latest airport in the Thames es-
tuary would be a complete overhaul of trans-
port in the South East, updating vital rail and
road links, and other important infrastructure
including a much needed update of the aging
Thames barrier, and new hydroelectric power
facility. The main argument behind the case for
a Thames Estuary airport lies in the need to
maintain London’s status as a hub airport. This
is an airport where there are a large number of
passengers passing through each year on flight
transfers. This enables the airport to serve a
wider network of destinations and to sustain a
high frequency of services due to the demand
for flights. These transferring passengers allow
more direct flights to more destinations to be
economically viable from London, thus giving
access to cheaper and more frequent services
for UK-based businesses and residents.
Currently, Heathrow handles just under 70
million passengers per year, more than any
other European airport, squeezed into its per-
mitted 480,000 landing and takeoff slots. Back
in the 1990s, Heathrow offered more destina-
tions than any other European airport, yet re-
cently has been faced with increased competi-
tion from hubs in Europe, including Frankfurt
and Amsterdam. These two have 53% and
45% of capacity as transferring passengers,
compared to Heathrow’s 35%. This, along
with the availability of more runways, has al-
lowed them to offer increasingly more destina-
tions and services. Meanwhile, Heathrow has
slipped to fifth in term of destinations offered,
and will continue to slide if nothing is done.
What this means is that the already strug-
gling British economy is set to lose out on a
great deal of new trade and investment, espe-
cially from emerging markets such as Brazil
and China. Studies show that we stand to lose
between £8.6 and £12.8bn of investment as a
result of the limitations posed by Heathrow’s
lack of capacity. New connecting routes are
urgently needed to tap into the vast potential of
these new markets and Heathrow, even with a
new 3rd runway, is not placed to do this.
Projects of this nature are never cheap, and
Boris Island is no exception. Coming in at
£50bn in total, the airport itself holds a price
tag of £20bn and the associated infrastructure
a lofty £30bn. However, to put this in perspec-
tive, a new terminal and runway at Heathrow
would cost at least £9bn. Furthermore, the
plans for the Thames Hub include sourcing
much of the funding from private investors,
thus relieving the burden on the Treasury cof-
fers. Put simply, although an expensive option,
it is by no means fiscally unachievable, even in
the current economic climate.
Promo shots for the latest Grand Theft Auto game were met with a lukewarm critical response
FELIX
Friday 09 MARCH 2012
12
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business & Finance Editors: Will Prince
Deepka Rana
BUSINESS & FINANCE
Whose line is it anyway?
Everyone knows success in business is all about
the chat (cough, cough). Below are five faces from
the business world along with quotes from them.
But, using a complex algorithm we’ve jumbled
them up. Can you work out the source of each of
these pearls of business wisdom?
More Airports for the UK?
The main opposition to this plan, as with any
airport expansion, is found amongst the ranks
of the environmentalists. The chosen location
is apparently the home of some birds, which
run the risk of falling out with their man-made
flying cousins should the plans go ahead. How-
ever, are we seriously advocating that the wel-
fare of a few birds should stand in the way of
the continued recovery of the British ecoomy?
Also, I understand that Heathrow’s current
neighbors find it rather grim living in its flight
path. It seems simply ludicrous that we as a
society should put the lives of a few birds in
ahead of the living standards of our citizens.
Unfortunately, we live in an increasingly bu-
reaucratic state, where projects of this nature
move from committee to committee without
various governmental bodies at a glacial pace.
Take the recently opened Heathrow Terminal
5: it took 20 years to progress from its de-
sign conception to its eventual opening, and it
wasn’t even a particularly ambitious plan. In
contrast, Beijing airport’s Terminal 3 took just
over four years to be ready.
The rapid expansion currently taking place
in China is fueling continued growth and
Beijing Airport, as the second busiest in the
world, has already been deemed by the central
government as at capacity. Work has already
started on what will be the world’s biggest
airport, with a capacity of 130 million, and a
breathtaking 9 runways. And furthermore, they
plan to accomplish this all in time for a 2017
opening.
Now it would unrealistic to expect as rapid
progress as occurs in China. Their efficiency
is one positive that comes out of building in a
one-party state. However, it is about time the
British government took some decisive action.
To quote Boris Johnson “there is no doubt that
to do nothing would lead to economic stagna-
tion” thus leaving London unable to compete
on an international level. London needs to
maintain its airport hub status, and this is be-
coming increasingly difficult by the day as the
rest of the world surges ahead.
George Howard
“Heathrow handles just
under 70 million passen-
gers per year”
Lon
not, th
policy;
for a w
to outl
and v
failing
Pro
tua
Is the sky the limit, or will it never take off? Plane crazy or runway success?
1. Well, you know,
I was a human being
before I became a busi-
nessman.
3. Beware of geeks
bearing formulas.
5. You’re fired!
2. Reputation is more
important than the last
hundred million dollars.
4. If you can’t make it
good, at least make it
look good.
1.
George
Soros;
2.
Rupert
Murdoch;
3.
Warren
Buffet;
4.
Bill
Gates;
5.
Alan
Sugar.

