were excited about being able to have
a role in changing the world and mak-
ing a dent in Imperial College. After the
intense coding, the participants returned
again very early on the Sunday morning
to continue on their project with inten-
sity and vigor.
Development of the application cul-
minated with a pitch in front of judges
from JP Morgan, Facebook, Imperial
Innovations, and student entrepreneur
and alumnus of Imperial College Milen
Dzhumerov. Nine teams presented their
work and each idea was not only fasci-
nating but also intriguing in its applica-
tion. Two teams developed applications
under the names Imperial Foodie and
IEAT to assist in the digitization for the
purchase and payment of food using
our swipe cards. If such a system were
implemented, students would be able
to purchase food much more easily and
track their eating habits. This, however,
wasn’t the most innovative of the ideas
as Duke University and California In-
stitute of Technology (Caltech) have al-
ready been at the forefront of digitizing
BUSINESS & FINANCE
FELIX Friday 09 MARCH 2012 13
Imperial College Hackathon launched
I
mperial College has one of the
best Computing and Electrical
Engineering Departments in the
World, producing the most disci-
plined and talented software de-
velopers and programmers consistently.
These programmers often benefit from
high salaries and fabulous perquisites
from their employers. Imperial Col-
lege prides itself on this monumental
achievement. However, students often
observe the lack of ambition for entre-
preneurship and technological innova-
tion among Computing Undergraduates
– please correct me if I am wrong.
To this rather depressing phenom-
enon, I have attributed many reasons.
There is no incentive for undergraduates
to become innovative or entrepreneur-
ial, and the bureaucracy that exists in
Imperial College stops any such move-
ment. The administrators are unwill-
ing to help and they themselves do not
have any incentives to help either. This
has been exemplified by possibly high
catering prices on weekends that clubs
and societies cannot pay for and many
difficulties in booking venues (it would
have been very convenient for the par-
ticipants of Imperial College Hackathon
to have stayed in the venue after 11pm
to continue coding rather than being dis-
missed by a security guard). In addition,
there is no major software or investment
banks led challenges or competitions in
Imperial. In Imperial College, there is
incredible number of talented students
and they are just not given the chance
to excel.
“Hackathon is es-
entially the culture
that built Facebook,
Google and Micrsoft”
To circumvent this problem and ac-
celerate entrepreneurship in Imperial
College, Imperial Innovation launched
Imperial Digital Accelerator on Janu-
ary 19th to “facilitate entrepreneurship
in the digital space at Imperial College”.
Imperial Digital Accelerator aims to
provide funding, mentorship and legal
and accounting advice. They are orga-
nizing seminars with serial and student
entrepreneurs to provide real examples
of how technological innovations and
entrepreneurship proceeds as an under-
graduates or as a postgraduate.
This, however, was largely a depart-
mental effort and we still noticed lack
of student effort in such technologi-
cal innovation. The Imperial College
Hackathon committee hence decided to
organize the first ever Imperial College
Hackathon on 25th and 26th of February
sponsored by JP Morgan, Facebook and
Imperial Innovations. Hackathon is es-
sentially the culture that built Facebook,
Google and Microsoft, and Hackathon’s
essence is summarized in its first five
letters: HACKA. Each letter captures
one element of the event: (H- Hidden
Needs; A- Associational Thinking; C-
Cracking code; K- Killer concept; A-
Action Now).
On Saturday morning sixty software
developers gathered in 060ABC Skemp-
ton Building. They were obviously very
excited and the organizers could sense
the excitement of participants whether it
was induced by redbull or genuine en-
thusiasm. We also had engineers from
both Facebook and JP Morgan, a tech-
nology associate and digital accelerator
manager from Imperial Innovations to
overlook the event. Simon Cross from
Facebook explained why Hackathon
was such a central part of Facebook and
the achievements that it has made such
as the development of Timeline and
many other applications.
Fueled by presentation by Facebook
and JP Morgan, software developers
from various parts of Imperial College
London and other universities gathered
and started to develop applications
based on the theme “Improving Impe-
rial College.” With free pizza in one
hand and the other hand on the key-
board, programmers in groups of six
or seven developed their applications
from morning to dawn. The developers
student activities with their swipe cards.
Before lectures start, we often have
trouble printing off materials due to
overloading of the system and ineffi-
cient system that the ITC team has built
for our college. In addition, there has
been increase in the use of tablets and
laptops in the lecture theatre to assist
our learning. The two teams that won
the Imperial College Hackathon devel-
oped an application that allowed instan-
taneous uploading of relevant lectures
on each day. This removes the need to
print lectures every day and the need
to download lecture notes from black-
board. The application automatically
delivers the relevant lecture notes ev-
ery day based on your course, date and
location. Such an application enhances
and accelerates the digitization of learn-
ing materials and eliminates the need
to actually attend a lecture. The second
team developed an application named
HEATNOTE that allowed live visual
presentation of materials that were not
understood in the lecture. Such a system
allows for the lecturer to identify which
part he has to re-clarify and this system
does not stop the flow of the lecturer
at all. This winning team received five
hundred pounds in cash and praise from
developers. Other teams also developed
fantastic websites and applications such
as News4D and IMPEK that could be
used immediately.
The first Imperial College Hackathon
was not only successful, but also invigo-
rating for organizers to watch. Both par-
ticipants and sponsors were surprised by
the originality of ideas and how much
they could actually do in a limited time
of 24 hours. Now the participants have
to move their ideas forward to make it
commercial and implementable in a
school environment. This would defi-
nitely need help from both the faculty
members of all departments and admin-
istrators. Without their help all these
fantastic ideas would be buried and
would never rise again. If the admin-
istrators could only help to push such
technological innovations in our school,
Imperial College Undergraduates and
Postgraduates would become more and
more innovative and entrepreneurial,
and that will tremendously benefit our
school. This could possibly happen by
arranging meetings between participants
of Hackathon and ICT department, and
having the Rector push our ideas.
After Imperial College Hackathon,
Facebook and JP Morgan took all the
contact details of the participants to
possibly recruit all these talented par-
ticipants to their firm. Imperial Digital
Accelerator took in three teams to its
program to provide mentorship and fi-
nance. JP Morgan and Facebook and
other software companies are willing to
sponsors this event next year. In fact JP
Morgan wants to have their own Hack-
athon with Imperial College students
after the success of our event. Next
year, the event will be not only bigger,
but better. You better join it or you will
regret it.
Bob Xu
Applications abound as students take to their screens, writes Sangjin Lee
“Both participants
and sponsors were
surprised by the orig-
inality of ideas...”
Security at the event was tight, but the guy in the hat still managed to wander in for the nibbles

