FELIX
Friday 02 MARCH 2012
14
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
FELIX
O
n Wednesday 14th March,
Channel 4 will broad-
cast ‘Sri Lanka’s Kill-
ing Fields: War Crimes
Unpunished’ at 10.55
pm. The program is a sequel to the criti-
cally acclaimed and RTS-award winning
documentary released last year, under a
similar title, which shocked and horrified
viewers worldwide. The documentary
is set against a backdrop of brutal war
crimes and human rights violations by the
Sri Lankan Armed Forces, once alleged,
now confirmed by a report commissioned
by the UN in 2011. The report concludes
that 40,000 Tamil civilians were killed
in the final few weeks of Sri Lanka’s 27
year civil war and that “most civilian
casualties in the final phases of the war
were caused by government shelling”.
The panel who conducted the report,
however, were barred by the government
from entering Sri Lanka during the 10
month period over which they gathered
evidence. Upon release of the report po-
litical figures around the world, including
David Cameron, demanded an “indepen-
dent, international investigation”. How-
ever, these calls have been repeatedly
ignored by the Sri Lankan government,
who continue to maintain that the war
was carried out with a zero-civilian ca-
sualty policy. The upcoming Channel 4
documentary, and its predecessor, show
how urgently an independent investiga-
tion is really needed.
The documentary, a forensic inves-
tigation into the events of the final few
weeks of Sri Lanka’s civil war, was
meticulously put together after hours of
trawling through photographs, amateur
footage and videos recorded on mobile
phones. The video evidence, recorded
by both victims and Sri Lankan Army
soldiers, was described by Channel 4 as
“some of the most horrific footage it has
ever broadcast”. Whilst the documentary
examined the atrocities committed by
both sides, particularly disturbing were
the sexual assault of deceased Tamil Ti-
ger rebels and the systematic execution
of bound prisoners by the Sri Lankan
Armed Forces. The program also detailed
the government’s shelling of areas that it
had previously declared “safe-zones”,
which raises the question of whether
the military operation had indeed been
an orchestrated act of genocide against
Sri Lanka’s Tamil minority. Sri Lanka’s
Killing Fields was screened at the UN in
Geneva and New York and also shown to
politicians in the House of Commons, the
European Parliament and various mem-
bers of the US Senate. Whilst the pro-
gram triggered strong reactions around
the world, condemning the actions of Sri
Lanka’s security forces, the perpetrators
have yet to be brought to justice.
The upcoming sequel contains conclu-
sive new evidence, which points to the
involvement of officials at the very top
levels of both the Sri Lankan army and
government. ‘War Crimes Unpunished’
focuses on four main areas: the deliber-
ate bombardment of civilians and even a
hospital in the so called “No Fire Zone”,
the humanitarian blockade to starving
and wounded civilians already trapped
in dire conditions in the conflict zone,
the slaughter of civilians escaping the
conflict zone (despite the Sri Lankan
Army saying it was mounting a “rescue
mission”) and summary executions of
stripped and bound prisoners, including
haunting video footage of a 12 year old
Sri Lanka’s Killing Fields
boy who has been executed. It also asks
questions of those still ruling the coun-
try. Shocking new evidence suggests that
some in the highest tiers of command
were complicit in crimes against human-
ity, including the current President Ma-
hinda Rajapakse, his brother, Defence
Secretary Gotabhaya Rajapakse, and two
former army generals who have been
made diplomats and gained immunity
since the conclusion of the war.
With England’s cricketers set to tour
the island this month and Sri Lanka
confirmed as the venue for the coming
Commonwealth Heads of Government
meeting in 2013, this documentary is an
opportunity for the international com-
munity to press for an independent, in-
ternational investigation and a chance
for some form of justice for Sri Lanka’s
Tamil community, who have been failed
and forgotten by the world.
If you would like to take action please
sign the e-petition, titled “Independent,
international investigation into war
crimes in Sri Lanka” on http://epeti-
tions.direct.gov.uk/petitions/14586. (And
remember to confirm your signature by
clicking on the email generated in your
inbox). For further information about
the upcoming documentary please visit
http://www.channel4.com/info/press/
programme-information/sri-lankas-
killing-fields-war-crimes-unpunished
on the Channel 4 website. The original
documentary is widely available either
on Channel 4’s website, or on Channel
4’s YouTube channel. For further infor-
mation about the campaign for an “in-
dependent, international investigation”
please visit http://iiicampaign.com/wel-
come/take-action.
Got an opin-
ion on this
article? Then
head over to
felixonline.
co.uk to get
your voice
heard.
Visakan
Balalumar
It can only be election season. College
is at the mercy of constant flyering, its
walls plastered with the faces of candi-
dates hoping to take on the various po-
sitions of responsibility that are availa-
ble for those keen enough to seek them
out. After a solid week of campaigning,
opinions are invariably going to differ
across college in a wide number of re-
spects: is it just for the CV? Do candi-
dates even know what they are running
for? As ever, year on year, these ques-
tions will be asked of the candidates.
If anything, people can now be held
to account with greater ease than ever
before, and such questions as those
previously listed will become less and
less redundant as individuals are held
to greater scrutiny. The advent of Twitter
especially allows a constant barrage of
questions for candidates who are will-
ing to answer, public for all to see. It is
the immediacy and urgency of hustings
taken to the next step of its natural pro-
gression, and allows those interested to
engage with candidates instantly.
Of course, saying that, it is a shame
that this year’s hustings (outside of the
faculty unions’) were not held in a public
place, such as last year in FiveSixEight.
Meeting your critics face to face affords
the option to bring across more person-
ality in your answers, and allows for an
instant view into the thoughts of many
of Imperial’s voters. Merely sitting in
a closed-off studio with one individual
leading a smaller and more intimate in-
terrogation does not bring across the
same form of College-wide emphasis
that these elections should really be
aiming for, rather viewing the live broad-
casted hustings back gives the impres-
sion of a very small and very contained
event.
However, there is no denying that the
audience that the live broadcast has
the potential to command is far greater
than that allowed by hustings. The cost
of this with regards to a personal touch
must be considered.
At the very least, I can take this op-
portunity to offer some insight for those
candidates running for Felix Editor.
Make sure you are prepared for a year
unlike any other. Late nights, balancing
communication with a vast amount of
people across College and outside of
it, and racing against an ever encroach-
ing deadline that will just, never, ever
go away. All that being said, it’ll be a
fantastic year. Best of luck with your
campaigns.
Election fever strikes
again at Imperial
‘Sri Lanka’s Killing Fields: War Crimes Unpunished’ will air on Wednesday 14th March,
10:55pm on Channel 4
...new evidence
suggests that some
in the highest tiers
of command were
complicit in crimes
against humanity
“
...new e
...new e
suggest
suggest
crimes
crimes
manity
ani

