COMMENT
FELIX Friday 09 MARCH 2012 15
COMMENT
FELIX
F
ebruary 10th’s edition of Fe-
lix managed, in two articles,
to highlight the issue of sex-
ism at Imperial College, in
two very different ways. One
was a straightforward, serious article on
the issue of sexism, while the other was
the (now infamous) satirical “Hangman
Guide to Get Laid”. Not surprisingly,
perhaps, the reception enjoyed by these
articles has been extremely different. But
despite their differences, are the overall
viewpoints of the articles really that dis-
similar?
The viewpoint of the first article is pret-
ty obvious: sexism exists at Imperial, and
it’s bad. It would be pretty hard to argue
that sexism isn’t bad, and I’m not going
to. An example was given of a group of
“lads” classifying women in a lecture by
their looks. Such comments are certainly
immature and crass, but are they indica-
tive of a deeper prejudice? That’s ques-
tionable. It’s probably just an outlet for
sexual frustration and a backlash against
the large social power that women at Im-
perial have. While not wanting to make it
sound like women, or people in general,
are commodities, supply and demand ar-
guments do apply to romantic/sexual op-
portunities as well, and I’ve heard groups
of young women in female-dominated
environments making similar comments
in the past.
Regarding the Hangman article, I wish
to ask a simple question: what is the pur-
pose of humour? The obvious answer is
Hangman’s dark sense of humour
that it exists to make us laugh. But is that
all there is to it? I don’t think so. It also
exists to challenge and provoke thought
on taboos, the establishment and our en-
trenched notions of society. Often, there
is a strong sense of irony, and I would
note that an episode of The Simpsons
featured a police officer telling road-rage
offenders to “Fire a weapon at your TV
set, pick a fight with someone weaker
than you, or write a threatening letter to a
celebrity”. This is obviously ironic satire,
just like the Hangman article, but I won-
der if those objecting to Hangman also
want to see The Simpsons banned. Given
its popularity, I doubt it.
In the case of black humour, humour
acts as an emotional release: it serves as
a coping mechanism to dampen negative
emotions to a horrible situation by trying
to see a bright side, however absurd. This
is probably why people who deal with
these issues every day (soldiers, police,
undertakers, doctors etc.) are widely re-
garded as having a dark sense of humour.
If anything, by dampening negative emo-
tions, black humour actually makes it
easier to talk about issues such as rape,
and I’ve often found that people with
such a sense of humour are more likely
to be willing to discuss such issues seri-
ously rather than burying their heads in
the sand and pretending that everything
is okay with the world.
Given the purpose of satire and black
humour, I would therefore argue that
no topic should be off-limits, as long as
it is handled correctly. So what about
the controversial Hangman article? The
criticism that it has received seems to be
based on the article’s perceived trivialisa-
tion and encouragement of rape and the
objectification of women. Was that re-
ally its intention? The article described
rohypnol as “anything but nice” and took
a generally abusive tone to the would-be
rapists that it was supposedly instructing,
suggesting quite the opposite.
Indeed, the only part of the article that
even comes close to promoting the use of
rohypnol is its description as “the perfect
mixer … for some girl who is probably
just using you for free drinks”, and this
is such a warped and absurd description
that I struggle to see how anyone with
half a brain could believe that it is meant
to encourage such behaviour, particularly
given the content of the rest of the article.
Quite rightly, the article portrays the at-
tacker as a “waste of oxygen” and the
victim as just that – a victim, while high-
lighting and laughing at the absurdity of
any justification that a rapist might try to
use.
If anything, the Hangman article has
succeeded in its satirical purpose by
making people think about the issue
and reminding us that yes, unfortunately
there are people in existence who think
that rape is trivial or acceptable, and
that these people are among the worst in
society. However, I don’t think that the
writer(s) of the article is/are among them.
Overall, the two articles are both against
sexism and objectification, one express-
ing this via argument and one via satirical
black humour, so the different reception
they received is largely unjustified.
Disclaimer: Just to make it clear that
there are no vested interests at work here,
I have no involvement with the Hangman
section, and this is the first piece I’ve
ever written for Felix. Therefore, please
send all your Hangman hate-mail to the
usual address.
...the Hangman
article has
succeeded in its
satirical purpose by
making people think
about the issue
“
...the Ha
...the Ha
article h
article h
”
ple think
ple think
sue
ue
Steven Abnett
So it’s not Hammertime, then?
A revision of dietary laws
O
ne of the overarching
themes displayed by
the main religions of
the world is a set of
dietary restrictions. An
example is Islam, and its recommen-
dation/order that you abstain from
alcohol and swine. Many of these
dietary restrictions were possibly in
response to practical issues in the so-
ciety in which the religion was born
into. It’s reasonable to propose that
avoiding pork and alcohol was a very
good idea at the time of the birth of
Islam because of the hazards of either
in an arid climate: pigs rot quickly in
the heat and harbour salmonella while
alcohol is a diuretic.
In the modern world, where water
and refrigeration are plentiful, the ra-
tionale behind these rules of thumb
has been lost and you find many peo-
ple following such dietary laws just
for the hell of it. The same goes for
Judaism, which is even crazier about
what you can and can’t eat. As a fan
of several of these forbidden goods
but not one to annoy God, I would
like to propose an alternative formal-
ism of how these restrictions should
be observed.
Seeing as every religion I know of
is simply someone’s interpretation of
God’s words, I’ve taken it upon my-
self to develop my own interpretation
of these dietary laws. Intuitively, one
would consider the “sin” of eating
something haram or non-kosher to
be additive: eating a ham sandwich
with a beer is worse than just hav-
ing a beer on its own. So beer is a -1
against your name and the sandwich
is a -1, giving you a total of -2 against
your case for making it into Heaven.
Instead, I propose that in any given
instance these are instead multiplica-
tive, so in this lunch we would have
the negatives cancel out and you’d
instead get a positive answer, negat-
ing the sin (“the sin’s in the sign”).
As any usurping theory, this explains
all the observations that the old one
does (i.e. that consuming pork or beer
sends you to Hell), but provides ex-
tra insight that can be proven or de-
bunked (pork AND beer is okay). All
I need to do now is to test this, by see-
ing if I will go to Heaven if I consume
both of these in tandem, or if God will
laugh me away from the Pearly Gates.
Not only are the food items them-
selves subject to restrictions, but their
method of preparation and time they
are consumed are also factored in to
the religious equation. It is forbid-
den to eat an animal that has not been
slaughtered in the proper manner
mandated by the Quran: the blood is
drained to minimise suffering and a
prayer said for the life of the animal
that is being deliciously taken. It’s
also forbidden to eat or drink anything
in the day during Ramadan, when one
is supposed to empathise with those
who have no choice but to starve. The
general rule of my theory is that any
even number of nutritionally based
sins in tandem cancels out any net sin.
While it is debatable whether eating
a sandwich and drinking beer after-
wards is simultaneous, doing either
on its own during Ramadan surely is.
As with quantum mechanics, the re-
sults that the mathematics predict can
be counter-intuitive: it seems to be
perfectly halal to eat pork during Ra-
madan, but only during the day. If the
sun’s set, you better go for chicken.
Of course, this theory only works
if the terms “pork” and “halal” are
properly defined, which is where I hit
a snag. Consider, if you will, a hy-
pothetical pig/cow hybrid. Or a cow
crossed with this hybrid, to make an
animal only 25% pig. At what point
is the pig DNA no longer enough to
make the animal porcine? Even more
speculatory is the halal status of an
animal slaughtered improperly, only
to be re-slaughtered in a halal fashion.
Of course, neither of these scenarios
are currently achievable, and so my
refined “rule of thumb” will hold for
now. I will leave it to the faithful of
the future to further revise it when
these dilemmas become practical is-
sues, i.e. when the laws no longer suit
the circumstances.
Veli Akiner

