FELIX
Friday 09 march 2012
16
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
I
n last week’s Felix, I had intended
to publish an article which exposed
what I believe are serious problems
with Imperial’s Careers Advisory
Service. It detailed how the service
has been susceptible to privatisation, it ex-
plained why so much of our career advice
is just advertising for the financial sector
and it criticised the College for allowing
such an important service to become bi-
ased towards wealthy corporations.
Before the article could be printed, how-
ever, a member of College staff emailed
the Felix editor asking him not to publish
it. She said that it contained accusations
“which could be considered defamatory”
in its “serious claims about a College
service and its staff”. The email implic-
itly threatened Felix with legal action if it
printed the article. Understandably, it was
not published.
This raises very serious questions about
the independence of Felix, and its ability
to report on mistakes, lies and corruption
within the College.After all, what is a stu-
dent newspaper for, if not to print stories
like the one in question? Are we simply
meant to paraphrase press releases from
the College and the Union? Are we noth-
ing more than a long-winded advertise-
ment for those with power?
Freedom of the press, if it means any-
Keep the Cat free!
thing at all, means the ability to publicly
criticise authority. It means the ability for a
writer to publish inconvenient truths with-
out fear of reprisal, and the ability for him/
her to criticise anyone without the loom-
ing threat of legal action.
Whenever I print an article or blog post
critical of a person or institution, I am
asked why I did not raise the issue with
them privately beforehand. It is, they say,
easier to solve problems without making
them public. This may be true, but I do not
write about these issues simply because I
want them to be solved. I write also be-
cause I want to expose the behaviour of
those in power, and I want students to be
aware of the true motives of the people
they are supposed to trust. If all issues
were solved privately, then students would
be made ignorant of events about which I
believe they have a right to know.
Imperial is a company like any other,
and therefore seems to put its financial
wellbeing ahead of the welfare of its stu-
dents. Consider, for instance, the issue of
coursework feedback. Students had been
complaining for years about the quality
of the feedback, but it was not until Im-
perial’s dramatic drop in the most recent
University league tables that the College
actually did anything about the problem.
So it is with any such issue. Formally
complaining, no matter how forcefully,
will not work. We must shout angrily in
any way possible about how terrible the
issue is. We must publish articles, write
blogs, inform national newspapers. We
must attempt to give the College “brand” a
bad reputation, and thereby make ignoring
our complaints financially unwise. And if
this means resorting to defamation then so
be it.
The importance of student journalism in
this uphill struggle should not be under-
estimated. It is by far the best method we
have for rallying support behind a cause
and, evidently, for troubling the estab-
lishment. But when student journalism is
silenced, Universities can get away with
anything. Who but Felix can constantly
question Imperial’s authority and actions?
Imperial College is a University of sci-
ence and, as such, ought to be a place
where criticism is accepted, and never si-
lenced. If the College disagreed with my
article - even if they thought it was factu-
ally incorrect - they could easily have writ-
ten a response to be printed the following
week. That is how debate works in news-
papers and magazines. It does not work by
banning controversial writing.
Student newspapers, in particular, have
traditionally been the voice of opposition
at Universities, but it appears that our
Who but Felix can
constantly question
Imperial’s authority
and actions?
uthority
uthority
?
?
“
Who bu
Who bu
constan
consta
University would be happier if we printed
only those articles to which they had given
their approval. What kind of newspaper
behaves in such a way? How would we
react if The Guardian only printed articles
which had received the government’s con-
sent?
In the words of George Orwell, “Every-
thing in our age conspires to turn the writ-
er, and every other kind of artist as well,
into a minor official, working on themes
handed down from above and never tell-
ing what seems to him the whole of the
truth.”
This small battle has been lost, but we
will not be swayed by Imperial’s apparent
attempt to silence criticism. From now on,
we will seek out College scandals with re-
newed vigour, and we won’t forget what
the role of the journalist really is: to speak
the truth to power.
A fully referenced version of this article is
available at rustylight.blogspot.com
[The views expressed in this piece and sec-
tion are those of the author alone. The ar-
ticle in question was not published due to
factual inconsistencies. In order to clarify
any misunderstanding, Felix will investi-
gate claims made regarding the Careers
Advisory Service in the near future – Ed.]
Stephen Smith
Queen’s Tower Rooms
18.00 Thursday 15 March
FIND A FLATMATE
FREE MINGLE EVENT
» .FFUQPUFOUJBMlBUNBUFT
» 4BGF TPDJBMFOWJSPONFOU
» '3&&QJ[[BBOETPGUESJOLÐ
» $BTICBSBWBJMBCMF
» /PBXLXBSElBUNBUFAJOUFSWJFXT
:PVNVTU3471CZUIJT'SJEBZ."3$)JOPSEFSUPBUUFOEUIJTFWFOU
3471/08kOEBlBUNBUF!JNQFSJBMBDVL
www.imperial.ac.uk/accommodation

