Once more I managed to wangle my way into
watching DramSoc’s second spring term
production, Can’t Pay? Won’t Pay!, Nobel
laureate Dario Fo’s 1974 farcical comedy,
involving pseudo-pregnant women, confused
husbands and a suspiciously similar-looking
string of police inspectors and undertakers. I
was promised a barrelful of laughs, and I cer-
tainly didn’t leave empty handed.
CP?WP! revolves around two frustrated
housewives, Antonia and Margherita (Sophie
Hernando Kofman & Sinéad Ward), inciting
chaos in their local supermarket and making
off with a stack of goods. Life is far from sim-
ple, and very quickly their husbands (played
by Tommy Partl & Tom Cunningham) grow
suspicious. Cue a bizarre revolutionary po-
liceman (Hasan Al-Farhan) and you have
a recipe for chaos (and hilarity!) as the two
women do all they can to evade both arrest
and the ire of their hubbies.
It sounds very weird at first – you might
fear that a play about women stuffing bags of
fruit and veg down their coats would struggle
to remain fresh and funny throughout. Thank-
fully this was not the case as the energetic
cast kept the script from falling flat and en-
sured the physical humour and over-the-top
scenes were delivered with aplomb.
It’s clear that the actors involved have been
enjoying themselves during rehearsals. An
advantage of watching full performance re-
hearsals is that you get to see the little blips
that occur when there’s not a large judging
audience present. More than once the cast
ended up giggling during particularly exag-
gerated scenes, and it was great to see them
still enjoying their roles, even after weeks of
practicing. The failure of Hasan’s fake mous-
tache to stay on his face didn’t help matters
much, though its repeated picking up and
sticking back on only added positively to the
farce.
Even with its low budget and small produc-
tion team Can’t Pay? Won’t Pay! doesn’t fail
to impress. If you’re suffering from Monday
blues, this is the perfect remedy. But please,
for the sake of DramSoc’s finances, don’t
start holding up the front of house and begin
stuffing tickets down your shirt.
Can’t Pay? Won’t Pay! shows from 11 – 13
March at Metric. Tickets on the door: £3
for students, £5 non-students.
FELIX
Friday 09 march 2012
18
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
The Poet’s Column
Laurence Pope
Can’t pay,
won’t pay,
must see
Christopher Witham
In the year 2000, the American Film Institute
named Some Like It Hot the greatest Ameri-
can comedy film of all time. At the time of its
release, it won three Golden Globes and an
Academy Award. It is surely a huge undertak-
ing, then, to successfully bring a story with
such pedigree to the stage. This is the chal-
lenge that ICSM Drama have set themselves
this term, and from what I’ve seen, they have
indeed been phenomenally successful.
For those who have seen neither the film
nor stage adaptation, Some Like It Hot begins
in 1929, where two musicians in a speakeasy
witness the Saint Valentine’s Day massacre.
Struggling to make money by finding work
elsewhere, they disguise themselves as women
in order to be part of an all female musical act
and along with the rest of the group they make
their way to Florida. On the journey and at the
destination much hilarity, of course, ensues.
It is very easy with the type of humour pre-
sented in the play to become complacent of
Hot? Or Imperial Hot?
the attention needed in all aspects of its per-
formance, but there appear to be no signs of
this in the production. Staging is handled in-
credibly well and credit here must go to the
directors, Tom Philips and Katherine Kennet.
Scenes of long dialogue are kept interesting
and the pace never slows. Even violent scenes,
which in many productions of this kind can
appear childish, are handled extremely con-
vincingly. Jonathan Buckley and Mike James’
portrayals of Jerry and Joe respectively must
also be mentioned. Cross-dressing and putting
on a silly voice is difficult at the best of times,
but not only is this managed rather naturally,
both actors give fantastically amusing perfor-
mances.
However, what really struck me with this
play was the entire ensemble’s absolute atten-
tion to detail throughout. Not a single lapse in
characterisation could be seen throughout the
whole performance, and the effort put in here
gives the element of believability needed in
counterweight the plot’s absurdity. The energy
shown by the cast never lets up and for this all
performers deserve commendation.
Many more words of praise could be written
about this play, but all comments boil down to
one simple thing: the play is incredibly enter-
taining. Nothing has been lost in the transfor-
mation of this classic film onto the stage, and
ICSM Drama are on to a definite winner.
Some Like It Hot runs from Wednesday 14
– Saturday 17 March in the Union Concert
Hall
“The energy shown by
the cast never lets up...
all performers deserve
commendation”
ICSM Drama set the stage alight with
a little cross-dressing and a lot of fun
“More than once the cast
ended up giggling during
exaggerated scenes”
Birmingham’s attempt to match London Fashion Week fell a little short of the mark
Code{poems} is a project calling on programmers
to summon their creative energies and write po-
ems entirely in code. The brainchild of Ishac Ber-
tran, submissions in most coding languages are
accepted, so long as the poem is less than 0.5KB
and, naturally, compiles.
For more information, check out http://www.
codepoems.com/
Here’s one poem in code:
And a few haikus that aren’t:
The Web site you seek
Cannot be located, but
Countless more exist.
Windows NT crashed.
I am the Blue Screen of Death.
No one hears your screams.

