Although laid out chronologically,
the collection displays such a variety
of styles that as I left, slightly over-
whelmed; I could not help but agree
with Geoffrey Grigson’s description of
Picasso as “Belonging to all movements,
yet outside them all”. Ranging from ex-
pressionism, cross hatching and papiers
colle (collages), neo-classicism, cubism
with its typical elements (the guitar, jugs
and lemons) to purely abstract art with
bonelike forms, it is impossible to classi-
fy Picasso as anything other than an ever
developing, experimental modernist.
Without a doubt, what I most appre-
ciated from the exhibition was the op-
ARTS
FELIX Friday 09 march 2012 19
¿No Pablo Inglés?
Tate Britain examines the relationship between modern British art and Picasso
I remember being mesmerised when
seeing Picasso’s ‘Guernica’ for the first
time in Madrid; the same happened to
the millions of Brits who were able to
see the imposing painting when it was-
first exhibited in England. It must be said
that it did take them the odd 30 years to
actually start appreciating Picasso’s art.
I found it hard to understand how this
could have been the case when I walked
into the first room of the exhibition. It
contained a variety of Picasso’s stunning
paintings and prints, those that were first
exhibited in London between 1910 and
1914, and at the time widely rejected
and negatively criticised. Particularly
breathtaking is his etching ‘The Frugal
Meal’, which was the first of his works
to enter a public British collection. The
exhibition then continues with an im-
pressive number of Picasso’s works,
which reached England during different
periods of the 20th century.
“(Picasso)... an ever
developing, experi-
mental modernist”
portunity to see so many of Picasso’s
works collected in the same space,
which I was able to fully appreciate
with the help of the detailed descriptions
and explanations provided for every
painting. Amongst the highlights are a
hypnotizing ‘Head of a Woman’, the in-
tense ‘Nude, Green Leaves and Bust’(in
which one of Picasso’s numerous lovers
is represented) the ‘Nude Woman in Red
Armchair’(used to publicize the exhibit)
and finally ‘The Three Dancers’ which
retains all of its glory for the final room.
Sadly, the ‘Guernica’ was left in Madrid
but a couple of stunning preparatory
sketches and studies for it are displayed.
As promised by the second part of the
exhibition’s name, you are not going to
be visiting a purely chronological dis-
play of those of Picasso’s pictures that
were particularly admired or hated by
the British; you will also explore how
his art inspired and influenced seven
great British modern artists. Although
interesting, I sometimes found the com-
Silvia Davey
The Three Dancers (1925)
For more information: www.imperial.ac.uk/chaplaincy or contact: g.das@imperial.ac.uk.
Imperial College Interfaith and Chaplaincy Centre presents:
BUSINESS & RELIGION:
IN DIALOGUE
THURSDAY 15TH MARCH
6.30 – 8PM
BUSINESS SCHOOL LGS
01&/&7&/5t"--8&-$0.&
Christian speaker: Marcus Bateman; Vice-President Corporate Payments for Barclays Corporate. Lay Anglican Minister.
Hindu speaker: Alpesh Patel; Trader. Financial Times columnist 2004 - 2009 and contributor to Sky, CNBC and BBC.
Jewish speaker: Maurice Ostro; Chairman of Fayre Share Investments. Vice-Chairman of the Council of Christians and Jews.
Muslim speaker: Tarek El Diway; Author of ‘The Problem with Interest’. Editor at www.islamic-ﬁnance.com.
Chaired by Rory Fenton, IC Interfaith Officer 2010/11.
parisons between Picasso’s work and
that of Grant, Lewis, Nicholson, Moore,
Bacon, Sutherland and Hockney a bit
forced and far fetched. Still, the rooms
that contain British art, which are inter-
spersed with those displaying that of the
Spaniard, are enjoyable and provide a
brief introduction to British modernism,
for the sake of anyone who finds it a for-
eign concept.
In 1960, The Times said about the Tate
Picasso exhibition that the “Curiosity
aroused by the magic name of Picasso
appeared to be the chief attraction”.
Such was the case for me, and the art
definitely did not let me down.

