Lolcat of teh week
It’s time to sit down and take a look at this
year’s Union Election manifestos. Don’t
forget that you can take the conversation to
Twitter using the hashtag #voteicu
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporter Aemun Reza Features Editors Katy Bettany Stephen Smith Sports Editors Indy Leclercq
Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Politics Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Business & Finance Editors Will Prince Deepka Rana Technology
Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Mark England Simon Hunter Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex
Ramadan Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors George Barnett James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor Laurence Pope Food Editors Anastasia
Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim Kadhim Shubber Puzzles Admiral James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson
Copy Editors Carol Ann Chea Iulia Gherman Philip Kent Ravi Pall Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor
What’s on MANIFESTO PULLOUT
Promises are made, will they be
kept?
And when I say RON, I don’t mean Ron Paul
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 09 march 2012
2
Tuesday 20th March 2012
ICU Cinema
Spring All-Nighter
It’s that time of the term again... It’s time for
the epic film-fest that is the ICU Cinema Spring
All-Nighter.
Six films.
6pm to 7:30am.
Tuesday 20th March 2012.
18:00 Mission Impossible: Ghost Protocol
20:45 Sherlock Holmes: A Game of Shadows
23:30 The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo
02:30 Puss in Boots
04:30 Moneyball
06:00 Attack the Block
Tickets for the whole night are £10 online (avail-
able until 4pm on the night) or £12 on the door.
Buy online at
http://tickets.icucinema.co.uk/
If you can’t make the whole night, tickets for indi-
vidual films will be available on the door for £3 a
film.
As usual, there will be a range of bottled beers,
ciders and soft drinks, sweets, popcorn, crisps,
and chocolate on sale throughout the night. All-you-
can-eat hot food and hot drinks will also be avail-
able for just £5 per person. This includes hot dogs,
a range of toasties, pot noodles, soups, tea, coffee
and more.
Find out more about the lineup on our web site:
http://www.icucinema.co.uk/
CLASSIFIEDS
Friendly girl from Imperial looking for female stu-
dents to share a 3 double bedroom flat at Esher Gar-
dens, Southfield (District line Wimbledon direction).
Large living room, recently furnished, family bath-
room and separate toilet, balcony, c o m m u n a l
gardens, double glazing, close to town centre, 18
mins walk from Southfield tube station, 24hr bus be-
tween Wimbledon and Putney Bridge (2mins walk).
Internet connections available and all bills are in-
cluded with the exception of telephone.
Rooms are £110 per week and £130 per week per
person. No pets and no smoking.
Contact 07715452186.
Medium sized double room available in flat on a pri-
vate, gated community in West Brompton. 24-hour
security, parking space, swimming pool/gym com-
plex, and in walking distance of West Brompton/Ful-
ham Broadway tubes and the bus routes of the 430
and 74, which pass college.
Room is £635 a month including gas, electricity,
phone, water and internet. Has double bed, fitted
wardrobe with chest of draws and bookshelf. Fully
equipped kitchen and two bathrooms (bathroom will
be shared with one other person). Flat has no living
room but we are quite chilled out and hang around in
the kitchen or one of the rooms.
We are both busy Imperial MSc students. Looking
for a female flatmate of any age to come join us.
Viewing by appointment on Wednesday afternoon
or weekend. If interested in looking around, email
imd08@ic.ac.uk or call 07715452186.
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for services bought or sold, capiche? Good.
Contact felix@imperial.ac.uk to place your clas-
sifieds!

