MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 09 MARCH 2012
22
music.felix@gmail.com
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Quantic & Alice
Russell
Look Around The
Corner
Tru Thoughts
2012
Do you know anyone who says, “Music is crap
nowadays?” Let’s be honest: those people are the
most boring people you know. In fact, you’re not
even sure why you know them anymore. Everytime
you hang out with them you find your brain warning
you, with fundamentalist zeal, “Get the fuck out of
here before I cut off the oxygen to myself”.
Quantic & Alice Russell are two of the UK’s
finest, if the not the finest, independent artists.
Both release through the sublime Brighton label
‘Tru Thoughts’. Since the millenium they’ve been
carving out a space away from the mainstream of
British music for soul, funk, gospel and blues. And
my god is that space a good place to be.
The album whisks you off to all corners of the
globe, with ‘I’d Cry’ leaving me with flowers in my
hand outside a Cuban restaurant, stood up by my
long-legged Habanera date; with ‘Travelling Song’
dropping me slumped drunk in a New York jazz
bar; and ‘Boogaloo 33’ throwing legs and arms in
all directions on some Ozzie beach.
It’s the kind of music that I’d love the director to
use when shooting the biopic of my life. Boys of a
certain age who have read Jack Kerouac’s On the
Road, or watched a Godard film or two, are prone
to bouts of solipsism like this. Put more simply,
when wandering the streets of Soho drunk, we fall
into the trap of narrating the night in our heads,
with suitably ostentatious imagery, and friends
transformed into ‘characters’ who are then blown
all out of proportion. I should confess: I do this
almost all of the time. And from now on, whenever
I imagine my life being a billion times cooler than
it is (what’s a billion times zero?), Quantic, Alice
Russell, and the Combo Barbaro will play on in
my head.
I’ll end by beseeching you to dive into ‘Tru
Thoughts’’ back catalogue. There’s gem after gem;
it’s perhaps the best independent label this side
of the millenium. This latest release, Look Around
the Corner, does credit to their record of putting
out great music, and its title is wonderfully sug-
gestive – softly prodding the UK public to check
out what’s going just down their street beneath
the ostentation of modern pop.
I’ll confess, this album isn’t actually out yet – it’s
out on the 2nd of April. If you think I should only
review albums that have been reviewed already,
tweet, “Do it again or I’ll show you what for” @kad-
himshubber. Alternatively, tweet @tru_thoughts and
ask them for a promo copy.
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Alex Ramadan
No One’ prove their new sound is just as rele-
vant ever in these tough times indie based out-
fits; but I digress. With Johnny Marr no longer
babysitting, the adolescent nature of any Cribs
gig is back with a vengeance, flying toilet rolls
and stage invasions still all the rage.
The interplay between the twins with guitar,
bass and vocals is a natural chemistry which
is there for all to see and with solid drumming
by the little one it’s very tight performance
all round. Even now at their fifth outing, the
raucous power of a Cribs gig is something I
would urge anyone who hasn’t experienced to
go and watch.
vourite Cribs tracks before the main event.
Albeit slightly reminiscent of Lad-rock types
on the Carlsberg’s, the hearty unity of the fans
is something I believe you can buy into which
definitely adds to the experience.
As they walk onto the stage any questions
regarding their passion are quickly addressed,
and this transfers quickly onto the crowd.
The brothers quickly work their way through
a mixture of old and new without giving the
audience time to come up for air. Hits such
as ‘I’m a Realist’, ‘Men’s Needs’ and ‘Hey
Scenesters’ work the old faithful into a frenzy,
whilst new tracks ‘Anna’ and ‘Come On Be a
T
he band that once claimed to be
“more northern than killing your
brother’s kestrel” have certainly
evolved somewhat since those
plucky early days in Yorkshire
pubs. With more time spent across the pond
than not in the last few years and opening a
set with a blasting performance of new track
named for the city Chicago (Chi-Town); have
the Jarman brothers swapped Wakefield for
Springfield?
No. Even though their music has taken a
more garage rock Americana feel over the past
couple of years, this owes more to an evolution
of their sound under the wings of producers
such as Steve Albini (Nirvana, Pixies) rather
than a determined shedding of their status as
the archetypal indie-pop northern band, The
Cribs still have their feet well and truly plant-
ed on the dales.
Once labelled the “biggest cult band in the
UK” by Q, as soon as you enter any Cribs gig
you feel like you have just stumbled into a
family reunion, an experience which is exem-
plified by the fact the intimate nature of ULU
makes you feel like you could be in your Aun-
ties front room. The community spirit amongst
the dedicated is as strong as ever, whilst my
sympathy was with the support band compet-
ing with more than a few lairy individuals as
they perform acapella renditions of their fa-
Triumphant return for The Cribs
Simon Clark heads to ULU to reignite his passion for garage rock
Reviewed in 60 Seconds
Mark England
Simon Hunter
Most people know a few songs by A Tribe
Called Quest; they brought us jazz infused
hip hop with rhymes worth paying attention
to. Perhaps it’s because ‘Tribe beat them to it,
but these days fewer people seem to be aware
of The Pharcyde. There are many similari-
ties between the two groups but this, their sec-
ond album, really raised the game in terms of
production. Employing the late Jay Dee (J
Dilla) on half the tracks saw numbers such as
‘Runnin’ and ‘Drop’ really change the game in
terms of sampling and production. Both tracks
sounds as fresh today as they did when they
were released 17 years ago.
Simon Hunter
Got an album you want
to shout about?
Send us a short review with a
rating and we’ll be your soapbox
The Pharcyde
Labcabincaliornia
★★★★✩
This ambient black metal album somewhat
fails to deliver in its promise of black metal
but does deliver an incredible range of mate-
rial; largely Slowdive style shoegaze, it occa-
sionally drops into its genre tag with visceral
distorted basslines and fast, heavy drumming.
Opting out of the brutal catharsis usually of-
fered by metal, this album makes use of sung
vocals to produce chilling moments of beauty.
The sound isn’t densely layered and indi-
vidual instruments are easy to pick out, but
if Xasthur and My Bloody Valentine both
lay within your tastes it’s definitely worth a
listen.
Ross Gray
Alcest
Les Voyages De L’Âme
★★★★✩
Scala
Wednesday 14 March
Be sure not to miss...
Veronica Falls
Go down to the Scala on wednesday
night to hear some beautiful, C86
tinged, lo-fi pop courtesy of Veronica
Falls. I have had thier self titled de-
but on repeat for the past few months
and I cannot reccomend them highly
enough. They combine elements of
The Pains Of Being Pure At Heart
and Orange Juice into an end result
which is both swoon-some and fan-
tastically hummable.
Mark England
“We’ve come for your kestrel”
I’m creating an ultimate revision Spotify playlist
for next week’s issue. Please email your sugges-
tions to music.felix@gmail.com, or post it on the
Felix Facebook page.

