MUSIC
This week’s band and the last two I’ve reviewed
(Meet Me In St. Louis and Blakfish) are all related
by the fact that they are (or used to be) signed to
UK-based record label ‘Big Scary Monsters’. On my
quest of the past few years to find new and ever-
better alternative music I’ve learnt that you tend
to find all the best bands somehow clumped to-
gether and the goody bag labelled ‘Big Scary Mon-
sters’ is a prime example of this. Despite it being a
one-man independent jobby, for some reason the
majority of genuinely good UK-based alternative
bands are affiliated with this label. Many of the
bands signed to BSM are not in any way hardcore
and so if you are more partial to softer indie mu-
sic then I would strongly recommend checking out
their collection because it’s a blinder. That said,
the post-hardcore bands are amazing too, Shapes
being one of them. This trio are again from Bir-
mingham and formed in early 2008. Releasing
their first EP just five months later, the band had
already gained attention amongst hardcore fans
and this response to their music escalated. Just
another seven months later and they had been
snapped up by BSM and recording EP number
two, The Pasture, The Oil. After it’s release in
May 2009, their fan base grew far wider and even
‘Zankyo Records’ in Japan wanted a piece of the
action. The next couple of years saw them tour
with the incredible Glassjaw and Pulled Apart By
Horses before recording their debut full-length
with Eskil Lovstrom of Refused fame. This album,
Monotony Chic, was again met with ubiquitous and
well-deserved critical acclaim. Shapes are known
for their explosive sound both live and on record.
This sheer aggression is then met with calculated
off-beat rhythm and intricate guitar work to make
something which is not only fascinating but phe-
nomenal to listen to. If it’s possible, the music
is even better live when it’s being smashed into
your ears by three Brummie men losing their shit
on stage. As I’m sure you’ll be pleased to know,
this band is actually still together and they gig in
London often. Their next show is 17 March at the
Wilmington; you better be there.
Writer’s Recommendations
Watch the video for ‘Trampled By A Horse’. Truly ri-
diculous.
George Jeffery’s
A beginner’s guide to
post-hardcore
Lesson 9: Shapes
FELIX Friday 09 MARCH 2012 23
Alive’, which incorporates portions of Johnny
Cash’s ‘Ring of Fire’. The song is filled with
voices of those that died making a stand “Well,
I was killed in 1963 one Sunday morning in
Birmingham”/ “Well, I died last year crossing
the southern desert”. Their spirits, however,
live on and their “souls will rise to carry the
fire and light the spark”.
Wrecking Ball is no Born To Run or Born In
The USA. Personally, I would place it some-
where between The Rising and Magic, label-
ling it as one of Springsteen’s best albums dur-
ing the past 20 years. It’s so amazing to see a
62-year-old rocker carrying the same spark he
had when he was performing in Asbury Park
40 years ago. Having been experiencing with
various music types and singing, he presents a
stunning piece of work which combines rock,
folk-rock, gospel and even hip-hop elements.
Although not an original E Street Band record,
the production by Ron Aniello, joined together
about 40 musicians, including many guest per-
formers - Tom Morello plays electric guitar in
two songs – creating a solid album that came
to remind us that Bruce Springsteen, living
through his 4th career decade, has so much to
say, so beautifully.
ers”, “the fat cats”, “the greedy thieves” who
destroyed everything and their actions were
left unpunished. Different characters arise,
similar to each other, sharing the same feel-
ing of anger and disgust. They seek salvation
and cleansing through criminal methods – Is
this where we’re heading? At that point ‘The
Depression’ reveals the vulnerability of the
working man. Hope is long, long gone and all
the narrator needs is the love of his companion
during these hard times.
The other half of the album has a more up-
beat tone. ‘Wrecking Ball’ sets the “image
where something is destroyed to build some-
thing new”. The optimism is carried on on
what I think is the best song on the album,
‘Land Of Hope And Dreams’. Containing
elements of Curtis Mayfield’s ‘People Get
Ready’ and demonstrating Springsteen’s Cath-
olic upbringing, the song marks the movement
“from guys who are really very angry to guys
whow are angry but constructive”. The song’s
spiritual intro followed by Steven Van Zandt’s
magical mandolin and Big Man’s emotional
saxophone moment join perfectly with Spring-
steen’s passionate voice and meaningful lyrics.
The album closes with the uplifting ‘We Are
B
ruce Springsteen is finally back.
After the unfortunate death of
his long-time friend and music
companion, saxophonist Clar-
ence Clemons, the Boss has been
preparing for the release of his 17th studio al-
bum titled Wrecking Ball packed with a tour
across the US and Europe starting late March.
For those of you not belonging in the hard-
core fans of Springsteen you may have the im-
age of an American wearing a red bandana and
singing a patriotic anthem called ‘Born In The
USA’ back in the 80s. This is not what Bruce
Springsteen has been for the past 40 years of
his career; at least not just that. His music has
been inspired by figures like Bob Dylan and
Elvis and has also been a great inspiration
for fellow New Jerseyan Bon Jovi, the Foo
Fighters and many more. Springsteen’s work
has always been about “judging the distance
between American reality and the American
dream — how far is that at any given mo-
ment.” as he mentioned at a press conference
held in Paris mid-February.
From the iconic Born To Run and the strug-
gle to escape from a dead town, to the massive
hit album Born In The USA inspired by the
pain and despair the Vietnam War brought to
the Americans, to The Rising and its elevating
spirit after the 9/11 hit, Springsteen has always
embedded in his music and lyrics traits of the
American society, backing up the blue-collar
guy, judging those responsible for the decline
of his hometown, for the constant fading of the
American Dream.
Wrecking Ball is an album inspired by the
latest financial and socio-economic crisis.
The album opens with ‘We Take Care Of Our
Own’. The artist assesses the current situation
of his homeland before he strikes the listener
with a series of questions the rest of the album
tries to answer:
“Where’s the love that has not forsaken me
Where’s the work that’ll set my hands, my
soul free
Where’s the spirit that’ll reign rain over me
Where’s the promise from sea to shining
sea”
The next few songs, ‘Easy Money’, ‘Shack-
led And Drawn’, ‘Jack Of All Trades’, ‘Death
To My Hometown’ take a look at the injustice
that has surrounded the actions of “the bank-
Bruce wants to know why you haven’t bought the album It was out March 5th!
Is Springsteen still the Boss?
Michael Krestas finds reason to celebrate with the release of Wrecking Ball
Missing breakfast inspiration? Give ear-on-toast a try
In other news...
The supergroup Gorrillaz have released an accompanying video
to their Converse-promoting song, DoYaThing. The song, featuring
the incredible talents of James Murphy and Andre 3000, has
been cut down from its epic thirteen minute duration to a more
YouTube-friendly five-or-so minutes. Covering the mundane activ-
ity of getting up in a morning in less-than-ordinary house (think
gimps, bowls of ears and a bus-sized creature laying on the roof),
the video is an animated marvel. But to appreciate the song prop-
erly hunt out the unabridged version.

