FELIX
Friday 09 MARCH 2012
24
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Ten new releases to look out for
The Kid with a Bike (23 March)
The Grand Prix winner at last year’s Cannes Film Festival (the second highest honour), the
Dardenne brothers have once again succeeded in delivering a compelling, emotional roll-
ercoaster ride. Abandoned by his own father to a foster home, 11 year-old Cyril falls into
trouble as he tries to reconnect with his distant father and also retrieve his lost bicycle. He
befriends a local hairdresser who agrees to care for him during the weekends, as well as a
local gang member who manipulates the boy’s need for a stable father figure to take him
under his wings. It has already been hailed as one of this year’s most gripping, intriguing and
exciting, despite what may sound like a slow, bog-standard, foreign indie drama.
We Bought a Zoo (16 March)
Aimed at a large Christmas audience in the States, the significant delay in the U.K. release
suggests the studio is banking on the warm, spring reception here in Europe. Which is just
as well, because Cameron Crowe’s feel-good family drama involving lots of furry animals (the
title makes this clear) is an ideal film for both the older and younger generations. In a very
Jerry Maguire-type of plot, Matt Damon, who plays a likable widower, quits his job in the
city and decides to relocate to the quieter, brighter countryside with his two young children,
and ends up buying a zoo for his house. Let the redemptive reconnection between a parent
and kids begin, as well as blossoming new romance with a local hottie (Scarlett Johansson).
Titanic 3D (5 April)
Say what you will about the three-hour long film where essentially a boy and a girl who aren’t
supposed to fall in love do so anyway, whilst a gigantic ship sinks after hitting an iceberg that
jeopardises the lovers’ plan: the fact remains that James Cameron’s Titanic walked away with
11 Oscars and a cool 1.8 unadjusted billion dollars at the worldwide box office. One of the
world’s most beloved films is back, this time with a 3D conversion; considering that Cameron
is the man who started this recent obsession with the extra dimension, he must have done a
remarkable job. An unmissable cinematic event for fans, and perhaps even first-timers may
find themselves hooked and tearing up at Leo and Kate’s doomed romance.
This Must be the Place (6 April)
A word of advice – brace yourselves before you get even a glimpse of the poster of this film.
Sean Penn has never looked this scary. And this is the man who’s played convicted criminals
in the past. No, this time he’s a bored, retired rock star, a soft-spoken, slightly spaced out
individual. After his estranged father’s unexpected death, he goes on a very personal trip
around America to find an ex-Nazi officer who tormented his Jewish father in Auschwitz. This
kind of eccentric character is absolutely ideal for the kind of diverse and unique actor that
Penn is, and a self-discovery road-trip is always a good starting point for a touching and
beautiful journey of what appears to be an interesting character.
The Hunger Games (23 March)
Based on the popular young adult novel, industry experts are hopeful that the ticket sales
for this will match the hype that went with the Twilight franchise. While it’s still too early to
be making bold estimates like that, the Battle Royale-esque plot involving a futuristic world
in which 24 unfortunately selected teenagers are first trained and then forced to fight for
their lives until there is only one survivor, a “game” that is watched by everyone. Intense and
gripping, although the 12A certificate suggests there will be less blood. This also has the
advantage of having secured two rapidly rising stars of Hollywood as the main leads: the
Oscar-nominated, gutsy Jennifer Lawrence and The Kids are All Right’s Josh Hutcherson.

