r over the Easter break
FILM
FELIX Friday 09 MARCH 2012 25
Jeff, Who Lives at Home (20 April)
From the director of Cyrus, 2010’s well-received indie comedy, comes Jeff, Who Lives at
Home, the heart-warming yet unexpectedly funny story of the aimless slacker Jeff (Jason Se-
gel) living in the basement of his mother’s (Susan Sarandon) house, and his married brother
(Ed Helms). “You may not be able to change your dysfunctional family, but destiny, you can
take control of,” is the tagline this film is trying to sell. When his brother suspects that his
wife (Judy Greer) may be cheating, Jeff helps with the spying process. The Duplass brothers,
having both written and directed the film, have assembled a killer cast, and all the festival
attention this has been receiving bodes well for the film’s overall quality.
Albert Nobbs (27 April)
Glenn Close is now a six-time Oscar nominee thanks to her latest passion project. Adapting a
play she performed around thirty years ago, her performance has won rave reviews since its
release last year, and it finally hits the screens here. The tragic story of a woman living dis-
guised as a male butler in 19th century Ireland to survive and make ends meet in the sexist
society, Close never sets a foot wrong in portraying the paranoid woman trapped within the
walls she built for her protection. It’s a touching, gentle and subtle drama that also makes
good use of its excellent ensemble. Janet McTeer also nabbed an Oscar nomination as the
person providing support for Close, whereas Mia Wasikowska is her usual charming self.
The Cabin in the Woods (13 April)
Before you roll your eyes and dismiss this as yet another predictable slasher horror in which
attractive youngsters are killed off one by one by a deranged psychopath after the group
makes the foolish mistake of going to an abandoned house in the middle of nowhere, have
a closer look at the trailer. To start off with, these unfortunate people are harassed by not
one serial killer, but instead a secret, well-organised group which seems to be equipped
with hi-tech terrorising resources. Produced by Joss Whedon, the man behind Buffy and this
summer’s much anticipated Avengers Assemble, The Cabin in the Woods could be that rare
horror film that carries with it some originality as well as some genuinely scary moments.
American Reunion (2 May)
The original American Pie gang is back, 9 years after their American Wedding stint. Times
have changed, their living situations have changed, but have they really grown up? Jim (Ja-
son Biggs) and Michelle (Alyson Hannigan) are busy bringing up their two year-old son, Kevin
(Thomas Ian Nicholas) is a married househusband, Oz (Chris Klein) has a new hot squeeze,
and Stifler (Seann William Scott) is still Stifler, but with a job this time (we see him defecat-
ing in a picnic basket so maybe thankfully for the audience, he hasn’t quite matured). Also
back are Jim’s Dad (Eugene Levy) and Stifler’s Mom (Jennifer Coolidge) who end up in the
same bedroom. Will the destined pair finally hook up in this instalment? Only time will tell.
Salmon Fishing in the Yemen (20 April)
This must have been an absolute nightmare to finance and advertise for, given its highly
unappealing title – fishing itself is an acquired-taste kind of activity, take this to the Yemen
and you’ll have an even smaller audience. But Lasse Hallström, known for his heart-warming
dramas (Chocolat, Hachi: A Dog’s Tale, Dear John), is the reliable man in charge telling the
story of a fisheries expert (Emily Blunt), a consultant (Ewan McGregor), and a hopeful Sheik
(Amr Waked) coming together to bring the sport of fly-fishing to the desert of Yemen. Despite
the seemingly bland subject material, Blunt and McGregor form a likable team, and Kristin
Scott Thomas pitches in some fine comic performance as an ambitious politician.

