FELIX
Friday 09 MARCH 2012
26
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film Editors: John Park
Lucy Wiles
FILM
Two spies who love me
With a love triangle that is as impossi-
bly good looking as this one, it’s diffi-
cult to know which pair to root for. But
to put things simply, it’s a showdown
between a young James Bond (Hardy)
and a young Ethan Hunt (Pine) who
are also best friends. “I know that you
would take a bullet for me, I would for
you as well.” Awwwww. Their bro-
mance is shown in none other than a
loud, kinetic action scene on the rooftop
of a tall Hong Kong tower, something
director McG (Terminator: Salvation)
should be familiar with. But it’s noth-
ing special, with a modest scale that
seems to be a waste on the two talented
young actors. And just from watching
the first ten to fifteen minutes or so of
uninspired, highly ordinary footage, we
immediately begin to worry whether
the rest of the film will be as mediocre.
Things get more interesting however,
for both the leading men and the audi-
ence, when Witherspoon enters the pic-
ture. As her bright and perky unlucky-
John Park
Director McG
Screenwriters Timothy Dowling,
Simon Kinberg, Marcus Gautesen
Cast Reese Witherspoon, Thomas
Hardy, Chris Pine
This Means War
in-love Lauren appears, it’s no more a
nice bromance, but a full-on war, hence
the title. A slight misunderstanding in-
volving a blind date and a chance en-
counter at a video rental store, the two
men meet her within minutes, and are
completely taken by her. Witherspoon,
the talented comic actress who can do
this kind of simple role in her sleep, is
effective in showing us just why these
two tough guys are bending over back-
wards to impress her. The snarky, sly
interception of various dates begins,
with the two spies, who have access to
plenty of CIA’s most advanced resourc-
es, smartly outdoing one another in the
most spectacular ways. It’s a nonsense
screwball comedy, worked to maximum
effect with the occasional action added.
A part of what makes this such a
watchable experience is the entirely
convincing chemistry Hardy shares
with Pine. They’re cheeky, funny, and
seem uninhibited as they appear scene
after scene bickering like two immature
little boys. As they spy on Lauren she
has no problem sharing all the intimate
details of her two relationships to her
blunt gal-pal confidant Trish (Chelsea
Handler). FDR (Pine) has small and
delicate hands – and this has more trou-
bling implications, and Tuck (Hardy) is
British – which apparently means the
same thing. Hilarity ensues as the two
spies are powerless to stop her.
It’s not all about the bromance how-
ever: because Witherspoon is paired
with a priceless comedic supporting co-
medienne Handler. Her dialogue is rich
with dry, sarcastic and sexually charged
zingers, and with her deadpan deliv-
ery of the well-written lines, she is an
invaluable addition to the already im-
pressive cast. This allows Witherspoon
room to develop her character more and
although Handler’s role may be plagued
with predictable clichés of a borderline
alcoholic, sex-obsessed, middle-aged
woman, the fact that she adds a whole
lot more quality laughter into the film
works out as a massive plus.
Despite the obvious humour that
drives a lot of the film’s first half,
the script also remains faithful to the
more romantic side of the two sets of
relationships. FDR, the womanising,
club-hopping playboy who lived on
one-night stands, is actually thinking
of settling down with the girl who he
is truly taken aback by. Tuck, reeling
from his divorce and struggling to con-
nect with his son whilst having to deal
with the cold-shoulder treatment from
his ex, also finds something deep and
meaningful during his time with Lau-
ren. Yes, there is nothing romantic, ethi-
cal or legal about how these two spies
constantly have their eyes on this wom-
an by spending some hi-tech valuable
national resources – but this is McG’s
world. It’s not supposed to be taken too
seriously. And once you get past the
issue regarding invasion of privacy, it
turns into an entertaining romp.
With appealing leads, McG sustains
the intrigue surrounding his love trian-
gle but where he fails to truly impress
is with his action scenes which never
find enough momentum. As a subplot,
these two CIA agents manage to anger a
dangerous mobster. And surprise, Lau-
ren gets caught in the middle of some-
thing deadly. What follows is a highly
unsatisfying car chase, followed by one
anti-climactic shoot-out in which Lau-
ren makes her ultimate decision, all too
soon, with a far too convenient solu-
tion to give everyone a happy ending.
It will make you cringe, but because of
its consistent build-up, ultimately it’s
an ideal film for a brainless night-out.
I spy...with my little eye...something beginning with H...
Total mayhem and carnage... just your average night at Metric
Lucy Wiles
Director Nima Nourizadeh
Screenwriters Matt Drake, Michael
Bacall
Cast Thomas Mann, Oliver Cooper,
Jonathan Daniel Brown
Project X
A distinctly unfunny teen-exploitation
comedy about an epic all-night party that
quickly collapses into anarchy, Project X
also is a clever kind of clean page; view-
ers can project whatever feelings they
have about the degenerative behaviour
on display, since the film itself offers
very few opinions. In that way, produc-
ers manage to provide a cultural, genera-
tional and even political theme to debate,
one that will captivate a portion of the
teenage demographic it shows, just as
it alternately angers, infuriates and dis-
gusts other, probably older, audiences.
From watching the film, several ques-
tions are raised. Firstly: have teenagers
always been this moronic, or does Proj-
ect X set new boundaries? Secondly:
did earlier generations approach having
a good time with such serious planning
and forethought? And thirdly: does this
film set the standard for the nausea-in-
ducing use of the unsteady cam – pos-
sibly the MOST ANNOYING filming
type ever.
The premise, admittedly, is hugely un-
original. Like all the other many films
of this type, the motivating factor in the
screenplay by first-timer Matt Drake and
Michael Bacall (Scott Pilgrim vs. the
World, the soon to be released 21 Jump
Street) is the urgent and uncontrollable
need for teenage boys, specifically of the
geekish persuasion, to get laid. In this
tale, this is exactly what lanky nice guy
Thomas (Thomas Mann) would like for
his 18th birthday, so plans are hatched
for an epic, lady-filled blowout the night
his parents leave town for the week-
end…you can see the problems arising
already.
Unfortunately, taking control of things
is Thomas’ pal Costa (Oliver Cooper),
a rude, crude, grubby little creep who
ignores rules – notably those laid down
by Thomas to do with limiting the party
to two or three dozen guests and not al-
lowing them in the house. Costa keeps
reassuring Thomas that everything will
be fine, and not to worry about it, while
making sure drugs will be widely avail-
able courtesy of a horrifically unsavory
dealer. In another movie, you could
imagine Costa could have been a funny,
over-the-top character, always goading
his pal into ever-more-risky territory;
here, as adamantly enacted by Cooper,
he’s just loathsome, venal and without
humor, and that he pointedly identifies
himself as Jewish won’t endear him to
guardians of the religion’s reputation.
The format is predictable, but what
Project X does manage to do is remove
all the usual elements of cuteness from
the equation; being a nerdy teenager
has always involved a certain amount
of awkwardness, angst and anxiety, but
there usually is some fun attached, and
the usual teen films tap into that nearly
universal insecurity and apprehension
connected to the rites of passage. Here,
there is none of that – the desperation
level is too high; it’s all about getting
booze, getting drugs, getting sex, and
all immediately. Or, as Costa says, “To-
night’s about changing the game.”
Project X was supposedly inspired by
a similar event in Australia a few years
back when, thanks to a moronic Face-
book post, hundreds of people turned up
for a house party, resulting in uncontrol-
lable mayhem and madness…and a bill
for the parents of thousands of aussie
dollars. In Project X, after a slow and
slightly tedious start, it seems like every-
one in North Pasadena between the ages
of about 16-18, plus a few older party-
goers and a bunch of younger hopefuls,
has gathered at Thomas’ house for a
party of awesome proportions. The DJs
pound classics into the calm neighbour-
hood, the alcohol flows all too freely,
slutty girls strip off and jump in the pool,
an unsuspecting dog is sent airborne via
multiple balloons, a piñata spills Ec-
stasy tablets, all morals and inhibitions
fade, Thomas’ parents Mercedes ends
up underwater, and the drug dealer turns
up with a flame thrower. They meant it
when they said awesome proportions.
Amazingly (and somewhat unrealisti-
cally), the cops only visit once and leave
after they are turned away by some legal
chitchat from Costa, who aspires to be
lawyer. Eventually, however, the party
becomes major media news even as it
continues, which is all it takes to justify
its existence in this day and age.
The ending concludes with the boys
definitely feeling the life-changing con-
sequences that must be paid for their
delinquency. However, the filmmakers
still imply that, even if they do nothing
further of any use in their whole lives,
they’ll always have this one massive
event; here lies the problem of the film’s
lack of point-of-view, leaving it to the
viewer to decide if the party was a good/
bad/absolutely horrific thing.
Aesthetically, the film just does your
head in, unless you can cope with the
nausea that comes with ‘home-cinema’
effect filming. Under the pretext that a
raver is filming the party, first-time di-
rector Nima Nourizadeh and cinema-
tographer Ken Seng swing the camera
around repeatedly and unfortunately
induce a strong feeling of seasickness.
The images tend to be dark and random,
the music incessant; this is certainly not
the film to see when hungover, or with
a headache. From a production point of
view, the set is such carnage that you
must imagine the vast amount of clear-
ing up for retakes would be horrendous.
And where on earth was the movie shot
so as not to bother the neighbours?!
“Have teenagers al-
ways been this mo-
ronic?”

