Keir Little discusses why the gaming community needs to buck up its ideas if it
ever wants to be taken seriously
“What’s disappointing is
the extreme ease with
which casually racist,
sexist and homophobic
slurs are used”
G
aming has boomed recently: its
popularity, company profits and
presence in popular culture are
at a level unimaginable twenty
years ago. No one bats an eyelid
if you say you play videogames, and the stereo-
type of a game player being a ‘nerd’ (and all that
comes with it) is thankfully being broken down.
Games have become a form of entertainment just
like television or literature. Unlike other media,
though, gaming culture — that is, its players, de-
velopers and critics — has a lot of growing up
to do. Whereas once videogames were toys for
children, the vast majority of popular games now
are made for, marketed to and played by adults,
though a glance at any games discussion forum
online would have you thinking quite the oppo-
site.
FELIX
Friday 09 march 2012
28
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
Screaming profanities at one’s killers and
gloating over one’s enemies is par for the course
in online games. They wouldn’t be the same
without it, but what’s disappointing is the ex-
treme ease with which casually racist, sexist and
homophobic slurs are used. While these are in-
dicative more of lack of thought than anything
else, when a real female voice is heard in a game
things take a turn for the worse. A woman playing
an online game can expect to be propositioned
for sex, threatened with rape, insulted on her skill
or intelligence or demanded to reveal herself, just
for daring to appear in the game room. God for-
Explain to me why someone would wear armour vulnerable to a pair of blunt scissors
The impact of immaturity
bid she actually be good at what she’s playing —
then, the conclusion will be quickly reached that
she’s either fat, ugly or slutty.
Misogyny is inherent in games more than any
other entertainment media. Browse the shelves of
a game shop and see how many covers feature
a woman who’s essentially just ridiculously pro-
portioned curves in a few square centimetres of
clothing. Any that don’t, flip them over and see
how many have a support character who plays
the same role. Gaming is a medium where one
doesn’t just hire an attractive actress, but designs
a character from the ground up to be a walking
sex object, with physics to control the jiggle of
each individual breast (yes, really!). This is of-
fensive not only to women, but to the men who
play games, suggesting that a real, developed fe-
male character is something we’re not interested
in. That’s not to say there are none of these in
This isn’t a great stereotype...
...but let’s be honest, neither is this one
They look content now, but wait until someone breaks their killing streak
mainstream games – Alyx Vance from Half-Life
2 is a scientist dressed in normal clothes; Samus
Aran from the Metroid game series is sexy with-
out being sexist and wears armour that looks like
it could deflect more than a raindrop. This seems
to be largely overlooked by the community,
though, and the fact that these characters appear
in countless “video game babes” lists (this publi-
cation included) is cause for some concern.
I’ve mentioned ‘mainstream’ gaming as, like
films, there are big blockbuster games as well
as smaller, artier ‘indie’ games. Unlike films,
no game so far seems to have bridged the gap,
and been a piece of artistic impression while
also appealing to a wide audience. Unlike any
other media, games are unique in that they can
use the player’s actions as part of the storytell-
ing; the game mechanics themselves can be part
of the plot and symbolism. My favourite exam-
ple of this is Bioshock, which subverts its own
gameplay to deliver a twist I can honestly say
is better than any film I’ve seen (and yes, I’ve
seen The Usual Suspects). Yet still, Bioshock is
a game largely about shooting people or hitting
them with a wrench. Its atmosphere is beautiful;
its twist magnificently dealt, but its plot is little
more than ‘objectivism is bad.’ While games that
can be called works of art exist, there are not any
which have a plot comparable to a good book
or film. Is this because of a lack of good writ-
ers working for major game developers, fans who
cannot enjoy a deep plot, or just that developers
are afraid to release something that doesn’t ap-
peal to the lowest common denominator? I hope
it’s merely the latter. I’m sure gaming can do bet-
ter, but with the utter lack of sensible storyline or
believable characters in any current blockbuster
games, it’s going to take a long time. Gaming
needs its Dark Knight.
Finally, the gaming community is self-entitled
to an extreme. When a television series goes in
the wrong direction, critics will complain and
people will begrudgingly stop watching the
show. Usually, the series’ earlier, good episodes
are still fondly remembered. When a game series
changes, or an individual game fails to deliver on
promises, the internet becomes filled with fans’
rage. For example, the recent announcement that
Mass Effect 3 will allow gay relationships (male,
of course — otherwise there’d be no complaint)
has resulted in several angry outbursts, the most
ridiculous being that the idea is non-canon — in
a roleplaying game, where you choose exactly
whom you want your character to be. One of
my favourite games, Team Fortress 2, was made
completely free-to-play last June, nearly four
years after its initial release. Owners who bought
the game soon after its original release date re-
ceived an in-game badge to show their ‘veteran’
status, which provoked outrage. “I paid for this
game,” people complained, “and all I get for it is
a badge?” seemingly oblivious to the four years
they’d spent playing it.
One could point out that such childish behav-
iour can be seen in any pub or football stadium,
and they’d be right. But gamers are seeking new-
comers to the hobby, and for it to be recognised
as a legitimate entertainment and art form. I men-
tioned the old stereotype of a gamer is breaking
down, but a new one is taking its place – that of
self-absorbed lazy lads, doing nothing better than
sitting around, drinking beer and playing on the
Xbox. If the gaming community— vocal, obnox-
ious and ever-present on the internet — wants to
shake this image before it’s too late, they’ve got a
lot of growing up to do.

