FASHION
FELIX Friday 09 march 2012 29
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion Editors: Saskia Verhagen
Alice Yang
Fashion’s big re-shuffle
Jacobs, Pilati, Sander, Simons and Slimane; Alice Yang brings you the latest amid a designer overhaul
A
s a month of high-fashion draws to an
end with yards of lace, cashmere and
leather erupting lavishly off the Paris
catwalks, the unavoidable fact is that
a tornado of names is what belies the
centre of its storm.
There has been an explosion in terms of change at
the top of fashion this season, morphing the familiar
horizon of creative designers as we know it into a
completely new landscape. Fuelled by the rumour
mill created by keen-eyed journalists anxious to
pair-off displaced designers with prospective houses,
such turbulence has been envisaged ever since the
scandal involving John Galliano kicked-off nearly a
year ago.
The biggest news to date: Hedi Slimane has re-
placed Stefano Pilati as the creative director at Yves
Saint Laurent.
Late last week, after numerous mumblings, the
French luxury house confirmed that Stefano Pilati
would not be renewing his contract after this season.
Although the house claimed in a statement that Pilati
had been “instrumental in rebuilding and reposition-
ing” the label, guiding it to become “a contemporary
reference in high fashion”, Pilati’s tenure at YSL has
not been without its bumps. In fact, it was widely
speculated a couple of seasons back that Pilati would
be replaced at the house since it emerged he had lost
favour with the label’s chief executives, owing to the
line’s accessories selling better than its clothes.
Yet having followed on from Tom Ford, Pilati’s
8 years at the house have been an overall success.
Greatly concentrated on precision tailoring and
luxurious fabrics, Pilati’s designs were sensual and
seductive, with a heavy hint to the Parisian elegance
Saint-Laurent himself had strived for, but which
were somewhat lost amongst Ford’s sexually pro-
vocative pieces.
In fact, Pilati’s last collection on Monday seemed
almost prophetical. Elegant bare-backs, glittering
chain mail dresses and leather wasp-waisted jack-
ets; Pilati’s finale infused darkened sincerity with a
sparkle of floral romance, as if hinting that he would
emerge from the thicket of changeovers as a bloom
of freshness.
But alas, before Pilati has managed to reveal his
own future plans, the heads of YSL validated strong
rumours by naming Hedi Slimane as the house’s new
creative director.
For those out-of-the-know, Hedi Slimane is noth-
ing less than a fashion legend in his own right. Hav-
ing held a cult following whilst he was creative
director at Dior Homme in the 2000s, and known
for his introduction of the super-skinny silhouette
(i.e. the driving force behind the male skinny jeans
revolution); Slimane was, and still is, the menswear
designer of our time. In fact, Chanel’s own fashion
mogul Karl Lagerfeld puts Slimane’s suits down as
the reason he lost a remarkable amount of weight in
2001.
This new appointment of Slimane to YSL is noth-
ing short of a homecoming given that he led their
menswear designs in the late 90s, yet it is still a big
jump for the house. Not only will this be the start
of Slimane’s career in womenswear, it is photogra-
phy he has dedicated himself to these past 5 years,
and so understandably, the fashion world watches on
with high expectations and even higher tensions. No
doubtYSL’s show next season will be one of the most
highly anticipated.
From one reinstatement to another, the headline
news from Milan fashion week was that Jil Sander
would be making a return to her eponymous label 40
years after she founded it, following the release that
Raf Simons would be leaving his post at the helm of
the house this season.
Having recently completed his highly acclaimed
‘couture trilogy’ for the label, Raf Simons’ farewell
show was a breathtakingly simple one. With a flow
of petal pink and ivory coats daintily clutched at the
chest, which morphed into a procession of shiny black
PVCandleatherdresses,Simons’finalparadebrought
tears into the eyes of those that watched. Heralded as
his best collection
yet, Simons de-
parted to a standing
ovation and an
encore; it was
a monumental
end to his ma-
jestic journey
of influential
simplicity with
the house.
Given the
influx of
newly dis-
placed de-
signers, as well
as the prospect of
further reshuffling,
a waterfall of poten-
tial candidates has
cascaded the fash-
ion blogosphere to
try and answer its
golden question:
Who will be the
new creative director
at Christian Dior?
Having ruled out Riccardo Tisci and Azzedine
Alaïa last season, London designer Christopher Kane
became the center of speculation last week follow-
ing his collaboration with Donatella Versace on a
Camden-inspired acidic-tie-dye collection for the dif-
fusion line Versus.
Yet as soon as Kane had ruled himself out of the
race, the rumour mill turned to Haider Ackermann,
another of fashion’s most talented new designers, af-
ter it was reported that a bouquet of flowers had been
sent to Dior’s HQ earlier this week with a congratula-
tory message for him. This has since sent editors and
bloggers alike into a flurry, as not only was Acker-
mann popularly conceived to be “too edgy” for the
legendary label, it is well known that Karl Lagerfeld
has named Ackermann as his preferred replacement
at rival French house Chanel.
Inevitably, following the Louis Vuitton show on
Wednesday, Marc Jacobs also re-entered the scene
despite stating, “I am at Vuitton, and I am very happy
there” himself last year. Add onto this rumours that
Raf Simons or Stefano Pilati may make Dior (or
even Louis Vuitton) their new home, as well as the
sweet sound that Galliano himself may return to the
throne, and the torrents currently underlying the fash-
ion world are fast becoming as intricate as a political
power swap.
Its all change at the top of fashion as designers and
houses alike line up for a big game of musical chairs,
yet we must remember that it is the CEOs who are
playing God. This leaves the creative visionaries in
second place behind the money jiggling of chief ex-
ecutives, and unfortunately, such expressively fragile
imaginations have a tendency to get caught up and
swallowed in whirls of media attention and unwar-
ranted pressure. So as fun as this game of Guess Who
is, let’s hope for the benefit of all that this storm is
coming to an end.
Hedi Slimane Stefano Pilati Jil Sander Raf Simons Marc Jacobs Christopher Kane Haider Ackermann John Galliano
Yves
Saint
Laurent
AW
2012
Versus
AW
2012
Jil
Sander
AW
2012
Jil
Sander
AW
2012
Haider
Ackermann
AW
2012
“Hedi Slimane has re-
placed Stefano Pilati as
the creative director at
Yves Saint Laurent.”

