BOOKS
FELIX
Friday 09 march 2012
30
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
Let me guess, this novel is set in Imperial Russia?
I ﬁnd it rather disappointing how so few of
the books available to readers in this country
are written by foreign language authors. Sure,
you can ﬁnd translations of all the French and
Russian classics in the larger bookshops but
not much from other countries and certainly
nothing contemporary. I’m somewhat at a loss
to explain this phenomenon. Other European
countries don’t seem to have this problem,
with some bookshops devoting up to half their
ﬁction section to translations. I think that it’s a
great loss for the British public – foreign litera-
ture is a way of immersing yourself in new cul-
tures without leaving your home – it broadens
the mind and gives you a new viewpoint. I bet
that not many of you have even heard of Hen-
ryk Sienkiewicz, despite the man having won a
Nobel Prize in Literature. It seems that, in gen-
eral, publishers have seemingly decided not to
run the risk of giving their readers something
different. I was therefore pleasantly surprised
when I heard that the independent British pub-
lisher Atlantic Books will be putting out an
English translation of Jacek Dukaj’s acclaimed
science ﬁction alternate history novel Ice be-
fore the year is out.
Ice is set in alternate universe during the
1920s, where the 1908 Tunguska event un-
leashed creatures known as “lute”. Looking
almost like angels made of ice they move at a
glacial pace but bring endless winter wherever
they venture. As they move through Siberia,
and later European Russia, agriculture collaps-
es and people ﬂock to cities to ﬁnd new live-
lihoods and protection from the deadly cold.
The lute have, however, created a whole new
industry, transmuting anything that they pass
through into strange new materials, such as an
incredibly light and strong steel or coal that,
when burned, produces darkness and not light.
This has all drastically altered the balance of
power on the continent – the First World War
has never happened and the European powers
maintain an uneasy peace.
Benedykt Gierosławski, who provides the
novel’s narration, is a poor mathematician liv-
ing a Warsaw that is still occupied by the Rus-
sian Empire. He earns a pittance working as
a private tutor but everything changes when,
one morning, he is awakened by functionaries
from the Ministry of Winter who inform him
that they want him to travel to Irkutsk, deep
in Siberia, to ﬁnd his father, who they believe
has developed an ability to speak with the lute.
This thrusts him into a world of political in-
trigue, as various factions try to control him
and his father for their own ends. This ele-
ment is the greatest strength of Ice. The book
is long and slow paced, allowing this complex
political situation to be explored in great de-
tail. We see a picture of how power in the Rus-
sian Empire is dangerously fragmented – the
list of the people and organisations trying to
control Benedykt is quite impressive. We have
Szulc-of-the-Winter, the governor of Irkutsk;
Pobiedonoscew, head of the Siberian mining
monopoly Sibirożeto; Rappacki, the Russian
Minister of Winter; the Tsar himself; Siberian
Jacek Dukaj’s Ice
A political and philosophical alternate history thriller
Maciej Matuszewski
A Handmaid’s Tale
Margaret Atwood’s The Handmaid’s Tale often ap-
pears on people’s lists of recommended novels. Un-
fortunately, I have a somewhat bad record at reading
must-read books so I only picked it up last week.
Perhaps, however, I should begin to pay more atten-
tion to such highly recommended books since The
Handmaid’s Tale is honestly one of the best books I
have ever read.
Set in the near future where a crisis brought on by
mass infertility has allowed a Christian fundamental-
ist government to take over the USA, renaming it the
Republic of Gilead, the novel follows Offred whose
only worth to the regime, as a low class but fertile
woman, is, in her own words, “a womb on legs”.
This is a chilling and bleakly believable tale of life
under an oppressive totalitarian and fundamentalist
regime. One of the most famous quotes from the
novel is “nolite te bastardes carborundorum” but the
fact is that we see everybody, even those who have
positions of power or who the reader had thought
were strong, being ground and broken down by the
harsh societal and political climate.
The focus is of course on Offred – stripped of her
family, her identity and even her old name – now re-
ferred to only by the name of the man to whom she
is providing her services. While forced to maintain a
quiet and pious outer demeanour through her first
person narration we see her desperate struggle to
maintain her identity, and hope for a better future,
despite all that surrounds her.
The true strength of the book is its language and
narrative style. Offred’s account is structured as if
she were directly addressing the reader. There is a
great deal of nonlinearity as she goes off on a tan-
gent or remembers something important from the
past. This makes us feel like we’re in her head –
making everything feel more real and immediate.
She begins to feel like a real person so we can’t help
but feel for her.
This is a powerful novel that works on every level.
Atwood is a masterful author and I thoroughly recom-
mend that you check this and her other work out.
Maciej Matuszewski
separatists; Polish terrorists and freedom ﬁght-
ers; and the mysterious members of the Church
of St. Marcyn, lead by Rasputin himself, who
worship the Ice. I have never before read a
book that explores political intrigue with such
depth.
Unfortunately this element is not the main
focus of Ice. Rather, most of the book is spent
exploring the nature of logic, and how the fab-
ric of reality itself has been affected by the
arrival of the lute. This could have been fas-
cinating and we do see glimpses of brilliance
but Dukaj wallows in the worst excesses of
pseudo-philosophy, resulting in pages of pages
of what, to me, is just meaningless drivel. This
also leads to some rather weird moments. The
ﬁrst line of the protagonist’s narration is: “It
was on the eve of my Siberian Odyssey that I
ﬁrst began to believe that I don’t exist”. This
doubt leads him, a few chapters in, to suddenly
switch from ﬁrst to third person. I do often en-
joy elements of weirdness but here they don’t
have any depth. They’re fun to read but they
just don’t add anything.
I should probably say here that I’m not try-
ing to discourage you from reading Ice. I
recognise that books like these can often be
subjective and it certainly has been popular in
Poland, winning numerous awards. You should
certainly give it a go, even if only to try some-
thing different.
“...most of the book is
spent exploring the na-
ture of logic...”

