The business of religion
In the latest fundraising endeavour,
open to both Raincatcher members
and members of the public, each
person will carry 10 litres of water
approximately 10 miles from Tower
Bridge to Imperial College. The Wa-
ter Carry Walk is taking place this
Saturday (10 March) so it’s not too
late to join in, but do get a move
on! As well as being a way to col-
lect sponsorship for our project over
the summer of building a rainwater
harvesting system, this event helps to
highlight the importance of a sustain-
able water supply.
Each day in Tanzania, hundreds of
children as young as 5 have to carry
clean drinking water similar distanc-
es from government-owned and dis-
tributed supplies back to their homes.
We’re trying to bring this to public
attention by showing what a physi-
cal feat this is to carry water long
distances. Given that this walk has
earned Raincatcher a lot of publicity
and donations in the past, we hope
this year’s will be a success too!
As mentioned, you don’t have to
be part of Raincatcher to participate.
So if you want to come along and
help out our charity, experience what
hundreds of children have to do, or
if you just want to show off your
muscles, come along and join in! For
every participant raising over £100,
we will provide a free Raincatcher
T-shirt!
So what are you waiting for? Get
involved! Sponsorship forms are
available from our website: www.
raincatcherimperial.org. You can
also find out details about our proj-
ect and donate to us through Virgin
Money Giving on the site!
College Chaplain Andrew Willson discusses the ongoing conversations resulting from the Occupy movement
Pavitar Singh Devgon
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 09 march 2012 31
Following on from the success of their recent Metric Night, Raincatcher is busy obtaining sponsorship for the ambitious Water Carry Walk
Reporting on the latest from Raincatcher Imperial
T
he camp of Occupy Lon-
don has finally been evict-
ed from outside St Paul’s
Cathedral. I had visited the
site and talked with a few
people. I liked the way they focused at-
tention on the how the current econom-
ic crisis is being handled. The camp
highlighted the close links between the
Cathedral and the City of London. Yet
it also had wide support from local UK
Churches. Their members feel the eco-
nomic issues themselves and hear the
stories of hardship from their partner
communities in developing nations.
The existing systems of banking and
regulation have led us to this place of
economic instability and rising inequal-
ity. The world wide Occupy movement
focuses the demands of people around
the world for new thinking and new
ways of doing business, ways that of-
fer some stability for our futures. Much
of the outcry about recent bonuses for
bankers at RBS comes from a sense that
after the greatest wake-up call in eco-
nomic history nothing much seems to
have changed. Instead austerity, finan-
cial instability and increasing inequality
seem to be all that is offered.
Student concerns about debts and em-
ployment options – and how these play
out around the world - now feature in
the conversations we hear as Chaplains.
In a multi-faith team these concerns are
seen within different religious frame-
works. Our religious traditions have
long histories and have adapted to dif-
ferent economic systems over the cen-
turies. Religions have views about the
purpose wealth, and how to combine
justice with our personal economic
needs. For example, Islamic banking
asks fundamental questions about the
purpose of money. In Hinduism there is
the idea that financial success needs to
be seen alongside true devotion if the
success is to bring goodness into life.
The Jewish idea of ‘sabbath’ ques-
tions the purpose and scope of work,
while the idea of ‘shalom’ gives a ho-
listic vision of prosperity. Christianity
asks how the poorest are to share in
general prosperity.
At a time of economic uncertainty
maybe dialogue with the religious tra-
ditions about finance and business can
give an new angle to the debate. Stu-
dents from Imperial Interfaith and the
Chaplaincy are bringing together a pan-
el of people with varied experience of
finance and business. They will be in-
vited to answer questions from students
about how their own faith engages with
their business practice and what in-
sights it offers for shaping the current
situation. Members of the panel are
drawn from the Hindu, Muslim, Jewish
and Christian faith traditions. Alkesh
Patel, is a trader and columnist for the
Financial Times. Tarek El Diwany was
head of the Islamic Finance department
at Prebon Yamane in London and a
bond trader. He now writes and consults
on Islamic banking and finance. Marcus
Bateman is Vice President of Corporate
Payments for Barclays Corporate. His
current area of responsibility is Product
Management for Faster Payments. He
is a Licensed Lay Minister (LLM) in
the Church of England. Maurice Ostro
is Chairman of Ostro Minerals (UK)
and Chair and founder of Fayre Share
Investments. He is also a trustee of the
Anglo-Israel Association and the Coun-
cil of Christians and Jews.
This is not about finding complete
agreement. Religious communities
have good questions. Yet, like St Paul’s
they cannot avoid their own involve-
ment in the current systems. No one is
pretending that religious communities
have all the answers. Rather we want to
widen the debate about issues that affect
all human beings. There is a sense of ur-
gency. Religions with long memories –
like political campaigners - know that
if current practice is not reshaped with
justice then those with the most power
will shape things for their convenience
and at the expense of the majority.
Business and Religion : In Dialogue
Thursday 15 March, 6:30-8pm in
the Business School LGS lecture
theatre.
For more see www.imperial.
ac.uk/chaplaincy or ‘Imperial Inter-
faith’ on Facebook.
Andrew Fok
The relationship between religious traditions and business could provide a new angle to the Occupy movement

