FOOD
FELIX
Friday 09 MARCH 2012
34
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Make your own nuggets
We all love nuggets; it’s the first choice, possibly
after burgers, that we usually choose to eat at a
fast-food restaurant. Despite the addictive taste
of the fast-food nuggets, they are really bad for our
health; and it’s not only about fat and frying. We
cannot be sure of the quality of the chicken used
for their production, basically because we cannot
even recognize whether it is chicken at all. They
could have used literally any cheap material that
tastes good.
For those who enjoy eating nuggets very often
and are concerned about health problems or they
want to keep fit, I will explain in simple words how
I used to make delicious nuggets at home that are
low in calories.
Firstly, you need to preheat the oven to 200 de-
grees and put a non-stick baking sheet to a pan
and grease it with butter. Take 2 chicken fillets and
pound evenly until they are about half their original
thickness. Cut up the fillets in pieces and season
with salt and pepper.
Then you need 3 bowls. In the first one put half
cup of flour, in the second one 2 eggs (yes, you do
need to whisk them before) and in the final one a
cup of breadcrumbs, some parmesan and orega-
no. After that you just put each piece of chicken
in the bowls in order (flour – eggs – breadcrumbs)
and you place them in the pan. For extra taste,
spread some olive oil on top of the nuggets.
They need approximately 30 minutes in the
oven, but don’t forget to turn them after the first
15 minutes in order to get a brown colour on both
sides. To make it a healthy supper serve it with
salad, or for a complete meal serve it with chips
and ketchup or mayonnaise.
Going vegan: third week’s the charm
by Anastasia Eleftheriou
Milk was such an important part of our diets
before veganism and we’ve been finding it
hard coping without it in our cereal and tea.
So we thought this week that we’d investigate
four different alternatives to cow’s milk to see
which one we liked the best.
The four milks we chose were classic un-
sweetened soya milk, almond milk, rice milk
and oat milk. We investigated each milk on its
own and then with tea and shredded wheat.
It’s fair to say that soya milk was the closest
alternative to cow’s milk – perhaps there is a
reason why it’s already the most popular alter-
native. In tea we couldn’t taste the difference
compared to cow’s milk, but then again we
have been drinking soya milk for two weeks
already and are enjoying it. It also goes well
with cereal, being very close to skimmed milk.
In our opinion we felt that the other milks
It’s all about Me Me
I
passed Me Me almost every day in
my second and third years of College,
but only ate there once. I returned
again last night to satisfy the crav-
ing I’ve been having for Vietnamese
food. From the outside it looks pretty stan-
dard. Menu in the window, bright sign and
a bright welcoming look to it. Go inside
and the guy will be sitting there playing
Warcraft on his laptop, oh the authenticity.
He does greet us, before he lets his female
counterpart show us to our table. The front
of the restaurant looks quite cramped, but
towards the back it widens out, and there are
some bigger tables. The menu is very inter-
esting, and has a wide selection of Vietnam-
ese food, and the westernised classics. They
have written all the names of the authentic
dishes in green, which immediately attracts
me to them. They all have a good English
description, so you know what you’re in for.
As for drinks, don’t expect any high quality
wines or beer, but the jasmine tea went down
a treat.
We got summer rolls for starters. I know
what you’re thinking, are they just the same
greasy deep fried things you get in a Chi-
nese restaurant, just with a different season.
Oh how wrong you are. A summer roll lives
up to its name. They have prawns, the fresh-
est herbs (mint and coriander mainly), add
some rice vermicelli noodles all wrapped
up in rice paper. Then dip it in a slightly
spicy peanut sauce, and take a bite of sum-
mer; which with summer fast approaching, I
am filled with excitement for London in the
summer time.
The mains came in little metal pots with
lids, which I thought was a nice touch. I like
taking a lid off food, it’s like unwrapping a
present. We ordered Pork Kho, which had
a pungent smell (in a good way.) The meat
was very tender, and fell apart easily. This,
for someone who isn’t an expert with chop-
sticks, was appreciated. The taste was im-
pressive. It wasn’t due to a great combination
of flavors; it was the one powerful flavor
that made this dish. I later learned that the
sauce is made from fermented soybeans.
The smell somewhat reminds me of a brew-
ery, not the most pleasing to the nose, but I
still want to drink it. It also came with a lit-
tle plate of vegetables, mostly bean sprouts,
again mixed with some very fresh herbs, and
a taste of lime. I wasn’t sure they belonged
together, but eaten separately they were a
good contrast; maybe that’s the intention.
Overall I found Me Me to be very satisfy-
ing – they had very authentic food without
trying to be one of those fashionable ‘real
thing’ restaurants that can charge ten times
the price because some food critic says so.
Stick to the green highlighted food on the
menu and you are sure for a good experience.
Me Me
www.memerestaurant.co.uk
565 Fulham Road, SW6 1ES
This is all for the MS Trust! Please sponsor Hannah and Clare at uk.virginmoneygiving.com/team/goingvegan
shouldn’t be considered as alternatives to
cow’s milk, for example in the way that co-
conut milk isn’t considered an alternative. In
its own right, rice milk was really nice. It was
kind of creamy and mixed well with tea and
cereal.
If you have a sweet tooth then perhaps al-
mond milk would be for you. Despite its wa-
tery-ness, it is sweet and nutty. It’s very nice
with tea even though it doesn’t mix very well.
With cereal however it’s not so good.
I’m sure for some out there oat milk is nice,
but I have to admit we really didn’t like it. It’s
fair to say on its own it was quite interest-
ing and oaty. However with cereal and milk
it was disgusting because it had too much of
its own flavour, making it a sour accompani-
ment. It was as wrong as mixing orange juice
with tea or cereal.
So for now we’re going to stick with our
good old soya milk. If anything, Jordans
Country Crisp with Chunky Nuts tastes bet-
ter with sweetened Alpro Soy soya milk. So
in conclusion if you’re looking for an alter-
native to milk, whether you’re vegan or just
health conscious, soya milk is the one for
you.
Clare Cheng
Hannah Cox
www.examiner.com
Here’s your ‘worrying-looking cow’ fix of
the week, enjoy!
Stephen Gallagher pays a visit to the Vietnamese restaurant
So what you need to do now is try the recipe and
give me feedback! I’m sure you’ll love it!
Better and healthier than KFC!
No fowl play here
Words cannot describe how hungry I am

