Friday 09 march 2012
HangmanErectionSpecial!
Hangman Stands as most obvious choice for all Sabbatical
positions.Turnsa“newleaf”afterincidentwithnationalpaper
FELIX 35
President
VicePresident(Clubs&Societies)
VicePresident(Education)
VicePresident(felix)
VicePresident(Finance&Services)
VicePresident(Welfare)
Vote Change. Vote Hangman for President. I’m not sure
how I’m going to change anything, but I sure am enthusias-
tic. If elected I probably won’t drop out, and if that happens
I really really really want to make everything at the Union
way better than it currently is. I’m talking about a whole new
website with a working search function. How about having
Metric open during the day? I even want to try to get more
students involved. Not sure with what exactly, but I’m sure
there’s something for them to do. What I’m really looking
forward to is all the super long meetings with various Col-
lege committees. I personally find them super fun. Actually
fuck this, the above is all bollocks. Surely you should know
Hangman better than that? I know College and the Union
inside out, and I’m going to wreck this place up. Vote for
me and Save Imperial!
My name is Hangman, and if there is one thing I will do for you
it’ll be getting you a 1st
for your degree. If elected I will lobby
college continually to make all degrees equal. That way ev-
eryone can stop being boring and sleeping in the library all
the time. However I’m not just a one trick pony, I’d also like
to unextend the college day, with the aim of eradicating all
pre-12pm lectures. I never made it to those anyway. In fact
axe humanities completely and there may be room for lunch.
I also want to make sure everyone does the NSS. I’ll achieve
this by creating a policy stating you will not qualify for you
degree (which will be a 1st
) unless it is completed. To speed
up the process some departments have begun collecting
student details and falsifying the survey (Conputing). This
should be College wide. Lastly I’ll bring back the feedback
policy, for it to never be completed as usual.
Hi I’m Hangman. Unfortunately I don’t conform to the recent
winning trend of being a female candidate for DPCS, howev-
er just like every other successful candidate I do have great
administration skills. I can use Outlook, Word, PowerPoint
and can operate a telephone. This makes me more than
suitably qualified to frustrate Clubs & Societies by being
rude, ignoring their pleas for help and generating false in-
formation which obviously highlights the inadequacy of this
role. I promise to merge all Clubs & Societies against their
will into just one Club and one Society. Furthermore I will
again cut Club & Society funding so that we can increase
the money available for me to go on holiday and do sod all.
There’s nothing new here, we all know that four permanent
staff members already do this role. So if I’m going to be the
usual waste of air, I may as well do it at your expense.
As Hangman, I’ve been part of Felix for four years. That
hands down gives me the most experience over any other
candidate. If elected, and I will be elected (or else), I prom-
ise that I’ll redesign the paper. By redesign, I mean get rid
of. No more paper, instead Felix will give every student an
iPad 3 with the issue automatically being pushed out ev-
ery Friday. In fact everything will be automatic. I’m talking
automatic layouts, automatic spelling correction, automatic
content generation and even automatic dictation. On top of
that I’m going to get rid of all adverts. No one likes adverts.
Maybe I’ll even quadruple the Hangman pages (I’ll make
my mind up later). On top of all that, every Wednesday will
be free Felix party night in the Felix office. It’s guaranteed
to be better and more intimate than Metric. Drugs not pro-
vided but suggested – for the sheer scandal, obviously.
My extensive expertise in the realm of welfare has been
documented publicly over the years. Known as a figure-
head amongst senior College officials for pioneering the
Hangman Wellbeing Survey, I, Hangman, care about all
peoples. There have been accusations in the past that I
discriminate against race/gender/sexuality/age/species
(delete as appropriate), however my strong pastoral back-
ground has taught me to discriminate equally. If elected, I
promise to try my hardest to do absolutely nothing, much
like those in the role before me, and let me tell you – doing
nothing IS doing something! I, like the current welfare sab-
batical, am more than happy to play with condoms, cry to
chick flicks and annoy the fuck out of everybody. So vote
for stagnation, vote for pointless expenses and vote for re-
dundancy. Hangman, never there for you.
Money, I’m all about the Money! Hangman is rolling in dol-
lar. So much so, If I’m elected I’ll float Imperial College
Union on the FTSE 100. More so, I’m going to change the
currency to $ICU just because I can. I’ll reduce costs by
eliminating all permanent staff and with the money saved
we can have an open bar... all year round! Not just the
Summer Ball! Speaking of balls, I’m single handedly go-
ing to balance the gender ratio by consolidating Goldsmith
Students’ Union into one simple easy-to-manage organisa-
tion. Who said debt consolidation was limited to the extrav-
agant? With a background of being the treasurer of both
the Gender Equality Society and Tamil Society; I hands
downs have the experience needed to do a job a profes-
sional with several legitimate qualifications should be hired
to do and manage.
hangman
hangman
hangman
hangman
hangman
hangman
NOW100%TYPOFREE!

