sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sport Editor: Indy Leclercq
intermediate won a wakeboard, whereas
1st place men’s advanced was rewarded
with… a onepiece jumpsuit?
Despite the horrendous fashion prize
up for grabs in the men’s advanced, An-
toine Desmet was ready and fuelled on
caffeine and sugar when he took to the
water for the final event of the day. Quite
a remarkable change was observed in
the number of photographers and crowd
anticipation from the previous category
(women’s advanced), and the men didn’t
disappoint. Whereas last year’s advanced
category was dominated by “blind”
tricks, this year’s stars went above and
beyond with almost physics-defying
“switch” tricks and even a double S-
Bend (think China’s Olympic gymnastic
...Continued from Back Page
Fencing: Women’s 2nd team
defend 3rd place vs Brunel
WAKEImperial grab
two podium finishes
team … on water)! Despite a strong per-
formance, Antoine still didn’t quite cut
the mustard (again). After missing out
on the onepiece jumpsuit, he may never
know what it feels like to walk around
looking like the purple Teletubby.
BUCS beckons in June....
WAKEimperial, IC’s Wakeboarding
club runs sessions every Wednesday af-
ternoons for all levels and abilities. Taster
sessions are offered to non-members for
£13. This includes transport to a local
wakeboarding club, 4 hours of cable
Wakeboarding, with equipment and wet-
suit provided. Boat wakeboarding is also
available.
See http://www.WAKEimperial.
co.uk or wakeboarding@imperial.
ac.uk
8-ball Pool
Shyam Pankhania
On Wednesday, the Women’s 2nd Fenc-
ing Team successfully defended their
current 3rd place ranking in the BUCS
league match away against Brunel. The
two hour journey (thanks to many “mi-
nor” delays) westbound along the Pic-
cadilly line was thankfully made much
more entertaining by the trusty tube
driver, who provided an amusing and
thorough guided tour of the local land-
marks at each station.
The match itself began with a good
start in sabre, in which Slavi Georgieva,
Helen Pennington and Jing Quek (Jin-
gles) striked in a comfortable and confi-
dent 45-27 win.
Brunel responded (although with the
help of some questionable refereeing)
boldly, starting to up their game dur-
ing foil, but Sarah Chakera, Stephanie
Martinez (Steph) and Gema Wright
Ballester (Gemma) of Imperial fought
valiantly, and settled for a respectable
25-45 score.
Knowing they were only trailing by
two points, the epee team of Rebecca
Razey (Becky), Helen Pennington and
Slavi Georgieva fought ruthlessly to end
the match on a high note, 42-29, produc-
ing a final score of 112-101 to Imperial.
Women’s 2nd 112
Brunel 1st 101
Mirror, mirror on the wall, who’s the best fencer of them all?
Imperial 8-ball pool team : A very successful BUCS
On Thursday 23 February Imperial
College’s 8-ball Pool 1st team con-
sisting of Elwin Carlos, Max Chalm-
ers, Stanley Cheng, Andy Leung and
Shyam Pankhania boarded the 9.30am
train from London Euston to the pretty
ghost town that is Great Yarmouth,
Norwich. Our base for the duration of
the tournament was the bustling Vaux-
hall Holiday Park where all the univer-
sity teams resided (the ones that didn’t
end up on the streets that is!). After
registering and catching a glimpse of
the 36 pristine Supreme Pool tables
the anticipation kicked in and we were
ready to get the ball rolling.
The qualifying matches for the indi-
vidual championships were played on
Day 1 and were first to three frames.
Stanley Cheng our resident 9 ball
player started well against Mike Kay
of Aston and secured the match with
“Stan it in specials” and an audacious
double on the winning black. The only
thing Stanley didn’t do in a hurry was
return the white ball to the director af-
ter the victory! “Take it to the Max”
Chalmers was next up and edged into
a 2-1 lead and eventually sealed the
match by continuing Imperial’s grow-
ing tradition of doubling the black in.
Unfortunately Andy Leung couldn’t
pull through his match losing 3-0 to
Stephen Brooks from Warwick 1st’s.
Finally at 6.00pm Shyam Pankhania
was able to get his tournament off to
a flying start by clinically disposing
of his opponent Paddy Brown from
Sheffield 3-0, to which Max Chalmers
commented “He’s having a stormer!”
The 2nd round of qualifying began
with an emphatic 3-0 win for Stan-
ley, but Captain Carlos who received
a bye into qualifying round 2 failed to
get out of first gear and his opponent
won 3-1. Max Chalmers match went
to a decider in which he potted six reds
after the break and had the chance to
serve a Dish on his opponent (potting
off the break and clearing up). How-
ever an error from “Magic Max” cost
him and his opponent Garry Rayment
Jr went on to pinch the match. In the
final match of the day Shyam Pankha-
nia went 2-0 behind to Geraint Evans
of Durham 2nd’s, but the determined
“Shamful” was just about to dish up a
handful. With the teams support and
some gritty tactical pool Shyam lev-
elled the match at 2-2. Shyam grabbed
his chance in the final frame to com-
plete an outstanding comeback to book
his place in the last 128.
The individual tournament resumed
on Day 3 with the matches extended
to first to four with Stanley Cheng
and Shyam Pankhania looking to gain
a place in the last 64. Stanley shared
the opening two frames with James
Paul of Manchester 2nd’s, however
Stanley went on to suffer a 4-2 de-
feat. All hopes now rested with Shyam
“Shamful” Pankhania. Unfortunately
Ifan Williams of Cardiff controlled the
opening exchanges and after Shyam
potted several outstanding yellows, he
went on to knock in his opponents yel-
low after potting a difficult long black;
therefore going 1-0 behind. Ifan Wil-
liams was too good on the day and ran
out with a 4-0 victory to end Imperial’s
run in the individuals.
In the team tournament Imperial
were in the Shield alongside three
other first teams and one second team.
The format was that each player in a
team would play single frame matches
against two players in the opposing
team, with the winning team being the
first team to secure 6 frames. After a
5-5 draw against UEA 1st’s, Imperial
took on a Sheffield team with Mid-
lands Snooker Cup finalist Abhishek
Raj. El-Win Carlos ended his losing
start by edging a scrappy win over Ri-
shi Aggarwal however this was only
after missing a cuttable black to lose
against Abhishek Raj. Imperial ended
Day 2 with one draw and one loss and
to reach the last 8 we needed to win
our remaining matches. To raise the
spirits that evening the team embarked
on an arduous forty minute walk to
Planet Poppadum and sampled the de-
lightful Indian cuisine that Great Yar-
mouth had to offer.
On Day 3, Imperial drew 5-5 against
the group leaders Aston with El-Win
Carlos finally waking up and comfort-
ably winning both his frames and Stan-
ley continuing his tremendous form.
Imperial 1st’s then comfortably beat a
drunken Nottingham Trent 1st’s, how-
ever this was after Elwin lost against
his drunk opponent Jason Dalton who
attempted to chat up the referee be-
tween frames and insisted on taking a
sip of his pint between every shot. El-
Win had suffered embarrassing defeats
in the past, but this was a low! Joking-
ly he suggested “What next?” Impe-
rial won the tie 6-3 with Andy Leung
playing “Leung pots” to win both his
rubbers. Regrettably results didn’t go
our way and although we beat Medway
2nd’s 6-3 Imperial finished the group
in 4th with two wins, two draws and
one loss.
We thank the tournament organis-
ers, the players and all those involved
with BUCS Pool 2012 for making it
an incredible tournament. Next year
we return as contenders and hope-
fully we will be as “safe as caravans”.
Best of luck to the Imperial Snooker
Team who are defending Champions
at BUCS!
Well, there are more than eight balls in this picture... [sorry – Sport Ed.]
Fencing
Gema Wright Ballester
SPORT
FELIX Friday 09 march 2012 37

