FELIX
Friday 09 MARCH 2012
6
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
FEATURES
the main dissenting voice shifted to
a more radical ideology. A number of
student unions, who were originally
against the fees, ended up removing
their opposition in an attempt to work
with the government.
Meanwhile those left on the streets
became radicalised by the lack of con-
cession from the state, and the severe
police oppression that accompanied
the protests. As the protests pro-
gressed the students were joined by
school children and anti-cuts protes-
tors (not all mutually exclusive). The
scenes became more violent ending
with the near death of Alfie Meadows
from a police assault.
The more radical groups of the stu-
dent movement organised in occupa-
tions and formed bodies such as the
Education Activist Network and the
National Campaign Against Fees and
Cuts. These students called for the
NUS president of the time, Aaron Por-
ter, to resign due to his lack of support
for, and even condemnation of, the oc-
cupations and protests after Millbank.
Since this split there has been little
interaction between these two groups.
However, due to the treatment of
Porter the new NUS president, Liam
Burns, used a more pro-activist stance
during his campaign. Up until now
this had lead to very little, with Mi-
chael Chessum (head of the National
Campaign Against Fees and Cuts) re-
marking how poorly the student demo
in the Autumn of 2011 was supported
by NUS.
The march was organised by few
O
n the student march last
term, as 10,000 people
protesting against the
government’s Higher
Education white pa-
per trundled through a path laid out
by 4,000 riot police, a chant rose up:
“Lets go back to Millbank, Na-Na-
Na-Na, Hey!” But what is the student
movement now?
Is it merely nostalgia for a sudden,
short fight back against the fee in-
creases in 2010; or, with the imminent
NUS week of action, has it developed
into a sustained campaign to prevent
privatisation and increased competi-
tion in our already heavily socially
divided university system?
Here, I discuss how the student
movement has gone from Millbank to
the first NUS-supported action since
(happening next week).
On 10 November 2010 the NUS
organised a 50,000 strong march that
filled the streets of London. In the nor-
mal treatment of marches this was be-
ing given mild media coverage and al-
most no political attention until 2,000
students pushed past police lines into
the Conservatives’ Millbank HQ. The
lobby was destroyed, parties started
and a sudden dynamic changed in the
debate. A movement that had received
reasonable cross-party support within
the student population – I sat in plan-
ning meetings with devout Tories –
now seemed to have split.
On one side remained those who
believed change would happen by
marching serenely from A to B, writ-
ing letters to MPs and calling on the
NUS to lobby on their behalf. The
other half demonstrated over the fol-
lowing two months how they believed
the current political avenues were de-
funct, and how direct action was the
solution – from occupying tens of uni-
versity buildings (in one case for nine
months!) to attempting to storm par-
liament on the day of the vote.
This spectrum of action has always
existed but the autumn of 2010 was
unique in a generation for the sheer
quantity that abandoned the establish-
ment line. As the Newsnight reporter
Paul Mason observed, overnight Lib-
eral Democrat supporters had morphed
into black-bloc anarchists.
In both political views and actions
people with little money, leading to
complications that caused many stu-
dent unions to pull their support and
not pay for coaches.
Even though £9,000 fees will be im-
posed in autumn this year, the action
against the government’s plans are
picking up again - after a year of qui-
escence. The NUS are calling a week
of action from 12–16 March where
they want students walking out of
campuses and lecture theatres across
the country.
With higher fees seeming almost
inevitable the NUS have changed tack
and are focussing on government plans
has to overhaul the university system.
The coalition’s plans involve the
rapid privatisation of universities,
with not just the go ahead given to
low-end private providers, but also the
encouragement for current universi-
ties to privatise. This poses the issue
of not just a reduction in the quality
of education as fees are siphoned off
to pay board members, but also asset
stripping – where valuable parts of the
university, such as buildings and land,
are sold to line the pockets of those
same lucky board members.
The plans also allow the market fail-
ure of universities, which could cause
great disruption to learning and the
possibility that hidden costs (for lab
equipment, fieldtrips, materials) will
creep in on top of the fees.
Imperial, however, is unlikely to
take part in the week of action. Not
only does it have no obligation (with
it not being a member of the NUS or
ULU) but the president, Scott Heath,
states that, “it is the same week as the
union elections and we will be helping
the students take part in the democra-
cy here instead…also we won’t be en-
couraging a walk out as students come
here for an education.”
This is not surprising, as not only
did Imperial have no involvement in
the first wave of student protest but
also the changes will probably have
little effect on Imperial, with them
more likely to harm the universities
attended by the poorest students.
Although, once again, the plans are
moving away from the NUS and the
student unions with student activists
and more radical student unions call-
ing for a ULU feeder march on the
14th of March ending in parliament
square. With thousands already con-
firmed, there are calls on the NUS to
support it, but there appears to be si-
lence on their part.
The student movement was begin-
ning to appear aligned as the week
of action against the privatisation of
universities approached; but cracks
along old faults are starting to open
again and the ideological divides seem
unlikely to heal. While the opposition
to the rest of the government plans, of
which the fee increase was merely a
start, begins to build, it seems the stu-
dents will not fight back united.
The NUS seem set on toeing the
line with the political class and do not
want a repeat of Millbank. But after
a year of anti-cuts and anti-capitalist
action, there are large sections of the
student community who have disaf-
fected completely from party politics
and seem unlikely to return.
Student protests: one year on
Luke Sheldon asks where the student movement is now, twelve months after it began
No ifs, no buts...
Josh Towers
David Cameron looking suspiciously like Bashar al-Assad
Ahmed Peerbux
“I sat in planning
meetings with devout
Tories”
T

