Scientists at the University of Oxford have
developed a pair of protein fragments dubbed
‘SpyTag’ and ‘SpyCatcher’ that form an in-
credibly strong bond. Within minutes of be-
ing brought into contact the protein fragments
form a covalent bond so strong that when put
under pressure, the protein breaks away from
the apparatus before the bond breaks. It is ef-
fectively a biomolecular superglue – except,
due to its good specificity, without the possi-
bility of accidentally sticking to the edge of the
test tube or other unwanted molecules.
The discovery was inspired by Streptococcus
pyrogenes, which causes infections ranging in
severity from sore throats to toxic shock syn-
drome. The bacterium uses the FbaB protein
to bind to human cells before invading. The
particular strength of this link is caused by
the protein’s shape. Rather than simply being
made of a chain of covalently bonded amino
acids held together by comparatively weak
forces, FbaB forms amino acid loops which
are subsequently held together by an additional
covalent bond. The team of scientists reasoned
that, if they were able to successfully engineer
the protein in such a way as to allow the cre-
ation of two separate fragments which would
form this covalent bond again once brought
together, the same mechanism could be used to
attach other molecules to each other.
The bond is not only very selective, forming
between SpyCatcher and SpyTag rather than
any other molecule in the cell environment,
but it also forms in a large range of conditions.
The team successfully repeated the experiment
Stuck like superglue
Inspiring: Streptococcus pyogenes
not only at 37°C and neutral pH, mimicking a
mammalian cell, but also at 4°C in high con-
centrations of detergent and under acidic con-
ditions. This was true not only in vitro but also
when tested inside Escherichia coli bacteria.
This development is a leap forward towards
the goal of being able to combine different
proteins at will and with ease. Unlike previ-
ously discovered non-covalent equivalents,
which can be broken by sufficient shear forces
within milliseconds, the SpyCatcher:SpyTag
complex cannot be broken by molecular mo-
tors. Other existing approaches binding bio-
molecules using covalent bonds are similarly
strong but slow, associated with poor yields,
or in need of reaction conditions hostile to
common life forms.
Unfortunately, unlike other mechanisms,
SpyTag is not traceless. Also, the rate of bond
formation between SpyTag and SpyCatcher
is too slow to be effective inside living cells;
diffusion is likely to occur before bonding.
With further research and optimization, how-
ever, we may soon see the dream of biological
Lego come true.
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1115485109
Most women will at some point in their lives
encounter the ticking biological clock: the re-
alisation that their fertile years are limited,
and if they wish to start a family, they cannot
wait much longer. This is because we have
only the supply of oocytes or egg cells we
are born with, and when they’re gone, they’re
gone. At least that is the conventional view of
how the female reproductive system works.
But research published recently in Nature
Medicine suggests that there may be more
going on than we had previously realised.
Several years ago a team of researchers,
led by Jonathan Tilly at Harvard Medical
School, studied the dynamics of ovarian fol-
licles (which produce oocytes) in mice, by
measuring the rate at which they mature and
are released or simply die. They found that
something did not add up. Given the mea-
sured rate of degeneration, there should have
been few or no healthy follicles left by the
time the mice reached adulthood. However
this is not the case; like most animals mice
retain reproductive potential throughout their
adult lives. Further studies of the biochemi-
cal activity in the ovarian cells suggested an
intriguing possibility. Was it possible, the re-
searchers asked, that the follicles were actu-
ally being renewed, and producing new oo-
cytes throughout the mouse’s life, by rare and
previously unknown stem cells in the ovary?
This was a controversial suggestion which
initially met with some scepticism; however,
some years later such cells (oogonial stem
cells, or OSCs) were indeed isolated from
mouse ovary tissue, and shown to spontane-
ously generate new oocytes both in vitro and
when injected into the ovaries of mice whose
fertility had been destroyed by chemothera-
py. The same mice went on to produce viable
offspring. Similar results were achieved in
restoring the fertility of elderly mice.
The potential implications were clear: could
there be a similar mechanism in humans, and
would this allow us to develop new fertil-
ity treatments for women? Common causes
of infertility include damage to the ovaries
from chemotherapy or disease, or premature
menopause, when there are relatively few fol-
licles leading to the supply of oocytes run-
ning out at a relatively early age. If the stem
cells could effectively cure or reverse these
conditions in mice, then why not in humans?
That was the question the recent research
set out to answer. Applying similar tech-
niques to tissue from human ovaries, they
were able to isolate what appeared to be the
human equivalent of mouse OSCs. The hu-
man experiments did not go as far as the
mouse ones, however. Ovarian tissue from
healthy young women is rarely available for
research and in limited supply. In this case
the donors were transgendered and under-
going sex reassignment surgery, and had
agreed for their ovaries to be used in this way
– clearly an unusual set of circumstances.
Additionally there are serious ethical issues
around fertilising human oocytes and creat-
ing embryos for research purposes. What the
researchers were able to do, however, was to
transplant human ovarian tissue containing
human OSCs into mice. These were shown to
produce immature but healthy follicles, con-
taining tiny new human oocytes.
The researchers advise caution however.
There is much work to be done and many
questions to be answered before there is any-
possibility of OSCs becoming a tested and
proven fertility treatment for humans. How-
ever the results are promising, and with in-
fertility a major and growing problem in the
developed world particularly, any hope for
women and couples facing this difficult situa-
tion will surely be welcomed.
DOI: 10.1038/nm.2669
Sarah Byrne
FELIX
Friday 09 March 2012
8
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
Annina Sartor
A Japanese company has devised an unusual so-
lution to help defend homes against earthquakes
– involving levitation. While other disaster-resis-
tant homes provide solutions such as using elas-
tic iron to be able to move with an earthquake,
this method devised by Air Danshin Systems lifts
the house above the ground.
Air Danshin claim that the technique it is not
only effective, but a third cheaper than many
other earthquake-proofing systems and requires
little maintenance. A set of powerful compres-
sors is installed around the home and, when an
earthquake hits, a vast amount of compressed
air is released underneath the home, lifting the
structure. The response time is within one sec-
ond, and structures can levitate up to 3cm using
this method.
When the house is lifted, indoor valves control
the flow of air under the house, keeping the struc-
ture stable. Following the earthquake’s end, the
house is then lowered onto a reinforced concrete
foundation for extra stability. The system is cur-
rently being implemented across Japan, and is
live in 88 sites thus far. The company was estab-
lished in 2005 to sell this technology, originally
invented by Youichi Sakamoto.
The news comes as Japan nears its first year
since the Fukushima disaster, where a series of
failures at the nuclear power plant following an
earthquake and tsunami caused devastation.
The company hopes to expand the system in
larger and more critical structures, though issues
involving gas, electricity and water lines still need
ironing out.
To better promote the technology, the company
has created some videos in-house demonstrat-
ing model homes floating as well as the mecha-
nisms being used on live people. By showcasing
such safe and possible measures of dealing with
an earthquake, the company potentially paves
the way to a future of floating houses and power
plants, with the onslaught of earthquakes leav-
ing the homes of thousands and critical systems
intact.
Lift off for Japanese houses
Stem cells help stop biological clock
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
Not actual levitation method
Time might not be running out, after all
Want to write for Felix
Science?
Send us an email.
science.felix@ic.ac.uk
by Alexander Karapetian

