SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 09 March 2012 9
Less sea ice, more mercury
Declining sea ice in the Arctic Ocean
may be indirectly causing mercury fall-
out in the lower atmosphere, a NASA-
led study suggests. The study reveals
that the increasing replacement of multi-
year ice by saltier seasonal ice is driving
the increased release of salt ions such as
bromine into the atmosphere, which then
interacts with various atmospheric com-
ponents such as pollutants and ozone.
The team of researchers from the
UK, USA, Canada and Germany com-
bined data from NASA, European Space
Agency and Canadian Space Agency
satellites with field observations and an
atmospheric model in order to observe
bromine release and establish the atmo-
spheric height at which the process oc-
curs.
Bromine occurs as dissolved ions in
seawater, and becomes incorporated
into sea ice upon freezing. Upon inter-
action with solar radiation at the bound-
ary layer between the atmosphere and
sea-ice surface, salt ions (such as bro-
mine) are oxidised into reactive spe-
cies and released into the troposphere.
Cascades of chemical reactions then oc-
cur, termed the ‘bromine explosion’, to
produce bromine monoxide which goes
on to react with mercury and other toxic
pollutants. The mercury and bromine
complex is subsequently deposited on
land and in ocean waters.
Younger seasonal sea ice, that forms
and melts annually, has a higher salt
content than older perennial ice, sug-
gesting the disappearance of old ice
will cause an increase in bromine ex-
plosions. Perennial sea ice has declined
in surface area by half on average since
2000, and replaced by saltier seasonal
sea ice, suggesting that global warming
may cause more bromine explosions in
the future.
Son Nghiem, a NASA scientist based
at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in
California and leader of the study com-
mented: “Shrinking summer sea ice
has drawn much attention of exploiting
Arctic resources and improving mari-
time trading routes, but the change in
sea ice composition also has impact on
the environments. Changing conditions
in the Arctic might increase bromine
explosions in the future.”
The study found that mountain ranges
bordering Alaska and Canada act as
physical boundaries to the occurrence
of bromine in the lower atmosphere,
revealing that the chemical reactions
associated with the bromine explosion
in the Arctic Ocean are contained in the
lower 2km of Earth’s troposphere. This guy is on a mission to find the lost Arctic sea ice
Drinking in space can be a messy affair.
In the absence of gravity liquid floats re-
quiring all drinks to be sucked up from
a pouch using a straw – a particularly
odd sensation when having your hot
coffee in the morning. But now, thanks
to NASA astronaut Dr. Don Pettit, sip-
ping from an open top cup is possible,
even in the zero gravity.
Dr. Pettit, a member of the Interna-
tional Space Station (ISS) crew, occu-
pies his spare time in space by conduct-
ing fascinating experiments for school
children via video and inventing useful
gadgets. It was during the STS-126
mission to the ISS that he finally be-
came fed up of feeling “like an insect”
sucking up all his beverages and so, in
2008, he created the Zero-G Cup.
To make the cup Pettit folded over
plastic sheet and sealed it with yellow
“space-tape” to form a teardrop shaped
vessel with an acute angle along one
side. This shape creates a meniscus
that, due to surface tension, keeps most
of the liquid at the bottom. At the same
time it allows a small stream to run up
the side by a force called capillary ac-
tion. Inspired by the fuel delivery meth-
od of rocket engines, Dr. Pettit knew
that due to the acute angle of the cup’s
cross-section, liquid would be drawn up
the side and rest next to the lip.
The Zero-G Cup not only allows hot
drinks to be sipped from an open top –
greatly satisfying for coffee lovers such
as Pettit. But, as a video from the ISS
shows, also allows the crew to make
celebratory toasts!
In order to improve the crude initial
design, Dr. Pettit teamed up with de-
signer Travis Baldwin to come up with
a more robust space cup, from which
an espresso can be sipped in stylish
comfort. The base is small to keep the
coffee in place by surface tension, deep
grooves allow the coffee to climb the
sides and the small indentation at the top
keeps liquid in place at the lip. Due to
its popularity with the crew NASA has
now adopted Pettit’s cup as standard kit
for the ISS and any other manned space
flights it launches in the future.
Dr. Pettit is currently on the ISS as a
member of the Expedition 30 crew and
is continuing his scientific demonstra-
tions. NASA and the American Physi-
cal Society (APS) have teamed up to
share his unique videos from the ISS
with students, educators and science
fans around the world. Using every-
day objects from Earth, Dr. Pettit dem-
onstrates physics in a series of videos
called “Science off the Sphere”, which
includes a demonstration of the Zero-G
Cup and can be found on the Physics
Central website. And this time Dr. Pettit
has even added a physics challenge for
the viewers!
Bottoms up
in zero-G
Emma Houghton-Brown
In the 21st
century, our minds are brim-
ming with concepts from iPhones to ge-
netic testing to superstring theory, that
could not have been entertained by our
human counterparts centuries or millen-
nia ago. This is because our species has
a unique capability for “cumulative cul-
ture”, a process through which knowl-
edge accumulates over time and tech-
nology is advanced iteratively. On the
other hand, we can reasonably assume
that the ideas inside the minds of other
animals today are not vastly different
from those centuries ago. Therefore,
a team of scientists from University
of St Andrews are seeking to explain
what is special about the human mind
that allows us to gradually accumulate
knowledge. A study reported this week
in Science investigated the differences
in the capacity for cumulative cultural
learning among humans, our closest
relatives, chimpanzees, and capuchin
monkeys.
There are various hypotheses regard-
ing the cognitive capabilities, or social
conditions, that are required for cumu-
lative culture. These include aspects of
social cognition that are either exclu-
sive to or substantially enhanced in hu-
mans. For example, imitation, teaching,
language and helping others. Addition-
ally, characteristics of other animals
that may prevent cumulative culture in-
clude scrounging of resources, as well
as the tendency of dominant individuals
to monopolise resources, thereby pre-
venting subordinate individuals from
learning.
In order to examine the mechanisms
behind social learning, the scientists
used a puzzle-box with three stages of
increasing difficulty to test three- or
four-year old children, chimpanzees
and capuchins. Children, rather than
adult humans, were used to help re-
move cultural effects since adults have
been more exposed and influenced by
society. The scientists hypothesised that
children, but not chimpanzees or capu-
chins, would show evidence of cumula-
tive learning, and also sought to discov-
er the underlying explanations. They
found that after 30 hours, only 1 out of
33 chimpanzees had reached stage 3 of
the puzzle and similarly, after 53 hours,
no capuchins had reached stage 3. By
contrast, after just two and a half hours,
a significant number of children had
reached the most difficult stage.
To determine the underlying mecha-
nisms, the authors firstly reasoned that
if a factor, such as teaching, causes
cumulative culture then a species that
teaches (humans) should perform bet-
ter on the task than a species that does
not (chimpanzees and capuchins). Sec-
ondly, they hypothesised that when
teaching occurs in a particular species,
it should be positively correlated with
task performance. Using this reasoning,
and testing a number of hypotheses, the
scientists found that teaching, commu-
nication, imitation and helping others,
largely only present in humans, likely
contribute to the ability of humans to
accumulate knowledge.
The authors state, “The puzzle-box
experiment reveals clear and character-
istic differences in cumulative cultural
learning and patterns of social inter-
action among children, chimpanzees,
and capuchin monkeys. The children
responded to the apparatus as a social
exercise, manipulating the box together,
matching the actions of others, facilitat-
ing learning in others through verbal
instruction and gesture. In contrast, the
chimpanzees and capuchins appeared
to interact with the apparatus purely
as a means to procure resources for
themselves, in an entirely self-serving
manner, largely independent of the per-
formance of others, and exhibiting re-
stricted learning that appeared primar-
ily asocial in character.”
This study provides valuable new
insights into the phenomenon of cu-
mulative culture, a powerful capability
which largely explains the remarkable
success of the human species in colo-
nising almost every terrestrial habitat
on the planet and becoming globally
dominant. The research also paves the
way for understanding when precisely
these uniquely human socio-cognitive
capacities evolved.
DOI: 10.1126/science.1213969
Cumulative culture makes us different
Sophia David
Carys Cook
Superstring theory – a product of
“cumulative culture”?

