18 March 1992 Felix 931 News Review
generated was when we finally got
through, when we finally started
finding the mutation, but there
should have been a lot more interest
in the disease and in the research a
long time before that'.
She rejected the claim that the
move to the States was the end of
the research. 'It's an expansion.
There will still be members of the
Alzhiemer's teams in St. Marys,
and we'll still be in touch with all
the families in Britain when we
move to the States. The move will
include new families into the
research and will expand the group.
Everybody who has experienced
Alzhiemer's, either directly or
indirectly, appreciate that it doesn't
matter where the cure is found, but
how quickly it is found is
important.'
Another St. Mary's story was the
proposals from the Dean of St.
Mary's, Professor Peter Richards,
to end the perennial problem of
junior hospital doctors: too little
training, too little support, too little
sleep. However, the Chairman of
the Junior Doctors' Committee of
the British Medical Association
condemned the proposals on IC
Radio as not going far enough. Dr.
Edwin Borman said that what was
needed was a restructuring of the
nature of the work. 'Currently what
happens is that house officers are
spending a considerable part of their
day running around the wards doing
things for which they are grossly
overqualified, filling in forms,
filing away results, taking routine
bloods, doing routing ECGs.
Medical students are doctors in
Defence Minister Tom King employs Mafia to accompany him during
Imperial College's Arts Week.
training, and as such they should be
doing the sort of work that doctors
should be doing, so what we're
looking for is one year in which
they would be doing the sort of
things which would actually be
preparing them for being doctors,
not for being ward clerks, or
porters, or E C G technicians. We
want to see this year run properly,
and I'm afraid we haven't seen the
proposals coming from Professor
Richards yet.'
Yet, for the finest example of
bickering, we return to the South
Kensington campus. IC Radio
reported on 6th March, 'Gervaise
Loraine, better known as Jarv, has
won the position of assistant bar
manager after Ramesh Patel
resigned his post earlier this year.
Mr. Loraine was appointed above
70 other people after the post was
advertised in the national media.
This now leaves the post of bar
steward wide open, and the cost of
advertising another post in the union
bar has yet to be mentioned by
sabbaticals, one of whom said,
'Jarv was by far and away the best
candidate for the post. This claim
has been rejected widely by students
and staff in the students' union, who
appear to be upset that Mr. Loraine
had been appointed. It has been
reported that Mr. Patel resigned
after being forced to by in-fighting.
As union staff have no right to
speak under a student union staff
protocol, they were unable to
comment.'
No comment.
Northern Ireland Secretary, Peter Brooke, in a timid state after being interviewed by Declan Curry.
Credits • i ' "
Rose. Andy T, Declan 'Hot News' Curry, 'HB Sauce' David, Simone de Govier, James, '£460' Steve, '£5'
Sam, Steve F, Ian, 'mere pale shadow' Jonty, T wandered lonely as a front cover designer' Stef, 'Adios
UB40' David, Jeremy 'Kapitaliste' Brunell, Mario D'Oignon, Catherine 'missing link' Darwen, le dessiner
phantome, Khurrum, 'Arbeit macht frei' Poddy, Scott. Farheed Khan. Jason 'moon' Lander, Tim Parsons,
Evelyn Joslin, 'gurgling' Bee, Cindy Madden and Jennifer Simmons (sorry you were cut short), the circular
jocular pocketed coracle and disparate prudish parodies.
Additional credits to David McCandless, Joel Morris and Memo.
b\ Memo
11-

