Feature Felix 931 18 March 1992
Most atmospheric phenomena have
equivalents in the ocean.
Atmospheric cyclones and
anticyclones, the large-scale rapidly
rotating masses of air which so
affect the British weather, are very
similar in structure to so called
ocean gyres. Jets, the
geographically fixed regions of fast
flowing air or water, can be found
in both the atmosphere and the
ocean.
The greatest difference is in the
scale of motion. Ocean gyres are of
orders of magnitude smaller than
atmospheric cyclones: tens of
kilometres rather than thousands.
The water in gyres and oceanic jets
travels at speeds of a few
centimetres per second compared
with the tens of metres per second
for atmospheric flows. The slow
speeds do not make the ocean
circulation any less energetic than
the atmospheric flow: water is
typically one thousand times denser
than air and even a slowly moving
mass can have a lot of clout.
What the lower velocities
The effect of life
on the biosphere
is phenomenal
involved in ocean circulation do
mean is that the ocean responds to
any forcing much more slowly than
the atmosphere. The oceans can act
as the planet's long term 'memory'.
The oceans are more resistant to
change than the atmosphere and it
has been suggested that their
presence will actually delay the
onset of any greenhouse effect
global warming. The downside is
that even if man and his industry
were to disappear off the face of the
Earth tomorrow, it would be
centuries before the atmosphere and
oceans recovered. It is rather like
pushing a large mass on a trolley.
It may take some time and effort to
get it moving but when it is, it
becomes very, very difficult to stop.
So far, this has been a rather
parochial discussion of climate
change dealing only with changes
in the planet itself. I have ignored
the variations in the amount of solar
radiation reaching, and powering,
the planet. There are also small
changes associated with the slight
eccentricity of the Earth's orbit, but
these have periods of only a year.
It is believed that it is longer term
changes, the tilt of the planet, the
shape of the orbit, and solar
activity, that affect the climate.
Among the first people to
investigate this idea was a Yugoslav
astronomer, Milutin Milankovich,
working during the 1920s and '30s.
He calculated that these long term
variations could, over the space of
a hundred thousand years, account
for variations in sunlight of as much
as 20%. Experiments running for
thousands of years are not yet
possible, but work has been done
to investigate how well the
Milankovich theory works in the
shorter term. Not all climate
researchers are that taken with the
results.
Recent work comparing changes
in the average Northern hemisphere
land temperature, with variations in
the solar cycle, shows an
organisms have on the planet. But
even ignoring man and all his
industry, even ignoring all things
animal, the effect of life on Earth,
the biosphere, is phenomenal.
On land, forests can act as .
gigantic wind breaks sucking
energy from the atmosphere.
Growing crops can alter the rate at
which water evaporates, and affect
rainfall, and leaf cover can reduce
the amount of radiation reaching the
ground. Conversely, changes in
temperature and radiation can alter
the growth of the plants. The
rainforests, in particular, can thrive
only in a climate that changes little
throughout the year.
It is possible to add the effect the
plant-life has on the atmosphere to
the models. It is considerably more
difficult to include the effects of the
constantly moving up and down,
between the dark, inhospitable
depths and the surface.
It is only in the spring, when the
oceans are at their calmest and the
plankton remain close to the
surface, that large amounts of C02
are absorbed. Dr Woods argues
that, if a warmer world were to
mean more turbulent oceans, the
annual period of calm would
become shorter, the plankton would
be unable to absorb as much gas,
and the enhanced greenhouse effect
would be enhanced still more.
There is evidence to suggest that the
7 degree warming, that ended the
last ice age, was due, at least in
part, to creatures too small to be
seen.
There will be some changes that
no-one can predict. Changes, not in
the atmosphere or the ocean or the
biosphere but, in the Earth itself. It
is known that the huge quantities of
dust and ash, thrown out by
volcanic eruptions, can cool the
surface of the planet. There was
much talk about the global cooling
The most
important factor
of all: the
politics of
climate change
caused by the recent eruption of
Mount Pinatubo, in the Philippines,
and it has been argued that it was
an 'artificial winter', produced by
the dust from a colossal meteor
strike, that wiped out the dinosaurs.
Climate research could easily
degenerate into arguments along the
lines of 'what if this...', 'what if
that...': anything you can do, we
can find a perfectly valid counter-
argument. Theories are no good
without either observational, or
experimental backing. Experiments
are impractical as there is no lab
large enough to hold a thirteen-
thousand-kilometre wide ball of
rock. It is for this reason that
climatic experiments must resort to
simplified mathematical models,
and computing, with all the
problems this brings. The only way
we can discover what happens on
the real Earth is through
observations, and these too have
their own problems.
In the second of these articles, I
will look at what this evidence is,
what experiments have been done,
and what could be the most
important factor of all: the politics
of climate change.
astonishing correlation. The link is atmosphere on the plants,
so strong that it implies that Most importantly, for anyone
radiative effects are almost the sole worrying about the enhanced
cause of climatic variation. greenhouse effect, plants absorb
Considering the accuracy, and C02. It is believed that photo-
general applicability, of both sets of plankton, microscopic plants living
records, many researchers are in the upper layers of the world's
inclined to put the size of the oceans, absorb around 30% of the
correlation down to a statistical carbon dioxide released into the
fluke. No one is arguing that the atmosphere every year,
effects of changes in incoming John Woods, of the Natural
radiation are negligible. Environment Research Council
(NERC), believes that models will
. . . A N D L I F E I T S E L F one day soon have to include at least
Even the most complicated, the effects of plankton. Plankton
sophisticated, theoretical models of can only feed and absorb carbon-
our planet, must be gross dioxide when there is enough
simplifications of what happens in sunlight available for them to
the real world. Most large scale photosynthesise. As the
climate models are effectively dead: microscopic plants are carried along
they ignore the influence that living with the ocean current they are
—28—

