FELIX FRIDAY 6TH DECEMBER LETTERS & EDITORIAL 13
LETTERS TO FELIX
answered by David Roberts
This letter was held over last week
Dear Editor,
In the past few episodes of Felix, I
have read that there have been a few
problems with bicycle security.
During the holidays, I had my fourth
operation on my knee. Having
secured a flat in Fulham, I decided
that the best mode of transport was a
bike. Both for the savings I would
make, as well as my doctor advising
me it was a sensible idea.
Three days after I started at col-
lege, my bike was stolen. Not unusu-
al in London, but the circumstances
are undeniably suspicious and lead
me to believe that the people in
charge of College security are in fact
completely incompetent.
At 4 o'clock on a Friday afternoon
I had left my bike chained to one of
the bicycle rails outside the main
security office in the Sherfield build-
ing, By the time I returned at 6
o'clock the bike had been taken from
right under the noses of our hawk-
eyed security officers, D-lock includ-
ed. What I didn't notice when I was
attaching the bike to the railing, was
that the railing had in fact been pre-
viously cut with what was believed
to be a power saw.
Considering my close proximity to
the Security office, I decided to
report the theft. After writing down
all the required details, I got chatting
to the security officers on duty. They
told me of the previous seven bicycle
thefts in four days and unless you
spend around 100 pounds on a D-
lock your bike may as well not be
locked up! I was then told that the
safest place to lock my bike is on the
walkway where there are cameras.
As far as I know, people are still
attaching their bikes to the damaged
railing, but worst off all, there has
been little or no advice by security as
to the best way we should keep our
bikes at College.
At this time [November 20th] I am
waiting to hear from the college after
I requested a full reimbursement of
the cost of the bike.
Robert Pawlowicz
Physics UG
You'll be the luckiest man alive if
you manage to get a penny out of
them. At the present time College
authorities seem to view the oh-so-
evident incompetency of Security
as your problem, not theirs.
Perhaps when some enterprising
theif steals the Rector's Mercedes
from his doorstep, we might see
the situation change. (If there is
anyone out there with the requisite
balaclava, crow-bar and black
sack, don't be afraid to ask any
member of Security for directions
- they'll probably even open the
gate for you to drive the car away)
Dear Felix,
I am about to finish a Ph.D. after
completing a degree at Imperial.
Although I have received LEA and
postgraduate research grants, plus a
number of access fund contributions,
I have still run up a few debts (from
two credits cards, student loans, and
four bank overdrafts) totalling jus-
tunder £12000 (documentary evi-
dence upon request). Can any of your
readers beat that?
Name and address supplied.
Game on. Without espousing one-
upmanship, can anyone beat that?
Letters may be edited for length.The guest editor's opinions
are not necessarily those of the editor.
Deadline for letters in Felix 1073 is Wednesday 11th December.
Please bring some form of identification.
Letters may be e-mailed to our address: felix@ic.ac.uk
A FELIX
Student Newspaper of Imperial College
Editor Alex Feakes / Advertising Manager Mark Baker
Recently, I was contacted by the
infamous advertisng agency Saatchi
& Saatchi with a view to booking a
few pages for one of their clients. I
was somewhat surprised to be rung
up by an agency that usually puts its
collective mind round a campaign
for big, important clients like the
Tory party, rather than something
that would be well received in the
student press. Nevertheless, the man
on the 'phone was seriously interest-
ed in obtaining enough details about
our advertising procedure to book
some space if he should so want. He
was also being very cagey about
revealing who the advert was being
booked for. Before telling me, he
asked if there were any editorial
restrictions on who could advertise.
Naturally, I said no, the only stric-
tures that we put on adverts are that
they be legally valid and not too
offensive, with discretion reserved. I
replied that we were all capitalists
now, with the undercurrent of 'noth-
ing is getting to get in the way of us
and your cash'.
Intrigued by all this intrigue, I
finally got out of him that his client
was a large national graduate
recruiter that had been suffering from
bad press over its equal opportunities
policy (I'm afraid that I cannot reveal
who it actually is - you will have to
wait for the next issue). Knowing the
answer already, I asked why there
had been problems. He replied that
many students' unions had policies
expressly prohibiting dealings with
his client.
There was a similar case with the
summer mailout by the Union to new
members of College. A contract with
the mailout suppliers explicitly said
that the Union was not allowed to
object to the companies in the
mailout, and particular to a specific
bank. No problem for us, as ICU has
no such interdictions, but for other
students' unions there might be a
conflict of interest. In today's rather
harsh fiscal environment, principle
can often be sold down the river for
financial rewards. But with the
demand on the services provided by
unions increasing, and students'
expectations greater than ever before
can the managers of unions (and
clubs like Felix) afford not to take
these straightforward offers of addi-
tional income?
Principle can also come into con-
flict with good business sense. This
is amply demonstrated by the prob-
lems NUS Services Ltd, the service
arm of the NUS, have had with the
NUS campaign against Pepsi.
NUSSL have signed a deal with
Pepsi giving low prices to students,
but the NUS has a standing policy
not to deal with the company.
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
Copyright Felixl996. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
NEWS: MARIA; FEATURES: AFUA, PUZZLES: DUNCAN; ILLUSTRATIONS:
STAVROS; GRAPHICS AND LAYOUT: DAVID AND WILL; PHOTOGRAPHY:
ALDUS, IVAN, LILI, LING AND ROBIN; SPORT: DAVID;
COLLATING LAST WEEK: DAVID
Doatfimb
the bumper Christmas FeSx mmes out on
Wednesday 18th December
Filedwithgiveaways, ahuge review section, Christmas stories and features, plus a roundup of
nextyear's news.

