F E L I X FRIDAY 6TH D E C E M B E R NEWS 3
Wilson House fines students to enforce security
KENT YIP
Four residents of Wilson House were
fined for contravening a new house
rule, introduced a month ago, after a
tribunal hearing on Monday.
The new rule forbids the opening
of the front door to people who
request at the window for access into
the house. Controversy arose when
some residents were fined for open-
ing the door to other fellow residents.
Most of them paid up, but those who
regarded the punishment as being
unfair refused to do so. One of them
complained that he was totally
unaware of the new rule and found it
ridiculous to be fined for opening the
front door to one of his housemates,
who had been unable to retrieve his
own keys from his pocket because he
was carrying a box of food. This
view was shared by most of the med-
ical students.
Speaking to Felix, Bryan Clarke,
the Warden of Wilson House, took
the opposite tack, saying that he did
not believe that anyone could have
failed to know of the rule, which is
stated clearly next to the door button.
Any students who missed the sign
and opened the door were also
warned by the porter on duty that
they were in breach of the rules.
Fines were only given to those who
either ignored the porter's warnings
or argued with him using abusive
language.
In defence of the inflexibility of
the new rule, Dr Clarke said "A rule
is a rule. It has to be all or nothing for
it to work." When challenged as to
why the new measure was introduced
with neither the knowledge nor the
support of the President of the
Student Union and the Hall
P H O T O : LILI T C H E A N G
A new form of entrance fee for College? Fines for holding the door open
for a housemate may be harsh, but is the security risk worth it?
Committee, he stressed the urgent
need to take appropriate actions in
view of the fast deteriorating security
situation in Wilson House. "What is
happening here is a complete state of
anarchy. We have already had two
assaults and a series of thefts this
term, with the damage of the worst
one estimated at £500."
On several occasions, students
have reported people who have noth-
ing to do with the medical school
sleeping in the building. "I have seen
drug-dealers and prostitutes hanging
around here at 3.00 am at night."
commented Dr Clarke. "The crime
prevention unit of the local police
was called in, and we were advised to
enforce this new rule. I am happy to
accept any suggestions from resi-
dents and talk to the Hall Committee,
but I am not prepared to let the cur-
rent trend continue."
Some students saw themselves as
victims of the lack of investment
from the College to improve the situ-
ation. The need for a 24 hour porter
service and the installation of securi-
ty cameras around the house have
long been advocated. Whilst Dr
Clarke sympathised with them, he
pointed out that acts of vandalism in
the past committed by the minority
only made the College reluctant to
invest further. "I understand that the
changes I have brought are not liked
by some students, but I am responsi-
ble for the interest of the majority of
the students. If this means being
labelled as a dictator, then so be it."
Sami Ansari, President of the
Student Union of St Mary's,
described the way College handled
this matter as a "gung-ho approach
policy typical of IC bureaucrats" and
highlighted the inconsistency in
applying the new security measure.
Nick Jenkins, the Student
Representative closely involved in
this matter, summed up the outcome
of the tribunal hearing by saying "It
was sadly inevitable that they would
be fined. What we've got out of this
is to force our Dean and hierarchy at
IC to address the security problem at
IC as a whole and the appropriate-
ness of certain security measures. It
is sad to see that their attention has to
come in this way."
Sir Scott deselected despite Parliamentary backing
JACKIE S K E A T E
Sir Nicholas Scott has now been offi-
cially deselected as the Conservative
candidate for Kensington and
Chelsea in the next election.
Sir Nicholas himself called the
meeting last Monday, at which 1000
Conservatives from his constituency
met specifically to vote on whether
or not to allow him to stand. The
results were conclusive - 509 to 439
were in favour of deselection, despite
his desperate last-minute speech,
which had many people thinking he
had made a miraculous escape.
Sir Nicholas Scott, who was found
by police lying blatantly drunk in the
gutter following this year's Tory
Party Conference in Bournemouth,
has since pledged to give up alcohol
for as long as he holds public office.
However, at the meeting on Monday,
his fellow Tories were obviously
unconvinced by his poor excuses that
he had merely "suffered an attack of
dizziness" caused by painkillers fool-
ishly mixed with an allegedly "mod-
est amount" of alcohol.
The unexpected result, greeted by
raucous cheers from the assembled
Tories, means that a political career
lasting more than 30 years has effec-
tively been brought to a sticky end.
Sir Nicholas, now 63, spent 13 years
as a Northern Ireland minister and
seven years as the Minister for the
Disabled.
Doubts were originally raised
about Sir Nicholas' suitability as an
MP last year, after he ran away
anonymously from a car accident,
leaving a child trapped in a
pushchair. Although he was not des-
elected, this "minor indiscretion" led
to him beingfinedand banned from
driving.
Last Monday's treatment of Sir
Nicholas Scott may be seen as a
warning to other Conservative MPs,
giving them a timely reminder that
they are constantly in the public eye
and that the Conservative Party will
not tolerate politicians who make bad
reputations for themselves.
His associates, local Conservative
Party members, expressed their
unambiguous belief that he should
go. One remarked "Someone like
Nicholas Scott is a dinosaur. He is an
old-style Tory who was simply there
because of his connections...No way
does he deserve to be an MP any
more."
The search goes on to find a
replacement candidate to stand at the
next election to represent the
Kensington and Chelsea area.
Among the contenders for this seat,
one of the safest in the country, are
thought to be Sir John Wheeler, the
Northern Ireland minister and MP for
Westminster North, Hartley Booth,
MP for Finchley, Alan Clark, and
Terry Dicks, MP for Hayes and
Harlington, whose majority has
continued on page 4

