4 NEWS F E L I X FRIDAY 6TH D E C E M B E R
Birkbeck faces funding deficit
PHOTO: LILI TCHEANG
In response to the severe cut in funding provision from the Government,
Governors at Birkbeck College, which is part of the University of
London, recently appointed a strategic working party to look at a range
of measures to generate income and make savings on expenditure in
order to avoid a deficit in their budget. One of the more dramatic pro-
posals was to close down the Physics Department in the year 2000. Such
a closure would be a great loss to the University of London as much
important research is carried out in the department at Birkbeck.
The entire College is currently being consulted on this question with a
decision on the future of the Physics undergraduate and postgraduate
students not to be announced until the 20th of March next year. It has
been rumoured that UCL may bid to take over the department, but this
is as yet unconfirmed.
Doctors head for 83 hour week
UMBAR S A L A M
Ministers this week have been dis-
cussing the outline of a plan to allow
junior doctors to work a maximum of
83 hours a week. The New Deal
Agreement is a cause of contention
and may be abandoned by junior
doctors and their leaders.
The general rule, which is fre-
quently broken, is for doctors to
spend no more than 56 hours per
week on the wards. The Government
has asked hospital managers to use
their "discretion", amidst complaints
from senior medical professionals
that we are producing a less compe-
tent medical workforce. This has
lead to the misuse and overwork of
junior doctors across the country.
Junior doctor representative and
London hospital Senior Registrar,
David Wrede, commented "we are
extremely alarmed that this is a pro-
posal to the detriment of the training
of doctors, and more importantly, the
safety of patients."
The safety of the public if such
shifts are reintroduced must be ques-
tioned, especially when considered
in the light of recent media allega-
tions concerning cover-ups of fatal
mistakes made by overworked junior
doctors.
When the NDA was first imple-
mented, the British Medical
Association decided long hours were
not an effective tool for learning. But
by cutting hours worked by junior
doctors, more people would be
required to do all the routine work
performed by the doctors.
Ministers and some junior doctors
argue that rigorous enforcement of
the NDA could interfere with spe-
cialist training where working long
hours would be necessary, or when
rare surgical procedures are carried
out. A department of Health official
said "we believe there has to be a cer-
tain amount offlexibilityaround the
fringes [of the agreement]."
Such flexibility already exists,
called the English clause, which
allows junior doctors to work longer
hours for the purpose of training.
However, one junior doctor's
spokesman claimed "No money has
gone into training. Maybe the minis-
ters are debating the wrong issue,
and a closer look needs to be taken at
how the doctors are taught through-
out their course."
The majority of medical profes-
sionals are in agreement that an 83
hour week is not a solution to the
junior doctor problem.
ICMS Dean
continued from front page
with the current clubs and societies at
St Mary's. Will they function sepa-
rately or merge with those at
Imperial? To this, Professor
Caldwell answered "we don't want
separate sports teams for the St
Mary's and Imperial," though he
accepted that in some ways it was
necessary to retain an identity, for
example in the Hospital's Cup rugby
tournament. He drew an analogy
with the constituent colleges at
Oxford and Cambridge. Members of
a team could therefore play for both
St. Mary's and Imperial College.
Another question was to do with
the Student Body regarding the issue
of funding. At present, St Mary's
Student Union receives about
£42000 a year whereas Charing
Cross, being larger, gets £70000.
After the merger, as a constituent
college at Imperial, the combined
total would be a mere £12 000. Nick
Jenkins, thefirstyear rep likened this
to "the total cost of running a
minibus for a year." Professor
Caldwell agreed that this was a prob-
lem saying "it was very important
that we maintain our level of funding
after the merger. Imperial College
doesn't fully understand what being
a medical student is like." He added
that a medical school was complete-
ly different from any of the other
Constituent Colleges at Imperial.
On this point, the issue of 'how
different' was raised. Someone com-
mented that many medical schools at
other large universities have separate
facilities, often a separate medical
bar. To this Prof Caldwell said he
understood the situation but that at
the moment Imperial did not wish to
label parts of the South Kensington
campus as being solely for medical
students. He went on to add that the
General Medical Council stresses the
importance of a 'multifactorial edu-
cation' and that this would not be
possible if medics started segregating
themselves from the rest of the stu-
dent body.
Thefinalissue was the question of
continued from page two
recently fallen to just 53.
The executive council of the con-
stituency association will meet next
week to create a timetable for the
selection process, before advertising
the post to the Conservative Party's
list of approved candidates.
quizzed
halls of residence, particularly the
future of Wilson House. Since the
beginning of this term Imperial
College Students from the South
Kensington Campus have been tak-
ing up residence at Wilson House,
angering some Clinical Students who
felt that spare places should have
been offered to them.
Although not directly his responsi-
bility, Prof Caldwell said that both
first year and final year students
would still definitely be given places
at Wilson House should they want
them. However, there was never any
promise made to 3rd and 4th year
Clinical students regarding accom-
modation. Any spare places will be
available to students from South
Kensington though he did not see it
being 'taken over' in the future. He
said that Wilson House is so close to
St Mary's Hospital that it would be
practical to give most of the rooms to
medical students because this is
where they will be for a lot of the
time. He concluded by saying that
the "current system of room alloca-
tion is not totally fair" and that it did
not take into account electives and
the 48 week working year of Clinical
Students. Once again he added that
"Imperial College does not fully
appreciate medical student's work
patterns."
Clinical students raised questions
concerning the inadequacy of house
jobs provision were raised. Rory
Shaw, Director of Clinical studies,
pointed out the excellent track record
of Mary's compared with other med-
ical schools.
Overall, it was felt that the two
hour session went very well. Many
important points were raised and
some of these will have to be
addressed again at a future date.
Sami Ansari, the Student Union
President said that it was not about
taking sides and that what is going to
happen (ie the merger) will happen.
"It is very important for both the
medical students and all the students
at South Kensington that the merger
runs as smoothly as possible."
No doubt Sir Nicholas will be glad
of one thing. He pledged to give up
alcohol for as long as he remained in
public office, recently describing
himself as "absolutely teetotal." He
will be relieved that he has only a
few tedious months of orange juice
and fizzy water to go.
The fall of Sir Nicolas Scott

