6 NEWS FEATURE F E L I X FRIDAY 6TH D E C E M B E R
t
p o p a n d
Oasis, Blur and Pulp are all avid members of the Labour
Party. It's official! Being a leftwinger is suddenly, terribly,
trendy again .
During the 60s London was known as the coolest city in
the world - we had The Rolling Stones, The Who and
Twiggy whilst the jazzheads had Ronnie Scott's. For
everyone, especially students, it was the 'ultimate' to be a
leftwinger (even for undergraduates Michaels Portillo and
Parkinson). Posters of Fidel Castro, Angela Davies and
Bob Dylan adorned the walls of student digs across the
country. On top ofthis, the Beatles showed their affiliation
with Labour by posing in a set of photoshoots with Prime
Minister Harold Wilson.
Now London is experiencing a resurgence of these
vibes with Newsweek reordaining London as the "coolest"
city in the world. Our 90s equivalents to the sixties pop
politicans are Portishead, Massive Attack and Bjork.
Today the jazzheads worship at "The Blue Note" and, at
the Brit Awards Oasis happily praise Tony Blair and New
Labour for giving hope to young people.
Cynics may say that Oasis are simply mimicking the
Beatles in political as well as musical styles. Non-cynics,
namely Labour supporters, will state that it's simply about
New Labour's hard-hitting policies. Regardless of opinion
it is rather symbolic that the Mancunian band should
choose to support Labour. Oasis are currently revelling in
the full-blown joys of greedy capitalism. Although there is
one historical hitch in Oasis becoming fully fledged blue-
rinsed Conservatives - Oasis are working class
Northerners.
A voter's class, education and line of work seem to be
crucial denominators in determining the party that he or
she supports. In fact the political party that a person
endorses has become a lifestyle affirmation.
Traditional Labour supporters tended to be either cham-
pagne socalists or trades union blue-collar workers. The
champagne socialists included radical intellectual thinkers,
writers and artists, as well as theatre-land luvvies (gener-
ally people who rebelled against convention).
The business world has always leaned towards the
Conservatives, due to sypathetic money-making policies.
Other traditional Conservatives include the staid and
upstanding civil-servants and middle managers.
The sixties saw the more liberated atmosphere spurring
the beginings of widespread class mobility and the middle
classes acquiring a social conscience. All this ensured that
Labour stayed in power for most of the next two decades.
Unfortunately the mid 1970s saw the trades unions adopt-
ing bully boy tactics with their strangle hold over the
Labour Government. Hence the leftwing dream died and
rightwing Thatcherism was born. With it went the careers
of many a politcalfy vocal popstar.
The 1980s British economy boomed because Thatcher
liberated the financial institutions of their cumbersome,
F E L I X FRIDAY 6TH D E C E M B E R NEWS FEATURE 7
With politicians rushing to kiss every available baby and shake every offered hand, it's
often forgotten that there are other public figures, particularly muscians and popstars,
who are quite prepared to voice a political preference. Afua Osei looks into the love-
hate relationship between popular music and politicians.
p o l i t i c s
financially unsound traditions. She sold public utilities so
that everyone could be an entrepreneur. Everyone earned
incredible amounts of money, most famously the East-
end barrow-boys who infested the city as stockbrokers.
The music scene during the 80s sums up this
Bacchanalian era perfectly, with slick music acts such as
Spandeau Ballet, Sade, Wham, and Duran Duran domi-
nating. Every self-respecting yuppie religiously knew the
words to Harry Enfield's "Loadsamoney" anthem and
bublegum dustbin pop was produced by the barrel load.
Stock, Aitken & Waterman were the pioneers ofthrow-
away music of the likes of Kylie Minogue, Jason
Donovan, Bros, and Sonia (don't forget that Messieurs
Stock and Aitken are both dedicated Tories). Not all the
muscians were turned into instant Tories though. Red
Wedge, a grouping of popsters who supported Labour
wrote songs, sang at gigs and appeared on TV to promote
their chosen political party. Despite the mood of that
time, Red Wedge thrived, headed by the likes of Billy
Bragg and Paul Weller. Their campaigning for Labour
generated a lot of publicity and everybody, understand-
ably, loved their music, particularly students.
Unfortunately the student population of the 1980s was
rather fickle in its party allegiances. They devoted their
lives to Labour; that is, until they got a high-powered job
in the city with a fat salary. At this point, they would get
greedy and vote Tory. However, too much of a good
thing is bad for you; inflation spiralled into maddening
heights and the giddy hedonism ended. Mass unemploy-
ment among the middle-classes saw people who had once
earned disgusting but pleasant sums of money on the
dole, along with a tragic class of people who had never
experienced the ruthless joys of capitalism. The recession
triggered a fatalistic party mood amongst the young, and
rave sub-culture emerged. Rave's offspring, techno and
ambient, are deeply rooted in drug culture, and with the
glum job prospects of the early 90s, the widespread avail-
ability of recreational drugs provided an easy esacpe.
On a political level, today has seen the British public
running back to Labour in their droves-like a repentent
unruly child running back home. New Labour has got the
golden touch again, due to a polished PR department and
a leader who reflects middle class aspirations. They have
transformed themselves from a pair of BHS boxershorts
to an Armani number and the Brit poppers love it. It
remains to be seen whether New Labour have the consis-
tency to offer the country a future that is as bright as their
image, and if the red roses pinned to the sleeves of pop
stars become an embarassment.
Unfortunately for all political parties today's 20-30s
year-olds are highly sophisticated non-voters. They are
unimpressed by politics as it appears sleaze infested. It
will be interesting to see whether something as frivolous
as "Britpoppers for Labour" may seduce the young vote.

