Politics: past and future
Marie-Laure Hicks gives you the low-down on all things politics
POLITICS
Politics Editors: Padraic Calpin
Marie-Laure Hicks
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Blogger ad
PREVIOUSLY – This summer COMING UP – 2012-2013
With the death toll rising to 15,000 according to
the UN, and 200,000 refugees having fled to Jor-
dan, Turkey, and other neighbouring countries,
fears of a serious humanitarian crisis are rising.
Fighting in Syria intensified during August with
neither camp relenting. The rebels are, however,
claiming that recent high profile defections of
diplomats and the Prime Minister of the Assad
regime are weakening government forces. Kofi
Annan stepped down as UN envoy to Syria after
the failure of the peace plan, and UN presence in
the country has been reduced. The international
community is split on the topic, Russia and Iran
support Assad’s regime whilst France’s Hollande
called for the creation and recognition of a rebel
government and Egypt called for the support of
the rebels at the Non-Aligned Movement meet-
ing in Tehran. Even with recent claims that Presi-
dent Assad’s resignation is up for negotiation,
the crisis does not appear to have an end in sight
and concerns that violence will spread in the re-
gion are growing.
Syrian civil war
Italian Cardinal Carla Maria Martini declared, in
an interview published the day after his death,
that the Catholic Church is “200 years out of
date”. The Cardinal supported a modernisation
of the Church. He claimed that it should be more
open to divorced families , and accept the use
of condoms in certain circumstances. This in-
terview comes amid the Church’s recent image
difficulties following the highly publicised pae-
dophilia scandals.
Syrian civil war
London hosted the 30th Olympiad. Not really
sure if you noticed. No-one made a fuss about
it really. So far deemed a success, the Games saw
host nation’s Team GB win 65 medals, including
29 Gold, and the Paralympic team performing
well. Visitors to the capital claimed to be im-
pressed with the organisation, transport, food,
and fantastic atmosphere. The Mayor of London
Boris Johnson’s vigorous presence fuelled specu-
lation on his aspirations to become Prime Min-
ister. The West End was worryingly abandoned
by tourists and restaurants claimed business to
be down 70% compared to the previous summer.
As a consequence, the success of the sporting
event might be tampered by a financial failure,
with the bill yet to be revealed.
Seb Coe suceeds
Wikileaks founder Julian Assange seeked ref-
uge at the Ecuadorian embassy in London after
judges ruled out his appeal against extradition
to Sweden. Assange is accused of sexual assault
but claims the case is political and that the US is
attempting to get their hands on him. Ecuador
has granted asylum to the Australian, leading to
a small diplomatic row with the UK. If Assange
steps foot on UK soil, he will be arrested if he
and extradited, unless Sweden drops its case. He
estimates that he will have to stay in the embas-
sy up to another year until this happens. Or he
could try escaping in a diplomatic suitcase.
Assange finds a
new home
The US presidential race has been heating up
over the summer. Mitt Romney accepted the
Republican’s presidential nomination at the
party conference and appointed Paul Ryan as
his running mate. Ryan is more conservative
than Romney and adding him to the Republican
ticket was a popular choice with the Tea Party.
The VP hopeful was criticised for inaccuracies
in his party conference speech, and accused by
fact checkers of misleading the public. After a
gaffe-filled trip to Britain, Israel, and Poland,
Romney still needs to convince Americans that
he can be Commander-in-Chief, but foreign
policy, compared to the economy, is not a de-
bate that will affect the election much. Obama
is struggling to raise the same momentum as for
his 2008 campaign and is tied in the polls with
Romney. With the Democratic party confer-
ence coming up and the President’s ale recipe
out, the race is open. Americans will hit the
polls Tuesday 6th November, with the world
watching.
Mr. President
2013 will be a major transition year in the
Chinese leadership. The President and seven
members of the Politburo will change, lead-
ing to a new ruling class. With different trends
within the Communist party and other impor-
tant political changes in the world, the tran-
sition will shape Chinese politics for the next
few years. China had an eventful summer with
the Bo Xilai scandal, and a territorial dispute
with Japan.
Change in China
With tourism down and the generally dire eco-
nomic conditions, Spain, Italy, and Greece are
suffering. Austerity measures are taking their toll
on the population, borrowing is still high, there
is talk of more to come, and growth is still lack-
ing. France and Germany, the leaders so far dur-
ing the crisis, are in need of a new plan accom-
modating the newly elected French President’s
very different ideas. Concerns that Euro exits
from Greece or Finland will throw the entire
zone off balance are ever increasing. European
leaders will need to come up with a solution (or
at least an idea for one) before the Euro zone
melts down with the Christmas snow.
A possible
European tragedy
It might be the centre point of a new series of
The Thick of It, the Coalition is looking at a tough
year to come. Lib Dem attempts to reform the
House of Lords were blocked by 91 Conservative
MPs. In return, Nick Clegg has declared he won’t
support boundary changes for 2015. The econo-
my is back in recession and tough decisions have
to be made on the course to follow. Other up-
coming debates include marriage, Scottish inde-
pendence, banking reform, and social care.
Let’s try and get
it on: Coalition
Year 3
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER
10
ImperialMobile
A mobile app enabling students to
access College information and services
anytime, anywhere
→ www.imperial.ac.uk/imperialmobile

