Basicsly, let’s find the Value of Smartprices
First of all, welcome to uni! Granted,
you’ll have moments where money
is tight and you’ll need to cut a few
corners for a bit. For some of you,
this means budget grub on certain
days/weeks – but how do you know
what’s worth bagging and what isn’t?
he packaging of value ranges like
Sainsbury’s Basics, Tesco Value and
ASDA Smartprice can certainly be
oﬀ-putting for bargain-hunters; how-
ever, we’ve taken the trouble to scour
these ranges for some gems well worth
(more than) what they cost. Here’s to
cheap and cheerful food!
Range of the week: Sainsbury’s Basics
Smoked Salmon Trimmings, 120g –
price seasonal, but usually in the range
of £1 +/- 10-20p.
hose lovely smoked salmon slices
you see in the other Sainsbury’s rang-
es don’t look that nice right from the
smoked ﬁllet – they’ve undergone
some culinary nip and tuck to look that
way. he trimmings, however, are still
perfectly good Scottish smoked salm-
on (RSPCA Freedom Foods endorsed
even) – the exact same as the pricier
ranges, just not presented in the same
way. Tastes just the same too – you
won’t be making posh hors d’oeuvres
or bagel sandwiches with this, but it
goes well with cream cheese and pasta
or any recipes that require you to cut
up the salmon anyway (e.g. kedgeree).
Try it with scrambled eggs too, you’ll
ﬁnd that because it’s so ﬂavourful
there’s no need to add salt.
Verdict: Quality seafood on a budget.
See also: Smoked Mackerel, approxi-
mately 250g at 80p/100g – great in
salads, pates or sandwiches. Or, again,
make kedgeree!
Cherries, 250g. £1.80 (£7.20/kg)
Just like the smoked salmon trim-
mings, this is decent quality grub at
a deceptive price. I can never justify
paying exorbitant prices for cherries,
most of which end up being not so ﬁrm
and also ﬂavourless (the next range up
is almost double the price for the same
weight – £3.00 for 250g). hese ones
are a little bit smaller but they’re still
ﬁrm and full of ﬂavour, and not too
dry either. Perfect for snacking on, or
for dessert toppings/ingredients.
Verdict: I’ve been known to polish oﬀ
a full 250g punnet in a matter of min-
utes as after-lunch dessert. You won’t
be disappointed.
Avocado, pack of 4, £1.50
hey only diﬀer from the non-Basics
variety in terms of size – saves your
the cumbersome task of trying to
store the other half (without it going
brown and all) because one half is
enough; whereas the smaller Basics
avocados are just the right size, even
for people with big appetites like my-
self. Other than that they’re exactly
the same when it comes to quality, so
use in guacamole and salads as you
would the non-Basics avocados. Being
smaller, they’re also the perfect size
for snacking; those of you dieters who
get kittens over that “because avoca-
dos are fattening”, the fats are the good
monounsaturated kind – so relax. And
as they say, all things in moderation;
so these smaller avocados certainly do
help with that!
Verdict: You know what they say about
good things and small(er) packages...
Digestive Biscuits, 400g, 33p
No need for McVities, these things do
the job of cuppa companion brilliantly.
Whether British, European, Asian or
otherwise, the majority of my tea-and-
biscuit-loving friends have at least one
pack (if not two) of these stashed in
their cupboards. hey aren’t any more
inferior in terms of the texture and
taste – I like them, and I’m not ex-
actly the biggest fan of digestives or
biscuits in general; but dip these in tea
to soften and I’m in love. I do end up
using them quite a bit in desserts that
require them, though: they’re great in
tiﬃn cakes, and become good biscuit
bases for cheesecakes when bashed
into crumbs and mixed with their
other non-tea companion: (melted)
Basics Butter.
Verdict: Your vicar deﬁnitely won’t kill
you for bringing these to your next
“tea on the lawn” party.
See also: Rich Tea Biscuits (300g,
23p) and Chocolate Digestive Bis-
cuits (300g, 48p) for alternative cuppa
companions, or Salted/Unsalted But-
ter (250g, £1.19 for both varieties) for
cooking and baking.
Mozzarella, 125g ball, 52p
Note that this is the fresh white kind,
not the grated processed yellow stuﬀ
that most pizzas use. Like the avoca-
dos they’re not much diﬀerent from
their non-Basics counterparts when
it comes to ﬂavour and texture, yet
cost signiﬁcantly less: at least half the
price! Use as you would fresh mozza-
rella normally, it’s great for tearing to
put in salads, or with pasta – I tend to
have to stop myself from tearing and
eating at least half the ball without
having put any mozzarella pieces in
my food, much like how most of us
are when we’re baking/cooking with
chocolate. Melts pretty decently as
well, though I prefer to use it freshly
torn in my dish without heating and
snack on the leftovers at a later time –
one ball’s big enough for two servings.
Verdict: Good enough to perhaps sat-
isfy any homesick Italian hallmates.
And for balance, one of the duds:
Bacon – Middle Bacon Rashers (450g,
£4.80/kg), Back Bacon Rashers (300g,
£5.00/kg), Cooking Bacon Rashers
(670g, £1.48/kg)
Bargain meat/poultry in general is
a dodgy domain because there’s a
stipulation that you can add a certain
amount of water to meat (10% of its
weight?) before you have to legally de-
clare it in the ingredients list. Basics
bacon has water in their ingredients
list, so that means that you’ve got at
least 10% of water-weight in there.
he water shows: my attempt to
cook the back bacon rashers ended up
being the making of Honey I Shrunk
he Kids: Porcine Edition right in my
kitchen. By the time I was done cook-
ing it, it shrunk so much that I’m not
sure even the miniscule Lilliputians
that Gulliver met during his travels
would have been satisﬁed with how
big (or little) the pieces ended up be-
ing. he taste/texture? It’s what I im-
agine brittle salty leather would taste
like... not a pleasurable addition to my
fry-up that Sunday. he middle rash-
ers and cooking bacon fared a bit bet-
ter: they shrunk less and tasted slight-
ly nicer, but I’d still be a bit wary of it.
Verdict: Wouldn’t feed the back bacon
rashers to my dog... well, if I owned
one. Approach other cuts with cau-
tion, or, just buy the next range up.
Carol Ann Cheah Food Editor
FOOD
Food Editors: Carol Ann Chea,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Emergency food and hangover cures
Sophia Goldberg Food Editor
Recipe Corner
Farfalle with mushrooms and broccoli in a creamy sauce
(Serves 2)
Ingredients:
1/2 packet Farfalle pasta (I used homemade beetroot farfalle but any kind is fine)
300 grams closed cup white mushrooms
1 tbsp chopped fresh thyme
2 cloves chopped garlic
100 ml cream (I use soy cream as it doesn’t overpower the other ingredients like
normal double cream)
200 grams broccoli
2 tbsp olive oil
Procedure:
Make sure you keep the timing right to get the full flavour of each and every
ingredient!
Put 1 tbsp olive oil in the pan and fry the garlic on low heat. Slice the mushrooms
and add them to the garlic. Add the thyme
and pepper, let it cook for half a minute.
In a pot put 1 litre of water and when it
starts to boil add the pasta and salt. After
6 minutes add the broccoli. After 1 minute
remove the pasta and broccoli from the
water and add them to the mushrooms.
Add the other 1 tbsp of olive oil and place
on low heat. Make sure they mix well and
after 1 minute add the cream. Cook for
half a minute and serve. Enjoy!
Yiango Mavrocostanti
Emergency food!
Starving with only a few minutes to
cook and no idea what to eat?
Spice up your breakfast: Porridge is
full of slow-release carbs and is one of
the best ways to start the day, but let’s
be honest – it doesn’t taste of much.
Why not add some banana, blueber-
ries, honey, cinnamon or ready-made
apple purée?
Posh pasta and pesto: his always
tastes good in an emergency. To jazz
it up add some cut up plum and sun-
dried tomatoes. Garnish with lots of
pepper and shavings of parmesan.
Super quick salad: Grab a carrot,
courgette, balsamic vinegar, olive oil,
raisins, some pecan nuts, and a little
goat’s cheese. Here are a few tips on
purchasing these: it’s worth spending
a bit extra on a good balsamic vin-
egar, I like Tesco’s Finest, because it
makes such a massive diﬀerence to the
meal and you will probably only buy
one this academic year; buy a small
amount of crumbly goats cheese from
the counter, that way you can just buy
what you need, about 50p’s worth will
do. Just grate the carrot and courgette
into a bowl, sprinkle over the nuts
and raisins, and crumble goat’s cheese
over the top. Add balsamic vinegar
and olive oil to taste.
he best cheese toasty ever: Melted
cheese is unbelievably tasty. For this
you’ll need a few thin slices of Brie
or Camembert, two slices of bread,
butter, one slice of good quality ham
from the counter (try Italian ham
with herbs or prosciutto), rosemary
(ideally fresh and oﬀ the stem), and
several fresh spinach leaves. Turn on
your toasty maker to warm up. Butter
the outsides of the bread, place all the
goodies between the unbuttered sides,
and put it in your toasty maker. Bear
in mind that if it’s too packed, once it’s
in the toasty maker, the toasty will ex-
plode. Bon appetite!
Hangover cures & places to receive
treatment
If you can’t leave your bed: drink lots
of water – try drinking a hot herbal
tea. Stick to eating bread and rice. If
it’s bad get some Dioralyte in you.
If you can make it out the house: If
you feel like a really amazing fry up,
try Pascucci Coﬀee Shop, at 231 Earl’s
Court Road, it’ll set you back around
£5 but you get the works. Also if you
don’t like one part of a fry up you can
ask for them to exchange it for some-
thing else, so if you hate fried toma-
toes you can get more bacon! he cof-
fee is also to die for.
If you make it out but it’s well past
lunch time: I would swear that the spa-
ghetti bolognase at La Pappardella will
cure you. It’s close to uni at 253 Old
Brompton Road and it’ll only set you
back around £8. It’s run by Italians and
they have a huge selection of goodies if
you’re feeling like something else.
If you want a cheap hangover cure
at home: cook what you like but make
sure it’s stodgy and not too rich. I’d
avoid rich curries; try something
milder like a chicken soup or stew. I
think a hai soup is great. If you have
the veggies for a stir fry, grab a hand-
ful and a diced chicken breast and fry
them in a little oil and soya source.
When cooked, chop up a handful of
coriander, one lemongrass (optional),
a cube inch of ginger, a mild chilli, and
a couple of garlic cloves and put in the
pan. hen add half a chicken stock
cube, a couple of pints of water, and
rice noodles for one. Simmer until the
noodles are cooked and you’ll be feel-
ing right as rain in no time.
Food Editor
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER
12

