Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen News Editor Aemun Reza Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope,
Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Chea, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Clubs & Societies Editor VACANT APPLY NOW Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross
Gray, Simon Hunter, Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors John Park, Katy Bettany Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin
Travel Editor VACANT APPLY NOW! Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commander VACANT APPLY NOW Copy Editors Al Norman Matt
Colvin Illustrators Hamish Muir, Lizzy Griffiths, Katie Clemence
Special Thanks: To the one and only Matt Colvin for his amazing last minute help. Thank you Matt, I owe you many, many drinks, and Fonzie Campos
LOLCATZ OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Here we go...
ey everyone! Welcome
to Felix. I’m Tim, and this
year I’m the Editor of Fe-
lix, which is the totally ba-
dass, awesome, independent student
newspaper of Imperial College Lon-
don. Hopefully you’ll end up reading
through this and screaming “shit yeah,
this is incredible, how can you sign me
the fuck up” – or at least that’s what I
guess you’ll say: freshers are notori-
ously foul mouthed. It feels odd to be in
the position that was created in 1949,
and I feel a sense of immense respon-
sibility. I really hope everyone will enjoy
this year of Felix, and that the slightly
lighter hearted tone I plan to take will
keep you all entertained and informed
(about everything but science, well,
except for the stuff in the Science sec-
tion) during lectures.
Now I’ve introduced myself, I should
say this: welcome to Imperial. Once
more, congrats on getting a place here.
All freshers will want to skip the next
paragraph as, like the gun targeting
you, that’s owned by a terrible marks-
men, it’s not aimed at you.
To those non-freshers reading this:
thank you, from the bottom of my
heart, for giving me the opportunity to
do this (by which I mean edit the pa-
per, not frantically write and editorial at
2pm on the day the paper needs to go
to print). I really hope you enjoyed the
sweets, embarrassing lecture shout-
outs I did, and generally being annoyed
during lunchtime. I also hope you’ve all
had a restful break.
Right, freshers can read again; by
which I mean after the whole para-
graph skipping thing, I’m not trying to
imply that you lost the ability to read
over the summer. Although, I’m guess-
ing you’ve had a pretty chilled out sum-
mer, and the closest thing to science
you’ve been doing is studying the med-
als tables in the Olympics.
So, you’re sitting in your room in
halls wondering what to do next? You
can hear a few people outside and
you aren’t sure what to do. Well, here’s
where I’m about to turn into Jeremy
Kyle, but slightly less of a dick, and give
advice you’re going to have to just get
out there and start chatting to people.
Talk to everyone. I know it’s intimidat-
ing and you’ll be bricking it when you
walk up to a group of people who are
already talking as if they’ve known
each other all their lives, but it has to
be done. If you’re struggling you can,
of course, use the handy iron-on label
we’ve made for you (it may not work
too well).
Advice number two: have fun in your
first year. Honestly, this year could be
the best you’ve ever had. Your degree
isn’t a lamb, so don’t sacrifice it (I’m
here all night folks), but definitely don’t
let your social life and fun suffer. Go
out as much as possible, say yes to of-
fers of nights out, try new things (like
writing for a student newspaper), and
generally get out there and enjoy the
university lifestyle. It’s all about find-
ing that mythical balance between
work and play. The only way to do it is
to work when you work, and chill when
you chill.
Your first year is going to be the least
amount of work you have throughout
your entire degree, so don’t pass up
the chance of a life time to piss about a
bit. Just make sure you knuckle down
hard when it comes time to do work.
You only get one shot at this degree,
so enjoy it while working hard, or you’ll
always regret throwing this amazing
opportunity away!
The final thing to say is that if you
want to write for Felix all you need to do
is email me at felix@imperial.ac.uk. It
can be a whole article, or just you say-
ing you want in. If you’re an illustrator,
photographer, designer, or just want a
place to drink tea, we’re always ready
to welcome you. Oh, and if you spot
anything newsworthy, let me know.
>> 8
SCIENCE FASHION >>16 ARTS
Effects of alcohol Fashion don’ts Bluffing art
It’s Freshers’ Week. Or, to give it the official title:
Welcome Week. This week we have a special sec-
tion all about how alcohol makes you behave the
way you do (in my case, like a bit of an idiot), and
how and why a hangover looms.
What don’t you wear in Freshers’ Week? A blunt
guide to what the fashionistas think isn’t the cor-
rect way to dress. Then again, when they asked for
a “guy who dresses well” to write something and I
offered they said no. So what do they know eh?
If you want to be a hipster, but don’t know how
then don’t worry. Arts have taken care of it for you.
They’ve given you a guide to the best sites in Lon-
don for some culture, as well as a great guide to be-
ing arty, without knowing anything about art.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
>>24
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER
2
H
WANTS
YOU
TO
HELP
US
TRAVEL
PUZZLES
Are you a well travelled person? No? Oh well, it
doesn’t matter. All are welcome to apply. You may
even be able to blag free hotels for holidays...
The Puzzles Admiral had to resign his post due to not
being at Imperial anymore. Oh well, we now need a
new Puzzles Commander (you have to start some-
where). You don’t even need any intimate knowledge
of a slitherlink to do it.
If interested: email felix@imperial.ac.uk ASAP!

