Alternative Music Society show you their favourite record labels
anticon.
Founded in Bay Area California in 1998,
anticon is a collectively owned and run
label that produces hip-hop like you’ve
never heard before. Rappers such as
Doseone, Odd Nosdam, and Yoni
Wolf have lent their incredible, distinc-
tive voices and witty lyrics to a host
of diﬀerent bands and collaborations.
More recently, the label has opened up
to other styles, signing indie-rock and
electronic musicians – each as quirky
and original as the founding members
- such as the glitchy West Coast beat
producer Baths.
Bands to check out: cLOUDDEAD,
Why?, Deep Puddle Dynamics, hee
More Shallows, Baths.
Warp Records
A legendary name in electronic music,
British label Warp has signed some of
the most pioneering names in house,
techno, idm, and dubstep through-
out the 90s and 00s. Most notably,
the elusive Scottish duo Boards of
Canada, and Aphex Twin (one of the
many monikers of Richard D James)
have released highly-inﬂuential ambi-
ent and idm albums on Warp. Aggres-
sively complex beats, analogue synths
and eerie samples feature in many of
the label’s acts, tasters of which can be
heard in the compilations Warp10 and
Warp20, summarising its ﬁrst and sec-
ond decades of existence.
Bands to check out: Aphex Twin, Bat-
tles, Clark, Boards of Canada, Flying
Lotus, Mount Kimbie, Hudson Mo-
hawke.
Hyperdub
Founded and owned by seminal DJ and
producer Kode9, Hyperdub is a name
synonymous with dubstep, and is home
to the genre’s most prominent poster
boy: Burial. The label’s small collection
of artists all share a dark, deep, haunt-
ed quality to their sound, reminiscent
of (and best enjoyed by) wandering
around south London late at night.
Several of the acts escape the strictest
deﬁnition of dubstep; notably, the label
features two out of a very few female
producers in electronic music: Ikonika
and Laurel Halo, who push the genre
in interesting new ways.
Bands to check out: Burial, Kode9,
Joker, Darkstar, Zomby.
Fat Possum Records
Initially founded with a focus on blues,
this label from Oxford, Mississippi, has
expanded massively. Though they’ve
sought to retain a focus on guitar-based
music, signing acts like the serene
dream-pop artist Youth Lagoon, rising
psych stars Melody’s Echo Chamber,
and noise rock acts like Yuck, Fat Pos-
sum have other interests too; examples
include Chillwave group Gross Magic
and even rapper El-P. But, broad as
their range is, it’s still guitar music that
these guys do best.
Bands to check out: Andrew Bird,
Unknown Mortal Orchestra, Youth
Lagoon, Melody’s Echo Chamber,
Tennis.
K Records
Founded by Beat Happening’s Cal-
vin Johnson to release records for his
friends, K Records is an inﬂuential label
based in Olympia, Washington. Their
oﬃcial motto is “exploding the teen-
age underground into passionate revolt
against the corporate ogre since 1982”
.
Most think of K as a twee label, but
their sound is summed up accurately by
Beat Happening themselves: primitive,
badly recorded and unpretentious. Riot
grrrl pioneers Bikini Kill were signed
here, as was Beck, punk rockers Built
to Spill, he Melvins, and Mount
Eerie. They have plenty of great twee
bands too, but K is a fascinating collec-
tion of lo-ﬁ DIY pop.
Bands to check out: Beat Happening,
he Halo Benders, Talulah Gosh/
Heavenly, Built to Spill, Tiger Trap.
Fortuna Pop!
The powerhouse of London indiepop,
Fortuna Pop have managed to snap up
just about every half decent band in the
UK scene within the past 5 years. Sean,
the founder, practically went bankrupt
during the ﬁrst decade of their found-
ing, until he discovered shoegaze-pop-
sters he Pains of Being Pure at Heart
and actually started making money.
He’s hit big again with Allo Darlin’,
and signed Darren Hayman, more
famous as the singer and songwriter
behind Hefner. You can still ﬁnd Sean
handing out ﬂiers at any gig where his
bands play, a tribute to the dedication
to his fans.
Bands to check out: The Pains of Be-
ing Pure at Heart, Darren Hayman,
Allo Darlin’, Comet Gain, Crystal
Stilts.
Big Scary Monsters
Big Scary Monsters Recording Com-
pany was the starting point for the vast
majority of Britain’s greatest math rock
artists. Colour, Meet Me in St. Louis,
and Blakﬁsh spent their short careers
on this label, while Tubelord, Tellison,
and This Town Needs Guns all re-
leased their debut here as well. There’s
more than just math rock though, with
Yndi Halda, Get Cape. Wear Cape.
Fly, and Pulled Apart by Horses all
having released records through BSM
as well. Their current roster includes
Tall Ships, Talons and Algernon Cad-
wallader amongst a host of other excit-
ing bands (and Andrew W.K.).
Bands to check out: Colour, his Town
Needs Guns, Mimas, Blakﬁsh, Meet
Me in St. Louis, Tall Ships, Talons,
Tubelord.
Crydamoure and Roulé
Formed individually by Guy-Manuel
and Thomas Bangalter of Daft Punk
fame, Crydamoure and Roulé repre-
sented each member’s vision in crafting
a recognisable genre full of fun, frolics
and fat beatz. Both labels oﬀer only a
smallselectionofsomeofthemostﬁne-
ly crafted club music, but with releases
such as Stardust’s “Music Sounds Bet-
ter with You”
, it’s hard to deny the inﬂu-
ence the labels have had on house mu-
sic today. Many of the artists involved
were friends or relatives of the duo, and
even more of them pseudonyms for the
collaborations of Daft Punk themselves.
What results is a treasure trove of sin-
gles and EPs; a snapshot of the excite-
ment of French house ﬁnding its feet.
Tracks to check out: he Eternals –
“Wrath of Zeus”
, Crydajam – “Play-
ground”
, Together – “Together”
.
Mexican Summer
This label from Brooklyn initially fo-
cused exclusively on vinyl releases, but
conformed to the digital era over the
years. Its artists encompass an eclectic
mix of sounds from both coasts, with
their music wandering from Peaking
Lights’ psychedelia to the lo-ﬁ pop of
Best Coast and garage rock of The Soft
Pack. The label’s most exciting discov-
ery would without doubt be Quilt,
a Boston band of visual art students
beautifully experimenting with harmo-
nies, creating sounds of vastness and
summer peace.
Bands to check out: Quilt, Peaking
Lights, Tamaryn.
MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Inigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A pick of some of the best music venues in London
XOYO
One of the newer venues in London,
XOYO has now been open for two years.
It is nestled between towering oﬃce
blocks close to Old Street Station and
plays host to the hipsters of Shoreditch.
Currently under refurbishment, this in-
timate yet industrial venue will re-open
in mid-September, and so will be ready
for the new term. One of the standout
shows coming up is a sold out date for
Nas playing on the 3rd October which
will be totally crazy. If anyone has tickets
to that, ﬁrst of all I am extremely jealous
because I so desperately want to be in at-
tendance, and secondly I would just like
to say ‘Enjoy’ in a lightly faux sarcastic,
envious way.
Alexandra Palace
Words cannot describe how incredibly
cool the sprawling magniﬁcence which
is the Alexandra Palace, and yet it is my
duty as a Music Editor to endeavour to
complete such a thankless task. The
‘Ally Pally’ is a beautiful and vast place to
watch your favourite band and the glass
roof is something special indeed. All To-
morrows Parties do a lot of events here,
which makes such a proposition even
more appealing. One of my the most
memorable moments of last year was
watching Bombay Bicycle Club enthral
the feverish masses in the Ally Pally and
thinking “would I prefer to be anywhere
elseintheworldrightnow?”
.Youcanﬁnd
the answer out for yourself.
Brixton
You know when your favourite band
headlines the Brixton Academy that they
have made it and are zooming into the
mainstream. You can stand there at the
bagofthiscavernousvenue,pintinhand,
telling everyone who will listen how you
‘much prefer their ﬁrst EP’ and how you
‘hate all these new fans because they only
like the latest album’; but deep down you
know you want to throw yourself into
the centre of the crowd and sing along,
arm in arm, to the latest ‘ooooaaaahhhh’
of the chorus of the latest Vaccines song.
You hypocritical bastard.
he Old Blue Last
Man cannot survive on bread alone, but
it is widely known that London hipsters
can consist purely oﬀ of a few cans of
Red Stripe and frequent visits to the Old
Blue Last in Shoreditch. The OBL is a
bar/venue owned by the ever ironic Vice
magazine and it is a really great place to
see lots of new bands for free upstairs
most nights. It is also probably the best
place in London to hobnob with the lat-
est cool East London bands, of which it
seems there is a conveyor-belt of at the
minute. You could say to your new Impe-
rial friends, ‘Hey I was totally talking to
the lead singer of [he Big Pink/ Spec-
tor/he Horrors etc.] and he totally dug
my moustache’
. Unless you are a girl. If
you are into this sort of place then will
also love the Shacklewell Arms on the
road to Dalston
Plastic People
It has been at the forefront of London’s
underground dance scene for a number
of years now and, in my opinion, has yet
to be surpassed. As you descend into the
bowls of the club, which is situated just
oﬀ Old Street, two things strike you: how
small the club is and also how dark it is,
neitherofthesethingsshouldputyouoﬀ.
Invisible speakers wrap the dance ﬂoor
behindblackmesh,ﬁllingthesmallspace
with perfect sound. This is clubbing at its
most intimate, where exciting new DJs
and producers work their stuﬀ.
Madame Jojos
Madame Jojos is a magical place in the
heart of Soho in Central London. A fan-
tastic night called White Heat is run eve-
ry Tuesday night with small indie bands
and a club night afterwards. It is a great
place to see new bands in an intimate en-
vironment. In my opinion, White Heat is
really good for slacker rock and lo-ﬁ pop,
so if plaid shirts and crunching guitars
are your thing then you are in for a treat.
This is also one of the coolest places you
can go which is only one night bus from
south Kensington or Hammersmith/Ful-
ham so that is deﬁnitely a plus.
Bush Hall
I’m actually very sad that I didn’t discover
Bush Hall in Shepherd’s Bush sooner. I
havealwaysgonetoitsmuchbiggerolder
brother the Empire down the road. It’s a
quirky venue with more chandeliers than
you can shake a stick at, which estate
agents would probably refer to as ‘quaint’
.
Lily Allen and Dizzee Rascal have both
played here recently. And apparently a
band called Stooshe have sold out the
place for an upcoming show, but I have
absolutely no clue what a band called
Stooshe sound like and I think it is prob-
ably best I remain in blissful ignorance.
Union Chapel
The Union Chapel in Islington is without
doubt one of the most beautiful and awe
inspiring venues to watch live music in
London. In fact, just this minute as I am
writing this article, I got so excited about
my memories of this place that I have
goneaheadandboughtticketsforashow
in a few days time. Goodbye student loan
before you even arrived! It is something
special to watch your favourite band in
such a sacred place whilst sitting on a
wooden pew.
Café Oto
Down a small alleyway in Dalston, Café
Otoplayshosttosomeofthemostmind-
bending nights of experimental music in
the whole of London. It is supported by
Hackney council to try and promote new
underground and international musi-
cians. Just a warning to all those who
prefer their music Rhianna-ﬂavoured or
withahintofGaga:thisplacemaynotbe
for you. To those with an open mind who
areboredwithwhatthemainstreammu-
sic has to oﬀer then head on down, and
get a cake while you are at it because it
is also a really nice café (and listening to
experimental jazz can be hungry work).
Plastic People review by Simon Hunter
Mark England Music Editor
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER
26

