STUDENT BLOGGERS WANTED!
Are you a keen and creative writer? Maybe you always
have a camera handy to capture the moment?
Simply send us 600 words about your start of term experience,
whether you are a fresher or a returning undergrad or postgrad.
Alternatively, submit a photo-blog entry about Welcome Week –
don’t forget to add captions!
Send your submission by noon on Monday 15 October
to studentblogs@imperial.ac.uk
£www.imperial.ac.uk/studentblogs
Hello and congrats, you’ve made it to
Imperial! It’s time to start doing what
Imperial students do best – procras-
tinating… err, I meant studying. You
will soon realise that in order to re-
main sane around here, you need to
balance work with frequent relaxation
breaks. And what better way to relax
than by watching the newest episode
of your favourite show?
Take this summer for example: while
most of you were lounging around or
travelling abroad and generally being
merry, I was ﬁnishing oﬀ my postgrad
here at Imperial and writing my thesis.
Whenever writer’s block (or a bout of
sheer laziness) hit me, I turned to my
dear friend the internet to watch some
series to take my mind oﬀ things.
he summer began with the last
few episodes of the second season
of Game of hrones. While not quite
living up to the standards of its ﬁrst
season, the televised version of the
second instalment of George R. R.
Martin’s epic A Song of Ice and Fire
brought with it dozens of new char-
acters, relationships, betrayals, and
battles, making it a bit diﬃcult to keep
track of everything. hat being said,
the show is still excellent and the act-
ing is top-notch.
he second season of he Glee Pro-
ject (yes, I’m a Gleek and proud of it!)
proved to be just as entertaining as the
ﬁrst, with the contestants only slightly
less annoying than last year. I’m not
sure I completely agree with who was
chosen as the winner, but I’m still cu-
rious what kind of character this per-
son will portray on Glee.
Speaking of musical, is anyone
else watching Smash? It was recom-
mended to me by a friend just as I was
starting with my thesis write-up, and
proved to be an addictive distraction
from work. Starring Debra Messing
(Will & Grace) and Jack Davenport
(Pirates of the Caribbean), the show
revolves around the creation of a new
Broadway musical about the life of
Marilyn Monroe. Unlike in Glee, the
characters don’t spontaneously burst
into song, as each musical number is
a performance, which makes it more
believable. Filming of the second sea-
son has started and will feature the
talents of Jennifer Hudson; it’s due to
air in the States in January.
Following a slightly disappointing
and chaotic season, True Blood re-
turned for a ﬁfth year full of vampires,
shifters, blood, sex and gore. his year
the main focus was on he Authority
– the vampire governing body, who
also turned out to be a bunch of re-
ligious zealots. he return of Denis
O’Hare as Russel Edgington was great,
and with Alan Ball stepping down as
show-runner it will be interesting to
see what direction the show will take
when it returns next summer.
Finally, White Collar is another
show that was recently brought to
my attention. I’ve only seen the ﬁrst
two episodes so far, but I’m already
hooked. he show stars Matt Bomer
as con-man Neal Caﬀrey who escapes
from a maximum security prison and
subsequently starts aiding the FBI as
part of a work release program. I will
deﬁnitely be returning to this after I’ve
handed it my thesis – I have four sea-
sons to catch up on!
Did you watch anything interesting
this summer? he new Doctor Who
perhaps? Or maybe you’re looking for-
ward to some new or returning shows
this fall? Are you happy or sad about
Gossip Girl and Jersey Shore ending?
I, for one, can’t wait to ﬁnd out how
Glee handles life after high-school;
whether or not Ted ﬁnally meets he
One in How I Met You Mother; what
tragedy the doctors of Seattle Grace
have to endure on Grey’s Anatomy;
and the fate of the world in the ﬁnal
season of Fringe.
Whatever your taste, feel free to
send us reviews at tv.felix@imperial.
ac.uk. We can’t wait to read them: it’s
bound to be a great year for TV!
Lucia Podhorska Television Editor
TELEVISION
Television Editor: Lucia Podhorska
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Welcome to the world of TV
Ah, the old hands-in-pock-
ets-to-hide-erection move.
A classic.
27
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Write for Felix Television.
It’s better than repeats of
Supermarket Sweep on Challenge.
On second thoughts, maybe not.

