Top ten of 2012... so far
10. 21 Jump Street
he long-forgotten Johnny Depp-
starring television show got a makeo-
ver with the predictably cast Chan-
ning Tatum and Jonah Hill playing
their typical roles of the well-built but
dumb jock and slightly overweight,
physically challenged loser respec-
tively. But as these two unlikely paired
up cops receive an undercover assign-
ment to enter a local high school as
students, hilarity ensues as becoming/
remaining popular inside a teenager’s
worst nightmare proves to be more
challenging than they had initially
anticipated. Whilst consistently hit-
ting the mark with a great mix of gags
ranging from gross-out to some rather
self-mocking ones, the ﬁlm itself is
also backed by a good enough plot and
two brilliant leads.
9. Untouchable
It’s a mix of he Help, he Blind Side,
and thinking further back into cinema
history, Driving Miss Daisy. Although
this time, we have a helpful black man
pushing a wealthy white millionaire in
his wheelchair on the streets of Paris.
He suﬀered a tragic paragliding acci-
dent which left him quadriplegic and
he hires the fun-looking, pot-smoking
young lad straight out of prison. You
may roll your eyes at the many cringe-
worthy moments this “based on a
true story” may have to oﬀer, but the
two irresistible lead performances are
what make this generic crowd-pleaser
(this was a massive hit all over Europe)
so unique.
8. Margin Call
A gripping retelling of the dark and
disturbing steps leading up to the 2008
ﬁnancial crisis, the magniﬁcent cast
including big names such as Kevin
Spacey, Jeremy Irons, Demi Moore,
Paul Bettany and Stanley Tucci tackle
the comprehensively written script
with stern, terriﬁc presence. It’s also a
surprisingly balanced look at the melt-
down, never placing hateful blame or
trying to ﬂare up anger towards the
bankers themselves, steering away
from condoning or condemning. We
all paid heavily due to a series of mis-
takes made by everyone involved, and
the sympathetic portrayal by ﬁrst time
director J. C. Chandor certainly sheds
a human light on such a complex set
of events.
7. Carnage
What could be so interesting about
two sets of parents (Jodie Foster,
John C. Reilly, Kate Winslet, Chris-
toph Waltz) meeting on a quiet New
York afternoon to discuss a violent
ﬁght their children were involved in?
hrow in enclosed space, passive-
aggressive remarks, a dead hamster,
bad pastry, endless phone vibrations,
vomit, swearing, whiskey and mari-
tal problems to the mix and watch
the four civilised adults disintegrate
into madness under the expert direc-
tion of Roman Polanski and you get
one of the most shocking yet hysteri-
cal comedies of the year. It’s short,
snappy and incredibly sharp in its
wit and insults – 2012’s underrated
must-see.
6. Brave
It’s a rare to sight to see such a
young, self-sufficient and confident
princess who wields the bow and ar-
row instead of occupying her time
and thoughts with becoming a bride
to someone she doesn’t even know;
which is a shame, since her mother
doesn’t quite share her daughter’s
views. Enter the witch who prom-
ises to fix everything and instead
makes everything worse. Now the
red-head Scottish princess must
race against the clock to break the
witch’s spell and restore her king-
dom’s peace. With a clear structure,
fast-paced action and rich in com-
edy to please both the young and
old, here is yet another triumph for
Disney/Pixar.
5. Lawless
Here is a gruesome and fascinating
tale of survivors of the Prohibition-
era, and how they took the law and
corruption into their own hands for
the safety of their loved ones. hree
Bondurant brothers (the superb
Tom Hardy, Jason Clarke and Shia
LaBeouf) run a reliable bootlegging
business, supplying much-needed
alcohol to customers who love them.
Enter the shady Special Agent Char-
lie Rakes who decides to stir up trou-
ble with his greed. Out come the
knuckle dusters and big guns as the
two sides come to a head and vio-
lence ensues; the old-school action
remains as exciting as ever and the
performances from its large cast,
electrifying.
4. Moonrise Kingdom
Director Wes Anderson can count on a
few converts after his quirky yet ador-
able Cannes-opener. His unique visual
style and eccentric storytelling devices
aren’t exactly a big crowd-pleaser but
the irresistible mix of childhood nos-
talgia and naïveté creates a warm, un-
forgettable gem. Backed by a strong
(arguably) “supporting” cast (Bruce
Willis, Frances McDormand, Edward
Norton, Billy Murray), the story of a
couple of 12-year-olds in love (Kara
Hayward and Jared Gilman, abso-
lutely incredible in their debut perfor-
mances) who decide to run away is an
impeccable blend of both charm and
oﬀ-beat, oftentimes shocking humour
that can stand proudly alongside An-
derson’s best works.
3. The Cabin in the Woods
If you think you’re smart enough or
have seen enough horror ﬁlms to
know everything that is going to hap-
pen in he Cabin in the Woods, think
again. Although the set-up is familiar
(ﬁve young men and women foolish-
ly decide to go on a trip to a creepy,
abandoned cabin that’s in the middle
of nowhere), what follows is a dizzying
escalation of events that brings out the
laughs, shocks and scares, building up
to a sensationally epic ﬁnale of bloody,
gory chaos. Well mapped out, creative
and full of surprises, this is the hor-
ror ﬁlm to beat now when it comes to
originality.
2. Avengers Assemble
he mother of superhero ﬁlms does
not disappoint as it pays careful atten-
tion to not only delivering exhilarating
action, but also to its many characters
full of ﬂaws and individual personal-
ity quirks. With no-one sidelined and
everyone given highlight moments
of their own, the long-awaited, much
hyped-up Marvel event of the sum-
mer got its well-deserved raging suc-
cess both in terms of the critical and
the ﬁnancial. It was great to see some
old faces again (Robert Downey Jr.,
Chris Hemsworth, Chris Evans, Sam-
uel L. Jackson) and the new additions
(Mark Ruﬀalo, Jeremy Renner, Scar-
lett Johansson) certainly improved
the scale and helped create the epic
atmosphere.
1. Chronicle
A low-budget superhero ﬁlm: who
would have thought this could actu-
ally work? Yes, this is a “found foot-
age” piece, in a tiresome string of ﬁlms
trying to gain publicity and attention,
but everything in Chronicle keeps
things fresh and exciting. As three
teenagers discover they have super-
powers after a mysterious encounter
with what looks like an extraterres-
trial spaceship, they all deal with this
in their own way, with one of them, a
loner and a victim of bullying, becom-
ing more and more unstable and ad-
dicted to his new-found power. he
young, talented cast gives this a highly
authentic look, and the action is,
when necessary, breathtaking. It’s a lot
more personal, intimate and at times,
heart-breaking than any superhero
ﬁlm out there, which makes this that
much more special. Proof that money
can’t guarantee quality, studio bosses
should learn from surprise hit ﬁlms
such as this one.
“We’re number one? Haha, yeah,
whatever...”
John Park Film Editor
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER

