The best way to lower your
Ross Webster fits all the pieces together to show you how this autum
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The autumn term has always felt like a special time to us.
Is it the naïve, fresh-faced students looking lost in our de-
partments? The feeling of a clean slate for the forthcoming
year? The knowledge that we’re one year closer to escap-
ing? No, dear readers – it is something much more
special. It’s the Scrooge McDuck- style
swimming pool, full of brand new
games, through the secret door at
the back of the Felix Office. It’s
near the jacuzzi. Considering the
volume of games appearing on
shelves over the next three months,
I’ll need a whole Felix containing
cover-to-covergamestogetthrougheve-
rything. (uh-oh, he’s got that idea in his head now – Tim) So,
here are some of the highlights that you won’t want to miss.
Indie lovers be- ware: there be
blockbusters this issue.
THAT AUTUMN FEELING Borderlands 2
If you’ve never played the original Borderlands, imagine a
large RPG/FPS hybrid with billions of weapon combina-
tions that also doesn’t take itself too seriously – you’ll have
weapons that regenerate ammo or heal your teammates
by shooting them, and characters that
explode whatever they punch. As
in the original, you’ll take control
of one of four (new) characters, all
with unique abilities and preferred
weapon types. Set years after Bor-
derlands, the villanous Handsome
Jack has taken control of the planet
and wants to remove all undesirable
life from it, making some money in the
process. Unluckily for everyone, you’re undesirable, but
you also don’t take kindly to being threatened with death.
Expect hilarious co-op fun. Lots of it. ENGORGE!
Out now – PC, PS3 & XBox360
The third expansion (after B
ters)toBattlefield3nowfoc
ing in more gametypes, unlo
waystorunpeopleover,from
feel I should also mention th
point, but good luck with tr
it (or strap C4 to the front a
on rails. There’s a bunch of n
map,whichlookstobebette
map and a desert map, whic
tlefield’s 10 year history), so
pansion alone may not be ca
yet, but it’ll help its cause. T
out in December this year,
hopefully turning up early Q
value whilst waiting for ma
Birgirpall’s YouTube channe
for bans acquired in pursuit
Battlefield 3
Despite Bungie being given
in 343 Industry's Halo 4. Se
3, the developers have sta
away from
F
healthy
any luck, Halo 4 won
nation that we’ve seen with
in enough new mechanics an
I want to see where MC wi
the surface of an abandoned
Ha
Call of Duty: Black Ops 2
Needless to say, it’s another Call of Duty, but for the first
time since the franchise’s creation, two CoD games have
been made by the studio, disrupting the alternating “Mod-
ern Warfare” / ‘Quirky Warfare’ theme we’ve had. Black Ops
2 (by the same studio as CoD: Black Ops and CoD: World
at War) has gone where no CoD has gone before - the fu-
ture. Not that far into the future mind you, so there’s still
bullets (and probably throwing knifes) flying everywhere -
no lasers yet. I wouldn’t expect too much that would shake
the gaming world to it’s foundations, but expect some solid
gameplay and the regular adrenaline-pumping multiplayer.
13 November – PC, PS3 , Wii U & XBox360
As you can see there’s a lot to sink your teeth into this term –
and there’s a lot more to come. With new hardware such as
the WiiU, and the blurring of the console/PC frontlines with
Valve’s Big Picture, we are in for one hell of a ride. That be-
ing said, this is not just a burst of energy for the mainstream
markets; with the recent release of
the IndieFort Bundle, the continu-
ous growth and incorporation of
smaller developers into services like
Steam, and the prolific Kickstarter
promising the fulfilment of wishes
faster than a hyper Robin Williams, everyone’s catered for.
So, welcome ye Fresher’s and familiar faces. Welcome to
another year of record-breaking numbers, breath-taking
advancements, wallet-slaying Steam Sales and some of the
most fun we’ve had in years.
Take comfort in the knowledge that whilst you’re reading
this, we’re probably running around the Eurogamer Expo
like headless children in a candy store (or something like
that – I’ve never been good with analogies). See you in the
jacuzzi. Ask for Big Tony in the Felix office.
A FINAL MESSAGE
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER
30

