r marks this term
n will be for the l33tprofreshers out there
GAMES
DayZ Diaries
Day One
I can’t remember my life from before the Fall. My earliest memory is of waking
up on the coast, my clothing sodden through (with rain, sweat or seawater I still
don’t know) and my pockets empty apart from a can of coke, a beaten-up torch
and some odds and ends.
The beach around me was void - of life, of colour, of tracks. Surrounded only
by the howling winds and darkening skies, I made my way along the rocky coast,
hoping to find something. Anything.
I walked with the coast to my left and the trees to the right, and it wasn’t long
till I saw signs of life. A small cluster of houses, bins full and rotten and doors shut
tight was not exactly the welcome I was looking for. I knocked and shouted but
no-one inside heard me. No footsteps, no peeking from behind the curtains. Actu-
ally, I’d like to change my earlier statement. Those houses were not a sign of life.
They were a sign of death. I was feeling uneasy and I wanted to get out of there as
soon as possible. There was a small road that lead from those houses and it moved
further inland. I thought I’d surely come across somewhere dry and safe, so I made
my way onto the main road, and kept on walking.
This is when I saw them. I first thought they were scarecrows, standing there in
the middle of the road and swaying when the wind changed its course. I paid no
attention to them, but it wasn’t till I got closer that I noticed the grey and pallid
faces of these mannequins were torn and weeping. I ran.
That probably wasn’t the brightest idea, as I then found myself being chased
by three of those bodies. Those limping, wheezing, coughing bodies. I ran further
inland and saw a small farm up ahead. I took a sharp turn behind a wall, and the un-
holy chorus behind me stopped, as if they reached the end of their infernal hymn,
as soon as I was out of sight.
I kept close to the wall as I slid along to the barn doors. They were wide open.
The barn sounded free of those poorly-stringed puppets, and I walked inside. The
smell of farmyard life was strong. At least it was dry. I moved up the steps to the
top section of the barn, hoping to move some bales around and make somewhere
to rest. I found a rather blunt wood axe under a bale and tied it onto my belt, hop-
ing that I’d be able to find some suitable trees for firewood.
I then heard footsteps outside, so I hit the deck and crawled further behind my
bales. The grunting and laboured breathing got closer until I saw a leg. I swung out
with the axe, hitting the leg in the middle of the shin and the body fell, bleeding.
I heard the snap. I struck out a couple of more times, until I heard it cry “Stop.
Stop! I’ll give you whatever you want!”. I picked myself up off the dusty boards
and walked towards the toppled man, bloody hatchet in hand. “If you’re dead, I
can have everything.” I swung down with the axe, the apparently blunt blade stuck
firmly in between his eyes. I rooted through his pockets and bag, finding a can of
beans, some matches and this journal. This leather-bound journal, with a birthday
message from his parents. His belongings in my bag, I stood on his brow, pried the
axe from his forehead and kicked his body, off down to the barn floor.
This is the journal of amnesiac Felix de Milo . I’m trapped in a world of thought-
less monsters, and I need to find a way out. Maybe I can remember my life before
this storm began. Maybe I just don’t want to.
“Dear xXxl33tKilL4xXx,
Know we will always love you.
Best of luck for your future,
Love,
YoMomma69 and whos_your_D4DDY
xxx”
As found on the floor by Ross Webster
Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Back to Karkand and Close Quar-
cusesonvehicularwarfare,bring-
cks, upgrades, and a slew of new
mquad-bikestomobileartillery.I
e massive AC-130 gunship at this
rying to run someone over with
and ram some tanks) as it’s sadly
new maps, including a night-time
erthanTehranHighway),asnow-
h is apparently the largest in Bat-
o don’t forget your keys. This ex-
use to buy BF3 if you’ve not tried
The next DLC, Aftermath, comes
with the final DLC ‘End Game’
Q1 2013. For added entertainment
ps to load, I suggest you look at
l. Felix accepts no responsibility
of ‘Burger Paul’-like status.
3: Armored Kill
Out now – PC, PS3 & XBox360
Imagine the love-child of the Assassin’s Creed, Bioshock,
and Elder Scrolls franchises. Congratulations, you’ve just
given birth to a beautiful baby: Dishonored. Taking up the
role of an imperial bodyguard,
framed for the murder of the
empress, but subsequently
released from your cell by a
mysterious figure who also
gives you magical powers,
you are let loose upon the
city of Dunwall to exact
your revenge, whatever
way you like it. With the dark at-
mosphere and plasmid-style magic of
Bioshock, along with the free-running and assas-
sination options of Assassin’s Creed, topped with RPG ele-
ments and the option to kill nearly everyone you see a la
Elder Scrolls, and being thrown into a diesel-punk world,
Dishonored looks to be a great game, with a massive fan
following, if nothing else.
Dishonored
12 October- PC, PS3 & XBox360
After our ancestral journeys with Altair and Ezio during the
crusades and renaissance Italy, we’re now in the American
War of Independence following young Connor Kenway
(Ratonhnhaké:ton in his father’s native tongue). The son
of a British mother and Mohawk father, the developers do
claim that you’re not allied to any one side
of the war as there are Templars
fighting for both sides. That be-
ing said, nearly everything we’ve
seen from gameplay and trailers
has shown random acts of assassi-
nation against the British, and very
little anti-colonial action. Anyway,
expect lots of fun playing around (read: killing) in the open
wilderness, using new gadgets such as the rope darts to
hoist your enemies up and use them like a pinata. The most
important thing to understand about this game is that you
can captain a boat. That practically makes you a pirate as-
sassin – that’s the most awesome combination of character
classes since ninja zombies.
Assassin’s Creed 3
31October-PS3&XBox360,21November-PC
the boot, Master Chief lives on
et 3 years after the end of Halo
ted that this game has moved
the standard stuck-in-the-mold
FPS motto of 'Kill Everything
in Sight' and towards a more
storyline-based, background-
filling game of explora-
tion and discovery. Any
other time of the year, this
game would top the charts
without a doubt, but be-
ing surrounded by other
AAA FPS titles, there's some
competition this autumn. With
n’t lead to the same kind of stag-
h other franchises, and will bring
nd material to keep things fresh.
ill get his UNSC ammo from on
d Forerunner planet though.
alo 4
6 Nov – XBox 360
This week’s gaming section is ‘sponsored’ by:
Join the Imperial gaming community on Steam!
Just search for “Imperial College Gaming” and get playing.
31
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER

