COFFEE BREAK
Coffee Break Boss: Matt Colvin
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Cheaper than Starbucks
Welcome to IC!
new lease of life.
And I’ve been deigned ‘Coffee
Break Boss’ by our glorious Editor-
in-Chief, what’s that all about?
Answers on a postcard please,
cheers.
But what I really want to use this
handy box to say is simply – get
involved! If you’ve got a idea that
you think could entertain a incred-
ibly vast readership (or so we like to
think), email us at felix@imperial.
ac.uk. Or better yet, come and visit
us at the Felix Office in the West
Wing basement of Beit Quad. Or
better yet (again) come and see us
at Freshers’ Fair. The choices are
endless, by which I mean you have
those two choices. Peace out.
Matt Colvin
Coffee Break Boss
So here we are again, the start of
another scintillating term of keen
education and a precarious bal-
ance of social success and faux
pas. For those of you venturing
from your homeland to the big city,
or, heck, from the big city to the
big city, the warmest of welcomes,
and I’m hoping you’re enjoying this
slice of semi-journalistic gâteau
and growing tired of this vocifer-
ously flowery language – I’ll stop
now.
So onto business, what’s Coffee
Break? I guess you could say it’s
where all the lost ideas that don’t
fit into any other section come to
die. But that’s a bit morbid, so let’s
just say it’s where they come for a
PEDANT’S’ CORNER
?
In the first (and probably last) of a new series, Coffee Break investigates those
day-to-day issues that absolutely nobody is getting angry about...
#1 – It wasn’t Mr Bean at the Olympic Opening Ceremony
Forget G4S, forget the empty seats, forget the confectionary dominance of
Cadbury. The real misfire of London 2012 was the media’s (and everyone else’s)
insistence that the man on the piano entertaining us at the Opening Ceremony
was Mr Bean. It was Rowan Atkinson.
Take the morning after on BBC News, when some of the news readers were
all like, “Yeah my favourite bit was when Mr Bean played the piano”. Can we
really be sure that it was Mr Bean, or Rowan Atkinson just being Rowan At-
kinson. I mean, he’s not just Mr Bean. He’s also known for portraying a bevy of
different characters. Where was the tie and jacket, where was the mumbling
incoherence?
Of course, I’m probably just completely wrong and stuck in the past. But if
someone doesn’t stand up for this incredibly small details, then who will?
Where would we be without pedants? In a better place probably. But if some-
thing’s grinding your gears, no matter how miniscule, or if you spot some kind
of grammatical mistake in this very paper, send your grievances over and we’ll
print them right here. Maybe. Just email felix@imperial.ac.uk.
CAPTION CORNER
It’s been an eventful summer for paragon of virtue Boris Johnson as his quest to become Prime Min-
ister continues, so now’s as good a time as any to remember that time when he visited Exhibition Road
last February. What’s he saying to the adoring masses? Send your entries to felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Photo Credit: Jonathan Peek
HOT!
HOT!
NOT!
NOT!
TWITTER HIGHLIGHT OF THE WEEK
Justin Bieber @justinbieber
Sick and frustrated. #beingsicksucks
Canada’s biggest export
since maple syrup kindly
lets his fans know about his
well-being, and successfully
captures the sheer ennui of
illness. #getwellsoon!
FASCISM
Met this girl
(must’ve been about
quarter past three)
Took her for
a drink
Making love Making love Making love Making love
Chilled
Gotta get
down
Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’
Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’
Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’
Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’ Hustlin’
Cryptic hits
Our calendar’s ready for the start of term, and judging by the contents, we’re
looking forward to another month of monotony and repetition. We’ve hidden
three (allegedly popular) songs in the calendar, and it’s your job to ﬁnd them.
he fate of the free world undoubtedly rests in your hands.
BEING A JERK
WELCOME
WEEK
LONDON 2012
33
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER

