“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1524 felixonline.co.uk
28/09/12
Dodgeball
Dodgeball is one of the biggest up
and coming sports in the country and
part of what makes it so appealing
is that it is a sport anyone can play.
he dodge gene is inherent in the hu-
man genome. It is incredibly easy to
pick up, lends itself naturally to so-
cial interaction and greatly improves
your agility, reactions and awareness.
here’s always a story at dodgeball
night and after a few sessions you’ll
be performing the on-court heroics
of the elite player you’ve become (elite
meaning you know dodgeball theory
and you’ve progressed slightly from
your primary school dodging days). If
you gain enough enthusiasm, a large
and dedicated dodgeball committee
will get each and everyone of you in
both competitive and novice dodge-
ball tournaments around the country,
with help from our experienced inter-
national players.
Imperial Wolverines ourselves are
in a golden era of dodgeball and with
the help of some hot fresher talent this
is all set to continue. he ﬁrsts have
newly been promoted to the country’s
top division, the seconds are having
another glorious attempt at promo-
tion and we are hoping to create the
ﬁrst elite Imperial women’s team. Al-
though competitive, dodgeball is pre-
dominately a social game and this is
really what binds the club. he club
has a massive social side with regular
activities ranging from touch rugby to
theme park excursion. If you’ve got no
friends, you’ve got a friend in a sport-
ing reject at dodgeball. If you’ve got
friends, you’ve got more friends in
unoﬃcially the largest growing sport
on the planet. Moreover it’s a good
workout, a bit of competitive fun and
very welcome for anyone to play. So
watch out for us this Freshers Fair and
see why dodgeball is on the up!
Fellwanderers
Fellwanderers is the Imperial Col-
lege hiking club. We run fortnightly
weekend trips throughout the year to
the mountainous regions of Britain.
We visit the spectacular scenery of
national parks around the country in-
cluding the Lake District, Snowdonia
and the Peak District, usually staying
in huts and village halls, from which
we organise day hikes. We cater for
all abilities on these weekend trips,
from short walks to longer ones, as
well as several competition hikes.
Alternatively, come and try one
of our Sunday walks in the beautiful
English countryside near to London.
his year there will be walks along the
chalk hills of the North Downs and a
Freshers’ trip along the Severn Sisters
on the south coast.
For the more adventurous, at the
end of each term the club runs a week-
long tour – recent locations include
the Lake District and the Cairngorms.
At the end of the summer term the
tour takes place abroad; in the past
we’ve gone to the Alps, Dolomites
(Italy) and Durmitor (Montenegro);
this year it will be to Iceland!
Finally, we are an incredibly socia-
ble club and run free weekly lunches
throughout the year. We organise
bar nights every term and also sev-
eral meals out. We do ﬁlm nights,
barbeques, and trips to events across
London, including the Battersea Beer
festival. Join us for socials, walks and
have a great time at Imperial!
Surf Society
If you’re reading this your probably
wondering what a surﬁng club does
in the middle of central London. he
answer? Escape at every opportunity!
We are a friendly, active and unique
club who welcomes anyone who is the
least bit curious about surﬁng. Once
a month we run trips to a variety of
surf spots around the UK for a week-
end of riding waves and socialising,
which are a great way to relax and
meet a whole new group of people.
Every fortnight we also run a social
around London to share surfer’s tales
and have a good laugh.
Most of our members join as com-
plete beginners and quickly become
addicts to the mix of adrenaline and
fun ﬁlled lifestyle. he club always
ensures that you always get the best
standard of tuition and hire at student
prices so you’ll be on your feet in no
time in a safe environment with lots
of other beginners.
For the more advanced surfers
among you, we enter the inter uni-
versity surﬁng contest (BUCS) every
October, which gives you a chance
to test your chops against other surf-
ers. We also oﬀer coaching, extra ad-
vanced sessions and local knowledge
to make the most out of your time in
the water!
At the end of the year, we run a sum-
mer tour to France for a week of car-
nage in the sun with other students!
his is a fantastic way to unwind at
the start of the summer and enjoy
some warm water and cold beers with
the club!
So if you are already a lil ripper or
just enjoy spending time on the beach
make sure you come and talk to us at
the Fresher’s fair! We’ve got big plans
for Fresher’s week and will be taking
a coach load of people down to New-
quay at the end of October for a week-
end you’ll never forget!
Caving
he Imperial College Caving Club is
an easy-going and friendly club dedi-
cated to caving in the UK and abroad.
his motley crew will show you the
spectacular subterranean world; you
will ﬁnd yourself abseiling down into
stupendously large stone cathedrals,
climbing and scrambling up rock
walls,
and traversing over enormous pits to
see vast chambers, underground riv-
ers and impressive formations.
If this sounds daunting, don’t worry,
our experienced members will train
you up to caving competence. You’ll
be surprised by how fast you pick it
up. On our fortnightly weekend trips
in the autumn
and spring terms we frequent the ex-
otic Yorkshire Dales, Wales, the Men-
dip Hills,and the Peak District.
At Christmas we take it up a gear on a
longer Yorkshire trip and at Easter we
enjoy an overseas tour. Previous years
have taken us to such destinations as
Majorca, Sardinia and Morocco.
he year culminates with our summer
tour to Slovenia where for the past
20 years the club has been exploring
completely new cave systems. his
expedition is guaranteed to be like
nothing you have never done before.
Exploring unmapped passages that
no one has ever seen before, at depths
reaching nearly a kilometre below the
surface, is one of the most rewarding
and memorable experiences life has
to oﬀer. his year was particularly
successful because
we connected two of our systems cre-
ating the longest cave in the country!
hat said, we do much more that just
caving. Regular pub meets and other
less regular gatherings are a great
chance to socialise with the club and
meet some of the more casual mem-
bers.
So if you like the sound of adventure
and excitement with the ﬁnest people
under the earth then come and ﬁnd us
at freshers’ fair.
Off the beaten track...
SPORT
Sorcha Cotter gets some of the more obscure sports to tell us
about themselves, in their own words
Send your match reports in to sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
They no longer find “grab-
bing their balls” jokes amus-
ing. Shame.
Below this caption: now that’s
commitment to drinking

