FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
6
Tim: What is Co-Curricular studies,
if you had to sum it up quickly?
Eryl: Co-Curricular studies is the new
title for what was formerly called the
Department of Humanities. So it’s a
new branding of that and it includes
the languages, it includes the evening
classes and it includes what was previ-
ously the humanities subjects that were
taught across the week.
T: What kind of courses are oﬀered in
the Imperial Horizons programme?
E: here are four distinct strands:
there’s Languages and Culture. here’s
a strand called Global Challenges where
there’s a diﬀerent theme each term. he
ﬁrst term theme is Global Warming and
the second term’s theme is Water and
Health. We’ve got Business, which is de-
livered as a large lecture format by the
Business School. And then the fourth
one is Science, Culture and Society and
there’s a whole series of smaller options
that people can take there. hings like
Science and Museums, Science and
Visual Culture, Science and Literature,
Science and Faith, Sound Technology...
What we want to stress is that the even-
ing language provision will continue
and probably even develop so that if a
student wants to do a language on top
of their course – if they think they can
ﬁt it around their studies – then they
can come along to an evening class.
So Humanities isn’t ending, it’s being
rebranded as Horizons for ﬁrst years,
but the humanities will continue in the
lunchtime slots as it has done previous-
ly, for second and third years this year,
and after that it’s going to be phased
out.
Part of this programme is about
broadening students’ horizons, so they
aren’t sort of seen as narrowly focused
on Physics or Life Sciences, for exam-
ple, and they’ve got something to talk
about with respect to employers.
T: Are the current lecturers of Hu-
manities and Languages remaining?
E: I think there’s been some concern
about people losing their jobs. In terms
of the academic staﬀ, we’re recruiting
some new staﬀ to deliver the Horizons
programme. As the courses roll out,
they’ll be delivering less of the old Hu-
manities courses and instead they’ll be
delivering the new Horizons courses.
T: What is your background in terms
of Higher Education?
E: My background’s in Media and Per-
forming Arts. I did my PhD at Kings.
My PhD’s in heology, although I’m
an athiest, but I’m very interested in
religion and faith. I’m actually please
that one of the Horizons courses is
about Science and Faith because I think
there’s a lot of very interesting debate to
be had in that area. My specialism as a
teacher was really in radio, particularly
community radio and more sort of ex-
perimental forms of abstract radio like
oral sculpture and radio arts. I was a
principal lecturer and a teaching fellow
at what was hames Valley University.
I was a head of department there and
director of studies.
I’m very keen on motorbikes. One
of the reasons I was excited about the
Imperial job was that a few years ago
Imperial entered a bike in the TT races
and I’ve yet to ﬁnd it, but I’m sure it’s
somewhere lurking in the corner of an
engineering workshop.
T: And you’re keen to get Imperial
students a ‘bit more arty’
, as it were?
E: Well I think that’s not a bad thing.
I’m keen for Imperial students to think
about the cultural impact of what they
do and also to ask some questions about
truth and knowledge. I think scientists
often take truth and knowledge for
granted, whereas I think artists would
claim – a lot of them – that they also
have access to truth, in many diﬀerent
ways. We have a fantastic geographi-
cal situation here, we have the Royal
College of Arts, the Royal College of
Music, all the museums. So I think the
opportunities for co-curricular stud-
ies are enormous. I see it as part of my
brief in the coming months and com-
ing years to make much stronger links
with the Royal College of Arts and the
Royal Albert Hall and all of those places
so that Imperial is reaching out and our
students are beneﬁtting from all those
connections.
T: Why should ﬁrst year students
grab this chance by the horns?
E: I think it’ll give them the chance to
experience something new and diﬀer-
ent taught by top quality professionals
and experts in those subject areas – and
they’ll have a really good time!
Minor factual innacuracies have been
corrected from the print edition of this
article.
Opening up new Horizons?
We interview the Head of Co-Curricular studies, Eryl Price-Davies
Tim Arbabzadah Editor-in-Chief
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER
New courses to broaden your education and enhance your potential
For all irst year undergraduates. Find out more:
www.imperial.ac.uk/horizons
Make sure you register by Monday 8 October 2012

