hangover blues
will give it a go. Ouch, my head hurts...
SCIENCE
IN BRIEF
While you were anxiously awaiting results
A sad farewell to Neil Armstrong
The first man on the moon, Neil Armstrong, passed away on August 25th, aged
82. Barack Obama, US President, honoured the astronaut, calling him a “hero not
just of his time, but of all time”. Tributes have poured in for Armstrong, from Buzz
Aldrin, second man on the moon and fellow member of the mission, to former
NASA astronauts.
Despite calls for a state funeral, Armstrong’s funeral was held at a private service
in Ohio, but he was commemorated with flags flown at half-mast throughout the
United States. Last November, Armstrong was awarded the Congressional Gold
Medal, an award given to civilians from the United States, and he has in the past
been granted freedom of the town for the Scottish town of Langholm, his ances-
tral home.
BBC rediscover moon landing footage
The Apollo 11 mission, of which Armstrong was a part of, was broadcast world-
wide when they landed in late July 1969. The significance of this event, clearly,
did not stop the BBC from managing to loose their recording of the lunar landing.
However, thanks to a viewer, aged 12 when he recorded the footage, the BBC have
regained a copy of this originally thought lost recording, and is now available for
viewing on the BBC News website, featuring Armstrong’s famous ‘One small step
for man’ words.
Higgs boson found?
Researchers at the LHC at CERN, Switzerland reported the discovery of a new bo-
son in both their CMS and ATLAS experiments. This boson, with a mass around
126 GeV/c2, could potentially be the Higgs boson, named after the scientist who
proposed the particle. Whether this particle is the Higgs or not depends on reduc-
ing the uncertainty within the experiments: while the behaviour of the boson is
consistent with that expected for the Higgs, further research into the decay of the
boson, as well as its quantum numbers is necessary. This is in addition to further
work to improve the certainty of the result. It is expected that the findings from
this further research will be reported in December.
CERN are keen to stress that the result is only consistent with the Higgs boson,
and is not yet proof of the existence of the particle. Earlier this year, two members
of the OPERA collaboration (who reported a faster than light neutrino, which was
later found to be not the case) resigned following sensationalized reporting of
their results, which were later found wrong following equipment improvements.
Sandwich saved in buyout
Pfizer’s research site at Sandwich in Kent has been saved after a buyout by a group
of private companies, according to Kent County Council. This development is sig-
nificant due to the high number of people being made redundant: 2400 jobs were
at risk, though Pfizer promised to retain 650 employees.
One of the companies who have paid for a bit of Sandwich is Mylan, a producer
of generic drugs. This includes former Pfizer employees moving to Mylan, who is
opening a ‘Centre of Excellence’ at Sandwich for their respiratory development
division. Other former employees have also opened start-ups at the site.
Open Access championed by the EU
Open Access, a method of publication where access to papers is free of charge, has
received a big boost in support by the European Union, who recently announced
all research funded by its Horizon 2020 programme will be released free of charge.
This follows a similar announcement by the United Kingdom to do similar for all
publically funded research by 2014.
The UK has chosen to take the ‘Gold’ method: where anyone can access the
research as soon as it’s published (paid for by the author), whereas the EU has
allowed authors to opt for the ‘Gold’ or ‘Green’ methods, the latter is where the
articles later come available after being in a paid-for journal.
This follows a campaign, with support from some Imperial researchers, and cov-
ered in Felix last year, to boycott journal publisher Elsevier for high costs, amongst
other reasons.
Philip Kent
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“Lying in bed, promising to never drink again, while desperately
trying to summon up the strength to make tea”
Tim Arbabzadah, Editor-in-Chief
“Literally just drink water during the night. There is no hangover
cure. It’s an urban myth, like that time Kenan and Kel got shot in
a gang war.”
Matt Colvin, Coffee Break Boss
“Ice cream, Fanta, Dr. Pepper, yeah, that’s about it... Oh, and
KFC, that too.”
Jack Hewitt, Writer
“Bacon!”
Deepka Rana, Business Editor
“Order in noodles and your body weight in cold cucumber
water. Close all windows, doors, and curtains. No-on wants
to see you at your least chic. If you get lonely, call a friend
and groan agonisingly down the phone, then hang up. They’ll
understand.”
Saskia Verhagen, Deputy Editor
“As much water as I can handle, tea, tentatively eating a slice of
toast, and as much online TV as my laptop can handle”
Caroline Wood, Features Editor
Science Editor
Hangover cures from the Felix office
9
FRIDAY 28 SEPTEMBER
SCIENCE
are looking for writers (that’s you). Drop
us an email on science.felix@imperial.
ac.uk and we’ll take it from there.
Facebook Oh and like us: facebook.com/Felixscience

