POLITICS POLITICS
17
FRIDAY 14 JUNE
16 FRIDAY 14 JUNE
Politics Editors: Padraic Calpin
Marie-Laure Hicks
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics Editors: Padraic Calpin
Marie-Laure Hicks
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
A special report by Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto on the current
political unrest in Turkey
his week in Turkey,
peaceful demonstrations
against the demolition
of Istanbul’s Gezi Park
rapidly escalated into
nationwide protests against the
increasingly conservative measures
enacted by prime minister Recep
Tayyip Erdoğan. The disproportionate
dispersion tactics used by the
police catalysed an uprising in a
population which has grown tired of
being ignored and oppressed by the
authoritarian mandate of the ruling
Justice and Development Party (AKP).
Initially an ecological eﬀort to
prevent the demolition of the park
in central Istanbul’s historic Taksim
Square that intended to make way
for the construction of a shopping
mall, the demonstration has come to
summarise a general discontent at
Erdoğan’s polarised politics. Many feel
his policies only represent the views
of those who voted for him and ignore
the remainder of the electorate. The
AKP’s direction has recently deviated
from its democratic agenda towards
a more conservative one which some
feel is attempting to impose religious
values on a population that prides
itself on its secular constitution.
Recent laws passed under Erdoğan
include banning kissing in public,
restrictions on the sale of alcohol
and even the colour of lipstick
worn by airline stewardesses. Other
more intrusive impositions include
prohibiting birth by Caeserian section,
which Erdoğan views as “unnatural”,
and restricting women’s right to abort.
Many feel Erdoğan’s policies are a
step back from the modern secular
current set forth as early as the 1920s
by the ﬁrst President of Turkey,
Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, including his
ardent promotion of gender equality.
These sociopolitical tensions come
as a product of the division between
a conservative Islamic majority and
a growing liberal population, which
aspires to live in a modern society free
from religious indoctrination.
The peaceful demonstrators in
Gezi Park were surprised when in
the early morning of Friday 31st May,
a convoy of riot police armed with
tear gas and pepper spray forcefully
dispersed the crowds. These actions
attracted more people to the park and
soon the campsite grew in solidarity
against the heavy-handed government
response. The police oﬀensive grew as
they began dismantling the campsite,
while undercover police set tents
ablaze. Tear gas canisters were shot
into the public, driving them out
into the streets where they were met
by an assault of water cannons from
armoured police vehicles.
While the Turkish mainstream
media refused to cover the protests in
favour of cooking shows and penguin
documentaries, social media channels
such as Facebook and Twitter erupted
with news from the ground. Tumblr
blog occupygezipics.tumblr.com
served as a photographic focus on
the police brutality that overcame the
streets of Istanbul and began to blow
across the country. The blog diﬀused
information on remedies against
tear gas and provided telephone
numbers of doctors and the locations
of makeshift inﬁrmaries. It also
issued photos of injuries suﬀered by
demonstrators as a result of baton
strikes and impacts from tear gas
canisters shot at point blank range,
which resulted in 10 people losing
an eye, and the death of 22-year-old
Abdullah Cömert on Monday 3rd
June.
Ethem Sarısülük was severely
wounded after being shot in the head
with a live bullet by a police oﬃcer.
After days of intensive care, he was
conﬁrmed to have suﬀered brain
death as a result of the injury. Police
were accused of hiding the identity
of the police oﬃcer responsible for
discharging his ﬁrearm at the crowd.
Eventually, amateur video footage
revealed the identity number on his
helmet.
Earlierthatday,20-year-oldMehmet
Ayvalıtaş became the ﬁrst casualty of
the conﬂict after being run over by a
civilian car, reportedly driven by an
undercover police oﬃcer. At the time
T
TURKEY ON THE
TIPPING POINT
of going to print one woman remains
in a coma after head injuries sustained
during the police oﬀensive on the ﬁrst
day of peaceful demonstrations in
Gezi Park.
Police have shown no restraint
in their attacks, with photographic
coverage showing elderly people
being hit with batons and a man in
wheelchair being blown away with
a water cannon. Other instances of
unwarranted police aggression were
ﬁlmed showing oﬃcers shooting
tear gas into apartments, attacking
bystanders who were not involved
in the protests and even destroying
makeshift inﬁrmaries. Minister
of Health, Mehmet Muezzinoglu,
declaredthatthemakeshiftinﬁrmaries
around the protest areas are illegal
and that legal action would be taken
against the medics working in them,
though no explicit mention has been
made of any prosecution of the police
oﬃcers who raided those inﬁrmaries.
Barricades were constructed around
Taksim Square to prevent entrance
of armoured police trucks wielding
water canons and, in several instances,
driving directly into crowds. One bus
driver used his vehicle as a blockade
while a group of protesters rode an
excavator against police vehicles.
Around Taksim Square, police
placed jammers preventing internet
and 3G network connections, to
which local residents responded by
providing free wireless access. The
square became a hub of solidarity
as a ‘Wall of Need’ was constructed
to gather donations of food and
other vital supplies. Homemakers
oﬀered food to those in the streets
and even to riot police during the
calmer moments. On Tuesday, the
square burst into music as the so-
called Gezi Park Philharmonic
united independent and orchestral
musicians. Across the country, people
began to rebuild the fractured streets
that had provided defence munitions
the days before.
Erdoğan denounced the protests
at a press conference: “There is a
problem now called Twitter and
you can ﬁnd every kind of lie there.
Social media is the biggest trouble
for society right now.” At least 38
people have been arrested for posting
tweets he claimed incited anarchy.
He dismissed protesters as extremists
and looters or “çapulcu”, a term
quickly re-appropriated in ironic
deﬁance against the government’s
disinformation campaign aimed
at devaluing their eﬀorts. Turkey
currently holds the highest number of
imprisoned journalists in the world,
surpassing China and Iran, so it is
no wonder there has been very little
rebellion from the media. The game
show ‘Word Game’ was pulled oﬀ air
as host Ihsan Varol asked contestants
to guess words such as ‘gas mask’,
‘violence’ and ‘withdrawal’.
Despite the retreat of police
forces from Taksim, confrontations
continued throughout the country,
particularly strongly in the capital,
Ankara. Gezi Park has become
a festive epicentre of the protest
movement with thousands gathering
there every day. This relaxation
was intended to appease the strong
foreign press presence in the city:
the police oﬀensive grew ever ﬁercer
in other towns and cities where the
local media still refused to cover
the events. If anything, violence has
continued to escalate, as police has
begun using rubber bullets while tear
gas launchers are continually used
as ﬁrearms, shot directly at people.
Additionally, diﬀerent types of tear gas
are being used, such that the remedy
for one kind of tear gas aggravated the
symptoms of another.
By the night of Thursday 6th June,
the number of casualties had risen
to four, now including activist Ethem
Sarısülük (due to head injuries, in
Ankara) and police oﬃcer Mustafa
Sarı (fallen from a bridge while
pursuing protesters, in Adana). More
than 4000 people have been injured
since last Friday 31st May, and many
protesters have been arrested. One
girl reported having been beaten while
under police custody, as evidenced by
photographs she posted on Twitter.
While the deputy prime minister
Bulent Arinç apologised for the
excessive police response against the
initial demonstrators, he spared the
sentiment towards those who later
joined the protests. Erdoğan assured
the excessive police reaction would be
investigated, though he justiﬁed the
use of water cannons and tear gas to
disperse the crowds. In at least two
instances, however, riot police were
seen to have covered the identiﬁcation
number on their helmets with stickers.
Returning from a business trip in
North Africa, on which he left amidst
blazing protests, Erdoğan announced
that the planned demolition of
Gezi Park would go ahead. Against
accusations of his erosion of
democracy, he claimed, “for me
democracy is all about the ballot box”.
President Abdullah Gul disagreed,
acknowledging the protester’s
freedom to express their views.
On Sunday 9th June, 73 lawyers
were arrested while protesting in the
Justice Hall. Later that day, in what
was revealed to be an elaborate farce
by the government, undercover police
posing as members of the opposition
Socialist Democracy Party (SDP)
threw molotov cocktails at police.
Suspicions of the event arose after the
mainstream media televised the entire
event live.
On the morning of Tuesday 11th
June, Mayor of Istanbul, Hüseyin
Avni Mutlu, wrote on Twitter that
police would enter Taksim Square
to remove barricades and banners
from the area, with no intention of
dispersing protesters. However, police
began by shooting tear gas into the
square and eventually into Gezi Park
itself. Clashes intensiﬁed throughout
the day. The following day, Erdoğan
announced that Taksim Square would
be cleared of all protesters within 24
hours.
In an eﬀort to end the protests,
Erdoğan said in a press conference that
he would be meeting representatives
of the Taksim Solidarity group
to hear their demands. However,
leaders of this group said they had
received no such invitation and had
instead heard about the meeting
from other sources. Later it was
revealed those ‘representatives’ would
in fact be famous artists, including
actress Hülya Avşar, presenter of the
television show Turkey’s Got Talent,
who supposedly has not been in Gezi
Park since the demonstrations begun.
The consensus among demonstrators
in the park is that those invited to
meet the prime minister are not well
suited to represent their views.
Erdoğan has refused to hold early
elections, reminding of the fair
democratic proceedings which have
granted him a decade in oﬃce. As
with many of the Arabic countries
which have recently seen popular
revolts against their governments,
the opposition in Turkey remains too
fragmented to convincingly contest
the established leadership. Indeed,
protesters have united not only over
political diﬀerences, but in demand
of basic civil rights such as freedom
of the press, respect for individual
liberties, restriction of police power
and, certainly, respect for Gezi Park
as a place of gathering. As long as
Erdoğan refuses to listen to the people
in Gezi Park and across the country,
the public resistance will only grow
stronger in its determination to ﬁght
for a digniﬁed democracy.
All photos: occupygezipics.tumblr.com
Water cannons used by the police
A young woman is pepper sprayed as police break up
the peaceful demonstration in Gezi Park, Istanbul
Police show no restraint against peaceful demonstrators
Turkish mainstream media refused to cover the protests

