SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 14 JUNE
18
S
tatistically, approximately
one in every 100 of us will
develop schizophrenia over
the course of our lifetimes.
Schizophrenia is one of the
more commonly known mental disor-
ders, but also one that remains some-
what of a mystery to non-suﬀerers.
Whilst the Greek root of the word
schizophrenia, literally ‘split mind’, im-
plies a split personality the condition is
much more than just having a second
voice in your head.
“You don’t just have constant jabber-
ing in your ears,” explains Harriet, who
has lived with schizophrenia for over
a decade. “The worst thing for me is
my own jabbering. It can make people
look at you funny. You say things that
make no sense, and you don’t even re-
alise. Stuﬀ like ‘cooking on the wash-
ing sofa’ just comes out. Sometimes
you even stop mid-sentence and can’t
speak. Everything literally vanishes.”
The symptoms of schizophrenia can
be broadly grouped into negative and
positive categories. Negative symp-
toms are functions which are present
in non-suﬀerers, but diminished in
suﬀerers, such as apathy, social anxiety
and reduced attention span. Positive
symptoms are those not normally ex-
hibited by non-suﬀerers, such as visual
and auditory hallucinations and delu-
sions. However, schizophrenics are
not the only people who experience
auditory hallucinations. They can even
occur in mentally healthy individuals,
and it’s these people who may hold the
key to better schizophrenia manage-
ment.
“In clinical hallucinations the voices
themselves are very negative, entirely
uncontrollable, and attributed to ex-
ternal causes. Thus, they create fear
and are, quite simply, very annoying
and cause suﬀering,” says Dr Kristiina
Kompus, a psychology researcher at
the University of Bergen. “When voices
do not have negative content and are
under control, then it already becomes
quite a neutral, not negative, experi-
ence.” Dr Kompus is a member of the
Bergen fMRI (functional Magnetic
Resonance Imaging) group, headed by
Prof. Kenneth Hugdahl. The group is
dedicated to the study of a variety of
cognitive functions.
Her recent research, published in
Frontiers in Human Neuroscience,
studied the diﬀerences between two
types of hallucinators: those with clini-
cal symptoms, and those without. Dur-
ing listening tests those without clini-
cal symptoms were able to maintain
regulation over brain areas dedicated
to speech-processing, whilst those
with clinical symptoms could not, sug-
gesting, in principle, a reduced ability
to direct attention outwards in clinical
suﬀerers when auditory hallucinations
occur.
Research by Dr Kompus and other
members of the Bergen fMRI group
aims to enhance understanding of
auditory hallucinations, with the po-
tential to develop a “cognitive train-
ing program aimed to relieve the feel-
ing of helplessness when the negative
voices start bothering you again,” says
Dr Kompus. This is somewhat akin
to the use of lucid dreaming, the abil-
ity to consciously control the actions
in one’s dream, to combat persistent
nightmares. Embracing the digital age,
the research group has developed an
iPhone app, iDichotic.
iDichotic is the brainchild of PhD
student Josef Bless, also from the Ber-
gen fMRI group. The app is named
after the listening test it runs, the di-
chotic listening test. At a basic level
the test assesses which hemisphere of
the brain is most active during lan-
guage processing. The information
then feeds back to the research team,
allowing them to further their work. A
paper based oﬀ the initial results was
published last February in Frontiers
in Cognition, but according to Josef
“there is a lot more to come.”
Though the public version of iDi-
chotic currently only collects data
another separate version has been de-
veloped to help schizophrenics man-
age their condition by improving their
focus, allowing them to better iden-
tify when voices occur. It is pioneering
work, and still requires modiﬁcation,
but Josef hopes to “provide a cognitive
training tool for patients that can be
used anytime, anywhere, without hav-
ing stigmatizing features when used in
public.”
If the iDichotic app performs well it
may pave the way for future research
and management of other mental dis-
orders such as Alzheimer’s. Whilst Jo-
sef importantly notes that “it does take
a strong investigative eﬀort to provide
psych apps with a real scientiﬁc basis,”
he also notes that the “potential to use
smartphone apps in research as well
as in clinical contexts is huge,” poten-
tially allowing research groups to both
collect data and provide ways to help
suﬀerers like Harriet manage their
conditions through a widely available
medium.
“I think I’ve mostly got it [schizo-
phrenia] under some sort of control,”
says Harriet. “But things can obviously
get worse with age, so I’m prepping
just in case things go downhill. Maybe
a smartphone app can help. It’s an in-
teresting idea, since everyone has one
[a smartphone]. Support in whatever
form is always appreciated.”
Find more about iDichotic at dichot-
iclistening.com
DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00144
DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00042
Banishing your demons
A fishy free-for-all at the O.K. Corral
Photo credit: Alex Craven
The hidden secrets of coral reefs
Coral reefs are one of the wonders
of the marine world: vast underwa-
ter structures supporting a large and
diverse ecosystem of marine species.
It’s surprising then that until recently
we knew very little about exactly how
they form.
Corals are colonies of small marine
invertebrates, and it is their calcium
carbonate exoskeletons that form the
distinctive structures we know as cor-
al reefs. These are made from proteins
secreted by the living coral organisms
in a process called biomineralization.
However, the exact structures and
mechanisms involved were unknown.
Researchers at the Rutgers Institute
of Marine and Coastal Sciences aimed
to solve this mystery by studying the
genomes of corals. They were able
to identify four unique genes, which
coded for proteins called CARPs
(coral acid-rich proteins). These could
then be puriﬁed and analysed to un-
derstand their structure and prop-
erties. The researchers also showed
that, at least in an ‘artiﬁcial seawater’
environment created in the lab, the
CARPs catalysed the formation of cal-
cium carbonate crystals. From these
results they were able to propose hy-
potheses about exactly how the struc-
tural elements of the protein cause
formation of the particular crystalli-
sation patterns characteristic of coral
growth. Similar genes were also found
in the genomes of other biomineral-
izing species, suggesting that there is
a common mechanism emerging from
the species’ shared evolutionary his-
tory.
The artiﬁcial seawater experiments
also allowed the researchers to simu-
late diﬀerent scenarios, e.g. what
would happen if seawater became sig-
niﬁcantly more acidic – the expected
outcome of climate change and in-
creased atmospheric carbon dioxide.
Encouragingly, it appears that the pro-
teins are relatively robust and able to
withstand changes in acidity, suggest-
Science writer
Sarah Byrne ing that corals might in fact be able to
adapt to changing conditions in the
future. Of course acidity is only part of
the story: we still have rising tempera-
tures and ocean pollution to worry
about, and Tali Mass, the lead author
of the published ﬁndings, warns that
we should not become complacent.
Additionally, the researchers suggest
a practical application for the ﬁndings
– that an improved understanding of
how corals construct their reefs could
help us devise methods to manufac-
ture novel biomaterials ourselves.
Coral-derived materials currently
have applications from road surfacing
to bone grafts, and understanding the
mechanisms of production better may
allow us to design and customise ma-
terials according to our requirements,
just as corals have been doing for over
100 million years.
DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2013.05.007
Laurence PopedelvesintotheworldofschizophreniaandiPhoneapps
Members of the Bergen fMRI group (from left): Prof. Kenneth Hugdahl, Dr
Kristiina Kompus, Josef Bless, Magne Gudmundsen, Dr René Westerhausen
commons.wikimedia.org

