Let’s not go Nutts – Imperial Professor speaks about
the possible benefits of illegal pyschoactive drugs
SCIENCE
Science Editors: Philip Kent,
Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
FRIDAY 14 JUNE
But is the government suppressing research? Philippa Skett takes a look at Nutt’s latest paper
mperial’s own Professor Da-
vid Nutt, Head of the British
Neuroscience Association,
former chairman of the Advi-
sory Council on the Misuse of
Drugs (ACMA), and frenemy of Home
Secretary Jacqui Smith after compar-
ing horse riding dangers to taking ec-
stasy, isn’t one for keeping quiet when
it comes to drugs. It therefore came as
no surprise when this week his paper
on drug legislation and its possible
inﬂuence in neuroscience research
came with an underlying message: it’s
about time the government got their
act together.
The paper, published this Wednes-
day in Nature Reviews Neuroscience,
outlines how the national laws and
international conventions surround-
ing psychoactive drugs (those that
eﬀect the brain) has signiﬁcantly de-
layed further research into them, stat-
ing, “This hindering of research and
therapy is motivated by politics, not
science... It’s one of the most scandal-
ous examples of scientiﬁc censorship
in modern times.”
Psychoactive drugs such as canna-
bis, LSD, MDMA, and psilocybin are
regularly classiﬁed as more “danger-
ous” than others, including heroin,
which result in erecting complex bu-
reaucratic barriers around research
that often are impossible to overcome.
However, preliminary research sug-
gests such drugs may oﬀer therapeu-
tic treatments for those suﬀering from
mental disorders.
Such classiﬁcations are there for a
reason though, surely? Nutt argues
against this, saying drug classiﬁcation
procedures are ﬂawed. The USA class-
es drugs by Schedules, with Schedule
I roughly the equivalent to Class A/B
drugs and encompassing cannabis,
LSD and MDMA among others.
Currently, part of the criteria for a
Schedule I drug is that it has no ac-
cepted medical use. The fact that, with
research severely limited for Schedule
I drugs, there is no chance of ﬁnding
medical uses for such drugs, Nutt
points out that such arguments are
circular in nature.
Not only that, but with cannabis
having known medicinal purposes
and can be legally prescribed in 18
states, it appears that the criteria ei-
ther are not being adhered to pur-
posefully, or the Americans simply
can’t understand their own rules.
That is not to say we are faring any
better across the pond – the UK too
are appearing dismally incoherent
when it comes to drug classiﬁcation.
Beyond the Class System used we too
indulge in a Schedule-based approach
that places cannabis, LSD, MDMA,
and psilocybin above heroin in re-
spect to the same sort of criteria the
USA use, making heroin more acces-
sible (if only by a fraction) for research
than those that possess psychoactive
properties.
Research that has managed to
squeeze through the bars of bureau-
cracy has provided a great insight into
what we are actually missing. Can-
nabinoid 1 receptors which respond
to cannabis-derived compounds are
incredibly widespread throughout
the brain, and the inhibition of using
cannabis in research is hindering the
understanding of these.
Cannabis may also aid alleviation
of ADHD symptoms safely, but again
with the laws comes little literature
published to help develop this idea.
Not only that, other products of the
plant may be used to treat seizures,
anxiety, psychosis and even addiction,
but again, since we really aren’t al-
lowed anywhere near the plant in the
labs by the government we can’t really
help with any of these any time soon.
MDMA too may provide more highs
in medicinal research than it currently
does for art students under derelict
bridges in East London. With a small
trial in the USA managing to prove
that MDMA-based treatment may
beneﬁt those suﬀering from PTSD,
replications are desperately needed
to develop this, as currently PTSD
management is scarce. Pro-empathy
actions (the fancy way of describing
of how MDMA makes you love every-
thing so deeply and emotionally, and,
unfortunately, embarrassingly so)
may also help those with autism, and
its ability to reduce tremors may of-
fer therapeutic options for those with
Parkinson’s Disease.
Not only that but the spike in use
of methedrone, a stimulant similar to
MDMA, correlated to a 20% decrease
in deaths due to cocaine in one year.
However, with the banning of this and
its analogues, research into its possi-
ble, controlled use as a substitute for
cocaine addiction is no longer a pos-
sibility.
LSD, before its ban in the 1960s un-
der speculation that its use by Ameri-
can youths was behind the decline of
involvement in the Vietnam War, was
showing signiﬁcant progress in neu-
roscience research too. It had poten-
tial to be a treatment for alcoholism,
and as an aid in easing those with a
terminal illness.
Psychedelics in general were theo-
rised to treat those with migraines,
but research on this was hindered
when LSD and magic mushrooms in
particular were moved to Schedule I
status.
Obviously, such ﬁndings are not
clearly indicative of anything substan-
tial, but nor do they lack the ability to
develop into something within the fu-
ture. Nutt has never been one to shy
away from targeting the government
about its legislations, which are often
based on politics as opposed to sci-
ence, and during his stint as ACMD
chairman, ranked tobacco and alco-
hol as having greater negative eﬀects
due to dependence and physical harm
then cannabis and LSD.
His continued rebuttal against leg-
islation using scientiﬁc evidence led
to his dismissal from the government,
but it seems increasingly diﬃcult to
argue against him with publications
such as these featuring between the
pages of such a respected journal.
Regardless of any opinion about le-
galisation or declassiﬁcation of drugs,
it does seem that there is a distinct
lack of both scientiﬁc knowledge and
rigour when setting drug classiﬁca-
tions, and it is imposing signiﬁcant
hindrances on the progression of neu-
roscience research. The government
may have made a mistake in letting
Nutt go – it seems now more than
ever a scientist is needed to keep poli-
ticians in check.
DOI: 10.1038/nrn3530
Love Science?
(Only a week left to make that lie you told on
your CV a reality)
Why not write for us? Get in touch!
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
We are also on the lookout for a new
editorial team for Science too, so if you have what
it takes, drop us an email. We promise it’s more
fun than editing the tech pages.
Psychostimulants such as MDMA
could have health benefits, if we were
actually trusted with these in the lab.
Professor Nutt looking down on those making the
research laws, in a lab distincting lacking in LSD
http://www.beckleyfoundation.org/
I

