ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Propaganda: Power and Persuasion @ British Library - Supposedly the first exhibition
to examine state propaganda from last century the mulit-format curation uses posters,
films, cartoons, sounds and texts reveal the myriad ways that governments try to influ-
enceandpersuadetheircitizens.June14-July12
RegimeChangeBeginsatHome@NationalMaritimeMuseum -Thisquirkyexhibition
could almost be said to explore exploration. The struggle to understand and conquer
space is described through hand draw sketches up to Hubble Space Telescope and the
verylatestfootagefromtheMarsCuriosityrover.Now–September15
Rambert@RoyalOperaHouse-TheRambertSchoolofBalletandContemporaryDance
istrulyworldrenowned.TheschooliscomingtotheLinburyStudioTheatrewithapro-
gramme intended to introduce the students destined to be the dancers and choreogra-
phersofthefuture.June24
BLOOD @ Royal Opera House - Again, at the Linbury Studio Theatre, Blood is a show
produced by Brazilian choreographer Jean Abreu. Excitingly the performance features
a backdrop designed by notorious artists Marmite Gilbert & George. Intriguingly the
showisinspiredbyG&G’smicroscopiccelebrationofbodilyfluids. June27-28
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your drawings
to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. Felix spotted this ugly mug in the Library Cafe. It
seemsevenCollegeCateringarepartialtothedoodle.
FRIDAY 14 JULY
22
Mayerling is dark and majestic ballet
which depicts the decadent splendour
of the Austro-Hungarian empire. It
is based on the life of the tormented
Crown Prince Rudolf who after force-
fully marrying Princess Stephanie of
Belgium is drawn into a spiral of po-
litical intrigue, violence, drugs, obses-
sive love and insanity. This true story
of the downfall of the Crown Prince
Rudolf drags in everyone around him
from members of the Austro-Hungar-
ian Royal family, to friends, lovers and
servants. They lived in a time when
corruption was rampant, hypocrisy
endemic and decadence unavoidable;
thus, there is no character that re-
mains untarnished by the end.
Despite Prince Rudolf carrying the
weight of the piece, he has a profuse
set of characters around him who help
portray the decadent circus that the
royal court has become. In the ﬁrst
act he insults his bride by ﬂirting with
her sister after the wedding, this pre-
sents the ﬁrst of the numerous pas a
deux of Mayerling. Chided by his fa-
ther Emperor Franz-Josef, he visits his
mother but ﬁnds little relief. Finally
he returns to his chambers to terror-
ise his newly wed bride. Their duet is
of an incredible emotional intensity.
Seemingly drunk Rudolf threatens to
shoot Stephanie. The next instant he
ﬂirts with committing suicide. Vio-
lently dancing across the whole stage,
thrusting Stephanie into the air to
then catch her again, grabbing her
arms while she tries to free herself to
the return to his arms: their duet is full
of dark sexual tension.
The choreography designed by Ken-
neth MacMillan is an absolute master-
piece. There are plenty of duets which
portray the tortuous and obsessive
relations that Rudolf has with the nu-
merous women of his life. From the
brilliant plea to his mother in the ﬁrst
act, to his violent wedding night to his
romantic duets with his mistress Mary
Vetsera the choreography exudes a
dark sexual tension. Mayerling is one
of the few ballets in which the male
protagonist carries the weight of the
whole act. The role of Crown Prince
Rudolf demands from the dancer not
only incredible physical skill but also
excellent theatrical interpretation and
acting.
These intimate duets full of emo-
tional intensity are balanced by the
large-scale group dances. The pomp
and lavishness of the royal wedding
from the ﬁrst act contrasts with the
seediness of the tavern in the second
act. The numerous changes of scenes
are seamlessly tied together and serve
as testament to the skill and crafts-
manship of the stage crew. From the
corridors of the royal palace its boast-
ful and splendid ball rooms and the
dark streets and taverns of Vienna the
audience will feel immersed in the sto-
ry. We were guided tumultuously to
the ﬁnal stop, Mayerling, a Viennese
hunting lodge belonging to the Em-
pire’s Crown Prince Rudolf. Here the
drama reaches its peak. A destroyed
Rudolf takes a step that will bring pain
and sadness to his family.
The ballet is one of the most psycho-
logically complex and packed with po-
litical nuances, thus one can feel lost
among the complicated relationship
between the characters. The second
act opens at a Viennese tavern; there
Rudolf further tortures Stephanie by
introducing her to his occasional mis-
tress Mitzi Caspar. Once Stephanie
leaves disgusted, there is a suggestive
piece danced by the tavern prostitutes
while Rudolf and his friends delight
themselves with the spectacle.
Throughout the ballet Rudolf is
surrounded by his politically inﬂuen-
tial friends: murmurings, gossip and
intrigue abound and pamphlets are
handed out. Rudolf seems distant and
lost in this corrupt world, again ﬂirt-
ing with suicide.
It is by the end of the second act
when he encounters Mary Vetsera.
This impressionable and neurotic
youth shares Rudolf’s ﬁckleness and
emotional obsession. Their ﬁrst duet
depicts an intense, obsessive even sad-
omasochistic love. During their pas-
sionate dance Rudolf keeps fantasis-
ing about death, constantly grasping
a gun but he seems to have found his
match in Mary. She rejects him when
he is at her feet, ﬁckly regains the gun
from his hands and threatens him just
as he did a second before. The smoul-
dering eroticism and the morbidity of
this duet echoes that one of the ﬁrst
act. However, Rudolf’s partner is now
neither scared nor at his mercy but
someone as fully tortured and neu-
rotic as him. The curtains fall as this
dramatic couple hold each other in an
embrace, intensely staring at the gun
they are holding.
A life of sex, drugs
and pas de cheval
Rocio Molina Atienza Writer
Real men wear
tights and
moustaches

