The Space Merchants
Maciej Matuszewski looks at a classic of the SF genre
here is often a stigma at-
tached to early works of
science ﬁction (SF). They
are often stereotyped as
being poorly written and
ﬁlled with bad science and bug-eyed
monsters. While true for some works
this is by no means universally the
case. Early SF laid the groundwork for
what the genre is today and it includes
some of the most imaginative and
thought provoking works of ﬁction
ever written.
That is why I was very pleased to
hear of the recently released two vol-
ume collection of nine classic 1950s
SF novels released by the Library of
America. Each novel is a brilliant ex-
ample of the strengths of the genre
and one of the best works in the se-
lection is undoubtedly Frederik Pohl
and Cyril M. Kornbluth’s The Space
Merchants.
The novel is set in the near future
where the world is controlled by giant
corporations, and in particular adver-
tising ﬁrms. Companies openly buy
out and bribe politicians; workers are
trapped in menial jobs, in which they
are treated like slaves, by unfair con-
tracts and the planet has been ravaged
for its natural resources. The “highest
ideals” in society are considered to be
sales and proﬁt – with anybody who
disagrees with this philosophy being
treated as either hopelessly deluded or
a dangerous subversive.
This is a world similar to those we
often see in modern works of cyber-
punk but Pohl and Kornbluth took the
unusual step of making the protago-
nist someone near the top of the cor-
porate hierarchy rather than near the
bottom. Mitch Courtenay is a senior
executive at the Fowler Schocken ad-
vertising agency, assigned to oversee
the planned colonization of Venus. He
is no subversive and fully endorses the
ideals of his society yet he remains a
relatable and, at times, even a sympa-
thetic character. He is our guide to this
frightening yet familiar world and his
growth as a person forms the core of
this work.
Through his eyes, we get to under-
stand how the system described in
the book works and how strongly en-
trenched it is. We see how the elite –
even those who consider themselves
good and moral people – remain com-
mitted to their highly ﬂawed model of
society. This is not merely as a result of
self interest but also because – through
societal pressure, wilful blindness and
their own propaganda – they honestly
believe that current system is best for
everyone.
While the prose is somewhat dry –
as is common with genre novels from
that time – this is more than compen-
sated for by the interesting characters
and important issues that form the
heart of the work. Despite being writ-
ten more than 50 years ago the book
retains a remarkable relevance. At un-
der 200 pages this is a short yet pow-
erful novel – there’s no excuse for not
checking it out.
T
Noted author Iain Banks has died
aged 59. In a message released on Sun-
day, June 9, his wife said: “Iain died
in the early hours this morning. His
death was calm and without pain.”
Born in 1954 Banks ﬁrst rose to
prominence in 1984 with the publi-
cation of his debut novel The Wasp
Factory. Following the mentally trou-
bled Frank Cauldhame the book both
impressed and shocked critics by how
it managed to make the reader sym-
pathise with the violent protagonist.
A highly proliﬁc writer Banks was
also known for his works of science
ﬁction (SF), written under the name
Iain M. Banks. The majority of his SF
books were set in the Culture uni-
verse – a highly optimistic vision of
a technologically advanced utopia.
While often classiﬁed as space opera
and known for their high stakes and
large scale plots his SF novels, just as
his more mainstream work, were also
notable for their focus on complex
and well developed characters.
Tributes for the author have poured
in from both fans and colleagues ever
since he announced on April 4 that
he had inoperable cancer of the gall
bladder. Writing in The Guardian
friend and fellow author Ken Macleod
said that Banks “raised the bar, raised
the game, and above all raised the ser-
otonin level of British SF” adding that
“his verve and talent will always be
recognised, and his work will always
ﬁnd and enthral new readers”.
Banks’ ﬁnal work – the mainstream
novel The Quarry – will be released
on June 20.
Death of an icon – Iain Banks
Maciej Matuszewski Books Editor
BOOKS Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 14 JULY
24

