CLASSIFIEDS
Live out or live in as an au pair wanted
Mother of three kids ranging from 6 to 8 years old looking for a student with
a high level of spoken and written English to help with children afternoon
activities. The candidate should be an energetic, happy girl, should not smoke,
and must be familiar with the local area. CRB check and references are also
requested. The position can be live out or live in as an au pair and is based in
South Kensington.
If interested, please contact Mathilda via email: dimeomathilda@gmail.com
After school nanny wanted
After school nanny wanted for two girls (4 and 7) starting 5 August in Parsons
Green. Hours flexible but ideally 15-20 hours per week during the school term
and then full time during half terms and school holidays. Must have lots of
energy and creativity. Experience with or willingness to learn about allergies
is important as is the ability to work independently and meet crisis with calm.
Extra languages are a plus.
If interested, please contact Mona via email: elnaggarmona@yahoo.com
Volunteers wanted for experiments investigating balance and perception
Must be aged 18-65 and not suffering from vertigo, dizziness, balance or
hearing problems. The research is at Charing Cross Hospital, takes about one
hour. You will be reimbursed for your time. Fully Ethics Committee approved.
To find out more, please contact Dr Ed Roberts: neuro.otologylab@gmail.com
Felix accepts no responsibility for goods or services offered.
FEATURE SCIENCE TRAVEL
Meet the Sabbs UK Drug laws The Canyons
Yep, you get the chance to meet
theteamnextyear.Thisincludes
my successor, who will wrestle
the Mac from me and start his
reign over summer.
Imperial’s very own David Nutt
is at it again. By “it” I mean mak-
ing sensible points that people
in government refuse to listen
to...
Ah. Holidays. They will be here
oh so soon. It’s just a last sprint
finish to the end, then you can
explore stunning places like in
this week’s Travel section.
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2013.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
>> 8 >>19 >>35
FRIDAY 14 JUNE
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editors Aemun Reza, Nida Mahmud Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka
Rana Science Editors Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George
Barnett, Navid Nabijou, James Simpson Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Riaz Agahi, Mark England, Ross
Gray, Simon Hunter Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editors Jason Parmar, Maximilian Eggl Coffee Break Matt Colvin Travel
Editor Veronika McQuade Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina Sartor
Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen
LOLCATZ OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Diﬃculty in
reaching out
here I was thinking that I
would have a nice, relaxing
end of term. I thought that
it was the summer term
and so it would be chill,
and, besides, I’ve done this weekly slog
so many times that I should be used to
it by now. I was very mistaken. This is
a bigger mistake than that time Justin
Bieber’s mum said to Justin Bieber’s
dad “I’m feeling sexy tonight, baby”.
That might not have happened, but you
get the drift. I write this, as you can defi-
nitely tell from the writing style, from
under my desk at the very last minute.
Like with so many things, you think
the last time will be the last time, but it
usually isn’t. So, here goes nothing. Re-
member these are not as well formed
as they could be, and the perennial
disclaimer about some considerations
deleted due to space requirements.
Access to education
It’s fairly safe to say that everyone
thinks that no matter what background
you come from you should be allowed
to go to university. If you’re clever and
willing to learn, there should be noth-
ing in your way. Unfortunately, there are
many things in people’s ways. Imperial,
universities, and the Outreach Depart-
ment, sadly, can’t fix all of them alone. I
know first hand that Outreach do work
hard and do some great work. But they
have so much to fight against. This is
really an area where no one person or
group can truly be blamed. You could,
and people probably do, argue until
you’re all blue in the face (and have ste-
reotypical movie-style sexual tension)
about where blame should be attribut-
ed. Here’s an example: it’s the universi-
ties’ fault! Is it? What about the schools
that teach the students for the majority
of the time. Ah! I have it! It’s those darn
schools. They’re not engaging enough
in their lessons. So simple. Right? The
schools? So it’s their fault that behav-
iour is bad and people don’t listen to
teachers or do their homework? Be-
sides, the kids still spend most of their
time at home. The parents then? Duh
it’s all their fault. Oh really? How about
when you have a lot of other pressures
on you and are trying your best but
your child is influenced by their peers.
The kids then? Well, they are just, you
know, children. I’m 23 and still imma-
ture, so what do you expect them to
be like? Plus there are bigger problems
and pressures in the world that causes
them to be like that. I could go on, but I
think you get the point. It’s everyone’s
fault in some way. Besides, when has
attributing blame ever solved a prob-
lem? If there is one person to blame,
then it may help identify a solution.
However, in a multi faceted problem,
it is often just a way of slowing every-
thing down. The schools, universities,
and government must work together to
solve this. Parents need to be brought
in on this too.
A problem often identified by teachers
and classroom assistants is behaviour,
which often hinders people excelling
and learning as teachers are essentially
crowd controllers not knowledge im-
parters. Solving this is really trickyand
a start is teachers knowing how to deal
with unruly pupils. I believe all people
deserve a chance to shine and should
be helped. If they are holding them-
selves and others back, then they need
to be shown, in terms they can under-
stand, what a good education can bring
them, and why it’s better to work hard.
I guess at school it’s just not cool to be
the good pupil is it – how many rogue-
ishly handsome movie heroes are not
trouble-makers? Solving that would
mean a massive shift in societal per-
ceptions,whichprobablywon’thappen.
Seeing the light
Another catering outlet. Really? I hope
this is an ellaborate end of year troll by
College. If I were anyone working in
any space around College I would be
watching my back. They seem to ruth-
lessly just rip something away from you
saying “we’re taking our ball back now”.
T

