MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter
music.felix@gmail.com
FRIDAY 14 JUNE
26
etween a live date in Oto
as a duo and another in
a large ensemble with
Oren Ambarchi, I was
able to grab an interview
with Australian musucians James
Rushford and Joe Talia. Aside from
my aiming for an inside scoop about
the night’s rendition of ‘Knots’ (from
Ambarchi’s Audience Of One), we
primarily discuss their work as a duo.
and especially their 2013 album Man-
hunter.
Riaz Agahi: How does tonight’s ver-
sion of ‘Knots’ diﬀer from the re-
cord? Is it expanded?
Joe Talia: It’s probably not expanded
from the record, but it’s diﬀerent. I’m
playing drums tonight and I played
drums on the record. Oren and I have
This Week At Oto: Rushford & Talia
Riaz Agahi speaks to duo and Ambarchi collaborators
played a lot as a duo, without the other
guys. So that part of it, the interplay
between the guitar and the drums has
actually evolved a lot since the record-
ing. The recording was actually done
quite a long time ago, before we actu-
ally played all the shows. That element
of it is deﬁnitely changed and has
broadened a lot.
James Rushford: For the strings ar-
rangement I more or less transcribed
Eyvind Kang’s part but there are al-
terations. There are certain sections
that are a little more improvisatory
and just the nature of the way those
instruments interact with the ensem-
ble is a bit more energetic I suppose in
the performance.
RA: How long have you guys been
working together?
B
JT: Since 2009? I think it [was when]
ﬁrst record came out
RA: I haven’t really been able to
get my hands on any earlier work,
and when I turned on Manhunter I
was expecting noise to be honest. I
thought it was interesting you cre-
ated a dark atmosphere without go-
ing straight to noise which made it
more suspenseful. What exactly did
you do on the album, as in what in-
struments did you use?
JR: It’s deliberately obscure. So, a lot
of things that sound like synthesis-
ers, for instance, are generally really
instruments. There’s a lot of acoustic
instrumentation on the record. We
wanted to make something using the
studio we had available to us and we
also wanted to make something very
diﬀerent to the last 2 records. So we
deliberately didn’t play instruments
that we’re usually familiar with or
comfortable with.
JT: Yeah, everything’s not our usual
mode.
RA: Wire’s review of the album com-
pared the album to the Twin Peaks
soundtrack. Is that something that
was in your head at all at the time?
Both: Not at all.
JT: I mean, of course we’ve seen Twin
Peaks, but we weren’t trying to do a
Twin Peaks theme or anything.
JR: it’s just a shame that people make
a reference to Twin Peaks whenever
they hear any kind of synthesizer with
a certain tone or chord progression. I
think it wasn’t in our heads at all, you
know? I think If anything if you wanna
make a reference it’s closely tied to
say, Broken Flag issues like Maurizio
Bianchi from the ‘80s. That, for me,
is much more linked to the album we
made than Twin Peaks. But we do love
the Twin Peaks soundtrack, like most
people.
RA: I think it’s just wishful think-
ing on people’s part. But in a way,
there’s a sort of darkly comedic but
also bleak and just all out weird am-
bience in Lynch’s material that also
ﬁnds some place in your music.
JR: I think that this record more than
the other ones is kind of more open-
ly emotional, you know? We let the
harmony in the music go places that
we probably we would have avoided
previously. I think again that kind of
relates to the Lynch thing, because
(Angelo) Badalamenti’s music can be
so emotional earnest at times. Which
makes it verge on the edge of being
cheesy. That for me is kind of special,
how it remains sort of cheesy but sort
of austere at the same time.
RA: It does kind of have a cinematic
nature to it. It sort of seems to build
towards a euphoric synth at the end.
Is there a sort of progression in the
album or is it like separate suites?
JR: It was originally gonna be over 2
hours long. So it was very much sup-
posed to be one long piece that moved
very slowly, and at times was collage
based but other times very much on
one trajectory.
JT: It was kind of like a ﬁlm in that
way. That we had to edit it down, and
ﬁnd out how we were going to end it
and cut out all this stuﬀ. It was always
a problem, like how does this all ﬁt to-
gether and how does it kind of work.
JR: I think at
the same time
it was just
one big thing.
JT: Yeah, we
didn’t make
s e p a r a t e
songs and
piece them all
together later.
JR: It was re-
ally about de-
constructing
one idea, into
the next idea.
RA: I’ve only
in the past
year or two
been aware
of the amount of great artists from
Australia. Is the Australian scene
localized to a few cities or is it wide-
spread?
JR: I think it’s quite far reaching. Peo-
ple often say that Melbourne is sort of
the centre of that scene but I wouldn’t
necessarily say that’s the case.
JT: No, there are big scenes in Sydney
and Brisbane as well, and of course
other places.
JR: Yeah, I mean there’s all sorts of
strange noise bands that you hear out
in the country towns and things like
that. I think it’s a really exciting scene
and it’s also quite all-embracing in
the sense that there are people from
diﬀerent practices; people from an
experimental tradition, people from
more of an improvised tradition, peo-
ple from a rock tradition, a lot of peo-
ple are very supportive of each other.
AMS album of the week
Boards of Canada, the much re-
spected, secretive and shadowy WARP
signed duo are back after a six year
quiet period with a new album and
an often different sound. Tomorrow’s
Harvest, billed as their most dystopian
and gloom-ridden sounding project
to date nevertheless has that irasci-
ble BoC sound – not IDM, certainly
nowhere close to dub-step, but more
like a modern day, grittier Music for
Airports. This album, with their char-
acteristic layered soundscapes and off-
beat synth stabs over slowly morphing beats is somehow sparser than their
previous offerings, as if everything has been put through an industrial filter.
It sounds like an urban sprawl on a particularly thoughtful day, one of the
few things the duo themselves have confirmed they were aiming for.
It almost goes without saying that the construction of the album is nigh-
on flawless. Not a sample or sound has been wasted or used when not re-
quired and even though the early tracks individually remain quite static in
their composition, the first half of the album retains a lot of energy and keeps
pulling you on. My first thoughts were of Aphex Twin’s Selected Ambient
Works 85 – 92, the album that arguably got me into this genre to begin with,
but far more melancholic. The few vaguely optimistic or upbeat tracks like
‘Sundown’ and ‘Split Your Infinities/Collapse’ keep the album from becom-
ing too much of a dirge as we enter the second half but you still get the sense
of a slight loss of direction. That said I can’t listen to any single track and
find the cause although ‘Uritual’ is in my opinion the weakest track on the
album, a drone piece which neither goes anywhere or is subtle enough to be
of interest.
The stand out moment for me is ‘Cold Earth,’ a mix of the direction Tomor-
row’s Harvest has taken them in and some of their earlier work with a well
crafted drumline and a complexity and pace that makes you want to keep
coming back to it. The album as a whole is excellent, and has crucially beaten
the massive hype surrounding it. It’s a great new direction for the duo to be
treading and they’ve managed to find it whilst solidly remaining Boards of
Canada. Get on it!
Boards Of Canada – Tomorrow’sHarvest
Eamonn Postlethwaite

