FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 FRIDAY 14 JUNE
John Park Film Editor
Ice Ice Baby
In some of the marketing used for
Man of Steel (out in cinemas today -
will be reviewed in the next issue), we
are told to “kneel before Zod (played
by Michael Shannon)”. Instead, we
should all kneel before the real Mi-
chael Shannon, easily one of the most
underrated, under-awarded, and
under-recognised actors working to-
day. He’s the anti-hero of The Iceman,
a taut retelling of the life of Richard
“Richie” Kuklinski, an American-
Polish mob hitman who was arrested
having killed what is believed to be
well over 100 people.
We ﬁrst see how he and his wife
Deborah (Winona Ryder) ﬁrst met.
“You’re a prettier version of Natalie
Wood,” possibly the highest compli-
ment that could be paid to a woman
about her appearance in the 60s, is
uttered shyly by Richard. He claims
he dubs Disney movies, when in fact
it’s revealed he makes his living by
pirating pornographic movies. His
knack for killing is revealed early in
The Iceman
Director: Ariel Vromen
Screenwriters: Morgan Land, Ariel
Vromen, Anthony Bruno (book), Jim
Thebaut (documentary)
Starring: Michael Shannon, Winona
Ryder, Ray Liotta, Chris Evans, David
Schwimmer, Stephen Dorff, James
Franco
the ﬁlm; after an ill-advised verbal
exchange that ends with someone
insulting Deborah, that poor sucker
gets his throat slit – rather neatly it’s
also worth noting, showing that this
is far from the ﬁrst time Richard has
done something like this.
After an encounter with a local mob
boss Roy DeMeo (Ray Liotta), who is
impressed by Richard’s ice-cold de-
meanour that shows virtually no fear
of dying, Richard is privately hired to
watch Roy’s back, collect debts, and
send “messages”. Long gone are the
days he supported his family living in
a small apartment – the pay rise is a
massive one, and soon he’s living the
American Dream: in a sizable house
in the suburbs, with his beautiful wife
and two daughters who are all oblivi-
ous as to what their husband/father
gets up to when he goes to work.
Richard is very good at what he
does: and in the central role Shan-
non is simply outstanding. With his
towering frame and a disturbingly
calm expression as he carries out
the many, many hits required by the
mob, Shannon is a force to be reck-
oned with when it comes to loading
the character with quiet intensity. He
has a softer side to show for himself
when it comes to matters concerning
his family – it’s a look of love and de-
votion, whilst there is also that inevi-
table cloud of worry that hangs over
his head, given the nature of the work
that he’s involved in. In portraying a
very humane side to someone who
appears to lack any sense of “good”,
Shannon always has an air of ambigu-
ity that makes his volatile character
more unpredictable.
Despite the fantastic performance,
it must be noted that his “career” that
spanned decades is quickly rushed
through by using many frequent time
jumps of many years, only showing
the few highlights of his killing days.
It doesn’t dig deep enough into the
work of a mob hitman, and at times
the ﬁlm seems to be more interested
in the less gripping, unnecessarily
overblown maﬁa politics that leads to
familiar territory as everything un-
folds away from Shannon.
No maﬁa movie casting is complete
without Liotta, and he rocks up in a
predictable yet eﬀective role, David
Schwimmer (i.e. Ross from Friends),
barely recognisable with his mous-
tache and ponytail, is a young, am-
bitious player who steals too much
and lies too much. We all know what
happens to that kind in ﬁlms like
this. Speaking of barely recognis-
able actors, Chris Evans, who usu-
ally dons the Captain America suit,
instead sports grizzly hair and gener-
ally greasy appearance here, as a killer
who may be as psychotic or perhaps
even more so, than Kuklinski himself.
Not a lot is given away in terms of
trying to explain why Richard is the
way he is, aside from a brief ﬂashback
sequence into his childhood, and also
the concise yet hugely eﬀective and
informative scene in which Richie
visits his brother Joseph (the excel-
lent Stephen Dorﬀ) in prison. Here
we see the two estranged, dysfunc-
tional brothers reminisce in their
own way, about the disturbing events
surrounding their childhood, giving
us some insight as to explain their
nature.
Throughout there is a lot of focus
on the fact that Kuklinski doesn’t hurt
women or children, and his domestic
life that keeps him somewhat ground-
ed is one of the key themes. It’s nice
to see the age-resistant and talented
Winona Ryder have a prominent role
again, as “the good wife”, always stay-
ing loyal to her husband even though
it’s obvious he’s keeping secrets. Over
the years we see huge changes in
wealth in their lives, and like any mob
wife, Deborah has no problem accept-
ing the nice gifts her husband buys for
her, and yet at times she does wonder
just how he’s managing to aﬀord such
luxury. There’s doubt, from the more
cautious side of her for sure, but also
an element of trust, this one stem-
ming from the loyal, aﬀectionate side.
With a calm, but never comfortable
score that always lurks around like a
troublesome event waiting to unfold,
here is a quiet yet by no means a tame
thriller, one that centres on a smoul-
dering performance that is simply
unforgettable. And for a ﬁlm that has
its ending clearly cut out for us from
the beginning, it’s still an immensely
fascinating ride.
“You better hit bull’s eye” - Vanilla Ice
The Apprentice - 1975

