FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
FRIDAY 14 JUNE
Too gay for Hollywood
John Park Film Editor
Behind the Candelabra
Director: Steven Soderbergh
Screenwriters: Richard
LaGravenese, Scott Thorson (book),
Alex Thorleifson (book)
Starring: Michael Douglas, Matt
Damon, Rob Lowe, Debbie Reynolds
Director Steven Soderbergh recently
spoke about how diﬃcult it was to
make his latest ﬁlm, as it was deemed
“too gay” by most big ﬁlm studios.
But thank heavens for Home Box Of-
ﬁce (HBO) for giving Soderbergh his
chance to tell the story of Liberace,
one of the most celebrated, and high-
ly paid musical ﬁgures in the 20th
Century, known for his outrageously
extravagant visuals on stage, his col-
ourful lifestyle, as well as his ability to
put on a cracking show and entertain.
But Behind the Candelabra, as its
name suggests, is about the wildly
eccentric personal life of Liberace
(Michael Douglas), his complicated
relationship with the much younger
Scott Thorson (Matt Damon), his
driver, friend and lover. They ﬁrst
cross paths when Scott is invited to
meet Liberace backstage at one of his
sell-out concerts. Liberace takes an
immediate liking to Scott and it’s not
long before they start a relationship,
although given the cranky, unhappy
state of Billy Leatherwood (Cheyenne
Jackson), a former ﬂame, it doesn’t
bode well for Scott’s future.
Having grown up in a modest foster
home, the lavish gifts his boyfriend
showers on him is certainly a drastic
change, one Scott doesn’t quite mind
getting used to. There’s jewellery,
there’s never-ending ﬂow of cham-
pagne, the immaculately decorated,
golden-plated mansion is quite sim-
ply out of this world, and in keeping
with Liberace’s famous saying “too
much of a good thing is wonderful,”
everything seems to appear in excess.
The production design and the art
department have created something
extraordinary here, going complete-
ly overboard, as well they should, to
show that both on and oﬀ stage, there
is very little diﬀerence in Liberace’s
taste for extravagance.
Their relationship is riddled with
disturbing content as it progresses –
as we soon discover Liberace’s rather
unhealthy obsession to turn his lover
into an adopted son of some sorts,
pushing Scott into plastic surgery so
that they may share more physical re-
semblance. And so we’re introduced
to Dr John Startz (Rob Lowe), a hid-
eously disﬁgured individual who has
clearly had a taste of his own medi-
cine a few too many times, with his
uncomfortable looking squint, a
by-product of many, many face-lifts,
guaranteed to shock and make you
think twice about plastic surgery in
general.
In the lead role designed to be the
centre of attention at all times, Doug-
las is on excellent form, fully embrac-
ing the campy, extremely vibrant
energy of the star, and with some in-
credible CGI work it looks as though
it’s actually Douglas who’s playing
away at the piano when in fact it’s not.
Always dressed in the most sparkling,
brightest costumes, there are lots of
laughs to be had in seeing a hilari-
ously complex man, and yet there are
tender moments of real warmth in
scenes that show oﬀ Douglas’ range
and versatility.
Nevertheless there isn’t a lot to im-
mediately like about Liberace in this
ﬁlm; never looking closely at the
stage persona that impressed millions
worldwide, just by looking at the ﬁlm
alone it’s confusing as to why this
man is such a beloved musical icon. A
more balanced look would no doubt
have further enriched his character,
rather than very often coming across
as nothing but a creepy, lonely old
man with some serious psychological
issues.
History does have its way of repeat-
ing itself it seems, as soon, passion
sizzles and the two of them start look-
ing elsewhere to ﬁll the void. For Lib-
erace he takes a keen interest in a mu-
sical actor who shows promise (Boyd
Holbrook), amongst other fresh-faced
young men, and with Scott he turns to
drugs. Although left with a less showy,
stuck-in-the-shadows type role, Da-
mon still turns his role into some-
thing more than a mere silent victim,
the wronged party. There is nothing
new about someone involved in that
particular industry face a downward
spiral due to drug addiction, but there
is so much more to be said in the slow
but gradual disintegration of their
complicated relationship, one that is
convincingly captured not only by the
fur-wearing pianist, but also his long-
suﬀering partner.
It’s a shame this missed out on its
opportunity to screen at the cinemas
in the States. Even with real potential
to score some Oscar nominations and
possibly a win for Douglas, the ﬁlm
is no longer eligible as it was shown
as a television movie. So Douglas will
have to settle for a possible trifecta
of an Emmy, a Golden Globe and a
Screen Actors Guild Award, but given
the theatrical push it’s been getting
around Europe, it has a chance to
reach a wider public audience this de-
serves.
It’s okay - we’ll be the new Jeremy and Megan
Rocking the curtains. How 2003
Soft kitty, warm kitty, little ball of furrrrrrrrr

