FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 14 JUNE
30
The Rock is a softie
John Park Film Editor
Snitch
Director: Ric Roman Waugh
Screenwriters: Justin Haythe, Ric
Roman Waugh
Starring: Dwayne Johnson, Jon
Bernthal, Susan Sarandon
Just because Dwayne “The Rock”
Johnson is headlining a ﬁlm that
contains the plot of drug-traﬃck-
ing, doesn’t automatically turn this
into an action-packed ride. Which
is a great surprise, since Johnson is
taken out of his usual comfort zone,
and his role here actually requires
him to show a range of emotions to
sell this story that is based on true
events. And it’s certainly a change in
gear that he handles extremely well,
as with Snitch, Johnson shows that he
has more to oﬀer than his macho side
throwing punches.
As an owner of a construction
business, John (Johnson) is leading a
quiet life and he wants to keep it this
way. This is until his son Jason (Raﬁ
Gavron) makes the mistake of get-
ting mixed up with the wrong crowd
and ultimately, drug smuggling. Af-
ter his arrest, the minimum-sentence
law states that faces ten years in jail
– seems harsh, but that’s what the
local US Attorney Joanne Keeghan
(Susan Sarandon) and her tough an-
ti-drug stance is insisting takes place,
no exceptions allowed. The way to
reduce sentencing is for Jason to as-
sist in making signiﬁcant arrests of
big players in the drug scene. But he
refuses to be an informer – so his fa-
ther volunteers his services. He will
go undercover, make some deals
that will hopefully end in arrests big
enough for the US Attorney to be
more lenient.
Perhaps The Rock could be seen as
a bit of a miscast here – anyone who
messes with The Rock’s family in any
standard action vehicle would have
around an hour or so before he comes
violently knocking. But here, John is
an utterly ordinary businessman,
with very little skills required to lead
a one-man army. In fact we even see
the mighty Rock get beaten down by
a group of thugs as he unwisely tries
to enter the drug world by himself,
not knowing what to say and who to
approach.
Help is at hand however, as John
reaches out to an ex-convict employ-
ee of his who has a history of drug
dealing. Wanting to stay clean, start
over, and avoid his third strike, Dan-
iel (Jon Bernthal) reluctantly agrees,
not fully aware of John’s true inten-
tions. John will also receive tactical
support from Agent Cooper (Barry
Pepper), and so the dangerous assign-
ment begins.
Essentially the message that is re-
peatedly used throughout is the fact
that fathers are willing to do any-
thing for the beneﬁt of their fami-
lies. And we see several examples of
fathers doing whatever is necessary
– the most obvious one here is John,
Daniel also has a son and wife to
support, the same goes for the drug
kingpin they’re trying to take down,
Juan Carlos “El Topo” Pintera (a very
well-cast Benjamin Bratt). Very little
time is spent on Pintera, the antago-
nist, and it’s all about the “good” guys
put in impossible situations, getting
in way over their heads.
There are tonal inconsistencies
largely due to the ﬁlm not quite be-
ing able to balance the thriller side
to the more grounded drama aspect.
It’s better in giving us the tense ex-
citement even with a relatively tight
budget – the inevitable ﬁnal highway
chase involving a shootout is on a
small scale, with very little gimmick
and yet is able to deliver some quality
action. The many stand-oﬀs between
the good guys and bad also have ef-
fective input in working towards a
climax, more so since we’ve already
seen just how vulnerable John is in
this unpredictable criminal world.
Less well done is the ﬁlm’s focus on
the individual characters themselves.
Even though the ensemble doesn’t
look at all crowded, the ﬁlm struggles
to throw in a variety and the running
theme becomes very tiresome and re-
petitive. Yes, yes, the fathers are do-
ing this amazing thing, but what we
don’t need is a constant reminder of
the struggling children who we start
to feel less and less sorry for the more
we see them take up the screen time.
More frustrating is the under-
use of the most talented member in
the cast, Sarandon. With a poten-
tially juicy role as an ambitious, cut-
throat political ladder climber who
is initially solely invested in this for
her gain, she barely features on the
screen. Granted, whenever she does
turn up she has some ice-cold dia-
logue to spit out, but given the talent
she possesses, this is no doubt a role
that is far too simple and underdevel-
oped, given how much time is given
to other less important players.
Overall it’s a ﬁlm full of pleasant
surprises. Most noticeable is John-
son’s transformation and that he
doesn’t look out of place in a role that
shows a lot more weakness. This goes
to show he’s far from the action star
one-trick pony we all thought he was,
and to witness that alone is worth the
ﬁlm’s running time.
The Rock is ready for his close-up
Say something about my beard...go on...I dare ya
You tried to domesticate...ME?!

