Welcome to Esther island!
Thisweek’stourguideisSanchit Sharma.Feelfreetoaskhimanyquestions
ear Esther. The
morning after
I was washed
ashore, salt in
my ears, sand in
my mouth and
the waves always at my ankles, I felt
as though everything had conspired to
this one last shipwreck. I remembered
nothing but water, stones in my belly
and my shoes threatening to drag me
underwater to where only the most
listless of creatures swim.
”
In Dear Esther, you control a disem-
bodied camera and use it to explore
an unnamed and uninhabited island
in the Hebrides. A narrator reads
out transcripts of letters to a woman
named Esther, and sections of these
monologues are read out when the
camera reaches semi-random trigger
points.
Why do I call it a camera, and not
a character? I call it this because at
no point does it interact with the en-
vironment. It cannot jump, it cannot
kick pieces of the scenery which seem
to be movable, it cannot so much as
open a door. It is merely a way for the
player to enter this world, as opposed
to a way for the player to inﬂuence it.
However some people argue that it
is actually a character, and to be fair
certain points do make much more
sense if the game is treated in this
manner.
It should be noted that there is no
button to jump in game. This can be
somewhat annoying when it feels like
the ability to jump would give you
a little more freedom. If this could
be added in such a way to still not
increase the area to explore by too
much, it would simultaneously be
more satisfying for the player and not
much more work for the developer.
“At night you can see the lights some-
times from a passing tanker or trawler.
Fromuponthecliﬀstheyaremundane,
but down here they fade into ambigu-
ity. For instance, I cannot readily tell if
they belong above or below the waves.
The distinction now seems banal; why
not everything and all at once! There’s
nothing better to do here than indulge
in contradictions, whilst waiting for
the fabric of life to unravel.
”
Visually, the game is stunning. The
island is mapped out in great detail,
but due to the lack of mechanics or
general crazy things going on as with
most games, it will quite happily
run at 1080p on a graphics card that
wouldn’t normally be able to handle
it. The range of environments and tex-
tures presented on such a small map
puts some recently released major ti-
tles to shame.
In addition to this, the soundtrack
ﬁts perfectly and complements both
the visuals and the monologues very
well. It is available to stream or buy
from the oﬃcial website, which is a
very good idea on the part of the de-
velopers – the soundtrack would be
worth the cost of a normal album.
In order to immerse yourself in the
game more, I’d recommend playing it
with 3D vision not only on, but turned
up at least halfway. It really accentu-
ates the feelings created by the game
(at least, up until the bridge of your
nose starts hurting because nVidia
didn’t think about people who wear
glasses), although there are points
where it is a good idea to turn it oﬀ.
This is pretty much only if you go un-
derwater, however, so it isn’t a big deal
and does little to damage the immer-
sion.
“Donnelly’s book had not been taken
out from the library since 1974. I de-
cided it would never be missed as I
slipped it under my coat and avoided
the librarian’s gaze on the way out. If
the subject matter is obscure, the writ-
er’s literary style is even more so, it is
not the text of a stable or trustworthy
reporter. Perhaps it is ﬁtting that my
only companion in these last days
should be a stolen book written by a
dying man.
”
The story, of course, is the main
part of Dear Esther. It is about an
unnamed man talking to a woman
named Esther, most likely his late
wife. The letters and a few cutscenes
heavily imply that Esther was killed
in a car accident by a man mentioned
later on in the game, Paul. The nar-
rator often also mentions a cartogra-
pher named Donnelly, who charted
the island in the past, originally com-
ing to the island to ﬁnd details of a
hermit told to have lived here but
being unsuccessful in his task and so
moving on to write about the island
instead.
Due to the fact that on any given
playthrough many of the monologues
will not be encountered, the story
given to the player is incomplete and
forces them to draw their own con-
clusions. There are many minor de-
tails that will give an insight into parts
of the plot that are never mentioned,
and it is down to the player to uncov-
er the truth, though it is never con-
ﬁrmed what exactly that is.
“Donnelly reported the legend of the
hermit; a holy man who sought soli-
tude in its most pure form. Allegedly,
he rowed here from the mainland in a
boat without a bottom, so all the crea-
tures of the sea could rise at night to
converse with him. How disappointed
he must have been with their chatter.
Perhaps now, when all that haunts the
ocean is the rubbish dumped from the
tankers, he’d ﬁnd more peace. They
say he threw his arms wide in a valley
“
D
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 14 JUNE
32
on the south side and the cliﬀ opened
up to provide him shelter; they say he
died of fever one hundred and sixteen
years later. The shepherds left gifts for
him at the mouth of the cave, but Don-
nelly records that they never claimed
to have seen him. I have visited the
cave and I have left my gifts, but like
them, I appear to be an unworthy sub-
ject of his solitude.
”
I would be less inclined to call this
a game and more inclined to call it a
work of interactive art. If this is the
kind of thing that you enjoy, Dear
Esther would certainly be worth your
money.
My only complaint aside from the
jumping and water issues is that there
is no log – being able to read or listen
back over what you have previously
heard would make the story far eas-
ier to get to grips with the ﬁrst time
around, and allow a player to under-
stand and draw their own conclusions
with only one playthrough, as op-
posed to the two or three it took me.
Other than that, this is a truly amaz-
ing piece. It is available on Steam for
£6.99
Oh God no! The UrbEx
itch is back! Probably
need some tetanus
jabs after though....
It’s like wearing the
Boots of Blinding Speed
Well, maybe we’re not exactly in the middle of a war, but the Felix office does
feel like a war room. There’s only one edition of Felix left this year, and we al-
ways need more cannon fodder conscripts writers, to let us make one last grand
hurrah!
If there’s something you’ve been thinking about writing, in between bashing
some exams out, drop us a line, and we’ll make next week the largest games sec-
tion that has ever graced the face of Earth.
Any questions, comments, war tactics or possible recruits, feel free to email
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk. Alternatively, send a pigeon.
War, War Never Changes

