TECHNOLOGY Technology Editor: Jason Parmar
tech.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 14 JUNE
34
At WWDC 2013, Apple announced
the upgrade to the Mountain Lion
operating system, OS X Mavericks.
Based on the new features, it seems
that Apple have placed a lot of focus
on productivity and ease of use with
this OS. Amongst hundreds of new
features, the key things to take away
from the new release are updates to
Finder, Safari and improvements for
users of multiple displays.
Finder
Tired of having your monitor ﬁlled
with Finder windows? I know I am,
so tabbed Finder windows are a wel-
come feature announced by Craig
Federighi, SVP of software at Apple.
As far as productivity goes, Finder
can now be maximised in to full
screen mode and has incorporated
tagging too, making it both easy and
fast to access the ﬁles you need, when
you need them.
Safari
Apple’s browser may not have been
completely revamped on the surface
but under the hood, the tech giants
have been hard at work to optimise
the speed and improve graphics ac-
celeration. Amongst the newly intro-
duced features are:
Sidebar
Browsing your bookmarks in Safari
was never the easiest or most produc-
tive of tasks. I always have to ‘open in
new tab’ to make sure I can quickly
head back to my list of bookmarks –
but not any more. The newly designed
bookmarks sidebar stays put on the
left so that you can go back and forth
to your bookmarks whilst in the same
screen, making it easier and faster to
use.
What’s more, the reading list now
allows you to scroll to the bottom
of the web page you saved and keep
scrolling on to the next saved page on
your list – meaning you don’t have to
go back to click on the sidebar for a
new page. It’s ﬂuid, tidy and very ef-
ﬁcient.
Shared Links
Integrating Twitter and LinkedIn, the
shared links section located in the
sidebar displays a real-time feed of
content that’s being shared by peo-
ple you follow. This seems to be yet
another attempt from Apple to re-
ally make the OS a social experience.
Mountain Lion pulled this oﬀ nicely
with the notiﬁcation centre and Twit-
ter/Facebook integration, so I’ll be
interested to test out this cool new
feature for my self.
Multiple Displays
For power users who enjoy using
multiple displays (like me), it gets an-
noying having to allocate the menu
bar and dock to one display or the
other. With OS X Mavericks, you’ll
have dedicated menu bars to give you
faster access to the options for the
screen/app you’re working on.
In addition, OS X Mavericks now
has the functionality to let you run
multiple full screen apps on all of your
screens without conﬂicting and in ad-
dition, using mission control you can
drag and drop apps across screens.
You’ll even be able to swipe between
full screen apps on one screen with-
out aﬀecting the other.
Autumn Release
The other updates included the in-
troduction of iBooks, improvements
to Calendar, iCloud Keychain and
notiﬁcations. For now, visit Apple’s
dedicated page for a brief look at OS
X Mavericks, but that’s all you’re go-
ing to get until you can download it
from the App Store in Autumn later
this year.
Fabio is the founder of Let’s Talk Tech
(www.letstalk-tech.com). Raised in
London, he’s a self-confessed Tech
Geek. Also known to some as an “Ap-
ple Fan Boy”. Reach out on Twitter @
fabiovirgi7 or Google+ if you’d like to
chat.
Apple Drops Cat Names with OS X Mavericks
[The new
Safari] it’s
fluid, tidy and
very efficient
Fabio Virgi
The News Bubble
It’s the penultimate issue of Felix, sad face :(
Look out in next week issue when we’ll be reviewing the three major
mobile platforms from a fanboy point of view (sorry, no Blackberry).
E3 PS4 & Xbox One
While there were gasps and applause when Sony released the PS4
price, there was a stoney silence greeting Microsoft when they an-
nounced the Xbox One price. £80 more expensive and not allowing
games to be swapped, Xbox had a hard time. Despite offering signifi-
cantly more than the PS4 the multimedia console received incredibly
aggressive criticism online from the fickle hardcore gaming clique.
Apple weaning off Google
It went mostly unnoticed, but Apple furthered distance from Google
in iOS 7. Even considering the Apple Maps fiasco Apple have been try-
ing to drop Google integration. In iOS 7 Siri now uses Microsoft’s Bing,
perhaps suggesting that Apple considers Google their main competi-
tor these days?
Edward Snowden
Last weeks leak from the NSA, Edward Snowden, came out as a bit of
a hero after his Guardian interview in Hong Kong (despite leaving his
partner who the Telegraph focused an article on “how hot she is”).
But the whole debate raises a deeper question of our technology.
With Snowden claiming that Facebook, Google, Microsoft etc. give
backdoor access to the US government it begs several interesting
questions, the most prominent: “how safe really is our data”?
#Facebook
It took long enough, but Facebook have finally caved into public pres-
sure and announced they will be introducing hashtags into the social
networking site. They’ll be following in the footsteps of Twitter, Tum-
blr, Pinterest, and its own Instagram.
Some of the key new features from OS X SeaLion? Clockwise from top left: Bookmark sidebar, Multiple full screen apps, Finder
Jason Parmar Tech editor
“”
“
“
Tabbed Finder
windows are
a welcome
feature

