HANGMAN hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 14 JUNE
36
Rap Lyrics of
the Week
“Everything is gonna be alright,
Everything is gonna be alright,
The gunman’s in the house tonight,
But everything is gonna be alright”
Everything will be fine. How relax-
ing. How reassuring. I feel so safe...
Wait. WHAT THE FUCK. A gun-
man is in the house!? That’s terrify-
ing.Isthisgunmantakinghostages?
Has he got any demands? Does he
want the release of some people?
Will he use us as bargaining chips?
Everything is almost certainly not
going to be alright if a “gunman” is
in the house. When have you ever
hear that there is a “gunman” and it
is followed by a nice, friendly tale
of how everyone was smiling with
ice cream in the presence of this
person. Unless, of course, it’s false
smiles and he gives out ice cream as
that’s his calling card.
I’m locking my door.
The Fugees“No Woman
No Cry”
Encyclopedia Felix
Drake: “What’s my name”
“It’s getting hot, crack a window,
air it out”
Doesn’t sound like it’s getting hot.
Sounds suspiciously more likely
that you’ve just farted and are now
embarrassed. I bet you’re walking
around quickly hoping the smell
doesn’t follow you and the new air
disguises it. You really need to look
into that. You should also get your-
self checked for amnesia...
Hangman’s guide to the oft-spotted Shoreditchia douchum
Habitat: Most often found on the streets of London. Often mistaken for the docile Instagrammus spammus, and the common street hobo.
Etymology: Named after the esteemed British adventurer Alfred Douche-Alley (the ﬁrst), after his ill-fated expedition over the Sahara, wearing a scarf, bobble-hat and a
cardigan.
Pokédex number: #000
Weakness: Normal-type moves
Favourite colour: Sepia
Favourite album: Doesn’t matter, you’ve never heard of it.
The authors would like to extend their thanks to the Biology de-
partmentfortheuseoftheirhuman-sizedcages,andtheRegistry,
for their advice on how to perform a slow and arduous torture.
Spceial mention goes to ‘Grumpy’, the cleaner of the Felix office,
as there was a lot of blood on the floor. He’s a miracle worker.
Bibliograpy:
[1]:K. Evans and P. Grivel, J. Hip. Studs., 23, 5, 87-95, (2005)
[2]:P. L. Simmons, G. Wei and K. P. Panino, J. Ana. B: Hip., 11, 21-22,
(2012)
[i]:Wikipedia. All of it.
[ii]:”So you’ve killed a man. What next?”, T. Arbabzadah, 2012
Figure 1: The wild hipster
Note the pubic-hair on the subject’s face, left over from the last
Movember. As detailed by Evans and Grivel[1], this is most likely a
defense mechanism, used to artiﬁcially increase their apparent age,
and to give some semblance of wisdom and knowledge. In the au-
thors own words, their test subjects commonly used “to look edgy”
as the reason for actually looking like a pubescent 16 year old.
Even after progressive levels of torture, none of the
Shoreditchia captured by Simmons, et al.[2]
actually
claimed to have been near a farm, let alone worked
on one. There are no widely accepted reasons for
Shoreditchia being found, wearing thick canvas
jackets, despite a multitude of theories. Many
groups believe that the multiple layers of bulky
and unseasonal clothing is actually to mask the fact
that they’ve no muscular or skeletal structure, and
that the slightest breeze will make them fold in on
themselves, in a case of mainstream instability.
A prime example of the skinny-jean philso-
phycanbeenseeninﬁgure1.Withnoroom
for pockets, or even your testicles, this styl-
ish denim number provides no evolution-
ary advantage, and seriously hampers the
chance of successful reproduction.
Adding onto increasing the evolutionary dis-
advantage, these loosely-ﬁtting boots would
imply that they’re never planning on any sort
of strenuous exercise and probably can’t even
start jogging without looking stupid. They are
also likely to be uncomfortable for long lengths
of time, and so they will severely hinder any at-
tempts to queue up for the next Apple product.
Here, we can see a trademark sign of the douchum – a woollen hat
that looks, and smells like it’s been ﬁshed out of the bins behind
Wholefoods. There are many members of the Shoreditichia family,
each categorised by their headwear. Of note, records exist of a rare
species, named whovius, after being spotted wearing a fez.
Mythsregardingtheremovabilityoftheheadgearrunrampantdur-
ing the summer months, as the majority of Shoreditichia are still seen
wearing their signature clothing, despite sweating copious amounts.
Even after the use of PRISM to
hunt down all wearers of flannel
shirts (see right), many speci-
mens are found to flaunt these
rules, sourcing their shirts from
underground fabric markets.
The classic hobo-gloves as sported by
our subject here, are indicative of no
fashion sense, but also horriﬁcally hairy
hands. It’s like someone strapped wook-
iee-starﬁsh hybrids onto some stumps.
According to our current studies,
the most common contents of these
paper bags, are organic, gluten-free,
BPA-free and BUAV approved carrots.
No, really. I’m just as confused as you.

