Issue 1551
SPORT “Keep the Cat Free”
felixonline.co.uk
14/06/13
@SportFelix
With his 100% winning record as
skipper on the line, Vignesh Ven-
kateswaran once again took up
the reins of captaincy as he led the
ICUCC 1st XI to face oﬀ against arch-
rivals UCL, in a nail-biting London
derby.
Conditions could not have been
more perfect; it was warmer outside
the scorebox than inside it. Once
again featuring a bowling-heavy line-
up, Imperial won the toss and elected
to bat ﬁrst, with the hope of using
scoreboard pressure to our advan-
tage. Openers Iain Stobbs and Faris
Rehman took a liking to the UCL
opening bowler, creaming him for
boundaries down the ground. Faris’s
stay was a short one, however, giv-
ing a simple catch, which brought
Faris Siddiqui to the crease. The situ-
ation unfortunately got the better of
him as he fell prey to a rash shot, at-
tempting to heave a 6 to cow-corner
oﬀ his ﬁrst delivery, only to ﬁnd the
ball nestle comfortably in the hands
of mid-wicket for a golden duck.
With the situation dire, the skipper
arrived at the crease and proceed-
ed to rebuild the innings with Iain.
UCL’s opening bowler went through
a torrid time, leaking 35 runs oﬀ his
6 overs. Boundaries arrived at regular
intervals and the situation looked to
have been salvaged for a time, until
Vignesh played all around a full deliv-
ery and was cleaned up for 21 oﬀ 30.
Siddharth Kohli, so often the unsung
hero with the bat, came to the middle,
but all he managed to do was starve
Iain of deliveries before giving a tame
catch.
I was in at no. 6, and the situation
became even more desperate when
Iain fell soon after to an excellent in-
dipper for a solid 38 oﬀ 37. This left
two new batsmen, Nitin Nihilani and
myself at the crease with the bowler
in form steaming in. After some poor
showings with the bat, I managed to
play myself back into some sort of
form with a quickﬁre 14 oﬀ 15 includ-
ing 2 ﬂicked boundaries over deep
square leg and a tennis forehand to
a slow bouncer, before being run-out
attempting a tough single to get back
on strike, with Nitin ﬁnding it nearly
impossible to get bat to ball. With
the tail needing to wag, an in form
Ganesh “Big G” Kumar walked in. He
found the going tough as well, wafting
at thin air outside oﬀ-stump on multi-
ple occasions along with Nitin. Nitin
was eventually put out of his misery,
getting bowled by no less than Du
Plessis himself for 1 oﬀ 36.
A pre-match cigarette and beer
didn’t help Johan Rekers much as got
out as soon as he went in, bowled for a
golden duck, bringing debutant Rajan
Bhambra to the crease. The fact that
he was holding a bat for the ﬁrst time
in years began to show, and he was
lucky not to give an edge on his ﬁrst
few deliveries faced. Fortune favours
the brave, however, and he managed
to streak an edge past slip to the 3rd
man boundary. He, too, eventually fell
for 7. Farhan Huq was last man in and
lasted 4 deliveries before being given
out LBW for a duck. At the other end,
Big G had made his way to 17 oﬀ 35
before running out of partners. Impe-
rial hence folded for 128 all out, prob-
ably around 22 runs short on a turn-
ing track.
After tea, the boys took to the ﬁeld,
desperate to defend 128 and the skip-
per’s winning record. Iain Stobbs
found himself in the unenviable po-
sition of having to open the bowling
after opening the batting as well. Out
of concern for the opposition bats-
men’s safety, he decided to forgoe
pace, instead relying on some nifty
swing and a 5-step run up. The plan
worked as he immediately produced
some healthy edges, with Big G taking
a smart running catch over his shoul-
der at backward point to dismiss one
of the UCL openers.
Big G himself came on from the
other end, and built up some pressure
Sports writer
Jayanth Ganapthy
Claims of UCL using
ringers were unfounded
with Iain. The batsmen were not let-
ting up, however, and eventually the
oﬀ-spin of Siddharth was introduced.
Vignesh brought himself on from the
other end as well, and the 2 spinners
set about trying to rein in the run
rate. Despite some excellent bowling
for most of the over, there was always
one loose ball per over that was dis-
patched to the boundary, which did
not help the cause seeing as the ask-
ing rate was only just above 3. Bar-
ring tough chances being put down
by keeper Faris Rehman and Nitin,
as well as a few comical moments
with Faris Siddiqui allowing a bound-
ary through his legs and Johan diving
over a ball a few feet from him, Im-
perial’s ﬁelding display was impecca-
ble, with even clean shots stopped in
the in-ﬁeld, culminating in a massive
build-up of pressure on the batsmen.
Eventually they cracked, as Sid-
dharth and Vignesh tore through the
UCL batting line-up by themselves.
2 of Siddharth’s 4 wickets found Vi-
gnesh (at that point looking like he
could pluck a ﬂy out of the air) at
short midwicket, and 1 of Vignesh’s
2 was taken by Siddharth at short
extra-cover. Nitin chipped in with a
wicket as well. In a tense ﬁnish, UCL
were 8 wickets down and needed 3
more runs to win, but the returning
Iain gifted them with a no-ball full
toss oﬀ the ﬁrst delivery of his second
spell, which was sent to the boundary,
giving UCL the victory by 2 wickets
with 12 overs to spare. It was a dis-
appointing loss for ICUCC and a ﬁrst
loss for Vignesh as captain, but UCL
will always remember the day when a
second-string Imperial team made a
128 target seem more like 328.
ICUCC beaten by UCL
The pressures of harder exams take their toll on a brave IC team

