NEWS
4 FRIDAY 14 JUNE
News Editors: Aemun
Reza, Nida Mahmud
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
continued from the front page
>>
tauld Institue of Art, the Royal Acad-
emy of Music and the Royal College
of Music) had a lower proportion of
students from deprived backgrounds.
This agrees with worrying ﬁgures re-
leased by the Higher Education Statis-
tics Agency (HESA). These show that
for the 2011-2012 academic year only
62.7% of new entrants to the College
came from a state school – compared
to a 88.5% average for all English uni-
versities – and only 15.5% belonged
to the four poorest National Statistics
Socio-Economic Classes (NS-SEC –
see box on right) – this is compared to
a 30.7% average for England. The Col-
lege also falls short of HESA’s bench-
mark ﬁgures – the percentages of stu-
dents from backgrounds in the lowest
NS-SEC category – which could be
expected given factors such as Impe-
rial’s location and the courses that it
oﬀers. These benchmarks are 74.5% of
new entrants from state schools and
17.1% of new entrants from the lowest
NS-SEC. Full ﬁgures showing the ef-
fect of the introduction of higher fees
for the 2012-2013 academic year have
not yet been released.
Speaking to Felix Paul Beaumont,
Imperial College Union President,
said he was “genuinely not sure what
more can be done, other than better
communication of the College’s ﬁnan-
cial support package and increased,
more focussed Outreach work”. He
added that, in his personal opinion:
“The College has one of the most gen-
erous cash-in-hand ﬁnancial support
packages in the country. The National
Scholarship Program requires that
£5k of the bursary must be in ‘service
discounts’ rather than cash in hand,
which the College very nicely gives
students in their ﬁrst year (when they
can cash this in on their accommoda-
tion), and then provided £50 million
to the initiative, which will rise to
£100 million in 2013/14 and £150 mil-
lion in 2014/15 gives £1k cash in their
ﬁrst year, and £6k cash for years after.
Most other universities waive fees,
which does nothing to help students
whilst they’re at university: they need
the cash there and then.” He went on
to say: “The College is also discussing
other ways in which students will be
able to spend their service discount
in the future, if they so choose. Some
considerations at the minute are being
able to put the money towards clubs
and societies, as most students com-
plain that the thing that they miss out
on the most are clubs and societies
activities.” There has, as yet, been no
oﬃcial Union response to the ﬁgure.
Speaking to Felix Dr Melanie Bot-
trill, Scientiﬁc Projects Manager in
Imperial’s Outreach Oﬃce, said: “The
Outreach team at Imperial works re-
ally hard across the calendar year
to deliver a wide range activities for
prospective students. This year we
expect to interact with over 11,000
school students though our activities
on campus, such as summer schools
and other funded enrichment courses.
In addition, we do all sorts of work
within schools, such the Pimlico con-
nection, Postgraduate Ambassadors
Scheme, Inspire and our school visits
programme. Our activity is much wid-
er reaching than I think most people
realise. Rarely a day passes without an
activity happening on campus or with-
out one us being within a school, so
we are a really busy team – and we are
brilliantly supported by all the UG and
PG students who work on our pro-
grammes as mentors or volunteers.
“With the new fee regime, the de-
mand for our programmes has grown
and prospective students want more
opportunities for support and infor-
mation from universities. This is the
ﬁrst full academic year (12/13) of the
new fees, and the College has set aside
part of this income to signiﬁcantly
expand our outreach programmes
aimed at academically able, but disad-
vantaged prospective students.”
In its access agreement – a docu-
ment all universities charging more
than £1,345 per student must submit
to OFFA – the College pledges to
“spend at least 35% of additional fee
income” on bursaries and outreach
activities. Additionally, “the College
commits to increase expenditure on
outreach activities by at least £550K
once all undergraduate cohorts are on
the new fee system”.
Dr Bottrill added: “The biggest chal-
lenge that is faced by the College, in
my opinion, is the small pool of pro-
spective students who ﬁt the criteria
of being able and interested in STEM
subjects, but of a widening partici-
pation background. To increase this
number, we need to be supporting
these students much earlier in their
school careers. If we can inspire stu-
dents early in their school careers
about STEM subjects helping them
stay within this ﬁeld, then the number
of prospective students for Imperial
will grow.”
Speaking to the Daily Telegraph
Wendy Piatt, director general of the
Russell Group of elite research uni-
versities, said: “Our universities put a
lot of eﬀort into trying to help solve
these problems but we cannot do so
alone. Outreach work, including sum-
mer schools and mentoring, can be
successful at inspiring students from
a wide variety of backgrounds to ap-
ply to a range of universities and has
an important role to play. But no-one
can guarantee that those students will
go on to apply successfully to Russell
Group universities. It remains impor-
tant that admission to university is
based on merit and fairness to all can-
didates; any decisions about admis-
sions must maintain high academic
standards.”
The Government’s response to the
OFFA and HEFCE report has focused
mainly on the positives. In particular,
ministers pointed out the eﬀective-
ness of the recently introduced Na-
tional Scholarship Programme. In an
oﬃcial press release the Secretary of
State for Business, Vince Cable said:
“I have always said that going to uni-
versity should be about ability, not
ability to pay. So it’s encouraging that
the National Scholarship Programme
has helped more than 35,000 students
from poor backgrounds in its ﬁrst
year. This has been supported by over
£130 million investment from govern-
ment and institutions.”
Universities and Science Minis-
ter David Willetts added: “This re-
port highlights how our reforms are
putting students at the heart of the
system. We are making progress in
ensuring talented people from disad-
vantaged backgrounds make it to uni-
A £650 million medical research centre
is under construction in London. Funded
by the Medical Research Council, Can-
cer Research UK, the Welcome Trust as
well as Imperial College London, Uni-
versity College London and King’s Col-
lege London. The Francis Crick Institute
will be based in King Cross next to St
Pancras International station and will
open in 2015.
The institute will have 1,500 staff, in-
cluding 1,250 scientists, and an annual
budget of about £120million. The bio-
medical super-laboratory aims to attract
the ‘brightest and best’ as it will launch
a global search for new talent to conduct
the research into cancer, the immune sys-
tem and infectious diseases.
It has been named in honour of Francis
Crick, whose work identified the struc-
ture of DNA and won him and two col-
leagues the Nobel Prize in Physiology or
Medicine in 1962.
Nobel prize-winning scientist Sir Paul
Nurse, director of the institute, spoke to
Nature about the new centre. He said that
the quality of the employees will have a
huge impact as they are the ‘people who
move the needles’. He says that the ma-
jor role of the Crick centre is to act as a
source of high-quality talent to support
biomedical research effort throughout
the country.
Sir Paul said: “We support the scientist
and the other institutions that take them,
so they get a flying start to their career.
We will focus on the quality of the indi-
vidual rather than saying, ‘We are going
to work on stem cells or DNA therapy’.”
He also commented on how it was
unique to form a partnership between the
UK’s three largest funders of biomedical
research and three “rival” London uni-
versities.
“We are trying to put something in
place that reduces all sorts of bounda-
ries that can get in the way of research,”
said Sir Paul. “The major universities in
London tend to compete. Here it’s the
opposite. They have all got together to
support this endeavour. It’s a major con-
tribution to London science.”
The Francis Crick Institute will not
have the clinical facilities for the re-
search and will depend on the three uni-
versities for this. One of the themes is to
pursue multidisciplinary research in both
the clinical and physical science setting.
Sir Paul said: “What we’re also trying
to do is have a culture where the inves-
tigator will look beyond the research
they’re doing, into how it can be used.
That will apply to universities but it will
also apply to the National Health Service
(NHS) and also to the pharmaceutical
and biotech industries.”
Aemun Reza
Global bio-
medical hub
to be built
in London
versity. This year the proportion of ap-
plications for the most disadvantaged
18 year olds was at its highest level
ever but we are not complacent, more
needs to be done.”
The Labour Party, however, insists
that current eﬀorts by the Govern-
ment are not enough. Policies being
considered by Labour include the
“idea of making lower A-level oﬀers to
poorer students”. A report published
last week by the left leaning think
tank the Institute for Public Policy
Research recommended that “fund-
ing should be shifted out of fee waiv-
ers and bursaries and into outreach
programmes, which have a stronger
track-record of recruiting applicants
from disadvantaged backgrounds”
and that “a student premium should
be introduced of £1,000 extra per stu-
dent from a low-participation area or
who has received free school meals”.
Imperial seventh lowest proportion of students from
deprived backgrounds
FACT BOX
NS-SEC indicates the occupation of the highest-earning person in a stu-
dent’s household. Applicants give the occupation of the highest-earning
person in their household on their UCAS forms. This is then translated
into seven categories, which are:
1 Higher managerial and professional occupations
2 Lower managerial and professional occupations
3 Intermediate occupations
4 Small employers and own account workers
5 Lower supervisory and technical occupations
6 Semi-routine occupations
7 Routine occupations
Imperial College London
Editorial: page 2
>>

