10 FRIDAY 25 OCT
COMMENT
Editors: Eoghan J.
Totten, Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
T
hank goodness it’s Friday!
It’s been another eventful week,
with a lot of rain, lots of gowns and
lots of rain.
This Tuesday the Union’s Autumn
elections ﬁnished on a positive note. This
year over 27% of students voted for their
Union Council representatives, academic
representatives and Liberation oﬃcers. The
fun doesn’t stop here, now it’s time to watch
the elected candidates and see how they
perform during the year. Congratulations to
those who won, and commiserations to those
that didn’t make it, better luck next time.
The ﬁrst session of Union Council is this
Tuesday, so if you’re curious about what
Council does, why not turn up? All members
of the Union are welcome to attend and the
current papers are about topics such as the
Hyde Park Football pitches consultation and
the Union’s stance on the new Immigration
Bill. If there’s something else you think
should be discussed, submit a paper! Any full
member of the Union can submit a paper to
Council, so don’t be shy!
Finally, this week saw the graduation of
another batch of Imperial students, a large
contingent of fussy parents and a long
queue for photography in the Beit Quad!
Congratulations to the Class of 2013, as well
as the students and members of staﬀ that
were presented awards. As for the rest of us,
at least now we know that if we see any other
people walking around campus in gowns this
year, they are either Postgraduate graduands
or members of the Harry Potter society!
Joseph Letts
Editor-in-Chief
Of Commemoration
and Elections
Letters
Dear Felix Editor,
I am replying to the outrageous letter, printed
last issue, by the obviously irresponsible
individual named the Druid. His plea to
introduce the most poisonous substance,
namely ice cream, into the Union bar shows
incredible ignorance on his part. Does he not
know how many deaths yearly are attributed to
the abuse of frozen sugar? These are induced
by horrible diseases, foremost among them
brain freeze, from which I have suﬀered on
many occasions. I wish this notorious felon
to apologise to all those victims who have
suﬀered ice cream related accidents, and
retract his request for this poison to be served.
The Paladin
P.S. At least we agree that there shouldn’t be
any of that froyo or sorbet shit.
IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
Got something to
say? Write in!

