11
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 25 OCT
BOOKS
WTH is NaNoWriMo?
Whether it’s swimming 500 lengths or
climbing 5,000 metres, we all know about the
athletic challenges that some people rise to.
Fewer know about the creative challenge that
over a quarter of a million aspiring authors
take up each year: writing a 50,000 word
novel in thirty days.
National Novel Writing Month, or
NaNoWriMo, is now a worldwide
phenomenon, encouraging people to put
ﬁngers to keyboard and hammer out over
1,500 words per day for a month. It’s not so
much a marathon as a Himalayan expedition:
the glory isn’t in coming ﬁrst, or writing
more than anyone else… it’s just in crossing
that 50,000 word line.
While ‘quality over quantity’ is a ﬁne motto
for many things in life, it’s also what paralyses
many would-be writers, who agonise over
opening sentences and ﬁrst chapters,
deleting and re-writing until they give up,
still far, far away from having a completed
novel - a process which I’m sure is familiar
to many of you.
The NaNoWriMo philosophy is to write
without looking back: a rough novel can be
edited, polished and perfected; there’s not
much that can be done with a blank page.
In the words of Ernest Hemingway, “the ﬁrst
draft of anything is shit.” It’s creating this
shitty ﬁrst draft that NaNoWriMo is about:
the ability to let go of perfectionism, ignore
the thoughts telling you to give up and start
again; to just let the words ﬂow.
Starting in 1999 with just 21 participants,
the following year saw over 5,000 people
taking part. The event quickly boomed in
popularity. It is NaNoWriMo’s supportive
community - and the chance of becoming
a recognised winner - that make the event
diﬀerent from a solitary, self-motivated
writing challenge. As well as real-life meet-
ups, there are forums for discussion of the
intricacies of plot and characterisation,
competitive ‘word wars’ and other
productivity games, as well as motivational
advice.
If, like me, you’ve always dreamed of being
an author but always put it oﬀ until ‘one day’
,
NaNoWriMo is your chance. I’m taking part
for the ﬁrst time this year, joining hundreds
of thousands of others, including regulars.
One chemistry student, who has participated
before,says,“Iwanttobeawriter,andforcing
yourself to write is a good way to start. I’d
found it by reputation a dozen times on the
internet over the years, but didn’t actually
take part until I was 18. I got out of it two
very poorly written books, and the promise
of more to come.”
The event begins next Friday. If you have
a writer’s itch that needs scratching, sign
up, get planning, stock up on paper, pens,
booze or whatever you need. It’s tough, but
after thirty days you’ll be one of a special
few: you’ll be able to look down upon your
completed novel and say, “I wrote that.”
“In the world according to Garp, we are
all terminal cases. “ This motif, recurring
multiple times throughout the novel, is
perhaps somewhat overdramatised, yet
painfully accurate. From the first page
through to the last one, the reader is
infected with the subtle anticipation
that the characters are inevitably
approaching something horrible.
Something tremendous, something that
will change everything, forever: An
intangible danger; a monster introduced
into the storyline by Garp’s young son
Walt. He misunderstands his parents
warning him of the undertow along the
shore, and how it can “Pull you under,
suck you out to sea”, and one day Walt
stares fiercely toward the ocean, looking
for the Under Toad (“How big is it? What
colour is it? How fast can it swim?”).
The novel, with all its quirks, makes
it incredibly easy to dip into the story,
become part of it, and laugh and cry with
the characters. The fear that whatever
you take for granted in one part of the
novel might suddenly be ripped away
from you and torn into pieces as you
read on, makes you want to put it down
instantly, as if that could change its
outcome – but you can’t. It is the kind
of story that makes you want to stop the
clocks when you are sitting in the Tube
on your way to Uni, knowing that your
stop is next and you will have to close
the book.
I have to say though, whilst reading it,
I did not always think I would praise it
to that extent. Not necessarily because
it takes a few pages to fully immerse
in the storyline (it doesn’t), but rather
because parts of it are deeply disturbing.
Ranging from people biting off other
people’s genitalia, over children losing
eyes, arms and tongues, to women
raping disabled, dying men in hospital
to impregnate themselves – Irving’s
got them all. Of course, “A novelist is a
doctor who sees only terminal cases.”
In a way, this is a novelist writing
a novel about a novelist writing
novels. It approaches literature from
a very personal point of view, which is
especially fascinating if you yourself are
interested in writing.
As if he knows how personal a
relationship the reader forms with his
novel, Irving mentions towards the end:
“Don’t worry - so what if there is no life
after death? There is life after Garp,
believe me.” Unfortunately, I cannot
yet confirm that this is true, since I am
still getting over this book like normal
people are getting over a lover after a
tough break up. I thought what we had
was special, and I didn’t want it to end
so soon – which is why I immediately
got myself some more Irving from the
bookshop!
Take nothing for granted
Isabelle Erbacher
Writer
Send your submissions for
our newest regular fea-
tures!
FLASH FICTION: Ultrashort
fiction up to 200 characters
STUDENT PICKS: Send us up
to 250 words on your favour-
ite book and how it changed
you
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Keir Little thinks that you should know
Student Picks
Neil Gaiman is a well-known and prolific author.
His creative range is impressive – having written
both science fiction and fantasy, authored numerous
books and graphic novels, and worked on both films
and TV shows. However, if there is one theme that is
a near constant presence in his creative output it is
the exploration of myths and legends in their many
different forms. There is nowhere where this is more
obvious than in his Nebula and Hugo award winning
novel American Gods.
The novel’s protagonist is Shadow, a recently released
convict who finds out that his wife was killed in a
car accident a few days before his release. Having
nothing else left to live for he accepts the offer of a
job as the driver and bodyguard of the mysterious
Mr Wednesday. This, however, is only the setup.
The novel is really about the battle for the “soul of
America” between the forces of old and new. I turns
out that Mr Wednesday is really an avatar of the Norse
god Odin and he needs Shadow to help him rally his
fellow old gods against the new gods representing the
forces of globalization, consumerism and technology.
This journey takes them all over the country and
allows Gaiman to explore, through metaphor and
allegory, the various tensions at the heart of the
United States. Through its 700 pages the reader
becomes immersed in the culture, the mythology, the
feel of America. As with all of Gaiman’s work this is
an exciting and well written read but it is also a novel
of extraordinary depth and complexity. A must read.
American Gods by Neil Gaiman
Maciej Matuszewski picks:
Flash Fiction
by Thomas Heaven
Mittens was hungry. He wondered what had
happened to schrodinger, it seemed like forever
since he had last seen him. An unusually long
time. Perhaps he was dead?

