12 FRIDAY 25 OCT
ARTS Editor: Arianna Sorba
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Japanese Sex
and Pleasure
Extreme Art Attack
What: Shunga: Sex and Pleasure in
Japanese Art
Where: British Museum, WC1
When: 3rd Oct 2013 – 5th Jan 2014
Price: £7, £5 students
Parental Guidance Advised.
Clara Clark Nevola
Writer
S
o the British Museum is
putting on an exhibition on
Japanese pornography? Is
that even allowed?!
Cast away your narrow
western minds and think again. For
that’s what this exhibition will do —
make you think again.
So ﬁrst things ﬁrst – what is Shunga?
Developed in the early 17th century,
Shunga (meaning “spring pictures”)
is Japanese erotic art, produced by
well-known artists for the enjoyment
of Japanese people of all classes. From
gilded scrolls to printed booklets,
Shunga was available to all, and
enjoyed by middle class newlyweds
as much as high ﬂying Samurais. They
depict erotic scenes of various types,
and with diﬀering levels of explicitness
and conventionality.
At the British Museum, great
emphasis is put on the fact that these
are works of art, and not just base
pornography, and this is certainly true.
In all the artworks shown, everyone
seems to be having fun – couples,
threesomes and groups – and there is
no sense of objectiﬁcation.
But the main diﬀerence between
western pornography and these
colourful, kimono clad sex-scenes
is surely in the viewer. Shunga was
considered an entirely acceptable part
of life, and was in no way shameful
or frowned upon until the mid-
18th century, when the combination
of a new military government and
an increased western presence in
Japan caused legislation to be passed
against it. Thus, wandering around
a gallery full of boobs, erections and
some rather fanciful positions (17th
century Japanese people were clearly
more ﬂexible than the average 21st
century European) there is a feeling of
enjoyment, amusement, interest, but
no embarrassment or awkwardness
– these pictures feel natural and
acceptable.
As you wander round the exhibition,
amongst such artworks as How the
Jewelled Rod Goes In and Out, make
sure you read the translations of the
Shunga captions – most pictures have
the lover’s conversations written in the
margins. These complete the Shunga,
and are often funny dialogues, saucy
poems or just the sort of things you
ISRAEL
GOLDMAN
COLLECTION
Fred Fyles witnesses the destruction
What: Art Under Attack: Histories
of British Iconoclasm
Where: Tate Britain, SW1
When: Until 5th January 2014
Price: £13.10, £11.30 concessions,
members free
I
n an art world full of controversy,
it can be diﬃcult to ﬁnd a work
that truly hits you on a gut level.
Hirst’s ﬂies and rotting meat?
Old hat. The Chapman Brothers’
horrors of war? Been there, done that.
But at the Tate Britain’s latest
exhibition, Art Under Attack: Histories
of British Iconoclasm, there is a work
that still manages to pack a punch: a
life-sized statue of Jesus from the 16th
Century, discovered in Mercers’ Hall
in 1954.
The work is sublime, with an
incredible attention to detail, but what
makes it special is what the statue is
missing — protestant reformers have
hacked oﬀ the feet, legs, and right
arm, leaving the face untouched,
wearing an expression of pain and
anguish, almost as if in reaction to
what has been done. This forms the
centrepiece of a beguiling and tragic
exhibition which explores the role of
destruction in artwork.
Iconoclasm — from the Greek for
“image-breaking” — refers to the
deliberate destruction of a culture’s
own monuments and artworks, and
is a word loaded with religious and
political meaning. The ﬁrst section
of the exhibition cuts a familiar
path through the reformation of the
16th and 17th centuries, as Henry
VIII broke away from the Catholic
Church. In the years that followed, a
systematic campaign destroyed the
majority of the country’s religious art;
what resulted was one of the biggest
losses to ever happen to Western art.
There are paintings of The
Assumption with Mary’s face viciously
scratched out, fragments of beautiful
rood screens, and smashed stained
glass. It is like seeing the casualties of
war, and, as if witnessing some kind
of atrocity, it takes all my strength
not to look away. The damage to the
works is not half-hearted; some of the
sculptures, hewn from stone and iron,
have had axes and pikes turned on
them, in a display of brutal force.
Yet some of the other works show
how the public were occasionally
vehemently opposed to these
practices. We are told how the doors
to Canterbury Cathedral had to be
sealed to prevent the locals stopping
the destruction; a painting, beautiful
in its austere detail, shows the stripped
down interior of the cathedral. In the
centre are a group of reformers, and
at ﬁrst it looks like they have just
ﬁnished a meeting, but then your eyes
are drawn to the edges of the picture,
and the heart sinks as you see men
with pikes systematically smashing
the famous stained glass windows.
It is works like this that form the
best and most arresting part of the
exhibition. Unfortunately the next
section doesn’t quite live up to this,
neither the works involved nor in
terms of emotional baggage. The
second section consists of art and
monuments destroyed for political
reasons, and although an interesting
topic, the visual experience leaves
much to be desired. The layout of the
this section, which juxtaposes images
of the monuments that were destroyed
with pieces of rubble taken from the
scene, fails to impress, and the section
on the suﬀragettes tones it down even
more, showing only photographs of
the images they attacked.
The attack on The Rokeby Venus by
Mary Richardson forms the focal point
of the room; the painting has formed
the archetype of the European female
nude, while the attack is arguably the
most well known of the suﬀragettes’
vandalism, and the reasons behind
it are clear — why are such works,
displaying inanimate representations
of women, fêted by society, while real
women, most notably the legendary
Emmeline Pankhurst, were abused by
society.
The focus of the exhibition then
shifts away from political protest, into
aesthetic actions, and it is here that the
exhibition really falls down. Showing
works by Allen Jones, Reg Butler, and
Carl Andre that were at one point
vandalised but are now repaired
seems somewhat pointless, and the
political reasons behind these attacks
seem at times ﬂimsy and irrational.
The ﬁnal two rooms look at the role
destruction has in the artistic world,
both through direct destruction and
the subversion and transformation
of existing artworks. The work by
Gustav Metzger, including a video
of his now-legendary Acid Action
Painting performed at the Southbank,
in which he sprays acid onto a sheet
of nylon, is a highlight, a paradigm
of auto-destructive art. Pieces by
The Chapman Brothers, in which
they paint over historical portraits,
question what ownership means in
art, but lack the visceral punch of
works such as Ai Weiwei’s destruction
of ancient Chinese pottery. Mark
Wallinger removes the meanings in
ﬁlms by cutting away most of the
image, while Michael Wilkinson
unspools magnetic tape in order to
form abstract sculptures, showing how
art can be appropriated to create new
works. John Stezaker’s work — always
a welcome presence at any gallery —
makes a brief appearance with pieces
from his Mask series, in which photos
are spliced together with a cutting
degree of wit. But overall the section
feels arbitrary, as though the pieces
have been chosen at random.
The act of iconoclasm is a
controversial, reactionary one, which
is both exciting and horriﬁc. It would
be fantastic if the exhibition reﬂected
this. But while it starts out well, it soon
begins to lose its way, meandering
between grandiose political
statements and meaningless acts of
vandalism, before ending up with a
confused collection of new artworks.
With its numerous photographs and
blocks of text, this feels more like a
history lesson than something to get
the heart racing; it is an interesting
lesson, but a lesson nonetheless.
Chair (1969) by Allen Jones was attacked with paint stripper in 1986 by feminist
campaigners. It is currently on display in the exhibition, in its restored form.
wished you hadn’t overheard through
your housemate’s door. Before you
leave, make absolutely certain you
have had a good look at The Dream of
a Fisherman’s Wife – those octopodes
have got their tentacles everywhere.
All in all highly worth a trip –
though be warned. If, like this author,
you look young enough to get ID-ed
when buying scissors in Tesco, be
aware that it may be embarrassing
being asked if you’re old enough to
view the exhibition unaccompanied.
TATE © ALLEN JONES

