15
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 25 OCT
MUSIC
Oneohtrix Point Hecker
Riaz Agahi examines albums from modern ambientʼs greats
im Hecker and Oneohtrix
Point Never are two of the
most successful ambient
musicians of recent times.
Tim Hecker is widely famed
for his immersive live performance,
where he plays to an audience on a
pitch black stage in a pitch black ven-
ue, putting all of the audience’s atten-
tion on the music and deservedly so.
It’ll be a long time before I see a live
performance more delightfully spine
chilling than his hauntingly cathartic,
distorted organ based performance at
St. Giles in the Field last year.
Oneohtrix, I would argue, went
a long way towards popularising the
genre with tracks such as ‘Andro’ en-
veloping the listener in warm sounds,
enjoyed by pretty much everyone I
know who’s heard it. Having moved
away from the more conventional but
always distinctive ambient he used to
produce towards a more readily ac-
cessible style in recent releases like
2011’s Replica, he has still managed to
keep his distinctive style throughout.
Tim Hecker has similarly popularised
the likes of drone, with albums like
previous full length Ravedeath, 1972
becoming favourites in recent alter-
native music.
It is his subsequent EP, however,
that really proves the best start-
ing point here. Dropped Pianos, of
course a play on ‘The Piano Drop’, oﬀ
Ravedeath, consists of several short
sketches of piano experimentation
from Hecker. It provides a natural
companion piece to Ravedeath which
was interestingly recorded before Ra-
vedeath. Dropped Pianos was seen as
cold and stark but for my money it
distils some of Hecker’s more terrify-
ing moments into the more restrained
medium of piano.
This is an approach that’s seem-
ingly been incorporated into Virgins,
his fourth full-length album released
on Kranky. Opening track ’Prism’ bal-
ances dissonance, melody and pulsat-
ing drones in a way wouldn’t be too
out of place on earlier releases such
as Harmony In Ultraviolet, and his
familiar sound is present particularly
some organ work reminiscient of Ra-
vedeath, 1972. In amongst all of this,
however, is the appearance of new el-
ements, such as the piano work which
accompanies the more conventional
and experimental elements and at
times recalls early minimalism such
as Philip Glass or Charlemagne Pal-
estine. There is even a greater pres-
ence of wind instruments for example
in ‘Live Room,’ as well as some rather
face melting bassy noise clicks. The
noise is made even more hard hitting
by the more melodic repetitive back-
ground. Most people will probably
think that calling this noise is a slight
overstatement, and I would say that’s
a fair point. I would also say, though
that the work approaches noise, but
it’s blended with melody in a similar
manner to Norwegian band Puma.
This is certainly Hecker’s most ec-
lectic release to date, with moments
similar to Fennesz (‘Stigmata I’) and
Oneohtrix Point Never (‘Virginal II’).
The view that Tim Hecker is similar to
Oneohtrix is a widely acknowledged
T
opinion, but I actually think last year’s
collaboration – Instrumental Tourist,
showed a real contrast between their
styles which were elegantly blended
together. Perhaps it isn’t going too
far to suggest that Hecker has been
inﬂuenced by his Brooklyn based col-
laborator.
Daniel Lopatin (Oneohtrix Point
Never), in his latest eﬀort, R Plus
Seven, continues in the direction of
his previous album, Replica – moving
from ambient into more poppy, less
abstract, melodic sounds. This may
sound derisory, but he has stepped
into this territory in a novel way, with
tracks like ‘Americans’ resembling
sound collage and as such it could
be argued that a still unmistakably
distinctive Lopatin is exploring more
accessible grounds through an experi-
mental approach of sound collage and
sampling.
In fact, a lot of ‘Zebra’ would ﬁt
in pretty comfortably with Replica,
albeit with some jazzy textures mixed
in. There is however a wealth of di-
verse textures and it’s certainly more
eclectic than Virgins. In my opinion
the most prominent feature is Lo-
patin’s manipulation of vocal samples,
in a way not dissimilar to Battles on
their debut album Mirrored, gener-
ally in conjunction with subtle eﬀects
and a pretty chilled out vibe all things
considered. Tracks like ‘He She’ are
admittedly a little hard to take on the
ﬁrst listen, a disjointed cacophony of
almost Enya-esque vocal samples,
but through this rather unusual com-
ponent he manages to create sound-
scapes which both thrill and please,
taking a previously used element to its
logical extreme yet making the result
rather comforting in a strange way.
A great example of this is ‘Along,’
at times reminiscient of Hyperre-
alism such as Noah Creshevsky,
who uses vocal and other samples
in a way that exaggerates them. No
analysis would be complete without
considering Lopatin’s synth work.
Tracks like ‘Problem Areas’ almost
suggest the inﬂuence of dance mu-
sic in a much more obvious way than
I’ve heard from him before. Not to
mention that, but the extremely re-
laxing and mildly cathartic closer
‘Chrome Country’ has some evoca-
tive synth lines reminiscient of
Panabrite or some of the other ex-
cellent space rock inspired electron-
ic acts on VCO. The album ends in
typically strange form, with a rather
evocative organ ﬂourish.
Both Oneohtrix and Hecker have
distinctive musical voices and seem-
ingly both have managed to bring
new dimensions into their music,
creating fascinating records, mixing
comfort with discomfort and creat-
ing albums that are evolutionary
rather than rehashing past glories.
As is often said, however, the more
things change, the more the stay the
same and in both Virgins and R Plus
Seven, new ground is covered while
still retaining their unique musical
identities.
R Plus Seven was released on September
30th on Warp Records, Virgins is to be
released on Kranky on October 14th.

