16 FRIDAY 25 OCT
MUSIC
Editor: Simon Hunter,
Riaz Agahi, Stuart
Masson, William
Stocker
music.felix@gmail.com
Live Review - London Grammar
Fred Fyles has an ambivalent experience at Electric Brixton
s they play, the screens
behind London
Grammar display vis-
uals of flocks of birds,
and wisps of smoke;
these are perhaps per-
fect representations of their music.
Transient and fleeting, most of the
tracks on their debut album If You
Wait begin minimally, swelling to a
crescendo as the different elements
come together, before ending as
quickly and quietly as it began.
With her piercing stare, blonde
hair, and low vocal range, singer
Hannah Reid may at first seem
like a British Nico; but instead of
an icy teutonic delivery, her voice
has a warm, more soulful quality,
reminiscent of Sade Adu or Jessie
Ware. She is joined by guitarist Dan
Rothman and multi-instrumentalist
- playing synth, drums, and djembe
- Dot Major, who wrap their sounds
around Reid’s forceful, mournful
melodies to create restrained, al-
most polite electronic pop.
Despite their meteoric ascent
into success (they’ve only been re-
leasing music for 10 months), the
band don’t seem to be fazed as they
come onto the stage to rapturous
applause.
Immediately they plunge into
‘Hey Now’, which has Reid at her
most elemental, as if she is chan-
neling some kind of ancient spirit. It
is only after the third song that they
break their stand-offish composure,
and Reid lets us know how nervous
she was before coming on stage; she
tells us how glad she is to be back in
London after their extensive Ameri-
can tour - ‘American crowds are
great, but they’re just so... rowdy’
she explains.
A
It is unlikely that they will have
this problem here, since the au-
dience seem captivated through-
out, with barely anyone daring to
ruin the atmosphere by dancing.
Only ‘Strong’, one of their standout
tracks, has people singing along.
The band move through the
songs relatively quickly, pausing in-
frequently to chat to the audience,
mostly about how their time in the
States was. The songs, which deal
with the intricacies of youth, and the
transition from teenager to adult-
hood seem to resound well with the
audience, who seem to be mainly in
their early 20s. In ‘Metal and Dust’,
slightly chilly synth chords accom-
pany Reid’s pure voice, as she dis-
sects the trappings of an unsatisfy-
ing relationship. ‘We argue, we don’t
fight’, she croons, and this non-con-
frontational attitude is reflected in
the music, which seems to meander
without actually going anywhere; in
contrast, their pensive tune ‘Wast-
ing My Young Years’ combines a
minimal guitar line with piano and
a sudden burst of drums, growing
into a climax and then suddenly pe-
tering out to rapturous applause.
Despite Reid’s compelling vo-
cal performance, London Gram-
mar seem to be inhabiting a genre
- minimal R&B influenced electron-
ica - that for the last few years has
become completely saturated. With
their precise guitar lines and use of
space within composition, the band
invite inevitable comparisons to
The XX, another three-piece cre-
ating melancholic pop. While Reid
may bring something new to the ta-
AMS album of the week
First, some honesty, I chose to re-
view this album because I expected it
to be really bad. The hype died years
ago for Sleigh Bells, and I’ve yet to
find a positive review of this one. I fan-
cied tearing this apart in the written
press, because that is what makes me
feel big. I’m disappointed on all levels.
It’s not quite bad enough to complete-
ly tear apart, but it’s not good either.
Sleigh Bells basically got noticed
for being loud. Whereas most noise
pop bands take their cues from alt. favourites like My Bloody Valentine and
Pavement, on their debut record Treats, Sleigh Bells’ big chunky riffs were
reminiscent of the likes of Metallica and Guns n Roses. It was fresh, it was
exciting, it was a bit of a gimmick. Two records later, it’s hard to know what to
do. Their second record, Reign of Terror, tried to develop the big loud sound
with limited success. As with all bands based on a gimmick, when everyone
gets bored of it, what do you do?
They decided to chuck it. The worst thing is, there’s a few tracks that would
really suit a big chunky guitar tone, and it’s a real shame it’s not there. ‘Sing
Like a Wire’ and ‘Tiger Kit’ are painfully bland, while ‘Minnie’, ‘Sugarcane’
and ‘Bitter Rivals’ aren’t much further ahead. The riffs are clearly superb and
withabitofmusclecouldcarrythesetracks,butinsteadthey’rehiddenunder
layers of dull synths. If the whole record was like this, I would have removed
the MP3s from my laptop and this review would be more swear words than
anything else. Sadly, the synths do work on the rest of the tracks. In fact, on
‘24’ especially, the synths really work. It’s pretty dream pop vocals and synths
with chunky drums. It’s not going to set the world alight, but it’s certainly an
interesting listen.
I can see why this is getting uniformly panned. It’s an easy target. It’s a previ-
ous hype band desperately trying to find a new niche. At points, it is awful.
Overall,itreallyisn’tthatbadthough.Iadmit,I’mprobablynotgoingtolisten
to it ever again, and I probably wouldn’t recommend it to anybody, but you
know, it could be a lot worse.
Sleigh Bells - Bitter Rivals
Stuart Masson
from which they emerged; having
been together less than a year, their
album was the bookie’s choice for
the Mercury Prize before it was even
released (they didn’t even make the
shortlist).
With the ghosts of former flash-
in-the-pan acts (Little Boots, any-
one?) there is a great amount of pres-
sure for the trio to not only succeed,
but excel. Whether they manage to
survive this cycle of hype boom and
bust long enough to record a second
album remains to be seen, but as of
yet it remains near-impossible to
live up to their reputation.
Early on in the evening Reid
apologises for their tiredness, saying
that they are still slightly jetlagged;
their music seems to reflect this,
and at the end of the 50 minutes or
so in which they play, their sound
already begins to feel dull. Hope-
fully the band will begin to develop
once the hype has died down, but for
now, it just feels a bit like something
is missing.
ble, the music is almost overwhelm-
ingly controlled, and at some points
seems staid and clinical; perhaps the
best way I can think to describe the
kind of music they make is ‘Dinner
Party Music’, a phrase that reflects
their restrained style - for better or
worse.
Unfortunately, it is difficult for
such music to translate to a live set-
ting; as the evening goes on, it seems
to me that Reid’s voice is something of
a double-edged sword. It is incredibly
unique, but in comparison the back-
ing drums and guitar seem placid,
even bland. Their cover of Kavinsky’s
excellent song ‘Nightcall’, featured on
the album, is a stripped down ver-
sion, that lacks all of the tension and
slight menace that made the original
so compelling. Nothing quite matches
the opening number, in which Reid’s
voice was left pretty much to its own
devices to fill the stage.
It is impossible to talk about
London Grammar without mention-
ing the unstoppable hype machine

