17
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 25 OCT
MUSIC
Stuart Masson previews Arcade Fireʼs latest effort
rcade Fire release their
new album on October
28th. Reﬂektor was an-
nounced in a reply to a
single fan on twitter, it’s
been preceded with a viral campaign
inspired by Haitian veve drawings
(me neither) and a single credited to a
ﬁctional band called The Reﬂektors.
The hipster darlings are doing noth-
ing to alleviate accusations of preten-
siousness. However, even as a massive
fan, much of this has passed me by.
I’m ﬁnding it really hard to get myself
excited about the new album. Back in
2010, when The Suburbs was released,
I remember having it pre-ordered
from within hours of the release date
being announced. I remember it ar-
riving and me listening to nothing else
for about 3 days. This time around, I’d
forgotten it was even out until a cou-
ple of days ago. What went wrong?
A few years on, it does certainly
seem like my furious replays of The
Suburbs were perhaps a little over the
top. It was certainly a very good al-
bum. Highly rated by critics and fans
alike, it saw Arcade Fire catapulted
into the mega-big-time. They won the
album of the year Grammy and head-
lined some of the biggest festivals in
the world. Despite all this, and I don’t
think this is just me, it just wasn’t
quite there. Funeral will always be one
of my all time fa-
vourite albums.
There is not a song
on there I haven’t
been completely
obsessed with at
one point or an-
other. The two
that followed it
were never going
to live up to that.
The darker, more
intimate Neon
Bible was a fas-
cinating listen, if
not a particularly
easy one. The Sub-
urbs was as easy
to listen to as the
catchier moments
on the debut, but
nowhere near as
memorable, and
deﬁnitely a few tracks too long. A
wide variety of styles was met with
a single happier tone that hasn’t ever
managed to leave its mark on me. In
hindsight, it seemed a bit like Arcade
Fire by numbers, which whilst good,
didn’t exactly blow me away.
There is, of course, lots to be ex-
cited about with the record. Produc-
ing credits go to James Murphy of
LCD Soundsystem fame (alongside
regular producer Markus Dravs),
which is most deﬁnitely an exciting
A
switch up. There’s a heavy disco inﬂu-
ence on ﬁrst single, Reﬂektor, which is
a brave new direction for Arcade Fire.
It’s also an absolutely banging track.
The rest of the songs released from
the new album all have a bit of an 80s
inﬂuence, although none of it sounds
too samey. In fact, all of the new tracks
sound superb. However, they all lack
any orchestral elements. There’s no
horns, no strings, no hurdy-gurdy.
This isn’t Arcade Fire by numbers, this
doesn’t even sound that much like Ar-
cade Fire. The idea of mixing 80s pop
with indie rock might be new ground
for Arcade Fire, but it isn’t exactly new
ground for modern music. In fact, it is
the legacy of James Murphy. Funeral
was one of the most important albums
in recent years. There are countless
bands who tried to imitate that sound,
none of whom managed it. There are
also countless bands who have tried to
imitate LCD Soundsystem, and I’m a
bit concerned that Arcade Fire are go-
ing to join them.
Of course, to judge on just ﬁve
songs (although seriously, who pre-
views that much of an album before
it’s released?) is a bit unfair, but those
ﬁve songs are enough for me to worry.
The fact it’s a double album, which are
a bit wank more often than not, isn’t
ﬁlling me with hope either, especially
given how bloated The Suburbs was .
I’m hoping that I’m wrong, and there’s
every chance I am. Maybe this will
be the album that ﬁnally shows LCD
Soundsystem how it’s done or maybe
the released songs aren’t indicative of
the rest of the album. I suppose that’s
the point of this though, a few maybes
are all I have for this album. It’s not
just that I’m not excited, I’m actually
a bit scared.
Reﬂektor will be released on 28th Oc-
tober. Pre-orders include ﬁrst access for
tickets to the band’s upcoming world
tour.
Emielʼs Guide to
Classical Music
The deﬁnition of Art is an issue that philosophers have struggled with for
millennia. In the 19th Century two greats gave fundamentally opposing views.
ArthurSchopenhauer,whothoughttheworldaroundusamererepresentation
of reality, believed Art could reveal its true nature. He argued that music alone
could completely express the world ‘in itself’ as it was not representative of
anything. Friedrich Nietzsche accorded Art an even greater status. To him, life
is devoid of meaning or order, save for that which Man creates. Art is therefore
not a means to better understand the world, but a metaphysical way of giving
meaning to it.
"The world is a work of art that gives birth to itself."
– Nietzsche, The Will to Power
It is often difficult to apply these theories. In the last century provocateurs such
asMarcel DuchampandJohn CagehaveforcedustoaskourselveswhatisArt?
Is an unmade bed a work of art if it is placed in a gallery? Is there an aesthetic
line to be drawn between the latest Hollywood blockbuster and an “art-house”
ﬁlm? Finally, does such a line exist between the works of Beethoven and Justin
Bieber?
Iwon’tpretendtoknowtheanswerhere.InsteadIwouldliketodiscusswithyou
a tradition in music that for me personally comes closest to the aesthetic ideals
of the philosophers, or at the very least is most engaged in the discussion. This
tradition has rather
presumptively been
called ‘Art’ music or
‘serious’ music but
is most commonly
known as ‘Classical’
music. This title is
used mistakenly, but
I will continue to
use it for the sake of
simplicity.
With the advent
of recording
technology in the
20th Century the
lines between the
various musical
traditions blurred
considerably, but I
believe there to be
one crucial distinction between classical music and the other traditions (such
as pop and folk). This is the fact that it is a literate tradition. Folk music is
orally transmitted, and pop music is primarily transmitted through recorded
media (though it is true some is notated later by others), but classical music
has always been written. This is a crucial fact as it has allowed the music to be
analysed and hence developed over the millennium or so since the invention of
musical notation. Furthermore, freedom from the limits of human memory has
allowed works to be written longer and with greater complexity.
Over the past 1000 years this Western tradition has seen highs and lows, and
explored many style and genres, but importantly continues to adapt to the
modern world and may now be at a richer and more exciting stage than ever
before.Audiencesarelargerthaneverandcontinuetowitnesstheregeneration
of old works while composers are continually experimenting and pushing the
boundaries of sound and Art. Over the coming months I hope to present to
you an easy introduction and exploration of this rich tradition. We will take a
chronological look at some of the major ideas and trends and perhaps analyse
in depth some of the key masterpieces of the repertoire. In the next instalment
I will explore the fascinating music of the of Middle Ages and their roots in
Ancient Greece.
REFLEKTOR
Episode 1: What is Art?
Emiel de Lange

