18 FRIDAY 25 OCT
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Inside Llewyn Davis
Director: Ethan Coen, Joel Coen
Writers: Ethan Coen, Joel Coen
Starring: Oscar Isaac, Carey
Mulligan, Justin Timberlake, John
Goodman, Garrett Hedlund
Runtime: 111 minutes
Certification: R (USA)
He lives for the applause, applause, applause
To say that Under the Skin is a marmite
film would be an understatement.
When Jonathan Glazer’s first directo-
rial effort in 9 years was shown at the
Venice Film Festival it was met with
a mixture of cheers and boos; Xan
Brooks of the Guardian gave it five
stars, and called it “the best film in the
competition by far”, while the Inde-
pendent called it “laughably bad”. But
as the credits start to roll during this
showing at the London Film Festival,
the deathly silence that has bathed the
auditorium is broken, by the sound of
thunderous, rapturous applause.
Beginning with a Kubrickian se-
quence of what appears to be objects
in space, but turns out to be an eye,
Under the Skin tells the tale of a mys-
terious alien who roams around Glas-
gow, picking up men in its van and en-
tombing them in a dark abyss. Scarlett
Johansson plays the creature to per-
Scar Jo gets under your skin
fection, surveying the world she sees
around her with an indifferent lack of
understanding; subverting the classic
idea of a femme fatale, she tempts men
into her web, her eyes remaining dead
below her vampy wig. Taking care to
choose the loners of society — those
without girlfriends or family; those
who won’t be missed — she tempts
them forward, like some kind of an-
cient goddess, before they are sub-
merged in a viscous liquid, black as an
oil slick.
Based upon the book of the same
name by Michael Faber, Glazer has
dissected away any unneeded plot
details, keeping explanation to a mini-
mum. Following the creature around
is a motorbike rider, credited only
as ‘The Bad Man’. Whether he is her
carer, employer, or something more
sinister, we never find out. When the
creature meets a man with a facial
deformity, as much of an outcast as
she is, an element of humanity is in-
troduced that begins to spread like a
virus. She tries to fit in, but the all-
too-human emotions, experiences,
and sexuality get stuck in her throat
like the cake she attempts to eat.
Filmed covertly using a series of
cameras developed specially for the
film, Johansson interacts with Glas-
wegian locals, unaware that they are
appearing in a film, taking the voyeur-
ism to an almost-Hitchcock level; we
are watching Her, watching Them,
who are watching Her, all through a
miasma of cold sweat. These cam-
eras turn the streets of Glasgow into
an alien terrain; transform a crowded
nightclub into a claustrophobic hell,
entombed in dry ice and sweat.
The dramatic hills and seas sur-
rounding Glasgow form the perfect
backdrop to Glazer’s dark vision, with
a stormy beachfront being the setting
for one of the film’s most dramatic and
memorable scenes. The alienation Jo-
hansson experiences is perfectly ex-
pressed, so much so that in certain
points in the film normal behaviours
take on a surreal air. Locals smoke,
eat, and laugh; but Glazer creates a
barrier in front of the audience, scru-
tinizing human life through the lens.
While Johansson’s finely tuned per-
formance is at the centre of the film,
the real star is the soundtrack by
composer Mica Levi. A cacophony
of strings, synth, and drums create
a tangible air of menace — imagine
something along the lines of The Knife
crossed with Bernard Herrmann, all
imagined in the mind of David Lynch.
Other Lynchian comparisons can be
made when we look at the meticulous
sound design; the outside world is
muted, dulled, making the interior of
the van seem like a spacecraft in which
the creature drifts, cold and alone.
The only way to accurately describe
this film would be ‘an experience’. It
might not be an experience you enjoy,
but it is one that stays with you long
after the credits have rolled. Taking on
the big questions about what it means
to experience alienation, Glazer has
created a work that lures you in and
drags you under, down into the abyss.
Under the Skin
Director: Jonathan Glazer
Writers: Walter Campbell, Jonathan
Glazer, Michele Faber (novel)
Starring: Scarlett Johansson, Paul
Brannigan
Runtime: 107 minutes
Fred Fyles
Writer
John Park
Film Editor
Llewyn Davis (Oscar Isaac) may be a
talented performer with the voice of
an angel, but his commercial viability
simply isn’t there, it seems. Wander-
ing around the cold winter streets
of New York in the 1960s trying to
catch some sort of a lucky break in
the notoriously tough music industry,
Llewyn is a lonely, hopeful wannabe
who doesn’t belong. Couch-hopping
in his friends’ flats has become a daily
routine for the struggling artist, and a
string of bad lucks that finds him over
the next few days makes him question
whether it is really worth sticking with
his dream and ambition of becoming a
successful recording artist.
The new film from the Coen broth-
ers is certainly as funny as it is tragic.
Llewyn starts the day by losing his
friend’s cat, then he’s informed by his
married lover (Carey Mulligan — on
entertainingly fiery form) that she’s
pregnant, needing an abortion he’s go-
ing to have to pay for. He’s not getting
enough gigs to support himself, there
is a huge box of his recorded singles
that failed to sell and probably never
will, and his music manager doesn’t
seem too bothered with him and ad-
vancing his career.
As he travels through the folk music
scene, the audience is in for the jour-
ney of a lifetime; with the nostalgic pe-
riod mood, backed by some outstand-
ing songs, all sung live by the actors
themselves (who knew Isaac could
sing this well?), the Coens introduce
us to a world and a genre of music you
probably never knew existed but will
embrace whole-heartedly.
Lots of humour follow as everything
slowly but surely falls apart for our
protagonist - but this is laughter com-
ing from the most natural, everyday
places, not having to force the charac-
ters into bizarre or unconvincing sce-
narios in any way.
It’s Llewyn’s ‘Odyssey’ (the name
Ulysses even pops up once), as he en-
counters friends, enemies and stran-
gers over the course of a few days, and
at the heart of all this Isaac is fantas-
tic. Llewyn has the musical talent for
sure, but years of very little success
has forced him to cope with so much,
and the tired frustration of a mean-
dering artist is shown brilliantly by
the actor. There is also more to be told
when it comes to why he’s now a solo
act. It’s touching, and Isaac’s perfor-
mance makes this sub-plot ever more
effective.
Inside Llewyn Davis shows the in-
evitable path unknown artists will
eventually have to walk through. Hav-
ing to face the realities of life, making
the tough compromises and sacrifices
is difficult to face up to, and Llewyn’s
dreams and ambitions are what make
it all the more challenging to stom-
ach. The Coens are certainly in a low
mood, but they go about it with per-
fectly timed humour, involving drama,
and incredible performances to some-
what ease the pain.

