19
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 25 OCT
FILM
12 Years a Slave
Director: Steve McQueen
Writers: John Ridley, Solomon
Northup (novel)
Starring: Chiwetel Ejiofor, Michael
Fassbender, Benedict Cumberbatch,
Paul Dano, Paul Giamatti, Lupita
Nyong’o, Brad Pitt, Alfre Woodard,
Sarah Paulson
Runtime: 133 minutes
Certification: 15
John Park
Film Editor
“I don’t want to survive, I want to live”
It’s difficult to know just where you’re
supposed to start when it comes to
complimenting every single aspect of
12 Years a Slave. Based on the shock-
ingly true story of Solomon Northup
(Chiwetel Ejiofor), a free black man
living in Saratoga, New York who was
abducted and sold into slavery where
he was subjected to unthinkable abuse
and cruelty for 12 long years, Steve
McQueen’s (Hunger, Shame) third
directorial effort, making its round
in the festival circuits this year (Tel-
luride, Toronto, London) before it
goes on general release, will leave
you speechless and intensely moved.
This is a film of genuine, unflinching
emotions, where no character goes to
waste, where the pitch-perfect per-
formances from its tremendous cast
do wonders to capture the essence of
their roles, and where a director with
a sharp pair of eyes creates a harrow-
ing atmosphere in one of the most un-
comfortable eras and topics of Ameri-
can history.
Every single minute of the film’s
running time is a painful one, not that
you’d expect it to be any other way. As
he is torn away from his family, beaten
severely, and forced to work exhaus-
tively under the burning sun, Solo-
mon’s many encounters are what drive
the narrative forward.
Condescending, money-grabbing
Theophilus Freeman (brilliantly con-
niving Paul Giamatti who shines even
in a role that lasts five minutes or so)
wipes Northup’s history clean to po-
tential buyers. Northup is now to be
called Platt, and is not to mention
his previous status as a free man to
anyone. Any sign of disobedience will
lead to beating and whipping. His first
slave owner is William Ford (Benedict
Cumberbatch), a considerate Baptist
preacher, a rare character trait among
the usual slaves’ masters.
Violence and torture reach a new
terrifying height, however, with Ed-
win Epps (Michael Fassbender), Platt’s
new owner who is the personification
of evil as he terrorises his group of
slaves, using the words of his scripture
to justify his acts of punishment. He
also has a twisted crush on one of his
slave girls, Patsey (Lupita Nyong’o),
something Epps’ jealous wife Mary
(Sarah Paulson) doesn’t allow to go
unnoticed, by unleashing her own
personal anger towards the innocent
girl.
Ejiofor is magnetic in his lead per-
formance, as his intense restraint be-
comes all the more painful to watch
as Platt’s life continues in such mis-
ery. He wants to fight back, of course,
and yet with his surroundings he is
completely powerless to stop the gut-
wrenching injustice. This feeling of
complete helplessness is further em-
phasised in one particuarly harrow-
ing scene (one of many) that involves
Platt hanging from a tree, with his
feet barely touching the ground for
support, whist everyone in the back-
ground (the black slaves, the white
“masters”) don’t dare interefere. There
is something so quietly passionate
about what little Ejiofor says in words
that even in silence there is profound
sadness and fear that translate so well
on screen. His extraordinary portray-
al on screen certainly pays off in the
film’s rightfully tear-jerking finish, and
you’ll want to cry with him.
As for the two main villains of the
film, Fassbender and Paulson are sim-
ply superb. Fassbender has a history of
not scoring worthy wins with awards,
but with this performance he has truly
outdone himself, certainly his nastiest,
most brutal and vicious one yet, and
an Oscar win is certainly within reach.
The Epps couple have nothing but
hatred and deserve nothing but ex-
actly that from the audience, and this
level of malicious energy is certainly
not easy to watch. Paulson, so calm
yet piercingly malicious at every turn
with her words and deeds, is nothing
short of hateful. They have a bad habit
of reducing humans to nothing more
than mere property, and their almost
child-like claim on what’s theirs is as
resentful as it is disturbing.
The relatively smaller roles filled
with big names are worth their short
but memorable screen time: both
Brad Pitt and Alfre Woodard contrib-
ute significantly to the finished prod-
uct, their roles playing pivotal roles in
Platt’s struggle for freedom.
But the most gut-wrenching, break-
out performance here is given by Ken-
yan actress Lupita Nyong’o, in her first
debut feature film role. She has only a
handfdul of scenes of actual dialogue
but it’s her raw, uninhibited approach
to her role that demands not only your
undivided attention, but also your
sympathy as she is put through end-
less abuse from her owners.
McQueen’s third film is certainly a
big leap in size and scale from his two
previous pictures. But this sudden
change is something the British direc-
tor is more than capable of handling.
He takes the element of suffering to
a whole new level. That frightening
sound of every whip crack, the hor-
rendous sight of blood splattering,
the disturbing view of the many deep
scars left behind are only a few exam-
ples of what McQueen captures with-
out any obvious censorship, allowing
the scene to go on and on for maxi-
mum effect.
Knowing the fate of Solomon
Northup won’t diminish the power the
film will have as a whole. Even though
on the surface the final few moments
may be a joyous one, there is still that
painfully distressing feeling lurking
around somewhere as the credits start
rolling. And no matter how unsettling
the film’s theme may be, this is the
number one must-see film of 2013.

