22 FRIDAY 25 OCT
FILM Editor: John Park
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Kate’s fast-approaching Labour Day
John Park
Film Editor
Labour Day
Director: Jason Reitman
Writers: Jason Reitman, Joyce
Maynard (novel)
Starring: Kate Winslet, Josh Brolin
Runtime: 111 minutes
Certification: 12A
Depressed and damaged — these are
two qualities Kate Winslet can abso-
lutely nail role-after-role. (Probably
the only actress who can top Winslet
in this respect is Nicole Kidman) And
a part of what makes Labour Day so
intriguing is what the actors make of
their highly unusual but fascinating
characters.
As a divorced single mother to a son,
Adele (Winslet) has become detached
from the world. She doesn’t like to
leave the house unless absolutely
necessary and she depends more and
more on the young Henry (the ex-
cellent young actor Gattlin Griffith)
around the house.
This all changes when random en-
counter with a convicted murderer on
the run in a supermarket. As a post-
appendicectomy patient, Frank (Josh
Brolin) jumped out of his hospital
window, escaping with some injuries
and now has found the perfect place
to crash and lay low for a few days.
Adele and Henry reluctantly take him
in, and at first this is fuelled by Frank’s
rather non-subtle threats against Hen-
ry, as he gently places his hand around
the back of the young boy’s neck.
But this is where things get interest-
ing: Adele, longing for a male com-
panion to fill the emptiness in her life,
starts to see Frank in a very positive
light. Henry, who’s been missing a
father figure for some years now (his
biological father (Clark Gregg) does
take him out for dinner once per week
with his new family but there’s not
much bonding here), begins to form a
special relationship with Frank.
And really, who can blame them?
Far from the initial appearance of a
scruffy-looking prisoner on the loose,
it would appear Frank is quite the do-
mestic god, fixing every little thing
around the house, he even cooks,
bakes (a sumptuous-looking peach
pie), and irons too (shirtless, of course,
how else?). It’s a nice day outside? Let’s
go play some baseball with the kid.
And sure why not fire up the barbecue
and spend an idyllic summer day with
the kind strangers?
Despite the various local news
warning screens flashing from Adele’s
television, Frank insists there are two
sides to every story, and as the inter-
mittent flashback sequences (in which
the younger version of Frank is played
by the Josh Brolin doppelganger Tom
Lipinski) begin to reveal, we begin to
realise that Frank has a point. And
with Brolin’s balanced performance
of a tough exterior and his exuding
kind-hearted nature, Frank becomes a
far more intriguing character over the
course of the film.
It’s a scenario that perhaps requires
a stretch of the imagination — any
sensible person with a child would
most likely have caused a scene in the
supermarket. But given Adele’s past,
and Winslet’s spot-on portrayal, you
begin to see the attraction and all the
fuss with this weird but oddly touch-
ing relationship.
Seen through the eyes of the young
boy, the audience also gets to see life
outside the house as Henry starts
hanging out with a newly-local girl
who is far more mature than you
would expect for someone her age.
There is sweet, light-hearted humour
as we see the coming-of-age story of
Henry in the most unusual circum-
stances, and it’s the many character
interactions that give the film plenty
of life.
The sunny, picture-perfect life they
lead only lasts the short and bitter-
sweet Labour Day Weekend, a warm,
fantasy affair that is cut short thanks
to an overly friendly neighbour who
barges in (Brooke Shields), and an
overly caring cop (James Van Der
Beek) who, in all fairness, is only try-
ing to help. It becomes unbearably
tense, as the stakes become higher
than ever, and this family unit is one
worth rooting for.
The closing scenes feel a touch con-
trived, and even in Tobey Maguire’s
surprise last-minute appearance there
is very little justification for an end-
ing that makes you cringe. It’s heart-
warming to a certain point, but as
the film starts to milk the finale more
and more, the last few minutes come
at a price of having to overlook some
questionable narrative leaps.
Last week, it was announced that
Gravity, the space-age thriller with
Sandra Bullock and George Clooney,
had topped the US box office for a sec-
ond week in a row. Epic, sumptuous,
and in 3D to boot, Gravity seems to
reflect the current cinematic climate
of ‘bigger is better’. As films like The
Avengers and Iron Man 3 rake it in at
the movie theatres, directors that es-
chew such bombastic visuals, looking
instead to the past for inspiration, ap-
pear to be doing something risky and
experimental. Pawel Pawlikowski is
one such director, and his contribu-
tion to the London Film Festival, Ida,
is a bold and thoughtful masterpiece.
Poland. 1962. Anna (Agata Trzebu-
chowska) is a novice nun, preparing
to take her vows and commit herself
to a life of solitude. But before she can
do this, her mother superior makes
her visit her sole surviving relative, a
former high-powered judge known
by the moniker ‘Red Wanda’, but
now fallen from grace, made to solve
petty squabbles between neighbours.
Played by the brilliant veteran of Pol-
ish cinema, Agata Kulesza, Wanda is
like a fish out of water in communist
Poland. Frequently drunk, sexually
liberated, and disrespectful of author-
ity, she seems to be an embarrassment
to both Anna and the government.
Ida
Director: Pawel Pawlikowski
Writers: Pawel Pawlikowski,
Rebecca Lenkiewicz
Starring: Agata Kulesza, Agata
Trzebuchowska, Dawid Ogrodnik
Runtime: 80 minutes
Fred Fyles
Writer
Not long after arriving, Anna’s aunt
drops two major bombshells - firstly,
Anna’s real name is Ida, and secondly,
she was born into a jewish family, who
were all murdered during the Holo-
caust, with the exception of Wanda
and Ida. Being the only ones left, they
begin a sort of road-trip across Po-
land, trying to locate where their fam-
ily’s bodies are buried. Along the way,
Ida is exposed to the beauty of John
Coltrane and sexual desire, but also
the horrors of the Second World War,
which she was too young to properly
remember. For Wanda on the other
hand, the war has never ended; with
collaborators and executioners still
living free in Poland, she still feels like
an enemy in her own country.
Shot beautifully in black and white,
with a 4:3 aspect ration, Ida may
draw comparisons to last year’s Os-
car breakout The Artist; but while The
Artist drew its inspiration from the
glamour and glitz of the 1920s, Ida is
cut from a different, much more aus-
tere cloth. Reminiscent of Truffaut
and Jean Luc-Godard, two darlings
of the French New Wave, Ida charts
a smooth course through a turbulent
and changing world.
Newcomer Trzebuchowska is bril-
liant as Ida; sheltered by the convent
all her life, she is now exposed to the
confusing world beyond its walls. Ida
views her environment with a wide-
eyed wonder, but hidden underneath
is an astute understanding of what the
Polish public expect from her, both as
a nun, and as a woman. With numer-
ous long, pensive shots, Pawlikowski
has built up a visual language that,
although indebted to his fellow Eu-
ropean contemporaries Bela Tarr and
Roman Polanski, is entirely his own.
He takes on the big themes of anti-
semitism, loss, catholicism, and the
horrors of war in this little gem of a
film. Both rich and austere, cold and
heartfelt, Ida is a bleak but moving
slice of life from a forgotten world.
Less is more

