23
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 25 OCT
FILM
Imperial Cinema
This week we’ve got the Thrillseek-
ers Adventure Film Festival and The
World’s End coming to Imperial
Cinema!
Thrillseekers features exhilarat-
ing short films and documentaries
about extreme and adventure sports.
We will be showing 4 films spanning
a wide range of different sports from
all corners of the world. Way of Life
follows the USA’s Freeskiing team
on their quest for Olympic Gold in
the mountains of Alaska. Cascada
is a collaboration between a team of
kayakers and filmmakers set in the
Veracruz State in Mexico as they
encounter the elemental forces of
nature. Not Bad follows a group of
bike riders for 30 days as they trek
around New Zealand. The Last
Great Climb documents adventure
climber Leo Houlding as he em-
barks upon climbing the mountains
of Antarctica.
We’re showing The World’s End on
Tuesday and Thursday (coinciden-
tally Halloween!) Any comedy fans
should check out this zombie/robot
apocalypse comedy by the mak-
ers of Shaun of the Dead and Hot
Fuzz. A washed up alcoholic was-
teman (Simon Pegg) tries to reunite
with his former friends for an ‘epic’
pub crawl in their dead end home-
town. Things take an interesting
turn of events to say the least when
a zombie uprising comes to town.
With regulars Nick Frost, Paddy
Considine and Sherlock’s bezzie
Martin Freeman, The World’s End
is the completion of director Edgar
Wright’s Three Flavours Cornetto
Trilogy.
If you’re interested in buying tick-
ets for Thrillseekers Adventure Film
Festival, visit: https://aff-kensing-
ton-programme1.eventbrite.co.uk/
students £5/Adults £7
For The World’s End: tickets are £3
members/£4 non-members
Visit here to become a mem-
ber of Imperial Cinema: https://
www.imperialcollegeunion.
org/?q=node%2F2969 for cheaper
tickets all year and one free film!
Feeling blue
It has been 5 months since the French
drama Blue is the Warmest Colour
won the Palme d’Or at Cannes, but
it seems like barely a day has gone
by without some form of controver-
sy surrounding the film. First off, it
was the first time the prize had been
shared between the director (Abdel-
latif Kechiche) and the lead actors
(Adèle Exarchopoulos and Léa Sey-
doux); and then the author of Le Bleu
est une Couleur Chaude, the graphic
novel upon which the film is based,
labelled the graphic sex scenes, one of
which exceeds 10 minutes in length,
pornographic; and then the lead ac-
tors stated that they would never work
with the director, claiming the work-
ing conditions were completely ter-
rible; and then Kechiche questioned
whether the film’s release should be
cancelled. Oh, and the film was also
banned in Idaho - but perhaps that is
unsurprising when the subject matter
is considered.
Blue is the Warmest Colour revolves
around the relationship between teen-
ager Adèle (Exarchopoulos) and art
schoolstudentEmma(Seydoux),afree
spirit with wild blue hair that becomes
a centrepiece of the film. A three-hour
long epic, the plot spans a number of
years, as we watch the relationship
build, climax, and finally crumble.
Beautifully shot, the first hour looks at
Adèle’s existence as a typical teenager;
engrossed with French literature, and
with ambitions to become a teacher,
Adèle spends her time gossiping with
her friends, eating in front of the TV,
and having unsatisfying sex with her
boyfriend, before she spots Emma one
day while out in the city. After fanta-
sising about having sex with her, Adele
seems consigned to the fact that they
will never meet, but when out at a gay
bar with her friend, they have a chance
encounter that marks the beginning of
a whirlwind romance.
Inviting comparisons to Before Sun-
rise and In the Mood for Love, Blue is
the Warmest Colour excels at show-
ing the tenderness and beauty of first
love. Walks through the park; visits
to art galleries; picnics on the grass.
All these are captured sumptuously,
and the relationship is seen as warm,
peaceful, and serene. But it is not long
before stormclouds begin to loom,
and both characters must face prob-
lems with their friends, family, and
each other.
One of the key features of the film,
that most critics referenced, are the
extended, extremely graphic, lesbian
sex scenes. Stretching into minutes,
these seem to make the audience no-
ticeably uncomfortable; about halfway
through the first one, which breaks
the 10 minute mark, and a rash of
nervous giggling breaks out. Kechiche
has stated that his intention was not
to make the viewers feel uncomfort-
able, but rather to break down con-
ventions of cinema, and this film
certainly seems like a watershed mo-
ment. However, as well as questions
of artistic value, these scenes raise the
issue of the Male Gaze in cinema; can
a heterosexual man ever capture such
relationships without somewhat dis-
torting them? Julie Maroh, the author
of the original graphic novel doesn’t
think so, calling it ‘a brutal and surgi-
cal display, exuberant and cold, of so-
called lesbian sex, which turned into
porn’. But perhaps this is too harsh;
Kechiche certainly seems to have a
level of self awareness in the scenes
when the couple are visiting galleries.
The camera lingers on images of na-
ked women, of buttocks and breasts,
that are themselves products of the
male gaze, as opposed to some kind of
sapphic icon. It seems like the director
was fully prepared for this to become a
talking point for the film, and reflects
it in his work
But once the controversy and graph-
ic content have been scraped away, we
are left with very realistic, very natural
interactions between the characters;
Adèle, comparing herself to Emma’s
arty friends, begins to see herself as
uncultured and ignorant, an idea
that is further enforced by the family
dinners we are shown. When Adèle
dines at Emma’s house they are all
completely open, eating shellfish and
drinking fine wine, but when Emma
visits Adèle she must do so under
the pretense of helping her with phi-
losophy, and talk about her ‘boyfriend’
while being served a much more hum-
ble meal of spaghetti. As Adèle begins
her career as a teacher, Emma repeat-
edly tries to get her to better herself;
‘I just don’t want you to be sad’ Emma
says, ‘I’m not sad; not when I’m with
you’ replies Adèle.
Things don’t stay happy forever;
Emma reverts back to her natural
blonde locks, reflecting the shifting
nature of the relationship, and to-
wards the last 40 minutes of the film,
Exarchopoulos’ performance becomes
a visceral tour de force; heartbroken,
tears and snot stream down her face,
which displays every flicker of emo-
tion. Exarchopoulos, along with Sey-
doux, are both incredibly gifted ac-
tors, and their magnetic presence on
screen propel this journey to its final
Blue is the Warmest
Colour
Director: Abdellatif Kechiche
Writers: Julie Maroh (comic),
Abdellatif Kechiche, Abdellatif
Kechiche, Ghalia Lacroix
Starring: Adèle Exarchopoulos, Léa
Seydoux
Runtime: 179 minutes
Certification: 18
Fred Fyles
Writer
destination.
A gifted director. Incredible leading
roles. A hint of controversy. It all adds
up to a blisteringly emotional epic,
that was a worthy winner at Cannes.
Passionate, ground-breaking, and
beautiful, Blue is the Warmest Colour
is most certainly one of the best films
of the festival.

