24 FRIDAY 25 OCT
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Liz & Dick
Liz Taylor and Dick Bu
John Park Television Editor
They first meet on the set of Cleopatra,
where the married Dick (Grant Bowl-
er) tries to pass the married Liz (Lind-
say Lohan) a flirty compliment based
on her ravishing looks. But this in-
stead backfires and the pair are off to
a rocky start. She thinks he’s a snobby
English man who looks down on all
things American and female, he thinks
she’s a young American bimbo who
doesn’t know a thing about the acting
process. But it would appear that op-
posites attract and soon they become
an inseparable item. Their whirlwind
affair becomes a worldwide sensation,
with even the Vatican catching a whiff
of their forbidden love affair and con-
demning their “erotic vagrancy” since
they were both married.
Alcohol and addiciton also play a
central role in the couple’s dynamic.
The two of them love their drinks, and
hardly a day goes by when they don’t
pour themselves whiskey or vodka
in large glasses that they proceed to
down in one gulp.
How Lifetime managed to pro-
duce such a bland, clunky dramatic
portrayal of one of the most famous
couples in the planet is atrociously
appalling. The casting directors (yes,
there were more than one getting paid
to work on this department) must all
have been possessed or on something
when they decided to offer Lohan the
part. Lohan is not as bad an actress as
everyone may think she is, but that
doesn’t mean she can handle the role
of an acting legend. And it’s her per-
formance at the heart of the film that
completely falls to pieces. A lot of
people were shocked when they heard
the news of Lohan’s casting - and they
were right to be.
It looks as though she’s not even
trying; she huffs and puffs through
her dialogue as if reciting every word
on her script without really under-
standing what is happening around
her, and she doesn’t even come close
to embodying Taylor. The make-up,
hair and costume departments have
all done wonders here, trying to rep-
licate Taylor’s exact, iconic looks, but
the woman wearing the dresses, the
jewellery, the wigs, is simply not up
for the challenge. One particularly
memorable moment of unintentional
hilarity is Lohan’s Taylor’s reaction to
the news of Richard Burton’s sudden
death. It’s so amateurish that this is the
comedic highlight of the film. Lohan
trying to somehow act out the role of
Martha in Taylor’s most famous film
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? is one
hideously offensive tribute moment
that more than taints the excellent
film’s legacy. It feels as though Lohan
is performing a half-hearted comedic
sketch - a parody of Elizabeth Taylor
which is supposed to be funny.
Grant Bowler fares better in com-
parison, and it’s only him who walks
away with some level of dignity intact.
The volatile, alcoholic Burton is enter-
taining to watch at times, but even he
can’t salvage this near 90-minute or-
deal that sets out to do far more than
what it can actually handle.
The film attempts to squeeze in as
many events as possible. First the
meeting, all the way up to Richard
Burton’s death; that’s around 20 years
of content, a hefty number of events as
the lovers went back and forth, went
through two marriages, and a host of
different lovers. Liz & Dick stretches
itself too thin, and never explores the
juicy drama any further than stating
some vague facts about the charac-
ters hoping the audience will catch up
on their lives through the many time
jumps.
It has a thing or two to say about the
life of a celebrity; at the centre of the
constant spotlight of the world’s at-
tention, it’s difficult to lead a normal
life, and privacy is a luxury you can’t
afford. The paparazzi are relentless in
their pursuit of their snaps, although
Lohan struggles to show even a hint of
anger or frustration at this which isn’t
all that surprising given the long list of
what the actress has not been able to
do in the rest of the film.
The presentation in a way that in-
terchanges between moving forward
with the main story, and one that finds
us in a dimly-lit interview room where
Taylor and Burton are interviewed in
a bizarre, fictional afterlife-type set-
ting as they look back on their history,
is one that is confused and requires
Lohan to speak more than necessary.
They reflect on their actions, explain
themselves, and it’s clear the point of
such segments was to provide some
sort of psychological insight into their
behaviour and decisions. And yet
this approach tediously slows down
the film considerably, and it’s not as
though what they have to share di-
rectly with the audience is anything
ground-breaking.
Here is something that will no doubt
give you a good laugh, almost all of
it stemming from Lohan’s god-awful
portrayal of a two-time Oscar winner.

