25
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 25 OCT
TELEVISION
urton: their love affair
John Park Television Editor
Burton & Taylor
Already twice married and divorced,
this doesn’t exactly scream the best
match made in heaven and yet Eliza-
beth Taylor (Helena Bonham Carter)
is eager for her and her ex-husband
Richard Burton (Dominic West) to
take on a stage play together; Noel
Coward’s Private Lives. The news of
their upcoming reunion naturally
sends the media into a frenzy, and an-
ticipation is running high for what is
to become the theatre-going event of a
lifetime. The ticket prices are of course
on the pricey side, but no matter, since
this is Burton and Taylor, a legendary,
unmatchable pairing famous both for
their professional careers as well as
their tempestuous personal lives. The
performances sell out, and the pres-
sure is on to put on an outstanding
show to do their names justice.
What Lifetime couldn’t do, BBC
could, and from the get-go you can tell
this is going to be a wholly different,
much better film about the Hollywood
couple.
Comparing Helena Bonham Carter
to Lindsay Lohan in an insult in itself,
and it’s no surprise to see that Carter
is a much better Elizabeth Taylor than
Lohan can ever dream of being. She
walks and talks with charisma and
confidence, in her care-free, diva-like
attitude towards work: she doesn’t
even read the play before rehearsals
as she wants to keep things fresh and
original. She doesn’t know her lines,
her cues, and therefore the rehearsals
take absolutely forever to complete.
This of course, does not sit well with
Burton, who has a much more rigid,
thorough process, a meticulous per-
fectionist especially when it comes to
performing live on stage in front of his
many admirers.
West, although looking a lot health-
ier than Burton did during that time
period, is still a brutish acting force
who cannot be ignored. He is stern
and deadly serious throughout, of-
fering a volatile contrast to Carter’s
role, and it’s their fiery chemistry that
makes this instantly watchable. He
looks older and considerably weaker,
and references to his physical in-
jury as well as his past of alcoholism
help shape him as a damaged but still
proud man.
Cracks that begin to show during
the rehearsals (with Taylor turning
up drunk, drugged and utterly unpre-
pared for the whole thing), take a turn
for the worse when the play actually
gets going. All that Taylor needs to do
for a round of rousing applause from
the audience is to simply show up on
stage. No need to speak the lines, no
need to do anything, all she has to do
is to exist. Burton however, doesn’t
quite receive that same treatment.
Does this spark jealousy? Of sorts. Al-
though Burton’s pride gets in the way
of making his feelings known, West
certainly lets us know that this both-
ers him.
Getting into fights and making up
soon afterwards is a repetitive cy-
cle they go through again and again,
which provide some fine entertain-
ment as the two of them really go at
each other, both verbally and in her
case, physically too. But behind all the
harsh words and raised volume, there
is a sense that the two have never re-
ally fallen out of love. They are initially
reunited purely on a professional level,
but as time passes by their mutual at-
traction becomes difficult to ignore
outright.
Taylor is more actively in pursuit
of romance than Burton, who at this
point in life is happily married to Sally.
Burton lets her know this, which nat-
urally breaks her heart. Here Carter’s
performance reaches new heights as
she struggles to come to terms with
having to move on with her life. Carter
is hugely effective, and even for those
who disapprove of a woman chasing
a married man, there is an element of
profound sadness and regret that is
captured so brilliantly by the English
actress.
The constantly evolving character
study is one that grips and never lets
go. Even in its short running time
(only 82 minutes in length) the film
packs in so much dramatic force that
you sometimes wish perhaps the film
could have been longer as Carter and
West are endlessly enjoyable to watch.
By focusing solely on the relatively
short time span of the production
history of the play, the writers have
room to delve deep into the complex
characters. Past mistakes and troubles
are referred to, which give us a more
satisfying, rounded picture of the cou-
ple; mixing the happy memories of
their magical past that can never be
recaptured, as well as looking ahead
to the emptier, more bleak future also
relating this to their declining health,
ending on a very bittersweet note that
asks the audience to care and empa-
thise with a couple who probably will
have no realistic long-term prospects.
It’s an endearing, memorable little
television film, one that benefits enor-
mously from the gifted cast playing
gifted actors.

