26 FRIDAY 25 OCT
TELEVISION
Editors: John Park,
Emily Fulham
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Television Editor
Something Creepy This Way Comes
Sleepy Hollow is the latest apocalyptic show to take the US by storm
Emily Fulham
With Halloween only a week away,
‘tis the season to carve pumpkins and
watch something spooky. One new
show that ﬁts the bill is Sleepy Hollow,
one of the US’s new autumn shows, the
ﬁrst episode of which was shown last
week on Universal. Whilst the show
isn’t directly related to the ﬁlm of the
same name featuring Johnny Depp,
both are based oﬀ the folktale written
by American author Washington
Irving, The Legend of Sleepy Hollow,
which narrates the story of the ill-fated
Ichabod Crane and his encounter with
the Headless Horseman.
The story has been adapted and
reinterpreted many times, but the
latest version, created by two of the
writers of the rebooted Star Trek ﬁlms
breathes fresh life into the tale by
transporting it to modern times and
adding a biblical twist. Here, Ichabod
Crane, a soldier in the American
Revolutionary War and acquaintance
of a pre-presidential General
George Washington, is killed after
decapitating the Headless Horseman.
Placed under a spell, he reawakens in
the present day, to ﬁnd the Horseman
returned and chopping oﬀ heads left
right and centre. If that’s not bad
enough, it turns out the Horseman
is only one of the Four Horsemen,
harbingers of the Apocalypse.
Ichabod is discovered by Lieutenant
Abbie Mills, a police oﬃcer whose
mentor, the Sheriﬀ of the town,
is one of the ﬁrst victims of the
Horseman. Although skeptical at
ﬁrst of Ichabod’s explanation of time-
travel and witchcraft, Abbie has some
of her own previous experiences with
unexplained phenomena, and the two
team up to investigate.
It’s early days yet for the show, but
the ﬁrst episode puts it oﬀ to
a promising start. One of the
highlights so far is Ichabod’s attempts
to familiarise himself with the
diﬀerences between 1781 and the
present; such as electric car windows
and the ubiquity of Starbucks. And
although his and Abbie’s relationship
gets oﬀ to a somewhat rocky start
when he politely inquires as to
whether she’s been emancipated
(Abbie being African-American), the
pair make a good couple, with Abbie’s
no-nonsense attitude balancing out
Ichabod’s earnest naivety. There’s also
a refreshing lack of sexual tension
between the two, in spite of the best
attempts of Ichabod’s hair, which
handsomely blows around his face,
wind-tunnel like, in every scene.
With a second series already
commissioned in the US, may be worth
getting into.At the very least, the choice
of song for the end of the pilot episode
- appropriately, Johnny Cash’s The Man
Comes Around - proves the show has
good taste. Here’s hoping that there’s
even better yet to come.
Sleepy Hollow is currently airing on
the Universal Channel.
Five suggestions for TV-themed Halloween Costumes
The days of cutting eye holes in a bedsheet are long gone, we’re afraid: you’re nobody unless you’re wearing a culturally signiﬁcant, ironically cool get-up that’s been weeks in the making. No need to panic,
though, we’ve got you covered: here’s ﬁve suggestions that require little eﬀort, yet will get you your pick of the fun-size Mars bars.
Daenerys Targaryon
(Game of Thrones)
Stick on a blonde wig and smudge
dirt on your face. Don’t worry if you
don’t have dragons to complete the
costume; it’ll add to the authenticity
when you knock on your neighbours’
door screaming, “Where are my
dragons??”
Tobias Fünke (Arrested
Development)
Who better to go as than the world’s
ﬁrst ‘Analrapist’? All you need is blue
paint and a fake ‘tache. Just don’t
forget the denim cut-oﬀs or you get
might get a bit chilly (and scare any
children).
Ruby Tandoh
(Great British Bake Off)
Just add an over-sized cardie, denim
jacket, and an air of self-deprecating
anxiety. If anyone compliments you on
your costume, shrug your shoulders
and tell them you thought it’d come
out a bit shit, to be honest.
Anyone from Made in
Chelsea
Pull on your ﬁnest red Jack Wills
trousers, get yourself a goatee, slap
on the fake tan, and you’re good to
go. Now go back upstairs and get
changed; even Halloween isn’t worth
looking like that much of a tosser.
Walter White
(Breaking Bad)
You’ll never look as good as this baby,
but that’s not to stop you from trying.
Everyone’s favourite meth dealer
is easy enough to impersonate: key
components are a bad ass hat and
menacing stare (the meth is optional).
Emily Fulham offers some novel dress-up ideas this year

