27
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 25 OCT
TECHNOLOGY
Cyber black market is no more
Osama Awara
Technology Editor
K
nown and loved by
its many users and
advocates as the Silk
Road Marketplace, this
underground website
dubbed as the ‘amazon.com’ and
‘e-bay’ of illegal drugs has oﬃcially
been shut down by the FBI. Seizing
what is believed to be $3.6 million
dollars in bitcoins, a small fraction
of their $80 million proﬁts, during
the online raid, the FBI also managed
to claim hold of the sites ‘digital
wallets’, used to store some of the
marketplace’s virtual assets.
Claiming its name from the ancient
trade route connecting Europe,
China, and India through the
lucrative silk merchandise bought
and sold along its length, this site
mainly involves the trade of a wide
variety of narcotics. Other goods
and services were also oﬀered, such
as forgeries and the more extreme -
assassination services.
The alleged founder and owner of
the site, Ross William Ulbricht, 29,
was arrested by the FBI, convicted
of narcotics traﬃcking, computer
hacking and money laundering
conspiracies.
Ulbricht, who goes by his online
alias of ‘Dread Pirate Roberts’, or
DPR, a ﬁctional character from The
Princess Bride novel, will soon be
heading to New York to face these
allegations.
Amongst his charges, it was
also stated that the website was
generating 9.5 million bitcoins in
sales, an equivalence of $1.2 billion.
Despite this being one of the feds
largest online bitcoin conﬁscations,
they were still unable to seize
Ulbricht’s own personal stash of $80
million.
A bitcoin, being a very volatile
currency, requires a personal
password for transactions of it to be
made; unless Ulbricht hands over his
password to the feds, he may still be
able to keep a hold of his wealth even
if found guilty of all the charges.
Ulbricht, who studied Chemical
Engineering and is an advocate of
libertarian economics, was what
seemed to be a smart, charismatic
person with a bright future ahead
of him, as his mother, Lyn Lacava
describes. “He is a really stellar, good
person and very idealistic. I know he
never meant to hurt anyone”.
However, his online activities
seemed to portray a darker side to
him. If you can go so far as to excuse
Ulbricht for setting up this ‘grand
bazaar’ in the name of free trade
and personal freedoms, it is more
diﬃcult to look past his calling upon
the assassination of a Silk Road user
with whom he had a dispute with.
The user, known as ‘FriendlyChemist’,
was accused by the founder of
blackmailing to reveal the indentities
of thousands of other Silk Road users
unless he was paid. This threat being
inexcusable to ‘Dread Pirate Roberts’
lead him to call upon the death of his
online counterpart,
In a later post to justify his hit
request, Ulbricht stated, “He is
threatening to expose the identities
of thousands of my clients. This
kind of behaviour is unforgivable
to me. Especially here on Silk Road,
anonymity is sacrosanct”.
It’s not just ‘Dread Pirate Roberts’
who seemed to have a ‘righteous’ fury
over any transgressors of the sanctity
of Silk Road. Other regular users,
who used this utility on a regular
basis, but found that they could no
longer have drugs and other illegal
goods delivered to their door like
groceries are calling for revenge.
After the shutdown of this ‘sacred’
service, their chief target is special
agent Chris Tarbell – one of the
key FBI oﬃcials responsible for the
tracking down and closure of Silk
Road.
On rendezvous forums across
the web, Silk Road users have been
posting the home address of Tarbell
with the hope of swift vengeance. As
one user, ‘MendoHashMan,’ wrote, “I
think there should be a public list of
all agents involved, names, addresses,
pictures, family info, just make it
known that we know.’
Clearly with the shutting down
of Silk Road widespread anger has
spread across its community. This is
not the ﬁrst time the US government
has shut down illegal websites and
arrested its founders, only to ﬁnd the
same or similar sites springing up
again, but under diﬀerent domains.
Whether there is any point or not
in trying to contain the internet, it
is evident that people cherish their
sense of online community whether
it be through innocent online games
such as World of Warcraft, or more
sinister drug dealing services such as
Silk Road, and hence would not allow
their fraternities to simply crumble
even if they may have to face the full
force of their governments. As one of
Silk Road’s moderators, Cirrus, put
it, ‘We must stand on the shoulders
of this tragedy that has befallen us
and raise high what still remains - our
sense of community, freedom and
justice. No doubt we will all regroup
elsewhere, and I look forward to
seeing all of you again, still free and
still engaging in free trade without
government interference into your
personal aﬀairs.’
The News Bubble
Maximilian Eggl
Yong Wen Chua
Osama Awara
Technology Editors
General news from around the tech world, so you can keep up to
datewiththenewest,wierdestandmostfuturisticthingsaround.
Windows 8.1
Appleʼs newest keynote
On Tuesday Apple released its newest iPad, the iPad Air. While this
name has been bandied about the internet for a while, its appearance at
this time is a bit surprising. The product itself seems quite solid, and is
surely one of the top devices available. The iPad mini also got an update,
now sporting a retina display and updated inside. The most surprising
thing of the keynote was the fact that Mavericks will now be free! This is
great news and should really be taken advantage of!
So. The newest update to the world’s most “modern” operating system
has arrrived. While it does not really add or implement any fundamental
changes, it does concede a point to the public by returning the start
button to the desktop interface. However, even this button does not really
do much, as its basic function is just to bring the user back to the metro
interface. In a further blow to Microsoft’s RT OS, it seems the update has
completely messed it up. In fact, with the update installed, users have
reported that they cannot even turn on their devices.While this may not
really aﬀect that many users, it does add an extra nail to the OS’s coﬃn.
Check out QCraft!
Google’s Quantum AI Lab Team have developed a wierd yet totally
interesting mod for minecraft! Called QCraft it incorporates all the
phenomenma normally seen in Quantum Mechanics (e.g. superposition).

