32 FRIDAY 25 OCT
CLUBS & SOCS
Malala
Ben Fernando
Charity Editor
MALALAYOUSAFZAIiswithoutadoubtthe
hottest name in International Development
at the moment. Nominated for the Nobel Peace
Prize at the age of 16 and named as one of the
100 most inﬂuential people in the World this
year. So I went along to a talk she was doing at
the Southbank Centre to ﬁnd out more about her
work, not only out of curiosity but also because
I suspected that she had a few tips for those of
us like me who are very interested in helping
developing countries, but are often without the
platform to do so.
She arrived on the stage as a small and
unimposing ﬁgure, in stark contrast to the
ﬂamboyant and verbose question master who
preceded her. As the questioner chatted away,
she quietly adjusted her headscarf until the time
came to respond to a question about how she got
involved in her cause and why it was so important.
Malala’sresponsebeganwithaquickexplanation
of why she thought that it was so important to
educate the uneducated children, especially
girls, all over the world. The UN set as one of its
Millennium Development Goals the promise that
all children would have the right to an education.
In this respect they have utterly failed, with over
50 million children worldwide still without the
most basic standards of primary education. She
challenged this failure, bringing out a key point
that others either choose to ignore or bury under
strange statistics. For this, the audience could not
help but admire her courage, demonstrated by the
frequent applause.
Her solution was that instead of trying to ﬁnd
a way around the cultural sensitivities from the
outside, as the UN does, that we should try and
encourage people like her to change the cultural
sensitivities from within. Although it would have
been scandalous for an outsider to suggest that
there are outdated views in the world that need
to be done away with, I found that her suggestion
was really something that I had felt for a long
time, and I suspect I am not alone in that opinion.
Her ﬁnal point came to discussing how we in
the West who wanted to make diﬀerence could.
On this point she made mention of what we might
term the ‘haters’ – people who are opposed to
development of the third world, people that those
of us involved in not-for-proﬁt work are all too
familiar with. I have often wondered how to deal
with them, as at times it often seems too much
to put up with. Her acceptance of their opinions
and their refusal to believe her story or support
her work and to not let it get to her were rather
amazing, especially given how much she’s gone
through.
By the end of the hour I was really quite amazed
at what I had heard. I went in to the hall expecting
a slightly media-hyped girl with an interesting
story who had done some good work, and came
out amazed at how passionately and well she
delivered her points. It will be interesting to see
how things progress, and whether she manages
to follow through on her promises to make a
diﬀerence.
To the Power of Ten:
Charity Week is back!
Hannah Janebdar
Jawaad Farooq & Hazem El-Turk
T
his year Imperial Hub is hosting
an exciting fortnightly series of
interactive talks kicking oﬀ on
the 31st of October at 6:00pm in
Huxley LT 144 with an insight
into the very big issue of Social Isolation in
London and ways of combatting it. With
our much awaited talk on Humanitarian Aid
in Syria by Louay El-Adeb from Syria Relief
taking place on November 7th.
Londoners are infamous for their cold
indiﬀerence but social isolation in London
is even more prevalent than commonly
perceived and isn’t just an aﬄiction of
the elderly, it aﬀects a wealth of diﬀerent
people including students. Helping tackle
loneliness and social isolation therefore
is one of the aims of Imperial Hub’s Local
Action Committee who have organised
the ﬁrst event in The Series’ line up. The
workshop will inform students of the issue
and the projects that already exist within
and without the college to combat social
isolation.
Going from the local to the global, in
true Hub style, the second talk of The
Series is from Imperial Hub’s International
Development Committee, focusing on
humanitarian aid in Syria, a country in
the midst of one of its most trying times
in history. The talk will be given by Syria
Relief’s Louay El Adeb who will provide
an insight into the key issues on the topic
before opening the ﬂoor to questions for
discussion.
The Series is here to promote student
awareness of current social, ethical and
environmental issues across Imperial Hub’s
seven action branches. For any student
who has ever wanted to know more or do
more to make a positive social impact and
help shape a better world, The Series is the
perfect springboard.
The Imperial Series
Charity Week oﬃcially starts this Saturday
26th, it’s a week that will leave you with
some of your fondest memories of your
time at Imperial, as well as many lifelong
friendships.
It really says it all in the name. Charity
Week (CW) is a week of student led non-stop
action to help raise money for orphans and
needy children worldwide. This campaign is
organised by the Islamic Society (ISoc) and
is conducted in partnership with the UK
based charity Islamic relief, a global disaster
relief charity that is part of the national DEC
(Disasters Emergency Committee).
In 2012, we the students at Imperial
managed to raise a humongous £47,478, all
with your help! This was more than 10% of
the national total (over 100 institutions!),
who raised a collective £448,401!
Sowhereexactlydidthemoneygolastyear?
Firstly, the decision was made collectively by
us – the students. In 2012, it was estimated
that 62,576 children in the Gaza Strip had
their futures reduced to literal rubble with
damage to schools there. £154,500 was
therefore allocated to rebuilding six schools
in that region, which enabled the educating
of over 4,500 children, who can now look
forward to brighter futures. Furthermore,
with the Syrian civil war taking its toll on
tens of thousands of children (leading the
UN to declare it as the ‘worst humanitarian
crisis of the century’), psychological and
educational support worth £74,400 was
duly allocated here. And these are just
two examples. Orphan sponsorship and
healthcare initiatives were also established
in many other countries, including Kosovo,
Sri Lanka, Afghanistan, China and Pakistan.
But that was 2012. This is 2013.
So what’s on? Street/ tube collections,
a ‘Battle of the Societies’ Quiz Night (get
your teams in before Sunday!), ‘Mid-week
Madness’ sponsorship night, mountain
climbing, bungee jumping, cycle riding,
assault courses and sky diving. The annual
‘Smoky not Smudgy’ women’s pampering
day is also back, promising to be bigger and
better this year. All of this, plus much more!
The highlight of the week will be the Charity
Dinner on Thursday 31st October, held in
the prestigious Porchester Hall this year,
which will have many inspiring speakers
attending, as well as our legendary charity
auction (which can see cakes go for over
£1,000!).
So come and join us, sponsor an event,
volunteer at a stall, run 5k for charity or test
your wits in a sky dive! Check out the oﬃcial
Imperial Charity Week Facebook page for
events and dates, ﬁnd us on Twitter for
regular updates, and don’t forget to buy your
tickets for the Dinner at the union website!
Contact Sarim to see how you can get
involved (ss9111@ic.ac.uk).
Writer
“£154,500
was therefore
allocated to
rebuilding six
schools in that
region, which
enabled the
educating of over
4,500 children,
who can now
look forward to
brighter futures.”

