37
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 25 OCT
SPORT
Imperial Recover From Draw to Thump Medics
Omar Amjad gives his account as Imperialʼs 1st XI show ﬁne early season form.
I
t’s back. Children have been seen
running around schoolyards
in their new ‘Murphy’ jerseys.
Indeed even some with ‘Diaz
Rios’ on their backs, showing
how the silkily skilled Spanish wonder
kid has already endeared himself to the
Imperial fan base. Women have been
seen frenzied outside Harlington,
trying to catch a glimpse of or maybe
even touch the midﬁeld hunks Alex
Dale and Tim ‘Smithy’ Beasley, though
it must be mentioned that their most
vociferous admirers seem to be each
other’s mothers. Grown men have
already told their wives that they are
busy henceforth on both Wednesdays
and Saturdays; tackles from Hill and
goals from captain Robinson can’t be
missed. Finally, after the 6 tortuous
months of absence, Imperial football
is back. All is right in the world again.
After Imperial 1s’ high-ﬂying season
(though most games were travelled
to by bus), media expectations were
high of the possibility of more success,
although the team’s detractors would
be quick to point out that this is due
to Felix articles being written by
membersoftheteam.However,having
been promoted to a new division and
with the loss of both great players
and inappropriate and oddly-timed
nudity from the locker room, there
were legitimate questions as to how
the squad would cope in the loftier
echelons of university football. Thus
far, those concerns appear unfounded.
Last Wednesday, the team headed
down to Canterbury to face CCCU,
who had been relegated to our division
recently, though their relegation to
the bottom of university league tables
happened a while ago. Avid readers
of 1s match reports may remember
the Odyssey that the team embarked
on to reach Canterbury. This time,
however, thanks to the skilled driving
of Robinson and the swag-ﬁlled
playlist provided by full-time DJ and
part-time midﬁelder John Crawford,
we got there in a reasonable amount
of time. Upon arrival in Canterbury,
Robinson decided that we had made
it in suﬃcient time to enjoy the
scenery, and took us for a pleasant
drive through the ﬁelds of Kent.
Whilst it was well-meant, it was eerily
reminiscent of Jeepers Creepers II,
and we were all glad when the cultural
tour of Kent ended.
UponarrivalatthemuddybogCCCU
call their home (#fortressSwamp),
the team readied themselves for a
challenge. The cones were put out,
and everyone concentrated on the
task at hand. Even Murphy, our
resident David Attenborough, was too
excited to talk about or study the local
ﬂora and fauna, which had previously
so enthralled him. A rousing speech
by Robinson left the team weeping in
tears at its Chaucer-esque brilliance,
with some calling for its addition to
the 14th century masterpiece that is
The Canterbury Tales. After that, we
played football.
The ﬁrst twenty minutes was an
exhibition of brilliance for Imperial.
The midﬁelders Kola (can’t spell
his surname), Crawford and the
talismanic ‘Smithy’ controlled the
tempo of the game, oﬀering options
to the ever-present wingers Dale
and Murphy. The full-backs Nugent
and Nielsen pushed up, and the
interplay between these seven was
orgasmic; indeed some of the CCCU
cheerleaders (you read right – there
were cheerleaders) were seen visibly
weak at the knees, though that could
have been due to their proximity to
Dale, whose name so amused the
opposing full-back marking him.
Imperial seemed fully in control,
enjoying the majority of possession,
with the ball never seemingly never
leaving the opposition’s half. Then
disaster struck. A miscommunication
by Keeper Owen during a CCCU foray
into our half allowed the opposition’s
striker to nip in and score a well
ﬁnished header. Suddenly we were 1-0
down. Imperial were slightly deﬂated,
and the match became much more
balanced. The half continued fairly
uneventfully, typical mesmerizing
runs by Murphy and Dale aside.
Defensively, the team was solid and
largely unthreatened, and was led by
the brilliant play of (reluctant) centre-
back Johnny Hill.
The second half started well,
overlapping runs from deep
supported by Nielsen and Nugent
were dangerous and applied constant
pressure to the opposition’s defence.
A beautiful free kick whipped in
by Murphy found an anonymous
Imperial centre-back who ran from
deep and headed it under the keeper
and into the net. The cheers of joy at
having equalised were swiftly ended
by the piercing sound of the ref’s
whistle calling for oﬀside. Annoyance
caused more pressure to be mounted:
Robinson, hot oﬀ 4 goals in 20
minutes in the pre-season mauling of
UCL 2s (see the coroner’s report last
week), had a series of half chances and
caused more problems for the defence
than they had encountered with basic
literacy tests, but frustratingly never
quite had a quality opportunity to
score. Murphy had a few cracks on
goal, including a tantalisingly close
opportunity almost latching on to a
long ball one-on-one with the keeper.
Then, ﬁnally, we equalised. There is
disagreement over the nature of the
goal. One person claims to have made
a 60 yard marauding run from centre-
back shifting and turning like Ahmed
Cherif before curling it delicately into
the bottom of the net. Everyone else
maintains the ball was fumbled around
in the 6-yard box, before being laid oﬀ
by Robinson to the aforementioned
anonymous centre-back who stroked
it into the goal with what may have
been actually his ﬁrst touch. Despite
this controversy, the ball went over
the line and, to paraphrase Orwell, all
goals are created equal.
At 1-1 Imperial controlled the
game, rarely looking under threat.
However, not enough pressure was
mounted to score again, and Imperial
had to make do with a draw. The pain
of not winning a match we dominated
was oﬀset by the joys of watching
German debutant Max ‘friends with
Marius’ do countless step overs, often
with nobody close to him, sometimes
even without the ball during the last
15 or so minutes of play. However,
Imperial’s strong showing proved that
we are a force to be reckoned with in
this league and, to quote what Chris
Nielsen heard from the opposition
in the showers, we’ll ‘be up there at
the end of the season’. These kind
words were despite the acrimonious
relationship developed between the
sides during the game. Robinson and
Crawford were embroiled in some
rather nasty name calling with one
member of the opposition, including
deep-cutting insults such as ‘you
aren’t very good’ or ‘you’re ugly’.
Indeed some eﬀeminate pushing and
shoving was also observed. Man of the
match went to Hill for his tenacious
and controlling display, redemption
after the red card he received
against CCCU last year. (Completely
unsubstantiated) Rumour has it that
Robinson is considering making Hill’s
move to centre-back permanent.
Next was Saturday, where Imperial
faced their rivals, the Medics.
Rivalries are meant for teams of equal
stature and hostile relationships. The
game proved to have neither of the
prerequisites required to fulﬁl the
deﬁnition of a rivalry, as the tone of
the match was good natured and
ICUAFC
continued on page 38 >>

