38 FRIDAY 25 OCT
SPORT Editor: Kunal Wagle
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
the result (SPOILER ALERT) was
emphatic; Imperial 1’s eased their way
to a 5-0 win. Thus some might argue
that there is no rivalry.
The pitch was slippery (#rain #3G
#FORTRESSH), limiting Imperial’s
ability to play their patented tiki-
taka brand of football as the ball ﬂew
around the pitch like Drosophilae on
cocaine. To their credit, the Medics
battled hard, ﬂying into challenges
with courage and desire. Conversely,
the line of the Hippocratic Oath
‘I will prescribe regimens for the
good of my patients according to my
ability and my judgment and never
do harm to anyone’ was broken
countless times by dangerous late
challenges and unsolicited oﬀers to
provide prescription drugs at ‘great
prices.’ Imperial were slow to start,
but conﬁdence exuded from the back,
with new keeper Michael barking
orders with the dulcet tones only a
Norwegian can muster. Though called
upon rarely, he made some big saves
and had a fantastic debut for the
club. Steadily Imperial 1s began to
look sharper. Finally the deadlock was
broken. A cross from the right found
Murphy inside the corner of the box,
who using his spidey-sense noticed
the keeper rushing out towards him,
and duly controlled the ball and ﬂicked
an aerial square ball to Robinson who
headed it over a defender and in from
just inside the box to score a goal
some are calling a frontrunner for
goal of the season. It was downhill
for the Medics after that, as goals
fell like dominoes. A free kick some
35 yards out was speculatively lofted
towards the far post, and the Medic’s
keeper kindly decided to fumble the
ball into his own net. It was 2-0 to the
Imperial 1s. Next an overlapping run
by Nielsen culminated in a marvellous
cross to which Robinson elevated at
least 5 metres (give or take) to reach
and headed the ball into the net. The
4th goal was spectacular. Full-back
Nugent, taking time out of his busy
schedule of telling crude/sex related
jokes, made a dazzling run, and
curled the ball from left of the goal
into the right panel. It was a thing of
pure beauty. Finally, to add insult to
injury, Murphy threaded a delightful
(I’m running out of adjectives) ball
between 2 defenders and the keeper
to the back post to ﬁnd an unmarked
Robinson, who SMASHED (his words
not mine) the ball in to score a late
5th and complete his hat trick. This
performance won him Man of the
Match to the delight of many fantasy
football managers. The Medics played
well and should be commended for
their resilience and fortitude; indeed,
they came close a couple of times
and should be proud of the way they
played if not the score. However, the
result was comprehensive and the
Medics came away worse for wear,
prompting the some onlookers to call
for a doctor to treat Medic’s players
for both trauma and shock, as they
were in no state to do so themselves.
Imperial 4th ‘s Put Six Past Greenwich
On the morning of the 16th October
2013, The Force (a.k.a The 4s) readied
themselves for D-Day, landing on the
shores of the Thames for the opening
match of the season: Greenwich away.
After a 12:00 meet at the “Sir Alex
Ferguson” building, we bundled in
for the short minibus journey 16
miles across London for our ﬁrst lo-
cal derby. 2 bustlingly bumpy hours
later (at a startling average speed of
8mph) we arrived. Traﬃc-wearied, we
stumbled into the changing rooms:
the horns and beeps and scorns and
squeaks of the grizzly London traﬃc
still hazing our minds, still disgruntled
at the irony of a ﬁre brigade holding
us up by marching on strike on such a
glum, wet day. After scandalously be-
ing made to pay for parking (SCAFFS),
we frantically scattered onto the pitch
without a warm up, and almost with-
out warning, the referee whistled for
kick oﬀ. It’s safe to say at this point,
there were no smiles.
There was great irony then, as it
turned out that not only could we have
run — or at least cycled — to Green-
wich as our warm up (instead of doing
the long minibus journey which made
us miss the warm up), but in the end,
the actual match itself proved to be a
better warm up than we could have
hoped for! (All oﬀence to Greenwich
completely intended).
With the match in progress, some
unoiled rusty cobwebs were evident
as the team found its collective touch.
Then, the midﬁeld trio of Schön,
Rowett and Iacoponi (read as Bus-
quets, Xavi, and Fábregas) began to
settle and dictate as simple passing
opened up tunnels of space for the
eﬀective wingers Bruno Howard and
Smiles Chrisanta to ﬂy into, generat-
ing hefty shots on target and making
the Greenwich defence look appropri-
ately green in their defending.
Some tension built as the crucial
breakthrough hadn’t yet come, whilst
a slick wet surface caused some near-
blunders as our defence was caught
cold. Crucially, newly-recruited keep-
er Sam O’Neil (with our ﬁrst choice
Sanjiv seized by the 3s…) stepped up
Julian Iacoponi describes the action as Imperial stroll to victory
with some key sweeper-keeper plays,
giving us the chance to ﬁnally capital-
ise on our dominance at the other end,
with Smiles converting a swish team
move with a swish ﬁnish to match.
A second quickly followed, coming
again from Smiles: the best ﬁnd in the
Asian transfer market this summer.
Unfortunately the Greenwich keeper,
who had up to this stage proved their
most sturdy player swiping away some
substantial shots, was completely at
fault managing to fumble a slow chip-
shot-cum-pass back into his own net.
Two goals up and the tone of the
match set ﬁrm, the Greenwich fan
boys started to chirp up – one even
tried to bribe the Ref with a pint! But
our footballing prowess quietened
their rowdy hype. Half time was blown
— at a very abrupt time of 30 minutes
— with the game perfectly poised.
Would the mighty Force push on for a
convincing victory? Or was it going to
prove to be a game of 2 thirds?
Though the match was fairly
matched in the ﬁrst period, Green-
wich proved no match for our match-
box-loving Imperial 4s in the second.
Swapping on Naveen Ghulam for
the successful Smiles, some stellar
wing play led to several corners and
headed chances for that crucial 3-goal
cushion/pillow/beanbag/sofa. Henry
Rowett did the honour of securing
said padding with an edge-of-the-box
drive into the side netting, followed
shortly after by a cutting counterat-
tack move seeing Sam ‘Dzeko’ Duf-
ﬁeld slide it under the keeper for our
4th goal of the game.
The 5th goal was as comedic as it
was tragic: a perfectly weighted chip
from right-back Phil Gantner saw
Dzeko again through on goal, only this
time to be horribly chopped down by
the opposition centre-half. Penalty
duty – supposedly captain Schön’s do-
main – was undertaken by the in-form
goal-scoring centre-half in search for
his brace. A horriﬁc attempt at a pen-
alty ensued, followed only by a more
horriﬁc attempt at a parry from the
keeper, followed again by yet poorer
following in by the Greenwich de-
fence, followed by the yet-worse shin-
pad ﬁnish from Dzeko himself which
saw the ball dribble into the side net-
ting oﬀ another feeble attempted save
from the keeper. This goal put our vic-
tory beyond doubt, but in truth, foot-
ball was the loser here.
From then on, the Force divided and
conquered the game, with the last of
the goals coming from Marcello Vale-
rio slotting away a composed ﬁnish to
round oﬀ a comfortable win.
Noticeable eﬀort was shown from
Schön and Rowett in midﬁeld: the
latter of who, despite the 5 goal sur-
plus at the time, devoted a devastating
crunch of a tackle to the opposition
player, so eager was he not to lose any
50:50 challenges that day. Ankles are
a small price to pay for unwavering
commitment.
Other mentions go out to Inigo ‘In-
ya-go-son’ Torres and Phil Gantner
for providing solidity and creativity at
wingback, whilst Sander Van der Bie
and Chris Rochester anchored us well
at both ends of the pitch. Late in the
game Guy Frankel came on, reignit-
ing our attack and eﬀectively creating
chances for our forwards.
As tackles were getting more and
more reckless from the Greenwich
SCAFFS, the ﬁnal whistle was blown,
only for us to ﬁnd that at least 2 of
our balls had been stolen, the other
one having to be retrieved from the
SCAFFS possession at the end! We
even had to share a changing room…
A post-match MacDonald’s ensured
maximum team bonding over a victo-
ry that will serve as a conﬁdence boost
and set in motion a winning mentality
in this burgeoning and talented squad
of players. Peace out and Forza Fours!
Greenwich 0-6 Imperial College
Goals: Smiles Chrisanta x 2, Henry
Rowett, Sam Duﬃeld x 2, Marcello
Valerio
ICUAFC
ICUAFC
from page 37...
ICUAFC

