6 FRIDAY 25 OCT
Editors: Philippa Skett,
Keir Little, Fiona Hartley
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SCIENCE
STEFAN SEIP (TWAN)
Happy Felix Friday everybody. The week is nearly over and the weekend
looms. My favourite weekend activity is of course catching up on all of the
sleep that I feel like I missed over the week, so today’s page about slumber
was particularly interesting for me to put together. I’m disappointed to
ﬁnd that cheese keeps you awake rather than merely causing you to have
vivid dreams though, since I’m partial to a slice or four of cheese on toast
as a midnight snack.
But before we get distracted by the fascinating question of whether
eating Cheddar before bed makes you have nightmares, and the self-
experimentation that is bound to follow, let me talk about the waking
world. It must have seemed like a very bad dream to the US researchers
who were unable to continue their work throughout the duration of the
US government shutdown. Fortunately they are now able to get back into
their labs and begin the arduous process of getting back to normal, but for
many the consequences of those empty days won’t be apparent until later.
In more local news, citizen science is back in the spotlight, because the
conclusions from the BBC’s Stress Test have been released. You might
remember having taken the online test back in 2011. The BBC surveyed
over thirty thousand individuals with the test, and Professor Peter
Kinderman from the University of Liverpool published the ﬁndings from
the data collected in PLOS One (doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0076564).
It doesn’t come as a surprise to me that brooding is such a huge predictor
of common mental health issues suﬀered by the British public, such as
anxiety and depression. My own experiences certainly compel me to
agree. And it turns out that rumination – thinking too much – can be
even more harmful than blaming oneself for negative events that happen
in life.
Dr Ellie Pontin, a clinical psychologist also involved in the study, believes
there is a good message to be taken home from the results. Knowing
that your problems are not just down to factors you can’t alter is quite a
hopeful thought. Yes, it’s hard to change or be told that you should change
for your own beneﬁt, but at least you’re not doomed. It’s the message I’ll
be musing on if I ﬁnd myself thinking unhealthily.
T
he 16 day US government
shut-down ended last
week with an uneasy truce.
Obama’s refusal to accept
the House Republican’s
condition of delaying Obamacare led
to the closure of many federal science
institutions, painfully elucidating
the instability of government funded
science in America.
The full eﬀects of the shutdown on
the scientiﬁc community will perhaps
never be known. The tangential
investigations and light-bulb
moments of inspiration that bring
break-throughs require momentum,
and that has been lost. Overcoming
the inertia post shut-down will be
a long and diﬃcult process. But the
immediate impacts are obvious. Basic
lab operations in cancer research and
HIV were stopped and clinical trials
could not be initiated. The National
Institute of Health (NIH) were forced
to turn away around 200 patients a
week awaiting treatment, roughly 30
of whom were children. For those with
degenerative illnesses this delay could
cause irreparable damage. Specially
bred lab mice at the NIH needing
constant monitoring have died; these
unique strains will be expensive and
time-consuming to restart. NASA
could not undertake vital checks on
the new James Webb Space Telescope
which is set to replace Hubble, some
of which may never be completed
before launch. An environmental
programme in the Antarctic has
Scientists go back to work
Jamie Rickman on the impact of the US shutdown
missed a crucial research window; it’ll
have to wait another year.
Scientiﬁc research is never immune
to ill circumstance; faulty equipment
and bad conditions can similarly
disrupt progress, so one should
perhaps be wary of sensationalising
the lasting eﬀects of this moratorium.
But there is something deeply
unsettling in the balance of power
between scientists in the US and the
government who sign their checks.
75% of NIH employers were
sent home, or furloughed, with no
guarantee of back pay. A source
inside the NIH, warned against
speaking to the press, lamented the
demoralisation this caused in her lab
for those deemed ‘inessential’. For the
majority of workers on low pay and
10-12 hour days this kind of ﬁnancial
insecurity and lack of recognition is
untenable, forcing them to consider
ﬁnding work elsewhere. She explained
that her biggest frustration was that
she would rather have gone to work
without pay and continue research
than let her mice die. During the
1995 shutdown this was allowed,
while last week it was illegal to check
work emails let alone enter a lab. This
strange and obtuse piece of legislation
not only expresses a ﬂagrant
disregard for the value of science but
a fundamental misunderstanding
of the way it operates. When it did
enter the debate in Congress, the only
arguments that stood ground against
the tide of republican indiﬀerence
reduced science to a political asset;
the lost time could mean the US
losing its competitive edge over
China for example. In this landscape
of brinkmanship politics more
shut-downs are expected, and the
damaging eﬀects will be cumulative.
Some would say the future of federally
funded science in the US looks bleak.
T
he most distant example of
a gravitational lens has been
discovered by scientists in
Germany. The large galaxy,
9.4 billion light years away
from us, focuses light towards the
earth, like a sort of cosmic telescope,
enabling us to detect another smaller,
more distant galaxy that would
normally be too dim for us to pick
up. But the unexpected discovery of
this smaller galaxy has puzzled the
astronomers behind the research,
at the Max Planck Institute for
Astronomy in Heidelberg.
Gravitational lenses are a
phenomenon predicted by Albert
Einstein’s general theory of relativity,
which describes the way massive
objects change the shape of space and
time. When diﬀuse light from a far
away galaxy passes close to a large
object,thiscurvedspacetimecausesits
path to be bent, or lensed, and focused
onto a narrow path. Measurements of
the extent of this lensing can be used
to estimate the object’s mass, as the
heavier it is, the greater the eﬀect it
will have on nearby spacetime.
Using data from the Large Binocular
Telescope in Arizona, and the Hubble
space telescope, the astronomers at
the Max Planck Institute have broken
a 30 year record by discovering a
gravitational lens more than a billion
Most distant gravitational lens yet discovered
light years further away than the
most distant one previously known.
Through careful measurements, they
have estimated its mass at 8 x 1010
times the mass of our sun. This is an
important ﬁnding, as it enables them
to verify the more usual techniques
used to weigh very distant galaxies,
which are based on extrapolations
from nearer examples that we know
more about.
The images from Hubble showed
ETHAN GOOD
James Bezer
Science Writer
Amundsen-Scott south pole station, now under “caretaker status”
light from an even more distant
galaxy forming a full circle, called an
Einstein ring, around the nearer one
that caused the lensing. This is a sign
of very precise alignment between the
two galaxies and the earth, which is
very unusual. The more distant dwarf
galaxy, just a few tens of millions of
years old, and around 108 times the
mass of the sun, is a type that’s thought
to be very rare. Such a perfect example
of gravitational lensing involving one
should, therefore, be extremely rare.
Yet this is the second discovery in
recent years. It is as yet unknown
as to whether this is due to chance,
or if these galaxies are actually more
common than our current theories
would suggest. According to Arjen
van de Wel, head of the group, these
surprising observations “have the
potential to start a new chapter in our
description of galaxy evolution in the
early universe.”
NASA / ESA / A. VAN DER WEL. The Large Binocular Telescope, one of the worldʼs most advanced, saw ﬁrst light in 2005
Fiona’s science corner
Fiona Hartley Science Editor

