9
@feliximperial
FelixImperial
FRIDAY 25 OCT
COMMENT
Kelly-vison
With the unsurprising news that Higgs
and French physicist Englert were
awardedthe2013NobelPrizeinPhysics,
I feel that I can indulge in cross-subject
chauvinism. No other prizewinner
this year will be given for something
of such profound importance. The
most important Chemistry prize was
Rutherford... who was a physicist.
We need to think of the limitations of
these prizes. There’s the lack of gender
equity in awarding prizes unilaterally
beyond the sciences, keeping women
out for much of their history. Likewise
in literature, which recognised some
great female authors by the start of
the 20th century. The percentage of
women awarded the Nobel Prize in
Physics comes somewhere between
the percentage of women in parliament
in Oman and Yemen, the latter having
the dubious honour of being lowest in
the IPU’s list. I might suggest that the
visibility of women on the Nobel Prize
website does not function to ‘promote’
women. It covers up the Committee’s
past promotion of iniquity.
Physicists like to imagine that Physics
and politics are two separate worlds.
The inadequacy of this attitude became
clear to me upon visiting Hiroshima.
To tie the exalted heights of the
Nobel Prize to worldly ﬁnance seems
sacrilegious. Had Higgs and Englert
not won the prize, some non-scientists
may have asked questioned the point
of the LHC. This isn’t to belittle the
input into the theory, but note that
oﬃcial governmental attitudes follow
the devastating doctrine of the Bologna
Process, whose insistence on eﬃciency
and competitiveness should be seen as
a wholesale attack on education and
research freedom. This is, to use idiotic
phrases, “a time of austerity”
.
There are other dubious points in
the Committee’s history. A Literature
Prize without Tolstoy seems suspect.
Is there anything in Kawabata but what
orientalist racism makes of his work?
A Peace Prize without Gandhi lacks all
credibility.
The Peace Prize is responsible for the
most farcical award for peace in history,
even more so than the Confucius Peace
Prize award to Putin a couple of years
ago. That is, of course, the joint award
to Henry Kissinger and Le Duc Tho in
1973. Le Duc Tho, honourably, refused
the prize. Kissinger — well known
sponsor of military coups (Chile,
Argentina) and avowed ally of Suharto
of Indonesia, who not only led a corrupt
and un-democratic regime, but also led
Indonesia (with Kissinger’s approval)
into invasion and mass criminal
slaughter of the people of East Timor —
did not.
There have been sensible awards; few
contest the awarding of the Peace Prize
to Aung San Suu Kyii in 1991, and many
will acknowledge the heroism of likely
candidate Malala Yousafzai. It is hard to
accept a Peace Prize awarded to those
who should be punished for war crimes.
A prize bearing the name of a famous
arms dealer does not strike me as an
endorsement for peace.
A condition for open press is respect
for journalist protection. The ﬁlm
adaptation of the murder of the Balibo
Five in East Timor suggests that the
death of journalists is a suﬃciently
sparse phenomenon to warrant
attention. The fact that I remember the
2006 murder of Anna Politkovskaya
demonstrates that journalist deaths
have a certain impact superceding
general homicide. There aren’t many
things government can do, short
of eliminating reporters in order to
restrict press freedoms.
Consider PEN International’s report
on restrictions placed upon writers and
journalists in China. PEN International
is an international humanitarian
organization campaigning for press
freedoms and writers’ protections. It
boasts a presidential list that reads like
a who’s-who of 20th century literature;
(Maurice Maeterlinck, Arthur Miller,
Mario Vargas Llosa and Imperial
alumnus H. G. Wells, to name but a few.
Current active members/supporters
include Salman Rushdie and Margaret
Atwood. The report, released on World
Press Freedom Day, is a brief summary
of coercive practices adopted by the
Chinese government to force consent
on writers and reporters. Ai Weiwei
and Liu Xiaobo come to mind as
victims of these practices. The report
describes cases of illegal imprisonment
and torture used against dissident
writers and activists.
China is not the only guilty party in
this respect. The Committee to Protect
Journalists (CPJ), an organization
that campaigns for press freedoms
journalist-related crime, has recently
released a damning report on the
Obama administration’s alleged
attempts to curtail the more subversive
or investigative elements of the press.
The surprising thing that comes to
light is the repeated assertion by
journalists that the administration is
closed and secretive, on par with the
Bush administration.
We shouldn’t negate the threat to
journalists’ lives all over the globe.
Russia has been notorious for the
mortality rate of its journalists. There
are many journalists whose deaths go
unreported. Mick Deane, Sky News
Cameraman, was one of 39 journalists
killed this year given coverage in
the British media. This is why the
’innovative approach’ that Belgian
security oﬃcers have taken to arrest
Somali pirate leader Mohamed Abdi
Hassan is disturbing.
Eﬀective as this operation may
have been in arresting leaders of
organized crime, it demonstrates a
lack of foresight and disturbing ‘gung-
ho’ attitude on the part of security
oﬃcials. This has, according to a
CPJ report, endangered the lives of
reporters working in Somalia. With
2012 being the deadliest year for
reporters in Somalia on record, I hope
2013 remains uneventful.
How Noble are the Nobel Prizes?
Reflections on Journalism
Disagree?
Email us at
We air the
way that
Christy Kelly
views the
world.
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk

