11
felix FRIDAY 02 OCTOBER 2009
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk SCIENCE
Beyond the lecture theatre...
Congratulations! You have made it into
one of the top universities in the world.
You are now part of a highly respected
research institution filled with some
of the brightest minds in their fields.
Many new and exciting opportunities
are spread before your feet and librar-
ies of knowledge are welcoming you
with open arms.
And it’s a rainy Monday morning; you
have just set foot on campus and are
preparing yourself for the mental tor-
ture of yet another lecture on complex
algebra or three hour stint in the lab.
The initial thrill of coming to university
can seem a long way from here, but
that needn’t be the end of what was
such a promising relationship in the
first instance. There are plenty of plac-
‘I, science’ magazine and you
I, science is Imperial’s termly popular
science magazine. It is written and
produced entirely by students, mostly
postgraduates interested in communi-
cating science. Since its successful start
in 2004, I, science has been nominated
for the best student magazine of the
year at the prestigious Guardian Stu-
dent Media Awards three times, win-
ning second place twice.
There are only two other student
science magazine brands in the UK:
Cambridge’s BlueSci magazine with
it’s offshoot at Edinburgh – EuSci (both
are produced both by students and
academic staff, so they not strictly
speaking student magazines) and a
I, science is Imperial’s award-winning student magazine about
popular science. Get involved now!
MicoTatalovic Science Reporter
Attention all writers!
NathanLey Science Editor
Traditionally journalism is seen as
slightly elitist. Whilst this is undoubt-
edly true at the upper echelons of the
profession (check out the backgrounds
of the commentators of any respect-
able broadsheet and it hardly appears
as if there’s some kind of community
outreach programme going on) it need
not apply at student level.
In theory university ought to be a
hotbed of idea generation and creative
thought, what with with the sheer vol-
ume of bursting adolescents wanting
to get their voice heard.
So how about some of you freshers
try your hand at a go? We are always
looking for contributors and writers to
newcomer to UK universities, the in-
ternational franchise of the American
Triple Helix magazine for undergradu-
ates. So I, science is both a rare phe-
nomenon and an independently pro-
duced magazine by Imperial’s students
for Imperial’s community. Articles
include news, reviews, opinions, inter-
views and in-depth features about sci-
ence at Imperial and beyond. Last year
we tackled issues ranging from futuris-
tic vertical farms to the sketchy science
of porn. Aiming to surprise the readers,
we often feature unexpected science-
related cover art, for example issue
11 was read in secrecy as it contained
x-ray erotic art, while issue 12 saw stu-
dents going around sniffing their copy
– the covers were coated with scratch-
and-sniff technology with butter pop-
Become a Science Correspondent, Reporter
or Columnist for felix. Get involved now!
es, many of which are a mere stone’s
throw from campus, where even the
most hopeless feeling can be banished
and your love for your subject revived.
For some free, quick lunch-time in-
spiration, The Science Museum and
Natural History Museum are just south
of Imperial on Exhibition Road. Aside
from the usual array of displays many
of you will have already encountered
on previous visits, both museums run
frequent additional temporary exhibi-
tions, details of which may be found
at http://www.naturalhistorymuseum.
org.uk/ and http://www.sciencemu-
seum.org.uk/.
If you’re looking for something a lit-
tle less ordinary and a little more in-
volved, the Dana Centre on Queen’s
Gate is definitely worth a look. With
a fresh, modern outlook on science,
their varied programme of adults-only
debates and dialogues are sure to pro-
vide even the most disheartened stu-
dent with a wealth of ideas to keep an
interest in the most topical subjects in
science.
Unfortunately, they went on a break
from their events programme over
the summer, but the website promises
the centre will running again by this
autumn.
If previous events are anything to
go by, we can expect stand-up style
debunking of science myths and art-
ists using bacteria to create art. In the
meantime, there are plenty of online
discussions providing you with an op-
portunity to get on your soap-box. For
further information visit http://www.
danacentre.org.uk/.
Alternatively, if just the thought of
venturing off campus is proving too
much, a quick flick through the Im-
perial College website (www.imperial.
ac.uk) will give you information about
a variety of lectures being held within
the confines of college walls. Quite
often these lectures are advertised
around the college itself but many re-
quire booking in advance, keep your
eyes peeled.
I,science
You can follow I,science on facebook and Twitter!
Keep up-to-date with science at Impe-
rial, from the students’ point of view.
Facebook: I, science (media group)
Twitter: twitter.com/I_Science_mag
help us put together scientific articles
that a student body will find generally
interesting along with a healthy dose of
conjecture.
So whether you see yourself as the
next aspiring Dan Wan or just as a shy
and retiring mouse in the corner with
something to air, then please, get in
contact with us at science.felix@impe-
rial.ac.uk.
corn aroma.
In 2008/2009 I, science got its own
Facebook (I, science) and Twitter
groups (www.twitter.com/I_science_
mag). The next step is to modernise its
website to embrace the web 2.0, so any
students wishing to help us improve
the website so it can publish news,
blogs, podcasts and film, let us know at
i.science@imperial.ac.uk.
The website is the main way the
magazine adds to the College’s out-
reach efforts by providing exciting and
accurate information about science to
anyone with access to the internet.
We are always looking for keen stu-
dents to write, edit and design the
magazine. So if you want a first step
into science journalism, we’re waiting
for you.
BrigetteAtkins Science Editor
Fast relief for when you have those ‘Why bother?’ moments/days
Whether it’s refreshing your passion
for your subject or just some form of
redemption after a few heavy nights
out, these are only a few examples of
what can be found out there to reignite
that initial spark between you and the
science which brought you here in the
first place.
Not your average AA meeting: the Dana Centre Cafe hosts many topical debates

