19
felix FRIDAY 02 OCTOBER 2009
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk GAMES
Press Start To
Obvious Joke
W
elcome to Impe-
rial, welcome to
felix, and welcome
to Felix Games. Be-
tween myself and
Mr. Geek, Felix Games will be provid-
ing you with a year’s worth of fun and
pointless twaddle about videogames
for the next few terms. We’re not going
to focus on reviews, or inundate you
with the ‘latest screens’ and nonsense
like that. We’re about fun, stupid fea-
tures and ridiculous competitions.
This issue is for Freshers, it’s to wel-
come you to Imperial and to let you
know that, yes, there are people with
Steam accounts here too. It’s something
for you to flick through when you’ve got
bored of unpacking your underpants,
and it’s also a chance for us to show you
what we’re all about. We’ve got a lot
planned for this year, but before we get
it underway we need one thing - you.
Felix Games needs writers, freelancers
who want to be part of our team and
entertain the university’s gamers. You
don’t need writing experience, you don’t
need to worry about being a master of
the English language (we’re kind edi-
tors!) - you just need to have something
to say about games.
Is there something you want to see
here? Is there something you want to
write here? Is there something in the
air tonight? Email us and let us know
- games.felix@imperial.ac.uk. We’ll
be recruiting throughout the term, so
don’t worry if you’re too busy chatting
up women and trying to navigate the
Underground. Drop us an email when
you’ve settled in, and we’ll get in touch.
This week I’ve been playing Champi-
ons Online, which is an MMO on the
Personal Computer that specialises in
superheroes, lycra and firing molten
rock from the palm of your hands. I
know, right. Somehow I tore myself
away in time to write this thing.
I’ve also become utterly mesmerised
by Osmos. I missed it out of the Fresh-
er’s Week of Gaming feature on the op-
posite page, but do go and look it up on
Steam if you get the chance, it’s worth
every penny.
Right, I think I’ve gone on for long
enough. Time to hand over to my part-
ner in crime. Welcome to Imperial,
everyone.
MichaelCook Games Editorette
It’s like the nineteen-eighties in future-o-vision. Only shit, obviously. Thank god you can switch back.
Dead Games Society
A
s you know, young peo-
ple are stupid - if you
don’t know, you’re about
to find out over the com-
ing weeks. Young peo-
ple don’t plan ahead, aren’t careful
with their money, and probably never
played The Secret Of Monkey Island.
Without a large stick and electroshock
therapy, I can’t solve the first two, but
Felix Games is intent on fixing the lat-
ter, so this year we’re kicking off the
Dead Games Society, a fortnightly
celebration of great, world-changing
games that you may not have played
the first time around.
Every other week we’ll announce
the next game we’re looking at, let you
know a little about it and offer a copy
or two as prizes so you can take part.
Then the next week we’ll spend playing
the game and collecting opinions from
you folk. The week after we’ll discuss
the game, and announce the next one!
It’s a flawless plan.
As we’re feeling extra nice this week,
we’re offering you Fresher types the
chance to win one of three copies of
our first game, the aforementioned
Secret of Monkey Island. Secret is a
point-and-click adventure game by
LucasArts, they of the Star Wars line-
age, and it’s an absolutely superb piece
of gaming. Guybrush Threepwood has
arrived on Melee Island with the inten-
tion of becoming a pirate, but he’s a lit-
tle lacking on skills (other than being
able to hold his breath for ten minutes).
What follows is an adventure featur-
ing zombie pirates, insult sword-fight-
ing, and some of the most famous jokes
(and therefore injokes) in gaming. It’s a
hugely, fantastically important game
and thanks to a recent remake you’ll be
able to play it despite being the shal-
low graphics whore that I’m assuming
Goodgamesdon’tdie,theyjustgetreplayed. A Geek introducesthe
firstentryofthisyear’slist
you are.
It’s our first pick because, for both
Mike and myself, Secret is one of the
first games we have a good memory of,
and it’s one of the reasons why both of
us have a special love of puzzle games.
We think you’ll like it too, so we’re of-
fering two copies of the game on Steam
(which you’ll need a PC for) that you
can win by sending us an email! It’s that
easy. It’s literally that easy. Easy.
When you’ve played it, let us know
what you thought. If you’ve played it
before, how does it stand up years later?
Is it as funny as you remember? Are the
two of us nostalgic old bastards? Let
us know in an email to games.felix@
imperial.ac.uk before 27th September
and we’ll feature some thoughts in this
section - or you can tweet us a thought
by using the hashtag fg0101. That’s
right. Welcome to Future Towne, pop-
ulation you.
Introducing...
The Other One
H
ello, yes, I’m Angry
Geek and this is, you
know, the thing. I’m
not really that into in-
troductions, so let’s fast
forward the introductory nonsense in
case you’re on the verge of brain death
after Mr. Welcome’s smothering edito-
rial over there. I’m The Misanthropic
One, because apparently editorial
double-teams have to have one by law.
I’ll be editing on the weeks when Mike
isn’t, and you’ll probably like me more
on account of how I’m so fantastically
charismatic and obviously right about
everything.
I’m very interested in getting people
playing outside of their comfort zone. I
want to get the non-gamers of Imperial
(all of whom have already turned the
page, so we can insult them if you like)
playing games, but more importantly I
want to get you playing new things. Not
weird shit, not single-level, three-but-
ton ‘masterpieces’ by media design stu-
dents from L.A., but just games that are
important, games that are significant.
I’m one of those bastards that thinks
games are Important.
As such, I spent this week playing
Monkey Island, which is a game that’s
far too good a game for peons such as
you to have played, but fortunately I’m
all nice and stuff so we’re giving you the
chance to win a copy. I know, right? I’m
slightly more generous than God him-
self, and he gave us the entirety of exist-
ence. And yeah, sure, he gave us AIDS
and Sonic games, but that only makes
the analogy more apt. Okay.
I’ve also been playing a whole holy
hell lot of Champions Online. Good
lord yes. Thankfully, I’ve managed to
stay far, far away from Mike’s characters
as they’re all twee and lovey-dovey. One
of them has a purple cape and fires bolts
of healing at people. I shit you not.
I’m unsure of it as a game, to be hon-
est. It has a lot to love in there, but it’s
missing the sprawling beauty of a game
like EVE Online or World of Warcraft.
I know these things grow over time,
but there’s a tendency to knee-jerk at
any MMO and think “It’s not WoW, it’s
bound to fail.” I don’t want it to fail, I
just am resigned to the fact that it prob-
ably will. Look, I did say I was a tit.
But it’s got the hook, that’s the key.
Conan was generic, Tabula Rasa was ge-
neric, Champions Online is not, it nails
its atmosphere and it knows what you
want to do with it. I’ve got eight charac-
ters, each one more ridiculous than the
last and they’re all just as I want them.
It gives me flight after an hour of play, it
gives me tiny little robots that kill stuff,
the citizens discuss how amazing my
pecs look - it’s just everything it should
be, and more besides.
Phew. I’ve gone on for too long. It’s
good though. I’ll do console talk next
week, promise.
That’s it, really. You’d rather read
about games, right? Let’s get on, then.
AGeek Games Editor
That’s the second best game I’ve ever played!
S
o, why Monkey Island for our
first pick? It’s not the best of
LucasArts’ adventures, and
it doesn’t even have all the
in-jokes you’re thinking of
right now (a lot of them appeared in
its sequel). Maybe you don’t even know
what this game is. Let’s go back to the
start.
Monkey Island was in the right place
at the right time. The Hardware was
still a year or two off of truly lifting
off, but it had reached a plateau where
some of the most beautiful two-dimen-
sional worlds could be created. The
original graphics - viewable in the new
remake thanks to some canny design
work - don’t hold up today at all, even
if you have fond memories. But at the
time, they conveyed the world just as
they were aiming to.
Monkey Island’s setting of pirates,
filth and the occult was the best game
that LucasArts had produced in that
genre to date, not only hitting the right
spot technologically, but also providing
a balance between puzzles and pace.
You can breeze through the game in a
quarter of a day, but that’s a good thing
- think of all the later adventure games
that you’ve started and never finished,
because of a single obscure challenge.
Monkey Island didn’t want you to
stop every ten minutes to scratch your
head, they wanted to lead you down a
path that let you solve things first time.
And that all ties in with the plot. When
playing older games, it’s hard to see
through the age and realise that some of
these games would be retail-worthy today
if only for a visual update.
Monkey’splotisstillbetterthanmostof
what gets churned out today, and I don’t
mean in a simply narrative sense. It spoke
to the player, as many adventure games
were beginning to do in those days.
Plus, it’s funny. Not knob gags or
knowing, smarmy meta-humour bol-
locks that we get nowadays, but actual
jokes, like what you get on the televi-
sion sometimes.
The running jokes are such a key part
of gaming culture now that to have not
played this series of games is to deny
yourself a whole chunk of modern
gaming’s thinking today. You see that
subhead above? You see that lame at-
tempt at a joke? You don’t even know
why it’s lame, do you! Well frigging get
the game and play it!
For a lot of you, Monkey Island is the
very first adventure game you remem-
ber. And if it’s not, make it the very
latest.

