26 felix FRIDAY 02 OCTOBER 2009
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
SPORT
Last year was a mixed year for the Ath-
letics Clubs Committee (ACC), with
the hype of national success at the
British University and Colleges Sports
(BUCS) Championships, combined
with the suspicious financial deal-
ings with those at the top. The man in
charge of the sporting teams this year
should be a familiar face, as he graced
the pages of this very publication last
year and is doing so again this year.
He is the one and only Charles ‘Chaz’
Murdoch.
Chaz is no stranger to the challenges
ahead of him as he was ACC Vice-
Chair last year, with his main respon-
sibility being organising the legendary
ACC Bar Nights. So it seemed only
fitting to ask him what he sees the Bar
Nights as and what his plans are with
them this year.
“I see the Bar Nights as a great place
to meet up with like minded sports-
people, have a few, or ten, beers and
then dance the night away to Geri
Halliwell’s It’s Raining Men” Chaz in-
formed me before breaking into a fa-
miliar giggle.
Continuing, “No seriously, it’s not all
about the beer. It’s just a good, cheap,
fun-filled night. It worked so well last
year that we’re just going to keep it the
way it is.”
Let us not beat around the bush here,
the ACC Bar Nights have a huge repu-
tation and is guaranteed to fill out the
Union, with many clubs using it as an
opportunity to dress up. The best bit
about this is that it only costs you £5
and there are unlimited beers.
“Not strictly true” said Chaz. “We
get about 23 kegs (80+ pints per keg)
for these events, but they seem to go
through them quite quickly.”
Turning to more serious issues, I
asked Chaz what his thoughts were on
the ‘scandal’ last year, where last year’s
ACC Chair and Treasurer gave their
own clubs more money than in previ-
ous years.
“I think Sam [ACC Chair 2008-
2009] was guilty of nothing more than
a greater awareness of his own clubs
problems than those of other clubs.”
It was a political answer, one that he
thought about a fair bit, and when
probed further, he said that “I’ll take
extra precautions when it comes to the
budgeting of hockey, American Foot-
ball and riding & polo [the clubs of the
ACC exec members] next year, prob-
ably getting Danny Hill [Deputy Presi-
dent (Finance & Services)] to have a
look at them.”
Realising that we could probably talk
about this topic for several hours over
several beers, I thought I’d change the
tone to a more light-hearted one and
simply asked him if he could down
a pint. His response was to down his
Tuborg, although it did take him a
good 11 seconds. However, the com-
petitive nature of Chaz has him to this
day, disputing this (sluggish) time.
“Oh, and the boat races are definitely
going to continue next year, since it’s
always fun to see the rugby and foot-
ball clubs lose to the hockey club!”
Chaz conjured, through half a burp as
he finished his beer. Of course I [and
me - Ed] somewhat doubt the accuracy
of his statement.
After refilling the pints, we carried
on with the interview and turned our
attentions to what he actually plans to
do this year, specifically with the fresh-
ers’ at the start of the year.
“For the first Wednesday of term (7th
October), after the Freshers’ Trials, the
ACC clubs have the sole use of the Un-
ion for about an hour-and-a-half to in-
troduce the freshers into sporting life,
the Union bars and Wednesday night
banter, without the worries of them
being bullied by some
of the older mem-
We’re not just about the Bar Nights...
ACC Chair interview
Jovan Nedić Assistant Editor
“I see the barnights
as a place to have
a few, or ten beers
and then dance
the night away to
Geri Halliwell’s It’s
Raining Men”
ber of their clubs.” This great event
will cost the freshers only £5, which is
a bargain considering that entry into
the Union that night will cost you £6.
He also informed me that the tickets
for this event will be sold through the
sports teams on the Wednesday, so be
sure to bring enough money with you.
Looking forward to the rest of the
year, I was curious to see what Chaz’s
feelings were on the age old argument
of performance over participation.
“No, no, no. It’s going to be partici-
pation over perfection for me,” inter-
rupted Chaz as I was asking the ques-
tion. He was obviously keen to get this
message across.
“I’d be much happier if students were
able to join the clubs and societies,
have a great time and actually enjoy
what they do. With increased partici-
pation, the perfection will come and
the clubs will naturally perform at a
higher standard, as we can see with
hockey, rugby and fencing.”
To round up, we looked toward the
annual Varsity in which the majority
of College and Medicals teams play
against each other.
The event is huge and is fuelled with
rivalry that no one is entirely sure its
origin. During the day, hockey, foot-
ball, rugby, lacrosse battle it out at Har-
lington Sports ground, whilst at Ethos,
netball, squash, waterpolo, badminton
and basketball fight out their matches
bfeore everyone converges upon Rich-
mond Athletic Ground to watch the
rugby Men’s 1st battle for the JPR Wil-
liams Cup. Imperial have always won
the day but never the cup, Chaz’s pre-
diction for this year?... Medics.

