6 felix FRIDAY 02 OCTOBER 2009
A cookbook for one........
One thing that instils fear into the heart of students leaving home for the first time is the supposedly mammoth
task of keeping themselves fed and watered whilst staying on top of their workload and social life. The reality is,
often students are too busy, too scared or just too cash-strapped to want to put a lot of effort into cooking.
Ready meals and pizzas tend up being costlier and pretty unhealthy due to their high salt and preservative
content. After a few weeks however, you quickly learn to adapt and many students go on to really enjoy cooking.
In addition, as you make more friends there will be lots of opportunities for pairing up with other people to
share the workload. These ‘recipes’ are just ideas for grabbing a quick bite that won’t break the bank, and will
mean you’re less tempted to grab a pricey snack or fatty chips when your stomach starts rumbling. They’re not
particularly inspiring, but then again nobody should be scared by their complexity.
This isn’t going to win in the gastronomic stakes, but it’s cheap and ready in a flash. It’s also a good
option when your fridge is empty. The pasta in tinned minestrone soup turns mushy when you cook
it, and this method makes a much heartier meal.
Time: 15 minutes
Cost: 70p per portion
Ingredients: • 1 can of your favourite soup (mushroom or tomato work well)
• Handful of dried pasta such as farfalle or macaroni
Method: Heat the soup gently in a saucepan. When it is warmed through, add the pasta and
cook for the amount of time stated on the packet. If there are any leftovers, store them in a mug in the fridge for no
longer than a day and heat up in a microwave or saucepan for a quick snack.
Another one that’s not going to win any prizes, but it works in terms of getting you much-needed protein
when you’re in a hurry. If you stick some lettuce, tomato or cucumber in between slices you’re getting
some of your five-a-day too.
Time: 10 minutes
Cost: 50p per sandwich
Ingredients: • Frozen fish fingers
• Bread
• Ketchup or mayonnaise
• Salad (optional!)
Method: Cook the fish fingers according to the instructions on the packet. Stick in between 2 slices of bread with a
good splodge of mayonnaise or ketchup and some salad if using.
OK. Healthy and a substantial meal that keeps well in the fridge for a day or so in a Tupperware. It’s also particularly handy for lunch the
following day to avoid splashing out on a pricier meal in college.
Time: 15 minutes
Cost: £1.50 (enough for 2 meals)
Ingredients: • 2-3 handfuls of dried pasta (shell-shaped pasta works well)
• Tin of tuna in water or oil
• 1 tablespoon of mayonnaise
• Salt and pepper to taste
• Squeeze of lemon juice (optional)
• Half a small tin of sweetcorn (optional)
Method: Bring a large saucepan of water to boil (boiling it in a kettle is faster) and put in a
pinch of salt. Add the pasta and cook according to the time on the packet. In the meantime, mix
the tin of tuna with the mayonnaise, a small pinch of pepper and the lemon juice and sweetcorn if
using (diced fresh peppers also work well).
Substitute minestrone soup
Fish Finger Sandwich
Tuna Pasta Salad

