9
felix FRIDAY 02 OCTOBER 2009
CLUBS &
SOCIETIES
Clubs & Socs Editor Alice Rowlands
clubs&socs.felix@imperial.ac.uk
x
This could be you climbing the peaks of Sweden. Or not. I prefer Finland.
To ram the point home
I
n case you haven’t heard, we
have around 300 Clubs & So-
cieties here at Imperial, and we
are pretty proud of them. Fresh-
ers’ Fair is a day dedicated to
showcasing all of them. Check out the
centrefold for a full run down of what
we have and where all the stalls will be
located, and definitely turn up to it on
Tuesday 6th October. In the Freshers’
Handbook there is also the Clubs &
Societies A-Z with a blurb about each
of them.
Just because we’re all here to do sci-
ence, engineering or medicine doesn’t
mean we can’t have fun on the side. If
your subject does happen to be your
extracurricular passion however, you
are automatically a member of your
departmental society, so it’s worth
keeping an eye out on what they have
on offer. Below is a whirlwind tour of
lots of the things that you can indulge
yourself in whilst at Imperial. But, if its
not just your own life you are looking
to enrich, you should be sure to catch
up with RAG (Raising and Giving) the
charity fundraising group, and CAG
(Community Action Group) who do
great things for other communities
both locally and further afield.
Sport. I know this one is a little con-
troversial. Some of you will be die-hard
sports men/women, some casual par-
takers and some of you may think you
have been well and truly put off sport
for life. One thing to know is that no
matter your feelings, we’ve got sport
in many different flavours, at any level.
For those of you in the first category,
you won’t need much convincing. The
only thing I’ll add is that its worth find-
ing the Sport Imperial stall to find out
about our sport scholarships and sport
development schemes if you are more
than a bit good. For those of you in the
second and third category, I want to
take this opportunity to say welcome
to University: where sport is more
than compulsory rugby, football, net-
ball, hockey and athletics. For a start,
the College gym, Ethos, is free for all
students for swimming and using the
gym, and just requires a short orien-
tation to get started. And if that’s not
your style, then there are a plethora of
clubs that involve being active in some
way- many of whom operate at the
weekend and outside of London. Find
something to keep you active and out
of the library because a healthy body
makes for a healthy mind. Again, peo-
ple often categorise themselves as arty
or not, but please don’t. The great thing
is that you can take as much as you
want, with something artistic going
on every day of the week around cam-
pus. If it’s playing music that you are
into, then there are a wealth of groups
or practice rooms for individuals and
small ensembles. If you are more into
photography or a budding Da Vinci,
we have something for you too. And
even after all that, if you can still only
squeak or squeal on instruments and
Tracy Emin’s ‘My Bed’ is about all you
could muster for art, you could always
go along to the concerts, exhibits and
shows that the more artistically mind-
ed have put together. These are less
expensive than the West End, on your
Deputy President (Clubs & Societies) Jenny Wilson welcomes
you to her wonderous extracurricular oasis of Clubs & Societies
doorstep and always a treat. For a full
listing of the artistic scene you should
check out the Arts Imperial What’s On
leaflet. Another way to get your crea-
tive juices flowing is to join one of our
student media groups, after all, the re-
porting is done for the students by the
students.
Internationally Imperial does very
well, welcoming everyone from any-
where, of any faith. We have a cornu-
copia of international and faith socie-
ties representing many of those found
on campus, which regularly celebrate
our diversity. But even if you are from
just around the corner, its well worth
getting immersed in another culture as
it never fails to be a fascinating experi-
ence. If there is still nothing that you
can see which tickles your fancy, we
have a number of clubs that don’t fit
into any of those areas, from knitting to
vintage vehicles, juggling to chess and
backgammon and its well worth open-
ing your mind to all that university can
offer because then it will truly be one of
the best experiences of your life.
Coming up in the next edition:
“What’s on...” is the weekly calendar of upcoming Club & Societies events. This is the place to go to for all the weekly news on up and coming Clubs & Societies events - lots of
them will be free, most of them will be cheap and all of them will be fun!
For all of you people who run Clubs & Societies, this is a great way to publicise your main events in Felix. What’s On will cover events running from the Monday-Sunday after the relevant edition of Felix. Its first
appearance will be in the 9th October edition of Felix and will cover events from Monday 12th December - Sunday 18th December.
To feature, send the following details to whatson.felix@imperial.ac.uk:
Club name, Event name, High res logo and photo, Date(s) & Time, Place, Price (if applicable), Short description of the event (max. 50 words)
Deadline for submissions is midnight on the Wednesday before the edition is published, i.e. to feature in the first edition on Fri 9th December, the submission deadline is midnight on Wednesday 7th October.
There is limited space, so all entries are subject to editorial snipping and we cannot guarantee that everybody who sends an email will feature.
What’s on...
Clubs & Societies Calendar
Ed Brightman sings the praises of the
A-Cappella scene at Imperial College
Not just for choir girls
S
inging at Imperial isn’t just
about the big choir anymore.
Neither does it have to be the
same old classical repertoire.
There is an alternative, which
is growing in popularity like Pokemon
did in the ‘00s. “A Cappella” singing,
which started with barbershop groups
and glee clubs in the US, is no longer
all waistcoats, boaters and songs about
your daughter.
In recent decades groups have
evolved into all-beat-boxing, vocal
rock bands, singing original multi-part
vocal arrangements of everything from
the Kinks to Kanye West. Meanwhile,
over here in the UK, we’ve had the
King’s Singers, the jazzy Swingle Sing-
ers and, more recently, the Puppini Sis-
ters. University a cappella groups are
cropping up all over the country, and
Imperial now boasts a good few of its
own.
Imperial’s newest group, the Tech-
tonics, just started singing last year
and have been going from strength to
strength. There is something unique
about the sound of an all male-voice
group, and the Techtonics bring a
vibrant new sound to rock and pop
favourites like Feeder and tongue-in-
cheek comedy like Flight of the Con-
chords. They are looking for new sing-
ers this term, so if you like the sound
of this, get in touch to arrange an audi-
tion (don’t worry it’s pain-free) at tech-
tonics@imperial.ac.uk.
I can promise you the experience of
singing in a group like the Techtonics
is awesome. Nowhere else can you get
the opportunity to travel the world,
record an album, get into amazing par-
ties for free, and sing like a rock legend,
unless you happen to play in a band
already.
At the other end of the spectrum is
a mixed group of about 8-10 singers,
singing jazz and pop arrangements,
called the Harmaphrodites, who have
been performing under the direction
of Jess Gillingwater for several years
now. They regularly sing at events in
college and their refined sound is al-
ways a hit at concerts.
On a slightly larger scale, the Cham-
ber Choir also perform a cappella ar-
rangements of songs from the charts,
as well as some more traditional choral
works, for those of you with an affinity
for the choir vibe.
Look out for them at the Choir sec-
tion of Freshers’ Fair, or email jcg04@
imperial.ac.uk.
Of course, if you’re not interested
in singing (in which case, why are you
still reading this?!) then you should
definitely come along and listen to the
concerts, it’s a perfect way to spend an
evening.
If you’re still not convinced, there are
sound clips on the Techtonics’ website,
www.thetechtonics.co.uk, and you’re
likely to see them busking somewhere
in college this week.
Imperial’s newest A Cappella group, The Techtonics, contemplating suicide.

