20
19
sacrifices to have time for both. I like to work
towards specific deadlines like competitions
or shows so that my art doesn’t go by the way-
side. That said, engineering and art deadlines
have an uncanny tendency to cluster together
which can be stressful.
ELLOMENNOPEE IS YOUR STEADILY
GROWING CREATIVE LABEL. WHAT’S
THE ETHOS BEHIND THIS?
The name Ellomennopee (pronounced “LM-
NOP”) comes from my misinterpretation of
the alphabet song as a child. It’s a moniker I
use for my works of art and design. Originally
in 2007 it was the name of my brand of hand-
made plush toys which sold in retail stores.
The success of the toys made me realise that
since leaving school, I had neglected my ar-
tistic side. From then on I vowed to stay in-
volved in art for my own happiness.
WHAT ARE YOU CURRENTLY PRO-
DUCING FOR IT?
I’m currently working with some rather aus-
tere art supplies to build up a portfolio to show
to galleries in London. I’m busy researching
the kind of galleries I’d like to exhibit in and
the myriad of art competitions that are held
in London. A lot of my creative energy has
gone into my flat, which was an uninhabitable
wasteland when I first moved in, but is now
looking quite nice.
WHAT DO YOU ULTIMATELY WANT IT
TO BECOME?
I want to grow my name as an artist so I can be
exposed to more creative opportunities. I’ve
noticed a positive feedback effect whereby the
more people who know your work, the more
chances you get for exciting creative projects.
My dream would be to be given a huge public
space, a huge budget and free reign.
WOULD YOU SAY YOUR ULTIMATE
CALLING IS TO BE AN ENGINEER OR
AN ARTIST?
Ultimately I’m a combination and I would be
unfulfilled without both in my life.
ASSESS THE CREATIVE SCENE AT IM-
PERIAL...AND HONESTLY!
I am impressed with what Imperial has to of-
fer, considering it is a science university. There
are great student societies like PhotoSoc, and
Leonardo for fine arts which offers weekly
classes. Since I’ve been here I’ve been involved
in two Imperial art exhibitions, and there’s
also the annual ArtsFest. Imperial has its own
exhibition space, the Blythe Gallery which
is inspiring to visit and also gives a platform
for students who wish to exhibit. The Blythe
Centre’s music facilities are also fantastic and
I’m planning to book some piano time soon.
Perhaps Imperial’s creative scene could be en-
hanced by collaborating more with our neigh-
bours at RCA and RCM? 
18 TEMPEST VAN SCHAIK
‘The Waterbabies Is A Scary Book For Children’ (left) is based on Charles Kingsley’s Victorian-era fairy-tale and
“Does Not Your House Dream? And Dreaming Leave City For Hilltop?” (right) is taken from poetry by Kahlil Gibran
Collaborating with Jenna Burchell, ‘Cameos and Genotypes won the Best New Media prize at the national Thami
Mnyele Fine Arts Award and was then purchased for Unisa’s permanent public collection
‘In Mothballs’ was created for the City Slickers exhibition, which has travelled across the globe

