PHOENIX 2
WELCOME
TO
PHOENIX
EDITORS’ FOREWORDS
KAWAI
WONG
GUO HENG
CHIN
DAN WL
WAN
I
can’t image what H.G. Wells would have made of this itera-
tion of the beloved magazine he founded in the 1887 as the
Science Schools Journal. I’d like to think he’d be proud.
This PHOENIX is an annual, its original form. It’s an annual
that has moved on with modern times. Formed by students
from an institution steeped in such history and tradition, 2010’s
PHOENIX is hopefully adhering to its founder’s literary ethos; H.G.
Wells’ novels explored the still ludicrous notions of time travel into
the future. And here we are, in a new decade, paving the way forward
for PHOENIX.
Most importantly however, is that PHOENIX features the pho-
tography, sketches, paintings, poetry, prose, and stories of Imperial
College students. PHOENIX 2010 does just that.
The editorial team were keen to focus in on life at Imperial from
jaunty and creative angles. We called out for anything that was relat-
ed to life in College, be it a poem on the social failings or a photo of
the Library. Throughout, I hope you’ll see things that you recognise
and can relate to. We’ve even dedicated a whole feature to College-
based contributions and profiles, all of which epitomised our experi-
ences at Imperial for us.
I’m so glad that in my position as felix Editor-in-Chief, I am able to
simultaneously orchestrate such a wonderful and historic publica-
tion in PHOENIX this year.
I hope you enjoy the double-release of PHOENIX and felix, be-
cause I definitely had fun constructing it.
N
egative capability, said Keats, is when man is
capable of being in uncertainties, mysteries,
doubts, without any irritable reaching after fact
and reason. In a predominantly science and en-
gineering environment that is Imperial, uncer-
tainty and mystery is not well tolerated – they must be dis-
pelled with rigorous experiments, ruthless fact-seeking and
arduous calculations. Which is good of course, for what is
Imperial but one of the premier science and technology uni-
versity in the world?
PHEONIX is an oasis of creative expression. There is no
irritable seeking after explanations in art. Art is free form,
it teases the mind with mysteries and uncertainties. Take a
little sip from the well of stories after that long hard day of
trawling through dry journal papers. Sit down and rest your
eyes on the photographs and drawings after cracking your
head on that seemingly unsolvable problem sheet.
Everything in PHOENIX is ‘made in Imperial’. This maga-
zine was made possible by the Imperial students who contrib-
uted their artistic work and my fellow editors who invested so
much time and effort to produce it, a big round of applause
goes to you guys.
Amidst the pummelling stress of studies and courseworka,
like the eponymous mythical bird, let PHEONIX keep crea-
tive expression alive.
H
ow people try to vilify Imperial as a cultural desert!
This allegation is reduced to a blurred cacophony,
when the enthusiastic response overwhelmed our
mailbox and we had to expand its size several times.
In words and in pictures; on paper and on canvas;
in two dimensions and three, they are all well-thought out pieces.
Both students and staff have tackled words, crayons, oils and film
with great aplomb. The glorious result is here for all to see. I am
extremely thrilled to be part of this creative process.
The artworks presented here covered almost every aspect of
life. Infatuation, love, compassion, ageing, fantasy, sex, sexuality...
Some works are more difficult to define, and are definitely up for
interpretation.
As an artist myself - whose art takes the form of numbered pages -
the thrill of seeing a blank page blossomed into something enjoyable
is truly rewarding.
And here, I urge students to explore their imaginations. Under-
standing the working mechanism of the world is without a doubt
a creative process. But the appreciation or creation of something
tangible, aesthetically pleasing and literally sound adds fruits to the
most fruitful of all lives.
My thanks extend to Dan and Guo Heng. They endured innu-
merable meetings, tirelessly toiled through the process of selecting
materials, editing the flow of the artwork as well as laying out this
magazine. I hope you enjoy PHOENIX as much as I do.
PHOENIX is produced and published in association with Felix, the student newspaper of Imperial College
Managing Editors: Dan Wan, Kawai Wong and Guo Heng Chin; Editorial Director: David Paw; Art Director: Alexandra Ashford

