“A bunch of crazy guys,” says my friend, when I asked her about her
involvement in Photosoc committee for over two years. “Crazy about
photography of course.” More than a hundred years after it’s founding,
Photosoc is still the thumping heart of the photography scene in Imperial.
Photosoc’s repertoire offers something on the plate for both experienced
and beginners, for both hobbyist and hardcore enthusiast.
“Joining Photosoc allowed me to take my photography to a whole new
level. From the trips to exhibitions that are organized and subsidised to
being able to bounce ideas off people to having access to almost any piece
of equipment I can think of, Photosoc has a lot to offer” said Slobodan
Radoslavljevi.
“Photosoc has a good combination of keen film camera users and
digital camera users, plus they have a range of tutorials and talks from
professionals, as well as nice equipments for photo developing,” describes
Charles Poon, who used to be the photographer for his high school, “I have
learnt much from fellow photographers, and find it really easy to enhance
my skills especially on film developments and editing photos through
photoshop.”
The key event that made Photosoc what it is today is the acquisition of
a darkroom in the West Wing of Beit Quad back in 2001. The darkroom
opened up a whole new facet of photography for its members.
“Up to this year, I had never had any experience with film photography,
dealing purely with a digital workflow. Once I attended one of the many
Photosoc film developing and printing sessions, I was hooked!” said
Tristan Brown, “I am now an avid film photographer, and can’t think of an
enjoyable use of an evening than locking myself in the darkroom with a big
bag of rolls.”
Photosoc also serves as a platform for its members to showcase their
pictures. They have a flickr group where members post up picture taken
during Photosoc excursions, and an annual exhibition at Imperial’s very
own Blyth Gallery.
Their exhibition this year, It’s a Small World, deals with the microscopic to
the epic, challenging the viewer’s perception of size and scale.
“This year we tried a couple of different things like trying to display a
couple of pieces in the physical form of their subject,” explained Slobodan.
“It involved lots of wire and glue and was maybe more trouble than it was
worth, but was nice to look at.” The results are particularly interesting
exhibits like the panoramic shots hung with bent iron strips to create a
circular display that engulfs the viewers in the landscape, and a sequence
of water droplet photos hung in a helical cascade which exudes a a sense
of temporality and motion. - GHC
Photography by Jonathan Kim (Photosoc Chair 09/10)
PHOTOSOC
IMPERIAL RULE 22 23 24 25 26 27

