IMPERIAL RULE
to five
significant
figures
“Throughout our lives we are surrounded by those who inspire us, those who
guide us and those who despise us. It is to those that we dedicate this.”
.Leosoc and Photosoc collaborated in pairs to create re-
sponses to the idea of a family member. Each character
inventively appeared in the gallery using a variety of
different media. In the corner of the gallery, nostalgic
memories of a fading grandmother appear as a sculptural
installation of trinkets, mementos and bon bons held in
place by wizened hands. The body remained deliberately
incomplete as she physicaly fades away; leaving evidence
of a life lived in old photographs which gently fall to the
ground. The grandma was contrasted with other family
members such as mother and father and the dark family
member no one wants to be associated with.
(To Five Significant Figures was the collaborative effort
between Leosoc and Photosoc. The exhibition on the Blyth
Gallery from 23 – 26 February in conjunction with Arts-
fest 2010. Photosoc and Leosoc collaborates annually for
an exhibition.)
Credits:
Mother by Susana
Grand Parents by Roxane, Ellie and Honor
Father by Jonny and Stan
Worse Enemy by Maria, Sam and Alfred
One Self by Kuok, Andreea and Ruth
BLYTH GALLERY
The Blyth Gallery, found on the fifth floor of the Sherfield
Building, houses a variety of different exhibitions each year,
exhibiting both in-house exhibitions of current staff and stu-
dents work and professional exhibitions of London based
emerging and established artists. Snippets of the art world
are brought to Imperial College’s door step. The gallery pro-
vides the opportunity to learn about a contemporary fine art
scene in London and explore different concepts and motiva-
tions for making and reading art. These meanings can be a
little difficult to access from a predominantly scientific back-
ground, therefore the Blyth offers the opportunity to meet
informally, chat about the ideas and share thoughts about
each exhibition over a lunch hour in the gallery space.
The Blyth Gallery has hosted some interesting shows. Pho-
tosocs exhibition moved through a series of photographs of
shifting scale, moving from the microscopic to curving pan-
oramic landscapes. As each image remained of almost equal
proportion, the viewer awareness of their own size becomes
more acute and heightened as they walked around the show.
Some of Leosocs exhibition explored the breaking down and
reconstruction of familiar icons within a fine art context.
Images such as Van Gogh’s Sunflowers and Munch’s The
Scream where dissected and each fragment explored by one
artist before the painting was remade. The exploration of a
fragmented image by multiple artists, transformed the origi
MOTHER FATHER
YOUR WORST
ENEMY
GRAND-
PARENTS
ONE’S SELF
(to 5 s.f.)
(to 5 s.f.)
(to 5 s.f.)
27
26
25
24
23
22
nal, yet they still remained readily recognisable and identifi-
able with contemporary fine art masterpieces.
The gallery is an artist led project space which dedicates it-
self to showcasing a selection of work from a variety of dif-
ferent backgrounds.
Mini autobiography: (Mindy Lee, the curator of Blyth Gal-
lery, gives a short introduction about Imperial’s in-house art
gallery. Mindy graduated from the Royal College of Art in
2004 with a Masters in Painting. Her works have been ex-
hibited both in the UK and internationally and are also held
in several private collections. Besides running the Blyth Gal-
lery, she lectures in the Visual Arts module for BSc Medical
Engineering in Imperial College. )
BY MINDY LEE

