LIFE THROUGH THE LENS 32 33 34
LIFE THROUGH THE LENS
I
t’s ten o’clock on a Saturday night. People of
all ages are out around the town. Drinkers are
down in the pubs, clubbers out in the clubs,
couples were… doing whatever it is couples
do. Stepping out of the tube station, I am greeted
by a group of middle-aged ladies all dressed up
raring to go on the prowl. “Hey You!” they shout at
me; their tights are a little worse for wear, and their
make up is a little shoddy but I’m a forgiving guy,
so I greet them anyway. They aren’t particularly
attractive and I swear the blonde has some rather
excessive hair down her cleavage.
After a couple of minutes, my somewhat
misplaced-where-the-sun-don’t-shine brain starts
to kick into action: the deep, coarse voices, the diva-
tastic hair, the unnecessary extra blusher (blue so
didn’t suit her). I sigh. At least I’m in the right place.
After a brisk walk through two parks, one friendly
neighbourhood,onenotsofriendlyestateandafew
BY TRISTAN BROWN
alleys, I finally reach the venue. To little surprise,
I am greeted by a six foot man dressed from head,
and indeed, to foot in a kimono. Of course I am.
Complete with a thick and voluptuous wig, had it
not been for his massive collar bone or his stubble
or perhaps the pointed nose, I would have mistaken
him for quite a her. Quite an impressive her.
Dear reader, allow me to attempt to enlighten
you as to how I managed to get myself into such a
situation. I’m a bit of a photographer, I do so enjoy
it and I take pleasure in lively subjects. Surfing
the web for events to photograph leads me to a
myriad of options, naturally. The one event that
really caught my eye though, was entitled “the
Tranny Olympics.” Intriguing. Always up for new
things, I thought why not? Twenty minutes later,
after a quick call to the organiser, I was the official
photographer for the Tranny Olympics 2009.
“To little surprise, I am greeted
by a six foot man dressed from
head, and indeed, to foot in a
kimono. Of course I am.”

