34
33 LIFE THROUGH THE LENS
32
The venue was a warm, homely pub that probably
would have looked quite regal and amicable during
the day. Oh sweet irony, as tonight it would be
home for around three hundred of London’s most
fine transvestites. As I approach the entrance, the
hefty chunk of meat of a bouncer rolls his eyes at
me, “Good luck in there.” He says. Interesting.
As with any event, I fire a few test shots to try and
get a feel of the lighting. Blank; Keep forgetting to
take off the lens cap. After having looked around,
making sure nobody saw my schoolboy error I
removed the cap, plugged in the flash and wandered
around. There were some interesting costumes
donned by a few of the participants that night.
There was Jesus in a traditional white robe and
stilettos, a leopard-tutu-donning Santa/Member of
Ramstein, a slim Freddy Mercury in hotpants and an
eloquent Elton John dressed like a nun.
Movingswiftlyon,wheneveryouhaveabigcamera
in a small area, people look at you. It’s awkward and
sometimes a bit uncomfortable. When people are
drunk they lose their inhibitions. It’s awkward and
sometimes a bit uncomfortable. But when you have
a camera around drunken people, it’s even worse.
Every Tom, Dick and Dickhead wants their shot
taken, hoping to be seen in tomorrow’s Metro. Sure,
that can be fun, but when its one of those extremely
insecure men trying to impress his mates, it just gets
old very fast.
After some on-stage humping, stripping and
dancing the highlight of the night is announced,
the “Tranny Olympics 100m Sprint.” This sounds
promising. The pub starts to clear out onto the
streets. I have to say, it is among one of the
surrealist situations I’ve found myself in. Imagine
for one moment it’s about eleven at night, you are
in the middle of a street surrounded by hundreds of
transvestites, lining up for a race down an alley. I
think it was about now I noticed a young Asian boy
carrying a sex doll two sizes too big for himself;
mentally, I named him Ernie. Ernie proved to be the
most popular man that night, definitely getting all
the ladies. And men.
Once the race was over, the crowd decided to go
on protest. Everybody marched towards the high
street, chanting “One, two, three, four! Tranny
Rights, we want more!” Bemused drinkers came out
of their pubs to view the spectacle and take some
photos from their phones. Hrmph. Amateurs.
If you don’t carry an SLR at all times, you ain’t a
photographer. (continued overleaf)
“ ...when you have a camera
around drunken people, it’s
even worse. Every Tom, Dick
and Dickhead wants their shot
taken, hoping to be seen in
tomorrow’s Metro.”

