4 felix FRIDAY 04 JUNE 2010
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
NEWS
The world beyond College walls
By Tom Greany
Israel USA
N
orway has jump-started international plans to slow
climate change. The country pledged $1 billion
in aid to Indonesia in an effort to protect tropical
rainforests in the country, which are heavily forest-
ed for the palm oil trade. The aid programme, and others like
it, will be used as an incentive for poorer countries not to cut
down tropical forests for economic gain. The plan is one of the
first realisations to arise out of commitments of funds made by
industrialised nations at the Copenhagen summit. The move
was described as positive by climate change scientists because
deforestation is a major contributor to greenhouse gas emis-
sion. Simultaneously, Norway managed to receive the com-
mitment from other industrialised countries for a further $500
million in aid commitments, bringing the total to $4 billion.
Further commitments at a tropical deforestation conference
this week may bring the total to $5 billion.
Norway
T
he bonanza in the Gulf of Mexico rolled on this
week. The attempt to plug the spill via top kill,
which is a strategy to pump dense mud and perhaps
shredded tyres into the oil well, failed. An attempt
to modify the well with a diamond saw and equipped robot also
failed when the robot got stuck. Cleanup workers in many re-
ports have claimed that they are under strict orders not to allow
the capture or release of images of oil-soaked wildlife: such im-
ages were a major source of controversy during the 1989 Exxon
Valdez oil spill in Alaska. The U.S. Department of Justice an-
nounced it was opening a criminal probe of BP, Transocean,
and Halliburton as required under various environmental laws
while President Obama announced that he was in favour of re-
pealing “billions of dollars” worth of tax cuts for oil producers
and diverting the funds towards green energy research.
M
ideast protesters have formed a flotilla that has
ended in tragedy and international uproar. The
formation, consisting of six ships, under Co-
moros, Greece, Ireland, Kiribati, Turkey, and
American flags, carried 663 passengers from nearly forty coun-
tries and 10,000 tons of supplies. The plan was to break the
Israeli blockade and to deliver supplies to Gaza. Israel initially
signalled that it would not allow this to happen and reportedly
offered to divert the blockade to Ashdod, where facilities had
been established to receive the protesters and transfer their aid
to Gaza after inspection. What happened next is unclear, but
what is known at this juncture is that the flotilla was eventually
boarded by the Israeli military, seven protesters were killed and
dozens injured. Ten Israeli soldiers were injured. An enormous
debate over the facts ensues via diplomatic channels, newspa-
pers, television news programmes, and YouTube.
Graduate jobs annihilated by recession
New research shows that only a third of graduates expect to find a job after university. Alex Karapetian reports
G
raduates leaving Uni-
versity in the coming
months are preparing to
take low paid jobs due to
the recession’s profound
effect on employment in the UK. Stu-
dents are expecting to accept work in
bars, supermarkets and call centres,
according to a press release by High
Fliers Research.
The survey of over 16,000 final year
degree students showed only a third of
the graduates expecting to find a job
after University, with only a quarter of
those on Arts and Humanities courses
preparing to find jobs. Graduates face
record levels of debt, with average loan
repayments upwards of £18,000 for a
three year course and rising to £25,000
for some parts of London.
Research shows that thousands of
students are considering taking a post-
graduate degree course as an alterna-
tive to having to find a job, effectively
remaining within the academic bubble.
Figures indicate 26% of students intend
to remain in Higher Education after
their degrees.
Martin Birchall, Managing Direc-
tor of High Fliers Research, said “stu-
dents taking courses such as Arts and
Humanities courses, including fine
art, drama, dance, music, history and
geography are likely to be the hardest
hit.’’
to find work’’. Key findings include just
36% of final year students believing
they will start or look for a graduate
job, while 14% have yet to decide what
to do next. 45% of leavers describe
prospects as “very limited’’ as confi-
dence in the graduate job market is
at a fifteen year low. 33% will take any
job they are offered, pinning their lack
of confidence on the aftermath of the
recession. A further fifth also admit-
ted that the scarcity of jobs has meant
they’ve had to apply to employers that
they “weren’t really interested in’’.
This implies that large numbers of
students will undertake low paid jobs,
failing to use skills they learnt whilst
earning their degree for many years.
The report shows, however, that while
the number of students applying to
investment banks has increased by
a sixth, fewer have applied to Engi-
neering or IT jobs. The most popular
destinations for applications this year
have been in the media, teaching and
marketing.
The survey was conducted across
thirty universities, including Cam-
bridge, Southampton and Imperial
with face to face interviews of students
representing a fifth of the national final
years.
Students preparing to leave Imperial
were expecting to pay back as much as
£25,700, which is £7,700 above the av-
erage debt for students on a three year
degree.
“The recession may be officially
over,’’ he continued, “but with a record
number of students due to complete
degrees in the coming weeks and tens
of thousands of last year’s graduates
still looking for work, there is wide-
spread concern that competition for
graduate jobs has never been fiercer.’’
Birchall addressed the research’s main
points, highlighting that “students
from Arts and Humanities courses and
those who’ve had little or no work ex-
perience during their time are the least
confident about the future.’’
The High Fliers press release indi-
cates that “many of this year’s entry
level vacancies will be filled by gradu-
ates from the class of 2009 who failed
I bet you’re sick of hearing about graduate prospects: One week they’re good, the next they’re appalling
• Average debt of £25,000
for some London
students
• Imperial graduates owe
up to £8,000 more than
average

