Phil Sandwell’s brain wanders off its leash
6
COMMENT
Comment Editor
Comment Editor Charlotte Morris
Charlotte Morris
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix FRIDAY 04 JUNE 2010
A
couple of weeks ago on
the BBC’s Question Time,
the panel lamented the
lack of women and people
from ethnic minorities in
politics. I do believe that the interests
of the country would be best served by
having a government that completely
represents the proportions of men,
women, religions and colours amongst
the British people, but only if all of
these people want to do, and are up to
doing, the job. Simon Hughes of the
Liberal Democrats (who have 57 white
male MPs) said his party had failed and
should introduce positive discrimi-
nation to even up the numbers. But
whatever happened to the idea of the
job going to the best candidate?
I hate positive discrimination. If you
are not the best candidate then you
should not be getting the position. If
political parties start aggressively sup-
porting positive discrimination how
will anyone ever know if the candidate
they are voting for has any idea what
they are doing, or if they were just put
there to fill some kind of quota. I ap-
preciate that the current bias towards
white middle-aged men can discourage
people who are not really represented
by the MPs in the House of Commons
from wanting to enter into politics. If
you see barely any women in politi-
cal jobs then perhaps this means, as a
woman, you would feel unwelcome in
that sort of position. There are few role
models in place to aspire to. However,
these issues do not justify giving some-
one a post because of their gender or
colour – discrimination by any name is
still discrimination.
Instead of promoting people into
jobs just because of their sex or racial
background – traits which none of
us can change – time would be bet-
ter spent encouraging people from all
walks of life to apply for these jobs. In
the end, by a law of averages, you will
end up with the ideal proportions of
representation without having to re-
sort to positive discrimination. I’m not
naive enough to think that this would
be a quick process; giving women
and people from ethnic minorities
safe party seats is a much faster way
to even up numbers in the House of
Commons. However, it seems that by
using positive discrimination as a tool
to fill quotas the political parties could
be giving fuel to people who are sexist
and racist to say that these MPs are not
suited to a career in politics. If it was
made clear that every candidate went
through the same rigorous selection
process then surely everyone would be
on an even playing field. Otherwise,
we could end up with a collection of
substandard MPs or, worse, a collec-
tion of brilliant MPs who are ignored
because they are considered to have
only got the job because of their gen-
der or skin colour.
Equality, to me, is the most impor-
tant thing any society can aspire to. We
all deserve the same opportunities, but
it is up to us to make the most of these.
I don’t want to be handed a job solely
because of my gender. If positive dis-
crimination continues, and becomes
yet more aggressive, it will lead people
to question whether they really got a
position on their own merit. This kind
of discrimination undermines pride in
oneself; how can you be pleased with
your achievements if they were given
to you because of something you didn’t
choose and are unable to change? In
the world of work it can sometimes be
better to be simply regarded as a hu-
man being rather than a sex or a colour.
Positive discrimination undermines pride
P
eople think far too much. If
we aren’t thinking about our
exams we’re thinking about
our work, thinking about
what to do or how to do it.
What I think we all need to do is take
a moment to sit back, breathe deeply
and relax.
In a university environment it is
only natural that your brain starts to
perform in a certain way. In such a
science-dominated environment as
Imperial, a special mindset built on
the foundations of reason and ration-
ality develops, allowing students to
base balanced judgements on care-
ful thought and consideration. At
least this is the theory. In practice,
the result is more often than not the
thoughtless overapplication of inap-
propriate logic, often ending in some-
one trying to resolve some differential
equations in their head. While this
approach is highly commended in the
fields of rocket science or fluid dy-
namics, it is completely pointless in
response to the sorts of questions that
generally arise in day-to-day life. If,
after asking someone which cashpoint
I should go to, they gave me a well-
worked and entirely reasonable statis-
tical analysis of why I should go to the
one round the corner, I would look at
them blankly and walk away. If, on the
other hand, someone else told me I
should go to the one round the corner
because last time they went there it
was sunny, I would happily take their
advice without a second thought. Un-
fortunately, as we’ve all experienced,
asking an insignificant question often
receives a less than trivial response.
Not only does this force me through
a course of involuntary mental gym-
nastics to humour, let alone follow,
their argument, it gets me no close to
withdrawing my money.
A symptom of thinking too much is
thinking too little. This is most often
manifested in the form of sitting in
front of some form of screen, gorm-
lessly staring into the middle distance
and letting whatever you aren’t really
focussing on wash over you. The self-
hypnosis is normally broken by either
the adverts on 4oD coming on or the
lecturer changing his PowerPoint
slide, both of which make you realise
that you have very little idea where
the preceding fifteen minutes went.
This is the vegetative state of the brain
caused by either the overuse of or ex-
posure to, among other things, need-
lessly complicated cashpoint direc-
tions. In this powered-down scenario,
the mind tries to recover by either
absorbing information by osmosis
(such as when watching the entirety
of Brass Eye) or becoming dormant
and impervious to external stimuli
(such as staring your way through an-
other Thermodynamics lecture). The
human mind is a little like my aging
laptop; every once in a while, if you
work it too hard, it’ll emit a submis-
sive whimper and put itself in a con-
ciliatory, self-initiated sleep mode.
The best level of intellectual excur-
sion is when the mind is ticking over
just enough to keep itself going, but
not enough to justify any sort of deep
thinking. This state of mental-third
gear is normally attained either when
lying in a park in the summertime,
after an endless conversation with
good friends in the small hours of
the morning, or when mildly inebri-
ated. Best of all is the incomparable
combination of the three, when the
least-used part of our brains is let off
its leash and allowed to wander freely.
Imagination, upon entering Imperial,
is generally confined to the visualisa-
tion of situations for the purposes of
problem solving, and even then we are
normally instructed on exactly how to
do that. Much better is when your im-
agination can breed creativity; while
this normally results in the talking
of complete nonsense, like whether
Batman and Spiderman could ever be
friends or whether dinosaurs would
make good pets (answer: definitely
yes), this is exactly the sort of cra-
nial activity that is good for the soul.
As useful and practical as logic is, it
can never create, or compare to, the
freedom of an unchained imagination
thinking up absolute rubbish.
The brain is a wonderful organ, but
we all take it for granted. With the ex-
ception of the liver, it is the one part
of us that we thoughtlessly and thank-
lessly put under great stress on a regu-
lar basis. Once your exams are over
and you finally have time to relax, give
your mind the reward it has earned
over the past few months. Go and lie
on the grass in the sun and tell some-
one what the clouds look like.
“Logic is useful, but
it can’t compare
to the unchained
imagination
thinking up
absolute rubbish”
Eleanor Berry argues that’s there’s nothing positive about discrimination in an equal opportunity society
“We all deserve
the same
opportunities, but
it is up to us to
make the most of
them”
Affirmative action has sparked controversy in the U.S. since President
Kennedy introduced it in 1961

