7
felix FRIDAY 04 JUNE 2010
I
n these days of Facebook and
Twitter, of Blackberries and
iPhones (and iPads too now), we
are in a position to receive and
disseminate information before
it has even been created. That’s quite
a feat, and yet I still feel a warm fuzzy
glow of nostalgia come over me where
letters are concerned.
Everything just feels so much bet-
ter with a letter. Personal correspond-
ence becomes more intimate when the
lover discards their spell-checker in
favour of a fountain pen, and business
is so much more official when you can
see your name through that little poly-
thene window on the front of the enve-
lope. Besides this, there is the nervous
excitement that a walk down to the
mailbox can bring and the resultant
joy when you discover a letter inside.
And then there are the stamps. Tiny
little squares of paper, inconsequential
in themselves yet they have the pow-
er to ferry parcels all over the world.
Across borders, across continents,
even (especially given Royal Mail’s
work ethic, or lack thereof) across
time! There is also the delicious yet
alien taste of licking the back of one.
What is it that goes into that gum?
That curious, quintessential fla-
vour that lingers on the tongue and
prompts an absent licking of the lips
and a fervent wish that Aunt Mar-
garet lived in Russia, not Reading.
Royal Mail have kept tight-lipped on
the recipe lest it fall into the wrong
hands and wreak havoc on us all. Af-
ter much persuasion (and a sack filled
with doorknobs), I was able to glean
some vital insights. For starters, did
you know a stamp contains 5.9 calo-
ries? Fascinating!
But more importantly, I have dis-
covered the dark secret behind the
stamp’s secret ingredient. The clue is
in the licking. As Freud delighted to
point out, we humans have an insa-
tiable preponderance to lick things. It
isn’t surprising, given we have more
than 8000 taste-buds on our tongue
alone. However, trouble arises when
we start to lick things that we really
shouldn’t.
To begin with, there are toads. Toads
secrete a noxious chemical cocktail to
put their would-be predators off their
dinner (which would be them other-
wise). And yet we lick them because
in a few species, the mix is just right
to have a potent hallucinogenic effect.
It makes for quite a high…so I’m told.
There are also poison-dart frogs which
are slightly less fun (and considerably
more lethal) to lick.
Deepening the connection between
licking and psychedelic experiences is
LSD. Little squares of paper, with one
lick and you’re floating in the clouds,
listening to rainbows. Does any of this
sound familiar? Does it sound scary? It
should because in addition to the vast
reams of paper Royal Mail import to
make their stamps, they also import a
vast quantity of toads.
This is the reality of things, as I un-
derstand it. The glue on the back of
stamps is made from toad-sweat. But
why? There are so many other, far
more attractive, alternatives. The rea-
son is one of self-preservation. Why
do you think we still have letters at all
in the age of e-mail and internet? We
do not buy stamps for letters; we write
letters to lick stamps. To continue
business, Royal Mail sought to make
a franking system that people wanted
to use, and keep on using. The idea
was there with LSD on blotter paper
but unfortunately, it’s not addictive,
which was the entire point. Also, peo-
ple tended to do strange things to their
letters while tripping.
Being the wild bohemians that they
were, Royal Mail knew there was more
than one way to get high and so turned
to toads. Obviously they couldn’t use
any of the more fanciful species –
someone might notice – but after a
careful investigation, they found one
with just the right balance of addiction
and psychedelia. And that brings us to
today, where we write with resentment
a torrent of thank-you cards and yet
revel in licking the myriad of stamps
for them.
And there you have it. The truth. I’m
not proud of what I did to acquire it
but some things need to be known.
Of course, you can choose to dis-
believe me – maybe I licked one too
many toads myself – but let me ask
you one question. If stamp glue were
really something mundane and bor-
ing like starch and resin, why exactly is
stamp collecting so popular, especially
amongst the house-rave scene?
Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have to go
and post a letter.
“The mix is
just right to
have a potent
hallucinogenic
effect. It makes for
quite a high… so
I’m told”
Rhys Davies puts his tongue to toad
Are you graduating?
Never got around to writing that article? It’s not too late
Send your articles to felix@imperial.ac.uk
If you’re not sure what to write about, let us know what
your interests are and we’ll give you some ideas
Email contacts
Editor: felix@imperial.ac.uk
News: news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business: business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science: science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics: politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
You get the idea...
Note: Music’s email is
music.felix@gmail.com

