11
felix FRIDAY 04 JUNE 2010
CAT-NIP
Text in to
Text in to 07832670472
07832670472
Email in at
Email in at catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Tweet @felixcatnip
Tweet @felixcatnip
CAT GOT YOUR TONGUE?
ICE CREAM, ICE TEA OR ICED BEER?
HOW DO YOU COOL DOWN?
JOKES, LETTERS, OPINIONS – WE WANT THEM ALL!
Email: catnip.felix@imperial.ac.uk Text: 07832670472
Facebook: Felix Fan Page Twitter: @felixcatnip
Socks And Sandals?!
For me, it’s not a matter of fashion, it’s a matter of health. If I
don’t wear socks, I get blisters the size of basketballs.
Second Year Medic
I wouldn’t dream of wearing socks with sandals. But, I don’t
wear socks normally anyway. Or pants.
Third Year Physicist
My girlfriend gave me an ultimatum. It was her or the socks.
With a choice like that, what can you do? Needless to say, I
dumped her.
First Year Chemist
Drunken-Mate Photo Of The Week
When your mate is trapped in a cubicle, priorities are a must. You
must never seek out help before you get plenty of photos for Catnip.
Got a picture
of your mate
being an
absolute waste
of oxygen?
Well, get your
camera out
and email your
drunken mates
to catnip.
felix@imperial.
ac.uk
Senders must have permission to use submitted photos and
accept full responsibility for them
Certain skills are essential for a successful night out. Holding the vom in until the
taxi stops is obvious; others are more subtle...like knowing the recovery position.
Showdown! FOIL Vs. LOIL Do we “love our Imperial lives” or do they fail hard? You Decide!
Just caught myself considering carrying out a chi squared test to see if my kitchen is infested. Verdict: FOIL
UCL slips to 9th in university rankings! Verdict: Epic LOIL
A professor instructed 150 sex-starved MechEng students to, “Obtain maximum head for minimum work.” Like they needed telling! Verdict: FOIL
Only at Imperial would you get either Alpha, Beta, Gamma or Delta as a mark on your lab report. Verdict: LOIL
I’ve started to dream about having an infinity button on my calculator. Verdict: FOIL
Up to 80Mbps internet connection. Verdict: LOIL
I finished my exams on Tuesday and was given next year’s project today. Verdict: Harsh FOIL
Ugh, the exams are taking their toll. It was a comfortable win for FOIL this week.
What do you think? Is Imperial an academic haven or a socially-inept hell? Both?! Let the Cat know!

