unionpage
When Metric, your new nightclub, opens
at the start of the next academic year
there will be a chance for you to host your
own night. Open to Clubs, Societies and
Projects as well as Halls of Residence,
this is a great opportunity to team up with
the Union Entertainments team to host
club nights and events for your fellow
students to enjoy.
Hosting one of these nights will be a great
way to raise the profile of your group, as
well as making a little bit of money for it.
It is well worth your time and effort as
it can help you to promote your group to
other students and help them learn more
about what you do. It will give them a
chance to experience something new,
and for your members it will be a fantastic
opportunity to put on an interesting and
exciting event for others to enjoy. The
theme of the event doesn’t have to be
tied into your group’s core activities; it
could simply be an idea you’ve had that
you think others will enjoy taking part in.
Although we want as many ideas and
people to take part in this process as
possible, there are also some things we
don’t want. We would like events people
can take part in and enjoy – this is what
these nights are all about. However, we
don’t want events that people come along
Host your own night in Metric next year
imperialcollegeunion.org
Head online to imperialcollegeunion.org/metric for more information and to download the application form
Still a chance to name the bar
Keep your ideas coming in to name our
new bar. The deadline to get these to
us is next Friday. You can submit your
ideas by commenting on our blog at
imperialcollegeunion.org/phase3 or by
tweeting using the tag #phase3.
The new bar will have a clean, bright and
fresh feel. It will be the place for you to
get a drink, meal or watch sports on the
overhead projectors in a nice relaxed,
spacious atmosphere. To help you visualise
your new bar the latest pictures of our
Phase 3 development are on the blog.
These include pictures of your new bar, and
will hopefully inspire you when thinking of
suitable names.
We have had some good ideas and some
not-so-good! We are not sure that “Chubby
Salamander” is the best name! Many people
are liking the idea of even calling the bar
Phase 3! So what do you think? Remember
we need your suggestions especially if you
don’t like any of our current ones. Otherwise,
you may end up disappointed!
The Phase 3 blog is also the place to keep
up-to-date with all the lastest news on our
new nightclub and bar.
to simply for cheap alcohol and a cheap
night. These nights are not bar nights
or opportunities for budding nightclub
promoters!
In the past there have been many
successful events held by students such
as Imperial Idol and Battle of the Bands.
When Metric opens were looking for
more events like these.
To host your night in Metric you need
to go online to imperialcollegeunion.
org/metric. Here you will find more
information on the process to get your
night chosen. There are also some
example events to get your creative
juices flowing! Fill in a request form,
complete it and then submit it. Then our
newly formed Entertainments Committee
will look at the requests and inform the
successful applicants. A date can then be
booked and planning can start.
The application process is now underway.
If you are interested in hosting a club night
in Metric next term (October – December
2010), fill out the form available online from
imperialcollegeunion.org/metric and
send it to dpfs@imperial.ac.uk, or hand
in a printed version at Union Reception,
Floor 2M Union Building. The deadline
for submissions is midnight 15 June.

