Last Tuesday, I went to see Switchfoot
at the HMV Forum in Camden, as part
of the UK leg of their worldwide Mess
of Me tour. The band, originally from
San Diego, California, and their mu-
sic have been variously described as
surfer, alternative, rock and Christian.
While the C-word can put some people
off, it’s refreshing to hear deeper lyrics
in songs like “The Sound” (civil rights)
and it never feels preachy, because that
is not what the band is about. “These
songs are about things I don’t really un-
derstand: God, girls and politics,” Jon
Foreman, Switchfoot’s front-man, told
the crowds. I think there’s something
we can all relate to in that.
The evening started, as all concerts
must, in the queue outside. Since
Switchfoot isn’t really well-known on
this side of the Atlantic, I wasn’t expect-
ing a crush but I was surprised by the
way the queue snaked around the back
of the venue and into a nearby business
park. It was all very amiable, despite
the grey early evening drizzle that was
beginning to come down. From what
I (over)heard in nearby conversations,
there was a healthy mix of Switchfoot
virgins and veterans, like myself. On
the door, the bouncer confiscated my
water – I can understand that; London
tap-water is pretty strong stuff.
The Forum used to be an Art-Deco
cinema and this is apparent in the mu-
sic-hall feel to the interior. It is by no
means a large venue but this added a
more personal edge to the night. Even
standing at the back (which, admit-
tedly, was not far away), I still felt really
connected to the act. The hall was full
but not packed, so there was still room
for some healthy rocking out.
Warming up the crowd was The Au-
dio Cartel, which sounded like a stere-
otypical rock band. They had a lot of
electric guitar riffs...and not much else.
After they left and the techies had fid-
dled around a bit, a second supporting
act took to the stage. Again, a band I
had never heard of, this time called
Flood of Red. They didn’t differ too
much from the first act, apart from
some head-banging thrown into the
mix. Overall, they were a bit too much
hard rock for my liking. It wasn’t until
past 9 when Switchfoot finally made an
appearance; I was not greatly amused
by this since the doors had opened at 7.
However, any gripes I had swiftly
fell away as the band promptly opened
with “Needle and Haystack Life” from
their new album “Hello Hurricane.” As
I scanned the stage for lead singer Fore-
man, he appeared on the stairs above
the crowd and sang his way through
the fans (I’d like to see that at the O2!).
In seconds, the crowd was alive with
excitement. Switchfoot then dipped
liberally into their back catalogue to
play some real crowd-pleasers; I swear
the audience went mental when they
started playing “Gone”.
The set-list had something for every-
one; fast, slow, new, old, it was all there.
Switchfoot on UK leg of world tour
Switchfoot
HMV Forum
1st June
★★★★✩
Rhys Davies queues, parties and gets his water confiscated. You can never be too careful at Christian-rock gigs
14
felix FRIDAY 04 JUNE 2010
music.felix@imperial.ac.uk MUSIC
Energetic songs like “Oh Gravity!” gave
way to slower, more balladic ones like
“Your Love is a Song” before bringing
things back up to pace with the likes of
“Bullet Soul.” The crowd loved every
minute of it. They were jumping and
shouting and cheering and singing
along with everything and Foreman
played them brilliantly. It made for a
real collaborative effort. Even without
the fans’ copious help, Foreman was
an impeccable showman, bouncing
around the stage with near-limitless
passion and energy. By the end of the
night, he was drenched in sweat.
As the concert drew to a close, I was
disappointed that, given that they had
played so many of their best songs,
Switchfoot didn’t play “Hello Hur-
ricane” from the album of the same
name, an instant classic in itself. But
I should have known better. They had
saved it for the inevitable encore, called
out by the crowd ululating the opening
notes while stamping their feet. As a
song to go out on, it truly elevated the
evening to a top-class performance by
a most awesome band.
Switchfoot have headed off to Ger-
many now for the next part of their
tour but if I’ve piqued your interest,
they will be playing at the Download
Festival later this month. Go on, check
‘em out – you might just like them!
They’re all wearing exactly 3 pieces of clothing, must be their thing...
More information can by found online:
www.imperial.ac.uk/accommodation
t: 020 7594 9444
e: accommodation@imperial.ac.uk
If you’re staying in
London over the
Summer or you’re
just visiting for
a few days, keep
things simple by
staying with us.
We’ve got rooms
available in
Wilson House,
Paddington and
Fisher Hall, South
Kensington, which
are both ideal for
getting around
London.

