felixSport
Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
04.06.10
Sam Dennis Snooker
F
or the past two years, Im-
perial college have won a
bronze medal at the BUCS
Snooker Championships.
However, losing our club’s
best player last year through the self-
ish act of graduating, as well as another
key 1st team player choosing to focus
on his degree, our team was looking
average at best. With only two surviv-
ing members of last year’s bronze win-
ning team, 1st team captain Sam Den-
nis brought up three new faces from
the 2nd team.
After our poor performance in the
Midlands cup earlier in the year, realis-
tic chances of equalling our results from
the last two years and claiming a further
bronze medal was low. However, with
regular team practice sessions, the new
look team was improving every day.
The first round of the Championships
was a league of five teams, all to play
each other in a best of ten, with each
player playing two frames again an op-
ponent from the opposing team.
With a 5-5 draw to an impressive
Manchester 1st team, a 9-1 loss to fa-
vourites Cardiff 1st, followed by two 6-4
wins against Durham 1st and Cardiff
3rd, we finished the first round losing
out to 2nd place on frame difference.
This meant we qualified for the knock-
out Trophy event, where we had won
bronze for the past two years.
Late on Saturday night saw our first
knock-out match against a strong
Queens 2nd team. After a 2-0 loss from
Lawrence Wild and a 1-1 draw from
Duc Tien, we found ourself in a diffi-
cult position, especially as team captain
Sam Dennis and Ken Ng had lost their
first frames. These results meant the
score was 5-1 to Queens in a first to 6
match. We were feeling down, we were
playing bad, all was lost! But then, from
nowhere, our ‘B’ team arrived to give us
some much needed support. Suddenly
morale was high, Ken began winning
his final frame and Sam smashed in a
31 break to take the lead in his match.
With these two frames on the board we
were 5-3 down with just our very expe-
rienced Hari Arora left to play.
Hari’s had thankfully exchanged his
general ‘smash everything as hard as
possible’ playing style for a more con-
trolled, technical game. This resulted in
a massively tense first frame where Hari
rolled in the final blue before having to
use the long rest to sink the pink. Final
frame and Hari needs to win to draw
the match level and force a decider.
To our horror, Hari found himself 20
points behind, but a valiant fight back
saw a tight fight on the colours. Good
pots from Hari on the yellow and green,
followed by a fluke from his opponent
on the brown, which was responded
with a fluke by hari on the blue (where
it actually went in a pocket a full 12 feet
away from the one he was aiming for)
and a stylish pot on the pink to win and
A fairytale ending
ICU Snooker beat York in a dramatic fashion to claim gold medal place at the BUCS Championships
equalise the frame scores to 5-5.
Sam Dennis was nominated to play
the single frame play-off game and to
progress the team to the semi-finals and
be guaranteed at least a bronze medal.
Sam’s pulled through with a series of
medium sized breaks and exhibition
style pots, creating a 40 point lead; the
pressure was off. Another couple of im-
pressive pots saw the victory sealed by
the captain. Suddenly, the team with no
realistic chance of medals found them-
selves in the semifinals after being 5-1
down in a first to 6 match.
Semifinal match was against Cardiff
2nd. Having been embarrassingly beat-
en 9-1 to Cardiff 1st earlier in the tour-
nament, the team was adamant not to
be beaten by another Cardiff team. The
match started off quite close, with 1-1
draws from Lawrence and Duc. With a
win from Sam and another draw from
Ken meant we were winning 5-3 going
into Hari’s match, so even if he were to
lose 2-0, at very least me would have
another play-off match. Fortunately
though, Hari came through for the team
once again, winning the first frame to
send us through to the final 6-3.
At this point, we had out performed
the last two years and were guaranteed
at least a silver medal.
The final is played in a slightly dif-
ferent format, instead of adding up the
amount of frames won, every player
plays a best of 3 match against one op-
ponent, and it is the number of matches
won that counts. Therefore, with 5 play-
ers on each team, the final is won by the
team that wins 3 matches.
The final against York 2nd started
with wins from Lawrence Wild and Sam
Dennis, who’s frame difference for the
team tournament was an astonishing
12 wins to 2 loses, put Imperial 2-0 up
in the first to 3 match. With Duc Tien
winning his matches, it seemed that we
were just minutes away from claiming
Imperial’s first BUCS Team Snooker
gold medal.
But things took a turn for the worse.
Duc’s opponent came back strong and
won a close 2-1 match, making the
score only 2-1 to Imperial. The final
seemed to be slipping away as both Ken
and Hari were losing their matches.
Ken fort back bravely in the second
frame equalising his match, only to be
out played in the decider, to lose 2-1 and
level the overall match to 2-2 with, once
again, just Hari’s match to be played.
Hari, after losing the first frame came
out strong in the second, raking up a
20 point lead. However, with the York
player only requiring one frame to with
the match, he came back hard. But with
the whole of the 1st and 2nd team be-
hind Hari, he pulled through to equalise
his match, meaning the result of the fi-
nal was all down to his last frame. The
match was finely balanced at 2-2, and
1-1 in the final match.
Hari, once again made a great start
pulling 20 point clear of his opponent.
But once again, the player from York
came back strong and was winning go-
ing into the colors, just 6 balls left on the
table would decide who won gold. Once
again, it seemed like the final had got
away from us with Hari losing so late in
the frame.
ButthenHariseemedtogetpossessed
by some sort of Ronnie O’Sullivan/John
Higgins hybrid. He played two amaz-
ing snookers, and then then kept com-
posure when the rest of the room were
ready to explode with excitement, and
smashed home the blue, in true Hari
Arora style, before coolly rolling in the
pink to win gold medal for Imperial
College 1st team.
Other results from the weekend: the
2nd team lost to Oxford 1st and Exeter
2nd before beating Ulster 2nd team.
These results meant they qualified for
the team shield event where they went
out to Southampton 2nd team.
There was not much success in the
singles event, both Ken and Hari made
it through to the second round before
getting knocked out. Sam Dennis how-
ever made it through to the last 16.
As captain, I would like to Congratu-
late the rest of the 1st team, Lawrence
Wild, Ken Ng, Duc Tien and Hari Aro-
ra as well as the 2nd team Victor Loi,
Lewis Guan, Grace Yip, Nigel Rozario
and Amish Patel, for all their support.
Without them we would have most
likely lost to Queens in our quarter final
match. And finally a thank you to every-
one showing their support on our web-
site throughout the weekend, especially
Nigel’s mum.

