rldiimid-
Hi everybody
....now there's a nice jovial welcome back from
the Editor. I bet you all had a long and lazy
vacation and are now enjoying the 2 week
crash course in examination stress. I hope
you're not too busy to carry on reading
throughout the term and will continue to send
in letters (note absence of this week), puzzle
entries, donations to the r i J editors' fund and
so on.
Life After McCabe
Barney McCabe's name seems to be dirt in the
Union Office at the moment while the acting
DP, Miss Christine Teller, seems to have been
installed as a veritable deity. Why, even well
liked ICU President Nick Morton said that "in
If all of Primelia College was populated with
pure and applied mathematicians then perhaps
I could cope. Pure mathematicians tell the
truth, applied mathematicians lie: all very
straightforward. Statisticians in their
misguided attempts to be unbiased alternate
truth with falsehood and this can be bad
enough, but I have found that physicists have
no notion of truth and falsehood and are quite
prepared to answer questions at random.
Anything, it seems, to confirm the experi-
mental results.
I met three staff members in the bar last
week, and from their conversation it became
clear that two were mathematicians, one pure
and one applied, and one was a physicist.
Since I had no idea which was which, I asked
George and Fred what discipline Harry
belonged to. On receiving the same answer
from each, I asked George and Harry what
discipline Fred belonged to. Again the two
were in agreement. Finally I asked Fred about
Harry, and his answer enabled me to be sure
of the disciplines of all three. Who is what?
Solutions, comments and criticisms to me at
the FELIX Office, please. There is a prize of £5
(donated by Mend-a-Bike) for the correct
entry randomly selected at 1:00pm on
Wednesday.
Puzzle solutions next week.
principle" she has done more work over the
vacation than Barney did in the whole of last
term!
However I seem to remember that at the
Hustings U G M last term Mr Morton rose to
his feet to give a rousing speech against a
motion of no confidence in the Executive. He
was adamant that Barney McCabe was doing a
great job then, so he seems to have had a
major change of opinion.
Mind you, Christine is doing a good job (I
think that the U G M on Tuesday should ratify
her appointment) and perhaps it is her efforts
which have lead Nick to re-estimate Barney's
(and surely his own) performance.
Duncan Campbell
On Tuesday at 7:30pm Duncan Campell, the
well-known investigative journalist, will be
lecturing to the London Student Journalist
Group at U L U . If anyone wants to come along
please come to the FELIX Office for details.
Deadline
Because of the Bank Holiday next week's
absolutely inflexible copy deadline is 10:00am
Tuesday.
Credits
Thanks to Peter, Martin S., David, Steve,
Pallab, Paul B., Maz, Ian, but most of all me.
A c c o m m o d a t i o n for N e x t Session
Areas: S. Ken, Fulham, Putney.
Flats for 3, 4, 5, 6 and 8. .Rent £18.00-£23.50pw.
Single bedsits £18.00-£23.50pw
Double bedsits £17.00-£19.00pw.
Contact Student Services at 15 Princes Gdns for
further details.
What's On
Friday, April 30
• C l l r J o e H e g a r t y , Labour Group Leader on
Westminster City Council, 12:45pm, Huxley 340. Find
out why Thursday's City Council elections are so
important. All welcome.
•IC Labour Club: Electioneering for Westminster S
CLP. Depart from Lounge above Southside Bar at
6:30pm or meet at LP Rooms, 2 Denbigh Place, SW1 at
7:00pm.
• I C C N D Benefit Festival '82, 7:00pm till 2:00am, ICU
Building, 2nd floor, Concert Hall, £150. Three bands:
Futile Hurling, Super Nature, The Feelers. Three plays:
Passion by E. Bond; Ye Gods by M. Thackery, Where
the Wind Blows by R. Briggs. Film: Taxi Driver. Magic,
Food, Real Ale, Balloons, etc.
•Life Sci Party, 8:30pm till late, JCR. Tickets, £1, from
soc reps, dep reps, ICU Office.
•Soup Run, 10:30pm, Falmouth Kitchens.
Sat and Sun May 1 and 2
•IC Operatic Society Gilbert and Sullivan Marathon.
All 13 operas to be performed consecutively in aid of
Save The Children Fund, 12:00 noon, Sat May 1, ICU
Concert Hall. Everybody welcome to come and listei
All donations gladly accepted.
Monday, May 3
• B a d g e s o c m e e t i n g , 12:40pm, Lounge above
Southside Bar.
•Dancing club advanced class, 7:30pm, JCR.
Tuesday, May 4
• P i m l i c o C o n n e c t i o n meeting to find out about
tutoring for 1982/3, 12:30pm, Elec Eng 606.
• T a l k by c u l t u r a l attache for S o u t h A f r i c a n
Embassy on their political philosophy, 1:00pm, Huxley
130.
• S T O I C programme 'Film Special' Interview with Jean
Jaques Arnaud, Director of Quest For Fire, 1:00 and
6:00pm, JCR and Halls.
•Mech Eng soc meeting with Mr K.H. Richards of the
C E G B on 'The C E G B Pumped Storage Scheme at
Dinomic', 1:15pm, ME542. All welcome.
• S F Soc film Rocky Horror Picture Show, 6:30pm,
ME220, 50p non-members, 20p members. Free to those
in appropriate fancy dress.
•Special rehearsal for 1812 Overture performance,
7:00 10:00pm, Great Hall. All woodwind and brass
players welcome.
• I C C A G S o u p R u n , meet 10:30pm Falmouth.
Wednesday, May 5
•Dancing club intermediate class, 7:30pm, JCR.
Thursday, May 6
• I C C N D A G M , 1:00pm, Union Upper Lounge, please
come along.
•1812 Overture by Tchaikovsky, with bells and
cannon effects, 1:15pm, Queens Tower steps.
• S T O I C b r o a d c a s t 'News-Break' followed by
JJniversity Challenge', a chance to see IC's team win
imething, 6:00pm, Southside Hails, T V Lounge, etc.
SF Soc present the cult classic The Rocky
Horror Picture Show on Tuesday at 6:30pm in
Mech Eng 220. Come and participate; bring
rice (for the wedding), a n umbrella o r
newspaper plus water-pistol and be ready to
do the Time Warp! Entry is free to all those in
fancy dress and there will be prizes for the
most outrageous costumes, including a
fabulous free haircut voucher from Jingles of
Gloucester Road. Be there or be square.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of the Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince
Consort Road, London SW7 2BB (589-5111 ext 1048 int 2881) Copyright FELIX 1982. Editor: M A Smith, Advertising Manager: S M Gibfin.

