10 Clubs and Societies
No Sea Too Rough...
...on the Imperial College Underwater Club Easter Tour 1994 To The Lizard,
Cornwall. Report by Jason Grey. (Edited by Douglas Donaldson)
Once again the Easter break saw us packing a
minibus full of dive kit and whizzing down to
the Eastern tip of the Lizard Peninsula. The sun
shone strongly and was accompanied by the
absence of the curse of all dive trips-strong or
gale force winds. Yes, our Lord was smiling on
us and showing us how good this trip was going
tobe..Not!
So, nous sommes reveilles Sunday and
looked out of our caravan windows to a wet and
windy day. The good Lord in his infinite
wisdom had toyed with us and, just like Jim
Morrison who quickly whipped the towel from
himself briefly exposing his most private of
parts in front of an excited audience, God had
made it plain to us that he was toying with us
and that was all we were likely to see of the sun.
Tradition has it that all novices shall be
deflowered in Porthoustock, a sheltered bay
where they experience a gentle introduction to
the reality of British diving. It is a suitable site to
get scuba virgins in the water and progress
through their training.
Having arrived at the site and learned of
worsening weather later in the day, the old hands
ignored that strongest of impulse to drive to the
nearest pub and hold the landlord's wife and
children hostage until he agreed to open up and
serve us and selflessly sacrificed ourselves by
agreeing to dive. Why? I can't honestly recall
now, but it has to have something to do with
taking a novice in the water for the first time and
seeing their eyes light up with excitement as you
dive some sludgy piece of kelp. It seems to take
about 20 dives for a novice to realise when s/he
is diving to something that is utterly and
completely uninteresting. Eventually they too
will look at the site and quickly make a mental
vote for the pub!
My novice, John, and I dived last. It was so
unpleasant in the surge and swell that we left the
bay with its rocks and kelp and the odd
interesting feature for the barren desert of sand.
Although this appeared to be a master stroke, it
did not explain the sudden deterioration in
underwater viz. (visibility for the diving
unblessed) we experienced. All became apparent
when we dragged ourselves on all fours up to the
shingle bank at the shore line. We looked up to
see a JCB digging up massive rocks, leaving a
sizeable slick. Nice work by the locals in ruining
an already dubious dive site.
The next morning revealed another horrible
day. The first of three dives was a reef south of
Falmouth involving gullies and rocks with high
kelp. This dive gave the novices more to see in
terms of flora, fauna and interactive nature
diving which roughly translated means spotting
something interesting and playing with it. John
and I came across several dogfish (related to the
shark, but much smaller).
Meanwhile those lucky sports divers went off
to dive the Volnay, a wrecked ammunition ship
• ... ' ' > r *
off Maenporth. We dived this wreck again on
the following day for training purposes and, after
a brief exploration we started our ascent,
practising the sharing air drill that is such an
important skill to the diver. This accomplished,
we surfaced for the boat trip home. At one point
we were running with the wind and sea at our
back and, as the channel narrowed, the wave in
front of us towered up above us until the wall of
water was at least 30 feet from crest to trough.
Times like that really focus your mind on to just
how powerful water can be.
Wednesday morning, with the winds very
much stronger than they had been, we hurried
off early to Falmouth. As we waited on the
slipway, two of our party had a discussion:
"Wonder where the van is?"
"Oh probably in a ditch somewhere!"
The prophet of doom was actually right. We
got a message that the van had in fact ended up
in a ditch on Goonhilly Downs but, thankfully,
all were safe. I kept looking at the prophet of
doom to make sure his dive knife was not a large
scythe. "Hi, my name's Reaper, but you can call
me Grim." Nope, no horsemen around.
Those of us with enough kit dived the
Peterson in Falmouth Bay. We managed to find
the end of the wreck where the chains are
heaped in a big pile. We had no problem in
spotting the massive conger eels that inhabit this
pile of chain. They are big, about 10 inches
diameter and probably a length of six feet or so.
They demand respect and they got it. We
returned to the campsite after a fairly interesting
day for all concerned; some stayed in Falmouth
to sample the local beerfest for a while.
On Friday we planned to dive the Stanwood
in Falmouth Harbour. But our DM took one of
our motto's to heart: "Plan the dive and f**k the
plan" and decided to dive the Peterson out in the
bay. Conditions in the bay were not at all like
they were supposed to be and after chugging
around on the surface, trying to work up the
courage to dive, sense prevailed and we beat a
retreat for the harbour. So, we packed up early
that Friday.
The evening saw the official award ceremony
and meal. Here are some of the highlights.
John Cleese award for "statin' the bleedin'
obvious": Dave Taylor for shouting "wave"
every time he spotted a wave.
Quote of the trip (anon): "Probably in a ditch
somewhere."
On a more serious note, we should feel very
proud of our club. Never have we had such
consistently bad conditions; we have dived and
boated through rougher weather, but not for so
long. It was cold and miserable, but still we
achieved a lot. It is obvious that we are growing
in experience and skill. When I acted dead for
the rescue drill and recovery to the boat, I was
damned impressed with the standard of rescue
and care that I got. Let us continue to practice a
skill which will hopefully only ever be practised.
Some people who read this may well wonder
why we dive. At the surface all is bedlam. The
sea is rough, the boat is pitching and rolling, the
wind is biting cold and struggling into heavy kit
takes a huge effort. Yet underwater there is
peace and tranquillity. The near weightlessness
is calming and what may be just a pile of scrap
metal on land takes on a very different
perspective underwater.
We more than earned our motto "No Sea Too
Rough..." during this week. If we can dive
through that, then most other diveable conditions
will prove to be easy for us, but still it is
important to respect the power of the sea.
To find out what the societies are up to this week, turn to page 13

