Reviews 11
to®®?®
to®®?®
Janacek
Cuts Deep
At one point in their new Jenufa, ENO's
cautious, cost-cutting production appeared to be
briefly invaded by the ghost of an earlier regime.
The curtain rose on an abstract shadow
undulating over a shivering white drop-screen:
shades of a time when anything was permissable
as long as it looked good or seemed clever.
In fact this was neither insight nor conceit but
a technical hitch, and at the second attempt the
screen swung back over a very ordinary interior
set. Act I had looked better with its field of
thigh-high plastic daffodils, but by the middle of
Act II the performance had taken hold so
completely that it wouldn't have mattered if it
had been set in a bus-shelter.
Janacek's first major success is a grim story
of infanticide in a close-knit rural community.
Hearing it in English, strongly acted, brings the
undercurrents of despair and guilt surging close
to the surface. Josephine Barstow, clenched in
voice and posture, is the Kostelnicka, the
tortured matriarch who convinces herself it is for
the best to drown her foster-daughter Jenufa's
illegitimate baby. The pure-toned Susan Bullock
is near-ideal in the title-role, her voice only
Susan Bullock as the scarred heroine of Janacek's Jenufa (Photo: Alastair Muir)
roughening once or twice when at full stretch.
Conductor Sian Edwards draws a lean sound
from the orchestra. Perhaps due to her approach
(reduced strings, harsh brass) or to the latest
investigations into Janacek's original intentions,
there was none of the occasional suggestions of
Puccini and Strauss that can be heard on Sir
Charles Mackerras's Decca recording. Only the
Act I arrival of Jano (rattling through the
daffodils) disappoints with insufficient heady
sweetness from the pit. Strange that one of the
most ecstatic entries in opera should be not for a
triumphant lover or a victorious warrior, but for
a young boy who has learnt to read.
Elsewhere the flow is sure, with flashes of
warmth from the first horn and chilly gusts from
the flutes. The overall effect is bleak; the lovers'
duet at the close of Act III is not so much a
happy ending as a veil of gauze drawn over
deeply-gouged and half-healed wounds.
Patrick Wood
Until 2nd July at the Coliseum, St Martin's
Lane. Box Office: 071 836 3161. Tube: Leicester
Square. Ticketsfrom £8 (£6 on the day).
Turn your old text books into cash
FRI 17th JUNE WED 22nd JUNE
2-4pm 1130am-2pm
in the JCR, Level 2, Sherfield Building
* We'll buy your book ifit is a recommended cour
book next year.
* We'll pay 30%-50% ofthe cover price ofyour
book, dependent on condition.
The aim of this venture is to provide a service to
students and will not be run on a profit-making
basis. The Union reserves the right to decline offers
of books if the quota has been reached or they are
old editions/unsaleable.
/ C U
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION

