14 Reviews
Thumbelina and the smoothing talking Mr Beetle strut their stuff
Thumbelina
Voices: Jodi Benson, Carol Channing,
John Hurt
Directors: Don Bluth, Gary Goldman
The thing about going to see an animated film is
that the auditorium is almost always packed with
screaming kiddies throwing popcorn at each
other and constantly talking. This film is no
exception. Thumbelina is an interpretation of the
original Hans Christian Anderson tale by Don
Bluth (the man who gave us An American Tale).
The story tells of the adventures of a tiny girl
who is desperate for a bloke of about her size so
that she can live with happily ever after in true
fairy tale style. Surprisingly enough there aren't
many dishy two inch tall men around and
Thumbelina begins to get very worried that she
will spend the rest of her life on the shelf. Then
arrives Cornelius a fairy prince that happens to
be just the right size for Thumbelina. They
rather predictably fall in love but, of course, the
story does not end here.
Thumbelina goes on to be abducted by Mrs
Delores Toad and her Singers de Espana. The
flamenco frog attempts to exploit Thumbelina's
singing talents claiming that she will make
Thumbelina a 'star'. She almost succeeds until
she attempts to marry off Thumbelina to one of
her sons. Thumbelina escapes with the aid of a
passing swallow who tells her that she should
always follow her heart. Thumbelina then gets
chatted up by a smooth talking beetle, escapes
marriage to a mole and eventually is rescued by
Prince Cornelius.
The whole film has a truly continental style
with accents from all over the place cropping up.
The most confusing is probably that of the frogs,
who can't seem to decide whether they are
Spanish or Caribbean. The beetle obviously hails
from Manhattan and the swallow sounds
distinctly French. The best section of animation
is in the first five minutes with a breath-taking
3D flight of a swallow through the city streets.
The rest is a little mediocre with bland songs and
confusing characters. The whole thing just drags
on and the songs are too repetitive. Come back
Walt Disney, all is forgiven.
L y n n B !
Opens nationwide on 29th July.
| 111
The Beverly Hillbillies
Starring: Lily Tomlin, Erica Eleniak, Jim Varney
Director: Penelope Spheeris
In the strange world of Hollywood, a sure thing
is the commodity every studio is searching for.
And old TV shows are just about one of the
surest things you can get, especially ones of the
carat of The Beverly Hillbillies. One of the most
popular shows in American history, Twentieth
Century Fox must have felt very happy with the
whole project. The massive success of The
Addams Family, Dennis, Teenage Mutant Ninja
Turtles, the Star Trek movies and the upcoming
Flintstones must be an even more bitter blow to
Twentieth Century Fox than the lukewarm
reception at the US box office.
The reasons for the flop of The Beverly
Hillbillies are glaringly apparent from the
opening credits. The theme song, one of the
shows most familiar features, is reproduced as
close to the original as anything can be without
actually being it. The viewer feels immediately
uncomfortable; the original singer would have
been fine, even a modern cover version would
have been acceptable. But this ham-fisted
attempt to trick the audience is doomed to
backfire. My heart sank when I realised that the
performances were also going to consist of
nothing more than highly paid mimicry.
The story, while remaining that of the TV
series, is somehow made less believable or
likeable by the money thrown at its re-telling.
The film attempts to make the first 25 minutes
tell a story that the original told in the opening
titles - a major error of judgement. However,
when the story does take off, it is puerile and
unworthy of mention; suffice to say that Jed
wants to get wed and all manner of tricksters
want their hands on his new found wealth.
The comic talents of Jim Varney are wasted
on clumsy parody and even the great Lily
Tomlin only just manages to rise above the
insignificance of her role. Erica Eleniak once
again proves her talents to be over-rated.
The thing that made The Beverly Hillbillies
funny in the Sixties and funny today was the
sense that the naivety they displayed could have
been genuine. They were funny because the
place they had moved to was as weird as they
were. It was a satire not just of excessive
ruralism but of the same excess in urbanism that
the more bizarre aspects of LA life represents.
Obviously those responsible for this creation
missed the second part of the joke. The typical
country person in this movie gets a laugh by
farting and burping.
The whole agenda of the movie seems to be
that the Clampetts will be able to better them-
selves in the big city; we end with Ellie May
pushed into a skin tight dress. Call me an old
traditionalist, but the Sixties way, where the
Clampetts stayed in their mansion and Ellie May
still looked after her animals, is the vision of
them I want to be left with.
Tony Grew
No confirmed release date.
All these films are to be released over the summer holiday

