Reviews 15
Doctor Meinthe and Yvonne look straight ahead at nothing in particular
Le Parfum
D'Yvonne
Starring: Jean-Pierre Marielle, Sandra Majani,
Hippolyte Girardot
Director: Patrice Leconte
On the shores of a lake between France and
Switzerland, a village atmosphere sets the scene.
Isolated from the worries of the outside world,
three people meet and fall into friendship and
then love. Victor has come to this peaceful place
to escape being called up to fight in the Algiers.
Boarding with a group of old people, he pretends
to be a Count from Russia, doing nothing except
reading his magazines and seeing films.
One day he meets Yvonne and Doctor Rene
Meinthe. Yvonne is a young lady living each
day as it comes, with no real aim in life. Doctor
Meinthe, a friend of Yvonne, is an odd person
with the nickname of 'Queen Astrid', and with
suicidal tendencies. This is a story about the
interaction between the three people, apparently
with nothing in common who immediately
become friends after a single meal at a sporting
club.
The title of the film Le Parfum D'Yvonne,
III ; \ ;
!
III ; \ ;
!
1
1
Snow White
Voices: Adriana Caselotti, Harry Stockwell,
Lucille Laverne
Director: David Hand
Walt Disney's classic film Snow White And The
Seven Dwarfs has returned to bless our screens
once more for the summer holidays. It has been
cleaned up using the latest computer techniques
and it is now looking almost as good as new.
If you are unfamiliar with this fairy tale by
the brothers Grimm, it is about Snow White
who is despised by the Queen, her evil
stepmother, since she desires to be the fairest of
them all.
After escaping into the forest, she stumbles
upon the dwarfs' home. She hides here from the
Queen, takes care of the dwarfs and looks after
their neglected home. However, she is still not
safe from her mother's tyranny.
This film is definitely a must to see. I know
it's for kids but this film certainly has Walt
Disney's magic.
Magpie
Opens nationwide on 22nd July
Yvonne's Perfume, is a bit of a mystery. What is
it that attracts two people to each other? With
Victor it's Yvonne's sensuality and her beauty.
The film has a very sparse plot, as the people
live from day to day, the script flows from
minute to minute. All their lives have hidden
secrets: is Victor a coward for not wanting to
fight for his country or is he just delaying an
inevitability; why is Doctor Meinthe's nickname
Queen Astrid? Does it really matter?
The cinematography for Le Parfum
Bad Girls
Starring: Madeleine Stowe, Andie MacDowell,
Drew Barrymore, Mary Stuart Masterson
Director: Jonathan Kaplan
Bad Girls! Bad Movie! Which illustrates
beautifully Rule One of film naming: Never,
never put an adjective like 'bad' in the title of a
film that isn't at least half way to being decent.
The cast is good, Madeleine Stowe, Andie
MacDowell, Drew Barrymore and even a
favourite of mine, Mary Stuart Masterson. The
idea is at least novel as far as Westerns are
concerned, namely four female heroes/heroines,
but in much the same way as Mario Van
Peeble's Posse (FELiX 981) it just doesn't come
close to all the potential.
Now maybe I wasn't expecting much and I
certainly didn't enter it in a good mood, i.e. two
minutes after the film had started, as an old fat
American had used the age old excuse of
ignorance for cue jumping for the popcorn; but
either way I was sorely disappointed.
The story was just too boring with what you
assumed were amusing little side-plot becoming
the main crux of the film.
D'Yvonne is beautifully set, the background
shots of the area have an appealing attraction.
This is an excellent film, erotic and sensual, with
very strong characters and this is what makes the
film so appealing. All the characters have
aspirations of being something that they are not,
though the laid back isolated lives they live
prevent them following their dreams.
Magpie
Opens on 2nd September at the Lumiere,
Chelsea Cinema and Renoir.
Surprisingly director Jon Kaplan's other
films include The Accused, Project X and
recently Unlawful Entry. The Accused was
storming and while Unlawful Entry did well at
the box office, it wasn't technically good. After
this excuse for an effort we can only assume that
poor Jon is now definitely on the decline.
The trouble was that it's all too damn cliched.
He just doesn't create the feel of a western, the
grit, the suspense, the realism. It's as if he'd
seen a western once and thought that it'd be a
fun idea to give one a try, with abysmal
consequences.
Never mind Jon, at least you got the chance
to direct Maddy Stowe again (something that a
lot of hot-blooded males would give each others
right eyes for).
The hookline for the film is: 'The only way
they stand a chance, is to stand together.' This is
obviously so that no one actress has to take the
blame.
However, it's not all gloom on the Western
front, at least Maverick comes out soon!
(Bonnie &) Clyde
Opens Nationwide 29th July.
Next Week: Look out for a review of Robocop 3

