Feature 17
Mean Fiddling Under Canvas
Last year Glyph went a-Phoenixing. Finally, he reports back on an
experience not to be missed, and doesn't even mention the toilets . . .
Felix Guide to Phoenix
Thursday 14th: The noise starts from 5pm
with all stages except the Phoenix stage
happening. Dodgy play the Melody Maker
stage and Urban Species are just one of the
offerings on the Jazzterania Stage. Frank
Sidebottom is looking to get some laughs from
the Loaded Comedy Stage.
Friday 15th: I'll dive straight into trouble and
argue for total abstention from the Phoenix
Stage; anything headlined by the Wonderstuff
is going to be, dare 1 say it, unadventurous.
Carter USM could produce the business but
only the Posies look capable of not sounding
dated and not being British. Look to small
John Cale and Kirsty MacColl who combine
for an excellent Vox Stage line up, Courtney
Pme trumpets his way in the Jazzterania Stage
and Stereolab, Moonshake, Swell, Drugstore
ndw ipanyje ' ive warning that this is
the best night out for all you (and me) indie
kids on the Melody Maker Stage.
Saturday 16th: Paul. Weller leads the line on
the Phoenix Stage and the ubiquitous
humming Crash Test Dummies add some
northern exposure vibes to proceedings.
Unfortunately, PWEI and Ozric Tentacles are
also 'playing', if the term can be used in such
a loose way. Elsewhere, the Vox Stage hosts
the Beautiful South and the southern folkwise
beauty of Eddi Reader and The Bible, which is
where you will find me, for one. Sweeping up
the rest of the action are Galliano on the
Jazztcrania and Swervedriver, Mega City 4
and the chocolate charming Voodoo Queens
letting off steam in the Melody Maker Stage.
Sunday 17th: Those foolish enough to drag
themselves to the Phoenix Stage will meet the
full frontal assault that is Iggy Pop. There's no
escape from noise in the Melody Maker Stage
where the cult Steve Albini vehicle, Shellac,
burst some eardrums. More in keeping with
the festival spirit is Herbie Hancock, resident
in the Jazztcrania Stage. The Vox Stage is, for
once, pretty sparse unless you happen to be
one of the dying breed of Inspiral Carpet fans.
For the discerning Americophiles, Magnapop
play the Phoenix Stage and Rodan take the
Melody Maker Stage. In lieu of all that, just
grab a dress and head into the Loaded Comedy
Stage to see the phenomenon which goes
under the name of Eddie Izzard.
Having once been blackballed by the crusties
for only attending a minor public school and for
having far too poor a polo handicap for their
liking, I remain jealously studious of them on
the first day and reply only with nervous
laughter to Pulp's Jarvis Cocker's foppish
question. "Are you nervous about being stuck
here for three days ?", he asks. "I must admit
I'm slightly anxious." Nevertheless, with
motivation never having been a small problem
in my little corner of the world, the Disposable
Heroes' set is almost inspirational, with Michael
Franti feigning self-mutilation at the hands of a
power saw and the ceremonial trashing of
cadaverous televisions. Upon reflection, this
probably wasn't over an attempted parody of
'Why Don't You?', unlike the eclectic Julian
Cope whose tyrannical prancing would not have
been amiss in that most uplifting of children's
broadcasts. His appearance on the main stage,
bulging unashamedly through an understated
little yellow jockstrap had a few Christians on
their knees in apocalyptical expectation as well
they might. Mr Cope lounges through a
wonderful demonstration of what Pop Stars used
to get paid for, namely a combination of talent
and what we are now expected to describe as
being a special person.
The Utah Saints' light show was so very;
oppressive that the relative comfort of the Lime
Lizard stage, albeit overcrowded to six or seven
times its capacity, became less attractive than
those sombre colonials, Sonic Youth. One spin
on a spinny thing (or yolk forthe benefit of
those reading in Irish) and Day One was over.
We returned backstage, sang in shanties with the
Black Crowes and got interviewed on Danish
television because they thought we were the
Rolling Stones. (Not really...well, alright, really)
Being of a gentle disposition and accustomed
to waking up to Darjeeling and a purring cat, the
prospect of stark untapered sunlight and ten
thousand rampant headbangers of a morning
was not undistressing. A smile was, however,
brought sharply to bear when Consolidated's
Alan Sherborne dismissed the entire audience as
being "a bunch of affluent white kids having a
big party". This upset all the crustics who
formed small groups (and splinter groups) to
discuss quite how hard done by they were. The
conversations all followed the general pattern of
"the travelling people of this country are the
only thing to genuinely frighten this Tory
Government since the miner's strike" and "St
Tropez moorings aren't worth what they once
were darling".
The Trash Can Sinatras are an anticlimax.
They do however serve to get us near the front
for the highlight of the festival and a personal
hero, Billy Bragg. I wept, I sang along, I
cheered at the intersong commentary, I laughed
and clapped and, all too soon, he was gone and I
We got interviewed on
Danish television
because they thought
we were the Rolling
Stones.
was listening to some young one recounting her
experiences of Faith No More. Some time after
this brief conversation, audience participation
took an interesting twist during the ensuing riot
which my chum and I missed because we were
watching the Marx Brothers. Still, one riot is
very much like another, so I'm told.
Day Three. Molly Half Head were
astounding as usual, Paul Bardsley being left
on-stage after the other three had gone off
saying, "Oh is that it?". Apparently he got lost
and turned up about ten minutes before the gig,
not that this made any difference because
no-one got sound checked anyway. Strangelove
were also very impressive although they appear
to be trying too hard and their dad plays the
drums. The only respite available was the
anonymous little tent at the bottom of the field
where we whirlyed the night away into a
beautiful orange tinted ambient haze that was
just totally groovy man.
Thanks to: Michael W, Caffy St. Luce, Jess and
Lucy for a great ride.
Phoenix 1994 is held at Long Marston
Airfield, Stratford-Upon-Avon, July 14th -
17th. A ticket costs £52, and the Phoenix
hotline can be reached on 071 284 4111.
and don't forget, the last issue of term will have that Lush review

