18 Reviews
For me, the concept of a 10" mini-album has
always smacked of falling between any number
of stools; half an album without the care or a
stretched single without the ideas. And so I feel
disappointed about this. Their last single, 'Get
Enough', was everything that 7" of vinyl should
be: sharp enough to kiss, short enough to
infatuate. 'Lately' just isn't in that league.
'Can't Even Fake It' and the pouting naivety of
'I Guess I'm Just A Little Too Sensitive' take
away the odd breath but side one is passing too
slow to go.
It could be Dominique Durand's vocals. The
curled French corners of her pronouncements
can become more forced than naturally required,
although, with concentration, this should
become a precious niche in a land of drawl.
Whatever, 'Lately' does let us see Ivy in their
proper environment; short of the mainstream,
longer on quiet silence. (6) Tintin
Timeshard
Crystal Oscillations
This is the first major release for this
Liverpudlian threesome who have enjoyed
plenty of underground success on the free
festival circuit for the past five or so years. In
keeping with their organic sound, they perform
genuinely live, with little reliance on taped
backings and if that doesn't sound impressive
just have a listen to it. The music is built around
layers of keyboards, constantly evolving and
never getting repetitive or boring. This is
definitely not a recording to chill out to, you
have to listen carefully to it.
The album contains all the festival feel of
Hawkwind, mixed with the otherworldliness of
the Orb but with a style that is all the band's
own. It has been critically acclaimed by major
music press and fanzines alike and with good
reason. It is a gem. (9) Ridley Dash
Various
Fire is Good
Somewhat akin to a sawn-off shot gun, 'Fire is
Good' raids the back catalogue of Fire Records,
unearthing a ragged selection of masterful,
motheaten and the merely unknown.
Getting current operators into the open, the
first three tracks run as standard, being from
Thrum, The Gigolo Aunts and the Nightblooms.
From then on, however, the choices are
wildcards. Television Personalities' 'A Sense Of
Belonging' is well within the the CND driven
80s agitation of Billy Bragg and his ilk. And
doesn't it sound dated. Then bedfellows
Eugenius and Teenage Fanclub are sandwiched
around the rough charms of Leatherface. Yet
they are charms; 'Not Superstitious' shouts and
stamps but it hides a melody in the midst of the
phlegm. The midspan is characterised by
interesting bands doing outlandish things.
Anastasia Screamed, Urge Overkill and the Blue
Aeroplanes all get close to someone's heart, but
it's not mine. Midway Still are always solid
performers and 'I Won't Try' sees them washed
and dressed in clean denim.
Of course, the whole compilation has been
building to a peak, reached with the Spacemen 3
and their gut scraping 'Revolution'. It invades
The Gigolo Aunts: On Fire
your body, avoids your mind and makes fire
good. Closely followed by an under two minute
burst from Gumball, this is the record's vein of
deep gold. Towards the end we have to endure
the unwieldy shapes of Silver Chapter, Atlantic
and, one of my many failings, Pulp. But without
too much pain we can emerge into the open with
the Spacemen still ringing in your extremes. (6)
Tintin
'Fire is Good' is only available on mail order,
price £6 from Fire Mail Order, 21a Maury Road,
London, N16 7BR. Cheques payable to 'Fire
Records'. Price includes p&p. There is a credit
card number too: 081 806 9922.
Family Cat
Magic Happens
At first sight, The Family Cat seem the
archetypal student band: a cute and cuddly
name, a strictly 'guitar pop only' musical policy,
groovy T-shirts and a 'Withnail and I' reference
in one of their songs. But, since their inception
in the late eighties, they've been all but ignored
by the music press and left to skulk in indie
ghettoland, whilst the likes of Shed Seven and
the Lemonheads receive praise but disappoint.
While this LP isn't unlikely to change any of
that, it is anything but disappointing. Sure
enough, great pop tunes check in with
monotonous regularity but behind the catchy
hooks lurks something darker. Guitars refuse to
chime, jangle or crunch, but instead seem to cast
a thundercloud over the proceedings: the vocals
is relentlessly deep and seductive and the
melodies have a frustrating familiarity which
never quite makes itself obvious. This is not
going to set anybody's world alight but if guitar-
pop is your cup of tea and you fancy something
with a little more bite, you could do much worse
than this. (7) Guy
...you don't need a lover, you need a sparring partner...

