20 Opinion
No Storage Will He Ever Shut Up?
Dear Beccy,
Recently there have been quite a few
complaints concerning accommodation.
Unfortunately, I have to add another. The
College boasts that 40% or so of its students are
from overseas. Still, the Accommodation Office
has failed to reserve any room for summer
storage. Do they think that parents come with
their car from the Continent and Singapore to
pick up the belongings of their offspring at the
end of term? I think it is the responsibility of the
College to provide storage facilities over the
summer for overseas students. It is enough
worry to find accommodation for the next
academic year without having to find storage
room for the end of term during exam time. I am
sure that most people would be willing to pay a
moderate amount to have their things stored and
so there might even be a profit in there for the
Accommodation Office.
I would also like to repeat that short-term
accommodation at prices lower than £20 should
be provided for those poor souls who have to
take resits in September. Ripping off the tourists
is one thing, ripping off one's own students is
another one completely.
I hope that the people responsible give some
thought to what they would expect if their kids
were in such a situation.
Yours,
Kristine J Vaaler
Dear Beccy,
I honestly didn't intend to write this letter,
but finally realised I could not let your editorial
in 1001 go unchallenged. Short of a ten page
article on the Wonderful World of Macabre in
this issue (joke, Beccy, not a real suggestion),
there will be no more. As you yourself said, we
run the risk of going round in circles. You have,
as I have come to expect, completely missed the
point of my letter in a hurried attempt to go on
the defensive. Taking the Crossword
Competition as an example, I clearly agreed that
it deserved a mention and you obviously don't
need to be an 'avid crossworder' to read it. The
question is one of balance as I thought I had
made abundantly clear. It is ludicrous to have
Felix so weighed down with reviews and
features at the expense of news.
As it happens, the features last week were
pretty good, but Felix as a whole was let down
by the usual glut of reviews and a very long-
winded article on a Peruvian Nursery (it's ironic
how many trees must have been lost to print that
article from Third World First). Again, it
deserved space but not as much as it got. There
is a bit more to editing than checking spelling. It
was also nice to see a news article on the
expulsion of Ronnie Wong on 16th May. Next
you'll be telling us that we won the Second
World War. Old news is no news.
The reason why it has taken this long for me
to write is that I foolishly thought that, given the
complaints and mumblings over the year, things
were bound to get better. Ah, the naivety of
youth. If I had known that Felix would continue
down your chosen path all year, pen would have
found paper a lot sooner. Finally, as mentioned
by my good friend Hamish last week in his
spoof letter, I did indeed mean 'Fenland
Mountain Rescue Service'. 'Finland (sic)
Mountain Rescue Service' is not yet in common
usage. I wonder if less charitable people than
myself will bring 'couldn't organise an
anniversary issue of Felix' into College
language.
Yours sincerely,
Simon Baker.
International Nite '94 Videotapes
Copies of the video recordings of the 1994 International Nite are
available from the Union Office. Interested parties are to see
Charles Leary, Deputy President (Clubs & Socs).
Cheques for £8 must be made payable to 'ICU OSC.
If he wasn't in the US,
Jack would probably
be watching the f ootie
in DaVinci's!
WORLD CUP '94
FRI 17TH
Opening Ceremony -
followed by
Germany v Bolivia
SAT18TH
Italy v Rep. of Ireland
TUE 21 ST
Germany v Spain
BECKS BIER PROMOTION
£1 per Pint
Becks glasses to be given away!
World Cup action throughout the summer, why not drop in?

