22 Opinion
The Felix Team 1993/94
U
f
a i
n
n
?
Z»acA: row (/ro/n /tor): Andy Thompson, Mike Ingram, Patrick Wood, Owain Bennallack, Marcus Alexander, Joe McFadden, Simon Shaw
middle row (from I to r): Diana Harrison, Tim St Clair, Jon Jordan, Vik Bansal, Wei Lee, Juliette Decock, Lynn Bravey
front row (from I to r): Penguin, Beccy Land
Those who weren't able to be in the photo, but who were part of the Felix team 1993/94:
Rose Atkins, Mike Chamberlain, Ivan Chan, Fai Fung, Simon Govier, Rekha Nayak, Steven Newhouse, Stephen Se and Rebecca Walters.
Editorial
Yet More Ranting From Simon Baker...
I originally had over 500 words written in reply
to all the comments made in Simon Baker's
latest letter, but then I thought: "What's the
point?" He's said it all before and so have I. It's
all getting tedious and the whole subject must be
boring everyone else as much as it is boring me.
Surely he has better ways to spend his time
than getting worked up over the state of a
College newspaper. He can feel so strongly
about something and yet all he can do about it is
write a letter. He hasn't tried talking to me about
his grievances and if he bothered to spend a bit
more time in Felix than the 30 seconds it takes to
hand in his letter, he might find out why the
magazine is the way that it is.
Maybe then his arguments would carry a bit
more weight and I could have a bit more respect
for them. As it is, he is terribly uninformed and
doesn't seem to understand quite what the
position of Editor means. I was elected to edit
Felix, just as Andy, Dave and Charlie were
elected to run the Union. We all were chosen
because the students believed that we could do
the job. The content and style of Felix is my
decision just as the shape of the Union is the
decision of Andy, Dave and Charlie. I have
listened to the comments and criticisms this year
and accommodated them if possible, but only if
it was something that I wanted to do.
I know that Felix hasn't been everyone's cup
of tea, but this is the case every year. Most of
you will experience three or four different
editors during your stay at Imperial and each one
has his/her own style, but there is usually
something that appeals.
Thank You
Before most people disappear for the summer, I
would like to say a huge thank you to everyone
who has contributed to Felix over the last year. It
is all your articles that have made Felix what it is
this year.
I could list everyone who has helped out in
Felix, but I would be in danger of missing
people out and that would be unforgivable. They
have all been invaluable and have devoted all the
time necessary, often more. I hope that they all
realise how much I have appreciated all their
help and support.
A lot of people have been asking me if I have
enjoyed the past year. It has definitely been fun,
but I don't think I've worked so hard in all my
life. It has been very rewarding.
I would like to end by wishing Owain and the
rest of the Felix team all the best for next year.
The last issue of Felix this year Will be out on
the last day of term.
The deadline for letters for the last issue is Monday, 5pm

