a Feature
Scientific
Instruments
Patrick Wood selects highlights from
45 years of music at IC and talks to
Musician in Residence Richard
Dickins about the latest developments.
It was in 1949 that post-war musical activity
began in earnest at Imperial College. That was
the year that David Tombs, a senior lecturer
from the Electrical Engineering Department,
inaugurated the lunchtime concert series which
is still in existence today.
The following year, Mr Tombs founded
Imperial College Choir. For their third concert,
on 5th December 1950, the Choir were joined by
the newly-formed, 25-strong Imperial College
Orchestra for a performance of Handel's Acis
and Galatea, with soloists from the Royal
College of Music. The concert also included
items for voice and piano: "The accompanist
was Eric Brown," reported Felix the following
week, "who cannot be too highly praised." A
few years later, Professor Brown was to become
director of the Choir and has been the guiding
light for choral music at IC ever since. After a
performance of the Verdi Requiem in the Great
Hall last term, Felix reported that "Professor
Brown remains a choir-trainer of the highest
order".
For four concerts during the mid-fifties, IC
Choir was under the directorship of Imogen
Hoist, daughter of Gustav and musical assistant
to Benjamin Britten from 1952. For her first
concert in December 1955, the Choir gave the
London premiere of Britten's Hymn to St Peter,
a six-minute anthem with organ accompaniment
rescored in this case, with the composer's
permission, for strings and piano. A Times critic
was present and wrote that the work "contains
the sort of felicities one would expect, although
the choir did not appear to find it very easy".
Some now illustrious singers made
appearances early on in their careers as soloists
with the Choir. "The choice of soloists has
always been a game of spotting the winners,"
says Professor Brown. "Appropriately for a
student society, our soloists have almost always
been chosen from the ranks of young
professionals with their way and name still to
make. A good number of our hunches have
proved to be winners of real calibre." Gwyneth
Jones, John Shirley-Quirk, Roger Norrington,
Philip Langridge, Thomas Allen, Anthony Rolfe
Johnson, John Tomlinson, David Wilson-
Johnson, Anne-Marie Owens and James Galway
(playing the flute part in the Pastorale by Bliss
in 1959) have all appeared with IC Choir. And in
March 1958, one of the soloists in Bach's B
Minor Mass was a
young mezzo named
Janet Baker. (It would
have been satisfying to
report that a Felix
columnist had singled
her out as a talent to
watch. Alternatively, it
would have made a
better story had some-
one written something
like: "A Miss Janet
Baker seemed to this
critic to be completely
devoid of almost all the
necessary musical
attributes. Don't give
up the day job, love."
But alas there is no
mention of the event.)
There have also
been more than a few
adventurous choices of
repertoire. Looking through the list of the
Choir's performances, painstakingly compiled
by the current secretary, James White, one finds
among the Mozart C Minor Masses, Haydn
Creations and Faure Requiems, works such as
Bizet's Te Deum, Puccini's Messa di Gloria,
Vaughan Williams' Sea Symphony, Choral
Dances from Britten's Gloriana, Verdi's Stabat
Mater, Honegger's Cantate de Noel and, in
March 1968, the London premiere of Mahler's
early cantata Das Klagende Lied, in the comp-
oser's revised version without the opening section.
Instrumental music has been well served by
the lunchtime concert series. Highlights include
piano recitals by Julius Katchen and Denis
Matthews, appearances by flautist William
Bennett, clarinettist Thea King, trumpeter
Crispian Steele-Perkins and, in 1951, a guitar
recital by Julian Bream. Orchestral concerts
were much more sporadic, due to fluctuations in
the number of players, until the appointment of
ICSO's present conductor, Richard Dickins, in
1979. Beginning as he meant to go on, in his
first concert Dickins ambitiously conducted
what was then a rare performance of Barber's
demanding Cello Concerto. The soloist was
Raphael Wallfisch, whose father, the late concert
pianist Peter Wallfisch, had taken part in a
recital at IC back in 1968.
Richard Dickins rehearses the Imperial College Chamber Orchestra before
their concert in the Grosvenor Chapel in Mayfair last week.
From just 35 players in 1979, ICSO has
grown into a body of almost 100 musicians
capable of playing works as complex and
difficult as the Fifth Symphony by Mahler,
which they performed so successfully last term.
Dickins is unequivocal about the rewards of
conducting ICSO: "The big excitement is
working with people of such intellectual ability.
We've done enormously demanding pieces, The
Rite of Spring, this enormous Mahler Five we've
just done - we've done all the previous ones as
well - pieces which are enormously taxing. But
people are so keen, so enthusiastic and
intellectually able to get round the demands."
Dickins' association with ICSO led to his
appointment as Imperial College's musician in
residence six years ago. Since then he has been
involved in setting up the Eric Ash music
scholarships, named after IC's previous rector,
who was closely involved in securing their
funding. These awards give musicians at
Imperial College the opportunity to study with
professors at the Royal College of Music. "We
find this is an enormous incentive to people
thinking of coming to South Kensington," says
Dickins. "It's done wonders for the standard of
playing in the orchestra."
Further links between Imperial College and
the RCM have since been established in the form
The Underwater Club Easter Tour is reported on page 10

