Feature
of the jointly run Physics with Performance
Studies course, which is now coming to the end
of its first year. Dickins believes that there are
also opportunities for collaboration in
performance, perhaps in works that are too big
for either institution to tackle on its own. "A
piece that is dear to my heart is Schoenberg's
Gurrelieder, which is scored for enormous
forces. It's everything that people don't expect
of Schoenberg; it's his very early style, like all
the best bits of Wagner put together. That would
be exactly the piece for a collaboration with the
Royal College or another university."
A previous series of joint concerts in the
summer of 1992 remains for Dickins a high
point of his time with ICSO. "We did a series of
Verdi Requiems, two in this country, one at the
Royal College and one in Cambridge. This was
in collaboration with a Hungarian choral society
who were quite magnificent. We then went over
to Hungary and did another performance of the
Verdi in the Liszt Academy in Budapest. It was
jam-packed. There were people standing and
they went berserk at the end of the performance,
as I think we did; there were an awful lot of
tears, it had been a very stressful time but it was
the most magical, wonderful performance and
that was a very big highlight." Sponsorship for
the Hungarian tour was generously provided by
the accountants Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu but,
even so, the difficulties of funding and
organisation were staggering. "I hope we will
look at the idea of foreign tours again," says
Dickins, "but finance is the problem."
The Physics with Performance Studies course,
run jointly by Imperial College and the Royal
College of Music, offers top level training in
both physics and music for people who don't
want to be pigeonholed by their choice of
degree. "For many students whose interests are
not solely within the arts but span both the arts
and the sciences, it's an opportunity to extend
their work in both these areas," says Dr Janet
Ritterman, director of the RCM.
The first two students to take the course are
reaching the end of their first year. James
Marchese, a clarinettist and a former pupil at the
RCM Junior Department, took maths, physics
and chemistry A levels. He was originally going
to come to Imperial College to do physics until
Richard Dickins, who teaches at the Junior
Department, mentioned the new course to him.
"He said: 'We've got this course running, how
about it?' It was just perfect because I wanted to
continue my music to the highest level."
Ed Bale, a violinist, studied maths, physics
and music at A level and spent a year at the
Guildhall before coming to IC. "I decided I
wanted to do something else apart from music. I
was used to having music as something extra to
other things I was doing; I can't do music all the
time. Last year, if you didn't practise for six
hours a day then you weren't very busy. I'm
much busier now, which I enjoy."
In theory, the four-year structure of the new
course will allow students to reach the same
Some years ago Neville Blyth, a former
academic who has been heavily involved in
music at Imperial College, bequeathed a six-
figure sum to the College, to be put towards the
cost of a music building. Given the number of
musicians now on the campus, Dickins stresses
"the need for music practice rooms, for a smaller
recital hall and a rehearsal hall for the choir, who
are at the moment extremely poorly housed in a
lecture theatre in Mechanical Engineering which
just isn't big enough and doesn't have the right
acoustic." The money has been invested and is
growing and hopefully the necessary balance
will eventually be found.
Even with new premises, the Great Hall
would have to remain the venue for ICSO
concerts. The orchestra has for a while been
able to tackle large-scale symphonic works and
there are distinct threads running through the
repertoire since the early 80s. There is much
Russian music - Tchaikovsky, Rimsky
Korsakov, Rachmaninov, Shostakovich and
Prokofiev have all been played. Dickins outlines
the philosophy behind these choices: "Our
repertoire is a reflection of what I think the
orchestra is going to achieve best. There's little
doubt in my mind that the big late 19th and early
20th century Russian pieces work particularly
well with an orchestra like ICSO; they're
demanding but not too demanding, they're
colourful, they're emotional." And there are also
the first five Mahler symphonies. "A bit of a
passion, yes. The first piece of his I conducted
was the First Symphony many years ago here at
level as their single-honours counterparts on the
normal three-year physics BSc. This was a
crucial factor for James. "You could still do a
physics PhD or an MSc afterwards," he points
out, "or you could do a postgraduate course at
the RCM, or you could go into any field that a
physics graduate goes into."
Even with the extra year and reduced
laboratory work, the course is demanding.
"We've done all the lectures that the normal
undergraduate physicists have done," says Ed,
"and then there's the practice on top of that".
The music component also includes the study of
techniques such as harmony and counterpoint. In
common with RCM first years, Ed and James
have already had to produce pastiche pieces - a
piano sonata movement in the style of Haydn
and a two-part invention in the style of Bach.
Both find that being able to play the piano
comes in useful here, although a second
instrument is not required for the course
The organisational difficulties of coordi-
nating the timetables of the two institutions
mean that the course is not likely to take on
large numbers of students. But out of 30
hopefuls, only one has been offered a place next
October. "They get rid of most of the applicants
through the RCM auditions, that's the toughest
bit," says James. No concessions are made and
instrumentalists must be of the same standard as
those accepted for the normal BMus course.
Imperial." That was in the spring of 1983; three
years later, in a joint venture, ICSO and IC
Choir performed the gargantuan Second. "They
thought that I was completely off my head
choosing this piece, but it was a marvellous
concert and it seemed that people of this age,
exploring music like that, have something very
special to give to it and the performance was
much greater than the sum of the constituent
parts." Having reached Five, does he plan to do
Six? "It's very much on the cards, yes. I think
it'll take me a couple of years to recover from
Five, but yes." The other Mahler symphony
Dickins is keen to conduct is the unfinished
Tenth, in the Deryck Cooke performing version.
This work has gained increasing acceptance over
the last fifteen years, due in no small part to the
advocacy of Simon Rattle. ("To play for him
was and is I'm sure still, a most extraordinary
experience," says Dickins, as he recalls playing
the clarinet in the Hampshire Youth Orchestra
under the direction of the 19 year old Rattle. "He
was great then and he's only got better.") Much
less morbid and apocalyptic than its predecessor,
Mahler's Tenth is a forward-looking yet
approachable work, firmly rooted in the 20th
century. "I think it's a magnificent piece and
would love to do it," enthuses Dickins, "but that
probably would kill us all!"
Many thanks to Anne Barrett, Eric Brown,
Richard Dickins, Chris Purvis, Ainslee Rutledge,
Sarah Too and James White for their help in the
preparation of this article.
Physics with Performance Studies students
James Marchese (left) and Ed Bale
Breaking out of the pigeonholes
Some of this summer's films are reviewed on pages 14 & 15

