F E L I X
SPO-ORT
Evans wins Q.M.C. 7\
Two weeks ago, o w a bBBflriily- andrlaa ootarse.. of 7 i sriiloa
at Coxtie Cknen, John Brans (l»C } Beat D.J.P. Richards (U.C. )
ay one ssocssi to k£b the rsoe. O.C, hOTrawsr, jjieuved smjjieji hse
o« the whols, and again iwmnrtftcL off t2se 1bea» tanapligf, wJLth
Jmpearfial second place.
last Saturday, 'both I.C. aid TJ.C tsaneUad don to Bcis-
cases. Beth I.C. and TT.C were rather weak an this occasion,
'bat this time we had the upper hand, thus having the satis-
faction of cranking UtCls 100$ record M a season.
Ins: course was S
-
A
- sales of h i l l and snow, and i t was un-
fortunate that Fain and Cotterill, well i n the lead at the
halfMray mark, should have gone; off course, thereby losing
several places.
The match was won by the Tortoises (there oast be a moral
in this) with some fine packing near* the head of the field.
Soaring members a£ the I.C. teem were: Fain(2nd.),Cotterill(7th)
BJeller(,13th.),Wall(l4th. },Aneell(l6th.), and Dearden(l8th,)
60 points.
70 "
87 "
Bid mot close in.
1. Canard Tortoises
2. I . C
3. Bristol Univ.
4. U.C.
ON T H E M A T
Cte Wednesday, February 3rd., the Judo Club met L.S.B.
st the Budokwai. Seven members of eacfc club faced one
another across the mat i n almost arctic conditions. The referee
ess Mr. Palmer, 4th Dan, of the Budokwai.
The first two contests were over quickly, for Shepperd
sad Williams, of I.C., both scored rapidly with ankle throws.
Garb who followed them was beaten, while Seth beat a tough
opponent after a struggle.
Hacpherson just failed to bring off two sweeping ankle
throws, so he deoided i t was no time for half measures and
crashed his opponent flat en to the mat with Uohimata (inner
thigh throw).
Rodwell I.C. Captain scored with Haraigoshi (sweeping
loin throw).
The result of an enjoyable match against less experienced
opponents was a win for I.C. with 5 contests to 1 against ,
and one drawn.
The next Judo match will Be at home with Cambridge
University on Feb.18th.
SQUASH N E W S
So far this term the 1st team have not upheld the fine
standard of play that they set for themselves lastterm.
In i l l , 5 matches have been played and only one of these
ended with a favourable result for I. C. This was against
Wimbledon, who were defeated by 4-1. The other matches
were against King's College, St. Edmunds Ball Oxford,
vjueen's Cambridge, and St. George's Hospital. The signi-
ficant and diasapoj nting feature of these defeats i s that
all of the above- mentioned matches were return fixtures,
the team being victorious in a l l instances during the 1st
term.
Attention must be drawn to the second team whioh under
the Captaincy of C.A. Whitmore i s showing vast enthusiasm
and competition for places i s keen.
Participants in ths Whitely Cup tournament are asked
to see that their matches are flayed within the specified '
dates of the respective"rounds.
How the better half fares
TABLE-TENNIS
The results of last Monday's table-tennis match were
the moat encouraging of the term. The match was played ag-
ainst Fureedown's 2nd. team, and the final scare was 7-3.
I.C.W.A. succeeded i n winning six out of nine of the singles,
and the doubles match.
squash
On Wednesday, January 25th., we lost to L.S.E. 3-2 after
games of tost pitched-battle tjpe, a l l ranks finishing up ex-
hausted but friendly.
1 than a deep freeze i s required to stop am I.CW.S.C
nscball team. On Saturday February 4th., they slithered to a
•tb-12 victory over Furaedowa 2nd. This was am unexpected t r i -
i L S u ' f S ^ f a f l £
£ o e a
""*r
* t h o u
«*'
slsphsppy attsek which demoralised the opposition.
I.C. men in University Boxing
Four of ths team representing the University against
Cambridge on January 20th were from the college, namely
IS. Halsey (R.S.M.) L.E. Palmer (R.O.S.), H. HcKenzie (Oftffi)
and J.(B. Baker (C&G) who oppeared under the alias of J.C.
Bolsen i n the 'Sennet' report.
Palmer, intending to weigh-in as a/bantam, finished
ttp overweight as a feather and boxed a lightweight, found
that, i n spite of his many appearances as Physical Training
Instructor to all and sundry i n the temporary gymnasium, he
was not f i t enough to f e l l his tall opponent and only man-
aged to last out the three rounds to lose on, points. Be
had one compensation, however; the bout stopped his tooth-
ache mere effectively then many tablets he had been taking.
Halsey at light,welterweight, wearing an outstanding
striped singlet, showed considerable ability against a f i t
and more experienced boxer in Gillham (Christs'). Although
beaten to the punoh by his opponents faster left hand at
long distance he many times showed himself to be the master;
at close quarters. Overkeeness, to use a right hand i n the
last round probably lost the I. C. man a close decision am
points.
MoKenzie (C&G) welter weight, proved to be the fdrst
Winner both for I. C. and the University. Showing trem-
endous improvement on his previous bouts and demonstrating
publicly for the first time all that he had learnt in the
gymnasium he proved himself the master of Gotes (Christs1
) -
a probable 'blue' aooording to the '-"Times": - and won a well
earned decision on points.
Baker owing to lack of a suitable Cambridge opponent
was matohed with Riley of Westminster College another Hjfct
Iheavyweight" from London. Punching crisply with both
hands and maintaining a competent defence throughout the
I. 0. man was able to earn the decision from his taller end
longer reaching opponent.
London lost the match 3-2.
This evening (Feb. 10th) Baker, MoKenzie, Halsey sad
Palmer will again be representing the University. This
time against Oxford.
The I. C. Championships and Intercollege competition
for the Rector's Cup will be held on Tuesday March 6th in
the Snack bar 7p-m. Entries are welcome.
Training.
The olub has work out at 12.30 to 1.30 p.m. on Tues-
days and Thursday in the I. C. 'gym' and instruction at
U.L.U. on Thursday, 6-8.
HOCKEY re-instated
By popular request, the Hockey Club has decided to
appear in print once more. We feel that we should do this
in answer to the many letters of commiseration whioh we have
received, and also in order to correct the faulty reporting
in the last issue of this publication.
Sinoe the term began, the 1st XI have played six games.
The results are as follows:-
lst XI v Old Creightonians lost 1-2
'A' XI v Epsom Gypsies lost 1-4
1st XI v University College drew 2-2
" Harrow lost 2-6
* Kings College won 5-3
" Cable College Oxford won 3-2
The win against Kebje College was particularly
pleasing, as we fielded a weakened side due to immin-
ent examinations. The side played with a spirit
which was not dampened by the weather or, later, by
the broken shaft sustained by our coach two minutes
after leaving the Royal Oak at Oxford.
The second and third teams have not won a match
since Christmas, but drinking form i s being main-
tained. The mixed eleven played a very enjoyable
away game, against the Guinness Hookey Club. The
fact that an inebriated side did not return until
late at night speaks for itself.
PuMUInS ay FELIX BOARD. ImperM Celt... Unto*, v
PrtmeS ky *U W
O
U
S PLAIT Ltd. 307.. Telephone Pace.
S
.
W
.
7
i
.
W
.
1
4
.

