mtKABOVT-
tooHsee
by Mobile Optics Inc.
What, no photos?
This Walkabout-Looksee is right on our
doorstep: an exhibition of handcrafted Indian
textiles at the Royal College of Art. On the day
the exhibition opened, the catalogue had been
held up in Bombay and no press photos were
available! I shall chat descriptively instead!
The four goals of life
In the Indian concept of life, the universe and
everything (sic), man is made up of the
physical, the emotional, the mental, and the
spiritual. The body is conceived of as a chariot;
the self rides the chariot with the intellect as
the chariot driver; the mind is the reins and the
senses are the horses. If man achieves a
balanee between Self, senses and mind, he will
attain a state of detachment and release. Such
balance can be reached by following the four
goals of life: first 'dharma'—duty; then
'artha'—wealth-winning; thirdly 'kama'—
—desire; which includes the pleasure of
festivals, music and sport, as well as sexual
enjoyment; and finally 'moshka'—release from
the cycle of birth and death.
The period of 'artha' is expressly practical,
temporal things like gaining power and piling
up worldly goods. And art itself belongs to the
world of sense perceptions, the pursuit of
duty, power and pleasure. So India early
evolved the many professional trades
responsible for producing the necessities of
life. Weavers wove intricate patterns of cloth,
coloured with vegetable dyes; silver-, copper-,
bronze- and iron-smiths embellished the
householder's life with decorations on all sorts
of useful objects.
The Master Weavers' Exhibition
The exhibition shows the great range of skills
within the tradition of handcrafted textiles.
Huge, brass and copper vessels, the sort that
Ali Baba and the forty thieves would fit into,
serve as accessories to the textiles. They are
rather effective, in a slightly self-conscious
interior-design way — I liked the contrast
between the rounded volume of unpolished,
heavy metal and the glowing colours and
intricate designs of the silks and cottons, hung
flat, like pictures.
All sorts of different techniques have been
used to decorate the spreads and hangings:
block printing, dye painting, tie-dying, quilting
and applique. The patterns may be geometrical
in rich earthy colours, or made up of stylised
flowers. This is where the classic 'Liberty'
patterns drew their inspiration! You'll also
recognise the Kashmiri 'boteh' or cone motif,
which has come to be known as the 'Paisley
pattern'. Other hangings are pictorial: there
are four versions of the Tree of Life design,
each more exuberant than the last. The
branches of the tree twist and loop, bearing
fairy-tale flowers and birds of paradise. The
pinks and blue-greens glow, the gold glitters,
and the parrots are on their way to an English
chintz.
But, the fabulously rich brocades have to be
seen to be believed. One complete gallery is
devoted to a display of brocade silk yardages
from Varanasi (Benares), and golden cloth
saris, also of Varanasi brocade. The walls
shimmer, from red-gold through a metallic
spectrum of cool pistachio-silver. How
fortunate that saries do not date! Some of-
these are likely to become heirlooms, in the
same way as an English silver teapot.
Page6 B B B H H H B H H
REVIEWS!
Downstairs, bamboo poles are arranged like
open-ended wigwams, tented with saris; silks
in the courtly colours of the peacock, cottons
in blazing reds and ochre browns. Some are so
fine as to be almost transparent. They conjure
up the brightness of a tropical sun: imagine the
pavements round the dyers shops running
with lemon and vermilion, as the dyers walk
back and forth with wet cloth billowing in the
breeze while it dries...or, better still, pop
around to the R C A and see the end product!
Where, when £?
The Handcrafted Textiles of India is at the
Royal College of Art, Kensington.Gore, SW7,
until November 17. Open Mon-Sat, 10:00-
6:00pm, Wed 10:00-8:00pm, Sun 2:00-6:00pm.
Admission is free.
The Awakening Earth: Our Evolutionary
Leap, by Peter Russell, Routledge &
Kegan, Paul £4.95
Maybe in these times it's reasonable that
there should be a market for blatant cheer-up
books but even so it's hard to imagine anyone
taking this book seriously. Peter Russell seems
to have moved into a field already exploited by
cranks like Von Daniken and Lyall Watson.
The latter has written several books in a 'gee
it's wonoerful' tone of voice, and may well have
inspired Russell to write the way he does; one
of Dr Watson's books (Lifetide) is included in
the Further Reading section. The publishers
have decided to sell this one by abandoning
any appearance of restraint and making pretty
ludicrous claims on behalf of the book, for
example: "...We now hold the evolutionary
future of humanity in our own hands—or
rather in our own heads. The next major
development would be the linking of individual
minds into a planetary consciousness: the
Earth would become a single sentient being."
Of course anyone who's inclined to believe this
should seek medical advice as soon as
possible, but the publishers clearly reckon that
this is the way to sell their book—ie go for the
credulous loonies for all you're worth. Peter
Russell himself is more restrained but has been
taken in by Eastern mysticism among other
things, having previously written The TM
Technique, and Meditation, and he also gives
Maharishi Mahesh Yogi the top of the billing in
the acknowledgements. The book itself follows
the sort of format that would appeal to people
who want to read something tremendously
profound and significant (Prologue, Part One,
Part Two, Epilogue, and so on), with snatches
from physics, chemistry, psychology,
mysticism, levitation, etc, etc. It has numerous
tables and diagrams, quotes from the Tao Te
Ching, and chapter after chapter reading like
this: "In addition to learning a dualistic
language, the growing child learns from his
parents how to hink and behave. If the parents
are seen to be working on the assumption that
T am 'in here', completely seperate from the
environment 'out there', then the child learns
to adopt the same model and begins to
develop his own thinking along the same lines.
So the skin-encapsulated ego developes." All
in all it's largely bogus rubbish, although well
written and very learned.
Nick Willson
I October 29,19821 FELIX

