With Tron (U, Odeon Leicester Square)
Disney once more regain their position as
great innovators in the field of movie making.
By using a dazzling mixture of live action,
animation and computer generated imagery
they have produced a timely fantasy utilising
some of the latest high technology effects.
The great breakthrough is, of course, the
extensive use of Computer Generated
Imagery (henceforth, CGI). Director Steven
Lisberger conceived the story of TRON
several years ago; acknowledging the immense
popularity of video games he imagined a
parallel electronic dimension where video
games were played out in a life and death
struggle between 'programs'. These programs
are the alter-egos of their programmers (or
'users') in the real world. CGI were the ideal
tool to use for representing this imaginary
electronic world.
The film opens with a painful explanation of
the basic premise and we are introduced to
Flynn, a former programmer from E N C O M (a
communications conglomerate) who now runs
a video arcade. He is busy at a V D U tapping
into the E N C O M information system in order
to prove that Dillinger (now in control of
ENCOM) perpetrated the most ghastly and
trendy crime imaginable—he stole Flynn's
brilliant video programs for Space Paranoids
and several other successful games.
In the electronic world we see Clu, an
electronic warrior who looks like Flynn,
attempting to evade capture by the henchmen
of Sark (the electronic alter-ego of Dillinger).
He is captured and executed, or rather 'de-
rezzed' (de-resolution!), and disappears from
the games grid.
These scenes are in the deep blue, glowing
electronic world but...meanu>riiie back in the
real world...(as a caption tells us) Dillinger is
summoned by the evil M C P (Master Control
Program) that he created and warned of
Flynn's interference. Access to the E N C O M
system is restricted, but Alan and Lora (two of
Flynn's friends) warn him. In a final attempt to
gain the evidence he requires Flynn is
smuggled into E N C O M to gain direct access.
But this time the M C P fights back—Flynn is
digitised and physically transported into the
electronic world (a la Wizard of Oz).
Well all this sounds pretty ingenious, but it is
not until this point the film really takes off.
Flynn is trapped in a totally alien world ruled
REVIEWS
by the M C P and has to battle against Sark in
an electronic arena for survival. He meets
T R O N , mightiest of the video warriors, who is
a program designed by Alan to monitor the
accumulation of information in the system.
The tyrannical Sark thus attempts to stop
T R O N and Flynn reaching the heart of the
C P U and overthrowing the M C P .
The C G I is mainly used for creating
vehicles; Sark commands a massive floating
carrier from which he controls a force of tanks
and recognizers (floating vehicles which stomp
on renegade programs with cartoon elegance).
The most impressive sequence is undoubtedly
during a game where amazing light-cycles
envelop the players (achieved with hand
animation) and then rush off in computer
generated vehicles to make their opponents
crash.
These sequences were created by the
Mathematical Applications Group Inc (MAGI)
using a fascinating system called Synthavision.
For the uninitiated, there are several ways of
generating computer images which have been
developed over the past twenty years or so.
Synthavision was originally designed by
physicists trying to simulate the path taken by
nuclear particles in radiation experiments. By
replacing particle rays with light rays it
synthesises photography by tracing a light
beam (in reverse) from an imaginary camera to
an imaginary object. When this beam strikes
the object additional information on the
position of light source, texture, reflectivity
and so on complete the picture for that point.
By repeating the process for the whole field of
view a picture is 'painted' electronically and,
with enough information, can have totally
convincing shading and perspective.
Another system used on the film by
Information International Inc (or Triple-I)
involves forming an object from a large
number of flat polygons, with curves being
smoothed out by various averaging processes.
The problem here for many years was that a
complete description of the 3-D object was
programmed in and the computer had to then
decide which pieces of hidden detail should be
removed when looking from any particular
viewpoint. This takes a lot of computing time
and only recently have people been able to
speed up the process using bigger and better
computers.
MAGI's Synthavision process ingeniously
circumvents this need. Dr Philip Mittelman of
MAGI explains that his physicists needed to
deal with solid objects in their radiation
simulations and hence created a set of 3-D
'primitives' from which an object could be
formed (eg sphere, cube, ellipsoid). By adding
and subtracting these 3-D units an object is
Sark (David Warner) backed by one of the few disappointing creations-the MCP (a sort of rainbow
coloured whirlpool). As Sark's power increased the vein-like circuits of his suit glow brighter.
One of the marvellous computer generated light-
cycles.
generated so that the light beam from the
imaginary camera merely recognises the first
surface it strikes—hence no hidden detail
problem!
This is, of course, a very superficial
description of the computer imaging process.
It is impossible to go into too much detail here
(for those interested I suggest you consult a
textbook or issues six and eight of a
marvellous American effects magazine called
Cinefex for an introduction) but the
possibilities that these techniques represent
will undoubtedly revolutionise the film industry
in future years—imagine creating a totally
convincing spacecraft (without the need for
models) taking over with a joystick on your
V D U and simply sailing through a pre-
determined background sequence. All the
moves will be stored in memory, so to correct
a mistake there would be no need for the
costly re-shooting of film—just recall from
memory and do it again! It is not until the
whole scene (or film) is complete that the
transfer to film is even necessary.
Indeed, what Star Wars did for motion
control photography (models, bluescreens,
computer controlled motion systems etc)
T R O N should do for CGI. Within a few years
there will probably be a host of imitators and
even George Lucas is ploughing money into
his own CGI unit—for a future part of the
Star Wars saga no doubt. Besides this many
other aspects of image processing, from the
work done on satellite photographs to the
development of 'user friendly' interfaces (like
data tablets on which artists can paint with an
electronic brush) will soon be spilling into the
entertainment industry. Digital film printers,
electronic compositing and high resolution
video will become standard tools.
T R O N itself is just a start and it's not a great
film by any means. Some ridiculous ideas and
acting don't complement the more ingenious
effects too well.
Bruce Boxleitner (Who?) as T R O N is far too
wimpish and Jeff Bridges portrays Flynn as a
wisecracking idiot who couldn't possibly know
a bit (byte) if he saw one.
However, there is some punchy dialogue
(for instance, when the M C P threatens Sark
with banishment to a pocket calculator) and
the 53 minutes of film in the electronic
dimension is just staggering. Of this about
fifteen minutes is achieved using CGI and the
rest is live action enhanced with hand
animation.
This is another revolutionary technique; the
live action was all shot in black and white,
blown up onto 12y2x20inch transparent eels
coloured using back-lit animation. This is very
much like standard Disney animation, except
that the eels on the animation stand are
illuminated from behind (rather than above)
with various colours to achieve the pulsing
electric suits the actors wear.
There are many more faults with the film but
overall it is harmless fun and at times very
entertaining (if you can see past the acting). As
a demonstration of the potential effects of
computer graphics in the entertainment
industry it is a milestone and, for.this reason
alone, should not be missed.
FlUXl |October 29,1982 Poge7|

