U.R.O.P.
Newsletter
Undergraduate Research Opportunities Programme
now in its second fabulous year!
'This show will run and run'. — Learned Bevin
How to join:
First ask yourself if UROP is for you
• it's for enthusiasts
• it's a lot of hard work
• it makes demands on your intellectual energy and time
• it's immensely rewarding.
Use the UROP directory to locate a field of interest — the
new one, due out at the end of term, will contain nearly
200 offers. Talk with the member of staff concerned. If it
is what you want to do, arrange details of your participa-
tion. Tell him what time you have available — this includes
your evenings and weekends — and get going. In a lot of
cases this can lead on to vacation work (paid!). UROP may
be able to help with costs. In any case give in your name
and that of your supervisor to the UROP office. Professor
J.C.Anderson, Room 714, Electrical Engineering.
The Moving Finger
In the revolutionary field of Office Information Systems,
UROP summer student Mike Kleyn brought together his
own FischerTeknic kit and some bought-in components to
construct 'Fingerpoint' - a device that helps the office user
to select the information he or she needs. The work was
sponsored by Barr and Stroud Ltd.
Dr R. Spence
Cad
Jerry Yan, by carrying out a critical examination of existing
Computer-Aided Design software and testing possible
improvements, was able to contribute significantly to the
development of a package that will be used in industry for
simulation and design of electronic circuits.
Dr R. Spence
This Definitely
is Cricket
Phil Varty and Kate Bentley spent the summer vacation
playing cricket in a wind tunnel! Dr Rabi Mehta of Aero
Engineering followed up his earlier analysis of the aero-
dynamics of cricket balls by getting his UROP students to
do a detailed wind-tunnel study. The particular objective
was to study the lateral swing of the ball in flight by
carrying out flow visualisation (see photograph) and pres-
sure distribution experiments on a static ball in a wind
tunnel, where wind speed and seam angle were varied.
They went on to do more quantitative and realistic rolling
tests on a wide variety of balls in various configurations.
They found that the prominent seam is the major cause of
swing and that humid conditions neither affect the physical
state of the ball nor the swing - so it's all right if it rains!
This Newsletter highlights just a few of the 50-plus UROP projects that have been running in the past year. Editorial apologies
are offered to the large number of students who have not been mentioned.

