Concrete Results
Following IC's impressive performance in the concrete
canoe races Mike Rowley followed up, under the UROP
programme, by using a concrete laminate to make a radio-
controlled model speedboat. Powered by a 3.5cc engine its
performance drew an appreciative audience at the Round
Pond. Mike's real work was a thorough going investigation
of new cement laminates using different textiles as the
reinforcing material, including mosquito net and an IC hand
towel (Domestic Section please note!). The results sug-
gested that textile-reinforced concrete laminates could well
replace asbestos tiles in the future. Incidentally the work
was sponsored by Marathon Oil and Mike is probably going
to work for them after graduating.
'Oh that this too,
too solid state
would melt'
Dr S. Angus, Director of the Thermodynamic Tables
Project Centre in the Chemical Engineering Department,
took on geologist G. Tsikos as a UROP student. Dr Angus
writes:
In the course of its work on the properties of fluids, the
Project Centre from time to time encounters minor prob-
lems of interest which it is unable to pursue and for Mr
Tsikos we had available a problem on the boundary of our
respective interests, namely the equation of the melting/
freezing curve. We had a considerable quantity of experi-
mental data from many sources in computer readable form
and suitable programs for manipulating them, including
least-squares fitting procedures, etc. and we asked Mr
Tsikos to write short linking programs to investigate how
well these data represented various suggested equations and
to consider possible extensions of them.
We warned Mr Tsikos that only negative results were to be
expected and this proved to be the case, but the exercise
was useful to us in closing several blind alleys, and Mr
Tsikos was pleased to be working on a topic where the
answer was not to be found in a textbook, but depended on
his own efforts.
Cancer Research
Mark Exley, now in third year Biochemistry, joined Dr
Lane in the Cancer Research Campaign group in the depart-
ment. Dr Lane is working on the tumour-producing virus
SU40. This is a small circular DNA molecule coding for 5
or 6 proteins, one of which, large T antigen (T), is necessary
and sufficient for the transformation of mammalian tissue
culture cells (akin to tumour producing in the animal).
His laboratory uses an immunolochemical approach to
study Tantigen and its effect on host protein and DNA
using monoclonal antibodies. Mark was engaged in the use
of these reagents from initial purification to their use in
radioimmunoassays, radioimmunoprecipitation and in situ
characterisation of their antigens by cell staining with
immunological sandwiches. We became particularly in-
terested in 68K — a host protein which had provisionally
been shown also to bind an anti-T antigen monoclonal.
His work also involved mammalian tissue culturing, running
polyacrylamide gels of cell extracts, autoradiography,
centrifugation, column 'bead' chromatography (including
affinity chromatography) and other purification tech-
niques. He was able to work with the members of his
laboratory, particularly whilst learning the techniques.
Subsequently Dr Lane has obtained semi-pure preparations
of 68K and much further information on its role in the cell
is being obtained and will probably be published soon.
A word for our sponsors
To show their enthusiasm for, and faith in, UROP the following firms provided funds to support UROP students continuing
their research during the Summer vacation.
W.S. Atkins & Partners National Maritime Institute
Barr and Stroud Ltd. I.P. Sharp Associates Ltd.
Marathon Oil
We thank them most sincerely for their help and hope that they will be able to repeat it this year!

