Page 4 F E L I X Page 5
The Intelligent I C Students' Guide to E x t r a mural Entertainment and E d i f i c a t i o n
THE BIG WALLS OF BAFFIN
I S L A N D -
Mountaineering in the Canadian Arctic
In the early months of 1971, a
nucleus of climbers from the Not-
tingham Climbers' Club decided to
launch an expedition to a small iso-
lated island off the Cumberland Penin-
sula in the Canadian Arctic. Amongst
these few was Doug Scott, a Notting-
ham schoolteacher, who, with climb-
ing experience, in the Alps and the
Hindu Kush, was to assume the role
of leader.
Baffin Island is remote and conse-
quently there was a great deal of
opportunity to conquer the unclimbed
peaks—sheer rock pinnacles rising
6,000 feet from the sea. The rock
climbing there is of high technical
difficulty and it was a serious under-
taking to attempt an original route up
a rock face, from which retreat was
sometimes impossible. The weather
in this part of the world is savage and
not in the least conclusive toward
outdoor activity in any form. Fierce
snow storms may arise within hours
of a spell of fine weather. Unlike the
Alps, one does not have the comfort-
ing thought that one may be extri-
cated fram an unpleasant situation by
helicopter rescue. Here the moun-
taineer is on his own with only his
wits and skill as his tools for sur-
vival.
Because of its isolation, the expe-
dition required a fair amount of organ-
isation and capital. It was originally
decided that the size of the expedi-
tion would be limited to a group of
close friends, amongst whom, com-
petitive climbing and ego-tripping
would cut no ice. The intentions were
noble but they soon ran into prac-
tical difficulties — mainly lack of
funds. This problem could only be
resolved by increasing the size of the
expedition to include big names of
the mountaineering world such as
photographer, Mick Burke. A film
would be made for the John Players'
cigarette firm, in return for financial
aid.
Scott returned from Baffin Island
and almost immediately set off for the
Himalayas on the abortive Inter-
national Everest Expedition. He re-
turned to Baffin Island in the summer
of 1972 and many more peaks were
ascended.
Imperial College Mountaineering
Club presents Doug Scott on Tues-
day, the 27th February. Extracts from
the Players' film and slides will be
shown illustrating some of the exhil-
arating climbs achieved by the party
on both trips.
Doug Scott, Lecture Theatre A,
College Block, Imperial College,
Prince Consort Road, Tuesday, Feb-
ruary 27, 7.45 p.m. 25p at door.
C. Brown, I.C.M.C.
GOD T H E M A N
PAN SCIENCE FICTION
Joseph Green, 30p
For science fiction fans this novel
is a real gem.
Mankind is threatened with exter-
mination by a race of 300-foot high
aliens from another star system, but
no one can understand why these
creatures have developed such an
overwhelming desire to destroy us.
Fortunately, one of these super giants
is captured alive but. his brain is
severely damaged by oxygen starva-
tion.
Earth at this stage in her develop-
ment has created two super humans,
humans with enlarged and improved
brains, one of them is Russian, the
other American. Petrovna, the older
and more experienced of the pair de-
cides to remove the tiring giant's now
useless brain and install himself in-
side the head and from there with
the help of control mechanisms re-
turn the giant to his home planet and
discover the meaning behind the fa-
natical attacks on earth. Gold be-
comes involved in the plot when
Petrorna discovers that he is not phy-
sically well developed to be able to
operate the keyboard of the com-
puter in the brain fast enough the
simulate the realistic giant move-
ment.
The story becomes even more in-
credible when eventually the giant
returns home and through his eyes
views their gigantic planet.
T O W A R D S INFINITY
PAN SCIENCE FICTION
Edited by Damon Knight, 35p
The usual collection of S.F. stories
some very good like "March Hare
Mission", some bad like "The Man
Who Lost the Sea". This really is
not the sort of book that I enjoy, the
stories only just seem to be beginning
when suddenly they stop — abruptly
and leave you gasping, waiting for
more. This is all very well once —
but nine times . . .!
This collection contains some well
known names in the field of S.F.:
Ray Bradbury, Isaac Ascmor, A. E.
Van Vogt, but why does it need
Damon Knight to bring these people
together to publish, why can't they
manage themselves?
Felix Diary
CHEAP POSTERS
From tin's week. P A C E Posters \,ill be on sale,
cheap, in the Room At The Top. on the Cheap
Records Stall. The catalog re, in the form of
miniatures of the originals, is displayed in the
R.A.T.T. Orders, giving title and catalogue num-
ber, to Colin McCall, R.A.T.T., with cash prefer-
ably.
PRICES: Large size 70p reduced to 55p.
(riant size 95 preduced to 70p.
p.S.—Record Covers also available, besides records, at 19f
/f off.
Tuesday, 27th February
12.35 I.C. Catholic Society: Mass. Mech. Eng.
703.
13.00 STOIC Television service: Music alive with
Roy Harper. J.C.R. and Southside.
13.15 City and Guilds Union Meeting: Hustings.
Mech Eng 220.
13.30 Monsieur Henri Orteu (Tutor in French at
Imperial College and formerly Senior
Tutor, Institut Francais) Francais, anglais,
franglais (M. Orteu will speak slowly in
French). Elec Eng 408.
Miss Sarah Thomas: listening to contem-
porary music 7. Music now. Mech Eng 342.
14.30 Admission Policy Committee. College.
Block 328.
18.00 I.C. Transcendental Meditation Society:
Introductory talk. Elec Eng 606.
Holland Club Art Society. 15 Prince's
Gardens.
Holland Club Bridge Club. 15 Prince's
Gardens.
18.30 Mr. Adrian Neville—a lecture demonstra-
tion on the classical guitar. Haldane
library
I.C. Photographic Society: Slide criticism
(please bring slides for comment). RSM
2.28.
19.30 Hall Dinner. Union.
RCS Mathematical
Film: "The Ipcress
non-members 15p).
and Physical Society
File" (members 10p;
Mech Eng 220.
19.45 I.C. Mountaineering Club: Mr. Doug Scott.
The big walls of Baffin Island (an illus-
trated account of the Anglo-American Ex-
pedition, led by Doug Scott in 1971, and of
his return to the Island in 1972). Admis-
sion 25p at the door. College Block
Theatre A.
20.00 I.C. Catholic Society: Shared prayer.
53 Cromwell Road.
Wednesday, 28th February
13.30 Advanced class in Hebrew. Elec Eng 1009.
14.30 I.C. Africa Society Film show: "End of
dialogue" (depicting the stark brutality of
the political system of southern Africa).
Elec Eng 407.
Beginners class in Hebrew. Elec Eng 1009.
18.00 Holland Club Photographic: Mr. Bill Cutler.
Lenses and their uses. Elec Eng 209.
18.30 I.C. Islamic Society: Meeting and discus-
sion. College Block 002.
19.00-I.C. Art Club (behind Huxley Building).
21.00 Royal College of Art.
Thursday, 1st March
09.30-Paintings toy Stephen Chaplin (until 23rd
17.30 March). Consort Gallery.
13.00 I.C. Union General Meeting: Hustings.
Great Hall.
I.C. Catholic Society: Bible study group.
Falmouth 118.
13.15 I.C. Stamp Club (students and staff wel-
come). Civ Eng 412.
13.30 Mr. Dominic de Grunne: Mediaeval aesthe-
tics—the arts in a feudal and mercantile
society. Physics Theatre 1.
Rev. Ivor Smith-Cameron (Canon of South-
wark Cathedral) Christianity and other
faiths. Mech Eng 542.
Lunch-hour Concert: Elizabeth Wilson,
cello; Kathron Sturrock, piano. Kodaly,
Sonata op. 4; Mendelssohn, Sonata in D
major. Library, 53 Prince's Gate.
16.00 Refectory Committee. College Block 328.
19.00- I.C. Art Club (behind Huxley Buildings)
21.00 Royal College of Art.
19.00 I.C.S.S.R.S. Slide show: "The Electronic
Battlefield". College Block Lecture Theatre
B.
19.30 I.C. Wives Club Fork Supper Party. (Aca-
demic visitors and new members of the
college are particularly invited to attend);
charge £1.50 per head; further information
is available from the Hon. Secretary, Mrs.
R. C. Schroter, 47 Lillian Road, S.W.13.
Tel. 748 8754. College Block SCR.
H. G. Wells Society Film show:
the Pacific." Mech Eng 220.
'Hell in
Friday, 2nd March
12.45 I.C. Islamic Society Congregational Pray-
ers—Juma. College Block 002.
13.00 STOIC Television Service: "Topic" maga-
zine programme. JCR and Southside.
18.00 STOIC Television Service. Repeat of 13.00
transmission. Southside only.
18.30 I.C. Christian Union: Mr. Bill Caldwell.
Radio Worldwide Missionary Evening.
Library, 53 Prince's Gate.
19.30 Public Meeting on "India Today." Speaker
just returned from India. Organised by
Communist Party of Britain (M.L.). 155
Fortess Road, NW5 (Tufnell Park Tube).
Saturday, 3rd March
Antique Fair and Auction by ICCAG. Pro-
ceeds to Task Force and Westminster Play
Association. View from 10 a.m. Auction
from 2 p.m. Christie's Auctioneer. Union
Concert Hall.
Touchstone Weekend: Human rights. Dr.
David Raphael (Academic Director of
Associated Studies) and Professor Sergio
Cotta (University of Rome). Silwood Park.
Sunday, 4th March
10.00 Holy Communion.
Block.
Ante Room, College
11.00 I.C. Catholic Society: Mass. 53 Cromwell
Road.
18.00 I.C. Catholic Society: Folk Mass. 53 Crom-
well Road.
19.30 I.C. Catholic Society: Miss Geraldine Hall.
The relevance of religious life. 53 Cromwell
Road.
'LAST OF THE RED-HOT LOVERS'
(X) Paramount, Piccadilly Circus
When you go to the People's disco
on a Friday night in the Union, do
you have trouble making out with the
chicks? Yes? Do you want to know
what you'll be like in 20 years? If
you do, go and see 'Last of the Red-
Hot Lovers'. Alan Arkin is Barney, a
nice 45-year-old person, who has a
nice fish restaurant in a nice district,
nice friends, a nice wife and a nice
house. He has also nice morals and
nice habits—in fact the whole of his
life is nauseatingly nice. So Barney
decides to explore an extramarital
affair just for the experience. He
reckons that just one liaison will give
his life that missing ingredient, so
that on his deathbed he can look back
on that brief engagement and think—
'well, I did it, once.' Unfortunately
Barney is not fortunate at all in his
relationships. Apart from being handi-
capped by having to use his mother's
sterile apartment, and by being re-
stricted to only a couple of hours in
which to make out, his choice in
women-friends is unfortunate, to say
the least. The first is a married
woman who comes to his fish res-
taurant four times in one week, and is
only, interested in the animal lust bit.
That upsets Barney. Strike one. The
second one is an attractive young
failed singer, who besides having a
persecution complex, is thoroughly
degenerate and paranoid. That also
upsets Barney. Strike two. The third
is one of his married friends who
makes a pass at him at a party, be-
cause she is upset at the gossip that
her husband is having an affair. She
is frigid, neurotic and has a habit of
discussing their affair at the top of
her voice in restaurants. Poor old
Barney—strike three and out.
"JEREMIAH J O H N S O N "
Superficially "Jeremiah Johnson"
bears a strong resemblance to one of
those Walt Disney 'Nature' films.
There is the same central 'mountain-
trapper' type figure, and there are
the same superb, sweeping shots of
the massively beautiful Rocky Moun-
tains scenery. The film fits in strongly
with a certain eternal American
mood — the desire to be somewhere
else and to 'up and away' from the
city.
But this Disney 'image' disappears,
for Johnson (heavily-bearded Robert
Redford) is a very real character. At
the beginning of the film he is utterly
inexperienced, and often seems near
perishing in the winter snows. But he
learns, and in this is the fascinating
part of the film, for all the time we
feel that the Crow Indians are watch-
ing, and that his existence continues
Alan Arkin (of 'Cath-22') is here
recreating the type of role Jack Lem-
mon made famous a few years a g o —
the slightly neurotic, but very ordin-
ary American, who finds himself way
out of his depth in circumstances he
cannot cope with. It is a scaled-down
character role, if you like. I am not
sure if he is as adaptable as Jack
Lemmon, but he is just as convincing.
Sally Keilerman (of 'Mash') and Paula
Prentiss (of various bad movies) as
two of his girlfriends are given a wide
scope of moods and do very well in-
deed. The dialogue is typical scaled-
up T.V. Situation Comedy stuff, pre-
dictable at times, but occasianally
priceless. The film as a whole starts
off very well, but tails off by the third
liaison, mainly because everything's
been said, and the ending is rather
predictable as well. I reckon it's the
kind of film vou either like or hate,
depending on whether you like Ameri-
cans in general or their humour in
particular. However, don't expect any
wild action to match the X-Certificate,
because there isn't any—it seems to
me to be standard A A material. Per-
haps the morals are dubious, but
how it can be classified in the same
category as 'Last Tango in Paris' (no
I haven't seen it yet), I don't know.
Still, for 100 mins of mental titilla-
tion, it does quite well.
'Sergei'
Footnote—
For those people who didn't see
Kenneth Williams on 'Parkinson' a
couple of weeks ago, I must repeat
his definition of critics (no love lost
betwen them and Ken)—He reckons
they are like eunuchs in a harem.
They are there every night, see it
done every night, but can't do it
themselves.
only by their consent.
The last part of the film, however,
is very different, for Johnson's re-
venge against the Indians (wholly
justified), and their subsequent hunt-
ing of him is violently primeval, leav-
ing Jacobean Revenge Tragedies far
behind. This is Johnson's testing
ground, and, at the end of the film
he emerges triumphant as the Crow
Chief accepts him in a final gesture
of peace, caught in a poignant frozen-
frame.
Try as I can, I can find no fault in
this film. Redford's performance is
superb, especially in the early 'Jack
London' style of sequences, the
music, which consists of Western
ballads, fits exactly, and I can re-
member no film that I have enjoyed
so much for a long time.
David Gurney.

