The Student Newspaper of Imperial College
^ ^ ^ 14 May 1993 Issue 966
ICU reforms published Great balls of fire
This year's Rag fete, described by one as a 'flaming success', attracted
almost 800people, writes Declan Curry. A combination of warm weather,
sunshine and fun made the event the busiest for years. Stalls included
wheelchair racing, laser shoot, jelly races, the cocktail dash, plus those
old favourites candy floss, jelly and ice cream, and banana splits.
The day was wrapped up by the presentation of cheques to this year's
Rag charities. More details on the fete inside today's Felix on page 7.
by D e c l a n Curry
Crunch decisions will be made next
week in a crucial phase of the
'Davidson Reforms' of Imperial
College Union (ICU). Next
Wednesday will see the publication
of the key document putting flesh
on proposals for the most radical
structural shake up since the Union
was founded at the start of the
century.
The outline proposals, flagged in
last week's Felix, were passed in
principle at this Monday's meeting
of ICU Council. The 55-member
Council will be abolished as the
management body of the Union.
The current I C U Executive, a
branch of the old Council, will also
be scrapped.
Their proposed replacement is a
new 13 member executive
committee. This committee will
include new officer posts, and will
involve modifications to several
others that already exist. This new
Executive will also have
considerably more powers than its
predecessor, as it will be a branch
of the Union General Meeting
(UGM). Whilst the U G M will
remain the sovereign decision-
making body, the new Executive
will find extensive powers delegated
to it, making it in effect responsible
for the 'hands on management' of
the Union.
The new executive will comprise
a President, a Deputy President
(Finance and Services), a Deputy
President (Clubs and Societies), a
City and Guilds Constituent Union
President, a Royal College of
Science Union President, a Royal
School of Mines President, a St
Mary's Hospital Medical School
Union President, an Overseas
Officer, a Welfare Chairman, an
Academic Affairs Officer, an
Entertainments Officer, a
Postgraduate Chairman, and a
Communications Officer.
Job descriptions for these
executive posts will be one of
several specific details to be
revealed in next Wednesday's
document. The Deputy President
(Finance and Services) appear to be
a simple retiding of the existing post
of Deputy President. The current
post of Honorary Secretary (Events)
is to be split into two jobs: an
Events Manager, a full time paid
Union staff post; and a Deputy
President (Clubs and Societies), a
sabbatical who will have a largely
representative role, and who will be
expected to nurture Union societies.
The new Events Manager will be
paid from Union funds, but the
candidate will be expected to raise
enough money in a year to justify
the salary. The Events Manager
will organise the Careers Fair and
the Union May Ball, both lucrative
money earners for the Union. The
Manager will also organise the
Union's entertainments and events,
and market them externally and to
Union members. Organised events
normally serve to increase bar and
snack bar takings at slack times,
such as weekends, and Union
figures expect the combination of
regular and special events to
generate more than the salary
needed for this new staff member.
Elections papers for the so far
newly-titled post of Deputy
President (Clubs and Societies)
went up this week. The job title on
the papers was changed with the
approval of Council, pending a
further decision on the specifics of
the job description. Changes to the
job description depend on the
approval of the new Events
Manager staff post. The Deputy
President (Clubs and Societies) is
expected to be left with a radically
restructured role, including the
organisation of the Freshers' Fair
and Overseas Students' Reception
Day, attending Club and Society
meetings, promoting the sporting
achievements of Union clubs and to
seek sponsorship for them, and to
6 7 9 11/12
Sexy Rag Death of Sailing
Sabb Fete the Buses to Victory

