Feature
An agreement too far
Jonty Beavan tries to drag sense out of Imperial College's own version
of the Maastricht treaty
1. The purpose of I C U
The object or purpose of Imperial
College Union (ICU), as set out in its
By-Laws approved by the Governing
Body is:
a) the promotion of social intercourse
between present and past students and
academic staff of the College.
b) the encouragement of interest by
students in matters outside the College
curriculum, especially cultural and
athletic interests.
c) the provision of a corporate body
of students to represent and to safeguard
and advance the interests and welfare of
the students of the College.
2. The Status of I C U
The College is a chartered corporation
i.e. it has the powers of a person of full
legal capacity and is subject to common
law and statute.
I C U is an unincorporated association
and in law would be treated as part of
the College; because it cannot be sued,
any action against it is likely to be
brought against the College and hence
the Governors who are the College.
The Governing Body has devolved the
responsibility for the organisation of
many of the non-academic activities of
students in the College of I C U , which
is required to operate within the rules
and policies laid down in its By-Laws,
amendments to which have to be
approved by the Governing Body.
3. Financial Accountability
3.1 I C U shall conduct its financial
activities in accordance with its Financial
regulations and Procedures which have
been approved by the Audit Committee
of the Governing Body.
3.2 The Union Senior Treasurer,
elected by the I C U Finance Committee
and approved by the Rector, will report
on any irregular procedures in the
management of public funds and those
resulting from the Union's trading
activities, to that committee. He will also
be responsible for protecting the
College's interests by reporting on
ICU's financial matters to the Director
of Finance as the Union Senior
Treasurer sees fit.
3.3 Given the audit requirements
imposed on the College by external
bodies, the College Internal Audit
Service shall have access to I C U as it
has to any other part of the College.
3.4 The College will allocate funds
annually to I C U by means of a
subvention agreed by the context of the
College's Annual Budget. This
subvention, the basis of which is to be
clearly defined, will take account of
ICU's current trading activities which,
it is acknowledged, provide a service to
the community, to be operated
increasingly efficiently and profitably.
It will also take account of ICU's
responsibilities and their related costs.
The text adjacent is called a
'Memorandum of Understanding'. The
Governing Body of Imperial College has
proposed this document to defuse any
confusion that exists in its relationship
with Imperial College Union (ICU).
At present this is a draft, it is open to
debate and discussion. The comments
here a meant as a guide and background
to the jargon of the report. It is not an
in depth explanation, and is not meant
to be,
The final draft of this document will
go to the Governing Body of Imperial
College to be ratified. At this point it
becomes a binding guide of how the
College and Union deal with each other.
Any disputes over this document must
then be overseen by the Governing Body.
Essentially this means the Union can
have its cake and eat it. ICU is part of
the College, so is not legally liable for
any of its actions. But, because College
do not want the responsibility of running
student affairs, they allow the Union to
look after itself.
This rather relaxing state of power
without responsibility is currently the
subject of a legal ruling. The results of
this ruling will be incorporated into this
agreement when it is finally drafted. If
the legal position is as stated here, the
Union is unlikely to take advantage of
this rather generous relationship. If any
abuse did occur, the response would be
swift and draconian.
All this year Clubs and Societies at
ICU have been forced into sorting out
their finances. The revised College
financial regulations demand clear
accountability and responsibility for all
monies. This could mean loses incurred
by clubs coming out of the pockets of
student treasurers.
A Senior treasurer is a member of
College staff who signs most cheque
written for student based activity. This
person, currently Dr Peter Muller, is
duty bound to report any irregularities
to College
In part 3.1 any audit of college also
includes an audit of the Union. Thus the
Union must allow auditors access to all
records.
The subvention is a lump sum of money
that is given to the Union so it can
function. Section 3.4 gives the condition
that if Union services, like Da Vinci's,
make large amounts of money that
subvention can change. As a respite to
the incentive to self fund, the College
allows a opt out clause: The motive
behind Union outlets should be to
Those currently agreed, which are to be
detailed in an annexe to this
Memorandum, are subject to review
from time to time.
3.5 I C U and the College will work
towards establishing a unified system of
funding and accounting for the three
Constituent College Unions (CCUs) of
I C U on the South Kensington site,
Silwood Park and the fourth C C U on the
Paddington site at St Mary's Hospital
Medical School (SMHMS).
4. Trading Activities
The College and I C U are agreed on
the need to define the nature and extent
of the trading activities carried out by
ICU, in order to clarify their relationship
with other trading activities in the
College. The ability of I C U to act as
agents for the College in relation to third
parties will also be defined.
5. Allocation and Management of
Student Areas
5.1 The Governing Body will from
time to time review and determine those
areas of the College which may be
managed by I C U and used exclusively
for student functions, sporting and
trading activities.
5.2 Those areas which are identified
for use primarily or solely as areas for
student functions will be let by I C U to
its clubs, societies and outside
organisations on the understanding that
they abide by the College Functions and
Events Policy, procedures and code of
practice.
6. Compliance with Legislation.
6.1 Health and Safety at Work
Act/College H & S Policy
6.1.1 I C U is responsible to the Rector
for complying with the College Health
and Safety Policy, its Procedures and
Codes of Practice.
6.1.2 The President of ICU will be the
person responsible for health and safety
matters in I C U and will have the same
delegated responsibilities in this respect
as those defined in the College Health
and Safety Policy Document for a Head
of Department.
6.1.3 I C U will set up a Health and
Safety Committee which will be chaired
by the Union Manager. Its remit will
involve advising the President on such
matters as affect the safety of students
and others in the Union Building and at
student functions and events elsewhere,
and ensuring the safety of equipment
owned by ICU and its clubs and societies
wherever located. It may set up such
Health and Safety sub-committees as are
necessary to do this.
6.1.5 The I C U Health and Safety
Committee at South Kensington will be
a sub-committee of the Sherfield Health
and Safety Committee. Health & Safety
matters affecting students at S M H M S
will remain the responsibility of the
Dean, S M H M S and his Area Health and
balance the service aspect and profit. In
real life, if the Union uses profit from
one area to support another then it's OK
by the College.
ICU as an umbrella organisation for
the Constituent College Unions ( CCUs,
made up of: Royal College of Science,
City and Guilds, Mines and St Mary's)
is almost certain to evolve.
Unfortunately, this does not mean that
Mary's have to like it, much wrangling
with medics will result from section 3.5.
By Trading Activities the College
means: The Print Unit, The Bookstore
and the Bar. Here College want to define
what services the Union can offer and
which they will fulfil. There are obvious
clashes, Southside Bar (college run)
competes for student drinkers with Da
Vinci's in the Union, (although no one
admits it)
Third parties mean arrangements like
that with the Student Travel Association
(STA) on the walkway. The Union rents
out space to STA and the College
receives a share of the profit. The
relationship with outside bodies, by the
Union, on behalf of the College has to
be defined, this section makes a note of
this fact.
The Union uses areas such as the JCR
and Southside Gym, which it does not
directly own. Use is controlled by a code
of practice defined by the Governing
Body of College. Again this is an area
of debate, the priority of student
bookings of rooms compared to more
lucrative commercial use has yet to be
defined.
This area explains how the Union is
now responsible for student and Union
Staff safety.
As the Students' Union generally
gathers control for all its own affairs,
its responsibility increases. A
corresponding effect has been felt by
clubs and societies over the past
academic year, as the Union takes more
of an interest in their safety practices.
The rest of this section defines the way
Health and Safety legislation will be
observed. The document defines the
President of the Students' Union is liable
for Health and safety, while the Union
manager actually carrys out the work.
Page 10

