Felix 966
'eature
14 May 1993
Safety Committee. Likewise, those at
Silwood Park will remain the
responsibility of the Director and the
Silwood Park Area Health and Safety
Committee.
6.2 Other Legislation.
ICU will comply with all other current
legislation relating to its operations and
activities, including Food Safety, Data
Protection, Copyright, Environmental
Protection, Employment, Equal
Opportunities legislation. The College
agrees to provide, on request and at its
discretion, such professional advice as
is necessary to facilitate this compliance.
7. Freedom of Speech
ICU will comply with the College
Code of Practice, drawn up under
Section 43 of the Education (No. 2) Act
1986 and approved by Governors in
1987, and subsequent amendments,
when organising events, to ensure that
freedom of speech within the law is
secured for its members, College staff
and visiting speakers.
8. Felix
8.1 The Editor of Felix will be
required to operate in accordance with
trie Code of Practice agreed within the
publishing industry to this
Memorandum. The Imperial College
Union Executive committee will be the
body which will perform a role similar
to that of the Press Complaints
Commission and will aim to resolve
amicably and as quickly as possible, any
significant dispute involving a breach of
the Code of Practice. If a friendly
resolution cannot be achieved, the
Executive Committee will investigate
further and adjudicate and the Editor will
abide by any decision reached. Failure
to do so will be reported to the Union
General Meeting which has the power
to determine the appointment of the
Editor as laid down in the ICU By-Laws.
8.2 Any tradiing activities carried out
by the Felix Office will be subject to the
same constraints as other I C U trading
activities.
9. Harlington Gravel Proceeds
As agreed by the Finance and
Executive Committees of the Governing
Body at their meeting on 12 May 1989,
the policy in respect of proceeds arising
from the extraction of gravel on the
north side of the Harlington Sports
Ground shall be that the Governing Body
'will administer all existing and future
sporting and athletic facilities for the
benefit of students and that any income
arising from the use or disposal of such
facilities will be applied for the benefit
of students. In pursuance of this
undertaking, the responsibility for the
application of such income will be
undertaken by a Trust composed of the
Chairman of the Athletics Committee,
a Past President of Imperial College
Union and the President of the Imperial
College Union. 'The latter will be an
observer at relevant meetings of the
Investments Committee which has
responsibility for the investment of
monies derived from the sale of gravel
from Harlington. The principles on
which the Trustees are required to
operate were promulgated by the
Governing Body at its meeting on 16
March 1990.
10. Use of the College Crest and the
Simply, if it's the law you've got to
obey it.
Not being familiar with Section 43 of
the education act it is not possible to
commentfully: All members of College
should be entitled to the right to express
their feelings without fear of reprisal.
Obviously you don't expect an unbiased
opinion on this part, you have been
warned:
The objections here are, firstly Felix
is not the only student media at Imperial
College. No media can object to a
Complaints Commission, but why should
it havejurisdiction overjust Felix? This
means STOIC and IC Radio can say
what they please with out any redress.
Secondly: If a complaints commission
did exists, it discuss cases about the
executive of the Union. This executive
is hardly going to give a fair ruling on
reporting dealing with itself.
This explains the general principle
behind the management of the cash
obtained from Harlington Gravel Fund.
The money was raised from gravel
extracted from a sports field owned by
Imperial College Union. A trust fund
was set up from the proceeds and is used
to support Sports activities by students
at Imperial College.
'Imperial College' Trademark
The College Crest and the 'Imperial
College' tide are the property of the
College and I C U shall have the non-
exclusive right to reproduce them for
social and commercial purposes,
provided that the style of use complies
with the conditions that are laid down
by the College to protect its property and
interests, including those imposed upon
it by the Royal College of Arms.
11. Channels of Communication with
the College Administration
Whilst there are informal channels of
communication between the Sabbaticals
and the Union Manager and members
of the College Administration, it is
agreed that these need to be kept under
review to ensure their effectiveness. In
addition more formal reporting
procedures need to be maintained in
order that the College can be assured that
I C U is carrying out its responsibilities
in accordance with these Heads of
Agreement. I C U will report on its
financial matters, as required, to the
College Audit Committee, its refectory
services matters to the college House
Committee, its health and safety matters
through the Sherfield Health and Safety
Council and its estates management
matters to the College Estates
Committee.
12. Completion of the Memorandum
of Understanding
The College and I C U will work
together to reach an agreement on those
additional Heads of Agreement set out
below, which are still incompletely
defined, by 31 July 1993, with a view
to completing this Memorandum of
Understanding for presentation to the
Governing Body on 17 December 1993.
12.1 Allocation and Management of
Student Areas
It is agreed that the areas allocated to
I C U for use exclusively or partially for
student activities, including its trading
activities, shall be defined and appended
to this document.
12.2 Identification of Annual Costs
Liabilities
It is agreed that the annual costs for
which I C U shall be liable, which will
be taken into account when agreeig the
annual subvention with the College,
shall be identified and listed in an annexe
\o this document.
12.3 Staff/Student Protocol
It is agreed that a protocol shall be
established between the College and ICU
to define the standards by which staff
employed by I C U and its student
members shall conduct themselves in
relation to each other and this will be
appended as an annexe to this
Memorandum.
12.4 ICU's Relationship with its
C C U ' s
It is agreed that the relationship
between I C U and its C C U s should be
defined more clearly in order to improve
the control I C U has over its resources.
12.5 Access to the College and its
Facilities
It is agreed that the College and I C U
shall define the basis upon which rights
of access to the College and its facilities
may be granted to former students and
staff of the College.
ICU is allowed to use the Imperial
College Crest for 'social and
commercial purposes', as long as this
does not put the College into a bad light.
This area is a source of great debate.
While communication between College
and ICU is desirable, supplying the
College with every thing they want to
know about ICU is not.
In particular, Finance. ICU is
prepared to supply the with audited
accounts, but not the detail. In contrast.
College want to know exactly what is
going on in the Union. The Union
believes revealing detail of accounts
could create difficulties if the information
became widely available. The College
want to know how much money the Bar
is taking so they don't have to give the
Union as much next year. The Union
does not agree. And so it goes on. This
one will run and run.
The rest of this document is bound
over to Heads of Agreement. These are
points on which an understanding has
been reached but the detail still needs
to be discussed.
Annual Cost liabilities are Heating,
Gas and Electricity. ICU will now be
responsible for payment of these dues.
Not as bad as it first seems, to pay, an
increase in the annual subvention must
follow. If this money is given over to
ICU, who can try and reduce its own
liabilities and thus save money. If you
see a scourge of, 'switch lights off after
you' stickers, you know why.
Staff Student protocols are a familiar
feature of most Student Unions. The
broad understanding is: If staff give
students impartial advice they don't want
to get dragged in to studentpolitics. One
broad objection from this Felix Editor
is that student media would then not be
allowed to comment on permanent staff.
For example, if a member of staff was
doing something wrong, media would
not be able to identify it.
CCUs are at the moment broadly
subservient to ICU, with the exception
ofSt Mary's. Any 'definition' of a CCU's
role would mean all of them being
brought under the banner and
responsibility of ICU.
Page 11

