Music
14 May 1993 Felix 966
Love... Sisters
We said we would, two weeks ago. You were warned. You have no excuse
Read this. Troy Tremeloeinvestigates the world ofDodgy Covers, 'Unlikely'
Collaborations, and doin' lotsa work for charity
If you'd been listening to the radio
on April 13, you may have heard
the result of a rather unusual
collaboration between the arch
Anglo-American Girl/Boy band
Voice of the Beehive, and the shorn,
slight synth-pop balladeer Jimmy
Somerville running their fingers
over an old Stones classic from way
before year zero. The song was
1969's Altamont anthem, 'Gimme
Shelter'. Keith Richards was to
admit later that he had lifted it from
a symphony by Beethoven which,
apparently, was his standard
practice behind the creation of a
good many Rolling Stones songs. It
was later covered, with judicious
rewriting, by the Sisters of Mercy
in 1983, and featured on the B-side
of 'Temple of Love', their last
independent 12" release before
signing to W E A and becoming a
dodgy would-be corporate rock
band.
The bizarrely straight-laced Food/EMI release for Putting Our
Beehive/Somerville cover is only House In Order, a charity project
one of many to feature on a f o r the homeless initiated by Jon
Beast, lately M C of Carter USM,
media courtier extraordinaire, and
all-round bloke. Other versions of
'Gimme Shelter' (there are some
twelve in total) feature such names
as Heaven 17, Tom Jones, Sandie
Shaw, New Model Army, 808 State,
Hawkwind (with Sam Fox, believe
it or not), PWEI, and a rare live
version by the Rolling Stones
themselves. What is most evident
about this is the way Jon Beast,
along with Andy Ross (Food
records) and David Woolfson
(Parliament Management), is
attempting to bridge what we might
call the tribal gaps between, say,
heavy metal, dance, indie rock, and
the broader pop audience. There are
four different releases; the pop
cassette, the dance 12", the
alternative C D , and the rock C D .
The Altamont soundtrack, Gimme Shelter. Covered by New Model Army with Tom Jones Kingmaker PWEI
it's just a shot away
It isn't just that they're trying to
cover every angle, be it metal, pop,
dance, whatever your bag is; nor is
it purely the good cause that is the
great thing about Putting Our House
In Order. That these are all superb
versions of one of the Stones' best
ever songs (if you don't know it, it
ranks along with 'Sympathy for the
Devil', and 'Goodbye Ruby
Tuesday', and if you don't know
those, you are a donkey) is its
qualification, and the reason to buy
'Gimme Shelter'.
Aside from this, a video is now
available, featuring all the artists in
a (if you will) 'rockumentary', and
a series of concerts, comedy shows,
and a fashion show have taken place
over the past few months. We did
tell you a few months back, so don't
tell us you weren't informed.
Furthermore, there is an auction
next week at the Phillips Auction
Rooms, 10 Salem Road, W2. If that
isn't good enough for you, it's just
off Queensway; you know,
Bayswater. Paddington. Up there.
So don't forget, it's the 18th of
May, and there's some handsome
hunks of pop memorabilia going to
the highest bidder. Oh, and by the
way, if you want to know more
about Putting Our House In Order,
how you can contribute, even the
specific details of the auction items
(Boots from P J Harvey, knickers
from L7, Gold Lame stage suit
from Cliff Richard among them)
call into the Felix office and ask for
me, Kevin Courvoisier. Or Donny
O'Nonchalant. Anything but my
real name.
Page 18

