F E L I X C O F F E E B R E A K 1 3 jfigfr ' £
S
g
ClFIXl (THE FIRST ONE)
THE GREAT FELIX LYRICS QUI/
GFLQ LEADER BOARD
WATCH THIS SPACE TOO!
Welcome to the son of GFQQ: GFLQ - the Great Felix Lyric Quiz! The
rules are deceptively simple - we provide five (or more) lyrics from
songs throughout the ages, and you give us the name of the song and
the artist who performed it (before you ask, cover versions are accept-
ed). For the song title you gain half a point, for the artist another half
point, and if you get all the lyrics completely right you get a bonus
point. Send us your answers via e-mail to coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk or drop
them into the Felix office (Beit Quad, West Wing basement) and we
will enter you on the leader board to be published in this space. At the
end of the year, whoever is on top will win an almighty prize and the
admiration of their peers.
IJLTRALEAGIJE
SAME AGAIN, BUDDY. WATCH IT!
For those of you brave enough to enter both GFQQ and GFLQ, there
exists the Ultraleague - a stomping ground of wit and skill. Here lurks
the biggest prize, but also the most deadly competition. Those players
who accept the challenge will have their combined score published in
this space and compete for the grand (undisclosed as yet) prize, to be
awarded at the end of the year. We are welcome to suggestions, but
our current shortlist is: a return trip to Hawaii, a top of the range enter-
tainment system, or a romantic candlelight spit-roast, with Fudge and
Cyclops to provide the rotisserie, of course. Bye-bye.
WEBSITE OF THE WEEK
www.ratemypoo.com
Synopsis: Individuals send in pictures of their faecies, and they are rated
on a scale ranging from 1 ('not') to 10 Clog'). Turds also get a witty com-
ment from reviewers, which is sure to raise a smile.
Rating: One of the more interesting uses for the Internet - not an evil
site, but definitely disturbed and therefore worth a visit. Those with a
panchant for poo may like to review others, or indeed send in a sample
(in digital form) of their own.
C o f f e e b r e a k s c o r e : 6/10
Y'know, we do have a dedicated website review section. You can find
out how to read bar codes. But there's very little shit, I'm afraid. Ed.
THE LYRICS
1. "He never ever learned to read or write so well, but he could play
the guitar just like ringin' a bell."
2. "Something grabs a hold of me tightly, flow like a harpoon daily and
nightly."
3. "Don't need money, don't need fame, don't need no credit card to
ride this train."
4. "We've got to move these microwave ovens, custom kitchen deliver-
ies. We've got to move these refridgerators, we've got to move these
colour TVs."
5. "Beelzebub has a devil put aside for me, for me, for me."
6. "Well the Ukraine girls really knock me out, they leave the West
behind. And Moscow girls make me sing and shout, that Georgia's
always on my-my-my-my-my-my-my-my-my mind"
7. "When they said you was high classed, well, that was just a lie"
8. "You never close your eyes anymore when I kiss your lips. There's
no tenderness like before in your fingertips"
9. "All we want from you are the kicks you've given us"
10. "Baby when I heard you for the first time I knew we were meant to
be as one."
R AMBLINGS
And so we're back from outer space - I just walked in the Felix office to
find that look on Fudge's face. Yes, another year is here and Fudge &
Cyclops are back to bring you coffee-time fun and games with a new
look and huge prize budget of £1000 - the fools! This year we have a
new quiz: the Great Felix Lyric Quiz (it won't take much guessing as to
how you play, but the rules are to be found somewhere on these pages).
Bobby Cyclops
Basically you need to watch this space, keep up to date with your entries
and make sure you don't whine too much when we don't give you the
points you want. As usual, there will be bonus questions from week to
week, and the amount of quotes will vary in size depending on how
much 'work' we can be arsed doing. The leader board will be updated
each week and the winners of the two quizzes will receive a prize at the
end of the year, with the winner of the Ultraleague (combined scores of
the two quizzes) receiving one almighty, never-before-seen, behemoth of
a grand prize. If this hasn't got you salivating like a dog with two dicks,
we've also got the usual crossword prizes and a recommended website
for those tedious hours in college when you're supposed to be doing
coursework. Watch this space, and be lucky. Dr Hot Fudge
coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk The Great Felix Lyric Quiz

