F E L I X W E B S I T E R E V I E W S 1 5
cellspacing-0 borter-0"tr>-td align-right valigrbnllom-a hrel-http:
der-0 widHi=38 heighl-511 alt-"""/a>'/ld><td valign-bnttem>«a tin
href-http://www.goagle.coni"imrj src-/images/res3.rjif barter
href-/advanced„search?i]-website*reviewsBhl-en8lr-Sie-LITF-8»-Ailvi
hrel-faguaye tnnls?[(-wehsile*reviewsShl en8lr8ie-UTF 8-Language
value "en"—input type-hidden name lr value-""Hnput tgpc-hidden name-ie value value "website reviews"
jprholtnui -a hrel-hllp://wwi».google.comHmg src/images/resl.git bar
align-right valign-top class-h-b-llnbspr/bHtdHd valign-lnp-a
8nbsprllonHld"/tr"/table~/td"ld nowrap><lont size- l—a
:ws8hl-en8lr-8ie=UTF 8Prelerences'/a>finbsp;8nbsp;8iibsprBabspra
ton name gs method GET action°/search—input type-hidden name hi
= 1- 'input type-submit name=blnli value "Boogie Search""span
Bargain b a s e m e n t : Fridges a n d stuff
Ooooo! What prices! What a selection! QED
stands for Quality Electrical Direct and that is
exactly what it is; every electrical appliance
under the sun is here and at very reasonable
prices. Pick an appliance, any piece of domes-
tic machinery and you should find it here,
whether it is a new fridge for your flat, a foot
spa to relax after a hard night clubbing, a DJ
turntable to annoy the neighbours or a floor
shampoo polisher to please the landlord (or
lady). Now I'm sure that lots of you lovely peo-
ple have got to their nice new flats and found
that the washing machine isn't actually pro-
vided so trot along here and nab yourself a
cheap new one.
The web site itself is not particularly flashy -
a very simple layout means it is extremely easy
to use, it is a functional website and there has
been little attempt to try and glamorise it. But
who cares, with prices like these, although the
pink and yellow tables with blue writing can
be a bit hard on the eyes. There is also a very
useful function using SMS. If you see some-
thing that you want in a high street store then
you text the manufacturer and model number
to QED and within a minute they send back a
quote. An excellent idea I think. Delivery is
free over £100 and is £4.15 under, and your
order is usually delivered within 3-5 working
days.
All in all, this is a good service and certain-
ly worth checking out before you buy else-
Well... it could be useful...
Hmmm. I never fail to be amazed at the infor-
mation that is available on the internet, I
realise that there are many, many areas of
knowledge that are a complete mystery to me
and I'm sure I'm not alone on that. As such I
consider it my duty to inform you of websites
that will almost certainly contain facts that you
did not know and, to be honest, probably never
wanted to. This week's input is the ability to
decode the barcode, you know this is some-
thing that you have been dying to learn and it
will certainly complete your life.
The most common version is the UPCA code
which normally needs to be read with a laser
but, with patience, can be decoded by the
human eye. There are twelve digits (I never
knew that) and each is represented by a seven
bit binary code. The first six digits tell you the
manufacturer, the next five identify the actual
product, and the last one is a check digit.
Anyway, follow the step by step guide provided
here and you could soon be employed by
Tescos as 'Till assistant', or not. What the use
of being able to decode the barcode is I have
yet to work out, please send ideas on a post-
card.
Ignoring the pure irrelevance of this site it is
actually quite well produced, simple but effec-
tive and user-friendly, so if you ever want to
know anything about the barcode, you really
should get a life! No, I don't mean that, first
rule of writing - don't insult the audience, love
you all really!
Delink the Km (ode!
0 25528 14236 0
ii inn minium inn ii
Don't look at it too long - it made my eyes
go all funny
This is a picture of an armadillo.
Really.
i^fel.- ^ I ^Sl|i
w
*
»
J
• #
where because you could end up kicking your-
self and we don't want that now, do we.
http://www.qed-uk.com
T e r m o f t h e W e e k :
C o o k i e [ y u m ]
Cookies, those things that pop up when you
visit web sites actually do have a function,
they are used to get information about how
often you visit a site, how long you stay there
and also to try and personalise the web site
for you.The web server sends the cookie to
the web browser in order to keep track of you,
they can also be used to monitor which
adverts you see in your browser.
They can be irritating but nothing more,
they do not spread viruses or do anything that
could be considered nasty to your computer.
So you can have as many cookies as you like
as long as you can cope with the calories.
www.lascofittings.com/BarCode-EDI/Decode.htm
F r o m t h e d o t M e i s t e r
Hello there my favourite people and welcome
to the best ever (well, first ever) website
review page in Felix. I am your wonderful web
review editor and you are now going to be
stuck with a whole page of me every week!
Mwa Ha Ha Ha - that was an evil laugh. I aim
(and I usually miss) to provide you with a lit-
tle light entertainment as well as some useful
sites over the year. This week I thought I'd
give you something dead useful to anyone set-
ting up home as well as something to enter-
tain yourselves when you're drunk, which you
probably will be at some point. That 3am trip
to Sainsbury's is so much more fun if you try
decoding the barcode. No really. Jenny
felix@ic.ac.uk If you fancy reviewing a website, get in touch

