B O O K R E V I E W S F E L I X
Hippopotamus, by Stephen Fry
What a gloriously disgusting vision of the world
and its most entertaining characters! Fry loves
the people he has created, and the delight he has
taken in developing wonderfully complete per-
sonalities shines through the text and infiltrates
every aspect of the writing. Stephen Fry has
clearly loved writing The Hippopotamus and
makes it very easy to love reading it.
Ted Wallace, the main character, hates the
world - and the world hates him. He doesn't
mind this, in fact he quite likes it this way. So
long as he can get his hands on a good bottle of
whisky and people leave him alone, he is happy.
Ted used to work as a theatre critic for a news-
paper but after being a little too critical one par-
ticular evening he was, unceremoniously, given
the sack, given the number of a local rehabilita-
tion clinic and told to sod off. It is in this state of
bereavement for his social and financial loss that
he is approached by a long lost goddaughter and
offered a lot of money to stay with some rich
friends of his and get free alcohol. Strangely
enough Ted accepts and sets off; the only prob-
lem is, he is under strict orders to look for some-
thing but Jane, his goddaughter, would not tell
him what. From this point on, our embittered
protagonist is spun into a world of mystical heal-
ing that really is too much for poor old Ted to
cope with. His rich friends have the appearance
of the perfect family, but slowly it becomes obvi-
ous that something is being hidden and it is this
secret that Jane expects Ted to discover.
Fry has a wicked, twisted sense of humour and
The Hippopotamus provides laugh-out-loud
quips with a vicious, sexual streak. The internal
workings of Ted Wallace's mind are really hilari-
ous, made more so by the bizarre situation in
which he finds himself. Definitely worth a read.
The Hippopotamus, by Stephen Fry, is published
by Arrow and recommended for sale at £5.99.
ISBN 0-09-918961-5
nttfy (\, peeks
Contact publishers, get free books!
Training in editing and layout
provided
E-mail felix@ic.ac.uk
Wasted, by Mikki Goffin
Mikki Goffin has made a brilliant debut with this one, a touching and mov-
ing account of the true love and support that exists within a family and the
stress and devastation caused by a disease such as schizophrenia. This is
not a story without humour and Goffin portrays a student's life with an
accuracy and wit that provides a much needed relief from the intensity of
the effects of such a dramatic illness.
Abigail is the main character whose life is detailed through her late teens
to early twenties. Abi admires and adores her older sister, Jasmine, who is
a heroin addict and a schizophrenic and Goffin explores the effects of this
on her family.
As Abigail tries to continue her life and begins the difficult move from
school to university, Jasmine slowly slips away into a murky life of drugs
and madness. Goffin never tries to explain the causes of schizophrenia, but
he does emphasise the confusion that surrounds the disease - doctors
have differing opinions and nobody understands why it happens to partic-
ular people. "I've read every bloody book in the world about schizophre-
nia... I don't even know what it is, what it's supposed to stand for." The
pain of this confusion and the misunderstandings for the family is evident
throughout the novel. When Abigail leaves for university Jasmine loses her
only contact with the real world, and Abi loses the constant reminder of
the effects of drugs. Both of them lose their best friend.
Despite the seriousness of the subject matter Goffin manages to main-
tain a sense of humour with a humorous account of university life. Abi
arrives at university and meets her flat mates in halls of residence, then,
as she struggles to keep on top of her reading and coursework she gets
involved with too many men and too much pot, leading to more chuckles.
I eagerly await Goffin's next novel. If this one is anything to go by, he
shows great promise as an emotive, tender writer who can tackle impor-
tant issues whilst maintaining a tactful sense of humour. Jenny
Wasted, by Mikki Goffin is published by Phoenix for £6.99.
ISBN 0-75381-434-X
books.felix@ic.ac.uk To review the latest literature, e-mail Pages at this address

