N I G H T L I F E F E L I X
N i g h t L i f e
Welcome
Rock over London.
If last week's nights out were not enough for
you, then maybe you should turn your atten-
tion to these little beauties. As ever, this
week's NightLife has the best nights out in
London screaming out for your attention.
Unless you firmly intend to dribble away your
life in a sorry tale of depression and worka-
holism, read on...
Now, if you've cashed that loan cheque but
you still don't feel quite flush enough to spend
all your money on nights out on the town then
perhaps NightLife is exactly what you need.
Reviewing clubs, bars and events for NightLife
gets you (and typically a 'plus one') free entry,
and possibly some free drinks and V.I.P privi-
leges in the process. What's more, it is outra-
geously simple: you just have to write me a
review.
If you are too much of a pecker to even both-
er giving it a second thought, here are your
other options for free entry into the best clubs
and bars in London:
1) Insert several vinyl promos down your
trousers and claim to be a mislaid record bag.
2) Claim to be the Carl Cox.
3) Get a bunch of mates to dress up as police
officers and turn up by the vanload to 'raid' the
club. Shed your uniforms inside once you've
got your got your money's worth by confiscat-
ing beer, cigarettes and other substances from
unsuspecting clubbers.
4) Claim to be Jesus Christ, and they will just
assume it's that twat Chris Evans at it again.
...And of course, there is always the option of
reviewing for NightLife. Anyway, enough from
me, I'll let the reviews do the talking...
Rock Steady The Gallery
Wednesday @ Bridge & Tunnel
If I was to tell you that you could hear leg-
endary DJ, Ashley Beedle from X-press 2, play
in London for free. Would you believe me?
Well, with the Rock Steady night at the Bridge
& Tunnel that is now the truth.
This monthly night features residents Ashley
Beedle, Ross Allen and Johnny Chandler put-
ting together an evening of modern soul, reg-
gae, R&B, and good wholesome raw funk.
Every month the line-up will feature special
guest DJs who will be unchained from the
need to play current records and given free
reign over the decks. For this reason, expect to
hear the best of the DJs personal record col-
lections including all of that music which has
been an influence and an inspiration to them
and even some special retro rarities.
The Bridge & Tunnel is the perfect venue for
this sort of night. The Bridge and Tunnel's
superb old school-style sound system and its
stylish seating areas will mean that you will be
put in the perfect mood for this vinyl voyage.
As events of this quality are not often free,
you should really have no excuse for missing
out on this one.
Friday @ Turnmills
Turnmills' weekly Friday night event, The
Gallery, has a long established reputation for
its popular mix of awesome DJs and glitzy car-
nival decor, all of which is sure to put a
Cheshire Cat smile on your face.
Like a Long Island Ice Tea, everything you
could possibly want is in here. It has strong DJ
talent in the form of residents Tall Paul and
Lottie, whilst also seeing the likes of Sister
Bliss, Lisa Loud, Judge Jules and many more
regularly take the decks through the year. And,
as if that could possibly not be enough,
Turnmills' gorgeous main bar area and its chat-
ty atmosphere provide the perfect amount of
effervescence.
Thankfully, The Gallery does not take itself
at all seriously. This means when a great tune
hits, the crowd simply isn't afraid to put their
hands in the air and to cheer in appreciation.
So please dress your best, and leave your inhi-
bitions at the door.
The Gallery is a night that builds all the way
to a show-stopping climax, leaving you happy,
euphoric and hugging strangers. A true 21st
Century disco.
Wednesday 9th October
Ashley Beedle (X-Press 2)
Ross Allen, Johnny Chandler
and guests
DJs 7pm- late
Free entry
Bridge & Tunnel, 4 Calvert Avenue, E2
www.bridgeandtunnel.com
Friday 11th October
Tiesto
Sister Bliss
Montana and more
10:30pm - 7:30 am
£8 members before midnight, £12 guests.
Turnmills, 63B Clerkenwell Road, EC1
www.turnmills.co.uk
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk Want instant sex appeal? Become a NightLife reviewer

