F E L I X N I G H T L I F E 1 9
N i g h t L i f e
Fabric
Saturday @ Fabric
Saturday night: before the main feature began
at midnight, Fabric seemed hollow and inani-
mate; I had arrived early - too early - and so
chose to fill this empty time with conversation
and cold beer. Slowly groups of people were
arriving and finding places to sit or were puls-
ing through the doorways and bar areas. And
then, when people seemed to be least expect-
ing it, everything happened.
Music and light seem to take over and sud-
denly nothing is static. The circulation of peo-
ple between the three dancefloors builds until
everyone has found their right place; choosing
either Room 3's breaks, Room 2's furious
techno or Room l's upbeat tribal sounds.
For me the night all happened in Room 2. Its
hot, hypnotic techno charmed the crowd into a
rhythmical frenzy; green laserlight curving
through smoke and lapping the crowd before
shattering into electric beams.
By 4am it was all too much, and I can't keep
up the pace and have to leave - too stunned to
speak. Suddenly it is the end of the night and
there is only silence and rolling credits. Trust
me, this one's awesome.
Ragbull
Saturday @ Bridge & Tunnel
Jools Butterfield launches his "Ragbull" record
label in fine style at his monthly Ragbull night.
At the Bridge & Tunnel you will typically find
that you are listening to DJs and acts that you
would expect to play only at bigger clubs - and
this Ragbull night is certainly no exception.
This Saturday Groove Armada make a special
appearance with their percussionist Patrick
Dawes, but there are also plenty of other
attractions, including Jools Butterfield himself.
What you can assume is that everyone who
does play will bring with them the sound of
Ragbull: a dirty, soul-peppered and Afro-
infused sound. The emphasis is more on giving
some limelight to the best as yet undiscovered
artists. You will be hearing the best of today's
underground music.
One of the best things about the Bridge &
Tunnel as a venue is that, as there is no pres-
sure to fill a dancefloor, the DJs actually seems
to be enjoy themselves a lot more. You can just
tell that what they play are just the records
that they want to play - which I think makes
the music just that little more personal and
interesting. A welcome change.
Saturday 12th October
Craig Richards, Terry Francis
Jeff Milligan (Algorithm)
Luomo (Live) and more
10pm - 7pm
£15 (£12 NUS)
Fabric, 77A Charterhouse Street, EC1
www.fabriclondon.com
Saturday 12th October
Groove Armada
(with Patrick Dawes),
Jools Butterfield and guests
DJs 7pm- late
Price info: info@bridgeandtunnel.co.uk
Bridge & Tunnel, 4 Calvert Avenue, E2
www.bridgeandtunnel.com
Competition
V.I.P. Tickets to The Gallery
This week you the chance to win yourself a
pair of V.I.R tickets to The Gallery this Friday
11th October, courtesy of Turnmills.
There are five pairs of V.I.R tickets avail-
able, the winners to be chosen at random
from all of you who answer this simple ques-
tion below:
What birthday did The Gallery have in April
of this year?
a) 6th
b) 7th
c) 8th
E-mail your answer to clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
before noon on Friday 11th October for the
opportunity of winning a pair of tickets.
Please put 'The Gallery Competition' in the
subject field and give your name, year and
department. Please also include in your e-
mail a contact phone number, so that I can
inform you if you are a winner (these num-
bers will not be recorded or used for any other
purposes).
Oh, and if you didn't notice before, I would
really like people to join the review team.
There are even opportunities to review R'n'B
and UK Garage - so it isn't just house music.
If you want to write reviews for NightLife and
earn spurious glory in the process, send an e-
mail to us at NightLife with 'Music is the
answer' in the subject field and include in the
e-mail your name, year and department.
For more information e-mail:
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
Patrick
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk NightLife: sure to give meaning to your existence

