F F U X
C O U N C I L P R O C E E D I N G S
HIGHLIGHTS OF THE MEETING
C L U B HOPS'1
ORGANISATION QUESTIONED
THE LAST MEETING OF COUNCIL took place on Monday, the25th. of March.
There was a strong feeling against the Staff Common Room Committee's decision not to move to
the 3rd. floor I t was suggested that they be told that the students vers very disappointed with
the Committee'
INDEPENDENT COMMENT]
T H R E E P O I N T L A N D I N G
by D A E D A L U S
A l l too frequent recently have been the ref-
erences i n the popular national press to scien-
t i s t s and technologists. They say that we ignore
the arts, religion and the humanities. Dr. J u l -
ian Huxley wrote an article in the "Daily Mail"
claiming that Christian beliefs are no longer
tenable and that the time has come for a new
religion, worshiping fact. In this, the leading
College, an examination of out Social Clubs,
General Studies and Touchstone should allay the
the doubts of the journalists. As for Dr.Huxley,
the more T
' % -n i . the field of Science and
Techno1
ogy che more I marvel a; the Wondrous
V'iko of God. Some people attribute these won-
ders to "natural evolution" - Who planned the
evolution ? I f a survey were carried out, I
wager that the general public would be surprised
to find that Science and Technology i s a com-
parative stronghold of Christianity. Let us not
be complacent, however, there i s room for con-
siderable strengthening.
The plans for the future of National Service,
announced by Mr.Macleod during the Easter Vac-
ation, will have caused some despondency amongst
I.C. man who had hoped for a system of selective
recruitment which would exempt holders of Ithe
degrees they hope to obtain. Whilst the plans
aniounced are undoubtedly f a i r , i n that those
who came straight to University from school
should not gain an advantage over those who did
their National Service f i r s t , they seem to have
political rather than practical expediency.
After spending a large sum of money training
a scientist or engineer, i s i t not foolish
to spend as much again giving him military
training ? After National Service his job
would exempt him from conscription during a
war, or he would be abroad anyway. Of course,
practically 100 $ of the World's population
does not want a war. I f only they had control
over their leaders I
An agitation of the undergraduate population
of the three Colleges, akin to gaseous molecular
excitement (the analogy i s chosen advisedly! ),
reminds us of the approach of the Summer Exam-
inations. Sales of 'bus tickets to Harlington,
'Hop' tickets, refectory lunches, and "Felix"
will"'drop; those of coffee, cigarettes, aspirin
and textbooks w i l l rise. This usually happens
and any doctor w i l l t e l l you that i t i s just
the reverse of what should happen to increase
the average amount of examination success.
*SPEK"} A NIGHT IN THE COUNTRY*
AT
(near Vtf^m'va
F r t f a j r-1aj 1 1 ^ ) \Q OObuKtt^OOa.m.
B a r YM 2-OOai*- 8axxJ Hfc 5-OOa.m.
&»(fc.r included.) CcScVies{<um. Union QdJESpw
decision. This was borne out
by the reception with which the announcement was
received at the preceding Union General Meeting.
It was announced that about 70 students,
would now be accommodated i n the Concert Hall for
the Queen Mother's v i s i t , instead of the pre-
viously announced number of 35. Invitations
have now been sent out - mainly to officials
of clubs and officers of the Union.
A lengthy discussion took place on whether
a grand or an upright piano should be purchased.
One Council member said that he was at a mining
camp i n Canada where they had both a grand and
an upright; he said that the treatment which
the pianos had received at the ca^ap was probably
similar to that likely to be received at I.C.,
and then went on to discuss how each piano stood
up to i t s rough handling. A decision was post-
poned until further investigation had taken
place.
The much-discussed question of the furniture
in the Union Lounge was raised, and i t was de-
clared that the present furniture »<s to be dist-
ributed to various points in the Union and that
solid, durable furniture was to be purchased -
the Union i s responsible for i t s upkeep^
The words"Ladies" and "Gentlemen" were to
be put on appropriate doors, as, i n the past,
absence of these had led to unfortunate incidents.
A T.Y. set i s to be hired by the Union.
Also a second billiard table i s to be purchased.
The Entertainments' Committee expressed con-
cern at the way Club Hops were being run -
they had been instituted originally with the
intention of providing hops of a higher stan-
dard than the ordinary ones and of lessening
the burden of the Entertainments' Committee,
but neither pi these aims were being f u l f i l l e d ;
many club ofrxcials approached them the day
before, w i t i the result that i n the end, i t
was the Committee who organised the hop.
No definite decision was taken.
It was agreed that U.L.U. Clubs should
not, in future, be allowed to hold dinners
i n the Dining Ball, as the demand by College
Clubs and Societies was so great.
The undoubted Highlight of the meeting, was
when a police officer called to see Mr. Kitchener;
this i s reported i n kelsons Solum this issue.
CHOIR CONCERT
I.C. Choir scored at. undoubted success
with thei£ Spring concert performed before a
packed af^ience 4.A. last term. The first
fc \lf Of .v^e conoert was made up of short
works, deginr_j-^ with the overture "Alcina" by
Handel and "iyra's Fantasia No. 2. The choirs
singing of "Hosanna to the Son of David" by
Weelmes, "Christus Pactue est pro l.obis"by
Aneria.ar.d Purcell's "Jenova quam Multe sunt
Eostes Mei" made *t clear the choir had worked
hard and improve^ greatly. Balance ar.d exoree—
sion were particularly good. Rhianon James arid
Kenneth Sandford then sang two arias by Mozart.
After tKft interval was the major work,
Mozart's Requiem, which was competently per-
formed by the choir and the four soloists:
Rhianon James(Soprano), Johanna Peters (Contralto),
John Stoddart (Tenor), and Kenneth Sandford (9ass-
Baritor.e). Instrumental accompanemer.t provided
by Christooher Shaw at the oiano and the
Jacques Strir^ Orchestra, was above reproach.
We congratulate Dr. Eric Brown on a very
fine performance and look forward to many more,
THOSE VULGAR HOOLIGANS, the Rigger Club have
started to wreck the New Union fitments already.
At the end of last term the quite charming gentle-
men members of the Boat Club, who had been extra
careful when washing behind their ears that day,
were sitting peacafu.1
ly i n the Union Lounge
reading their Bibles or listening to the Third
Programme when in rushed those badly brought-up
fellows. The bter-besotted louts kicked i n the
top of the Union1
s radio and then proceeded to
f i l l i t with beer.
A STRONG ARM OF THE LAW broke into the last
Council Meeting and demanded an interview
with our President. A plaque Inscribed
"Emergency Exit" i s being fitted to the
back door of the Council Room which ppens
into the area behind the building.
Actually 'Honest Stan1
had no cause for
worry. When the meeting had hastily
adjourned, i t was found that the police-
man was i n fact one with a strong dart-
throwing arm making arrangements for the
forthcoming needle match with I.C.
WRITING OF DARTS, A STRANGE SIGHT was seen
by one of your reporters in the bar last
Saturday -light, i f the nam? of he person
involved were mentioned here there might
be no more Felices. This august military
and administrative gentleman was playing
a somewhat wild (anywhere within six feet
of the board) game of darts whilst lying
prostrate on the floor. He had equally
devastating aim when crouching with his back
to the board and throwing the missiles from
between his legs.
HOW MANY MORE CLUBS? The latest to be formed
i s one to play the frog-like game of Croquet.
When these clots start a club for playing
Cat's Cradles, Nelson w i l l leave I.C. in disgust.
JUST BECAUSE some 'Stanley Alan' or other in
the Unior. hierarchy cannot afford to miss
the Derby, Snorts Day was changed from the
original June 5th. to Kay l s t . Miners will
have mixed feelings about this. On /.ay l s t .
their strong men of the 3rd. year Mining and
Mining Geology courses are s t i l l toiling in
Cornwall; but the Chaps always attend at Epsom
on Derby Day. Of course, odds or. John Evans in
the mile event will be much snorter than those
on the Derby favourite.
SAYING OF THE WEEK: 'Vhen I used to buy
Felix, I used to think i t was worth 3d."
-The Editor of this Paper.
Editor's Note: This Column was written this
week by a new Nelson. Next issue i t will re-
vert to i t s original writer!
PERSONAL ADVERT.
FOR SALE : An Underwood portable typewriter.
Good Condition. £ 7/10/- o.n.o.
John Nicholls, Room 55, New Hostel, of R.S.M.
Rack.
CITY & GUILDS UNION
4 1
PRESENTS
T H E E N G I N E E R S ' B A L L
at fcke.
IMPERIAL COU-EQE lJl*o«
or-
Fodaj 10* M«j ISM
t>oo6ii T I C K E T S
Di«er »^*Wi. ... 2 5 J -
8, 6ufWt 15/-
<
*
i saW. in 6«V3-aU 4 Bar
EVENlrt^ l ) R t ^ W\R

