~T~
12 B U S I N E S S F E L I X
V.tlut; CI
L006.62 «
B u s i n e s s W
We mean business here...
According to unreliable statistics, almost 50% of Imperial graduates hold
aspirations of making a career in the investment banking, management
consultant and accounting sector. With this staggering thought in mind,
what could be better then, than an all-informing financial column to keep
our flock of bourgeois up to scratch?
So here it is, debuting three weeks later than first planned, Imperial's
very own financial pages. What is it, really? A plethora of boring charts,
crunching numbers and frivolous headlines it is not. A wealth of cheesy-
yet-pertinent news covering economics, business, finance and politics, as
you will find, it very much is. This column will bring you the breaking news
(albeit constrained somewhat by the time delay caused by me reading it in
the FT, putting it in print, getting it into Felix and waiting for Felix to be
printed) from the City, get you your IPOs and your MBOs the right way
round, get you using words like 'leverage', 'yield curve' & 'FTSE', turn your
money into mountains of cash and even do your dishes for you!
So! Read what the bankers read, hear what the CEOs hear and see what
you fellow job hunters see, right here. Without any more selling on my part
then, here it is, your very first instalment of, "This week in the City"...
Think YOU can do better?
Think you are more of a financial guru than I am? (I'm
sure you are, it's not particularly hard) Then get your ass
off that chair and do some business writing. In fact, write
anything you like, just drop us an e-mail at:
business.felix@ic.ac.uk
O.K, please! I am begging here, I need some feature
writers, imagine how cool it'll be to get to interview the
CEO of IBM, HSBC and the likes... honestly, it is.
This week in the City.
UBS, the Swiss financial group will rid itself of
the Warburg and PaineWebber name, focusing
all its products under one brand name of UBS
instead. The move was apparently heart-
wrenching for some, with the Warburg &
PaineWebber name having been around since...
forever really. This bit of fun will not come
cheap for UBS, who will have to take a SFr 1
billion in write downfll. Subsequently, UBS
also announced a 4% hike in its earnings for the
3rd quarter, to SFr 942m.
Vodafone reported a 41% rise in profits before
tax and interest to £4.25 billion for the first half
of the year, with its business in Germany and
Japan thriving. Yes apparently they have
Vodafone in Japan, Africa and even America, all
fairly well disguised under different names.
Interestingly, Vodafoners in UK spend £282 per
year, meagre when compared to £484 a year.
But analysts[2] still think this is not 'substan-
tial' enough, insisting that the profit will not
last, unless they squeeze more out of
Vodafoners. Vodafone's stock climbed 13%
nevertheless.
Microsoft is to invest
$400m in India, taking
advantage of the pro-
gramming savvy work-
force there. Mr Bill "I'm
still richer than you"
Gates insists that they
will be a 'significant
customer' to Indian IT.
In a separate news, Mr
Bill "I have money to
dump on you" Gates
admitted that for each copy of Windows he
sells, 85% of the proceeds are gross profit.
Consequently, Windows ripped in a cool
£1.57bn last quarter alone, which was more
than enough to cover for MSN losing £50m and
nearly £80 on each X-Box it sells. Using its
cash and muscle to monopolise all things elec-
tronics? Erm... maybe.
Some of Cable & Wireless' largest shareholders
called for the head of Chief Executive Graham
Wallace after it emerged that the scaling down
of C&W Global, its loss making arm, a further
$580 in write down. Mr Wallace, clearly per-
ceived as the weakest link, has seen C&W
shares fall to their 20 year low at 83p. C&W
also recorded a pre-tax loss of £4.4 bn!
In a further blow to
Citigroup's reputation,
it emerged that CEO
Sandy Weill had asked
its star analyst to 'take a
fresh look' at one of its
stock pick, AT&T, a
potential Investment _
Banking client. Mr Weill
admitted to the delin-
quent e-mail, but
claimed that he had only asked for a re-evalua-
tion in light of the dramatic transformation in
AT&T and the industry. Mmmm, yeah... right.
Guess what, Citigroup are even going to sepa-
rate its research from its stock brokering busi-
ness, as well as abide to recommendations that
SEC[3] will make.
In the Queen's Speech, the annual opening of
parliament, Her Majesty said, "My government
will"... overhaul the criminal justice system, so
that it will favour victims. Previous convictions
will be used in court, and jury trials will be rid
of in complex cases. The best NHS hospitals
would be able to run independently, setting
themselves up as foundation hospitals. A new
fine system have also been concocted to get rid
Innocent looking
Mr Weill
[1] Write Down: A downward adjustment of
the accounting value of an asset. This means
losing money, which is not good.
12] Analysts: People who analyse numbers and
come up with analysis which other people use
to analyse their own problems.
[3] SEC: The US Securities & Exchange
Commission, the regulators of people who
trade in stocks and bonds, and those who
make money off people who trade in stocks
and bonds. They have been in the limelight of
late trying to accuse analysts of giving false
stock recommendations because their boss told
them to.
[4] Shares: When paying for an acquisition,
there other options apart from cash. Stock is
one way, here it's a one for one swap, meaning
for every share of HouseHold international, you
will now get one HSBC share.
of patients using beds once they can walk. Her
Majesty also added that anti-social behaviour is
no longer acceptable. So no more staying-in to
revise or rest on Wednesday and Saturday
nights any more.
HSBC have bought Household International,
the troubled US consumer finance business for
£8.62bn in shares[4]. The move is set to give
HSBC a much needed image boost in North
America, adding 50m customers to its portfolio
in the process.
Wal-mart, the world's largest retailer, warns of
waning consumer confidence despite a record
profit of $1.8bn in the last quarter. Jack
business.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

