F E L I X I N T E R N A T I O N A L 1 3
W o r l d S o c
Your correspondent has succumbed to an
extended bout of lethargy, so various
International soc events last weekend will
sadly not be reviewed.
Whilst I'm in an apologetic mood, the fact
that it's Ramadan at the moment should have
been mentioned earlier. We seem to be about
halfway through at the moment;
www.salaam.co.uk looks like it has any infor-
mation you may require, without forgetting
http://union.ic.ac.uk/islamic/ for questions
about the Islamic Soc at Imperial.
On a positive note, we have received a sub-
mission to Focus on: - may it be the first of
many. Remember that we strongly recom-
mend that any Nigerian, Japanese, Korean or
Brazilian students follow suit by Tuesday
afternoon, as the BIGs (see below) are revving
their typewriters and are carefully abstaining
from research in an effort to prevent Prejudice
Dispellation (a BIG working hazard).
Diary: The Spanish society seem to be hav-
ing their annual Fiesta soon. (4th of
December) - see the walkway for more
details. Whilst you're there, keep your eyes
skinned for the Singaporean Soc advert for
the RaRa show. This seems to be in February;
check their website nearer to then for details.
http://union.ic.ac.uk/singapore
anous
Molesworth I say "down with uni!"
Onto non-IC events. A couple of films at the
ICA look very worthwhile. Sans Soleil
(France,1982) by Chris Marker comes with
lots of plaudits, and I'll certainly try to get
along to it. The director of Santa Sangre
(ltaly,1989), Alejandro Jodorowsky apparent-
ly asks "of film what most North Americans
ask of psychedelic drugs" which sounds
rather entertaining. (Though does he mean he
wants a war declared on it?)
Meanwhile if you're interested in things
related to Africa, the Africa Centre in Covent
Gardens is worth a look. They have a couple
of music events on soon. Ayetoro, Afro Beat
Jazz from Nigeria is on tonight (Nov 22nd),
whilst on Nov 29th they have Ziwawa Stovkel
Night: apparently a showcase of South
African musical styles. In both cases, see
www.africacentre.org.uk/ for more details and
for future events.
Moving on from diary matters, any remain-
ing international societies who haven't heard
from us yet should email us; we don't have
up-to-date contact details for all of you, so
you may not be aware that we're trying to get
in contact. If you let us know when you're
having events we can put them in the Diary,
and we'll try to send someone along to review
them. Incidentally, we're also looking for
more reporters, so anyone interested in
reviewing the international societies' events
should also email us.
On the BIG's hit list for the week after next
are Sri Lanka, Cyprus, Malaysia and Finland.
Residents of these countries (or anywhere
altruistic) are advised that they have until
Tuesday the 3rd of December to write some-
thing to prevent a BIG review. Edmund
First things first: Trinidad is not
another name for Jamaica, nor is
it in Jamaica, or even near it
(about 1000 miles away)!
The twin island republic of
Trinidad and Tobago, is located in
the Caribbean, just off the coast
of Venezuela. Area: about 5000
sq km; Population: 1.3 million
[c.f. U.K. = 244,820 sq km;
59.8 mil]; capital: Port of Spain.
About 40% of the people are of
East Indian descent, another
40% of African descent, and the
remainder are mixed, white and
Chinese.
We were a British colony for
more than 150 years, and gained
independence in 1962, hence
the official language is English.
Enough boring facts for one day.
For the prospective tourists
who smoke, NEVER ask for a
'fag', because in Trinidad, a 'fag'
is a gay person, and you may be
subjected to physical abuse. A
pack of cigarettes only costs
about £0.90 though. Those into
the harder stuff should ask for
'ses', 'ganja', 'greens' or 'herbs',
and a spliff costs about £0.70:
all grown locally with no threat of
Genetically Modified grass. (I
assure you this is "based on sec-
ond hand information", and mar-
ijuana is illegal in Trinidad). Our
national beer is called 'Carib',
T II [ J!| i D A D
with an ABV of about 6%. A pint
will set you back about £0.60.
Many nightclubs in Trinidad offer
free drinks all night (or until you
are totally hammered!) to univer-
sity students for a mere £2.
Our national festival is called
Carnival. Yes, it's similar to
Notting Hill Carnival and Rio
Carnival, but we have the honour
of inventing it. It's usually a few
days before Lent begins, and has
all the worldly delights of Rio's
carnival. Be prepared to gyrate
and 'wine' (no other explanation
but sex with your clothes on,
while on the dance floor) to the
beat of 'calypso' (our national
music), and Jamaican dancehall.
As a Caribbean island we are
surrounded by sun, sea and sand,
and if you are lucky [or fast - Ed]
you may catch some of the nude
sunbathers.
Some of our more famous
nationals include cricketer Brian
Lara, sprinter [& sunbather
catcher] Ato Boldon, and Dwight
'Jordan's baby isn't mine - I
swear!' Yorke, of Manchester
United fame.
For more Trinidad info go to
http://www.visittnt.com/
Hope to see you in Trinidad
soon, and don't forget your sun-
block! Reza Mohammed
Last week I forgot the William
Brown books, by Richmal
Crompton. Set in the 1930s,
they're aimed primarily at chil-
dren. Genuinely funny, they'll
also improve anyone's vocabu-
lary no end. This is not the case
with another series to deal with
"skools" and small boys; the
Molesworth books (Geoffrey
Willans with brilliant illustrator
Ronald Searle), a great satire of
1950s public schools. (NB: in
Britain, a fee paying institution,
not a state school) The epony-
mous hero of the Adrian Mole
books (Sue Townsend) starts as a
schoolboy, but rather older that
Molesworth and at a more repre-
sentative type of school. Twinges
of embarrassment are liable to be
frequent, as Adrian's "painful"
adolescence sparks memories [of
the "they'd be sorry if I died"
type]. In film, Kevin and Perry Go
Large, with comedians Harry
Enfield and Kathy Burke also
pokes fun at adolescents, with a
rather large stick. Cholmondely
world.felix@ic.ac.uk Erratum from last issue: the [non-] undersigned BIG members are Baz, Jade and Jean Marie

