F E L I X
We did go to the moon - honest!
In 1969, Neil Armstrong took man's first step
on the moon. It was a pivotal moment in
human history, except that some people still
persist with the view that man never landed on
the moon. Such people claim to have convinc-
ing evidence to back up their views. In this arti-
cle I'm going to look at some of this "evidence"
with a scientific eye to show once and for all
that we did go to the moon.
Many of the "moon hoax" theories are based
around anomalies in the photographs taken on
the moon and are due mostly to a lack of
understanding of photography. The cameras
taken to the moon were not significantly differ-
ent to standard professional cameras and so are
subject to the same problems. I will answer
some of the common questions asked about the
No stars?
moon photographs.
"Why can't you see the stars in the photo-
graphs on the moon?"
This can easily be explained if we consider
how bright the surface of the moon is compared
to the stars. The moon has no atmosphere and
so its surface is much brighter than the Earth's.
Any photographer will tell you how difficult it is
to take a picture of dim and bright objects at
the same time - you either have to set the expo-
sures for the bright objects or the dim objects
and cannot do both. It is hardly surprising
therefore, that the Apollo astronauts chose to
optimise their camera settings for the moon's
surface and not for the stars.
"The cross hairs on this photograph appear
to go behind the objects in the photograph.
Does this suggest that the photograph is a
faked "pasted together" image?
The cross hairs on the photographs were also
on a glass plate between the camera lens and
Cross-hairs behind subject?
film. They stop the light from reaching the film,
resulting in cross-hairs on the photographs.
When taking a picture of a bright object the film
will be overexposed in the bright areas and can
"bleed" into other areas of the picture. So if a
cross hair appears in a really bright area of one
of the moon pictures, the bright area can bleed
over the cross hair.
"This photograph shows, like many other
Apollo photographs, strange blobs in the sky.
What are they?"
The blobs are due to flare, which occurs
when a bright light shines into the camera lens
and reflects off its interior.
"The temperatures on the moon reach 280
degrees Fahrenheit. Wouldn't this have baked
the photographic film until it frizzled?"
The moon has a day that lasts two Earth
weeks and yes, the maximum temperature can
get to 280 degrees Fahrenheit, but the film did
not spend two weeks sitting in the sun. It spent
most of its time either in the camera or in the
lander, both of which are shielded so as to
reflect as much heat as possible.
"If the sun is the only source of light on the
moon, why do lots of the photos, like this one,
show shadows at different angles and lengths?
Doesn't this show the use of more than one
spot light?"
Aliens above the moon?
Strange shadows...
There is actually a dip in the surface between
the two men and so the shadow on the right is
sloping downhill while the shadow on the left is
sloping uphill. Also, if there was more than one
light source, everything would have more than
one shadow, but no photograph shows this
happening.
Hopefully now you will be able to laugh,
along with me, at anybody who claims we did
not go to the moon. Let us not remove from our
history one of our greatest achievements.
Rosie Chandler
Reducing childhood asthma
Researchers from Imperial College London and
St. Mary's NHS Trust have discovered that
keeping people with coughs and sneezes away
from young babies may cut the likelihood of
developing wheeze or asthma later in child-
hood. Results of the researchers' study, pub-
lished in the Journal of Experimental Medicine,
show that by simply delaying when an infant
suffers from respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)-
the major cause of common cold in adults -
may make the difference.
RSV will infect most children during the first
year of life and can keep re-infecting, as it is
able to get around the immune system. For
some infants RSV leads to bronchiolitis, one of
the major causes of infant hospitalisation in the
Western world. And around 40 percent of
infants who experience bronchiolitis as a result
of RSV infection are subsequently affected by
recurring wheeze and asthma in childhood.
Professor Peter Openshaw from Imperial
College London at St Mary's Hospital says:
"Although there is still no way to prevent babies
being infected by RSV, keeping people with
colds away from young babies could reduce the
chances of infection. Merely delaying infection
beyond the first six months could have a signif-
icant impact on the later health of a child."
In tests carried out in mice, researchers were
able to show that delaying RSV infection can
have a significant effect on cytokine production
and lung pathology during subsequent re-infec-
tion.
Dr Fiona Culley from Imperial College London
at St Mary's Hospital says: "What is interesting
from the point of view of our understanding of
immunology, is just how differently the immune
system deals with RSV infection at different
ages, and the long-term consequences that
neonatal infection can have on immune
responses and pathology later in life."
Primary RSV infection in newborn mice fol-
lowed the same viral kinetics as in adults but
was associated with reduced and delayed IFN-
y responses. For the study, mice were infected
at one day, or one, four or eight weeks, and re-
infected at twelve weeks (adulthood). Neonatal
priming produced more severe weight loss and
increased inflammatory cell recruitment to the
lungs (including T helper 2 cells, neutrophils
and eosinophils) during re-infection whereas
delayed priming led to enhanced interferon
gamma production and less severe disease dur-
ing re-infection.
The research was made possible through
grants from the Wellcome Trust.
From: Journal of Experimental Medicine,
Volume 196, Number 10, November 18,
2002. For more information contact at
Stephenson@ic.ac.uk
science.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

