1 6 W E B S I T E R E V I E W S F E L I X
cellspacinu-0 torder-IMrHil align-right valip-bettmr-a hrel
Jer-fl wldth-38 heiflht-SS alt-"""/aHtiHiI valip-buttim><a hn
hrel-htlp://iiww|ouile.coniHinii src-/iniaps/res3.|il herder
href-/ailvanceil_search?g-website^review!tShl-en61r-61e-1]TF-8s
-Advai
href-/lainjuane laols?q-website*reviewsShl-enSlr-Sie-IITF 8»Lanoua(|e
valufi""en"»<inpul lype-hidlen namelr value"""input type-hhhta
*rtfitlHI0heioht=58Ha-*«ti
' • height r.H aF"Ha--/td></tr>:
name-ie value-"]
i-totlom-'a href-titlp://www.pogle.cam><
img sre-fiuiages/resljil bar
slip-right vallp-top cbs-k • liiisjrlj-H' -Id valip-top^a
Snbspr/lontHtdHIHIableHtdHd nowrapHont sta-Ha
jwsBM-esiSlr-Sie-lITF 8>Prefereiices-/a-BrihsprEinbsp;SnDsp;8nlispra
tori name-os method-GET action-tarehHnput type-hidden name-Id
input type-taxt name-q sizHl raaxlen|th-Z048 value-"wehsite reviews"-tost size-1> -input type-submit name-btnl) value-'Goonle Search"-span
D e a t h , d i e , k i l l , g o t y o u r a t t e n t i o n ?
Hmmm. I would kill George Bush for suffering
from a nasty case of clinical stupidity, Richard
Branson for having the cheesiest smile the
world has ever known and Richard Sykes (can
I say that or is it considered a threat since I
know where he lives?!) because he is trying to
make sure that only his crony's children can
afford to go to university. I'm sure I could think
of a lot more people, given time, but I really
ought to write something vaguely constructive.
This website is fun. You can decide which
smurf should get a bullet up their nose, which
member of friends you really would quite like to
annihilate in an extremely painful manner and
whether Mulder, Scully, the aliens or the gov-
ernment should be found on the wrong end of
a really sharp knife. Not only do you get to be
among the thousands who have already voted
but you can actually write exactly how you
would like your chosen one to meet their
maker.
A great website for fending off boredom,
because once you have decided who to kill and
how to destroy them you can read all the other
ideas. However, I was extremely disturbed to
discover that not everyone wants Mr Bean
dead. I felt it necessary to inform you of this so
that you are forewarned. Very scary.
WWYK? are winners of numerous awards for
irrelevancy as well as being a member of
S.P.l.T. (Supporters of Politically Incorrect
Topics). I now award it with my own prize, The
GUMPF Award (Good, Unintellectual, Mostly
Pointless Fun).
www.whowauldyaukill.com
T h e a l t e r n a t i v e n e w s
If you like Private Eye (www.private-eye.co.uk)
you will like this. If you have never heard of
Private Eye then you flipping well ought to and
I am disappointed in you. We all know that the
press cannot be trusted (except of course
Felix), well, here is the site that collates all the
really pointless stories.
The stories that you never need to know but
always like to hear, including new research
proving that the female clitoris in a gibbon is
often longer than the male penis. Honestly the
government will fund anything. In this country
a woman with a moustache is told to get the
wax strips out but they are the most sought-
after women in a particular village in Romania.
Men, you're in luck, European women expect
sex four times a week. Even with Imperial's
odds that's got to be good.
The columnist of the week section does
exactly what it says on the tin, quotes colum-
nists from that week. Each time a columnist
gets a mention they score a point in the league
table - exciting stuff. The sports bit is actually
directly quoted from Coleman Balls in Private
Eye and it shows that it won't necessarily be
alright on the night; the stuff that comes out of
our favourite commentators' mouths doesn't
always make sense in any way whatsoever. But
that sentence does, really.
Screw the fire-fighters' strikes, forget bomb-
ing Saddam Hussein, try and ignore the Blair -
Bush love affair, this is where the really impor-
tant stuff is to be found.
www.ifitsinthepress.com
Since the ifitsinthepress website was too
black you have private eye instead
T e r m o f t h e W e e k :
Protocol
Ever heard people wittering on about proto-
col? I have, so I thought I would explain it in
my usual brief fashion. It is a format for
sending data from one device to another that
has been agreed upon. There are a number
of different protocols that can be selected
and it is the programmer who weighs up
their advantages and disadvantages, i.e.
whether speed, simplicity or reliability is
more important.
It determines four things; the type of error
checking, type of compression, how the two
devices indicate when sending and receiving
has been completed.
Q u i c k S t o p W e b s i t e
http://www.hotornot.eom/r/7eid = KEHE
•
AYB&key=DSK
Ok, so it was not me, but nonetheless I think
it is worth a look, it may be purile nonsense
but it amused me.
Richard Sykes, our one and only Rector
(thank the Lord), struts his less than funky
stuff on hotornot, the most addictive site on
the net. Worryingly, it is not a terrible picture
(considering the subject) but he got a score
of one anyway, because I don't like him very
much. Oh, have fun typing in the URL.
F r o m t h e d o t M e i s t e r
Sorry for this, I hate trains, I really despise
them, they are all out to get me. Grrrrrr.
Sorry, had a fun day.
Anyway, a nice stress reliever for you all
this week, go and plot how to destroy your
least favourite celebrities in the most grue-
some way possible. Then go and see if other
peoples ambitions live up to your own.
I'm afraid that the second one is also a
timewaster but also contains many great
ways to stop a conversation. Finally, see Sir
Richard Sykes at his best, with a cheesy grin
that rivals Branson. Have a splendiferous
week. Jenny
web.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

