F E L I X B O O K R E V I E W S 1 7
Welcome to the books page. This week I've decided to put an end to my hermit ways and emerge from the shadow of my crack team of reviewers. I'm try-
ing to prove that no, I'm not scary and so yes, please send in reviews, comments etc to me at books.felix@ic.ac.uk. Pretty please.
There's something for both sides of your split personalities this week. If you're feeling brave there's Touching the Void - one of those books that everyone
raves about, even if they've never even seen a mountain. For your arm-chair side, there's a follow-on from two weeks ago when we reviewed Tony Parsons
first book Man and Boy. Watch a hard man weep... Roz
Touching the Void is the account of an
expedition to the Andes by two
climbers, Joe Simpson and Simon
Yates, and their attempts to reach the
summit of the Siula Grande mountain.
Their decision to climb the West Face
of Siula Grande without any technical
support is ambitious, and very nearly
Touching The Void
Joe S i m p s o n
fatal. Joe suffers a horrendous fall, and
after several further accidents, and a
heart wrenching decision by Simon,
he is left for dead. Joe is the author of
the book so we know for sure he sur-
vives, but the tale of his escape is
made none the less dramatic.
This is a stunning book. I was
gripped from the very first page and
the pace meant I'd finished it within
24 hours. That all of the events are
real, and that the story is being told by
the people involved, gives a strong
sense of immediacy and feel of
authenticity. Joe Simpson also writes
extremely well, a rare talent among
autobiographers. The book is written
as a real-time account of the events
that took place, and Joe's style brings
a range of emotions to the story. I
especially liked the background he
gives to their hitchhiker friend - a well
experienced and hardened traveller,
but a fish out of water on the freezing
slopes of the Andes - and the chilling
anecdotes about the horrors of past
climbing trips and the perils of third
world travel. Both serve to bring home
the message that the two climbers are
taking their lives in their hands. Death
is a very real consideration for all three
of them in this harsh environment.
In fact, my only criticism is the con-
stant mention of impending doom - it
does diminish in impact each time it is
mentioned. Then again, when your life
is in danger and any mistake could be
your last, death must be on your mind
just a little! This is the only minor
complaint about an otherwise excel-
lent book - READ IT! {Against the
Wall is an account of Simon's side of
the story).
Rebecca Wood
Vintage; ISBN: 0099771012
tonyparsom
one for m
y baby
Do you believe in love?
Course you do - we all do. Ever
been in love? Most of us have, I
guess. Ever thought you'd never get
over it? That's me every time. Alfie
Budd's the same. He's just like the
rest of us, searching for happiness
and a meaning to existence. He was
happy once, happy beyond belief; his
life was complete and full of purpose.
But then it all suddenly went away,
and there was nothing in the world
anybody could have done to stop it.
And Alfie doesn't think he'll get anoth-
er chance at happiness.
A couple of weeks back, Tony
Parson's debut, Man and Boy, got a
rave review in Felix, and I have to
agree. It was wicked; down to earth,
beautifully written and full of laughs.
(The televisation of the book, howev-
One For My Baby
Tony Parsons
er, made me want to repeatedly hit
my head against something very hard
whilst biting on a sheet of glass) One
for My Baby, Parson's second
attempt, although less well received
by critics, is surprisingly even better
than the first.
I think this novel exceeds its prede-
cessor in many aspects. Although the
scope of the story may not be as dra-
matic or theatrical as the first, it is
definitely more focused and realised.
This novel is even funnier, more iron-
ic, and more poignant than the one
before, if that's possible.
It's about a man's personal struggle
through a difficult period in his life.
Perhaps struggle is not the right word;
he's trying to get away from the mun-
danity of it all. He's stuck in a rut and
he doesn't know the way out. He's
reached a plateau and he's looking for
change. Returning back to England
after living abroad, Alfie tries to find
some balance and normality, and
attempts to renew his life. But he just
can't let go of what he once had, he
doesn't want to let go of the other life
he led in a place far away.
But hey, it's not all as gloomy as I
make out. It's not like he spends the
whole book feeling sorry for himself
and reeling in agonised depression or
anything. Far from it; that's not
Parson's style at all. It's funny. Damn
funny. Real damn funny. Funny in a
way that makes you laugh out loud
and giggle to yourself like a freak.
But it's also tear jerking. I cried
many times throughout this book. I
got some weird looks when my bot-
tom lip quivered and I blubbered on
the tube to and from college. It really
is impressive how it could make a
grown man cry ( but then again, I
have to admit I cried when Spider-
man's uncle died). But you cry not
because it's depressingly sad or mor-
bidly sombre, it's simply that it's very
touching. There are themes here that
everyone can relate to, and emotions
are painted in such a way that just a
few lines of prose can bring even a
kung-fu hard man like myself to tears
- be them of sadness or joy.
Everything is fantastically illustrat-
ed with words; from the nostalgic
descriptions of the quaintness and far
eastern exoticism of Hong Kong, to
the urban sprawl of instantly recog-
nisable parts of good old London
town.
The characters are beautifully
explored and immediately identifi-
able; Alfie himself, his stranded
Mother, the midI ife-crisis-thinks-he's-
twenty-again Father, the loving and
fragile yet tough-as-nails
Grandmother, the satirically toffee-
nosed best pal, Alfie's string of inap-
propriate girlfriends, and the hilarious
and enigmatic Chang family.
This book is all about love, family,
sex, Tai Chi and the human heart.
It's a book that just has to be read.
I can't express how much I enjoyed it
and how I just couldn't restrain myself
from reading it during lectures. If this
was in primary school, I'd give it a
gold star, a smiley face badge AND a
packet of winegums. That really is
how good it is. Enjoy.
Wai-Wai
HarperCollins; ISBN: 0002261820
books.felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

