N I G H T L I F E F E L I X
N i g h t L i f e
m a m
«'«WltUM t u u
* t t
BROOKS
Harlem Nights hUJe
Friday @ The E n d
While The End usually offers the only real
competition to the international behemoth that
is Fabric on a Friday night, they have recently
introduced something which is a slightly differ-
ent kettle of geese - Harlem Nights.
An opportunity for the increasingly success-
ful Steve Lawler to heavily experiment with a
finger mangling six hour set of deep and funky
tribal house, he has risen steadily and is now
often referred to as the UK's answer to Mr.
Danny Tenaglia.
I had thought that departure from the usual
Friday night format might confuse the core reg-
ulars of The End, but the main dance floor was
the heaving mass of flesh and perspiration that
it always is, Lawler having clearly attracted a
large fan base of his own.
Syncopated beats flowed a little faster in the
lounge, where Paul Arnold and friends laid
down some inspired breakbeat and catered for
all. Unfortunately, this meant there wasn't
really a chill out area.
As dawn approached I found myself fanta-
sising of mermaids, clear waters and snow.
Another good night at The End then.
Dan Bush
EQ Warehouse
hUJe is definitely aimed at a very particular
crowd. The music is at the manic end of
trance, and it's very, very hippie - stoners,
organic juice bar, massage, a crusty doing
luminous facepainting, and lots of dreads and
piercings. If you've ever been to Undertow at
the same venue, it's a very similar vibe. Not
generally my thing, but I had a really good
time, and if it's your thing, you will love it.
There are lots of reasons to go. A free
minibus from the nearest station, cheaper
entry before 11.30pm if you dress up (colour-
ful/costumed/outrageous), and a very friendly
crowd. The three DJs I heard were all good,
Stelvio, Jari, and particularly Mad Theo who
will be appearing at the next event.
The only problem was that as it was only the
second hUJe ever, there were nowhere near
enough punters to fill the club. As the adver-
tising is also very narrowly targeted - to attract
exactly the crowd they want - numbers may be
slow to build. Don't let this put you off though,
it won't get full until people take a chance and
go, and I have no doubt that when they do,
this night will really take off.
Josie Harral
Movement
Thursday @ Bar Rumba
Of the drum 'n' bass nights currently running in
London, the award winning Movement is with-
out doubt amongst the best of them.
This comes as no surprise considering the
quality of the resident DJs and MCs, including
the Brazilian, DJ Marky, whose anthemic 'LK'
has been smashing it on the dance floor for
almost 2 years now. This night was not going
to let the club's reputation down, with the
Brazilian in question and his fellow resident,
Ruffstuff, behind the decks.
By midnight, the intimate dance floor was
rammed with ravers thriving on the party
atmosphere down in the Rumba basement.
Marky didn't disappoint, mixing his own mate-
rial with the freshest tunes currently on rota-
tion, with the occasional scratch thrown in for
good measure. His set went down a storm.
Ruffstuff was impressive as ever, and with
his quick and innovative mixing style we
should be expecting him to be making more
regular appearances at the likes of Fabric and
the End.
Once again, we were reminded why
Movement is the best d'n'b night in London.
Tim Manuel
Friday 29th November
Steve Lawler 6 hour set
10pm - 5am
£8 Conc/£10 guests;
The End, 16a West Central Street, WC1
www.the-end.co.uk
Friday 22nd November
Mad Theo plays The Gathering
9pm - 6am
George IV, 144 Brixton Hill
For hUJe listings keep an eye on
www.huje.co.uk
Thursday 28th November
Adam F
8.30pm - 3am
£3 before 10pm, £6 thereafter,
Bar Rumba, 36 Shaftesbury Avenue, W l
www. barrumba.co.uk
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk Become a Felix reviewer to have your say on all the latest entertainment

