F E L I X N I G H T L I F E
N i g h t L i f e
Paul van Dyk
@ Gatecrasher Transmission
Even though I come from Manchester I'd
never been to Gatecrasher (it always seemed
too much of an effort to go over the Pennines
just for a night out) but knew of its reputation
as a world leader in upcoming trance and
knew that it attracted an extremely mad-for-it
crowd not averse to painting their hair yellow,
wearing pink body suits and waving glow-
sticks around as if in some kind of fit. I was,
however pleasantly surprised with a very
friendly crowd, a very London crowd (i.e. not
much pink hair) and some amazing music.
Ashley Casselle started the night off with
his trademark mixture of progressive-tech-
house-breakbeat with some hard trance
thrown in for good measure. He was loving it
and the crowd responded accordingly, cheer-
ing as anthem was mixed seamlessly into
anthem. By the time he left, the room was
completely packed and you could feel the
anticipation. As he handed over the decks to
Paul van Dyk the crowd went wild. This was
what we were here for.
He certainly didn't disappoint. I heard a few
people say he was too cheesy and some even
used negative expletives, but for me he did a
brilliant job. He played a well paced OV2
hour) set with periods of uplifting techno fol-
lowed by periods of sublime melodic trance.
He would bring the crowd through a long,
slow build and then hold them at the point of
release for what seemed like hours. When the
crescendo finally exploded into torrents of
beats and blips the whole room went insane.
It was hands-in-the-air hero worship for all
involved.
At the end of his set the room visibly emp-
tied as people decamped to the bars and chill
out areas, whoever was up next would have a
tough job to keep the crowd going.
Luckily, Nick Riley was totally up to the
task. He started his set at a blinding pace to
try and keep the crowd interested and they
did. Those that left missed a fantastic mixture
of uplifting trance and techno with some hard
house tucked in there for those that were still
going strong and it was Nick that made my
night.
Just as I had picked up my coat I heard the
opening lines from "Music is the Drug" which
just happens to be my favourite tune of the
moment and has everything good about music
encapsulated in one song. After that I had to
leave because whatever came next couldn't
have matched the high, it was the perfect end
to an amazing night.
I'll definitely be going again. I seriously rec-
ommend you do too. Dom
Friday 29th November
Armin van Buuren 6 hour set
Ferry Corsten
Mark Moore
10pm - 6am
£12.50 in advance
Limited tickets available on door
Heaven, The Arches, Villiers St
Charing Cross/Embankment tube
www.gatecrasher.com
The Begging Bit
OK people, Nightlife is now under new man-
agement and we seriously need people to
write stuff for us. As you can see (and have
probably seen) at the moment we have two
pages to fill a week, and while that may not
seem like a lot to you, it's amazing how diffi-
cult it is to get people to write good stuff and
actually send it to us. Plus, we want to make
this section the biggest and best section in
Fe//x and we can't do it without your help.
So, if you've had a brilliant weekend at an
amazing club somewhere and you can't bear
the thought of people not knowing about it,
write a review (150-200 words), send it to us
and we'll do our best to fit it in.
Alternatively, if you simply have a story that
needs to be shared with the rest of the stu-
dent populous regarding clubbing in some
form or another (any debauchery, random
drinking related injuries, embarrassing
encounters etc - you get the idea) send it in
and if we get enough we can start a letters
page.
The third option is to join the reviewing
team. This means you can get guestlist entry
+ 1 (usually) to whatever it is we have avail-
able that week or if you fancy going to an
event, let us know and we'll see if we can sort
it out for you. All we ask in return is a 150-
200 word review telling us what it was like.
It's not hard at all and you get the ultimate
satisfaction of seeing your work in print.
If you want more information, or have any-
thing to give us, email:
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk
Tim and Dom
clubs.felix@ic.ac.uk Become a Felix reviewer to have your say on all the latest entertainment

