F E L I X C O L U M N 0 5
S o u n d c l a s h
SOUNDCLASH is one of many shows that
you can listen to on the award-winning IC
Radio. Soundclash features all kinds of
artists, musical genres and regions of the
world in a musical battle, to find
out who the king of any selected
topic might be. In most cases, the
decision is difficult, since we love
every tune we play as much as the
next one.
For example, in our Hallowe'en
clash, the dark forces (mainly fat
hip-hop and dark drum 'rt' bass)
took on the positive vibes of groovy
reggae and selected oldies.
Sometimes, the contestants are
placed back-to-back, while at other
times we have half an hour before
switching "sides". Anyway, as you
can probably guess, Soundclash is
all about diversity - the themes of
the clashes allow us to showcase
different styles whilst still making
some kind of sense overall.
We love music of all kinds, and we're
happy to share these feelings with you every
Tuesday night, enlightening you with styles
of music you might have never have even
considered. Just plug in your headphones
and check it out for yourselves! Scan
through, catch the vibe and get ready to
start nodding your head while you work at
your computer.
Because Soundclash is all about battles
and discoveries, it's interactive. You can
send your comments and check the outlines
of shows at our forum - board.icradio.com.
Also, you can email in with your requests
and we'll post all the info you need
to expand your musical treasury.
The forum is an easy way for us to
announce what future clashes are
going to be like, and we also give
up-to-date information on recorded
shows so that you can get more
info as you're listening online.
Visit the award winning
www.icradio.com and be amazed
by the quality and diversity of the
shows available!
Huggy
IC Radio is the student radio sta-
tion of Imperial College, broadcast-
ing 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
To hear us, tune your radio to
999AM in and around Southside
and Linstead halls, or visit
www.icradio.com and click "listen" or "relive"
to download some of the latest shows that
have been going on.
Sign-up for tent messaging
with the Union
and Jump the Q or
get Special Promotions ft deals on Union events
Fill in this form and drop it into the Union Reception or go to www.headporter.com and select Imperial
First:
Mobile:
Surname:
.Email:
Undergraduate: Postgraduate: Graduation Year:
•imperial
'•• college
union
Data Protection Compliance Policy
Introduction Head Porter Ltd has taken every possible step to ensure the security of your data. We have our own
secure server, with the highest levels of encryption; at no point could you be exposed to any interception of your data. We
will never disclose any of your personal details to any of the lifestyle companies using the system or any third party, and are
fully registered with the Data protection commission. For further details on our full privacy statement please read below.
Registration Head Porter Ltd is registered with the Office of the Data Protection Commissioner under the Act, no.
Z663361X. The Data Controller for the purposes of the Act is Head Porter Ltd. The Data Processors (acting on behalf of the
Data Controller) are the Staff of Head Porter Ltd. All Data Processors have, in accordance with Part II of Schedule 1 of the
Act, signed an agreement that they will not use this data in any way other than that specified in this document.
Purpose The use of data submitted for the Head Porter Ltd Database will be for the stated purpose(s) listed and agreed
to at the point of submission of data, principally to provide information on events and promotions in and around your
College. Additional services made available to users will not make use of the submitted data beyond that for which the data
subject gives approval.
Individuals are required to create accounts (sign up) on the server in order safely to guarantee their approval for the
public appearance of data or otherwise and to enable the Data Processors to instigate checks of status (student or
otherwise) to be made if necessary for the above purposes.
The data submitted into the Head Porter Database may be entered or processed by the Data Processors where necessary.
Data relating to individuals wiil never be made public this is the case for each item of data. This information will remain
confidential to the Data Processors at all times.
Data transmission Data will be submitted via the Head Porter Ltd Web site to the database of users, on the Head Porter Ltd
Server, to which only the Head Porter Ltd Data Processors have access. To ensure exceptional security and full compliance with
the Data Protection act the highest levels of available security have been implemented to safeguard the security of the data both
during transmission, storage and retrieval, and to prevent unauthorised access. Storage of passwords is based on a match
system whereby an entered password is encrypted and then compared with the previously stored, encrypted password on the
system. In this respect, stored passwords cannot either be viewed by any individual except the data subject, or even by the
server software itself. Head Porter Ltd will not transmit personal data to any third party without exception.
Data storage Data will be stored on the server as long as is necessary for the above stated purpose(s). Obsolete data may
be archived on to the server.
felix@ic.ac.uk The student newspaper of Imperial College

