Page 6 F E L I X April 39th, 1974
RECORDS C I N E M A
Quite a lot to catch up on over Easter
so there will be a slightly different format
for the record reviews for this issue.
ShaNaNa—From the streets of New
York
Some time ago I was able to see
ShaNaNa live at the Lincoln Festival
and was immediately captivated by their
slick, well produced stage show. This
latest album of theirs was recorded live
at Central Park, N Y C , last August.
ShaNaNa specialise in rock'n'roll in the
late '50s style. They are excellent when
doing remakes of the originals but their
own material tends to be sadly lacking.
This live album also contains the stage
patter that they included in the holding
of a dance contest. It doesn't work and
only helps to spoil the continuity of the
album.
The Dubliners—Live
One for the folk freaks amongst you.
Also a live recording but this one is in
the more humbler surroundings of the
Shakespeare Theatre Club in Liverpool.
Included on this album are, of course,
"Seven Drunken Nights", "Dirty Old
Town", "Whiskey in a Jar", and "Black
Velvet Band". Also captured is some of
their stage patter that adds so much to
their live performances. Highly recom-
mended for folk lovers.
Roy Buchanan—That's What I A m
Here For
As many of you will no doubt know
Roy has emerged in the last 18 months
as a guitarist good enough to rival (and
beat) the best. This album has all his
hallmarks. Flowing riffs, extended in-
strumental sections (although there is
only one purely instrumental track), and
bad vocals. Roy only sings on one track
but I found Billy Price's vocals rather
harsh. Roy is an excellent guitarist and
it really shows on the track "Hey Joe",
his dedication to Jimi Hendrix and a
number that always goes down well at
his concerts. 1 like it and would recom-
mend it but then I'm biased.
Return to Forever—Hymn of the
Seventh Galaxy
Return to Forever are probably better
known for one of their members, Chick
Corea, who plays mainly electric and
acoustic pianos. This would probably be
described as modern jazz, though I admit
that I wouldn't know. They have just
completed their first British tour and
have apparently been drawing in the
people. I couldn't say that this record
would convert me into being a lover of
this kind of music, but I've no doubt
that someone, somewhere, likes it.
The Doobie Brothers—What Were Once
Vices Are Now Habits
This, along with the next reviewed
album, are the pick of what is a fairly
good bunch of records. The Doobies
have been recently making a strong im-
pact on the British scene and I have
been eagerly looking forward to hearing
a record of theirs. It is very easy going
with plenty of soft, gentle guitar picking
well augmented with pedal steel guitar.
This combines with excellent vocal har-
monies to produce what I would call a
pleasant album. That word, however,
doesn't go anywhere near to fully des-
cribing it. I really enjoyed this album
and would recommend it highly.
Seals and Crofts—l.nborn Child
As mentioned above this is also an
excellent album. Very much in the style
of Crosby, Stills and Nash but with
rather more production work in the use
of horn and string arrangements for the
backings. The numbers are mainly joint
works between Messrs. Seals and Crofts
and they are put over very well by them
and the rest of the band. Very much
again a record to be highly recom-
mended.
Henry Gross—Henry Gross
Henry Gross is a relative unknown in
Britain, though he has a fair reputation
in America. He worked with ShaNaNa
for 18 months and then 'retired' from
the scene. After this retirement he invited
some friends along to a studio and the
recordings that were produced are this
album. A very competent album but
it is unlikely that he will be able
to break into the commercially mindc
market that exists in the record industry.
He has written most of the songs him-
self, but he gives an excellent rendition
of the Lindisfarne hit 'Meet Me On The
Corner'. Well worth a listen to, if you
can find one to listen to.
NUS Conference (cont'd.)
GRANTS MOTION
The production of the motion on
grants at Liverpool was, as usual, a
long and arduous process. Because of
the necessity to bring the submitted
motions up to date following the
General Election, emergency amend-
ments were allowed- to be submitted on
the first day of conference. After many
hours spent in compositing sessions con-
ference was presented with a document
containing the main motion and seven-
teen amendments to be debated. A l l
the amendments from IC concerning
opposition to national rent strikes,
opposition to loan-financing of post-
graduates, and support for equal
grants and fees for British and over-
seas students were composited into the
main motion.
' :
The debate took about six hours on
the evening of the fourth day of con-
ference and it is to the great credit of
tjie delegates and observers that very
few submitted to the temptation of the
bars for more than a few minutes dur-
ing the whole time of the debate. The
complexity of the motion finally passed
can be gauged by the facts that there
were 56 points under 'conference notes',
20 under 'policy', 19 under 'campaign
philosophy', 11 under 'tactics' and 32
instructions to N U S executive, Consti-
tuent Organisations and areas.
Obviously with so many points a lot
of the motion went undebated, the
amendments centring around a few of
the more contentious. One of these was
the proposal to oragnise a national
demonstration in London between
May 7 and mid-May to call on the
Government to meet the full grants
claim and end all victimisations, this
demonstration to go to Labour Party
HQ. NUS Exec, opposed this on the
grounds of #he difficulty pf organising
such a- demo in the summer term and
proposed a delegate rally instead,
"The Sting"
Director George Roy Hill, with Paul
Newman and Robert Redford at local
ABC's and Universal, Regent Street.
"Zardoz"
Director John Boorman, with .Sean Con-
nery.
Odeon, Leicester Square.
"Serpico"
Director Sidney Lumet, with A l Pacino.
Paramount, Regent Street.
I went to "The Sting" because I
couldn't get into Russell's "Mahler". I
still haven't seen "Mahler", but I have
seen the best film produced since "The
Godfather".
"The Sting" is the story of two con-
men who set out to pull the Big One
that every con-man dreamt of. It is set
in Chicago, during the Depression. The
plot unfolds so beautifully it would be a
disservice to the film to reveal it any
further. The team of Newman and Red-
ford (Butch Cassidy) comes together
again, but the real praise must go to the
director, George Roy Hill. The film
flows easily, and subtly, with the camera
picking up an occasional glimpse of the
ruin of the American depression: the sets
are accurate and convincing, like the
costumes, without being overdone, as in
"Gatsby".
Paul Newman is better than I've ever
seen him: he plays the con-artist Gon-
dorff, with ease and subtlety. Redford is
a fine foil for him (even if he does under-
act a little); Eileen Brennan turns in an-
other gem of a supporting role (I can't
think why she hasn't yet had an Oscar).
However, all the actors benefit by Hill's
excellent handling and David Ward's
script.
"The Sting" took seven Oscars. It
deserved every one, and more. See it
early, as you'll want to see it twice.
John Boorman's "Zardoz" is not on a
par with his last film, Deliverance. How-
ever, anyone who can get Sean Connery
to prance around for the best part of an
hour in a red loincloth and crossed ban-
doliers earns my respect. Connery plays
an enigmatic and primitive intruder into
a "technological commune" in 2293,
where the inhabitants are sealed off from
the barbaric outside world. They live
monotonously satisfying lives, and have
discovered the secret of eternal life
(hence the need for sexual desire has
disappeared. Sorry, lads). The "brutal"
Connery, by penetrating the Camelot
upsets the balance of the perfect com-
munity and precipitates a cataclysmic
climax to the film, at which point several
questions are resolved.
Science fiction fans will love it, despite
the two or three totally ludicrous seq-
uences. For instance, in a sort of psyche-
delic tutorial Connery absorbs "all there
is to be knowed"; Boorman attempts to
indicate this by flashing bits of compli-
cated formulae across the screen with a
background of Beethoven and snatches
of Shakespeare and Eliot. It doesn't
work.
For all this, the entire film is enjoy-
able. It is a brilliant visual experience,
with some memorable and dramatic
camera work. Connery, Charlotte Ramp-
ling and Sara Kestelman bound around
with unbridled enthusiasm, and some-
how manage to make the dialogue bear-
able. It is interesting to see John Alder-
ton of " M y Wife Next Door" giving a
fair performance as a cynical and bitter
member of the commune.
This is by no means a "2001" and says
nothing about anything—but it is a trip
worth taking.
In real life, changing society isn't al-
ways that easy. Frank Serpico joined the
New York City Police as a bright-eyed
cadet, ready to fight alongside New
York's finest, to battle corruption and
crime, only to discover that the force
itself was riddled with graft and corrup-
tion. Serpico kept clean, resisted threats
and blackmail, and was eventually a
major witness to the Knapp Commission
of 1971, which exposed corruption of
grotesque proportion in the N Y P D , and
caused the resignation and/or indictment
of half the police force's senior officials
in New York.
The story of Serpico's personal cru-
sade, with the central questions in the
story about the sort of man who will
become a policeman, and stay true to
some sort of ideal and fight the system,
is the subject of Sidney Lumet's "Ser-
pico". It is a thunderous bore. A l Pacino
(of The Godfather fame) struggles man-
fully against the rest of the cast and
Lumet's direction, but the film falls flat,
and avoids the issues. Read the book.
Speaking of books, I read "The
Exorcist" oh the train down from Man-
chester, then went to see the film. 1
should have stayed on the train. Despite
a fine try at the role of the possessed
girl's mother, by Ellen Burstyn, and some
astonishing (and vaguely unpleasant)
make-up and special effects, "The Exor-
cist" is never better than ordinary. This
surprised me as William Peter. Blatty's
book is at least as fine a novel as "The
Godfather", written in a similar commer-
cial vein.
William Friedkin, the Oscar-winning
director of "The French Connection"
clearly tried his best to repeat his earlier
success, and could have done so. How-
ever, he was unlucky. Or was there more
to it than that? Maybe he'd better get
the priests in for his next picture.
backed up by a National Strike: they
were soundly beaten and the demo will
take place on May 12. Another
amendment passed easily against Exec,
advice called for an extraordinary con-
ference to be held to consider the pro-
posals in the grants review when it has
been announced (just like the one held
here at IC last year this is likely to be
held in early June).
A motion of censure on most of the
Broad Left members of the N U S Exec,
for failing to call, as members of the
NUS Exec, for students to vote Labour
in the Genera! Election, wa.s lost on a
card vote by 248K to.I98K. In their
personal capacities of course they all
worked for a Labour victory. A further
motion of censure on; Stuart Paul for
disrupting the grants campaign by the
way he conducted his campaign for
NUS Presidency was however passed
by an even larger margin.
The grants campaign has been going
now for 18 months or more and ob-
viously there is great difficulty in finding
new tactics to employ so the. tactics to
be used for the rest of 'the year are
much as before, being mainly designed
to win support from local and national
trade unions and Labour Party groups.
Apart from the demo, local: action is
called for particularly in the week May
1—7, this to include a national protest
write-in by students to the Government
and a mass petition circulated amongst
the public.
There is something for everybody to
get involved in, so if you want to j
influence the outcome of the grants"
review, get stuck in now! •
P. Wat kins

