felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Continued on page 30
Imperial:
Start
your
engines
After scaring off the opposition and
getting in to the BUCS knockout
rounds without playing a match, Im-
perial 2’s faced the tough task of going
to London Met to play their 1st team
(who had built up a reputation for be-
ing frivolous with the laws after trying
to end a game they were losing against
the our 1st by claiming bad light). The
team met at the tube station with the
notable absence of next year’s secretary
Rohan, who decided he’d show every-
one how responsible he was by turning
up over an hour late (even though he
had been rang an hour earlier to make
sure he was playing) and offering no
excuse for this, although it must be
mentioned that his hair looked extra
shiny on this occasion.
Play started in glorious sunshine
with London Met batting first and
out came two rather large batters who
proceeded to throw the bat at every-
thing. Both players managed to hit a
few boundaries before giving a wicket
to each of the opening bowlers Navin
and Sri. Upon getting the 2nd wicket
Rohan showed his worth the team by
saying “we’re into the tail now lads”, to
the no 4 batter who went onto to be-
come London Met’s top scorer with 60.
After a couple of wickets had fallen to
Andy and Pete, Sri returned to remove
the top scorer and trigger a London
Met Collapse to 160 all out (which was
less than they got against IC 1s) with
Sri taking 5 wickets in an excellent
performance.
Buoyed by his bowling perform-
ance Sri came out to open the batting
along with Adnan and they both made
a mockery of the bowling and raced
to 40 runs between them before Lon-
don Metgate 2 occurred. The players
claiming the ball had become misshap-
en swapped the new ball for an old dog
ball. Soon after attempting the same
shot as he played many times with the
new ball Sri was caught out as the ball
looped to the player at mid-on. This
triggered an extremely disappointing
IC collapse with only Shiraz and Mat
Tarr making decent scores. In this
overall disappointing performance the
“Thanks for coming award” goes to Ro-
han who turned up late, said the worst
sledge of the day and topped it off with
getting a golden duck. Finally a note to
all the women out there when Shiraz
says you are fit, it’s not a compliment…
Imperial 2nd XI duck out of BUCS
Peter Swallow
Imperial Racing Green will race the
world’s first zero-emission hydrogen
fuel cell vehicle, the IRG03, of its kind
at the Formula Student Championship
at Silverstone this summer.
Racing Green is a student led project
at Imperial currently involving approx-
imately 100 undergraduate students
from 8 different departments to de-
sign, make and race hydrogen fuel cell
vehicles.
A fuel cell is a device that converts
a fuel, usually hydrogen, into electrical
energy. It does this with a much higher
efficiency than conventional methods
that rely on the burning of the fuel as
seen in internal combustion engines
found in most of the cars you see driv-
ing around. However, the main attrac-
tion of this technology is that it has the
Billy Wu potential to be completely zero-emis-
sion; the only by-product of a fuel cell
is water!
Racing Green has already success-
fully produced two go-kart sized ve-
hicles, the IRG01 and the IRG02, the
latter of which raced in the Formula
Zero Championship. Formula Zero is
the world’s first race series to feature
only zero-emission hydrogen fuel cell
vehicles and featured 6 teams from
around the world. Last summer IRG02
went to the opening race of the series
in Rotterdam and eventually finished,
controversially, in 3rd place, with the
format of the event working against
the Imperial team.
The IRG02 features an 8kW Hydro-
genics fuel cell and a supercapacitor
system which provides power to two
Despite barely playing this season, most of the lads still remembered to bring their cricket attire

