3
Friday 29 May 2009 felix
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
2 felix Friday 29 May 2009
News
News Editors – Kadhim Shubber and Dan Wan
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk News
Felix was brought to you by:
felix 1,434
Friday 29/05/09
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London
SW7 2BB. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, 17 Brest
Road, Derriford, Plymouth. Registered newspaper
ISSN 1040-0711. Copyright © Felix 2009.
Editor in Chief: Jovan Nedić
News Editors
Dan Wan
Kadhim Shubber
Politics Editors:
James Goldsack
Katya-yani Vyas
Science Editors
Mićo Tatalović
Daniel Burrows
Business Editor
Luke Dhanoa
International Editor
Hassan Joudi
Raphael Houdmont
Copy Editors
Louise Etheridge
Jonathan Lloyd-Williams
Sasha Nicoletti
Dina Ismail
Zoe Dobell
Music Editors
Peter Sinclair
James Houghton
Alex Ashford
What’s On Editors
Rachel D’oliviero
Lily Topham
Coffee Break Editor
Ravi Pall
Puzzles Commodore
Charles Murdoch
Clubs and Socs Editor
Alice Rowlands
Sports Editors
Jack Cornish
Mustapher Botchway
Photography
Sami Michaels
Tom Roberts
Arts Editors
Caz Knight
David Paw
Emily Wilson
Film Editors
Zuzanna Blaszczak
Jonathan Dakin
Technology Editor
Richard Lai
Fashion Editor
Dan Wan
Kawai Wong
Travel Editor
Dylan Lowe
Nightlife Editor
Catherine Jones
Food Editors
Rosie Grayburn
Afonso Campos
Deputy Editor: Kadhim Shubber Associate Editor: Gilead Amit
Medical students elect their
new exec for next year,
whilst IC are yet to vote
Sathyan Balaji
LOLCATZ
of
teH
WEEK
Leaks, protests and petitions; the complete
reaction to Humanities cutbacks
I
n response to last week’s article
in felix reporting on the abol-
ishment of select Humanities
courses, disgruntled students
are staging a protest alongside
a petition demanding that the College
rethink their strategies to cut four lan-
guages entirely from the daytime Hu-
manities programme.
Coupled with the leakage of informa-
tion on the proposed cuts from staff of
the Humanities Department itself, an
angry reaction has been sparked across
students from all departments and
faculties as increasing numbers were
made aware of the drastic cuts, which
are due to take place as of the next
academic year. It has been confirmed
College plan to reduce the Languages
undergraduate provision by 60%, with
four languages courses at all ability
levels being abolished entirely. The re-
maining languages will only be offered
as higher ability-level classes. Further-
more, four non-language courses are
also to be discontinued.
The news broke late last week; simul-
taneously from two outlets. Friday’s
release of last week’s felix coincided
with a mass email sent out collectively
by the staff members of the Humani-
ties Department. The Felix article
was in response to a recently-passed
paper from Senate, the Col-
lege’s top decision-making body,
which outlined and reasoned the
proposed decreases in Humani-
ties provision from next year. A Staff
Consultation Paper was also issued
to lecturers and teachers within the
Humanities Department earlier that
week. The paper effectively told them
of the many jobs at risk within their
department as a result of the cuts.
In an incensed response, they de-
cided to leak the information tell-
ing of the proposed course cuts via
a mass email to all students who are
currently, or have previously stud-
ied, a language at Imperial. Their
email urged students to “make [their]
views known” in order to ‘preserve
the Language Programme for [them]
selves and future students.”
A further statement from the Lan-
guages staff has been made since.
What exactly is being cut from the Humanities programme?
• Russian, Arabic, Japanese, and Italian daytime language courses at all levels of ability.
• All ‘Beginner’ levels, equivalent to GCSE standard and below, generally termed ‘Level 1 & 2’ in
the remaining languages, with Mandarin an exception (Mandarin Level 1 and 2 cuts to be under
review the following year).
• These language courses will be reduced from current three to two hours a week of teaching time.
• Four non-language courses; Art in the 20th Century, Modern Literature and Drama, Film Studies,
and Roman Empire
Why is College cutting Humanities courses?
• Contrary to what was first thought, the Humanities Department is not suffering entirely because
of newly acquired budgetary constraints placed across all departments in College, though in an
official statement, College do describe their proposals to bring “long term stability in very chal-
lenging financial circumstances”.
• The official line, according to the Review of Humanities compiled by the Strategic Education
Committee, is that the course cuts are a “refocusing of direction” the department is taking. This is
to “bring it into line with the strategic aims of College.”
• An official College statement claimed that “many options having grown up in response to spo-
radic demand rather than a clear strategy and need.”
• College also comments on the issue of lower ability language classes, saying “the [Strategic
Education] Committee found that the breadth and level of language provision was too broad and
agreed that it was inappropriate for the College to continue to teach languages at GCSE level or
below as part of degree programmes.”
• The non-language courses being cut as daytime choices to undergraduates are “ones least in line
with the strategic goals of the College and the least popular with students.” Remaining courses
are to be taught with the view of providing students with “transferable skills”.
What are College’s “strategic aims”?
• The College want us, the students, to be trained in the ethics of our respective disciplines
and science communication. They also wish students to have a broad understanding of the his-
tory of subjects we undertake as part of our degrees, stating the above are a “vital part of scien-
tific life”. Basically, courses that are largely irrelevant to students’ chosen degree streams are to
be severely limited as optional evening hobbies, rather than degree-credited modules.
• College state that “some employers have suggested that Imperial graduates would be even more
competitive in the jobs market if they demonstrated stronger communications skills.”
Finalists battle it
out for Summer
Ball prize
T
he Battle for the Ball
comes to a close tonight in
dBs from 19:00 onwards.
The competition has
run for the last three
weeks, picking out the cream of the
Imperial crop, separating the musical
chaff from the wheat, choosing Impe-
rial’s ripest artistic fruit, to give one
lucky band the chance to open for Ath-
lete at the Summer Ball.
Rock-pop band Cosmo Jones won
the first heat with relative ease, seeing
off Free Yard Jam and Arun Rao (who
wasn’t actually available for the ball in
any case).
The second heat was won by Jimmy
and the Banned in a Gillette-Mach
3-razor-close contest with the ridicu-
lously entertaining, far-out experimen-
tal rock band Kensington Gore. Nick
Read, Jimmy and the Banned’s bassist
also won the unofficial prize for “Best
Rocking Out by a Bass Guitarist”.
The final heat was taken by “We Play
Parties”, in only their second gig as a
band. On the same night, Sharp Noir
(painfully cool blues group; you make
your own decision about the name) de-
livered a strong set to clinch the wild-
card prize, securing their place as one
of the four bands in tonight’s final.
Voting will be open to anybody who
attends so the winner may come down
who can drag the most friends down
the gig. In any case, it’s a Friday, take
a break from revision and clear your
head with music from Imperial’s finest.
The medical school’s election results
were announced at the Reynolds Bar
last Friday.
After weeks of intense campaigning,
the endless treadmill of lecture shout-
outs, Facebook groups and poorly
photoshopped posters finally came to
an end at the ‘results bop’. Calling it a
‘bop’ was perhaps a little strong con-
sidering the turnout, but this wasn’t
surprising considering that we are now
approaching the climax of exam sea-
son. While the support at this bop was
a little weak, the support at the voting
polls certainly was not. An impressive
45% of medical students voted in these
elections and this was despite the fact
that 9 of the 16 positions were only
contested by one person.
The reason these figures are impres-
sive not because more than half of
medical students didn’t vote, but be-
cause in comparison to the central un-
ions’ and other faculty union elections
this actually is a pretty good turnout.
Most other elections at Imperial strug-
gle to get even 25% of their students to
vote.
The unions’ are student run organi-
sations which look out for student in-
terests, the people who run them have
an important role in campus life. So
when someone chooses not to vote it
shows that they don’t feel like the un-
ion is relevant to them and that they
really couldn’t care less who runs it.
This reporter feels that if three quar-
ters of IC students feel this, then it is a
sad state of affairs and one that needs
to be addressed.
The medical students on the other
hand obviously feel a greater sense
As last week’s article sparks massive student furore, News Editor Dan Wan, investigates further into the
ever-expanding fiasco which surrounds the proposed cuts in Imperial’s Humanities programme
of ownership and belonging for their
union that has led to this higher par-
ticipation. They care about their union
and, despite the lack of competition
for many of the positions this year,
continued to vote. If ICU ever wants to
improve its turnout, perhaps it should
look towards the medical school for
inspiration.
Even though the Medical elections
are over, there are still a few central un-
ion elections that need to be complet-
ed. Voting for ICU Council Chair and
other council seats opens today (Friday
29th May) so make sure to go to impe-
rialcollegeunion.org to cast your vote.
As well as the ICU Council positions,
voting is also open for the Graduate
Schools Association positions, how-
ever, there are a few positions that are
vacant and might require a second vote
in October. Voting closes for all posi-
tions on 2nd June with the results an-
nounced soon after.
Anil Chopra, who felix interviewed earlier this month, was elected as
the new ICSMSU President
continued on page 4
Letters to felix
Since last week’s felix article, letters have been sent to our editors. Each conveys a similar
concern with regards to the cuts in language provision. They are from a variety of individuals
across the student body, including an ex-ERASMUS student worried that the trimming of language
courses will prevent future students from gaining valuable and life-changing experiences as part of the
same scheme. For the full selection of letters, flick to Letters to the Editor on page 6.
General consensus amongst the student body
felix ventured out across campus, and asked wandering students for their opinions on the now well-
publicised cutback in humanities courses. 100% of students asked responded negatively, with some even
laying into College.
“I think that cutting something as beloved by students as the language courses, with reasons that are flimsy
at best, will be detrimental to the university’s overall quality and a grave disservice to current and future
students. I’m extremely disappointed in the university for making this decision.
” – Louis Constant
“At best, cutting humanities won’t do anything to help the geekdom at Imperial. At worst, it’ll affect per-
sonal growth and employment opportunities. – Sanjay Choolun
“I’m not sure whether learning something like Japanese would improve my employability, and it may not
matter hugely to my future prospects, but I didn’t come to university just for my prospects, I came to broad-
en my horizons and do new things so I’m all against the cuts.
” – Stefan Piatek
If Imperial students need one thing during this recession, it is a good broad education. Driving students
down narrower and narrower pathways does nothing other than reduce their employment prospects.
”
– Ian Swords
STUDENT RESPONSE
“It is a real blow to lose some of our most popular and long-
est-running courses. Hundreds of students who have already
indicated their preferences face disappointment as courses are
withdrawn. They allow students to explore a rich cultural con-
text which they might not otherwise have an opportunity to expe-
rience. If Imperial graduates are to compete for jobs, they have to
show that they bring something extra. It is very sad to see oppor-
tunities for students to enhance their CVs being reduced rather
than expanded.”
GRISKIN DAY,
NON-LANGUAGES COORDINATOR
“We are deeply sympathetic towards the student body at Imperial. The
choice of languages to be retained as credit courses and those to be cut seems
quite at variance with the requirement for scientist and engineers to operate
in an increasingly global context. In addition, reducing the day courses from
three hours to two per week must lead to lower standards.
The Strategic Education Committee’s report concludes that it is necessary
to bring the direction of the Department ‘into line with the strategic aims
of the College’. If this is understood to imply that the Languages Programme
is considered not to be in accord with these aims, this view is strikingly at
odds with the recommendations of the UK’s most prestigious scientific in-
stitutions that all engineers and scientists should be encouraged to study a
foreign language.
It is particularly unfortunate that none of the cuts were ever discussed with
the languages staff.
”
LANGUAGES STAFF STATEMENT
“I expected that there would be considerable discontent from the
student body in response to the Humanities review, but I did not
anticipate that it would strike a nerve with so many students. How-
ever, students have to understand the considerable impact Higher
Education funding cuts, which are out of Imperial’s control, are go-
ing to have on some aspects of teaching at Imperial. Something has
to give as a result, and unfortunately languages has had to suffer
significantly. I will work with members of College to see if we can
reach a solution which will be the best compromise for all.
”
HANNAH THEODOROU,
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION
COLLEGE CLAIM LESS IS MORE. IS IT?
Jimmy and the Banned will be in the final tonight!

