Financial Meltdown
As the rest of the world seems to be
plunging into financial turmoil, it
seems that even the financial world of
Imperial College Union cannot escape
the problems. At the end of the Easter
term it was found that there were near-
ly £129,000 worth of outstanding in-
voices that were owed to various clubs
and societies at ICU, some dating back
to November 2007.
This backlog of outstanding pay-
ments, both to the Union and external
companies, has created some tension
between the numerous treasurers and
club captains of Imperial, and the fi-
nance office of the Union. Back in
March, Live! reported on the problems
the Guilds Vice President (Finance &
Societies), John James, faced when
he attempted to complete the final
cheques for the clubs and societies
before they all went away on holiday
(http://live.cgcu.net/news/1948). The
Live! story points out that despite the
fact that the clubs had completed their
forms on time, the absence of the fi-
nance staff has meant that some clubs
and societies will be out of pocket over
the holidays.
The example given in the Live! arti-
cle is only one of many that outlines
the problems within the finance office,
however, the one recurring problem
that the club and society officers have
is the speed at which the invoices are
processed and appear online. As a re-
sult, the accounts of the various clubs
appear to have less in them than they
actually had, which meant that some
rudimentary expenses, such as hire of
minibuses or equipment, was not pos-
sible as the finance office would not
allow it.
There are several reasons for the
delay in the processing of these pay-
ments, the main one being that the
companies have not paid them yet. The
information that was obtained by felix
shows that by the 27th March 2009,
roughly £110,000 of invoices were still
unpaid according to the finance of-
fice, with felix, Finance Society and the
City and Guilds College Union Exec all
being owed around £26,000, £12,000
and £10,000 respectively. Even more
worrying is the fact that there is some
£11,000 of outstanding invoices that
are not assigned to any clubs or socie-
ties, according to the data, and one can
only wonder how they will assign the
money.
A common problem that the finance
office point out is the lack of informa-
tion from the clubs that will enable the
processing of the invoices to be quick-
er, the main thing being lack of suffi-
cient contact details for the companies
that need to pay the invoice. Common
practice, however, is to put a contact
name and address of the payee on the
invoice, which would mean that the
finance office could get in touch with
the company if payment is overdue.
Another problem that often occurs is
that when clubs chase up the invoices,
the companies often tell them that the
invoice has in fact been paid, meaning
that the payment has not been proc-
essed by the finance department. It is
unclear how much of the £110,000 has
actually been paid but not processed,
but it is believed to be several tens of
thousands. This often leaves the club
officer in rather an embarrassing situ-
ation, having to apologise for the mis-
communication between the finance
office and the clubs.
The data obtained by felix also shows
that nearly £18,000 worth of invoices
have been cancelled, effectively losing
costing the clubs, the worst of these
being Finance Society and IC Hockey
Club who have lost out on £6,750 and
£6,000 respectively. The hockey club
has since told felix that the £6000 was
for the sponsorship that they received
from Merrill Lynch and that the pay-
ment was in fact made back in Sep-
tember, the fact that the finance office
was still chasing up the invoice was a
“mystery” to the club and they have
since contacted the finance office to
rectify the problem.
The lack of organisation that seems
to be evident within the finance of-
fice is certainly prooving to be a prob-
lem, and their problems can be com-
pounded with several HR complaints
amongst the staff within the finance
office, notably between the Head of
Finance and the member of staff re-
sponsible for Clubs and Societies. This
does not seem to be a one-off, howev-
er, as sources have revealed that there
is more animosity in the finance office
than they really want to let on.
One problem that does exists is the
apparent inexperience of the Head of
Finance, for whom this is their first
time working in a Students’ Union and
thus really don’t understand the finan-
cial system. Some of her great gaffs
include not realising why there were
massive increases in profit at the end
of each term (Carnivals, Freshers’ Fair
and end of term balls) and why in June
there is a huge profit and then a mas-
sive loss in July (Summer Ball income
and outcome!!!)
After hearing about the findings,
Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Christian Carter, told felix that:
“We are aware that this is a problem,
this year membership services have
temporarily taken on club credit con-
trol and have made a start at clearing
the invoices the outstanding amount
now sits at £96K. We envisage the
finance department taking on club
credit control next year and hopefully
it will not build up to this level again.”
4 felix Friday 29 May 2009
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 29 May 2009 felix
News
The world beyond
college walls
This Thursday June 4th, Eu-
rope’s citizens will vote for a
new European Parliament.
The elections, which oc-
cur every five years, elect 736
Member of European Parlia-
ments (MEPs) to represent
the 500 million Europeans,
but are widely seen with apa-
thy by citizens in many of the
27 member states.
Many people, especially in
Britain which is character-
ised by its higher levels of euro-scepticism, view the European Union (EU) as
an ineffective bureaucracy which has little impact on their lives, and is filled
with out-of-touch officials in Brussels.
Less known is that the European Parliament uses a proportional represen-
tation system, is the biggest directly elected transnational body of its kind,
and is one of the most powerful legislatures in the world. It is estimated that
6 out of 10 laws enacted in Britain come from the EU. With faith in the politi-
cal system at an all time low in Britain, a plethora of new smaller parties like
Libertas, NO2EU and The Jury Team are hoping to capture our imagination.
European Union
Terror attacks have returned to the city of Lahore, as a bomb detonated
at a police station killed 30 Pakistanis and injured 200.
The attack is likely to be the work of the Taliban in revenge of Pakistan’s
current military offensive against them in the Northern region called Swat,
which borders Afghanistan. Since being deposed from power in Afghanistan
in 2001, the fundamentalist political movement has survived in fragments
and is fighting a guerrilla war, much to the dislike of NATO, and the govern-
ments of Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The bomb detonated in Lahore, Pakistan’s second largest city, is a further
destabilising factor for the country’s fragile political system.
The conflict between Pakistan’s Army and Taliban insurgents in Swat has
dramatically worsened since April 2009. This is when Pakistan launched its
offensive, saying the Taliban had broken the controversial February 2009
peace deal between them. A massive humanitarian disaster has developed,
with 2.4 million Pakistanis being displaced and international aid agencies ur-
gently asking for donations.
Pakistan
A nuclear device, almost
the size of the bomb
dropped on Hiroshima
in WWII, was detonated
under North Korea this
week.
The “successful” nuclear
test has heightened fears
of North Korea attack-
ing South Korea, Japan
or its other neighbours in
the near future, prompted
emergency meetings of the UN Security Council and received international
condemnation.
Most countries have stopped testing nuclear weapons, whether atmos-
pheric or underground for more than a decade. The USA stopped in 1992,
China & France in 1996, and India & Pakistan (non-signatories of the Nu-
clear non-Proliferation Treaty) in 1998.
But North Korea, under dictator Kim Jong-il, broke the trend with its first
test in 2006, and now a second in 2009. From recording the seismic activity,
the most recent device was estimated to have a yield of about 30 terajoules
(TJ), less than the 63TJ bomb (or 15 kilotons equivalent of TNT) nicknamed
“Little Boy” dropped on the Japanese city of Hiroshima in 1945. In compari-
son most nuclear weapons stockpiled by nuclear states today yield at least
2,000TJ.
North Korea
Edited by Hassan Joudi & Raphael Houdmont
Jovan Nedić
Editor-in-Chief
Apologies for a mistake made in last week’s issue; the capital of
Guatemala is in fact Guatemala City and not Caracas, which is the
capital of Venezuela.
Note from the Editor
If you feel that the comments made by Diane Abbott are as outrageous as
we do, then please fill out the letter that we have prepared for you all on the
next page.
All you need to do is put your name at the top of the page and sign it. Once
you have done that, bring it to the felix office and we will post the letter for
you.
Jovan Nedić
felix Editor-in-Chief
Protest
Within days, students Ossian Hynes,
Daniel Burrows and Ned Yoxall felt so
strongly against College’s plans, they
set up an online petition and plan to
stage an accompanying protest on
the 3rd of June. At the time of writ-
ing, the petition has 600 signatures.
Within three days of creating a Fa-
cebook group page for the ‘Save the
Languages’ protest, 500 members had
joined. The group currently stands at
1000 members strong. Organiser Dan-
iel Burrows explained that the protest
needed to address a potentially “huge
step back for an international commu-
nity” like Imperial.
Students wanting to make College
aware of their disapproval of the Lan-
guages provision next year are agree-
ing to meet on Queen’s Lawn at mid-
day on Wednesday the 3rd of June.
The petition will be presented and
further signatures will be gathered
whilst the congregation collectively
march to the Faculty Building to hand
in the petition. Burrows has confirmed
that relevant members of staff in-
cluding the Rector, Sir Roy Anderson
have been made aware of the protest.
Whether or not he will be present in
the Faculty Building on Wednesday is
unconfirmed.
The protest seems to be the first op-
portunity that the students of Impe-
rial have been able to properly express
their views the decisions made under
College’s review of the Humanities
programme. Despite College’s claim
that they used student representa-
tives within the review process, only
two were used at the very last stage of
the review after proposals had already
been ratified. Hannah Theodorou,
Deputy President for Education and
Welfare and Alex Grisman, CGCU Ac-
ademic Affairs Officer, were brought in
to only provide feedback on related is-
sues including the restructuring of the
College day and course cuts. Burrows
was keen to emphasize his discontent
concerning the lack of student involve-
ment in these decisions.
“Of the 13,000 undergraduate stu-
dents here only 2 were part of this
decision. Well the other 12,998 of us
believe it is time to be heard.”
Not Alone
Imperial however, is not the only
university to suffer reductions in
Languages provision and subsequent
negative student reaction. Oxford,
King’s College London and Edinburgh
University are also having to decrease
their degree streams in languages due
to budget cuts.
Imperial students’ planned protest
for the 3rd of June follows Edinburgh’s
suit. 200 staff and students rallied to
save Russian and Portuguese degrees
earlier this month. National media are
now following all four situations.
Different Perspectives
Since the news of the proposed cut-
backs have caused such a furore, felix
has dug deep to bring you every side of
this fiasco possible; students, College,
staff from the Humanities Depart-
ment, and Imperial College Union all
have their say on the matters.
Not surprisingly, the biggest contrast
in perspectives is between College and
the rest of bodies of people consulted.
Whilst students and Humanities staff
argue languages give a competitive
edge when applying for jobs, the Col-
lege are eager to emphasise the impor-
tance in “communication skills” as an
employability advantage. One student
felt he was being driven down “nar-
rower and narrower pathways.”
Whilst Deputy President for Educa-
tion and Welfare Hannah Theodorou
blames funding cuts and urges stu-
dents to see sense in the proposals, it
seems both directly affected staff and
students were not consulted prior
to College passing these proposals.
Hence, they are seemingly finding it
hard to see any sense in the imminent
cuts.
With students discontent with what
has been put in front of them by the
staff that are about to lose their jobs in
the cuts, it is seemingly College’s cue
to react. felix will follow the inevitable
updates on the situation.
Humanities cutback response continued
continued from page 3
Labour MP claims there is
an “unspoken apartheid” at
Imperial and the LSE
Jovan Nedić
& Kadhim Shubber
Diane Abbott, the Labour MP for
Hackney North & Stoke Newington,
has caused controversy by linking Im-
perial and the LSE with apartheid at a
Westminster Hall Debate on the 20th
of May.
During the debate, which concerned
the London Metropolitan Universtity
(LMU), an institution in Ms. Abbott’s
constituency, the MP said “I draw the
House’s attention to the unspoken
apartheid in higher education in Lon-
don.” She continued remarking “The
Russell group, including Imperial and
the LSE, is largely white, and some of
the former polytechnics are largely
black and minority ethnic”.
Her claims came as a surprise to
Imperial students, many of whom
commented that their experiences of
university did not match Ms. Abbott’s
beliefs. When asked if she had visited
either Imperial’s or the LSE’s campuses
she replied only that she “had visited
the campus of the LSE recently”
Both Imperial College London and
the LSE, universities that pride them-
selves as international institutions,
post detailed breakdowns of their stu-
dent’s ethnicity online.
In 2008-2009, 35% of Imperial stu-
dents were white, while 30% were
black, asian or of mixed background.
The remaining 35% of students de-
clined to give their ethnic background.
There is no other information about
this final group of students, but with-
out assuming that they are all white,
it is clear that Ms. Abbott’s claim that
“Imperial… is largely white” is not sup-
ported by the evidence available.
In 2007-2008, 35% of students from
the LSE can be reasonably classed as
non-white (students from Asia, South
America and Africa as well as UK eth-
nic minority students).
Unfortunately detailed information
about the ethnicity of other interna-
tional students (from North America,
Europe and Australasia who make up
another 40% of students) is not avail-
able. The remaining 25% are white
students from the UK. Depending on
one’s interpretation of “largely white”,
it would appear that Ms. Abbott’s
description of the LSE is at the least,
over-dramatic. She omitted to She also
omitted to explain, when asked, how
she formed her assessment of Impe-
rial and the LSE as “largely white”
institutions.
The term “apartheid” has offended
staff and student at both the LSE and
Imperial. Imperial College Union Pres-
ident Jenny Morgan commented,
“It is a great shame that Diane Ab-
“[There is an]
unspoken
apartheid in
higher education
in London.
The Russell
Group, including
Imperial and the
LSE, is largely
white.”
Diane Abbott
MP
The Data
Imperial College
London School of Economics
Dictionary
a·part·heid |ә'pärt,(h)ät; -,(h)ït|
noun
1: An institutionalized regime of racial segregation or oppression, in which
crimes against humanity are committed with the intention of maintaining
one group’s racial dominance.
2: historical: a former policy of segregation and political and economic dis-
crimination against non-European groups in the Republic of South Africa
Origin: 1947 Afrikaans, literally ‘seperateness’ from the Dutch apart
seperate + -heid-hood
A
bott hasn’t chosen her words more
carefully, because ‘unspoken apart-
heid’ implies that Imperial and LSE are
racist and actually discriminate against
students who are black.”
Emmanuel Akpan-Inwang, Educa-
tion and Welfare Officer of the LSE
Students’ Union commented “As a
black student at LSE I believe Diane
Abbots [sic] comments regarding an
unspoken apartheid in higher educa-
tion and particularly the LSE to be
counterproductive and grossly mis-
representative of the actual case of mi-
nority representation amongst LSE’s
students. Abbot claims that the LSE I
mostly white, in fact she is incorrect.”
He further criticised Ms. Abbott
for “labelling [higher-education] in-
stitutions as perpetrators of a divisive
system along ethnic lines” and “failing
to address the fundamental issues of
black academic underachievement in
secondary schools, low teacher expec-
tations and negative self concept issues
all of which collude to prevent many
black students from gaining the neces-
sary qualifications for entry to Russell
Group institutions”
Ms. Abbott rejected Mr Akpan-In-
wang’s accusation that she had failed
to address the issue of black academic
underachievement, pointing to her
work over the last ten years with black
students, including a program called
“London Schools and Black Child”
which aims to address the “black aca-
demic underachievement” which Mr
Akpan-Inwang highlighted.
When asked about the data on the
ethnic make up of Imperial and the
LSE, Ms. Abbott didn’t directly com-
ment, instead stating that “it is factu-
ally correct to say that a disproportion-
ate number of black school students
end up in former polytechnics”, a point
that Miss Morgan agreed with.
“She [Ms. Abbott] is correct in saying
that there are more black and minority
ethnic students (BME) in former poly-
technics.” Miss Morgan admitted that
although Imperial is a diverse unvi-
erstiy, “there is still room for improve-
ment” and that there were numerous
programs in place at Imperial to “raise
aspirations for pupils who are from
from schools whose populations are
predominantly BME and economically
disadvantaged.”
Ms. Abbott rejected calls for her to
retract her statements saying “I will
not be retracting my remarks because
they refer to educational outcomes for
home students”.
Total students at Imperial by Ethnic
Origin 2008-09
Above: Diane Abbott, Labour MP for Hackney North & Stoke Newington
non-UK
non-UK

