8 felix Friday 29 May 2009
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 29 May 2009 felix
Comment
“The humanities
department
courses allow
students to
spend some
of their time
devoted to other
interests”
I
was outraged to hear through
Daniel Wan’s article in felix last
week that language options will
be cut by 60%.
Levels 1&2 in all languages
except for Mandarin will no longer be
offered and 4 humanity options will be
axed.
I have studied different humanities
course every year at Imperial, some
for credit and some not. All were a
welcomed chance to explore other in-
terests outside my field. It seems I am
not alone, as 900 students have already
joined the protest group on facebook
called “Save the Languages”, which I
started on Sunday. Additionally 600
students have signed an independently
organized petition. Either the college
did not know about the strength of the
student feeling on the matter, in which
case the system of student representa-
tion is not adequate, or they just didn’t
care.
Even in the retained lunchtime
courses, they propose to cut the teach-
ing time from three to two hours a
week. To do the entire A2 French syl-
labus in a year on just two hours teach-
ing a week seems ridiculous. This is
exactly the same reason why evening
courses of an hour and a half a week
are no substitute; students need more
teaching and support: not less.
Another problem is the effect that
these cuts will have on the Erasmus
program. For instance, cutting back
on beginners’ Italian will effectively
stop the exchange with Italy. Not many
schools offer Italian and therefore stu-
dents arriving at Imperial will not be at
the required level to start an advanced
course. Whereas before it was possible
to start a new language at Imperial,
spend you’re third year abroad and
graduate completely fluent, this would
no longer be possible.
We understand that college have
given three main reasons for cutting
humanities. Firstly, they are trying to
make the schedule more flexible by not
having the constraint of a protected
two hours lunch break for humanity
options. Secondly, the long term stra-
tegic aim of Imperial is to integrate
science communication and ethics as
compulsory courses into all degree
programs. Thirdly, some believe the
beginner language courses are too ba-
sic to contribute to an Imperial degree.
I believe they are missing some re-
ally important points. Timetabling is
no reason to cut 60% of the offered
courses there must be ways to free up
say Friday lunchtime, and work around
it, or offer extended evening courses
for credit. As to the courses being too
basic, I completely disagree.
My experience is students score low-
er in humanities than in their main de-
gree. Restricting the beginner courses
to the first and second years, would
also mean they would count a minute
amount towards your final degree
mark.
I chose Imperial above other univer-
sities, specifically to do the Erasmus
program to Spain. Dredging up my
distant GCSE knowledge, I started at
Level two Spanish (a level they’re plan-
ning to axe).
I am not a natural linguist, so this
was not an easy course for me and I
devoted a lot of time to it struggling
with grammar, and lists and lists of
vocabulary. In the exam I scored just
40%. However it allowed me to spend
last year in Spain with a Solid State
research group and now I am fluent
in Spanish. This year abroad made my
degree and I know the same can be said
for nearly everyone else I’ve known do-
ing the program.
The very nature of Imperial as a
university devoted to science, engi-
neering and medicine means that it
needs to offer ways for its students to
follow other interests. The humanities
courses allow students to spend some
of their time devoted to other interests,
something which with all the pressures
at Imperial is a welcome change.
One final point, although the group
is called “Save the Languages”, it is also
intended to campaign for college to re-
consider the other humanity courses
cut. Please join our group and voice
your opinion on not just the language
cuts, but also your thoughts on the
other humanity courses.
If your with me and feel that college
should hold a proper consultation with
the students, then please come along to
our protest Wednesday (3rd) at 12:00
on the Queen’s Lawn where we will
march to the faculty building to hand
in petitions and wave flags. Many of us,
including myself, have exams, but this
is important for future students, so I
hope you will join us!
I
t’s dark when I leave the Halls.
It wraps another layer of secrecy
about my business.
I must confess. Since the start
of the year, I have been having
an affair.
It started out small. I looked up
when someone mentioned her name. I
caught sight of her in passing and she
of me. I thought nothing of it. Until
that time in the night. I woke up in a
cold sweat. This burning feeling in my
chest; this compulsion that must sated.
I knew I had to meet with her.
Dressing quickly, I set off. I had oc-
casionally visited my paramour in the
day, or even in the early evening if
we both felt that way inclined. It had
been free, it had been easy; we had
been comfortable. But not now. Now,
I ached for her. I smiled secretly to
myself, thrilled with the thought of my
nocturnal adventure.
I found my way to her house. I say
house – it more of a hostel, for her and
those like her. It’s quiet now – so few
people around. This is where the fun
begins, the foreplay. Sometimes, she’s
there, waiting for me on the ground
floor. Sometimes, she is spread out
across a table in anticipation. Some-
times, and these I love the most, I must
seek her out, to toil after the reward.
She’s coy but I know where to look.
Experience has taught me of her hid-
ing places, little nooks out of the way
where she thinks I won’t find her. But
then my eyes catch sight of her and I
stop, and my heart stops with me.
She is beautiful, I can’t deny, though
ever-changing. Sometimes she is older
than me, sometimes merely a child.
Sometimes she is world-weary, other
times she is fresh, ready for me. Some-
times she is rubenesque, sometimes
she is a size zero. But always, always
beautiful to me.
I took her by her colourful cloth-
ing, always something new for each
visit. I led her lovingly onwards, away
from the prying eyes of others, jealous
of what we have. I set her down gen-
tly and breathe in her scent. I knew it
won’t be long now.
With sacred sanctity, I peeled back
her outer garments and spread her be-
fore me. My eyes watered for the sight
before me and I drank it in. My lover
didn’t blush; she wasn’t ashamed by
what she had to show. My eyes pored
over her details, every one an intimate
part of her. I knew I cannot control
myself any longer.
I reached into my trousers and re-
moved my instrument, gripping it
tightly save I spill. I looked to my lover,
she said nothing. She let me continue.
With the utmost delicacy, I began.
My love tells a story, and I must re-
member it. With my instrument, I
marked out her finest points, worthy
for eternity. Tattoos of passion, our
love is consummated. My eyes darted
back and forth, and my hand moved
faster. She could barely take it all.
Then we were done.
Glancing around, I modestly re-
dressed her. When that was done, my
hand rested longingly over her but we
both knew that we had done enough
for one night. Now was the time for
rest. Like a groom and his bride, I car-
ried her back to her resting place. I re-
turned home, content.
Sometimes, we escape together, for
the weekend, or the week, or longer
still. We play our games in new loca-
tions, but the moves are the same.
I am truly, madly, deeply in love.
With these thoughts ringing, re-
sounding in my head, I head for my
mistress’ place once again. It is as late
as it was on that first night, so long
ago. As I step inside her domain, I am
surprised by the people there. There
was never usually this many. There
shouldn’t be this many!
Fearing for my love, I hurry upstairs,
taking the steps two at a time. Breath-
less, I reach the top and can barely take
in the sight before me. There is my
paramour, on the table. Surrounded
by other men. Each with their instru-
ments directed at her, the same look
common in their glances. They have
her. And she enjoys it. The slut.
Dejected and rejected, I sink to the
floor. How could this have happened? I
was cheated on...by a book.
Yes, I have a love affair with books.
Outside of drunken Medic piss-ups,
love can be hard to find in Imperial but
I thought I had finally found someone
who understood me. Who accepted
me for me.
Now is the zenith of the revision
period and the libraries are busier
than ever. On the one hand, I applaud
of this; they are a fantastic resource,
deserving of our patronage. But, the
converse is that it’s becoming so very
difficult to obtain the right textbooks.
I have seen students do unspeakable
things to get hold of Vander’s Human
Physiology. So I send this plea out to
you all.
By all means, revise. But revise
conscientiously...
...you might be breaking someone’s
heart.
Rhys Davies has been having a secret affair
“With sacred
sanctity, I peeled
back her outer
garments and
spread her
before me.”
Ossian Hynes wants you to help save humanities
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
phoenix
out now
“I am an atheist
(eIθiIst). Not,
I wish to take
great pains to
point out, an
idiot (Idiәt)”
T
hose of you with more
time on your hands than
you should by rights admit
to having may remember
spending some of those
extra minutes last week reading a com-
ment piece about a Jewish wedding.
For the sake of pedantry, the piece was
mine, the wedding was my sister’s. This
wallowing in successes past is not the
result of premature nostalgia but rather
a desire for clarification. You see, ac-
companying my article, in the very
place where Ossian Hynes’ red crowd
is above, was a picture of an undeniably
Jewish wedding.
So far, I am compelled to admit, so
good. Nothing the most pernickety of
purists could carp or cavil at. A piece
about a Jewish wedding deserves a suit-
ably descriptive and relevant picture
and such, you have been led to under-
stand, was indeed the case.
The picture, as overflowing with
Judaica as it unquestionably was, and
containing more black beards than you
could shake a stick at without being ac-
cused of starting a pogrom, was crucial-
ly lacking in one, albeit minor, respect.
The wedding being depicted was not
my sister’s. I will, when pressed, grant
that I am regularly unable to ‘spot the
5 differences between these two pic-
tures of Mickey Mouse to win a family
holiday for 3 to EuroDisney’, but I have
long prided myself on the ability to pick
out one bride from another at twenty
paces. No matter how far away I held
last week’s copy of felix, however, I was
able to spot subtle yet incontrovertible
hints that the people celebrating were
unknown to me.
This grieves me terribly, for I now
feel that I should have gone to greater
lengths to ensure authenticity in the
photographic evidence. Not only would
it have provided you with a much
needed dose of spiritual uplift, but the
sight of my sister in her wedding finery
would have given you pleasant mis-
conceptions about my own physical
appearance.
The mismatched brides, however, are
not the only differences between the
ceremony I cherish in my heart and the
one so painfully portrayed in yester-
year’s prosaic pixels. The groom (and I
should hope so too) is also a different
figure. Even the guests, unless someone
has had the audacity to scribble over
their faces with a black magic marker,
are entirely different.
But beyond mere personalities, the
procedure in the picture was a great
deal more orthodox than the one which
I attended two weekends ago. Not that
we didn’t try to make it more tradi-
tional. My parents and I argued with
the happy couple till we were blue in
the face to scrap the wrestling-in-pig-
fat part of the entertainment, and it was
only by dint of long and weary persua-
sion that we convinced them to cancel
the swastika decorations hanging down
from the bridal canopy.
At the end of the day, however, to say
nothing about earlier on in the after-
noon, my family is not a religious one.
We are open and even defiantly proud
of our ancient cultural heritage, but we
do not, as a rule, believe. I say ‘we don’t
believe’ in the same way as I am wont
to say ‘I don’t drink’ – with the unfor-
tunate implication that I am something
of a solipsistic camel: refusing to grant
the existence of anything and with ab-
solutely no need for fluids.
To cut to the heart of the matter
with the finely-sharpened bludgeon
of logical progression, I am an atheist
(eIθiIst). Not, I wish to take great pains
to point out, an idiot (Idiәt). I include
the pronunciation guides for these two
words so as to make the distinction
abundantly and inescapably clear to
readers at home and abroad.
An idiot, for those of you who have
just tuned in, is someone who jumps
from one branch of the shaded and
leafy tree of faith to another, mistak-
ing the reflected light he is following
for the warm natural glow of reason felt
by those who tread the solid ground.
The gradual descent from the trees is
proving a recurrent theme in human
evolution, but this particular specimen
of foliage is proving especially comfort-
able. In short, I have no patience for
those enlightened souls who cast off
the chains of religious fervour only to
make their new-found freedom as re-
strictive as any imprisonment.
Though the historical and literal
meaning of the word ‘atheist’ seems to
imply a vehement faith whose central
tenet is ‘there is no God and Dawkins is
his prophet’, it is time for that to change.
But wait. It seems unfair of me to lure
you into what was ostensibly a perfectly
friendly comment piece only to hit you
with an opinion when your guard was
down. Not to worry, I’ll come back to
my personal beliefs later. If you’re very
good, next week you’ll hear how they
got me in trouble at Speaker’s Corner.
Gilead Amit feels the other side of editorial meddling

