10 felix Friday 29 May 2009
I
mperial College graduate Jan
Jananayagam is running in the
forthcoming European Parlia-
ment Elections as an independ-
ent candidate. felix caught up
with her to find out why she claims to
stand out.
Briefly what do you stand for?
I stand for strong civil rights and
against the erosion of the freedom of
individuals and communities. I stand
for financial transparency and better
regulation in areas from MEP’s ex-
penses to the management of invest-
ments and pensions.
I oppose the lack of transparency of
international institutions such as the
IMF, which uses taxpayers’ money to
prop up failing governments and econ-
omies. I have already helped to bring
a legal injunction to prevent the IMF
from lending to a recipient country
that would have used the funds to buy
weapons of war and to commit crimes
against humanity and/or genocide. I
stand for small businesses and entre-
preneurship, having run a small busi-
ness myself; I know what is important
to encourage entrepreneurship. I stand
for an ethical foreign policy. I stand for
equality and diversity.
Why are you standing as an inde-
pendent candidate?
I want freedom in formulating poli-
cies and do not want to feel obliged
to vote with the party line if I disagree
with an issue. Anyway, I do not feel I fit
into a particular party with the strong
civil rights issues I believe in and being
business friendly.
I also feel in many ways that I am a
protest candidate, protesting against
injustice in Palestine, Tibet, Tamil
Eelam and Kurdistan. Protesting
against the lack of action in the dis-
crimination faced by communities in
these areas. If I was a candidate in a
party, this message of protest might
not be heard as loudly.
Why should people be interested
in your campaign?
My campaign is different to the other
candidates as it is primarily, civil rights
orientated.
In the last few months, I and many
tens of thousands of others have tried
to influence the British government
and main political parties to do some-
thing tangible to stop the war in Sri
Lanka. But we were unable to stop the
forced starvation and aerial bombing
of an entire people.
I know how hard it has been to meet
foreign ministers to lobby for action
and the difficulty faced to change poli-
cies even when the policy is wrong in
the first place.
This has led many to campaign
against the system, challenge current
foreign policy and yearn for change.
With some of the other parties, the
candidates are seasoned MEPs, will
they bring about the changes that is
needed, something that has been elu-
sive, thus far? As a human rights ac-
tivist, I have the background to shake
things around.
People are also worried about the
BNP and with MP sleaze affecting the
main parties, focus has turned to the
smaller parties and independent can-
didates as a protest vote, as an alter-
nate to the BNP.
What gives you the experience to
be an MEP?
A few years ago, my company sued
the Commonwealth Secretariat for
expropriating the ownership of my
company’s e-commerce software. Due
to diplomatic immunity granted to the
Secretariat under the Commonwealth
Secretariat Act, meant that there was
no initial access to the UK courts.
As a result I was forced to take the
matter to an internal tribunal set up
by the Commonwealth, all of whose
jurists were appointed by the Com-
monwealth Secretary General. Unsur-
prisingly the Commonwealth jurists
ruled in favour of the Commonwealth
Secretariat.
I appealed this decision at the Royal
Courts of Justice arguing that the in-
ternal rules of the Commonwealth
Secretariat, which prevented appeal
to the UK courts, combined with
the Commonwealth Secretariat Act,
which granted immunity to the Com-
monwealth Secretariat violated the
European Human Rights Act on two
counts – the right to an independent
and impartial court and the peaceful
enjoyment of my company’s property
to have been violated by the Common-
wealth Secretariat. The judge at the
appeal ruled in favour of my company
and condemned the Commonwealth
Secretariat.
This episode gave me confidence to
speak out against injustice – if I am
able to successfully take on an inter-
governmental organisation of many
independent member states, like the
Commonwealth Secretariat, then I am
not afraid to speak out and take action
against single governments or anyone
else.
As an MEP, I will not be afraid to
speak the truth. I will challenge unethi-
cal policies and fight for the voiceless.
How did your time at Imperial
College shaped your views?
It was whilst I was at Imperial that my
human rights activism had started. At
the time, the Government of Sri Lanka
had begun a policy of ‘war for peace’,
which resulted in the death of many in-
nocent civilians due to heavy shelling
and aerial attacks. I co-founded HURT,
a human rights group, and worked
alongside different societies at Impe-
rial in participating in marches, leaf-
leting and raising awareness through
the media.
Nearly 15 years on, I am now the
UK spokesperson for ‘Tamils against
Genocide’, an advocacy group that
seeks to obtain convictions for geno-
cide against high-ranking Sri Lankan
officials and the state.
You are calling for more research
funds for science and technology
– why is this so important?
In order to compete with the USA,
China and India, it is imperative the
EU nations work together and invest
more into research of technology and
science.
Looking at the USA, research is
commercialised and with a large do-
mestic market, ideas from research are
picked up and put to use. Europe is a
natural export market and by working
together, with regards to technology
and computer research, there could
be a greater pooling of data, allowing
greater competition.
How do you think the EU should
continue to tackle climate
change?
This is a very important subject and
should involve greater investment in
green technology by EU nations to find
ways to reduce carbon emissions.
MPs expenses have been a talk-
ing point recently, what will you
claim as an MEP?
In my current job, having to split my
time between London and Munich, I
am known, amongst my colleagues, for
being very thrifty when it comes to ex-
penses. My colleagues often tease me
for always flying with EasyJet, so as an
MEP, I expect nothing to change - old
habits die hard!
Finally, what does a vote for Jan
mean?
A vote for Jan is a vote against the BNP
- what more of a clear message can we
send to a fascist party than to say that
Britain is a nation of tolerance that ac-
cepts a vibrant mix of cultures and eth-
nicities. A vote for me will be a vote for
ethical values, diversity and liberty.
More information can be found at
www.vote4jan.org
The European Parliament Elec-
tions will take place on Thursday
4th June 2009. If you’ve regis-
tered, don’t forget to vote! If you
haven’t registered, then you don’t
get to vote. Pretty simple really.
Imperial alumna running for European seat
Europe or bust!
Sameer Bahal
& Kajann Prathapan
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
11
Friday 29 May 2009 felix
For a movie called Fighting, there is
very little fighting in it. Unless you take
into account the people in the cinema
fighting their way out of the fire exit
because of their uncontrollable need to
escape the awfulness of this film.
Fighting is advertised as a ‘sport
drama’/action film in the vein of Rocky
and Rambo. And that is what I, and
every other person in the cinema, ex-
pected to see. But unfortunately, this
was not a sporting drama, or an action
film, or even a thriller; it was a social
drama with a few bare-knuckle fights
interspersed between scenes of the
‘gritty’ mean streets of New York and a
soppy love story.
The plot consists of a down-and-out
tramp, played by Tatum, who stumbles
upon a man who says he can help him
earn money by fighting. And that is it.
The rest is one hour and forty min-
utes of character building, with three
two-minute fights shoved in for good
measure. That’s right: three fights. It
just doesn’t make any sense. I know
that an action film must have some
kind of plot, no matter how weak to
hinge everything around it on, but
this didn’t even have any action in it.
Or a proper plot. And the character
building was not even very good - I
am a big fan of Terence Howard, but
I spent most of the film not knowing if
his character was meant to have learn-
ing disabilities or not (and I don’t think
he knew either), which goes to show
that not even he was convinced by the
tepid script. Tatum on the other hand
is just there for eye candy: his acting
consists of pathetic puppy dog, angry
puppy dog, vulnerable puppy dog, and
caring puppy dog. But let’s be hon-
est: he was only cast for his striking
good looks and well-chiselled body-
something the women in the cinema
moaned with delight at every time he
took his top off (which happened ex-
tremely often). I on the other hand,
not being someone who fancies him,
just wanted to see some beat-em-up
action scenes, not drool over the main
man, and that is probably why I really
didn’t like it. There was a sexy lady for
us straight men in the audience, but
unless she was Eva Mendes hot (which
she wasn’t), there was no way she was
going to force any oestrogen into the
sausage-fest testosterone filled envi-
ronment that this film choked us with.
She didn’t even get her breasts out –
something that I was very disappoint-
ed about, and may have given this film
an extra star rating for if she had. We
saw his flesh the whole way through:
why not see hers too? After all, it is
only fair to give us something to enjoy
in a film this dire.
As I said before, the film is called
Fighting, but there isn’t much of this
at all. And when it does happen, it is
slightly disturbing. I thought that the
fighting in this film would be boxing
or something, like Rocky, but instead
it was bum fights replacing the bums
with Abercrombie and Fitch mod-
els. They fight bare fisted, and they
beat each other to a pulp in front of
wealthy businessmen spectators who
are baying for blood. I doubt in these
credit crunch times Wall Street bank-
ers could afford to pay the rent, let
alone pay to see street fighters beat
each other up. So the fighting, when
it did happen, was brutal, with heads
being smashed against walls and, um,
heads being smashed against floors,
and err, heads being pummelled into
bloody pulps. So it wasn’t ‘legal’ fight-
ing, it was something you could watch
on You Tube if you were sick enough
to want to see starving men (who look
like models) attack each other. They
weren’t cool fights like in most action
films: they were just sadistic.
Please, I urge everyone considering
watching this film not to be fooled by
the name and the advertising. Unless
you want to see a ‘deep’ film about a
runaway hobo with daddy issues and
anger problems, and let’s not forget a
schmaltzy heart of gold, then do not
see this. Fighting is only for people who
want to see one thing and one thing
only: Channing Tatum walking around
topless.
There really are worse things than revision
Zuzanna would give Fighting four stars just for this photo of Channing
Tatum, but Jonathan vehemently disagrees
So the guy has steel claws, it’s not like he uses them or anything
For stress relief try action movies
X-Men Origins: Wolverine
HHHHK
Director: Gavin Hood
Writer: David Benioff
Skip Woods
Cast: Hugh Jackman,
	Liev Schreiber,
Danny Houston
Every X-Men fan has waited for this
moment for a long time, and they
have finally been granted what they
wanted: Wolverine solo! Everybody’s
favourite mutant finally gets his own
movie: all about him! He is, after all,
the best character in the X-Men (you
can argue with me all you want, I
don’t care), and was certainly the
best part about the X-Men trilogy
(although I do love Halle Berry who
should hopefully have her own X-
Men film about her character Storm
being made soon), mainly because the
dynamic and enigmatic Hugh Jack-
man steals every scene he is in.
Wolverine’s premise is that he is a
mutant, he has a brother called Sa-
bretooth (Schreiber) and they are
somehow almost immortal, and in a
very slick and stylish opening we see
how they have fought in every Ameri-
can war, enjoying the killing and de-
struction because it is the only thing
they know how to do well. Then we
come to the (almost) modern period,
and Wolverine and Sabretooth join a
gang of other mutants who go around
attacking people until one day he dis-
covers that his brother loves killing a
little too much (dun dun dun!) and so
quits. And then the rest of the film is
about how he gets his steel claws and
tries to go hunt his brother down. The
plot isn’t too important, because as
we know what is going to happen (if
you have seen the first X-Men films
then you know how this one will end),
we just want to see how it happens.
The action begins and never stops,
with car chases, explosions, fighting
and escaping, all the way through to
the action-packed but slightly confus-
ing ending.
The ending is pretty spectacular
even though it doesn’t really make a
whole lot of sense, but it is an adrena-
line filled pulse-pounding climax,
which is unusually unique and dif-
ferent from other action films. I loved
the fact that the action was non-stop:
it is about time that good action films
made a comeback. Luckily there isn’t
too much character development, as
Wolverine’s character endears him-
self to us through screaming and
fighting, but when he meets the wom-
an who melts his iron heart, we do
see a more tender side to him, adding
depth to this savage beast.
All of the supporting cast are en-
joyable to watch (although I have no
idea why the man from the Black Eyed
Peas is in it ­– but at least he isn’t too
bad), with loads of X-Men characters
making brief appearances (including
a special guest star!). Liev Schreiber
is very good as Sabretooth, relishing
every second he has on screen, but
X-Men Origins: Wolverine is Hugh
Jackman’s show, and he is content
to let everyone know that: thrashing
and smashing his way through every
moment.
I am very happy to say that Gambit,
an X-Men favourite whom fans have
been waiting to see for a long time,
lives up to the hype surrounding his
character, and is pretty awesome, de-
livering everything you want and ex-
pect him to.
I can see why people wouldn’t like
this film. It is very much an all-action-
not-much-plot type of movie, and if
you enjoyed X-Men 2 then I’m not
sure how much you would like this. I
do have to point out that as good as
the film is, there is a huge, glaringly
obvious and unbelievably stupid plot
hole that doesn’t really make much
sense at all, and instead of it being a
‘twist’ at the end, it is just confusing
and deters you momentarily from the
enjoyment (and by the way - stay until
the credits have rolled to see an ad-
ditional ending). But other than that,
there aren’t really any other criticisms
I have for it: being an action movie
and superhero movie fan I had a real-
ly great time and liked being involved
in the pure spectacle of the whole
thing. It is very unique for an action
film, and so adds another dimension
of vitality and freshness which means
you are never bored. But just because
the style of the film is original doesn’t
mean they don’t avoid cringingly
painful cliché moments, usually in-
volving Jackman screaming in angst.
Hugh Jackman and the rest of the
Marvel team have really done well
to make this a success, and with the
next X-Men Origins film coming out
in a year or so I am waiting to see if
Magneto can live up to Wolverine (I
doubt it!).
The only question I was left won-
dering as I left the cinema was when
the next Wolverine film is coming
out: because if it is anything like this
one then I will be first in line to see it!
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
Fighting HKKKK
Director: Dito Montiel
Writer: Robert Munic
Ditto Montiel
Cast: Channing Tatum,
	Terrence Howard,
Zulay Henao
Jonathan Dakin
Film Editor
Hugh Jackman and the team that produced X-Men treat their fans to a thrilling and utterly enjoyable film

