Science
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 29 May 2009
Science
Science Editors – Mićo Tatalović and Daniel Burrows
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 29 May 2009 felix
Chiropractic cracking the
free speech skeleton
What does the word ‘bogus’ mean to
you? Do you think ‘rubbish’? ‘Worth-
less’? ‘Bill and Ted’?
Unfortunately, the English courts
have ruled that to them it means ‘delib-
erately dishonest’, and in a case that has
chilling ramifications for every scien-
tist, journalist, writer and investigator
in the country, have used that defini-
tion as the basis for allowing the Brit-
ish Chiropractic Association (BCA) to
sue Imperial graduate and a science
writer Simon Singh for defamation.
Chiropractic is an alternative thera-
py that, at its most basic level, claims
that almost every ailment of the hu-
man body can be cured by cracking the
joints in your spine, allowing the un-
restricted flow of ‘natural intelligence’
throughout your body and restoring it
to function. While this may have made
sense when chiropractic was first made
up/discovered in 1895, physiology has
come on some way since then; in com-
mon with many such ‘alternative’ ap-
proaches, chiropractic hasn’t kept up.
To be fair, the technique does show
some moderate success with lower
back pain – although the effect is simi-
lar to taking painkillers and stretching
and is both more expensive and poten-
tially risky for the patient. However, it
has never been shown to be much use
for anything else.
The case centres around an article
Singh wrote for the Guardian around
a year ago, based on a leaflet the BCA
had produced called Happy Families.
It’s terrifying. In it, the BCA alleged
that:
“There is evidence to show that chi-
ropractic care has helped children
with: asthma, colic, prolonged crying,
sleep and feeding problems, breathing
difficulties, hyperactivity, bed-wetting,
frequent infections, especially in the
ears”
As in, if you manipulated the spine of
a new-born baby (and they do recom-
mend treating newborns in this way),
you could make it stop crying. Well…
possibly, but probably not in a good
Fish may feel pain, say
scientists
Human nose is
too cold to catch
bird flu
Jacob Aron
Whilst we are all more focussed on
swine flu these days, the threat of avian
influenza or “bird flu” is still present.
New research from Imperial College
and the University of North Carolina
suggests we may not have to worry
however, because our noses are just
too cold.
It sounds strange, but the 32° Celsius
of the human nose is not a high enough
temperature for avian influenza virus-
es to survive, according to the study
published in PLoS Pathogens. The vi-
ruses normally infect the guts of birds,
typically a warmer 40° Celsius, so the
researchers suspect that our lower
temperature protects us. The avian in-
fluenza viruses normally enter the hu-
man body through the nose, so are un-
likely to infect people and cause illness.
There is also the possibility that a
human influenza virus could mutate
by adapting proteins from an avian
influenza virus. The study shows that
a virus of this form would also strug-
gle to take hold at 32° Celsius, just like
the regular avian influenza virus, so we
would be safe unless the virus mutated
way.
Recommendations like that, based
on little or no evidence of efficacy,
can lead to people getting badly hurt
– even if it had been proven to work,
I’d be hesitant before letting someone
shove around the vertebrae in a baby,
and this ‘treatment’ doesn’t have that
distinction. In his article, Singh said
roughly the same thing, pointing out
that despite the fact that “there is not a
jot of evidence”, the BCA “happily pro-
motes [these] bogus treatments”.
Now, science only makes advances
through endless doubt and self-crit-
icism of existing ideas. If you ever
present at a conference, you’ll probably
face some pretty hostile questions: the
grown-up response is to reach for your
evidence, and to argue based upon the
interpretation of independently verifi-
able facts. The BCA response was to
sue.
Worse still, the notoriously plaintiff
friendly libel courts of the UK agreed
with them. Singh does not suggest in
the article that the BCA deliberately
aim to deceive; simply that they pro-
mote therapies which do not work.
However, the judge Justice Eady felt
that the word ‘bogus’ implied delib-
erate deception, and as such Singh is
Duncan Casey
A new study has found that goldfish
may feel pain, and react to it in a simi-
lar way to humans.
Previously, scientists believed that
fish brains are not sufficiently devel-
oped to allow them to sense pain or
fear. Fish responses to harmful stim-
uli were thought to be simple reflex
actions.
But now researchers from Purdue
University in the US and the Norwe-
gian School of Veterinary Science have
demonstrated that fish may in fact ex-
perience reflexive and cognitive pain,
as humans do. These findings could
raise questions about current slaugh-
ter methods and standards of care in
research using fish.
Report co-author Dr Joseph Gar-
ner from Purdue University said: “We
wanted to see if fish responded to
potentially painful stimuli in a reflex-
ive way or a more clever way.” To test
these pain responses, the research-
ers attached small foil heaters to two
groups of goldfish and slowly increased
the temperature. Half of the fish were
injected with pain-killing morphine
and the others received saline solution.
The scientists expected the mor-
phine-injected fish to withstand higher
temperatures before reacting. How-
ever, both groups of fish showed an
initial response by wriggling at about
the same temperature, leading the re-
searchers to believe that the responses
were involuntary reflex actions rather
than cognitive reactions to pain.
But when the researchers later ob-
served the fish in their home tanks,
they noticed that the two groups ex-
hibited different behaviours. The
morphine-injected fish acted normally
as they had before the experiment but
the saline-injected fish acted with de-
fensive behaviours, indicating fear and
anxiety.
Art naturally
Landscape has been a subject in art for
centuries. Two upcoming exhibitions
explore a modern-day take on this
theme, addressing human interaction
with the environment.
Tate Britain shows a major retrospec-
tive of works by the contemporary Eng-
lish sculptor and painter Richard Long
(Richard Long – Heaven and Earth, 3
June – 6 September 2009). Long’s work
is based around the solitary walks that
he makes through remote landscapes
of Britain, Mongolia or Bolivia. Dur-
ing these walks he leaves marks behind
– traces in the snow, trails of crushed
grass, or circles of stones - and records
these with photographs, maps or texts.
For Long, walking is a means to explore
relationships between time, distance,
geography and measurement. Each
of his walks is also led by a particular
idea. Nowhere, a straight line in a grass
field denotes the direction of Long’s
own path. A line in Scotland, a row of
stone slates reminiscent of pre-history
monuments, traces the footprints of
our ancestors. Long’s work can also
be given another topical meaning. The
marks that he makes do not cause any
damage to nature, yet they interfere.
No matter how much we take care of
the environment, we will always leave
our traces behind. The exhibition at
Tate Britain will show photographs, as
Armies of super-soldiers, selected on
the basis of genetic make-up and con-
stantly monitored for weaknesses. It
may sound like something from the
realms of science fiction but a report
by the US National Academy of Sci-
ence claims advances in science, espe-
cially neuroscience, could make super-
human soldiers a reality.
Published last week and funded by
the US army, the report gives a re-
vealing insight into what science the
military could be funding in the future.
Focusing on areas of science deemed
“high-payoff” – reliable enough to turn
into useful technologies, the report
features images not dissimilar from
Star Wars’ Stormtroopers.
However, many of the proposals
bring up ethical issues. Descriptions
of biosensors warning both soldiers
and command of potential weaknesses
can be countered with sinister images
of robotic individuals programmed to
become kamikaze assassins. Worries
also surround the potential discrimi-
nation of using genetic tests to decide
which individuals are best suited to
which jobs.
Although Zak Paul, one of the neuro-
scientists on the reports research panel
emphasized they were not looking at
making “killing machines”, his own re-
search focuses on the role of oxytocin
in empathy and trust. “There are lots
of stories of soldiers who refuse to
shoot other soldiers,” says Zak. “If you
could get rid of that empathy response
Army of Super Soldiers
well as sculptures and paintings made
from mud, stones and wood.
Radical Nature – Art and Archi-
tecture for a Changing Planet 1969 –
2009, at the Barbican Art Gallery in
London (19 June – 18 October 2009)
looks at the landscape endangered
through urbanisation and climate
change. Designed as a fantastical gar-
den the exhibition shows installations,
sculptures, films and photographs that
have emerged out of environmental
activism and experimental architec-
ture over the last forty years. Some of
the exhibits politicise our relationship
with nature. In Agnes Denes’ Wheat-
field – A Confrontation downtown
Manhattan is overgrown by a wheat
field, thus questioning urban living and
globalised agriculture. Fallen Forest by
Henrik Håkansson is a section of lush
green forest - flipped on its side to grow
horizontally. Other works in the show
present utopian visions. A version of
Richard Buckminster Fuller’s geodesic
dome, a spherical structure made out
of a lattice of triangles and inspired by
natural structures, has been recreated
for the exhibition. Buckminster Fuller,
an experimental landscape architect
concerned with sustainability and re-
cycling, envisioned that these domes
could be used to shield entire build-
ings, sections of cities or even to create
airborne metropolises that would float
like balloons.
Garner said: “The fact that their be-
haviour changed so much really strong-
ly suggests there is something going on
with their memory and experience of
that event that is not a reflex. I believe
it does show that fish feel pain.”
Journal reference: Applied Animal
Behaviour Science.
further.
Thankfully, no one had to catch the
flu to conduct this research. Cells from
the human airway were grown in the
lab and then infected with a selection
of human and avian viruses. Whilst
the human varieties thrived at both 37°
Celsius, our core body temperature,
and at 32° Celsius, the avian viruses
could only grow well at 37° Celsius.
Professor Wendy Barclay, one of the
authors of the study from the Division
of Investigative Science at Imperial
College said:
“It would be impossible to develop
vaccines against all 16 subtypes of
avian flu, so we need to prioritise. By
studying a range of different viruses
in systems like this one we can look
for warnings that they are already be-
ginning to make the kinds of genetic
changes in nature that mean they
could be poised to jump into humans;
animal viruses that spread well at low
temperatures in these cultures could
be more likely to cause the next pan-
demic than those which are restricted.”
Read Jacob’s other stories on:
www.justatheory.co.uk
Is bird flu harmless to humans?
Deadly super soldiers of the future – seem less scary now?
you might create a soldier that’s more
prepared to engage in battle and risk
their life.”.
But the report does not just focus
on improving a soldiers abilities as a
combatant, new technologies could
also save lives. Knowing which sol-
diers are more susceptible to stress
could limit or prevent combat stress
reactions from battle. Monitoring at-
tentiveness could reduce errors in the
field, and brain imaging could show
whether training had been understood
by recruits.
“We’ve got feelings too! Not to mention sole...”
now forced to defend a point of view
he does not hold. The utter lack of
serious evidence for any of the BCA’s
claims is now irrelevant to the case,
and will not be examined in court.
It is essential that journalists and
scientists, especially (but not exclu-
sively) those in medicine and health
care, be allowed to speak their mind
and discuss the evidence without fear
of litigation.
This libel action is not any form of
rebuttal of Singh’s claims: in fact, it’s
a straightforward attempt to gag him,
to prevent the airing of any criticism
or debate about their beloved therapy.
If successful, the case may set a prec-
edent allowing all sorts of dubious, un-
proven or downright fraudulent prac-
tices to flourish in the UK, safe in the
knowledge that the courts will protect
what little reputation they may have
from critical analysis.
Singh and his legal team announced
at a public meeting last week that they
are currently investigating the feasibil-
ity of an appeal. It is in all our interests
that he is successful.
For updates, join the Facebook sup-
port group or subscribe to legal blog-
ger, Jack of Kent, who has been follow-
ing the trial.
Katherine Goates
Louisa Garnier
Isabelle Kaufmann
I,science
You can follow I,science on facebook and Twitter!
Keep up-to-date with science at Impe-
rial, from the students’ point of view.
Facebook: I, science (media group)
Twitter: twitter.com/I_Science_mag
UFO landing sites aren’t as high-tech as you might have thought

