14 felix Friday 29 May 2009
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 29 May 2009 felix
Arts
Bodyspacemotionorsomething...
Bank Holiday weekend celebrated the annual rehang at the Tate Modern, with the aptly named ‘Do It
Yourself’ festival. Rosie Milton and bare-footed friend went along to do just that
O
ver the bank holiday,
the Tate Modern staged
for the public a friendly
art festival, aptly titled
‘The Long Weekend’,
and hosted the re-creation of 1970’s
artist of Anti-Form Robert Morris’s
interactive installation: ‘Bodyspace-
motionthings’. Using both the indoor
and outdoor spaces of the infamous
turbine hall and capitalizing on the
beautiful weather (a work of art in it-
self, surely!), the Tate provided a mini
fair of burgeoning creativity and the
chance for visitors to run amok amidst
artworks. Well, almost. Morris’s instal-
lation of 1971 was one of the first of its
kind – the first exhibit in the tradition-
ally regimented and frozen space of the
gallery, also theoretically known as the
‘white cube’, where the boundaries be-
tween artwork and audience were al-
ways defined – to subvert this role and
provide the eager arts amateur with a
fully interactive exhibit. It consisted of
a gallery space installed with plywood
structures and metal supports: slopes,
spheres and tunnels of varying shapes
and depths throughout. The response
to this ‘adult’s playground’ was ex-
traordinary: people descended upon
Morris’s vision of physical interaction
tearing off their clothes, piling on top
of one another and gladly snagging
their flesh on the splintered wood, all
in a revelry of youthful rebellion. They
met the chance to break the ‘rules’ with
relish. Flash forward to last weekend,
2009 and we approached ‘Bodyspace-
motionthings’ with obvious trepida-
tion. Giant plywood climbing frames
loomed and loud hollow sounds of
wood clanging on concrete rang out
through the hall, met with the chat-
ter of excited children, adults and the
elderly even, all patiently queuing for
each working part of the exhibit that
they could manipulate themselves.
It certainly wasn’t the frenzied Bac-
chic revelry of the 1970’s, but then I
wasn’t really expecting that, living in
this health-and-safety-conscious soci-
ety of the modern age. Instead we felt
constantly overshadowed by guards
on walkie-talkies, only allowing ‘four
at a time’ and shepherding us into or-
derly lines. This policing created an
environment sadly lacking spontaneity
and the many children running around
this unlikely jamboree altered the ex-
hibit’s significance from its original
purpose: as a radical innovation in art.
The initial exhibit had been potent in
its meaning and responded to accord-
ingly. The Tate Modern houses many
works that were ground breaking in
their time and in order to fully appreci-
ate their position within the history of
art one has to bring some imagination
into the gallery space of today. Morris
had been interested in theatre and per-
formance, and experimented with the
abstract forms of minimal art and the
energy of the stage, sometimes within
the gallery space, resulting in an art
of process. Records of the creation of
these active artworks in both film and
photograph are important to us for
our experience and understanding of
them. Those who were watching the
works being ‘made’ at the time were
part of the process themselves, and it is
this agency which we can relive by rec-
reating it on screen. At the entrance to
the ‘Bodyspacemotionthings’ exhibit,
a television screen showed a video of
recorded excerpts from the 1971 ex-
hibition: a girl walking inside a giant
rolling tube and the back of another,
nude, walking gradually towards the
plywood structures.
Although at the time of our visit we
were not nude (unless you can count
my friend’s bare feet) and we were not
perversely frenzied, I still feel as if we
contributed to ‘the process’ that after-
noon – if only in retreading the bold
stomping of the past with our own
softer, brooding footfalls.
‘Bodyspacemotionthings’ has been
extended to the 14th June at the Tate
Modern
Visit the Tate Modern, Bankside,
to interact with Robert Morris’
recreation of his pioneering 1971
installation - for free!
Visitor participation at the Tate Modern’s ‘Do It Yourself’ festival It was refreshing to see some abandoned disregard for health and safety
Street Ballet straight from Brazil
The Barbican delights again over the Bank Holiday weekend with a dance act as exotic as their homeland
and with as much boundless energy and charisma. Caz Knight reports back on Bale de Rua
W
hat words come
to mind when one
thinks of Brazil?
Sexy, beautiful,
party, dance, ex-
otic, exhilarating, vivacious, Caipir-
inha – in short everything the U.K is
not and never will be (unless your only
view of Brazil comes from watching
City of God.)
Bale de Rua is all of these things, bring-
ing a sample of Carnival to the City
of London. Bale de Rua (“Street bal-
let”) was founded by Marco Antonio
Garcia – who has also masterminded
the extraordinary mix of choreogra-
phy, lighting and set design – in 1992
as a community project for marginal-
ised youngsters in Uberlandia, a small
city in the heart of Brazil. Ten years of
perseverance, hard work and dedica-
tion later the troupe was discovered
at Lyon’s Biennale de la Danse and
since then they have delighted crowds
all across Europe throughout several
tours. This group of lithe, agile bod-
ies (fifteen men and one woman)
have enough electric energy between
them for ten fold more as they step,
jump and fly for seventy five minutes
through the history of Brazil.
The show begins with a light, feminine
energy as old-school samba plays, the
troupe dressed in snappy white suits
and trilby hats. As time progresses
and the dancers strip down, the story
adopts a darker, fiercer more mascu-
line feel which harkens back to the days
of slavery and the passage of Brazil’s
people from mother Africa. The drum
beats boom with earth shuddering
bass emanating from the speakers and
through the floor, giving the proceed-
ings a voodoo quality, the magic made
more real when a dark figure is made
technicolour as he is spat on with paint
by the other dancers – one of the many
brilliant devices Garcia has used to
make the production even more spe-
cial. Slaves sail across the seas in large
metal bowls and then slam these down
creating a mighty boom.
For all the primordial, and sometimes
overpowering, energy created by these
sculpted, macho dancers, they have no
qualms about donning gypsy dresses
and acting the pious peasant woman
and then adorning themselves with flo-
ra. In what is perhaps the most beauti-
ful scene, huge coloured flowers grow
from the scaffolding and the stage is
bathed in UV light so that the dancers
recede from vision as the fluorescent
flowers strapped to their heads, arms,
chests and knees whirl about the stage.
The music shifts back and forth be-
tween samba, favela funk, hip-hop
(with a dose of live rap) and that pow-
erful drumming which tailors perfectly
to the routines on stage. Break dance,
Capoeira and body popping are a few
of the acts that accompany on stage py-
rotechnics which make every moment
vibrant. The troupe perform with vi-
vacity, each one bringing their own in-
dividual dimension and each one clear-
ly loving every moment along with the
audience who give them a thoroughly
well deserved standing ovation as they
take their final bow. Although criti-
cised for trying to pack too much in,
the show never feels cramped, for this
is entertainment which seeks to delight
through performance and not through
plot.
Catch them while you can: Bale
de Rua perform for a final time at
the Barbican on May 31 2009
Bale de Rua: juxtaposing masculine ferocity with feminine vibrance and telling the story of Brazil. Courtesy of Eric Deniset and Stephane Kerrad and Frederic Desmesure

