Page 11
Day By Day
A ROUND-UP OF LAST WEEK'S NEWS
Wednesday 31st
Virginity test shocks women
Immigrant women, arriving at Heathrow
airport, are being subjected to intimate
gynaecological examinations. The Home
Office claims that this helps to identify
women who are illegal immigrants.
The implication is that if a Hindu woman
was found to be a virgin - she would be
believed to be unmarried. Bona fide fiancees
are entitled to enter without going through
lengthy clearance procedures. If the woman
was found to be not a virgin she would be
believed to be married and would need
special clearance - an entry certificate
granted in her country of'origin.
Burial at sea for bodies
The Liverpool area medical officer warned
that the city's dead may have to be buried at
sea if there is no end to the strike by
gravediggers and crematorium staff.
At present, around 200 enbalmed bodies
are being stored in a disused electrical
factory.
Hospital code ignored
A meeting took place between Mr. Ennals,
the Social Services Secretary, and the leaders
of the Health Services' Unions, but there
seems to be no prospect of any early end to
the crisis in hospitals.
Magnetism
G e o p h y s i o c i s t s f r o m C a m b r i d g e
University, Massachusetts proposed that the
earth's magnetic field is caused by heat
produced by gravitational collapse of iron
and nickel deep inside the Earth's inner core.
The heat is converted to electrical energy,
which slowly seeps out, creating the earth's
present magnetic field.
Film firm fined over rats
A film company was fined 100 pounds with
100 costs after it admitted causing rats to be
baited. The public is very sensitive to vicious
attacks on rats as it is National Rodent Week.
Thursday 1st
Khomeini returns to Iran
After a 14 year exile the 78 year old Ayatolla
K h o m e i n i a r r i v e d back in Iran. He
immediately launched what amounted to a
declaration of war against the legal
government and the army, threatening to
establish his own government to rival that of
Dr. Shapour Bakhtiar, the Prime Minister.
Punch-drunk pier
Margates's 126 year old pier looked rather
punch-drunk after an 8th attempt to blow it
up. A demolition expert, Mr. Paul Burring,
said "This has encouraged me to go on".
Grant threat to foreign students 'intolerable'
Threats by the government to reduce
grants to universities unless there was a cut in
the number of overseas students were
criticised as "an intolerable interference"
with university autonomy.
The Senate of Lancaster University
claimed that such restrictions would violate
the university's charter, which stipulates that
no test related to colour, race, sex, religion,
moral or political beliefs should be imposed
on a student.
Friday 2nd
Rats feast on London rubbish
Piles of rubbish more than 6 ft. high line
London's pavements as council refuse men
continue their strike.
In many cities, councils are using public
parks as refuse dumps as rubbish remains
uncollected by dustmen. Health department
officials are worried because hundreds of rats
have come up from London's sewers to enjoy
the free feast that litters London's streets.
Fee to see college
Queen's college is to become the first
college in Cambridge to charge an admission
fee for tourists. It will cost 20 p a head from
next April, buttherewill be no charge for local
residents.
Scotland fights back
England and Scotland celebrated 100 years
of Calcutta C u p rugby with a 7-7 draw at
Twickenham. Scotland fought back from
being seven points down.
Wales beat Ireland 24-21 at Cardiff.
Saturday 3rd
Hospitals face shutdown
17 major hospitals in central London are
likely to be closed after the managers of
Westmister Hospital rejected an appeal from
the Social Services Secretary to deal with a
row over 6 cleaners through A C A S .
Sid Vicious dies
The body of Sid Vicious (real name John
Simon Ritchie), bass guitarist with the punk
rock group, the Sex Pistols, was found in a
New York apartment. He died of a heroin
overdose.
Spectacle Snatcher
During 2 years, a 31 year old postman was
driven by an "impulsive fetish" to snatch the
glasses of 38 young women, a court was told.
In a statement to police, he said "I didn't mean
any harm, I just wanted to get their glasses
off"!
Sunday 4th
Iran cancels military contracts
The Iranian government has cancelled
orders of American arms totalling 3,500
million pounds. The drastic cut-backs are
said to reflect both a shortage of cash and a
reduced concept of Iran's international role.
The Iranian military is anxious to cancel more
than 1,500 million pounds worth of European
contracts. These include tanks, missile
systems and naval support ships built in
Britain.
Jubilee Line to open in April
The first £87 000 000 stage of London
Underground's Jubilee Line, from Stanmore
to Charing Cross will be opened by the Prince
of Wales on April 30.
Lafftte wins Brazilian Grand Prix
Jacques Laffite, in a Ligier J S 11, led
throughout to follow up his win in Argentina
two weeks ago. Depailler, also in a Ligier,
came second.
Monday 5th
Tories ahead in poll
The latest opinion poll showed the Tories
19 per cent ahead of Labour. Of the people
polled, 55 per cent said they would vote
Conservative and 36 per cent Labour. The
Liberal vote is put at 6 per cent.
Debating society problems
Dennis Skinner, Labour M P for Bolsover,
received an invitation to speak at the Oxford
Union. He replied, "I am in receipt of your
invitation. Any debating society that gives a
platform to Richard Nixon is totally
discredited in my eyes. Why don't you invite
South Africa's Vorster - he is nearer your
point of view than I am."
Be kinky - it's safer
Heart transplant specialist, Dr. Christian
Barnard, said that roadside jogging turns
some people on something crazy. Others
prefer ladies in chainmail bras, with leather
pants and a rack of whips. Dr. Barnard can't
for the life of him see the difference between
these "dangerous mania". If anything, he
says, a bout or two of sexual masochism or a
trip to a massage parlour tend to be a good
deal safer than jogging along the road.
Tuesday 6th
Irishman stuck in phone box
A new Irish joke was born yesterday but
this time it was a true story .... A n Irishman
couldn't find his way out of a telephone box.
At first he decided to wait until someone else
wanted to use the 'phone and then he'd be
able to dash out while the door was open.
However, it was three in the morning and so
he 'phoned the operator and she told the
police.
The Irishman, who had been drinking, was
quickly freed by two officers. The police have
advised the public that if they are stuck in a
telephone box the way to escape is as
follows...." The exit door is generally the one
you went in by. A n d if you can't remember
where it is, try pushing all the sides with glass
in them. Eventually one should open".
Terror house of rats
A court heard today how a jilted lover,
David Henry, exacted a horrifying revenge on
his former girl friend. While she was on
holiday he let loose in her house, 20 starving
rats. When she got home she found they had
gnawed at the curtains, the furniture, and
even the electric wiring in the washing
machine. Some had even made a nest in the
cooker.
Mr. Henry pleaded not guilty to three
charges of causing criminal damage.

