Page 14
r: 10 Rl EN T E E RING £" . . O C T O P U S H L
This week your roving reporter
travelled with the London University
team to Stirling for the British Students
Sports Federation Championships. Just
for a change, the first team at least,
were at full strength and expectations
were high.
The journey up on Friday was pretty
uneventful apart from a few incidents at
Edinburgh Station where Bryan had a 'push-
pull' on the Glasgow line, and the whole team
was herded from platform to platform to find
a train which had not been cancelled.
O n arrival at Stirling, the first team went
lo their aceommodation in the Halls of
Residence and enjoyed a dinner of steak and
mineral vaters. whilst the second team
stayed in boarding houses and had fish and
chips and a tew pints ol Heavy.
Saturday morning was spent playing at '
tourists around the castle and spent
mourning over the tragic news that our guest
relay runner Sid was dead (innocent?).
The first race ol the afternoon was the
ladies. In this we had great hopes that K a t h
Binns of L S E would win. She duely complied,
leading almost all the way round the 2.5 mile
course, to finish about 200 yards clear. She
was ably supported by Anne Baldock and
D a w n Williamson who finished 36th and
37th. and thereby just won 3rd place team
medals.
Inspired by this tremendous start, the
men's second team, who ran next, put on a
wonderful performance. At the end of the
first lap. all six of our runners were well
placed. They maintained their effort
throughout the second lap to produce an
excellant result. Ian M o r t o n had a truly
remarkable run. posing for the camera
halfway round he went on to finish 9th. One
place behind was J i m Medes of U C . M i k e
Kelly stayed calm as usual and finished about
20th. Bryan Acford had an indescribable run
to come about 30th. The two men who have
run more BS.SF- than the rest of the team
together. Dave Rosen and Paul Clarke, were
about 40th and 50th. This magnificent team
performance earned them 3rd place, but
unfortunatelv. due to politics, no prizes - we
are not member- of U . A . U . . the second team
race organiser-.
Finally came the first team race. A high
class field of nearlv 400. including several
internationals, thundered off at the start.
This would be the race which would
distinguish the men from the boys. At the end
of the first lap three men had moved well
clear ol the main body of runners. A l l the
L'.L. team were well placed in the pack. This
p i c t u r e r e m a i n e d almost u n c h a n g e d
throughout the -er ond lap and so was set for
an intrigins final one.
Lappine several of the boys before the
finish. John Davies of W ' L I H E . a silver
medalist in the Commonwealth Games
steeplechase. finished a clear winner,
completing the 7.5 miles in under 35 minutes. .
Dave Clarke, also of W ' L I H E . was second
and X i c k Brawn, of Oxford, thud
First U L man home was G r a h a m Jackson
' R H C j whose tremendous eflon. on the last
lap in gaining a dozen places, placed him 7t h.
Captain Ian D u n c a n ' L C , also improved the
fur'her he went to finish 34th. k o b Kennan
was next in 62nd. and John Leonard
( G o l d s m i t h ' s ) wasn't far b e h i n d in
75th.Imperial's very own Steve K i r k had a
good run to finish 78th, and Don de Savignev
O c t o - w h o ? O c t o p u s h ! A form of
underwater hockey played by teams of eight
players using wooden pushers in an attempt
to direct a lead disc (the "squid") into the
opposing team's gull (goal). If that doesn't
seem challenging enough, aqualungs are
forbidden. All pushing of the squid (or other
team!) has to be done underwater whilst
holding one's breath.
I.C. Underwater Club fielded ('pooled') a
successful team in 1971 which came third in
those National Championships. Then the
game became forgotten at I.C. Last May a
new team was formed to compete in the
National Ladder (over 100 teams) and the
London and Home Counties League. Only
seven months later they had qualified for the
Quarter Final of the National Octopush
Championships held at Southsea on 27th
January.
It was a great moment when Nick Kyratos
scored the first gull against Croydon, the
eventual winners. This injury to their pride
caused an explosive outburst from one of the
Croydon players - who was answered
vociferously by the spectators! Despite this
incident, the I.C. team produced a very
creditable performance. This year we made
the quarter finals; next year???
The I.C. team was:-
P. Fearnhead. P. Grimsey. N. Kyrtatos. C.
Bommer, C. Leming, C. Skellett, I.Anderson,
D. Lewis.
If you would like to join this growing sport,
come to the IC pool at 8.00pm any Thursday.
TABLE TENNIS
There were only two matches a fortnight
ago, hence no report, but one almost
deserved an article itself - the first team
defeated the top team in their league -
Gainsord III (away) by the margin 7-2. This
was, without doubt, their best performance
this season, and gave them an outside chance
of promotion.
(team: Lakhani, Kumar, Hong).
Last week they played the second best
team in div 4.Barbican I unfortunately this
was an 8-1 defeat, but still did not completely
ruin their promotion hopes.
The 2nds also played a fortnight ago,
beating T.W.A.I. (Home) by 7-2 - this was
W A T F R P O L O
O n Wednesday 31st, I.C. Water
Polo Club played a match in the London
Knockout against the London club, 'The
Amphibians'. The game started due to
handicapping with the score at 1 : 4,
I.C. trailing.
I.C. started the game in great form
pushing forward and completely dominating
the game. This enabled M i k e McCartney
to score three goals within as many minutes,
and to make the score even. Pete
McCartney scored our fourth goal with a
long and very hard shot. M i k e scored his
fourth and while attempting another was
viciously fouled and we were awarded a
penalty. Paul Hindle took it and got the ball
in from the rebound. The score after the first
quarter was 7 : 4. I.C. now slowed down
and in the second quarter only one goal was
scored by Cliff Spooner. The Amphibians
pushed forward and started to play with
more confidence. Steve Tayler, who was
playing in goal, was kept on his toes and
made some very good saves.
In the third quarter I.C. appeared to fall
apart and The Amphibians scored three
goals, while we only scored one, a shot in a
man-up position from Andy Smith. In the
final quarter the story was again the same
with The Amphibians scoring three and Pete
scoring again to make the final score a
10 : 10 draw. A very poor score to a game
which I.C. should have won with ease.
Team: M McCartney, PMcCartney, (.'Spooner, P
Hindle. A Smith, S Tayler, I) Dunstone, P Mills.
another good victory and they can still win
their division.
The thirds had yet another disastrous
defeat by Sainsburys II (Away) where Reed
(no excuses) and myself (20 pints worth of
excuses) won one game out of six (and it
wasn't me), Jeff Stean scraped three wins and
the result was 4-5. Seven of the nine sets went
to three games.
The fourths had a match last week against
Trinity House Y.C. , but yet again this team
failed to turn up for a match and we won by
default.
I think I'll crash out now.
Super Drunk
completed the scoring six in 95th position.
Just for good measure, Colin Liziere (LSE)
was 101st. and Chris Swaine (Bart's) 121st. In
the team race, which was won for the nth
time by Birmingham, U L did exceptionally
well to be 5th- their best result for many
years. A further mention here for Dave Rosen
who after completing 2 laps in the previous
race, went for a 'training run' in this one and
was still about 220th.
Messrs. M o r t o n , Acford and K e l l y
proceeded to make an undignified entrance
to the tearoom/presentation, through the
window, at which point everyone else
disowned them. The video recording of the
race also proved to be amusing.
A n d so to the evening's festivities. The
entertainment provided for our benefit did
not have any drinks until 9 o'clock. Therefore
about 100 students proceeded to mingle with
the local theatre connoisseurs in the Arts
Centre. D u r i n g the ensuing race across the
campus to the disco, Ian M o r t o n fell for the
first time, thus starting what was to become a
regular habit later in the evening. As the
disco proved to be very similar to an IC one
'very few females), someone suggested we try
the one down the road in the local pub.
Gaining free admission via our passouts from
the first disco, we decided to show the natives
what pogoing was all about. Unfortunately,
they did not seem to be too impressed. O u r
diplomatic aide, Paul Clarke, successfully
agitated the situation, and, with the clans
gathering against us, we decided it was time
to make a technical advance- backwards.
Eater that night, Paul reappeared heavily
disguised for fear of reprisals. So we were
forced to take the first disco by storm again.
Steve 'Beverly' K i r k was nominated for the
B S S F disco dance championship, arid we
easily won the team award.
After ransacking the first teams rooms, the
seconds crawled the two miles back to the
boarding house at 2.30. Before lights out, Ian
'funny how you lose your sense of balance'
M o r t o n demonstrated how to fall out of bed
without even being in it in the first place.
At 10.30 the following morning, hordes of
voiceless, bleary-eyed (athletic?) students
were seen to board a southbound train back
to civilisation, taking the scenic route:
Edinburgh-Carlisle-Newcastle-London!
So in one weekend we achieved two 3rd
team places, one 5th, an individual winner,
and helped to further Anglo-Scottish race
hatred. Not bad. eh J i m m y ?
T e a m M c M a n a g e r

