18 felix Friday 07 November 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Greyburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
Arts
Albus is Pinter Perfect
Caz Knight finds No Man’s Land at the Albemarle. Harold Pinter strikes again.
H
arold Pinter’s play No
Man’s Land is confus-
ing. Perhaps it is be-
cause the playwright is
considered to be one of
the most complex post-WWII drama-
tists or perhaps because, true to his
‘Pinteresque’ style, the characters are
threatened by a force which neither
they nor the audience can quite work
out. Throughout the play there is defi-
nitely an air of menace emanating from
the only room in which the action takes
place. Is it the apparent mental insta-
bility and erratic behaviour of the pro-
prietor, Hirst, the bizarre situation that
brought the stranger, Spooner, into his
home after a fortuitous meeting on
Hampstead Heath, or stranger still the
unfathomable relationship between
Hirst and his helpers/carers/heavies?
I tried in vain throughout the play to
come up with some sort of ‘plot’ or
purpose for the play and failed, myself
lost in that proverbial Land. A 5-star
cast, starring four real-life stars all of
whom lived up to their stellar images,
with magnificent performances com-
ing from Michael Gambon as Hirst and
a lesser-known but equally talented
David Bradley as Spooner. Hirst’s men-
tally unstable character had Gambon
taking on a range of egos including an
obtuse drunk, an outspoken, tally-ho
toff and a confused old man heading
for senility. Bradley’s drawn, bearded
face and unrefined garments matched
perfectly with his high-pitched laugh-
ter and incessant ramblings as he took
on the role of ‘hanger-on’.
David Walliams’ character Foster saw
him take on a role contrasting greatly
to those of the mentally handicapped
Anne and the vomiting Conservative
lady in Little Britain. Bordering on ag-
gressive and sinister, both Foster and
Briggs are fiercely protective of their
master and suspicious of the “new
friend”.PerhapstherolesIhaveforWal-
liams instilled in my mind made it hard
for me to appreciate him in this role.
The utter silence that abounds when
conversation ceases and absence of any
sound effects or music make No Man’s
Land all the more gripping and enrap-
turing. The stage itself is beautifully
dressed with a fine collection of spirits
and liqueurs making up the bar, as well
as antique chairs and glorious artifacts
such as a large opium pipe, a medieval
chain-mail helmet and sturdy ancient-
looking vases making up the collection
of items in Hirst’s living room. Given
that richness in progression of story,
visual spectacle and lighthearted en-
tertainment are the hallmark of thea-
tre worth seeing for most people, No
Man’s Land is definitely an acquired
sort of taste that you must develop rea-
sonably soon into the play. For some-
one who loves the English language as
much as I do, I was in semantic heaven
listening to the dialogue which ranged
through utterly comical, philosophical,
chilling, sexually suggestive, nostal-
gic and saddening. Pinter’s immense
skill at creating these conversations
between his characters is outstanding
and would be just as enjoyable through
reading the play. However, combined
with the sheer strength of acting talent
that goes with it, it is pure drama with-
out any of the frills.
Michael Gambon (left), David Bradley (right) and David Williams star. “Filch, fetch me my wand”. “Michael,
wrong script”; “Shit. Filch fetch me my whisky.” “Better”.
M
en have called me
mad but the ques-
tion is not yet settled
whether madness
is or is not the lofti-
est intelligence – whether all that is
profound – does not spring from dis-
ease of thought, from moods of mind
exalted at the expenses of the general
intellect.” American Romantic poet
of the mysterious and macabre, short
story writer and inventor of detective-
fiction, Edgar Allan Poe suffered from
bi-polar disorder along with many oth-
er artistic geniuses.
Bi-polar disorder is characterised
by cycles of mania (lowered inhibi-
tions, racing thoughts, loss of control,
elevated mood, delusion) and depres-
sive episodes (feelings of sadness, guilt,
anxiety, reduced interest in activities,
pain, suicidal ideation) with episodes
usually occurring four times per year.
Other more recent artists (of a kind) to
suffer include Axl Rose, Ben Stiller and
Sting. But for now let us consider the
geniuses who have a more established
position in artistic heritage.
According to psychiatrists, symp-
toms associated with manic episodes
such as lowered inhibitions, flight of
ideas and heightened creativity and
productivity are obvious catalysts in
creating potentially great works of
art. Manic depressives have also been
known to talk in rhyme and alliterate
their speech more when they are “up”.
The undulating emotions experienced
by a sufferer will expose them to a
much larger and intense spectrum of
feelings and thoughts which could also
go a long way to inspire them. As some-
one who writes poems (very un-cool),
I find I can never write upon demand
but as soon as I experience a flurry of,
usually negative, emotion I pour forth
with ideas, imagery… but never iambic
pentameter!
So who are these mad geniuses, you
ask. Writers include Hemingway, Dick-
ens, Shelley and Woolf. My two all-
time favourite poets Keats and Blake
(who also happened to be a jack of ev-
ery trade including creating beautiful
oil paintings currently on display at an
exhibition just outside Birmingham)
suffered from the disorder. Beethoven,
Tchaikovsky, van Gogh and Sistine
chapel decorator Michaelangelo were
all crazy, too, which often adds to their
appeal. Admittedly, a lot of the evi-
dence for how madness fuels creativ-
ity is based on anecdotal evidence: it is
very hard to study the mental illnesses
of the deceased especially if medical
records do not stretch that far back!
Or, perhaps the sheer burden of hav-
ing such a proficient and ‘thoughtful’
mind was enough to send them to
insanity thus furthering their artis-
tic capabilities?? Certainly, Nietzsche
may have sealed the fate of his mental
health by his musings.
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
U
ntil the 25th of Janu-
ary 2009, the Barbican
proposes a retrospec-
tive on the topic of war,
presenting primarily the
photographs of world-renowned Rob-
ert Capa and his partner Gerda Taro,
as well as the perceptive works of con-
temporary artists which complement
astonishingly well the first protago-
nists’ realisations.
Starting at the higher level of the
Barbican’s gallery, the main exhibition
exposes the pieces of Robert Capa, who
has been one of the first photographers
to go behind the lines and shoot war
actions close-up, therefore becoming
one of the most recognized photojour-
nalists of the 20th century. Coming
from a Hungarian Jewish background,
Capa fled his home country at twenty
years-old to escape the Nazis and es-
tablished himself in Paris. There he
met fellow Jewish expatriate Gerda
Taro whom had fled Poland for the
same reasons. Both passionate about
photography, they wanted to voice
their political sentiments through their
art and started working jointly in 1934.
Originally Andre Friedman and Gerta
Pohorylle, they changed their names
to Robert Capa and Gerda Taro in the
hope to improve their chances of suc-
cess by picking two names echoing
Hollywood stars, respectively Frank
Capra and Greta Garbo. In their begin-
nings, Capa and Taro published their
photographs together. Their first fa-
mous coverage was in 1936, when they
left Paris to follow Republican troops
in Spain and capture the reality of the
fights against Franco’s fascist rule. Ex-
posed in separate rooms at the Barbi-
can, the difference between Taro and
Capa’s pieces are often limited to the
fact that she shot with a Rollei camera
rendering squared photographs while
he shot with a Leica, producing rec-
tangular photos.
It is at this period that Capa shot his
mostfamouswarphotograph:the“Fall-
ing Soldier”, in which Capa snapped a
running loyalist soldier at the moment
a bullet hit his forehead. While there
are some allegations that the moment
might have been staged, the picture is,
even now, still one of the most impor-
tant war photographs ever taken.
In 1937, Taro begun using a Leica
and emancipated herself from Capa’s
work, publishing by herself in many
important publications such as the
French “Vu” magazine. Staying alone
in Spain after Capa returned to France,
she left to cover the Battle of Brunete,
from which she did not come back. She
died while caught in the Republican
army retreat; her body was sent back
to France to be buried on the day that
was to be her 27th anniversary. The
first photojournalist to be killed on the
front, she is not only known for being
the first female war photographer but
also because of her high influence in
the European anti-fascist intellectual
circles.
After her death, Capa left immediate-
ly for Asia to cover the Sino-Japanese
war in 1938. He subsequently returned
to Spain later that year and witnessed
one of the last winning battles of the
Republican army. He also reported on
the huge refugee movement invading
Barcelona following Franco’s takeover
of the country in 1939. It was then five
years before Capa went on the front
again, this time covering the American
offensive against Axis forces in Nor-
mandy. Here he also took some of his
best known photographs, rare depic-
This is War! Robert Capa at work
tions of the scenes of that incredibly
difficult mission. He later shot in 1945
what was to be “the last picture of the
World War II”, as he accompanied the
Allied in their last battle and witnessed
for a second time in his life the death of
a soldier in front of his eyes.
Almost all of Capa’s photographs
convey a sense of drama and even
brutality, as he always tried to shoot
as close to the action as possible. His
lack of fear in front of violence doubled
with his extraordinary talent for pho-
tography has consequently dictated
the highest standards of photojournal-
ism up to today.
On the lower level of its art gallery,
the Barbican proposes another exhibi-
tion: “On the Subject of War”. While
Emilie Beauchamp goes to the Barbican to worship at the feet of the the God of War Photography
unrelated to Capa’s work, it thor-
oughly complements it by exposing a
contemporary artistic vision on the
topic. It even brings a breath of fresh
air with less dramatic pieces. Capa’s
pieces were shot almost only in black
and white and summoned a context of
crude realism, which was often over-
dramatised by tragic editorialist lines.
In contrast, the variety of media used
in the second exhibition and the col-
our photographs bring a new vision of
war coverage. In one sense, this can be
paralleled with the evolution of differ-
ent outlooks on war. Previously there
was a purely dualistic aspect in war
sentiments in the 1930s and 1940s: the
fascists versus the democrats, the Axis
versus the Allies, black versus white.
However, today’s wars involve multi-
ple parties wrapped in different shades
of grey, bringing multifaceted reali-
ties. The contemporary use of various
production techniques is essential for
capturing the vast array of emotions
stirred by war; confusion, hatred, hope
and so on. “On the Subject of War” ex-
plores these emotions by presenting
four artists having worked primarily in
Afghanistan and Iraq, all of whom car-
ry an insightful look on to the actuality
of these conflicts. A special note has to
be made for the extraordinary work of
Omer Fast and his piece “The Casting”,
a two-screen, double-sided projection
of a soldier’s account of two different
violent events. The artist has cut and
mixed the accounts of both stories to
the point which they become increas-
ingly undistinguishable from one an-
other in order to present how war
stories can be changed and mediated
through medias.
In short, the Barbican succeeded in
balancing the most classical and origi-
nal pieces of war coverage ever done
with new and definitely modern pieces.
Whilst the combination of both exhibi-
tions can be a little long, one is not as
good without the other as overall they
provide an excellent perspective of how
war has been perceived and defined by
media coverages since the 1930s.
Robert Capa is on until 25th Jan
I highly recommend going to see Robert Capa’s work. His images are unlike anything you have ever seen and they tug at all your heartstrings.

