20 felix Friday 07 November 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
I Just Love A Bit of Cake...
The Great Cake Crawl
My Village
Tube: Chalk Farm
Because of its relative distance halfway up Chalk Farm road from the markets and Camden high street,
My Village still remains relatively untainted by the masses and the inevitable decrease in charm and quality
that accompanies a popularity surge. Part organic food shop, part café, My Village is unique in the care and
enthusiasm of its two Kurdish owners who do their utmost to ensure customer satisfaction and quality of
product. The wooden French farmhouse-cum-Moroccan tea room interior really is a labour of love and
one of the most pleasant places to just be in London if you just want to escape from the madness, sip a
drink and read a book. One really feels protected and nestled away from the grey expanse of London.
They serve the pre-prepared food from the shop to you on plates at the tables and have recently begun
making their own wholesome soups. I can never resist ordering one of the exotic guava-containing smooth-
ies they make from scratch with my cake. All the cakes are tasty but the lemon cheesecake reigns over all.
If you can find room also order a hot chocolate because they are the best I have tasted in my life and I tend
to be very picky about hot chocolate; it is never quite meets my standards in most cafes and restaurants no
matter how high brow or expensive. (An exception to this rule is Carluccio’s wonderful Chococcino.)
Pulkra
Tube: Fulham Broadway
This pretty little bungalow is perched on the edge of Eel Brook Common, bordering
New King’s Road - a short walk from Fulham Broadway station. The park its self is very
peaceful and never too crowded on account of its anonymity, and at the moment the boul-
evard of plane trees which traverse the border have sprinkled the park with their autumn
colours. Pulkra is Italian run, explaining the quality and seriousness with which the food
is prepared.
All of it is made on the premises, which is reassuring and is something rare nowadays
in cafes. Their home-made ice cream and sorbets are just amazing, and if you are extra
hungry you can order some savory food prior (or, indeed, after) your sweet. Sandwiches
and hot food are available and they are accommodating; you can pretty much tell them
what you would like to eat regardless of what the menu says. Once again, I always seem
to go straight for the Valhrona wheat-free chocolate cake. Again, please don’t let the fact
that it does not include conventional flour put you off - it gives the cake a more earthy
taste, complementing the chocolate, and avoids dryness. Cookies, muffins and pastries are
also attractively laid out on display. Pulkra is popular on weekend mornings as they serve
cooked breakfasts.
Peyton and Byrne
Tube: Euston
If you feel like some mental (and physical exercise) to counteract any gluttony about to be undertaken then mission north to the
Wellcome centre, Euston. There is always a great exhibition here (Sir Henry Wellcome’s personal collection of random artifacts and
works of art on the first floor is a wonderful permanent installation). But best of all is the airy and spacious Peyton and Byrne café
situated in between the exhibition space and the Waterstone’s bookshop. It serves gormet style snacks which are pricey (but hey, this
is food, it goes inside your body and so you are perfectly at rights to overspend) such as salads, quiches and sandwiches as well as some
hot meals. I always spend about 10 minutes minimum choosing my dessert.
Here they serve cakes, sweet tarts, muffins, cupcakes, I inevitably always go for the largest slice which also happens to be the gluten
free chocolate cake. Don’t let “gluten-free” instill you with fear and the image of dusty health food stores. Its lack of wheat flower gives
it a gloriously rich texture. Even I was full after this. Awesome choco-sugar high. Now burn it off by running back to Imperial.
There is a branch in St Pancras for anyone traveling to the midlands or to belle Paris.
Yum Chaa
Tube: Camden Town
I am loath to give away my (now not so) best-kept secret in Camden Town.
You may not even find this dinky tea room for it is hidden in the corner on the
wooden-decking upper level of the shopping area next to the Loch. For someone
in love with tea as opposed to jitter-inducing coffee, there is something exciting
about taking your time sniffing the cups filled with their 20 odd teas, although
this only hinders the decision making process. I have tried mixing two (Lapsang
Souchon and Chilli Chilli Bang Bang) to good results. It is also possible to buy
their teas to take home.
There is a modest bohemian feel to the place but without any of the inevita-
ble “ethos”, hippies or health/free-from foods which are a staple feature a lot of
boho Camden haunts. Their brownies are definitely NOT for sharing and have
no qualms about being very firm with anyone who asks for a taste. This is just too
good to share, in this instant sharing is anything but caring. (Blueberry) muffins
here melt in the mouth, to pardon a terribly trite saying, but it is actually what
they do. Sitting outside one gets to soak up the atmosphere wafting up from the
food stalls in the square, safe in your elevated haven.
The Hummingbird Bakery
Tube: South Ken
This is an American export which explains the sugar sweet pink and brown décor (even in the loos). This
is a little girl’s confectionary dream come true. Think Hansel and Gretel stumbling upon the gingerbread
house minus evil child-eating witch. Cupcakes are their specialty here and the reason why hoards of Ken-
sington and Chelsea folk flock here - cupcakes are so in now, don’cha know. I personally abhor faddish trends
in food and devour these babies for their taste alone and their glittering, colourful beauty.
The cakes’ texture is as moist and delicate as you could ever dream and the generous dollop of cream
cheese frosting makes you wish they sold it by the tub. They come in mainly vanilla or chocolate and there
is a cupcake of the day. Another thing to try here, a personal favourite, is their Red Velvet Cake. Expect a
brick sized portion which is exactly how I like to eat my cake. This cake hails from the deep south and is
usually enjoyed on public holidays like Independence Day. It is worth every gram of fat and calorie in there
and tastes so heavenly all guilt will vanish instantly.
It gets busy on weekends but there is seating both inside and out. If you are really lazy they will actually
deliver to your door (price subject to area), minimum expenditure being around 20 pounds.
Konditor and Cook
Tube: Piccadilly
They claim to be the best cakes in London and seeing as I love
cake more than any other person in London, I think I am in an
ideal position to say that these delights come pretty close. My only
quibble is the apparent decrease in slice size which always riles me.
Indulge properly, dears. This branch of K&C is part of the inde-
pendent Soho Curzon cinema which has a very cultured and arty,
yet chilled out ( and by no means pretentious) atmosphere.
Seeing as it borders on one of my favourite areas of London
(Soho) there is nothing better for dark afternoons than preceding
cake with even more retail indulgence. Alcohol can be enjoyed in
conjunction with your cake. K&C outdo themselves like the Hum-
mingbird with ample lashings of cream cheese icings. Lemon Chif-
fon is sublime but better still is the Curly Whirly: chocolate with
vanilla bean icing. Other branches pop up east in Canary Wharf
and Grey’s Inn road. Business is undoubtedly booming with com-
fort-eating Suits.

