Best Bond Film: Goldfinger
Plot: Bond tries to stop a crazy gold
obsessed billionaire from blowing up
Fort Knox.
Why this is the best: Contrary to
popular belief, Connery did not make
many good Bond films (mainly because
he is not a very good Bond), ‘Goldfin-
ger’ being the exception. Based heavily
on Fleming’s novel and featuring many
alluring women and dastardly villains,
as well as an exciting and hilarious car
chase, this was the first Bond film that
had something for everyone.
Highlights include: Sexuality shift-
ing Bond girl Pussy Galore, Bond villain
Oddjob with his flying bowler hat, the
laser beam scene, an ejector seat in the
Aston Martin, Goldfinger being sucked
out of an aeroplane, Jill Masterson be-
ing painted from head to toe in gold.
Memorable quote: Goldfinger to
Bond: “No Mr Bond, I expect you to
die!”
Best Bond bit: Bond’s fight with
Oddjob inside Fort Knox.
Roger Moore Pierce Brosnan
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
Film
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
22 felix Friday 07 November 2008
Film
Film Editors – Zuzanna Blaszczak and Jonathan Dakin
Bond is back, but this time he’s a bit bland
Gee, I’m starving for more
Hunger is the directorial debut of
Turner prize-winning artist Steve Mc-
Queen. The film is centred around
the IRA hunger strikes of 1981, and in
particular Bobby Sands MP (Michael
Fassbender), the leader of the hunger
strikes. The hunger strikes were the
IRA’s final effort to be granted political
status, to be recognised as prisoners of
war rather than ordinary criminals.
From the mid-1970s the then Labour
government had withdrawn political
status from Irish republican prisoners
in order to disguise the true nature of
the conflict in Ireland, to depict what
was in truth a national war between
the British state and the IRA as a
criminal enterprise launched by mad
republicans. In fighting for the return
of political status, Sands and the oth-
ers were not simply ‘making a gesture’,
they were taking part in a protest of
profound historic importance cen-
tred around the question of whether
the struggle to expel British forces
from Ireland was legitimate. Sands, of
course, thought it was legitimate. The
British government knew it was a se-
rious war but wanted to present it as
criminal activity.
The action takes place in the bleakest
of locations, the H-block of Her Maj-
esty’s Prison Maze in Belfast. Despite
the dreary setting, McQueen has made
arguably the most breathtaking film of
the year.
McQueen is every bit the artist in his
debut feature; there is a painstaking at-
tention to detail in every shot. From
the breadcrumbs falling on the lap of
the disgruntled prison guard as he eats
his breakfast (an early warning sign of
the ‘hunger’ that will later follow for
the prisoners) to the ominous tattoo of
‘UDA’ on a prison orderly’s knuckles,
each frame of the film is a work of art.
McQueen wonderfully portrays the
determination of the prisoners to win
their POW status and thus re-legiti-
Quantum Of Solace HHKKK
Director: Marc Forster
Writer: Paul Haggis et al
Cast: Daniel Craig
Olga Kurylenko,
Mathieu Amalric
Coming soon:
What does everyone need once they realise that they have seen
too many plodding action films or dreary dramas? Comedy! And no
one does comedy better than Samuel L. Jackson and the late great
Bernie Mac!
Soul Men is about two former backup singers (played by Jackson
and Mac) who decide to travel together to a reunion concert to
honour their recently deceased lead singer. The catch? They haven’t
spoken to each other for over 20 years!
With celebrity cameos including R&B singer John Legend, the
recently departed
soul singer Isaac
Hayes and Will
and Grace’s Sean
Hayes, expect
hilarity to ensue.
The film should
also be a fitting
tribute to Bernie
Mac, a very
talented come-
dian who should
have done more
comedy and less
Ocean’s films.
The sound of laughter will abound in
Soul Men
Hunger HHHHK
Director: Steve McQueen
Writers:Steve McQueen
	Edna Walsh
Cast: Michael Fassbender,
Stuart Graham
mise the Irish war for independence.
You can almost smell their unwashed
bodies and the excrement they spread
on their walls as part of a ‘dirty protest’
against using prison conveniences or
wearing prison clothes. There are very
few scenes of conversation, in fact, Mc-
Queen had originally wanted to make
a film with no dialogue at all. Strip
searches, prison beatings, mandatory
baths - all take place without talking.
The main conversational scene will
go down as one of the great cinematic
moments of recent times. There is a 22
minute conversation between Sands
and Father Dominic Moran (played
fantastically by Liam Cunningham)
and a full 17 minutes of it is taken in
one shot where the camera doesn’t
move once. Cunningham and Fass-
bender work together incredibly in this
shot, as Sands convinces Father Moran
that the hunger strike must happen.
He is finally granted approval from the
priest (not that he really needed it) af-
ter telling a profoundly touching story
from his childhood. Following this
conversation, Fassbender’s dedication
to the role of Sands becomes evident.
Fassbender looks horrendous for
the rest of the film. Having whittled
his body down to a mere 58kg for the
starvation scenes, he is a far cry from
the muscle-bound warrior we saw in
the CGI thriller 300. For the final 40
minutes of the film we see Sands’ con-
dition steadily deteriorate, with the de-
velopment of appalling bedsores and,
according to the doctor, the shrinkage
of his left ventricle to 70 per cent of its
normal size. The inevitable death is in
keeping with McQueen’s portrayal of
Sands throughout the film; his body
Fassbender is desperate for a
smoke
Bobby Sands (Fassbenger) and Dominic Moran (Cunningham) have a
chat.
Fancy writing for felix Film?
We still need writers for the Film We Love section of felix Film. So if
there’s a film you just can’t stop talking about, a movie that inspires
you, a feature that changed your life or one that is your only remedy
for a miserable day, we would love you to write about it and have
the guts to share it with the rest of Imperial, whether you are a
student or a lecturer.
Please send a few hundred words about the film you love to:
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Bernie and Samuel feeling funky in Soul Men
Tom Roberts
Quantum of Solace strengthens the
consensus that Daniel Craig is an ex-
cellent Bond. He is likable, unique in
his portrayal of James Bond and – in
this age of Jack Bauer, Jason Bourne
and numerous other imperfect trained
killers – effective in depicting a secret
agent at the peak of his ruthless profes-
sion. Craig has elevated Bond along-
side the other big hitters meaning that
playgrounds across the land will be full
of arguments about which ‘JB’ would
win in a 3-way bout of fisticuffs. But
the sixth depiction of Bond represents
a significant transformation for the
franchise and whether this change is
welcome or not basically comes down
to personal taste.
With Casino Royale the camp por-
trayals of the past were consigned to
history. Hollywood’s version of Bond
had evolved into a human being ca-
pable of feelings, emotions and love,
but in Quantum of Solace they are
substituted with a burning inner rage
as he tracks down his ill-fated lover’s
killers. This serves as a cue to increase
the amount of action in the film but
at a significant detriment to the plot.
Even then, the action is often melodra-
matic rather than exhilarating and is
frequently guilty of resorting to obvi-
ous CGI and cheap usage of fast edit-
ing that obscures the fight scenes leav-
ing your mind to stitch together what
actually happened. Bond never used
to be about realism but it was Casino
Royale’s main hook. During one scene
in Quantum of Solace, that harks back
to the frankly preposterous Die Anoth-
er Day, Bond comes to within an inch
of a messy demise saved only by the
incredible stopping power of his late
opening parachute.
Worse still, an angry Bond isn’t a
talkative Bond, which doesn’t leave
much room for character develop-
ment. Casino Royale dared to portray
a James Bond with feelings, a villain
that wasn’t simply a caricature and a
Bond Girl that wasn’t purely tits and
arse. Quantum of Solace dispenses
with almost all of this: Mr Greene is a
feeble bad-guy who occasionally treats
his woman badly in an ineffective plot
device to try and evoke a disgusted
response from the audience, whilst
the ‘traditional’ Bond Girl, played by
Gemma Arterton, is made completely
redundant by the script. This all leaves
Bond with very little to chat about and
so he gets on with pursuing and kill-
ing one henchman, before gaining a
lead and pursuing and killing the next
henchman and so on and so on. There
are no tense, tactical mind games with
the enemy over a round of poker; in-
stead it’s on with the methodical job of
chasing down contrived bad guys in-
vented especially to fit the convoluted
plot, before ultimately stumbling upon
the head-honcho’s lair to tell him he’s a
bad man and exploit the patently obvi-
ous chink in his armour.
Quantum of Solace is by no means
the biggest disappointment of the year,
that title falls to Indy IV. If you can
tolerate Quantum of Solace’s inept ex-
planations, rinse and repeat story tell-
ing and substandard action sequences
then you’ll find some enjoyment here.
Otherwise, it largely feels like a step
backwards for Bond – a franchise and
character that Daniel Craig appeared
to be taking in a new direction.
Has the new Bond lost his charm already?
Sean Connery George Lazenby Timothy Dalton
Best Bond Film: On Her Majesty’s Se-
cret Service
Plot: When Bond goes undercover as a
genealogist to a Swiss mountain resort
he discovers that Blofeld intends on using
young women with sleep disorders to un-
leash a deadly virus on the world.
Why this is the best: Although this
was his only outing and therefore has to
be his best film, Lazenby delivers as both
a realistic and charming Bond, despite
being panned by both fans and critics.
This film is much better than most Con-
nery films and overall is one of the most
memorable and exciting Bond outings.
Highlights include: Bond falling in
love with Tracy, Bond sleeping with eve-
ryone in the ski resort, the many Alpine
car chases, Bond being married and then
widowed (sniff).
Memorable quote: Bond: “He had a
lot of guts”.
Best Bond bit: Bond on skies being
chased down a bobsled run by Blofeld.
Best Bond Film: The Spy Who Loved
Me
Plot: AcrazymillionairenamedStromb-
erg intends to create a nuclear war in or-
der to destroy the world so that he can
begin a new civilisation under the sea.
Why this is the best: It was heart-
breaking for me to decide which film
to choose for Moore as almost all of his
seven Bond outings are excellent. But this
one has everything a Bond film should:
car chases, sexy women, huge sets being
destroyed, a crazy villain, and of course,
the best Bond of all time, Roger Moore
himself.
Highlights include: Beautiful Russian
secret agent Anya Amasova (aka Agent
Triple X), Jaws: the best Bond villain
ever, car chases and fights in and around
Egypt, lots of destruction and explosions,
trap doors that lead to killer shark tanks,
the underwater car and a very good
theme song.
Memorable quote: Bond: “Keeping
the British end up, sir!”
Best Bond bit: When Bond leaps from
a mountain top and opens his parachute
to reveal a Union Jack. Rule Britannia!
Best Bond Film: License To Kill
Plot: Afterhisbestfriendisalmostkilled
by a South American drugs baron Bond
resigns from the MI6 and goes rogue in
order to exact revenge.
Why this is the best: This is Dalton
being a ‘serious’ Bond and although this
does not always work, the more adult plot
and down-beat tone add an interesting el-
ement to the film, not often seen in Bond
films. Plus Dalton’s other effort, ‘The Liv-
ing Daylights’, is pretty dry.
Highlights include: Two very hot
Bond women, the shoot out in the bar,
lots of grisly murders including a man’s
head exploding and a man being churned
up in a Cocaine machine, Q, as he has
a large supporting role and the tanker
truck car chase at the end.
Memorable quote: Sharkey: “God,
what a terrible waste. Of money”.
Best Bond bit: When Bond finally gets
his revenge.
Best Bond Film: The World Is Not
Enough
Plot: Bond is assigned to protect the
daughter of an assassinated oil pipeline
owner from a terrorist who plans to set
off a nuclear bomb in the Caspian Sea.
Why this is the best: All of Bro-
snan’s films are of a high standard
(though many would argue otherwise
about Die Another Day), but this one
has everything a Bond film should have
as well as being contemporary, intelli-
gent and fast paced and fun from begin-
ning to end.
Highlights include: Buxom Bond
babe and nuclear physicist Dr. Christ-
masJones,theopeningboatchasedown
the Thames, Q’s very last appearance,
the snowmobile chase, the pipeline ex-
plosion, the destruction of the caviar
factory, Zukovsky’s cameo, the fight in
the submarine and the huge plot twist.
Memorable quote: Bond: “I never
miss”.
Best Bond bit: What Bond does be-
fore he says the above quote.
Critically acclaimed art house film Hunger makes one reviewer
desperate for another bite
Shane O’Neil
is removed routinely and without
fanfare.
This is one of the most important
films of the year, an awe-inspiring
spectacle of cinematic excellence. Mc-
Queen handles brilliantly a delicate
subject without taking a particular
political standpoint or disrespecting
either side; instead he allows the au-
dience to see the truth as it happened
and to make their own moral judge-
ments. Fassbender is entirely convinc-
ing as Sands in easily his most impres-
sive part to date. This is a must-see.
Hunger is out at now, rated 15.
The best of Bond, James Bond
Jonathan Dakin looks at the best Bond film from each actor who has ever played the debonair character.

