28 felix Friday 07 November 2008
Show us your Stuff!
Richard Lai attends the “STUFF” expo and tells us about the latest upcoming gadgets.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – Ravi Pall & Richard Lai
felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
Technology
The problem with most gadget maga-
zines these days is the cover – there
have been too many times when I
take a T3 or Stuff out of the rucksack
without my neighbour female flight
passenger subtly cringing. Thankfully,
I tend be able to break the ice if her
gadget-loving husband is around, and
the wife would naturally confess her
misunderstanding; if he’s not around,
it could be my lucky day.
This time round a Stuff bikini girl
caught my attention, as she was much
larger than what I’m used to. The “Stuff
Live” poster in the underground tun-
nel towards South Kensington Station
gave me an excuse to visit the ExCel
Centre for the second time within the
same month, the last time being at the
“Future Of Web Apps Expo” combined
with “Diggnation Live” – frankly only
the latter made it worth going.
For £20 per head “Stuff Live” must
be a damn good show, but then again I
must remember that the credit crunch
is not just some cereal. Luckily Stuff
was giving away free passes on Twitter,
and I just happened to be one of the
lucky winners. If you didn’t go, don’t
worry: I’ve compiled a list of the show’s
best bits for you.
I’ve also got some videos on http://
is.gd/6goK and have a look at my pho-
tos on http://is.gd/6fI8 . Hopefully next
year I’ll get to go to Stuff Live for free
again (or be given a press pass!).
PS: Twitter users can follow me at twit-
ter.com/richardlai Roland V-Drums TD-9KX
A small crowd gathered around Ro-
land’s booth, so I wriggled my way
to the front to see what the musical
instrument manufacturer was do-
ing there. It turned out they were
doing a demo on their electronic
drum kit, TD-9KX, which seemed
to be capable of pretty much any
style you can think of, ranging from
classic rock to jazz to even bubble
sounds, plus you can tweak every
sound effect if you’re really bored,
but you would expect to get that
for the eye-bleeding £1200 price
tag. Still it made good entertain-
ment and pretty much everyone
was dancing, but sadly my camera
had just run out of battery - I miss
my Nikon DSLR.
Face 3D-Mapping by University of Hertfordshire
I was very surprised to see a university exhibiting at the gadget show: for
some reason University of Hertfordshire’s electronic engineering depart-
ment decided that it was the right place to show off their mini human-
oid robot and 3D face-mapping technology. I had a go on the latter and it
wasn’t very convincing – I’m sure our own EE department could have - or
already have - done a much better job! Good luck to them anyway.
Bespoke Arcades
Pac-Man, Street Fighter, Street
Racer… you name it, and the folks
over Bespoke Arcades will deliver
their hand-built arcade machines
to you packing over 220 titles. The
machines at Stuff Live were of great
build quality and enjoyed by many
gamers, but at £2850 I’m afraid
most will have to, ironically, revert
to their high-def gaming consoles
at home.
Sony POP entertainment vending machine
This machine was just released last week: it is the world’s first multimedia vending machine
and will be available at airports, cinemas and maybe even train stations. Not only does it pop
out PS3 games, Blu-ray discs and DVDs in their original cases (as the latter did for me when
I used a “2 for £10” deal at the show), but you can also download movies and MP3 tracks
straight onto any flash media and even iPods. Since the machine is networked, fresh tracks
are regularly pumped straight into the black-and-yellow machines. No need to panic for pre-
travel iPod-updates from now on!
Digiskin - gadget-skinning service
Now this is something special: rather than
giving your loved one an ordinary gadget this
Christmas, why not customise it with your fa-
vourite pattern or even photo? Digiskin will be
opening a store on Regent Street and offering
a skinning service for £25 for a mouse, £35 on
smaller gadgets such as mobile phones, and
starting form £55 for laptops and larger de-
vices. Their representative said their service is
highly flexible and they will talk to every cus-
tomer to make sure they get the right design.
The vacuum forming process only takes about
half an hour as well.
Jabra BT3030 Bluetooth remote and
handsfree
I was attracted to the Jabra BT3030 not
only because of its stylish design, but also
by the pretty girl who was wearing it as a
pendant. Anyway, the shiny Bluetooth de-
vice acts as both a transceiver and a remote
control, allowing you to control stereo mu-
sic playback (that’s “A2DP” for you) and re-
ceive phone calls. It also has a built-in clip
if you’re not girly enough to wear it on a
necklace. Costing just £35. I don’t think it’s
too much to ask for this Christmas.
Kota the Triceratops
You may be cruel enough to tear Elmo into bits, but surely no one can resist
the cuteness of Kota the Triceratops? The reborn dinosaur has 11 sensors
to interact with the young-hearted. It even responds to neck-scratches like
a cat! A large cat perhaps as the company claims that it is large enough for
a child to sit on, but you won’t have to worry too much as apparently Kota
is “too lazy to walk around the room”.
Asus Eee Top desktop, Eee PC S101 and U6 Bamboo laptops
It was nice to see one of my favourite computer brands having a dedicated booth at the show, and what made it even
better was that Asus brought along three brand new products. The £449 Eee Top is the company’s first all-in-one
desktop with a touchscreen, featuring a 1.6GHz Intel Atom processor and 160GB hard disk space, supporting both
stylus (which lives inside the keyboard) and finger input. Despite failing to figure out how to perform right-click with-
out a mouse, I really enjoyed the experience and would recommend it to those looking for a home media centre. Also,
given such user-friendly interface, I wouldn’t be surprised to see the Eee Top flooding the nation’s kindergartens.
Sticking with the Eee brand, Asus has introduced the S101 as the line’s premium model. This sexy design makes all
previous models look like plastic toys, but all that glitter on the case (available in brown or graphite), brushed-steel
finish around the keyboard, 10.2” LCD, 5.4 hours of battery and 16GB of solid state drive will cost you £449 (same as
the Eee Top). It’s probably something to dream about during this time of financial crisis.
Lastly, the environmentally-friendly, ultraportable U6 Bamboo laptop, which is built with highly recyclable compo-
nents, and due to the nature of wooden pattern every machine is unique. Available from selected retailers for £1300.
LCDs from LG, NEC, Epson’s
HD projector and Q-London 3D
Video Eyewear
Right in front of the hall entrance
was the giant LG/ask booth, which
featured the LG 6100 42” LCD TV,
retailing at £749 for its impressive
slimness and the 100Hz flicker-free
response. Sticking with the display
technology, NEC also showcased
an astonishing LCD6520L 65” LCD
screen inside their “van” booth,
along with their professional range
which attracted many young gam-
ers. Epson was also there to display
their full HD EH-TW3000 projector
which simply blew my mind.
On a much smaller scale we have
the Q-London 3D Video Eyewear,
which gives you total privacy even
though you would also look like a
dork when using it. Unfortunately,
for the short-sighted like myself you
will need to wear it over your glasses
or wear contact lenses, as there is no
adjustable focus like you get in cam-
corders. The QL240 claims to have
simulate a 50” screen as seen from
2M, with the QL920v doing an 80”
screen from 1.5M, priced at £85.10
and £153.18 respectively.
Audio: Chord Chordette Gem, Q Acoustics Q-AV System,
Sonos iPhone OS app
On the audio front there were three interesting products: firstly I found
the colourful range of Chord’s Chordette Gem Bluetooth (A2DP, again)
music receiver. It claims to stream very high sound quality from your
supported mobile phones to your hi-fi system using its 24-bit digital-
to-analogue (DAC) converter, and is aimed at the younger MP3 audi-
ence with a price tag of £399.
On the home theatre front we have Q Acoustics Q-AV System, which
utilises a slim sound bar form factor to produce the front channels.
Each of the front speakers are mounted on a telescopic frame so that
the entire bar can extend to match the width of the TV, and the two
curved speakers at the back give an ‘ultra-wide’ sound-field, giving the
flexibility of their positioning. But the real gem of all this is the Bal-
anced Mode Radiator (BMR) technology by NXT, allowing the use of
flat panel diaphragm to achieve the shallow chassis and extended band-
width. Officially the whole system retails for £600, but most shops sell
them for around £560.
Another big home-theatre related news: not too long ago Sonos, the
maker of the famous multi–room music system, released an app for the
iPhone to let you control your music stream to different rooms. The
demo I was given at the show was very straightforward to use, with an
interface similar to the company’s own remote control. You can see a
video demo on my YouTube page: http://is.gd/6goK
As for the Sonos system, packages start from £399.

