32 felix Friday 07 November 2008
Clubs & Societies Clubs & Socs Editor – Alice Rowlands
Is your club cooler than the cat that got the cream? Write to us.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
333
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
L
ast Thursday, Imperial Col-
lege Hindu Society wel-
comed over 300 people to
their annual Ujaali celebra-
tion in the Great Hall, the
night focused around the traditional,
Raas Garba style of dancing, hailing
from Gujarat in northern India, and
held in celebration of Diwali- the fes-
tival of light. The Hindu Society com-
mittee kindly invited felix to attend
and report on the evening:
Not knowing what to expect, I tot-
tered over to the Sherfield building,
camera and note book at the ready. I
found the staircase and foyer outside
of the Great Hall decked in colourful
swathes of fabric, with strings of flow-
ers guiding you up the stairs. Even bet-
ter, there was food on sale along side
some painted sticks- dandiya (which
I originally took to be candles) that
were in anticipation of one of the main
events of the evening- the Dandiya
Raas.
In preparation for Ujaali, members
of the committee spent days making
trips to Ikea, and hunting out sari ma-
terial, in order to dress the Great Hall,
the foyer and the staircase.
The Great Hall itself was dressed
with colourful patterned fabrics on
London to Brighton Run
the walls and focused around a murti
(statue), of the gods Radha and Krish-
na, in the centre. The murti is centre of
attention and is there to invite the gods
Radha and Krishna into the event.
The evening was introduced by co-
presidents Paren Chohen and Anand
Pandit, with music from the Chiswick-
based band Strings.
Paren talked to me about what to ex-
pect from the evening. This evening is
Hindu Society’s annual Ujaali celebra-
tion, for Diwali, or the festival of light
(which was on Tuesday). Tonight’s
celebration is a folk dance, which is
traditional to the Gujarati region of
northern India, and a performance of
dance.
The event not only attracts Hindus,
but also Sikhs, Muslims and people of
different faiths who come along to sup-
port and to be entertained. The event is
showcase for Hindu Society and what
it is about, a chance for non-members
and friends of members to come and
get involved and have a nice evening.
The evening began with a prayer, at
the end of which we were all invited to
join in the first dancing of the evening.
I joined several others (mainly boys)
in the shuffle sheepishly to the side of
the room and hoped that no one would
notice.
Initially, the dancing was quite ten-
tative (and mainly girls), but upon
returning from a quick refreshment
break, I found the Great Hall alive with
people, dancing in circles around the
central statue. I was pleasantly sur-
prised to find that there were now as
many boys as girls dancing and, though
a lot of people were stood at the side,
this was mainly so they could catch
their breath before re-joining!
The informal dancing stopped briefly
for those gathered to enjoy a rehearsed
performance of Garba dancing, based
on a traditional routine. Gaya Rajasoo-
riar explained to me that the traditional
dancing and the form of the event was
based on the northern Indian, Gujurati
style of celebrating Navaratri, so for
many, even Indian, members of Hindu
Society, the style of dancing was new
to them. With this in mind, everyone
was invited to be taught some simple
Raas Garba steps in small groups, each
lead by one of the performers, so no
one had an excuse for not joining in.
A particularly special dance during
the evening is performed using dan-
diya (painted sticks around a foot and
a half long), lining up in rows, dancers
hit sticks against their opposite part-
ner’s. Though the dance is supposed
to represent a mock fight, it also has a
social element, as dancers meet lots of
new people as the dance is performed.
Talking to people at the event, many
had turned up due to the reputation of
the event being lively and social; while
others were attracted by the cultural
side of the event. Nick, marketing of-
ficer for Hindu society, told felix “For
Ujaali, everyone comes because it’s a
big social event, it’s really nice to see
everyone and have fun. Although there
is spiritual significance to the evening,
it’s mainly a cultural event so everyone
can come along, experience it and have
fun.” And according to Temoor Naeem,
the reason the event attracts such a
high turn-out is that “It’s a really nice
event, with lots of people, and it’s easy
to get involved. The evening is cultural
education for everyone, not just Hin-
dus and Indians.”
Aside from being in awe of the beau-
tiful dresses, and how nicely they move
while you dance, I was pleasantly sur-
prised to find a large event where you
can have a friendly atmosphere, and
where people are happy to talk and be
engaging. I was particularly interested
to visit a society based around a reli-
gion, finding out what it is they actu-
ally do. It would be easy to assume that
a religious society is just about prayer
or discussing their faith, where in real-
ity religion is only part of Hindu soci-
ety’s activities. A lot of what the soci-
ety provides is cultural or social, and a
way to meet people who are often of
a similar background. Ujaali is an ex-
cellent example of an event that can
reach out to people of different faiths
and backgrounds, introducing friends
of members to the culture surrounding
Hinduism whilst having fun.
Ujaali is Hindu Society’s biggest
event of the year, however the society
aims to promote Hinduism via a mix-
ture of social, cultural and religious
events including:
Spiritual and philosophical talks,
such as, ‘Get Connected’ (10th 12th
November) which is a series of lectures
on inspired living discussing goals, as-
pirations and why we are here at Impe-
rial, from a speaker prominent in the
mission.
Later this term Hindu Society will be
doing charity work, going into central
London with food for homeless people.
As well, SEWA week next term- a week
of charity events for CAREducation,
who build schools in India and Africa
(www.careducation.org).
Diwali, or Deepavali, is the festival of lights. It is celebrated by Hindus, Jains, Sikhs and Buddists alike. Peo-
ple light divas (candles) on the Hindu month of Karthika, which falls in October/November. In Hindusim,
Diwali primarily marks the homecoming of Lord Rama after his 14 year banishment. However, the killing
of the Narakasura and the attainment of nirvana by Lord Mahavira are just some of the other reasons for
rejoicing.
Diwali is spread over the course of five days, during which many rituals are observed. For Hindus, it all
begins with the cleaning of the home, putting up decorations and divas. The divas were originally used to
guide Lord Rama back to the kingdom of Ayodhya as it was a dark moonless night. It is also believed to
help the goddess of wealth, Lakshmi, find her way into peoples’ homes to bring peace and prosperity.
Like any other major festival, families come together to exchange gifts and sweets. Usually, in the UK
relatives dine together and then light fireworks. On the fourth day, businessmen perform Chopra Pujan.
This is to signify the closing of the old accounts and the opening of the new ones, in hope of a successful
year to come.
At Imperial College, the Hindu Society hold their annual ‘Ujaali’ Garba to mark the event. Both Hindus
and non-Hindus gather to dance and pray with their brothers and sisters. This major event in the HinduSoc
calendar spreads the joy and knowledge of Diwali to everyone.
A modern take on Diwali: Regardless of the mythological explanation one prefers, what the festival of
lights really stands for today is a reaffirmation of hope, a renewed commitment to friendship and goodwill,
and a religiously sanctioned celebration of the simple, and some not so simple, joys of life - Times of India
editorial.
Ujaali: An evening of Raas Garba
Opposite page: Dancers perform a traditional Garba routine, focused around the murdi. Top left: Danc-
ers enjoying Raas Garba. Bottom left: Dancing until you’re too dizzy to walk. Below right: Everyone
joined in the main dance with dandiya.
Kushal Shah and Raj Dawada discuss the festival of Diwali
Diwali- celebrating the festival of light
Alice Rowlands reports on Hindu Society’s annual celebration of Diwali, with photographs from Will Turner

