felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Jack Cornish &
Mustapher Botchway
Sports Editors
So it is nearly time to start ranking the
teams against each other, but we will
wait and keep you on tenterhooks for
a few more weeks.
You may see a reverse from last year
however with recently promoted teams
struggling and those that have dropped
down a league storming through. This
raises the question, can we sustain our
position as 22nd best sporting uni-
versity in the country, with promoted
teams taking a battering week in week
out? Is there enough investment and
support to keep us there? Alternative-
ly is it solely due to the fact we are a
geek’s university, and the geek popu-
lation usually struggle in those cold,
wet PE lessons with the power hungry
teacher. This is not only a rant, but an
informed rant. The reason we pose
such questions is because from speak-
ing to captains from teams playing in
BUCS, the opinion gathered is that
other universities, with not necessar-
ily more quality than us are grinding
out results. Though we digress. More
on that in the next few weeks... watch
this space!
Our next question is ‘are you Healthy’
(capital h required)? We are approach-
ingtheendofhealthylivingweekwhere
a host of activities and demonstrations
have kept us entertained courtesy of
the union and Sport Imperial. Howev-
er the majority of us are less concerned
about body pump class at Ethos and
are in the union bar planning a Friday
night on the town to consume obscene
amounts of alcohol followed by a greasy
kebab. My point is this: Is the sporting
atmosphere of ‘play hard, drink hard’
any more healthy than the ‘work hard,
work hard, work hard’ ethos whereby
you sit in front of a computer each day
doing no more activity than skulking to
the toilet each hour?
Rant over... generally sports are do-
ing well as you can see from all the re-
ports sent in. We am sure they will be
celebrating with a gooseberry smoothy
while debating their league position.
The Gore-tex transalpine run is an
eight day ultra-marathon stage race
across the German, Austrian and Ital-
ian alps consisting of 300km of tech-
nical trail featuring over 14000m of
height gain. For some reason I had en-
tered it... again.
The first day was not intended to
break the competitors in gently. It’s
almost marathon distance of 37.7km
and 1200m of elevation gain was about
equivalent to anything I’d ever run be-
fore. Despite this, it went smoothly to
begin with, until we reached the first
hill and most people lessened their
pace, except Hilary, my partner. I could
see my week was going to be difficult.
As we reached the final checkpoint of
the day, my exertion showed dramati-
cally as I collapsed with cramp. The
tough pace and the blistering heat
had taken its toll. The race support
team however, were quick to put me
in the shade and start stretching my
legs for me (I felt like a proper athlete
and everything)! With minor delay we
were back on the trail and heading to
the end of day one. We finished 16th
with a time of 4:28 and discovered that
over 60 teams had entered the mixed
category – a large increase on last year.
I was pleased but we both wanted to
do better.
Day two was the longest day of the
event, and something we had been
concerned about since the route had
been published months before. It fea-
tured 48.5km (30.3 mi) and nearly
3km of elevation gain. The day was hot
again, and the previous day’s exertions
had not been forgotten. To cut a story
short, half of this day involved me be-
ing force-marched by the shouting Ser-
geant Major Hilary Dyer and wouldn’t
rank in my top 10 days ever, but easily
scores highly for memorability. How-
ever, many teams found the day diffi-
cult and we finished 13th with a time
of 7:56 and a feeling that we might be
through the worst.
The third day demonstrated some
compassion from the organisers as the
short 27.6km (17.2mi) and only 1504m
of elevation would allow the competi-
tors to recover. Despite still feeling the
effects of the previous day, we fought
on to finish 14th with a time of 3:59.
On the morning of the fourth day I
began to feel better. The previous day’s
recovery had helped and I felt like my
resting pulse rate was actually back
below 200. The stage had 46km and
2051m of elevation waiting for us but
for the first time, I felt confident I could
do it. This confidence turned out to be
well placed as I enjoyed the day’s race,
even getting to play the ‘encourager’
for a section instead of being encour-
aged. The day finished well as we were
placed 8th to our mild disbelief finish-
ing in a time of 5:37. I shall let Hilary
finish the story:
The fifth stage had only 1500m climb
to allow a little recovery from stage 4.
The day began with 22km downhill
along the Prettau valley, run predict-
ably fast, and then one steep climb up
to a ski station. The long, winding for-
est track at the top of the climb played
havoc with our tired mental state as it
seemed to go on forever, and the race
finished with a fast zig-zag descent
through forest into Sand-in-Taufers.
Continued on page 37
Imperial College at the
Gore-tex transalpine run
RSM win?!
Mining football hits a two year high, see page 38
Neil Dowse & Hilary Dyer

