4 felix Friday 07 November 2008
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
News
LastFridaynight,andcoincidentlyHal-
loween, saw Radio 1 DJ Colin Murray
return once again to the Union in his
glorified Imperial Union residency. Si-
multaneously, the Royal College of Sci-
ence Union [RCSU] and the City and
Guilds College Union [CGCU] held a
joint Dinner and Masquerade Ball in
the Great Hall just minutes away from
Beit Quad. The timing of this high-
profile event comes into question as
many students were either at the Ball
or celebrating Halloween privately
elsewhere.
With the Masquerade Ball opening
its doors at 7pm, the Union kicked
off its own event with a warm-up act
for Colin Murray’s DJ set. Rosie and
the Goldbug, an up-and-coming band
from Cornwall were set to play at 9pm
as part of their European tour.
A delayed start incurred, but when
the band finally started their set, they
were only met by a small selection of
people, the large majority sitting down
at tables on the near end of the club.
The lead singer had to work increas-
ingly hard to coax the otherwise timid
and unexcitable ‘crowd’ into looking
like they were having some form of
enjoyment.
Rosie and the Goldbug were of a
standard rarely seen of a band play-
ing at the Union, but what seemed like
poor advertising prior to their event
meant they and another support act
were given little attention. The main
focus of the marketing was solely fo-
cused on the DJ set by Colin Murray.
This marketing had seemed to work,
as an influx of people arrived in the
hour before the start of Murray’s per-
formance. However, felix can reveal
that the Union took seemingly desper-
ate measures to ensuring that more
people turned up. Impromptu posters
were placed around and in the Great
Hall, contradicting their own poster
policy, indicating that all £15 paying
guests of the Ball were also invited ‘free
of charge’ to the otherwise £6 Union
event.
Stewards that were hired by the fac-
ulty unions were also reported to have
been telling students to go to the Un-
ion, something that greatly angered
the faculties as they had hired the very
same stewards for the Ball. Several
members of the faculty unions then
proceeded to go around the rooms and
remove the posters.
Katya-yani Vyas, RCSU Vice Presi-
dent (Activities) told felix that “It was
presumptuous of the Union to assume
that they could automatically override
a faculty union event. They should
have had the politeness to at least en-
quire if it would be OK with us.”
This apparent ‘ploy’ by the Union
seemed to have worked, with Colin
Murray playing out to a near full-house
in dBs, most of which, felix was told,
consisted of students from the Mas-
querade Ball. However after the event
in the Union, several students were
heard saying that they preferred the
Ball over the Union event.
David Charles, RCSU President
commented on the whole event by say-
ing that “The tactics used by the Un-
Students ‘stolen’ from
Masquerade Ball
ion on Friday night were unhelpful at
best. I feel that an attempt was made
to undermine an extremely successful
event. It’s a perfect example of what
we should avoid as a union. In fact, I
would go as far as say that it damaged
the reputation of the Union.”
Mr Charles did also propose a pos-
sible solution, telling felix that “Clearly,
the Union is struggling with attend-
ance but has the money to recruit big
names. Instead of blocking faculty un-
ions from booking DBs on big name
evenings, invite us to host them. We
are on the same team after all. Could
you imagine Colin Murray etc at a Tri-
Union Club Night at DBs. It’s a win-
win situation.”
Mark Mearing-Smith, CGCU Presi-
dent had similar views.
“Quite frankly it is unacceptable that
the Entertainment department just
budge into our event. One of the mem-
bers of staff told me during the meal
that our ticket holders have free access
to the Union, which I said thank you to,
then he said that I should tell everyone.
I just smiled, knowing full well that I
had a minimum bar spend to reach
and people moving over to the Union
would not help. So I didn’t tell people.”
Mr Mearing-Smith then went on to
say: “I do not think that it is fair that a
club/society puts in so much time to an
event, (also that we are unpaid volun-
teers still studying) and they just think
‘oh they will not mind, it’s only good
Imperial to set
up new robotics
centre in Qatar
Earlier this week, Imperial College
London had agreed upon establish-
ing a centre for robotic surgery at
the recently opened Qatar Science &
Technology Park. This new centre was
agreed upon with the Qatar Founda-
tion, who host a community of elite
international partners including the
University of Oxford, and aim to be
the Middle East’s hub of education and
research.
The work carried out at the Qatar
Science & Technology Park will fo-
cus on commercially-orientated re-
search and development, which will
be conducted alongside six leading US
universities.
The Qatar Robotic Centre will focus
on medical robotic technology, includ-
ing the further development of surgical
procedures which can be carried out
to a degree of precision far beyond the
capabilities of the human hand. As well
as focusing on research, the centre will
also train students and surgeons alike
on robotic medical technology.
The announcement made by the Qa-
tar Foundation coincided with the visit
of the British Prime Minister Gordon
Brown to the flagship Education City
campus. He was reported saying: “I
welcome the increasingly close educa-
tional and research links between top
British universities and Qatar Founda-
tion. These two announcements form
exciting new strands to our shared
pursuit of technological and academic
excellence. I congratulate Qatar Foun-
dation, Imperial College London and
Oxford University.” The reference to
Oxford University refers to the crea-
tion of an Islamic Studies Chair, which
is endowed by the Qatar Foundation.
Qatar Foundation President Dr
Mohammed Fathy Saoud said: “Qa-
tar Foundation is creating one of the
world’s most exciting educational and
research clusters because it knows the
Middle East region’s future lies in the
development of human capital and the
application of knowledge. We are part-
nering with elite universities that are
leaders in select areas of education and
research.”
Sir Roy Anderson, Rector of Impe-
rial College London, said: “Imperial
College looks to translate research ad-
vances into innovations that improve
quality of life, and we are thrilled that
Qatar Foundation’s appetite for inno-
vation matches our own. The use of
robotic devices in medicine is a field
that holds a great deal of promise, and
this is a wonderful opportunity for Im-
perial College to help make tangible
contributions to Qatar’s scientific and
medical development.”
The comments made by the Rector
coincide with those made at this year’s
Commemoration Day speech, where
he said that Imperial would be estab-
lishing “footprints” overseas, including
“collaborative research facilities.” This
is all in aid of ensuring that Imperial
remains a world class institution, and
by creating these “footprints” it is be-
lieved that this will be the case.
Jovan Nedić
Editor in Chief
Daniel Wan
News Correspondent
for them’. Time and time again they
just f*@$ up with their Union events,
they over spend their budget, they get
s*@$ attendance and annoy one of the
strongest part of our union, the clubs
and societies.”
“Just because they can’t get people in
doesn’t mean that they can stroll in to
our event and draw people away when
I gave no permission for them to put
up any posters.”
With the event clearly upsetting a
lot of the faculty union, Mr Mearing-
Smith asked ICU President Jenny Mor-
gan what was going to be done about
it, |she responded “It’s being looked at,
don’t worry.” Mr Mearing-Smith told
felix that he was effectively being ig-
nored and that the faculty unions were
“not important enough” in comparison
to the activities and events of ICU.
felix has attempted to get a comment
from the Union, however was unable to
get any before the paper went to print.
The lack of an audience will inevita-
bly dampen the reputation of Imperial
College Union as event organisers to
potential bands and other performers.
With Imperial College Union evidently
upsetting so many people, the ques-
tion that is on the lips of many faculty
union officials is what will be done to
avoid this problem in the future. The
possibility of co-operation has inter-
ested clubs and societies, but would
that necessarily mean a full house for
the Union?
No fairytale ending for Zohair yet
Few roller-coasters have as many ups
and downs as the story of Zohair Abu-
Shaban. felix first reported on the Pal-
estinian electrical engineering student
on 10th October and since then he has
had his offer withdrawn and then re-
instated, his dreams crushed, raised
and possibly crushed again and the
Union has debated the issue in a con-
troversial Council meeting on the 3rd
of November.
For much of October there was little
public activity regarding his situation.
There was no way to know if the Rafah
crossing with Egypt would suddenly
open and any action on the College’s
part remained behind the scenes. It
would seem that this was simply the
lull before the storm; in the previous
week a flurry of activity and news has
raised the hopes of Zohair and his sup-
porters at Imperial. Hannah Theod-
orou, Deputy President Education and
Welfare (DPEW), received the email
from Zohair that set the weeks events
in motion. In it Zohair told her that the
Rafah crossing was unexpectedly (the
fear is that such events would be dan-
gerous if advertised in advance) to be
opened and that he planned to travel to
London at the first possible opportu-
nity. Zohair asked if he could still take
up his place if he came to London im-
mediately. Usually students are given
just 2 weeks to take up their place and
so Ms Theodorou re-iterated his offer
of entry for the 2009/2010 academic
year but he later told Islamic Society, “I
really wanted to join Imperial this year
but I don’t know if the registry will re-
verse the decision or not. But if I have
to decide, I will choose to attend this
year.”
Zohair did indeed decide to attend
this year. He emailed Islamic Society
and the Union that he would be com-
ing to London even though he had
been told that he didn’t have a place.
This risky move forced the College’s
hand and in a meeting with the Rector,
Jennifer Morgan, Union President, was
told that this was a special case and if
Zohair arrived within the week, that
he would be allowed to begin his stud-
ies. His department, as well as the Is-
lamic Society, have made preparations
to help him catch up with the work he
has missed. Zohair himself was un-
pertubed about the work he missed,
“I’m really sure I can cope with all of
it [missed work]. Four week of lectures
is not too difficult to catch up with; 1)
I have read some of it already, 2) I have
been working as a teaching assistant
for two years... 3) I graduated the top
of my year. I know it’s hard, but I am
capable.”
The College was expecting Zohair
to arrive on Wednesday but he con-
tacted Saad Raja, Islamic Society Presi-
dent, to tell him that he did not make
it through the crossing. For reasons
that are as yet unclear, it appears that
Zohair and around 400 other students
were sent back across the border after
initially making it through. The Rafah
crossing was expected to be open for
several days but at the time of writ-
ing it was uncertain whether or not he
would make it to London. The College
described the situation as ‘fluid’ and
told felix that eventually his place at
the university will have to expire.
New Council Chair survives his first test
T
he above information
was unknown to Salman
Waqar and Yoni Weiner,
proposers of the motion
heard at Council which
aimed to start a campaign with Union
support that would raise publicity for
Zohair and put pressure on the Israeli,
Egyptian and British government to
aid his passage from Gaza. It called
for, amongst other things, protests at
the Israeli and Egyptian embassies if
progress was not forthcoming. Over
200 Imperial students signed a peti-
tion in support of Zohair which was
attached to the motion. Council Chair
Afonso Campos informed Council of
the morning’s developments and ad-
vised the proposers that the motion
was no longer relevant and indeed
that even if it was, it contained certain
political judgements that could not be
acceptable for the Council to pass. As
such, Mr Campos told Council that the
motion would not be voted upon in
its current form. Mr Waqar, off-guard
after being presented with this new
evidence, maintained that the motion
was relevant and questioned whether a
student with extenuating circumstanc-
es should be denied a place due to the
‘technicality’ of a few days. After some
to-and-fro between Mr Waqar and the
Council Chair, Mr Campos decided
there was little point in continuing to
discuss the motion and insisted that
Mr Waqar allow the Council to con-
tinue with the rest of the meeting. This
caused some consternation amongst
Council members with the CAG Chair
Christoph Aymanns calling out, “Why
won’t you let him speak?”. Another
council member told felix, “people
are going to have to face up to these
issues eventually”. Mr Campos even
received a demand for an apology for
his handling of the matter but he was
unapologetic stating, “Given the facts
that came to light earlier in the day, the
paper became less relevant. As such,
there was a general sentiment that
the paper would clearly benefit from
reworking to effectively target an is-
Kadhim Shubber reports on the reception of the motion to Council that would give support to Zohair
sue that is without a doubt of tremen-
dous importance. I saw no point in
keeping Council engaged in fruitless
debate when there were other mat-
ters for decision on the agenda. The
paper is welcome back at any Council
meeting in a reworked fashion. While
some questioned my decision, I do not
apologise for my actions and hope they
are clearly understood.”
“I really wanted
to join Imperial
this year” - Zohair
Abu-Shaban
Kadhim Shubber
Deputy Editor
Zohair giving a speech at his graduation in Palestine
Salman Waqar, the papers proposer, putting a question to the Council Chair, Afonso Campos last Monday
Student Television of Imperial College
Got an issue with the Union?
Take it to Jenny Morgan, the Union President, in stoic tv’s exclusive
‘Ask the President’ program, where the President is faced with your
burning questions. Autumn 2008 Episode Friday 21st November.
Email your questions to:
askthepresident@stoictv.com
Imperial College Union stewards ‘invite’ RCSU and CGCU
Masquerade Ball guests to Union event for free.
Left: CGCU President Mark Mearing-Smith and RCSU President David Charles on the right.

