comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
Comment
6 felix Friday 07 November 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Imperial Girl is a geek like the rest of us
Anonymous
Unknown
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of felix
At the age of 72 John Sidney McCain
III was the oldest man in history to run
for the Presidency of the United States.
With his three-generation record of
Naval Academy education and mili-
tary service, McCain seems like the
poster-boy of the Republican Party.
And though his rhetoric paled in com-
parison to that of the 44th American
President, the content seemed like
clichéd hollow political promises that
would never come to fruition regard-
less of the number of terms served.
However, the senior senator of Ari-
zona has not only had a successful mil-
itary and political career but his his-
tory of insubordination, both during
his years as a Naval cadet and his time
on Capitol Hill, have shown a man who
would have consistently stood up for
what is right in order to protect his
fellow colleagues and countrymen re-
gardless of the detriment to himself –
in the naval academy, this attitude saw
him graduate at 894 of 899 despite a
high IQ and his nick name as a Maver-
ick came from his continued deviation
from the party line when he saw it as
wrong.
There is no question that his politi-
cal experience outweighed that of his
opponent. When his plane was shot
down over Hanoi whilst on a bomb-
ing raid the then young Maverick was
offered an early bargaining deal to re-
trieve him from the prisoner of war
camp before those who have been in
there for longer, due to his father’s sta-
tus as a top Admiral in the US Navy.
His refusal was a testament to his belief
in the notion of justice and sacrifice for
his fellow Americans and his inability
to wave to the cameras and crowds
during the presidential race remains
as a dark reminder of what his subse-
quent years in the Hanoi Hilton had
done to this man.
But the greatest testament of Mc-
Cain’s character had to be his con-
cession speech, where he told a sol-
emn and at times frustrated Arizona
crowd:
“My friends we have got to the end
of a long journey. The American peo-
ple have spoken, and they have spoken
clearly” and “I urge all Americans who
supported me to join me in not just
congratulating him but offering our
next president our good will and ear-
nest effort to come together.”
You could say what ever you like
about McCain and revel as much as
possible on the historic election of a
‘black president’ but one cannot won-
der if McCain ran as a candidate for
a party that was not associated with
a leader that has been so ignorant
and bungling that he brought about
the term ‘Bushism’ whether his fate
would have been different on the 4th
of November.
For even before his political career
began and after his campaign for the
highest office in the US had ended,
McCain has done nothing but put his
country first.
A man who believes in America
Gilead Amit
I´m writing this article today for vari-
ous reasons, the first if not foremost, as
a reply to Imperial Girl´s article which
has triggered this. First of all I quite
liked the article, she mentioned of how
we live in a superficial society and how
guys at Imperial should attempt to see
women for who they are rather than
how they look like, which leads me to
the problem I wish to address.
Imperial College, a University
strongly centered on scientific and
technological subjects, however de-
spite the massive union, the many
parties and all the rest, there seems to
be a social problem. Casual meetings
are frequent, but to truly get to know
someone, or for a relationship to form,
to bridge the gap between having met
and knowing one another is all too
rare. Talk tends to stay far away from
one´s own persona and at least in my
case more thoughts, jokes, ideas etc.
are filtered out by some irrational in-
hibition than ever make their way out.
“Why?” one might think, and I can
speak but for my own experiences and
feelings on the matter and deduce from
that. Judging from myself, some people
simply think too much about the pos-
sible outcomes before acting or speak-
ing until the scenario in which it could
be misinterpreted pops up and the idea
is discarded. And there´s always a sce-
nario like that.
Introversion, shyness, lack of cour-
age, insecurity… name it how you will,
it’s a normal characteristic most often
found within academics of… yes you
guessed it scientific, technological and
mathematical subjects. Usually this is
not too much of a problem since in
other environments the large portion
of more outgoing people tends to pull
the rest in, but when we are dealing
with Imperial, often whoever you are
talking with feels equally uncomfort-
able to change the subject at hand or
propose an idea.
So is it that people are excessively
superficial (Note that quite obviously
looks will always be a criteria, albeit
that they shouldn’t be the only one. Few
would wish to enter a relationship with
someone that is aesthetically repelling
to them regardless of their personality)
or is it the aversion to discussing more
personal matters that is the problem?
How many people are there that know
“who you are?”. How many people have
you given a realistic chance of truly
getting to know you without expecting
them to make a step you can´t seem to
do yourself?
Physical attractiveness is a qual-
ity that can be noticed immediately…
while personality is more often than
not hidden and often very hard to de-
termine and find out about. My guess
to the main reason why you never felt
the same for an imperial student was
simply because you as well as him
opened up more easily through the in-
ternet, regardless what you look like.
I can at least say of myself that the
number of things left unsaid, the
number of ideas left unmentioned, the
number of possibilities left unexplored
and of chances missed is staggering
and with time it can become frustrat-
ing. Yet really the only one to be able to
do anything about that is one self, as a
wise man once told me.
So as I reach the end of my article on
how people limit themselves, hoping
for others to break out of their shell to
take an action they can´t do themselves
I am faced with a daunting choice
which I knew I would have to face.
Am I to truly send this in, or will
it be another train of thoughts left
unmentioned?
Will I hide behind a anonymous writ-
ers name or will I sign it with my name,
regardless of what people’s opinions
might turn out like?
Wikipedia, wikipedia: oh, how we need ya
Tick fucking tock bloody tick
Imperial Girl
I can’t understand where on earth the
time goes. It feels like we just finished
freshers’ week but now we are already
more than half way through the first
term and let’s be honest, the only terms
that are worth talking about are this
one and spring term. Summer term is
not a term, it isn’t even a time, it’s just
a long blur of red/blue bolt smells from
the person who decided that sleeping
in the library will save those precious
moments that will allow them to get
the ultimate grade. Please, go the hell
home and brush your hair!
Back to where I was, time seems to
be slipping away. I am finding it harder
to get up in the mornings to the point
where I am sleeping straight through
the alarm (and that’s really hard with
my alarm). In the first week it was all
bushy tail, red cheeks and ready to go.
Now it’s just ‘if I wash when I get back
I can sleep for another 10 minutes’ or
‘if I plan what I am going to wear in
my head whilst I rest my eyes for a few
more minutes in bed, I’ll be super ef-
ficient when I get up and hence SAVE
time. Genius!’
Why I am I trying to scrimp and
save every minute I have? What am I
doing that is making me so busy? I am
sat here now trying to figure out where
all the time went. So there are those
pointless lectures that I never listen or
learn anything in. That takes a good
portion of the day. Or maybe the end-
less time I spend pretending to study
whilst on Facebook. The time it takes
to walk to college. The time it takes to
eat. The time it takes to... I think you
get my point. Everything happens so
fast that I often forget to enjoy myself.
No, it’s not that as I have come to re-
alise, it’s that we do things so fast that
we forget to realise how much fun we
have doing it. Please excuse the poten-
tial innuendo.
So talking to a friend of mine recent-
ly, I decided that perhaps we should set
aside a certain amount of time each
week to do something that we really
enjoy and whilst we are engaging in
that activity, we acknowledge that we
are doing something not for anyone
else but for our pure self indulgence.
On another subject, I heard through
the grapevine that a right imbecile de-
cidedtoleteveryoneknowhowshallow
he was in his Entrepreneurship class
by saying; “obviously a guy knows what
he likes about a girl- long legs, blonde
hair and big boobs”. Listen mate, stop
drooling over those pictures pinned in
the red phone box down Gloucester
Road and get a real girl that responds
when you harass her. But I forgive you
for your sin this once; you hadn’t yet
read my column from last week.
Amin Elmubarak
Accept your suffering; joy will follow
Caz Knight
Suffering: our conditioning has mould-
ed us into beings who strive to avoid
this and any other forms of awkward-
ness which could induce discomfort.
Our inherent nature to seek pleasure,
comfort and ease above all other forms
of feeling and emotion is part of our bi-
ological instinct to survive. Our minds
have learned to associate beneficial ac-
tions with pleasure: eating, drinking,
coitus. And those which jeopardise the
survival that will in turn lead us to live
long enough to generate progeny are
associated with fear, the will to flea and
pain. It is amazing how our brains, in
conjunction with our bodies, will go
to any length to ensure our morale is
kept high enough to ensure we have
the will to live, because reproduction is
challenging once one’s pulse stops. The
human race has undergone a gradual
elevation from Paleolithic cave dwell-
ers to where we stand now, the implicit
meaning being that we have things to
live for other than procreating and
simply being.
Now that some of us have evolved
slightly let us reconsider this ‘ugly’ no-
tion of suffering and pain. According
to Schopenhauer, pleasure only ex-
ists once suffering ends, implying that
pleasure is nothing in its own right.
His rival Nietzsche insisted that joy
was much more potent than any pain,
yet the two were still very much entan-
gled- one not being able to exist with-
out the other. And so we have our first
argument for suffering: we enjoy our
times of happiness all the more after
battling adversity to get to them. The
pain makes the two states distinct and
not the other way round. If it was joy
that defined pain, it would imply it was
pain we strived for and as humans we
know that this is not the case, no mat-
ter how necessary suffering is.
Nietzsche’s definition of greatness
was the ability to endure suffering ef-
fortlessly, not a small favour in the
slightest. His ubermensch (the ulti-
mate form of evolved man) would be
able to do this as well as accepting
man’s suffering and to not let the fact
that man will always suffer upset them.
Again, this is asking a lot of a civilisa-
tion whose gut instinct is to try and
eliminate suffering and bring comfort
to the lives of its people. What other
reason for council housing and aid to
Africa? Pity is commonly regarded as
something virtuous and that we are
better people for wanting to alleviate
someone else’s discomfort. However,
people do not often stop to think that
perhaps these people need their suf-
fering. Those reading this will be up
at arms at my callousness for implying
those African orphans require their
starvation. If one believes in reincarna-
tion and karma, then yes, those chil-
dren were obviously hideous people
in their previous life and got what was
coming to them.
I believe the first step is to accept
suffering as a vital part of existence
and required as part of a balanced life-
style, the emphasis being on balance
between joy and pain. I am not advo-
cating perpetual unease! It is so much
healthier to let yourself experience the
whole spectrum of human emotion
and not to try to quell or be ashamed of
any negative emotion we go through. I
feel immense pressure from society to
always appear in control, happy, strong
and resilient whereas it is perfectly ac-
ceptable to feel anxiety.
Our conditioning has also pro-
grammed us to like things that are
good and bring pleasure and to dislike
things which cause us pain. The idea of
liking something that is painful seems
paradoxical but it is not; the painful
thing is the cause/stimulus whereas the
pleasure we get from it is the effect. A
good example of this would be BDSM
(bondage-discipline sadomasochism).
The pain undergone from physical
harm (and sometimes from mental
stress caused by mind games) causes
the body to release its pain killing
endorphins which will in turn bring
about a high. The searing pain I felt as
I thudded to the ground trying to cross
the road was extraordinary and at first
I felt the rising of anger and frustra-
tion. The pain kept on but I let myself
enjoy it as I hobbled along, imagining
the bruise that would come.
Going for that run may be utterly
exhausting but we are treated to our
body’s natural drugs afterwards, not
to mention the satisfaction of shed-
ding a few pounds and increasing our
physical fitness. How much better that
chocolate cake tastes after a stint of
moderation and how much more po-
tent that first alcoholic drink is when
we have battled through a week of ab-
stinence also demonstrates that suf-
fering (in this case denying ourselves)
makes us appreciate joy all the more. It
is worth noting that the anticipation of
something is nearly always many times
worse than the thing itself: our brains
are trying to fool us so that we avoid
that situation. Conversely, a similar
phenomenon is true of pleasure; in
many cases the further in time we get
from an occurrence the more pleasant
the memory of that event becomes:
nostalgia. I digress.
By experiencing pain we also learn a
great deal and come out stronger. I can
guarantee that the benefit from every
situation, no matter how horrific, will
become obvious a while after. ‘Every
cloud has a silver lining’ illustrates
this.
Art is fuelled by pain too. Intense
and original art pours forth when the
artist is going through a difficult time.
I find I can only produce what I think
are effective poems when I am very
angry, bitter or upset. I gain no inspi-
ration from feelings of mirth or love.
That is not to say every artist is this
way and thank god or all our galleries
would be rife with angst. Art requires
suffering at the same time as our suf-
fering requires art to help us through
tough times. Tragedy was a way for the
Greeks to make themselves feel better
about how odious and disgusting the
world was. In this day and age we have
Heat magazine (although not strictly
art!).
The morale of the column is to ac-
cept your suffering and know joy is to
follow.
W
e humans are
strange in many
ways. Only the oth-
er day, for instance,
I was watching tel-
evision. Crazy, eh?
All our strangeness, however, can be
traced back to our willingness to fore-
go practicality for spiritual or physical
enjoyment. We are the most supersti-
tious and ritualistic of beings, deriving
pleasure from common fears, goals and
experiences. We have invented weird
and wonderful things to do with food
where the final energy intake in no way
justifies the effort expended. We have
converted the simple ingestion of nu-
trients into a social exercise and the act
of procreation into a recreational and
romantic one. We spend valuable time
expressing our emotions and admiring
those who can do it with more honesty
or skill than ourselves.
And while some of these attributes
may be shared by various animals, no
other creature lives for enjoyment the
way we do. Survival – the simple strug-
gle to carry on living – is no longer
a challenge for us. We’ve moved on
to level 2. We’re so good at the game
that we have to invent challenges for
ourselves just to make it worth play-
ing. We form pointless, wasteful, tire-
some, irritating and entirely wonderful
emotional attachments to people and
to things. We are the most rational of
animals and yet simultaneously the
only creatures who can afford to live
for non-practical goals. This is the di-
chotomy that sums us up.
Take Kindle – Amazon’s new £360
wireless reading device, for instance.
There’s no getting around the fact that
it’s a wonderful invention. And I could
probably cajole a relative into buying it
for me for my generic-non-faith-spe-
cific winterval holiday later this year.
Staggeringly innovative as it is, though,
I don’t want one. In this, as in so much
else, I am precisely that pipe-smoking
colonial major with a roaring fire in
his darkened, oak-panelled study who,
with a red velvet smoking hat on his
whitened hair and a snifter of brandy
in his hand, loudly and imperiously
damns those newfangled technowhat-
sits. I am now channelling the worst of
hidebound, anachronistic, misplaced
nostalgia. But I’m doing it to make sure
none of you feels a need to.
So here I sit, militarized, musta-
chioed and monocled, adamantly say-
ing that I will never give up my books
for an electronic reader.
It’s not that I don’t recognize and
appreciate its stunning practicality.
I’m sure such a machine will be more
portable, convenient and easier to read
than my paperback or hardbound cop-
ies. It’s just not a question of logic or
of weighing up pros and cons. I am
a weak, fickle, emotion-driven hu-
man being, and I make weak, fickle,
emotion-driven, human decisions.
Young as I am, I have already spent
enough time floating around libraries
and second-hand bookstores to know
I’ll never be able to break that emo-
tional attachment. In the same way my
grandfather point blank refuses to see
the advantages of high-speed inter-
net, word processing software or, you
know, a keyboard, I equally stubbornly
cling to my precious collection of yel-
lowing paper, cardboard and leather.
Until you can get a piece of gadgetry
to smell of old glue, crack loudly when
you open it for the first time, have dust
accumulate on its spine or deteriorate
in that delightful, inevitable way that
books do, I will remain proud and co-
lonial in my study. At least it has books
lining the walls.
It occurs to me that we are the last
generation who will be able to remem-
ber a time when ignorance was accept-
able. To channel Donald Rumsfeld, that
sublime footnote to history, ‘there will
be a time when we will look back and
remember a time when we could still
remember things we’d forgotten’. In
normalspeak, we will be able to recall
the last days when the World Book of
Knowledge had any relevance. When
the Encyclopaedia Britannica was the
first port of call for those seeking ran-
dom trivia. Those 30 beautiful blue
volumes that contained within them
the store of all information anyone
needed to know before 2001.
And then, suddenly, along came
Jimmy Wales. And wikipedia made an
entrance into our lives. Now, true, it’s
wonderful to be able to find out the
intricacies of the Namamuga incident,
where a British merchant was killed
for refusing to show subservience to a
Japanese daimyo; to discover the exact
nature of the foreign policy relation-
ship Palau has with the United States;
the names given to various nought-to-
infinity integrals; or the list of Rwan-
dan presidents at the click of a button.
But taking a heavy, cobalt-blue tome
off the shelf and leafing through it, be-
fore discovering that you’d taken the
wrong volume and in fact needed the
index and a kindly adult to explain the
difference between micropaedia and
macropaedia and interpret the unusual
cross-referencing notation used by the
Britannica editors had a great deal of
romance associated with it.
Before wikipedia, seeking informa-
tion was something almost glamor-
ous. An elitist adventure. Now it has
become a populist commercialized
pilgrimage. The spirit of the ‘49 gold
rush has gradually morphed into the
motivation behind a family trip to
Disneyland.
It takes time to get used to. I don’t
know about you, but I liked getting
my information from a world-renon-
wed expert on a subject, printed on
almost transparently thin sheets of
paper with a gold border, rather than
having it instantaneously revealed to
me in leetspeak by some spotty teen-
ager in Minnesota with the handle
Optimus413lolz.
But – and there is no possible way
I can emphasize that But to the pro-
portions it deserves – this is the spirit
that flooded out of the printing presses
at Mainz in 1452. These are the ide-
als that prompted Luther to nail his
95 theses to the church door in Wit-
temberg in 1546. Knowledge belongs
to the people, and the most romantic
thing about it is being able to spread it
to the world. Books were nice, vellum
must have been remarkable, papyri and
stone tablets were probably infinitely
more attractive. We move on, and we
gradually lose our reliance on the tech-
nologies of preceding generations. The
only thing stopping us is sentimental-
ity and emotion. Try as we like to to get
rid of these irritatingly fluffy aspects of
our characters, they won’t go away. All
we can do is hope our children have as
little patience for our nostalgia as we
have for that of our parents. And be-
lieve me, they will.
Today, anyone can access whatever
information they want to, whenever
they want to, in the easiest possible
way. That is amazing in itself, but it
needs the new 21st Century mindset
to appreciate. And I love it – of course
I do – but you can’t expect a cantan-
kerous ex-Army empire-builder to be
dragged into the 21st Century without
a good deal of kicking and screaming.
Not when there’s half a pint of brandy
inside him.

