8 felix Friday 07 November 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
Comment
At 5am this morning a good friend of
mine sent me a text message. It said, ‘I
have a dream that my four little chil-
dren will one day live in a nation where
they will not be judged by the colour
of their skin but by the content of their
character’ (Martin Luther King, 1963).
My friend is a British Pakistani who
works in Politics and has literary ambi-
tion: I was surprised that he resorted
to the words of someone else which,
powerful though they are, to my white,
middle-class ears, have been repeated
so often as to become almost cliché.
It was exciting at 5am this morning.
It was exciting to see the election of a
president who, whatever you think of
him, is not simply a replica of some-
thing which has come before. It was ex-
citing to see so many people motivated
by the promise of change, mobilised in
their thousands to a park in Chicago
and stirred into a frenzy worthy of
a pop star, by politics of all things. It
was exciting, and also a little scary. It
was scary to see the negative reaction
of Republicans at their headquarters
in Arizona, booing every time Obama
was mentioned in McCain’s conces-
sion speech. It was scary to look into
a future which is a complete unknown,
with the promise of ‘Change’. Human
beings are creatures of habit. We do
not like change.
But regardless of your political pref-
erence,somethingalreadyhaschanged.
McCain last night silenced his dissent-
ing crowd with the following words;
“It’s natural, tonight, to feel some dis-
appointment. But tomorrow, we must
move beyond it and work together to
get our country moving again”. Obama
celebrated his victory by urging the
crowds to “summon a new spirit of
patriotism; of service and responsibil-
ity where each of us resolves to pitch
in and work harder and look after not
only ourselves, but each other”. This is
a new politics, not one man on a stage
promising the moon (although it is
surely impossible to achieve all that
Obama has promised), but two men,
from opposing political parties saying
‘look, it can be good, but we have to do
it together. There is no magic wand,
just you and me’. “I will listen to you,
especially when we disagree” he says,
and this is what makes me hope.
My boyfriend has a postcard in his
office, which says ‘Hate something,
change something’, and this is what to
me, Obama really stands for, behind
the healthcare and the repealing of
Bush’s tax rebates and whatever other
policies you may or may not believe
in. As Shami Chakrabarti, director of
Liberty, so eloquently said on Desert
Island Disks- if she wasn’t doing the
job she does, she would just be sitting
in the pub with her mates, complaining
about the very things she campaigns so
vociferously on: Guantanamo bay, 48
days, etc. Obama, in the words of Mc-
Cain, “inspired the hopes of so many
millions of Americans who had once
wrongly believed that they had little at
stake or little influence in the election
of an American president”.
He may not be in charge of our coun-
try (political jokes aside) or even your
choice of President, but let him inspire
you to make change, to have influ-
ence. Go on demonstrations. Write
letters to your MP, to the Mayor, to
the train company who held you up
for three hours last Sunday. Get some
backbone; use our gift of free speech,
while it lasts, so that our politicians too
want to listen to us, especially when we
disagree.
Because I understand now what my
friend meant at 5 o’clock this morning.
We are no longer judged by the colour
of our skin, but by the contents of our
character.
Make yours count.
We are no longer judged by our colour
Krystyna Larkham
I was returning to London from a
weekend visiting my parents, and con-
versely to the usual, my head was clear
and my tummy was full.
As the train neared the capital, the
carriage began to get more and more
packed, to the point where standing
and watching the old ladies balance on
rocking platform shifted from funny to
embarrassing. So I got up and joined
the others my age after winning a “no
you sit down” battle with a woman so
old that I think she might have been
present at Churchill’s birth, and I don’t
mean the nodding dog.
Suddenly, “COULD ANYONE
WITH MEDICAL KNOWLEDGE
PLEASE COME TO CARRIAGE 6”
came the unusually clear voice over the
train’s PA system.
A part of my brain raced and thought
“wow! I can help someone, I think I
can!” but then decided against it, as
I thought that the best thing I could
probably do is diagnose what is wrong
with this patient and if he or she was
dying, I’d probably only be able to turn
around and explain what and how
this patient is dying from, seeing as I
don’t have the necessary equipment
to provide any help. It’s not as if I walk
around with a bag of pharmaceuticals
and syringes and surgical equipment,
so I re-engaged my brain to try and
work out how I can finish the sudoku
in the newspaper.
The small twinge of guilt brought
about by my inaction was put to rest
when an unusually pierced woman
came through with an air of impor-
tance politely ushering us common
folk out of the way to tend to this
emergency.
I barely had time to write down the
next number on my puzzle when I
heard a booming “GET OUT OF THE
WAY, EXCUSE ME, MOVE! I DON”T
MEAN TO BE RUDE BUT THIS IS
AN EMERGENCY” as three doctors
literally shoved those who were too
slow aside.
I’m ashamed to say this, but they
seemed like the adult versions of some
of my colleagues at ICSM.
However, that was not my first
thought, as my first thought began with
W and rhymed with banker. As I looked
around, people’s faces and mumbling
were in sync with my thoughts of dis-
approval, but then people began to au-
dibly try to make excuses for such an
arrogantly rude act.
“He is a doctor and I suppose he
could help” and others along similar
lines
But why should that fact that you
may be able to help someone in need
give the right to treat the rest of the
carriage like a nuisance and to shove
them around like they are intentionally
antagonising your effort to do good.
What I think nailed this doctor’s per-
formance was the fact that he proceed-
ed to voluntarily tell every member of
the train on his way back “It’s only an
epileptic fit, no need to worry” in the
loudest voice you could imagine.
As a medic, I have had the unique
chance to observe our species from the
outside, as it were, and I would like to
take this opportunity to say to ICSM:
be humble, you’re studying for a job at
the end of the day, like every body else.
You shouldn’t moan that you’re doing
six years because you knew that when
you applied, no one surprised you with
that information towards the end of
your third year!
And to the rest of Imperial: On be-
half of all medics, past and present, if
you see us act like that, sorry, we don’t
try to be arrogant, we’re just simple.
A lesson for all train-using Medics
The Watcher
So this is Christmas, tell me what have
you done? A year has gone by, you are
single again? If like me, you recently
broke up with your girl/boyfriend,
hopefully not both simultaneously, you
would perhaps empathise with me (but
don’t sympathise, I’m doing fine… re-
ally). In fact, I’m not lamenting over
my ex who shall remain shameless; I
meant nameless. I’m here to preach to
all those chaps left stranded by a cheat-
ing and emotionally retarded witch,
that it’s perfectly manly to feel down.
Having spent five years at Imperial
as a Medic, I have taken more abuse
than you did free pens from the career
fairs and know our motherland college
better than Obama knows the names
of plumbers. Over the years, amidst
articles on the common paraphernalia
of life, these threads preferred to com-
ment on courting the opposite sex and
starting a relationship. But I’m sure
that’s not where our problems lie as
bright motivated Imperial guys (cough
cough, doctor I have a cold). Keeping
it (the relationship) up is the difficult
thing. So this is about things that hap-
pen when the romantic bulls**t goes
cleavage-up. Come on, flowers and
dinners just don’t cut it anymore. It’s
not like adolescent years, when you get
so much for a deluxe whopper meal.
A million love songs and presents lat-
er, did she still complain not spending
enough quality time? Does she ever tell
you something’s wrong and you can-
Breaking up is never that easy
not for all the testosterone in you guess
what? Well, move (please) get out the
way, get out the way (please) get out the
way… (Apologies Ludacris, I don’t like
the word bitch, to call her that would
be an insult to my dog) Afterall, you
don’t wear the same shirt all the time,
or the same socks, do you? The grass is
greener, plenty of fish in the sea. You
heard them all. Go on my son, make
my day. What’s wrong? She keeps call-
ing you? You keep “bumping” into her?
She wants to be friends, FRIENDS?
Or freaky-on-the-weekends? I mean,
come on lady, how do I move on if I
see your mug all the time? It might be
easy for you, quite frankly you wouldn’t
mind who gets stuck in that hole with
you, but I care deeply down which
burrow I descend (you wish you are
reading about how ICFC kicked UCL
ass on the weekend now, don’t you?). I
need a PhD in “avoiding-you-ology” to
have some peace and quiet.
Intruth,I’veloved,laughedandcried,
had my fill, my share of losing (RIP
Legend Sinatra). Getting over someone
you once loved deeply may seem diffi-
cult. Your emotion suddenly declares
independence from your logic. You
know she is a cheating whore, but for
about a week, you feel lousy, you miss
her, you want to touch her, kiss her …
STOP! Love songs last 3 choruses, why
should you suffer for eternity? If this is
your mind state, empathise with me,
EMPATHISE! Although we’ve come to
the end of the road, but I still can’t let
go … SLAP YOURSELF BOY, Boyz2-
Men made 11million with that song,
how much do you get sobbing yourself
silly? Go do your dissertation. Bravo,
one more time, altogether now: I was
a fool to let you go, I will never meet
anyone like you, you are my endless
love … SEE THAT TOILET BOWL?
PLEASE STICK YOUR HEAD IN IT.
Abstract stuff aside, here are some
figures. She is one of 3,301,112,087
girls on this planet (WikiAnswers
so don’t doubt), and you are the only
one of YOU on this planet, God did
not give YOU the Y-chromosome and
good looks for nothing. Furthermore
(big ideas for a medic), behind every
great man is not a woman, it’s the
leather seat of your new Bentley. Be-
hind your Bentley is none other than
the C-reg Ford Fiesta your ex will be in
with hubby-the-third and five kids in
ten years time; honking their horn be-
cause they are late for a social services
appointment. So laugh my son, laugh
like that time you got an A for your
progress test, laugh like that time you
scored a hat-trick against King’s, laugh
since you got escaped the clutches of
evil.
Still feeling sad? Close your eyes, give
me your hand, heterosexually, I can
see you are weeping, do you under-
stand, I once felt the same, you are not
dreaming, she will be burning in eter-
nal flame. It is probably worth holding
back the thoughts of hate and remem-
ber that she did give you some happi-
ness. Let’s face it, if she can entertain
three, not including yourself, at the
same time, that’s a medal right there.
You should be glad that she was with
you and not making a fortune in the
midget porn business (had she lost a
few pounds with a complimentary visit
to the boob surgeon that is). When she
told you not to come over at 10pm, she
was looking out for you; you would be
much healthier not seeing what was in
her bedroom, believe me, that’s what
nightmares are made of. Last thing to
that effect, you must praise her for the
ability to keep a happy, pleasant outer
shell to the public because deep down,
deep, deep down there, she’s hurting
like there’s no tomorrow.
My friends, it’s time to do all the
things you couldn’t do before: finish
your model Spitfire, read about Plum-
mer-Vinson Syndrome, snog six girls
in one night and write a felix article.
Remember, being single does not mean
you are desperate so you are under no
obligation to date again in the near fu-
ture. I mean just look at the man in the
mirror; I rest my case.
Enjoy your time my son, YOU ARE
SINGLE.
PS: If you are offended by the con-
tent, may I add that all characters in
this article are fictional, including my-
self, and correspondences with real-life
characters are purely coincidental.
Alex da Flex
In the absence of Monarchy
By the time you read this, the Colonials
will have gone about their sordid busi-
ness and appointed themselves a new
leader, invested with the power that
comes from the mandate of a majority
of the ignorant masses amassing, for a
fleeting moment, the intelligence re-
quired to tick a box next your name.
At the time of writing, the polls indi-
cate that the chap who is friends with
criminals and who smoked illegal sub-
stances will triumph over the elderly
gentleman who endured multiple years
of torture, turning down repeated of-
fers of early release because he felt it
unfair that he would be released before
other serviceman. Of course, this is
what the polls say. I have the suspicion
that racism may yet have its Austerl-
itz and the senile reactionary and his
insane religious entourage will punch
through the centre of their enemy’s
lines and once again be in a position
to suppress all the benevolent changes
that the charming young man of the
Democratic Party intends to bring
about.
Personally, I’m betting on the good
Senator to win. Of course, by now you
know the result and can be awe of my
powers of prediction as well as my
predilection for covering all possible
angles. By now you must be sick of all
this talk of the Americans. At least, you
damn well ought to be. At this point,
each time I hear the name of one of the
candidates I intend to kill five people.
As the main topic on the news tonight
will be this quaint, foreign election, this
article may become highly irrelevant as
that news item is overshadowed by the
tragedy of London’s entire population
being slaughtered and their remains
being reprocessed into Ersatz food for
sale to World War One’s Germany. A
free tip for you: the best time to sell
would be during the turnip winter of
1916.
Currently, a thousand weak-willed,
intolerable and utterly non-American
liberals are running around telling me
to vote for that infernal demagogue
that has captured their unable-to-
vote-in-the-American-election hearts.
So desirous are they that the heroic
and wise old man be defeated by that
inexperienced parvenu that they are
doing everything in their power to tell
Americans how to vote. It is on their
facebook, it is on their T-shirts, it is
on the tip of their tongues at every
single moment. Like how the Guard-
ian encouraged its readers to write let-
ters to Americans in swing states that
essentially ordered them to vote for
John Kerry (encouraging most of the
recipients to vote for Bush if you did
not see that coming), these irrelevant
xenos are busy trying to do everything
they interfere in the national American
democratic process.
By the time you read this, those same
lovely, well-intentioned people will ei-
ther be in an ecstasy of delight, chok-
ing beneath the weight of their own
sense of self-satisfaction, or they will
be distraught, rightly commiserating
the loss of a momentous opportunity
for America. But whatever their feel-
ings, it is none of their business. It
has nothing to do with them. The way
some people discuss the matter, you
would think they would not be content
until the Americans abstained from
voting and handed over all responsibil-
ity for the appointment of their leaders
to the international community. Before
such an idea encourages the sort of ela-
tion in you that would encourage your
neighbour to shuffle away (or possibly
shuffle closer and tell you how they had
always secretly hoped that you felt the
same way about them) then let me tell
you that the Americans are not going
to do that, at least not any time soon.
Really, this election is no business of
yours. If you are not American, please
in future do not tell Americans what to
think or do with their own country. It
is only giving them attention after all.
They were always destined to have aw-
ful leaders from the moment they fell
into that fit of madness that motivated
them to rid themselves of our glori-
ous Monarchy. Let them make their
bad decisions. Let them vote for the
gentle elderly gentleman whose reac-
tionary policies will inevitably destroy
America. Let them vote for the charis-
matic youth whose uplifting words and
ideas will lead America to the cess pit
of economic and moral decay. Be it the
crazy warmonger or the Hitler-esque
‘Lord of Change’ that they choose (or
have chosen) one thing remains cer-
tain: They have no Queen, any choice
they make is the wrong one, anything
they do is awful and every single one of
them is spiritually deficient.
And if their choice should leave this
world in fire, then do not fear. Cometh
the hour, cometh the man and if the
results come in at half past nine, then
I get up at ten.
Viscount
Kensington
I, science
The Imperial College science magazine
Out Now
!!!

