business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 07 November 2008
Business
Business Editor – Luke Dhanoa
Economic Genocide:
A debt-ly deception
Mohsin Asharia reports back on the recent event held by
AhlulBayt Islamic Society
C
redit crunch. Global Fi-
nancial Crisis. Britain on
the brink of recession. We
are told we are facing the
consequences of over-
borrowing. But is there a deeper flaw?
Is the monetary system inherently
causing an Economic Genocide?
As part of the AhlulBayt Islamic
Society’s current campaign to raise
awareness about the Economic Crisis,
students of all faiths and backgrounds
convened in the Clore Lecture Theatre
last Thursday to discuss the topic in
more depth. Toufic Machnouk, Execu-
tive Director of the Institute for Policy
Research and Development, aimed to
clarify the nature of the crisis, focusing
on three main factors often misunder-
stood by the average Joe: the owner-
ship of wealth, the monetary structure
and the Islamic perspective on these
two systems.
The talk sent an alarming message,
implying that the problem is in the
‘credit’ rather than the ‘crunch.’ While
some governments seem to think we
can fight fire with fire and ‘borrow our
way out of this’, Mr. Machnouk sug-
gested otherwise. The problem, he im-
plied, lies in the ownership of wealth.
You know something is wrong when
the poorest half of the world’s popula-
tion own just 1% of the world’s wealth
and when the richest three men on the
planet are worth the equivalent of the
total GDP of the 48 poorest nations.
According to Mr. Machnouk, com-
bining wealth ownership inequalities
with a flawed monetary structure con-
cocts a lethal mixture. So lethal, in fact,
that it has led to the deaths of more
children than the number of deaths
caused by World War I. Interestingly,
97% of ‘money’ today is created by pri-
vate banks in interest. However, when
one pauses to ask where all this money
came from, there is an eery silence. In
fact the majority of this money is not
in circulation but in the form of digits
in computers. No wonder we can’t pay
it back. So why has this never been a
problem up till now? The speaker lik-
ened the system to a game of musical
So you’re thinking of a career in law
but you haven’t got a clue what is ac-
tually involves and how you can get
into it. I was in your exact position two
years ago, back when I was blissfully
ignorant of how quickly your gradu-
ation year creeps up on you and eve-
ryone from distant relatives to friends
you haven’t seen for a few months de-
mands to know which career path you
have chosen to devote yourself to.
I did the typical IC physicist thing
and interned in a bank following my
second year and decided the world of
wining and dining potential Russian
oligarchs in the faint hope they will
give me their money to play with was
not for me.
I panicked that my dream of pranc-
ing around the City in a nice suit and
high heels would never be fulfilled
until I stumbled upon a law firm pres-
entation at Imperial (actually, I got the
wrong room initially and sat through
half an hour of bridge building chat
until I realised the law firm talk was
three doors down).
Despite missing the first half an hour,
it dawned upon me that this particu-
lar career path would lead to both my
nice suit and a job where I’d be able to
use my brain as well. Science gradu-
ates are very popular for Intellectual
Property work (arguments over whose
idea something was and who should
reap the benefits e.g. recent Barbie and
Bratz case) because cases often require
a knowledge of science to determine
whether item A is in fact exactly the
same as item B released by a rival com-
pany a year ago. More generally, they
seem to be very impressed by our fabu-
lous intelligence with the belief that if
we can survive 3-4 years of grilling at
IC then taking on the world of corpo-
rate law will be a breeze.
Asking around, I discovered that law
firms do summer vacation schemes
just like banks (except much shorter so
you still have a summer holiday) and
that this is the best way to determine if
you’d enjoy this kind of work – seeing
the business’ dirty coffee mugs and all
from the inside. To convert from a sci-
When The City
fails, join The Old
Bailey
Daria Nakariakova ence subject all that is needed is a year-
long GDL (Graduate Diploma in Law)
and then another year LPC (Legal Prac-
tice Course), which law graduates have
to do too, and if you secure a training
contract with a firm they pay for it all.
I spent some time shut up in my room
inventing answers to ‘Describe a time
when you showed initiative...’ etc. and
a few months later found myself with
2 vac schemes (as the cool people call
them) for this summer.
Both were at City corporate law
firms. Unlike my time spent in the
bank, this experience did not put me
off a career in law, quite the opposite;
I’m already planning my lawyer out-
fits! Contrary to popular belief, I was
not buried under piles of photocopy-
ing for two weeks. I spent three days
in the Court of Appeals listening to a
nasty man being accused of all sorts of
bad deeds (the nasty man’s bank was
a client of the firm and so they were
involved indirectly and we were there
incognito. Sadly, I did not get to wear a
trench coat and shades).
The judges really do wear wigs and
the barristers really do make barely
disguised scathing remarks to each
other. It was great fun.
At the second firm my buddy, who
is a trainee lawyer (the position oc-
cupied for 2 years until your qualify),
was solely responsible for a case of a
mobile phone provider client being
sued by a particularly annoying client.
I found relevant pieces of law, helped
to write a sneering email to the man’s
lawyers accusing them of being use-
less and compiled the files of evidence
to be presented by our barrister to the
judges at the hearing itself.
Having decided that I love the work
but want to work in a bigger and more
successful firm I got a job as campus
manager for Herbert Smith for this
academic year.
The big event is Thursday 20th No-
vember, location is yet to be decied.
If you want to find out what a career
in one of the top corporate law firms in
the world, please come along.
Send an email to dn305@ic.ac.uk to
sign up and I’ll see you there over a free
drink!
chairs: so long as the music is playing,
everyone is fine. When it stops, some-
body has to lose.
Mr. Machnouk went on to talk of the
global effect that the crisis has had,
with poorer countries strangled by un-
paid debts. Unfortunately, this perpet-
ual debt can only be sustained by per-
petual growth. The speaker described
it as like charging you for the air you
breathe whilst simultaneously asking
you for a part of your lung for each
breath you take. These countries are
forced into IMF loans, which seem like
an idyllic escape at the time. However,
the structural adjustment programmes
attached to the loans ensure the loan
money disappears to private and for-
eign investors, leaving the impover-
ished nations to clean up the mess.
And pay back the loans, of course. It
comes as no surprise that all nations
given IMF loans showed a decline in
17 key indicators in the years after they
received the loans. Therefore it is also
not surprising that half of the world’s
population now live in absolute pov-
erty, earning under $2 a day.
Mr. Machnouk concluded with the
Islamic perspective on the issue. With
the Arabic word for ‘Economics’ stem-
ming from the word ‘Equality’, in Islam
wealth is nothing but a trust from God
and the policies in place attempt to en-
sure fairness and justice in transactions
and the financial system. Be it through
the prohibition of hoarding wealth or
the elimination of interest, Islam aims
to reach a state where wealth is not the
goal, rather a means to satisfaction.
However questions were raised in the
following Q&A session as to how Is-
lamic many so-called Muslim nations’
economies are today.
In conclusion, the talk was a very in-
teresting take on a system that has af-
fected and will continue to have a ma-
jor impact on all of us. It was engaging
to hear a religious view on a system not
often linked to religion and the speak-
er’s eloquence and the Q&A session
provided an opportunity for further
discussion.
The crowds begin to gather in the lecture theatre
Poster of the event by AhlulBaty Islamic Society
Even if you do lose your hair through stress, you can wear these lovely
wigs to cover it up

