science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 07 November 2008
Science
Science Editors – Daniel Burrows & Mićo Tatalović
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
13
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
Science
Podview
Mico Tatalovic
Science Editor
felix Science NewsExpress
Nature Podcast
If you don’t have time to read Nature
magazine, this handy offering rounds
up the biggest articles and news sto-
ries from each edition. Presented by
Adam Rutherford and Kerri Smith, the
podcast focuses on one or two papers
that are particularly relevant, well-re-
searched or just plain odd.
This week research into the 2004 tsu-
nami finds it may not have been as
unique as geologists initially though;
more bad news for amphibians in the
form of a herbicide that increases sus-
ceptibility to disease; and the Antiky-
thera Mechanism – if it sounds like
a Dan Brown book that’s because it
probably could be – an ancient Greek
‘computer’ thought to be the world’s
oldest. Also, it’s great to hear scientists
laying into economists for being as ir-
rational as teenage girls (apologies to
any teenage girls reading). They pack
a lot into half an hour, and end with
some controversial science-related
news stories. My favourite was Sarah
Palin’s anti-fruit fly stance. Yes, terror
has a new face...and it’s got compound
eyes.
http://www.nature.com/nature/podcast/
Science Podcast
Nature’s main rival also has a podcast,
and it has the merit of being presented
by Robert Frederick, who surely has
the smoothest voice around since Ron
Burgundy quit Scotch.
Following a similar format, the pod-
cast showcases a few stories from each
week’s magazine along with interviews
and a smattering of in-depth analysis.
A thoughtful account of blogging Chi-
nese scientists aside, I found most of
the content uninteresting, and at cer-
tain points the show took on the air
of Sesame Street (“Hello Bert”; “Hello
Ernie”...). But I guess it was worth it to
hear the fabulous news that mice are
being given Viagra to combat muscu-
lar dystrophy, with the side-effect of
increased blood flow to ‘certain parts’
of the body...they must get out more,
these scientist types.
http://www.sciencemag.org/about/podcast.dtl
WONDERING what the world will
look like when the heat is on?
A newly discovered microfossil of an
organism that lived during a previous
global warming is helping researchers
understand how aquatic life adapts to
the warmer, lower oxygen, waters that
can accompany radical environmental
transformations.
Dubbed the “Magnetic Death Star”,
due to its round and spiky magnetite
structure, the fossil was found among
sediment deposited 55 million years
ago during the Paleocene-Eocene
Thermal Maximum (PETM), when
surging atmospheric carbon drove
temperatures 9 degrees Fahrenheit
higher.
CalTech and McGill University
workers believe the single-celled eu-
karyote evolved during the PETM,
only to be out-competed and disap-
pear again when conditions cooled
off. (Proceedings of the National
Academy of Science, DOI:10.1073/
pnas.0803634105).
Felix Whitton
reviews journal
podcasts
Tonkean macaques (Macaca tonkeana)
use true vote to decide group move-
ments. A new study, presented at the
European Conference on Behavioural
Biology in Dijon France, shows for
the first time how animals may reach
a consensus by voting before execut-
ing behaviour that concerns the whole
group. The study also shows that in-
dividuals support the majority vote
even though they may disagree with
the decision.
Cédric Sueur and Odile Petit, biolo-
gists from Strasbourg University and
the National French Centre of Scien-
tific Research say that their “results
proved that voting does not exist only
in humans”.
Tonkean macaques live in groups
and inhabit islands in Indonesia. Each
morning they have to reach a consen-
sus on where to go foraging that day,
weighing issues such as food avail-
ability, predation threat and possible
encounters with other groups. But in-
stead of an obvious lead from a domi-
nant animal any group member can
express an opinion by showing specific
pre-departure behaviours, indicating
their preferred direction of movement
that day.
Sueur and Petit wanted to know how
the whole group ends up moving in
a single direction when several indi-
viduals suggest different directions.
They observed two semi-free groups
of macaques and recorded which in-
dividuals expressed their opinions.
Walking from 1 to 5m away from the
group counted as a suggestion/opin-
ion to move in that direction.
The results showed that the group
always chose the direction that was
supported by the most votes. Individ-
uals that suggested other, less popular
directions gave up their choice and
supported the majority vote. Sueur
says this is the first demonstration
that voting is not unique to humans
and might in fact exist in a variety of
animals.
In an August’s issue of Science, James
Fowler, a political scientist from the
University of California in San Diego,
published his results showing that the
human tendency to vote is highly he-
reditary. Asked to comment on Sueur
and Petit’s findings, he said “this is
an important study for linking voting
behaviour in humans to behaviour in
other primates”. However, he adds that
humans vote because different indi-
viduals benefit from different things
and humans think they know which
choice is best to achieve those things.
Macaques all benefit from the same
things (surviving, finding food) but
“genuinely do not know which choice
is best” to achieve those things. Hence
they rely on the higher probability of
being right if they go along with the
majority. He concludes that to really
say that monkeys vote like humans
“researchers must show that the mon-
keys achieve consensus even when
they would individually benefit from
different outcomes. “If these were hu-
mans, I would just ask them what they
want, but with monkeys I imagine it is
harder to know what they want.”
Monkey democracy
Credit: cedric sueur, strasbourg University
Scientists have identified a new target
in pain control that could prove more
effective than morphine.
A team at the University of North
Carolina, USA, has discovered that
the prostatic acid phosphatase (PAP)
enzyme, a tumour suppressor found
in the prostate, is also located in pain-
sensing neurons.
Using knockout mice, the research-
ers found that a lack of PAP resulted
in increased pain sensitivity in chronic
pain states.
Conversely, an injection of PAP into
the spine reduced sensitivity to painful
stimuli.
What is more, the effects of this
injection lasted far longer than that
achieved using morphine, the current
‘gold standard’ in pain control.
The PAP enzyme is now thought
to work by converting an extracellu-
lar substrate to adenosine, a known
analgesic in mammals. (Neuron,
DOI:10.1016/j.neuron.2008.08.024)
Like fingerprints, the whorls of stars
that make up galaxies come in an amaz-
ing variety of patterns.
And like fingerprints, these patterns
appear to be largely independent of
environment – new research suggests
that whether a galaxy ends up as a ‘gi-
ant spiral’ or an ‘extreme dwarf’ can be
predicted simply from its mass.
Disney and colleagues scanned the
sky for 200 galaxies, sizing each one
up on seven different parameters that
should affect morphology.
All the parameters correlated with
each other, agreeing with other recent
studies that have found surprisingly
small effects of a galaxy’s interstellar
surroundings.
This challenges current theories of
galaxy formation, which describe a
chaotic history of collisions, neigh-
bourhood interactions and feedback
effects.
(Nature, DOI: 10.1038/nature07366)
Using genetically modified nematode
worms, researchers at Liverpool Uni-
versity have identified gene mutations
that they believe cause higher alcohol
tolerance: shedding light on why some
people ‘hold their drink’ better than
others.
They investigated amino-acid altera-
tions in two worms carrying mutations
of the same gene and found that both
mutations reduced the negative behav-
ioural effects of alcohol, allowing more
to be consumed before any adverse
physical reactions occurred.
The gene they investigated corre-
sponds to a gene in humans that per-
forms the same function in the nerv-
ous system, making it now possible,
they hope, to search the human gene
for changes that could help identify
individuals with a predisposition to
alcoholism. (Mol. Biol. Cell published
online October 15, 2008, 10.1091/mbc.
E08-07-0689)
Researchers at the CIN2 laboratory in
Spain have developed an ultrasensitive
mass sensor with resolution of up to 1.4
zeptograms (10-21 grams) at 5 degrees
Kelvin, five times finer than that of pre-
vious silicon resonators.
The device consists of a 1 nanometre
diameter carbon nanotube attached at
both ends to two gold electrodes.
Atoms directed at the nanotube will
stick to it, and this added mass causes a
measurable change in the resonant fre-
quency of the nanotube, which is used
to calculate the atom’s mass.
This device can measure the mass
of proteins with atomic precision, and
researchers hope to increase the reso-
lution enough to be able to monitor
the change of mass during chemical
reactions.
(Nano Letters, DOI: 10.1021/
nl801982v)
There are now twice as many people
with peanut allergies than in 1998, with
about 1-2% of the population of the UK
and USA affected.
The allergy mostly develops in early
childhood, and usually remains for life.
Aside from being a massive inconven-
ience, the most severe anaphylactic re-
action can be life-threatening.
Now researchers at King’s College
London and the National Institute for
Health Research Biomedical Research
Centre have found that children that
eat peanuts from infancy have a much
lower chance of developing peanut al-
lergy. This is against the current advise
offered in the UK- which is for children
at ‘high risk of peanut allergy’ to avoid
the nuts altogether. The lead authors of
the study, Professor Gideon Lack, and
Dr George du Toit emphasise that they
would not advise going against Depart-
ment of Health guidelines “this study is
by no means conclusive and that there
are numerous other factors that could
not be controlled for and could have
influenced the results”.
Prof Lack is currently heading up
another study that is hoped will give
more conclusive results - it is the larg-
est randomised controlled trial of pea-
nut allergy avoidance- with results ex-
pected in 2014.
This could lead to a greater under-
standing of how to avoid other food
allergies, and this possibility for early
prevention could literally save lives.
Umia Kukathasan
Reference: KCL press re-
lease: 31 Oct 2008 http://www.
kcl.ac.uk/news/news_details.
php?news_id=936&year=2008
Psychologists at the University of Ro-
chester have published a study in the
Journal of Personality and Social Psy-
chology, suggesting wearing red could
make you more attractive – if you’re
female.
They also found that men were pre-
pared to spend more money on a date
with a woman in a red shirt, rather
than a blue shirt. The photos were cali-
brated to exact saturation and bright-
ness, meaning the effect could only be
attributed to hue.
Women shown the same pictures
showed no such bias when asked to
give an attractiveness rating, suggest-
ing an unconscious link in the male
mind with fertility. This behaviour has
previously been observed in nonhu-
man primates such as baboons and
chimpanzees, which visibly redden
when near ovulation.
Death-star insight on
global warming
Mass Sensor with
Atomic Precision
Nature, not Nurture
for Galaxies
Wearing red boosts
your attractivness
A peanut a day keeps
allergy at bay?
Move over Morphine,
there’s a new boy
Holding your Liquor:
Wormy Drinkers
Contrary to headlines in certain na-
tional newspapers, a study carried
out at the Institute of Food Research
(IFR) does not yet directly point to the
prevention of cancer by eating jams
and jellies, the NHS Choices website
suggests.
The ‘Behind the Headlines’ guide
to science draws attention to the fact
that the original investigation by Dr.
Patrick Gunning and his team is very
early research, not even carried out
in living cells and therefore as yet not
applicable to humans.
“JamandJellycanhelpfightCancer”
reported the Daily Express, although
both contain a high proportion of
sugar and are therefore not usually at
the top of the list for a healthy diet.
Published online in the FASEB Jour-
nal, the new study cites previous re-
search which proposed that modified
pectin may “inhibit the function of
the protein galectin-3 (Gal3)”, consid-
ered to be “a diagnostic marker and
a target protein for cancer treatment”.
Dr. Gunning and his colleagues found
that a fragment of potato pectin called
galactan can bind to the recombinant
form of human Gal3 and that this “is
consistent with the molecular hy-
pothesis for the observed anticancer
action of modified pectin”.
However, there is much more re-
search to be done before this can be
extrapolated to the pectin found in
jam and jelly and the effect it may
have on the human consumer. In the
meantime “it is best to consistently
eat a range of fruits, vegetables and
high-fibre foods,” says co-researcher
Professor Vic Morris.
Anti-cancerous Effect
of Jam and Jelly?
Umia Kukathsan Jacob Aron Maria Hogan Janet Cargill
Dr Tim Jones Dr Louise Whiteley Abigail Orr Jessica Hamzelou
Obama on the top 8 Science Topics
Abridged answers from Obama’s re-
sponses to ScienceDebate 2008.
1. Innovation.
Ensuring that the U.S. continues to
lead the world in science and technol-
ogy will be a central priority for my
administration. Our talent for innova-
tion is still the envy of the world, but
we face unprecedented challenges that
demand new approaches. For example,
the U.S. annually imports $53 billion
more in advanced technology prod-
ucts than we export. China is now the
world’s number one high technology
exporter. This competitive situation
may only worsen over time because
the number of U.S. students pursuing
technical careers is declining. The U.S.
ranks 17th among developed nations
in the proportion of college students
receiving degrees in science or engi-
neering; we were in third place thirty
years ago.
My administration will increase
funding for basic research in physical
and life sciences, mathematics, and
engineering at a rate that would dou-
ble basic research budgets over the
next decade. We will increase research
grants for early-career researchers to
keep young scientists entering these
fields. We will increase support for
high-risk, high-payoff research portfo-
lios at our science agencies.
2. Climate Change
There can no longer be any doubt
that human activities are influencing
the global climate and we must react
quickly and effectively. First, the U.S.
must get off the sidelines and take long-
overdue action here at home to reduce
our own greenhouse gas emissions.
We must also take a leadership role in
designing technologies that allow us to
enjoy a growing, prosperous economy
while reducing greenhouse gas emis-
sions by 80 percent below 1990 levels
by 2050. With the right incentives, I’m
convinced that American ingenuity
can do this, and in the process make
American businesses more productive,
create jobs, and make America’s build-
ings and vehicles safer and more at-
tractive. This is a global problem. U.S.
leadership is essential but solutions will
require contributions from all parts of
the world—particularly the rest of the
world’s major emitters: China, Europe,
and India.
3. Energy.
America’s challenges in providing se-
cure, affordable energy while address-
ing climate change mean that we must
make much more efficient use of en-
ergy and begin to rely on new energy
sources that eliminate or greatly re-
duce greenhouse gas emissions. My
programs focus both on a greatly ex-
panded program of federally funded
energy research and development and
on policies designed to speed the adop-
tion of innovative energy technologies
and stimulate private innovation.
First, I have proposed programs that,
taken together, will increase federal in-
vestment in the clean energy research,
development, and deployment by $150
billion over ten years. Second, it is es-
sential that we create a strong, predict-
able market for energy innovations
with concrete goals that speed intro-
duction of innovative products and
provide a strong incentive for private
R&D investment in energy technolo-
gies. These concrete goals include in-
creasing new building efficiency by 50
percent and existing building efficien-
cy by 25 percent over the next decade
and increasing fuel economy standards
4 percent per year.
4. National Security.
Technology leadership is key to our
national security. It’s essential to cre-
ate a coherent new defense technology
strategy to meet the kinds of threats
we may face—asymmetric conflicts,
urban operations, peacekeeping mis-
sions, and cyber, bio, and proliferation
threats, as well as new kinds of sym-
metric threats.
This year, I was encouraged to see
the Department of Defense (DoD)
requested a sharp increase in the ba-
sic research budget for breakthrough
technologies. More is needed. My
administration will put basic defense
research on a path to double and will
assure strong funding for investments
in DoD’s applied research programs.
We will enhance the connections be-
tween defense researchers and their
war-fighting counterparts. And, we
will strengthen defense research man-
agement so that our most innovative
minds are working on our most press-
ingdefenseproblems.Astrongresearch
program can also lower procurement
costs by reducing technical risks and
increasing reliability and performance.
Renewing DARPA (the Defense Ad-
vanced Research Projects Agency) will
be a key part of this strategy.
5. Water.
Solutions to this critical problem will
require close collaboration between
federal, state, and local governments
and the people and businesses affected.
First, prices and policies must be set in
a ways that give everyone a clear incen-
tive to use water efficiently and avoid
waste. Regulations affecting water use
in appliances and incentives to shift
from irrigated lawns to “water smart”
landscapes are examples. Second,
information, training, and, in some
cases, economic assistance should be
provided to farms and businesses that
will need to shift to more efficient wa-
ter practices. Many communities are
offering kits to help businesses and
homeowners audit their water use and
find ways to reduce use. These should
be evaluated, with the most success-
ful programs expanded to other states
and regions. I will establish a national
plan to help high-growth regions with
the challenges of managing their water
supplies.
In addition, it is also critical that we
undertake a concerted program of re-
search, development, and testing of
new technologies that can reduce wa-
ter use.
6. Scientific Research.
Federally supported basic research,
aimed at understanding many fea-
tures of nature— from the size of the
universe to subatomic particles, from
the chemical reactions that support a
living cell to interactions that sustain
ecosystems—has been an essential
feature of American life for over fifty
years. While the outcomes of specific
projects are never predictable, basic
research has been a reliable source of
new knowledge that has fueled impor-
tant developments in fields ranging
from telecommunications to medi-
cine, yielding remarkable rates of eco-
nomic return and ensuring American
leadership in industry, military power,
and higher education. I believe that
continued investment in fundamen-
tal research is essential for ensuring
healthier lives, better sources of en-
ergy, superior military capacity, and
high-wage jobs for our nation’s future.
Sustained and predictable increas-
es in research funding will allow the
United States to accomplish a great
deal. First, we can expand the frontiers
of human knowledge. Second, we can
provide greater support for high-risk,
high-return research and for young
scientists at the beginning of their ca-
reers. Third, we can harness science
and technology to address the “grand
challenges” of the 21st century: energy,
health, food and water, national secu-
rity and information technology.
7. Space.
I will establish a robust and balanced
civilian space program. Under my ad-
ministration, NASA not only will in-
spire the world with both human and
robotic space exploration, but also
will again lead in confronting the chal-
lenges we face here on Earth, including
global climate change, energy inde-
pendence, and aeronautics research.
In achieving this vision, I will reach out
to include international partners and
to engage the private sector to amplify
NASA’s reach. I believe that a revital-
ized NASA can help America maintain
its innovation edge and contribute to
American economic growth.
8. Stem cells.
I strongly support expanding research
on stem cells. I believe that the restric-
tions that President Bush has placed on
funding of human embryonic stem cell
research have handcuffed our scien-
tists and hindered our ability to com-
pete with other nations. As president,
I will lift the current administration’s
ban on federal funding of research
on embryonic stem cell lines through
executive order, and I will ensure that
all research on stem cells is conducted
ethically and with rigorous oversight.
Credit: Study Of A Woman In Red, Henner, Jean-Jacques
Daniel Burrows
Science Editor
The one at the top seems to be confused by the front ones behind
President-elect Obama giving a speech

