politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 felix Friday 07 November 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – James Goldsack & Katya-yani Vyas
Katya-yani Vyas
Politics Editor
I
n advance of you perusing this
column, dear readers, I apolo-
gise. As sick as you may be of
having the US presidential elec-
tions shoved down your throat, I
feel that it is necessary to provide some
kind of conclusion to the American
saga that has dominated world politics
in the recent months.
When America sneezes the world
catches a cold, or so they say. This is an
analogy that has been reflected in the
current economic climate. Whatever
occurs across the pond has a profound
effect on us, and the election, at the
risk of sounding hideously melodra-
matic, of the most powerful man in the
world warrants extensive media cover-
age. Therefore we appreciate this po-
litical force-feeding; it’s good for us.
Well, it is over now, in any case. The
anticipated triumph of Barack Obama
over John McCain, the hours of cam-
paigning, the descent from civilised
debating into a war of political attri-
tion; ladies and gentlemen we have
our victor. I am sure that, like myself,
plenty of you will be breathing a sigh
of relief. The Americans were wiser,
perhaps from experience, voting for
change, categorically turning thier
backs on their racially discrminatory
past. Hoorah! Top Hole! etc.
So much for the Bradley effect
then. I lost count, during the course
of Obama’s ascent to the forefront of
politics, of the number of times a com-
mentator mentioned this. Opinion
polls are informative, they would say,
but how many of these “new money”
Americans would put their ballot pa-
per where their mouth was and actu-
ally vote for a black president?
The Bradley effect is a theory pro-
posed to explain differences in opinion
polls and results in elections where a
white and non-white candidate are
running against each other. It is named
after Tom Bradley, an African-Amer-
ican who lost the 1982 Californian
race for governor despite being ahead
in voter polls going into the elections.
Apparently we should have been ap-
prehensive of this idea that people
would give an innacurate opinion so as
not to open themselves up to accusa-
tions of racism.
There is probably a kernel of truth
in this analysis. I suppose, however,
that it is nothing more that speculative
hole-picking, Barack Obama has won
the election and although I feel the
utmost sympathy for Tom Bradley, it
seems that lessons were learned from
his situation; perhaps there is hope for
civilisation yet.
McCain was gracious enough to
wish Obama luck. there was an air
of humility about him as he called for
his supporters to lend their backing to
the new President. A united America
is fundamental, on that McCain and I
agree.
The political atmosphere is chang-
ing, developing even. Obama’s victory
promises that change is on the hori-
zon. If America has given us a cold,
perhaps the new president can provide
the antidote.
One of Barack Obama’s great strengths
has been missed, under-estimated or
ignoredbymiddle-agedcommentators:
his appeal to young voters. This was a
demographic derisively dismissed in
2000 and 2004 by the American Right:
Bill O’Reilly – Fox News’ prime pit-
bull – labelled them the ‘stoned slack-
ers’, unconcerned about great politi-
cal changes passing over their heads,
lamely courted by the Gore and Kerry
campaigns, and turned off by conven-
tional party politics, apparent success
in Iraq and the creepy enthusiasm of
the Christian Right. Too many did not
get involved, ignoring the race and la-
zily staying at home on election day.
Now these so-called ‘stoned slackers’
have matured into politically engaged
and energetic advocates for Barack
Obama, biting back against the far
right-wing of the Republican party that
has insulted their intelligence, ignor-
ing them for years. From watching the
Daily Show late during lazy nights they
came to understand the frequent hilar-
ity, hypocrisy and lunacy of conven-
tional media and politics – especially
Fox News – that is not obvious bur-
ied amidst the boredom of TV news.
In part the shift was due to Obama’s
natural appeal: the bright young
Senator with the rhetorical skills of a
Civil Rights leader casually but force-
fully rebutting the Republican attack
machine. This is not to mention the
positive discrimination of voting for a
deserving black candidate. But this is
not the full story. As Obama acknowl-
edged in his acceptance speech for the
Democratic nomination, his rise is not
purely down to himself, it is down to
the American people and this new
generation. His promise of change en-
thused and inspired a generation that
reached political maturity watching
helplessly as the Bush administration
dismissed the Constitution, ignore in-
ternational treaties and run roughshod
over Congress, leaving America in tat-
ters, hated worldwide and in economic
meltdown.
This generation did not experience
America’s heyday in the 1980s, as Rea-
gan, Thatcher and neoliberalism ruled
the free world and concluded the Cold
War. Hardcore Reaganite Republicans
by now must be getting on; the only
thing that motivated these social con-
servatives any more was Sarah Palin.
Thankfully the prospect of her replac-
ing a deceased McCain terrified sane
Americans in the same way that it pet-
rified the rest of the world. Like us in
Britain, this generation is more global
in its outlook: unlike, say Dick Cheney,
they understand for a favourable pub-
lic image for America worldwide to
be favourable, in order to achieve its
diplomatic, economic, strategic and
political goals.
The influence of the young on this
race was profound. Much has been said
about Obama’s impressive campaign at
the local level. Although the campaign
is soberly controlled from the top, the
scale of voluntary manpower illus-
trates the excitement and enthusiasm
coming from the level of the ordinary
citizen. Large portions of Obama’s
army of volunteers are from this young
generation and predominately student
(we tend to be the only ones with time
and without serious responsibilities
like earning a living, paying a mortgage
and other dull, real-life preoccupations
like that).
At the local level, these numerous
supporters spread the enthusiasm.
They put forward Obama’s policies
and promise of change. They criti-
cized McCain’s policies and derided
his decision-making and tempera-
ment. They mentioned Sarah Palin.
They registered new voters in droves.
They encouraged early voting. They
mentioned Sarah Palin. They held fun-
draising events. They mentioned Sarah
Palin.
How did Obama get this traditionally
apathetic segment of society involved?
The Obama campaign skillfully used
new technology and social trends: with
the Facebook-style my.barackobama.
Dom Mclaver com making it easy to get large num-
bers of young activists involved from
behind their computers. Although lo-
cal offices were monitored and man-
aged, the Obama campaign has largely
trusted the ‘youtube generation’ to its
own devices: donating their own mon-
ey, working in their own time, posting
videos on the internet, making calls,
going out and knocking on doors to
get the vote out.
Essentially they did the legwork in
organizing communities, the same re-
sponsibility that Palin so gleefully den-
igrated in her speech at the Republican
convention and was met with a raptur-
ous cacophony of hilarity by the Re-
publican rank and file. This post – also
held by a younger Obama in Chicago
– was also held by a certain Martin
Luther King as he sought to mobilize
local black communities in Atlanta.
Palin’s abuse reflected and embodies
the lack of curiosity of the section of
America she so perfectly represents:
uncurious about America’s diverse his-
tory, uncurious about foreign cultures
and religions, uncurious about people
different to themselves.
The pragmatic end of the Republican
party – the realists and the moder-
ates – have recognised Obama’s popu-
larity with the young and some have
switched sides to hand over the reigns
to a new generation. Most admirable
was Colin Powell’s change, noting the
faulty worldview in both the rumour-
mongering that Obama may be Mus-
lim and in John McCain’s reply to the
woman who distrusted Obama for be-
ing ‘an Arab’. He did not chide her for
her casual racism; he did not assert
that any American – Arab, Muslim or
whatever – can become President. He
merely said Obama was a ‘decent fam-
ily man’, as if Arabs are somehow inca-
pable of this. McCain is not racist; he
is an admirable, courageous politician
with unquestionable centrist creden-
tials. If he had said what I just outlined
above, he would have been booed and
probably bottled off the stage (he was
nevertheless booed anyway).
From the standpoint of this cynical
Englishman, it is pure poetic ironic
that the community organizers, the
students, the African-Americans and
the stoned slackers combined their
strength against a ruling ideology that
neglected and derided them and, ulti-
mately, proved so flawed: scraping its
way to dominance by dividing Amer-
ica, lowering taxes for cash-hungry
corporations in return for their fund-
ing and support, supposedly shrinking
government whilst building an enor-
mous deficit. They turned supreme
executive power into a sycophant for
the military-industrial complex. Their
message was propagated by Christian
fundamentalist activists (partly in re-
turn for the spread of Creationism
throughout the US education system)
and led by a ruthlessly effective elec-
toral campaign often revolving around
brutal and immoral character assassi-
nations. Its legacy is the world’s econ-
omy in meltdown, primarily from the
non-provision of adequate regulation,
and America embroiled in two messy,
murderous and expensive wars.
The joy of the American system is
that once every four years they get to
get rid of governments they don’t like.
Naturally expectations for the Obama
presidency are going to be unrealisti-
cally high. His administration will be
constrained by the economic crisis and
world events, not to mention unreal-
istic demands from his newly domi-
nant party. There should be concerns
about his policies, most significantly
his populist tendencies towards pro-
tectionism, potentially angering China
and the Third World, not to mention
worsening the world economic crisis
as other countries follow suit.
Nevertheless, I am still jealous. Our
parliamentary races really just don’t
compare: in rollercoaster narratives,
in soaring rhetoric and fiery clashes, in
leftist media bias, in outrageous right-
wingers, and in terms of the emotion,
excitement involved. It’s not fair. No
matter how hard I try I just can’t get
excited about NHS reform.
The Youtube generation and the stoned slackers versus Palin and Fox
Obama and the help
Barack Obama in fine form, the model of modernity and reform is in contrast with Palin’s seeming antiquated attitudes
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
Politics
Putin acts on economy
The name Oleg Deripaska has been
spread across the news these past few
days, and pictures of his luxury yacht
where he held dodgy meetings with Pe-
ter Mandelson and shadow Chancellor
George Osborne - allegedly regarding
party donations - have filled the news-
papers. The Russian oligarch boasts a
vast business empire centring around
his Aluminium company Rusal, yet de-
spite Forbes Magazine ranking him the
richest man in Russia, and 9th richest
in the world, he is among dozens of
Russian oligarchs reckoned to have
seen billions wiped off their personal
fortunes due to the current global fi-
nancial crisis. Deripaska may have lost
as much as $16bn of his $28bn wealth,
while the infamous Chelsea FC owner
Roman Abramovich has lost about
$20bn according to Bloomberg, overall
half of Russia’s 87 billionaires will no
longer be billionaires in 2009.
These losses are part of a wider trend
in Russia at the moment where the
massive decline in its stock market is
causing massive upheavals to the polit-
ical scene. As with Northern Rock here
in the UK, the Russian government
is bailing-out crisis-stricken banks
through a $200bn fund, so far four
Russian banks have been rescued like
this, including Globex which actually
banned customers from making with-
drawals for several days after a bank
run in October. But unlike in the UK,
its not just the banks which are being
rescued, big corporations like energy
giants Gazprom, Rosneft and Lukoil,
as well as Oleg Deripaska’s Rusal and
many other companies in the mining
and metals industries are all applying
for state assistance.
This assistance will come through
buying shares in them. At the moment
corporations are changing hands very
quickly, and at rock-bottom prices
that would have been unthinkable
this time last year. With their $200bn
fund, President Dmitry Medvedev
and Prime Minister Vladimir Putin
are also big players on this frenzied
buying-up scene, deciding which com-
panies the government will purchase
shares in (through the state bank VEB,
Vnesheconombank).
What is significant about this state
of affairs is that during the 1990s the
situation was exactly the opposite.
Then the collapse of the Soviet Union
and the communist system sparked a
massive sale of state-owned assets to
private individuals, making Margaret
Thatcher’s privatisation programme
in the 1980s look trivial. It was nick-
named the “sale of the century” and
these scrappy entrepreneurs made
their fortunes overnight, becoming
the super-rich oligarchs of today. With
literally too much money than they
could spend, this elite class of Rus-
sians has become renowned for their
extravagant spending, investing in
English Premier League football clubs,
buying expensive old Soviet-era art at
London’s Sotheby auction houses and
indulging in the annual Moscow Mil-
lionaire Fair.
But picture Gordon Brown having to
use taxpayer’s money to buy shares in
privately owned British Gas plc or BT,
and you get an idea of current affairs
in Russia for the coming few weeks.
Now in what the Financial Times has
called the “reverse sale of the century”,
Medvedev and Putin can choose which
companies the government will par-
tially nationalise in a selective and non-
transparent way, which leaves the door
open to favours being made to friends
in big business, and arms being twisted
to accept deals. That the culture of cor-
ruption is more widespread in Russia
than other developed countries is no
secret, so many observers believe that
the government will use the global fi-
nancial crisis to consolidate its power
over Russia’s biggest companies, and
that with state assistance may come
political influence for lucky oligarchs.
But looking at the bigger picture in
all of this, no one really knows the ex-
tent of the harm done to the Russian
economy due to this crisis. When one
looks at its $500bn Foreign Exchange
Reserves - the third largest in the world
- which was accumulated largely from
its oil & gas exports in recent years, it
seems Russia is prepared to weather
the storm. The official government
line that the stock market decline is
completely the fault of problems with
Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and President Dmitry Medvedev are coming under increasing pressure to secure the Russian economy
Hassan Joudi
As the chairman of Labour
Friends of Iraq, what would be
your advice to President Obama
on his overall Iraq strategy?
I think it will be a great thing if he will
actually go there and see the public
about it, meet the people and say that
‘we want to really help you to move
forward’. I think he should certainly
go and see the Kurds, because I think
the Kurds set a role model of what Iraq
could become.
I think obviously there are issues
around the American presence in Iraq
and the change that should come about
when the top man is being changed.
Clearly, I think the sooner the troops
are withdrawn from Iraq the better for
everyone concerned.
I think also he should say ‘we are
not going to leave the country with
its reserves’. Whatever the reasons the
present administration had for going
into Iraq, and that might have included
trying to get the reserves of oil, should
not be part of the new administration’s
view of going forward.
If that is part of the view, I believe
that the potential of good that could
come from the new president Obama,
could be lost.
I think he could be a real force for
change in the world, and the key place
where he could really make his mark in
the world is in Iraq and in Kurdistan.
There is a long bad history from UK
involvement in Iraq. We did not create
Kurdistan when we should have and
there are a lot of things that have come
out of that, in the same way that we did
not create the Palestinian state when
we should have.
I think it might be hard in these eco-
nomic times but if the Iraqi govern-
ment needs economic support Obama
should go with that, help them with in-
frastructure projects, because I believe
that in the long-term Iraq and Kurdis-
tan can be real allies, for all of us, as
there is certainly a lot of opportunity
and goodwill there.
Have you publicly supported
Barack Obama all along?
Absolutely, but I supported the Demo-
crats regardless.
In a report of June 2008, one of
your recommendations to the
British Parliament was to raise
awareness of the genocide in Iraq
against the Kurds. What progress
has been made in Britain regard-
ing this matter?
Certainly not very much. I was in-
volved in the Trade Union before I be-
came a MP. And the Trade Union was
strongly against the Iraq invasion, as I
was at the time and I still have issues
on whether we should have done it.
But what I am clear of is that we
should have been there with a much
more evident role when the Anfal
[genocide against the Kurds] was go-
ing on.
That is when we should have really
given the Kurds support. It is trying to
rewrite history, but having gone and
seen what happened, having met peo-
ple who have been through it all and
having seen the Red House in Sulaim-
aniya, the human race should have op-
posed it. All we can do now is try to
create space for people.
Would you consider starting an
international cooperation for this
goal? Dutch MPs Harry van Bom-
mel and Fred Teeven have started
a similar campaign. Would you be
prepared to work with them?
If we can do anything to help the peo-
ple of Kurdistan within reason, I think
it is important that we give our sup-
port to the things that quite clearly
should have never happened, more
than happy.
Dave Anderson MP talks to felix about Iraq
Dave Anderson, Labour MP and member of committee on Kurdistan
Raz Jabary
US banks and nothing else must also
be comforting to Russian citizens. But
observers see the government as still in
a state of denial, unable to accept that
the political instability, largely due to
the August 2008 Russian-Georgian war
and the apparent return to Cold War
politics, has weakened the economy.
Ultimately Medvedev and Putin have
two things to juggle. To competently
manage the government’s new nation-
alised assets, and to the minimise the
economic problems of inflation and
low wages on a Russian public that has
grown used to the 7% annual growth
tenjoyed for several years. Like so
many times in its history, Russia is un-
dergoing a huge amount of change in
a short space of time, the smoothness
with which this occurs will determine
the impact on the rest of the world.

