fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
16 felix Friday 07 November 2008
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Dan Wan
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 07 November 2008 felix
Fashion
Daniel Wan
Fashion Editor
H
owdy, Howdy, Howdy.
Several Editors this
week have been de-
manding that their edi-
torial columns should
be optional. I’m perplexed. Do they
not enjoy spouting pure nonsense and
forcing their ideals on impressionable
others? Not that I’m suggesting you
lot are impressionable. Because you’re
not. That’s right. You are not. Now get
me a box of dougnuts.
What I had written for this column
somehow turned into the main article.
Ask me how, and it’s actually a simple
explanation. I apparently had more to
say than I thought about the US elec-
tions this week. So transfer your eyes
upwards and about 3 centimetres to
the right after you’ve finished reading
this column, but not a word sooner.
Otherwise there will be consequences
of kinds unimaginable to the per-
fectly aligned minds of the average
Imperialite.
I’m not entirely sure I have the gravi-
tas to be as patronising as I am, but
after reading the last two paragraphs I
think I’m alright with it. Being a thicko
in a university crammed with geniuses
and future world-leaders somehow
gives me the idea that maybe I can say
things so stupid, you’ll all be too clever
to understand. It’ll happen, and you‘ll
say I’m a poor writer, but I’m just an
academically disadvantaged writer.
On a completely unrelated, but gen-
erally more relevant note, Marks and
Spencer announced record fall in prof-
its this week. The British high street
mainstay has already gone through
an extremely turbulent period in re-
cent past, only to be revamped by a
sickeningly over-indulgent advertising
campaign that many simply deemed
‘food-sex’. However, I’m unconvinced
the clothing side of the business has
changed all that much since. A more
modern and younger demographic
was aimed at, and to a certain extent,
it worked. The introduction of exter-
nal fashion houses into the M&S brand
contributed to a greater number of 20-
30 year old women shopping there.
Despite the influx of numerous high-
profile celebrities including Myleene
Klass, Lily Cole and Erin O’Connor, the
strategy obviously isn’t working any-
more, what with the credit crunch and
that. M&S now reveal their new ‘Port-
folio’ range aimed at the 45+ demo-
graphic. They claim they have found a
niche in the market, but this niche was
only formed when M&S abandoned
their marketing and usual middle-aged
demographic those years ago. Basi-
cally, they are refilling their own niche
they decided to abaondon for greener
pastures. Except the pastures were not
greener, just better for the first chew
and not much else after.
The new 43-acre Westfield shopping
mall opened this week. Apparently it’s
a similar experience to trying to shop
whilst being a pilchard in a tin. No air,
smelly, and no room. Wait a month
or two, and utilize the fact the mind-
less drones have all gone to Westfield,
and have a slightly more serene shop
elsewhere.
As I write, Obama is 175 to McCain’s
76. O-BA-MA! O-BA-MA! Meh.
Fashioning the vote
Daniel Wan isn’t voting or listening, but is watching sceptically
A
t the time of writing,
it’s the night of the US
presidential elections
andGeorgeDubyaBush
is still sitting comfort-
ably in the White House. Nevertheless,
the result is irrelevant. If opinion polls
follow through, an assured victory for
the fanfare that is the Obama-Biden
camp.
I’m fairly confused about whether I
should dearly care about the elections
or not. The whole thing is completely
out of my control; I am not eligible to
vote and hence I cannot voice my frac-
tion of an overall preference. I find it
marginally amusing that so many peo-
ple in the UK have jumped onto the
Obama-bandwagon as it merrily trun-
dles across the globe. He is an icon plas-
tered across countless celebrity attire,
and this is what, in my humble opinion,
cheapens the worth of the Presidential
elections. His elevated celebrity status
is less to do with his policies, but what
he represents. Is that purely enough to
deserve one of the most powerful posi-
tions in world politics?
Paris Fashion Week was a wonderful
example of this. Two prominent de-
signers sent out their models adorning
pieces heavily and obviously laden with
an attempt at political connotation. So-
nia Rykiel unveiled a preppy knit dress
with the five letters that will become an
ever-present fixture in our newspapers
and minds for years to come. O-B-A-
M-A. A clear statement of fickle sup-
port, but what else?
Jean Charles de Castelbajac, revealed
his sequence centre-piece dress (pic-
tured) featuring Obama Barack’s in-
stantly alluring eyes and grin. On the
back, Obama’s take on the infamous
but clichéd quote, “I have a dream to-
day,” further makes this piece look like
something made by a slightly unhinged
fan. Something that a crazed Madonna
fan would make and wear to one of her
concerts. However, it was not a prod-
uct of home craft. This was not some
small-time designer trying to leave a
mark on the adoring world of fashion,
but a designer of international stand-
ing. His reasoning behind the Obama
inspired piece was down to the Dem-
ocrat being the “incarnate of hope,
changes and youth.” Political connota-
tion seems to validate this otherwise
aesthetically uninspiring dress.
But maybe I am in the minority that
is so unwelcoming to this new wave
of politics-fashion hybridisation. De
Castelbajac was “amazed” by not only
the ovation the dress received but by
negative and “insulting” Republican
response “from the United States.”
The fact that the only voiced negative
response he received was from the US
shows that maybe it is only the Ameri-
cans that truly care about the elections
and the rest of us are simply on the
bandwagon of glamour, fame and for-
tune it all brings.
It is not exactly the first time we have
seen a political figure feature so heav-
ily within fashion. The most observ-
able example is that of Che Guevara.
The easily recognizable image of his
slightly cocked head is plastered across
materials across the globe. I am not de-
nying it is a powerful image, but when
it goes beyond the aesthetic power of
it, I doubt the vast majority of wear-
ers will know why Che Guevara was so
significant in South American history.
In hindsight, it is ironic that he has ef-
fectively been subsumed by a capitalist
consumer culture he came to loath.
Now that it is firmly established poli-
tics has a role in each fashion’s wide
spectrum, it is not surprising it works
conversely. Politicians and their asso-
ciates need to look good. This used to
mean a smart suit or a respectable un-
revealing dress suit. Where their great-
er interest lies, the public are to be seen
paying attention in what the figures are
wearing and not what they stand for.
It is now a prominent issue that what
political figures are wearing in public
view is another factor into the voting
swing. Over in the US, the Republicans
have been getting it horrifically wrong.
JohnMcCain’swifeCindyrecentlywore
£140,000 diamond earrings and an Os-
car de la Renta gown costing £1,500 to
a rally. McCain’s running mate, Sarah
Palin is reported to have spent nearly
£100,000 on a new wardrobe, including
Christian Dior and Valentino pieces,
for the 2008 election campaign. These
displays of luxury was in stark contrast
to the financial turbulence their nation
is experiencing, and it did not go un-
noticed by the public and media.
Barack Obama on the other hand
has been keeping tabs and has acted
accordingly. His suits pertain to the
expectations of the American public,
but he manages to do it with a certain
panache rarely seen in a politician. His
suits are not from Dior, but appar-
ently Barney’s. With a simple slim-cut
suit and block colour tapered ties, he
claims they are “fairly standard” smart
dress. Despite the ever-growing im-
portance of image in politics, Obama
maintains that voters are “[not] too
worried about what [he’s] wearing.”
In Nicolas Sarkozy’s case, it is his First
Lady that has been under the fashioni-
sta’s scrutiny. Carla Bruni’s beauty and
style has done no harm to her spouse’s
reputation. She has single-handedly
managed to make a French politician
remotely likable to the British public.
Actually, I lie. The British public adore
her, and recently voted her ‘coolest ce-
lebrity of the year.’ I don’t know how
the moronic idea of ‘cool’ was defined
when they were producing this poll,
but it’s actually irrelevant. He fact she
has been voted as the superlative of
cool whilst being a political figure of
a traditionally rival nation speaks vol-
umes about the influence of fashion in
politics, and weirdly enough, interna-
tional relations.
So maybe, fashion is indeed what
Jean Charles de Castelbajac claims: a
“powerful medium” in times of politi-
cal examination like these.
Viva South Westerly shopping
Swiri Konje moves down to the ground, then upwards a bit to French soles.
“KICK OFF YOUR HEELS” and welcome to the wonderful world of French Sole flats.
After going through multiple streets and entering an array of stores, I chanced upon
French Sole. As I entered, I was received in a polite and professional manner by
staff. The place was full of FLATS, FLATS and FLATS. Each was of a distinguishable
colour, shape and design ranging from ballet flats, loafers, to comfortable driving
shoes. With the odd bag and boots thrown in, it was full of colour and style, ensuring that you won’t see someone else
wearing your flats.
Despite its appearance in many magazines such as Vogue, in which their shoes were described as ‘Prettiest Ballet Flats
Around’, prices are of the middle class ranging from £50 - £100, but no student discount is offered.
The marathon in San Francisco, run every year on third Sunday in May, which apparently is colourful, fun, mad and
crazy, was the ‘Muse’ for Jane Winkworth’s latest collection. They represent peace, love harmony and survival. If you
happen to hate America, rest assured the shoes are not American, so buy and wear at free will! After all, it might bring
some harmony and love in your life. Moreover, different designs have different names. Achieve celebrity style for less
with the Madonna inspired and named shoes.
It’s winter, and we don’t want those dreary black boots again. Bring in the colours by wearing their amazing ‘Peace, Joy
and Love’ shoes, teaming them with amazing leg warmers. Trust me; you will be the envy of every girl. Guys, you can
try them too!
They have two stores in the SWs, one on Ellis Street near Sloane Square, and the newly opened King’s Road boutique.
Next week, I’ll be picking out one of my favourite shops to go accessory picking.
MC Hammer Pants
As much of a classic as “Can’t
Touch This” was and is, MC
Hammer dressed like a tool.
I’d go as far to say he dressed
like fucking tool. However, this
does not distract us away from
the fact that the aptly named
‘hammer pants’ are on the
runways of 2008, and hence
back in fashion. It’s Hammer
Time. But that doesn’t mean
it’s acceptable to dance like
him either.
Whitening Hair
I saw Keith Murray, lead singer
of We Are Scientists, recently.
He has whitening hair and
pulls it off. Agree? Well, I don’t
care if you don’t. With the risk
of looking like Rogue from X-
Men, white hairs can be sexy.
Stilettos
Stilettos are fine, as long as
you don’t complain about
how uncomfortable they are
or how your feet are “killing
you.” You decided to wear
them out, so I have no pity
that your feet now look like
giant swollen sweet potatoes.
I’m not carrying you home
once you’ve taken them off.
You can step in glass and dog
shit all you want, its your own
fault for not wearing flats.
SICK
SHIT
Left to right: Charles Jean de Castelbajac’s Yes to Obama piece, Carla Bruni and Sophie Rykiel’s knit dress
6 Ellis Street,
London, SW1X 9AL
020 7730 3771
323 Kings Road,
London, SW3 5EP
020 7351 1634

