The Newspaper Of Imperial College Union Founded 1949
Bottle match ban threat
Camborne School of Mines will not be invited back to Imperial
College for the annual 'Bottle Match' unless their behaviour
improves. Monday's meeting of ICU Council decided that
Camborne should be sent a warning, after players and
supporters disrupted the Union Bar and Southside Bar and
were believed to have vandalised toilets in the Sherfield Building
on Saturday night.
Camborne students have a history
of abusive behaviour and petty
vandalism during their biannual trips
to IC to play rugby, football, hockey
and squash against the RSM. Two
years ago, after the sporting fixtures
had to be cancelled, Camborne caused
several hundred pounds worth of
damage in the RSM building and in
Southside. This year fire hoses were
let off in the Union bar and in
Southside, which had to be closed at
9.10pm. Later in the evening
Camborne students tried to get into
the Valentines Party in the Main
Dining Hall (Sherfield). Unidentified
intruders gained access to toilets on
the 4th and 5th floors where ballcocks
were removed, causing flooding.
Union DP Jackie Peirce proposed
to Council as part of her report, that
Camborne students be banned from
the Union building and from all the
College bars. She also recommended
that Cardiff School of Mines, who
have caused similar disruption in the
past, be included in this ban. She
added that the cleaners had
complained about the state of the
Union building on Monday morning.
RSMU President Rob Perry
stressed that the Camborne fixture
was one of the oldest varsity fixtures,
and that the rowdy behaviour had not
been excessive. ICU Hon Sec Dave
Colley said that the fixture had
brought more IC students into the
Union bar, rather than driving them
away. Mineral Resources
Engineering Dep Rep Paddy Coleman
suggested that to ban Camborne from
College bars would be premature and
that ICU should work harder at
policing visiting students during the
fixture. ICU President Christine Taig
thought that IC should make it a
priority to see that no IC students
were discouraged from using the
Union facilities.
Mr Perry proposed that Ms Peirce's
report be ammended to read that the
"'Camborne and Cardiff Schools of
Mines be informed of the feelings of
ICU and how their behaviour at future
visits will effect subsequent fixtures.
A further ammendment, prepared by
Gareth Fish, added that "failure to
improve behaviour at the next visit
will result in a withdrawal of
reciprocal agreements." This
ammendment was accepted by Mr
Perry and the proposal was passed.
Ms Peirce raised the issue again at
the Union General Meeting on
Tuesday. After further discussion,
UGM Chairman Hugh Southey
suspended standing orders, thereby
preventing a quorum call, and took
an "opinion vote" from the meeting.
On the question of whether Camborne
should be banned from IC Union and
all College bars, the 'informal
meeting' voted 58 for a ban, with 37
against.
Perry Como to visit IC—see page 24
No rent this Week
Residents of Weeks Hall voted to go
on an indefinite rent strike at a
meeting on Wednesday, in an attempt
to encourage College to repair major
defects in the Hall's heating and water
system. The Hall has been plagued by
problems with the heating, resulting
in many rooms being unbearably cold
during poor weather conditions, while
others were too hot—this being
caused by defective heating valves.
The common room had also become
very cold, with residents taking
blankets down with them to watch the
television.
The water system has also proved
unreliable during the freezing weather
earlier this term, with water only
being available between 2am and
9am. Fire hoses had been used against
regulations, in attempts to flush
toilets. A break tank and pump which
had been promised last year, but still
had not been installed, would have
averted this situation.
Students voted 44-0 in favour of a
rent strike, with one abstention, on a
motion to have *h
~ heating and water
system repair , <u. i receive a rent
readjustment for services not
provided and inconveninece caused.
The conditions for the strike were that
all rents due would be paid into a
student union holding account, and
that permission to pay College could
only come from a similarly convened
residents' meeting.
Residents approached IC Union
Hon Sec Dave Colley yesterday in
order to set up the union holding
account. He is currently looking into
setting up a suitable account for the
rent money, which could amount to
£20 000. The precedent for this
arrangement took place when
residents in College accommodation
went on a rent strike in Spring 1974.
Other complaints brought up at the
meeting were that petitions raised
both this year and last year had been
ignored by College. The latest still
had not received any comment from
College Secretary John Smith. It was
also pointed out that first years had
not been informed of the steep price
rise until after they had been offered
accommodation in Weeks.
Commenting on the move by
Weeks Hall residents, Student
Accommodation Officer, Lesley
Gillingham said that she thought a
rent strike would be unproductive,
and that College would react
unfavourably to such a move. The
strike is not scheduled to begin until
next week after a meeting to discuss
progress on Wednesday 26th
February at 6pm.
Free Friday February 20th 1987 No. 764

