Feature FELIX, Friday February 20th 1987 1 2
C u l t u r e
v u l t u r e
G r e n M a n u e l
Although the process by which DNA
creates proteins is now largely
understood, there is still much to learn
about the way that living cells grow.
Cells with the same genetic
information in an organism somehow
manage to grow in different ways and
at different rates. A better
understanding of cell growth would
be very useful, as it could lead to
faster-growing crops and improved
healing of wounds.
Dr Andrew Goldsworthy and his
team in the Pure and Applied Biology
Department have been working in this
area, and have recently received a
£47,000 grant from the Agriculture
and Food Research Council to
continue their work for three years.
They have been doing experiments
with 'callus' cultures. If a plant is
damaged the first cells which grow at
the site of the damage are callus
cells—these are amorphous and
unspecialised. As repair continues the
callus becomes differentiated, and
vascular tissue and other specialised
types of cell appear. In a laboratory
a callus will reproduce indefinitely in
a nutrient culture.
Callus cultures like these are
produced after experiments which
alter the genetic information in a cell.
After the DNA is modified cells are
put into a nutrient solution and they
reproduce to form a callus. However
the specialisation that takes place in
a callus which is part of a plant does
not always occur if the callus is
cultured in a laboratory and the roots,
leaves and stem of a 'normal' plant
are not present the new strain cannot
be taken out of the laboratory.
Sometimes this differentiation will
spontaneously start taking place, and
once started the shoots can be
transplanted and made to grow into
'proper' plants. However this
spontaneous ordering is very hit-and-
miss, and in some species does not
happen at all.
Dr Goldsworthy and his team
discovered that by passing a weak
electric current through the callus
culture (in the order of micro-amps)
they could could increase the rate of
cell growth by as much as 70% and
also greatly increase the incidence of
this spontaneous differentiation. This
discovery alone could reduce the lab
costs of genetic engineering
significantly.
It appears that electric fields play
a very important part in plant growth
and differentiation. By pumping ions
(charged particles) across their
membranes cells can create and
control an electric field across
themselves. This can influence the
way proteins behave, and affect the
organisation and structure of the cell.
A study of the electric fields of
algae has shown that under normal
circumstances they are aligned in a
similar way to the domains in a
magnet. In the callus culture the
electric fields of the cells are
distributed randomly, similar to the
domains in an unmagnetised piece of
iron. The co-ordination of the cells'
electric fields appears to be an
importartant part of the mechanism
which shows cells 'where they are'
and 'what they are meant to be'. The
current applied by Dr Goldsworthy
seems to act as a 'compass', helping
the cells align their own electric fields
and therefore promoting growth and
specialisation.
The £47,000 received by Dr
Goldsworthy and his team is to cover
basic research for three years into the
way that electric fields affect cell
growth. There are many possible
applications: it is known that passing
a small electric current across the site
of a bone fracture will promote rapid
healing and that skin regeneration
after a burn can be accelerated,
showing that animal cell growth uses
electric fields too. In addition electric
currents have been used to allow frogs
which have had legs removed to grow
them back (frogs, of course, along
with the other higher animals do not
regenerate lost limbs). There are
many possible advances in
agriculture, medicine and biology.
There is more information about
electric fields and cell growth in Dr
Goldsworthy's article in the New
Scientist of 2nd January, 1986.
R e v i e w :
S i e g f r i e d
S a s s o o n
Those with an interest in poetry or
acting or both should try and catch
Siegfried Sassoon at the Apollo before
its short run ends.
Peter Barkworth plays Sassoon and
has, himself, put this one-man-play
together, using Sassoon's writings
alone. He has restricted his attention
to the poet's young life up to the end
of the Great War and the texts he has
utilised form a remarkably accurate
portrait of the soldier poet.
What is most interesting in this play
is the poet-making experience. The
early part shows us sensitive articulate
but not particularly interesting or
unique youth. Then, gradually and
finally markedly, we see in Sassoon's
writing the profound changes induced
by the traumas of war. Excitement
and sense of purpose; sadness,
revulsion, protest, futility and
emotional exhaustion. Sassoon in
common with his generation
encountered these and made his name
by expressing them. There is always
interest in their experience. One could
never dismiss such horrifyingly
human subject matter as cliche.
What is also interesting in this play
is Barkworth's solo performance. He
has not attempted an impersonation of
Sassoon, preferring to let the "prose
and poetry speak for themselves, free
from as many additives or artificial
colourings as possible." However, he
communicates a great enthusiasm and
love for Sassoon's work and there is
much to enjoy in his small caricatures
and delivery of poems. The success
of this production is entirely his.

