FELIX, Friday February 20th 1987 6
T H E
O B E L P R I Z E
I t s h i s t o r y , s c i e n t i f i c
i m p o r t a n c e a n d p o l i t i c a l i m p a c t
Among the first things pointed out to
aspiring Imperial College physics
students at their interviews are the
three Nobel Prize certificates on the
wall outside lecture theatre one. In the
same way, chemistry candidates are
informed the of presence of a Nobel
Laureate on the staff. Such revelations
are meant to inspire awe and
admiration in the mind of the public.
Recipients of the prize are elevated
to a scientific elite, and the reputation
of their department is made. The
prestige of the award goes further
than this. Such is its fame, that it has
even become a political tool, with
governments quoting Prizes per capita
as a statistical illustration of their
national excellence.
When Alfred Nobel died in 1896 he
left an estate totalling some thirty-
three million kroner, in today's terms,
the hefty figure of eighty million
dollars. He specified -that his estate
should be put aside and maintained,
its annual income being divided
among five prizes, three in science,
one in literature, and one to "further
the cause of world peace." A prize
for economics was introduced in
1969. Nobel could not have foreseen
the fame which his prizes would
accrue. Nor could he have foreseen
the controversy which the prizes for
literature and peace would attract.
The reason for Nobel's generosity
stems from his life's work.
Paradoxically this ingenious inventor
of dynamite, blasting gelatine, and
smokeless powder was a pacifist who
despised the results of his labour. He
hoped his prize for peace would
promote "fraternity among nations"
and that the prizes for science
(including medicine) might produce
discoveries that would, unlike his
own, be of peaceful benefit to
mankind.
The complex arrangements for the
establishment of the Nobelstiftelsen
(Nobel Foundation), which distributes
the prizes, took four years to
complete. Not until the fifth
anniversary of Nobel's death, on 10th
December 1901, were the first prizes
distributed.
The prize has been used as a
measure of the standing of nations and
organisations right from the
beginning. Germany's fall from
scientific dominance has been related
to the great number of Nobel laureates
forced into exile during the
predominance of the Third Reich.
Similarly, the corresponding
ascendency of the United States in the
field of science has been related to the
increasing number of laureates it has
produced. Ironically, many of them
were expatriate Germans in exile.
Examining national totals of prizes
awarded reveals .an interesting
anomaly. It might be expected that
nations with a large pool of talent to
draw on, or a history of scientific
endeavour, would feature largely in
the figures. As a consequence, the
United States dominates the list. Great
Britain and the other European
nations occupy the majority of the top
of the table, but the Soviet Union has
produced only nine Nobel laureates,
two of them before the Revolution.
One Soviet bureaucrat observed that
the Nobel prize statistics indicate "an
accute deficit of researchers of the
highest qualifications in the USSR".
Explanations for this shortfall range
from the lack of individual freedom
in the Soviet Union, to the lack of
adequate exchanges of information
with the West.
National totals of Nobel laureates
are often quoted as vindication of
government policies on science. More
recently, with economic pressure
mounting on most countries, people
have begun to draw attention to the
fact that although large amounts of
kudos may be obtained when a nation
acquires yet another laureate, the
desirability of devoting great
quantities of capital to the type of
fundamental research that will
produce Nobel prize winners is no
longer self-evident. In the rarefied
atmosphere of Cambridge, MIT ,Cal
Tech and Imperial this is akin to
heresy. The Duke of Edinburgh
remarked, in another famous off-the-
cuff Royal Comment that,"a
University should measure its success
just as much by the number of
millionares as by the Nobel prize-
winners it produces." With this in
mind, multinational corporations have
been much more forthcoming in
scientific funding, with a particular
practical aim in mind. In 1973, Esaki
and Giaever, two of the three
recipients of the physics prize, had
their research work supported by
industry. It is not likely that the
number of millionare physicists or
chemists will in any way increase,
despite such moves. The prediliction
for claiming laureates as part of
national statistics has led to somewhat
misleading national credits. Due to
the international nature of twentieth
century science, many Nobel winners
have done the majority of their work
in a country other than that of their
birth. In reporting the nationality of
laureates the Nobel Foundation uses
the country of citizenship as its
criterion. However, this gives few
clues as to the country in which the
significant part of their scientific
training and research was done. For

