10 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
6.02.2015
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Religion should be a private matter
Iwas seven years old when I first
self-identified as an atheist.
I remember the setting vividly.
I was in a social studies class in the
second grade. My teacher – the
American education system’s answer
to Margaret Thatcher, albeit with less
charm – was explaining the concept
of religious diversity by going around
the class, asking us about how we
observe religion at home. When it
came to my turn, I dithered, not
knowing how to answer. Religion was
a neglected topic in my family; my
father turned away from religion in
his youth, and my mother – while
technically Hindu – kept to her own
personal spirituality and beliefs. At
the age of seven, I had never been
to mass in my life, and had only
ever stepped inside a synagogue
for family events. I had the vaguest
understanding of Christianity and
Hinduism, but would not learn
about Islam for another two years.
So when I was inevitably asked about
my religion, I simply replied with
something along the lines of “I don’t
have one”. The looks I received from
a large number of my classmates – a
mixture of incredulity and odium
– still resonate with me to this day.
For a long time after that, I kept my
religious viewpoints exclusively to
myself.
I write this because my experience
in that second grade class is very
much a vignette for attitudes
towards atheists in America (and
elsewhere in the world) today. That
it was considered acceptable for my
teacher to pick out students based
on their religion is telling enough
about America’s lax attitudes
to constitutionally enshrined
secularism. Yet in the US, atheism
is seen by many as evil, and
fundamentally un-American, an
attitude perfectly encapsulated by
then president George H. W. Bush,
who famously said of atheists that “I
don’t know that atheists should be
regarded as citizens, nor should they
be regarded as patriotic. This is one
nation under God.” Bush’s view is one
shared by the majority of Americans;
a Pew survey in 2007 found that just
over 60% of Americans would not
vote for an atheist president, however
qualified. A follow-up survey in 2014
found that atheists and Muslims
vie for last place concerning public
perception of religious beliefs.
Of course, I am lucky to have
identified as non-religious in the
US, where atheism only results in
mild stigmatisation, and a de facto
restriction in my ability to run for
public office. In seven countries
throughout the world (Afghanistan,
Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United
Arab Emirates, Brunei, Mauritius,
and Yemen), to be non-religious is to
invite the death penalty. Elsewhere,
atheism and secularism is met by
cold stigmatisation, and criticism
of religion is zealously silenced
by governments, fanatics, and
law enforcement the world over.
Even in the UK, a relative bastion
of secularism, it is not enough for
many adherents of religion to simply
allow those who do not follow their
faith to simply go about their lives
unmolested by their fervent desire
to impose their atavistic worldview
on those who have no want or need
for it. I have lost count of the number
of times I have been accosted by
Mormons on my morning commute;
or have had a tract shoved into my
hand by a saccharinely smiling
Jehovah’s Witness; or else have
been rendered deaf by megaphone
wielding Muslim preachers. In every
single case, my desire to remain
quietly secular is challenged at
every turn with a kind of simpering
passive-aggressiveness that belies a
fundamental and deep-seated lack of
respect.
In world politics too, religion
aggressively ingratiates itself. In
Ireland, Catholic beliefs in the
principle of life ‘beginning at
Can Gods be respected unless they respect atheists? Photo: YouTube
Nathaniel Gallop thinks respect for beliefs must be given to be received
conception’ precipitated an outright
ban on abortion procedures regardless
of a woman’s religious or personal
beliefs. In the USA, the retail chain
Hobby Lobby successfully argued its
way out of providing certain legally
mandated forms of healthcare on the
basis that it did not agree with the
religion of the company’s owners. In
the UK, religious advocacy groups
were instrumental in the successful
push for legislation banning certain
forms of pornography over the
previous summer. Around the world,
religiously motivated prejudices have
resulted in the establishment of a
morass of legislation which censures,
stigmatises, and criminalises
homosexuality. Note that in every
case, it is not enough for these men
and women of faith to simply observe
the details of their religious morality
in private, it must be forced upon
every single person, regardless of
whatever belief system they adhere
to.
It is as a result of this that I am
forced to roll my eyes as the cries
for ‘respect’ espoused from Muslim,
Christian, and Jewish scholars in the
wake of the Charlie Hebdo shootings.
Even the avowedly progressive Pope
Francis stipulated in his speech
concerning the attacks that: “One
cannot provoke; one cannot insult
other people’s faith; one cannot make
fun of faith.” Yet, at every turn, the
secular worldview is challenged,
derided, and elsewhere undermined
by many people of faith, while death
awaits those who criticise or deride
religion, along with the tacit, finger-
wagging defence that they quite
frankly brought it upon themselves.
It is an attitude that smacks of
hypocrisy of the utmost highest
degree.
Adherents of religion must decide
what is most important to them, the
desire to see their religion respected,
or the desire to ingratiate their beliefs
into the public sphere. If they choose
the latter, then they have adopted a
position of power that necessarily
attracts criticism and ridicule; after
all, we do this to our politicians at
every opportunity. If the religiose
wish to aggressively preach, then they
may expect their lack of respect to be
reciprocated in kind.
When religion becomes a private
matter, kept out of our schools,
courts and parliament, and when
I am able to walk down the street
without attempts at conversion
thrown disrespectfully my way, then
I will march with the hundreds of
Muslims, Christians and Jews calling
for religious respect. Until that time,
Je suis Charlie, résolument!

