16 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
6.02.2015
Television Editors Guila Gabrielli & John Park
Television
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Cucumber, Banana, Tofu: Channel 4’s
new sex salad.
Vincent Franklin (right) and everybody’s crush Freddie Fox. Photo: Channel 4
Giulia Gabrielli reviews Thursday’s LGBT drama bonanza
Awkward is a family trait
Jack Whitehall has returned for the second season of
BackchatwithJackWhitehall.His attempt to break into
chat shows,however,can only be summarised in one
word: awkward.Be it because of the presence of his
elderly father,or because of the strange formulation
of the show,watching it without cringing is actually
virtually impossible.
The episode structure is as follows: Jack presents the
show and introduces his co-host,Daddy Whitehall,as
a senile and racist weirdo that has somehow made it
onto the set.Subsequently,enter two/three of the most
ill-assorted guest ever.
A couple of weeks ago was a particularly good
example: Noel Fielding,the eclectic and colourful
creator of TheMightyBoosh,was paired up with Labour
politician John Prescott.What follows is usually a long
list of slightly embarrassing questions that make both
the audience and the guests shuffle around in their
chairs in discomfort.
This may be a genius plan to really unmask the
personality of the guests,or maybe it is designed to be
hilarious,but as a Brit who is morbidly mortified by
confrontation,either one seems rather unnecessary.
In the case of poor Noel Fielding,he appeared as
the sane and rational friend who is forced to watch as
boyfriend and girlfriend,played in this case by long-time
Tori (surprise,surprise) Whitehall Senior and Prescott,
go at each other with teeth and nails.Awks.
The show is proof that the BBC isn’t the only one
exploiting Jack Whitehall’s success.His agent and
talent-scout father,Michael Whitehall,having ventured
out into the limelight,famous son at his side,almost
seems like the Kris Jenner of British TV.I hope that a
Whitehall endorsed internet sex tape doesn’t crawl its
way onto my screen.
			 GIULIA GABRIELLI
At Christmas, Channel
4 aggressively started
advertising its new LGBT
drama, signed by producer Russell T
Davies from Queer as Folk. Maybe it
was because of the massive billboards
on Cromwell Road, or the ever-
present YouTube clips, but I feel there
was a certain degree of anticipation
behind this release.
Cucumber, Banana and Tofu
represent an attempt at a new
type of TV series. The main story,
Cucumber, runs on Channel 4 and is
followed by E4’s independent Banana,
which focuses on the inner lives of
secondary characters. Tofu is Banana
and Cucumber’s love child, comprising
of a series of interviews from the
public and the shows’ actors about the
nation’s sexual attitudes.
So, having had the time to follow
the shows after they first aired three
weeks ago, here is the verdict. The
first is great, the second is good and
Tofu is the intellectual equivalent of
The Apprentice – You’re Fired and any
TV programme ever featuring Olly
Murs: something you can only watch
if you are really desperate for more
useless content.
One great thing about the main
show, aside from the brilliant
acting, is the choice to write about
the adventures of older men, well
past their sexual prime. This makes
a difference from the stereotypical
glamorous gay-best-friend from Sex
and the City and in fact it makes a
difference from most shows. Gay
or straight it is great to know that
our choices for the future don’t
exclusively include murderous
MILFs from Desperate Housewives or
completely de-sexualised suburban
parent. Think Lizzie McGuire or other
any Disney teen movie you’ve ever
watched or heard of.
Banana is a more introspective,
sober show. With each episode
dedicated to a different character,
the feel is more like a sensitive,
believable Skins. The characters may
not look mad, dangerous and all that
attractive, but their lives are equally
enthralling.
The writing is intimate and the
casting varied and original, with
most of the actors coming from
relatively unknown backgrounds.
The stories are more slow-paced than
in Cucumber, but still fascinating.
A similar pleasure to listening to
someone’s conversation on the tube.
In a way, it’s a shame that Tofu isn’t
good. Featuring interviews with some
of Britain’s horniest grannies, and
porn stars with such high-pitched
voices it is virtually impossible to
understand what they are saying,
I only recommend it if you are
too bored for Countdown. Its crude
and not particularly revolutionary
content feels a bit like a slap in the
face after the intimacy created by the
first two shows.
All things considered, what with the
show being only in its third week, and
with most of the issues and characters
hinted at not having been introduced
yet, I look forward to following the
concept’s development.
Photo: BBC
"Cucumber
is great,
Banana is
good, and
Tofu is the
intellectual
equivalent
of any
show with
Olly Murs
."

