Nominations for our Student Academic Choice Awards (SACAs) close Friday 13 February.
Hundreds of students have sent in their nominations already, and we are looking for even
more to help recognise the excellence and innovation amongst Imperial’s academic and
professional staff.
The eight awards available cover all faculties, departments and campuses, as well as all
modes of study. Nominate as many people as you like in as many categories as you like - if
your nominee is shortlisted, you may win a free invite to the SACAs Award Ceremony!
For more information and to nominate a member of staff visit:
imperialcollegeunion.org/sacas
imperialcollegeunion.org
Union Page
One week left to nominate for SACAs
Apply for funding of up to £2000
for your social enterprise!
Imperial Hub is offering ‘Try It’ awards of up to £500 for you to try out
a social idea or ‘Do It’ awards up to £2000 for you to grow an existing
social enterprise. You are eligible for these awards even if you are in other
competitions such as the VCC or Althea Imperial programme. We are
particularly interested in supporting social enterprises that benefit young
people, that use science or technology for social good or in supporting
students from low income backgrounds. Applications are open now and
close on Wednesday 18 February.
Find out more at: imperialhub.org/enterprise-funding
RAG Week returns from the 9 to 15 of February! This year will feature two
days’ worth of bungee jumping on the Queens’ Lawn, with a launch event
on Monday 9 February at 12:30 midday, at which Alice Gast (President) and
Debra Humphris (Vice Provost Education) will be making and selling pancakes.
Wednesday will see a RAG branded CSP night, and Thursday will involve a
Firewalk (yes, firewalking!) and the Valentine’s Masquerade Ball at Chelsea
Football Club. The Valentine’s delivery service will make a reappearance on
Friday, and we will be off to Oxford for the Valentine’s RAG Raid on Saturday
and Sunday.
For more information visit our website: union.ic.ac.uk/rag

