THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 25
FELIX 6.02.2015
Arts Editors Fred Fyles & Kamil McClelland
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Onegin — The Best of Ballet
Thiago Soares and Marianela Nunez in Onegin. Photo: Foteini Christofilopoulou
Clara Clark Nevola reviews the Royal Opera House’s take on a ballet classic
A History of Islands & Patterns
If you want to gauge the measure of a culture,you only
need to look at their clothing.The stuffy moralism of the
British Puritans was reflected in their monochromatic
dress; the grotesque opulence of pre-revolutionary
France is woven into the gowns of Marie Antoinette; and
–as the new exhibit at the British Museum shows us–
the pattern on your barkcloth can mark anything from
status,to age,to cultural group.
For those of you asking“What’s barkcloth?”,I
sympathise.While very rare here in the West,it is a
material made from soaked inner bark,which is then
beaten into a thin sheet,and was once-common across
Asia,Africa,and the Pacific.It is this last location that
curator Natasha McKinney is interested in,showing us
how the patterns found on the cloth shift from island
group to island group.In some Hawaiian groups,for
instance,the zig-zag pattern represents consecutive
generations,indicating the longevity of the wearer’s
clan; in Oro province,Papua New Guinea,the pattern
belongs to a specific tribe,and therefore can be a marker
of social group.
The display is arranged so that the patterns not only
shift through space,but also through time.Thus,we can
see how technological changes influences the patterns
and techniques.In Tonga,their contribution to the war
effort is immortilised in their motifs of propellers.On
Niue,developments in textiles meant that fringes and
new decoration techniques began to come to the fore.
We also have the opportunity to see how this traditional
technique has been incorporated into modern dress,
with Samoan designer Paula Chan Cheuk using
barkcloth for a modern wedding dress,commissioned
specially for this exhibition.
While we might not get an idea of how the tradition
was affected by Western exploration and colonialism
(apart from a side note about wearing tunics to cover
up),the show gives us an excellent overview of this
quietly influential,beautiful tradition.
Shifting Patterns is on until 16th August.Free Entry.
FRED FYLES
"Onegin is
far ... from
stale but
rather a
dramatic
masterpiece"
"Thiago
Soares is
outstanding,
incredibly
agile and
energetic."
Onegin is a 1960s German
ballet based on a 19th
century
Russian novel in verse.
Let the staleness of that sentence
fully sink in before continuing, and
then think again. The Royal Opera’s
revival of Onegin is far, far from stale,
but rather a dramatic masterpiece set
to rousing music and performed by
outstanding dancers.
Pushkin’s dramatic novel Eugene
Onegin has attracted much theatrical
interest recently, being staged as an
opera, a modern dance and a ballet
at various locations in London. The
Onegin ballet was commissioned in
1965 for the Stuttgart Company,
and while the opera’s score had been
composed by Tchaikovsky, when
composing the score for the ballet,
lesser known piano pieces of his were
cobbled together and adapted into
a surprisingly effective orchestral
score.
I have to admit that I haven’t
ploughed through the 389 stanzas
of the Russian novel, so I’m in no
position to relate how well the story
and the sentiment are conveyed by
the ballet. But I can tell you that it’s
a fantastically stirring performance,
full of all that you could want out of a
cloak-clad 19th
century Russian hero.
For those who, like me, haven’t read
Pushkin’s magnum opus, let me give
you the lowdown; Eugene Onegin is
a self-centred, arrogant, bored prick
who visits the countryside to sneer
at the provincial nobility. Tatiana
is a sheltered, bookish young girl
who falls for his swirling black cloak
and scowl. She declares her love, he
laughs at her, tears up her love letter
and throws it all over her. She’s left
broken hearted. Somewhere along the
line he also manages to kill Tatiana’s
sister’s boyfriend, though this is a
bit of a side plot. Years later, Eugene
strolls by a party and sees Tatiana
as the beautiful wife of a prince. He
realises he loves her and tried to win
her back. Tatiana has a bit of inner
struggle and then lets her anger loose
and tears up his love letter to her. As
Pushkin put it “who’s laughing now
bitch?” (or something like that, I
forget the exact words).
Marianela Nuñez, in the role of
Tatiana, utterly bosses her role, which
is staged in such a way to overshadow
Thiago Soares, supposedly the lead
character in his role of Eugene
Onegin. Interestingly enough, the two
are actually married in real life, so
I shudder to think what the onstage
drama is doing to their private life.
Tatiana develops from a shy nerdy
teen to a passionate would-be lover,
who crumples before our eyes under
Eugene’s heartless rejection. On the
night after they first meet, Tatiana
stays up all night imagining Eugene
– and for an innocent bookworm
she has a fairly racy imagination!
In a bit of theatrical magic, Eugene
steps out of her mirror as she stands
there languidly, and a passionate
and exhausting pas de deux ensues ’til
dawn.
Tatiana again carries the
performance of the night of her
rejection of Eugene, as a grown
woman. Her stately serene maturity is
broken by the sudden and unexpected
intrusion of Eugene- she breaks
down, swayed between the giddying
possibility of escaping with her first
love and the responsibilities she
has as a married person. The pas de
deux that follows, the echo of her
teenage dreams, is breath-taking,
and culminates in her resolution; she
draws herself up, the passion turns to
ice and Eugene, covered in fragments
of love letter, is banished from the
room.
Technically, Thiago Soares is
outstanding, incredibly agile and
energetic. But, perhaps on account
of the choreography more than the
dancer, he seems much more of a
one dimensional cut-out character
than the wonderful, theatrical and
passionate performance that Nuñez
brings to her role. This causes a bit
of dramatic implausibility, as we’re
at times left confused as to why such
an obviously cool, superior woman
would waste her tears over such
a shallow moody man. But then
again, that’s a depressingly familiar
situation…
Onegin is at The Royal Opera House
until 27th
February. Tickets from £5
Barkcloth wedding dress by Samoan designer Paula Chan Cheuk,
New Zealand Photo: British Museum

