HANGMAN hangman@imperial.ac.uk
THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON 31
06.02.2015
FELIX
CANCER
VIRGO
This week you decide to see
more of London and decide
to visit Madame tussauds
inebriated in order to deal with
the fact your paying 30 quid to
look at sculpted candles. You
are unfortunately escorted
off the premises for trying
to copulate with Margaret
Thatcher’s model.
HOROSCOPES
LEO
PISCES
AQUARIUS
CAPRICORN
SAGITTARIUS
SCORPIO
LIBRA
GEMINI
TAURUS
ARIES
This week you run out of
any creativity when writing
the horoscopes for felix
causing you to chew each
of your fingers off as you
become more and more
devoid of any humour.
This week you are threatened
with libel from the union due
to you mistakenly calling the
metropolitan police on the
deputy president of finance
and services in response to
Yewtree. Turns out Alex
Savell wasn’t a top of the pops
presenter in the eighties.
This week everything actually
goes quite well: you don’t
fuck any hamsters; you don’t
contract any STIs; you do quite
well in your essay; no libels
are placed on your newspaper.
Have a pint to help you forget
the crippling amount of debt
you’re entering into and how
stupid it was to come london.​
thisweekaftertheexcitement
ofsnowfallinginLondon,you
rushoutofhallsinyourpyjamas
onlytorealiseyouhaveleft
withoutyourIDcardinthesub
zerotemperatures.Thisleadsto
extremefrostbiteonyourpenis
leadingtooneofthe5thyear
medicsdoinganemergency
amputationforextramoney.
ThisweekafterexhaustingTindr,
youdecidetousethejewish
equivalent(J-swipe),labelling
yourselfasultra-orthodoxto
increaseyourchancesandyou
receiveaninvitationforadate;
howeverwhenyougotomeet
themyoudiscoveritwasPhillipa
Sketttryingtotrapanyunwitting
freshers.
This week you after staying
up to watch the Super Bowl,
you are forced to caffeinate
yourself within an inch of your
life in order to make it to your
labs. You forget to realise that
there may be side effects. After
an hour of heart palpitations,
you faint on the laboratory
floor, shitting yourself in front
of that hot postgrad supervisor.
This week after an extremely
dull lecture you decide to do
the Felix Sex Survey. After
detailing your preferences and
complete lack of sex whilst
at Imperial you accidentally
fall asleep. Your friends find
your results and publish them
to everyone. At least you can
finally come out as the emo-
goat fetishist.
This week you go to Kris Kaye’s
racist apology speech following
the reveal of his nefarious club
participation. He references
the fact that he has many black
friends and relations seem to
be repairing; however he ends
his talk with a parisian themed
Jay-Z song leading to a riot and
the eventual extradition of Kris
Kaye. Turkmenistan awaits.
This week you go to ACC and
for the first time you finally
get off with someone! They
invite you back to Wilson
House but unfortunately
you fail too take into account
the bus strike which leads
to you have sex in the Ethos
swimming pool. at least
you now have something
interesting to say on the Felix
Sex Survey.
This week we shall learn how
to make fishcakes: Put the
salmon in a frying pan pour
over enough milk to cover
the fish, lower heat to a gentle
simmer and leave to poach
for 4 mins. Then leave the
fish to continue cooking for 5
mins. Lift the salmon out onto
a plate, flaking it into large
pieces with a fork.
Friday 30th January
Today I went to the Union with my hall mates, and left my laundry in the washing machine.
I know it is really bad to not wait around but it takes so long to do a wash, like nearly an
hour.
When I came back someone had thrown my laundry all over the floor, and shaped all my
socks into the word “COCK” on the floor. I suspect that member of SocSoc who lives on the
second floor did it, as half of my large collection of socks was actually missing.
My cashmere jumper was gone too, although mother said I shouldn’t put it in the washing
machine. Maybe she knew someone would steal it from me
Saturday 31st January
Just picked up Felix whilst revising in the library, and read that SocSoc is actually
Philosophy Society. Pretty sure he still did it though as he’s still a wanker.
Sunday 1st February
Another weekend in the library, doing an problem sheet paper. One of the questions was a
bit dodgy; I am pretty sure a symbol was messed up somewhere but didn’t know what to do.
I have no idea if the question is impossible or not with the symbol as it stands. Maybe I will
ask my department facebook group, although not many people have posted on it since we
posted that google doc with all those answers to that online quiz and then got done for it
Oh god what if it’s cheating if I post on the group? Will whatsapp tutor group instead
Monday 2nd February
Still no resolve on problem sheet but handed it in anyways as I couldn’t do any of it. I went
out for dinner to Nandos with my hall afterwards, and we started talking about who is going
Diary Of A Fresher aged 18 3/4
to live with who next year.
I really want to live in Hammersmith with a nice living room and kitchen, and my medic friend wants to
live near Charing Cross, so it works. There are eight of us, I reckon we could get a really big nice
house and it will literally be like that series of Fresh Meat!
Tuesday 3rd February
No-one in my tutor group understood the question either, although one guy didn’t even know we had
coursework set so he’s fucked already.
Wednesday 4th February
Saw American girl tonight at ACC, the theme was superheroes and she was dressed as “Potato Girl.” I
asked her why and she said that is what the event told her to dress as, although she kind of looked
a bit bizarre, almost like a walking poo.
I got off with her in Metric anyway
Kiss Kraye was there surrounded by a crowd of small Chinese girls, he seemed too busy to talk to me
though.
Thursday 5th February
Received an email about that problem sheet saying the question was impossible, but we were told that
we should probably just deal with it.
IM SO ANGRY WHY SHOULD I DEAL WITH IT, IT WAS THEIR FAULT
Although I scored zero for the rest of the questions, I could have totally done that question if they had
just put the bloody symbol in the right part of the fraction! If this had happened in an a level exam
it would have gone into the national news I swear.
I hate Imperial.
This week as a poor 5th year
medic you fall into deep
despair over how hard it is to
be a medical student: you fret
over your job security; how
hard it is to drink continuously
for 6 years and then be handed
a medical degree; and how
difficult it was to have your
parents choose your career for
you. Boo-hoo :(

