4 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
6.02.2015
News Editors Carol Ann Cheah and Kunal Wagle
News
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Students take to Council to condemn C
Abill being passed through
government has come
under fire for potentially
supressing free speech at Universities,
and now two students want to pass
a paper through Imperial College
Union Council, condemning the bill
altogether.
The Counter Terrorism and
Security Bill was read in the House
of Lords earlier this week, and
has caused controversy amongst
students and academics alike. The bill
addresses a number of strategies to
potentially stifle terrorism activity
and influence, but seeks to make
a number of currently optional
approaches for Universities
compulsory.
The bill proposes that the
Secretary of State should also
issue guidance to institutions
on how such duties should be
fulfilled, and tell institutions
what direct actions should be
taken. They can invoke action by
court order if necessary.
One part of the bill, called
“Prevent”, aims to place statutory
duty on institutions such as
Universities to prevent students
being drawn into terrorism,
“including non-violent extremism.”
Actions suggested by Prevent that
Universities should take include
introducing strict policies and
procedures to manage campus events,
including the booking of speakers.
Colleges or Unions should
also investigate the content of
presentations before given to students
if by external speakers, and monitor
the IT use of students. They should
also be able to limit what students
can access through their network, and
introduce policies to determine what
sort of research should constitute
concern when browsing online.
The paper drafted against the bill
for Union Council, authored by
two members of the Islamic Society
committee, will be debated next
Tuesday. It states that the bill may
“create a culture where students are
unwilling to speak out,” and suggests
that academics should not have to spy
on students and their activities.
The paper proposes that the Union
should agree that: “That by risking
the ability of a scope of events taking
place from controversial speakers to
student led events, the bill will simply
drive certain activities off campus
where they are currently held and
regulated and as such any radical
elements will be allowed to flourish
unchecked without oversight that is
now currently in place.”
It also suggests that the
Union should agree that: “The
implementation of the Prevent
strategy on campus will not only
isolate Muslim students but
undermine the civil liberties of
other groups such as environmental,
political and humanitarian activists.”
Another belief of the paper is that
the best way to counter extremism to
simply expose it through academic
discussion.
Felix spoke to the iSoc President,
Ibtesham Hossain, who said that the
bill will have widespread implications
for all students, regardless of religion.
Hossain said: “The Counter Terrorism
Security Bill is a dangerous legislation
that, ironically, is ‘extremist’ and
threatens core ‘British values’.”
“In trying to thwart the former and
promote the latter, the government’s
blanket approach not only has serious
implications for freedom of speech
and the ability to challenge and
debate ideas in a university setting,
but also creates a culture of suspicion
between academics and students.”
Currently, if student societies want
to book a speaker, they must inform
the Union about the speaker: what
organisations they are linked with
and if there have been any difficulties
or threats when they have spoken in
the past. Publicity for the speaker
must generally also be attached, and
all of this must be provided to the
Union no less than three weeks prior
to the event.
The speakers are also authorised by
College security, and any potential
risks are flagged to authorities within
the College.
Felix spoke to the current Deputy
President (Clubs and Societies), Abi
de Bruin, who currently authorises
external speakers at the Union level,
she told us: “In most situations we can
work to let these events take place.
We may have to put some precautions
in place, such as additional security
measures for high profile speakers,
but the vast majority are not a cause
for concern.”
The government released the
outlines for the new Prevent scheme
back in December, and asked
institutions to email their responses
to their call for consultation. Some of
the officer trustees responded in one
document, and College responded
separately and they have refused to
release the document to Felix before
the print deadline.
de Bruin said in the officer
trustee response that although
they “broadly agree” with the
concept of the new Prevent scheme,
but have reservations about how
vague some parts are, such as the
lack of definitions for terms such
as “vulnerable individuals” and
“fundamental British values” that are
referred to throughout the scheme.
The Council paper highlights the
vagueness of the bill, and criticises
it as it puts Students’ Unions at risk
since they are legally expected to
monitor events that are undefined.
The papers points out that the
proposals will not help Unions in
controlling extremist action, and
will instead cause events to be held
outside the University environment
where into forums where there is no
oversight.
Student Unions from School
of Oriental and African Studies
(SOAS), University College London,
Kings College London, Queen
Mary’s University and London
School of Economics have already
passed motions condemning and
disassociating itself with the bill.
The National Union of Students
also denounced the bill as “Further
developing a culture of suspicion
and surveillance on campuses,
whilst also potentially conflicting
with institutions’ duties to promote
freedom of speech, by making them
overly risk-averse and unwilling
to engage in important topics of
discussion.”
In an open letter published by
the Guardian, over 500 professors
from institutions across the country,
including Imperial, have condemned
the bill as “unnecessary and ill-
conceived,” stating that the bill is
inflicting “Draconian crackdowns” in
a bid to tackle the extremism.
Last week, Imperial’s Chair of
College Council, (the highest decision-
making body of Imperial College
London), and former head of M15,
Infrographic: Measuring Anti Muslim Attacks about the latest counter terrorism bill, introduced by Theresa May (pictured) Photo: itellmamauk
Philippa Skett looks at the controversial bill that may be a threat

