8 THE STUDENT PAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON FELIX
6.02.2015
Comment Comment Editor Tessa Davey
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Should we freeze investment in fossil fuels?
The world is waking up to
the reality of approaching
dangerous temperature rise.
And that’s without considering the
catastrophic hurricanes, changes
to ocean currents, mass extinctions
globally, political instability, war,
famine, human displacement on
a biblical scale, and the growing
injustice of global inequality, with
ever more power shifting to the 1%.
It seems that climate change action
and sustainable awareness can no
longer be marginalised as a hippie or
‘eco-warrior’ problem. And in fact,
divesting out of the non-sustainable
fossil fuel economy is perhaps not a
‘fairy-tale dream’, but something that
is a lot more tangible.
Founded in 2011 across just half
a dozen US college campuses, Fossil
Fuel Divestment is a movement
that has gained remarkable traction
over a relatively short period of
time. Already, scores of educational
institutions, philanthropic
foundations, religious groups and
cities have joined the movement and
pledged to go “fossil free”.
The core of the movement is to get
institutions to take their investments
out of fossil fuels and thus indirectly
supporting and directly profiting
from the wrecking of our planet.
Imperial, just like most other
academic institutions, has a huge
pot of money at its disposal. Its first
priority is to protect those funds and
get a good rate of return – to spend on
its academic mission, i.e. you.
What we are asking of Imperial is
very simple: we want them to freeze
any new investment in fossil fuel
companies, divest from current
directly owned shares and any co-
mingled funds that invest in fossil
fuel companies within 5 years, and
draw up an ethical investment policy
and confront their other unethical
investments.
Support is growing like wildfire,
in people as unlikely as the heirs to
one of America’s most famous oil
fortunes: the infamous Rockefellers
– who announced last September
that they would be pulling their
philanthropic funds from fossil fuel
investments.
“John D Rockefeller, the founder
of Standard Oil, moved America out
of whale oil and into petroleum,”
Stephen Heintz, president of the
Rockefeller Brothers Fund, said in a
statement. “We are quite convinced
that if he were alive today, as an
astute businessman looking out to
the future, he would be moving out
of fossil fuels and investing in clean,
renewable energy.”
In July the World Council of
Churches, which represents over half
a billion Christians worldwide, also
decided to pull its investments out
of fossil fuel companies. Archbishop
Desmond Tutu put it: “People of
conscience need to break their ties
with corporations financing the
injustice of climate change”. Even
Leonardo DiCaprio is on board.
The endowment fund is comprised
of hundreds of million of pounds,
some of which are directly invested
in oil, coal and gas. Imperial has no
ethical investment policy.
In this year’s University Green
League we came 112th
in the UK after
scoring 0% for ethical investment.
Oxford, St. Andrews, and UCL have
explicit Responsible Investment
policies. Among the Ivy League
universities in the USA, Harvard,
Brown, and Columbia have an explicit
commitment to sustainable and
responsible investing.
If we were to divest, we would be
joining Glasgow University, as well as
eighteen US universities, including
Stanford, which have already
committed to divest from the fossil
fuel industry. In the UK, student
unions such as at King’s and UCL are
demanding that their institutions
take similar action. SOAS, at the
University of London, has agreed to
a temporary freeze on investment
in advance of a decision on full
divestment to be taken later this year.
Decisions are also imminent
from the University of Edinburgh,
which conducted a consultation
with staff and students that was
overwhelmingly in support of
divestment.
Oxford University and its colleges,
which have an endowment wealth
of £3.8bn, is currently conducting a
staff-only consultation, after almost
2,000 students and academics joined
a campaign calling for divestment.
Andrew Taylor of the People and
Planet Network, which has launched
over fifty ‘Fossil Free’ campaigns,
said:“Divestment now has a firm
foothold in the UK. Student and
academic pressure to get out of fossil
fuels is building across the sector.
“It’s time to stop profiting from
wrecking the climate, whether you’re
an institution with lots of money
like Oxford or Edinburgh, or a world
leader in climate research such as the
University of East Anglia.” In our
New investments will release billions of tons of greenhosue gases into the atmosphere. Photo: ABC
Phoebe Tickell talks about her involvement with Fossil Free Imperial
case at Imperial, we are both.
There are many arguments that
spring to mind against divestment.
Why pull out our money, when it
will be immediately be replaced by a
new investment? Why bother, when
university level endowment funds are
tiny compared to the investments of
huge financial institutions?
One only needs to open a newspaper
and see the latest figures describing
the destruction of natural resources
and the chaos caused by the growing
climate destabilisation. And climate
change is making inequality worse.
While climate injustice is a relatively
new concept, its evidence abounds.
As extreme weather becomes more
frequent and severe, people on low
incomes are the ones who will feel
the impacts first and worst every
single time. And it is we in developed
countries, with our resource obsessed
economy and decades of collective
denial that have landed the world in
this position.
Financially, the transferral
of investments is sound. Oil
investments may give a good return,
but so do many other, ethical sources
of return. Just because our money lies
in one place, as a result of decisions
made years ago, does not mean it has
to stay there forever. Times change,
evidence emerges, and a responsible
and clued up society reacts.
Oil, gas and coal companies play
an active role in swaying politicians
in the face of hard science. Just a
couple of weeks ago, 62 Senators
voted to approve the construction of
the Keystone XL oil pipeline system,
which would translate into releasing
as much as 1.37 billion metric
tons of greenhouse gases into the
atmosphere.
It has now been shown that these
very Senators took as much as $31
million in the form of financial
support from Big Oil companies. This
is not in the interest of the people,
nor is it representative of public
opinion. In fact, a recent poll found
that an overwhelming majority of
the American public, including half
of Republicans, support government
action to curb global warming.
You can say that we are just one
institution, which in the grand
scheme of investments, is not much.
If I were writing this article 3 years
ago, then yes, I would agree with you.
One, isolated boycott against fossil
fuel companies could be likened to
a tree falling in an empty forest. But
our move is not isolated, and many
people are listening.
It is a privilege to be able to do
science every day. It is a privilege to
understand, more than many others
across the world, the science behind
what is happening to the oceans,
rainforests, atmosphere, people’s
health, and the future of the coming
generations. But it is what we do with
the knowledge that will make all the
difference.
If you agree with us, consider
signing our petition. Your name
will join around 800 others that
we will be showing as a symbol of
support when presenting our case to
the University fund managers. No
matter what you do, make it not be
inaction. In the words of famous US
environmentalist Edward Abbey,
sentiment without action is the ruin
of the soul.

