YOU MIGHT MAKE MENSA.
BUT WOULD YOU EVER GET
INTO ERNST&WHINNEY?
Which Twin is the Liar?
Owing to an obscure physiological trauma at birth,
one of these twins has always told the truth, the other has
always lied.
You are asked to discover for certain which is which
by asking either of them one question.
What is the question?
The Wolf, the Goat and the Cabbage.
On the banks of Loch Linnhe, the local boatman is
faced with a wee quandary.
He has undertaken the transportofawolfaneighbour's
goat and aprize-winning cabbage across to the opposite shore.
However, his vessel has only enough room to take
either the wolf, or the goat, or the cabbage as passenger.
To complicate matters further, if he takes the cabbage,
the wolf will devour the goat on the spot
And if he takes the wolf, the
goat will set upon the cabbage
nth equal gusto.
Only when the boatman is pre-
sent are both goat and prize-winning
cabbage safe from their respective
^predators.
How should the
convey all three
unscathed?
boatman
the Loch
The Stationmaster's Watch.
7b while away a few minutes in between tr
stationmaster at Abergavenny sets himselfa lit
With two straight lines, can he divide the f
pocket watch so that the sums of the numbers
are equal?
He has until the arrival ofthe 10.18 from Lla
Wells to work out
the answer.
As all this might suggest, Ernst &. Whinney are
looking for graduate recruits with a somewhat uncon-
ventional turn of mind.
Which is to be expected, really.We are a somewhat
unconventional firm of accountants.
We see our business role going far, far beyond the
job of auditing accounts.
We like to increase our clients' profits, not simply
tot them up.
So we will expect you to have a brain of unusual
power and imagination.
The kind that can apply itself to seemingly impos-
sible problems and come up with brilliantly obvious
solutions.
You think you like the sound of Ernst &.Whinney?
We think we might like the sound of you.
Contact Tim Curry on 01-928 2000.
As well as having the answers to all the puzzles
here, he may well have the solution to your career.
I&
Ernst &Whinney
Accountants, Advisers, Consultants.
Becket House, 1 Lambeth Palace Road,London SE17EU. Tel: 01-928 2000.

