Feature, FELIX, Friday October 24th 1986 13
Things To Remembe
Some Things to Remember
General Employment Prospects
Since the low in 1981/82
employment prospects have been
rising steadily. 'Although full
Unemployment Rates are one
obvious indicator of this (and
Imperial is always at or near the
bottom of that league table), every
other measure tells the same story.
Thus there are more jobs on offer,
more employers asking to visit,
more employers having jobs
available at Summer Fairs. While all
these signs are particularly evident
here, the same optimistic reports are
being made all around the country.
As might be expected, demand is
strongest in such areas as electronics
and computer science. There has
also been a good recovery in
recruitment levels in manufacturing.
Finance (banking, accountancy,
insurance, commodities) and
retailing are two other areas that
need a special mention. Most of the
employers here are making special
efforts to attract science and
engineering graduates.
All this does NOT mean that the
1987 graduates can sit back and wait
for attractive job offers. The market
does not operate that way! As an
example about 300, electronics
graduates were unemployed at the
start of the year. It is still vital to
remember you must be realistic: if
you have taken five years for a pass
degree do not insist on looking for a
R&D job as one graduate (from
elsewhere in London) did a few
years ago.
Taking a Year Off
A year off taken before University is
welcomed almost universally. Quite
a number think seriously instead
about having some time off after
graduation and before starting
(serious!) work. This too can be a
very rewarding and productive
experience. As usual, however, there
are some qualifications to be made.
If for example you are aged about 21
or 22 then there is no problem, from
an age consideration, regarding
your eventual career prospects. If,
however, you are 24 or 25 it may be
less straightforward and it could be
worthwhile to seek careers advice
first. It is also good that at any age
you should have some sort of plan
for the year and one which you can
articulate—perhaps to a future
employer. You should be able to
talk about what your aims were,
what you gained from the
experience, etc. You should also
think ahead. For example it might
be fun going jackarooing in
Australia for 12 months but you will
hardly be well placed to apply for
jobs back in the UK. For just such
simple reasons as this, 12 months off
have often become 15 or more.
Remember the vacancy lists in
September are probably shorter
than at another time of the year.
Nevertheless, given some thought
and planning, some time off after
graduation can be fun, productive
and for many, a time of great
personal development.
Temporary Work
While the great majority of
graduates want permanent work,
each year there are those who, for a
variety of reasons, seek temporary
work. In thinking of the longer term
career prospects, virtually all
previous work experience is useful,
even valuable. Here in London
temporary work is not hard to find.
I can cover many possibilities, from
part-time work in MacDonalds to
challenging adminstrative jobs. Job
Centres can be a good source of such
work and there are a number of
specialist agencies. Catch 22 is one
such firm (It's harder to get a job
without experience and you can't
get experience without a job).
Although your work might be far
removed from your ultimate
ambition, it does give valuable
insights into people and the nature
of work. It can also be a useful way
of funding that year off.
Summer Fairs
It has always been wrong to think of
recruitment as being a January to
March phenomenon associated with
the Graduate R e c r u i t m e n t
Programme, otherwise known as
the milk-round. In fact recruitment
is increasingly becoming an all-the-
year round event. Nevertheless
outside the GRP the next busy peak
is during the Summer Fairs. This is
the time in June and July, starting
immediately after finals, when there
are about 10 Fairs throughout the
country. Of these, London is by far
the biggest. This year almost 200
employers attended during its three
days with a wide variety of jobs on
offer. Thus these events are
particularly useful for those who
have not wanted to think about jobs
prior to graduation.
Tested and Measured for Success
Datron Instruments is setting the pace in the design of high
technology test instruments - these currently include Digital
Multimeters. Calibrators and Calibration Systems.
To maintain our technical leadership we require graduates
who can combine flair and innovation with aptitude for
design in any of the following disciplines:
Analogue - advanced circuit designs in the frequency range
DC to 1MHz.
Digital - system design using microprocessors, gate arrays
and interface technology
Software - real time measurement system management and
interface handlers using both assembler and structured
languages.
You will work within a highly skilled team on the development
of new products incorporating imaginative measurement
techniques and the latest technology Training will be under
the guidance of a senior engineer, supplemented by specialist
courses.
Datron offers an excellent working environment in a new, well
equipped Engineering Research facility. This is augmented by
an informal and friendly atmosphere. Based in picturesque
Norwich, close to both the coast and Norfolk Broads, the area
offers excellent recreation facilities and low cost housing.
Your experience at Datron will give you an identity in a
company which has an international reputation for quality
and excellence, with positive opportunities for further career
advancement.
Highly competitive salaries will be offered; other benefits
include profit share, a transferable pension scheme and BUPA.
Assistance with relocation is available.
Final year students are invited to apply For further information
please contact the Careers Advisory Service or meet us on
29th October at the Careers Fair.
Leading in measurement technology
Impressive growth in turnover
Plants in Norwich, Florida a n d California
Technology A w a r d Winners
* Full air conditioned laboratory
•* Ambitious R & D Programmes
* Attractively priced housing
* Scope for career advancement
Datron Instruments Limited, Hurricane Way Norwich, NR6 6JB. A subsidiary of Datron International pic.
I N S T R U M E N T S
1
World Class ...Worldwide

