Feature FELIX, Friday October 24th 1986 14
Careers Fair 1986
JCR Tuesday
1 Proctor and Gamble R & D and production
management, development, manufacture and
marketing of soaps, detergents and allied products.
CFKPG.
2 Grant Thornton Chartered Accountants. AU
Departments.
3 British Telecom Provision of national and
international telecomminications service. All
Departments esp JKOXZ.
4 Imperial Chemical Industries Manufacture of
chemicals for a wide range of applications. All
Departments.
5 Association of Collegiate Entrepreneurs based at
the Department of Business Studies, Stirling
University All Departments.
6 Small Firms Service Provision of information and
advice for starting and running a business. All
Departments.
7 Thames Valley Police Police Force. All
Departments.
8 Peat, Marwick and Mitchell Co Chartered
Accountants and management consultants. All
Departments.
9 Hewlett Packard Design and manufacture of
computer products. JKOPXZN.
10 Glaxo Group Research Research and
development of ethical pharmeceuticals. All
Departments.
11 Gencor Gold, Platinum and coal mining.
CFGHMPQSTU.
12 Noble, Lowndes & Partners All aspects of pension
fund management and employee benefit. All
Departments esp O.
13 Rank Xerox Mid Volume Business Unit Design
and development of reprographic devices. KPX.
14 Johnson Matthey Specialists in precious metals
and advanced materials. FGJKPQX and any
technical discipline.
15 Ministry of Defence (Science Group) Research,
development and implementation of new
technology in the defense field. ABCDFGHIJKO
PQRVXZL.
16 Air Products Industrial gases and plant
manufacture. All Departments.
17 National Physical Laboratory NPL is the UK
national standards laboratory, also undertaking
research in aspects of physics, engineering materials
an information technology. GJKOPQXZ.
18 Lloyds Bank Financial services to corporate and
personal customers in the UK and internationally,
All Departments.
19 British Oxygen Company Industrial and medical
gases, medical equipment, vacuum technology and
computing. FJKNOPQXICDRcY.
20 G E C Turbine Generators Design, manufacture
and supply of large steam turbines for power
stations in the UK and overseas. AJKOPQX.
21 Arthur Anderson & Co. Chartered Accountants.
All departments.
22 Fairciough Civil Engineering Civil engineering
contracting in all fields. IT.
23 Foster Wheeler Energy Petrochemical
engineering design contractors.FIKP.
24 Chartered Accountants Student introduction
Service All Departments.
25 Systems Designers Computer software systems
and consultancy. JKOKZ
26 Ernst & Whitney Chartered Accountants AU
Departments.
27 British Aerospace Design, manufacturing and
marketing of civil and military aircraft.
AIJKNOPQXY.
28 Price Waterhouse Chartered Accountants Alt
Departments.
29 British Gas Corporation Supply of gas and gas
appliences. FGJKLMNQOPXYTV.
30 British Coal Coal Mining. All Departments.
31 Esso Group Exploration, production,
transportation and marketing of petroleum and
petrochemical products. FGKMfPG OnlyjPVN.
32 Royal Aircraft Establishment Scientific research
and development. AGJOPX.
33 National Audit Office External auditors to
Central Government, quasi-bodies and
international organisations. All Departments.
34 British Steel Corporation Manufacture or iron
and steel products. All departments esp
FGJKOPQXNY.
Great Hall
35 Water Research Centre - Processes Development
of process systems & plant for the treatment of
water, sewage and waste sludges. FGLCOPXKDR.
36 Civil Service Commission Technology division.
Recruitment of engineers to all Government
departments. AFIJKOPQSTVX.
37 K M G Thompson McLuitock Audit, business
services, taxation, corporate recovery and
management consultancy. All Departments.
38 Royal Engineers Combat and construction
engneering. All Departments esp. FIKPT.
39 T I Group Diverse engineering group. Products
include domestic appliances, cycles, machine tools,
sealing systems, vehicle components and steel tubes.
JKOPQZN.
40 Dow Chemical Co Manufacture and marketing of
basic chemicals, plastics, argicultural chemicals,
industrial and pharmaceutical specialities.
CDFGHIJK%X.
41 Schlumberger Electronics Design and
manufacture of electronic measurement
instruments, simulation systems, transducers, A T E
and energy management systems. JKPXZ.
42 Austin Rover Group Car manufacturers. All
Departments.
43 Rushton Gas Turbines Manufactures of gas
turbines and turbochargers. AJKOPTVX.
44 Coopers and Lybrand Chartered Accountants
and management conultants. All Departments.
45 Lutron Electronics American electronics
company. All departments esp JK to work in USA.
46 Singer Link-Milnes Design and manufacture of
simulation equipment for aircraft, naval, maritime
and space applications. AJKOZ.
47 Mars Group UK Manufacture and marketing of
confectionary, prepared petfood, pet accessories
and main meal foods, drinks systems, electronics
computer services and market research. AU
Departments.
48 G E C Avionics Research, design and manufacture
of electronic systems for aircraft and allied
technology. AJKNQPX.
49 BICC Design and manufacture of cable and
accessories, a wide range of electrical and
mechanical engineering products worldwide.
AIJKNQPXY.
50 Mobil Oil Co. Exploration, production, refining,
distribution and retail of petroleum products.
FGHIMOPTUVN.
51 Royal Navy National defence. All departments.
52 British Nuclear Fuels Production and processing
of nuclear fuels. FGIJKLMNQ OPXY
53 Royal Air Force National defence. All
Departments.
54 M-O Valve Research, design, development and
manufacture of electronic components, tubes and
devices. KQX.
55 Civil Service Commission Science Department^//
departments.
56 Fenranti Computer Systems Research, design and
development of real-time, on-line computer
systems. JKOPXZ.
57 CAP UK Computer systems in the financial
services, scientific and industrial market sectors. All
Departments.
58 Inland Revenue Tax inspectorate. All
Departments.
59 Philips Electronics Electrical components,
consumer electronics and business and professional
systems. CGJKOPXZ.
60 Hays Allan Chartered Accountants. All
Departments.
JCR Wednesday
1 British Petroleum International group engaged in
the discovery and development of crude oil
resources; oil, petroleum and associated products.
All Departments.
2 Operational Research Unit - The Inland Revenue
for Civil Government departments applied to the
public sector policy, admin, management and
planning. All Departments.
3 Arthur Anderson & Co. Management consultants
providing a professional service in designing and
installing systems. AU Departments.
4 Ove Arup Partnership Consulting Engineers.
AIKMPL
5 Datron Instruments Design and manufacture of
precision test instruments. JKXZ
6 Ford Motor Company Design, manufacture and
sale of motor vehicles and components. All
Departments.
7 Ricardo Consulting Engineers Consulting
engineers to the internal combustion engine
manufacturing industry worldwide. AJKOPZ
8 Unilever Worlds largest consumer goods co. with
extensive interests in packaging materials, animal
feeds, perfumery and flavourings for industrial use.
AU Departments.
9 Deloitte, Haskins and Sells Management
Consultants assisting managers in solution of
business problems towards improving efficiency
and effectiveness. GJONXY
10 Pilkington Brothers Manufacture of glass and
associated products. All Departments.
11 Chevron Engineering Oil and gas production. All
Departments.
12 Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers
Equipment engineering in the army. AFIJKPQZ.
13 K a Hntree-Mackintosh . ,ure of
confectionary and snack-food. Allu^^artments esp.
JKP.
14 Pilkington Electro-Optica. Division design,
development and manufacture of precision electro-
optical systems. AJKOPQXZLN.
15 Spicer and Pegler Chartered Accountants. All
Departments.
16 R. Watson and Sons Consulting Actuaries
GJOXY and any maths related degree.
17 Conoco UK - London Data Centre Computer
services department of Conoco UK, a major oil
company GJKOPNZ and any numerate discipline.
18 ICL Design, development, manufacture and
marketing of information systems. AU Departments.
19 Arthur Young Chartered Accountants. All
Departments.
20 UKAEA Northern Division Research and
Development in support of the UK nuclear power
programme. FGKPQZ
21 Schlumberger Cambridge Research research for
Schlumberger Oilfield Services companies.
FGKOPQTX.
22 PA Computers and Telecommunications
Information technology consultancy. JN.
23 Perkin-Elmer Manufacture of advanced
analytical instruments for medical, industrial and
academic fields with R&D, sales, marketing and
software and. hardware development functions.
CGHJOPXZ.
24 Courtaulds Manufacture offibres,textiles, paints,
chemicals, packaging, films & plastics. EFGKPXN,
25 Browns Operating Systems Software house -
communications specialists in the IBM field. JKOX.
26 Rolls Royce and Associates Design, development
and procurement of nuclear steam-raising plant
principally for Royal Navy submarines.
AFGJKNOPX.
21 Reckitt and Coleman Manufacture of household
goods, toiletries, pharmeceuticals and food and
wine products. All Departments.
28 U B (Biscuits) Biscuits, cakes, snacks and
confectionary products. AU Departments.
29 Northern Telecom Telecommunications. JKZNY.
30 Bell Northern Research Telecommunications
Research and Development. JKOX.
31 Marks and Spencer Retailing. All Departments.
32 Central Electricty Generating Board The bulk
generation of electricity throughout England and
Wales. All Departments.
33 Electricity Council (for Area Electricity Boards)
Distribution, sale and utilisation of electricity, sale
of appliances and electrical contracting. JKOZNY.
34 Shell International Petroleum All aspects of the
oil, chemicals and gas industry. All Departments.
Great Hall Wednesday
35 KLA Instruments Production of high speed image
processing systems used for inspection and control
in the semiconductor industry. JKXZ
36 Tbnken Europe-Research Research into new
technology methods of manufacture suitable for
bearing production. JKOPQXZ
37 G E C Research Contract research and
development in mechanical and electrical
engineering. AKPQ.
38 H M Government Communications Centre
Research and development of electronic and
communications equipment and installations at
home and overseas. KX.
39 Cargill UK Commodity trading and processing.
All Departments.
40 Data General Manufacture and sale of computer
sotfware and hardware. All Departments.
41 Eurotherm International Innovative design,
manufacture and marketing of advanced products,
principally industrial instrumentation and control.
JKP.
42 'louche Ross & Co Chartered Accountants. All
Departments.
43 Marconi research Centre Electronics Research
involving avionics, radar and communications
systems, electronic materials and components and
computer applications. AGJKOPQXZ
44 Price Waterhouse Management Consultants. AU
Departments.
45 Building Research Establishment Research into
* building and construction and the prevention and
control of fire. GHIJKOPQZXL
46 Sun Alliance Insurance Group, General Insurance
business development, accounting, investment
analysis, acturial work and systems analysis. All
Departments esp. JO.
47 Penny and Giles Conductive Plastics Design and
manufacture of a wide range of products for servo
systems in avionics, industrial control and military
applications. KP.
48 Kodak Manufacture and marketing of
photographic materials. BCDEFGHJOPRVVXYZ.
49 Marconi Defence Systems Design, development
and manufacture of advanced systems for electronic
warning and counter measures, radar missile
guidance and satelite communications. JKPOX.
50 Government Communications Headquarters
Communications research and development.
JKOXZ.
51 Scicon Computing Services. AFGJKMOPQS
TVXZN.
52 Tioxide UK Manufacture of Titanium dioxide
and associated products. FGJKOPSX.
53 Legal and General Group Acturial Work,
financial management, investment, insurance, sales,
marketing, management services and estate
surveying. All Departments esp NO.
54 Bechtee Engineering design and construction
services to the petroleum and construction industry.
FKPV.
55 UKAEA Winfrith Nuclear research and
development, also non-nuclear work both
theoretical and experimental. FGJKQOPX.
56 Lutron Electronics American Electronics
Company. AU Departments esp JK to work in the
USA.
57 Steetley production of construction materials
and refractories, minerals extraction and
processing, and the distribution of chemical,
industrial and electrical supplies. AU Departments.
58 Plessey Design and development of advanced
electronic products. AJKOPQXZLN.
59 Barclays Bank Domestic and international
banking. All Departments.
60 S T C Electronics and Communications. All
Departments.
. Aeronautical Engineering
Applied Biology
Biochemistry
_Biology
Biotechnology
_ Chemical Engineering
. Chemistry
-Chemistry and Biochemistry
Civil Engineering
_ Computing Science
K Electrical and Electronic Engineering
£ — Enviromentat Technology
m . Geology
" — Management Science
O . Mathematics
P Mechanical Engineering
Q Metallurgy and Materials
R Microbiology
S — Mineral Process Engineering
T Mining Engineering
O _ Mining Geology
V Petroleum Engineering
™ Plant Science
X Physics
Y Social and Economic Studies
Z -—. Software Engineering
f • , Zoology

