THE HEIGHTOF TECHNOLOGY
Hewlett-Packard, designers and manu-
facturers of computers, computer systems, elec-
tronic test and measurement Instruments, are
marketing high technology products for industry,
commerce, laboratories and hospitals, and con-
tinue to develop advanced technologies for the
future.
HP UK is a growing part of an inter-
national company that now employs 84,000
people, with a worldwide turnover of $6.5 billion.
HP Labs Bristol Research Centre is the
company's first applied research organisation to
be based outside the USA and interacts closely
with R&D organisations within Europe. It is evolv-
ing the information and technology of the future
with emphasis on soft-ware engineering and
computer networks.
Bristol also houses a Manufacturing
Centre, with worldwide responsibility for certain
computer memory products, and the European
Response Centre, the focal point of HP's Euro-
pean Computer support network.
The Office Productivity Division at P;
ne-
wood is HP's worldwide centre for office auto-
mation software products.
At HP South Queensferry in Scotland,
telecommunications test and measurement
eguipment is designed and manufactured for
worldwide markets.
Right across the UK, Sales and Support
people provide our customers with technological
solutions.
COME AND VISIT OUR STAND AT THE COL-
LEGE CAREERS FAIR ON TUESDAY 28th OCTOBER,
WHEN WE'LL BE PLEASED TO MEET YOU AND TELL
YOU MORE ABOUT CAREER OPPORTUNITIES WITH
OUR COMPANY.
Hewlett-Packard is an equal opportunity
employer.
H E W L E T T
P A C K A R D
N l D RIE
®: %»w '* mm
Once you ve graduated, with letters after your
name, it's time to consider numbers. luflj
Chartered Accountancy is a profession which can certainly add up.
And, if you were to opt for one of the more dynamic firms like Peat Marwick,
you'd soon find yourself with more than you'd counted on. Like a thorough training
programme designed to equip you with an all-round professional expertise. Like an
extremely challenging and varied lifestyle working for large corporations all over
the world. And the opportunity to earn enough money to keep the wolf several
miles from the door.
So if you're interested in a career in which money, travel and job satisfaction
figure largely, and getting even more letters after your name, visit us at The Careers
Fair on 20th October or write to:
Alan Kingsley, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., I Puddle Dock, Blackfriars,
London, E C 4 V 3PD.
la P E A T
M A R W I C K

