Within 3years a £50 million busin
could depend uponyour next m
C OME ON THE PROCTER & GAMBLE MARKETING
COI RSE AND Fl\I) OI TEt ERYTHING YOl El ER
II 'ANTED TO KNOU ABOl TA CAREER IN
MARKETING MANAGEMENT.
Procter X (iambic arc widely regarded as one of the
inventors of modern marketing. They arc one of the top
ten most admired corporations according to Fortune
magazine. And with brands like Ariel. Fairy liquid.
Pampers and Bold they are the leading II advertiser in
the I K. In just 3 years at P&G you could be managing
brand business worth as much as £5(1 million.
To give you a chance to find out more about consumer
marketing. P&G will be running a Marketing Course
from December 14 - 17, ]9H6 at their Head Office in
Newcastle upon lytic. I he course, which is free, will
cover all major areas of marketing Iincluding strategic
planning, advertising, consumer promotions, finance
and medial. You 'II also find plenty of opportunity to try
some moves of your own.
For an application form ask at your Careers Service or
write to Peter l.aing, Procter & Gamble limited,
Newcastle upon Tyne NEW FEE.
[Telephone 091 27V227SJ. Closing date for applications is November 1st, 1986.
"I think variety would sum
up my career with ICI"
Chris Matykiewicz joined ICI
Agricultural Division in
October 1978 having
graduated with a degree in
Chemistry.
Since joining ICI Chris has
worked as a sales
representative for ICI Mond
Division's solvents and in ICI
Agricultural Division's
Ammonia Marketing Group.
Chris is now working
abroad. His last job before
leaving was marketing
Carbon Dioxide. 'I had
responsibility for the
profitability of the product,
the planning of its future and
ensuring that the varying
requirements of the different
customers were met.'
'I think variety would sum
up my career with ICI to
date, whether it be the
problems and challenges
faced, the people both inside
and outside the company I
have met, or the different
jobs I have held.'
ICI are recruiting graduates from all
disciplines. You can discuss careers in ICI
at the- Careers Fair or at the Gloucester
Hotel's Courtfield Suite on the 28th
October at 6pm.

