Isitbetter
tojointheArmy
beforeorafter
yougraduate?
You're probably aware that a young man
with a university education can do very well
for himself in the Army.
But it may have escaped your notice that
you can join and benefit before you graduate.
£17,000 while you study.
If you expect to graduate before you're
25, you can apply for an Undergraduate Cadet-
ship now.
This involves attending the Regular Com-
missions Board which is a three-day selection
process for Officer training.
If you pass, you'll go to Sandhurst for three
weeks' training before taking up your studies
at university.
Apart from joining your university's Officer
Training Corps and spending part of your
summer vacation with a regiment, you'll live
just like other students.
You'll pull in a salary of £5,362 in the first
year, £6,008 in the second year and £6,658 in
the third.
After graduation, you'll return to Sand
hurst for a 7 month Course following whi< h
your commission will be confirmed.
In other words, you'll be a Lieutenant with
a starting salary of at least £10,428.
Five years later, as a mature, self-confident
young man, you can decide to continue your
Army career or to make your mark in civil-
ian life.
The Army Bursary scheme.
If five years seems too long, you can try
for an Undergraduate Bursary.
With a Bursary, you commit yourself to
only three years as a Short Service Com-
missioned Officer.
You won't be subjected to any kind of
military discipline while at university. But
you'll find the Officer Training Corps a useful
preparation for Army life.
Naturally, this less committed approach
will bring you less financial reward as a
student.
Even so, we'll pay you £ 9 0 0 a year while
you're at university to supplement your LEA
grant.
With a degree under your belt, you'll earn
at least £10,428 a year and pocket a gratuity of
£4,440, tax free, if you leave after three years'
Commissioned Service.
If you expect to graduate thisyear.
Assuming you're under 25 with the
qualities we demand of our young Officers,
there is another option open to you: a Short
Service Commission for three years.
You'll kick off earning £10,428. And if you
decide to leave after three years' Commissioned
Service, we'll hand you £4,440, tax free.
Whether you're a student or a graduate,
the next step is to write telling us about your
educational qualifications and ambitions and
why you think you'd make a good Officer.
Brig. (Retd) R. M . Cockman, University
Liaison Officei; Golden Cross House, 3,
Duncarmon Street, London WC2N 4NB.
Army Officer

