2 5 J a n u a r y
I s s u e 1 2 2 5
Rob Rouse talks about
the pressures (or not)
of comedy. (Page 5)
Summer Ball Revived
In a dramatic reversal of fortune, the
Summer Ball has been raised from the
dead. While it is certainly still in critical
condition (to extend a metaphor), hopes
are now once again high that the end of
year party will go ahead.
Last week, Felix reported that the Ball
would be axed, but on the same day that
Felix came out, it was revealed that the
£20,000 gap in funds would be covered by
College.
Sen Ganesh, Union President, h a d
informed Council during last week's ses-
sion, that it would be inviable to have a
Ball this year due to lack of cash. This
announcement was greeted with disap-
pointment by a majority of students, but
the reality of the situation made this deci-
sion necessary.
However, Mr. Ganesh had spoken to
College at the beginning of last week,
and they had offered to underwrite the
BaU to the tune of £20,000, but this had
been i n place of paying back a grant that
the Union insists that College owes any-
way. This was deemed unacceptable by
Bumper Cars A t Last Year's Ball
Union officials, and therefore the loss that
would be made on the Ball would be too
large to swallow.
However, on meeting with the Rector,
Sir Richard Sykes, a few days later, Mr.
Ganesh explained the decision, and sur-
prised everyone by emerging with the
necessary money, given to the Union as a
gift from College.
While this is undeniably a very kind
gift, there must be some reasons for it.
Tom Miller, College Press Officer, said
"College sees this as very important part
of College life", explaining that it had
been such a great success last year that it
would be seen as a great shame not to
have one again.
Admittedly this money does not cover
the full cost of the Ball, but the Union now
needs only a further £10,000 to ensure no
loss is made. This money will probably
come from corporate sponsorship.
One of the questions if the Ball does go
ahead is that of the venue. While the deci-
sion is ultimately the Union's, no word
has yet been heard from them on this sub-
ject. Mr. Miller, speaking for College, said
"College is right behind holding it on the
College grounds, and we think it's the
right place to hold it."
will
• h TJijs eeyig either your
ers are gonn
end up on thJwicRarfsh?^
Tiny sez 'Do Da Crossword

