felix talk
lnkwell:The ArtSoc struggle
Imperial College prides herself on being a
specialist institution. Her selection of
courses being arguably the most competi-
tive and highly rated in the country, while
she sits regally at the peak of university
league tables amongst the finest institu-
tions in the world.
The unfortunate result of this achieve-
ment however is that it has now come to
be regarded within the corridors of power
that the study of science and the apprecia-
tion of the arts must be mutually exclusive.
It was revealed late last session that
Union funding for the Art Society was to be
substantially cut, as the idea of susidising
students to enjoy opera and theatre was
little more than a colossal waste of Union
funds.
Of course the impication of this, is that
lovers of art who happen to be scholars of
science are denied the enjoyment of a
hobby that many in other instituions take
for granted. Not only has the Union failed
to realise the enormous contribution the
ArtSoc makes to student life at IC, but like
the L E Q blunder, this once again speaks of
poor insight and decision making.
Imperial College has neither Art nor
Social Science departments, and as effi-
cient as the humanities department is, it
offers little in the way of extra-curricular
activities for students. ArtSoc served as
the bridge between the shallow pocketed
London student living on a government
loan, and the pomp and culture of the per-
forming arts, by providing tickets to highly
acclaimed west-end productions at sub-
stantially discounted prices. But sadly the
Union does not realise this.
The "democratically elected" union has
also failed to see that ArtSoc stands as one
of the biggest societies in the college with
a membership base of well over three hun-
dred and fifty members. Do the principles
of democracy and proportional representa-
tion not demand that funding be allocated
accordingly to a society that houses a sig-
nificant proportion of the student body?
Sadly, it seems the Union does not realise
this.
As Imperial College is located in
London: the epicentre of the performing
arts, not only did ArtSoc further the appre-
ciation of the arts in a purely scientific
institution, it also served as a useful
ground for foreign students, enabling them
to enjoy the sites of London, whilst min-
gling with ArtSoc students of other cul-
tures and backgrounds in a non-academic
setting. Where ethnic societies further
divide the Imperial College student body
along racial lines, ArtSoc served as the
melting pot of cultures and backgrounds in
an institution where racial divisions are
noticeable, and impossible to ignore. But
sadly the Union does not seem to realise
this.
The concept of an all-round education
means that students should be given the
opportunity to engage in extra-curricular
activities that do not necessarily pertain
to, or stem from their academic pursuits.
As the saying goes: To define is to limit. IC
may pride herself on being a fine specialist
institution, but if she limits herself to being
one by suppressing the activities of a soci-
ety that aims to bring the beauty of the
performing arts to the penniless student,
one doubts if the University Challenge suc-
cess will ever be repeated.
I am not looking to assume the role of the
voice of ArtSoc. In fact, let me assert that
the views expressed herein are in no way
representative of the views of the Art
Society. But when a "democratically elect-
ed" student-representative-body drastical-
ly cuts funding to one of the biggest soci-
eties on campus, then one wonders what
has happened to principles of democracy
that we all should hold sacred.
Funding to ArtSoc should be re-instated.
A society that seeks to broaden, enlighten
and expose should be appreciated not
scorned. Sadly, the Union does not realise
this.
Nate Evuarherhe
Editor al
This is my second attempt at this bloody
editorial, and the first one was quite rea-
soned and rational, and then the arsing
computer crashed, so now I'm annoyed. So
this one's just going to be a real rant.
I'm not going to continue on the subject
of LEQs, since my main gripe is with the
attitude of College to students in general.
While I am not accusing Prof. Rawlings
of this personally (having met him he
seems to be one of the members of staff
who most cares about students), even he
is beginning to exhibit symptoms of this
trait. In his letter he spoke of concern that
only 20% of students had bothered with
the LEQs, but there has never been a note
of concern about the pitiful turn out that
Student Union elections have every year.
A n d I am sure many College officials read-
ing this now are thinking A n d why should
we', and many students may even agree.
This is the problem. The College is under
obligation to have a students' union, and
this is where it seems to end. The fact that
the Union is here to represent the students
often seems to be ignored, and in my job I
have also found similar problems. I am
meant to find stuff out for you. That is my
job. But many times I have tried to obtain a
quote or information from some member of
College or other, only to meet a stony
silence, or even abuse, along the lines of 'I
don't have to tell you anything.'
This is entirly incorrect. College only
exists to educate its attendees, and as
such we are all well entitled to know what
is going on. It seems to me that this impor-
tant fact seems to have been forgotten in
the mists of bureaucracy and business of
College life, and while the wonderful
scores we get in all those things like
grants for research and lecturing, and the
other things IC Reporter tells us about, it
should be remembered that these should
be the result of a good University. They
should not be the end goal in themselves.
But as you all probably know by now,
while I like a good rant, I also like to be bal-
anced, and College is not entirely to blame
in this situation. Most universities are run
like this now, and the government, with no
grants, and more fees, is obviously similar.
Oh well, eh?
will

