talk back
L E Q
Dear FELLX
Negative articles about the first College-
wide iteration of the electronic Lecturer
Evaluation Questionnaire (LEQ) compel
me to intrude into your pages to set the
record straight.
Let me start by stating that these arti-
cles do give well-earned plaudits to ICU
for assuming a greater involvement in the
LEQ. Indeed from inception a couple of
years ago, student representatives have
been supportive of the introduction of a
web-based system. The articles also cor-
rectly identify a major contribution to the
poor response as student apathy. The LEQ
is part of the quality assurance procedures
aimed at improving the learning experi-
ence for students; completing the L E Q is
to the benefit of current and future stu-
dents. My view is that students have a
responsibility to complete the L E Q just as
College has a responsibility to consider
and respond to the resulting data.
Both articles declare that the system is
inherently insecure and that a public serv-
ice was performed by those students who
had tried to hack it. These statements are
inaccurate and misleading. The system
detected uninvited interference and iden-
tified two students who appeared to be
using privileged information gleaned from
the pilot study of last year. Both were
reminded that the L E Q software, as with
all software, is protected from hacking by
College IT regulations, which they agreed
to abide by when they signed on as
College users. All College users, whether
students or staff, are subject to these regu-
lations and to disciplinary action if they
should contravene them. Thus the system
is robust and was not successfully hacked.
The College has run a paper based L E Q
since 1987 but this was showing its age in
the last few years of its life before becom-
ing completely decrepit and thus unreli-
able; its software was beyond repair. Even
when operating to full capacity the system
was unable to read some responses, was
slow and labour intensive.
With the enthusiastic support of the
then student representatives, the
Undergraduate Studies Committee a cou-
ple of years ago commenced the develop-
ment of a web-based LEQ. A trial in
December 2000 involving six Departments
proved to be flawed but nevertheless
yielded valuable lessons and helped in the
construction of the more robust version
that was exposed to science and engineer-
ing departments last month.
I am a great supporter and regular read-
er of Felix and have been particularly sur-
prised at the uncharacteristic and unrea-
soned hostility that has appeared in its
pages. The LEQ project team put a great
deal of effort into delivering a product
which worked to its specification in that it
accurately recorded the responses made
and successfully collated the free form tex-
tual comments which under the paper sys-
tem a poor scribe would have had to copy.
The electronic results were truly anony-
mous with Departments, including
Registry, being unable to track individual
responses; furthermore the results were
available within a couple of days of closure
of the web site.
The most disappointing part of the exer-
cise was the poor response rate by stu-
dents, just over 20% of those eligible, and
the reasons for this are being examined
and collated by departmental student rep-
resentatives.
Those students who had difficulty
accessing the system and who reported
this to the L E Q helpline had their access
fixed rapidly in the main. Some students
reported difficulty in accessing the L E Q
site from halls of residence; this should not
have been a problem and the matter is
being investigated, with students being
advised during the live running to access
the site from their Departmental server; a
problem with access from Mechanical
Engineering was not reported during the
live running of the LEQ and is being
reviewed.
The Undergraduate Studies Committee
will be reviewing how to improve the pro-
motion of the electronic LEQ among both
students and academic staff so that the
students feel more empowered to partici-
pate in this exercise which is one impor-
tant (but not the sole) mechanism by
which students can make their voice heard
to Departments about the quality of under-
graduate teaching; the optimum timing of
a survey will be one issue. It should be
pointed out that a web-based system is
flexible and once it is established for L E Q
it may be readily extended and modified to
obtain student opinion on other education-
al/welfare matters such as the personal
tutoring system and research supervision.
Let us work together to make a success
of the web-based L E Q to everyone's bene-
fit.
Yours sincerely,
Professor Rees Rawlings
Pro Rector (Educational Quality)
As editor, I feel that I should stick up for
Felix, and insist that the hostility was nei-
ther uncharacteristic nor unreasoned. As
the vocal representative of all students at
Imperial, if something as fundamentally
important as the LEQs is found to be a
flawed system, then this gross oversight by
College and the Union should be addressed.
The research (which was quite thorough)
that I myself carried out, indicated that the
students were being held scapegoat, in
order for College to save face.
The information I have received has
admittedly all come from non-staff mem-
bers of College, but this is due to every sin-
gle member of staff I asked having said 'no
comment'.
Therefore the information I have recieved
is only from 'non-trustworthy' students,
but nonetheless, the blame seems to be on
College. Last year there was a button on
the LEQ website that took you to the
administrator page, and while this button
had been removed this year, the link was
still identical. Also I know personally that
more than two students 'accessed' this
page, yet the two who are to be disciplined
are the ones who published their findings
on a news server. So, no, the system wasn't
hacked, the students just 'walked' in.
However, as stated, Felix does believe
that LEQs are very important, but what we
objected to was College blaming students
while refusing to either comment or apolo-
gise. (See Editorial for more ranting)
T h a t ' s N o t A H a w k . . .
Dear ed,
I hope you dont mind the informal style of
this email, ed, but there is no place for
pleasantries in todays high-pace society.
The reason I write is simple. On the front
cover of Issue 1224, you glee-fully state
"We like this helicopter...Black Hawk Down
reviewed" etc.etc. However, next to it you
have a picture of an Apache. Thats not a
Hawk. So go figure. Do I get a prize?
No. Don't be an arse.

