music reviews
Limp Bizkit
New Old Songs
Out now on Flip / Interscope records
This album has no new material, just
remixes of their old songs, hence the
title. These remixes come from some of
Fred Durst's new-found friends, like The
Neptunes, P Diddy, Timbaland and
William Orbit. There's more of a hip-hop
feel to all the songs, and it seems like the
remixers have put some real effort in.
The Neptunes are the most sought-
after producers right now, for all types of
music. From Britney to Limp Bizkit, they
still keep on the hip-hop side of things,
and their tunes just make you stand up
and take notice. Their remixes of Nookie
and N 2 Gether Now are definitely the
highlights of this album.
Then we have a P Diddy remix, which
isn't bad but has all the same old traits,
like the lines "and we won't stop" and
"this is the remix, bad boy". Get some
new lines P but keep the beats.
The major disappointments on this
album are the remixes of the most
famous songs, Take A Look Around and
Rollin'. The Rollin' remix sounds like bad
jungle, and Timbaland's remix of Take A
Look Around just didn't do it for me. The
beat consisted solely of two notes of the
Mission Impossible sample repeated con-
tinuously, and really got on my nerves. I
doubt that either of these songs really
suited a genre-changing remix.
New Old Songs is really just another
money spinner. But although I prefer
most of the original songs, I do like the
album. I'm not sure if it's value for money,
as there are often multiple remixes.
However, if you're a fan, then this will
complement your collection.
Neil Halstead
Sleeping On Roads
Out this Monday on 4AD records
Formerly of Slowdive and currently of
Mojave 3, Neil Halstead certainly has
enough experience behind him to deliver
a semi-decent solo album. But this is far
from semi-decent; it's bloody ace.
Mixing in a whole wealth of supporting
instruments behind the slow acoustic
guitar, from deep synths to the typical
cello/violin combo, this sturdily complete
album of soft, mournful songs makes
most recent singer-songwriters seem
like Pop Idol rejects. It revels in influ-
ences and comparisons by the dozen,
successfully melding the best of the male
singer-songwriter genre from the '60s
(Dylan, Simon and Garfunkel) with the
leading lights of recent times (David
Gray without the radio overkill, Kings of
Convenience).
OK, so this is not party music. It does-
n't shake your rump or tell tales of how
successful the guy is with the laydees.
There are no sing-a-long-a-Max-style
choruses and it will not prompt you to
dye your hair stupid colours and pierce
your face with bits of metal. But hey,
everyone occasionally needs music for
the long, dark teatime of the soul, and
this album does the job very, very well.
Thoroughly recommended.
Various
...Not A Soundclash
Out Monday 4 February on Nuphonic
IThe full title is This Is Not A Soundclash,
and the album retails at £2.99].
While Nuphonic doesn't make any pre-
tentious claims for its music, it is known
for producing consistently good tunes:
danceable, hummable, enjoyable tunes.
Surely then, this compilation is a good
bet?
Unfortunately, Nuphonic have come up
with a dull, shockingly limited example
of their wares. Its uninventive, lazy
beats, its overlong mixes and its awful
lyrics are, for the most part, stupefying.
Marginal exceptions are Groove
Armada's mix of And That's Saying a Lot
by Natural Calamity, and The Sky Is Not
Crying by Tiny Trendies. A n d it would be
unfair not to include Block 16's Morning
Sun, a track that has some of the soul
that the others manifestly lack.
Perhaps dance music has progressed
so much in recent years that "seminal" or
"classic" tracks now sound unimpressive
and unambitious. Or perhaps Nuphonic
simply don't have enough really good
tunes to fill all their compilation albums.
Whatever the reason, a foray into the
"Best Selling Compilations" section in
H M V will guarantee a better buy than
this.
Ben Libby
ICO Oscar
C O M P E T I T I O N
This week, we're giving away 25 & Alive: Boneshaker, a DVD and bonus CD of
Motorhead playing live at Brixton Academy on 22 October 2000.
QUESTION: What was Motorhead's original name?
Please email your answer, along with your name, year and department, to
music.felix@ic.ac.uk by Thursday 31 January.
The winner of the A s h competition from Issue 1223 is Alison Twelvetrees of
Biochemistry I, who wins the A s h video Tokyo Blitz.

