INTERVIEW with
James Lavelle
reviews music
Various
FabricLive.01
mixed by J A M E S L A V E L L E
Out now on Fabric records
As you load your CD player with this 70-minute mix by James
Lavelle, label manager of Mo'Wax and member of UNKLE, you'll
probably be expecting eclecticism, daring and sweltering
dancefloor fever!
It's obvious that James Lavelle (pic above) likes a very wide
spectrum of music indeed. He mixes abstract hip-hop, trip-hop,
breakbeat, pop and house music. Nevertheless, he gives atten-
tion to heavy beats, which he brings out on almost every track.
Moreover, in spite of this variety of styles, the excellent mix
quality makes it all fit together nicely.
You'll discover a lot of new names on this CD. Apart from the
well known Quannum, D J Shadow (both on Mo'Wax), Chemical
Brothers, Howie B, Orbital and Radiohead, you can listen to
some very interesting new sounds. The most impressive ones
are Peter Dildo with his tribal rhythms, Green Velvet with their
catchy beats and the funny La La Land, and Buswacka! for The
Healer, with its addictive digitized vocals and keyboards. Also,
tracks 11 to 17 put some barely known artists together to form
a lively new musical entity.
Forget the dancefloor as James Lavelle starts rather quietly,
with abstract hip-hop featuring heavily on the first six tracks.
Then the Chemical Brothers and Howie B open fire with Hey
Jack's fantastic percussion. Now your body begins to move to a
frenzy of rhythms charged by heavy, repetitive beats as they
provide a mix between breakbeat and '80s sounds. Then Lavelle
links all that with house music. He finishes up quietly, with an
excellent remix of Radiohead's Everything In Its Right Place
that combines pop and minimalist techno.
This record is not a vital addition to your collection, and it's
not particularly good at making people dance. You discover a
few new bands, and there's a really good Radiohead remix, but
it doesn't ease the wait for the next UNKLE record.
James Lavelle is a resident at Fabric and the founder of Mo'Wax
records. Felix asked him some questions over the telephone.
FELIX: FabricLive.01, mixed by yourself, is out now [see
review, left]. What were you trying to achieve w i t h the mix?
JAMES: I wanted to convey musically what happens through-
out the night at the club, so it's just like a snapshot of an
evening at Fabric Live.
Mo'Wax was behind a lot of the bands i n the trip-hop move-
ment, but you've said i n the past that you don't like the term
"trip-hop". W h y not?
It was something at the time - when you're doing what you're
doing, you don't really want to be told by the media what your
music is. It wasn't really a term we'd have come up with our-
selves, that was why. I think we just didn't want to be thrown
into a category, when the whole point of what we were trying
to do was not be part of a category, you know? I don't really care
anymore. This was seven or eight years ago.
What's happening at Mo'Wax at the moment?
There's a lot of stuff coming out this year - there's the new
Shadow record, Psychonauts, Black Lodge, Scratch Perverts and
lots more.
If the Mo'Wax label represents a lifestyle, what would that
lifestyle be like?
Erm... not wanting to have a proper job! No, I think it just rep-
resents an area of culture we're all into. I think we're about graf-
fiti and toys, and bike things.
Is it fair to say that Mo'Wax is a hip-hop label?
I don't think it's focused on hip-hop anymore. It's about a certain
kind of mindset of artists and people, and always trying to push
boundaries really. We don't always get it right, but we try!
Where would you like to see Mo'Wax heading i n the future?
I would like it to be something that survives and continually
evolves and develops and pushes contemporary art.
Out of all the roles you play - D J , producer, businessman, etc.
- what would you say is your true title?
Record collector! M y collection's not bad; I have about 30,000
records. I stole them all! Or they were sent to me, you know.
What's the centrepiece of your collection?
Probably my old skool hip-hop collection is what I'm most proud
of. This is going to sound quite trainspottery, but I also have all
the Beastie Boys records on white label, every Major Force
record that was ever released in Japan and all the white labels
and promos of very early hip-hop too.
What do you think of the current music scene?
I think it's really shallow at the moment, to be honest.
Everything from pop to the new wave of rock, it all seems so
clean and easy really. A n d that's not what I'm about!
Is there anything you'd like to say to the Felix readers?
Just enjoy the record really! Don't try to read too much into what
it's about. I just hope that people get some enjoyment and some
inspiration from it.
Frangois TomX

