music reviews
LIVE: Her Space Holiday +
Wauvenfold @ 93 Feet East
Arrgghhh! So I find myself in ultra-trendy Shoreditch. Luckily,
however, 93 Feet East "isn't like that". Hosting some of the most
experimental music shows in London, the atmosphere is never
one of exclusivity or pretension. A n d tonight is no exception.
With the venue's laid-back ambience and eclectic air, the crowd
seem sincerely excited about the line-up.
Wauvenfold, aka Tom Hill and Noel Murphy, spellbind the
crowd with their full Powerbook artillery. Squeezing furious
noise motifs into glorious glitch soundscapes, the duo contort
their beats, clicks and gurgles through countless pedals, Kaos
pads and a mixer. The results are imaginative and humorous
renditions of songs from their two EPs and forthcoming album.
Tom continuously giggles, obviously not intending to play
exactly what he is playing, yet making a mighty fine job of it.
Noel hides behind the mixer, visibly shaking with laughter (at
Tom, one presumes, though it's impossible to tell 100% with this
band). Grinning throughout their set, Wauvenfold clearly enjoy
playing their music as much as the audience enjoy listening.
"When you see a laptop on stage, you might be at a Kid606
show, you might be at a Matmos show, but if you're really
unlucky you might imminently be watching Her Space Holiday"
announces the jarring computerised voice of HSH's Powerbook,
which introduces the band and each song.
Her Space Holiday is the brainchild of Marc Bianchi, who uses
technology to create rhythms over which he lays down vocoder
musings and self-effacing guitar passages. Few bands are as
modest and unassuming as HSH - the computer issues the apol-
ogy: "Congratulations to those who've made it through a couple
of our songs; unfortunately there are still a lot to go".
HSH write saccharine, unpredictable yet sentimental songs
about love and loss; about hope and giving up. They are the
honest and authentic sound of the US underground pop scene.
Don't be afraid to put all your trust in them.
OUT THIS WEEK
The following musical delights should appear in all good
record shops on Monday 28 January. Please note that all
release dates are subject to change.
A L B U M S
B L A C K REBEL MOTORCYCLE CLUB - B.R.M.C.
CANDIDATE - Tiger Flies
C H E M I C A L BROTHERS - Love Burns
NEIL H A L S T E A D - Sleeping On Roads
SINGLES
HELL IS FOR HEROES - You Drove Me To It
JIMMY EAT WORLD - The Middle
LO-FIDELITY ALLSTARS - Sleeping Faster
Singles
Roundup
H E L L IS FOR H E R O E S - You Drove M e To It
Hell Is For Heroes is the incredible "new direction" of Joe and
Will from Symposium (remember them?). Name-checking
Fugazi and Deftones as major influences, HIFH are a hailstorm
of righteous anger and bilious angst. Live, they're a truly kick-
ass band, but this single really doesn't do them justice. It's not
bad - it's loud and tuneful and pretty angry - but it's just not one
of their best songs. Stick with them until the album comes out
or go and see them live. You won't be let down.
Tom M
J I M M Y EAT W O R L D - The Middle
Fresh from their sellout show at the Astoria, Rock Sound's
"brightest hopes for 2002" release another slice of melodic
power-pop. Taken from their self-titled album, this is two min-
utes of uplifting yet unoriginal MOR. With vocals mildly remi-
niscent of an americanized Tim Wheeler, The Middle is a like-
able, albeit unremarkable, tune.
Sajini
A L K A L I N E TRIO - Private Eye
Hey, someone still remembers Therapy? and the all-out indie
rock nonsense that came out of the Midlands. Most of the bands
involved are currently trying to reform before young upstarts
like these take over. Indie rock? Indie rocks!
Robert
A S H - There's A Star
Gone are the almost grungy sounds from Ash's beginnings.
Instead, we have nicely polished pop-rock. There's a Star is one
of the slower tracks from i^ee All Angels, and it might not rock
much, but you can still dance to it. With its chilled guitar solo
and orchestral backing, this song does seem to sparkle.
Chris ID Robin

