18
Mohammad AM
"Beyond Reproach?"
This week in film, the first part in a two part Ali special.
Ali. A man as famous for his exploits in the ring as his political
dissidence and spirit outside the ring. In an age when words
meant something, he used them to transcend his limits as a
sportsman and became a legend. A figure who sacrificed every-
thing for his beliefs, a man who was loved and despised in
equal measure, and a man who, in alleviating the suffering of
Africa and Black America, saw his mission in life.
This is the myth. The question is, was A l i for real? Was he a
man who affected real political change, or a gifted boxer whose
garrulousness made him an ideal propaganda tool for extrem-
ists like Louis Farrakhan and Malcolm X? Either way, however,
Mohammad A l i represented a dissolution of the Black Power
movement into popular culture. Here was a man who advocat-
ed the views of extremists such as Elijah Mohammad, and who
was seen in the company of the Beatles. He was a dampener on
a political movement that threatened America with racial
upheaval.
What was his legacy to Black America? Mohammad A l i came
to epitomise everything that Black America was and still is not.
He had money, he had success, he had power and he had a
political voice. But Mohammad Ali's real impact was wholly illu-
sionary
The truth is that A l i was the centrepiece of the 1960s cultural
revolution. A folk-hero and myth, whose assimilation into
today's popular consciousness is nothing but a detraction from
everything he stood for. A man who aligned himself with The
Nation Of Islam, a group openly proclaiming "the white man is
the devil", is now the darling of liberals everywhere. It is this
kind of double-think that moulds our current interpretation of
the myth of Mohammad Ali.
The ultimate popular icon. The ultimate example of modern
myth. A n d certainly not beyond reproach. Before making up
your own mind, you should go and see Michael Mann's Ali,
released on the 15th February. Interesting and potentially con-
troversial stuff.
film interview
PROFILE
Michael Mann
Born in Chicago on 5th Feb 1943, Michael Thomas Mann stud-
ied at the University of Wisconsin, before moving to the UK to
study at the London Film School.
He quickly gained notoriety as a versatile TV director working
on titles such as Starsky and Hutch and Police Story. His career
eventually took off with Thief (1981), an intelligent crime caper
which earned Mann a Palme D'Or award and, more importantly,
respect. Subsequent films, such as The Keep (1983) and
Manhunter (1986), confirmed his status as a talented and styl-
ish director.
Throughout the 1980s Mann worked on the wildly successful
Miami Vice, thus cementing his reputation. Major success final-
ly arrived when he co-wrote, produced, and directed The Last of
the Mohicans (1992). Then came his most commercially suc-
cessful movie, the Los Angeles crime saga Heat (1995), featur-
ing the only screen meeting between acting legends Pacino and
De Niro. Heat became an ultra-contemporary and uber-cool
arena for yuppie fantasy. It was De Niro the thief immersed in a
quasi-religious code of discipline and prudence, versus Pacino
the freewheeling loud-mouthed copper, living and working by
instinct and whim. It was Mann's finest movie and made over
$100 million, mainly outside the US.
Heat gave Mann room and money to make the commercial
failure and critical success that was his last movie, The Insider
(1999). In this movie he surpassed even Heat, with superior dia-
logue and' photography. His achievement was recognised with
seven Oscar nominations and countless other awards from
around the world. It was perhaps its anti-establishment theme
that denied it an Oscar, but The Insider will be remembered for
its brutally honest portrayal of the greed of American tobacco
companies.
Suffice to say that Michael Mann was the ideal candidate to
make a movie about one of the greatest cultural and sporting
icons of our time. The movie comes out in the West End on the
15th February. When all the plaudits are going to Will Smith's
potentially Oscar-winning performance, don't forget the Mann
behind the camera.

