interview film
INTERVIEW
Michael Mann
The man who's bringing Mohammad Ali to our cinema screens
next month speaks candidly about the difficulty of transferring
Ali's larger-than-life persona to screen, his views on boxing, and
the clash between mythology and corruption in the sport.
Why do y o u think it has taken so long for a film about
Mohammed A l i to come to the screen?
I think the reason is that Ali's life is so extraordinary. It's so dra-
matic and it has such extreme dynamics of sacrifice. What was
actually intimidating about his life was how do you find one
piece of it that would authentically do justice to the whole of it?
To do all of it reduces the experience. So you want to have a
drama, it becomes a docu-drama, which is good. Wonderful
documentaries were made, the finest of which is When We
Were Kings. But his life is a truly extraordinary life. Will Smith
and I probably exhausted ourselves for two years making this
film, and what did we do? What we did was replicate a fraction
of what he did and w e didn't even do it for real! We made a
motion picture! So, he is larger to me now than he actually was
two years ago when w e first started. Not as a person. A s a per-
son he is just a man sitting in a room with us, but the scale of
what he did actually seems larger to me today than it did a cou-
ple of years ago.
How did you go about bringing Ali's persona to screen?
It evolved, it was very much a year spent with Will and myself
learning Ali-ness basically. With everything that Will had
learned and all the training, all to you have to do is to push him
off the edge of a cliff. The only thing I'm going to ask Will for is
being A l i in the moment and being totally spontaneous to it. So
if there is an outrage like he has just been visited by a boxing
commission, and as he is coming down the stairs in the lobby,
he is just exploding. It's not about dropping my breathing to a
different part of my solar-plexus so that my inclination drops
into Ali's range, and putting your tongue behind my teeth in a
certain way so that I get the Kentucky sound. That all has to be
abandoned, you have to be on a high wire without a net. But
the most difficult thing of all is to see and grasp and have
insights into things in advance of everybody else the way A l i
did. Because A l i characteristically would. It's almost as if
[that's] the way his mind worked. My job is to actually discover
the way A l i discovered, to think the way A l i thought. The hard-
est part of the struggle of actually becoming Ali, in my mind, is
to be so totally immersed in character that you are actually
thinking and dreaming the way A l i would. That's what we
looked for.
How did you go about capturing Ali's vocal mannerisms?
We would analyse an interview he did in 1965. Someone just
stops him on the w a y into a Rooster in a Holiday Inn and asks
him if he has a prediction and A l i would say in five lines that he
didn't have a prediction, but he pronounced the word prediction
three times in a different way. A n d w e were working on it and
realised he's three different characters in one paragraph.
The film is about a supreme boxer, but what is your view of
boxing as a sport?
I think, first of all, boxers are like actors, like directors. I mean,
an actor isn't intimidated to get on the stage, he can't wait to
get on the stage and he has to have his mind in that perspec-
tive. It's the same with a boxer. He may have anxiety in a fight
but, if he's prepared, he can't wait to get in that ring. The spec-
trum of boxing personalities we encountered on this film
included intelligent, literate and decent guys. For these men,
boxing is about commitment, courage, and strategy. It's an art
and not two guys getting in a ring, hitting each other, with the
one who hits harder winning. That's not boxing.
How do you reconcile boxing mythology w i t h the corruption
that has always been endemic to the sport?
Of course. I'm not saying there's not corruption in boxing. In
fact, the area where A l i learnt how to box was taken over by a
couple of guys from Chicago and suddenly there were illegal
fights. I remember being a kid in Chicago watching an unau-
thorised Friday night fight with my dad and all the bookmakers
had inside odds. There is plenty of corruption in boxing. At the
same time there was something real about boxing. There is all
that wonderful cultural history in the 1960s, tracking primarily
Muhammad Ali's progress. So w h y did people watch it?
Because boxing is very corrupt, but it also elevates itself some-
times to become almost mythic. Clearly, the Rumble in the
Jungle, which is where we elected to end this film, was a per-
fect example of the mythology. A l i came to signify some kind of
aspiration to a lot of people all over the planet. He signified
something positive to everyone. His opponent, George
Foreman, came to signify something else. He signified an indif-
ferent, anonymous, disinterested power and the Frazier fight,
which the film doesn't deal with that much, was absolutely an
analogue of a pro-life America. Everybody rooted for
Mohammad A l i and the establishment rooted for Foreman or
Frazier. That's how it worked.
The film seems to deal w i t h the history very fairly and hon-
estly, but has there been any negative reaction from people
portrayed in it?
Not so far. We have had a lot of contact with everybody in it.
Malcolm X's daughter saw the film last week and liked the film
very, very much.
Darius

