break coffee
GFQQ - The Great Felix Quote Quiz
b y B o b b y C y c l o p s & D r . H o t F u d g e
Mafia Special
1. "I want someone good, and I mean good to plant that gun. I
don't want my brother coming out of that toilet with just his
dick in his hands."
2. "Keep your friends close, but your enemies closer."
3. "A man who doesn't spend time with his family can never be a
real man."
4. "Ever since I can remember, I always wanted to be a gangster."
5. "I want this guy dead! I want his family dead! I want his house
burned to the ground! I want to go there in the middle of the
night and piss on his ashes!"
Bonus Question. What was the name of the dog Frank Sinatra
gave to Marilyn Monroe as a gift?
Number of players: 61
The Leader Board - top 15
Name Score
Daniel Sauder 78
Chris Ince 74
Andrew Ince 73
Simon North 73
Anthony Rodriques 72.5
John Anderson 71
Christopher Dent 69
Rebekah Hymas 62.5
Arosha Bandara 61
Gregory Mann 59.5
Geoff Lay 58
Kim Randell 58
Vuk Cerovic 55
Fred Marquis 51.5
Chris Toffis 51
Answers to coffee.felix@ic.ac.uk or
to the Felix Office - West Wing
Basement, Beit Quad.
c h
a 1
t e
ESQUIRES
C O F F E E H O U S E S
OPPOSITE
WAITROSE
<
J
>
Answers to Bond Special:
1. Sean Connery/James Bond - From Russia With Love
2. Roger Moore/James Bond - The Spy Who Loved Me
3. Roger Moore/James Bond - The M a n With The Golden Gun
4. George Lazenby/James Bond - OHMSS
5. Michael Lonsdale/Hugo Drax - Moonraker
Bonus. In Goldfinger, Sean Connery's Bond likens drinking Dom
Perignon '53 above a temperature of 38°F to 'listening to the Beatles
without earmuffs'.
A lot of you tripped up with quote 2 last week believing it was
from Moonraker. Although Jaws (played by Richard Kiel) does
appear in Moonraker, he is in fact Bond's ally. Jaws is, I believe, the
only henchman not to be killed off in a Bond film - though feel free
to correct me on that. Needless to say, this disparity might be
cleared up in a possible Jaw's Returns scenario in a future Bond.
More information can be found on the Richard Kiel website:
www.richardkiel. com.
This week we have another special for you with a Mob theme
(Fudge has what some might call a penchant for trilbys and splurge
guns, but not necessarily in that order). Competition for the top
spot is heating up, and what with a PS2 being given away in the
crossword section, and a possible £300 prize for GFQQ, this is prob-
ably the biggest giveaway in Felix history - just keep those answers
coming in!
Today I'm feeling somewhat philisophical, and I quote the great-
est Gangsta Physicist of them all - A l Einstein. He once remarked:
"A table, a chair, a bowl of fruit and a violin; what else does a man
need to be happy?". How true.
That's all for now 'Packers, see you next week!
Bobby Cyclops

