felix interview
Rob Rouse: Man Of Fun
Rob Rouse is a very funny stand-up come-
dian man, who happened to appear here
at ICU last term on the Comedy Network
circuit. Felix looked in for a giggle...
Ah, the comedian. That most rock 'n'
roll of all teenage icons, the funny man
with the twinkle in his eye and the quick
wit who can charm his way into the
ladies' pants with nothing but a sharp
eye for contemporary culture and a collec-
tion of idiotic gestures.
All bunkum, for the life of the comic is
one of tragedy and misunderstanding,
loneliness and despair. At least, that's the
theory. So it's a bit of a shock to find that
Rob Rouse is every bit as funny, nutty and
generally irrepressibly cheerful as his on-
stage persona suggests.
Still, it is already three in the afternoon,
and Rob freely admits he's only just got
up. Living up the party lifestyle? Or the
pressures of the tour? No, apparently.
"I'm just lazy, me," he chuckles, "the
tour's not hard work at all. It's a laugh -
that's why we do it."
Still, exhausting or otherwise, you have
to give the boys credit. This year, the
hardworking guys and gals of the
Comedy Network circuit are visiting over
20 UK universities' unions, including our
.... < m
'Warn'i
i
very own dBs, on frequent Thursday
nights (including this Thursday). You can
witness all sorts of performers, from hot
young newcomers fresh on the scene to
accomplished veterans, as Rob explains:
"I think it's a really good thing, because
for a lot of people, this might be their first
contact with (live comedy). So it's about a
regular, cheap spot. People know it's
going to be something good, that they
can come back to."
Comedy capers around the world are all
well and good for the superstar comedi-
ans of this world (Amsterdam, Poland and
Australia have all featured in Rob's itiner-
ary this year). He admits, however, that
finding time to enjoy yourself can be
tough for the beleaguered London stu-
dent.
"Its difficult, I never really had much
time to take stock, myself! See all the
bands you can, see all the comedians, get
out to all the clubs. Do all the silly dances,
drinking all the cheap beer you can!"
And his ultimate goal? Perfection.
"To get better and better, to keep
improving my live show. With stand-up,
it's something that you can keep doing,
keep on improving at... as long as you can
'stand-up' really."
He grins. "And beyond, I suppose:
bath-chair comedy'."
Rob Rouse talked to Joe Parker.
•1124
Morgan
Morgan Stanley invites you
Investment Banking Opportunities in Asia
We invite interested undergraduate students (class of 2003) to apply for
2002 Summer Analyst Positions.
[leadline for resume submission: February 1, 2002.
Applications will only be accepted online.
For more information on this opportunity and to apply online, please visit our website
www. morganstanley.com/caree rs.
If you have any questions, please contact Morgan Stanley IBP1
Asia Recruiting Team:
1bd. asi arecruitJ&norganstanley.c0rn.
Apply online at rnorganstanley.com/careers
Join Us.
SI
55 5

