felix talk
OK, now you're in London - one of the
world's most culturally diverse cities -
and you've filled your spare time with
trips and outings to expand your horizons
and challenge your presuppositions. Your
friends are ethnically diverse and you are
daily being challenged to become more
and more of a world citizen? No? Well,
panic not. Help is at hand.
The Chaplaincy and faith societies are
organising an afternoon trip on
Wednesday 13th February from 1 till 6 to
visit places of worship belonging to the
major world faiths - yep, all in one after-
noon. So if you've ever vaguely wondered
what the differences are between a
church, a mosque, a gudwara, a mandir
and a synagogue but have been too busy
to find out, now is the perfect chance.
The trip is part of the Chaplaincy's
commitment to encouraging people of
faith on campus to come to know and
understand one another - a task that
seems the more urgent since the events of
September 11th last year. Bill Clinton,
Chaplaincy
speaking in the annual Richard Dimbleby
lecture in December captured the essence
of the challenge facing us all. "Think
about how important your differences are
to you," he said. "Think about how we all
organise our lives in little boxes: man,
woman; British, American; Muslim,
Christian, Jew...Our little boxes are
important to us. A n d indeed, [they arel
necessary. H o w could you navigate life if
you didn't know the difference between a
child and an adult, an African and an
Indian, a scientist and a lawyer? But
somewhere along the way, we finally
come to understand that our life is more
than all these boxes we're in - and that, if
we can't reach beyond that, we'll never
have a full life... I don't want you to look
at people who look different from you and
see a potential enemy, instead of a fellow-
traveller.. ."
Don't be a box-dweller. Why not sign up
for the trip on Wednesday 13th February
and be a better fellow-traveller as a
result.
And if you prefer to do your exploring
from the comfort of a chair, then join us for
THE WEDNESDAY DISCUSSION which
takes up the same theme of being a fellow
traveller. This term's series 'Being
Human' draws together diverse speakers
to help us explore what it means to be a
person in the 21st century, when the chal-
lenge of difference is a daily experience.
On Wednesday 30th January, Eugene
Culas from 'The Voice of Dalit
International' will talk about human
rights violations towards the Dalit
(untouchable) communities in India. The
following week, Wednesday 6th
February, the speaker will be Rabbi Gavin
Broder, the University of London Jewish
Chaplain. The meetings take place in 6B
in the East Basement of Beit Quad from 1
till 2.
To join the WORSHIP WHIZZ on the
13th February or for a full programme and
further information, contact The
Chaplaincy Centre on x49600 or on chap-
laincy@ic.ac.uk
Cards, chocolates ami uift*
available fur the soccail people in your life.
s h o p
I C U N e w s a g e n t +
Monday-Friday, 8:30am-6:00pm Monday-Friday, 8:45am-6:00pm

