felix talk
IC Radio
So what's on IC Rodeo(sic) this week? I
thought I'd bring you a quick summary of
four of our best shows. In coming weeks
we'll have some interviews with the pre-
senters of said shows, as well as details
of forthcoming events. Of course, if you're
out doing all manner of exciting things at
the time your favourite show is on, you
can listen to it on the website later, at
http://icradio.com/relive. Of course, if
you're sitting at home at the time, lonely
and bored, tune in to 999AM (Linstead
and Southside halls) or the webstream.
Felix Forty-Five w i t h w i l l Dugdale.
Mon day 11pm -midnigh t.
The random late-night ramblings of a
(usually drunk) Felix editor. Monday
night, as you may not know, is deadline
night for this lovely publication. As such,
Will sees it fit to get somewhat intoxicat-
ed and ramble at anyone who is mad
enough to still be up, and who isn't out
doing better things with their life. A l l this
via the miracle of technology that is IC
Radio. There's usually a competition or
two, and the munch of Chinese food
being chewed in the background.
The IC Radio Breakfast show w i t h
Steve.
Monday Tuesday & Friday Mornings 8-
10am.
Something nice to wake up to. Tune your
alarm clocks to 999AM and be woken by
a selection of soothing chilled music, both
from the charts and rarer stuff. Or at least,
that's the first hour... The second hour
takes a more sinister turn, with louder
and harder music with an occasional
punk/metal tinge to it. The thinking is,
that by nine, if you haven't got a lecture,
you should be awake anyway. Why
should only some of us have to suffer? Of
course, there's a selection of random ram-
bling and bizarre burbling too.
Cheesy L u n c h w i t h 'Cheesy' J o h n
Stratford.
Wednesday Lunchtime, 12-lpm.
John brings you the very finest in musical
stilton. Every track a classic, or your
money back. Useful info about the tracks
and the bands, so you can swot up on all
those things you hear in the Union when
you're blind drunk, and impress your
friends by failing to remember by
Wednesday night. Bargain.
Drivetime w i t h Dave Edwards.
Mondays and Thursdays, 5-7pm.
Dave knows what's what when it comes
to the latest mainstream music, and usu-
ally has a couple of guests along for the
show to lower the tone and generally sup-
ply comedy interludes in what is possibly
the best collection of new music any-
where on radio. The people who brought
us "Tube or Trout' (the comedy quiz show)
have various competitions where you can
win the latest singles or a variety of other
prizes, and the now infamous 'Joke of the
Day'.
A n d for info on what other shows are
available, check out the website...
i c r a d i o *
www.icradio.com II
Medics' Rag Ramble
This year's Medics' Rag kicked off just
before Christmas, with our annual Carol
singing venture just before Christmas.
We raised a sleek £688.60 for CLIC
(Cancer and Leukaemia in Childhood),
this year's designated charity; work I
think you'll agree not a bad day's. We
thought a good place as any would be
Victoria station at rush hour. We sang for
nigh on 6 hours straight. People were
eventually paying us to shut up, 'cause
they were so sick of us. Since then, we
have moved onto bigger and better things
- Rag Dash.
This year's Rag Dash consisted of a
pissed hitch-hike up to the sunny climbs
of Nottingham. With over 200 people
dashing, this seemed a bit optimistic but
in the end, everyone managed it, a little
worse for wear to say the least, but booze
will do that to you if you consume over 3
times the monthly limit of a Hippo.
The lot of us boogied the night away at
a club called McClusky's, an amicable lit-
tle nightclub which unfortunately did a 2-
for-1 offer on cocktails; those who had not
succumbed soon fell foul. At lam, we
were all kicked out and piled onto 4
busses which began the long trek
overnight to Edinburgh. Sleep came easi-
ly to some people who'd drunk the equiv-
alent to a Horse's dose of Ketamine.
However, my sleep was inhibited by the
babblings of two alcoholics, JB and Bill,
who could only spout shit for hours upon
end.
For the rest of the day, the dashers were
left to their own devices. Hardcore dash-
ers went to a pub or a bar and carried on
boozing until they could no longer walk.
However, if their legs still functioned,
they were free to join an organised Pub
crawl to finish off any part of their liver
that was still functioning. If that wasn't
enough, post Pub crawl, dashers were
free to go to a classy club called
'Revolution' (since we had managed to get
on the guest list). I can't remember get-
ting into the club but I remember spend-
ing a lot of money in a kebab shop on my
way .home.
Next day, we finally headed for home.
My coach resembled a sauna since the
driver was having issues with the heat-
ing. The journey lasted for about 9 hours
and when home, those who had some
kind of brain went straight to bed; those
who were clinically insane went to the
pub.
Next day, the rag committee had to
count all the hard earned money. We had
somehow managed to collect the stagger-
ing amount of £6,015.85 in just 3 days of
hard boozing. Not bad at all. Our Rag
week is next week (28th Jan-lst Feb),
make sure you get involved! Saf

