union felix
City And Guilds Union
"My complaint arises from the fact that I
spent the greater part of the first and sec-
ond terms of last year searching in vain
for a decent job over the summer. I, like
many other students, don't want to waste
time stacking shelves in Sainsbury's
instead I would rather do something that
may help me build a career in the future.
If the C & G College Union could do some-
thing..."
Letter from Shovi Ghosh, EE2 year rep.
Ladies and Gentlemen!! We at the City
& Guilds College Union are delighted to
announce the re-launch of our Internship
Centre!
The Internship Centre aims to provide
students with the opportunity to gain
jobs for the summer period. However, we
can only get to create such a Centre
through progressive stages. This year we
have a snazzy virtual Internship Centre,
located at the web site
http://www.cgcu.net/internships/, which
will provide information on placements at
a variety of companies - and details of
how to apply.
Building on last year's success, the web
site will re-open for business on January
31st and to celebrate this we are having a
Lunch for Launch in the Civil Engineering
Building Room 201 at 1pm, where there
will be a presentation showing you how
the web site works, and the application
procedure... and get FREE FOOD...
Over 100 jobs have been procured for
L d i r i g e
the Internship Centre Project. The nature
of these placements tends to vary but
they are mainly those related to the
degrees of students in C & G College. The
web site will contain details of employers
and the jobs offered. Students will be able
to contact these employers and apply
directly.
The project aims to add to the number
of jobs already available from depart-
ments and the careers service by mining
the membership of the City & Guilds
College Association (CGCA). The C G C A
consists of past and present students of
City & Guilds College. By requesting for-
mer students to consider offering place-
ments, we have been able to create extra
opportunities for students looking for
summer work. Many of these opportuni-
ties will be unique to Imperial students,
as some of these employers will not have
previously considered offering jobs.
There will also be a regular email
newsletter that you can sign up to when
you login to the site. This will provide
information on upcoming C V help ses-
sions, presentations and the latest details
of new jobs posted online. A n Internships
Fair is also being planned. Excited yet!?
Keep your eyes and ears open for more
adverts around campus.
[Of course if you want to boost your C V
points, you could do worse than helping
to run the Internship Centre project - and
making contacts with companies. Email
internships@cgcu.net if you are keen to
help in any way]
Mustafa Arif, C & G President
Email: president@cgcu.net
Rag Ramble
Hey kittens!
I'll apologise now for the complete
deranged insanity of this week's column,
it's final project deadline time for Physics
so after three hours of sleep this weekend
I've found myself in the Felix offices again,
pouring my heart out to you all while IC
Radio plays "spirit in the sky", old
Chinese food cartons spit M S G into the
basement air conditioning and I try to for-
get everything I've ever learnt about
Biophysics. Mmmm, spring rolls...
Medics' Rag Dash
Saf wrote it all somewhere else in this
issue, those cheeky medics already seem
to be famous in Edinburgh from the
amounts of emails posted on the web
about their antics... A nice load of cash
was raised for CLIC - you'll have to wait
for Medic's Rag Week next Monday to get
out of the library and make some more!
M e n Of The World
You know how it is, girl meets boy, boy
meets girl, a beautiful friendship turns
into a beautiful relationship, and before
you know it you're buying curtains and
matching kitchen accessories in Ikea. If
you can't get enough of that lovey dovey
stuff (or just want to embarrass the hell
out of anyone you know) ICU R A G and
Men Of The World are here to help you!
They'll be doing their thing to raise cash
for the Shooting Star Appeal on
Valentines Day, February 14th, and also
Friday 15th. For a round tenner, these gor-
geous gentlemen will deliver a rose, a
close-harmony barbershop song, poem, a
teddy, in fact anything short of Anthrax,
to anyone in any lecture on campus and
sing a stunning serenade to your victim.
Ahem, beloved. Email rag@ic.ac.uk for
details of how to order instant distraction
in your lectures, or check out
www.su.ic.ac.uk/rag to find out what's
going on in ICU Rag Week, February 15th
to 22nd, get ready!
Winkers wanted
2002 is the last possible year for ICU R A G
to revive that time-old tradition of inter
Constituent College tiddlywink races
down Oxford Street! Contact your local
President to find out how to join the team
from your departments on February 20th.
M a d enough?
There's still places available for anyone
mad enough to abseil down Chelsea
Harbour, and experience the most inspir-
ing views from halfway down a rope. You
can do it for free on Sunday, February 17th
just by raising a bit of cash for St John
Ambulance. Mail rag@ic.ac.uk to sign up
for the ride.
Night! helen

