Hayfever remedies to bmakjjour
heart?
Jessica. Sheringham reports on the recentfindings ofa link\between heart attacks andFiayjever treatments
As the warm weather seems to be here to stay, (despite
the snow earlier this week!), we are entering the season
of sunbathing, cut grass and, for the unfortunate,
blocked noses and sneezing fits. As one of many
hayfever sufferers, I am really thankful for current reme-
dies like Triludan. However, a growing body of research
suggests that treatments like these might be lethal.
Dangers
Terfenadine, the anti-histamine in many hayfever treat-
ments, has been linked to 20 deaths from fatal heart
abnormalities since it was licensed for general use over
14 years ago. From 1992, researchers have found that the
drug can be harmful for people suffering from liver com-
plaints; these can prevent terfenadine from being
metabolised properly. A build-up of terfenadine in the
body can result in potentially lethal effects on the heart.
Also, some antibiotics can prevent terfenadine being
metabolised, leading to this same build-up. However, this
may not be too serious - terfenadine's safety record is
very good when it taken as prescribed. The danger is only
when the drug isn't used as it is supposed to be. Until
now, doctors have been able to warn patients about the
dangers of mixing antibiotics which they prescribe, with
hayfever treatments. But most recent studies indicate that
terfenadine's interactions are not just with prescribed
drugs. Taking terfenadine even with grapefruit juice can
cause heart problems.
ESSENTIALS
Terfenadine is found in the following treatments:
Aller-Eze Clear Histafen Seldane
Boots Antihistamine Terfinax Tablets
Terfenor Triludan Forte
Terfex Triludan
Boots Hayfever Relief Antihistamine Tablets
Boots One-a-day Antihistamine Tablets
•It should not be used if you suffer from heart or
liver complaints
•Don't exceed the recommended dose
•Don't take with grapefruit juice or some antibi-
otics, for example erythromycin.
•Ask a pharmacist if you are any doubt about con-
tinuing with terfenadine or about possible alterna-
tives.
(source:Boots Patient Information Leaflet)
A minefield for hayfever
sufferers
Action
As a result of this, Professor Michael Rawlins, the
Chairman of the Governmenfs Committee on the Safety
of Medicines declared that terfenadine "was getting too
complicated for pharmacy use". He announced last week
that terfenadine-containing treatments will be available
only on prescription.
Why use terfenadine?
Terfenadine is one of the newer hayfever treatments.
These are more popular than older style drugs because
they are more effective and don't cause the sleepy side-
effects associated with these older medications. Whilst
other non-sedating hayfever treatments are available, ter-
fenadine is the main ingredient in many of the main
remedies. Moreover, doctors Ralph Edwards and Marie
Linquist reported in fhe Lancet last week that various
alternatives to terfenadine are also associated with a
higher risk of death and of heart abnormalities.
Implications for the hayfever sufferer
For most of us, the drug is quite safe, yet will still become
prescription only. Could this mean that we are destined to
spend a summer of runny noses or return to treatments
which send you to sleep?
This will not be the case. The proposal to remove terfe-
nadine from the pharmacy is subject to a three-month
consultation period. Only after this period will the drug be
removed from pharmacies and restricted to prescription.
So, we will still be able to get drugs like Triludan over the
counter this summer.
SffW
1086/11
09059?
the golem and other stones

