OK, ifs taken us a while to set up
^ but welcome to the new music
pages news section. Here, you can find out
what's happenings concerning some of your
favourite bands. If there is anything you want to
know regarding any bands, then come and tell
us and we'll do our best to include some
answers in future issues. So, enough of the
blurb, here goes...
The Prodigy are trying to finish their album
before their appearance at Glastonbury. They
are playing Lollapalooza as well after plans for
a tour in America with the Chemical Brothers
and Orbital were cancelled. However, if the
album doesn't get finished before their
THUIIISMStl
Northampton aeasfmender
Around a year ago. after John Squire left the
Stone Roses, he sort of faded into the wilder-
ness. The rest of the Roses stayed firmly in the
limelight, however, and slagged off the gui-
tarist incessantly claiming that he had walked
out on them in the middle of recording a new
album and then saying that it was a good job
he left because he was ego-centric and selfish
anyway They were determined to go on with-
out him and this resulted in them acquiring the
1086/i
jgh of that,
to Squire? "
night of his
/ent down tc
he
" B talents of a number of session musi-
cians for their final show at Reading
jlast year. Ahem, enoi
So what happened
Q ^ j ^ U s t o r y gaes that on the
departure from the Roses, he v
pub where he saw 21-year-oid Stuart Fletcher
playing bass in a local band. A n d so begins
the story of the Seahorses. Around the end of
last year, Ihe final line-up was announced He
had a busker, Chris Helme. singing and play-
ing acoustic guitar and there was Andy Wafts
performing all the drumming and backing
vocal duties Belween then and now they prac-
ticed and practiced, even doing some secret
gigs i n Britain before going off to America to
record their debut album They returned with a
band. Rude Club, were really awful and when
they left a sense of relief swept over the crowd
me previous gigs naa causea some prouiems
Friday 9th May Finley Quaye , £5.
Monarch, Camden NWt
Saturday 10th May Beck, £12.50
Brixton Academy.
Sunday 11th May Beat Dis Jazz Band, Free
Market Bar, 1
/
1
/
7
7
American dates, the release could easily be
anytime up to next year.
Radiohead are due to release their new
album, OK Computer at the end of June. They
are also scheduled to embark on a tour of the
country at the beginning of September. Check
out this week's NME for dates.
OK, I've restrained myself long enough..The
Seahorses are in town. John Squire's new
band has surfaced after nearly a year of press
speculation and gossip. They released a single
last week called Love is the /.aw and it went in
at number 3 in the charts on Sunday. To
accompany the release, there was a short but
sweet English tour and you can read a review
L I V E
. . . . . . . . .
this time the techs weren't leaving anything to
chance, evident in the amount of time they
spent actually spent selling up. The arrival of
Ihe band was marked by a sudden surge for-
riff-frier»dly / Want You To Know which went
down a treat, probably because everyone was
Screams of 'Johnny, Johnny!' accompanied the
start of songs like Suicide Dnve and Round Ihe
Universe which, incidentally, sounded like the
Monkees. At one point someone shouted 'Ian
Brown!' only to be shouted down with loud
cries of 'Fuck off by most of the rest of the audi-
ence. There was a brief acoustic: set when
everyone except Chris left the stage and he did
Movln'On, a beautiful iittle number which got
probably one of the warmest receptions of the
night.
Undoubtedly the song that got most people
smging along was the excellent Love is the
law, which ended in an almighty jam where
John reminded ever/one just how good he
really is at playing that damn instrument. Every
time he launched into a solo, you could hardly
hear it for all the screaming.
After an encore with the ridiculously-titled Kill
Pussycat Kill, they left, leaving the crowd know-
ing two things Firstly, that the Seahorses would
again and secondly thai John Squire is back
and he means to stay.
Alok
Monday 12th May Reef + Cable, £11.
Brixton Academy
Tuesday 13th May Cake + support, £7.50
Camden Dingwalls, NW1.
Weds 14th May Supergrass, £11.
Brixton Academy
Thursday 15th May Brand New Heavies, £9.50
Forum, Kentish Town
of it below. For all you Stone Roses fans out
there, I recommend you give the single a listen
if you haven't heard it already.
Finally, are you in a band? If so, then get
yourself some information on 77?e Break '97. It
is an opportunity for unsigned bands to get
heard and win some great prizes. Just think, all
that endless practising in dingy rehearsal
rooms may well prove useful at long last. For
more information, come into the Felix office for
a leaflet. If you do enter, come and tell us what
you're doing and we'll chart your progress
through the competition. Also, check out the
website at http://www.thebreak.com/ for more
information.
GOLD BLADE
New Cross Venue
'Music, no matter how technically accom-
plished, is meaningless without passion.
Discuss.' You wouldn't go far wrong in citing
Gold Blade as primary evidence for this propo-
sition. On stage at the scum hole that is the
New Cross Venue they exude passion, spray-
ing the audience with with it like gobbets of
freshly congealed kebab fat. Invective leaps
from lead singer John Robb's lips as he hectors
us to feel the soul power moving through him
and his compadres. These six men, variously
from London, Manchester and the birthplace of
rock and roll, Blackpool, are preaching a
gospel all wrapped up in ^
three chord punk. They
remind me of Reverend
Hortin Heat or Rocket
From the Crypt, all
shouty, bequiffed
upstarts who sound like
they picked a guitar up
for the first time just five
minutes before the show, and are still
awestruck with its potential to cause sonic
malevolance. But here comes the trick. Gold
Blade have an added element, the philoso-
phers of stone pop: STAR ATTITUDE. They really
believe that they can change the world, one
shitty venue at a time and, for a while, I am
almost convinced. As John flies around the
stage, face contorted and singing tunes about
Black Elvis, their power is undeniable. And Yet,
even with top notch tunes like Strictly Hardcore,
which obviously has themselves hoarse on the
chorus, it all too quickly descends into Blues
Brothers parody. All the rock and roll cliches
are there, from the gold lame to the guitarist
clambering atop the speaker stack (only to
have real problems getting down again -
wuss).
Ultimately, there must be a caveat to our ini-
tial proposition. Certainly, music without pas-
sion is worthless. Almost as bad as passion
without an iota of musical talent or innovation.
A perfect description of Gold Blade, really.
Norm

