A I 6 U M S
PURE
3 Colours Red |
They rock, they have resurected thedying rem'
nants of punk, and they are determined to
defy the present day apathy towaVds it.
Formed by three blokes, including cf.yeteran .
whose previous life was 'Senseless', they
toured consistently throughput last year help-
ing to build up their fan base and+tave been
hailed by Creation boss Alan McGee as the
best songwriters at the moment. This sort of
declaration can only do wonders for any new
band, coming from the man who brought us
-
as Ride, Primal Scream, Teenage Faridub. ..
Pure starts this debut off with its swooning
• . . -
•
•
attack the social Ills affecting many of us with <
crowd rallying passionate aggression while at
AFTERTASTE
Helmet
Page Hamilton, vocalist, lead guitarist and
mainstay of New York hardcore heroes Helmet,
is a living example of Jekyll and Hyde. Talk to
him for a while and you'll be impressed by his
articulacy and mild manners. Heck, the man
even loves jazz. Give him a guitar, on the other
hand, and an angry, brutal music-creating
monster smashes its way out of that hitherto
calm exterior.
Which is a relief, because after three albums
and considerably fewer record sales than the
likes of In The Meantime merited, we might
have expected Helmet to tone down their sav-
agery to garner some commercial appeal. Not
a bit of it. After a few seconds of superfluous
feedback, Pure launches itself from the speak-
ers with one of those crunching guitar riffs that
have influenced everyone from Therapy? (defi-
nitely) to Sepultura (probably). But don't think for
one minute that this is crass, tuneless music.
Pure, like virtually everything else that follows, is
deceptively melodic amongst its barrage of
noise and thunder. In fact, in the likes of Exactly
What You Wanted and the sublime It's Easy To
Get Bored ifs the TUNES that bang you around
the head before anything else, leaving you
gaping at how someone can write something
so heavy yet so hummable. Meanwhile,
Hamilton is busy spirting out diatribes against
all and sundry with some of the best put-
downs you'll find anywhere. Listen to ones such
as, "I'd rather be insulted by you than someone
awaited love of \ha\-£dpper Girl. The
TinsJejown image of the world gets a thrashing
\a-Jhis Is My Hollywood where they attack the
falseness of Ihe whole affair.
Distorted guitars crash on, underplaying the
typically punk, all members of fhe band shout-
ing along, rebel rousirjg songs: that build up
this album. Many of the songs contain fantas-
tic guitar, riffs that only pick up near their end
is
Jason
I respect' {Birth Defectl and "You speak the lan-
guage everyone knows/Take over when the
conversation slows/Another self-made lumi-
nary/Or maybe just the f****** tooth fairy/I'd
send the brain you ration/To feed the smallest
starving nation" [DietAftertaste) and that Jekyll
and Hyde comparison becomes all the more
obvious.
Ultimately then, Helmets fourth proper
album is a potent cocktail of sterling guitars,
clever lyrics and some surprisingly wondrous
tunes. Try it and rest assured that you'll be left
with anything but a bitter 'Aftertaste'...(7)
Vik
AFTER AFTER HOURS
Sugar Plant
To borrow a footballing cliche, this Japanese
duo's latest release is a record of two halves.
The first half you're awake, the second you're
not. No great loss, since there is such little vari-
ation between any of the tracks, although, like
the white noise on the telly after Cell Block H,
the finale [Brazil) wakes you up just enough so
that you don't forget to get undressed and turn
off the lights.
The mood is very dreamy, but the sound is
sub-ambient, like Stereolab with the brakes on
and no progression in the tunes. Come to that,
there are few actual "tunes" at all. The repetitive
nature of the album extends to the lyrics, where
the same line is echoed again and again. Ifs
almost as if Sugar Plant are constrained by the
strict form of Japanese poetry, since none of
LET THE FREAK FLAG FLY
Tranquillity Bass
the songs stretch to 4 verses. This is a shame
because the poems that they have produced
have great entertainment value. It is very diffi-
cult not to laugh at someone who sings, with a
straight face, "She loves the sun on freezy
moon/ Too many empties to feel in peace".
This is harsh though, and it is cheap to poke
fun like that. In fact, the better songs on the
album - Here Rain Comes and Drifting - have
the greatest vocal contributions.
The band are trying to be too clever with this
record, with the result that it is devoid of
humour. However, this is where the album
fails, since After After Hours is an undemand-
ing, easy listen. From the intro to many of the
tracks, one half expects some old crooner from
the easy listening hall of fame to let rip. Nothing
on this album comes near a noteworthy event
like that. Throughout the record you get that
strange feeling that something is missing- a
manic breakbeat, or killer riff, say....(4)
Magic Tom
With Let The Freak Flag Fly, Tranquility Bass
have produced a hippy album for the nineties
with all the old school dreaminess of the six-
ties. The result is pretty good, apart from the
odd change in style which spoils the overall
effect.
The album starts off promisingly enough
with the druggy Five Miles High and is fol-
lowed by the equally promising La La La. A
change in style then gives us the surprisingly
dreamy tones of brass in The Bird, but the
change in style that follows this is almost as
unforgivable as David Bowie's recent drum
and bass outing. Soldier's Sweetheart is the
title of this undeniably sinful track, which is
more country than hippy free-form as the
sleeve notes suggest. Thankfully the album
moves back to the hippy theme with We All
Want To Be Free - a slow chanting song that
drags its heels, and leaves the listener wait-
ing for a crescendo that never comes. The
pace picks up with Never Gonna End, and the
result sits pretty as one of the stand out tracks
on the album, along with /'// Be Here which
takes more than simple influence from the
Butthole Surfers Hurdy GurdyMan
with the wobbling vocal effect. The
title track follows in ultra-hippy style
and the sound is certainty interesting j
and innovative if not wholly impres-
sive. As the album draws to a close
Tranquillity Bass return to the country style
with Lichen Me To Wyomin, and the less said
about that the better.
Overall a very listenable album that would
improve endlessly if two tracks were
removed.(6)
James
1
3
raw?
music

