Jennifer Lopez and Eric Stoltz star in this jump-test about a
10 metre long anaconda living in the heart of Brazil. A
bunch of scientists are involved in, an expedition down the
Amazon to film a mythical tribe when they rescue a ship-
wrecked snate-hunter, played by Jon Voight of Mission ,
Impossible fame. Everything is not as it seems, however,
and the explorers
find themselves
in the middle
of a conflict " f - -~» .*
between the , :
1* * .
hunter and his oret \ " % / \ Nn*"
the most deadly killer ii^ejjjjiaMl This'
V "4 /
just the largest ar^d r^ds^icifus killer snakeUnrt dttually
hunter and his pre1
the most deadly kill his anaconda is not
n d 18
never sure which, if any, of the characters will survive the
encounter and this adds to the tension. Fortunately,
though, it doesn't take itself too seriously. For example;
there's a bizarre scene where we see the anguished'face
of a recently devoured victim through the skin of the '
sndke. The acting is quite cheesy as well, apart from Jon
Voight. His mysteri-
0^00- ous character
that respects
ar^l admires
J ' the snake
M won't win any
essiThe rest just'
\a\m\ on cue.'
Reviewers
Wanted!
If you fancy seeing free
films months before they
hit the cinema in return
for writing a review,
then e-mail Chris on
cph@ma.ic.ac.uk
Out now
Ghosts from the Past
Oscar-nominated James
Woods stars with Alec
Baldwin in this intriguing
true story. Baldwin plays a
prosecutor determined to
reopen the case of the
murder of a civil rights
campaigner many years
before. Woods is the man
who walked then, and this
film charts the attempt by
Baldwin to stop him evad-
ing justice a second time.
Nothing new, but a fasci-
nating story. V i d e o s t o B u y
Most of John Wayne's exploits weren't restricted to the
monosyllabic cowboys for which he seems best remem-
bered. Out now at £10 a pair the John Wayne Collection
gives a new generation the opportunity to see the walk
and hear the talk...
Blood Alley sees a bandana-clad Captain Wayne being
sprung from a Chinese gaol by a mysterious gang of four
including Lauren Bacall (in the days when she didn't
expect to win Oscars). They need a wily old sea dog to
evacuate a small village in Communist China to Hong
Kong via a 300 mile dash on a clapped-out ferry.
Bizarrely, Wayne is accompanied by an invisible girlfriend
who apparently keeps him sane as he agrees to take on
the job. With the entire Red Fleet in pursuit, the old paddle
steamer sets off down Blood Alley on a trip that seems to
take in Los Angeles Harbour and the Everglades but
somehow ends in Hong Kong after only two days at sea.
Unfortunately we never find out why the Chinese infantry
wear tennis shoes but ifs a satisfying Wayne escapade
nonetheless.
In The Three Godfathers, Wayne and two fellow rustlers
make a bad career move in robbing a bank. Fleeing
across the badlands of Arizona they meet a dying woman
and her baby and, being decent outlaws, take the child
into their care as they head towards their final destination
- the town of Jerusalem. This captivating fable with biblical
undercurrents is beautifully executed by director John Ford
and is one of Wayne's most enjoyable films. Highly rec-
ommended.
Due to its hundreds of imitators, They Were Expendable
seems like just another cliche-ridden propaganda war
film. But this is harsh on a film which at its time was prob-
ably seen as innovative as we see Trainspotting. Wayne
leads a small bunch of singing seamen in pitting their tiny
motor torpedo boats against the mighty Japanese navy.
Love, humour and tragedy are mixed with boredom in a
film only worth seeing for its moody black and white cam-
era work in the serious scenes.
Available now as part of the John Wayne Screen Classics
at £10 for two:
The Cowboys Green Berets
Blood Alley The Three Godfathers
Haunted Gold Reunion in France
Operation Pacific The Sea Chase
The Searchers Patricia
• i
i—>
Volume 22 - Matters of Honour
The third year of the intergalactic saga unfolds as the year
2260 dawns. The Alliance faces turbulent times with the
Centauri having blockaded the planet used by the
Rangers, the covert force spearheading the fight against
the Shadows. However, hope is restored with the arrival
of an awesome prototype warship.
A key episode in the on-running Babylon 5 saga where
the Shadows make their first, sinister appearance. The
plot for this one is thick indeed and even the usually
wooden acting of the B5 crew is easily forgotten in trying
to appreciate the huge scale of the B5 story.
Convictions
A psycopathic bomber cripples Babylon 5, critically injur-
ing Lennier. Meanwhile, arch enemies G'Kar and Londo
find themselves trapped in the centre of a travel tube,
leading to a very strange confrontation.
One of those unfortunate TNG-like character develop-
ment episodes. Avoid. Ralph
Babylon 5 - Volume 22 is released on May 12th
film

