1
9
ANACONDA
IT WILL TAKE YOUR B R E A T H AWAY
Yet again Felix is teaming up with those unbelievably gen-
erous folks at Odeon Kensington to give away tickets for
the latest release. This week ifs Anaconda. As you'll know
if you've read the review, ifs a slick thriller about a particu-
larly long and scary snake. It may be daft but ifs definitely
worth seeing and we've got a pair of tickets waiting for
the first FIVE correct answers drawn out of the hat. The
question couldn't be simpler:
Who w a s the star of Jon Voight's last film, Mission
Impossible?
The draw will take place next Wednesday so make sure
you get your entries in by then. Next week, the Odeon is
providing us with five pairs of tickets to see the latest hor-
ror flick, The Relic. Brought to you by the man responsible
for Timecop and Sudden Death, this is about a mythical
South American creature lurking in the depths of the New
York Natural History Museum. Coming out next Friday it
looks like being a good one so look out for the competi-
tion next week..
Al Pacino and Bruce Kirby star with Johnny Depp in arguably
"the best gangster film since Goodfellas".
Last week we were giving away tickets to see Donnie
Brasco. The lucky prize winners were:
Charles Stubbings Civ Eng
Vanaja Shanmuganathan Maths
Annemarie Greenwood Biology
The answer to "Who was Al Pacino's lover in Frankie and
Johnny?" is Michelle Pfeifer.
Bust-A-Gut Comedy Club
RE-OPENING OLD WOUNDS
Next Friday, the 16th, The Bust-A-Gut Comedy Club opens
ifs doors for the first time this term, to play host to the
London semi final of the Daily Telegraph Open Mic
Competition. We
also have a very
special show on the
23rd.
O P E N
MIC
AWARD
m m W w m * • m WmW
The show brings
together 12 previous
winners of Open
Mic slots - acts that
have appeared for
the first time at vari-
ous southern
venues this year.
Each act will have a
maximum of 5 min-
utes to impress the
judges at our show,
and the winner will
go through to the televised final staged at the Edinburgh
Festival. The ultimate winner of the final will earn themself
£1000, as well as getting a contract to appear on the
Comedy Network next year.
If you want to check out some of comedy's hot new talent,
then this show will not only have a dozen of the top new-
comers seen so far this year, but will also be compered
by the Perrier nominee and all round star, Boothby
Graffoe (some of you will be lucky enough to remember
his impromptu verbal hijacking of last years show !).
The show starts at 8pm and the limited number of seats
are £2.50 or £2 with entscards, and tickets are available
in advance from the Union Office, or on the door. Ticket
price includes free admission to "Pop Tarts", straight after
the show.
The following week, we've got another pre-Edinburgh
Festival exclusive, from Charlie Chuck, who as well as his
usual drum smashing antics, will be previewing some of
his new material. For those of you who don't know, this
cult star was a huge success with Vic & Bob, and his solo
shows have seen massive critical acclaim. Get your tickets
early for this one, as seats will be strictly limited. Ticket
details as before.
film and comedy

