2 NEWS F E L I X FRIDAY 9TH M A Y
Marquee decision condemned by USC
DAVID ROBERTS
Last week's Undergraduate Studies
Committee (one of the key channels
for students to air the air grievances
with College) came down squarely
against the examinations marquee in
Princes' Gardens as a long term solu-
tion to this year's exam chaos.
Recognising the adverse problems
of noise associated with the tent, they
recommended that any possible
alternative location should be sought
for examinations in the last two
weeks of term, when noise from the
surrounding halls is expected to
peak. The plight of those sitting
examinations has now reached a
wider audience with yesterday's edi-
tion of The Independent reporting on
the students fate.
Despite complaints about noise
levels from biologists and bio-
chemists who sat their exams in the
Great Hall in February, no changes
to either the examinations or con-
struction schedules were made,
resulting in the last minute decision
to erect the Tent taken in the final
week of the Easter holiday. Indeed,
the Undergraduate Studies
Committee felt that with the benefit
of hindsight the decision to move to
the tent should never have been
taken in the first place, with exams
remaining in the Great Hall if at all
feasible.
This mirrors the feelings of many
staff, including some department
heads, that the decision has, by
putting revenue and College prestige
ahead of student well-being, been a
dangerous mistake. However, with
the tent now in place, and the exams
already having been moved once, the
USC fear that the possibility of
returning the last fortnight of exams
to solid ground is very small.
Such a move would also (presum-
ably) jeopardise the chances of the
library extension being completed on
time - an outcome which Estates
have been at pains to avoid. Oddly
enough, however, the Great Hall was
quiet as a mouse on Thursday, whilst
the Prince's Gardens mobile-class-
room was a hive of frenetic activity.
The recent re-adjustment of the work
schedules on the main Bio-Medical
Sciences building site to allow con-
tractors to complete an electrical fit
out suggest that it would have been
possible to re-arrange some work on
the smaller library site.
Meanwhile, attempting to restrict
the levels of bias inflicted against
those sitting exams in the marquee,
P H O T O : D A V I D
The decision to site this summer's
exams in a marquee in Prince's
Gardens has failed to amuse the
Undergraduate Studies
Committee.
Dr Margaret Goodgame, one of the
College Tutors, has been deputised
to attend all examinations held in the
structure and note times of particular
disruption. In addition, dedicated
noise monitors are continually
recording levels, so that any com-
plaints from students can be verified
and quantified. If all these factors are
taken into consideration during
assessment, then hopefully the detri-
mental effects to students can be kept
to a bare minimum.
Complaints regarding maladmin-
istration of the exams (the only crite-
ria under which students may chal-
lenge their results) should be made to
the Imperial College Registry in the
first instance.
Unfortunately, Sherfield staff
were unable to confirm the total cost
of this damage-control operation, in
addition to the initial hire and instal-
lation of the Marquee, or to compare
this cost with the penalties which
would have been incurred by re-
organising the building schedule.
Mike Hansen, College's Director of
Finance, was unavailable for com-
ment.
editorial, page twenty three
C L A Y P O N D S
WARDEN
The College invites applications for the position of
Warden Clayponds which is available from 1st
September 1997. Clayponds is a residential devel-
opment of houses and flats in Ealing. It houses 2nd,
3rd and 4th year undergraduates and postgraduates.
Wardens receive rent-free in return for pastoral
duties within this "student village". The post is open
to all non-undergraduate members of the College but
experience of pastoral care would be and advantage.
For further details and an application form contact
Janet Jones, Office Services Manager, Room 512
Sherfield Building, extension 45536, e.mail
Janet.Jones@ic.ac.uk
The closing date for receipt of applications is
Thursday Friday 30th May.

