F E L I X FRIDAY 9 T H M A Y LETTERS & EDITORIAL 23
LETTERS TO FELIX
Big Top is here to stay
Dear Felix,
I have just read the feature and let-
ters in last weeks issue (1085)regard-
ing the tent and I would like to say
that after having sat three exams
already with three still to go that I
actually like the tent!
I have found it the most pleasant
and relaxing exam room I have ever
sat in, it is certainly better than the
tense atmosphere of the great hall
last year, I know this sounds a bit
strange but so far all the press about
the tent has been quite negative. My
only gripes are that the floor wobbles
about too much and there are no toi-
lets otherwise I think that the college
authorities have for the first time
since I have been here made a sensi-
ble decision (although it has
occurred due to a monumental cock-
up on the part of Schal again).
Yours sincerely
Damian Fell
P.S. This is NOT a piss take.
Dear Felix,
In response to many letters of
complaint that you have received
recently, I feel urged to let my feel-
ings known. I refer mainly to the tent
scenario in Prince's Gardens.
I am lucky enough not to be affect-
ed by this piss-take, but it still annoys
me that my fellow students have to
suffer at the hands of this Caldwell
character. All he seems to do in his
job is mess things up and then make
lame excuses. Why is someone, who
is obviously so unsuited to a job that
involves the use of the brain, allowed
to make decisions that affect so
many people? Who is this fool? Why
is he still in his job? Why is he being
let off scot-free after annoying so
many? Why has he not at the least,
been bombarded with eggs, or such
like? At less subdued Universities he
would have many such unpieas-
antries bestowed upon him. Why do
we stand for this?
This is not a call to arms, but a stab
at the apathy of IC students. Come
on we cannot all be that busy. Look
at the recent events in Trafalgar
Square for example. The Reclaim the
Streets people made their point per-
fectly as "the youths danced on the
steps of the National Gallery." (OK,
so a few anarchists and very heavy
handed police spoilt the scene on the
other side of the square. Trust the
Police to bring horses and riot gear to
a party! ) This is what can be done
with a bit of bravado.
There have also been letters men-
tioning the prospective move to PG
studies only at IC. These rumours
have been flying around since I got
to this College, but they will do it if
we just sit back and let them. A bit of
grief every now and then would
make them think twice about shitting
on us as often as they do.
Whatever happened to: "Don't let
the buggers get you down!?"
Neil Forsyth (EE4)
Democracy?
Dear Alex,
I would like to express my disap-
pointment at the lack of publicity
concerning the posting of papers for
the forthcoming ICU Presidential
Elections. Most students at Imperial,
even those interested in the Union,
have no idea that the re-run ballot is
due to take place in just over a week.
Following the debacle of the
March elections, I had hoped that the
posting of nomination papers would
have been widely promoted with a
view to encouraging as diverse a
group of students to stand as possi-
ble. As far as I can work out one
small notice was placed in Felix, no
posters on the walkway, no letters to
Felix inviting candidates to stand, no
banners across the front of the Union
Building etc.
While the dearth of information
following the posting of nomination
papers may be contrary to the spirit
of the Union's Constitution, section
2.1.1 of Appendix D (Election
Procedures) explicitly states that
"The opening of nominations shall
be publicised at least five College
days in advance." I believe that this
did not happen and that consequent-
ly the election scheduled for 19th
and 20th May is unconstitutional and
should be postponed with nomina-
tions being re-opened, this time in
accordance with both the spirit and
the letter of the law.
There is still plenty of time for
nomination papers to be posted
again, allowing all IC students their
democratic right to stand for elec-
tion. The Annual General Meeting of
the Union this Friday would seem an
ideal opportunity for such an
announcement.
Yours sincerely,
Ben Weir
^ f f f ELIX
Student Newspaper of Imperial College
Editor Alex Feakes / Advertising Manager Mark Baker
Letters may edited for content or length. The deadline for letters to
be published in the next issue of Felix is Tuesday 13th May. Letters
may be e-mailed to our address: felix@ic.ac.uk
Opinion over the virtue of IC's latest
foray into the temporary-rigid-sided-
marquee construction industry is
divided!
On one hand we have the likes of
Damian Fell (left) applauding this al
fresco examination event, even
going to such lengths as to assurre us
that his adulation is not the object of
a deranged mind or a bar-room jape.
On the other, we have the rest of the
students arraigned against the Big
Top at the centre of Imperial's
Prince's Gardens folly convinced
that the most important tests of their
lives are of secondary importance to
the individual considerations of the
members of the Administrative
Bloc.
While it would be foolish to sug-
gest that this is another in a long line
of measures designed to gradually
phase out undergraduate teaching as
Neil Forsyth has done in his letter
(left), I think that Imperial College's
priorities have become muddled,
and not for the first time. The bizarre
and opaque workings of the
Sherfield administration over this
matter became a little clearer last
week when the Undergraduate
Studies Committee more-or-less laid
the blame for this fiasco at the door
of the Estates Division.
As the Committee found out,
Estates have known about the noise
problem in the Great Hall for some
time but faced with the enormous
task of deciding whether or not to
have a break in the Library works
schedule (their own responsibility)
or brusquely expecting that the
exams would be moved (not Estate's
responsibility but that of another
division, the Registry), they prevar-
icated and vacillated before plump-
ing for the latter, the financially
cheaper option.
An earlier and much cheaper res-
olution could have been found. For
example, Schal have demonstrated
that rescheduling of work to meet
deadlines is not impossible with
their recent electrical work on the
BMS site. Instead we have a sort of
cowardice akin to that of a child
whom has scratched an expensive
table but, instead of owning up, cov-
ers the mark and blames the dog
when found out later. Is this really
the way that a university and an
emblem of international excellence
that expects respect should be run?
It is easy to mark out the Estates
Division for criticism, but the real
problem that should be addressed is
more fundemental.
The recurrent theme among this
and other recent upsets and 'mis-
understandings' is a distinct lack of
communication between the various
departments, divisions and cliques
that comprise the administration side
of things at this College, and the
consumers of these services, namely
the students and staff.
This is not a blanket criticism;
mostly things work smoothly and all
is well, but sometimes it all falls
down, despite the best of recent
efforts to publicise decisions. This is
perhaps most neatly illustrated by
what happened to an inquisitive
columnist from The Independent
who sought some information about
the exam-noisc-tent business. He
phoned the Press Office hoping to be
enlightened but was disappointed
with the reply from a rather sur-
prised employee who was able only
to "make enquiries and call him
back."
Let's have some transparency in
the government of Imperial College.
Let us, the consumers, see who
makes which decisions, what they
are and why and when they are
made. For this current situation
though, a workable solution to the
exam-noise-tent dilemma acceptable
to all involved would (and should)
have been found in time. The last
minute fudge we have will have to
do for now, but has done nothing to
lift the gloom that the students (and
a lot of staff I'll warrant) feel about
being secondary or perhaps tertiary
considerations in their own College.
Produced for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board.
Printed by Imperial College Union Print Unit, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road,
London SW7 2BB. Telephone: 0171 594 8071
©Felixl997. Telephone/fax: 0171 594 8072. ISSN 1040-0711
N E W S : M A R I A ; W E B E D I T O R : L E O N ; M U S I C : J A S O N ; F I L M : C H R I S ; T H E
G O L E M : J E S S I C A ; P H O T O G R A P H Y : JIT & D A V E ; G R A P H I C S A N D L A Y O U T :
D A V I D ; C O L L A T I N G L A S T ISSUE: T H E E L E C T I O N N I G H T D R I N K I N G G A M E R S .

