6 INTERVIEW F E L I X FRIDAY 9TH M A Y
CHRIS ISfJAAA
T-H£ AAAN WflO KNOWS WHAT'S 60IN6 ON
Research and innovation in sci-
ence continually bring the
boundaries between technology
and philosophy closer together -
so is a conscience now a neces-
sary qualification for budding
researchers?
Andreas Mershin talks to one
of the veterans of modern theo-
retical physics, Professor Chris
Isham of our very own IC
Physics Department.
What is the role of pure science?
For me, it is what you might call the whole ques-
tion of the human spirit, it is the whole sense of the
human race trying to achieve a deep understanding
of everything. That sort of mystery and profundity
is really what life is about.
So you see pure science as something like art?
Yes, but you cannot really use that as a very
effective motivation for funding - unless the fun-
ders themselves are moved by that spirit....
Science in general and Physics in particular are
portrayed in a bad light nowadays. What are
the moral obligations and concerns when doing
research?
Scientists do have responsibilities but I do not
think they are that much more than anybody else's
in society. Anyone who votes or is in any way a
member of society, has responsibilities. One of the
moral concerns people working in universities
have is the 'unexpected bad uses' of their work.
If, for example I was offered a grant, some vast
sum of money to work, on a 'graviton bomb' or
something like that, I would not do it although it is
not obvious that all military research is bad, after
all the Nation has had to defend itself at times.
People of my generation missed the Manhattan
Project [the developement of teh first atom bomb].
If I was twenty years older I might have been
involved. With hindsight everyone says 'no I
wouldn't have done it' but of course they did not
know at the time, the problem is simply knowing...
There is hindsight now though, after the
Manhattan project.
That is right, there is now about the role of things
like Nuclear Physics and people working in those
fields are very conscious but as far as my field is
concerned you have to get really science-fictionary
about it, people talk about creating new universes
in the lab and this sort of thing, I do not know if I
would do it...
I would
You would? But you see the effects could be cat-
astrophic... (laughs), generally in theoretical
physics we are not faced with such decisions. Even
if you think very hard about it, it is difficult to see
how one could use our research in any practical
way good or bad.
What is a 'Theory of Everything' and what
does it have to do with Quantum Gravity?
When people talk about theories of everything or
Grand Unified Theories (GUTs) they tend to refer
to two different things: One side is the actual liter-
al unification of forces: an attempt to find an over-
arching set of equations which in some way
describes all of the known forces as different facets
of the same thing. The other side is the theories that
try to explain the origin of the universe. Quantum
Gravity, a theory that will combine Quantum
Mechanics and General Relativity, is expected to
be involved in both of those, because a GUT will
have to include the gravitational force in some
way.
Previous revolutions in Physics have radically
changed the world. What will be the impact of
such a theory on the average scientist or even on
the person in the street?
This will depend very much on how they evolve.
It is possible that a GUT will be constructed out of
the existing framework of Quantum Theory and
Relativity, when it will be seen as a very compli-

