F E L I X FRIDAY 9 T H M A Y INTERVIEW 7
cated use of Quantum Mechanics and General
Relativity. But of course it could be that we will
have to change either or both theories very radical-
ly, i.e. change our concepts about space and time
and change the very nature of Quantum Mechanics
in very dramatic ways.
However, it is hard to see how it will be of
'everyday use' since even today we still use
Newtonian rather than Relativistic physics to cal-
culate orbits etc. So in that sense I guess, unless
something totally unexpected happens these theo
lies if they ever get developed will not have a
totally overwhelming effect, but you never can
tell!
So why all the fuss then since present theo-
ries work well on most practical scales?
The reason it excites people so much is that
it is so difficult to do it. If you take General
Relativity and Quantum Mechanics and try to
put them together, they clash horribly mathe-
matically and you get a whole mess of mathe-
matical non-sense out of them. Quantum
Gravity will force people to think about funda-
mental issues of space and time that you nor-
mally sweep under the carpet so it is in this
sense that there is a clash in the very heart of
these two subjects, people do feel that some-
thing very very deep is going on here.
Fundamental issues of space and time are
intimately related to the very concept of
'reality'. If 'reality' is challenged how do
you go about doing research and are the
answers you get something like 42?
You can tackle these things in different
ways. One way, at a purely empirical level,
you can simply go and develop a mathematical
framework that seems to describe a phenomenon
rather well, in a clear clean-cut mathematical way
and then you can go on and attempt to hang a
philosophical framework about the theory.
Another way is to start with a conceptual revo-
lution. Traditionally in theoretical science you
have three things to think about: there is the math-
ematical framework itself, you have the conceptu-
al framework attached to it, then you have the actu-
al raw data. These three things intertwine and the
art of the game is to fit the theory and the philoso-
phy together in such a way that the philosophy
makes coherent sense of what is going on yet at the
same time the theory also describes the data. The
problem with Quantum Gravity, is the total lack of
data. So in that regard this area of research is
unlike any other branch of science. Work in these
areas proceeds in rather curious ways by either
searching for internal consistency in the theory or
by adopting a pre-conceived philosophical scheme
and taking it from there.
So the problem is deeper than just better exper-
iments?
The trouble is it is all very circular, because until
you have the theory in the first place, you do not
know what it will predict, so it might be that you
and I sitting here at the moment is a prediction of
quantum gravity but we do not know that.
We assume that the quantities known as the
Planck length (lCf-^cm) and time ( l O " ^ Sec) will
appear in a Quantum Theory of Gravity. They are
incredibly small distances and times so you can not
go about collecting data about phenomena at these
scales directly but have to look at indirect data.
You have to rely on secondary effects which you
can not identify until you have the theory.
How far are we from such a theory ?
My personal suspicion is that we are a very long
way, but not everybody will agree with that: peo-
ple working on superstrings often get very excited
and there are other approaches as well.
P H O T O : N I C K J A C K S O N
It seems people working in such fields are very
curious beasts. Is there a typical profile for a
theoretical physicist?
I often wonder to myself is there a typical theo-
retical physicist. Certainly to be a successful theo-
retical physicist you have got not just to be good at
maths but to really enjoy it. Professor Abdus
Salam once said to me, slightly disapprovingly,
"theoretical physicists should never marry" and
since he had two wives and I was just married at
the time too, it was rather funny (but not perhaps
the most tactful) comment! What he actually
meant was that to be really successful you have to
put your work first, perhaps more so than in any
other branch of science. My daughters [both doing
maths degrees] will tell you that you probably need
to be a bit of a nerd to be a theoretical physicist.
There is a public image of the theoreticians as
people who belong to an exclusive monk-like
community. One hears about 'enlightenment'
and even Tao in physics. Are these really there?
I think there often is a side of Theoretical
Physics that is genuinely mystical but I have to be
careful in using the word 'mystical' as it often car-
ries a pejorative meaning nowadays. There is
undoubtedly a feeling that you are dealing with
absolutely fundamental issues, and in doing so you
find that normal common-sense ideas really do not
apply. This tends to attract a certain type of person
and I was that type, quite ecstatic about these
things: for example, the idea that what we view as
reality is only 'veiled reality'.
Do you ever feel -as it has been claimed by some
in your field- that you're 'seeing God in the
equations?
You have to be careful because it would be ter-
ribly arrogant to say anything like that. The aspects
of the world that the theorist can study are those
that yield themselves to mathematical interpreta-
tion and what is perhaps surprising is the depth one
can go with that and the strange nature of the world
that is thus revealed.
No, I find it slightly distasteful to say one is see-
ing God in the equations, as one is bringing
together two categories that do not really fit.
There is undoubtedly a sense of mysterious-
ness and if you do have religious views you
tend to relate all profound things ultimately to
a theological perspective but that is true
whether it is theoretical physics or music or art
or human relationships. They are all equally
important and each one of them could be seen
in religious terms.
You are religious but you seem to have no
problem in combining science and religion,
what's the trick?
It is a non-trivial task. You see perhaps I am
not the stereotype scientist. I think Physics is
one aspect of reality but not the only one and
is certainly not the only authentic way of
exploring the world. Some people bifurcate
their personality being in a sort of schizoid
state in the sense that they do their science dur-
ing the day and have their religious views in
the evening and they just do not relate the two.
I have never been able to do that. One of the
advantages of working in my sort of area, is
that precisely because you discover that com-
mon sense does not work, you become potentially
more broad minded about what might be right. On
the other hand, people who work in well defined
clear-cut classical branches of physics have per-
haps more tendency to come to reductionism
where you feel that everything can be reduced to
the laws of physics and the dynamics of matter. In
my field the very nature of matter is a profound
mystery and the thought of reducing things to that
is a bit of a misnomer.
In that case what is the definition of a 'religious
person' that you use for yourself?
A religious person is a person who believes that
the concept of God is a meaningful one. In the
Christian religion particularly there is this idea that
God is in some way 'personal' and that God can be
addressed in a meaningful way. However praying
for your son or daughter to pass their exams for
example, is not necessarily a very sensible thing to
do, nice if it happens of course!. Some people like
Paul Davies talk of the laws of Physics being them-
selves God. This is a notion of a very abstract God,
what Aristotle wrote about: the 'Prime Mover'.
That is not what I mean by God, I do actually mean
it in a religious sense not just a philosophical con-
cept. I think it all boils down to the sacramental
nature of human life which certainly affects the
way you see the world and people. I believe vari-
ous religions may be capturing the different facets
of what may be profoundly true. It has always been
very important to me to avoid being dogmatic
about anything whether it is the correct interpreta-
tion of Quantum Physics or the 'correct' religion.

