8 SABBATICAL ELECTIONS II F E L I X FRIDAY 9 T H M A Y
Sabbatical Elections
(Part II]
You thought it was all over: M a n United w o n the League, Labour won the
country and Eastenders won a Bafta. But no! N o t yet anyway, as Imperial
College Union hasn't got a new President!
So, this is where y o u come in... even if y o u didn't vote, don't play football
and loathe Albert Square, you now have the chance to influence the run-
ning of your Student U n i o n .
What a to do! Yes indeed. A s some of y o u may remember, we've been through this one before, but as the
result was inconclusive a new election with fresh, sleaze-free candidates has been called. This
time the ballot will take place on the 19th and 20th of May. Here, to help y o u in that oh-so-
difficirlt choice, the candidates tell you what they are going to do if they get elected.
The candidates speak
As Union President I will use all of my
skills to ensure that the successful run-
ning of the Union is maintained and
that your needs are voiced via first class
representation.
The University is continually under-
going change and I will strive to
ensure that the welfare of students is at
the forefront of impending plans and
are not just financial gains for the
College.
The merger is a very important issue
and I intend to see that thorough prepa-
rations are made so that the interests of
both existing IC students and those
from the medical schools are protected
and promoted further. This will involve
issues such as providing adequate
recreational facilities, accommodation
and ensuring that the Union's level of
funding isn't cut.
I would strongly advise you to vote,
however as I am slightly biased, vote
for me!
Therefore all that remains for me to
say is that as Y O U make up the Union,
it is important to register your opinion.
Why vote for me? Because I will do
everything I can to ensure that the
Union's commitment to students keeps
on expanding.
First of all, I believe that student wel-
fare is the most important issue as far as
the Union is concerned, and that ICU
should do everything in its power to
safeguard this at all times. We should
demand greater respect from College
for its students' well-being, and also for
the Union itself. In particular, I will
Clare Bunstan Al Hussein
My mission is to develop the human
side of Imperial College Union. I'm fed
up seeing so many people thinking the
Union is irrelevant. So much more
could be done to improve the way we
look after our members. Here's a sum-
mary of the big deal....
Representation for all: I will create
a representation system able to listen
with interest, treat all with respect, and
have confidence in consensus opinions.
Respect for clubs: Improved under-
standing, support and co-operation;
safety reforms and delegislation.
Thinking big: We should be more
pro-active: facing problems head-on.
We must not be scared to have our own
ideas (taking an interest in student
funding reforms etc). No nonsense: I
will reduce the amount of bullshit that
gets discussed and focus on real issues
at Imperial (opposing profit motivated
anti-student measures like exams in
tents)
fight for the Union's right to obtain
more space in Beit Quad after Biology
moves out.
I will encourage a more versitile ents
programme by including more special-
ist music nights and band nights during
the week. I will push hard to get a
licence enabling us to hire recognised
bands to play here, thus increasing rev-
enue for the Union and establishing
ICU as a popular music venue.
With the impending arrival of St
Mary's, I will do everything in my
power, working with other Union sab-
baticals, to ensure that their integration
is as smooth as possible.
I believe that I am a suitable candi-
date because I know that I can do the
job, and because I really do give a
damn. I can make only one election
promise: if you vote for me, you won't
regret it.
Who am I? The most experienced
representative at IC (AAO, Department
and Year Rep). Expedition leader and
Fellwanderers President. Leading
opponent of annoying clubs with silly
rules. Member of umpteen IC and ICU
committees. I'm motivated, organised
and keen for a big challenge.
Choose progress. Trust me.
As we enter the second bout of
Sabbatical elections, it has become my
misfortune to take on the duty of stand-
ing on behalf of New Election. I'm
hoping that this campaign will not be as
successful as the New Election cam-
paign during the last round of elections,
because then we'd have to go through
all this palaver again.
For those of you who don't know, a
vote for New Election is a vote to re-
open nominations for the position of
Imperial College Union President.
Basically if you don't think that the
candidates standing in this elections are
good enough/pretty enough/smart
enough to be President of your Union
then vote for New Election.
All you need to do is get a Union card,
so that you can vote, and then write a
large number 1 in the box next to New
Election on your ballot paper. It's as
easy as that.
Hustings: 6pm Tuesday 13th dBs St 6pm Weds 14th St Mary's
Voting in all departments (more-or-less) 19th and 20th May.
Felix recommends you attend the Hustings.

