FELIX 1
1
Philip Webber
Victoria's Heyday (J.B. Priestley,
Penguin)
M.G.M. if they were capable of it
might have called this book 1850-1860
in glorious technicolour. J . B . Priestley
(the author) presents it as 'Victoria's
Heyday' she being the Queen over this
period of time.
This is a decade brought to life for
you — a very interesting decade of
British history too — teeming with,
for want of a better word, 'characters',
whose various idiosyncrasies and
grandiose projects are portrayed with
humour and intelligence, along side
some very courageous sponsors who
were not afraid to use their wealth.
People like Darwin, Rosetti, Tennyson
and Palmerston thrived in these times
and it is difficult to avoid thinking that
nowadays some of their careers would
be quite impossible. Taking for
example Darwin who did badly at most
things at University but was still able
to know his professors personally and
go fishing with them, finally ending up
on a world cruise on the Beagle which
later led to his 'Origin of Species'.
The author Is not afraid to quote
widely from other authors where they
say things better than he could, or to
use many sketches and colour plates to
illustrate the era with his own personal
interpretation of them. History can be
made very boring when presented in a
school textbook manner, every other
word a date and isolated from events as
if watching a large scale puppet show;
but this book suffers from none of these
deficiencies. It gives one a very good
idea of what made the people of the time
tick, being a very well balanced account
and personal interpretation of the social
pressures and events which affected
everyday life and society at large, viz.
social barriers and class distinction;
sexual repression and extremely wide-
spread prostitution; the series of very
costly and ill fought wars such as the
Crimea, in which the shambles which
was the British Army at the time was
realised fully.
Worth a glance at least, with 296
pages (big ones) and many colour plates,
and a good reference section. — Price
£2.25.
The Way In (Charles Tomiinson,
Oxford)
The Poetry Book Society Choice of
the Year. Set in five parts, this is poetry
inspired mostly by acute observation
and occasionally by inner philosophical
thoughts or memories.
The five parts: —
MA NSCA PES
Observations upon Man's artificial
constructions and rules, inside the
worlds within a world created by him,
although even the sKy is like concrete
sometimes. The inhabitants are Men,
The Young, Old, Rich, Poor, Illiterate,
the Child and himself the artist.
UNDER THE MOONS REIGN
Upon subjective beauty of a world
without men populated by dusky twi I ights,
rosy dawns and animals. The sadness
in 'After a Death' and the reality in
'A Dream' is moving.
ELEMENTS
Fragmentary insights of objective
reality of 'things' the meaning of one
word taken apart in 'Hyphens' lov.e —
liness / love — lines, the observation
of a falling leaf.
HEBRIDEAN PIECES
By the sea or on the sea, always
aware of its destructive power and the
conflict of sea and rock or Man's works.
Also a tragic poem 'Of Lady Grange'.
WORDS AND MUSIC
Amusing when 'Beethoven Attends
the C Minor Seminar', courtesy of an
adjustment to the Celestial Computer
and confounds Ludmilla Quatsch, Queen
of the sleeve note but philosophic upon
'Gesand Ist Dasein ?', 'Song is Being ?'
and others.
All said and done, these poems grow
on you and make you laugh,sad,thought-
ful, which is what poetry is meant to do.
I suggest you read them.
Clive Dewey
The Love—girl and the Innocent
(Alexander Solzhenitsyn, Penguin).
The Love—girl and the Innocent,
first published in English in 1969, is
set in Autumn 1945, when the principle
character, 'The Innocent', Rodion Nemov,
has only recently been an officer in the
Russian front line, fighting the Germans
— the same course that Solzhenitsyn
followed when he was first arrested.
How far the si mi larity carries is anybody's
guess, but I shouldn't think it stops
there.
The book is supposed to be about
Nemov's relationship with a pretty,
unfortunate, yet wise girl Lyuba, but
only a fifth of the book is really devoted
to their time spent together. This is
only a 140 - page book, so I wonder
whether the title is little more than an
excuse to write about the cruel Soviet
system.
Not that that is ideal in itseit.
After all, who could rejoice in a system
where Lyuba gets an eight - year
sentence for anti - Soviet agitation
whilst Granya gets only a ten — year
sentence for murdering her husband.
Professional criminals are regarded by
the State as 'Social Allies' and get
lenient sentences (about five years)
whilst political prisoners are regarded
as 'Social Enemies'.
Back to the story. Nemov has
barely been at the camp before he is
appointed production chief. When the
Cai'ip Cornmapdant '•a'ipri to ''pad
office Nemov is left in charge, imagine
that, a new prisoner left in charge of
the whole prison camp. It does seem
as though Solzhenitsyn is trying to send
the whole camp up, and he at first
succeeds. In the Commandant's
absence Nemov increases productivity
at the camp whilst getting acquainted
with- the ways and practices of the
prisoners. In the foundry prisoners
get extra rations and pay by making
irons and treadle sewing machines for
their manager Brylov to sell in the
nearby town. Even the Commandant is
corruptible and accepts vodka and other
goods smuggled into the camp.
For everyone, from the lowest prisoner
to the Commandant is struggling to
survive. The Commandant, pressured
by his bosses for'increased productivity,
is only too eager to use a boastful
engineer, Khomich, todrasticaIly improve
production. After som= persuasive
talking by two prisoners who have taken
a dislike to Nemov, he sacks Nemov and
appoints Khomich in his place. Whilst
working in the foundry Nemov realises
that in the survival struggle, al! means
are fair and you can trust no-one.
Camp conditions are bad but they are
even worse if you are on'general duties'.
Although he later admits to '_yuba
(about being on general duties) 'It's
horrible, it's as good as a death sentence.
(Pause) Only being a boss is worse than
d-jath '.
His relationship with Lyuba starts
aftei his dism ssal as production chief.
Lyuba is a camp love—giri who is
prepared to sell herself for priveledges
and extra rations. She has seen so
much of camp life to know that this is
the only way to survive. She starts
off wary of his love and treats him as
any other camp—lover. Nemov has
fallen passionately in love with Lyuba,
but she whilst feeling deeply for Nemov,
appreciates the realities of camp life,
which he does not, and realises that
their affair cannot go much further.
The camp doctor fancies her and even
though she rejects him, she knows that
she will either have to love both Nemov
and the doctor or else Nemov or herself
will get transported to another camp.
Nemov is uncompromising but in a
desperate bid. Lyuba, realising the
consequences of his action, tells the
doctor that she will be his love—girl.
Thus Lyuba and Nemov are to be kept
together in the same camp. Their
happiness is short lived as Nemov is
nearly killed in an accident at the
foundry. The book ends with a group
of political prisoners being transferred
to a much harder camp on the Crimean
River.
At 35p the book represents good
value to an/one who has not encountered
Solzhenitsyns writing before. To
those who have read some of his other
works this represents a rather timid
companion. As a play it does not show
enough of the Nemov—Lyuba relationship
and is more concerned with showing
conditions in the camp — and in this it
presents a very true picture.

