By
Juvenal
A torrid talc of terrible torment.
Any resemblance to persons living
or dead is purely coincidental.
"Argh," shrieked Gormless Lay-on,
President of the Citizen's Association as
she idly perused a tattered copy of Falix,
the local newspaper. "Gadzooks, boyo,
this is verily a scandalum magnatum of
the most opprobious kind on the Baron,
or I'm not a Welsh virgin."
"I refrain from making an obvious
comment," sneered her assistant the
wicked bitch, whoops, witch of South-
side.
''Hon detoit arsiyesyou rectorspeech
in den tunten boring as ever." Sawn-off
Levis spoke for the first time that
desolate day. No-one could understand
him, however.
"But what would the Baron do if he
read this?" shrilled Gormless.
"He wouldn't know dear, he'd have to
ask John Secretary first." Mrs Jolly
Hockey-Sticks was usually right about
such things.
"I must do something about this
despicable publication, I could steal all
the copies. It's been done before you
know..." Lay-On's face, boyish, wan,
pusillanimous, brightened as she strode
off flat-footed and flat-chested for a glass
of sherry.
Meanwhile, high in an ivory tower in a
toast-coloured room once used for the
purposes of academic education, Eric
Professor, Master of the Baron's
Musick, was racking his brain for
something to do with a few thousand
gold pieces given him by the Baron for
the advancement of science.
"I know, I'll give them to Smarty
Sailor. He can pretend to be a citizen
here if I patronise him. Yes, I see it all
now. He can do my music chores for me,
publicity and other menial tasks, whilst I
take all the kudos for picking the music
and conducting it. Yes, yes, how brilliant
am I. And no-one will dare question my
misappropriation of the Baron's
treasure, it's such a small sum anyway,
because I'm terribly important, and I
shout a lot at people to stop them
thinking for themselves. That Smarty is
such a whining ninny, he's bound to fall
•'for it, quaver, stave and singer. "Call
Smarty Saylor," he roared at his
secretary.
Smarty, whining, listeless, cringe-
inducing brown-nosed toady, instantly
obeyed the summons to Eric's vile room.
"Now look here, you can become a
cheapskate citizen if you really want to,
little boy. You can have a job and lots of
money and pretend to carry on with
your research. All you have to do is run
the Baron's choir for me."
Smarty's brown eyes became
refulgent. "Run the Baron's choir," he
repeated. "Wow." Smarty could sing,
although he was now a high tenor after
his distressing encounter with Arthur
Michael. To run the choir would indeed
be a position of magnificence.
"That's right," smiled the wretched
Eric, "just repeat what I say. Now run
along, I've got far more important things
to do than talk to you. Oh, here's
something to keep you going," Eric
casually tossed Smarty a malodorous
bag containing a score-and-a-half of
silver pieces.
Will Smarty catch the malodorous
bag?
\hhat is the connection between the
malodorous bag and Christine
Teller?
Why has the FELIX Editor got it in
for Martin S Taylor?
The answers to these and many
other questions in next week's ex-
citing episode of The Baron of
Cheapskate.
BEHIND
CLOSED DOORS
Mr. Don Clark, Estates Secretary, and
Mr. Hector Cameron Clark, Senior
Surveyor.
Don Clark is responsible to Governing
Body for the improvement and maintenance
of the College Estate. He joined College in
1961 as a surveyor and has been promoted
through the Estates section to become its
Head. Since in the journey across Don's
mind we are unlikely to be over exerted I
shall also introduce his deputy Hector
Cameron Clark.
Don is an affable, humerous man, possibly
the most approachable administrator in Col-
lege. However, this only makes his frequent
blunders all the more unfortunate. The old
duffer is kept on his toes by his secretary,
the formidable dragon Miss Lavinia Elder-
Cowin—a one woman Berlin Wall. Her ver-
bal minefield ("I think it's going to rain, don't
you....?") prevents all but the most persis-
tent visitor from seeing Don.
Hector is a nasty little man reminiscent of
one of the characters that Peter Lorre may
have played in a 1950s movie brandishing a
stiletto. He supplements rather than compli-
ments Don as Ygor did to Dr Frankenstein.
The metaphor can be extended to the Col-
lege which was assembled during Don's time
here. Its symbolic perfection has been lately
found to have been purely superficial.
Cracks have appeared in the Holland Club,
and the Huxley Building. Bits have dropped
off Weeks Hall and Evelyn Gardens with
monotonous regularity.The RSM roof had
be replaced, as did the asbestos tiles they
sheltered. Thus we can see that the monster
is biting back.
Don and Hector both appear to support
and develop new projects with great enthu-
siasm and promise early completion. They
have done this on and off for three years
over the central laundry. The Southside
Gym and Weights Room should have been
completed over the summer but has only
just been begun. Electric sockets can still
take up to 14 months to fix. It has been said
that Estates is understaffed yet this cannot
explain the attitudes and inefficiencies of
senior members of the section.
I hear that Don made a few serious blun-
ders over the summer which can only weak-
en his already fragile cause at IC. Details of
this will be forthcoming unless the custo-
mary £5 is donated to ICU Rag.
Mole
Page 12 Friday, October 7,1903 Free! Felix

