«
ditoria.
Fremantle
College took a risk when they took on the Fremantle
knowing that it was structurally a little dodgy. They were
forced to accept it in the light of the acute housing
problem faced by students in London. On the whole they
did the right thing since the Fremantle. however badly
maintained, is both cheap and convenient for students.
What really annoys me about recent developments in
the Fremantle is Michael Arthur's single minded inten-
tion to put as many students into the Fremantle as
possible no matter what kind of state the rooms are in.
Perhaps he"s making out that there is nothing wrong with
the rooms because its ultimately his fault that the rooms
are in such a state now. He should have made sure that the
work was done properly, months ago instead of having to
settle for a botched job done in a couple of days.
News has just reached us that a faulty smoke alarm,
reported last session, failed to go off when a lamp on the
fourth floor caught fire last night.
Refectories
I am pleased to see that Dr Simon Perry has taken a very
positive approach as Chairman of Refectories Commit-
tee. He seems genuinely concerned about the standard of
College refectories in his article on page 5. The changes
advocated by Dr Perry seem very superficial. Giving the
Buttery a facelift or changing the food served at different
outlets have made sod all difference. The food tastes as
insipid and foul as ever. I hope Dr Perry succeeds in
improving the quality of the food—I don't think he will.
The problems he lists with refectories sound like a string
of excuses. There is really only one problem with refec-
tories. Victor Mooney. Any real change can only be
brought about by replacing him.
Credits
Andy Cave, Chris Jones, Guy Riddihough, Steve Brann,
Man Fawcett, Neil Bristowe, Clive Dewey, Diane Love,
Peter Rodgers, Hugh Southey.
A special thanks to Barry Holt and the staff of Min Res
Eng Repro for letting us use their equipment while ours
was totally Kaput.
Pallab Ghosh
It's the first week back at Primelia College, and the
students are getting the results of their exams. Five
of my friends were awaiting their results, and their
Senior Tutor, Adam Worried, foolishly entrusted me
with their grades. I gathered all five to my room.
"Two of you got firsts, and the other three got
thirds," I announced. "I will now tell each of you the
result of two of the others. No pair of results will be
repeated."
Having done this, I said "No-one knows their own
result yet. However, I will tell you that I gave Alan's
result to Barry, Chris, Diana and Elaine.
"Now I know everybody's result," said Alan.
"Were you told mine?" asked Barry.
"No," said Alan.
"Then I know mine," added Chris.
"On hearing that, I know mine." remarked Elaine.
So, who got what?
Solutions, comments, criticisms to me at the FELIX
Office by 1:00pm on Wednesday. £5 from Mend-a-
Bike for the randomly selected winning entry.
I've received two entries for the crossword set in
Monday's FELIX. They were completed by two mem-
bers of the same department and year, and are
identical, which would not be bad were it not for the
fact that they have made the same mistakes. I can
only assume that they have been working together; I
have no objection to that, so long as only one answer
is given in.
A lack of space means that there isn't room to write
the solutions to Pinocchio's last puzzles, but the
winners are:
The Art of Subtle Reproduction
The winner was Robert Macrae, now Elec Eng 2 I
suppose, who managed to produce an answer of
6.6m.
Election Special
The winner was Richard Fox of Chem Eng 3.
Shockhorra Probes
The only entrant was Leann Jones, now of Maths 3.
FELIX Crossword
Again only one entrant, so the prize goes to A Knap,
who is probably now Physics 2.
My first puzzle attracted only one entrant, The
prize goes to Phil Moore, then of Elec Eng 3.
The puzzle in the postgrad FELIX, set by Achilles,
was correctly solved by Barry Franklin.
All the above can collect their £5 prizes from the
FELIX Office any time after 1:30pm next Monday.
If any society wishes to publicisean eventthrough
this column, would they please let me know a few
weeks in advance and I will set a puzzle for them
appertaining to that society. Furthermore, could
they also say what prize they would offer.
If anyone has any finished or half-complete puz-
zles of their own and wish them to be used in this
column, could they drop their idea in my box in the
FELIX Office.
FELIX is published by the Editor for and on behalf of Imperial College Union Publications Board, and is printed by the Union Print Unit, Prince ConsortRd, SW7
Tel 01-5S9 5111 extn 1048 or internal 2881. Editor: Pallab K Ghosh; Business Manager:PeterRodgers;AdvertisingManager:HughSoutheyCopyrightFELIX1983

