Felix 971
eature
23 June 1993
snowdrops
writing reports on how to restore
the Memorial, and by those ever-
pleasant private secretaries, drafting-
Commons written answers assuring
all that 'the Government remains
committed to a worthy restoration
of the Albert Memorial.' The
present situation, claims Ms Bar-
Hillel, is that 'if someone took him
away in the dead of night no-one
would notice for years.'
Mr Brooke is allowed some
embarrassment on the matter. His
is the Memorial's M P , being the
member for the City of London and
Westminster South. To intervene
would be seen as privileged action
putting constituency matters above
national priorities. To stand idle is
to neglect a monument of national
importance, and to ignore pressing
matters in his own backyard. If only
Prince Albert were Asil Nadir: then
other M P s could 'make
representations' to Mr Brooke, and
his former junior, Michael Mates,
could present it with a new watch
(don't let the builders grind you
down?), driving up in his borrowed
Volvo, of course. M r Brooke is
understandably taciturn on the
statue, refusing to be bounced by
L B C Newstalk into talking about
the matter, and incidently allowing
his private office to tell LBC that
he doesn't really want to be
interviewed by Mike Carlton in
future. Responsibility has been
delegated to the newly enthroned
Iain Sproat, the M P for Harwich.
As he's new to the job, Mr Sproat
could always go back and look
again at the options. There's plenty
to choose from. The first report on
the Monument was published in
1986, saying that the wrought iron
spire cross beams supporting the
spire were brittle, and could fall
down within five years. This they
conspicuously failed to do in the
Great Storm the following year.
Back came the engineers in 1988,
saying that the deterioration was not
so bad after all, and the iron was
brittle all along. A third report
appeared on ministerial desks in
May 1989, after which the scaffold
started climbing up the Memorial.
The round robin dropped off its
perch in October last year, when the
Department for National Heritage
was presented with three options.
True to form, the Department asked
for a hiding by choosing the £10
million option, a total overhaul
lasting four years. The plan lasted
four weeks before the Treasury
moved in.
Heritage experts claim that the
Memorial can be restored to public
view for a tenth of the figure. Dr
Richard Catt, the Special
Conservation Consultant to the
Lord Chancellor's Office, cares for
all listed courthouses on the North-
East circuit, and now specialises in
conservation in the old
Czechoslovakia. He says that, at
little cost, the main part of the
Memorial could be returned to
public view by this Friday. Dr Catt
adds that, after this, the bulk of the
repairs could start by removing all
the statues and decorations above
the Memorial's canopy, and peeling
off their lead coverings. The iron
can be scraped of rust, and given
an anti-corrosion treatment. The
decorations can be kept safe until
they are repaired, and the
scaffolding sold.
This basic plan, commissioned by
the Evening Standard, has been
adopted as a restoration blueprint by
the Victorian Society. Their
chairman, Dr Chris Brooks, says
the Government should be more
flexible on the repairs. 'The
Government needs to be far more
inventive in seeking funding from
the general public and the private
sector. The restoration is urgent and
should be announced as a priority
conservation project.' One
suggestion is start an 'adopt-an-
angel' scheme; another is to apply
for a National Lottery grant. The
Department for National Heritage
is 'considering the proposals', while
Westminster City Council may
include Albert in its Millennium
Initiative.
Given the indefinite
postponement of the repairs by the
Heritage Secretary, the Memorial
may not be uncovered for the
Millennium. It may also be
shackled the following year, the
150th anniversary of the 1851 Great
Exhibition. The Albert Memorial
may become a memorial to the state
of British heritage, and British
science.
3 February The IRA terrorist war continues, with a
bomb at South Kensington tube station.
5 February The Great Rag Bash disco takes place, run
not by Andy Kerr's Ents, but by Imperial Discos.
Government official figures in Social Trends show
that the student grant is worth only 4 0 % of its 1980
value.
8 February The Holbein common room crisis
appears to be solved, with the unveiling of four new
Evelyn Gardens common rooms, to replace existing
facilities.
Chris Davidson announces plans to develop the
Sherfield walkway. The Junior Common Room is to
be reduced in size, and new trading outlets placed
in the alcoves. Mr Davidson said the changes should
take place over the summer.
12 February The opening of the Sports Centre is
delayed once again. The total delay now weighs in
at six weeks.
16 February The Government's response to the
Tomlinson Report is unveiled by Health Secretary
Virginia Bottomley. She said there was no financial
case for relocating the Marsden and Brompton
hospitals, and proposed the creation of a new
Chelsea Health Sciences Centre. The rest of the
report was kicked into touch, with the creation of six
speciality reviews. Imminent cabinet reshuffle, what
imminent cabinet reshuffle?
17 February Science minister William Waldegrave
pays a private visit to IC.
18 February Felix is leaked the details of John Patten's
proposed students' charter. Local education
authorities were to be stripped of their grant giving
powers, and a new unitary grant and loan authority
created. Funding for student unions would also be split
into core and non- core spending. All the money would
be gobbled up by the core funding, and clubs and
societies, classified as non-core, would have to levy
steep membership fees. Political societies and NUS
subscriptions would end up out on a limb. After a
blazing cabinet row, John Patten got six of the best,
and was told, tries hard, could do better.
20 February In a 'near riot' in Beit Quad, Union
Stewards are attacked by a baying mob, while College
security remain ensconced in their warm, cosy lodge.
22 February Allegation and smear mark a week of dirty
tricks in the ICU 1993 Sabbatical Elections.
Personal attacks are made on Rachael Mountford,
while other candidates cry foul over poster
disappearances and unspecified whispering
campaigns. Illegal campaign materials also make
appearances in Halls of Residence.
26 February College Catering Department records an
annual financial loss of £450,000.
Page 11

