1
'eature
Felix 971 23 June 1993
proposes allowing the eight schools
to be repositioned within the
University of London.
In its new capacity, the right to
award a University of London
degree would be delegated to
Imperial. This would keep the
University of London title on the
degree certificate, but give Imperial
the freedom that the Rector wants
over the creation of new courses.
Sir Eric Ash's second issue would
also be satisfied, since Imperial
would have full control over the
appointment of senior staff with the
University of London only
providing a 'rubber stamping role'.
The Vice-Chancellor believes
that the University of London
should choose Option C. Professor
Sutherland can envisage only a
couple of minor disadvantages to
this Option. He can see that some
may criticise this Option, for
increasing the diversity of the
University of London, though he
counters this by arguing that,
'diversity is one of the great
strengths of the University of
London'.
The advantages of this Option are
all too apparant. No major
consitutional changes need occur,
and the problems highlighted by the
Rector are solved without the
custody arguments associated with
Option B.
Option C is only being offered as
a possibility to the big eight schools.
This has been criticised by some,
who have made the accusation that
it will introduce a two-tier system
within the University of London.
Geoffrey Alderman, chairman of
the academic council of the
University said, 'I would rather see
the larger colleges leave the
university altogether than adopt a
two-tier system.' Professor
Sutherland, however, has denied
that Option C will bring about a
two-tier system.
Either Option B or Option C must
be chosen. The Rector has made it
quite clear that the problems of
appointing senior academic staff
and that of awarding degrees must
be resolved, even if leaving the
University of London was the only
means of achieving this. The debate
must now be decided upon at the
court of the University of London,
whether the big colleges will be
allowed to be repositioned or
whether they must disaffiliate to
achieve the powers that they seek.
Should a repositioning occur,
then students can only gain. All the
facilities of the University of
London and U L U will still be open
to them, and without the
bureaucracy, Imperial will be in the
prime position to react to changes
in Europe and the United States.
This is just one of the issues that
are being discussed by the Charter
Review committee. The Rector
wants to have a set of proposals
regarding that and other matters on
the new Rector's desk when he
comes into office at the start of the
next academic year. It looks as if
Imperial College will be able to
have its cake and eat it.
spring
1 March Sabbatical election hustings at St Marys.
Afterwards, ICU Honorary Secretary Dominic
Wilkinson said 'some Marys' students aren't fit to
lick the shit off our shoes.' Despite Marys' students
shouting sexual and homophobic abuse, two former
St Marys' Union Presidents, Simon Stockhill and
Simon Smith try to defend the indefensible, and also
demand the resignation of Mr Wilkinson.
9 March Those ICU election results in full: Andrew
Wensley elected President, David Goddard as Deputy
President, and Rebecca Land as Felix editor. A New
Election is to be held for Honorary Secretary.
Defeated candidates are Rachel Mountford, Hugh
Eland, Max Jalil and Ian Davis. There was a 2 3 %
turnout.
12 March A Felix survey shows that only 54% of ICU
members were aware of the sabbatical election
campaign.
West London Chaplaincy light up a large splat on
the top of Queen's Tower, raising over £250 for
Comic Relief Day.
College announces that Professor Julia Higgins
will be appointed new City & Guilds Dean. Professor
John Pendry will be the new Dean of the Royal
College of Science.
16March Results of the C&GU elections, on a record
turnout of 170 voters: Paul Griffiths, President; Joe
Baguley, Vice President; Mark Walton, Honorary
Secretary; Liam Cusack, HJT; Amit Sinha, AAO; Ian
Parish, Departmental Society Officer; Subhashis
Chowdury, Ents Chairman; Richard Oussedik,
Publicity; Geoff Maxwell, CGCA Representative;
Bulbul Basu, Guildsheet Editor.
17 March An Imperial College student is elected to a
ULU post for the first time in almost 20 years. Ben
Hancock becomes Vice President (Finances and
Societies) in August, surviving an elections husting
which saw him banned, then silenced, then speaking
in the 2 hour chaos graced with the name of
democracy.
A member of the Diplomatic Police arrest a
suspected thief on Queen's Gate after he had been
chased by College security through the Huxley
Building
18 March In his last major speech before the launch
of the Science White Paper, William Waldegrave
calls for a focused centre for science and technology
within Government. Speaking at a meeting in Imperial
organised by Save British Science, he added that
university teaching should be excellent and suitable.
24 March Results of the RCSU elections: Rhian Picton,
President; no ratified candidate, Vice President;
Duncan Austin, Hon Sec; Emma Holmes, HJT; Sarah
Lee, AAO.
4
Sir Eric Ash: it's all his fault.
Page 13

