Felix 971
'eature
23 June 1993
degree in Natural Sciences,
brackets 2nd class honours geology.
Thence pond-hopping to the States,
to the illustrious Princeton
University, New Jersey. As one can
see, not a hint of private education
so far. A PhD in geology (rock
doctor) from 1960, and the new Sir
John Dill Fellow to go along with
the starched papyrus, all departing
the land of the free just before John
F Kennedy defeated the old crook
Nixon in the closest run American
Presidential election in decades. He
really did pick his time to leave,
fleeing before the forces of light and
youth.
He also chose well in the
organisations he joined, though to
be fair he was probably appointed
to them, and as the model civil
servant he didn't demur as he is not
supposed to have more than an
ounce of wit. Aside from being
Chief Scientific Adviser to the
Ministry for Iraqi Superguns and
mustard gas (Kurdish use only), he
was Chairman of the Royal Society
Working Party on the Support of
Geophysics, which was about as
much support as a rubber crutch.
Later, in succession, he was a
member of the Science and
Engineering Research Council,
SERC (killed off in the White
Paper), the Advisory Board for the
Research Council, ABRC (similarly
deceased), and the Advisory
Council for Science and
Technology, ACOST (RIP 1993).
The kiss of death, eh? He takes over
here in September.
And here's the juicy bit. Why
was he appointed Rector? Felix is
assured that there was definitely no
connection between Sir Ron, the
Chief Scientific Advisor at the
Ministry of Defence, and Sir Frank
Cooper, the Governing Body
chairman, himself a former
Permanent Secretary at the M O D ,
the post now held by Oxburgh's
current boss, Sir Christopher
France. After all, Sir Ron didn't
become full-time CSA until October
1988, while Sir Frank was elected
Governing Body chairman in, er,
October 1988, but had been a
Governing Body member for many
years beforehand. We assume that
the new Rector, appointed by the
Governing Body, was really the
best man for the job.
Not that this was his first contact
with the College. In 1986/7, the
then Professor Ron was chairman
of the University Grants Committee
Review of Earth Sciences. This was
the committee that finally
recommended, erhmph, shall we
say radical changes in the Royal
School of Mines. The 1988 Annual
Report from the then Dean of the
RSM was noted for its abusive
comments towards the Committee.
The College press office tells us that
Sir Ron was not involved with the
review in the context of a hands-on
interlocular interactive interfacing
supervisory role. But, in the year
that Sir Ron takes over here,
Professor John Archer, the current
pro-Rector and Head of Mineral
Resources Engineering, has
proposed another 'downsizing' of
the School. Lo and behold, John
Archer is also acting Rector for the
month of August. Sir Eric Ash
retires at the end of July, and Sir
Ron takes over on 1 September. Is
he coming back to finish off the
hatchet job on Mines?
We wish him well.
maypole
21 April London's GPs claim that extra money
promised by Health Secretary Virginia Bottomley
is a myth. The £170 million was to cover the cost
of moving towards a community based health
service.
30 April The Office of Public Service and Science
launches the Higgs boson competition. Meanwhile,
the Science and Engineering Research Council
says it has been 'screwed to the wall over tight
Government funding'.
1 May Police begin a London wide crackdown on
bicycle crime.
6 May The C&GU joins the RCSU in cancelling the
1993 May Ball.
7 May The Eric Ash Bargains Emporium strikes
a deal with cycle shop Chamberlain & Son in
Kentish Town Road to allow ICU members to buy
bike helmets at £16.95.
The Caiman Report calls for a reduction in the
training time for junior hospital doctors from 12
years to 7. Consultations continue on the report
until 1 July.
The Science Ministry refuses to comment on
press reports that the independent Advisory Board
for the Research Councils will be scrapped by the
forthcoming White Paper.
10 May Outline proposals for the reform of the ICU
structure are passed in principle by ICU Council.
14 May The details of the 'Davidson plans' for the
rebuilding of Imperial College Union are leaked to
Felix. The 55- member of the Council is to be
abolished, and by implication, the current executive
is also scrapped. A new executive of 13 members
is proposed to replace both bodies, and will include
the new sabbatical Deputy Presidents, and officer
posts of welfare chairman and communications
officer. The new executive will be a sub committee
of the Union General Meeting, which will meet
now once a month. A new staff post of
Entertainments Manager will be created.
The fragrant Professor Lady Mary Archer
joined Kate Bellingham, Dr Anna Kessling, Dr Nancy
Lane, Dr Susan Parry and Mrs Jean Venables on
an illustrious panel discussing the role of Women
in Science and Engineering.
21 May Stewart Sutherland is to resign as vice
chancellor of London University, and is to become
principal of Edinburgh University in September
1994.
23 May A student narrowly escapes electrocution
in Falmouth Keogh hall.
•
age

