Sport
Felix 971 23 June 1993
IC Boat Club
ft
The final part of the season will see
the club's first eight compete for the
Thames Cup at Henley, while a
four challenges for the Vistors' Cup
for students. IC look to continue
their run of success at this
internation regretta.
In addition to this, serveral
members of the top squad are
honoured with international
selection as follows:
Ed Wild, Richard Rogers: GB
world student games eight
Ben Poulton, Boris Mavra (IC
1990): GB world student games
coxed four
Laurence Morgan, Steve Ellis:
GB wourld srudent games
lightwight coxless four
Martin Kettle, Andy Green, Dom
Forster: GB under-23 team.
These oarsmen will be comprting
at the Universiade and U-23
Nations' Cup in Buggalo, USA and
Greese respectively.
The womens' squad are
competing in the club eights at
Womens' Henley over the weekend
of 19/20 June where they hope to
build on their previous successes.
Congratulations to the following Joanne Muffett
people who have been awarded Full Christopher Parks
Athletic Colours for 1992/93: Stuarty Paynter
Thor Askeland Edwige Pitel
Mark Baker Stephen Puttick
Telfyn Beddoe Micheal Reeves
Jim Bichard Peter Reilly
David Bolton Jennie Rogers
Alice Codrington Marcus Schitt
Clint Comeaux Pete Sharpe
Reg Cook Todd Tillman
David Hall Certificates can be collected from
Helen Johnson the Union Office. Half-Athletic
Jon Jordan colours and A C C Social Colours
Martin Kettle recipients are listed on the board in
Tom Miller the Office.
wimbledon
26 May The Government publishes its Science
White Paper, Realising our Potential. The
document will make the MSc the main research
qualification, and cut down the number of PhD
courses. It completely overhauls the research
councils, and promotes the idea of technology
research foresight. The annual development of UK
science and technology will be published in a new
statement, Forward Look. Promoting the public
understanding of science becomes a major
programme, to culminate in the 2001 Great
Exhibition, modelled on the scientific exhibition
from which Imperial College grew, the 1851 Great
Exhibition. The Science community gives a muted
approval to the content of the paper.
27May John Major holds a snap cabinet reshuffK
John Patten, Virginia Bottomley and William
Waldegrave all keep their jobs. Junior Science
minister Robert Jackson resigns after six years in
various ministries. He is replaced by the London-
born MP for Boothferry, David Davis. The
Department for Education gains a junior minister,
Robert Squire, also London born.
8 June Police investigate the theft of £50,000
worth of computer equipment from Silwood Park.
Charles Leary is elected Deputy President (Clubs
and Societies) by 82 votes to 32, a turnout of less
than 2%.
diary
25 June Last UGM of term
Chronology by Declan Curry.
Page 1 7

