N
Felix 971
ews
23 June 1993
Information request summer
by D e c l a n Curry
Police are still appealing for witness
to come forward to help piece
together the last movements of the
five London serial killer victims.
For each of the five men murdered
there is a gap of at least two days
from when they were last seen alive
to when their bodies were found. 'It
is imperative that we find out the
victim's last movements, and above
all we would like to know of anyone
seen going to their addresses,' said
a Scotland Yard spokesman.
Information can be given to
officers at Kensington on 071 937
7945, or Arbour Square on 071 488
6668. Information can also be
passed on to Paul Duffy at the Gay
London Policing Group (GALOP)
on 071 233 0854.
Emanuel Spiteri
An Appreciation
It came as an appalling blow to
learn of the tragic circumstances
surrounding the death of Emanuel.
He was working in College only last
Friday (11th), his normal cheerful
self. He was known to virtually all
of the staff and student users of QT,
to whom he always chatted. It has
caused sadness in both the Catering
Department and amongst many of
the regular customers of QT that the
picture painted of Emanuel's
personal life was not the balanced
view that we had of him.
Emanuel will be remembered as
a helpful, willing, open person,
who was much liked by members
of the College during the five years
that he worked here. He was
generous to a fault, even to the
extent that this quality may have led
indirectly to his death.
He is remembered with particular
affection in the Catering
Department as a larger than life
character, with a great appetite of
fun.
Since his death, I have been
approached by many staff and
students of the College who have all
shared our view of Emanuel and
who will, like us, all miss him.
James Woolven,
Manager QT
To Friends and
Colleagues of
Emanuel Spiteri
(who worked in the
JCR)
The horrendeous circumstances
of his death will not mar our
memory of him being a warm
hearted and cheerful character,
he will be missed.
With the deepest regret
Users of the JCR
24 June 1992 St. Mary's students are disgruntled with
arrangements made by Carolyne Osner, IC Sports
Manager, to replace facilities at the South Kensington
Sports Centre, under extensive renovation. Zoe
Hellinger, ICU President^, defended her volte face on
giving £650,000 of Union money to College as
funding for the renovations.
The 'independent' King's Fund calls for the closure
of fifteen major London hospitals and the axing of
5,000 beds. 'The King's Fund report will give an air
of academic respectability to carnage in London's
health service,' claim pressure group London Health
Emergency.
Higher Education Minister, Nigel Forman,
postpones a meeting with the NUS executive on
voluntary membership. Mr Forman had earlier told
right-wing Tory MP Graham Riddick that students
should have the right to join an organisation which
meets 'their legitimate needs'.
5 July The Independent on Sunday reports that
Stanhope Properties may be in financial difficulties
due to the crash of Canary Wharf developers,
Olympia and York.
18 July Three ICU officers are banned from a
University of London Union training course for not
leaving the building during a fire alert. ULU Vice
President Tarn Lamb, who also stayed inside during
the alert, was not banned. No explanation was given
for this oversight.
August Fury erupts when Sheffield Students' Union
president, Phillipa Dodd, publishes the Sheffield
document, calling for students' unions to accept
voluntary membership.
14 August College management closes Gardens
Restaurant because of a lack of customers.
8 September An opinion poll for the right wing group
Freedom Association claims 71 % of the public is in
favour of voluntary membership.
13 September First night of the joint European tour by
Imperial College Symphony Orchestra and the
Budapest Academic Choral Society.
18 September College Director of Planning Rodney
Eastwood is promoted to the new post of Deputy
Managing Director. Terry Neville, Finance Director,
is to quit.
21 September ULU President Mark Samuels hosts
crisis meeting of sabbaticals on voluntary
membership. The Sheffield document is roundly
vilified.
30 September The Department for Education refuses
to deny that an announcement on voluntary
membership will be made at the Conservative Party
conference.
Page 3

