Rag Reviews
Rag 'Off Your Tree '93' got off to
an excellent start this year with
Tiddlywinks being the first event on
Saturday 10th October. Over 200
students turned up to shock the
tourists and shoppers into giving
their money to Action Aid by
tiddlywinking their way along
Oxford and Regent Streets to
Piccadilly Circus. All went well,
despite the Oxford Circus bomb
scare, and overall more than £2000
was raised. Afterwards some of the
collectors retired to 'The Grove'
pub to take part in the traditional
'Drink-a-Pub-Dry'. The very next
week the streets of London were
once again invaded by students,this
time playing a real life version of
Monopoly. Teams of 4 to 6 people
had to visit the locations on the
Monopoly board,answering clues
and collecting treasure on the way.
Altogether £4660 was collected in
aid of Mencap and the top collectors
won bottles of wine. The prizes
were given out at the party
organised by Mencap that evening.
As the term continued so did the
fun not to mention the fundraising.
On the third Saturday of term a total
of £973 was raised, for the Royal
Association In Aid of Deaf People,
on the 'Pavement Climb' from the
Victoria and Albert museum to
Hyde Park. That very same day saw
the Union being invaded by students
in various states of undress - yes,
it was the night of the Rocky Horror
Disco.
November was then upon us and
with it came the Poppy Day Rag
Raid to Maidstone. This, despite the
cold weather, was a success . The
first week also saw the Battersea
Fireworks collection which raised
loadsamoney for one of our local
charities.
By now many collectors had
managed to raise £50 in order to get
their incentive mug if not £150 for
their T-shirt.
The two highlights of the month
have to have been the Sponsored
Bungee Jump and the Halls Dirty
Dozen competition. The former had
many crazy people throwing
themselves off the top of a crane,
in order to experience the high of
a lifetime. Marcus did the jump in
his wheelchair and thus became
only the second person in Britain to
do this. The event raised a total of
£3000. The latter event took place
on the 14th November and involved
each hall sending out a team of 12
(or thereabouts) to collect as much
money as possible in 12 hours. That
day London saw some strange
sights as teams were doing
everything from dressing up as St
Trinians' pupils (blokes included)
to singing songs from 'Grease' in
Covent Garden in order to get the
public to part with their money. A
couple of teams actually ventured
further afield to nearby towns such
as Guildford. The winners of the
competition were Falmouth-Keogh
who gained a barrel of beer for their
efforts. The first term came to an
end with the C C U Covent Garden
collections, the winners of which
the were the RCS.
This year Rag Week was saved
for the second term and kicked off
on January 29th with the Rag
Carnival at the Union. The week
continued with Rag Rugby, Mines
Dirty Disco, Guilds Slave Auction
and the famous Beer Festival with
the launch of this years Rag Mag.
The Hypnosis show provided
Thursday's entertainment and
hundreds of people turned up to see
their friends make acquaintainces
with an elephant on stage and dance
to 'Singing in the Rain' on cue. The
festivities ended with the Rag Bash
followed by the infamous
Sponsored Nude Kamakazi
Parachute Jump from Harrods.
After all that excitement the rest of
term continued relatively quietly.
This term, in case anybody
missed it, the main event was Rag
Fete held on the Queens Lawn on
May 12th. From 2pm onwards
many a student relived their
childhood by jumping around on the
bouncy castle or taking part in the
'Cocktail Dash' and the numerous
'Jelly Dips' with music from Jazz
and Rock society and IC Radio. By
5pm most of the jelly had
disappeared so we then had to get
down to the serious business of
presenting cheques to the charities
that had been nominated for this
year. The money for these came
from Rag Week events, Rag
cloakroom and money from T-shirt
and Rag Mag sales. The charities
the cheques went to were Turning
Point, FARA, ARMS, Shelter, and
local charities.
I think that just about sums the
Rag year up, except to say that we
still have events going on this year.
We especially need volunteers to
collect at the Royal Albert Hall, at
the Victoria Wood and the Johnny
Mathis concerts in September. For
more details see the Rag
noticeboard or come up to the Rag
Office.
Finally, thanks to everyone who
has helped Rag this year and we
look forward to seeing you next
year when Ragis aiming to be even
bigger. Don't miss out.
The last word
Felix 971 23 June 1993
sleighbells
1 December Emergency Christmas repairs are made
to the Imperial College Union fire alarm system when
it is discovered that fire escape doors stay locked
when the alarms go off. Fortunately, there was no fire.
2 December Tennis loving Sir Frank Cooper, chairman
of the Governing Body, becomes a septuagenarian.
4 December Warwick Union's rag, the Warwick Boar,
faces a no confidence motion after publishing private
letters from Labour shadow Chief Secretary Harriet
Harman. The mail was found after Ms Harman faxed
personal details about a constituent to her assistant,
former Warwick sabbatical Bob Wilkinson, who was
in Warwick for a weekend. Peckham MP Ms Harman
has yet to resign over the matter.
14 December The membership of the ICU working party on
Union Structure is announced.
16 December A petition calling for longer library
opening hours was sent to the Rector.
ICU Adviser, Stefano Ruis, seeks a legal opinion
on union funding for the IC Day Nursery.
Higher Education minister Nigel Forman quits.
/ January 1993 Professor Hassel is appointed new
Head of Biology.
11 January A research breakthrough which shows the
why and where of Alzheimers disease is made at St
Marys. Team leader Gareth Roberts says a cure for
the disease may soon be discovered.
16 January 14 year old French lycee student Laura
Pimentel collapses after being violently sick in the
Union building.
22 January The appointment of Michael Hansen as
new College Director of Finance is announced.
The RCSU Annual Dinner is cancelled, incurring
'less of a loss' had it continued. President Paul
Thomas said the cancellation would have no effect
on the forthcoming May Ball.
New prices are announced for the Sports Centre.
The price of season tickets is up, but the cost for one-
off (outside College?) users is down. The new,
cheaper off-peak times miraculously coincide with
lecture times.
27 January Former Goldsmiths Union finance officer
Paul Holmes is not to be prosecuted after embezzling
union funds. Despite a weekend in Amsterdam paid
for with the Goldsmith Union credit card, Union
president Terry Murtagh said they decided to 'let the
matter drop'.
29 January Residents at newly renovated Holbein
House complain about the lack of communal facilities,
including promised TV and reading rooms. Gordon
Marshall tells them to use the facilities in other halls.
So much for self contained accommodation.
Page 9

