10 Feature
Trumpets, fanfare, we're kicking off our Cat's Tales! Forget the RSPCA, this
isn't a series onfeline mutilation but weekly stories, thefirst by Rachel Basset
At twenty, it had of course occurred to me that
to still be unmarried was, perhaps, a bit of a dis-
grace. For many months I had lain awake, night
after night, ruing the fact that I was less likely to
be picked off the shelf than a packet of
Kellogg's Pop Tarts and was destined to be an
unloved, childless old maid. Maybe I would
have slept better had I known that the book
which will (I am sure) change may life was just
round the corner...
The moment I saw Light His Fire by Ellen
Kriedman (subtitled How to keep you man pas-
sionately in love with you) I knew that it was
something special. The warning on the first page
told me I'd been right.
"WARNING!" it said in bold type. "Do not
read this book unless you are a woman that
wants to captivate and mesmerize a man for the
rest of his life. I REPEAT - DO NOT, UNDER
ANY CIRCUMSTANCES, read the following
material unless you want complete control over
the destiny of your love life!"
It sounded just my kind of thing. Heaven
knows, I've tried to woo enough men into mar-
rying me, with no success. The chance for 'com-
plete control' seemed too good to miss. Avidly, I
read on to find that Ellen, the author, had been
married happily for twenty three years and had
been running courses called 'Light His Fire'
with thousands of satisfied couples as a result.
Generously, she has also shared her knowledge
with those of us who do not live in the US by
writing this book - and what knowledge! She
obviously know her stuff, as some of her testi-
monials showed:
"Mary began to receive love letters after the
first few classes. She received two offers of mar-
riage and three dozen roses all in the same
month.
"After she'd done just three homework
assignments, Cindy's lover proposed marriage."
I couldn't wait. I swallowed up the book
whole in my impatience to be down that aisle.
Finally, having absorbed all the advice and writ-
ten the important points, as recommended, on
index cards to be carried around with me at all
times, I set forth to the ultimate test - a man.
Pete was my first target. A fellow student
here, he lived just two floors down and by a
stroke of luck was in. He greeted me genially
and invited me into the room, little knowing that
the quiet girl he once knew had been trans-
formed into a love bomb ready for explosion.
"And how are things?" he asked.
Nervously, I tried to remember my lines. I
was taking the piece of Ellen's advice which
started "Notice your man. Notice his muscular
legs. Notice his masculine chest. Notice..." and
carried on through the anatomy. I was deter-
mined to notice them all.
"Pete," I said. "Did you know you have mus-
cular legs, a masculine chest, a handsome face, a
gorgeous head of hair, sexy eyes, a beautiful
smile, broad shoulders, large muscular hands
and a deep voice?"
"Why thank you Rachel," he replied, calmly
continuing to stack his notes. "So have you."
Twenty minutes later I left the room, un-pro-
posed to. Obviously I had just had the bad luck
to choose one of life's eternal bachelors.
The next day, I had the good fortune to run
into my unattached friend Bob in the corridor.
This seemed an excellent opportunity to try out
Ellen's hint of calling men by pet names. She
had even suggested some pet names to try and I
had committed some of the best to memory.
"Hell, Hunky Punky" I said. What a reaction!
Bob was so pleased that his mouth dropped open
and he went a peculiar shade of red.
"What?" He was obviously unable to believe
his luck.
"Stud Muffin? Dr. Nude?"
"I don't understand," he said. Typical of a
man to play it cool.
"Nummy Num, Hunkey Poo. Bob, would you
like to marry me?"
That was, I think, where I made my mistake.
Maybe I sounded just that bit too keen for Bob
who hurried off - just when I'd really made an
impression on him! It looked as if here was a
man who just needed a little more persuasion.
Over the weekend I pondered over my cam-
paign, Light his Fire never far from my side. I
read it endlessly, trying to find that elusive plan
which would get me my man.
"At Hallowe'en, dress up in a mask and a
coat. Wear nothing underneath. Ring his front
doorbell when he doesn 't expect it, say 'Trick or
treat' andflash him."
An excellent idea. What a shame Hallowe'en
had been and gone.
"Just before you enter the restaurant or your
Who is Don Adlington? Turn to page 7 to find out

