Feature
friend's house, tell him you forgot your panties."
That was a possibility I thought. The only
drawback was that I rarely went to restaurants
with men - still, maybe the idea could be adapt-
ed for college use.
"On his birthday, arrange for the local high
school band to march down your street playing
'Seventy-six Trombones' and 'Happy Birthday
to You'."
I wasn't sure about that one. I didn't know
when anyone's birthday was, nor did I know
where the local high school was or if they had a
band. Reluctantly, I decided that the idea was a
non-starter.
"Bess came to class one week beaming. At
her company, a new salesman had caught her
eye, but he didn 't even know she existed. 7 sum-
moned every ounce of courage I had, thinking,
what have I got to lose?' Bess said. 'Next time
he gave me a contract to type, I looked up and
said, "Hey, hotshot. You're really something. I
guess when you combine your good looks and
your ability, it all adds up to being a winner.
There's not another salesman in this office who
has gotten as many sales as you have. I hope
your boss appreciates you and knows what a
contribution you are making to this company.'
"We've been together seven days straight."
Reading this, I gasped. Seven days! If only I
could have that sort of long-term relationship.
This book was hot stuff. Although I had trouble
grasping the point of some of the exercises
above, they obviously worked and I was con-
vinced that, come Monday, I would have that
ring sparkling on my finger.
That Monday I found myself entering the
Clore Lecture Theatre for a 9am lecture in
unusual high spirits. I made my way towards
Bob and Simon and sat down on Bob's right.
We chatted pleasantly about this and that, while
I judged the time to make my move.
When the lecturer looked as if he was just
about to start, I turned so that I was directly fac-
ing Bob's ear.
"Oh no," I whispered, "I forgot my panties."
There was a peculiar spluttering sound from
my left. Satisfied that my point had been made,
and that Bob had been well and truly tantalised, I
concentrated on the lecture for a while. M y only
concerns were that firstly, Bob would be unable
to wait until getting home before being over-
come by a sexual frenzy and, secondly, I had
been lying and, in fact, I was wearing a pair of
Marks and Spencers cotton briefs (it being a
very cold day).
As it happened, nothing occurred after the
lecture. Bob made no reference to my comment
at all, merely gathering up his bags in silence.
Cursing my luck to have selected yet another
frigid male, I turned to Simon, ready for a last
ditch attempt.
"Hey, hotshot. You're really something. With
you good looks and physics ability, I'd be
amazed if you don't get a Nobel prize soon."
"That's a shame." he answered politely. "I'm
giving up physics and going into something else
as soon as possible."
Inwardly, I seethed. Simon was just com-
pletely incapable of recognising a good woman
when he saw one and I resolved to tell his
fiancee the next time I saw her.
So, dear reader, what of my marriage plans?
Well, I must confess to being disheartened.
Ellen's book has been put back on the shelf -
how appropriate - until I get over my frustration
with the insensitivity of IC men. But all is not
lost; I'm sure that in a few months I'll be back
on the hunt, dispensing pet names and giving
compliments all over the department, and next
time, it'll work. Ladies, I advise you to get this
book without delay - unmarried gentlemen,
watch out!
Inspired? Think you can do better? Think you
can do as well? Look, there's no excuse for the
literary equivalent of watching 'Songs of
Praise' the evening before yourfinals - just get
writing! We're looking ideally for small per-
fectly formed marvels, about 550 words in
length, or else big and cuddly epics tofill a
page - about 1000 words. If, however, you
feel enslaved to your muse and write a ten line
masterpiece or a Tolstoyian tour-de-force then
submit it anyway and we '11 work around it. Just
drop your Cat's Tales into the eager mitts of
anyone in the Felix Office, or else, if you're
feeling shy, stick it into the Features pigeon
hole (on the right as you enter). If you're not
sure what we're looking for (and we're looking
for nearly anything!) then chat to the Features
Ed, Owain, in the office any lunchtime.
Let the scribbling commenceth!
IT'S TRUE...YOU CAN CHOOSE YOUR
OWN COMBINATION OF FILLINGS
FROM THE HUGE SELECTION
AVAILABLE.
H
O
T MEALS AVAILABLE T
O
O
ICU Ents proudly presents...
The Regurgitator
He Swallows Everyday Objects...
and Brings Them Back!!
Fri 4th Feb
Tickets: £3 (advance) £3.50 (on the door)
£1 (for disco after the show 'til 2am)
available from the Union Office, numbers limited.
p l u s f>
atmosvhere
B a r ' t i l
l o r n
1
* Right of Admission Reserved * Details Subject to Change Without Notification

