16 Reviews
Merry Wives Anorak of Fire
Northern Broadside presents Shakespeare's
Merry Wives. Good acting, few props and horri-
ble costumes were the most eminent features:
most of the men were dressed in such a creepy
way it was impossible to admire any one of
them.
Ishia Bennison played Mistress Quickly and
was hilariously convincing. Elizabeth Estensen
as Mistress Ford did very well as a turtledove
and certainly outdid Minnie Mouse - I could
almost see small flashy hearts rising in the air.
Mistress Page, portrayed by Polly Hemming-
way, is a Shakespearean feminist who knows
how to deal with the world, including a lecher-
ous braggart, by the name of Sir John Falstaff.
This part was brilliantly played by Barrie Rutter
with the help of a big pillow amongst other
padding.
One of the most hilarious scenes was when
most of the characters had to pretend to be
fairies, wearing tutus and veils combined with
wellies! A splendid and worthwhile show.
Kristine
Lyric Hammersmith, King Street, W6.081 741
2311. Tube: Hammersmith. Mon-Sat 7.45pm.
Tickets from £7.50. Ends Jan 22.
A one man show about the trials and tribulations
of a trainspotter doesn't, on the face of it, sound
like a bundle of laughs. The antics of anorak
wearers are intrinsically boring and pathetic (go
and talk to a physicist if you don't believe me),
but not actually all that funny; they're too easy
a target. So, despite all the plaudits, this play had
received during its run at this year's Edinburgh
Festival, I doubted it was possible to fill an hour
with trainspotter jokes. (What else can you do
with trainspotters except tell jokes about them?)
Was I right? Well...yes and no. This isn't, as
some critics would have you believe, a laugh-a-
minute show; there simply isn't enough material
for that, and some of the gags are worn and
over-used. Gentle amusement was a more com-
mon response than uncontrollable laughter, but
it would be wrong to think of everything apart
from the punchlines as just padding; we really
are allowed a glimpse into a hobby that appears
to most outsiders as strange and obsessive - we
even empathise with our guide to the world of
trainspotting, Gus Gascoigne.
In a show like this, everything rests on the
actor's performance, and James Holmes con-
vincingly portrays Gus as a very real person,
with human frailties and desires. This ensures
that when Gus regales us with the joys of
nightspotting, or shares with us the story of his
one, fleeting brush with the opposite sex (a bril-
liant sequence this, suffering only slightly from
an over-obvious punchline), we laugh with him
rather than at him. Gus's secret hopes and fears
are, in essence if not in detail, very easy for us to
understand and the play is all the more touching
and poignant because of the very personal nature
of the performance.
The monologue does have its down-side
though, and its difficult to sustain the interest of
the audience when all they have to hold on to is
a single, lone voice. Even an hour is too long;
the effect eventually becomes wearying, almost
claustrophobic. Despite these problems, Anorak
is worth seeing, just don't expect a brilliantly
funny show - you may be disappointed.
Joe
Arts Theatre, Great Newport St, WC2. 071 836
2132. Tube: Leicester Square.Ticketsfrom £7
E n t s L o u n g e 1 p m
2 8 t h J a n u a r y
(1 week from today)
D e a d l i n e f o r m o t i o n s : T o d a y , U n i o n O f f i c e
i C U
IMPERIAL COLLEGE UNION

