Reviews 17
Another Menace II
Stakeout Society
Starring: Richard Dreyfuss, Emilio Estevez
Director: John Badham
Stakeout was a storming film and the sequel will
not disappoint. All too often sequels are made
just for financial reasons, but a great deal of
time and thought has gone into this film. It is
refreshingly different from the last, but still with
the same style and humour.
This time detectives Leece and Rymers
(Dreyfuss and Estevez) are teamed up with
assistant attorney Gina Garrett (Rosie
O'Donnell). They pass themselves off as father,
mother and son to stake out a possible hiding
place for a trial witness who's on the run.
Leece's love interest from the first film fea-
tures again, though like all really great sequels
this quite happily stands on its own with no
viewing of the original necessary. However, I
guarantee that after seeing this you'll want to
see the original, if not for the first time, then to
remind yourself how good it was.
The only down point is that perhaps this
sequel has too much humour and not enough
drama; I think it was this fine balance that made
the original so repeatedly palatable.
Sphen
Starring: Larenz Tate, Tyrin Turner
Directors: Albert and Alan Hughes
First off, let's be clear that it gives me no plea-
sure to tell you that Menace II Society is not
very good. Life in the L A ghettoes, the pressure
on young men to join gangs and the tragic con-
sequences of doing so, has made rivetting view-
ing in films like Boyz 'n' The Hood and New
Jack City.
Menace had the opportunity to make its point
more realistically and powerfully than ever. Yet
reviews have been lukewarm at best, and the US
box office takings confirm how average the film
is. The most cursory comparison with Boyz V
the Hood, which caused riots in cinemas and
gained an Oscar nomination for its 23 year old
first-time director, shows the sheer lack of
power in this effort.
The problem lies with the Hughes brothers'
direction, which suffers from a severe lack of
experience. Not of film-making, because some
of the most moving films are first efforts, but of
their subject. If I was a cynic, I might assume
that the boys pitched a more violent version of
Boyz to a gullible studio who, in true Hollywood
fashion, were eager to cash in on this new genre.
O-Doggonit - not another gangsta movie
They singularly failed to notice the brothers
were from the middle-class suburbs of Detroit,
and that directing a few rap videos was about as
close as they had come to the ghetto.
This helps to explain why the story of O-Dog
and his violent surroundings seems so hollow
and ultimately unfulfilling.
Tony Grew
Stranger Than
Paradise
Starring: John Lurie, Ezter Balint, Richard Edson
Director: Jim Jarmusch
'Paradise never found' would aptly describe the
fate befalling this trio of drifters in this film.
Willie (Lurie) is an Americanised Hungarian
who has lived in New York for ten years. When
his sixteen year-old cousin, Eva (Balint), arrives
to begin a new life in America, he's compelled
to re-establish links with his estranged family.
Eva stays with Willie before travelling to
Cleveland to stay with their aunt.
One year later, Willie and his best friend
Eddie (Edson) are caught cheating at poker and
are forced to make a rapid exit. They head for
Cleveland, to 'kidnap' Eva from her dead-end
life. The trio reach Florida where a bizarre
sequence of tragicomic events lead to an ironic
and suitably pathetic conclusion in which the
group becomes finally separated.
The film is shot in short, black and white and
each scene is acutely succinct and unadorned.
A Postcard from Paradise: Weather was here, wish you were beautiful
The dialogue is crisp and carefully chosen,
whilst effective use of music enables poignant
moments to be highlighted. Overall, the story is
told simply and evocatively. The plot is some-
what unconvincing, but the film's elementary
nature sharply accentuates the moments of
humour and pathos.
The end is apt - Willie and Eva epitomise the
many immigrants who entered the New World
full of hope, but for whom the American Dream
was never fulfilled.
Coffee and Cigarettes
This short film showing with Stranger Than
Paradise is one of five by Jarmusch. Iggy Pop
and Tom Waits meet in a grotty cafe and discuss
subjects including roadside surgery, coffee and
cigarettes. The stilted dialogue is occasionally
amusing and the acting well rehearsed, but the
film lacked purpose and I was left asking: "Well,
what's the point?"
David Montagu.
Next Week: Reviews of Heaven and Earth and Mrs Doubtfire

