18 Reviews
Nico - Songs They Never Play
on the Radio
by James Young
And then there was Nico, all by herself, and she
liked it like that. Except that Nico was never by
herself. Within you, without you, her constant
companions were powder and a hypodermic; as
close as blood, thick as life. Once the unwanted
ingenue forced upon the Velvet Underground by
Andy Warhol, she could sing a bit and had been
filmed by Fellini. Yet this book is about a career
downward; the period 1981-1988.
The time when a needle scarred junkie tot-
tered around Europe, growing old and looking
for a fix. If Spinal Tap was funny and true, this
is true and tragically sad. James Young played
on those comfortless tours with bands that
couldn't play, without money, even without
groupies.
Despite what Tony Parsons says on the front
cover, this book is never funny. How can it be?
If Paul Simon sings 'every day's an endless
stream of cigarettes and magazines' and James
Young says Nico's 'was a life measured out in
Marlboro butts' and worse, I see nothing to
laugh at. Their heroin intake was prestigious, as
befitted the 'Queen of Junkies', her diet was
anorexic, small wonder she became a sexless
angel of the night.
Her company was little better. Third rate
musicians living off a self destructive icon. They
played behind the drugless iron curtain (while
stocks lasted), the disco bars of Italy, even the
polite applause of the Japanese.
Going nowhere with a small white package;
John Cale even managed to get an album out of
her. 'Camera Obscura'. In fact Cale is the most
solid figure in the 288 pages. A n addict who
cleans up, loses four stone and a death wish.
Someone who makes it through and, as such, he
was a contrast to Nico. She did try; she got onto
methandone, she straightened up; but fate was
cruel. In July 1988, a regenerating Nico died
after falling off a motorbike in Ibiza, aged 50.
She was never great, she struggled for it.
Maybe she was influential but I doubt it. Her
rollercoaster decayed from the Factory to the
end. It's a story worth telling; for the music,
mediocrity, drugs, waste, morbid humour and
soullessness.
The safe middle classes will rejoice. Boring
is best, Nico is your mirror.
Tintin
Published by: Arrow
Price: £5.99
Driving Force
by Dick Francis
Dick Francis writes thrillers about horse racing.
I can't stand horse racing.
But, after twelve months of reading nothing
but text books in preparation for exams, I could
think of no better reward for all that work than
to saddle up with one of Francis's horsey who-
dunnits. Driving Force is Francis's 31st thriller
and I consumed it with the same gusto as the
other 30!
Freddie Croft, the hero of Driving Force, is a
former jockey who now runs a haulage firm spe-
cialising in transporting champion race horses
around the world.
A hitch-hiker, picked up by one of the horse-
box drivers, despite the strict instructions to the
contrary, dies in the cab. In his possession is a
flask, which appears to hold coffee but turns out
to be something far more sinister. Later, Croft's
mechanic accidentally discovers secret compart-
ments underneath the horseboxes. Someone is
using Croft Transport as a courier to carry...well,
it's nothing so obvious as drugs and the reader
won't work out what it is until Francis reveals it.
Without giving too much away, the plot will
particularly enthrall IC's scientists and even they
will be hard put to solve the mystery. Francis
keeps the reader tightly reigned from the off
until the final furlong, galloping them through
murder and mayhem at a tumultuous pace.
The final scenes are rivetting and the solution
ingenious. Every muscle, sinew and nerve in my
body was drum-skin tight as my eyes raced
towards it. This Driving Force is a very power-
ful one indeed.
Shaun Joynson
Published by: Pan
Price: £4.99
p i
MMMMi
Chief of Staff
by William Coyle
When I saw that the resume on the back of the
book went as follows: quote "...two people
thrown together by the harsh climate of war. An
American man and an Australian woman, each
seizing the last chance to live and love, while
others prepared to die...", I thought, oh no! It's
going to be one of those books!!
But, to my surprise it wasn't one of these
soppy stories. Set during the Second World
War, the book was mainly about the war in the
Pacific (it makes a change after the thousand of
books about world war II in Europe). Set at the
level of the Generals, it follows their ambitions
and intrigues to get more power. The 'love
affair' between the Chief of Staff and an
Australian Officer only seems to come in as a
side story (thank God for that), but is well fitted
in. The author manages to grasp your attention
and even if this is not the book of the century, I
ended up enjoying the read more than I expect-
ed.
The Frog
Published by: Pan
Price: £4.99
lPr
; Wmii
lPr
;
Green Mars
by Kim Stanley
Robinson
This is the second book in a trilogy on the
colonisation of Mars.
The first revolution of 2061 failed and now
many of the first 100 settlers are dead or have
gone into hiding, scattered in isolated groups
across the surface of Mars. But still the dream
continues of a terraformed Mars, with vegeta-
tion and a breathable atmosphere. Slowly the
underground movement gathers the momentum
needed to overthrow the transnational compa-
nies who are fighting for dominance on Mars.
Throughout this book, one is struck by the
realistic technical details of life on Mars. Unlike
many Science Fiction novels that hang technical
fragments on a poor story line, K i m Stanley
Robinson manages to do the opposite: the sci-
ence has a gripping story hung on it. The char-
acters and the plot develop over 50 years, as the
face of Mars changes due to the effects of the
terraforming.
This book and probably the whole series is
an absolute must for anybody.
Blodwin
Published by: Harper Collins
Price: £14.99 (Hardback)
For a review of monologue by a man in an anorak - see page 16

