Reviews 19
Threads of Byzantium
Tonight sees the start of a weekend of live concertsfrom the BBC to celebrate
the 50th birthday of composer John Tavener. Patrick Wood has been brow
ing through the recordings.
John Tavener: 'It isn't easy to achieve simplicity.' (Photo by Malcolm Crowthers.)
In 1969 the young composer John Tavener was
introduced to Apple Records by John Lennon.
The following year, the company kick-started
Tavener's discography with their recording of
The Whale, which soon achieved cult status. Re-
released by EMI in 1992, it has just been deleted
from the catalogue; evidently even cult status is
not enough to sell a 32-minute CD. A dramatic
cantata based on the story of Jonah, The Whale
is a melting-pot of influences from jazz to
Webern. There's also a blatant crib from
Britten's War Requiem and a brief contribution
from Ringo Starr (plus megaphone). The Celtic
Requiem, recorded as a follow-up to The Whale
and also recently deleted, displays more cohe-
sion, as well as a black sense of humour in its
overlaying of the Latin text with nursery rhymes
(e.g. 'Mary had a little lamb' in the 'Agnus dei').
The best reasons for seeking out this disc are the
strange and haunting B-side items, Nomine Jesu
and Coplas.
Tavener now distances himself from much of
his early output, feeling it to be unrepresentative
of his mature style of composition. Since his
conversion to the Russian Orthodox Church in
1977, his music has increasingly been inspired
by the liturgy and doctrine of Eastern
Orthodoxy. He often describes his later works as
ikons - contemplative objects designed to focus
attention on particular aspects of the faith - and
their repetitive, episodic nature is more suited to
the church than the recording studio. It's sim-
plistic but illuminating to describe a typical pas-
sage of contemporary Tavener as being like a
bright skein of melody unravelling across the
deep pile carpet of the ison, or Byzantine drone.
This style is easily approached through
Tavener's unaccompanied choral settings, of
which several fine examples, including the
Magnificat and The Tiger, are to be found on
Hyperion's 'Sacred Music of John Tavener'.
Even more rewarding is the fragile splendour of
the Ikon of Light for choir and string trio,
superbly sung by the Tallis Scholars on Gimell,
and also offered by The Sixteen on their new
and better-coupled Collins Classics release.
Another good starting point on all three of these
discs is the beautiful setting of William Blake's
The Lamb, which is also available from Conifer
on their generously-filled mixed collection ' A
Boy Was Born'. And if these all sound a little
austere, try the exhilarating dance episodes of
The Repentant Thief, played by clarinettist
Andrew Marriner and the L S O on a Collins
Classics CD single.
Tavener's larger-scale works progress not
through the expected technique of thematic
development, but by repetition and varied scor-
ing. Tavener would say that such a technique is
retrograde only in the narrow context of the
Western musical tradition that has led from Bach
to Berg and beyond. He prefers to see himself as
apart of a wider milieu encompassing Eastern
musical influences. These are manifest in an
occasional insistence on the augmented second
(sometimes sounding kitschy and pseudo-
Oriental) and, more subtly, in a flexibility of
pitch that recalls the pungent keening of the
muezzin. Which brings us to the peak of
Tavener's recorded oeuvre, Virgin Classics' The
Protecting Veil for cello and string orchestra.
Try the beginning of track two, soloist Steven
Isserlis threading a melody sweet and malleable
as melted toffee through the hushed nocturnal
glissandi of accompanying strings; do listen to
it, it's achingly beautiful.
The Protecting Veil enjoyed well-deserved
chart success a couple of years ago, and Tavener
was unable to resist quoting its aspiring cello
theme at the climax of his vast choral ikon We
Shall See Him As He Is, available from Chandos,
conducted by Richard Hickox. The concept of
music as ikon is taken further in the opera Mary
of Egypt, written for the Aldeburgh Festival and
enterprisingly recorded by Collins at its premiere
there in 1992. Stripped of all but the barest mini-
mum of action, the work consists of a series of
static stage-pictures, or living ikons, relating the
progress of the central character from prostitu-
tion to redemption via self-denial in the desert.
Such a brief summary may smack of arid
Sunday school dogma, although the music is
sometimes startlingly original and vivid.
Without the visual element, the material seems
thinly stretched by the opera's two hour dura-
tion, but sample the blissful first ten minutes of
Act III for a glimpse of Tavener at his best.
'Ikons', the BBC's weekend festival of the music
of John Tavener, begins tonight with the
Akathist of Thanksgiving at 7.30pm in
Westminster Abbey and continues at the
Barbican and Westminster Cathedral. Tickets
(071)638 8891.
A regular feature on restaurants in the area begins on page 4

