22 Opinion
Editorial
The attitude of students towards the affairs of
Imperial College Union have changed quite
dramatically in recent times. Last year, I was
talking to a President of ICU from about seven
years ago and he was telling me about how it
used to be. People were interested and
concerned about what went on; Union General
Meetings (UGMs) were packed full of people
wanting to put forward their opinions; people
wanted to change things.
Clubs and societies would operate devious
tactics to ensure that they got their own way.
They would get all their members to turn up to
the UGMs and when a motion came up that they
objected to and didn't want passed, they would
all get up and walk out. The meeting would
become inquorate and the last person to leave
the room would shout 'Quorum'. That would be
the end of the meeting and the end of the motion
until the next U G M when the same thing would
probably happen again.
I don't think that the issues of today are any
less important or affect the student body any less
than ten years ago. Maybe people no longer
have a desire to change anything or maybe they
think that expressing their opinion won't make a
difference in the grand scheme of things or
maybe they just don't know what's going on
within that great institution that is Imperial
College Union.
The Union isn't exactly going out of its way
to promote any interest in itself or improve its
image among the students. We've got a
President who's been misleading the students
and he's the one who's supposed to be the
ultimate representative of the students and their
views. Who knows what else he may or may not
have done?!
Granted, he has been working with the U G M
Chair to publicise details of the UGMs, but there
are elections coming up for all sorts of posts
within the Union and no-one's got a clue about
them. What good is it if you've got people
interested in what is going on in the Union but
no-one to actually run the place.
How many of you know that the sabbatical
elections are taking place this term? I guess
those of you here last year will. Marcus, in his
letter on the opposite page, talked about student
apathy amongst Imperial's students. Never is it
more obvious than during the sabbatical
elections. A campus wide ballot is taken and last
year and the grand total of 23% of the students
voted. Maybe, like I said before, people just
don't know what's going on. But when you are
electing the people to represent you and your
views for the following year, maybe you ought
to be told about it.
Security
People have apparently were running around the
Physics department yesterday brandishing water
pistols. Now, College Security aren't too happy
about this because in the past police have
arrested people after mistaking the water pistols
for real guns. So, they've asked me to ask all of
you not to hold your water fights within the
College premises.
The Valentine Special Edition of Felix will be coming out
on 11th February.
You can send a message to the love (or hate) of your lifeyrae|
ofcharge through Felix.Just make sure they are put into the
Valentine pigeonhole in the Felix Office by 4th February.
Jazz History In
The Making?
Dear Beccy,
Thursday the 13th saw an event which will
live long in jazz history; well at least as long as
it takes to get this published anyway.
IC now has a thirty piece jazz orchestra with
a library of roughly forty tunes. We're a totally
non-serious band although, if students and staff
learn something from playing jazz together now
that the opportunity is there, then so much the
better.
We're finding a rehearsal venue so close to
the union bar very educational. We're still
looking for tenor and baritone players, so if
you're interested then please contact either
Alasdair G i l l or Chris Parker on internal
extension 6988 or drop in to Huxley 512 - not
before 1 lam please - we're postgrads.
Yours,
IC Jazz Orchestra
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Milkround Closing Date 4 is on Monday 24th
January. Hand in your applications on the day
before 4pm. Details of interviews are put up on
the noticeboard outside the Careers Office a few
days before the interview date. Two more
companies have joined the Milkround: Santa Fe
Drilling Company and Fuji Capital Markets.
Summer Vacation Training Opportunities are
now available on the new Database in the
Careers Office. Apply to UROP for research
opportunities.
Improve Your Interview Skills is a short
course for Postgraduates on Wednesday 26th
January in Huxley 344 from 2pm-4pm. Sign up
in the Careers Office.
For further information come to the Careers
Office, Rm 310 Sherfield - open from 10am to
5.15pm Monday to Friday. A Duty Careers
Adviser is available for quick queries from
lpm-2pm daily.
f
tit'. %w
-THfc
' A M N O T A. H U r A B C R ' .
i
flgfefl M

