Opinion 23
Imperial College -
A Wasteland Of Mindlessness
Dear Felix,
The malaise which is destroying Imperial
College is often said to be the apathy of the
students - in fact, it is far worse than that. The
true problem is that the people here just have no
desire to think. In a place which lays claim to
some 7,000 of the highest IQs in the country,
this is purely absurd. The atmosphere should be
buzzing with intellectual discovery - instead, it
is a wasteland of mindlessness.
There was once a time when people went to
university because they wanted to learn, to
question, to understand. Nowadays they come to
Imperial for nothing more than to let their minds
stagnate in a boorish atmosphere of beer and
nicotine smoke.
Why do these 'students' (and I use that term
advisedly) have no interest in studying? Those
few who dare to express an interest in learning
anything, who have the insolence to mention
politics, philosophy, or art for instance, are
ridiculed - "what's that got to do with your
subject?" say the bovine herds. Don't they want
to understand the world they live in? They even
deride those who express an interest in their
chosen field of study.
A place like Imperial should be a nucleus of
ideas, its rooms pulsing with debate. The JCR
should be an Utopian forum for discussion,
scientific enquiry and political tirades - instead
it is an Atopia of self-satisfied mindlessness.
Of course, there are a few surviving enclaves
- the debating society struggles on, Felix still
provides a platform for the few who still have
views to air. Some people even have the
curiosity to attend voluntary lectures.
And yet, the mindlessness still spreads. The
students close their eyes, provide automatic
answers to automatic questions. Gone are the
polymaths and autodidacts, to be replaced by
blabbering sloths. No more can Imperial hope to
produce another Einstein, a Da Vinci or a
Bertrund Russell. A few minor engineers and
accountants maybe, but nothing more.
So what has happened? Much of the blame
can be laid on the education system, which
channels people into this narrow-minded
acceptance, but the real blame lies with the
students themselves. They don't care because
it's easier to switch yourself off, to repeat what
you've been spoon fed all your life - it's just so
damn easy not to think. Maybe they should just
stop for one second to ask themselves, "Do I
want my life to be worthwhile, or not?".
Yours,
Marcus Alexander
Mech Eng 2
Credits
Printer: Theatre:
Andy Thompson Rekha Nayak
Typesetter: Features:
Rose Atkins Owain Bennallack (Ed)
Business Manager: Layout & Proofing:
Simon Govier Kin Wei Lee
Advertising Manager: Collators Last Week
Steve Newhouse Tony Grew
Ivan Chan
News: Joe McFadden
Michael Ingram Penguin
Lynn Bravey Steve Newhouse
Joe McFadden Jon Jordan
Owain Bennallack
Puzzles:
Penguin Collators from the
Sphinx final issue last term
Jaymz (as promised)
Jon Jordan
Photography: Owain Bennallack
Mike Chamberlain Simon Shaw
Diana Harrison Tamsin Braisher
Ivan Chan Tim St Clair
Penguin
Books: Steve Newhouse
Juliette Decock Ivan Chan
Joe McFadden
Music: Michael Ingram
Jon Jordan Diana Harrison
Patrick Wood
Cinema: and thanks to IC Radio
Joe McFadden for the disco speakers
The Munster Road Kitchen
by Samin Ishtiaq
Nils' T V is, I think, sometimes more trouble that
it's worth. Let me explain. Last year Nils bought
this great big f**k-off (as Matt says) television
set from a shop in Tottenham Court Road. It
wasn't the most technologically-advanced set: it
was basically just the largest set they had.
(Yeah, it would be interesting to do some kind
of Freudian analysis on this. Are television sets
post-modern symbols of male virility? If so,
does Nils suffer from the male version of penis-
envy?)
Nils was under the impression that the shop
would deliver it for free - and was taken back
when the delivery guy asked him for a tenner.
That was soon sorted out. But not before Paul
had to lug the television set all the way back to
W l so that Nils could check that he had indeed
got the biggest one (TV set, that is).
Thankfully, our previous landlady (also
known as 'stupid cow') failed to notice the
massive dents in the hall and the stairway, where
Paul let the television slip.
It does weigh a ton and a half, as Matt and I
found out when we had to transport the T V to
our current place. On the first flight of stairs I
was at the bottom, so that the entire weight of
the T V was on me. 'F**k that for a game of
soldiers', I thought and on the next flight
swapped places with Matt. I did feel slightly
safer - though I did keep on thinking about the
excuse I'd made to Matt's mum when I even-
tually did let the TV slip and squash Matt.
(Notice how in all this Nils never got to do
the hard work of moving the T V once.
Somehow, he always seems absent when heavy
shifting has to be done.)
Our current problem with the T V is the naff
reception. We don't seem to have an outside
aerial in this place. Matt did attempt to hook
something up once, but being a past STOIC
chairman (sorry, chairperson) he couldn't
actually complete the job, could he now?
Though I think I've fixed the reception - and
in a typical computing/bodgy way. There's a
particular way to blue-tack the small aerial onto
the wall, sideways, that gives excellent reception
for BBC2 and Channel 4. Of course, since these
are the only channels worth watching, the rest of
them can go jump in a lake.
S M A L L A D S
DramSoc Auditions will be held for 'Doctor
and the Devils' at 5.30pm in the Table Tennis
Room (top floor of the Union Building) on
Wednesday 26th January.
Postgraduate
Mathematical
Advice Centre
HelpLine:
ext 5752
Dr Geoff Stephenson
Mathematics Dept
Articles Deadline: Friday, 6pm Letters Deadline: Monday 6pm

