4 Feature
May I Present
The Menu ?
Welcome, all and sundry to the beginning of a
new era. A time when the members of
Imperial will break away from the drudgery of
the eating establishments within the College
campus, safe in the knowledge that their
palates can be satisfied elsewhere.
Much fuss is made about the delights of
London's theatres, museums and other histori-
cal monuments, but the wide range of cuisines
available is often looked over.
Yes, the food world's answer to Film '94
is here. Here in the consecrated pages of Felix
suggestions will be given, free and without
the need for a TV licence, for places to go and
spend your hoarded few precious pounds on
grub.
There will be a mixture of places reviewed
and all desires, afflictions (including veggies)
and wallets will be catered for. Everywhere
will be within walking distance or else acces-
sible by tube.
The reviews will consist of selected dishes
and drinks, with prices. Personal favourites
might be given and an overall average meal
price will be included. There will be the all-
important, but occasionally misleading, mark
out of 10, based on choice and quality of food,
atmosphere, service, decor, value for money
and personal perception.
If anyone has any ideas for restaurants to
review please drop a line to the Felix Office,
and you can even give it a go yourself.
Here's looking forward to a stomach
aggrandising year.
Nainish Bapna
The FELiX Superior
Khan's
For an experience which you will repeatedly
wish to relive, Khan's is the place. Okay, the
food is not the best. Yes, the service leaves room
for improvement. Yes, the owner's name is Mr
Khan. And don't come hoping for a quiet meal,
or nouvelle cuisine. But it's cheap. And yes,
everyone loves it.
It's easy to see why once you go there. The
food is not what my mother would cook, but it's
not over-rich like most restaurants manage, it's
not much better than the local take-away at
home. The menu is quite sizable, catering for
veggies and all the meat cooked is Halal.
There are no starters at Khan's, but the peren-
nial papadoms do remain popular, especially
with the choice of pickles that are always on the
table.
Moving onto the main course I recommend
the Butter Chicken (£3.80), it has just the right
amount of cream in it. Avoid the Chicken Tikka
(£3.10), it's different from how it is normally
done. Meat-wise the Rogan Josh (£2.60) as a
curry or the Tandoori Boti Kebab (£4.95) as a
whole meal, are the best bets.
The thali (veg: £5.25, non-veg: £5.50) is
actually the best venture, giving you a range of
foods. Another choice giving a mixture is the
Mixed Grill with nan (£4.95), for carnivores
only, but is a bit dry.
For dessert the Rasmali (£1.50) and Kulfi
(£1.50) are preferred choices, with my prefer-
ence towards the Kulfi, as the Rasmali's milk is
a bit thin.
What gives Khan's its popularity is its atmos-
phere. I love it. I feel like I have been transport-
ed to a restaurant back in India. The background
noise level ensures that whispers will not carry,
the fans whirring up above, the waiters scurrying
around shouting in a strange language and carry-
ing an unbelievable number of utensils on their
forearms.
Cobra Beer is served here. A beer brewed in
India, but which is very rarely drunk there. Well,
I've never seen anybody drink it there. There are
no cocktails to choose from and the soft drinks
cost 90p.
The waiters do speak English and ask them if
you don't understand anything. They are pretty
efficient, with your food normally arriving 15 to
20 minutes after ordering.
Khan's is great for big groups, where you can
make as big a disturbance as you like. Table
bookings are only given rarely, at the beginning
of an evening at that, so be prepared to wait.
Remember, not a romantic night out.
The location is handy to those at St Mary's (it
is in Bayswater). Otherwise, those of you on the
South Kensington campus can always stroll
across the park.
Overall I award Khan's an 8.
13-15 Westbourne Grove, W2
Tel: 071 727 5420
Tube: Bayswater, Queensway or Royal Oak
Hours: Daily (12pm-3pm, 6pm to 12am)
Wong KeVs
Located in Chinatown, this is one of the most
famous Chinese restaurants. Their notoriety is
based on the quality of the service, which really
must be encountered to be believed. The waiters
specialise in supplying the minimum amount of
service possible. Their English is sketchy, so
taking a Cantonese speaker with you might
prove of assistance.
The food itself is cheap, but not a gastro-
nomical delight. You can escape with a bill of
less than £3 if you settle for a combination dish
(£2.40 to £3.50). A combination dish is rice or
noodles with meat or vegetables. I've never had
the same dish twice.
Of course, you may care to eat properly. To
take a main course and rice, boiled (90p) or fried
(£1.10) separately. The choice of dishes is very
wide, with seafood, duck, pork, all the favourites
and cheap for what you get. But be warned, the
choice for vegetarians is very limited.
Strangely, the waiters never allow non-
Orientals to have congee, a rice soup and meat
dish unless you particularly insist on it. I tried it
elsewhere and I found nothing sinister.
I find though that the food is slightly oily.
Even ostracising this misdeed, this place is not a
locale to take your diet to. Very few people need
more than a combination dish to sustain them
until their next meal.
Chinese tea is supplied, unless you ask not to
have it. There is a small charge added on at the
end, which I assume is for the tea, but as the bill
is written in Cantonese (I think) I cannot be too
sure. There is the normal choice of soft drinks
(£1.00) and there are some wines, but I have
seen people take their own drinks in.
The service, speed-wise, is good, only nor-
mally having to wait for about ten minutes, but
don't forget the irascibility of the waiters.
If you ask nicely you can forgo the joys of
using chopsticks for the luxury of a fork.
The queue is normally non-existent, as the
restaurant spans at least four floors and you are
never given much chance to loiter after finishing
your food, with your bill deposited on your table
before they even start clearing up.
Wong Kei's is a place that has to be visited,
just for the experience of seeing these business-
men (who else would wear suits?) sitting in this
cheap restaurant and being vilified by the wait-
ers. However, once you've exper-ienced it, go to
the other restaurants in Chinatown, the food and
service are better.
Wong Kei gets 7 for the first time visit expe-
rience, after that only 5.
41-43 Wardour Street, Wl
Tel: 071 437 6833
Tube: Piccadily Circus
Hours: Daily (12pm-11.30pm)
Look out for more restaurant reviews in future issues

