Feature
Chow Guide
The Chicago Pizza Pie
Factory
Hanover Square is more notorious for Caspers
Wine Bar, where people sit at tables with indi-
vidual telephones and everyone rings everyone
else up. However, if verbal intercourse is not a
strength, judge the pizzas on offer at a neigh-
bouring joint - Chicago Pizza Pie Factory.
Situated in a basement, the first thing that is
noticed are the calling cards of previous visitors
displayed on the staircase on the way down.
Don't hesitate in adding yours to the collection.
The decor is obtrusively American, with no
natural lighting and white walls. Decorations are
the run-of-the-mill '50s posters advertising
young damsels with pure white teeth. The pipes
on the ceiling have not been covered and are
clearly visible in their garish red. But once this
is combined with the music playing, it all fits
into place.
Also, do not forget why you came here. I say
skip the starter and set your mind and taste buds
to the forthcoming pizza. There are other choic-
es for the main course, but you would be wast-
ing a visit if you choose them.
The pizza arrives and remember your previ-
ous finest pizza, because those sentiments will
soon be forgotten. The base is portentously soft
and smooth, more so than any former pizza
experience. The tomato sauce combines won-
derfully and there is not an excess of toppings to
hide the sensuality of the crust.
Once you have demolished your pizza I see
no need to pillage your palate with a dessert.
Still, if the occasion requires it, the Chocolate
Extravaganza is sufficient for two and the
Cheesecake ranks amongst the best.
Again, there is a cocktail bar in the restau-
rant, near the entrance, with its own seating area
and TVs showing American football or MTV.
Drinks ordered come from there, but to take
advantage of the Happy Hour you must sit at the
bar and not at your table.
This place does get busy, so a reservation
always helps. The service is fast and sociable,
chiefly because the waitresses are American.
They will happily help you celebrate birthdays,
bringing out cakes and join in with the singing.
I have no doubts in announcing the Chicago
Pizza Pie Factory as producing the best pizza in
London, and giving it an award of 9 for the
pizza, but 8 overall due to limited menu.
(Nainish clearly paid by credit card and for-
got to scrawl the prices on a serviette or nick
the menu. You're looking at about £8 a meal.
Oh, and the pizzas are second best to my own
demon, the Wandsworth Waster - Features Ed)
17 Hanover Square, Wl
Tel: 071 629 2669
Tube: Oxford Circus
Hours: Mon-Sat (11.45am-11.30pm)
Sun (12pm-10.30pm)
Luigi Malone's
One of many locals to eat at in South
Kensington, Luigi's is the most attractively
priced, with a menu that spans all continents in
its variety.
It is small and popular, especially with yup-
pies, but there is no discrimination against stu-
dents. However, that does ensure it gets busy,
especially with a cocktail bar.
Luigi Malone's is small, and this is empha-
sised as you enter. Immediately you notice the
narrowness, especially as the bar is right at the
main door and you are normally required to
wade through a dozen portable phones with their
owners.
The menu is a surprise, though. A plentiful
choice is offered, with eight starters which
should be by-passed for reasons which are
upcoming. If you do want to have a full meal,
try the Malone's Mushrooms (£2.85), or the
imaginative Deep Fried Brie with Cherry
(£2.95).
But now to the main course. There is the
choice of hamburgers (£4.95 to £5.25), pizzas
(£4.65 to £5.95), hot sandwiches (£5.25), pasta
(£4.50 to £5.25), salads (£4.55 to £5.95), steaks
(£9.95 to £10.95), fajitas (£8.25) and more!
Disappointingly, there is a slant towards
American food.
Now, not only is the choice liberal, but the
portions are even astoundingly copious. Be pre-
pared to share a pizza (classically thin), or forgo
your next meal.
I daren't recommend a dish because they are
all good, but pizzas are always preferred, mainly
for the price! I must say that I have never known
Luigi's to disappoint me.
Moving on to the desserts. I doubt patrons are
assumed to have a dessert, but if they do, all
costing £2.45 apart from the Potted Stilton
(£2.95). The Chocolate Ripple Cheesecake caus-
es waves on the tongue, but I was not sufficient-
ly impressed with the Tiramisu.
There is a large selection of international
beers (£1.85 to £2.65), further emphasising the
multi-cultural menu. A wide selection of cock-
tails (£2.95; £2.25 during Happy Hour) are
given, but ask for your own to be made if it isn't
offered. Soft drinks weigh in at £1.10.
Lunchtime queues are very rare. At
lunchtimes a free drink is offered with any meal.
Friday and Saturday evenings are murder, other-
wise there is rarely a requirement to wait.
Luigi's is a place that you can go happily
enough for lunch or dinner, it is close to college,
and the service is efficient, fast and friendly. Be
warned that the place is small, and even stretch-
ing your legs must be done with caution, unless
you desire to harm someone.
I give Luigi Malone's an 8.
73 Old Brompton Road, SW7
Tel: 071 584 4323
Tube: South Kensington
Ideas for places to review? Drop into the Felix Office and tell us

