Feature 1
Who You Gonna Call?
To Don Adlington, counselling is more about coffee than cookies on couche
If you have the label 'Student Counsellor' hang-
ing round your neck you tend to get some funny
reactions - "Oh, you deal with grants and
things" or "Does anybody come to see you?".
Well, what does a counsellor do and why might
a University feel that it makes economic sense to
pay someone who doesn't teach, research, cook,
clean, type, compute, manage, or do any of the
other demonstrably productive things that go on
in an educational institution?
My job, quite simply, is talking to students
who are experiencing worry or difficulty, affect-
ing their studies or other aspects of their lives at
College. In some ways it is a bit of a paradox
that counselling should be provided for students
who are, in many ways, the most competent and
able segment of their age group. There aren't
counsellors for bricklayers, bus-drivers, shop-
workers, engineers, secretaries or bank clerks,
all of whom are exposed to the normal hazards
of life - so what is so special about students?
The answer lies in the job that the student is
doing. Sustained and intensive learning, memor-
ising, concentrating are cognitive activities
which are impaired - sometimes severely - by
anxiety, distress and grief. This non-mix of cog-
nitive functioning and emotional upset is not
pathological, it is a normal reaction. But for the
university student, especially perhaps, at a col-
lege like this where the work is cumulative and
sequential, it can quickly lead to trouble and
therefore needs to be recognised and dealt with
properly.
Of course, all sensible people expect to have
a few ups and downs in life, so how would I
know if I had a 'problem' in this context? My
own view is that we should expect to have a cer-
tain sense of well-being in the groove. Feeling
more than temporarily anxious and weepy, find-
ing concentration difficult, feeling socially iso-
lated, feeling profoundly doubtful about the
Some problems, of
course, are peculiar to
students...
rightness of one's choice of subject, course or
college, are all indications that you should talk
things through with someone. Students often
have a very strong resistance to the idea of talk-
ing to professional helpers - or indeed to openly
acknowledging that there is anything wrong at
all. The assumption by family, schools and
friends that becoming a student is an automatic
passport to happiness and success is sometimes a
factor here, but personal pride and fear of being
identified as failing in some way also affects
adaptive and straightforward ways of looking at
problems when they arise.
Many problems encountered by students are
those to which all human beings are exposed.
Some of them are what a psychologist would
describe as maturational problems - to do with
the individual's social and emotional develop-
ment. The first years at University happen to
coincide pretty closely to the final shift into
adulthood in which one's perception of oneself
and one's capacities for relating to others
become crystallised to a large extent. Many peo-
ple move through these transitions painlessly,
others have some difficulty and this tends to
emerge fairly traumatically as students leave the
family setting for the first time and are thrown
onto their own resources. Students having this
sort of difficulty sometimes feel out of step with
their fellow students and are convinced that
everyone else is more socially skilled, more gre-
garious, more successful in finding
girlfriends/boyfriends and somehow more
'valid'.
Similarly grief, or loss experiences are com-
mon human hazards, but with special connota-
tions for University students. Bereave-ment or
broken love affairs are well understood to be
deeply painful and disturbing events. It is not
quite so clearly understood that the anxiety
engendered by parental marital problems, or by
the early indications that a girlfriend/boyfriend
relationship may be disintegrating, can be just as
corrosive of a person's emotional security, and
are a major source of trouble for students.
Some problems, of course, are peculiar to
students. It is very easy for clever and intellectu-
ally talented people to become a little too closely
identified with academic point-scoring for its
own sake, so that a person may come to see his
own wholeness or validity solely in terms of
being academically clever. This distortion of
personal development can easily give rise to
depressive feelings if, on coming to University,
the student discovers that he or she is not at the
top, or falls short of meeting some ideal stan-
dards which have somehow become built into
the person's expectations. This gives rise to what
I call an inappropriate imperative and can be a
course of real unhappiness.
When things go wrong there are many people
you could talk to - parents, friends obviously,
but also personal tutors and senior tutors, war-
dens and sub-wardens. There are also other peo-
ple in College on whom students can make
demands - for example Health Centre Staff - the
doctors and nurses. The Student Adviser in the
Students Union, is an expert at helping students
with special financial problems, with Home
Office queries, with landlord problems, with
state benefit queries and many other things. Or
you could come to see me. I work normal office
hours - you can just call round or you can ring
me. I can nearly always see people very quickly,
usually on the same day, and talking to me is
totally confidential. M y office is at 15 Princes
Gardens (the same house as the Accommodation
Office) and next door to the Health Centre, and
my telephone extension is 3041.
You can call the Student Counsellor on internal ext 3041

