8 Clubs and Societies
Violence, Phenomenology and
More Violence
Bit of a John Carpenter night, Monday. Assault
on Precinct 13 (starts 6pm) is rarely-seen tale of
urban violence and revenge as a group of
prisoners and their captors are besieged in an
abandoned precinct by a street gang. Of note is
Carpenter's electronic score which you're bound
to recognise as a favourite '80s sample.
At 8pm, we present Dark Star, Carpenter's
first film and a collaboration with Alien writer
Dan O'Bannon (who also stars as Pinback, the
guy who chases the beachball with the broom).
The film's origins as a student short are will
hidden by impressive effects but betrayed by a
suitable bizarre sense of humour; watch out for
the dead captain in the freezer, the alien
beachball and the metaphysical talking bomb.
Both films are video projected in Chem Eng
Lecture Theatre 1 and entry is free to ICSF
members. Membership costs just £3 and this will
In a team where 'minibuses' became a dirty
word and hiccups on the organisations and
disorganisational front were legend (see Felix
976) S & G had a fantastic time despite
themselves. A l l but a couple of days were
blessed with clear skies with a Gore-tex staying
firmly in the bottom of the rucksack. Sunset
from Scafell Pike and looking down on clouds
pouring over a col on Cader Idris remain the
most memorable sights, jet and dry slope skiing
amongst the most enjoyable of events.
The pace slackens not one jot this term with
two weekends to the Lake District, a weekend in
the North Yorkshire Dales and one to
Snowdonia. For the more laid back there is also
a lazy couple of days on a narrowboat in the
give you free entry to our full programme of
video projected double bills and also the chance
to borrow any of over 3,000 books, videos and
graphic novels from our library in the corner of
Beit Quad underneath Beit Hall. It will also give
you reduced entry to our 35mm presentations,
and on top of all that, the membership price
includes you first film free.
On Tuesday at 7pm in the Concert Hall we
present Paul Verhoeven's violent futuristic satire
Robocop. Well worth seeing on the big screen, it
remains the best of the Robocop trilogy for its
hard edged black humour and vicious snipes at
the concepts of humanity, property and
television as a brutally slain police officer is
resurrected as 'the future of law enforcement'.
Entry is £1.50 to ICSF members and £2 to non
members.
early spring as we know that there is 'nothing
half so much fun as messing about on the river'.
One week (almost fully booked) in a bothy in
Skye (Talisker Distillery and the Inaccessible
Pinnacle) is our destination for the start of the
Easter holidays - the perfect restorative before
settling down to some hard revision!!
Looking further into the future, the Summer
Tour - three weeks in the mountains of North
Spain (Peirs de Europas and the Pyrenees) as far
from Eldorado as is possible - is now beginning
to fill up.
If any of this interests you, find us in
Southside Upper Lounge during Tuesday
lunchtimes or contact Dan Kitcher (Physics III)
on 071 701 7108.
Five-A-Side
Tournament
Of The Year
The tournament of the year is ready to kick off!
The Overseas Students Committee (OSC) five-
a-side football tournament is back due to great
demand. Teams will be competing for the grand
OSC ST trophy, which was won last year by the
talented Pakistan Society team.
After last year's impressive performance, the
competition is being moved from the small
volleyball courts to Chelsea Sports Centre's
outdoor football court on Sydney Street.
Matches will be played on Wednesday
afternoons, so please come down and support
your various societies.
There are four groups of three teams. Each
team will play every other team in its group
once. The top two teams resulting from these
matches will go through to the quarter finals.
Teams are required to be at the football court
by the times stated in Felix every week. If teams
do not do so, they will be penalised.
Wednesday 26th Jan:
3.00pm Indian vs Malaysian
3.45pm Malaysian vs French
4.30pm French vs Indian
Remember, the teams must be at the
court by the time stated, otherwise
you will be penalised
Cut Out and Keep Guide to
Scout & Guide - Easter 1994
28th - 30th Jan: Mungrisdale, Lake District
4th - 6th Feb: Longdale, Lake District
18th - 20th Feb: Settle, Yorkshire Dales
4th - 6th Mar: Barging, a canal somewhere
11th - 13th Mar: Llanberis Pass, Snowdonia
25th Mar - 2nd Apr: Skye
24th Jun - 15th Jul: Spain
Sights, Sunsets and Skiing with
Scout and Guide
Deadline for match results is 7pm, Wednesday

