Adam Harrington presents his opinion on the current crisis:
Is War A Solution?
Throughout the past months the media
and the politicians have been talking
blithely about war as though it were no
more unusual than buying half a dozen
eggs.
'Of course we don't want war', they
say, 'but principles must be upheld'.
A n y b o d y who can even consider war as a
viable option has a seriously bad attitude
towards human life.
1 don't want to discuss the issues
involved in the present game of toy
soldiers because in twenty years time
they will all be forgotten. A l l that will be
remembered is that hundreds of
thousands died, if it remains a local war,
or millions if it doesn't. W h y do I think
this? Because out of the hundreds of wars
that have been fought, who, apart from
historians, can say why they were fought?
The reasons must have seemed fairly
compelling at the time. There is only one
war that a fair number of people know
the cause of and that is the last major
one, 1939-1945. What is better k n o w n
about that one is that it killed about 40
million people, bankrupted a continent
and resulted in half of that continent
being kept under a grossly unpleasant
political system for the best part of fifty
years.
W h o knows the reason for the Vietnam
and Korean wars? W h o the Y o m Kippur
and Six day wars, the Spanish Civil war,
the First W o r l d War, the Crimean, the
Boer and the A m e r i c a n Civil war? It goes
on and on. The reasons m y be different,
but the result is the same. Somebody
somewhere thinks that people are more
useful as bags of fertilizer. I happen to
think I am more useful alive, and I think
everybody else is too.
A n extraordinary veil comes over the
eyes of many people w h e n massive pain
and misery occur. This veil has an
obvious purpose—to protect the
individual's sanity from what the
individual cannot cope with. But this veil
will probably be the undoing of this
civilisation, if not of this species. In any
other situation, if I was to promote the
idea that thousands of individuals should
be destroyed, I would rightly be
considered to be mad. Yet because 'the
State' says it's for some nebulous 'ideal'
it's fine, and anyone who says otherwise
is a danger to 'the State' and its people.
1 daresay that there is a number of
people who disapprove of my views.
Well, to be quite honest I don't care—I'm
not going to remould m y conscience
because of what they say. They have the
right to their o w n views but they have no
right to actively promote the killing of
thousands. They are playing right into the
hands of the politicians. The two most
common arguments against anti-war
views are that 'if everybody was like you
then we would be overrun by a state we
didn't like' or something similar. 1 would
;i>ay that if everybody had my views on
the subject, nobody would overrun
anybody—life is too short to play games
like that. That is a pie-in-t he-sky ideal, I
know, but so is defending any ideal, like
democracy or the A m e r i c a n dream, for
instance.
Another argument would be cowardice.
A n y b o d y w h o volunteers to be killed
when somebody tells them to is not, in
my opinion, brave but rather dim-witted.
1 don't deny that I have a healthy sense
of self preservation—anyone who didn't
would have died a long time ago. Trying
to stay alive is a fairly natural trend, and
anyone who claims otherwise is talking
rubbish. 1 a m certainly not frightened to
put my views forward, and the only
reason I am taking the liberty of doing it
now is because 1 feel it's the only method
open to me to try to put a halt to the
approaching obscenity.
It depends on your definition of the
word, but I would not consider the views
set out here to be a study of pacifism.
"Certainly, all forms of violence against
fellow humans are to be d i s c o u r a g e d -
nothing unconventional there—but
violence in personal self-defence or
defence of those close to you is bound to
happen, and I wouldn't like to say that I'd
never do it. The mere difference in scale
between attacking somebody about to
rape your sister and a full scale war and
the fact 1 accept one and not the other
may be considered odd. Bear in mind
that attacking a rapist will not destroy the
human race and that the rapist or the
attacker has the opportunity of running
away when they have had enough—so
there is a safety valve. If you are part of
an army then your own conscience has to
be subjugated to the orders of your
superiors. Y o u cannot run away, the fight
will continue with no safety valve until
there aren't enough people left to
continue it.
M y basic argument against this and any
other war is the simplest one; it kills lots
of people. If things start getting very
serious everyone will have to examine
their consciences—is it really worth killing
or dying for? Many people have many
different answers—mine is 'no', and I a m
not going to be associated with this most
ridiculous and disgusting trait of human
behaviour. I sincerely hope that there are
enough civilised people in the country
who have a similar point of view to make
those who start war think twice about its
effects.

