Sf
FELIX
During the countdown to potential chemical warfare in the Gulf, Christopher Riley remembers the consequences of Saddam Hussein's
chemical weapon atrocities on the Kurdish people two years ago and examines a seventy year problem, sadly neglected by the United
Nations' Human Rights' Commission.
The People That Time Forgot
FELIX
Iraq has been using chemical weapons o n
its own citizens since 1989, when over
sixty villages were gassed. O n March 17,
1988, about 6,000 died when the town of
Halabja was gassed. A t about 6.00am o n
August 25, 1988, Iraqi war planes
dropped chemical weapons over seventy
Kurdish villages i n north east Iraq. In the
Bassay valley, alone, 200 families
perished. Survivors described what it was
like: 'the planes dropped bombs, they did
not produce a big noise. A yellowish
cloud was created and there was the
smell of rotten parsley or onions. There
were no wounds, people would breath
the smoke, then fall down and blood
would come from their mouths.' In
Aikmala, eight year old A a g i z a saw
bombs land. A few moments later she
watched both her parents and brother
fall, their skins blackened, they were
dead. Aagiza escaped across the border
to Turkey. She coughed, vomitted, and
had blood i n her diarrhoea. Her skin
stung from blisters, w h i c h took months to
heal. Today she is one of the 30,000 Iraqi
Kurdish refugees living rough i n the
extreme climate of Eastern Turkey.
In the round-ups which followed, 3,000
villages were razed to the ground.
Livestock was killed and 500,000 people
were removed from their homes. Many of
the men were killed and m u c h of
Kurdistan has been made a 'free-fire'
zone, where all humans or livestock are
shot o n sight.
Since the invasion of Kuwait, sanctions
on Iraq have sterilised the economy of
roadside shops o n the Turkish border.
W i t h the U N deadline fast approaching
last week, the Turkish Kurds around the
Silopi Valley i n south-eastern Turkey
were preparing for the worst. In such a n
erratic region, lacking sanctuary and
where lightening always strikes twice,
buses out of the regional capital
Diyarbakir were fully booked up and
pharmacists had sold out of the antidote
to mustard gas.
The governments of Turkey, Iraq and
Iran are understandably concerned about
the Political ambitions of the Kurds but it
can be seen that the repression practised
at the moment is only generating urban
terrorism and doing nothing to solve the
problems.
F r o m the 16th Century the Ottoman
and Persian Empires allowed the Kurdish
tribes almost total autonomy i n return for
keeping the peace o n their remote open
borders. The Kurdish people, who are
Indo-European, have their o w n Persian
based language and culture. Although
there is no reliable estimate of their
numbers, there are believed to be
between 20 and 25 million. A t the end of
W o r l d War I, the Ottoman empire was
carved up and the Kurds found
themselves homeless and scattered over
Turkey, Iran, Iraq, Syria and the USSR.
In Iran five million Kurds have been
suppressed since the 1920s: their
language, i n spoken or written form, and
their culture, banned. In 1946 the Kurds
of Mahabad succeeded in declaring a n
independent republic, but it only lasted a
few months before authorities hanged the
ringleaders. Since the Islamic revolution
Tehran has refused all requests for
Kurdish autonomy.
In Iraq there were numerous revolts.
During the late 1980s chemical weapons
were used o n a holocaust scale not seen
since W o r l d W a r I. Within a week, tens of
thousands of Iraqi Kurds, many bearing
fresh wounds from chemical weapons
were arriving i n Turkey. This was hardly
the place to seek sanctuary. Turkey had
turned a blind eye to the Iraqi attacks of
the 1980s, allowing rape of border
villages by Iraqi troops.
In Turkey almost ten million Kurds are
forbidden to use their own language
despite the fact that many Kurds can only
speak their Kurdish mother language.
Even the word 'Kurd' is banned. They are
officially k n o w n as 'Mountain Turks'. In
the 1920s and 1930s the Kurds rebelled
against this discrimination. In response
the Turkish authorities suppressed them,
with great force, deporting up to one
million people westwards from their
homeland.
W h e n the Kurdish member of Turkey's
parliament publicly stated 'In Turkey
there are Kurds. I too a m a Kurd', he was
found guilty of 'propaganda aimed at
weakening national feelings' and
condemned to two years imprisonment
with hard labour. This Turkish apartheid
has been i n force for sixty years n o w and
has resulted i n the rise of a Marxist
guerrilla group, the Kurdish Workers'
Party (PKK) fighting for independence. In
desperation they have had to resort to
violence: attacking government forces
and those w h o cooperate with them.
During m y travels around Turkish
Kurdistan, in 1989, I found a lot of
resentment for the Turks, whose silent
cooperation with Iraq and Iran seems to
be dedicated towards the total
annihilation of their 'parasitic' minority
people. But the Kurds are a proud race
and refuse to see the death of their
language and culture. In the ancient lake-
side town of V a n , I found Kurds singing
Kurdish freedom songs in the basement
of their kilim shop.
'When the snow comes to the high
Mountain,
When the nightingale is sad,
I can feel freedom and see freedom,
But cannot catch it—I can only drink
water
That comes from the mountain,
And then I think I touch freedom.
When I see the Snowy Mountain,
and when I think of you my lover
My soul starts to dance in my body.
I am afraid my lover, I will not see you
the again,
My eyes are filled with tears,
For there are two things in life of which I
am afraid.
Parting and death.'
(continued overleaf)
12 13

