Mehmet, the owner of the
shop, was a human rights
lawyer, preparing to start
his PhD in Europe. Abdol,
a childhood friend, helped
B f f i r W K to run the carpet shop. In
^ • J L U a ^ B their youth they had both
been arrested and beaten with
truncheons. Like many other Kurds, their
national identities had been forged and
nurtured b y this suppression. Punishment
and tortures they had witnessed involved
forcing w o m e n to sit o n broken bottles,
or being stripped and blasted with high
pressure water. After the abduction and
murder of his parents, Abdol's younger
brother left home to join the P K K
guerrillas in the mountains. For over a
year Abdol tried to contact him searching
the countryside, armed with photographs.
Such is the secrecy of the P K K ' s
movements that he has not seen his
brother since he left home. Most Kurds
disapprove of the P K K ' s violent methods,
but with government brutality o n the
increase Abdol's pride in what his brother
is doing is also increasing.
There are allegedly over 400,000 troops
in the Kurdish areas, arbitrarily arresting
villagers and frequently beating up and
torturing them to obtain information
about the P K K . Many detainees die under
these conditions. In January, 1989, a mass
grave was reportedly found i n a refuse
tip outside Siirt. A government inquiry
was 'inconclusive'. Over 300 local Kurds
remain unaccounted for, following such
arrests.
There is a real danger that if Kurdish
communities are not allowed to practise,
and cultivate their culture, political
groups will turn to violence to fight the
life threatening conditions deliberately
inflicted o n them by their neighbours.
The actions of Iran, Iraq, and Turkey,
need condemning o n the international
scale which has proved so effective i n
forcing change in unacceptable
government policies elsewhere in the
world. Iraq is in violation of the 1948
Convention o n Genocide, yet no country
challenged it, undermining the credibility
of this international law. Without
condemnation, there is nothing to stop
other governments from exterminating
their own minority people.
STUDENT LOANS
As from January 11th the office dealing with student loans will
be Room 335, Level 3, Sherfield Building.
For the first weeks only the arrangements are as follows:
The office will open from 1.15 to 3.15 every day and students
wishing to apply for a loan must book an appointment in person
via the Student Finance Office, Room 344, Level 3, Sherfield
Building.
In the light of demand these arrangements may be subject to
review after January 25th and any revisions will be advertised
in advance.
Full-time home undergraduate students wishing to establish
their eligibility for a loan from the Student Loans Company Ltd
should not come to the office unless they can bring with them
the following documents:
a) For students born in the United Kingdom—
Birth/adoption certificate
or For students born outside the United Kingdom—a
passport and a letter or other document from a responsible
person—a minister of religion, doctor, lawyer, teacher,
established civil servant, police officer or consular officer—
which contains particulars of the student's date, place and
country of birth and the student's names at birth.
b) Letter of advice from a local education authority
confirming a mandatory award.
c) Evidence of a bank/building society account, i.e. the
production of a cheque book, passbook or bank statement
which shows clearly the account number and sort code.
Without these documents we cannot process requests for a
loan.
January 1991 T Cullen
Assistant Registrar
THE WEST LONDON CHAPLAINCY
OXFAM LUNCH
Tuesday Lunchtimes
Between 12.30pm-1.30pm
'Oxfam believes in the essential dignity of people and
their ability to overcome the problems and pressures
which can crush and exploit them. These may be
rooted in climate or geography, or in the more
complex area of economic, political and social
conditions.'
(Field Director's Handbook)
The West London Chaplaincy is currently running an
Oxfam Lunch in College every Tuesday lunchtime
from 12.30pm-1.30pm. T h e idea is to come along and
eat a simple meal consisting of bread and cheese. For
this we ask for a donation of SI.00 and the proceeds
will then be given to Oxfam—a charity organisation
which is committed to working alongside people
internationally on a wide range of development issues
eg. concerning the environment, human rights,
economics and education.
We can be found in the Foyer of the Bessemer Building
(off the walkway between M e c h E n g and Elec Eng).
Everyone is welcome to come along.

