Carter
-Blood Sport For All 12"
mmim
O h god, this sounds like The Sweet. V e r y
glammy. The horns list immediately in
their glorious hideousness, but the guitars
will probably grow, despite the essentially
continued and over-produced nature of
the thing.
The introduction is promising apart
from the horns, but by half-way through
seems to lose its way and gets very
repetitive in a Radio One sort of way
which is the whole point of this r e c o r d -
Carter want a hit and appear to want it
bad. Having said that this is probably a
lot better than most of what gets played
on 'Wonderful Radio One', and if you like
them before you'll probably still like them
now.
The first B-side, 2001: A Clockwork
Orange is an exact carbon copy of Oz by
Casandra Complex, with an extremely
unimaginative dub over the top. God and
Theomania yourself and listen to the real
thing.
The second B-side is possibly even
worse. Think of Creaming Jesus's Forest,
make the cover about a million times
worse, remove the humour and you'll
have an approximation of Carter's version
of Bedsitter. M a r k A l m o n d must be
spinning in his Bryl-Creamed hair. This
made me shake.
The Paleoethnobotanist.
o s p o r t
Blackbird
-Compilation Album
Blackbird are two brothers. Blackbird are
American. Blackbird have toured with
Red Lorry Yellow Lorry and it shows.
The same driving rhythms and repetitive
guitar riffs can be found on this album, a
compilation of their 'bent' tracks so far.
Unfortunately for them, the Lorries
similarity doesn't quite come off.
Blackbird haven't got quite enough
power, enough black in their hearts, to
deliver a crushing enough beat. The
ordering of the album does them no
favours either, jumping fairly randomly
between the rockier side of teir nature
and an almost electro sensibility. Again,
you get the feeling this isn't quite
working as well—soft tinged electro is to
nobodies taste. A n d the music pales into
insignificance when comapared to
stablemates Revolting Cocks.
Oh, I've run out of things to say.
Perhaps this is significant—the album
leaves you feeling slightly numb in a
soporific way. It's mainly the voice, the
one constant factor throughout the LP.
It's strong, but so's a lump of steel that's
hardly interesting.
One track is quite interesting—a Lou
Reed cover seemingly heavily influenced
by some sort of electro-beat, perhaps the
best song on the L P and pointing the way
to the future?
Blackbird may have a future ahead of
them if they can escape their influences
and learn to live a bit. E v e n the Lorries
changed eventually.
The Paleoethnobotanist.
The Real People
-Let Me In 12"
CBS have obviously gone looking for the
'trendy northern sound' and have come
out the other side with The Real People.
Sure, they have nicked 77ie Farm's
twiddly guitar line and The Charlatan's
baggy bits to achieve an 'authentic'
Manchester sound that nicely fits the
accepted mould, and it lollops around at
its own happy-go-lucky pace, perfectly at
home vibrating your rib cage on the
dance floor and ust as well on the five
watt stereo.
So this begs the question, do
accountants and businessmen have taste?
No, of course not. The likes of Dee-Lite
have shown the way forward, effectively
stealing the w i n d from Manchester's sail,
and seeing as CBS have tried to find 'the
cutting edge' they've shot themselves in
the foot, as they are about a year behind
everyone else. Still, w h y believe me—my
hot tip for the year is Abba.
John.

