In the early days two Jamaican lads
worked together as welders they were
both to become legends, one was Bob
Marley and the other Desmond Dekker.
From such humble roots this former
superstar now has risen to such a height
as to play, for the first time ever,
Imperial College Union. Desmond's mix of
reggae and ska with a wicked funky
upfront boogie has brought the inimitable
sound of Desmond Dekker into millions
of homes throughout his incredible
career. Most famous of his hits is The
Israelites which sold over five million
again.
In complete contrast the Love Kittens
have a much more up to date sound. At
first sight they appear to be a typical indi
pop/dance crossover following the recent
upsurge in popularity this music is having
at the moment. But they are not, they
have something that the rest of these
bands, eg Northside/The High etc do not
have which is originality. Rave reviews
from all the music press have made this
one of the finds of 1990 and a sure thing
for success in 1991. When they are on
Top of the Pops later this year remember
As usual there are other forms of
entertainment happening tonight such as
a casino, where fortunes can be won or
lost; cocktails, where your guts can be
won or lost, and the same for the bugers'
stall. Some films will be shown if you like
films, dark places or you love to put your
hands down your pants for a long time
and not get caught! The IC Ents Disco
will be going strong and loud with the
last tunes in recent months, years or
decades until 3am. A n d what is probably
most important to the boys with attitude
problems and large bellies is a late bar
copies worldwide and was the first reggae
single to reach number one in the UK.
Now used for countless T V commercials
Desmond is hot stuff at the moment.
Definitely one of the highlights of the
year. •
Also playing tonight are three other
superb bands: Sax Appeal (yes Sax!) are
another funky outfit. They are an
instrumental band with eight sax players,
guaranteed to make even the heaviest
shoes groove to the funky sound and
make the limpest of wrists become erect
where you saw them first. O h yeah, they
are not from Manchester!
The last band of the night, yet the first
to appear, will be Boy Girl Soup. Anyone
who saw them at Freshers' Week will
know they need no introduction. But if
you missed it then they are a young band
in their infancy in Rock ' n ' Roll terms, on
the verge of signing a large record deal.
Their influences stem from The
Wonderstuff, PWEI, Band of Holy Joy etc.
A very professional and again original
band, not to be missed.
until 2am.
The whole evening starts at 8pm in the
Union Building and will cost you £3.50 if
you buy in advance from the Union
Office. If you have an ents card you can
save a pound. If you want to try and get
in on the door, and if there are any
tickets left then the cost is £4.50.
Everyone though make sure you are in
posession of your Union card which will
allow you entrance and to admit two
guests. Have a good evening and enjoy!!!
BJ, Ents Chair.
E G M
Extraordinary General Meeting
Tuesday 22 January
1.00pm in the JCR
This meeting has been called to discuss the proposed lengthening of the college day. It is vital that anyone with feelings
on this subject attend, as the working party have discounted all previous referendums and meetings, claiming them to be
unrepresentative.
T H I S IS Y O U R L A S T C H A N C E T O T E L L C O L L E G E T O F U C K O F F B E F O R E T H E Y
S H I T O N U S F R O M O N H I G H .
18

