Scribblers' Corner..
Correct, Just Bullshit
LETTERS
Dear Sir,
John Major says that he wishes to
create a classless society and I believe
he's sincere. They say actions speak
louder than words, so he should start by
withdrawing all government aid to the
arts council and the arts industry as a
whole. Last year they received £500
million (including tax exemptions). I am
an ardent Chelsea supporter and last year
the club paid £1.61 million in taxes. Only
football—the culture of the masses—is
taxed and the money given as a subsidy
to the arty-farty culture vultures who
enjoy ballet, opera and serious theatre,
i.e. the performing arts. In the main those
pursuits are enjoyed by a monied
minority w h o have their pleasures
subsidised by the massive majority. I
don't expect to be given money or get
cheaper tickets to watch football. So w h y
should pretentious prats in bow ties?
Well I am informed that the arts are
British culture. British culture? What, a fat
Iti in a dress, prancing up and down the
stage singing in a high voice. Or maybe
British culture is men with cricket boxes
stuffed down the front of their tights,
chucking about an anorexic woman. Well
that ain't m y culture.
I a m also informed that the arts are
beautiful to watch. Well I find a 40 yard
pass by A n d y Townsend to find Kerry
Dixon, who then scores, as beautiful, but
again this is not subsidised.
Last year the RSC had to close two of
its theatres in the Barbican because it
couldn't afford to keep them open. We
were told how terrible this would be for
the country. Quite obviously no one gave
a toss. What normal people are
concerned about is if they can get a bed
in a hospital or their elderly parents have
enough money to survive.
The government, quite rightly, refused
to subsidise unprofitable pits which
caused the miners' strike. Nor did they
subsidise the unprofitable docks which
used to be in the heart of the East End.
So what is so bloody special about the
arts?
A s a free marketeer I don't believe
anyone's leisure activities should be
subsidised. But if the government insists
on doing this let's subsidise pensioners'
bingo, or I'll have some of the money, so
me and m y friends can go out to the pub,
have a game of darts and then go and
have Pie, Mash and Jellied Eels. £500
million would go a very long way!
The money should not be spent on
pathetic government bashing ethnic fringe
theatres or on stuck up groups of wealthy
aristos. It should be given to the NHS
which is in need of funds. Talking of
stuck up groups of people, I bet Matthew
Salter likes the arts. W h o knows, that
money could be spent on giving him his
badly needed brain transplant. After John
Major has finished with the arts industry
he should turn his eye to the matter of
public schools and 'the old school ties'.
However y o u must feel sorry for those
privileged few. Particularly when you see
what the schools have made them into.
Yours,
Alan Bailey.
P.S. In the last few letters against me
there have been five references to
xenophobic, four bigots and three racists.
Come on lads lets have some new insults.
Or how about describing m y letters as
they really are. Correct, just and sensible.
Pro British Defence
Dear Andy,
In his letter last week, Jason Pike stated
that, ' A l l those writing against the right to
abortion have invoked G o d as the
authority justifying their case'.
I would like to point out that the ICU
Pro-Life Society is non-religious, and any
letters or articles written on behalf of the
society have not and will not 'invoke
God'.
Our members' belief that human life
must be respected at all stages of
development stems from their own
particular moral code. Naturally for some
this is part of their religious belief, but for
those who do not ascribe to any religion,
the seemingly widespread opinion that
anyone symathetic to the Pro-Life cause
is a religious fundamentalist can be very
irritating, not to mention damaging to the
way people view the society.
In short, we welcome members of any
persuasion—athiests and believers (of any
variety).
I hope this sets things straight.
Yours sincerely,
Rebecca Walter, Secretary ICU Pro-Life.
Dear Andy,
Please convey m y thanks to A m i n El-
Kholy for another supereilious,
derogatory and patronising letter, this
time directed at me.
This business of cultures is so obviously
trivial that I'm amazed he bothered
dragging it out longer. I hope I can settle
the matter once and for all.
It all began in F E L I X 882, when A m i n
made some unpleasant remarks about the
British, suggesting we are a nation of
belligerent, xenophobic drunkards. In 888
he denounced these remarks as tongue in
cheek, and I accept they probably were;
nevertheless I feel they should never
have been made. I wrote back in 885
saying, hold on! Britain ain't that bad! For
daring to defend m y country's reputation
I am branded 'narrow, nationalistic and
bigoted'.
Bigoted? Defnitely not. It's quite true
that I hold strong opinions on many
subjects, opinions which I will voice and
defend if I can be bothered. However, I
always encourage debate, argument and
discussion. Constructive criticism rather
than insults from Mr El-Kholy would be
welcome.
Nationalistic? Perhaps. A l l I said were a
few words about what I like about
Britain. I could have done the same about
Ireland, France, Bulgaria, Morocco, or
any country I know anything about.
Anyone has the right to dislike this
country, and to try to change it; I ask for
the right to defend the things in Britain I
consider worth retaining. If that is being
nationalistic, then so be it.
Narrow? This is a pretty broad subject.
I think I'll pass on it.
In his last paragraph Mr El-Kholy
reached some quite interesting
conclusions from the one sentence I
wrote pertaining to the Gulf Crisis.
Interesting, and mostly wrong, keep it up,
A m .
I went to the anti-war demo in
Trafalgar Square, to observe rather than
participate. What particularly annoyed me
was the tremendous anti-American feeling
expressed in placards and speeches, and
the naive attitude that A m e r i c a is the sole
source of all tension in the Middle East.
21

