Bar Brawl
A man was arrested at the Ents Disco last
Friday, the 11th of January. There had
been a bar extension until 1.00am and
the disco was due to finish at 2.00am.
Union Deputy President Benjamin Turner
said 'The building was absolutely packed'.
Mr Turner was clearing up in the
Lounge Bar at around 1.20am when a
Union life member brought to his
attention a coloured gentleman who was
harassing girls and following them
around. The gentleman, about 5' 10" and
aged between 25 and 30, was asked for
his Union card but he replied 'I'm not a
student here.' He was then escorted into
the quad with assistance of other Union
members.
At this point the man became violent.
Witnesses at the scene said '...he went
mad!' and 'He was totally fucking loopy!'.
He began flailing his arms wildly and
screaming a n d appeared to be either
excessively drunk or under the influence
of drugs. He refused to be calmed down
and so was carried out of the quad.
Reentering the Union, he assaulted
three Union members who did not
retaliate. The injuries received included
one black eye, two split lips and a broken
tooth. A s a result of these assaults the
Police were called who promptly
removed the man. He has been charged
with grievous bodily harm.
College Break-ins
Two break-ins occured during the past
week. O n Sunday, two storage rooms
were forced open below Linstead but
nothing was taken. One door was
removed from it's hinges, the other
broken.
A l a n Larsen, Southside Bar Steward,
said that the rooms lie off the bar's empty
keg store and that he thought that the
burglars assumed that the rooms held
Southside's spirit store. The rooms
actually contain furniture.
The basement of 12/13 Princes Gardens
was broken into on Wednesday night.
The Office of the Kensington Friends of
Overseas Students were entered but the
only equipment taken was £700 worth of
tools belonging to a contractor. This
included a pneumatic drill its transformer.
The contractor, who had only arrived
the previous day, had had equipment
stolen in the same manner the previous
time they had worked at Imperial, before
Christmas.
Security
Roundup
There have been several walk-in thefts
around college. A hold- all, cheque book
and cards were stolen from the kitchen
area of the Southside basement and
another theft occured on the sixth floor
of Mech Eng.
Two more bikes have been stolen.
These were left outside the Science
Museum Library using chains rather than
D-locks. Please, take note: chains are
N O T secure. Security are noting an
average of one crime per day so look
after your belongings.
A new trend is emerging, that of car
break-ins. A car outside the Chemistry
building was broken into over the
weekend, though the owner foiled the
attempt to remove the radio. This makes
five cars in a month.
Due to the current situation in the Gulf,
students are asked to be vigilant for
suspicious bags or people. Posters will be
put around College asking whether you
have let accommodation for cash or sold
a vehicle for cash. If you have any
suspicions you are asked to phone the
Anti-terrorist branch on 0800 789321. A l l
calls are confidential.
World Leaders
in Student Travel
• Low Cost Flights on Quality
Airlines
• Special Fares for Students
© Weekend Breaks, Tours &
Group Bookings
Well Travelled Staff to
Guide You
Over 100 Offices
Worldwide
U L U Travel
Imperial College
Sherfield Building
London SW7 E3 IS
ULU TRAVEL
STOP PRESS
At approximately 12.25 am our time, on Friday the 11th
January, Iraq launched a missile attack on Israel.
Although at this time (1.05 am) the details are not clear,
American Military sources report the launch of at least
five SCUD missiles, the type most likely to be used in a
chemical attack. These were launched from mobile
launchers, despite the UN forces attempt to destroy all of
the SCUD launchers with air attacks.
Air-raid sirens were sounded in Jerusalem, and there
are three confirmed hits on Tel Aviv. The other missiles
have hit population centres to the south of Tel Aviv. A
CNS reporter in Tel A v i v reported at least seven or eight
explosions within the city.
At 1.30 am it was confirmed that at least one of the
missiles delivered a chemical warhead containing nerve
gas. Israeli authorities have issued instructions to their
people to don gas masks and stay inside sealed rooms.
Israeli hospitals have already taken in casualties from
nerve gas. Soon after the Pentagon denied this.
Israel was apparently well prepared. Gas masks and
shelters have been distributed, and the populace have
been instructed in the procedures for their use.
A n Israeli spokesman at the Pentagon felt that the
reaction of Israeli people would be to launch '...an attack
very soon, possibly within the n e x t few hours'. He also
stated that it is likely the attack would be '...massive...'
Another spokesman speaking from Israel said 'This could
signal the end of President Hussein within 24 hours'.
American statements indicate that they expect a response
to occur. Whether or not this has already happened was
not said. Concern was expressed as to the magnitude of
the response, and whether it would be '...justifiable...'.

