Athena Speaks
Most people called for an Arab solution to
the crisis. 1 pointed out to a steward that
the solution the Arab countries reached
was to ask for 'Western' help. The surly
steward, a Leninist to judge from his
plethora of badges, said bluntly—we
shouldn't help them. To justify this view
he recited a list of other places we
allegedly failed to help, such as
Afghanistan, Panama, Czechoslovakia,
South Africa (?) and others. Well, I
suggested, wouldn't this be a perfect
opportunity to start helping oppressed
people around the world? 'Piss off, was
the elequent response. 1 fear it reflected
the 1Q of a large number of the
protestors.
Yours sincerely,
Ultan McCarthy, Physics 3.
Who?
Dear Andy,
I'd like to bring to your readers
attention a much more explosive problem
than that of Mr Husseins imminent
demise.
What I'm talking about is this: Y o u get
in from a tough day at college. Y o u then
wander down to some bar. You have few
pints with the lads, brag about what
happened last night, and then, unlike
most of the 'men' here, go and chat up
some dopey bitch. Y o u go back to her
room/flat. A l l you want is a good shag
with whassa her name. So you tell you
love her and pull on a condom. The
woman thinks you're responsible, 'cos
you're wearing the thing. Y o u think
you're safe. Guy's, you with me so far?
So you bonk her more stupid than she
is already is. You're just thinking about
leaving now you've sobered up enough to
see her face clearly. Y o u look down. Shit,
the balloons up, the rubbers ripped. It's
not you're fault that you're a real man, is
it?
I ask you, what are British Standards
coming to? The pride of the British
workforce has gone to pot! It's bad
enough that you've got to wear a
raincoat on your knob, just 'cos the pill is
out of fashion with todays 'liberated', ie
easy, women. Some tossers might write
letters to you saying how wonderful
Britain is, but what state are we in when
a man can't even be free to use his God
given right to sex when he wants it,
without worrying about catching
something? Not to mention the hassle of
some bitch knocking on your door in
three months time. It wouldn't be so bad,
but they never take T * * k off for an
answer!
Yours,
A Real Man,
Dear Sir,
I have a number of points to make this
week.
1. My first point is that I shall try to
number them all so that when people like
A m i n El-Kholy talk about my letters they
can give an Issue number and a point
number when discussing m y assertions.
2. Mr El-Kholy says his 'first reaction,
however, was not to waste time on a
reply since the arguments presented were
so weak...' Surely if they were so weak
they would not take long to brush away?
I'm afraid that that sort of reply is always
looked upon as a last desperate bluff,
whether rightly or wrongly.
However, I shall try and work out
which points he was on about. If he was
discussing the letter in issue 883 (the only
letter since his first effort) then here is
my reply:
The first 43 words discuss the necessity
for exact use of vocabulary in an
argument eg 'no proven correlation' and
'proven no correlation' are two totally
different statements made up of the same
three words. I will expect no argument
on this part.
The next 70 words deals with the F A C T
that hostages must not be used for
bargaining. If I hold a gun to my bank
manager's head and ask for a million
pounds and I am not punished, then I and
everyone else will try it again. Y o u will
get a million pounds, you will not actually
have to hurt anyone, and it will soon
become daily routine.
Then comes 98 words on the same
lines as the Amnesty International article
in issue 888. No arguments here I hope.
The rest is the choice of Athena as a
name which could result in endless
irrelevant discussion as I'm not changing
it.
3. About sanctions. While I would
prefer sanctions tQ war, it is clear that
Saddam does, not worry about his people,
indeed he has used Chemicals on them.
So he will not notice sanctions until it
begins to hurt his Military. This will take
several years. He is also close to
developing nuclear weapons, which he
will use as he used Chemicals. So there is
good reason to believe that sanctions will
fail.
Thus it is vital that Saddam believes
that he will eventually be attacked if he
does not withdraw, otherwise he won't
withdraw.
The UN has set a date, by which he
must be withdrawing from Kuwait. He
has already had since August 2. He has
had enough time. If on that day the U N
agrees to allow more time, it says to him
'ok, but if you don't get out on x x x you'll
die. Ok, if you don't get out on yyy you'll
die..' etc. It would be reminiscent of the
Robin Williams sketch on Khaddaffi's Line
of Death: 'You cross this line, you die.
Ok, you cross this line you die. This line.
This. Ok, you knock on my door, I'm not
coming out, nyar.'
I might be able to understand the
thinking that 15 January is too early;
though I might not agree with it, I could
see the idea came from a relatively sane
mind. However the date has been set. It
cannot now be changed without
convincing Saddam he can stay as long as
he wants.
4. I hope that after reading my article
in 885 I clarified my dislike of any
organised religion. The point should now
be clear that the Islamic countries now
have the same degree of religious belief
as did Europe approximately four
centuries ago. They have a culture based
heavily on their religion, and the
theocracy has a similar power to the
Catholic church of European history. It is
for this reason that I state that the Islamic
nations are four centuries less culturally
mature than the West. It is not meant as
a slur of intelligence. The fact is that it
takes a long time for a population to
come to terms with the fact that the
theocracy distorts a religion for its own
purposes. It is the same for communism,
Islam, the Roman Catholics; the people at
the top are corrupt. For example:
Saddam has called for a Holy war. Sura
109 of the Koran finishes by saying about
unbelievers 'To you your religion, and to
me mine'. A n d in Sura 2 'God loves not
the aggressors. Slay them wherever you
come upon them.' A n d yet it was Saddam
who invaded Kuwait. The U N should
perhaps follow the Koran and slay
Saddam?
5. Here's one, primarily for Christians,
but also for any 'eternal life' religion. God
says to forgive a man his sins, the one
lost sheep being the most important etc.
To get to Heaven you must be
compassionate and not tolerate a man
suffering, even if he is your enemy. So
how can there be anyone in Heaven? To
be in Heaven, and know that uncountable
souls are suffering for eternity in Hell,
must cause you incredible anguish.
Heaven will be your own private Hell!
and if you are content to see people
suffer in Hell, then you do not deserve to
be in Heaven! I can't wait to hear your
arguments on that one!
6. Ok Pro-Life time. First let's talk about
the six GUYS that wrote this letter (issue
885, Da Capo), they're GUYS! God-squad
for that matter. No doubt you believe a
22 continued..

