Security
n i l
at Imperial M l
Statement by Benjamin Turner, Union Deputy President, on
behalf of Imperial College Union
Statement by Valerie Straw,
Facilities Manager, on behalf
of Imperial College
'The Security Forces have given the
College reason to believe that there is no
cause for concern about the nature of the
people or material in the Iraqi Embassy
or the surrounding area. The police
presence around the Embassy has
reverted to the normal levels that would
be expected in the present political
climate. They are there for the protection
of the Embassy staff and in case of
possible demonstrations.
There is no reason whatever why the
activities of the College should not carry
on as normal.'
Many students may have heard various
rumours concerning the Iraqi Embassy on
Queensgate.
New.Scotland Yard have confirmed that
NONE of these rumours are substantiated.
The most popular rumour is that large
quantities of nerve gas are stored in the
basement of the Embassy. This rumour
was initiated by a poorly researched
article in the Daily Star, some two
months ago, and is unfounded.
Without referring to statements from
authorities, various responsible people
within departments, notably Chemistry,
Electrical Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering and Geology, have been
announcing to lecture theatres full of
students that the rumours are correct.
They are often advising students not to
come into College.
Clearly, there is no College policy that
students should not come onto campus. If
such a policy had been necessary, it
would undoubtedly have originated from
specific instructions from the Security
authorities to the Rector, and students
would have been advised of this policy
without delay.
I advise the students of Imperial College
to ignore such scaremongering.
Swimming Pool Off Colour St Mary's Beds
Imperial's swimming pool was closed on
Wednesday morning due to discoloured
water. A n official at the sports centre said
that chemical levels in the pool were
normal and were not unsafe. He added
that the pool still had to be closed for
safety reasons since the bottom could not
be seen.
The Sports Centre was partly closed on
Monday whilst lockers were replaced in
the changing room. The new lockers
require lOp piece which is not returned.
This has annoyed users of the centre,
who must now pay each time they wish
to lock-unlock the lockers. The current
annual student season ticket rate is £12:
regular users may now have to pay more
than £12 extra per year just for the
privilege of locking their clothes.
Next Wednesday, 23 January, Dr R
Henderson, FRS, of Cambridge University
is expected to lecture in the Physics
department on 'Proton Pumps in Nature'.
The detection of light in the retina of
our eyes is a quantum process, and the
key is a protein called rhodopsin. Dr
Henderson will ask (and answer?): how
does this proton pump work? What is its
structure? Is there a model? The lecture is
in the main Physics theatre, level 3, at
1.15pm.
J .
From Comets to Computers' is the title of
an inaugural lecture to be given by
Professor R. Hynds next Thursday. It will
held at 5.30pm in Lecture Theatre 213
Huxley.
Professor Hynds, from the Computer
Centre, will be speaking on the high pace
of change in computing technology,
touching briefly on the ULYSSES project
and low-energy particle experiments.
It was rumored this week that beds at
London medical schools, including
St.Marys, could be used for war
casualties. Injured solders could arrive in
London two weeks after hostilities begin
although students at St.Marys have not
been informed of any planned use of
beds.
Casualties brought to London would
undergo non-emergency operations
performed by hospital doctors rather than
medical students.
Bomb Scare
A bomb scare closed South Kensington
Underground station briefly on
Wednesday. After an alert at 1.25pm, the
station was closed for an hour,
interrupting services on both lines.
London Transport are not releasing
details due to the current climate but did
say that there had been several scares
during the day.
Awards
A n d now the results for 'Research Grant
Stakes'. This month's trophy goes to
Professor C. Hopkins who has secured
£454,436 over 38 months from the M R C
for the 'uptake and intra-cellular
processing of cell surface receptors.'
The 'Free-Market Economy Booby
Prize' for tight-fistedness goes to the
Production Engineering & Research
Association of Great Britain. They have
awarded Professor D. West £750 over 7
months to research 'metal-mix
composites.'
3
Pumps, Comets
and Computers

