St
FELIX
The Careers Advisers give Felix the rundown on Employers' opinions of ICStudents...
So What Is Wrong With Us ?
The date that is firmly fixed i n our diaries
is January 16; the start of the 1991
Milkround. For the next eight weeks or
so, w e k n o w that 'if it's lasagne it must
be Tuesday...' W h y ? Because every day
the Careers Advisers take the visiting
employers to lunch in a corner of the
SCR, and talk to them. Not only do w e
attempt a marketing job o n all the IC
applicants to their organisations: 'they're
bright, streetwise, ambitious and have
highly developed analytical skills'. W e say
confidently across the Tunchtable. ' A n d
they're used to working hard...'
But lunchtime conversations, like
interviews, are two way processes and
we thought y o u might like to ponder o n
some of the less flattering things
employers said about people like you last
year. Competition for sought after jobs is
m u c h fiercer this year and to be
successful y o u really need to plan your
strategy carefully—so we've given a few
pointers to help you get over the first
interview hurdle, at least. W e ' v e divided
the 'quotes' up to reflect the different
stages of the interview, rather than i n
order of importance.
Some of them don't even know their
way around the College
Lots of Milkround interviews take place i n
departments and not i n the rooms around
the Careers Service. If you find that y o u
will have to find a r o o m i n an unfamiliar
building it's worth discovering it's exact
location well before the event. Turning
up late, and out of breath, will do y o u n o
favours.
Some candidates are so nervous it's
impossible to find out about their
suitability—or otherwise.
It is nervewracking attending a n
important interview, but try to do
everything possible to relax beforehand.
You'll give a much better impression to
the employer if you appear calm and can
concentrate o n the exchange of questions
and answers. Being fully prepared, so that
you feel confident about handling general
questions about yourself, your skills,
experience and ambitions related to their
area of employment will help. Practice
the sorts of things you may say i n
response to the obvious questions
(including the difficult ones) either with a
friend or o n your own, safely locked in
the bathroom!
Conversely
Some of your students are very full of
themselves, feel they will be doing us
a favour if they deign to join us.
W i t h very few exceptions, most
employers are put off by an extravagant
show of confidence. Be aware of your
abilities and your track records, but don't
mm J
tlillltii^lt
¥
0mmm
push it at your interviewer. Remember, if
you are offered a job it will be because of
your potential, rather than your past.
Most employers view graduates as very
raw (but valuable) material.
A c o m m o n one..
Interviewing some of your people is
very hard work—like getting blood
out of a stone.
If you don't tell them about yourself how
will they be able to assess your
suitability? 'Yes' or 'No' answers won't get
you the job and most interviewers will
deliberately ask you 'open' questions to
prevent you giving very short replies.
Remember that you are marketing
yourself during a n interview, building o n
the information already provided i n your
application. T h i n k of your 'selling points',
and consider what sort of person
specifications your interviewer will have
in m i n d for the work that interests you.
A n d tell them w h y they should be
interested in you.
There's always someone who can't
remember what he put o n his
application form.
Don't let it be you! Always keep a copy
of your application and read it through
before the interview.
The work...
It's amazing how many people apply
for work that they know nothing
about.
Every year some jobs become very
fashionable. Names like 'Strategy
Consultancy' or 'Corporate Finance' are
bandied around. Whatever y o u apply for,
make sure that you understand the aims
of the department and how the staff work
together to achieve targets. D o this b y
talking to people already established in
similar jobs, b y reading the appropriate
trade magazines and national press. It's
much easier to bluff in a n application
than face to face...
They say they're planning a career in
our business, but they haven't
bothered to read beyond our
brochure...
The information available to everyone in
the Careers Office is just a starter—
especially for the most competitive areas.
Read as much background material as
you can find (Business and Institute
Libraries can be a wonderful source of
information). Possibly set up a file of
useful articles and notes to look through
before the interview. Speak to as many
people as possible about the industry i n
general and develop your own opinions
about how things may change over the
next couple of years. If y o u do this, y o u
should be able to handle most questions,
including the awful 'In your view...how is
this likely to affect X?' with a fair show of
confidence. Y o u r answers don't have to
be right, but there has to be an obvious
rationale to them.
We look for analytical skills and
expect this to stretch into personal
awareness and career planning...
Not every employer will expect you to
have firm ideas about where y o u intend
to be i n five, or ten years time. But most
will expect you to have applied some
analysis to yourself—what skills,
experience and personality y o u can
contribute to their organisation. A careers
adviser will help you tackle this, if
necessary, and there are some useful
workbooks i n the Careers Service to help
you get your head i n order.
How can some of them be so out of
touch with current affairs?
Surprise, surprise—lots of students don't
listen to, or read the news—and certainly
don't really think about how world events
may affect their career choice. Coming up
to interviews, it's worth reading a
'quality' paper most days—and if you are
considering high flying finance o r
consultancy, then The Economist should
be included o n your list along with the
FT. Scan the business pages for anything
that involves your chosen employers—it's
deeply embarrassing not to be aware
that, for instance, the company
interviewing you is i n the midst of
merger talks, or planning major
international expansion.
I'm not convinced that any of them
have really thought through the
process of studying for professional
exams in addition to a real job.
This comment—made mainly b y
chartered accountants, is very important,
if you are serious about gaining your
chosen qualification. Y o u r interviewers
will expect you to have a plan, be aware
of your most effective methods of study
and have thought about the effects the
combination of work and study will have
on your leisure activities—especially team
sports. They're also looking for real
motivation to achieve the qualification.
Evidence shows that people who are not
absolutely committed to gaining such
professional status—regardless of cost—
are much more likely to fail exams, o r
drop out. The employers don't want to
take that risk—it's expensive.
Why do some of them feel everything
happens in London?
Many employers require considerable
mobility during training. It's helpful to be
open-minded and flexible about your
preferred locations.
Towards the end of interviews you will
be given the opportunity to ask questions.
We keep being asked about our
international opportunities—they don't
seem to realise that we can't send
them abroad until they can make a
real contribution.
Analytical skills again—read the brochure,
speak to people and be ralistic i n your
expectations. Sometimes students give the
impression that they're applying because
of the opportunity to travel, rather than
because they could make a real
contribution to the work of a n
organisation.
They're all asking about 'the
package'—salaries, holidays, perks,
etc. I begin to wonder if they're really
interested in the job.
It's wise to hold onto most of these
questions until you've actually been
offered the job. Often people doing
campus interviews really don't know the
answers to these questions, and it can
leave them feeling that y o u weren't
interested enough to ask questions about
the work you have applied to do.
St
FELIX
I'm not convinced that everyone I see
is really interested in our jobs.
Too true...many of you will be
interviewed for jobs that are second
choices. Others will attend early
interviews to gain experience of
answering questions. But if you are really
interested i n a n organisation, don't be
afraid to show it. D o your research
thoroughly a n d think carefully about the
skills and experience that they are
looking for, that you can offer. B e
enthusiastic and smile!
Some of them ask questions that have
already been answered elsewhere.
Don't ask questions that have already
been answered i n the brochure/video, or
at the presentation or even earlier i n the
interview. Some candidates have
prepared questions that they seem to
want to ask regardless of its worth at this
stage.
Of course, most employers say very
flattering things about their IC
interviewees—let's hope y o u will be one
of them!
Good luck from the Careers Advisers.
Russ Clarke
Shiona Llewellyn
Bill Fox
WANT TO KNOW
MORE!
You can contact any of
the above advisers on
ext 3251
Hend-a-Brike
PETER T H O M A S
BICYCLE
REPAIRS
SALES
A N D
ACCESSORIES
4-6 Effie Road
Fulham, London SW6 I T D
071-371 5867
4 5

