C h i l d ' s P l a y 2
Have you ever seen film and not
been able to work out if it's meant
to be a joke? That's the problem I
had upon seeing this film. The first two-
thirds of the film are filled with scenes
that are laughable in the extreme, but
you're never sure whether or not this is
deliberate.
1 confess to not having seen Childs Play
(although on the strength (?) of this sequel
it's doubtful that I will), but it appears to
have revolved around the possession of a
toy doll by the spirit of a psychotic mass
murderer who dabbled in voodoo as a
side line. He committed this foul and evil
act of subjugation in order to cheat death
at the hands of the Police (yawn).
Surprisingly enough, however, the doll
wasn't his first choice, but the only body
nearby at the time. Now he faces a
problem; unless he transfers his spirit to a
human soon he'll be trapped forever in
the body of the doll (isn't it convenient
how the laws of magic m a k e for useful
plot devices?).
So in the first film the baddie attempts
to take over the body of a young child,
killing several people in the process (you
can't teach an old mass-murderer new
tricks), but ends up being fried in some
form of explosion.
The sequel begins after the Police
investigation into the murders, in w h i c h
the child testifies as to the guilt of the
EndGame
I Weird is the best w a y to describe
this, weird but interesting. It is a
study of a person's twilight years
that can be all too depressing yet has
enough humour to avoid being too
moribund.
The acting is very good, with all four
characters coming across well, despite the
fact that you only get fleeting glimpses of
two of them (they're in dustbins).
The main themes: life, death and not
wanting to change from one to the other,
are very proudly and capably handled.
The result, a play that captures your
heart and m i n d and holds them until the
very end.
Ian Hodge
— F i l m
•Theatre
doll, as does his mother. She is promptly
locked up in an institution, and the kiddie
sent to a home. The company who
manufactures the dolls get hold of the
offending little chap and rebuilds him in
an attempt to stave off the b a d publicity,
and reassure their stock holders.
The kid then gets adopted, the newly
remade doll runs amok, and you can
guess most of the rest. In all it's not a
very good film; the only thing about it
that's actually scary is putting yourself in
Piano
the shoes (small though they are) of the
child. Confronted by an animated killer
doll you would assume that as long as
you could convince an adult that you
weren't lying, then everything would be
alright. He does this in the first film, and
they lock his mother up. If you must see
it, then m y advice is to partake of the
wonders of modern chemistry
beforehand. Y o u ' l l find it more amusing.
Alien Sex Fiend.
' ; - •••
[A lot of people find Chekhov
I dispiriting, depressing and even
stuffy but there's no denying that,
for his time, he dissected the Russian
aristocracy with great precision and
psychological accuracy. In Piano Trevor
Griffiths distills Chekhov's four major
plays into one where the characters are
still recognisable as being 'Chekhovian'—
the lively doctor who is reluctant to go
out into the night to tend to a dying
peasant, the eternal student w h o can't get
the other characters to listen to his
prediction of imminent d o o m for the
ruling classes (presumably the 1917
revolution). A n d then there's the what-
shall-we-do-next party w h i c h graphically
shows the helplessness of the drifting
bourgeosie.
Superb performances (starring Penelope
Wilton and Butterflies Geoffrey Palmer)
and flawless direction go to make Piano
one of the most amusing and exhilarating
plays I've seen in a long time. Student
standby's are available from The
Cotteslow (NT) box office quarter of an
hour before the show at £5.00.
Hurry, it closes on Saturday!
Fruit.

