T h e F o o l
W It is sad how infrequently a British
I ^ B film comes before us, and equally
sad how few of them actually
succeed. Most recently one thinks of A
Fish Called Wanda and, in a limited way,
Nuns on the Run. Apart from those, only
the grand period pieces of the early
eighties spring to mind—A Passage to
India, Chariots of Fire and Little Dorrit.
This new film comes from the same
stable as the last and is also set in
Dickensian London, although it is an
original piece.
It tells of a clerk called Mr Frederick
(Derek / Claudius Jacobi) who lives a
bizarre double life. Much of the time he is
the accountant for a small London
Theatre, yet he hob-nobs with the very
elite of Victorian Society having adopted
the role of the reclusive Sir John who
owns the Theatre, but never ventures
out. We are presented with a morality
tale of money and social injustice that has
obvious parallels with the state of the
City and other money markets today.
The Rookie
F This is a deceiving film. It sounds
like a good idea. It has sexy
posters. It's got Clint Eastwood
(always good for laugh) in it.
Unfortunately it's not very good. The film
follows strictly formula plot lines that
you've seen far too many times, the
dialogue is jerky and uninspiring (not to
mention ridiculous in parts: I quote
Charlie Sheen's script; 'It's time for me to
stop being scared. A n d for other people
to start.'), and above all nothing
surprising happens.
Okay, so I lied. There is one interesting
and surprising scene: Clint gets raped by
the head female baddie.
Really it's up to you guys and gals to
decide if you want to shell out a fiver to
see a film you've seen before at least two
dozen times.
Alien Sex Fiend.
The acting, as one would expect from
the range of talent on offer—everyone
from Michael Horden through Miranda
Richardson to Joan Sims—, is superb. The
period detail, on both rich and poor
levels is flawlessly recreated and the basic
plot is a very interesting one. So why
doesn't the film quite succeed?
It is, in a word, flabby. It runs for over
2 V* hours, yet the real plot only really
comes into its own in the last hour or so.
Much of the rest of the space is taken up
with little glances of people and situations
and people of w h o m we see and learn
little more. The viewer is left confused by
the panoply of characters, without any
real idea of what it is he is watching. To
have to sit through an hour of what
verges on boredom (I saw at least one of
the more elderly critics doze off) for a
sparkling last half hour is not the way to
an audience's heart. This should have
been great, it is merely average.
Pendragon.
Narrow
WARNING: Don't see this film if you
suffer from a heart condition. If you
didn't have one when you went in
you will when you come out.
The plot is a fairly tired one. A n unseen
witness to a mob killing refuses to give
evidence, the mob find her, they try to
kill her (with a helicopter gunship!) and
the police try to protect her. There then
follows a chase across Canada on a trail
full of tension and suspense.
Gene Hackman (as the attorney
protecting the witness) delivers a very
good performance but it will still take
something very special to surpass
Mississippi Burning. Unfortunately, the
best actor in the film, M Emmett Walsh
who plays Sergeant Benti, is killed off far
too early. His happy, jolly personality
would have contrasted extremely well
with the overall tense nature of the film.
A n y complaints? Well, the filming of
some of the scenes left much to be
desired. The model trains are very
reminiscent of my childhood days! Surely
they could do better than this?
A good film that deserves to do well, in
which there are enough twists and turns
to keep you guessing until the very end.
Ian Hodge

