War, What is it Good For?
• • • . •
st
FELIX
With the US and Britain firmly committed
to War in the Gulf and the allies adopting
an inactive position, Chistopher Riley
talks to European students about their
support for the task force, conspicuous by
its absence.
This week Kuwaities in Britain breathed a
sigh of relief as the U N deadline on Iraq
arrived. They have been called for the
'rescue' of their country from the ruthless
clutches of Hussein ever since information
about the atrocities started to reach the
west. Some 4,000 people have been
tortured and killed under Iraqi rule since
August. They argue that the inevitable
further deaths that war will bring to the
19 million Kuwaities still left can only be
an improvement to the slow, agonising
torture and death they have been
experiencing over the last six months.
But do the Kuwaities left want a
'liberating' war or a unity with Iraq?
What may sound ridiculous is simply an
irreconcilable difference of cultures
between the Middle East and the West.
In Monday's German newspaper Die
Welt, Dr Karl Bertzel stressed the
growing importance of the two Arabic
movements in the Middle East. The first
follows the example of Libya, Egypt and
Iraq itself, calling for the present
feudalism, to be replaced. The alternative
is an, as yet, undefined political system
which, through Islamic influences, will
differ from a western style democracy.
The second calls for the founding of a
Pan-Arabic nation. Is the Invasion of
Kuwait simply a movement towards such
a Pan-Arabic state, which cannot be
halted by external forces such as the U N
resolutions? 'It is crucial to see both sides
to the argument', explains German
student Michael Gross. 'The situation in
the Gulf has been brought about by the
west. After the First W o r l d War the U N
carved up the Middle East with almost
arbitrary straight lines. It was misguided
to assume that the newly synthesised
Arab countries would be content with the
UN's artificial borders. Clearly Saddam
Hussein cannot be allowed to behave as
he pleases. Iraq can justify its actions,
believing that they have a right to Kuwait
as their tenth state. Meanwhile the US is
bent on its blinkered style of democracy.'
'In the west we smile at the profits
made by selling Iraq the constituents for
chemical weapons and nuclear capabilities
during 'peace time', but once the tables
are turned, we condemn the use of such
artillery', explains French engineering
student Frank Vialaron. 'Such an issue
can only be settled by the Arab nations,
through a Middle East summit.'
If the U N seriously wants to protect
freedom and democracy they would
demand a referendum within Kuwait to
replace the present U N demands. The
current 'get out or prepare for war'
ultimatum does not allow an option for
Hussein to back down gracefully without
losing face. If employed from the start
such a referendum would at least allow a
back door to Hussein, so important to the
Arabic system. Bertzel suggests that it
Some 4,000
people
have been
tortured
and killed
under Iraqi
rule since
August
would include the whole of the Kuwaiti
population, not just the ruling elite and
proposes the following alternatives:
removing the present state of feudalism,
independence or unification with Iraq.
'It is naive to think that the US has sent
troops to the Gulf to protect democracy.
W h y then was an international task force
not sent to South Africa to eliminate
apartheid. W h e n Iraq declared war on
Iran nothing was done. W h e n China
invaded Tibet in 1956 the U N turned a
blind eye. The U N has never acted
strongly to preserve human rights,
prefering simple declaration' suggests
Italian Chemical Engineering student
Mauro Costantino. But the French
perceive Kuwait, as a little western island
of capitalism in a sea of A r a b
fundamentalism, the 'Bank of the Middle
East', a major supply of oil and 'a
paradise of duty free fun'. It is their o w n
interests w h i c h are driving the US into
war. 'In Panama Noriega was once a
puppet of the USA. But once he'd
overstepped the mark and his actions no
longer suited the US, they invaded
without hesitation to 're-establish
democracy', points out Mauro. Saddam
Hussein is no General Noriega and the
Gulf is no Panama. Casualties will not
only be coming back in body bags, but in
lead-lined coffins.

