FELIX
Anna Teeman discusses one of the major factors in Arab culture,
and its part in the current crisis:
The Importance of Face
As you read this the infamous midnight
deadline will have passed. A t 5am our
time on Wednesday 16th of January 1990
young men and w o m e n might have
already lost their lives in an unjustifiable
and worse an avoidable war.
H o w did our 'mature' international or
rather A m e r i c a n leaders bring the Middle
East to a war footing. A m e r i c a n foreign
policy in its arrogance and ignorance has
steam-rollered intelligent diplomacy in
favour of juvenile war mongering.
American and A r a b rhetoric was
matched in its hateful content but it
meant different things to the two sides
from which it came. The Americans
heard their o w n rhetoric and to them
casual war mongering became a firm
commitment to conflict. Underlying A r a b
rhetoric was an Arab obsession with not
losing face. A n example: A n Englishman
was staying in a hotel in Cairo as he
pulled back his bed covers he found a
bed infested with bugs. He went
downstairs and collared the manager.
'There's bugs in my bed' the man said,
'Impossible, there must be some mistake.
I suggest an arm wrestle.' The
Englishman in his naivety battled hard on
the first wrestle. Then seeing the Arab's
face he saw his quickest w a y to get new
sheets. The A r a b won the second and
third arm wrestles. A s if b y magic new
sheets, crisp and clean, waited in his
room upstairs. The moral of this story is,
in A r a b culture it is vital never to lose
face.
The French are highly adept in Middle
Eastern diplomacy. They don't judge the
Arabs but they work with their culture.
The French have learnt that although an
A r a b will not lose face, infact because an
Arab will not lose face, they are masters
of fine and subtle negotiation. It can be
said that in our Western culture we too
do not want to lose face, but rather than
negotiation we arrive at confrontation.
The French peace package has two
conditions. First an Iraqi promise of
withdrawal from Kuwait and second an
international conference on the so-called
'Palestinian problem'. W h y is the rest of
the Western Alliance so resolute in it's
near hysterical rejection of this life saving
compromise? Public opinion in Israel itself
is constantly pushing for a peaceful end
to the blood-letting on the Gazza Strip
and the West Bank.
What will be Israel's role in the near
certain conflict? Israel has an 'offensive'
defence policy. Under threat of attack
Israel will cripple her offender. In all her
wars, on the strength of this policy, Israel
has won and the confrontations have
been short. But how short w o u l d a
conflict with Saddam Hussein's Iraq be?
Israel is the wild card in the pack. Her
participation in any conflict transforms
alliances now standing. Egyptian policy is
clear. Egypt will fight alongside the
Western Allies against Saddam Hussein
but, once Iraq is in conflict with Israel,
Egypt would then ally with Iraq. The
Middle East conflict would then become a
bloody and bigoted 'jihad' or so-called
holy war. Never has there been such a
contradiction in terms.
Every war must come to an end and at
every end there is a peace conference at
which all sides must compromise. Even
after the horrors of the Second W o r l d
War the compromises at its end laid the
foundations for our mature and stable
Europe. The Americans are willing to
sacrifice infinitely precious human lives so
that they will sit around the table of
compromise later rather than sooner.
W h o is the madder of the men, Saddam
or George?

