science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 7 March 2008
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
Warming seas mean King Penguins have to travel further to forage, limiting their reproductive success
Laura Starr
Scientists have confirmed that glo-
bal warming is a severe threat to the
King Penguin population, having an
effect on their survival and breeding
patterns. A recent study, led by Yvon
Le Maho from the Institut Hubert
Curien in Strasbourg, tracked 456 in-
dividual penguins over a nine year
period and found that even a small in-
crease in temperature, reflecting exist-
ing climate change predictions, poses
an enormous danger and significant
extinction risk for these charismatic
creatures. The results were published
in the February 11th issue of PNAS.
Many consider climate change to
be the most significant environmen-
tal challenge facing mankind at this
moment in time. Its effects include
extreme weather patterns, rising sea
levels and in some areas a reduction
in food resources. Importantly, Earth’s
warming patterns are strongest in po-
lar regions, where temperatures have
risen five times faster than the global
average over the past 50 years. It’s this
warming which makes climate change
as much of a challenge for penguins as
mankind.
Penguins are marine predators, posi-
tioned at the top of the Antarctic food
chain. Studying their population dy-
namics can reflect the evolution of ma-
rine supplies such as krill, which nestle
at the bottom of the food chain. The
adult penguins swim to and from their
colony to collect food for themselves
and their offspring, with the distance
travelled being directly correlated with
the temperature of the ocean surface.
Organisms at the low trophic levels
(further down in the food chain) are
only able to thrive at a narrow temper-
ature range. The warmer the surface of
the water, the less marine life there is
close to the colony and hence the fur-
ther the penguins have to go in order
to fish. During the summer months,
the penguins have been seen to travel
between 300-600 km away from the
colony, as the warmer Southern Ocean
sea surface has hindered the develop-
ment of marine life forms near the
colony.
Counterintuitively, this warming
doesn’t only occur in the summer:
during the winter period, the ocean
surface temperature has been shown
to increase by around 0.26°C, which
leads to a population collapse of ma-
rine organisms then too, explaining
why the King Penguins have been seen
to travel up to 2000 km away during
this period.
Unsuprisingly, as well as a decrease
in marine life forms, warmer Southern
Ocean sea surface temperatures are
also connected with an abrupt decline
in the penguin population’s reproduc-
tive success. With less food available
for consumption and to bring back
to the young, the little chicks have an
abridged likelihood of survival. Us-
ing the data collected, a mathematical
model was produced, which was used
to predict a subsequent 9% drop in the
penguin’s survival two years later. The
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change has predicted that Earth will
warm by 0.2°C per decade for the next
two decades – the threat to the penguin
population can clearly be inferred.
The investigation was carried out on
the sub Antarctic species, Aptenodytes
patagonicus, found on Possession Is-
land in the Crozet Archipelago, locat-
ed in the southern Indian Ocean. It is
in this area where around two-thirds
of the world’s King Penguin population
reproduce, a staggering two million
birds.
The penguins were monitored in
their natural environment via elec-
tronic tags, which were implanted un-
der their skin. Maho and his colleagues
were the first group to carry out this
method of research; past studies used
numbered rings attached to each bird’s
wing.However, this method of track-
ing was shown to hinder the penguin’s
swimming ability. Furthermore, pen-
guins fitted with these rings have been
shown to have a reduction in repro-
ductive success and life expectancy.
In contrast, fitting the birds with the
electronic tags was shown to have no
impact on how they go about their
daily life.
This key study not only reflects the
effect of global warming on biodiversi-
ty but importantly its additional wider
effect on marine food chains, which
can lead to an imbalance of organisms
throughout the trophic levels.
The penguin population has limited
options, with an increase in the tem-
perature of the ocean sea surface be-
ing inevitable. Will they adapt to the
changing global environment and sur-
vive? Or will they fall as a defenseless
victim of climate change?
King Penguins. Emperor Penguins may go on marches, but these little
critters are swimmers, making epic foraging journeys of up to 2000 km
Climate change puts king penguins in hot water
It’s often said that men don’t ask for
directions and women never forget a
face. Hackneyed though they are, it’s
starting to look like these stereotypes
might have a biological basis
Psychologists Agneta Herlitz and
Jenny Rehnman from the Karolinska
Institute in Stockholm, Sweden, have
been investigating the accuracy of
these age-old anecdotes. According to
their research, women and men have
different strengths when it comes to
memory, with women coming out on
top. Their findings were published
yesterday in Current Directions in Psy-
chological Science.
By testing the recall of groups of men
and women, Dr Herlitz and Dr Rehn-
man showed that women excel at re-
membering words, odours and faces,
while men are better at tasks requiring
good spatial awareness, like remem-
bering the route out of a maze.
The key difference here is women’s
superior verbal processing abilities.
When verbal information is available,
women gain the upper hand. So, while
men might be better at finding their
way back out of a forest, women would
be better at finding their way back to
the hotel in a foreign city, where more
easily verbalised information would be
available. Although, presumably, this
would be less of a problem for women
anyway, with their ability to ask for
directions.
This tendency to verbalise informa-
tion also puts women in the lead when
it comes to remembering where the
car keys are—a task that requires both
verbal and visuospatial skills. Where
men rely on their spatial awareness,
women use words to remember an ob-
ject’s position. And it’s not just inani-
mate objects that women are better at
remembering.
It is well know among psychologists
that women are better than men at
recognising faces. Dr Herlitz and Dr
Rehnman wondered if perhaps women
recognised faces by verbalising them—
mentally filing descriptions of people,
such as ‘blonde, blue-eyed, and hand-
some’. Their experiments didn’t an-
swer their question, but they did reveal
something even more intriguing: wom-
en remember the faces of other women
better than those of other men.
To investigate further, the research-
ers showed three groups of men and
women a series of androgynous faces.
The images were presented to the first
group as ‘female faces’, to the second
group as ‘male faces’, and to the third
group as simply ‘faces’. The women
remembered the faces best when they
were presented as female faces, where-
as this information made no difference
to the men. This indicated that the
women were remembering the female
faces better because they were paying
more attention to them.
Research in young children has
shown that both girls and boys can cat-
egorise female faces better than male
faces. This makes sense if you consider
that babies tend to see more female
faces at an early age, a fact that the
researchers suggest could account for
this effect in grown women.
Over time, interactions with other
girls would strengthen this ability in
women, while growing boys would
lose their advantage through interact-
ing predominantly with other boys, or
so the theory goes.
Complicated processes like memory
are determined by environmental fac-
Forget-me-nots should be the official flower for Mother's day. Did you remember this year?
tors as well as gender. These gender-
specific memory differences are seen
all over the world, but the magnitude
of difference varies according to social
and cultural factors.
These results offer an intriguing in-
sight into the truth behind the anecdo-
tal reports of men’s failure to remem-
ber people they’ve met or where they
left things. However, the researchers
stress that more research is required
before we can fully understand the
biological and evolutionary origins of
these observations.
In the meantime, these finding might
serve as a useful excuse for forgetful
men as well as those reluctant to ask
for directions, preferring instead to
rely on their visuospatial processing.
Now, where did I put those car keys…
Tamsin Osborne
Total recall? Investigating memory differences between the sexes

