politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 7 March 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – Li-Teck Lau and Kadhim Shubber
Hillary: a very female candidate
Abioye Oyetunji on why Hillary Clinton’s campaign hurts and is detrimental to the feminist cause
A
woman becoming “the
most powerful man in
the world” should surely
be the climax of female
empowerment, and the
fact that this year marked the first real-
istic possibility of this occurring should
put the Hillary Rodham Clinton name
right up there with Joan of Arc and
Boudicca. Instead, the comparisons I
just made probably made you snort in
disbelief. Rather than proclaiming this
as a historically important moment in
the struggle, the feminist powers-that-
be have all but ignored Mrs Clinton’s
White House bid.
It’s not that having a female Ameri-
can President wouldn’t be a good thing;
it’s a position of great, if often overstat-
ed, importance and, if she were to be
successful, just one term could silence
hordes of disbelievers in sexual equal-
ity just as Margaret Thatcher did in the
seventies.
What diminishes this potentially
historic achievement is the woman
in question seeming to owe all her
achievements to, you guessed it, a man.
It doesn’t help when the one in ques-
tion is a smooth-talking, skirt-chasing
specimen, who once sexually pleasured
a 22-year old intern with a cigar in the
Oval Office (possibly the most chau-
vinist act one could possibly imagine).
Unfortunately, as far as we all can
tell, the only reason Hillary Clinton
managed to get a shot at being the
44th President is because she is mar-
ried to the 42nd. It did not have to
be so glaring – Hillary could possibly
have convinced everyone of her in-
dependence had she kept Bill in the
background for the entire campaign
and dissociated herself from his ad-
ministration. Instead, he was brought
to the forefront, sending an unforgiv-
able message: “Don’t worry, you can
vote for the wife, it’ll still be Bill run-
ning the show”. Mr. Clinton has even
gone as far as performing tasks usually
reserved only for the candidate, such
as bargaining with party bigwigs such
as Ted Kennedy, implying Mrs Clinton
does not have the negotiating abilities
to do so (a strange message to send for
a Presidential candidate).
Comparisons to other female world
leaders paint Mrs. Clinton’s independ-
ence issues in a particularly bad light.
Angela Merkel’s husband is famously
invisible; he is known as “the Phantom
of the Opera” in the German press.
Jokes abound that Denis Thatcher
used to attend the “mothers’ teas”
events when their son, Mark, was at
Harrow. Hillary, on the other hand,
has not just made it clear her husband
will be playing a key, potentially lead,
role in her administration, but has tire-
lessly traded on his name, attempting
to take credit for his achievements in
the White House (except where said
achievements are no longer popular, in
which case she actually disagreed with
them the entire time).
But it is not just the prominence of
her husband that makes her a bad can-
didate for a female role model. In order
to play to votes, Mrs. Clinton has com-
mitted some horrendous feminist no-
no’s on the campaign trail.
Playing to female stereotypes may
help win votes, but once this elec-
tion season is over and the dust set-
tles, she may have a lot to answer for
with Women’s Lib groups who do not
consider such behaviour helpful in the
long run.
First, and most glaring, was the teary
moment before the New Hampshire
primary. Certainly there are valid rea-
sons a candidate might shed a tear
during their campaign; when giving a
moving talk on the death of a family
member, while listening to a war casu-
alty’s mother describe his heroics, or
when visiting the cancer ward of a chil-
dren’s hospital. However, choking up
because you are losing in opinion polls
should spell the end of your candidacy
(and I daresay, if Hillary had been a
man, it would have). Voters (predomi-
nantly female) rallied around her over
this moment, and she won the primary.
If the first female American President
gets there on a wave of national pity,
the Women’s Lib movement could be
put back decades.
When the press started to ignore her
after losing a long series of primaries,
Mrs Clinton kicked up a strop-fest
of claims of unfair treatment (even
though the press does this to virtu-
ally all candidates who seem unlikely
to win). Graduating from there, Mrs
Clinton’s recent strategy has been to
Hillary Clinton has the chance to be the most powerful individual on Earth, but is it a triumph for female empowerment?
propagate another stereotype by en-
gaging in severe mood swings; one day
she is telling us how proud she is to be
running against Barack Obama, the
next she is virulently berating him for
reasons no one can understand. I have
no idea how or why this strategy was
expected to work politically, but it’s es-
sentially a gift on a golden platter for
any sexist observers.
I feel sorry for Hillary because she
is likely an intelligent and competent
woman. My guess is that she is prob-
ably a cool-headed and rational think-
er, with good decision-making skills.
However, she has chosen to play all this
down in her campaign and play po-
litical games that only make her seem
desperate, badly organised and unsta-
ble. However, American voters can rest
assured, the Clinton campaign insists;
her man’s supervising.
News stories from around the known world
In depth political analysis is so 1980’s.
Back then shoulder pads weren’t ironic.
As a fully paid up member of the iPod
generation, I too find it hard to con-
sume news not set out sparsely amid
pretty pictures.
Venezuela prepares for war
Venezuela has mobilised troops along
its border with Columbia, with esti-
mates of several hundred tanks being
quoted by the Reuters news agency.
“The concept of our mobilization is not
against the people of Colombia ... but
against the expansionist ambitions of
the (U.S.) empire” Venezuela’s defence
minister said. Columbia recently sent
specialist forces into Ecuador with the
aim of killing communist rebels it sees
as a threat. Chavez, who is a staunch
ally of President Correa of Ecuador,
believes the move is part of a US lead
campaign to destabilise socialist South
America. Major regional power Brazil
has urged restraint in a crisis that could
plunge the continent into war.
No Lisbon Treaty referendum
The UK parliament decided in a vote
of 311 to 248 not to hold a national
referendum on whether to ratify the
EU Lisbon Treaty. The conservative
party claims that the latest treaty to
come out of Brussels infringes on Brit-
ain’s sovereignty and requires a public
vote. The Liberal Democrats, who
have fallen significantly in the opinion
polls since David Cameron because
leader of the opposition, appear to
have been the biggest casualties how-
ever, with 13 MPs defying a 3-line-
whip to abstain from voting, seeing
no less than 3 front bench politicians
resign. Ratification will now be passed
onto the House of Lords.
Don’t forget to pay your gas bill
The Russian petroleum company
Gazprom halved its supplies of natu-
ral gas over two days last week to the
Ukraine, following a dispute in which
the Eastern European country is al-
leged to owe US$600m to the oil gi-
ant. It raised eyebrows of concern in
Western Europe, which relies heavily
on energy resources from Russia, some
80% flowing through Ukrainian pipes.
The move comes mere days after
Dmitry Medvedev, chair of the board
of Gazprom, won Russia’s Presidential
elections, and is a further worsening
of relations between formerly united
countries since pro-west President
Yushchenko came to power in 2004.
Clinton clings on
Over in the US, the marathon selec-
tion process for Presidential candi-
dates in November’s election to suc-
ceed George Bush continues. John
McCain finally triumphed in the race
for the Republican Party nomination,
receiving the incumbent’s blessing on
Wednesday, and Hillary Clinton gained
ground after last week’s series of pri-
maries dubbed ‘Super Tuesday Part II”.
Mrs Clinton ended a losing streak of
11 states and avoided possible knock
out by winning major states Texas and
Ohio. There have since been talks of
running together against Mr McCain
as both candidates prepare for a con-
test which may run into late summer.
Li-Teck Lau
Politics Editor

