14 felix Friday 7 March 2008
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics
The facts about the Lisbon Treaty
No straight bananas here, only a balanced and fair analysis on the Lisbon Treaty and how it affects you
Debate has been raging in the House of
Commons this week concerning a pos-
sible referendum for the EU’s Lisbon
Treaty, the successor to the EU Con-
stitution. This culminated on Tuesday
with Liberal Democrat foreign affairs
spokesman Edward Davey being or-
dered out of the House of Commons.
Mr. Davey was angered at the deputy
speaker’s decision not to allow a debate
on their idea for a referendum on EU
membership, claiming he was “gagged”.
Other MPs walked out in solidar-
ity, showing disregard for the deputy
speaker and his “outrageous” decision.
Having a referendum on the EU
Treaty in theory gives the people the
opportunity to decide for themselves
whether to sign up. However, a ref-
erendum requires the electorate to
understand the issue and with one as
complex and divisive as this, is it wise
to allow the general public to decide? If
there is to be a referendum, the people
need to know what effects the Treaty
will have on their lives and the sover-
eignty of the country. The following
questions will hopefully give you an
insight into the issues involved in the
ratification of the Lisbon Treaty.
What role will the EU President
have?
The Treaty will change the role of the
President of the Council of the Europe-
an Union, only one of many presiden-
tial posts. This Council is comprised
of all member states of the EU. The
presidency will not be held by a mem-
ber state as has been the case up till
now; instead a single person will hold
the position. The President will be a
top politician, elected by prime min-
isters and national presidents, the top
representatives of each member state
in the Council of the European Union.
The new president will be in power for
a term of 30 months, increased from 6.
The President will not have any execu-
tive powers and there will continue to
be separate presidents of the European
Commission and European Parlia-
ment. The Treaty does not rule out the
merging of any of these positions but
it does not instigate it. Three countries
will run councils to discuss legislation
in areas such as employment, the envi-
ronment, communications and trans-
port. This maintains the old system
of state presidencies but in a power-
sharing arrangement. The introduc-
James Goldsack
tion of one figure as the President does
not change how the EU and member
states deal with signing international
treaties.
Will there be an EU foreign min-
ister who will overrule national
figures?
Not as such. The Treaty creates a new
position of High Representative of the
Union for Foreign Affairs and Security
Policy which in practice is an amal-
gamation of two current positions:
foreign policy and security chief, cur-
rently Javier Solana, and External Re-
lations Commissioner, Benita Ferrero-
Waldner. The new position will have
the diplomatic power of the former
and the financial capabilities of the
latter position. The new High Repre-
sentative will be a powerful position
and have lots of staff working for the
office. As this person will be speak-
ing on behalf of all 27 member states,
they will probably be more important
internationally than any individual
national foreign secretary. However,
Javier Solana already has a louder voice
than most member states. The High
Representative will only be able to im-
plement policy agreed unanimously by
the member states so they could often
be left without any input into proceed-
ings. A declaration, a statement of po-
litical intent, has been inserted into the
Treaty saying the creation of the high
representative does not “affect the re-
sponsibilities of the member states...
for the formulation and conduct of
their foreign policy”. Although not le-
gally binding, declarations are taken
into account in the European Court of
Justice.
What position will the EU have in
the UN?
The Treaty increases the ability to have
a common foreign policy and although
some countries would like to see the
EU have a permanent seat on the Unit-
ed Nations Security Council, the UN
charter specifies that the seats are for
“states” only. Therefore the EU, being
an international organisation, can-
not join. Some claim it is only a mat-
ter of time before France and the UK
lose the seats to be replaced by the EU
but if this is to occur it will be so far
down the line that the details cannot
be predicted; for the time being there
is no indication at all that the EU can
or will join the UN. The Treaty does
say that when all member states adopt
a common foreign policy, those coun-
tries on the Security Council will ask
for the High Representative to present
the EU position. This would only oc-
cur if there was unanimous agree-
ment within the EU. Javier Solana has
already presented the EU position on
many occasions. This does not prevent
the member states individually making
their own statements. A declaration in
the Treaty states that the EU’s common
foreign and security policy will not af-
fect a member state’s membership of
the UN Security Council.
Does it give national govern-
ments a bigger say?
Yes. There are procedures in the Treaty
which require national governments
to be notified of proposed legislation.
The governments can then challenge
the introduction of this legislation.
However, the EU can overrule national
governments but the introduction of a
forum for dissent is an improvement
over previous treaties. The treaty at-
tempts to encourage national govern-
ments to involve themselves with Eu-
ropean legislation and governance; one
clause specifies ““National parliaments
With the possiblity of an EU President post being created, will we see Tony Blair in a new position?
Liberal Democrat MP Ed Davey speaks to his constituents after being thrown out of Parliament

