politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
15
Friday 7 March 2008 felix
Politics
Apparently
war is
awesome...
T
his last week has seen a
string of anti-war and pac-
ifist groups disband and
renounce their views. It is
an unprecedented time of
self-criticism and re-evaluation in the
hippie community. Among the groups
that have broken up are Imperial soci-
ties such as Student Respect and Stop
the War.
The dramatic u-turn has been at-
tributed to the return of Prince Harry
from active-duty in Afghanistan and
the media coverage that has accompa-
nied it. The end of the voluntary media
blackout has meant that the details of
Prince Harry’s deployment have been
released. There are many pictures of
him, looking happy and having a great
time, while the Prince himself has
spoken of the pride he felt serving his
country and his enthusiasm for serving
on the front line. Leroy Weatherfield,
former Chairman of the Stop-the-War
society, spoke of his initial confusion
“All this time we’ve been saying that
war is fundamentally wrong and un-
ethical. We thought that life was ter-
rible for our soldiers. We couldn’t see
any good in war, but Prince Harry has
opened our eyes. War doesn’t damage
the mental health of soldiers. We can
see now that war is not only enjoyable
but in a time when obesity rates are in-
creasing, an invaluable source of out-
door exercise”.
The whole affair has been a mas-
sive PR coup for the military. Young,
fresh-faced boys are signing up for the
killing fields in droves since news of
Prince Harry’s deployment broke. “All
the information about war is usually
negative. I’ve read about the horrors of
fighting and the horrible injuries peo-
ple sustain. Prince Harry has shown us
that war is actually great fun and now
I really want to go to Afghanistan” said
a naive young boy in the recruitment
lines. Pro-War groups such as War-is-
Sex and Jingoists-hate-Muslims have
been rejoicing in their victory against
‘delusional’ pacifists. “We’ve been try-
ing to tell them all this time that war is
great. We’ve invited them to the range
to see what its like to shoot an Arab,
but I guess it would take a Prince to
make them see sense” commented Bil-
ly O’Reilly, head of the pro-war Brain-
dead-Hick organisation.
However, their celebrations may be
a little premature. Only a minority of
anti-war groups have lost their faith.
Others are angry that Prince Harry
didn’t get himself killed. I spoke to an
aged anti-war protestor “He’s acted
completely irresponsibly. The Prince is
meant to be a role-model to children.
By coming home alive and well, he’s
set an extremely bad example. Kids out
there are going to think you can go to
war, it’ll be great fun and you’ll come
back a hero. He should have done the
right thing and shot himself. At the
very least he could have stood on a
landmine”.
Samuel Black
Political Know-It-All
shall contribute actively to the good
functioning of the Union”. Some Brit-
ish MPs objected to this as it appears
to be an order. However, the new treaty
cannot force governments to involve
themselves but it is an attempt to help
bring the EU in the right direction,
with more integration between mem-
ber states and the EU institutions.
Will the Charter of Fundamental
Human Rights affect UK law?
The Charter of Fundamental Human
Rights was agreed in 2000 as a decla-
ration and as such is not legally bind-
ing. The Lisbon Treaty will correct this
and make the Charter legally binding.
Some say this will allow the European
Court to rewrite national laws in social
matters such as strikes, social security
and working hours. Some European
Court judges believe this is how the
system should work and they may have
a good point. It would help maximise
the integration between the different
countries and as movement of labour
is free within the EU, why shouldn’t
other aspects of work or social mat-
ters be universal? If this is the case, it
is certain the European Court will not
intervene beyond what the member
states feel is acceptable as the EU is
answerable to the states. Some people
believe that the Charter is only appli-
cable when countries apply EU law.
There is a lot of debate over which is
the proper interpretation of the Treaty.
Most social legislation is national so
governments would be safe from pros-
ecution and intervention. As a guar-
antee, Britain has negotiated a clause
which says no court can rule that the
“laws, regulations or administrative
provisions, practices or action” of the
UK are inconsistent with the principles
laid down in the charter. Many MEPs
are unhappy with this legally-binding
clause as it flies in the face of the un-
derlying principle that EU law should
be the same for all member countries.
This clause introduced by Britain
shows a certain amount of disrespect
for Europe and our neighbours.
Is it a major transfer of power to
the EU?
It transfers some power to the EU but
not very much; it is certainly not a ma-
jor transfer. Many see the Treaty as one
more step in the EU’s pursuit of “ever
closer union” and not a particularly
dramatic one, certainly compared to
the Sin- gle European Act or
Maas- trichtTreaty,two
ground- breaking
agree- ments. Many
MEPs feel that the
Treaty has been
watered down
too much and there
is not enough sub-
stance there to lead
to more integration.
Opponents will say
that many politicians
see the Lisbon Treaty
as a stepping stone to an
EU Constitution. However,
the constitution itself was not as big a
step as it was made out to be; the most
important difference between it and
any other treaty was that it brought
together all the foundational treaties
into one document instead of amend-
ing them. The new positions created of
President and High Representative are
still answerable to the member states.
The EU is a very complex organisa-
tion and changes that strengthen it do
not necessarily weaken the individual
governments.
Will the UK lose its veto?
In some areas, yes. However, this is not
necessarily a bad thing. With increas-
ing membership it becomes harder to
make decisions if all votes have to be
unanimous. Many areas will still have
unanimous voting and therefore the
UK will keep its veto. By introducing
majority voting, the member states are
pooling sovereignty, encouraging co-
operation. The most important place
where unanimity has been lost is in
the area of Justice and Home Affairs.
Police and judicial cooperation of
member states will now be de-
cided by a majority vote
as immigration, asylum and some oth-
er policies already are. However, Brit-
ain has negotiated the right to pick and
choose whether to take part in Justice
and Home Affairs legislation.
Will the European Court get new
powers?
Yes, its mandate will spread into new
areas. The European Court of Jus-
tice will be able to rule on more cases
concerning Justice and Home Affairs.
However, for Britain, only those areas
we choose to sign up to can be under
the European Court’s jurisdiction so
this will have only a limited and unim-
portant effect on this country.
Will we lose our commissioner?
Only some of the time. Currently each
member state has one commis-
sioner and it was not
so long ago that the
larger states had two.
The Treaty states
that each country
will lose their com-
missioner for five
years at a time. From
2014onlytwothirdsof
all member states will
have a commissioner at
any one time and the seats
will be assigned by rotation
every 5 years. However, this is
based upon there being 27 mem-
bers; if more states join the EU, the
length of time will change accordingly.
Is it Macedonia or not?
A few years ago I was reading an article
in TIME magazine about the Balkans.
They had printed a map of the region
following the division of Yugoslavia
and had labelled the country north of
Greece as Macedonia. I was only fif-
teen years old but old enough to know
the difference and why that name was
problematic. I wrote to the magazine
explaining the history of the region
and explaining why the printing of this
map was irresponsible.
The letter was never published,
probably because it was too long (it is
after all 2500 years worth of history!),
and instead I received a little postcard
thanking me for my feedback. Eight
years later, the issue is back in the
headlines and for many people I sus-
pect the answer is quite straightfor-
ward and simple and they have little
understanding of what the big deal is. I
understand that writing a whole article
about the history of a region with such
a long history is somewhat controver-
sial so I have decided to simply give
a quick overview of some facts that
highlight the most important facets of
the debate.
When Yugoslavia collapsed, it was
divided into Bosnia and Herzegovina,
Croatia, Slovenia, Serbia and Mon-
tenegro and FYROM (Former Yugoslav
Republic of Macedonia). The name of
this last was provisionally accepted in
the UN with the understanding that it
would form the basis for dialogue and
mutual agreement between FYROM
and Greece. This at the time led to a
very strong conflict with Greece, which
has a Northern province known as
Macedonia. At the same time Greece
placed an embargo against FYROM,
since it tried to claim the name “Re-
public of Macedonia” and to adopt the
sun of Vergina, the symbol of Philip’s
(Alexander the Great’s father) dynasty,
Danai T Balfoussia for its flag. Today, some countries, in-
cluding the US and the UK, have fully
recognized the name Macedonia, while
others, including France, Germany,
Spain and Australia, continue to refer
to it as FYROM. With FYROM want-
ing to join the European Union and
NATO, the issue of the naming has re-
surfaced officially.
Matthew Nimetz, the UN Special
Representative, is currently overseeing
negotiations between the two countries
in an effort to reach a mutually accept-
able name. The main difference this
time around is that over the past eight
years FYROM has led a discreet yet
relentless campaign, and has gradually
introduced the concept of “Macedo-
nia” as an acceptable name. It casually
appears in maps, such as in February
22nd’s issue of the Felix, in journals
and even political conversations im-
plying that there is no issue, that there
is no debate. The truth, however, still
remains that the official UN-recog-
nised name of the country is Former
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and
that there is an issue, a very important
one which if not managed delicately
can lead to the destabilization of the
Balkan region.
What is the relationship between
Alexander the Great’s Macedonia
and the region?
Alexander’s Macedonia (4th century
BC) was vast and encompassed both
the province in Northern Greece as
well as less than half of what is today
FYROM. Its capital, Pella, is within the
borders of modern Greece as shown
by archaeological digs. Furthermore,
Alexander’s Macedonia was a Greek
city-state, as were Athens and Sparta.
Alexander spoke Greek and believed in
the twelve Gods of Olympus and also
participated in the Olympic Games, an
honour allowed only to Greeks. Mod-
ern FYROM by contrast is inhabited by
Slavs who descended into the region in
600AD and the languages spoken are
principally a Slav dialect closely related
to Bulgarian, as well as Albanian, Rom-
ani, Turkish and Serbian.
Why not just name the country
Macedonia?
Naming the country Macedonia im-
plies some sort of tie to Alexander
the Great and the cultural heritage of
the region. The effort on FYROM’s
behalf to use the sun of Vergina in its
flag further supports the legitimacy of
this concern. This name is made even
further unacceptable because of the
average person’s inability to distin-
guish the two. For a person who has
little knowledge of the history of the
region, an area named Macedonia im-
plies a direct link to the ancient Mac-
edonians. A final and much more grave
concern is the well-founded suspicion
that recognition of FYROM as sim-
ply “Macedonia” will lay the ground-
work for a future claim to the Greek
province of Macedonia. This has the
ultimate goal of achieving direct ac-
cess to the Aegean sea eliminating in
this way any dependence on Greece as
well as fulfilling the long-established
dream of “Great Macedonia” which
today encompasses parts of Greece,
Bulgaria, Albania and Serbia. While
this scenario may appear far-fetched,
the current situation in neighbouring
countries proves the opposite. With
the continual re-definition of the Bal-
kan countries’ borders and the recent
independence of Kosovo, who is to say
that more changes will not ensue?
I hope this article has been useful
and I look forward to answering any
questions or addressing any issues in
more detail to the best of my knowl-
edge. I hope people will gradually show
more interest in the issue, read around
it and form an opinion. The subject of
Macedonia is not simple or straight-
forward and failure to recognise the
political implications surrounding the
debate will have serious repercussions
on the future of the region. History is
crucial to a thorough understanding of
politics. When the international com-
munity intervened in the region and
carved out the post-Yugoslavia bor-
ders, history was one thing that was not
taken into account. The consequences
of this omission are evident today.
Blue: FYROM or Macedonia, Purple: Greek province of Macedonia

