business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business
Business Editor – Afonso Campos
A global economy of terrorism
Terrorism has forever changed the face of the world economy and created long-lasting wounds everywhere
Afonso Campos
After the events of 9/11, the world
is now seen through wildly different
eyes. This date marked a true turning
point in which the world’s, and espe-
cially North America’s, population be-
gan seeing the reality that Man has few,
if any, limits when it comes to cruelty
and destruction of the species. The do-
mains affected by terrorism are mani-
fold; everything from daily family life
dynamics to social interactions have
suffered severe change. The economy
is no exception to this. Even in the long
term, terrorist acts leave deep scars. In
order to minimize the impact on the
economy (and not only) it is necessary
to identify the roots of this problem.
Terrorism is a resorting to violence;
be this physical or psychological. It is
usually orchestrated by a group or an
individual in an attempt to reach a cer-
tain political or social goal – usually a
synergy of the two. A terrorist is, by
logic and definition, one who practices
terrorism. In our times, however, ter-
rorism has reached monumental pro-
portions, with a complex network be-
hind each attack. The individual that
we usually consider to be responsible,
the bomb carrier, is more often than
not a low ranking member of a hier-
archical pyramid. It is often difficult
to understand the justification behind
this person’s desire to end his or her life
in the process. It is part of a so-called
process of brainwashing. These indi-
viduals are not the root of the problem,
but are merely its operational and lo-
gistical parts.
The consequences of these heinous
acts are not limited to the massive
losses occurred at the moment of the
attack. These acts absolutely condi-
tion the behaviour of future events,
including the behaviour of people as
well as the pace of the economy. The
tourism sector is often utilised as a
target for attacks, given the enormous
mediatic projection and audience.
Countries that are heavily dependant
on this sector and suffer an unfortu-
nate terrorist incident will very often
suffer a substantial downturn in rev-
enue that translates into a decay in the
country’s performance. On the other
hand, movements of capital between
countries will be strongly influenced.
Even though the risk of terrorism con-
stitutes only a small percentage of the
overall global economic risk, multi-
national companies are typically and
understandably more inclined to make
investments in countries where ter-
rorism is less likely to happen. Direct
foreign investment will therefore suffer
a reduction that will not be seen exclu-
sively in short-term time frames. For
developing countries, this fact will halt
the diffusion of technical and econom-
ical know-how that is frequently essen-
tial to the country’s future growth.
Not least important are the costs
that some economists call the “terror-
ism tax”. This refers mainly to the costs
incurred by the increased government
spending to ensure and preserve a cli-
mate of safety, or at least the percep-
tion of existence of this state. These
are measures that reroute and channel
time and resources from other activi-
ties that are far more productive to an
economy and the well-being of a coun-
try. Even though these measures may
force a downturn in productivity, espe-
cially in the long-term, they are neces-
sary to make the occurrence of terror-
ist attacks less frequent.
Grave consequences definitely con-
dition the future of not only the pace
of the economy, but of society in the
broader sense of the word. It is there-
fore necessary to act on two axes; on
one side, actions must be taken to
minimise the negative effects of past
Get on, get focused and get ahead!
Find out more at www.imperial.ac.uk/
careers or visit us at level 5 Sherfield
Building. You can talk to one of our
Careers Advisers about your career
plans and get help and advice on your
draft CV or application form. We also
run seminars on interviews and appli-
cations with hints and tips on how to
succeed.
Have you got what it takes?
Mists and mellow fruitfulness
Autumn may be a time of ‘mists and
mellow fruitfulness’ according to the
British Romantic poet Keats, as well
as the start of the English Premiership
season, but in the world of careers, it’s
also the key period for graduate re-
cruitment. The College term officially
starts on 4th October. Closing dates
for graduate jobs and internships are
getting earliaer and earlier, particularly
in sectors such as investment banking
where a mid-October deadline is not
unusual. If you were planning to post-
pone your career planning until you
return to College next academic year
then you may need to think again! Get
ahead of the competition and start to
plan and prepare now.
Drafting and refining your CV, re-
searching career ideas and industries
and finding out who is recruiting and
when, should all be done well ahead of
any actual deadlines. The Careers Ad-
visory Service can help you with every
aspect of your job search from where
to find vacancies through to how to
deal with tough application form ques-
tions and much more! We have an ex-
cellent range of on-line and other re-
sources to enable you to discover more
about different careers, make effective
applications and succeed in interviews.
Meeting deadlines is all very well but
have you got what employers want?
One of the most valued attributes
sought by many recruiters is commer-
cial awareness; however, this is often
lacking in otherwise high-calibre ap-
plicants. There are many definitions of
the term but, as a summary, commer-
cial or business awareness involves a
basic knowledge of common business
issues and an understanding of global
and national factors and how these im-
pact on the industry where you want
to work. An appreciation of the com-
mercial context in which your chosen
industry operates is also important.
If you have read the above list with
gathering gloom then don’t worry, as
there are lots of things which you can
do to try and improve your knowledge.
Your past experience of work through
part-time or vacation employment will
hopefully have given you some insight
into how a business or organisation op-
erates. Think about the management
of the company; how was it organised
and how did it deliver the service or
product? Make sure that you keep up
to date with key issues by reading the
business pages of a quality newspaper.
Specialist industry magazines can also
give you an excellent insight into the
latest news for particular industries.
Focus on Management
Using any contacts which you have can
also help develop commercial aware-
ness. Meeting and talking to employ-
ers at careers fairs and other events
can give you good insight into both the
industry and individual companies.
The Careers Service’s annual Focus on
Management course, which takes place
on April 22nd and 23rd, is an excellent
springboard from which to start your
search for a graduate job or internship.
acts of terrorism, and on the other
side, it is even more important to pre-
vent future incidents from happen-
ing. This brings forth the question of
terrorism financing. Large influxes of
capital are needed to make possible a
large-scale terrorist operation. It is in
this sense that more regulation may
be necessary in the domain of offshore
banking utilized by terrorist groups
to finance their activity. For this to
happen, it is paramount to have total
global co-operation, which is not an
overly utopian idea, given that this is
a worldwide problem, never restricted
to a small region. There are, however,
inherent and influential interests in
the keeping of these offshores. These
range from perfectly harmless private
equity firms and investment funds to
the tax-haven’s own interests in keep-
ing money flowing into what is other-
wise a relatively poor economy.
The long-term impact of terrorism
is already visible and so are some of
the reasons why it is difficult to put an
end to it. The most evident lies in the
non-regulation of some offshore ac-
counts also used by terrorist groups.
If this is a global concern, it requires
global efforts. Economies that are
unwilling to receive international co-
operation must by all means be con-
sidered accomplices to terrorist at-
tacks to come. One must remember
that there is a monumental difference
between a fiscal paradise and a finan-
cial paradise; the former has clear tax
and fiscal advantages, while the latter
has motivations that are anything but
transparent.
You can network with recent gradu-
ates from multi-national companies
and also further develop a range of key
skills through working alongside fel-
low students and managers from major
employers such as BP, Rolls Royce and
CRA International on business case
studies. Find out more about Focus on
Management at www.imperial.ac.uk/
careers. Places are limited and booking
closes on 14th March.
Visit the Fair
The Banking and Finance Fair on
Wednesday 21 May 2008 is another
major opportunity to help you gain the
competitive edge over other applicants.
Representatives from many of the ma-
jor firms in the industry will be avail-
able from 11.00 to 15.00 in Mechanical
Engineering Foyer & Tanaka Foyer to
talk to students about their work, va-
cancies and how and when to apply.
A valuable vacation
The summer vacation provides an
ideal opportunity to do some in-depth
research about your future career. The
Careers Service is open all through
the summer and also 24/7 on-line at
www.imperial.ac.uk/careers. Thinking
ahead can result in a better application
and also much reduced stress levels in
the autumn term! We look forward to
helping you reach your career goals.
Team working in action
This smoke will forever plague the world and the global economy
Imperial College Careers
Advisory Service
18 felix Friday 7 March 2008

