Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 7 March 2008 felix
Caz Knight
Arts Editor
W
elcome art aficio-
nados! For that
is what you all
are by now, after
weeks and weeks
and maybe even years of ensconcing
yourselves in these enlightening pages!
Unfortunately, this is the penultimate
issue of the Lenten (or “spring”) term
and soon, for one month, you must
resort to the art sections of other me-
dia. I recommend the arts section of
The Independent, especially what they
have to say on Saturdays. However,
with the threat of lectures, labs and
other laborious chores out the way
you will be able to stop reading Felix
Arts and start experiencing some art;
hopefully the holidays will leave you
will some time for respite. Without re-
laxation and leisure our brains cannot
function properly and efficiently and
so I urge you to indulge!
I came across one of the most ran-
dom and brilliant concepts in art over
the last couple of weeks. Situated in
the Blyth Centre (Level 5 of Sherfield,
I’ve told you enough times), was a
lovely photographic exhibition exam-
ining expression. Down one section
of the gallery was littered haphazardly
a whole pack of playing cards. Such a
simple idea yet I was bizarrely cheered
by it, for its uniqueness, every time I
walked by it. It reminded me of an epi-
sode of Sex and the City where Carrie
(SJP) goes on a date with a guy who
collects lone playing cards he finds in
the street. Ever since watching this, I
have been struck by how many single
playing cards one encounters on the
streets! I have to suppress an urge to
start my own collection every time I
see one.
Fans of film Empire Records may
remember AJ gluing coins to the floor
of the music stores office. Random art,
the best kind. Although “random art”
is possibly the most vague notion one
can come up with!
A piece I recently fell in love with
hangs in the Alexia Goethe gallery
on Dover street, a few doors down
from Mahiki for those who read heat
or frequent the club. Measuring 1m
by 2m (at least) it is a piece of paper
onto which a huge polar bear has been
sketched: in neon pink roller ball. Not
only is the colour utterly spectacular,
contrasting to the stark white paper,
but think of how long it would have
taken to sketch; the callous sustained
to the artist from holding a pen for so
long and the sheer amount of roller
balls he would have gone through!
Another gem tucked away amid the
winding streets of Soho is Carnaby
Kiss, reviewed by moi in this issue.
We have more reviews from Arts
Editors in the form of Emily Wilson’s
review of Duchamp et al. and David
Paw’s Vanity Fair portraits review. The
exhibition is sponsored by Burberry,
although quite sensibly one never sees
an inch of their pattern, synonymous
with chavdom, in any of their shop
windows anymore let alone in the
NPG: quite sensibly.
Poetry in the Periodic
Table? Charm in chemistry?
Science and Art. Either, or... Iain Watts discovers the late Primo Levi and his ability to
smash this concept and intertwine the two disciplines with beautiful results
U
nfortunately, the old idea
of a divide between the
arts and the sciences is
one which steadfastly
refuses to die. For all his
medical training, John Keats was still
deeply troubled by Science’s tendency
to “conquer all mysteries by rule and
line”, reducing Nature’s beauty to, as
he saw it “the dull catalogue of com-
mon things.” The American poet Syl-
via Plath was harsher: “The day I went
into Physics class”, she writes in her
autobiographical novel The Bell Jar, “it
was death”.
On the other side of the fence, the
Nobel Prize-winning physicist Richard
Feynman used to make his immunity
to what he scornfully termed ‘culture’
something of a badge of pride, claim-
ing that the best thing he derived from
reading the ancient Greek playwright
Aristophanes was learning how to
make a good frog noise. The mud-
slinging, from both sides, is endless.
But, instead of becoming entangled
in the interminable debate on the Arts-
Sciences divide, the Two Cultures, and
all the rest of it, I simply want to tell
you about a little book by a writer who
I think bridges the gulf so effortlessly
that, for him, the two worlds merge
seamlessly into one. The writer is
Primo Levi and the book is called The
Periodic Table.
Primo Levi was born into a Jewish
family in Turin, northern Italy, in 1919.
He took a degree in Chemistry at the
University of Turin, and followed a
career as a professional chemist, pre-
dominantly in the paint and varnish
industry, before eventually retiring
in 1975 to concentrate full-time on
writing. He published memoirs, short
stories, novels, essays, and poetry, all
available in good English translations.
The central experience of Levi’s life,
which informed nearly everything he
was to write afterwards, was the year
he spent as a prisoner in Auschwitz
between 1944 and 1945. His deeply
moving and very personal account of
his time there, If This Is a Man, estab-
lished his reputation as
a writer and eventu-
ally became accepted
as one of the master-
pieces of 20th cen-
tury autobiography.
Though The Periodic
Table draws on this
harrowingexperience
in several chapters, it
mostly concentrates
on the rest of his life,
as a chemist in his na-
tive Italy.
It is a book which steadfastly resists
categorisation. Perhaps I can best de-
scribe it simply as a book of stories,
each one linked in some way to a
chemical element, or to ideas associat-
ed with an element. Many of the twen-
ty-one chapters are autobiographical,
often episodes taken from Levi’s life
as a chemistry student and later pro-
fessional chemist; two chapters, ‘Lead’
and ‘Mercury’, are completely fictional,
and the final chapter takes the form of
a kind of prose-poem, on the story of
an individual atom of carbon.
The ever-familiar periodic table of
the elements, Levi boldly proclaims,
is poetry, ‘the bridge, the missing link,
between the world of words and the
world of things’. It is simultaneously
the framework which brings order and
harmony to matter and the device by
which Levi ties together the stories
that make up the book. In some chap-
ters the chemistry itself plays a central
role, while in others the reference is
more oblique: ‘Iron’, for example, really
concerns Sandro, the fellow chemistry
student, resistance
fighter, and man-of-
iron who introduces
Levi to the joys of
rock-climbing in the
foothills of the Alps.
Levi has a rare gift
for finding beauty,
even mysticism,
woven through the
everyday and the
mundane. Under his
hands the asbestos
mine where he works as
an analyst is a benign incarnation of
the tiered Inferno of Dante’s Divine
Comedy, and the University labora-
tory where he learns his trade becomes
almost a religious temple, a ‘House of
the Lord’, where the lone chemist is
locked in a primal struggle with Mat-
ter, who stands ready to trip him up at
every turn, ‘as solemn and subtle as the
sphinx’. One of my personal favourite
chapters, ‘Chromium’, is actually about
– of all things – a chemical mystery
concerning bad batches of an anti-rust
paint, beautifully interwoven with the
story of Levi’s slow spiritual recovery
and awakening after his return to Italy
at the end of the War.
Levi speaks of chemistry in an unu-
sual and wonderful way, as a kind of
mystical union and struggle between
the mind of Primo Levi the Chemist
and the base elements with which he
works, in spirit perhaps not very far
from the transmutations of the alche-
mists. His terms of reference are very
wide, encompassing languages, philos-
ophy, and literature, and with barely a
hint of pretentiousness he slips in ref-
erences to everything from Aristote-
lian philosophy to Flaubert’s Madame
Bovary to Ibsen’s Peer Gynt. Clearly
he is very well-read, but then I think a
fairly surprising number of scientists
are, though they may suffer, perhaps,
from a tendency to keep it quiet.
Ultimately, despite the chemical ti-
tles, and the many technical details of
applied chemistry scattered through
the text, the focus of each story is al-
ways centred, quite firmly, on human
beings. The elements serve as a bril-
liant extended metaphor for tying to-
gether Levi’s scattered examinations
of such broad topics as work, love, and
happiness. This makes the book a rare
thing: it is both science writing, and –
yes – Literature.
Please, fellow students, read this
book. Even if you are the hard-headed
sworn and bitter enemy of anything
branded ‘Literary’ or ‘highbrow’, make
an exception just for this. Because Pri-
mo Levi deserves to be read. By eve-
ryone, but especially by scientists, by
you. So, beg, borrow, or dare I say it
buy a copy, and begin.
A Carnaby Kiss. Gentle alliteration
combined with onomatopoeia; just the
name of this exhibition sounds like the
caress of your loved one’s lips brush-
ing your lips (or otherwise). Now I
have been sufficiently cheesy I can get
on with telling you that ‘Carnaby Kiss’
is anything but, and the last thing it
evokes is the sickeningly kitsch effect
that St Valentine’s day has on every
other high street in the land. St. V and
capitalism have a lot to answer for.
Although that “holiday” has passed
us by, what this collection of photo-
graphs gives us is a celebration of love,
friendship, youth, fashion, sexuality,
freedom, expression, freedom of ex-
pression and freedom of fashion and
feeling. And we don’t need any excuse
to celebrate all those wondrous things
in an age which is becoming ever more
“1984” (God help us). And what better
place to hold such a collection than in
CarnabyStreet,W1.Nestledawayfrom
the hoards swarming over Oxford and
Regent Streets, Carnaby is an age-old
Sneaky Kissing in Carnaby Street
institution, particularly trendy in the
Sixties. It remains an absolute delight
with its quaint cobbles and boutique
selection of stores. When (not if) I am
slightly richer, I will spend my money
here instead of at the often character-
less designers of Bond Street. Enough
of this and back to the photographs.
Gregg Stone is the photographer who
has worked with many fashion brands
for magazines, on campaigns for West
End shows (such as the Pet Shop Boys
musical) and, more interestingly, has
worked on an evening of Burlesque for
Stephen Fry at couture house Hardy
Amies. His inspiration was the Robert
Doisineau’s iconic “Kiss”, and so he set
about capturing kisses in the Carnaby
area and compiling them all in time for
Valentine’s day.
Despite the slightly shabby, bland
and unprofessional appearance of the
Carnaby, its redeeming qualities are
the art on show and the massive red lips
couch featured in many of the works.
Here one sees men and men, women
and women, men and women, woman
and mannequin, friends and some
people looking as if they have just met.
What is interesting is the sheer range of
subjects, backdrops, fashion, emotion
and finishing effects. The kisses range
from happy, passionate, silly, romantic,
epic Hollywood and, even, indifferent!
Colour is a key feature in all of them:
vivid and mirroring the vibe of Carna-
by Street perfectly. Some of the photos
are left untouched, where as some have
been enhanced to resemble something
more surreal and psychedelic. The
names themselves are enticing: Lips in
Motion, Fur Coat Kiss, Kiss Me, Love
Caz Knight
Life, Gothic Kiss. With only 32 photos
to look round, I strongly urge everyone
to go and have a look before the exhi-
bition closes. With so many exquisite
shops to peruse afterwards, the visit
is well worth it. The “gallery” is also
running a competition where one can
win a romantic weekend for two in
Carnaby including a stay in a five star
hotel and dinner at a Michelin Guide
Thai restaurant. The Carnaby is open
11am-6pm and is located right oppo-
site Soccer Scene (Beak Street end of
Carnaby Street). Until 16 March.
Robert Doisneau’s Kiss alongside a modern interpretation

