20 felix Friday 7 March 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
My Vain Fair Ladies at Vanity Fair
A celebration of celebrities, but do we really need to fuel “heat” magazine culture asks David Paw
I
once took a copy of Vanity Fair
on the train while visiting some
family in the north. Twenty min-
utes into the journey, the woman
next to me asked me what I was
reading. I showed her the cover. “Van-
ity Fair,” she said, “isn’t that a woman’s
magazine?” I replied no, and so she
asked “so what actually is it then?”
Go to any good newsstand and more
thananything,youwillbeoverwhelmed
by decisions. I didn’t know that enough
people in the world existed to warrant
several titles on truck racing, and the
Borders on Oxford Street is a veritable
Ripley’s Believe It or Not! of discovery.
Sandwiched somewhere between GQ
and Vogue lies Vanity Fair, though in
reality its real home would be sat be-
tween the titles of The New Yorker and
Hello!
Vanity Fair is a complex beast. Part
serious journalistic enterprise, part
style bible and part altar of celebrity
worship, its niche is difficult to pin
down. In a word, it is unique. Unique
not only for its innovative and reveal-
ing journalism, its rich heritage of lit-
erary excellence in showcasing works
from new writers and its acerbic, in-
telligent style, but also for its persona-
defining photography and wonderland
of imagery.
The title was launched by Condé
Nast in 1913, coinciding with the jug-
gernaut of modernism, the dawning of
the jazz age and the public’s first taste
of the avant-garde. The magazine was
soon competing with The New Yorker
for the title of the city’s greatest cul-
ture journal. Towards the latter end
of the decade, the magazine achieved
great popularity and attracted the
great and the good, featuring writ-
ers as diverse as T.S.Eliot, Gertrude
Stein, Aldous Huxley, Thomas Wolfe
and P.G.Wodehouse, and included
amongst its regular staff one Dorothy
Parker. Even today, it is known for its
sensitive and revealing journalism –
the identity of “Deep Throat”, a source
in the Watergate scandal, was revealed
in a 2005 issue, while the actress Teri
Hatcher used it to admit being subject-
ed to abuse as a child.
A victim of the Depression, it folded
in 1936 before its relaunch in 1983. As
photography took the reins of portrai-
ture from paintings in the 20th century,
this is reflected in the magazine, and in
the walls of a single large space in the
National Portrait Gallery studded with
the great and the good. The first rows
of photographs to your immediate left
as you enter chronicle the magazine’s
first incarnation, while the remainder
chart the modern equivalent.
The black and whites in the first
section are an inspiring collection.
Legitimately great, they are littered
with such names as Monet, Einstein,
Picasso, Joyce and Stravinsky. This
barely gets beyond the surface. Also
recognised are athletes – Jesse Owens
strikes a pose while Babe Ruth cradles
his slugger like a newborn. Louis Arm-
strong wipes the sweat from his cheek
while Virginia Woolf lazily glances into
Maurice Beck and Helen MacGregor’s
lens. Many of the early photographers
were also recognised in their own right
– Edward Steichen’s portrait of Anna
May Wong, the first Chinese actress
to feature in a Hollywood film, is up in
all its husky, repressed glory while the
number of pictures by renowned por-
trait photographer Baron de Meyer are
innumerable.
When we segue into the modern
era, it becomes all too familiar. The re-
alisation is instantaneous. It is obvious
enough when you are there, and anyone
familiar with the magazines’ famous
covers will commiserate. Is this exhibi-
tion one with something important to
recognise, or is it little more than the
glorification of celebrity culture? Most
reviewers have already lambasted it for
the latter, pointing out that the Brazil-
ian supermodel Gisele Bundchen stark
naked astride a pale grey steed is nei-
ther a) art nor b) intellectually justifi-
able by sane parameters.
After all, it’s the obvious thing to do
isn’t it? Despite the industry accolades,
the prestige of working for the title and
its legitimate content, it’s still pap non-
sense, isn’t it?
Well, yes and no. On the one hand,
we have the best of the last hundred-
odd years – the political heavyweights,
the artists and tastemakers, writers and
critics who have all helped to shape the
way we think and see the world. On the
other, we have a hackneyed and super-
ficial collection of glorified would-be
achievers. Of course, no one would say
that of the truly great talents included,
but between these, who has heard of
the remaining assortment of society
types and artists? There seems to be a
heady divide between the magazine’s
first run, and its eighties revival. And
while few would dispute the impor-
tance of the figures included in the
former, almost without exception the
majority disparage the modern images,
glossy and buffed to digital perfection.
The period surrounding the 1920s
and 1930s were an exciting time of
change. Bebop and the blues were
gaining footholds in the clubs and ir-
reversibly reshaping the musical ver-
nacular, the United States introduced a
little thing called consumerism and not
least of all modernism, with its power-
ful engine of change and progressive
outlook, recalibrated the thinking and
actions of a myriad of disciplines from
commerce to philosophy. Vanity Fair
back then was a reflection of the best of
this, as it is now. The communication
networks were relatively infantile and
the mass media didn’t exist, and no one
would have even considered globalisa-
tion a foreseeable reality. The notion of
“celebrity” was a comparative scarcity
and reserved only for those who war-
ranted the limited run of space in the
media at the time.
The sheer amount of exchange and
communication between today’s media
and the public has made the modern
notion of celebrity a commodity for
commercial consumption. And as the
publication in the early half of the cen-
tury helped convey the massive chang-
es in ideology and thought at the time,
so too does its modern equivalent for
the current state of affairs. These are
vacuous times and where better than
Vanity Fair to reflect on the notion of
celebrity and its trappings? After all –
if the eighties were defined by greed,
the nineties by communication and
the noughties by celebrity, it’s hardly
going to translate into something
deeply meaningful in an era-defining
magazine, is it? Granted, many of the
pouts and arrogant, narcissistic group
portraits (described as “[supernovas]
of celebrity”) are hardly modest an-
nouncements. For those in the public
eye, to garner an Annie Liebovitz por-
trait in Vanity Fair is to signal that you
have arrived, and increasingly, success
is a benchmark that few are inclined
to play down. But it isn’t meant to be
timid or soft-spoken. Nothing now is
about being either, and the magazine’s
portraiture does a terrifyingly accurate
job of depicting this.
There is a “portrait” of Faye Duna-
way constructed and shot by David
LaChappelle, modern photography’s
greatest advocate of maximalism. Seen
from above, she is draped euphorically
across a yellow New York taxi as a bay-
ing technicolour mob of fans, press and
paparazzi savage her and feast upon
her public image, a golden Academy
Award statuette drifting haphazardly
in the crowd like a child lost in the
front rows of a Black Sabbath concert.
The scene is arresting, unashamedly
attention grabbing and uncaringly self-
serving. And if that isn’t a reflection of
our time, then what is?
One of the more deserving celebrities: Dame Helen Mirren by Lord Snowdon, 1995
Hilary Swank by Norman Jean Roy, 1995. A physique even Wonder Woman would be jealous of

