arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 7 March 2008 felix
Arts
Tom Chandler tells us about his... interesting... experiences in Dramsoc, directing Les Liaisons Dangereuses
Confessions of a student director
Y
ou see, I don’t really know
how I got to the position
I’m in now. At some point
I must have mentioned
that I’d be interested in di-
recting a play, because the next thing
I knew I was being offered one. From
that, somehow, I got here: sitting next
door to a room full of actors undress-
ing for a Felix centrefold.
Perhaps I should explain. From the
beginning. I had begun my final year
at Imperial, and whilst I had greatly
enjoyed myself until then, I had never
taken advantage of the huge variety of
clubs and societies the Union has to
offer. I like going to the theatre (who
doesn’t, right?) so I thought to myself,
if I were to get involved in a society, it
should be something I enjoy. So, for-
getting that I already had two years of
the Imperial grind under my belt, and
making a mental note to stock up on
biros for the term while I was about it, I
rocked up to Fresher’s fair and headed
to the DramSoc stall. I had been to a
few DramSoc performances, and as
well as thoroughly enjoying myself,
the level of talent and technical qual-
ity of peformances had impressed
me. Their flyer mentioned something
about DramSoc Fresher’s workshops
– to get newcomers involved, show
them around and see what the society
is about – so the next weekend I found
myself there. And that’s where it all be-
gins to take off.
I bumped into a friend, who after a
few minutes of chit-chat tells me she’s
stage managing the Fresher’s play and
would I like to assist her? ‘Great!’, I
thought – I’m in there already, and it’s
my first day! Fatally, I would later let
slip to this same friend that I might be
interested in directing. A few whispers
on the grapevine later and I find my-
self before a committee of few familiar
faces, proposing a play called ‘Les Li-
aisons Dangereuses’. You can see how
everything has kind of snowballed.
A couple of nail-biting weeks, involv-
ing some major prostitution of myself
in order to put together a production
team, I find myself back outside the
DramSoc ‘store room’, awaiting the
now sightly more familiar committee’s
decision. Who knows what happened
on the other side of that door, or which
gods smiled down on me, for after be-
ing summoned back in, I heard the
great news: ‘Les Liaisons Dangereuses’
was to be the next DramSoc play. Less
than two weeks, 27 auditions and many
tough decisions later, the play had a
cast. Now what on earth was I going to
do with them?
I had a vague idea what would be re-
quired of me – now I just had to con-
ceal quite how vague an idea that was
from the actors. Directing tip number
one: the most important part of gain-
ing respect and maintaining discipline
among actors – who, incidentally, are
an unruly lot – is to pretend you know
what’s going on. In a sense it’s much
like acting, but in real life. Sounding
confident and making it look like you’re
writing purposeful notes in the margin
of your script is particularly advanta-
geous to this end. But somehow, while
I was pretending to know how they
should be acting, things started com-
ing together in a way I hadn’t expected.
I was getting a feel for this.
In the rollercoaster ride that is di-
recting, this was the calm point on the
long ascent when you start trusting
that your seat belt will hold and sneak-
a-peak at the view. Spoke too soon,
way too soon.
The stomach-twisting plummet back
down. Directing unfortunately adheres
to the rest of life: it’s always the things
you least expect.
Les Liaisons Dangereuses is a pas-
sionate piece of work, and as with
every good play of this type, there is no
shortage of time spent in the bedroom
(not to mention the chaise-longue, or,
given half the chance, the floor)! It’s all
very well dealing with passion (some-
thing one might have experienced), and
trying to make the amore between two
characters look realistic; even direct-
ing prostitute encounters is okay, but a
rape scene? How do you ask someone
to pretend they’re being violated? How
do you get it to look realistic without
making the actors feel uncomfortable?
Directing tip number two: I recom-
mend having the lower inside leg as
Position A, upper thigh as Position B.
“Now page 48. Valmont: when you say
‘Lets just get ourselves more comforta-
ble, shall we?’ can you move your hand
between Positions A and B...”
Second mildly unanticipated struggle
has been getting Sami (the aforemen-
tioned Valmont) to keep his clothes on
in some of the scenes. There may be a
silver lining to this problem, though,
condidering what they are up to next
door [see this week’s centrefold for the
results]. He must be in his element in
there. Moments before going in he
was performing the male equivalent of
make-up: his exercise regime. Appar-
ently he’s been at it for 8 weeks. Press-
ups, sit-ups, skips; hundreds of them
– every day!
I fear that I might be giving the wrong
impression. I’m loving this – directing
I mean. It hasn’t been easy getting to
this stage. There have been times (like
yesterday, today, and tomorrow I ex-
pect) when coursework has piled up to
such an extent that I doubt an ending
still exists. But I’ve never been alone.
I have received lots of suport from the
DramSoc committee; ranging from tips
on how to keep my troublesome wards
in line, to the organisation of the most
comprehensive and, frankly, beauti-
ful publicity campaign the society has
seen. (Have to keep them sweet, you
see, otherwise they’ll make me write
another article!). Look out for post-
ers, flyers on the walkway, a projection
on the union building, a stunt or two
around campus, and the outcome of
all the white face paint, hairspray and
clutched material that I’ve seen walk-
ing in next door. (Flick to the centre of
this publication for the last one.)
Sure, there have been times when I
didn’t think we would ever get to where
we are now. Times I thought half the
play would need prompting; times I
thought the duel would consist of pick-
ing up the swords and someone losing
an eye. Multiple times when I was con-
vinced that we’d never get through the
whole play without someone cracking
up. But it’s pulled together so much in
the last few weeks, I can honestly say I
am proud to put my name to it.
My only regret, in my final year, is
that I didn’t sadlle-up into this direct-
ing fayre ride sooner.
Les Liaisons Dangereuses is showing
at the Union Concert Hall this week,
from Wednesday 12th to Saturday
15th March.
To direct properly one must practice ‘the disapproving eyebrow’
Stage combat is like real combat, but with less posing and flouncing
The essential eye-extraction phase of the rehearsal period. They are replaced with photosensitive eggs

