22 felix Friday 7 March 2008
The moment Art changed forever...
Despite a lack of seating and insufficient complementary coffee and biccies, Emily Wilson is left impressed
D
uchamp, Man Ray and
Picabia is a major new
exhibition at Tate Mod-
ern, and one that I was
particularly excited
about seeing. I was already a fan of this
period of art, and was semi-familiar
with Duchamp and Man Ray, though
I’d never heard of Picabia. This is the
kind of exhibition I go to see even if I’m
not writing about it. Not only that, this
was my first ever press viewing. I got
to see the exhibition before it was open
to the public, when it was open only to
journalists there to review it.
Going to a press viewing was cer-
tainly good fun, and a chance I’d jump
at in the future. Not all the labels had
been transferred to the walls, and there
was still the odd workman wandering
around. It’s quite fun to see the exhibi-
tion as a work in progress. Also at press
viewings, the staff are particularly nice
to you, because they know you’re there
to judge them, though I was extreme-
ly disappointed by a total lack of free
coffee/danish/biscuits/goodie bags.
I think being a member of the press
should entitle me to delicious freeness
– you’d think they’d make more of an
effort to bribe me, really.
Not that they needed to bribe me,
because this exhibition was very good
indeed. Something that particularly
impressed me about this exhibition is
how it displays beautifully the develop-
ment of art during the period. You get
to experience and understand the tran-
sitions from Impression to Fauvism
and then on to Dadaism and Surreal-
ism and Modernism… few exhibitions
of this type could manage this. It’s an
excellent lesson on how artists influ-
ence each other and how movements
come about. Despite this being a great
success of the exhibition, it wasn’t
made its obvious aim and wasn’t dis-
cussed directly. I think they’re missing
out on an opportunity here. The Tate
hype suggests what they’re going for
here is showing the relationships be-
tween the lives and works of the three,
and how they influenced eachother. I
don’t come away feeling this has been
achieved, compared with the Matisse/
Picasso exhibition of a few years ago,
which worked along the same lines
(this remains in my mind as the best
exhibition I have ever experienced, and
will be a tough one to beat).
So, the exhibition centres on three
artists: Marcel Duchamp (1887-1968),
Man Ray (1890-1976) and Francis Pica-
bia (1879-1953). These three friends
had significant influence on the pro-
gression of modern art, including the
creation of the Dada movement. Walk-
ing round the exhibition you can easily
find the parallels between their work,
but there are also obvious differences.
Duchamp started out as a painter but
later moved into more unusual me-
dia (like urinals), though for many
years he was thought to have given
up art to play competitive chess (who
wouldn’t?). Picabia was a painter all his
life, while Man Ray dabbled in differ-
ent media including photography. In
case you wondered, which I did, Man
Ray’s real name was Emmanuel Rad-
nitzky. He was doing me a favour there
– I don’t think I want to spend the rest
of this article having to type that out
over and over again. Sometimes it’s dif-
ficult to keep track of which is which,
but Picabia strikes me as being sinis-
ter and somewhat of a smug, dirty old
man. Duchamp is possibly the most
well-known, and comes off as the ring-
leader of the “group”. Man Ray is the
one that consistently appeals to me the
most – his character is more mysteri-
ous, but I generally prefer his art to the
other two.
From the first room, you come to ap-
preciate they were a chummy bunch.
For a start, they liked taking photo-
graphs of eachother. “Francis Picabia
Behind the Wheel of His Car” by Man
Ray is a case in point. The description
says “they shared a love of fast cars and
the good life, and often went to the
south of France together”, which is a
fair first impression to have of them. In
fact, the labels and descriptions in the
exhibition frequently amuse me, de-
scribing the antics the three got up to. I
enjoy how their little anecdotal stories
are worked in, though I’m not sure this
was a deliberate aim of the narrative.
“Adam and Eve” by Picabia in the sec-
ond room suggests this is going to turn
into another sex, drugs and rock ‘n’ roll
article. It doesn’t dominate (which is a
relief – I’m bored of writing about it),
but sex and nudity come up again and
again in this exhibition. I will say this
about Picabia: the dude knew how to
draw a good scrotum.
Not all of the art I like. Room three
has some beastly stuff in it. “Nude
Descending a Staircase” by Duchamp
is supposed to have caused scandal
amongst the art-appreciating public of
the time, being revolutionary and in-
fluential. I think it’s fairly awful myself
- a flurry of sketchy lines and brown.
“Bride” by Duchamp, next to it, is even
worse, with more brown mixed with
unsettling fleshy tones. On the op-
posite wall, “Cut-Out” by Man Ray is
somewhat better. I’m a big fan of crisp
lines and simple shapes. Man Ray is
winning me over already.
I quite like how all three have a ten-
dency to write the titles of the paint-
ings on the paintings, as in “The Rope
Dancer Accompanies Herself With
Her Shadows” by Man Ray. He has ex-
cellent handwriting, all swirly and ar-
tistic. Picabia’s handwriting (see “I See
Again in Memory My Dear Udnie”) is
much less nice: the block capitals of an
over-determined eight year old.
Fountain by Marcel Duchamp 1917. Another example of the artist’s radically varying pieces
Chocolate Grinder by Marcel Duchamp
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts

