of subject matter and media to play
with, so it’s exciting and varied, hold-
ing your attention throughout. This
would be a good choice for people who
don’t always have much patience with
art, or budding art-lovers – in addition,
of course, to life-long art fanatics like
me.
The Duchamp, Man Ray and
Picabia exhibition runs from 21st
February – 26th May 2008 at the
Tate Modern on level 4. Students
get in for £9
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 7 March 2008 felix
Arts
Man Ray’s “Untitled (Aerograph)”
is rather nice. He uses an airbrush to
create a fine haze blurring into itself to
produce shape and depth. He describes
the technique as “a purely cerebral ac-
tivity” because it allows the artist to
paint without ever touching the can-
vas. Another point to Man Ray!
Picabia’s definitely the most sexual
of the three. “Ad libitum; Your Choice;
At Will” is clearly sexual in some way,
with its bulbous pink shapes, but I’m
not sure what exactly it’s supposed to
represent. It’s like he knows what we’re
thinking and he’s playing with our dirty
little minds.
Room four I like very much. Picabia
wins me back with his “Mechanomor-
phic Drawings” which are just the sort
of thing I adore at these exhibitions.
Black inked line and shapes with let-
ters and words twisting around them.
They’re glorified doodles of the kind
I spend my younger teenage years
producing. Picabia’s “Daughter Born
Without Mother”, a crisp and techni-
cal painting of a machine, is pleasing. I
can’t really say why. Perhaps the green
colour on the dull, muddy brown back-
ground, or the use of paint to create
shadow, or just the technical precision
of the line.
I’m put off Man Ray when I discover
his fondness for cross-dressing. He
created the female alter ego Rose Se-
lavy, who carried on working when he
got pissed off with the art community
and went a bit underground. The pho-
tographs of him/her are amusing. He
makes an oddly good lady. In the same
room (five) there is a photo of Duch-
amp with a star shaved into his head.
The caption thingy says “no-one knows
exactly why Duchamp shaved his hair
in this way”. Apparently Picabia said:
“He had had a special cut and had had
done it totally for himself – and a little
for me too. It amused us both”. Right,
well, that explains it. Another example
of the quirky fun these three artists had
together.
In room six one of my exhibition
highlights is “La Voliere” by Man Ray.
He’s using the airbrush again and he
does it beautifully, contrasting the soft,
fading colours with the sharp black
lines of the frame of a mannequin.
This definitely wins the award for
‘Piece In The Exhibition That Emily
Would Sneak Into Her Handbag If She
Thought She Could Get Away With It’.
My birthday’s coming up, so perhaps
some of you could chip in?
Room seven is Tate’s favourite.
They’ve been all arty and clever hang-
ing sculpture from the ceiling to create
shadows on the wall. They do looked
damned good. Shadows are not some-
thing you usually notice in exhibitions,
and they can almost be better than the
art casting them. Duchamp’s famous
urinal is in this room. In the context of
the exhibition, you wonder why it’s so
iconic. Most of Duchamp’s work is very
different, and arguably much better.
Tate fuels this misconception by using
it to advertise the exhibition, which is a
shame. Of course, this is only a replica,
and there are others like it elsewhere. I
think it’s important not to forget that.
Duchamp’s spinning discs (“Rotor-
liefs”) in room eight are wonderful.
Colourful and hypnotic, producing
swirling patterns. One features a gold-
fish. They seem out of place, like Tate
bought them from Habitat and are now
trying to trick us into believing they’re
art. They seem far too modern, but
were created in 1935. Picabia’s “Con-
versation I” is a creative use of naked
bodies. They’re splashed with colour
and dotted about on a black and white
striped background, like classical stat-
ues falling into a black hole.
I’m always disappointed by how art
exhibitions tend to end on a low. Pica-
bia evidently went mental with boobs
and dingy colours. “Minos”, a jumbled
juxtaposition of naked forms, wildlife
and faces, in a lot of brown, is a good
representation of the kind of art I de-
spise. “Transparency”, also by Picabia,
is an ugly, angry-looking naked wom-
an being molested by a giant pair of
hands. Ugh. Duchamp’s “L.H.O.O.Q.”
will no doubt sell a lot of postcards. It’s
the Mona Lisa with a moustache and
goatee. I’m not exactly inspired. Ap-
parently if you read the title out the
French way, it sounds like the French
“elle a chaud au cul” = “she has a hot
arse”. Well, yippee. An artistic triumph
there, Duchamp. On the bright side,
the wooden chess sets made by Duch-
amps and Man Ray are lovely. I’d like
to be able to hold the smooth carved
wood pieces and possibly steal one as a
souvenir (again, one for the handbag).
The last room, “Eroticism”, is just an
orgy of raw nudity, and I’m not in the
mood. The exhibition lost me here,
and I couldn’t be bothered to pay at-
tention anymore. Picabia, dirty-mind-
ed old fart that he is, should go away
now please.
Overall the exhibition is excellent.
The content, layout and information
are all of the high standard we expect
from Tate. One small gripe I will add
is that there is no seating, which pisses
me off almightily. It’s a fair effort slow-
ly walking round these rooms, and I
would have appreciated the occasional
break. It’s nice to be able to sit down
and admire the art from a distance,
and maybe do a little people-watching.
It’s also particularly annoying having
to stand up when you’re trying to take
notes to write an article! The exhibi-
tion benefits from having a wide range
Cinq Femmes 1941-43, Francois Picabia. Dirty bugger. Oil on canvas by the way

