Francesca O’Hanlon
Nightlife Editor
I heart 1001 and so will you
on the guest list or search desperately
for a European model to gain entry. If
you’re not wearing diapers you prob-
ably won’t need your ID either, there’s
no entry fee and no “let me stamp your
hand” crap. Head straight up the stairs
in front of you, into the first room, if
you don’t know what music you’re
hearing… That’s a good thing, em-
brace the fact that you’re finally in a
club where the DJs are artists, not just
people who know how to fade from
one track to another. Café 1001 has a
great variety of music, live acts and in-
ternational DJ’s from soul to electro to
house to dub. Stop for a moment and
take in your surroundings.
The décor is relaxed and the light-
ing gives you a feeling of sepia-toned
happiness; throw your self down onto
the cushions or grab a couple of sofas
and… chill.
It’s time to get down to the basics -
drinks. Head on through into the sec-
ond room, ignore the forty year-old
man in a babygrow dancing in a circle
and go straight to the bar. You’ve got a
great variety of drinks, from cocktails
to cans of beer and they are reason-
ably priced. Not as cheap as Cheap-
It really is the club that has everything. Even a policeman pretending to sell crack
30
nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk
felix Friday 7 March 2008
Nightlife
Nightlife Editor – Francesca O’Hanlon
“You’ve got the right attitude, no prob-
lems”, booms the doorman as I’m ush-
ered inside Café 1001; a unique venue
that you’d be foolish to avoid. This is a
café/bar/club that says no to queuing
for entry, monotonous nights out and
unimaginative music.
Situated at the end of Brick Lane,
the venue is the perfect place for an
all-round night out. Burgers, chips, ba-
guettes and even fruit are all available
at 1001- this is like no other club you’ve
been to before. Revellers congregate
outside smoking, talking and eating;
there’s seating provided in the form
of picnic tables. You might have made
some guesses about the dress code by
this point. Curries, Burgers and pic-
nic tables do not mix with expensive
dresses and brand new loafers. Leave
all the pretentious West End bullshit
behind and dress like an interesting
human being. Think more Crackbitch
than Jack Wills. At the very least, dress
like a NORMAL human being.
At some point, you’re going to have to
go inside, so you know… go inside. No
need to phone a friend to get yourself
How many times have you stood on a
dance floor, looked about, and won-
dered how many people around you
are actually feeling the music being
played?
In my opinion, too many clubs are
being filled with people who are there
solely because they want to get pickled
and not really because of a love of the
music. Don’t get me wrong, I love a
good pickling, but I hate getting onto
a dance floor, where the atmosphere
created by a DJ rocking the crowd is
lost because people are hearing but not
feeling their work.
However, last week at Fabric was dif-
ferent. For a club which consistently
plays host to the best in breaks and
drum ‘n’ bass, even a casual Thursday
night was huge. The complete range
of breakbeat’s finest performed, from
legends such as Krafty Kuts, through
to newskoolers such as Rektchordz, all
in aid of the 7th annual International
Breakbeat Awards.
Even in the international room, dis-
playing breaks from across Europe,
the atmosphere was massive. Every
time the b-lines dropped, the floor
went crazy, the highlight for me was
how much DJ Deekline rocked Room
Two. Everyone in that room was hang-
ing by his every mix, scratch and drop.
This reminded me of what breaks is
about, loving the driving bass lines and
pounding beats.
The best DJ award went to Stanton
Warriors and best producer to Plump
DJs, who also picked up Best Single
and Best Label.
Alas, now only 12 months until the
8th annual championships, which I am
most certainly planning to go to. Not
for the awards themselves, but for the
atmosphere and DJs that made it an in-
credible night out.
Jack Massey
H
oly cow, it’s been a hec-
tic week. Well not really,
I had one big night and
then five days recover-
ing, but it was worth it.
On Thursday last week, me and Jack
headed down to Fabric for the Break-
beat championships. While I could
chitter on for hours about how good it
was, instead, I would like to discuss the
Fabric bouncers. I hate bouncers. They
are rude, aggressive and just generally
patronising. Why do they feel it neces-
sary to just screw up a night by being
absolute arseholes? For example; Why
do they always make you feel so guilty
about being drunk? Everyone is drunk,
it’s a Friday night, even your parents
are sitting at home watching Have I
Got News For You with several bottles
of wine giggling at the topical humour
that they explain to you that you will
not find funny because you have not
read nearly enough of The Times/
Guardian/Independent. Anyway my
point was that bouncers are fannies
and here is a perfectly good example of
their fanniness in action:
BOUNCER: No you can’t come back
in you’re drunk.
CLUBMAN/WOMAN/ME: I’m not
drunk, I always throw up in my bra and
then put it back on...
BOUNCER: No you don’t.
CLUBMAN/WOMAN/ME: Yes I do
BOUNCER: No you don’t.
CLUBMAN/WOMAN/ME: Yes I do
BOUNCER: No you don’t.
CLUBMAN/WOMAN/ME: Yes I do
BOUNCER: No you don’t.
CLUBMAN/WOMAN/ME: Yes I do
BOUNCER: No you don’t.
CLUBMAN/WOMAN/ME: Yes I do
BOUNCER: Then you need to sort
your fucking life out.
Anywho, so after this event, I wasn’t
expecting much politeness from the
Fabric bouncers when, at six in the
morning, as the club was closing, I ran
back downstairs for a wee. All the toi-
lets were locked, but instead of laugh-
ing at me as I got more and more red in
the face trying to hold it in, they ush-
ered me into a little building connected
to Fabric, (turned out to be the head
bouncer’s house) let me do my busi-
ness, then offered me a cup of tea! I po-
litely declined (too much weeing) and
they walked me out, made sure I didn’t
get into a shitty minicab where I would
be offered champagne and then killed,
and bid me farewell. Although a small
interaction, it was a very important
one, because it completely restored my
faith in bouncers. Well done big hench-
Fabric-men in bomber jackets.
So that is it for this week. If you too
have a new found love of bouncers, you
can write in to tell me, or if you want
to write a review, that’s also very wel-
come. Or in fact for any reason write
in at nightlife.felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Also if anyone has any funny stories
of nights out, send them in. Mainly
for my enjoyment, but who knows- we
may print them too! As always, have a
messy week, not so much so that you
wet yourself but more so than going
wild and spending an extra 50p on the
itbox.
I hate to admit it, but with exams around the corner it might be time
to start hitting the books rather than hitting the London nightlife.
Before all that though, why not have one last week to clear your
head (and your bank account). Here’s a week of some varied East
London club nights, sure to satisfy your need for good music and
beverages.
Sunday 9th March – Clockwork Bar – Islington: 5 squid after 9pm.
Sunday night doesn’t have to be one of rest, why not ramp up
the intensity with a night of drum and bass at Clockwork Bar? The
fortnightly Metalheadz Sunday Sessions is a great way to end your
weekend with a bang.
Monday 10th March – Cargo – ILUVLIVE: £6 in advance, £8 on the
door. For Monday we have some live music, with the ILUVLIVE UK
Urban Showcase at Cargo in the East End. Featuring artists such
as Taio Cruz, Bashy and beatboxing from Faith SFX, it’s something
different at a cool venue.
Wednesday 12th March – Dogstar – Brixton 808 Volt: Free Entry-
from 4pm-2am. It’s halfway through the week now, and time for
something a little different. Dosgstar, in Brixton, is the ‘first DJ bar
in London’ and plays a variety of music including Brazilian, Latin Hip
Hop and Baille Funk. Drinks are cheap and with free entry it’s worth
a look instead of your standard Wednesday night.
Saturday 15th March – Sosho – 2 Tabernacle St, EC2A
Lasermagnetic: £5 entry-9pm-4am. Last but by no means least,
Sosho on a Saturday showcase Lasermagnetic. A night of cool
electronic disco, they mix some great cocktails and you’ll be rubbing
shoulders with a very international crowd.
Alistair Owen
The best of East London in the
upcoming week (Look forward to
some long bus journeys home)
skates but less expensive than West
End clubs. A can of Red Stripe is £2.40.
Either way, it’s a hell of a lot of fun to
lie back on a sofa, sip your beer and
watch some tripped out guy dancing
by himself.
The only fault of the club is the fact
that it closes at 12pm. However this
isn’t really a problem because there
are many other clubs and pubs in the
surrounding area. Regardless of what
you’re looking for- clubbing, food, con-
versation, techno, live music,a heavy
night, a chilled night- Café 1001 has
got it. It’s even been in a music video –
check out Bloc Party’s ‘Prayer’.
You’d have to be crazy not to put
Café 1001 at the top of your to-do list,
so gather your mates and get down to
Brick Lane for food, dancing and fun
the likes of which you’ll never find in
the West End.
Fabric hosts the Breakbeat Awards
Cafe 1001. Full of young trendy people who shop at Topshop
The incredibly talented Krafty Kuts.... Wearing a pair of Skechers?
Kadhim Shubber

