dress or bored with your skinnies and
the fashion magazines are full of size
zerosinunattainablyexpensiveclothes,
why not seek inspiration elsewhere?
This year’s Imperial College fashion
show is the perfect place to see what
the new season has to offer. Many of
the brands mentioned above are being
kind enough to lend us their clothes for
the fashion show. The show is in aid
of Michael Sobell House, a hospice in
North-West London.
Boys take note too… we have pieces
from menswear brands such as Lyle
and Scott, the Rudolf Dassler collection
at Puma, Urban Outfitters, surfwear
from O’Neill, suits from Hawes and
Curtis and tuxes from Moss Bros. Oh,
and there will be girls in underwear!
Floral print
So pretty! But stop it look-
ing too girly by pairing it with
trainers or canvas tops.
Butterflys
Wear butterfly prints in hair
accessories, bags and purses.
This darling hair slide is from
Miss Selfridge, wear in an
emo sort of way. It is the print
for Spring, stars can go fuck
themselves. Although I’m not
sure how.
Topshop does Fairtrade
I hate it when companies,
clothing or coffee, only do
a line of Fairtrade alongside
their other offerings which are
presumably made from forced
child labour. Nonetheless, the
Fairtrade tees that are avail-
able from Topshop are pretty
sweet.
Teenagers
I hate you all, with your bright
H&M clothing, and your insou-
ciant faces.
It’s got to the point where I’m
now happy to be IDed, like,
ha! I beat you time!
I’m no longer attractive to
weird 20-somethings with
Lolita complexes. It’s a hard
life. Well at least I’m not over
30. I need therapy.
the guy who stitched up the seams of
their T shirt.
It seems it’s not just us who are more
concerned about fiscal standings. Even
Don Charvey, founder and director of
American Apparel, is “getting bored”
with the whole morally clean market-
ing. “There are other companies that
pay crappy wages that are winning
awards for their financial perform-
ance,” he openly expresses.
I can’t see the day that Primark
stops attracting hordes of bargain-
craving women, and the day when a
cash-strapped single mother turns to
ethically valued shops to clothe her
children. The vast majority of people
willing and able to pay extra for their
clothing will be the purchasers of
ethical clothing, and that is the truth.
Maybe one day a revolutionary icon
under the devious guise of ‘Waniel
Dan’ will resurrect the hippy mind set
of the world that hooked the 60s into
tree hugging, making our own clothes
from home-grown cotton, and getting
off our faces on shrooms. Ok, maybe
not that last part.
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion
Fashion Editor – Sarah Skeete
31
Friday 7 March 2008 felix
Wallet versus conscience
O
rganic and fairtrade
food has under-
gone a sharp rise in
popularity in recent
times, and fashion
is seemingly follow-
ing suit. Ethical awareness is becom-
ing a large part of fashion marketing.
London Fashion Week held a section
for ethical fashion initiative Estethica.
It provided the chance for ‘ethically-
qualified – companies to showcase how
much they’ve done to keep the produc-
tion and sale of their clothes morally
squeaky clean. So no Malaysian school
children, no monkeys chained to sew-
ing machines and no hamster-fur coats
here.
These companies are having us be-
lieve that being fairtrade and ethical is
actually as important to them as mak-
ing money. I splutter in the face if any-
one that believes it. It’s just a giant mar-
keting tool and, in some cases, a very
good excuse for charging the gullible
consumer even more for their clothes
and accessories. However, maybe I’m
being utterly cynical. I just find it hard
to imagine the CEO of a major fashion
outlet, whilst sitting in the back of his
diesel-imbibing Bentley, thinking what
the next kind of organic hemp he’s go-
ing to produce his next line of hand-
bags from. Ulterior motives or not,
surely it’s a good thing that more and
more companies are becoming ethi-
cally conscious.
But what actually is ethical clothing?
It is fashion that takes into considera-
tion the people behind the production
and sale of the clothing, and the im-
pacts on the environment of producing
these clothes. Obviously, not all cloth-
ing outlets source their stock from
underground Thai sweatshops, and
in the modern world we live in, fewer
and fewer can get away with it due to
growing public concern and, hence,
media scrutiny. However, Eco fashion
designer Tamsin Lejeune, founder of
the EFF, the Ethical Fashion Forum,
claims there are labourers “working
under sweatshop conditions for less
than $1 a day”. This type of exploitation
occurs in some of the poorest areas of
the world, including Asia and South
America, where society is probably
less concerned with ecology and ethi-
cal teatment of their workforce. Hence,
less media coverage and investigation;
the general public are less taken back
by the shock-tactic media exposé we
seem to be affected by.
A company that has made their
name based on their fairtrade labour
practises and environmental policies is
Los Angeles-based American Apparel.
The now common high street retailer
is vertically integrated, meaning that
they possess total control over manu-
facture, wholesale and retail duties.
Standards and policies are procedure-
wide, so regulation is tight and there
is little ambiguity between the several
different firms that would normally be
used in garment production. In this
way American Apparel can guarantee
100% ethical clothing. A sense of con-
sumer trust has grown with American
Apparel’s reputation in both the US
and the UK. American Apparel can
afford to charge a little more to cover
the costs of having fair trade standards;
their LA-based factory pays an average
of around $12 an hour, and an $8 mini-
mum. This being said, American Ap-
parel’s other marketing pitch is the fact
that their clothes are timeless. They
last longer than the average sweater,
and taken out of the cupboard 20 years
later, their style will still be relevant.
I’m part of their target market and in
all honesty, the latter pitch is the one
I relate to much more than their eco-
ethical marketing when I buy from AA.
I’m guessing that the majority of peo-
ple that shop at AA do so because of
style rather than principles.
A quick survey around Imperial, and
most agree. Responses ranged from the
more heavy-headed; “if you want to be
fashionable, you’re not going to care,”
to the more sympathetic: “there are
concerns but who can afford to think
about it?” Overall, ethical and eco
morals seemed to have very little bear-
ing in their choice of clothes. Paying an
extra few quid for the peace of mind
that their new top was made with-
out detriment to anyone or anything
seemed absurd to the average Imperial
student. Most claimed knowledge of
the infamous Nike sweatshop scandals
in the late 1990s, but only one person
I spoke to said they had stopped buy-
ing their products. Many hadn’t re-
ally thought about the clothes they
buy involving some degree of moral
malpractice until I questioned them
about it. They simply “weren’t aware”
and “didn’t notice” the issues that are
brought up by today’s Nazi-efficient
production lines. Is education the key
to getting the average schmuck to fi-
nally turn to ethically produced cloth-
ing; finally making a stand against this
‘fast-fashion’ culture and turning the
head of every director of every fashion
outlet in the country? No. Fair trade
and eco-friendly clothing costs more.
People are more concerned about their
own personal wealth, and not that of
Daniel Wan discusses whether you should spend that bit extra on ethical clothes COOL
LAME
Despite their glum exteriors, these people are Happy. Happy, I tell you!
With London Fashion Week having
just finished, it’s all about Brits doing
things the way we always have, with an
edginess and quirkiness seen nowhere
else. Capturing this perfectly are graph-
ic print tees, such as those from Porto-
bello boutique I Saved Laurence. Neon
blues and pinks sit well with prints
of sunglasses, safety pins, Godzilla
and many others. Think Henry Hol-
land but cuter and less self-important.
Even American companies like Urban
Outfitters stock entirely different col-
lections in this country to those in the
US. It’s all about layering, having fun
with accessories, and the typical Urban
Outfitters rockstar twist.
I know you may not believe this, but
the hippie look is back, only in a newer,
sleeker way. Boho’s older, more sophis-
ticated sister, if you will. Think of the
Stella McCartney floral jumpsuit or the
festival look we’ll all be championing
come June. Glastonbury is, of course,
the archetypal festival, with the flip
flops and summer dresses look aban-
doned in favour of the more practical
wellies. Hunter wellies are the classic
choice, or for a kookier look funkywel-
lingtons.com have all prints and col-
ours imaginable.
If vintage is your thing and the
stealthy 70’s revival currently creeping
up on us is what you’re aiming for, the
vintage shops of Kingly Court, Carnaby
Street are just the ticket. There’s plenty
to choose from but one of my personal
favourites is Sam Greenberg. For girls,
if you have the balls, their jumpsuits
are bang on trend or for something
slightly less frightening try the 70’s day
dresses, retro t-shirts and A-line skirts.
For the boys, vintage checked shirts,
plimsolls and casual jackets rule. Their
menswear is also stocked at Topshop,
Oxford Circus.
I should also mention the King’s
Road’s best-kept secret, Les Néréides.
This family-run French jewellery bou-
tique has some of the most interesting,
yet wearable jewellery I have seen, and
the shop always smells divine! I am as
big a fan of Accesorize as anyone, but
I am getting a little tired of seeing peo-
ple with exactly the same jewels as me.
Les Néréides has something to suit
everyone’s taste. Le Barbe Noire range
has skulls, crossbones, pirate ships and
dazzling jewels. Diamantine is multi-
faceted jewels in all the colours of the
rainbow that positively shimmer in
the light. Or if the ethnic/tribal look is
more up your street then the Twiggie
range is perfect, with browns, oranges
and wooden detailing.
It is a well-known tactic among the
more fashionably-orientated girls of
Imperial that in order to avoid the hor-
ror of someone having the same Sum-
mer Ball dress as you, the key is to get
in there early. A new find in this arena
is a brand called Xterity. Their pieces
are stunning, based on classic couture
with incredible attention to detail, each
dress has its unique flair. Even if these
are too pricey for us mere students they
make a pretty gorgeous daydream.
If you, like many others of the fash-
ion pack, are feeling jaded with the day
Fashion pointers from the RAG team
Alice Johnston
The fashion show will take
place at Guanabara, Holborn,
on Tuesday 11th March. Tickets
are available from www.union.
ic.ac.uk. For more info visit www.
icfashionshow.co.uk or email rag.
fashionshow@ic.ac.uk

