news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 7 March 2008 felix
News
Quest to find Sabbaticals complete
Jennifer Morgan elected as Union President. Felix welcomes the Union’s new Sabbatical Overlords with pies
Last Friday, the 2008 Union Election
results were announced. After week’s
of campaigning and preparation the
Sabbatical Officer, NUS Delegate and
Student Trustee candidates were fi-
nally told the outcome of the elections
and put out of their misery. To give
next year’s Sabbaticals Officers an ear-
ly, hearty welcome, Felix employed the
City & Guilds Hit Squad to pie them.
The election results were revealed to
a packed crowd which filled out daV-
inci’s last Friday night. Returning Of-
ficer, Danny McGuinness, announced
the majority of the results over the PA
system; however, the Presidential can-
didates were momentarily left in sus-
pense when the microphone ceased to
function. Eventually, the audience was
told that current RCSU (Royal College
of Science Union) President, Jennifer
Morgan, would be next year’s Union
President winning with 1011 votes out
of 2314 in total. Although Miss Mor-
gan beat her nearest competitor, Jon
Matthews, by almost 200 votes, the
race for the Presidency was actually far
tighter than the final figures suggest.
Mr Matthews was in line to become
President after the first three stages of
vote counting; however, because of re-
distributed votes, Miss Morgan clawed
her way back into a winning position.
The Union used the Single Transfer-
able Voting (STV) system in the elec-
tions meaning that voters could rank
the candidates in order of preference.
If a voter’s highest-ranked candidate
was knocked out, their vote was redis-
tributed to their second choice and so
on.
Current Social Clubs Committee
(SCC) Chair, Lily Topham, will be next
year’s Deputy President (Clubs & So-
cieties) winning by over 200 votes in
the final round. It was widely believed
that John James would fare well in this
strand after a strong campaign (he’s
the one you probably saw carrying a gi-
ant ‘Refreshers’ tube around campus),
however the experienced SCC Chair
toppled the competition convincingly
in the end.
The most surprising result was in the
Deputy President (Education & Wel-
fare) category where Environmental
Society stalwart, Hannah Theodorou,
defeated her sole competitor Ryan
Dee despite a non-existant campaign
strategy.
Upset was avoided in the Deputy
President (Finance & Services) cat-
egory, where recent Felix centrefold
star, Christian Carter, defeated RON
by 1155 to 596 votes.
Finally, the next Felix Editor was de-
termined to be Jovan Nedić. This year’s
Sports Editor narrowly beat Nightlife
Editor, Greg Mead, by 78 votes.
For a full breakdown see the box-out
of the Sabbatical Election results.
Elsewhere, both candidates running
for Student Trustee positions were
elected, namely Kadhim Shubber and
Jaimie Henry. Kirsty Patterson, Vic-
toria Gibbs, Elizabeth Hyde, Camilla
Royle, Ashley Brown, Jon Matthews,
Luke Taylor and Jennifer Morgan were
elected as NUS Delegates; however Mr
Matthews has since relinquished the
position.
On Wednesday, Felix arranged/
staged a lunchtime photo-shoot for
the winning candidates. The incoming
Sabbaticals were asked to meet outside
the main Union building at 11:45am.
Felix didn’t intend for the shoot to
be a test of the candidates’ punctual-
ity; however, with both Miss Topham
and Miss Theodorou arriving late and
missing the photo-shoot, we should
have brought a stopwatch.
Eventually, everyone tired of waiting
and it was decided to have the “group”
photo taken with just the new Presi-
dent, DPFS and Felix Editor. Right on
cue, after a few snaps the City & Guilds
(C&G) Hit Squad burst through the
gathered crowd of sportsmen and
women, launching paper plates of
shaving foam into the faces of the in-
coming Sabbatical Officers.
The C&G Hit Squad offers its servic-
es once a year during RAG Week. Stu-
dents could employ the Squad, much
like contract killers, to carry out a hit
by paying them a fee. Unlike contract
killers, the fee is given to charity; this
year’s RAG Week was raising money
for Cancer Research UK, The Newman
Holiday Trust and Practical Action.
Shortly after the initial hit, Miss
Topham turned up looking relieved
that she’d missed a flan to the face but
also concerned that the Hit Squad had
an unfulfilled contract. Surely enough,
her time came but she wasn’t going
to be flanned without a fight, as she
fended off one Hit Squad member by
swinging a heavy bag of books at him.
Miss Theodorou was more willing to
accept her fate when she finally arrived,
taking some foam to the forehead.
Next year’s Sabbatical Officers will
have to tackle a number of crucial is-
sues. Now that the second phase of the
Beit Redevelopment has been given
the go ahead, they will be tasked with
seeing it through to completion and
ensuring hiccups are avoided along
the way. Similarly, the Sabbs will need
to begin to secure funding for the fi-
nal phase of the redevelopment which
will see the rejuvenation of the Union’s
bars. On a national scale, they’ll be
responsible for deciding what the hell
we’re going to do with the NUS even
though we rejoined over a year ago,
plus they’ll need to fight for students’
views during the Top-up Fee Funding
Review taking place next year.
Felix would like to take this opportu-
nity to wish them all the best of luck.
Break the Union a leg!
Rector pied: City & Guilds
Hit Squad strikes again
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
At lunchtime on Tuesday the Rector, Sir Richard Sykes, received
his annual pie to the face courtesy of two primates from the C&G
Hit Squad. The Rector, who just happened to be walking down
the Sherfield Walkway at around about 12pm when this reporter
also just happened to be getting his lunch from the JCR, was
confronted by the two assailants who planted a shaving foam flan
into his mush. The Hit Squad operates each year during RAG Week
to help raise money for charities such as Cancer Research UK, The
Newman Holiday Trust and Practical Action
Next year’s Union President, Jennifer Morgan, enjoys the taste of shaving foam
Lily Topham brains a Hit Squad member during the execution of his duty
2008 Sabbatical Election results
Format
Name – No of votes (Round
knocked out)
Union President
Jennifer Morgan – 1011 votes
(Elected)
Jon Matthews – 821 (5th)
Luke Taylor – 500 (4th)
Ed Hughes – 339 (3rd)
Diogo Geraldes – 276 (2nd)
RON – 133 (1st)
Deputy President (Clubs &
Societies)
Lily Topham – 986 (Elected)
Jess Marley – 783 (2nd)
John James – 447 (3rd)
The incoming DPEW, Hannah Theodorou, demonstrates her
promptness by turning up late. She did not escape a flanning
RON – 116 (1st)
Deputy President (Education &
Welfare)
Hannah Theodorou – 1055
(Elected)
Ryan Dee – 504
RON – 210
Deputy President (Finance &
Services)
Christian Carter – 1155
RON – 596
Felix Editor
Jovan Nedić – 882 (Elected)
Greg Mead – 804 (2nd)
RON – 194 (1st)

