32 felix Friday 7 March 2008
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Fashion
P
aris is known as the
“church of fashion” for a
good reason. No other
city in the world can lay
claim to its pedigree and
heritage for all things sar-
torial – this is the city, after all, that
saw Paul Poiret liberate women from
the suffocating restraints of the corset,
Christian Dior usher in the New Look
and Coco Chanel revolutionise wom-
en’s dress. The city’s governing body
for fashion, the Chambre Syndicale,
chooses very carefully not only whom
it allows to show for the prestigious
and biannual couture shows, but also
its ready-to-wear shows. If London is
a creative hotbed of eccentricity, New
York is sleek city chic and Milan the
home of unabashed glamour, then
Paris is the place where the future of
fashion takes shape.
A glance at the list of shows reveals a
depth of talent that even Milan would
lie, cheat and steal to obtain, and it is
no coincidence that Paris is the last city
on the schedule – any other city or se-
ries of shows would be swept away in
its wake. The crème de la crème is here
– and you’d better be on your toes.
Balenciaga
Every season, the industry’s elite make
their way to the Balenciaga show early
in the morning for fashion’s equiva-
lent of what critic and fashion histo-
rian Colin MacDowell once described
as “the scrubbing of the chapel steps”.
This small but roaring house means
business, and is back in a big way after
creative director Nicholas Ghesquière’s
recent tour de force collections. The
last couple of shows, though eventu-
ally influential, had been met with a
twinge of disappointment. But for fall,
Ghesquière pulled out all the stops.
Jackets that had been moulded,
sliced and sculpted to form the body-
defining pieces that Balenciaga himself
favoured were redefined in shiny, slick
plastics and latex that fused classics
from the archives with Ghesquière’s
own sci-fi tastes (who could forget
the manic robo-leggings from spring
2007’s show?). The powerful glare of
studio spotlights was transformed into
benign, mesmerising shapes by me-
ticulously cut black satin in one piece
while skinny cigarette trousers in mut-
ed shades of grey balanced the rich,
creamy contrast of colour in gorgeously
draped velvet and taffeta tops. But this
was a more mature iteration of his pre-
vious collections – powerful enough to
steer the choppy course of fashion, but
wearable enough to be snapped up for
more than sheer collectibility.
Chanel
Some designs are so iconic and classic
that they barely need to be altered. The
Porsche 911 and Fender Strat are two
such designs. The Chanel tweed jacket
and skirt combination is another. Karl
Lagerfeld provided an effortless medi-
tation on current trends recast in a
whitewashed space, complete with
carousel and a viewing platform that
models returned to once completing
their short route for further viewing.
Beautiful trailing coats and peplum
jackets hit the sweet spot while full-
length separates were considered in a
looser fashion than Marios Schwab’s
earlier body-conscious incarnation.
Lagerfeld focused heavily on unforced,
easy interpretations of Chanel classics
laid out with heavy fabrics artfully torn
and roughly hewn – a certain celluloid
male model would approve, no doubt.
A high-gloss, shiny, wet-look cocktail
dress retained the archetypal silhouette
while matron-like Nazca print jackets
added interest later in the collection to
light separates. In an interesting turn,
Lagerfeld also sent out a few looks for
the gentleman seeking fashion enlight-
enment, Chanel-style – appreciated if
only because Chanel menswear is as
rare as chicken’s teeth. The show felt
more like a token nod to trends than
a hard-hitting, season-defining col-
lection – but for a house with such a
timeless aesthetic, it hardly matters
when much of the defining is already
in the past.
Yves Saint Laurent
YSL’s fall show felt like an Ultraviolet
spinoff colliding headfirst with Asi-
mov’s I, Robot (or should that be I,
Fembot?). Models filed out sinisterly
identical in short, abbreviated bobs
and slit black sunglasses. Like Karl
Lagerfeld, head designer Stefano Pi-
lati’s collection was essentially a fresh
take on YSL classics executed with a
singular vision and unerring verve. In
this case, a slick, updated futureshock
vision of precision cut, techno-organ-
ic and super-slick looks that quietly
flaunted their (admittedly impressive)
credentials. Asymmetrically cut day-
dresses with casually loose shoulders
preceded high waisted, wide-legged
trousers that presented a louche take
on classic YSL. Even the simplest sta-
ples were reinterpretated with a self-
assured aplomb, like a breathtaking
white shirt with dramatically-sculpted
sleeves, belted above a rising black vel-
vet skirt with gold bordering. Or how
about a subtly funnelled brown velvet
sports jacket with gold hardware?
Pilati played tactically with colour,
showing sparing glimpses of cerulean
and pale yellow in amongst a sea of
predominantly black and brown. Stan-
douts included a simple belted white
dress with flecks of black that turned
out to be feathers, and a sheer flowing
white shirt paired with gloriously loose
trousers embellished with a constel-
lation of sequins. At 39 in total, the
collection was appropriately succinct,
considering the Homeric timescales
of other similarly large houses. And as
YSL owners Gucci (PPQ) will be glad
to note, Pilati’s rising profile amongst
the Paris elite will only be good for
sales. After years of inconsistency and
a couple of lukewarm receptions, most
people suspect they won’t be the only
ones.
Lanvin
After some severe deliberation, I con-
cluded that it was impossible not to
love Lanvin. Creative director Alber El-
baz’s designs appeal to the hyperfemi-
nine traditionalists with their classic
silhouettes and air of refinement, and
they appeal to the buyers and women
who want extra panache with their
working look. Not least, they appeal
to the critics who laud Elbaz’s highly
personalised, bold and innovative col-
lections that have been as consistent
as their similarly rising sales figures. A
beautifully proportioned pencil skirt
constructed of ribbon and layered in
ruffles was paired to a dark gunmetal
silk blouse while the same pleatlike de-
tails reappeared on a gorgeous black
cocktail dress. There were svelte, dark-
ly sexy one-shouldered dresses in satin
Paris Fashion Week, Fall ‘08 RTW
A report on the last major Autumn/Winter 2008 catwalk shows, dans le joli Paris by David J Paw
(Left to right) Chanel; Balenciaga; Lanvin; Junya Watanabe; Chanel

