fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
33
Friday 7 March 2008 felix
Fashion
and huge statement coats for the dar-
ing, tastefully opulent jewellery turned
the glam up to 11, but even these were
outshone by incredible dresses stud-
ded with gleaming gold sequins.
In amongst the smorgasbord of de-
sign details was the added plus that it
was, in fact, mostly practical and work-
able. In contrast to other highly con-
spicuous and highly touted designers,
Elbaz’s designs never overpower the
wearer and always allow her – and not
the clothes – to be the focus of atten-
tion, rather than setting up a vapid and
frankly neurotic “fashion safari” of key
pieces from famous designers. Thank-
fully, in amongst the seething mass
of trends inundating editors and the
public, Elbaz remembered the small
oversight that clothes can and should
be gorgeous. And the fashion world is
a better place for it.
Junya Watanabe
One of the quieter personalities of Paris
Fashion Week, Watanabe described his
fall collection in two words: “geometric
sculpture”. Sometimes less is more, and
Watanabe understands this perfectly.
With a collection that would give New
York drape artist Doo Ri Chung a run
for her money, he presented a pano-
rama of shape and form that was true
toitsdescriptivenamesake.Geometric,
precisely-draped tops fell effortlessly
across languorous split skirts dramati-
cally folded into thick bands or left
loose, and fluid draped jersey dresses
formed an interesting visual continuity
with sharp, tucked and folded jersey
tops with layers rolling down the back
in a beautifully executed exploration of
line, layer and volume. Every piece was
a puzzle of shapes and lines that one
could happily lose oneself in.
Tailoring was also represented by
precision-cut jackets with dramatic
creases and soft folds rippling invit-
ingly across the fabric, or familiar
shapes with odd details such as the re-
placement of conventional sleeves with
cape-like openings. The models were
almost as mesmerising as the clothes
themselves, faces shrouded in black
cloth with headpieces resembling said
sculptures – the designer’s play on
words could refer to the obvious state-
ment of the models, or the referral to
the clothes themselves visually repre-
senting an aesthetic more convention-
ally associated with the world of art.
A painstakingly twisted, teased and
contorted full-length top was a com-
plex riot of shapes and proportions like
something from the dark landscape of
a Guillermo del Toro film. The world
of fashion is changing, and with the
encroachment of embarrassing ce-
lebrity capsule collections (read: cash
cows) for high street chains and the
amateurish efforts of would-be society
designers, it is reassuring to watch the
unearthly glare of near-genius wafting
unmistakeably by. Stunning.
Alexander McQueen
They say that beauty is a commodity
– if you don’t appreciate it, someone
else will. Some may lament the fact
that women will lie, cheat and steal for
an Alexander McQueen gown but for
the fashion faithful, this is a perverse
cause for celebration rather than con-
sternation – it is reassuring that things
so beautiful can exist in the world. It
makes the world a more wondrous,
fuzzy place to be, and though the view
is undeniably rose-tinted, those in-
clined more towards the aesthetically
indulgent escapist reveries of fashion
were not the most realistic group of
folk to begin with – think of them as
lost causes.
Not that they could care less. When
Alexander McQueen revealed this col-
lection on Friday, the fashion world
was turned upside down and the plan-
ets realigned themselves around earth
and more specifically, around Mc-
Queen himself. Variously described
as arguably his most confident collec-
tion and the most stunning since fall
06’s memorable collection (massive,
sweeping Edwardian gowns and birds),
fashion’s great romanticist produced
an incredible collection of dark fairy-
tale princesses and sweeping colonial
grandeur in a dark bloom of blacks
and an explosion of deep Indian reds.
Light, feminine ballet-length dresses
with ruffled hems or embroidered de-
tails were mated with teased, frizzed
hair or enigmatic shawls that recalled
all the eccentricity and charm of a fair-
ytale dream.
Exaggerated silhouettes in matte
black and tartan expanded into capa-
cious and bunched-up dresses, and
tartan and heavy monochrome prints
manifested themselves in pieces with
frothy, ruffled collars and jacket bor-
ders. Snowflakes embroidered onto
one black chiffon dress spilled over the
hem and burst forth in a wonderfully
frivolous display, and splendid head-
dresses adorned the final half of the
collection, which ushered in a fitfully
regal display of pomp embellished with
a newfound softness. The jewellery was
opulent and the details indulgent, and
it was obvious no expense had been
spared in what was an over-the-edge
and most assured experience. Where
others had failed, he has conquered
– McQueen’s risky no-compromise
approach has paid dividends (his com-
pany has just gone into profit). What a
way to celebrate.
Sonia Rykiel
The longstanding “queen of knits”,
Rykiel isn’t the first person you think
of when someone mentions joie de
vivre. But after last season’s spirited
finale when the models ran out at the
end laughing and giggling as if – God
forbid – they were real people, Rykiel
seems to be working the goodwill like
no one else. In a bizarre show that
brought a smile to every face in the
crowd, Rykiel showed an ageless series
of looks that would have had women of
all ages grinning with delight. Though
there was an abundance of colour-
fully splashed knits and minidresses in
shades of ice cream flavours, the sea-
son’s focus on austere was referenced
in black tailoring that was still offset by
zanily coloured tights and coats. Rykiel
worked her own brand of fun that was
neither too urbane (Anna Sui), nor
kooky (Marni).
Another dominant theme was the
trapeze silhouette, worked into sweat-
er dresses and oversized coats, eventu-
ally progressing to billowing full-length
evening gowns with zesty art prints.
But though the clothes were undenia-
bly gorgeous (and will sell by the shed-
load), the focus was all on the models.
Bowler hats and dippy black-rimmed
spectacles added to the cartoonish ex-
aggeration brought about by the beams
on their faces – it’s not every day you
see Russian superwaif Vlada Roslya-
kova beaming like she fell off the set of
Bring It On. And was that the first high
five ever seen on a runway? Who cares.
Here’s to next season!
Maison Martin Margiela
There is always an understated excite-
ment crackling restlessly in the air
before a Margiela show. A talismanic
force in fashion, the fashion sorority
always sternly considers the design-
er’s commentaries on trends future
and present. Heavy rock coursed over
the hall’s sound system as spotlights
glanced up and down irascibly before
the show. And then the first looks
came out. More critique than mar-
keting business tool, Margiela’s show
focused on those difficult trends that,
though they are hot as of now, it’s al-
most laughably funny that they came
along at the same time.
Funnel necks were explored on mo-
torcycle jackets, print blouses and
sweater dresses, resembling gargan-
tuan donuts or less savoury restroom
contraptions – you almost felt bad for
the models wearing them. And the
padded shoulders. Oh, the shoulders.
Raised, pinched and suspended until
they resembled the Hong Kong skyline
or a vigilante’s cape, they grew, curved,
contorted and joined until they had
come full circle and mutated back into
the funnel neck, as gloriously experi-
mental and over-the-top as only Mar-
giela can do. This didn’t stop countless
editors, enthusiasts and bloggers pon-
dering their meaning, however. But
give him more credit than that – not
everything he shows has to be delib-
erated upon like an oracle’s enigmatic
message. The show was anarchic, bold
and sexy – and like everyone else, we’ll
be waiting to see the store collections.
(Left to right) Junya Watanabe;
Alexander McQueen; Lanvin
(Left to right) YSL; Lanvin; Maison Martin Margiela

