games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
34 felix Friday 7 March 2008
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
Y
e Gads! I’ve missed yet an-
other issue! Ah, well.
This term is drawing to
a close now and one won-
ders what words of com-
fort to offer everyone (and myself) as
we enter the lull before the storm. The
storm of exams of course. Yeah. I said
it.
Silly things, exams are. I mean, they
serve no real purpose beyond annoy-
ing the hell outta you, really. Ah, well.
If the College must embark on such in-
sipid paths, then so be it.
Either way, this means that Felix
Games won’t be as prevalent next
term, sorry to say. On the other hand,
I do urge you to look forward to is-
sues focusing on the breadth of gam-
ing and the likes of Metal Gear. Hope-
fully, those should make it up for those
of you who like a dose of regularity to
your gaming section.
The theme this week is Randoms. It's
a somewhat hard word to ensure that
the articles in this issue are as unrelat-
ed as possible beyond the fact that they
have some to do with gaming.
This issue marks the debut of Jen,
who takes it upon herself to balance
my more modern slant with some
trips back to memory lane. For her
first article, she deals with the revered
Baldur’s Gate series (in comparison, I
only played the PS2 action-adventure
versions, heh). Speaking of which, Alex
has me trying to play Planescape: Tor-
ment and while I’m not into much into
RPGs (particularly D’n’D based ones),
the plot, world and characters sound
so interesting I have this itching urge
to give it a whirl. Until then, I think I’ll
satiate my plot desires with some good
old Terry Pratchett. Incidentally, there
are a bunch of adventure games based
on his brilliant Discworld series and
those are, yet again, a bunch of titles I
really want to play.
Alas... there is but little time with
the exams arriving, but hey, frequent
breaks are good during studies, right?
Speaking of time, it appears that we
have lost a gaming stalwart in the form
of Gary Gygax. For those of you not in
the know (I only found about his exist-
ence recently... when I read about his
death – the irony), Mr Gygax is known
for being one of the co-creators of the
Dungeons & Dragons gaming saga. May
he rest in peace.
Speaking of peace, Alex is spewing
some righteous flamebait in order to
break it. This week’s peeve: idiotic peo-
ple in multiplayer games. The kind that
keep asking what they should build and
then ask you why. They’re the same
ones who are oblivious to the amassing
enemy hordes in front of their base and
are usually more of a handicap than
anything. Huzzah.
Viral Shah offers his advice with his
review of the SteelSeries Ikari gaming
mice while James Porter, of Wargaming
fame, reveals all about the boardgame
Citadels in TableTops. Last, but not
least, Sebb trains Crysis players in the
Way of the Ways.
And now, I bid thee farewell till next
time! *ninja smoke vanish jutsu!*
This
Week
SteelSeries Ikari mouse
TableTops: Citadels
Pixels: Baldur’s Gate Need a light?
Pixels: By Baldur’s Gate!
Jen Strangeways reminisces about a portal of old where even cakes are armed
D
id you ever have one of
those moments when
you were talking to your
friends about something
you love, really getting
into it, waving your arms around mad-
ly, raving about that one thing which
you think is just so cool, and then
wakeingup and realise that they were
all looking at you with a glazed expres-
sion of incomprehension? Just me? Ok,
well, that’s how I get about the Baldur’s
Gate series of games.
The series consists of the original
Baldur’s Gate, released in 1998, fol-
lowed by the Tales of the Sword Coast
expansion, Baldur’s Gate II: Shadows
of Amn, and the Throne of Baal expan-
sion for BGII.
The basic premise is a ‘real time’ RPG
based on the Dungeons and Dragons
gaming system, but don’t let that put
you off if you’re not a tabletop gamer.
You create and control your own char-
acter, guiding them through a beauti-
fully complex, gripping main story arc
whilst also having the freedom to pur-
sue other minor paths in and around
the main one. On the way, you meet
various NPCs of whom you can choose
up to five of to join your party and con-
trol as you do your own character.
The real beauty of this series, and the
thing which makes it so timeless, is the
total customisability of its gameplay. If
you’re a diehard D&D player you can
turn on all the options to make it seem
a lot more turn-based and true to the
original system.
Examples: you can choose to view
dice rolls as characters make attacks,
have the game auto-pause after each
turn, etc. Alternatively, if you like a
more fast-paced, realistic game, you
can switch everything off, give all your
characters AI scripts, and watch them
do your unholy bidding… I mean, take
care of things themselves.
From a roleplaying perspective, the
interactions your character has with
other characters in the game are con-
trolled by you picking your character’s
responses from a list. The exact thing
you want to say may not appear, but
you have the opportunity to be as good
or as evil as you like. Of course, if you
play evil and run around murdering
people, there are consequences... This
is taken further in BGII, where char-
acters in your party will converse both
with you and with each other, form re-
lationships (which you have the chance
to screw up royally – realism!), and
leave your party if they disagree with
the life choices you’re making. The
actual gameplay is comprised mainly
of running around completing minor
quests – solving some actually chal-
lenging puzzles, usually being betrayed
by the people who asked for your help,
and generally destroying anything
which gets in your way.
Visually, BGII is stunning even now.
Although going back to BGI can be a
little irritating after playing with the
far superior graphics and resolution of
BGII, this is actually solvable via a neat
little free mod available online which
simply shifts all the BGI game content
into the BGII version of the excellent
Infinity engine. You view the charac-
ters from above, which is nice if you
feel like playing God, and the controls
are similar to many real time strategy
games. The required specs are laugh-
able, BG will run on your PC (Mac ver-
sions are also available). It seems com-
plicated at first glance due to the sheer
amount of control you can exert over
events, but it’s actually really intuitive.
And very, very, pretty. I can’t describe
it. Go buy the game. It’s under a ten-
ner for the whole series on Amazon.
There’s no excuse.
Anyone getting a Star Wars vibe from the lower left bit?

