be more money for youth services with
money given in longer term grants so
they can get on with their jobs and help
young people stay out of trouble.
The greens are a serious, well organ-
ised party and to underestimate them
in this election would be a mistake.
Make sure that when you vote in May
you make an informed decision and
elect the best person for the job.
To watch the full interview with
go to: stoictv.com
union.ic.ac.uk/mosaic
38 felix Friday 7 March 2008
Media
Produced by the members of mosaic
candidate beating Boris is not unrealis-
tic; in 2006 he was beaten by a member
of the green party in the election for
rector of Edinburgh University.
It is her belief that crime involving
young people is not going to be solved
by gimmicks such as mosquito alarms.
If the greens win then better commu-
nity policing will be introduced. In a
six month trial in Fulham units were
given more money so they could work
around the clock. This resulted in a
halving of burglaries. There should also
David vs Goliath. Green vs Red/Blue
stoic tv recently caught up with Green Party London Mayor Candidate, Siân Berry, to find out about her
policies, how she would look after London’s students and whether she has a realistic chance of winning
In just under two months’ time many
Imperial students will be able to vote in
the mayoral elections. There are some
big names in the running including the
incumbent mayor Ken Livingstone, the
one and only Boris Johnson and Brian
Paddick, a former senior police of-
ficer. In addition, there are many well
respected and noteworthy candidates
from outside the three main political
parties. Siân Berry is standing for the
Green party and she recently visited
the stoic tv studio to tell us about her
plans for London.
The Green party currently has two
seats on the London Assembly (the
body which scrutinises the mayor’s
decisions and has the power to change
the annual budget). They have already
helped to triple the cycling budget,
make walking around London easier
and encouraged the selling of more lo-
cal food. The greens are certainly not
new to London politics and have prov-
en that they are a viable option.
If elected, Siân Berry would bring
in cheaper public transport so that it
could compete effectively with cars.
The money to support cheaper fares
would come from the effect of more
people using the system and the scrap-
ping of unnecessary projects such as
the Thames Gateway Road Bridge. The
congestion charge would remain as it
appears to have been a success; traffic
growth has stopped in contrast with
Siân Berry taking questions in the stoic tv studio
the rest of the country, but it can still
be improved. She successfully cam-
paigned for the introduction of the
emissions-related congestion charge,
which needs to be tightened further to
cover more vehicles. She was critical
of Brian Paddick, who has suggested
increasing the size of the congestion
charge zone to cover Greater London.
Instead a more sophisticated method
of road charging should be brought in.
One of the big issues for students
in London is affordable housing; as
mayor she would aim to increase the
number of houses for rent and keep
house prices low. There are thousands
of empty houses in London and many
second homes which national policy
should be tackling with higher taxes.
There are also many brown field sites
available; however the majority are
currently used for commercial purpos-
es. As mayor she would stop this trend
and build more affordable homes and
renovate empty properties. One of the
main priorities with existing housing
would be to install good insulation in
all homes to make them more energy
efficient which would help to reduce
our energy deficit; a problem the gov-
ernment hopes to solve with nuclear
power. A power source which gener-
ates hazardous waste for which there
is no method of long term disposal;
clearly a safer option is needed.
She’s sceptical that many people will
vote for Boris. He has many danger-
ous opinions, for example he has said
that the political correctness should be
taken out of policing. If the conserva-
tives were to win it would hand them
a monopoly over the London assembly
giving them complete control of the
London budget. The idea of a green
IC Radio recommends... Riot Noise, live
James Lewis
Find out more about Siân Berry and her policies by visiting her
website: www.sianformayor.org.uk
Cast your mind back. If you were
around during Freshers' Week, you
may have stumbled into dB's for Kids
Will Be Skeletons and All Hands On
Deck's gig night, where Riot Noise
headlined. Many of you will have
consumed a ridiculous amount of al-
cohol by this point (as well as having
had your ears raped by that Geldof
girl DJing) but those who remained,
indeed, witnessed ROCK in the mak-
ing. Not only did this band manage to
convince two ladies (who must have
been freshers straight out of an all girls'
school) to let all five members stay in
their halls (sadly the band decided the
cramped man-gasm ride home at 3am
was a better offer), but the gloriously
long-haired frontman, Marty, recently
used Level 10 gift-of-the-gab to get
backstage at a Guns'n'Roses gig and
then party with the Rose.
Back in their hometown of Bris-
tol, Riot Noise are slowly becoming a
much – talked about band in their own
right. They formed from the remaining
members of Red Top Matches less than
a year ago but they are already begin-
ning a 3-week tour of the States next
week. This band, I must admit, have
taken a lot of flak. Although my boy-
friend thought they're great, I remained
highly unconvinced. Considering my
boo's top bands spanned Motley Crue,
Faith No More, Husker Du and a hint
of Weezer; what the hell was I letting
my ears (and possibly eyes if it's circa
drag-queen Motley Crue era) in for?
It was a spiritual awakening of the
musical kind. Spiritual, if we replace
Jesus with a fallen Axl Rose and God
with Gene Simmons, or Bruce Dickin-
son (he looks pretty regal). I'm a child
of the 90's and will always be true to
that. My teenage years were dominat-
ed by Nu Metal; Slipknot, Linkin Park
(shudder) and Marliyn Manson. I am
not ashamed to say this, no matter how
much I've grown out of it! However, I'm
also a peripheral child of the '80's and
I'm very glad that my generation is one
of the last to fully appreciate the ori-
gins of rock music today; Beastie Boys,
AC/DC, Queen, KISS, Sex Pistols; they
all put in their own contributions. Un-
fortunately I never saw these bands
in their heyday; reunion gigs are one
thing, but it's the drugged-up, puking
on stage, Nikki Sixx that I really, really
want to see. Some bands have recreat-
ed this essence (although without the
drugs and body mess) extremely well;
QOTSA and even, to some extent, The
Darkness and Mika. Riot Noise excel
where these bands can't producing
no frills, straight-up hard rock that is
reminiscent of Sunset Strip in '84. With
songs like 'Fight the People' (quite Rage
Against the Machine-y) and 'San Fran-
sisco' with guitar solos from the great-
est guitarist I've seen in my 19 years
on Earth, it's hard to fault Riot Noise
technically. Each song is crafted with
style and their work ethic is undoubt-
edly notable; two practices a week and
Lia Han
IC Radio
What a charming individual
a tour in America with Tattooed Mil-
lionaires (as well as supporting Electric
Six) – it's a joyous sight to see the band
still letting loose on stage.
There is one BUT. A big, red – raw
red – BUT. And that is this; I wouldn't
really buy a Riot Noise CD. I probably
wouldn't play Riot Noise on my Ipod.
And that's my personal taste but I think
it's one which is generic of people who
are my age, who weren't around when
the renaissance of rock happened in the
'80's. I can appreciate the sound, style
and flair but it's simply not built for my
taste. As a live band, Riot Noise belong
on a stadium – in front of large crowds
where girls lift their tops – and on TV
where they horrendously insult and
do a Britney on air. They will achieve
many, many, things and it will be their
performances that will get them no-
ticed. If this was a review of their sin-
gle, I'd give them 3 out of 5, but as a live
review, it's got to be full marks.
Riot Noise performing in dB’s way back when during Freshers’ Week

