Easter: death, cocoa and lard
Next week Every Nation Christian society is holding its CSI Jerusalem event. Tosin Ajayi discusses the
event along with the meaning of Easter and how its significance has been lost to ovoid confectionary
The Great Easter Egg Giveaway:
Tesco : £3 for 3
Asda: £1 an egg
Sainsbury’s : Half price
Morissions: 99p
Poundland: 4 for £3
And hurray! Mini eggs are back (if
they ever went away). So the big Easter
chocolate gorge starts. The super-
markets are falling over themselves
to chuck cheap chocolate down our
throats. And all this because some Jew-
ish dude died 2000 years (ish) ago, so
the name Easter would seem to imply.
Huh?
What just happened, did I miss
something? So some dude dies and
once a year we all celebrate the fact
that he’s dead by the consumption of
vast quantities of cocoa and lard? It
does make you think: What the hell is
Easter about?
All evidence points to it being a good
excuse for a holiday especially to break
up the school year. And for research-
ers, a good half-hour away from the of-
fice for a knees up.
Is it the only time of year when you
can legitimately express your love for
oversized bunny rabbits?
Or, was Mel Gibson right in his de-
tailed graphical representation of one
man’s unrelenting 12-hour torture,
complete with never ending whippage.
Whatever is closest to the truth, we
do know that some dude existed back
in the day, was nailed to a cross and a
holiday was set up to commemorate
this. How chocolate got involved we
don’t know.
The dude (here on in referred to as
Jesus) still generates controversy, es-
pecially about who he was, and what
happened on that cross. Some say he
died but somehow just got better, hung
around for a bit then went to heaven.
Some say he never died, but minced
off to some other country, had kids and
ended up in a rocking chair.
Others say he was on the cross, but
he didn’t die, passed out, and escaped
from his tomb when he regained
consciousness.
Considering that we’re talking 2000
years old, this is one heck of a cold case
to reopen. But what do you know, some
people are gonna try.
CSI Jerusalem is an attempt by a
medical doctor to figure out what hap-
pened. Would a human body be able to
withstand the kind of abuse portrayed
by Mister Gibson in his film The Pas-
sion of The Christ? Physiologically,
what would actually happen to a per-
son that experienced such abuse? And
do the most well known historical ac-
counts of events tally with medical
findings?
So what of Jesus then, why did he go
through this? Some say he was inciting
rebellion, but his whole life was about
love not hate. Others say he riled those
Mmm... Mini eggs. Hold on, haven’t we lost the plot along with the meaning of Easter too?
39
Friday 7 March 2008 felix
in power and bit off more than he could
chew, but many in power supported
him prior to him being arrested. Still
others say he, being directed by God,
chose to die in this manner for the pur-
pose of bringing us closer to God.
So, about the only thing we can say
with any certainty is Easter started
with Jesus, did he crack open the first
Easter eggs? Are we even sure he died
sometime in the spring of 33 AD? The
search for answers carries on, and
maybe CSI Jerusalem can shed some
light on all this. Someday, someone will
market a chocolate Jesus, and finally all
the different ideas about Easter will be
consolidated.
“CSI Jerusalem: A Medical Analy-
sis of the crucifixion” is being
held by Every Nation Christian
Society on Thursday 13th March
at 6.30pm in Huxley Lecture Thea-
tre 308.

