The Bottle is back!
The Royal School of Mines report on their successful trip down to Camborne
Charlotte Atteck
RSM Sports Officer
After seven years, we have finally
brought the Sharpley Cup back home
after the victory against the evil CSM.
It was a cold Saturday morning some-
where in Cornwall, where the RSM
Men’s hockey team battled the CSM
after the ladies’ match. After a good
run around the pitch as our warm-
up, we were up for this big match.
The match began with a right-hand
side attack from David Holder and the
first ten minutes of the match we were
constantly attacking in their ‘D’. We
then quickly saw the skills from our
midfielders, Mikey, David Whittleston,
Andy Bromfield and Nic Jones, from
the creative passes and the dominating
control of the ball. However with a bit
of luck, CSM managed to score the first
goal from a short corner twenty min-
utes into the game. Shortly they scored
against us, we put our bodies in front
of the CSM goal and may be our black
shirts made them scared where Andy
Bromfield found a gap in the CSM de-
fence and he never disappointed any-
one. Andy’s goal was important and we
used it as the platform to score another
goal by Yung very shortly into the sec-
ond half. Later on after the second goal
from RSM, CSM put a lot of pressures
onto our defences.
This is the time when we showed to
our supporters that RSM has an all-
round team. Our defences were amaz-
ing, Chaz Murdoch made lots of fine
tackles on the right-hand side; Matt
T
his year saw the 106th
Bottle Match take place
down in Cornwall deep in
the land of the inbred and
the illiterate. For those
of you out there who haven’t heard of
the Bottle Match it’s the second old-
est varsity match in the country played
between the Royal School of Mines
and the Camborne School of Mines.
Initially focusing on rugby, it then ex-
panded over the many years to encom-
pass football, hockey, squash and golf
and is the highlight of the RSM calen-
dar. Why, you say? Well, it ticks all the
boxes of an awesome weekend; sport,
alcohol and more often than not some
public displays of nudity…
Setting off on Friday midday was a
mission in itself with the busses show-
ing up two hours late. However, this did
give most people the chance to get a
few cheeky morning pints down before
we even set off so the mood was not all
together compromised. It seemed our
luck was going form bad to worse as a
combination of traffic accidents, bro-
ken toilets and broken wipers delayed
us even further although, as pointed
out by most people, it wouldn’t be
RSM if things went according to plan
(in fact I think most people were sur-
prised we even had a plan..).
All in all we managed to roll into
Newquay for 9.00pm and send the
squash players on their way to Fal-
mouth in the hopes of bringing the
overall score to 1-1 after the golf teams’
narrow defeat to CSM earlier on in the
day. Alas, it wasn’t to be, news returned
of their unrewarded struggle and it was
off to Weatherspoons to drown sor-
rows for all.
After all the games had been played,
off we went to their union, through
fences, fields, forests and bogs to reach
an empty union as CSM were late in
arriving, we were all very understand-
ing as technology has yet to arrive to
CSM and it was a cloudy day blocking
the sun so they had clearly lost track of
time. They were there eventually and
after we ate something which I was
told was curry it was time for the prize
giving ceremony and my £27 pound
dirty pint, both of which turned out to
be quite unsettling and seemed to go
on forever. The traditional food fight
broke out and then it was time for the
DJ to play some NOW albums from
the early 90’s. I’m told there was danc-
ing and good time had by all; I could
only witness the event from a dark cor-
ner with my head in my lap most of the
evening.
Heading back to London on Sunday
the weekend had taken its toll on most
bar a few eager freshers who were still
nursing a can or two of Carlsberg, their
livers have yet to deteriorate as most
do after 3 years at university, bless….
All that is left to say is a HUGE
THANK YOU to everyone who came
along. Supporters, the weekend would
not be the same without you guys
keeping the spirit and dare I say it…
banter (ref. Sanders, Mark) alive. Play-
ers, the passion everyone played with
this weekend was immense, it’s clear
how much this means to all connected
to the RSM, you guys were awesome.
The 2008 RSM Golf Bottle Match was
truly a memorable experience. The
golf course was nothing short of spec-
tacular, with well-maintained fairways
and views overlooking the coast and
ocean.
From the start, we knew we faced
an uphill task as our opponents were
more familiar with the golf course and
more acclimatised to the windy condi-
tions. Also, the greens were considera-
bly faster and more unpredictable than
those we were accustomed to back in
London, handing a further advantage
to the more experienced opposing
team.
Although these factors were to our
disadvantage, we managed to stay al-
most on par with the CSM team with
our first pair, Oliver and Craig, being
all square and our second pair, Zhi and
Nara, being one down after nine holes.
We continued to fight and the first
match ended up in a tie. However, our
second pair lost eventually three down
with two to play and thus we conceded
the title to our opponents. Despite the
defeat, our team enjoyed the match
and we will look to avenge our defeat
next year!
James put up a massive performance in
the middle with Sam Philip; Sam used
his experiences and made some good
decisions and Ade our goal keeper
saved us from losing to the white and
blue shirts (CSM).
However, every big match came
close. CSM scored after our second
goal from a short corner (also with a
bit of luck) to level with us. But very
shortly our forwards saw the weakness
of the CSM defences when they tried
to control the ball in our half. First
Andy scored again to put us 3:2 ahead
then a great pass from Andy to Steve
Smith into the CSM ‘D’ and a fascis-
tic partnership from Yung and Steve
paid off when Yung scored a cracking
goal which is his second of the match.
This weak point at the CSM defence
was created by the excellent perform-
ance from Nic Jones which opened up
lots of space in the CSM half. Nic was
awarded the Bottle Match Man of the
Match with a £20 alcoholic drink at the
party.
We were fighting until the end be-
cause CSM never gave us a break and
they scored eight minutes before the
end of their deaths to make the score
4:3 to RSM, which is the final score of
this year Bottle Match Hockey. The
celebration began after the match
with lots of alcohol (and of course we
also have the choice of non alcoholic
drinks) in RSM style and this celebra-
tion continues until the after Bottle
Match bar night on Thursday.
Finally I would like to thank all the
supporters who came down to Corn-
wall with the teams, without your sup-
port and most importantly the banters
Men’s hockey Sharpley Cup returns after 7 years
Spencer Lai we will not have a great match. Also
thank you to CSM, hard luck try again
next year, and thank you to Charlotte
for organized this great Bottle Match
weekend. One last word from me:
Bloody well done RSM Hockey!
After spending 7 hours chilling on
the coach to Newquay, the squash
team realised that they still had an-
other 45mins taxi to go to Falmouth.
Even though it was already 10 p.m., the
token squash team was still up for a bit
of squash banter. Strolling in across the
squash courts, we were confident, since
last year we managed to beat them 5-0
in London. But as we stepped in it hit
us, like the shock of a slap in the face,
we were out of our league. The ringers
in their team were obvious. The team
had been at the courts training since
7pm. To add to our sporting enjoy-
ment a large crowd of CSM supports
were positioned in stands behind the
glass court. They too had been train-
ing their beer drinking hands.
As someone famous once said
‘squash is boxing with racquets’; the
lightweights on their team were pretty
quick to beat us down. We scraped a
few points but the first four games
were dismissed quickly. I wont go into
it. The only convincing brawl of the
evening was our first seed Rob Nagle,
who managed to keep decent rallies
going. Unfortunately for Rob their first
seed was training to be a squash coach,
fortunately for us he’s not going in to
mining; Camborne – Probably the
worst school of mines in the world.
Golf and squash
luck out to CSM
Jon Downing &
Zhi Yang
CSM robot getting taken down... Scum
The victorious men’s hockey with the Sharpley Cup

