sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
46 Friday 7 March 2008
felix
Sport
IC Boat Club’s women successfully gain starting
places for next year’s WeHoRR participants
The 68th annual Women’s Eights Head
of the River Race (WEHoRR) took
place last Saturday 1st March at 10am
from Mortlake to Putney.
The processional rowing race takes
place on the outgoing tide with the
winner completing the course in the
fastest time. IC was represented by a
women’s senior eight (S2), a women’s
novice eight (Novice Acad), and by
Jenny Forrester in a London composite
entry (S1). Each crew lines up sequen-
tially and is timed over the 4.25 mile
distance. Not only are crews racing for
victory but their finishing placement
determines the clubs starting places
the following year.
Weeks of gruelling land and water
sessions under the iron fist of Coach
James Blackley had the novice crew
prepared in peak physical condition.
The novice boat, of which I am seven
of nine, was assigned number 239 of
251 due to there being no novice en-
try last year. Fire raged in the belly of
each crew member after some inspir-
ing motivational speaking from James
and senior women’s coach Ross Smith-
eman before setting off from the IC
boathouse on Putney embankment.
Although initially impeded by some
steering-deficient crews, top Cox Ka-
tie Oliver impressively manoeuvred
us across the river to our designated
banking position just short of Barnes
Bridge. At 10 am the Saxon sounded
and soon the first crew from Thames
RC came hurtling under the bridge to-
wards Putney. IC’s Jenny Forrester fol-
lowed in boat two, looking powerful in
seat four.
Christina Duffy After watching a hundred or so crews
pass, the Marshal’s herded the rest of
the crews up to the starting position.
We crawled our way towards Chiswick
Bridge keeping in along the bank as
the racing boats continued to pulse to-
wards the finish. As we emerged under
Chiswick Bridge we were met by strong
winds, water traffic and shallow waters
along the bank causing early concern
for crews trying to prevent fin damage
to their boats.
Tension mounted as boats up ahead
began to spin around for the race
wind-up. Nervous chatter was hushed
and crew members stripped down into
their racing gear. It was after 11 am and
we had been on the water for 2 hours
keeping warm and focused. We took
the psychological advantage when
several of our crew members had no
choice but to relieve themselves over
board; shocking opponent crews be-
fore the turn and giving them some-
thing to visualise for the next seven
kilometres.
With the boat lighter we spun round
and set off at full concentration to-
wards the start line at Chiswick Bridge.
Stroke Selina Graham set us off into a
steady rhythm before building up the
pressure and increasing the speed to a
blistering 34 strokes per minute (s/m)
as we crossed the start line under Chis-
wick Bridge.
Just a few strokes into the race the
blade from Bow’s Kate Wylie came
loose from the rigger off-setting the
boat’s balance. We managed to main-
tain our rating while she swiftly recov-
ered the blade. A few hundred metres
later a bang followed by a distressed
cry of ‘My seat came off!’ was heard
from seat six Mackenzie Clavin. The
seat was replaced on the slides impres-
sively fast as the rest of the crew pulled
harder to maintain speed. Allowing
no mechanical mishap to stand in our
way we strengthened and settled into
a steady 32 s/m race-pace rate. Unbe-
knownst to the rest of the crew further
disaster was unravelling as the steering
controls snapped early-on in the race
causing difficulty for Cox Katie Oliver
who displayed outstanding naviga-
tional skills in steering us through the
course in the fastest stream.
With technical difficulties behind us
we approached and throttled past one-
two-three-four-five crews in quick suc-
cession leaving them demoralised and
feebly paddling in our wake. Motivated
by their pained expressions we banged
out the strokes down the Thames to-
wards Hammersmith Bridge. Huge
cheers from fellow ICBC members
and family relatives pushed us on away
from the Bridge. Some incredible vocal
ranges were displayed by ICBC’s Adam
Seward and John Davey.
Holding our rate we continued steady
before hitting Craven Cottage, an area
we had earlier marked as our first push
for home. We blistered on, tiring but
refusing to slacken off. Our final push
came as we passed the ICBC boat
house just a few hundred metres from
the finish. With gladiatorial war-cries
from Cox Katie resounding across the
Thames, Selina took the rating up to
34 s/m for the final push home. With
every conceivable muscle aching we
pounded out the closing strokes and
grunted our way across the finish; ex-
hausted, but elated.
The overall Head winner was Osiris
BC (S2) in a time of 19:32.81. Jenny
Forrester’s composite crew finished
8th overall, 5th in their category (S1),
in 19:50.99. IC’s senior women finished
23rd overall, 7th in their category (S2)
in a time of 20:14.39. And our novice
crew finished 147th overall, 4th in our
category in a time of 22:10.92. This
means a gaining of places by all crews
for next years ICBC participants. Well
done to everybody involved!
With early morning training can-
celled on Sunday, post-race festivities
began early with a boathouse crawl
along Putney embankment ending up
in London RC. A great day was had
by all and we wish the best of luck
to the men’s crews in anticipation of
the Men’s Head of the River Race on
March 15th.
This weekend saw a surprising thing
indeed. Normally creatures of the Un-
ion Gym, the members of Imperial’s
Kendo society were instead present in
Ethos. It was ‘Climb-Fest’ at Ethos, and
taking advantage of the situation our
members threw themselves into the
fray. This event, kindly sponsored by
‘Cotswold outdoor’, featured a climb-
ing competition and also sessions for
beginners to tackle the wall under the
nurturing kindness of specialist in-
structors, in our case Ruth and Steve.
Now lets be honest here, we kendo-
ka aren’t normally timid people. We
usually dress in armour and whack
each other with big sticks whilst yell-
ing in non-dulcet tones. Such is not
the behaviour of people likely to spend
a quiet night in reading a book. How-
ever, neither are we prone to going
vertical. So one or two of our members
were a tad nervous.
Actually, we found the session to be
fun. Not only is there fairly limitless fun
to be had dangling from a piece of rope,
but also the staff and equipment onsite
at Ethos are top notch. It wasn’t long
before our members were shinning up
the walls like there was no tomorrow.
So apart from having above-average
skills with a sword we can now climb,
too. A nifty combination for night time
occupations of dastardly repute. All
job requests to be sent via our website.
Silence assured for a price.
This team-building exercise may, in
some slight way, have prepared us for
the annual University Competition that
takes place in two weeks time in Cam-
bridge. At the moment it looks like we
areup against an assortment of teams
from all over the country. Our old ri-
val UCL is taking part as well as those
scarfed ne’er-do-wells from Cambridge
and Oxford, and even some from the
land of Robert the Bruce. Quite a selec-
Kendo club go climbing
Tim Simpson
tion to test our skills against. We will
keep you apprised of our progress.
Nonetheless, even this clash of titans
pales in comparison to the real event of
the year: Imperial College Kendo Club’s
10th Anniversary celebratory com-
petition to be held at the end of May.
Which we are sure you are all looking
forward to of course. So keep your eyes
peeled for more information.
The Kendo team at the foot of the Ethos climbing wall
The Women’s boat overtaking the competition
So it’s 4am on a Saturday morning, it’s
cold and dark and the last thing you
fancy doing is getting up and wearing
sequins… right? Well, that was what 60
of us were doing last Saturday- the Im-
perial College Dancesport team were
competing in the Southern Universi-
ties Competition, the second biggest in
the dancing calendar.
After a two hour coach ride, includ-
ing a (dodgy) breakfast at a service sta-
tion and half of ‘Road Trip’ we arrived
at UWE and jumped straight into the
action.
The morning was dedicated to the
Ballroom side of things and after over
4 hours of dancing a good set of results
was achieved by Imperial. 5 couples
earned a place in the Intermediate
semi-finals, with 5 finalists in Begin-
ners, Novice and Ex-Student. Arman
Sahovic and Anne-Marie Wirth im-
pressively took 4th in the Advanced
Category.
After a much deserved break, the
Latin section kicked off in the after-
noon. Again, the dancing went on for
roughly 4 hours before Imperial had 6
couples reaching the finals, with Ar-
man and Nicole Papaioannou coming
5th in the Advanced final and Chris
Bassett and Chrissy Jackson winning
the Intermediate category.
The evenings at dance competitions
are always fun and a lot of competitive
Christina Jackson energy flies around as every university
goes head to head with all the others.
With 4 couples reaching the team fi-
nals, Imperial once again secured their
3rd place behind Oxford and Cam-
bridge. Rumour has it that it’s because
the Oxford latin girls touch themselves
more than ours, but it’s a well known
fact that Imperial still have the hot-
test team on the circuit. And by the
number of trophies that travelled back
on the coach with us, Imperial is defi-
nitely a force to be reckoned with on
the dance floor.
Dance club in Southern
Universities competition
Arman and Nicole

