felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
Emma Brett
IC women’s football team after their quarter-final victory
While everyone else was at Varsity, the
quarter-finals of the BUSA plate saw
IC Women’s football take eleven ladies
in the “fun bus” down to Winchester.
After being snapped at by the unsym-
pathetic referee for being a minute late
and having no substitute to double up
as a linesman, IC took to the pitch.
What Winchester referred to as their
pitch was actually a piece of the hill
with one goal at the top of the hill, the
second goal at the bottom and the cor-
ners at different altitudes.
The match began with IC attack-
ing downhill which was an advantage
that Chin abused and it was not long
before she got IC the first goal of the
game. With support from Rita and Pav,
Lily booted the ball over the heads of
the defenders. They were outpaced by
Chin, who then proceeded to chip the
goalkeeper from the left.
On the right, Steph and Emma held
the storm of Winchester players back,
fully frustrating them. Plus, with Kate
and Yoke as centre backs, Winchester
had nuthin’ on IC. Various chances
were created at the other end but un-
fortunately for IC the ball refused to go
in, including a wonder shot from Chloe
which came off the cross bar.
Chin’s second goal came a little later
on from another through ball from
Lily. Once again Chin outran the de-
fenders with her gazelle-like legs. To
Winchester’s disbelief, she ran through
their backline and netted the ball, easy
as pie. The IC team, in a state of con-
fusion, took about a minute to realize
they were 2-0 up.
Winchester began to get more ag-
gressive and finally began to break
through the IC defence, using their
lumpy pitch to their advantage. Many
of their crosses, however, were unable
to connect with their strikers. Cheryl,
in a spirit of generosity, got in the way
of a cross which took a deflection, gift-
ing Winchester with a goal and a glim-
mer of hope before half time.
The second half started with Win-
chester clearly out for blood. They
were now shooting downhill and bore
down on the IC goal in a tide of really
big girls. IC fell back to defend with
Chloe and Rita making crucial tackles
which prompted a Winchester striker
to shout unpleasant things at Rita, who
was about to respond in a string of rude
Women’s football into semis
ICU baby… shaking that ass
Last Saturday two eights left Impe-
rial Boatclub at 5am to race in Bruges,
Belgium.
After a few setbacks (caused largely
by the attempt to navigate to a small
boatclub in a foreign city without any
form of map and/or directions), both
crews and boats managed to arrive in
time for a 12:30 race.
Conditions were especially difficult,
with a roaring headwind during the
warm-up, along with waves breaking
into the bows of the boats. For the sen-
ior eight, going off 2nd, the start was
somewhat shaky. However, a rhythm
was soon found and by halfway the
crew were almost upon the boat in
front.
After overtaking, the speed was
maintained to finish powerfully and
win the race overall, in a time faster
than all other crews. Crucially, the
eight beat opposition that had a few
weeks previously beaten us by 25 sec-
onds, underlining the improvement in
speed as a result of recent training.
In addition, the novice eight per-
formed well, beating some far more
experienced opposition and handling
the conditions very well. That the crew
were able to compete among senior
crews is all the more impressive con-
sidering the fact that most of the eight
rowers had first got in a boat only five
months previously.
The obligatory post-race celebra-
tions were quickly begun with vigour.
In particular, veteran Nigel Atkins was
keen to sample the impressive range of
beers on offer, and finished the night
by sampling the local variety of kebab
(twice). Other club members were
similarly keen to sample other aspects
of Belgian culture, and see what the
Belgians could offer.
Thoughtfully, a long training ses-
sion was scheduled the next morning
at 7:30 am to help everyone out with
their hangovers. This involved a ‘16
kilometre’ outing to the ‘nearby’ port
of Ostend, complete with headwind
and conditions somewhat akin to the
English Channel. With this productive,
albeit painful, row concluded, the club
loaded boats and began the long drive
home.
The Head of the River Race, raced
on the Boat Race course and one of the
most important races in the rowing
calendar, is on the 15th March.
With an entry of around 430 crews
and over 3000 athletes, this is tradi-
tionally an event Imperial College
dominate.
The results from Bruges indicate that
this should once again be the case if the
club maintains its current momentum
and focus.
Imperial Boat Club
invades Belgium
Iain Palmer
Portuguese words had the referee not
yelled at them to stop it. Minutes lat-
er the same Winchester striker chose
to pick a fight with Kate, who would
have been up for it despite being half
a head shorter. Tension was mounting
and Winchester players began mowing
IC players down but as always Emma
saved the day, multiple times.
Pav sealed the deal for IC seven min-
utes before full time. Steph made a
multitude of crosses giving the IC for-
wards plenty of goal scoring opportu-
nities. Pav pounced on the ball that re-
fused to go in for shots from everyone
else and slipped it into the back of the
Winchester net effortlessly. The game
ended 3-1 to IC Women’s, meaning we
were through.
BUSA plate semi-finals in some ri-
diculous middle-of-no-where ‘away’
location, here we come!
Dance club report on the Southern Universities Dance Competition, see page 46

