comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
5
Friday 7 March 2008 felix
Comment
Y
ou want some fucking rage
then, Angry Geek? I’ll give
you some goddamn rage,
and you can feel like the
saviourofthestudentbody,
encouraging us to voice our opinions
in some violent verbal outpouring of
the worst kind. We’ll even make them
funny, as some kind of homage to you.
So yeah, there’s loads of stuff I’m
angry about. I hate having to do com-
pulsory “professional skills courses”
as part of my degree (Imperial: “Jump
through this hoop!” Me: “Of course,
but owing to the strength of gravity
on our planet and my mass and the
strength in my stocky little legs (null), I
can only reach a trajectory with maxi-
mum height of 3 inches, when the
wind speed is less than or equal to…”).
I hate that you’re not allowed to take
hot drinks into the library, (Security
guard: “Drink it out here.” Me: “Argh,
now I’ve burnt my tongue.”) I hate that
not all the candidates I voted for in the
sabb elections got in. I hate that some
people slag Fairtrade off and everyone
else has investment banking intern-
ships. I hate it when my boyfriend calls
me “Tiny Schizo.”
So there it is, a nice little self-con-
tained rant about how shit my life is.
You’ve got my opinions on practi-
cally every issue, just like you wanted.
Happy?
My point is, why promote all this
anger and discontent? Why should we
have a competition in which the sole
purpose is to wax lyrical about your
problems, your opinions? Can’t we all
just be less selfish and start admitting
that it’s rather funny that despite 3
compulsory professional skills work-
shops my CV still only reads: “female,
24yo, GSOH, seeks employer for job
and maybe more…”, that I’m clearly not
going to get a job in investment bank-
ing with a CV like that even if I’d have
wanted to, and that I’d rather have to
drink my coffee in the JCR than have
some bastard spill his over my stuff in
the library.
Everyone needs to get some perspec-
tive about this; we’re all so spoilt and
overindulged. (Apart from the Tiny
Schizo nickname. Wanker.)
Angry Geek should stick to what he’s
good at, writing funny columns about
situations we all find ourselves in. And
the rest of us will read them and think,
yeah, you got it right, I can relate to
that, and although it pissed me off at
the time, your take on it’s quite funny.
And instead of Angry Geek Idol, I
think we should have a Hug Day, much
like that “Hug a [insert name of ethnic-
ity or religion here] Day”s that were so
well publicised on Facebook. But this
would be for everyone, hippyish as that
might sound, from the Finance Tart to
the JCR sandwich shop staff. We all
need it.
If you’ve got issues, or a hard on,
Needy McNeedy can help you out in
either case. Email agony.felix@impe-
rial.ac.uk.
Rage against the Geek
Needy McNeedy
I
am a passionate Union non-
voter. I don’t vote for anything
in the Union, and am extraordi-
narily happy not voting for the
Union.
This is because firstly I am incredibly
lazy, and I don’t think that voting for
the Union President will make any par-
ticular difference.
For a start, it always seems to be the
same faces that are running for these
positions. That bores me.
Not that it’s a bad thing that the same
people are always running. People are
allowed to have dreams, and I can’t
fault them for that. I’m just saying….
I’d like to have candidates who are like
me. Candidates who have a sense of
humour, and can identify with normal
students.
This is where my problem starts.
Many of the people who stand for the
Union positions are not normal stu-
dents. I’m not talking about your usual
garden variety freaks and geeks. I’m
talking about “serial Sabbaticals”. Peo-
ple who have spent most of their uni-
versity life working directly within the
stinking bowels of the Union.
People seem to think that somehow
this is a good thing. Perhaps the candi-
date’s experiences working for the Un-
ion make them better than common
folk. I think that this is the completely
wrong perspective to take. Candidates
should be common folk.
The whole purpose of the Student
Union is to look after, and cater for the
needs of a university’s student body.
The Sabbaticals of the Union are there
to make sure that the views of the stu-
dent body are represented during all
their dealings with the college. They are
also there to make sure that the Union
itself caters to the tastes and needs of
its students. They are the crucial link
between the average student and the
Union. When this system works prop-
erly, everyone is happy.
However, let’s say you have some-
one who’s worked for the Union for
a year. This person knows exactly the
right things to say to people during a
campaign. He/she has experience of
winning elections, which gives them
an advantage over new candidates.
However, unlike the new candidates,
this person has been out of education
for a year. They have been sequestered
in a water-tight bubble away from stu-
dent life. They deal with so many of the
Union’s problems on a day to day basis,
that they are essentially isolated from
normal students.
But of course these people believe
they can do better next year, now that
they know how everything works.
They can get everything done much
more efficiently this time ‘round. May-
be this time they can “actually” make
a difference. This time, maybe they
can follow through with some of the
promises they originally made. Except,
aren’t they missing the point?
Shouldn’t they let someone else take
the job, someone who has been in full-
time education, someone who can still
remember what it was like to go to
lectures? Someone who may be inex-
perienced, but still understands what is
important to a student’s life, and what
is not?
By voting “Serial Sabbaticals” in we
are voting for people who represent
the Union, rather than people who
represent the students.
Because of this, our Union has grown
into an autonomous monster, separate
from College, and separate from stu-
dents, catering only to itself. We get
situations where we have candidates
running for President who have been
out of university longer than the ma-
jority of students at Imperial have been
in university. If there was one way in
which I think the Union could be made
a better place is if these people were
forcibly banned from standing. We al-
ready have a rule saying that no Sab-
batical can run for the same position
again the next year. Why not extend it,
and have a rule that prevents any pre-
vious Sabbatical running for another
Union position?
Maybe if this were the case, we could
get a different crop of applicants for
the Union. Perhaps we’d get students
who actually represent students, rather
than any one club or society. Perhaps
the CV whores would decide that per-
haps getting a year long internship in
industry would look better on their CV
than a year in student politics. But how
the hell am I supposed to know, I can’t
tell the future; I’m just another defec-
tive brain.
Just one rule…
Defective Brain
B
eing of Chinese origin but
having grown up in Brit-
ain, I had always felt I was
out of touch with my own
culture. Therefore, when I
came to Imperial I was eager to par-
ticipate in a Chinese society, under
the somewhat naive impression that I
would surely be getting involved with
something distinctly Chinese. Flick-
ing through the pages of the freshers’
handbook I was admittedly puzzled
but also impressed by the presence of
not one, but three different societies
purporting to promote Chinese cul-
ture. However, not wanting to miss out
on anything, I signed up to the mailing
lists of all three.
Soon, invitations to attend various
club nights arrived in my inbox. It
seemed each of the Chinese societies
had hit on the same ingenious idea on
how to break the ice.
Still unclear on the differences be-
tween the societies I chose one pretty
much at random to attend. Price-wise,
it was definitely not a student-friendly
event, but as it was being held at one
of the well-known London clubs I de-
cided it would be worth going along to.
It turned out to be ridiculously over-
subscribed, and despite having arrived
pretty early I still ended up spending
three long hours of my freshers’ week
queuing outside a well-known club in
London, only to receive an apology
and a refund. So my first experience
was not exactly a great success, and I
confess I was pretty disappointed. But
I thought it was only fair to give them
a second chance, and so when more
invitations in a similar vein appeared I
decided to try again.
I actually ended up attending several
more club nights throughout the year,
sampling what each of the different so-
cieties had to offer. And although I did
manage to at least get in each time, they
were all cripplingly expensive affairs.
Often they would also be massively
oversold, which meant long queues
and plenty of standing around, despite
arriving at ridiculously early hours.
Each time I left with my wallet feeling
considerably lighter but without feel-
ing any closer to either my culture or
my fellow clubbers. The societies were
certainly providing me with ample op-
portunity for clubbing, but where were
the opportunities to exchange our
shared backgrounds? Where were the
opportunities to explore our country’s
heritage? Where were the opportuni-
ties to discuss the issues facing China
today? None of the societies seemed
interested in catering to these needs.
Sure, I can understand that for any
overseas club, a major role is to help
foreign students settle in at an under-
standably difficult time in their lives;
faced with an unfamiliar culture, a dif-
ferent language, the prospect of pos-
sibly living away from home for the
first time and on top of that the con-
siderable pressure of having to achieve
academically.
So yes, I agree social events are im-
portant. And the societies do arrange
football training, basketball sessions,
and the occasional trips to amusement
parks as well as club nights. But it was
the continued absence of anything re-
ally related to Chinese culture that
rankled me. How can these societies
justify the “Chinese” in their names?
Are they nothing more than a means
to gather together people of a certain
ethnic group just so they can go club-
bing and play sports together rather
than along with the rest of the college?
I cannot help but feel there is some-
thing fundamentally wrong with this
picture.
Is there really no hunger for some-
thing more substantial? After all, there
are few things in life more fundamental
than our identities; they define who we
are and our culture is an integral part
of this identity.
For foreign students still adjusting
to a strange new environment, what
can be more comforting than finding
common ground with people whom,
although seemingly very different, ul-
timately share the same culture? And
to be able to celebrate and have pride
in that culture; I believe this to be infi-
nitely more satisfying than any club.
So what has caused this rut, this de-
cided lack of passion? I do not know
the answer. Is it mere apathy? Is it a
lack of confidence? Is it a belief that no
one cares? Whatever the reason I feel it
is important to overcome it. Only then
can we gain respect as individuals, as a
culture, as a nation.
My Orientation course
Bamboo Writer

