6 felix Friday 7 March 2008
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
The Farcity of Varsity
[Insert witty name]
L
ast week was that time of
the year again, and no, I
don’t mean the leap year, as
that made absolutely no dif-
ference to my life whatso-
ever although I do now know someone
who is five whole years old at Imperial
(*snigger*).No,lastWednesdaymarked
the grand tradition of Varsity, the day
where I usually bugger off someplace
that isn’t campus or Richmond. Unfor-
tunately for me I had to be at the Union
that night.
I know a lot of you like Varsity; I
can tell this from such Facebook pro-
claiming “So-and-so is excited about
varsity!!! Whoop whoop!!! let’s kick
some medic ass!!!” No I do not wish to
kick some medic ass; I, in fact, have no
problems with medics.
Let me set the scene at the Union
that cruel, bleak Wednesday evening
that I descended from the third floor to
celebrate a good first night. Damn goes
my anonymity; yes, I was at a show. So
anyway I managed to get to the Union
bar with not too much trouble; hell I
even managed to get a drink (when my
six foot friend brought it for me). We
had a nice bit of chat before a loud noise
could be heard from the doorway; my
companions and I turned to find half
our friends barricaded by some rather
loud sports-type chappies (I have been
informed they were footballers, not
rugby players, but how the hell would
I know?). They were all wearing those
ties and one guy was even sporting a
balaclava. So to cut a long story short,
we were effectively held hostage in the
Union bar because of the sports-type
chappies. I finally managed to get out
by smiling nicely at the bouncer guys
and then shoving my way through the
side of the sports-types chappies whilst
glaring evilly at them.
I know that its meant to be tradition
and only a bit of fun, but how come
sport is allowed to set a precedent
over everything? Varsity took up all
three bars plus the outside area, leav-
ing those who didn’t want to join in
the “getting pissed as a newtness” a bit
stuck. Of course, those there probably
didn’t realise that not everybody in the
world loves sport as much as them and
that’s generally the problem I find with
sports people. I have no problem with
sport itself; it’s a good way to get out
aggression, creates companionship
and is a nice way to spend your time.
It’s the sports mentality I have a prob-
lem with. Why is there such a connec-
tion between sport and drinking, for a
start, surely it’s damaging your body
when you should be fighting fit. There
are so many drinking games and “dirty
pints” associated with sports clubs
which could alienate many people.
This can hardly entail having a good
time, can it?
I guess it resorts from being rub-
bish at Games lessons, one time even
being picked out as being one of the
poorer kids in the class. The country
has grown up with this sports men-
tality where it comes before anything
else. Take the Olympics, for instance;
the taxpayers are paying millions of
pounds for it to come to our coun-
try... in 4 years time! Everytime there’s
no news, we’re subjected to another
“young hopeful’s” heart-rending story
of how they’re going to make it. The
only form of patriotism we have is
through sport, I remember my sister
telling me at the time of the last world
cup when I moaned about it that I’d be
grateful when we get a day off for win-
ning. Sorry sis, it ain’t gonna happen.
Yet the West End’s theatres are in des-
perate need for funding to stop them
falling down, our film industry is going
down the drain and the government
is only concerned with us doing more
sport, as it’ll stop obesity.
Sport at Imperial seems to be such
a big deal, Wednesday afternoon is
meant to be set aside for “sporting
activities” whereas those wanting to
do arty societies have to do it in their
evenings. There’s Sport Imperial to
look after it all. Where’s Art Imperial
then for all of us that can’t throw a ball?
There’s sports night every Wednesday
at the Union, where’s Arts night? We
need to readdress the Sports-Arts-
Drink balance at Imperial, Varsity can
stay, but can we be more inclusive and
accept that there are those who don’t
want to get bare-faced drunk in the
name of sport.
[...]
Class warfare
A
t this present hour, vari-
ous people are no doubt
doing various things, in
that curious manner of a
truism always being true.
The studious will be revising some
complicated lecture, fortifying their
grip of the subject matter. The clever
are sleeping, a fact I am certain of be-
cause my communications with a clev-
er chap confirmed this earlier. Perhaps
he was lying, but then he is clever, and
no doubt appreciates the inexplicable
truth that people that lie to me are so
very often the subject of forensic study
and questions of a nature similar to,
“just how did that widget get so very
deep in his intestinal tract?” But such
peculiarities are better left to philoso-
phers and detectives and we should re-
turn to the matter at hand.
The sick are no doubt observing the
symptoms their illness demands. An-
other class of people I find the appro-
priate adjectives too vulgar to employ
are no doubt spending these moments
partaking in ravenous and ravaging
sexual intercourse and perhaps mutu-
ally inducing each to shriek in a man-
ner altogether more appropriate for
deterring murderers, double-glazing
salesmen and others of their dire ilk.
But I, my dear peasants, peons, Lords
and Ladies, am a genius. Thus I, due to
my immensely charitable nature, am
awake at this time, creating this arti-
cle so you might revel in some small
scrap of my illustrious talents. There
is no doubt many a buxom vixen de-
liriously desirous of my genius in other
fields, but I choose to deprive her of a
tremendously wonderful (and being all
too aware of my skills, no doubt short!)
game of chess in order to help enlight-
en your narrow peon minds with my
wisdom.
No doubt all too many of you have
come across a most abject stain of the
reputation of imperial. The beloved
Prince Albert, who ever watches over
us, would weep the oceans if he was
alive today; God (my one, not yours,
your one is so utterly awful, I simply
cannot bear Him/Her/It/Them) rest
his soul, he was truly a Prince among
men, if you’ll forgive the pun. No
member of our college can rest eas-
ily while such an aberration against all
that is sacrosanct continues to spread
its vile corruption. Those apathetic to
this matter, or, God forbid it, actively
supporting it, deserve to be crushed
beneath a blasted tank and then re-
peatedly shot like the filth they are. I
talk of course, of tea. More specifically,
what every shop in South Kensington
thinks passes for tea.
Tea is not some puerile sludge like
coffee; tea is not drunk by philistine
harlots and ‘men’ (beasts, beasts I say!)
of despicable characters, possessed
with all the morals of a communist trol-
lop. The cretinous continentals (and
all too often our own typically diligent
working class sometimes succumbs to
this treachery, this defilement of their
heritage) employed in our London es-
tablishments, most frequently spotted
around our ancient and most prestig-
ious underground and railway stations,
think tea is a matter of boiling water,
a tea bag and some milk thrown in for
good measure! I gawk in disbelief at
the sheer morbid and perverse nature
of such an idea. Tea is not instant! Nor
can it ever be made to be! Placing the
milk in with a bag still in the process of
diffusing its ambrosia through the hot
water serves only to stifle and suffocate
the divine essence that had been im-
buing itself. No, tea is not primarily a
drink; it is primarily a test of patience,
care and a firm but tender hand (the
sort of hand those people having rav-
enous and ravaging sexual intercourse
mentioned earlier might use if their
procedure involved S&M or such like).
Tea must be brewed; the tea bag
must be allowed to infuse itself into
pure water, with nothing to disrupt the
ritual. I myself set the timer for three
minutes, though it is accepted wisdom
that the brewing procedure may take
anywhere between three and five min-
utes. Do less than this and you have
gnat’s piss. Do more than this and you
have allowed it to stew. Present either
of these results to your influential din-
ner party guests and you will be ostra-
cised from high society and will have
to seek cheap frills in some dingy tav-
ern with the working class and their
typhoid and dysentery. But this is what
shops in South Kensington continue to
give me.
Never mind that my ancestors
built an Empire so that I could enjoy
a steady flow of top quality tea. Well,
they contributed to the building of the
Empire no doubt by growing potatoes
(for army rations!) and being whipped
by English tyrants and the like. I sup-
pose also they occasionally joined the
IRA and got hanged for treason but
on the plus side, this does allow me to
alter nationality based on whomever is
currently winning in that Six Nations
curiosity.
I think currently I’m Welsh; on the
basis of having a Welsh friend, but such
things are intrinsically fickle, sport be-
ing what it is. And for those reasons
I am vastly overcharged, not least of
all because for the price of a so-called
cup (a cardboard tube is not a cup, a
porcelain masterpiece dating from the
Georgian era is a cup) I could pay fif-
teen children to mine coal for me for a
year. No doubt Chancellor Metternich
is behind it all, the wanker.
Viscount
Kensington
The perfect brew takes 3–5 minutes. No more. No less. You dolt
“
Tea must
be brewed; the
tea bag must
be allowed to
infuse itself
into pure water,
with nothing
to disrupt the
ritual

