comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 7 March 2008 felix
Comment
SpringMingle
FormoreinformationE-mail: gsa@imperial.ac.uk
Livemusic,freefoodanddrink,raffleprizes
Thursday13March 6pm-late
dB’s,BeitQuad
FREEEntry-BringyourIDCard
feelthetingle!
A
fter reading Angry Geek’s
call to arms last week
over my JCR chicken
burger, I felt inspired to
take up the cause. Part-
ly (well, mostly) because £50 would
mean that I would be able to just afford
a small lunch for one in a South Ken-
sington café; but also because I greatly
enjoy Felix; it’s a brilliant rag full of
witty, thought-provoking opinion that
it doesn’t attempt to pass off as fact
(but more on that later) and because I
too enjoy writing. It’s like listening to
the sound of your own voice, but you
can hear it again and again and again.
Unfortunately, the last thing I ever
wrote was my UCAS personal state-
mentapplicationforthephysicsdepart-
ment. Whether or not it is indicative of
the quality of my personal statement, I
am now a first year materials student.
Therefore I’m going to keep my first
(last?) article on something simple.
Anti-Zionism in the BBC
So... Anti-Zionism in the BBC.
I know this is Imperial; I assure you
that I haven’t just fallen off the back of
the SOAS bus, and for the sci-fi society
I’m not talking about the matrix either,
but dear God the sheer anti-Israeli sen-
timent in this country’s leading news
source really, really disturbs me.
I would also like to declare a certain
level of neutrality. Despite a large nose
and indominitably curly sideburns, I
am neither Jewish nor strictly Arabic,
but I take a keener than usual interest
in the events of the Middle East; and
like most people in Britain, I have a cer-
tain indoctrinated trust for the beeb as
our media outlet. We (supposedly) pay
our TV license fee, and in return we
have a news source free of “the man,”
with his giant dildo of TV ratings and
commercial revenue, anally raping all
the innocent journalists who just want
to tell the truth.
However, the BBC in my personal
opinion is very anti-Zionist. The real
clincher for me was an article reporting
on a rocket attack that killed a group of
Israeli citizens in the town of Sderot
“rare.” I mean, come on! It’s rare that
nuns get stabbed to death by drugged
up tweenagers on the District Line to
Putney Bridge; but when it happens,
even the fairly level-headed BBC bray
about how this is indicative of the un-
controllable yoof of today.
One thing I am not faulting the BBC
on is their reporting of the fairly out-
rageous treatment that the Israelis are
giving the Palestinians. Not every resi-
dent of Gaza city is a militant member
of Hamas, or every street vendor a gun
runner. However the BBC give the
rhetoric spewed out by the right-wing
nationalist nut job Israeli generals and
politicians substantially more column
space than the rhetoric spewed out by
the right-wing nationalist nut-job Pal-
estinians; painting the image that the
Israelis are solely devoted to complete
conquest of the world, while the Pal-
estinians are the unsung heroes, pro-
tecting us from their curly side-burned
rampage.
Neither of which are true. Extrem-
ists on both sides are trying to extend
their sphere of influence and protect
their own supply lines. The Israelis
have more money and resources so
strike from the heavens like the hand
of God, whereas the Palestinians have
flexibility and clandestine backing so
can cause public destruction with no
warning.
I suppose it is possibly this underdog
nature that gives the Palestinians the
edge in the British media. But this arti-
cle isn’t about the British media in gen-
eral: I’d expect populist flower-holding
girly men like the Independent to dis-
play opinion drenched vitriol as front-
page fact. But from the BBC, our BBC,
a lack of balance is deeply upsetting.
Angry Geek Idol ends here. Take it away Gilead!
Kid A Geek
A
lecturer of mine is in the
habit of starting each
hour off with a ‘quote of
the day’, to contribute
something more than
equations and theory to our general
education. Personally, I think this is a
terrific idea. The reason I bring this up
is because, at some point last week, he
read off an extract from Ian McEwan’s
Atonement. I saw no point in copying
it down because I’ve acquired this 21st
Century confidence that absolutely
anything worth finding can be found
through a little refined Google search-
ing. Not so. I’ve spent most of the last
Art and Science – in brief
hour vainly trying to find this quota-
tion, and I’m now forced to mangle it
from memory.
The award-winning English novelist
referred to modern artists and their
almost wilful ignorance of scientific
advances. Donne or Shakespeare, he
insists, would have raided quantum
theory or relativity for metaphors to
use in their own work, and rightly so.
Currently, however, it seems to be a
matter of pride for humanists to know
nothing about science.
I don’t have enough experience to be
able to confirm this view for myself, but
I certainly wouldn’t be surprised if this
were the case. Ever since Keats blamed
Newton for ‘unweaving the rainbow’
by explaining the physics behind it,
artists have tended to look at science
as being rather crude and earthy; as
opposed to the exalted planes of exist-
ence on which they dwell. One of my
favourite quotations by Richard Feyn-
man, which I carry around in my wallet
at all times, asks: “what men are poets
who can speak of Jupiter if he were a
man, but if he is an immense spinning
sphere of methane and ammonia must
be silent?” But I’m getting distracted.
Whereas artists do often look down
on science, I find that this cannot com-
pare with the disdain scientists some-
times have for artists. My problem
with this state of affairs, though, is that
whereas the former can be set down
to lack of technical understanding, the
latter is due to sheer arrogance and a
misplaced feeling of superiority. Stu-
dents of science are immensely lucky
in that our horizons are as unbounded
as possible. While a historian or a phi-
losopher can never acquire more than
a passing familiarity with most scienc-
es, a physicist or a mathematician can
have breathtaking scope in any artistic
field. This point was driven home to
me very forcefully when I discovered
that both my history teacher and my
English teacher at school had taken
undergraduate degrees in physics.
It was this realization, more than al-
most anything else, that drove me to
apply here. I can’t claim to have any
historic or literary pretensions – as my
paltry Felix output demonstrates – but
I certainly have a tremendous interest
in the humanities. While Imperial is
somewhat lacking in its ability to cater
to these interests, I can indulge in them
to my heart’s content in my spare time.
While I can learn significant quantities
about Churchill, say, or Orwell or the
History of Science by occasional read-
ing, none of my arts friends can hope
to learn about basic mechanics or elec-
tromagnetism without substantially
more effort.
This is what I mean about scientists
having a substantial advantage. By
our very nature we are supposed to
be curious people – eager to find out
more, to know more, to discover more
in all directions. This is why scientists
throughout history have acquired a
reputation for breadth of knowledge
outside the hard sciences.
This is the ideal situation. There are
drawbacks, however. Whereas a stu-
dent who spends years studying his-
tory or English is going to end up with
a substantial amount of general knowl-
edge – whether they like it or not – by
dint of reading, of listening, and of re-
gurgitation or analysis, there is no such
requirement for a scientist. An MSc is
perfectly capable of knowing nothing
more than the theory and practice of
their particular field. Scientists have
the potential to be better-rounded
than almost anybody else, yet by the
same token they can also be the most
deeply ignorant.
It is this aspect of Imperial that an-
noys me the most. The fact that the
person behind me in lectures can ask
who Oscar Wilde was, or that an over-
heard conversation about Groucho
Marx can contain the incredible line:
“any relation to Karl?” is deeply frus-
trating. I really don’t mean to sound
snobbish, and I apologise if I come
across as such; but we are supposed to
be the representatives of our fields.
More than any other university in
the English-speaking world, we are
supposed to be the leading students of
the sciences. What sort of image do we
give by isolating ourselves in our scien-
tific cocoon, however vast it may be?
What does it say about us that we have
no thought for the immense riches
easily within our grasp if we just cared
enough to try and collect them?
This is as upset as you’ll see me get,
I think, because this really is what ir-
ritates me the most. That scientists,
who have such tremendous potential
as polymaths, whose curiosity should
be second to none, who have always
enjoyed a reputation for being par-
ticularly cultured, should settle into
these stereotypes that are all too easy
to break.
Gilead Amit

