comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
W
ith Islamic Im-
age Improvement
week over and the
smooth transi-
tion to GAW –
Genocide Awareness Week, a nation
clouded in public apathy has sprung
to everyone’s lips: Armenia. After that,
“Ohh, wasn’t that where the genocide
happened…” is the most common, pre-
dictable, response; the sole hallmark
of the country. True, the disaster was
Hitler’s inspiration and the start to the
bloodiest century of history. But to la-
bel the land a ‘crater’ and consign it to
a dusty memory box alongside Rwanda
is to do the nation a disservice.
Anyone who has played Rome: Total
War knows how much Armenia kicked
ancient ass (48 armoured-to-the-eyelid
cataphracts? Hell yes!) For those poor
souls/console ‘gamers,’ who couldn’t
differentiate between a keyboard and
an orchestra, Armenia is situated to
the south of the Steppes, to the east of
Cappadocia, in the Caucasus. Try add-
ing those to your Word dictionary. To
the north lies Russia, the pinnacle of
world democracy, and Georgia, as sta-
ble and open as resting on an open sta-
ble door. East is Azerbaijan, who have
been at war with Armenia since the
1990’s. South is Iran, and west lies Tur-
key, formerly the heartland of the Ot-
toman Empire and perpetrator of the
1895-1917 genocide. And you thought
your neighbours were bad. Despite
this, the landscape is stunning, with
mountains topped by snow, crystal
clear rivers and a temperate climate.
Armenia is one of the few countries
with a larger citizenry outside the bor-
ders than in. Although its population is
3.2 million, most of whom live around
the capital Yerevan, around 8 million
live abroad, with high concentrations
in the US, France and Italy. Arising
courtesy of Turkey, the diaspora con-
tributes significantly to Armenia’s
economy, which is supplemented by
industry, mining and oil processing.
Famous Armenians? System Of A
Down springs to mind for those mu-
sic-lovers out there. Perhaps the most
grandiose is Maddox, a.k.a George
I *heart* Armenia
Ouzounian, author of the popular and
controversial site thebestpageinthe-
universe.com. On the British side, we
have Natasha Shishmanian, the wife of
Chris Evans, and David Dickinson, Mr
Orange himself.
If you believe the Old Testament,
we’re all Armenian; Noah beached his
ocean liner on Mt Ararat (well, if we
listen to science, we’re all Kenyan. Pfft.)
Most of the current population belongs
to the Armenian Apostolic Church.
Armenia was, in fact, the first nation
to declare Christianity as the state reli-
gion back in 301 CE. After a long spell
as a vassal of Persia, Alexander the
Great, then the Seleucids, then Persia,
then Pontus, then Rome, subsequently
subdued it. Like two art students fight-
ing over one remaining liquorice all-
sort, Armenia changed hands multiple
times between the Romans and the
Parthians. It was during this time that
a ‘chivalric code’ appeared amongst the
military of Armenia, alongside heav-
ily armoured, lanced cavalry that both
empires desired. Yep, you read that
right: Armenia practically invented the
knight in shining armour whilst Celts
still wore skirts in Londinium.
After the fall of Rome, Armenia en-
joyed a brief empire of its own, later
even relocating to Cilicia, the bit of
coast north of Cyprus. Alas, it was not
to last. An invasion (surprise, surprise)
by the Islamic Caliphate led to hun-
dreds more years of seesaw fighting
between the Persians and the Otto-
mans. After two-thousand odd years of
occupation, the Armenians had quite
rightly had enough. The Ottomans,
convulsed with economic and politi-
cal decay and grabbing nationalism,
feared a possible independence move-
ment and felt fully justified in pillaging,
drowning, raping, looting, hanging and
shooting all Armenians they found.
Hundreds of thousands were marched
through the Syrian desert; those that
fell were beaten and left on the rocks
to die. The Young Turks were also kind
enough to extend the same sympa-
thetic treatment to the Assyrians and
Greeks, whose settlements had existed
in Anatolia for three millennia.
After a short-lived period as a repub-
lic, Armenia was incorporated into the
USSR. It gained independence in 1991
and has since been a democracy. A
modern peace partner of NATO and a
member of the CIS and World Trade
Organisation, 78% of Armenians fa-
vour joining the EU.
Currently, the democracy of Arme-
nia is under threat. This week, eight
people died after the army dispersed
a peaceful, ‘illegal’ protest in Yerevan.
Many Armenians fear the election was
rigged and their protests artificially
buried in a week dominated by news
of Russian and American elections.
All media outlets have been prevent-
ed from free broadcasting and public
gatherings banned under military rule.
The worst riots since those against
Soviet rule have thus gone unnoticed
around the world.
Still, with strong annual GDP
growth, increasing Human Develop-
ment Index, improving relations with
the US, EU and Turkey, and a possible
resolution with Azerbaijan over the
war-torn Nagorno-Karabakh province
on the horizon, there is much going
for Armenia. Not since times long past
has Armenia had the opportunity to
embrace a free future.
Scorpio
F
or more than 3,000 years
Persia has been a melting pot
of civilizations and demo-
graphic movements between
Asia and Europe. Successive
invasions by the Greeks, Arabs, Mon-
gols and Turks developed the nation’s
culture through rich and diverse phil-
osophical, artistic, scientific and reli-
gious influences.
Though the history of Iran is long
and complex, its shape is determined
by the rise and fall of successive dy-
nasties – with intervals of chaos and
confusion. The most recent case of
complexity is dominated by Iran-US
relations.
Political relations between Iran and
the United States began in the late
1800s but had little importance until
the post-World War II era of petrole-
um exports from the Persian Gulf.
Despite the recent concerns and ac-
tions of the USA towards Iran’s activi-
ties in terms of sanctions against Iran,
by going back a few decades in time,
one finds the reflection and the cycle
of history and perhaps the origins of
the hatred between U.S. and Iran.
To remember why the United States
is no favourite of Tehran’s, one needs
to go back at least to 1953 when the
U.S. and Great Britain overthrew Iran’s
democratically elected Premier Mo-
hammad Mossadeq as part of a plan to
ensure access to Iranian oil.
Iranians also remember Washing-
ton’s strong support for Saddam Hus-
sein’s Iraq after it decided to make war
on Iran in 1980. U.S. support for Iraq
(which included an implicit condoning
of Saddam’s use of chemical weapons)
was perhaps the crucial factor in stav-
ing off an Iranian victory.
Under the Shah, the U.S was Iran’s
foremost economic and military part-
ner. In fact, throughout the post-Sec-
ond World War era and up to 1979, the
emergence and existence of a power-
ful Iran was the core of the US policy
under various administrations (both
Republican and Democrat) as a vital
source of peace and stability in the
Middle East and Western Asia.
After 1979, however, commercial
relations between Iran and the United
States were restricted by U.S. sanc-
tions. Sanctions originally imposed in
1995 by President Clinton (independ-
ent of Iran’s nuclear activities) have
been continually renewed by President
Bush, citing the “unusual and extraor-
dinary threat” to U.S. national security
posed by Iran.
In early 2002, during his first State
of the Union address, U.S. President
George W. Bush said that Iran, Iraq,
and North Korea were part of an “axis
of evil.” “Iran aggressively pursues
these weapons and exports terror,
while an unelected few repress the Ira-
nian people’s hope for freedom.”
Despite the US National Intelligence
Estimate and the most recent reports
from the International Atomic Energy
Agency confirming Iran does not have
a nuclear weapon program underway,
the U.S and Israel are still pursuing
their efforts on declaring another war,
this time against Iran.
On March 20 2003 the U.S. and
Britain, along with other countries,
launched a military invasion “to dis-
arm Iraq of weapons of mass destruc-
tion, end Saddam Hussein’s support
for terrorism, and to free the Iraqi
people.”
If all of the above sounds fright-
eningly familiar with all the recent
rhetoric coming from the same cast of
characters regarding Iran, it’s only be-
cause it is – the same tone and twisted
reasoning and presumptions that were
used to prop Iraq into the kind of seri-
ous threat it was made out to be.
The devastation and loss of inno-
cent life suffered in Iraq would surely
be surpassed in an attack on Iran. In
addition to the massive humanitarian
cost, it would also destroy any devel-
oping democratic movements in the
country.
1,200 delegates from the global anti-
war movement agreed to a worldwide
co-ordinated demonstration calling
for all troops to leave Iraq and Afghan-
istan, and for there to be no attack on
Iran.
The 2003 demonstration played a
crucial role in halting talk of invading
Iran.
We keep marching and protesting
because the policies of mass murder
and devastation are opposed by the
vast majority of people. It is why on
Saturday 15 March, a national demon-
stration in London has been organised
as part of the worldwide day of protest
against George Bush’s wars on the fifth
anniversary of the Iraq invasion.
Iran, the United States and the Conflict
Safa Shoaee
Metal legends *cough*, System Of A Down, are actually Armenian. No joke
“
Anyone
who has played
Rome: Total
War knows how
much Armenia
kicked ancient
ass
8 felix Friday 7 March 2008

