as he keeps us In the Loop
verything from his university days to his ongoing tour
where, I need to rethink and, I dunno,
I’ll retrain and do something else,” but,
fortunately for me, five years down the
line things were going pretty well. I
sort of realised that I’d been doing it
for five years and thought, “Oh yeah,
was this the point where I was going
to take stock?” Probably I would’ve
told my parents something like that and
then that might have given them a bit
more hope. Parents just want you se-
cure. They want you safe and they want
you secure – that’s their main thing. I
think all parents out of everybody wor-
ry about their children’s career choices
whether they’re as outlandish or as
silly as mine.
T: Back to The Thick of It – I’ve seen
you said in interviews that people
seem to have this sort of idea that
you’re now a political commentator.
Do you ever find that weird, sitting
on the couch of The Andrew Marr
Show thinking, “what am I doing
here?”
C: Well the Andrew Marr thing is in-
teresting, because it’s a paper review.
It has two functions: one is, it reviews
the papers, that’s the obvious one. The
other one is that it reveals a bit of the
personality of the people who are re-
viewing the papers. It’s a little like a
cross between an interview and com-
mentary. Sometimes I have to go in
and talk about things that I haven’t
actually got a direct relationship with,
but I’ve always said no to doing Ques-
tion Time. I used to think, “oh, what’s
a comedian doing on Question Time?”
but if it’s somebody doing it well, it’s
really good. If you watch Armando
[Iannucci] when he’s does it it’s really
interesting because he plays the part of
the bewildered public and that’s a re-
ally good role to have. That’s not actu-
ally being a political commentator but
being like a conduit for people wanting
to call bullshit.
T: Like being an everyman
character…
C: Yeah! Exactly. That’s it. So yeah, I
don’t comment on politics. You know,
it’s in my stand-up show, you know
there’s some political stuff, there’s
some personal stuff, some political
bullshit and a lot of fucking about but
I’m not a crusader or anything like that.
I enjoy politics, I enjoy the game as-
pect of politics – which is the bit that’s
most harmful actually! I do comment
on people, if I’m around during Ques-
tion Time I will tweet through it but,
you know, I’m not Andrew Lansley. I
would never claim to have knowledge
above anybody else’s of the press.
People who famously play doctors or
vets often get asked questions about
health...
T: And you famously play a special
adviser...
C: …so I must get asked about politics,
yeah!
T: I really should ask about your
stand-up because you are a stand-up
comedian and I’ve been very care-
ful to make sure that you know that
I know that you’re not an actor –
you’re a stand-up comedian and an
actor. So your stand-up show, this
year it hasn’t got a theme has it.
C: No, that was deliberately chosen be-
cause I used to write shows that were
very heavily themed and that was de-
liberate. Well, obviously it’s very hard
to accidentally write something and say
it has a theme – but it was deliberate
in that I would take it up to Edinburgh.
There are a gazillion comics in Edin-
burgh and you need to do something to
stand out. That’s why I did those shows
and when I came back to stand-up af-
ter a few years of enforced absence I
wanted to have a show that was just
straight stand-up really and very talky
because I just wanted to get back to the
roots of it. I thoroughly enjoyed it, so
for the last two shows I’ve avoided do-
ing a theme.
T: You’ve worked extensively in ra-
dio. Is that a medium that you per-
sonally enjoy or is it about the dif-
ferent challenges? It’s just about the
sounds rather than the visual aspect
after all.
C: Well, my first love of comedy came
from the radio. When I was a kid, about
11 or 12, on every sunday at 12:27pm
Radio 4 used to repeat a classic radio
series like The Goon Show, I’m Sorry,
I’ll Read That Again, Round the Horne
and all those proper mid-twentieth cen-
tury classic radio shows. That’s one of
the first places that I found kind of ‘my
comedy’. I was brought up on radio
comedy really and it’s always seemed
a natural thing to me.
Eventually I got my own series The
Ape That Got Lucky in 2005. The first
day that we did the actual show and
there were four microphones standing
there and the four of us in the cast there,
each with our scripts, standing back
and forth at the microphones waiting
for our turn to speak, it sounds genu-
inely exciting. You know, I’ve seen
pictures of the Goons doing this and
this is what I’ve loved for years. When
I was maybe 16, what I really wanted to
do was to go into radio. I listened reli-
giously to what was then Manchester’s
Piccadilly Radio, it’s changed now,
but there was a guy on there, James H.
Reeve. He used to forecast this call-in
show between 10 and 1 and I’ve never
heard anyone like him. He was urbane
and funny and dry and it was an amaz-
ing show and I really wanted to do that
so when I came to do the 5 Live satiri-
cal show that was great, I felt like I’d
done both of the kinds of radio that I’ve
always loved so, yeah, I really like it
and I’d like to do more of it really.
T: Was that one of those tingly, al-
most out of body experiences where
you’re almost looking at yourself do-
ing something and you’re like, “Oh
my god, I’m actually doing this, this
is happening”?
C: Yeah, I think so on both of those
occasions. For the Radio 4 shows that
we recorded, it was so exciting, but in
both cases it was the microphones. It
was what the microphone looked like,
where it was positioned and stuff.
You know, sitting in the 5 Live studio,
which weirdly, was the 5 Live studio
that they used in The Thick of It…
T: Oh really, for the episode with the
Richard Bacon interview?
C: Yeah, which was charming and
weird. But you know, occasionally you
have a real ‘you are here’ moments in
life. They’re exciting, and both of those
occasions were one.
T: Was it intimidating and perhaps
a bit scary to come into something
so established and so big as Mock
the Week and suddenly being the
new ‘regular guy’ – did you feel that
pressure?
C: The thing is it wasn’t that sudden.
I’d done Mock the Week about 11 times
before I became a regular. I was on a
lot for the three series previous to be-
coming fully paid up so all it felt like
was a step up in commitment. When I
initially did it, I thought it would be ter-
rifying to the point that I went and saw
it recorded the week before. My expe-
rience of big panel shows and things
like that has always been that after the
first one you do of any particular panel
show you come away going “ah yeah,
yeah, I get that now, I know how that
works” and I wanted to find that as far
as I could so I went to the recording a
week before so I had more of an idea of
how the show worked on the night. I’d
also spent years saying “no no no, I’m
not going to do Mock the Week” out of
fear really. I finally sort of bit the bul-
let and did it and absolutely loved it.
I’ve always really, really enjoyed doing
it, and I was quite surprised by that at
the beginning which is why i think they
kept having me back, because I was en-
joying myself. When they finally said
“do you want to come and do this full
time” it wasn’t such a big leap.
T: Now that you’re a full regular, do
you feel that with the younger come-
dians and the guys who come on for
the first time, that you’re trying to
help them out, trying to not cut them
off, and trying to make sure that they
get to showcase what they want to
showcase?
C: I think Mock the Week has had a
reputation for quite a long time of be-
ing a real bear pit where people would
leap over each other’s jokes and all of
that kind of thing. You could see that
I think, but I don’t think it’s like that
now. I think it’s very different and I
think there’s a lot more space given to
people. Dara [O’Briain] is extremely
good because he plays the part of the
traffic policeman in the centre of it all,
which you don’t see so much of in the
edit, but because he’s the host as well
as introducing the show on camera it’s
kind of his job to ensure that everybody
gets a say and he can kind of stop you
and bring somebody in if you’re get-
ting too garrulous or overexcited. So
yeah, people get their chance definite-
ly. You have to sort of step up I think
once you’ve been given the chance,
which can sometimes be a bit intimi-
dating and scary, but it’s a much nicer
and much more collaborative show
than its reputation once would have
had you believe.
T: Thank you very much, it’s been
amazing talking to you.
C: Thanks, it’s been nice to talk to you
too – good luck with that year after the
end of your studies!
T: I’ll now look forward to
despondence!
Chris Addison is on tour at venues
across the UK until June
“Occasionally you
have real ‘you are
here’ moments in
life”
FEATURE
FELIX Friday 02 MARCH 2012 11
‘Traffic policeman’ Dara O’Briain

