like to see that which we cannot.
How is he doing it? How is my friend
avoiding the payment of society’s tariff?
Is he well endowed in material wealth?
Is he a creative accountant? Black mar-
ket trader? Gangster? Prostitute?
The answer to these questions and
more is mostly no, with a dash of not
really. You see, my friend is what some
would call homeless. But being that a
home is not a place but an abstract idea,
where the heart is if you will (one should
take heed to note that this well known
statement is to be taken in purely a figu-
rative sense and does not refer in actual-
ity to a ribcage, and thus the phrase ‘mi
casa es su casa’ is not an opt-in policy
for organ donation between friends)
you have most definitely forgotten what
came before these brackets. That’s the
tragedy of using them for large ideas: it
convolutes the prose to such an extent
A
wise soul once said only
two things are guaran-
teed in this life: death and
taxes. It may have been
Charles Dickens, but then
again it may have been someone else.
Whoever it was most probably belongs
to one of those categories.
Now, it would seem to be the case that
I happen to know of an arguably wiser
soul who has carved out an existence for
himself within civilization in which no
tax collector would ever have just cause
to come a knocking at his door. Indeed,
a lifestyle which challenges conven-
tions and subverts modes of ordinary
thinking to which we have all become
accustomed to such an extent that this
seemingly obvious alternative solution
is as hard to see as an overweight gent’s
direct observance of his genitalia. The
key difference here being that we would
that it loses its sense of rhythm, urgency
and, in this case, professionalism.
He is homeless, but lives in a swanky
flat complete with running water and
a vole (the mammal) that was short
enough to be tolerated. Upon telling
people, very early on when meeting
them, that despite his apparently clean
hair and non-invasive odour he is, in
fact, homeless, the conversation is sure
to follow a line of questioning the other
converser finds both fresh and exhila-
rating.
Where do you sleep at night? How
did this happen? What do you do for
money? Is it true that cocaine tastes bet-
ter when you’ve paid for it by way of
fellatio? The usual things we all won-
der about that lifestyle. “I sleep where I
can,” he proceeds to tell them with ab-
solute conviction. However, where that
happens to be is of course the afore-
mentioned apartment, complete with a
small mammal (vole) acceptable.
Is it right that he routinely beds vast
swathes of ankle by using the wide-
spread conflation of the concept of
homelessness with the reality of house-
lessness? Well to his mind he isn’t say-
ing anything technically untrue, which
really makes the point of my piece: is a
lie a lie if we believe it to be true? Both
he, the Pope and Neil Buchanan (for-
merly of Art Attack) seem to think not,
and I’m inclined to agree with them.
Calum Grant tells a surreal tale of homelessness, lies and small furry mammals
FELIX
Friday 02 MARCH 2012
12
features.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Features Editors: Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith
FEATURES
One can only lie knowingly, therein
arises the maliciousness. The liar must
be aware of their deed whilst it is hap-
pening, else they are merely perpetuat-
ing what they believe to be true based
on all the cards in their hand combined
with all they know up until (and some-
times including) that point.
Very well, you mentally nod in agree-
ment (this isn’t to be taken literally, but
with the connotation of insanity with
which the term ‘mental’is so frequently
associated these days) you happily con-
cede this point which I have made so
elegantly and clearly from the outset,
but ask a question of me, for there still
remains the outstanding matter of the
means by which said homeless friend
avoids the tax man?
Well a hint of the answer has been
made but let us say it explicitly now: he
was the vole all along (of course!).
Featured Fiction: The Vole
“Is a lie a lie if we
believe it to be
true?”

