The once distinct lines between fact and science
fiction are getting increasingly blurred almost
on a daily basis. This month, it’s biology tak-
ing the lead. The Wyss Institute, a department
committed to Biologically Inspired Engineering
at Harvard University, recently unveiled its first
ever cellular robot. It could be little to no time
before these miniature machines are flowing
through your body as they look to be the big
players in medicine for the future.
Scientists in the US are currently develop-
ing these DNA nanorobots. They are based on
the concept of ‘DNA Origami,’ initially put
forward by Paul Rothemund from Caltech in
2006. By manipulating DNA, the usual, regular
double helix structure is split down the middle,
and then, using the specific bonding of the base
pairs, turned into complex 2D or 3D forms by
twisting DNA over itself in various ways.
At the Wyss institute, they have managed to
build complex structures using the split DNA
strands, producing the microscopic models that
can self-assemble quickly and be modified to
execute specific tasks. In only six short years,
DNA manipulation has gone from simple 2D
structures to structures that could tour your
bloodstream, seek out target cells, and even de-
liver them a lethal blow to kill them completely.
The nanorobot itself has a basic barrel struc-
ture that splits laterally and is hinged by dou-
ble stranded DNA motifs, which can recognize
cell surface receptors – cellular nametags that
indicate the type of cell. The molecule it can
deliver is attached inside the barrel and once
the double stranded motifs recognize the re-
ceptors they bind to them, causing them to
change shape, forcing the barrel to open and
releasing the molecule. The binding of the re-
ceptor to the nanorobot directly ensures speci-
ficity so they only deliver to the cell they are
designed to target.
DNA nanorobots have displayed significant
successes, recognising leukaemia cells out of
a mixed cell sample, for example, showing the
potential for them to be used to treat cancer
in the future. Furthermore, they could do this
without the damaging side effects of chemo-
therapy and without killing healthy cells, as
the nanorobots cannot recognise healthy cells
if designed correctly.
So what lies ahead for these petite pioneers
of our blood vessels? At the minute, they are
still being tested in vitro, and whether or not
they work in living tissue is yet to be seen. One
issue is that the body’s own defence mecha-
nisms could eradicate the tiny machines before
they even get to their target tissue; the liver has
The nanorobots are coming
Is it just me or do these look like hammocks?
been found to clear them and they are suscep-
tible to degradation by enzymes called nucle-
ases, that destroy unwanted DNA strands as
part of the cellular housekeeping process.
However, if these issues are overcome, they
could provide a level of target specificity and
drug delivery efficiency that could never be
achieved using conventional drugs, along with
being the potential first steps to better cancer
treatments. These tiny creations could be the
basis of a new generation of therapeutic treat-
ments, and could revolutionise how we use
drugs in the future. It could only be a matter of
time before your blood becomes one complex
highway for these tiny tearaways.
The origin of life on Earth is one of the most
compelling questions in science today. Recent-
ly, hydrothermal vents on the ocean floor have
been cited as potential settings for this event.
However, the Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences has published a study led
by Armen Mulkidjanian from the University of
Osnabrück, Germany, arguing that the first life
arose in pools of condensed vapour from geo-
thermal vents on land.
Nearly 4 billion years ago the ‘late heavy
bombardment’ saw Earth’s surface pulverised
by asteroids, leaving few rocks intact. This
was bad luck for scientists, as the earliest life
probably existed before then – so we will nev-
er discover its fossils. Consequently, scientists
are trying to picture those organisms from the
biological, not fossil, record: finding features
that all living cells share, because they prob-
ably also occurred in our most ancient ances-
tors, or ‘protocells’.
The Canadian biochemist Archibald Macal-
lum pointed out in 1926 that, while our blood
resembles seawater, the insides of our cells do
not. They contain much higher concentrations
of certain metal ions and phosphate than are
(or ever were) present in oceans, but less so-
dium, which they constantly pump out. Our
cells control these concentrations with ‘ion-
tight’ membranes and transporter proteins,
but protocells had not yet evolved these. Ions
would have flowed through them and reached
the same concentrations as in the surrounding
water.
Mulkidjanian’s team looked among the old-
est, most conserved proteins in many organ-
isms for those which require particular ions.
They found that potassium and zinc are in-
volved in the most ancient, basic processes,
such as protein and DNA synthesis, while so-
dium ions are not. Meanwhile, phosphate fills
the backbone of every DNA molecule and is
present on many proteins. These features of
every modern cell were probably present in
protocells too. However, no known or recon-
structed marine environment has a high potas-
sium-to-sodium ratio, making hydrothermal
vents unpromising as potential cradles of life.
The authors put forward an alternative set-
ting for the beginning of life: pools formed
of condensed steam from geothermal springs.
When magma-heated water rises from deep
underground, some evaporates, carrying with
it lots of potassium, phosphate and zinc but
very little sodium. It also contains organic
molecules and ammonia, which cells can use
for energy or synthesis. Additionally, the ex-
uded sulphides probably solidified into porous
structures that could protect protocells from
the sun’s harmful UV rays.
DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1117774109
Eliot Barford
FELIX
Friday 02 March 2012
14
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Science Editors: Kelly Oakes
Alexander Karapetian
SCIENCE
In brief
Philippa Skett
A research team from institutions around Eu-
rope and Australia have published an article that
comes to the mind-blowing conclusion that some
large organisms still alive today can be thousands
of years old.
The group, led by Sophie Arnaud-Haond, con-
centrated mainly on clonal organisms; organisms
with the same genetic information branching from
a single ancestor, such as fungi and plants. Previ-
ously, species of fungi and angiosperms (flowering
plants) were known to extend over a hundred me-
tres and reach ages in the order of centuries. How-
ever, their actual ages can vary widely depending
on the size and number of samples taken as well
as the location. The team also questioned why the
distribution of samples was so closely correlated
to the maximum size of the colony.
By analysing the spatial cover of Posidonia oce-
anica, a species of seagrass, Arnaud-Haond and
her colleages attempted to estimate the potential
age of the plant clone. Their findings showed that
to reach a km-range spread via clonal growth only
would relate to a minimum age of about 12,500
years. When a similar method was used on two
pairs of meadows in the Mediterranean, located
7 km apart between Formentera and Ibiza and
15 km apart around a cape in Formentera, the
minimum age was placed between 80,000 and
200,000 years, meaning the meadows originated
during the late Pleistocene Epoch.
However, the research team is uncertain; due
to global rises in sea level during the last ice
age (80,000 to 10,000 years ago), the meadows
would have been at least 100m above sea level
and being a marine plant, the clone would not
have been able to survive. One possible solution
is that the meadows were carried by glacial flows
and split, being able to cover wider areas of land
and affecting the validity of the method used to
calculate age.
Another factor the team noted was that the pop-
ulation is falling rapidly, possibly due to human
involvement. Given that it may have taken the
meadow thousands of years to reach its current
size, it may be unable to cope with the pressure
put on it by human population.
DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0030454
Pavitar Singh Devgon
World’s oldest living organism
Origin of life may be geothermal pool
Posidonia oceanica
Wyss Institute, Harvard University

