SCIENCE
FELIX Friday 02 March 2012 15
Twinkle, twinkle, little star
Marie-Laure Hicks on why we need sleep – and why eight hours might be too much
E
very student faces the eter-
nal dilemma: balancing
work, having a social life
and sleep. On average, we
humans spend a third of
our lives sleeping. So what is sleep and
is it really that important?
There are two main types of sleep.
The first type is composed of four
stages. Stage I is called light sleep, dur-
ing which muscle activity slows down
and you doze off. Brain activity is de-
scribed by low-amplitude beta waves.
Stage II, or true sleep, sees a slowdown
of the breathing pattern and heart rate,
as well as lower frequency, higher am-
plitude theta waves. Stage III, or deep
sleep, is characterised by delta waves,
which have a higher amplitude and low-
er frequency. During this period, your
breathing and heart rate are at their low-
est. During the final Stage IV, breathing
becomes rhythmic and limited muscle
activity takes place. The pattern then
reverses. A complete cycle of this first
type of sleep takes between 70 and 90
minutes.
The second type of sleep is REM, or
rapid eye movement, sleep. It describes
a number of episodes that occur three
to five times over a night’s sleep. Dur-
ing these events, rapid eye movement
takes place and brain activity is almost
as high as when you are awake. The
breathing rate and blood pressure rise.
For most people, the body is paralysed
and unable to regulate its temperature. It
is during these periods that you dream.
Each non-REM sleep cycle is gen-
erally followed by increasingly long
REM episodes. The use of REM epi-
sodes is unclear, as their prevention
does not seem to have any important ef-
fects. A strong rebound follows after the
prevention is ended, however.
The causes and reasons for a large
part of sleep behaviour remain a mys-
tery. It is thought that the circadian cy-
cle, effectively a body clock, regulates
periods of drowsiness and sleepiness
depending on light and darkness. But
how much do we really need to sleep?
A number of theories exist on the
optimal sleep time. Of course, there is
the widely known and recommended
eight-hour sleep. Thomas Wehr and
Roger Ekirch, on the other hand, sug-
gest segmented sleep: two blocks of
four hours with a couple of hours rest-
ing in between. Some research has sug-
gested that long sleep is actually less
healthy than short sleep. Most people
tend to sleep between 6 and 10 hours
a night. Overall there is no consensus,
other than that we need to sleep enough
to avoid being tired the next day.
Sleep deprivation can have serious
consequences. In 1965, Randy Gardner
stayed awake for 11 days. Overall, he
remained fairly healthy – he was even
able to win at pinball – but he experi-
enced hallucinations, difficulty concen-
trating and became basically cognitive-
ly dysfunctional. Sleep disorders can
strongly impact people’s daily lives.
Dr Gillian Twigg, at the sleep centre in
Charing Cross Hospital, specialises in
the study and diagnosis of these disor-
ders. Unusual behaviour can take place
during sleep, especially REM episodes,
like shouting, kicking, and sleepwalk-
ing and is caused by disruptions in the
sleep cycle or abnormal awakenings.
A more common and concerning sleep
disorder is obstructive sleep apnoea:
the muscles and soft tissues of the
throat collapse and prevent breathing.
These disorders can be diagnosed after
a night at the sleep centre, measuring
blood pressure, oxygen levels, heart
rate, breathing, blood oxygen levels and
body movement.
Most patients who suffer from sleep
disorders experience severe tiredness
and mood swings during the day. There
can be memory impairments and some
people find it debilitating. Sleep is a
strange thing. Its use is still unclear,
but disruptions have severe repercus-
sions. The rest of the animal world does
not provide much help with answering
these questions. Dolphins, for example,
are capable of maintaining half of their
brain asleep whilst the other is awake
and bullfrogs don’t seem to sleep much
at all.
Thank you to Dr Twigg and her team
at the Imperial College Healthcare
sleep centre, Charing Cross Hospital.
Are you getting enough sleep? We’re certainly not, but these guys are...
I’m sure I’m not alone in my scepti-
cism of the apparent healing proper-
ties of alcohol when suffering from a
cold or general post-Saturday-night
divine punishment. Yet the latest re-
search conducted at Emory Univer-
sity, Atlanta, suggests that fruit flies
genuinely use alcohol to combat in-
fection – from parasitic wasps.
As you may well have inferred from
their imaginative name, fruit flies
(Drosophila melanogaster) eat rotten
fruit, or more accurately, the yeast
that decays said fruit. As by-products
of the decaying process, yeast produc-
es carbon dioxide and ethanol, thus
rendering the fruit slightly alcoholic.
Subsequently, the fruit fly has evolved
resistance to the harmful effects of al-
cohol (in the form of the enzyme al-
cohol dehydrogenase), an adaptation
not exhibited by the parasitic wasps
(Leptopilina boulardi and Leptopilina
heterotoma) that deposit their eggs in
its circulatory system.
This disparity in ethanol resistance
prompted Todd Schlenke and his col-
leagues to feed healthy and parasited
fruit flies in an environment contain-
ing untreated and alcohol-coated fruit,
the latter ranging in concentration
from that of medium strength lager to
Special Brew (4-10%). They observed
that the parasitised flies overwhelm-
ingly preferred the alcoholic to the
regular fruit (80 to 20% respectively),
whereas only thirty percent of healthy
flies were equally enticed. These
numbers show a conscious decision
on behalf of the parasitised flies to ac-
tively seek out the alcoholic fruit in
a bid to remedy their infection. This
proved to be an excellent tactic: the
degree of oviposition (egg laying) by
the wasps in these flies was reduced
greatly by the presence of ethanol,
Schlenke explains why:
“The wasps die [from ethanol ex-
posure] and all of their organs are di-
verted through their anus. Their guts
actually pop out..”
Apologies to anyone eating their
lunch for the vivid mental image
painted by Schlenke, but it’s clear
that it is in the wasps’ best interests
to steer clear of the ethanol-inducing
flies. Schlenke also goes on to state
that the investigation documents the
first evidence that alcohol consump-
tion can act as a defensive mecha-
nism against infectious diseases and
parasites, but before you hit the bottle
to cure your ailments remember that
the fruit fly’s alcohol tolerance is the
result of millions of years of evolu-
tion in an ethanol-rich environment,
not consecutive nights in the student
union.
DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2012.01.045
Hair of the
bug
Robert Treasure
Want to write for
Felix Science?
Send us an email:
science.felix@
imperial.ac.uk

