Tips & Hacks
Cheaper mobile roaming charges
In an attempt to avoid shock bills for customers,
this week MEPs have voted to introduce a cap on
what companies can charge per megabyte of data
while roaming. Additionally they have voted to cut
prices for texts and calls, but this is the first time
any limitation has ever been made on data. In the
age of the ‘always-on’ smartphone, turning your
phone on for even a few minutes while abroad
can result in a massive – and often unexpected
– bill. While each tweet, email and status update
may only be a few kilobytes, it all adds up. This
is a very positive step then for anyone who trav-
els abroad and wants to keep in touch with his/
her digital world. While this legislation is not final,
all further approval is expected to be “a rubber-
stamping exercise”. So, by mid-2014, we should
be seeing maximum charges of 12p per minute,
4p per text and 16p per megabyte.
I
’m quite ambivalent when it comes to
the relative merits of operating systems
and the devices they run on. The Mac vs.
PC debate has been stumbling along for
almost as long as I can remember, and
much of what can be said has been said, many
times over. Suffering the minor misfortune of
having to use Windows, OS X and Linux on a
regular basis, it’s hard to have strong opinions
when at the end of the day a computer is re-
ally just a lump of metal and plastic, and not a
philosophical statement, despite what Stephen
Fry would have you believe.
In choosing a modern laptop/operating sys-
tem, what you are really debating is largely per-
sonal preference: aside from gamers who have
more options on Windows, buying a laptop
usually boils the decision making process down
to a question of money and aesthetic ideals. So
what does a Macbook Air do to define itself as
unique? Quite a lot, as we shall soon see. In
this review, I have forgone the usual listing of
specifications and benchmarking tests: the lap-
top has been out for 6 months now and there’s
enough of that available online if you need it.
What I have tried to focus on is the experience
of using a Mac as a student. If you have been
sitting on the fence about buying a Macbook
for a while, my goal is to push you off it in ei-
ther direction.
Remarkably thin and elegant, the Air is one
of the most striking laptops I have ever used.
The hardware has clearly been designed to ben-
efit the user experience: one pleasing difference
from the average laptop is its roomy touchpad.
For such a thin piece of kit, it also sits well
in the hand – I often found myself carrying it
around with one hand as easily as I would a
sheaf of papers. The only real problem I had
with it from a design perspective is how eas-
ily I misplaced it on my desk, which is more a
testament to its diminutive size rather than any
misstep on Apple’s part.
In terms of performance, I was quite happy
with the system as it was – when it came to
browsing, doing some writing and watching
flash videos (what I mostly use my computer
for, aside from programming), the Air per-
formed solidly. If you require Matlab or other
major programming IDEs such as Eclipse, the
higher-end Air coming in with 4GB of memory
and an i7 processor would be a better bet, but
keep in mind the limited space (256GB being
the upper storage limit on the device) would
probably require investment in an external hard
drive.
Considering the solid state drive and the i5/
i7 processors inside these machines, the smooth
performance isn’t much of a surprise. In terms
of Flash in particular, I was impressed by how
easily the device handled the plugin, something
that I have had troubles with on Linux for a
while now. Battery life was comparable to my
not-so-ultra ultrabook, which is impressive,
and probably enough to get you through a nor-
mal day at uni without having to rely on find-
ing a power socket. I was very impressed by
the speaker quality, which was loud and clear
– something I was not expecting considering I
still don’t know exactly where the sound was
coming from.
Elegant and a good performer; so where are
the Air’s flaws? I have to admit I was not too
enamoured of OS X. Where I look at plans for
Windows 8 and see changes that Microsoft
has planned, OS X seems very much transi-
tional. The changes to the UI are there (fingers
flick up to scroll up, other gestures to do other
fancy things), but it’s not the same big break
that Microsoft and some other Linux operating
systems are experimenting with. Whether this
Perfection, at a premium
FELIX
Friday 02 march 2012
16
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology Editors: Chris Bowers
Feroz Salam
TECHNOLOGY
is necessarily a bad thing, I don’t know. OS X
was for a very long time a leader in terms of
UI functionality, and it is still very much on
par with the other major operating systems. If
you’re looking for the ‘next big thing’however,
this isn’t it.
Another issue that is not so much a criti-
cism but a statement of fact revolves around
the price. This is not so much an argument
about Apple’s Air as much as a point about
‘ultrabooks’ in general. The Air and ASUS’s
Zenbook both retail at roughly the same price
(after Apple’s student discount is taken into ac-
count). For shaving off a kilo or two in weight
(and taking a slight performance hit), you are
paying a premium of roughly 200 pounds (HP’s
Pavilion series offer the same processor and a
better spec for the extra weight). Whether or not
this is worth it is only a call you can make. If
your budget for a computer hovers around 1000
pounds and you aren’t a power user (the Air, re-
member, doesn’t offer a CD drive, only has two
USB ports and comes with basic Intel integrat-
ed graphics), this might be the laptop for you.
I liked the Macbook Air, a lot. I don’t usu-
ally care about the computer beneath my fin-
gers as long as it works, but it’s very obvious
that a lot of effort has gone into making the
Air something special. It’s different, and not
in a bad way. It can also handle your everyday
computing tasks for a whole day, something
that can’t be said about some other ultrabooks
released over the last few years. OS X may not
be a revolutionary computing experience, but
it’s a solid system that compares favourably in
many aspects to Windows. The real question, as
always withApple products, is whether you can
justify the price: if you’re someone who wants
a feature for every penny, this may not be the
device you’re looking for. If you’re willing to
accept the price premium for a laptop so thin
that it could also be used as a cheese slicer, I say
go for it: you’re not going to find much better
out there.
Tweet archives open for business
Twitter has this week “unlocked” its tweet ar-
chives for market research purposes, allowing
businesses access to tweets dating back to the
beginning of 2010. Specifically, it has partnered
with the UK-based data mining company Datasift,
who – while analysing approximately 250 million
tweets each day, will provide the data to others for
a fee. For comparison, companies used to be able
to search only thirty days’ worth of tweets, and
regular users are still limited to seven days. This
has, of course, sparked privacy concerns, but Twit-
ter has quickly come forward to shoot them down.
The executive director of Privacy International, Gus
Hosein, claims people have always been happy
to use Twitter in the knowledge that their tweets
would disappear fairly rapidly. Twitter’s counterar-
gument, however, is that people use the service
knowing that what they tweet is visible to anyone
at that given moment. Of course, private and de-
leted tweets will not be made available to anyone,
which one would expect. Even so, it will be inter-
esting to see if this affects Twitter’s popularity.
Feroz Salam finally gets his hands on a Macbook Air
“[the Air] is elegant and
a good performer”

