This week, Felix releases the full results
of the much-anticipated sex survey. This
typically makes for depressing reading in a
university concerned with its high levels of
“geekiness” and obsessed with a less than
ideal gender ratio. Beyond the statistics and
the innuendo, there is, however, a hidden and,
I believe, largely positive message of how far
British society has come, holding such a sur-
vey would have been unthinkable when Felix
was founded. While the survey has only been
run for two years, is still highly anonymous,
filled with “I’d prefer not to say” and is ta-
boo discussion outside the student world, it
reflects a freedom that still does not exist in
many countries. This week, we look at the
sexual rights that we take for granted but con-
tinue to be restricted around the world.
80% of Imperial students are not virgins, yet
very few students are married. Other than
during a brief Puritan period (1650-1660),
this has largely been legal (though often scan-
dalous or taboo) in England. However, the act
is forbidden under Islamic law (Zina) and is
illegal in at least twelve Muslim countries.
It has been 45 years since homosexuality
was decriminalised, and only 8 years since
civil partnerships were introduced, but 14%
of students described themselves as either
bisexual or homosexual. Homosexuality is
legal in much of the world, and marriage leg-
islation has been passed in much of Europe
and the mainland of the Americas. In 2009,
the Indian Supreme Court finally deemed old
anti-homosexual colonial legislation as un-
constitutional, freeing a further one-fifth of
the world’s homosexual population. It may
seem progress is being made, but the reality
is homosexual acts remain illegal in much of
the Middle East, Africa and the Caribbean. In
many (largely Muslim) countries, homosexu-
als are executed. In much of Africa, things
are moving backwards. In Uganda, an anti-
homosexual bill has re-emerged, though with
the odious death penalty for repeat “offend-
ers” removed after international pressure, as
MPs continued to describe homosexuality as
“un-African” and “un-Christian”.
55% of students admitted to having sex
without any method of contraception. While
most will be able to look back at this as a
stupid mistake with no real consequences,
in much of the world it could change your
life completely. While abortions can legally
take place in almost every country on Earth,
in most of Africa, South America, the Middle
East and the Far East, making a stupid drunk-
en mistake is not a valid excuse. In fact, rape
is often not considered a valid reason – abor-
tions are typically only legal if the mother’s
health is at risk.
Okay, I can’t give any Imperial statistic for
this one – I would hope the college degree
has a good enough reputation that no student
Freedom to Fornicate
Imperial doesn’t seem so bad now, does it?
would ever have to turn to selling their body.
However, the law is nevertheless important.
The “oldest profession in the world” is illegal
in much of Africa, Asia (notable examples in-
clude India and Kazakhstan) and the United
States (though not Nevada). In a small num-
ber of countries (see above) it is regulated
and legal, but in most countries (including the
United Kingdom) laws exist against brothels
and pimping. The exchange of sex for money
is not, however, a criminal offence.
It should be noted that these laws often fail
to reflect the reality on the ground. Homo-
sexuals are often attacked and even killed
without any concern from authorities in
countries where it has been decriminalised.
Abortions and prostitution are widespread in
all countries. The difference is that in areas
where they are illegal, abortions are often
very dangerous and prostitutes may be at-
tacked without protection from the authori-
ties – a particular problem in Pakistan where
fornication, homosexuality and prostitution
are illegal yet eunuch brothels are common-
place.
However, while the United Kingdom may
have made progress in these areas, this does
not make us “free”. Islamic countries, for
instance, often allow polygamy (though, im-
portantly, only with one man), while British
law still only gives advantages (in the form
of tax breaks) to pairs of people who make a
long term commitment in the form of mar-
riage or civil partnership. Further, “pimps”
as legal employers would have the duty to
protect prostitutes – a single woman working
alone is at far greater risk of being harmed.
FELIX
Friday 02 MARCH 2012
18
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics Editors: Rajat Jain
Joseph Letts
POLITICS
Imperial is an orgy by international standards
February in Quotations
politics.felix@ic.ac.uk
Got something to say? Send your articles to
Rajat Jain
“I challenge you to distinguish a naked prostitute
from any other naked woman”
The lawyer of Dominique Strauss-Kahn. The for-
mer French presidential hopeful and ex-IMF chief
is facing pimping charges in France less than
six months after a rape case against him was
dropped in New York. His defence team claim that
he did not know that the women at the orgies he
attended were prostitutes.
“Today, I would say good bye to the power, which
should always be responsibility not a privilege”
Afghani police, typically regarded as American
collaborators, show their sympathy with rioters
after burnt copies of the Koran were found at a
NATO base on 20th February. Despite apologies
by various officials including US President Obama,
deadly attacks have continued against Western
diplomats. Police killed two senior NATO officers.
“If I find the opportunity, I would shoot them in
the head”
William Hague ahead of an International confer-
ence on Syria being held in Tunisia. As violence
continues, the British foreign secretary expressed
concern over Syria but made it clear the military
had no intention of intervening. Hague supported
last year’s “no-fly zone” over Libya but opposed
“boots on the ground.” The Conservative min-
ister previously supported the invasions of both
Afghanistan and Iraq under the previous, Labour,
government.
“The consequences of any outside intervention
are much harder to foresee”
Former President of Yemen, Ali Abdullah Saleh,
before handing over power to Abd Al-Hadi, the for-
mer vice-president. Saleh controlled the country
for 21 years before protests forced him to accept a
Saudi-brokered deal to stand down in exchange for
immunity. A presidential election took place last
week but only Al-Hadi stood after all opposition
parties agreed to support him to maintain stability
in the weak state.
Rupert Murdoch tweets about expected sales
of the first Sun on Sunday. The paper was finally
launched seven months after its predecessor,
The News of the World, was shut down over the
phone-hacking controversy. The new paper’s first
editorial guaranteed to hold its journalists up to a
higher standard. Inquiries are continuing to take
place over illegal actions within Mr Murdoch’s or-
ganisation, News International. In the end, 3 mil-
lion copies were sold.
“I will be very happy at anything substantially over
two million!”
Edited by Rajat Jain
Fornication
Religion, the Law & the Fact
Prostitution
Abortion
Homosexuality
Lizzy Griffiths

