POLITICS
FELIX Friday 02 MARCH 2012 19
Volunteering at Tesco
Luke Sheldon attacks the Government’s new scheme as enforced labour that only benefits big companies
W
ork experience is
something most of
us did at school.
It was unpaid, but
it was two weeks
long and we did not do the work of paid
staff. Invariably we shadowed workers
and got a chance to carry out a few of
the tasks. This is far from the “work
experience” the government have been
championing this week. The coalitions
work experience does not pay, is forced
upon you and helps subsidise the large
corporations to the tune of millions.
A Tesco advert offering ‘Job Seekers
Allowance plus benefits’ for a night-
shift worker brought these issues to at-
tention and provoked outrage amongst
the general public. The coalition has
defended itself like a scratched CD,
repeating the mantra that the work ex-
perience scheme is “voluntary”. This
is wrong. Being forced to work under
the fear of benefit sanctions – and the
almost certain destitution that accom-
panies this – is not voluntary.
Officially the work experience
scheme is ‘voluntary’ – job seekers are
supposed to be able to decide whether
or not to take a placement. However,
regularly people are pressed onto work
experience by the job centre and are not
told about the one week grace period
where they can leave it without being
punished. This is epitomized by the
court case of Cat Reilly who is seek-
ing judicial review over the work ex-
perience scheme she was enrolled on
(it was in fact the Sector Based Work
Academy, but it still involves work ex-
perience and is also called “voluntary”
by the government without actually
being so). She was asked to attend an
innocuous open day which would lead
to a weeks training and a job interview.
It materialised when she attended the
open day that it was in fact a six week
scheme with two weeks unpaid labour
at Poundland. When she challenged the
relevance of this placement to finding
work she was interested in, the job cen-
tre threatened her with loss of benefits.
Not only do the official work experi-
ence guidelines express the threat of
sanction, causing the Citizen’s Advice
Bureau to label the work experience
scheme as “compulsory”, but also, as
shown above, the job seeker is rarely
given a choice over this work experi-
ence. They are bullied and harassed
by the job centre without being told of
their rights to leave the scheme within
the first week (or to not even start it!).
George Osborne has also indicated how
little choice he believes there should
be by stating that he wants all people
refusing the work experience scheme
to be forced onto the mandatory work
activity scheme, meaning – if you do
not choose unpaid work experience, we
will for you.
Cat Reilly’s solicitor has remarked,
“These Orwellian schemes are about
work for its own sake rather than for
any greater purpose”. I find this state-
ment slightly misleading as work in-
volves payment, and these placements
do not pay. You do up to 30 hours a
week for no cost to the employer with
only the £52.50 that is Job Seekers Al-
lowance on which to survive. This is an
hourly rate of £1.75. Seeing as a living
wage in London is £8.50 this falls far
short. Which is interesting, as the ma-
jority of companies providing these
schemes are large high street stores
drawing multi-million pound profits
such as McDonalds, Pizza Hut, Tesco
and Asda (although HMV are looking
a bit ropey). I’m sure they could find
some spare change to pay a living wage
to everyone working in their stores –
instead they pay nothing. It could be
deemed acceptable if it was equiva-
lent to the work experience we did at
school; however it can last up to eight
full time weeks and invariably involves
doing the work that paid staff do. Cat
Reilly cleaned and stacked shelves
alongside paid staff and last week Ar-
gos commented on their use of the gov-
ernment’s work experience scheme by
saying “We can confirm thatArgos does
not have a policy to recruit colleagues
through the governments Work Experi-
ence Programme, but […] Christmas
is our busiest time of year and we are
pleased to provide the opportunity for
work experience during this time.” Es-
sentially no one doing work experience
at Argos has a chance of a job at the
end but they are happy to take them on
when they are busy at Christmas so that
they do not have to pay staff overtime
or employ temporary workers. This
was confirmed by a Commons com-
mittee who found evidence that com-
panies were using the work experience
to replace paid staff. Hugely wealthy
corporations are happily boosting their
profits by taking on free labour with no
prospect of a job. This is exemplified
by Tescos who boasted of the 300 peo-
ple they have employed through work
experience, forgetting to mention this is
only 21% of the total work experience
placements they took on – a startlingly
small employment rate (and evidence
suggests it is even smaller than this).
David Cameron last week defended
the scheme by declaring that 50% of
people who did work experience were
off Job Seeker’s Allowance (JSA) after
three months (though not necessarily
into a job) and that this was the only
way young people were going to get
into work. This implies that even if they
are not employed by the company they
do work experience for then it helps
them get employed elsewhere. How-
ever figures released soon after showed
that 50% of jobseekers were off JSA
after 3 months without work experi-
ence – essentially the work experience
made no difference to jobseeker’s job
prospects. Not only is work experience
through the job centre exploitative but
it also does not help people into work.
In fact there are elements that make it
more difficult as forced labour does not
look great on the CV and working 30
hours a week gives you less time to find
work...
The fact that this is being championed
by the coalition as a way of combating
youth unemployment is ridiculous.
Youth unemployment has been soaring
since the financial crisis, recently top-
ping a million, and unless in the last five
years we all suddenly became lazier en
masse then it is fair to say that the pau-
city of jobs is the real issue, not young
people’s ‘lack’ of ‘experience’. Sadly
these work experience placements do
not create a single job and in fact can
reduce the amount of available jobs as
companies replace paid work with un-
paid work experience (as admitted by
Argos above). These work experience
placements just make the disaster that
is youth unemployment worse.
This story is not new, and in fact was
going on with Labour under the guise
of the Flexible New Deal, although the
Tories are now rolling it out at a ter-
rifying pace. What has made it hit the
headlines over the past couple of weeks
all started with one simple, now infa-
mous, Tesco advert for the nightshift
work offering ‘JSA plus expenses’.
This triggered an Internet storm about
the abuses going on under the name of
work experience. The work and pen-
sions secretary, Iain Duncan Smith, has
since labelled critics as “job snobs” for
KFC and Starbucks this week announced apprenticeships while Burger King dropped out of the scheme last week after the backlash faced by Tesco
looking down on shelf-stacking as a
career. Ignoring the irony of this com-
ment coming from a wealthy Tory MP,
it begs the question in this day and age
of flexible labour whether now even
asking for a wage makes you a snob.
Chris Grayling, minister for employ-
ment, has also attempted to label all crit-
ics as members of the Socialist Worker
Party (SWP), ignoring the large online
campaign (which involved more people
than the SWP have members) and the
grass-roots campaign group Boycott
Workfare involving many people who
have experienced forced unpaid labour
themselves. The strength of the opposi-
tion is reaching critical levels with the
Boycott Workfare campaign coordinat-
ing a national day of action hitting over
20 high streets across England, Wales,
Scotland and Northern Ireland (includ-
ing Oxford Street) this Saturday (3rd
March). This is beginning to have an
effect as Waterstones, Sainsburys and
TK Maxx have withdrawn their sup-
port for workfare schemes, along with
a number of charities, and many other
companies are suspending their in-
volvement and calling on the govern-
ment to remove sanctions. Soon we
may be left with a government work
experience scheme with no work. The
government is refusing to listen to this
pressure and a collision is sure to occur
as the government press on regardless
whilst the public anger builds. Hope-
fully this argument will help us reas-
sess our attitude to the unemployed and
realise that however much unpaid work
experience you force people to under-
take, when there are no jobs, people
will stay jobless.
Rajat Jain
“The Tories are now
rolling [the scheme]
out at a terrifying
pace”

