Lolcat of teh week
I’ll go ahead and take the opportunity to go
ahead and destroy any exclusivity that Pick
of the Week brings with it, and choose a
handful of this week’s unique content.
First of all, thanks to the tireless efforts
of an elite team, the Sex Survey is finally
ready and published! If you enjoyed it last
year, you’re in for a treat now.
In addition, we’re on a bit of an
interview overload at the moment. We’ve
been chatting to the Union and Faculty
Presidents, and none other than comedian
Chris Addison (Page 10).
Editor
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
Editor-in-Chief Matthew Colvin Deputy Editor Charles Betts News Editors Sophia David Alex Nowbar Reporters Tim Arbabzadah Alexander Karapetian Keir Little Ravi Pall Features Editors Katy Bettany
Stephen Smith Sports Editor Indy Leclercq Sports Rookies Gabriel Oppetit Johnny Wong Science Editors Kelly Oakes Alexander Karapetian Business & Finance Editors Will Prince Deepka Rana Politics
Editors Rajat Jain Joseph Letts Technology Editors Chris Bowers Feroz Salam Comment Editors Tim Arbabzadah Samuel Horti Arts Editors Will Prince Eva Rosenthal Music Editors Mark England
Simon Hunter Íñigo Martínez De Rituerto Alex Ramadan Fashion Editors Saskia Verhagen Alice Yang Television Editors George Barnett James Simpson Film Editors John Park Lucy Wiles Games Editor
Laurence Pope Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Food Editors Anastasia Eleftheriou Michael Krestas Travel Editors Dushi Arumuganesan Chris Richardson Online Editors Chris Birkett Philip Kent
Jonathan Kim Puzzles Admiral James Hook Photo Editor Miles Robertson Copy Editors Carol Ann Cheah Iulia Gherman Philip Kent Jonathan Peek Annina Sartor Raghav Selvam Ross Tivey
Just so we’re clear, Felix accepts no responsibility
for services bought or sold, capiche? Good.
What’s on PICKS OF THE WEEK
Because one is not enough
The Sex Survey results were too much to handle
HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 02 MARCH 2012
2
CLASSIFIEDS
A single room in a ground floor flat with garden,
lounge with TV, new kitchen and a shared bath-
room between three.
The flat is on a quiet street just off Munster
Road, near Parsons Green, with lots of convenient
local shops. The flat is a 10 minute walk away
from Parsons Green Station as well as being a 15
minute cycle from South Kensington.
The flatmates are great guys, both in their sec-
ond year at Imperial and great fun, I’m looking for
someone sociable and easy going. If you would
like a look round call Jordan on 07846541296
Send us your
classifieds!
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Graphene: materials in the
flatland
Professor Sir Kostya Novoselov discusses gra-
phene, just one of a whole class of two-dimen-
sional crystals. Its unusual electronic properties
combined with the possibility of chemical modi-
fication make it a promising candidate for future
electronic applications.. Registration in advance,
contact k.weeks@imperial.ac.uk for your free
place at this event.
Great Hall, Sherfield Building,
South Kensington Campus
07 March 17:30-18:30
The Olympics are coming
Chairman of the Olym-
pic Delivery Authority Sir
John Armitt talks about
readying London for the
Olympics. Open to all via
registration in advance
through colette.steven-
son@imperial.ac.uk.
First Floor Lecture Theatre,
Business School,
South Kensington Campus,
13 March 18:30-20:30
Facial behaviour
Professor Maja Pantic of Imperial College Depart-
ment of Computing discusses technology that al-
lows computers to understand human social be-
haviour. Registration in advance via r.foulsham@
imperial.ac.uk.
Business School – LTUG
South Kensington Campus,
13 February 16:00-17:00

