strength, working with clients such as
lastminute.com, Fitness First Centre
Parcs and working on many other deals
with an aggregate value of $40 billion.
He made the idea of ‘empire building’
very clear to the audience, highlighting
the fact that whilst sheer numerical and
analytical skills were essential, there
was no substitute for style, consistency
and even humour.
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Business & Finance Editors: Will Prince
Deepka Rana
BUSINESS & FINANCE
FELIX Friday 02 MARCH 2012 21
Traderversity is an exciting new, free,
virtual trading game designed exclu-
sively for UK university students. The
interactive online game at www.trader-
versity.com lets students try their hand
at trading with real-time access to the
stock market without investing any real
money. Creating healthy competition,
players can get to grips with the basics
of trading, interact with other student
traders and be in with the chance to
win a share of the £5,000 monthly prize
fund!
Traderversity is the world’s only free,
no-risk financial trading game with
real-time prices. Quick to register and
easy to use, simply log in via Facebook
and a valid university email address and
once registered players can start buying
and selling Equities, Currencies, Com-
modities, and building their portfolio.
Designed to help de-mystify “The
City”, the game can be used by stu-
dents from all academic fields, from
economics and finance, through to arts,
sciences and humanities. Students can
experience the thrill of the trade with
Traderversity’s live games, competi-
tions and step-by-step learning tutori-
als, and can share tips and advice with
other players on what to invest in and
when.
Traderversity provides a risk-free
chance to play the stock markets with-
out investing any real money. Over
1000 students from 87 universities
across the UK have registered so far
and 300 of these have won real cash
prizes already!
Traderversity is currently running
Putting a Katz amongst the pigeons
two competitions where students can
win one of five iPad2s or a share of
£5,000. The top 50 players at the end of
the month will be entered into a draw
and the first five names chosen at ran-
dom will each win an iPad2 16Gb Wi-
Fi. In addition, there is £1,000 of real
cash up for grabs every week with a top
prize of £250, and the top 50 all win-
ning cash prizes.
On registering, players are awarded
£1m of virtual money to use to enter
live trading competitions where prof-
its and losses contribute to the overall
leaderboard. Players can go head-to-
head with friends and contacts using
the website’s in-built Facebook widget,
as well as against other players in the
wider Traderversity league. Students
also represent their universities in the
overall university league, which tracks
Kings Park Capital founder Jason Katz talks to Imperial Investors Club, Deepka Rana reports
the universities with the best trading
talent. And with talent in mind, Trader-
versity works closely with leading in-
vestment firms, so students displaying
trading finesse might catch the eye of
industry headhunters or future employ-
ers!
Two London-based businessmen,
Jonathan Rose and Chris Hobcroft, de-
vised the game based on their own ex-
periences in trading, financial services
and technology. Between them, they
have 15 years’ experience in the trad-
ing, financial services and technology
sectors. Jonathan says: “We looked at
the trading games on offer and we saw
that nothing was tailored specifically to
students. We saw only over-simplified
and boring alternatives, or those that
didn’t reflect the reality of what was
truly happening on the market.
Bob Xu
“a bunch of kids
taking charge of a
new division”
Lolkatz: He haz ur private equity financial expertise
J
ason Katz, a renowned invest-
ment banker who turned his
hand to private equity, visited
Imperial College to share his
knowledge and advice in an
event organised by the Imperial Speak-
er’s Club and the Imperial Investment
Club.
Katz, clad in casual business attire,
began to address the audience in his
characteristic relaxed and affable man-
ner, outlining how he, a history graduate
from Bristol University, became manag-
ing director at UBS within 10 years of
joining the firm, a feat that had never
before been achieved at the firm.
Having secured a graduate job at SG
Warburg (later to become part of UBS)
Katz recalled how he was in a pool of
about 60 first year analysts, all at the
beck and call of senior associates and
MDs, working up to 100 hours per
week with little recognition in what was
a fast-paced and impersonal environ-
ment. It was only after spending a few
days working on David Freud’s (now
Lord Freud, and indeed grandson of Sig-
mund Freud) team that Katz first started
his rapid progression up the banking
hierarchy. Having requested to stay
on Freud’s team, he was now part of a
smaller team and was allowed to make
much bigger contributions and meet cli-
ents regularly. This idea of initiative and
boldness was one that Katz continued to
emphasise throughout the talk and it be-
came clear it was an ethos he has lived
by since. Only a few years after joining
the firm, Katz suggested the creation of
a hotel and leisure division, an area that
accounted for 10% of GDP but did not
its own specialist division yet, much to
everyone’s disbelief. Despite now lead-
ing his own desk, his superiors refused
to make him a MD straight off the bat as
he and his team were essentially thought
of as “a bunch of kids taking charge of
a new division”. His only way of im-
pressing on to them that he deserved the
title was to secure clients and complete
deal after deal, which is precisely what
he did. The main thing budding invest-
ment bankers must always bear in mind
is that “you’re being paid for you com-
mercial judgement and will be judged
solely on performance”.
In the following years, Katz success-
fully led the division from strength to
Katz then continues to explain how he
found himself somewhat bored of the
daily office grind and decided in 2007,
when the economic landscape was still
flourishing, to start up a private equity
firm and continue to use his experience
of the leisure and travel industry.
Having left the bank and founded
‘Kings Park Capital’, Katz readily ad-
mitted that he and his team no longer
enjoyed quite as lavish a lifestyle as his
former IB colleagues. Not to say that he
is doing particularly badly, having flown
in to London from Cape Town that day
and heading to New York City the morn-
ing after the event.
The differences between working as
a dealmaker in an Investment Bank and
in a private equity firm were frequently
highlighted. With only 7 people work-
ing in the office and his own money at
stake Katz remarked on how much more
personal his everyday business became,
and the increasing selectiveness that
he and his partner have had to exercise
when choosing a company to invest into.
In fact, KPC sees approximately 200 in-
vestment opportunities per year but on
average only invests in 2 to 3 of those.
However raising the money to invest
into these couple of opportunities has
not been an entirely smooth road. Of
the total 400 entities approached, only
50 agreed to put money behind the new
company, raising a total of £60 million,
a long shot from the £200 million that
was the original aim. Despite this Katz
seemed optimistic for the next fundraise,
emphasizing how important the fact was
that KPC was now no longer a new com-
pany with no clients, increasing the like-
lihood that institutional investors would
consider them this time round.
As the evening drew to a close with a
Q&A session, Katz responded to a sug-
gestion that there was nothing left to ex-
plore in private equity by joking that the
exact same would have been said after
the invention of the wheel and electric-
ity, highlighting that there were always
going to be new opportunities in the
market, some simply requiring more re-
sourcefulness and patience than others,
leaving the audience with the distinct
impression that this was a man who still
had many a goal to accomplish, despite
already achieving so much in a very
short amount of time.
Craig Glastonbury
Stay ahead of the game with Traderversity
For further details, email craig.
glastonbury09@imperial.ac.uk

