FELIX
Friday 02 MARCH 2012
22
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment Editors: Tim Arbabzadah
Sam Horti
COMMENT
FELIX
I
t took me approximately 4
months to really understand how
the University and Union work.
Both of these organisations are
layered with bureaucracy, which
doesn’t help. Additionally, you need to
get to term time before various commit-
tees meet and the workloads hit a stage
where acronyms like SRASOC* start
rolling off the tongue. (*Student Re-
cruitment and Admissions Strategy and
Operations Committee)
As you would expect, being President
I have to spend a good portion of my
time thinking strategically, analysing the
threats and risks to the Union and work-
ing out how to mitigate them. This is
also true for my Executive Committee,
who recently, and very unjustly, were
criticised in a comment piece for their
decision this term to ‘redistribute’ 10%
of club funding. And redistribute is the
right word.
Clubs currently receive a cash grant to
assist with their operations. This money
is distributed at a rather hellish meeting
known as CSB budgeting, which I at-
tended on Monday for the third time in
as many years.
At that meeting last year we made
available a staggering £337,000 of the
funding the College gives the Union to
operate. For 2012/13 we are providing
£303k. Our plan is to use the difference
(£33k) to help clubs and societies in
ways that are more effective than the £2
per each club membership that has been
reallocated.
We intend on providing a new web-
site with more functionality. We shall
increase the volunteering opportunities
available to our members, assist soci-
eties in finding sponsorships, provide
even better training and establish a ‘club
hardship fund’ to provide struggling so-
cieties with the necessary financial as-
sistance.
This will all be done in the face of a
probable 0% change in funding from
College, a 5% increase in staffing cost
(a college HR decision), inflation sitting
at 4.2% and our bars running at a mini-
mum profit level to ensure they are as
cheap for students as they can be.
The result of this will be simple: we
know that our plans will cost more than
the £33k we have redistributed. As such,
we will be spending more on Clubs, So-
cieties, and Projects next year than we
have this, and more than we did the year
before.
However I do find two things rather
worrying.
First is the huge disparity between the
levels of support the Union provides for
different activities. All overseas clubs
societies, which have a current member-
ship of 2,130, receive £5,270 of ‘cash’
support. Compare this to the £13,840
that the 61 members of gliding received
for their activities and you might also
share a little of my concern. Of course,
there are reasons that we support glid-
ing so highly, most of which relate to its
high cost. But equally there does need to
be a time when we ask if activities like
this are sustainable and whether they
provide a benefit to our members that
means we can justify sacrificing support
elsewhere.
The second concern is how little fi-
nancial assistance we provide to the
Representation and Welfare branches
of our Union. This year we hosted Rep
Week, a cross-campus event designed to
make your representatives more visible
and to get feedback on what you would
like to see improved. For this we pro-
vided all Departmental Representatives
with polo shirts. It was a small gesture,
considering all of the hard work these
people put in, and cost very little – about
0.1% of the CSB budget. However this
is easily the most we have ever spent on
our Dep Reps!
Now I guess some of you may be
wondering about the title of this piece,
especially as to what a General Meeting
might actually be. So let me explain. A
general meeting is an open forum of at
least 200 members. It can be attended by
anyone who wants to go and attendees
can add items to the agenda. It’s a place
where big strategic items and questions
can be discussed. These meetings are
commonplace in Student Unions across
the UK but the last one held by Imperial
College Union happened over 5 years
ago.
I believe we should hold this GM to
talk about the questions I have raised in
this piece but also to discuss some other
concerns I have.
In a comment piece last week, it was
suggested that the Executive Commit-
tee structure needs to change. Though
I disagree with this, I do believe that
one Union committee does need to be
altered: our Trustee Board. The TB can
overturn decisions made by the Union
Council, authorise expenditure over
£1m and set out the Union’s strategy.
It’s time for a Union
General Meeting
It would be reasonable to imagine that
such a Committee would have the peo-
ple that you elect to lead your Union, the
Sabbatical Officers, as members. How-
ever this is not the case. As President I
am the only Sabbatical who has a vote.
The remaining votes are taken by four
students, the chair of council, a former
President (the Court chair) and four ex-
ternal members.
If all Trustees are in attendance there
is a majority to current students and
their representatives. However some
Student Trustees have variable atten-
dance and, more worryingly, variable
understanding of what students need
from their Union. An example of this
is one person being elected to this role
last year to ‘get more weights in Ethos’
– something the Trustee Board is never
in a position to do!
The result of this is that there is a giant
risk that the voices of people external to
our Union can be more influential than
our members and subsequently deci-
sions could be made about our long-
term future that we do not support.
So in the Summer Term I shall invite
all Union members to attend a Gen-
eral Meeting. Here we shall discuss
our Trustee Board Structure and our
resourcing. However I also believe we
should use this opportunity to discuss
the purpose of each committee we have,
and adjust their structures accordingly.
I also believe it is time to assess the re-
mits and roles of our Sabbatical Officers
to ensure they provide a benefit to the
student body that matches their cost and
justifies the commitment of the people
who hold these positions. And finally,
more than anything, I believe it’s time
to host a meeting like this: one which
is open and transparent, to provide all
members an opportunity to hear about
our potential risks and contribute to
some potential solutions.
Generally
meet people
all the time.
Why not tell
us about it:
felixonline.
co.uk
Scott Heath
It probably won’t look like this
This week marks the second-ever Felix
Sex Survey. Its return was almost a giv-
en, following the sheer response last
year, both in terms of respondents and
feedback following publication. One
year on, we decided to improve upon
last year’s results in any possible way
we could find. It is thanks to the vast
response from across Imperial and
dedicated individuals working behind
the scenes with the collected data that
we have been able to produce results
on this scale. We very much hope that
you enjoy reading it, yet, at its core,
there are interesting debates that can
be found.
Many have stated in correspondence
to Felix regarding the survey that sex
remains almost a taboo subject at Im-
perial. Nevertheless, many also think
that the unwillingness to more openly
discuss sex is perhaps an old fash-
ioned viewpoint, and that we, as a com-
munity, should be more willing to tackle
it head on. After all, welfare and sexual
health are hugely relevant to university
life.
At the very least, we hope that the
survey results raise awareness of wel-
fare at Imperial and goes some way to-
wards debunking some of the common
stereotypes that Imperial finds itself
with.
Felix would like to take the opportu-
nity to reiterate the fact that extreme
care has been taken by everybody
involved in analysis or data collec-
tion to ensure that all data provided
remains strictly anonymous. Indeed,
the data that we have collected over
the past month has been deleted. No
details can be tracked to any specific
individual.
In the future, we shall be consider-
ing conducting more surveys that cover
a wider range of topics than those al-
ready encountered. One potential area
that we are keen to look at is the poten-
tial for sexism, as voiced by writers in
this very section recently, at university.
If you have any interest in any aspect of
the production of a survey, then please
feel free to get in touch with us.
The Sex Survey returns
– there are no cheap
thrills to be found here

