COMMENT
FELIX Friday 02 MARCH 2012 23
COMMENT
FELIX
I
t might be hard to believe, but I
actually started this article be-
fore Stephen Smith’s excellent
article on sexism at Imperial and
the superb piece on feminism by
Veronica Gouvea. Stephen explored par-
ticular issues at Imperial and Veronica
explained why feminism is important. I
feel this piece is now a synthesis of the
two including a reminder of what women
face in society at large.
Whilst we have made vast improve-
ments over the last 100 years on legislat-
ed misogyny, it remains that the female
is one of the last subsets of humanity
against which it is possible to get away
with real discrimination in our society.
Discrimination faced by women per-
meates all areas of our lives – from pro-
fessional through recreational to social
interactions. It appears in all forms and
guises, some intentional, others acciden-
tal and, perhaps crucially, rarely as overt
and declared misogyny.
Professionally, discrimination comes
in two main forms – the ‘boys club’
which can be sometimes be found at
the top of big institutions (14 of the 100
FTSE firms have no women on their
boards) and the just as destructive, ever-
present myth that women are somehow
inferior to men at top jobs. Now you may
feel that the second point is no longer
believed by anyone with half a neuron;
I disagree. It is still present and, it seems
to me, often manifests itself in women
themselves. The statistics would suggest
that there is always a nagging doubt that,
when things get tough, a woman is not
suited to a career in something ‘impor-
tant’(e.g. politics, business, science). For
example, there were only 861 female
At times, women are actively disliked
candidates at the last general election
(3284 male) even though women were
just as likely to be elected (15% chance
overall, ~15% for men, ~16% for wom-
en).
Recreationally, women face not dis-
crimination but a propagation of myths
pertaining to a women’s role in society.
This ranges across a broad spectrum,
which I’ve crassly decided to group
together: from magazines to advertise-
ments through to poorly constructed
female film characters (which itself is
a separate crime against cinema) and
images of ideal women. This can be
anything from magazine articles ask-
ing women “should you be pregnant by
now?” (Glamour) to advertisements for
cleaning products that feature consistent-
ly women, and all the way to Bond girls.
All of these clearly place the emphasis
of women’s role in society on children,
housekeeping and pleasuring men.
Whilst I am in no way insinuating that
my female readers cannot critically inter-
pret all of these, it seems, and my female
friends have supported my view here,
that there is a general cumulative effect.
That is to say, it is easy to ignore indi-
vidual instances, but with such a huge
amount of ‘information’ depicting a cer-
tain role women must play in society it
will inevitably result in self-doubt which
can manifest itself at times of great im-
portance in a person’s life (career choic-
es, for example).
Socially, there seems to be a signifi-
cant portion of the male population who
do actively dislike women, either that or
they are maddeningly unfunny comedi-
ans unable to make jokes about anything
other than women. Add to that the sorts
of daily incidents described by Stephen
(rating of women etc) and you can see
that 50% of the population has to wade
through a lot of shit for no obvious rea-
son. I have no problem in people observ-
ing that someone is physically attractive
and to state their desire to mate, but there
is a difference between that and reducing
a person to physical attractiveness and a
means for sex.
The ‘comedic defence’often employed
by the kind of people who commented
on the recent UniLad apology is weak.
I have no problem with humour being
offensive (c.f. some of Frankie Boyle’s
material). The problem arises when the
jokes are so badly constructed as to be
unfunny even without the offensive ele-
ment – then the joke merely becomes a
vessel for prejudices.
Before you all rush to comment and
poke holes in my arguments, I am not
suggesting any of the following: that
there is a misogynist conspiracy, that
all men hate women, that women hate
themselves or that women shouldn’t ever
clean.
Feminism shouldn’t be the dirty word
it is now, it’s about equality and anyone
who believes in an equal society is, by
definition, a feminist. To dismiss a whole
series of valid points about equality
based on the fact that a few people who
define themselves as feminist are man-
hating is a crime against good debating.
Lastly, I’m not advocating some boring
utopia where everyone is nice to one an-
other and nothing offensive is ever said.
All I’m saying is that, should you wish to
be insulting, don’t make it about some-
thing someone has absolutely no control
over – be a bastard indiscriminately.
... should you wish
to be insulting,
don’t make it about
something someone
has absolutely no
control over
“
... shou
... shou
to be in
to be in
”
Frankie Boyle couldn’t get away with Tramadol Nights not being that good
Laurence de
Lussy Kubisa
I
mperial College Union’s Clubs
& Societies Board (CSB) voted
to cut its contribution towards the
“tours pot” from £9,000 to £0 at
its annual budgeting round on
Monday. The move, at the recommenda-
tion of Deputy President (Clubs & Soci-
eties) Monya Zard, was due to a £7,500
increase in funding from the Imperial
College Trust.
ICU policy states that tours “further the
aims and objectives of a club or society,
supporting their core activities beyond
which can be achieved through usual
day-to-day, week-to-week operations”.
The IC Trust, whose activities include
“the promotion of charitable purposes
for the benefit of the College”, is an inde-
pendent charity. In recent years the trust
has donated £9,000 for sports tours and
£10,500 for other tours – a generous total
of £19,500.
According to Zard’s October Council
paper, the IC Trust met on 26th October
2011 and agreed to increase its contribu-
tion from £19,500 to £27,000, although
the breakdown of this extra funding be-
tween sports and non-sports tours has not
yet been made clear. Zard also stated that
the increase was down to “continually
increasing numbers of tourists” and gave
“Heather Jones and the Membership Ser-
vices Manager” credit for their success-
ful application for extra IC Trust funding.
At the start of the annual club budget-
ing round, Zard proposed that the amount
of money for tours should be decreased,
or cut entirely, with the extra cash moved
to the general club and society funds (re-
quests for which were around £80,000
over the amount available). She said that
there was “extra funding from the IC
Trust” for tours. When pushed for the fig-
ures, Zard said that she thought that the
amount was previously “about £10,000”
and was being increased to “something
like £18,500” (the absolute increase
quoted by Zard being inaccurate to the
tune of £1,000). Zard couldn’t even say
whether the amount granted by the IC
Trust had yet been confirmed, but added
that it was pretty much guaranteed.
The motion was passed by CSB with
few objections, as the board railroaded
through their decisions with no real dis-
cussion about the consequences. Other
cuts that appeared to be made in an en-
tirely arbitrary manner included cuts to
the amounts available to new clubs and
projects. In many cases it seemed like
CSB members were plucking numbers
from thin air, with a worrying lack of
discussion about how funds had been uti-
lised in previous years.
As far as the tours budget is concerned,
there is real cause for concern. Last year,
all £28,500 of tours funding was allo-
cated. If the number of students embark-
ing on tours is really increasing, as sug-
gested by ICU’s application for increased
funding, then next year’s decreased pot
of £27,000 is likely to be stretched more
thinly than ever.
The move could also sour relations
between the union and the IC Trust, who
have presumably increased the funds
available in good faith that the number of
tours can now increase. Conversely, all
that the extra cash seems to have done is
help plug a gap in club and society fund-
ing, caused by the redirection of Union
subvention to central Union operations.
The fact that the benevolence of the IC
Trust has led to a £1,500 decrease in
funding will surely lead the trust to ques-
tion exactly why they bother offering this
money if no commitment is shown by the
Union itself.
Anonymous
In Imperial College we trust?

