More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut
and shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by
highly experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
To book an appointment,
call 0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
NEWS
FELIX Friday 02 MARCH 2012 3
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
Facebook campaign over £50 charge
This past weekend saw Fusion@
London, an event budgeted to raise
£78,897.50 in aid of the charity Can-
cer Research UK, take place. The
main aim of the event was “to foster a
closer relationship between the capi-
tal’s student population“. However,
the success of the event is yet to be
established. It remains to be revealed
the exact gain or loss from the event,
which was a joint student venture be-
tween the unions of Imperial College
London, King’s College London, and
University College London.
As of writing, the number of tickets
sold for the first time London event is
unknown. After numerous attempts to
contact the event organiser, founder,
and President, Angela Udemba, Fe-
lix was unable to gain any informa-
tion pertaining to the financial state
of the event. Angela went on to re-
spond: “I don’t yet know exactly how
many tickets were sold and how much
money we made”. The treasurer of the
event, Heather Jones, echoed these
sentiments, saying that, at the present
time, “it’s basically impossible to give
an accurate gain/loss figure”. When
questioned, Michael Foster, Deputy
President (Finance & Services), did
not have any details on the matter.
The current loss (as reported via
eActivities, the Union’s Club and So-
ciety live financial reporting system)
of the event stands at £23,473.70. This
includes the successful launch event
(generating a surplus of £4,548.46)
but does not include the income gen-
erated by ticket sales.
The event spanning the weekend of
25 and 26 Feburary was held at Troxy,
a well established venue situated in
Limehouse, and had a maximum ca-
pacity of approximately 4,000. At the
time of publication the ticket income
has yet to appear on the Union sys-
tem.
When seeking clarity from the Stu-
dents’ Union of University College
London (one of the joint partners of
the Fusion@London), Felix received
a reply stating that “UCLU was not
involved in the planning or financial
responsibility for the event.” King’s
College London Students’ Union gave
no statement. Following reports to the
Union’s Executive Committee, it is
now know that no financial liability
was placed on any party other than
Imperial College Union.
Felix is seeking to clarify the pres-
ent situation over the next week.
Tim Arbabzadah
ConFusion over event success
Clarification sought over joint university venture
Ravi Pall
and raised the issue at their Sports User
Group Meeting on 14 February. Despite
their efforts, the initial response was that
they would not reconsider. After Chair of
the Recreational Clubs Committee (RCC)
Dominic Andradi-Brown gave a report at
the RCC General Meeting on 16 Febru-
ary, a severe backlash occurred along
with the creation of the online petition.
Years of not charging and pressure
increasingly mounting last week caused
students to hold a meeting which re-
sulted in Sport Imperial rescinding the
charges. Also, they agreed to continue
to let outdoor clubs use the mountain
hut free. Notably, they introduced the
condition that they produce a sport/club
development plan. Numbers for free
weekend bookings will be allocated
annually after this is reviewed based
on how often the club uses it. Instead,
for clubs which do not include use of
the hut as a core activity (at least once
annually), the £50 booking charge re-
mains.
Numerous clubs associated with the
RCC already face an increase in costs of
running trips, with the Union increasing
charges to hire minibuses and fuel pric-
es. A final comment from Brown noted
that “trying to stay true to the core RCC
recreation sports value of providing
cheap opportunities for students to get
out of London and get involved in an
activity is becoming increasingly chal-
lenging”, and many clubs have had to
increase their trip costs this year. The St Mary’s mountain hut
...Continued from Front Page

