The disturbed mind of Yayoi Kusama is a fas-
cinating place. An artist with links to Georgia
O’Keefe, Andy Warhol and Joseph Cornell, her
art is inspired by her own hallucinations and
her outlook on the world. Even before arriving
at the exhibition entrance, you have already
been greeted by huge red blow-up balls with
white polka dots, hanging from the ceiling – a
small taste of things to come.
This retrospective chronologically follows
Yayoi Kusama’s journey to becoming Japan’s
best-known modern artist, the events in her life
directly corresponding to the development of
her art. The collection begins with her early
days when, living in 1950’s Japan, women
were not meant to paint. The first two rooms
lure you gently into Kusama’s world, but while
the paintings are relatively ‘normal’, they still
feel unnerving and there is already a presence
of her signature polka dots, abstractly layered
over the top of nature inspired pieces.
The move to New York prompted a freer
style of art. When entering the third room – a
large white room in which hang seven white
canvases, each one with slightly varying tex-
tures and densities of a repetitive pattern – a
feeling of calmness overcomes you. That is,
until one closely inspects the ‘Infinity Net’
paintings and realises that each dot has pains-
takingly been done by hand; with the tens of
thousands of small dots on each canvas one
envisages Kusama, sat in a studio for hours at
a time, in a trance-like state, painting in this ob-
sessive and compulsive way. There are small
areas of a concentrated texture and then large
interrupting scrapes – parts where she’s be-
come frustrated with the monotonous process.
Stepping into room four entails leaving the
real world behind you and fully submerging
yourself in Yayoi Kusama’s alternative Avant-
Garde vision. You are confronted with some of
her famous sculptures: everyday objects such
as a couch, bookshelves and clothing covered
in thousands of fabric penises.
As a forerunner to the development of pop
art, Kusama thrived in swinging 1960’s New
York, where she moved to performance art, us-
ing experimental Flower Children – the hippies
of the 60’s – in her work. One advert for vol-
unteers states “Happy people needed for Kusa-
ma’s happening”. The participants would get
naked in some of New York’s public spaces,
including Central Park and Brooklyn Bridge.
Then, they would paint each other entirely in
polka dots and dance, Kusama herself joining
in.
Easily the most disturbing and impacting part
of the exhibition is Kusama’s 1967 experimen-
FELIX
Friday 02 March 2012
26
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
The Poet’s Column
Lost and alone with nowhere to turn,
For I’m now without guidance, but still do I yearn
To belong and be and feel her kiss
When life was good and careless bliss
Once, time ago, could I laugh,
I used to smile and join in farce.
I used to dance and sway her hips,
I had my friends, I was transfixed
I didn’t waste time when each second was pre-
cious,
I didn’t forget to give and share
I always remembered everyone around me
I’ll always remember that they did care
There was a time, many moons before me
When thoughtlessly I divided time,
It worked in instants when I was busy
By when alone, I fell out of rhyme
And now that I can finally think
Plan ahead and quaff this drink
All I seem to do is long
To be young again and change this song
I don’t want to think or plan ahead
I want it done and follow the dead
Endlessly plodding on the track of life
Til comes the end, til falls the knife
Olgen’s key is now at hand
And with it do I have a plan
I can use it to make it mine
And live in life, ah, so sublime
Goodbye to those who knew me well,
For a fresh bold shore do I set sail
With a dampened map and a rusty knife
A hidden key and forty tales.
Take this, ye, last momentum from me,
Live life fun while time with thee be.
Ne’er look back and wish undone,
Look to the fore and plan some fun!
colours in different patterns is worth the en-
trance fee alone. Because of the darkness in
the room you can’t see your own reflection so
it gives the impression of never-ending space
with millions and millions of little multico-
loured lights. It’s breathtaking and you could
literally waste hours away in here with the out-
side world a mere distant memory. This is how
Yayoi Kusama sees the world and you come
out feeling very privileged to have experienced
it.
As the revision and exam period quickly ap-
proaches we all need a bit of escapism. When
the pressure mounts I urge you to take a couple
of hours out of your day to visit Kusama’s
world. I promise the stresses of Imperial life
will be forgotten instantly. There’s something
incredible about her work; art critic Sir Her-
bert Read described her pieces as “images of
strange beauty that press on our organs of per-
ception with terrifying persistence”.
As with all Tate events, the exhibition is per-
fectly set out as a journey and you come out
with a deep understanding of Kusama and her
work. However, it is no coincidence that upon
leaving the exhibition space you are greeted by
the staircase leading straight up to the 7th floor
bar – a large glass of wine is needed for recali-
brationw into the real world.
Yayoi Kusama at Tate Modern until
5 June. Tickets from £10
Laura Johnston
tal film ‘Kusama’s Self-Obliteration’ which is
shown on a large screen in a dark room. The
bulk of the film follows Kusama – herself cov-
ered in polka dots – through a forest whilst she
blankets everything in sight in polka dots, ob-
sessively, like the main character of a horror
movie would; a horse, trees, a lily pad in the
middle of a lake and even a very unhappy cat
all suffer the same fate. The film then moves to
a dark room in which a group of hippies partici-
pates in a drug-fuelled, polka-dot body-paint-
covered orgy. At one point the camera zooms
into a man’s penis as Kusama paints little blue
polka dots all over it. It’s shocking yet you sit
there paralysed, mouth gaping, unable to keep
your eyes off it. By the end, you’re absolutely
sympathetic with Kusama’s state of mind to the
point where you start feeling like you’re almost
going crazy yourself – covering a forest in pol-
ka dots? What a bloody good idea!
After moving back to Japan in the early 70s
and voluntarily admitting herself into a psychi-
atric hospital some years later (where she has
lived ever since) Kusama returned to sculpture
and installations and, to a lesser extent, paint-
ing. One of her most famous installations, ‘I’m
here, but Nothing’ (2000-2012), was particu-
larly eerie: it consists of a normal front room lit
only by UV lights, where everything – couches,
lamps, a TV, even the flowers on the dining ta-
ble – are covered in fluorescent polka dots that
look almost like light beams that should disap-
pear as you walk past the source. Playing on the
TV, and unsettling the atmosphere, is a video of
Kusama singing a creepy Japanese song.
The showstopper of the whole exhibition is
the final installation ‘Infinity Mirrored Room-
Filled with the Brilliance of Light’, which
Kusama has created especially for the Tate
Modern. The small dark room with mirror-
covered walls and hanging lights that change
“It’s shocking yet you sit
there paralysed...unable
to keep your eyes off it”
Going dotty for Kusama
Tate Modern has us turning Japanese and just a little mad
“She blankets everything
in sight in polka dots...a
horse, trees, a lily-pad...”
Just Have Some Fun
by Pavitar Devgon
Felix Arts is
constantly
looking for new
poets. If you want
to see your work
appearing here, do
get in touch by email
or pay us a visit in the
Felix office.
Eikoh Hosoe
More like Tate Magenta...

