the characters. Will de Renzy-Martin
captures Skilling’s character perfectly,
projecting the image of a driven, un-
apologetic businessman to great effect.
Alongside Skilling stand his business
partners, quirky financial officer Andy
Fastow (played by Al Norman) and EN-
RON CEO Ken Lay (Dominic Wood),
as well as the fictional female executive
Claudia Roe (played by the very non-
fictional Grace Surman).
The play is certainly quirky, with
‘two Velociraptor heads with glowing
eyes’ and ‘a ventriloquist’s dummy’ be-
ing part of the props list. If that wasn’t
enough to entice you, an energetic
dance number with ENRON traders set
to remixed Matrix music should do the
trick. The synchronisation between the
actors is almost spot on; given another
week of practice and it’ll certainly be an
audience pleaser.
ARTS
FELIX Friday 02 MARCH 2012 27
Enrontoawinner
Last week I requested a gilded invita-
tion to see DramSoc’s latest spring term
play ENRON before it went on stage.
Whilst I did get my invite I didn’t get
it on gold leaf coated paper, the stingy
gits. In spite of this I went to see the
cast perform on Tuesday, with no idea
what to expect, despite everything I’d
heard about both ENRON the company
and ENRON the West End production.
As it turned out, I was pretty impressed.
ENRON isn’t a company many peo-
ple seemed to have heard of, so a brief
history lesson may be required. EN-
RON was a large Texan energy com-
pany that went bankrupt in 2001, fol-
lowing a massive scandal that caused
ENRON shares to drop like a stone,
costing thousands of people their life
savings and jobs. The play, originally
written by Brit playwright Lucy Preb-
ble, principally revolves around Jeff
Skilling, ENRON’s former president,
and his role and attitude towards his
company’s fall.
As someone who can’t make head
or tail of the Financial Times I was a
little worried when I sat down to watch.
Would this be worth my time, or would
I quickly regret my decision not to sit at
home and watch paint dry? Thankfully
it was the former. Whilst finance does
inevitably crop up here or there it’s not
the focal point of the play – that would
be the interaction and development of
One initial niggling concern was
about the accents; as Skilling first
opened his mouth I admit I expected
something rather cringe worthy. Those
expectations were indeed wrong. Per-
haps it was a little unusual hearing such
accents to begin with, but none stood
out as being absolutely terrible. If any-
thing, by the end of the play some peo-
ple were sounding far too British.
Once more DramSoc manages to im-
press. When combined with a proper
set, costumes, lights, sounds and visu-
als I hope that that the first ever amateur
production of ENRON will succeed just
as well as the company it’s named after.
Well, at least before its bankruptcy...
Enron shows from 7 – 10 March,
Union Concert Hall. Tickets are
on sale now: £5 students, £7 non-
students.
What starts off as the kind of play you
think will predominantly explore the
extremes to which political correct-
ness is taken – sometimes creating
just the awkwardness and indignity it
hopes to avoid – changes course and
ends up shining a very cynical light on
the soulless and business-only orien-
tated nature of today’s entertainment
business.
Signal Theatre’s – a young Chicago
company – A Place at the Table’s dia-
logue is solid and slick. Yet these bril-
liant little moments are overwhelmed
by the long-winded exchanges that go
into much too much detail about the
ins and outs of how the Biz operates
– rather too much to take on board for
the average punter who only watches
TV… and even a bit too much for
someone who works somewhere in the
business (yours truly).
Good job the cast of four was vibrant
enough to keep us interested, each ac-
tor a delight to watch regardless of
whether the script was going through
one of its momentary lulls. Christo-
pher Tester is confident and natural as
“the disabled playwright” Adam, with
a great Benedict Cumberbatch-esque
voice, too. Someone you would think
has years of acting experience already
behind him.
Kellie Batchelor – one of the com-
pany’s founders – proves she can play
both the screeching chav (I last saw
her as the village bicycle Cherry in
Anthony Nielson’s The Night Before
Christmas), as well as the more yummy
mummy end of the spectrum as Sarah
the TV executive who starts off want-
ing to change the world with Adam’s
Disabled sitcom, only to turn into just
another figures-obsessed media whore.
Jacob Dunn has tremendous presence
and energy as Sammy. He is positively
terrifying when he enters drunk, under
the influence of “a litre of champagne”,
and gives Adam a bollocking for not
taking his advice to give up trying to
get his play made into what would end
up as just another sell-out sitcom.
Eva Tausig as Rachel is funny as the
rabbit caught in the headlights intern,
and then successfully makes the transi-
tion into the cockier, more knowledge-
able runner in the second half – ex-
changing her Alice band for a Ramones
T-shirt instead.
Director Robert Wolstenholme –
another of Signal Theatre’s founders
– pulls everything together wonder-
fully, with some great set design that
includes an eye-catching gold BAFTA
award replica. Tuesday 28 February
was its opening night. Besides less than
a handful of barely noticeable line fum-
bles, one would never have guessed!
A Place at the Table runs until 17
March at the Tristan Bates The-
atre. Tickets £10.
Laurence Pope
What the playwright heard
Take your seat
Caroline Knight
Political correctness on trial
With any absurd, wildly fantastic or
outrageous anecdote about the world be-
yond our experiences, it is all too easy
to dismiss it as an urban myth. The three
men in their make-shift lounge dance
between light-hearted, ludicrous and
downright disturbingly macabre tales,
and it doesn’t matter whether the tales
being told are true or not. The audience
is absorbed and captivated by their de-
livery, as much as the content. In fact it
just so happens that most of these anec-
dotes are, at least in part, true.
What I Heard About the World is more
than just the black box studio being the
modern analogue to the minstrel. The
manner in which the stories are told mat-
ters as much their content. Amusing idi-
ocy and a touch of light-hearted humour
is used to defuse the grim and an air of
gravitas and sincerity to disarm the hi-
larious and outright bizarre. With this,
interest never wavers and the edge is
taken off the initial reaction and with the
deliberately imprecise retelling of the
stories, a more open-minded approach
can be taken with reflecting on how the
world and societies we aren’t familiar
with are perceived. We are encouraged
to reflect upon the airplane hijacker’s
grasp of the economic practices of the
industry – there’s a place where you can
rent demonstrators to be angry on your
behalf, the option to confess your sins
and a massacre with its own theme tune
(courtesy of a karaoke-loving General).
These are just a selection of the stories
that Alexander Kelly, Chris Thorpe and
JorgeAndrande take from their research-
engine ‘Story Map’ and truly bring them
to life.
If a flaw had to be found in what is a
thoroughly thought-provoking produc-
tion, it would be that despite the thought
provoking nature of the tales told, there
is very little structure holding everything
together. This in itself isn’t a bad thing.
What is slightly disappointing is that
the nuances that arise from the conse-
quences of what happens aren’t properly
explored. There is extra depth that could
be teased out in a way which wouldn’t
compromise the atmosphere of being
left to make our own interpretations.
Leaving the theatre, the initial sen-
sations of wonder and naïve curiosity
begin to be replaced with more sombre
thoughts of the serious consequences
and implications of what was told.
What is definitely apparent though is
that despite the fact that the more you
learn about the world, there is that al-
most daunting realisation that there is so
much more that you will never witness
or experience. Somehow it all feels a bit
closer than it did before.
What I Heard About the World is
showing at the Soho Theatre until 3
March.
Alex Morton
Nicholas Pomeroy
2 Girls 1 Cup received the usual response
The Bafta winner for best supported actor goes to...
“An arm of gravitas
and sincerety to dis-
arm”
Simon Worthington

