T
he Dickens exhibition at the Mu-
seum of London contrives a fair
representation of the city in the
19th century, allowing us to walk
the very streets that Dickens him-
self traversed, and through which he invented
a score of enduring characters that relate to
readers even today. London of the mid-1800s
is more than just the backdrop of Dickens’ sto-
ries. It is a central character itself in his works,
rhythmically vacillating between protagonist
and antagonist. As the exhibition guides us
through the chronology of the author’s work,
we cannot help but bear witness to the dra-
matic transformations of London life. From
Sketches by Boz to Our Mutual Friend, the city
matures just as much as its revered biographer.
Among the characters and alongside the plot-
lines, we find ourselves in the midst of the In-
dustrial Revolution.
In one particular exhibit, we are informed –
by virtue of some anonymous scholar – that
Dickens was optimistic about the type of so-
ciety that industrialization could usher in. It
is explained that he held great hope for the
potential benefits that technological advance-
ment offered society. This is in stark contrast
to many other scholastic writings about Dick-
ens’ attitude towards industrialization. Many
academics cite Oliver Twist and Hard Times
(among others) as unmistakable condemna-
tions of the shifting society. But these – per-
haps prematurely – fuse Dickens’ views with
those who outright opposed industrialization
and the hellfire and brimstone perceptions of
the type of world that innovations in produc-
tive capacity would bring. (Such apocalyptic
attitudes are perhaps most vividly allegorized
in J.R.R. Tolkien’s descriptions of Mordor).
Although his work frequently spotlights the
cruel indifference of modern life, we too are
made known of Dickens’ resilient hope for
the future. He was even once referred to as a
“vulgar optimist.” Despite this apparent con-
tradiction, we can be certain of one thing: sor-
did or sublime, Dickens managed to illustrate
his surroundings with a unique vitality. The
stale pubs, debauched gin houses and wretched
pawn shops were all painted with a peculiar
stroke of charm that was at once full of squa-
lor and liveliness – something which seems to
have been a prevailing characteristic of 19th
century London.
So, how can his optimism be reconciled with
the apparent wrongs about which Dickens
wrote? Consider Adam Smith in The Wealth
of Nations:
“The violence and injustice of the rulers of
mankind is an ancient evil, for which, I am
afraid, the nature of human affairs can scarce
admit of a remedy. But the mean rapacity, the
monopolizing spirit of merchants and manu-
facturers who neither are, nor ought to be, the
rulers of mankind, though it, perhaps, cannot
be corrected, may very easily be prevented
Great Expectations?
from disturbing the tranquility of anybody but
themselves.”
It is perhaps wrong to say that Dickens out-
right opposed industrialization and the produc-
tive innovations it spawned. But his aversion
towards the “mean rapacity” and heartless
greed of the owners of production and their
cruelty – especially towards children – is un-
mistakable. Bleak House and capture espe-
cially well Dickens’ reservations for many
of the contemptible practices that prevailed
during industrial times. It may have been his
intention to prevent the merchants and manu-
factures from “disturbing the tranquility of
anybody but themselves,” although to say that
Dickens opposed industrialization in itself may
be painting with too broad a brush. Converse-
ly, to claim that Dickens was optimistic about
modernity, full stop, neglects a great many
reservations I suspect he had about the chang-
ing times – amongst them the changing face
of his beloved city. This was perhaps a more
certain and inevitable effect of industrialisa-
tion. In fact, it is interesting to read Dickens’
thoughts on one innovation in particular – the
railroad. Dickens was said to have been at two
minds about the railroad system. He submit-
ted to their facilitation of modern obligations,
but he also feared that they would break apart
neighbourhoods and families, attributes of the
communal spirit about which he often wrote.
His reservations about the metamorphoses
that London was undergoing are apparent. On
one hand, there is the Dickens who was hope-
ful for the potential benefits of industrializa-
tion. On the other hand, there is the Dickens
who saw its potential side effects: both the
FELIX
Friday 02 MARCH 2012
28
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts Editors: Will Prince
Eva Rosenthal
ARTS
The Poet’s Column
The Purist
by Ogden Nash
When people aren’t asking question
They’re making suggestions
And when they’re not doing one of those
They’re either looking over your shoulder or step-
ping on your toes
And then as if that weren’t enough to annoy you
They employ you.
Anybody at leisure
Incurs everybody’s displeasure.
It seems to be very irking
To people at work to see other people not working,
So they tell you that work is wonderful medicine,
Just look at Firestone and Ford and Edison,
And they lecture you till they’re out of breath or
something
And then if you don’t succumb they starve you to
death or something.
All of which results in a nasty quirk:
That if you don’t want to work you have to work
to earn enough money so that you won’t have to
work.
Ogden Nash (1902 - 1971) was an American poet.
He wrote mostly light verse and he only attended
Harvard University for one year (dropped out – in-
case you’re getting any ideas).
“...We bear witness to
the dramatic transforma-
tions of London life”
Joseph Kaupp on Dickens and his (perhaps misunder-
stood) views on the Industrial Revolution
I-Night
International night, coined I-Night, has been on-
going for more than a decade. A colourful variety
show, originally a haven for international students
to express their various traditions on stage has
grown into a major event in Imperial’s calendar
and is the largest of its kind in the College.
The event takes place in the Great Hall of Impe-
rial College London and has proved to be a suc-
cessful channel for the cultural vibrancy within the
College time and time again. Some favourites are
the Japanese society’s ‘anime-style’ pantomime
and Cypriot’s society’s cultural dance and come-
dic sketches. Unsurprisingly, the laughter and
harmonious atmosphere produced by I-night has
invited participating groups beyond the overseas
societies including Juggling, Belly Dancing society
and Wushu.
Taking place in the Great Hall, Tuesday 6 March,
£10. Tickets available at www.union.ic.ac.uk/
osc/ Free refreshments included!
Not exactly an upbeat revolution

