ARTS
FELIX Friday 02 MARCH 2012 29
society? The Kindle is a brilliant im-
provement – economically and environ-
mentally – to the age-old book; howev-
er, it also means the extinction of notes
in the margins, and small second hand
bookshops – such things that, by untold
powers, manage to transport us back in
time to another place, another age.
Woody Allen’s latest film Midnight in
Paris deals with a similar theme. Gil,
the protagonist, has romantic fantasies
of Paris in the 1920’s. He envisions
narrow alleyways and small cafes hum-
ming with jazz and rife with musicians,
artists and writers from all around the
world. Allen calls it golden age think-
ing. Gil struggles with the trade-off
between the charm of the past and the
utility of the future. Paris of the past has
Maxim’s, streetcars, and candle-lit al-
leyways, but what they don’t have is e-
mail, electricity, and antibiotics. Since
the advent of the information revolution
we have seen the birth of the Internet,
the television, the phone, the mobile
phone, the hands-free phone, Skype,
the iPod, YouTube, cars that can park
themselves, and – arguably more sig-
nificantly – a score of new vaccines.
We’ve reached Mars and even managed
to increase the average life expectancy
to nearly 80 years in most developed
countries.
However, the sustainability of the
things that matter to us is inevitably
questioned by innovation. These are
different things for different people. For
me it is vinyl records and old cinemas.
For my father it is the Sunday edition of
the morning newspaper. For my grand-
mother I suspect it has something to do
with the cordial chitchat between her
and the postman. But these are only in-
cidental charms on an individual scale.
What about those larger things that
matter so much to so many? Is religion
sustainable in the face of scientific dis-
covery? When subjected to the rigor of
the scientific method, do the founda-
tions on which so many faiths are based
maintain their integrity? How about
those whose doctrines specifically pre-
clude the possibility of evolution—an
idea whose certainty is imminent? How
about our privacy? Yes, we will prob-
ably get healthier and live longer. Root
canals, prostate exams and other unsa-
vory medical probings will become less
uncomfortable. Our world is getting
better, but we have to wonder, what are
the trade-offs? If only Dickens were
here to give his view of our own chang-
ing modern times.
The Dickens Exhibition at the Mu-
seum of London is on display until
June 2012.
avarice of the monopolising spirit, and
the gradual extinction of many of the
cherished charms of the city (some of
which are now on display in the exhibi-
tion).Although in part a boon to society,
industrialization had its drawbacks—it
threatened the quaint, but susceptible
character of the city that Dickens so
admired.
There is a theme of resistance weaved
throughout the history of innovation.
Google the societal context of a given
breakthrough innovation and you will
most likely find some sort of backlash.
A dramatic example of resistance to
change is the scientific dark ages, when
thinkers and innovators were burned at
the stake for rattling the comfortable
world-view of society (and, of course,
for threatening the reallocation of pow-
er). But less extreme examples abound,
such as the resistance to the spinning
jenny, or to Darwin’s theory of evolu-
tion.
So, we return again to our question:
how do we explain Dickens’ mixed-
feelings about the changes taking place
in his era? Ben Franklin said upon rati-
fying the constitution: “there are several
parts…about which I do not at pres-
ent approve, but I am not sure I shall
never approve them.” My suspicion is
that Dickens had a similar ambivalence
towards the innovations of his day—
hopeful for the future, but hesitant
about marching without reflection into
a brave new world.
Today we similarly must wonder
about the seeds of change being sown
by the information revolution. What are
the trade-offs associated with a “better”
“How do we explain
Dickens’ mixed feel-
ings about the chang-
es taking place...?”
“(Dickens) was hesi-
tant about marching
without reflection into
a brave new world ”

