MUSIC
FELIX
Friday 02 MARCH 2012
30
music.felix@gmail.com
Kadhim’s totally hot
album of the week
Perfume Genius
Put Your Back N
2 It
Matador
2012
I saw Perfume Genius in November 2010; I hated
him. “Whoa there!”, I hear you cry – hot coffee
spitting from your mouths in shock. Don’t be too
hasty, don’t turn the page, don’t ‘Command + T’
away: there’s redemption at the end of this article.
He was playing at the beautiful Cecil Sharp
House in Camden. It’s a regal building first opened
in 1930 and the home of the English Folkdance
and Song Society. My friend had invited me believ-
ing that Perfume Genius would be, in his words,
“right down my street”. I used to spend a lot of
time on folk road, with the likes of Laura Marling
and Mumford & Sons, so he had good reason to
trust in his judgement. Unfortunately he hadn’t re-
alised that I’d converted the road into a shared
space full of electronic ambient music – Perfume
Genius’ wistful piano laments fell onto disinter-
ested ears. I left the gig fully enjoying explaining
to my friend that “nah man, just not into that kind
of thing as much anymore”.
The memory of that night quickly disappeared
from my mind, until last week. I was scrambling
around for a suitable ‘Album of the Week’ after I
was told that Burial’s new three-track EP “didn’t
count as an album’. (I still recommend you check it
out – it’s called Kindred). Thus I came across Put
Your Back N 2 It on Pitchfork’s website. When the
first note struck me, and his hurt-drenched voice
emerged, I felt winded.
Memories of Cecil Sharp House flooded to the
front of my mind. Of course the songs on this al-
bum, Mike Hadreas’ second, are not the same
that he performed then – but what at the time felt
obnoxious has now grown into such careful and
unimpeachable sensitivity.
Perfume Genius writes unashamedly introspec-
tive music. He sings, with a voice heavy with
heartache, lyrics like “Hold my hand, I am afraid.
Please pray for me, When I am away”. But I urge
you not to dismiss it as I was so foolish to do at
Cecil Sharp House. Pay attention and you’ll find
that this isn’t whinging – it’s an exploration of his
inner-self. You feel like you’re walking through the
dark caverns of his heart, shining your flash light
at the cave-drawings on the walls – not knowing
exactly how you came to that spot and where you’ll
emerge into the light again.
Well, I suppose that’s enough metaphor for one
week – take your time with this one, choose the
right time to listen to it.
If you think my use of metaphor was a bit over the
top this week, tweet “Let’s have less of the fancy
flower arrangements next week!” @kadhimshubber.
Alternatively, tweet a virtual hug @perfumegenius,
and let him know it’ll all be ok, one day.
Music Editors: Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Alex Ramadan
synth and vocals is beautiful, and then ‘Your
Lips Are Red’. It’s probably my favourite St.
Vincent track on record, and the rearranged
live version is even better. It’s a fantastic end
to a fantastic gig. It’s by far the best gig I’ve
been to this year, and I really can’t imagine it
being beaten. Top notch.
ming the chorus riff most of the way home.
‘Strange Mercy’ is the best song about police
brutality in the history of the Universe (sorry
N.W.A.) and ‘Marrow’, whilst introduced as
a ‘dance song’, is her at her most angry and
intense and works really well. The encore is
fantastic. ‘The Party’ stripped down to just one
I
am 110% in love with Annie Clark, of
St. Vincent. That means I could back-
track 10% and still be completely in
love with her. The woman knows her
way around a guitar and what more do
you need? The live tone is sensational, prob-
ably the best I’ve ever heard, and it suits her
manic little riffs absolutely perfectly. The so-
los (and there are plenty) seem essential to the
message of the songs instead of the normal
ego-inflating wankery. The atmosphere of it
ebbs and flows and it never gets close to dull.
The rest of the band does their job, but it is
all about Annie Clark. Tonight’s gig is her big-
gest ever UK headline show but that doesn’t
seem to faze her. She runs the stage. Her whole
performance is just captivating. After one
song I noticed the drummer picking up drums,
but I have absolutely no idea how they were
knocked over, because I couldn’t take my eyes
off Annie Clark.
The setlist is complete gold. A front three of
‘Surgeon’, ‘Cheerleader’ and ‘Chloe in the Af-
ternoon’ is just unstoppable, and the huge grin
they produce never leaves my face throughout
the show. ‘Actor Out of Work’has always been
a masterpiece and that doesn’t change in the
live arena, whilst she manages to make me fall
in love with a track I was never a big fan of
in ‘Dilettante’. Cruel is probably her poppiest
moment, and it’s great fun live. I was hum-
St. Vincent woos Shepherd’s Bush
Stuart Masson left all starry-eyed by Annie Clark’s stunning performance
Reviewed in 60 Seconds
Mark England
Simon Hunter
Big Boi, one half of Outkast, released this,
his debut solo effort in 2010 after half a decade
of work. Sir Lucious Left Foot includes an im-
pressive array of featuring artists from Jamie
Foxx to Gucci Mane but the real strength of
this album lies in the sheer variety and inven-
tion in the production. Mixing electro with
funk while sampling everything from classi-
cal choral pieces to grungy guitar riffs means
every track is a total diversion from the last.
While this works for most numbers, some
(notably ‘General Patton’) end up just too ob-
scure. Overall though this is a great hip hop
album that is a lot of fun.
Simon Hunter
Got an album you want
to shout about?
Send us a short review with a
rating and we’ll be your soapbox
Big Boi
Sir Lucious Left Foot:
The Son of Chico Dusty
★★★★✩
Although this was the first The Smiths album
I heard, due mainly to my Dad’s obsession
with Genesis and Phil Collins, it wasn’t until
I was quite old when I listened to this 1984 re-
lease. To those of you who have heard or own
this album perhaps its existence was brought
back to your attention by the Christmas John
Lewis advert with its cover of ‘Please Please,
Let Me Get What I Want’ as it was with me. It
is an amazing selection box of songs showing
some of The Smiths’best work. Anyway if you
know this album well give it back it’s place on
your iPod. If you haven’t, give it a listen – try
track four.
Angus Tenison-Collins
The Smiths
Hatful of Hollow
★★★★✩
Cafe Oto
Sunday 11 March
Be sure not to miss...
John Cage
Not quite a resurrection; the Scratch
Orchestra will be performing his opus
of chance composition and Fluxus ac-
tions, Song Books. Each song scored
in terms of when “a note” should be
played and for how long.
Attendees will take home a free
libretto of the entire score, also in-
cluding ruminations on a number of
Cage’s favourite topics including an-
archy and mushrooms.
Íñigo Martínez de Rituerto
Sun, absence of concrete and chewing gum. Clearly not Shepherd’s Bush

