MUSIC
This week we’ll be taking a detour into the mysteri-
ous world of so-called “math-core”. Math-core is to
post-hardcore what Imperial is to UCL: the same,
just a bit cleverer. There are countless math-core
bands that have left their mark on post-hardcore
music but the one I’m reviewing this week is rather
more low-key, a hidden gem from none other than
Birmingham.
Blakfish formed in 2000 as mere schoolchildren
but went on to be one of the greatest UK math-
core bands of their time, even going on to sup-
port Biffy Clyro on a 2010 European Tour. They
released various E.P.s followed by an incredible
full-length during their time together. The release
of their most recent E.P., See You In Another City,
made a big impact amongst fans of UK math-core
for it’s sarcastic yet catchy lyrics and indie/hard-
core hybrid sound. This record saw their popularity
rise significantly but it wasn’t until the release of
their debut album Champions that they really got a
glimpse of life as a band outside the underground
scene… and they didn’t like it. After the release
of Champions, Blakfish were performing at much
bigger shows including Sonisphere and, as men-
tioned before, the 2010 Biffy Clyro tour. This in-
crease in popularity however meant there was no
time left for them to enjoy life and Blakfish ceased
to exist mid-way through touring with Biffy Clyro.
Nonetheless, Champions lives on and continues to
inspire math-core fans old and new.
SYIAC and Champions are both comprised of
songs primarily about everyday things that got on
the band members’ nerves like driving in London
or vegetarians. This, along with the genius of the
lyrics gives the tracks a strange charm, I guar-
antee that if you listen to their songs you will be
singing along to almost every line in agreement.
Their sound adds various extra dimensions to the
mix with heavy riffs and roaring vocals united with
upbeat choruses and melodies. Their distinctive
style makes this band a definite must for angry
hardcore-lovers and fans of softer indie alike.
Check out the recommendations and if you like
what you hear then buy the album, it’s more than
worth it!
Writer’s Recommendations
1: Listen to ‘Your Hair’s Straight But Your Boyfriend
Ain’t’. It’s basically just Blakfish moaning about
fashion. Brilliant.
2: Listen to Blakfish’s true Christmas anthem ‘The
True Meaning of Christmas’
George Jeffery’s
A beginner’s guide to
post-hardcore
Lesson 8: Blakfish
FELIX Friday 02 MARCH 2012 31
thetic reaction to the crowd (highlighted by his
response to hecklers, “I’ve already played that
song, man”). We truly admired the psychedelic
ramblings of this stoner-tinged troubadour and
would recommend the latest album to anyone
craving a modern classic. What a man!
*Music journalism is our unspecified drug here.
seeing for the past two months… Vile. After a
few songs, though, we were drawn in by his “I-
don’t-give-a-shit” stoner attitude; an approach
we found refreshing, with all the try-hards like
Adele smothering the charts. His set-list drew
heavily from his latest release but it was good to
hear some of his older material.
One of the highlights of the night was a cover
of Springsteen’s ‘Downbound Train’ which
simply blew us away. We found that Kurt Vile
excels at stripped-back mellow numbers. The
intimacy of ‘Peeping Tom’was a prime example
with soft, soothing yet dark undertones ringing
throughout the performance. There was a feel-
ing that the lyrics were lost beneath the fuzzy
reverb at the venue and not to mention his lovely
flowing locks. However, he surpassed himself
with standout tracks ‘Smoke Ring For My Halo’
and ‘Jesus Fever’ which both blossomed into
two magnificent moments. Noise regulations
forced him to cut his encore short and to our
dismay, he did not get the time to play ‘Society
Is My Friend’, a song our drug* addled brains
were aching to hear. He did reconcile this by
sticking around and talking to fans afterwards.
So we came to enjoy Vile’s performance as
the night progressed. He did not come off well
at first but gradually we fell in love with the
enormous presence of his voice and his apa-
W
e are going to start this re-
view with a bold statement:
Kurt Vile’s Smoke Rings
for my Halo was the hottest
album of 2011. No matter
how poignant PJ Harvey’s Let England Shake
was or how acclaimed the Horror’s Skying was,
no-one can convince us otherwise. It was with
this in mind that we headed to Koko on 21 Feb-
ruary for the NME awards with high expecta-
tions in mind.
Vile is a chilled out motherfucker, a true trou-
badour. Born on the streets of Philadelphia, he
has lived a hectic life up until now, originally
being part of The War On Drugs followed by
constant touring with his backing band The
Violators. Tuneful yet sporadic, his music com-
bines the spirited choruses of Springsteen with
lo-fi leanings of SonicYouth. But you can’t just
limit the man’s genius with a couple of influ-
ences. His unique sound, helped by his hypno-
tising, yet engaging, care-free voice, allows you
to fully appreciate the powerful imagery his lyr-
ics conjure up.
As we walked in to the bustling venue, we
heard the senile caterwaulings of a distressed
busker. “The support band is terrible,” we si-
multaneously thought. Yet to our horror, it
was the man we had been looking forward to
Kurt Vile, what a man!
Kurt Vile, we like your style
Mohammad Mirza and Mark England have a blast in Camden
Rama’s Hip-Hop
Tune of the Week
Until very recently my knowledge of Tyga ex-
tended to the facts that he was behind the less
than impressive song ‘Coconut Juice’ and that
he had a fair few tattoos. I certainly would not
have expected him to be releasing a track with
two of the greatest lyricists in hip-hop.
You can therefore imagine my surprise when
the song ‘King and Queens’, surfaced featur-
ing guest verses from Wale and Nas. With
soulful production by The Olympicks, Tyga
and Wale both present solid verses. The song
is rumoured to be off his forthcoming album
Careless World. The highlight of the track for
me, however, is the tight verse by a resurgent
Nas. If he maintains his current run of quality
output, Life is Good should be very exciting.
Tyga ft. Nas & Wale
‘King and Queens’
I want this shirt
otherwise awesome gig. It’s length. To call
the gig brief would be an understatement.
Azealia’s set lasted less about 30 minutes. Ad-
mittedly for an artist who is yet to release their
debut album this is not entirely unexpected, I
just wanted more.
from our goal, we only had eyes for Azealia.
In true testament to our careful planning,
not long after our arrival the lights dimmed
and the sweet sounds of The Prodigy alerted
us that Miss Banks would soon be on stage. A
brief foray into Basement Jaxx and then there
she was wearing a chinese style silk dress and
wielding a confetti cannon.
Her show was quite literally an attack on the
senses. Azealia’s rapping was on-point being
loud, fast and fluid. Ignore the video of her per-
forming at Karl Lagerfeld’s house, this girl is
good live, and unlike many better known rap-
pers she had no need for a hype man. There
was a pretty awesome light show, a costume
change and when she performed ‘212’ bal-
loons poured down from the ceiling of Heaven.
There was one downside, however, to this
Since the first time I saw the video for ‘L8R’
in 2010, I have been riding the Azealia Banks
train pretty hard, falling more in love with her
with each new song that she releases. It was
therefore only natural that when I got wind of
her doing a show at Heaven I jumped at the
opportunity and convinced one of my house-
mates to come along for the ride.
We arrived at Heaven having missed all the
support acts and were greeted by the sight of
free candyfloss, but not even this distracted us
Azealia Banks
Alex Ramadan
Flailing hand guns or peace signs?

