NEWS
FELIX
4
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
News Editors: Sophia David
Alex Nowbar
New student mayoral manifesto
Friday 02 MARCH 2012
A student manifesto has been released in light
of the London mayoral and assembly elections
in May. The document, produced by Student
Vision for London in collaboration with many
London universities’ student unions, outlines
nine key issues for students with demands for
the mayoral candidates to solve them.
London’s student population stands at
433,000 - roughly one tenth of the city’s vot-
ing population. Vision for London believe that
students are currently under-represented by the
Greater London Authority and their issues are
poorly accounted for.
Working with Imperial College Union, as
well as student unions from the University of
the Arts, London School of Economics, King’s
College and Queen Mary, Vision for London
have identified nine problems, and solutions
for them, which affect a majority of students.
The issues fall into the categories of crime,
transport, housing and employment, and in-
clude demands for a 30% discount on pay-as-
you-go travel, a higher maintenance allowance
to reflect the greater cost of living in London,
and an investigation into the poor state of stu-
dent housing, with a view to creating a student
charter for landlords.
The needs of international students are also
considered, with calls against discrimination
and restrictions on who can be a guarantor for
international students’ accommodation. One
issue raised by the Imperial College Union was
to oppose the strict and often confusing regula-
tions on student visas, claiming that they are
detrimental to London’s economy and com-
petitiveness as an academic centre. They also
were keen to promote problems which do not
just affect Imperial students.
A potential mayoral candidate debate hap-
pening at Imperial College is being planned,
with union president Scott Heath believing we
are best-positioned to attract Boris Johnson to
speak; however, so far there are no confirmed
details on this.
The Student Vision for London organisa-
tion urge all students to register to vote at their
term-time address. Their manifesto, and more
information, can be found at http://visionfor-
london.org.uk/.
ICU RAG was proud to offer students the opportu-
nity to do a Jailbreak this year. Jailbreak has quite
a simple objective: get as far away from campus
as possible in 18 hours and then get yourselves
back whilst raising money for charity. And get a
photo of yourself holding a copy of felix to prove it.
This year it started on 18 February at 9am in
Beit Quad, with groups dressed as students-cum-
hobos to tigers to pirates embarking on a week-
end of travel.
For most of the groups the first stop was Dover,
with Heathrow and London City airports unfortu-
nately being rather dickish towards the students.
With the obvious exception of one group who went
possibly to the pub and then White City, Edgware
Road and Brent Cross in an attempt to basically
go up North for a Night Out. When that failed, they
went down to Victoria Coach Station and were orig-
inally going to Penzance, but took the decision to
instead go to Manchester (which is geographically
closer to London) and then proceed to lash on.
Another group made their way to Cardiff by day’s
end, assuming that thanks to the signs being com-
pletely un-understandable that they were on the
far side of the globe, despite forgetting that they
hadn’t used their passports.
However, some groups were considerably luckier
in their ventures. Four groups made it onto the
Continent. One for a fleeting moment in Dieppe,
before following a stoned ‘professional hitchhiker’
back to the UK. One had a grand tour of Belgium-
Antwerp, Brussels and Bruges before going to Am-
sterdam, spending their euros on (in an entirely
understandable way) chips and beer and waffles
before concluding their grand tour possibly in an
all-night café.
However, one group conclusively proved to those
who chickened out at dover that persistence does
pay off. After 10 hours of sitting around waiting,
they got themselves to Magdeburg and Berlin,
ending under the Brandenburg gate on Sunday be-
fore flying/hitching their way back to London.
One group really did prove that all it takes is
a smile, thumbs up and some luck to get a free
holiday. They hitched down across France (miss-
ing Paris so no ‘Eiffel Tower and Felix photo’ from
them, unfortunately) to the South Coast and then
somehow got to Barcelona. Once there they de-
cided to spend two nights in Barcelona – saw the
sights, absorbed the culture, that sort of thing –
before flying back on Tuesday morning. And they
didn’t spend a penny getting there.
Jack Hewitt – RAG Chair
In brief
RAG Jailbreak
Not that kind of jailbreak
Keir Little
Union no longer cash-trated
As many happy sober (or otherwise) students
may have noticed, there is now a cash machine
in the Union.
It has been placed in the alcove where the
ousted cash machine used to be. The official Fe-
lix position is that the new cash machine “looks
well like one of those ones in Fabric or McDon-
alds that charges you”. However, contrary to
that, the machine is actually free of charge. In
other words, it doesn’t cost you anything to take
your money out.
Scott Heath, Union President, said on his on-
line Sabbatical blog about the news that it was
“remarkably easy to find people who wished to
install a machine that cost £1.50 or £3.00 per
transaction” before going on to point out that
New cash machine installed in Union building
Tim Arbabzadah finding a free-to-use one seemed “illusive”.
When the Union finally did manage to find a
willing installer, BT said that the Union wasn’t
in possession of a phone line that was suitably
accessible. In addition, BT said that providing
the correct line would cost £30,000. Luckily, for
the Union, an alternative of using 3G was found.
Heath’s blog post concluded bywishing pro-
spective users “happy withdrawals”.
Dare you go for the fifty pound note?

