ACADEMY AWARDS SPECIAL
FELIX Friday 02 MARCH 2012 35
Silent film The Artist and 3D film
Hugo dominate on Oscar night
The 84th Annual Academy Awards
ceremony was presented Sunday
night, hosted by comedian and actor
Billy Crystal. After last year’s rather
disappointing ceremony with hosts
Anne Hathaway and James Franco, in
an attempt to reach a younger demo-
graphic, Crystal returned to host the
ceremony for the ninth time.
Crystal delivered a classy and tradi-
tional monologue, presenting some of
the night’s nominees through his sense
of musicality. Prior to the monologue
was a skit of Crystal debuting in some
of the year’s popular films, including Nine-time host Billy Crystal
Christopher Plummer, Octavia Spencer, Meryl Streep, Jean Dujardin
The awards given to The Help’s Octavia Spencer (Best Supporting Actress), and Beginners’ Christopher Plummer
(Best Supporting Actor,) were also well-received when both actors received a standing ovation from the audience.
While many of the speeches made by winners throughout the night were predictable, full of many thank-yous and
dedications, Meryl Streep’s speech after a surprise win for Best Actress after her performance in The Iron Lady,
was one to go down in the books.
“I look out here and I see all my life before my eyes, my old friends, my new friends, and really, this is such a
great honor. But the thing that counts the most with me is the friendships and the love, and the sheer joy we have
shared making movies together,” Streep said, thanking colleagues from her entire career.
The award for Best Actor was predictably given to Jean Dujardin (The Artist).
Guess who?
The real head-turner, attention-
grabber and scene-stealer of the
night was not J-Lo’s wardrobe mal-
function, but the owner of that right
leg pictured on the left. It belongs
to none other than Angelina Jo-
lie who, in her black dress with a
slit down the (you guessed it) right
side, was the talking point of Hol-
lywood.
Her leg has since become so
famous that it has its own Twit-
ter page, dubbed @angiesrightleg,
with cheeky little Tweets “You have
to admit I’m one hell of a leg” and
“Left leg and I talked - everything’s
cool. Next Oscars, she gets the
slit” already attracting more than
38,000 followers. Albert Brooks
wasn’t impressed by the huge
public interest in the leg, writing
“I know genuinely funny people
who have like 5k followers and this
has 25k @AngiesRightLeg #end-
oftheworld”
Presenting the Best Adapted
Screenplay award, Jolie attracted
laughter from the audience stand-
ing in her awkward pose that
showed off her leg.
Bess Donoghue
The Descendants and Midnight in
Paris, each had a brief moment
of fame, winning Best Adapted
Screenplay and Best Original
Screenplay respectively. Both of
these awards were completely de-
serving of their praise.
After a struggle to grab the interest of viewers the last couple of years, the
84th Oscars may have created a positive future for the show. Billy Crystal
kept the night running smoothly with his humorous skits, and all the attend-
ees were charismatic and optimistic. Although comedy was present through-
out the night, it was a classy and elegant event that when all mixed together,
wonderfully celebrated another year of film.
The Descendants, in which he shared
a memorable and comedic kiss with
actor George Clooney.
The awards received this year were
in some ways predictable, but also
exciting to witness. In regards to
many of the artistic categories, Martin
Scorsese’s Hugo took the cake, win-
ning Best Cinematography, Sound
Editing, Sound Mixing, and Art Di-
rection. Scorsese was a popular name
throughout the night as many of the
winners showed great appreciation for
the opportunity to work on the film.
Of course, the other important win-
ner for the night was The Artist, not
only winning Best Picture, but also
Director, Actor, Original Score, and
Costume Design. This marked the
first silent film to win the Best Picture
category since the late 1920s, when
sound started to first appear in motion
pictures.
The correlation between Hugo and
The Artist is striking, as both cel-
ebrate the history and advancement
of cinema. While one reflects on the
history of cinema, the other reenacts
early movie-making. With these two
films as leaders for the night, the
Academy clearly valued the oppor-
tunity to celebrate the history of film,
and the importance of cinema across
the globe.
Legs, laughs, and Oscar highlights

