A Questionable Lifestyle
Cave Johnson advises on how to get the best possible
start as an evil scientist
“Unless you’ve got a PhD
people won’t fear you.
Mr Doom sounds like a
kindergarten teacher. A
foreign one”
H
ello teary-eyed ladies, Cave
Johnson here.
I know many of you were
worried when I didn’t write
in over the last fortnight —
Caroline is still sorting through all the letters
stained with your tears. No need to apologise
— I know you missed me. I would miss me
too. Who wouldn’t?
Continuing with the series of answering any
and all of your questions, Jimmy writes: “I’ve
had the ambition to start an institute of ques-
tionable (evil) science. Research would be fo-
cused on chemical weapons, zombie plagues,
mutations, tentacle grafts, hegemonic nano-
swarms, 20,000-ton tanks with laser cannons,
and giant stompy robots. As an experienced
science practitioner, how would you go about
setting up such an institution?”
Untouchable
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/590784
OH SWEET MERCY IT’S A SHARK OH GODS OH
GODS OH GODS SAVE M-
Calm down, it’s only a virtual shark. But hell, this
virtual shark can cause obscene amounts of prop-
erty and personal damage.
Live the dream of every red-blooded male and
pilot a shark rampaging through New York city,
causing death and destruction everywhere you go.
Bring down planes, smash cruise liners to pieces,
behead King Kong (seriously) and make canoeists
your midday snack.
It’s fun, simple, crazy action and well worth at
least one playthrough.
Untouchable is very reminiscent of bullet hell games,
except with a slightly more manageable amount of
bullets and a variety of projectiles. And slowdown
ability. And powerups. OK, so it’s more of a retro-
shooter than anything.
Still, Untouchable is pretty fun to play. You pilot a
small bullet-spewing ship against a variety of pixely
enemies. By the second boss you have to manage
your limited slowdown power carefully, with bullets
and all sorts of missiles and electrical strikes flying
all over the place. Frustrating fun for all the family.
That is, if they’re into online flash games of course.
FELIX
Friday 02 march 2012
36
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games Editor: Laurence Pope
GAMES
Free Web Games
Despite last week’s absence, Felix Games hasn’t
been cancelled, so put away the balloons and party
poppers. Instead, drown your sorrows with these
two totally awesome web games that you can play
right now in your web browser. In order to enjoy
these you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player
plug-in, which can be installed from http://get.
adobe.com/flashplayer/
New York Shark
http://www.newgrounds.com/portal/
view/590705
There’s no point in beating around the bush
Jimmy — you want to be an evil scientist. We
all do at some point, but it takes guts and de-
termination to admit it and get the ball roll-
ing — we could do with an ambitious boy like
you in the lab. Actually, scratch that, I could
do with a hundred of you — lately, the boys in
the lab haven’t been working as hard as usual.
I think they’re planning a mutiny. Well, that or
they’re getting more stupid. We’ve got a new
cloning process in the works, so if you don’t
mind, we’ll take some of your blood, fiddle
with your DNA and stick it in some bacteria.
With any luck, we’ll get a duplicate version
of your fine self. We’ve found that upon cre-
ation of your twin, one of you is undoubtedly
evil, but we’ve yet to work out which one.
The legal suits say I also need to mention
that the side effects may include having an
arch-nemesis, a clichéd storyline for the rest
of your life and being incarcerated for crimes
your clones committed. The boys in the lab
spent days calculating that if you have a single
clone and one of you is evil, then if we make
99 clones, 50 of you are going to be evil. At
the moment we’re not exactly sure what it is
that makes people evil, but we think it might
be something to do with facial hair. A surpris-
ing number of our clones come grown with a
variety of goatees and long, thin moustaches.
Anyway, if we find a way to separate the good
ones from the evil ones, then we’ll ship your
evil clones to you, free of charge.
I could start with mentioning that those of
you who are studying at Imperial but intend to
join the plague of bankers that impede scien-
tific progress, are the real evil scientists, but
I won’t. I’m above that. Unlike them. I could
also mention those people over at Black Mesa
who steal ideas and government funding, but
then they’re not even scientists. They’re more
akin to fish. Plus, I’ve a court order that says
I must stop slandering those treacherous thug-
fish. Like hell I will!
Anyway, on your quest towards interna-
tional domination, there’s nothing more im-
portant than location, location, location. You
can’t have a proper base of operations living
in your parent’s basement. Before rushing out
to your local real estate agents however, there
are a few things I would bear in mind when
looking for an inner sanctum. You want a site
where you can test in peace and quiet, have
very few witnesses, and yet still be able to ‘in-
vite’test subjects to your facilities. In addition
to this, it sounds like a lot of your projects will
take up a lot of space. I would look to invest in
a large space, adjoining your initial domain,
which you can move into when needed.
Once you’ve started your testing and have
some working prototypes, I would suggest
that you go and make a name for yourself.
Go and cause a few disappearances around
your local towns, start rumours, or test some
of your projects on the unsuspecting public.
The suits over in legal are now telling me to
point out that I am in no way speaking from
experience. Potential buyers, and those you
hold to ransom won’t take you seriously un-
til you have proven yourself. If the label of
evil scientist ruffles your feathers, then an-
other well-trodden route is that of the good
old-fashioned American super-villain. You’ll
have to come up with a name, and maybe even
a catchphrase to get those gals swooning over
you. And remember, unless you’ve got a PhD,
in your line of work, people won’t fear you.
Mr Doom sounds like a kindergarten teacher.
A foreign one.
There’s not much point having a nice place
with enough room for an army of whooping
terriers when you’re stranded in the middle
of nowhere. Like Canada. Without adequate
transport links or abundant natural resources,
your plans will grind to a halt. Late colleagues
of mine, who had the same aspirations as you
do, ended up moving to Siberia to conduct re-
search into using bears as cavalry. They ended
up running out of toothpaste, which led to
widespread rioting and the release of grizzly
bears with IQs over 150 into the wild. Obvi-
ously.
Something most young people don’t seem
to think about either are the operating costs
of running an empire, as it were. Having a lair
that’s able to exploit natural resources is key
to keeping your giant stompy robots stomp-
ing, be it geothermal or hamster-wheel ener-
gy, large amounts of precious metals or even a
city of mole-men. Whatever you don’t have to
pay for makes your life easier.
Finally, there’s the motivation to see your
vision come true. There’s no such thing as
aiming too high when it comes to science,
only being afraid of missing your target. We
normally have to keep on playing pre-record-
ed messages for our test subjects to keep them
motivated to reach the end. It looks like you
want to see this through till the end, so at least
I don’t have to mail you the pre-recorded
tapes of me shouting at you to get on with it.
Any problems with those projects of yours,
and I’ll be glad to help. As always, if you have
any questions for me, then Caroline is waiting
to take your telegrams. Cave out.
“I can see the family resemblance - he’s got Aunt Gertrude’s plasmids”
Questions for Cave?
Do you have any questions for Mr
Johnson? If so, email them onto
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk and I’ll
pass them onto him for answers.
Responses will be published in Felix.
So go do as the man says people.
Write in – for science.

