BOOKS
FELIX Friday 02 march 2012 37
How to be a woman
I
had been resisting reading this
book for a while. Partly because
I have no desire to lose the meat
and two veg, and partly because
publishers are canny enough to
know their target audience and design
the cover accordingly. Having worked
for a bookshop as an undergraduate I
also know that the covers are as much of
a fiction as the text they are attached to.
But, on a day between Christmas and
New Year, having lost all my dignity by
finding myself both in a Waterstone’s
and in a provincial town, I seized the
opportunity to satisfy my curiosity.
And I was pleased I did. There were
enough words I do not know for me
to listen, without alienating me. There
were jokes on every page and it was en-
gaging. There is an observational and
articulate person behind the text who is
able to get their point across cleanly. It
was a good read, I was hooked. Per-
haps this is why I found a lot of the
book so disappointing. I did not want
to dislike it, but as it got so decidedly
off-centre in places, I could not help but
feel let down.
I suppose what I should do is go and
write a book myself, and have it pub-
lished, and use that as my response.
But of course the world does not work
like that. This book is a product, to be
sold. And this one has been, and even
to me. Does it help that the writer is
both pretty and intelligent? Probably.
But it is also because it is what people
want. So, I make the following argu-
ments, in the style of the author herself,
both as a list and with some trepidation:
1) Sexism is not what you describe,
Caitlin Moran. Yes there are wank-
ers who leer suggestively and taste-
lessly and their behaviour undermines a
woman’s self-confidence, and of course
that is about as acceptable as arbitrarily
chopping bits off people. However, it
has almost nothing to do with the re-
cipient of such behaviour. The reason
it happens is because there is a stupid
person (in this case, a man) who does
not understand what happens to him
when he sees a woman. All he can do
is respond in a way that suggests quite
strongly he has no idea what he looks
like. Added to which, the reason why
telling men, or even making it unac-
ceptable for them to behave like that,
has not worked, is because the underly-
ing problem has not been solved. There
will always be wankers.
2) Men do not have all the power or
all the influence. The world just does
not work like that, and probably never
has. Needless to say it is only compara-
tively recently that women have been
in posts or offices that are considered
powerful, but that is really not the same
thing as becoming more influential.
3) I have often thought that women
are judged more on how they look than
men are, and men are judged more on
what they have than women are. There
are a variety of tedious arguments about
whether this is nature or nurture, but
one point that is rarely made is that we
are judged on what it is we care about: I
am judged as a scientist because I want
to be one. There would be no point in
judging someone as a florist if they say
they want to be a mechanical engineer.
That is why a woman might take longer
choosing a for a night out and her boy-
friend will not really give a hoot. And
all he wants from her shoes is for them
to be pavement-worthy. Equally, men
often do just the same thing about mon-
ey, influence or intellectual standing.
They may become obsessed with a pro-
motion and pay rise, the latter of maybe
not even 10% of their current salary. If
they get it, their other half is not going
to love them more. But he will still go
for that promotion and the extra cash,
he is motivated for it. Both women and
men have similarly false connections, it
does not make either gender worth less.
What is lacking from this book is an
understanding of human nature, of what
is alike about men and women. If this
were injected it would help tell us how
things may be judged intellectually.
Blaming men, sorry, “the patriarchy”
for one’s own perceived shortcomings,
and in an off-centre way, achieves noth-
ing. But, as I say, it is a book made for
selling.
Some of the best science fiction you’ll ever read
Orson Scott Card’s Ender’s Game is
widely regarded as one of the great-
est classics of the science fiction
genre but I didn’t get round to read-
ing it until last summer. Having read
it, I have to say that the hype was
fully justified and that it is, in fact,
one of the best science fiction books
that I have ever read. While it may
be a cliché to say so, I was really
hooked from the first page and was
left wanting more after I’d finished.
The novel focuses on Andrew
‘Ender’ Wiggin, the result of a se-
lective breeding programme which
means that, despite his preteen age
at the start of the book, he is ex-
ceptionally mature and intelligent.
It follows his training at the or-
bital Battle School as he is trained
to lead Earth’s International Fleet
against invasion from the insec-
toid Formics, which have attempted
to attack the planet twice before.
The universe of the novel is richly
detailed and believable. While the
main focus of the book is on Ender, the
political situation on Earth, explored
through both the actions of Ender’s
equally intelligent siblings, Peter
and Valentine, and the interactions
of his superior at the Battle School,
Colonel Graff, with his colleagues,
forms a fascinating backdrop that
is vital in understanding why Ender
is put through the trials that he is.
While it may be a small point, I
particularly liked the Greek titles
of Hegemon, used for the leader
of the unified Earth, and Strat-
egos and Polemarch, used for the
leaders of the International Fleet.
While this doesn’t really affect the
story it does give the book an in-
teresting and unusual flavour and
does somewhat help it to stand out.
The real achievement of Ender’s
Game, however, are its characters.
Every one of the main players in
Samuel Furse takes a critical look at a highly praised feminist work
Maciej Matuszewski the book is very well developed.
It’s saying something that I’m hard
pressed to call anybody in the book,
even the initially sinister Graff, a
villain. In the end the novel comes
off as an exploration of the tragic
consequences that can result from
a lack of communication. I’d like
to say more, but I’m afraid that it
would spoil the fantastic ending.
I have heard some complain that
they find it hard to believe that a
character as young as Ender could
be so skilled and intelligent. I per-
sonally don’t find this too much of a
problem – I’m perfectly happy to ac-
cept the explanation of the selective
breeding programme. I also think that
this is a part of the story that is very
necessary, with the youth element
“Ender’s Game is, in
many ways, close to
perfect”
A look back at Ender’s Game – Orson Scott Card’s first great masterpiece
being crucial to the theme of lost
innocence having as much of an im-
pact as it does. I certainly don’t think
that many seasoned science fiction
readers will have much trouble sus-
pending their disbelief on this point.
I would thoroughly encourage
everyone to read this book. It is, in
many ways close to perfect. Indeed
after reading it I held off from look-
ing at any of the sequels or prequels,
knowing how much weaker sequels
can devalue a brilliant original (I’m
looking at you, Dune). I have, how-
ever, just picked up Speaker for the
Dead, the next book in the series.
I’ve heard good things about it and
the fact is that even if it’s a frac-
tion of the quality of Ender’s Game,
it’s going to be a brilliant book.
“I did not want to
dislike it, but ... I
could not help but
feel let down”
Caitlin Moran is an acclaimed broadcaster and columnist at The Times
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski

