FOOD
FELIX
Friday 02 MARCH 2012
38
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Food Editors: Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Thai Pot Noodle
Have you ever wondered whether you could
re-create a homemade pot noodle, but actu-
ally make it taste edible? This version tastes
so amazingly fresh and vibrant, plus the bowl of
authentic Thai flavours is virtually fat-free too!
Ingredients - Serves 2
Vegetable stock (750ml)
Chunk of fresh ginger
½ red chilli
3 cloves of garlic
1 stick of lemon grass
2 Kaffir lime leaves
Handful of button mushrooms
Two bunches of rice noodles
Raw king prawns (150g)
2 tbsp fish sauce
1 lime
1 pak choi
Bunch of fresh coriander
Couple of spring onions
Make up the vegetable stock using boiling wa-
ter and a stock cube if you don’t have fresh.
Peel and finely chop or grate the garlic, ginger
and chilli. Fry them all in a shot of vegetable oil
in the bottom of a large pan for 1 minute or so
to release their flavours and aromas. Pour in the
warmed vegetable stock and bring to a gentle sim-
mer. Bruise the lemon grass with the back of a
knife and add to the soup with the lime leaves.
Slice the mushrooms thinly and add these to the
simmering stock. Dump the noodles, fish sauce
and juice of the lime, stir well and simmer for about
3 minutes. Add the prawns and stir through with
the pak choi, coriander and spring onions, simmer-
ing for just a minute or so more. Splash in a glug of
coconut milk as you serve if you prefer (optional).
Watch a video of the dish being prepared at
www.sortedfood.com/thaipotnoodle
Ben Ebrell, Head Chef at Sorted
fluidstyle.co.uk
Many of you may feel a bit unwilling to visit
a Greek restaurant because of Greece’s ab-
surd and unjustifiable dealing of its politico-
economic crisis. Besides, it is a fact, espe-
cially for those studying economics, that a
country so small as Greece and with such a
small and limited economy, can easily drag
down healthy(?) economies such as Amer-
ica’s, the UK’s and Europe’s. However, we
suggest you try to forget for a moment that
all our problems’ source is Greece and enjoy
some delicious food!
The Real Greek is a modern restaurant chain
found across London. It’s the ideal place for
you and your friends to enjoy tasteful Greek
and Mediterranean dishes in a relaxed envi-
ronment.
We haven’t visited a Greek restaurant for
a long time and our anticipation to taste ev-
erything on the menu was great. We decided
very quickly though; “please bring us the
standards”. As a starter we had the traditional
Tzatziki – Real Greek is the only restaurant
in London that makes it with garlic instead
of mint, as we were told by the waiter – and
Babaganoush, a light and fragrant blend of
smoked aubergine, tahini and garlic, served
with the necessary Greek flatbread.
As soon as the king of all dishes, the Greek
Souvlaki, arrived, we were super-excited. It
arrived accompanied with grilled Cypriot
Halloumi cheese, pork sausage and delicious
handmade pastry parcels with creamy leek,
spinach and feta filling, known as Tiropita-
kia. It’s quite hard to explain with words,
how few dishes combined with familiar mu-
sic melodies and Thames waters can instant-
ly take you back home. OK, the truth is that
we simply can’t be unbiased in this review.
But it’s a fact that the restaurant was literally
packed, by people from various nationalities,
who seemed to enjoy it as much as we did.
You might be wondering why we haven’t
mentioned the Greek Salad yet. Well, we
both think that this is a dish everyone should
have on their table. You can never fully en-
joy a Greek meal without having that unmis-
takable combination of tomato, cucumber,
feta cheese, olives, olive oil and oregano in
your plate. After all, it’s healthy!
For more information, visit:
www.therealgreek.com
A glass of Ouzo and plenty of mezes make the crisis fade away
It’s getting better every week!
Ingredients
1 block extra-firm tofu (14 ounces), cubed
1 tsp oil
1 red bell pepper, seeded and sliced thinly
½ cup sliced shallots
The Big Fat Real Greek!
Take part in Imperial Fairtrade Food
Awards, by sending your recipe to food.
felix@imperial.ac.uk in order to instantly
win free entry to a Fairtrade event and to
have the chance of winning a £30 voucher
and two cookbooks!
Anastasia Eleftheriou
Michael Krestas
Well, it beats regular Pot Noodle
Vegan Diary: Red Thai Tofu and dining out
Clare Cheng
Hannah Cox
After a successful week of our vegan challenge
we decided that a treat was in order and headed
off to nearby Wholefoods’ SAF to experience
eating out in a vegan restaurant. We were ex-
cited to find out what, with a bit of time and
effort, can be achieved with the ingredients at
our disposal.
The answer? Quite a lot, however, it all
comes at a price; it’s fair to say that eating
vegan food in Kensington is certainly not help-
ing us to save money. We started off with the
cashew nut based “cheese trio” which were
flavoured with mixed herbs, olives and pep-
pers. They tasted like a mild cream cheese and
we were pretty impressed by how yummy they
were. With the “cheeses” came pear chutney,
grain crackers and a balsamic vinegar dressing
and all combined together were very satisfy-
ing. It was even possible to forget the absence
of meat and dairy.
Onto our mains, we ordered a vegan “Pad
Thai” and the pasta of the day. The latter of the
two with its wild mushroom and paprika sauce
was a meal that no meat eater would notice as
being vegan. The sauce was creamy (a qual-
ity we’ve found to be lacking in much vegan
food) and rich. The “Pad Thai” on the other
hand was a completely different story. Firstly
it was entirely composed of raw vegetables,
enoki mushrooms and a few cashew nuts in a
tahini based sauce so was definitely not worth
the nearly £15 price tag that it came with. In
addition its raw nature and the absence of
the main ingredients of noodles, chicken and
prawns meant that by no stretch of the imagi-
nation should it have been called a “Pad Thai”.
However, if we left this to one side the meal
was refreshing and light and certainly left you
with a feeling of being healthy (if not entirely
satisfied).
We walked away from the meal with sig-
nificantly thinner wallets and a mild sense of
satisfaction (although a steak would probably
have been tastier!)
You can sponsor Hannah and Clare
at uk.virginmoneygiving.com/team/
goingvegan
Vegan recipe: Red Thai Tofu
4 cloves garlic, minced
1 tbsp minced fresh ginger
1 tbsp Thai red curry paste
½ cup water
2 tbsp soya sauce
1 tbsp light agave nectar/pure maple syrup
15 leaves fresh Thai basil
1. Fry tofu in hot oil for 10 minutes, flipping so
the sides are browned. Midway through cook-
ing, drizzle with 2 tsp soya sauce and toss to
coat. Once cooked set aside.
2. Sauté the red pepper, shallots, garlic and
ginger in oil for 5 minutes.
3. Meanwhile mix together the curry paste,
water, remaining soya sauce and the agave/
maple syrup in a bowl.
4. Add the tofu and sauce mixture back to the
pan and cook for a further 5 minutes. Then add
the Thai basil, toss to wilt and serve.

