CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX
Friday 02 MARCH 2012
40
felix@imperial.ac.uk
On Médecins Sans Frontières
Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) is an
international humanitarian organisation
that provides medical humanitarian as-
sistance in situations of extreme need
irrespective of race, religion, creed or
political convictions. In the past few
months, media attention has focused on
the risks of delivering aid to refugees
and internally displaced persons (IDPs),
after Dr. Karel Keiluhu and Philippe
Havet were killed in Mogadishu, Soma-
lia and Blanca Thiebut and Montserrat
Serra were abducted in Dadaaab, Ke-
nya. Why did these four feel so passion-
ate that they would risk their lives vol-
unteering so far from home, what work
were they doing and how can you get
involved to make their dreams reality?
Firstly, let’s consider the scale of the
problem. A refugee is defined as some-
one who has crossed a national border to
flee conflict or persecution. Even if they
make it no further than a camp in the
neighbouring country, under the 1951
Convention on the Status of Refugees,
they have the right to protection from
violence, basic humanitarian assistance
and a long-term solution (remain-
ing in the country of refuge, resettling
in a third country or returning home).
IDPs are those who remain within their
country of origin. The United Nations
High Commission for Refugees (UN-
HCR) has only assumed responsibility
towards certain IDP groups, leaving the
majority under the rule of their own
governments, which are often impli-
cated in the violence they are trying
to escape. The UNHCR estimated in
2009/2010 that there were 15.4 million
refugees and 27.5 million IDPs. About
half come from Sudan, Iraq, Colum-
bia, Palestine and Afghanistan. MSF
works with IDPs in all these areas and
refugees in neighbouring countries as
well, dealing with ongoing violence
and limited or non-existent healthcare
infrastructure.
These issues are also concerns in So-
malia, where MSF has provided medi-
cal aid since 1991. In addition to the
violence, the 2011 drought brought yet
another famine, displacing an estimated
1.5 million people into the capital Mog-
adishu as well as neighbouring Kenya
and Ethiopia (where MSF runs hospi-
tals and health posts in refugee camps).
A man mourning at his grandchild’s fu-
neral starkly illustrates this: “Over the
last 3 years the farm dried up. We want-
ed to feed the children but there was
nothing.” With limited vaccine cover-
age, childhood infections are rife, and
quickly become epidemics in crowded
refugee camps. Mortality rates are 6
times “emergency levels” as a result
of extreme malnutrition. In 2008 MSF
The humanitarian organisation has a significant presence at Imperial – find out how to get involved
Kaushali Trivedi national staff performed over 700,000
outpatient consultations and admitted
over 24,000 as inpatients: they treated
neglected tropical disease like kala azar,
malaria, tuberculosis, delivered antena-
tal care, performed basic surgery, gave
vaccinations and administered thera-
peutic feeding.
Arguably this is just a drop that can
never even hope to fill the ocean of need.
Emergency humanitarian aid will never
resolve the underlying issues. But as
the former president of MSF, Dr. James
Orbinski, argues, “It’s not about creat-
ing a perfect future, it’s about respond-
ing to another person who is suffering
as a human being”. An MSF surgeon in
Iraq explains “over half [our surgeries]
are on emergency patients [with curable
conditions]. We are making a real dif-
ference”. Mary, a Burundian woman
whose life was saved by an emergency
blood transfusion puts it more simply:
“If it weren’t for MSF, my five children
wouldn’t have a mother”.
Thank you for reading despite my
reliance on numbers as evidence both
for the importance of the situation
and that MSF’s work is significant. So
how can you help make that differ-
ence? Get informed: the MSF website
(http://www.msf.org.uk/) is full of
blogs from doctors, logisticians and
patients, reports giving overviews of is-
sues and other resources. Imperial has
a ‘Friends Of MSF’ (FOMSF) society
that runs awareness events and fund-
raises, and if this article has interested
you at all, please get in touch through
Facebook (IC Friends of MSF) or email
(fomsf@ic.ac.uk). Finally get fundrais-
ing: FoMSF are running a Metric night
on 10 March (with an amazing line up
from Lyrix Organix) and will be helping
with the national FOMSF fun run on 24
March.
?
Don’t miss the Private Housing
Talk next Monday 5 March 2012!
www.facebook.com/
imperialstudentaccommodation
Learn more at:
www.imperial.ac.uk/accommodation
Moving out of halls and thinking about
accommodation for next year?
Join us for:
» advice on moving out of halls
» tips and advice on when and where
to start looking for a place to live in the private sector
» learning how much you can expect to pay for rent and other costs
» advice on your rights as a tenant and how to deal with landlords and
their contracts
» tips on moving in/out
» exclusive opportunities to meet estate agents, landlords and other
accommodation service providers
When and where:
16.30 Exhibition opens in the Queen’s Tower Rooms
18.00 Talk in the Great Hall
19.00 Exhibition continues with
a FREE prize draw to win an iPad 2!
Sponsored by

