The Life of Death
I
was lucky enough to buy a tick-
et to the Malaysian Society’s
MNight long before the sales
rush which rendered the Satur-
day showing sold out. It was a
two-day production held in the Great
Hall, and I attended the Sunday show-
ing. It was the first time I’d been to
such an event in my three years here,
and my main motivation for going was
to support one of my copy editors here
in Felix who was on the cast. A review
simply had to follow.
I took my seat with a few friends near
the front, reading the provided synopsis
of The Life Of Death, directed by Ray-
Men Chua, Alia Johari and produced
by Sheela Ratnam and Wui Yang Ee.
Having taken over four months to or-
ganise, the show’s story was shaped as
a murder mystery, following the antics
of a team of cops chasing after a serial
killer who called himself the Heart-
breaker, preying on happy couples and
leaving a heart-suited card at the scene
of every crime, counting down from the
King to the Ace.
It was a full house, and I wasn’t sure
what to expect at first. When the hosts
Ahmad Mustafa and Kim Guan Yeap
began their introductions, I felt like I
was sitting through a lengthy array of
sponsor messages and commercials, but
their banter-filled, amusingly confident
double act was soundly humorous and
served as a satisfying warm-up.
It wasn’t long before we were intro-
duced to the police cast after a murder
scene. With Clayton Qwah playing
hairy – erm – Harry Kok, a hopeless
romantic with a few screws loose, Carol
Ann Cheah playing Dominique, an ea-
ger overachiever and Pak Tung Foong
playing Sarge, their tough commander,
the antics just kept coming.
The cast’s acting was very natural,
with a variety of jokes peppered with
stereotypes for additional effect. Un-
dertones of the hopeless romantic chase
we all know about too well were also
present, giving the audience a chance
to empathise with the characters’ bold
antics. The Heartbreaker villain’s in-
troduction brought a chilling parallel to
the overall mood, giving the production
a power to move the audience from an
uproar of raucous laughter to a sorrow-
ful mourning in seconds.
There were moments I felt compelled
to sympathise with the masked Heart-
breaker character/metaphor, whose
gruff voice and pain-filled backstory
shared similarities with Rorschach
from Watchmen. The fourth wall was
also cleverly broken, with an unfortu-
nate friend of mine sitting in the front
row feeling the brunt of this shadowy
character’s voice after he stepped down
from the stage and bellowed “you think
I’m a heartless killer, don’t you?” whilst
wielding a very convincing dagger.
Transitions between scenes frequent-
ly featured various dances, melding the
play with a systematic and welcome
exposure to culture, including a perfor-
mance of Dikir Barat, a traditional Ma-
lay musical form, hip-hop and Stomp-
like performances. Their choreography
was top notch, and they managed to
wedge some hefty humour in there with
a troupe performing Cee-Lo Green’s
“Forget You” using cleverly reworked
lyrics which lightly bashed other uni-
versities.
The interval saw the two avid hosts
return with an extended effort to gen-
erate banter by exposing members of
the audience from other universities,
and my unfortunate friend in the front
row was put under the spotlight again.
Their attempts to gain audience partici-
pation saw an initial reluctance to an-
swer questions such as “which of us is
sexier?” but it wasn’t long before they
received comments such as “neither”,
and the banter resumed, with the hosts
taking it in their stride.
The show certainly had me in stitches
at various points, with unexpected hu-
mour spontaneously tickling the audi-
ence’s funny bones left, right and cen-
tre. A clever use of the Pokémon first
generation battle music during a sur-
prise Matrix-style fight scene complete
with floating hit-point indicators reig-
nited waves of nostalgia across the au-
dience, and hearing “FIRST BLOOD!”
sound at the initial hit was the icing on
the cake. Such scenes appeared expert-
ly choreographed and executed, with a
strategic use of strobe lights for a time
lapse and slow motion effect making
the Heartbreaker’s murders that much
more uneasy and convincing.
There were a few inside jokes made,
with members of the cast slipping into
Malaysian slang/pidgin purposefully at
times which seemed to please the parts
of the crowd who understood, though
a translation was provided in the pro-
gramme for such moments and they
weren’t too difficult to derive the mean-
ing of.
The show saw a touching end, with
the Heartbreaker being revealed as
one of the police officers, Harry Kok,
all along, his angst stemming from his
failure to be loved and his strict up-
bringing. Abruptly referencing previ-
ous events where he accidentally put
the rest of his team in danger allowed
us to piece together other occurrences
where his stupidity could be re-evalu-
ated as malice, providing the audience
with that all-important, yet disturbing,
penny drop moment.
Following the show’s end, Nasi Le-
mak was provided to every ticket
holder, and although a bit spicy, I must
say I really enjoyed Malaysia’s national
dish. At risk of turning this into a re-
view more fitting in the Food section,
I’m going to sign off noting that Malay-
sian Night 2012 was an extraordinary
experience and easily the best show
I’ve seen in a while due to their sheer
combination of humour, emotion and
vibrant culture. The Malaysians pulled
off a memorable evening, taking care of
its audience entirely along the way, and
I’m very pleased to have attended what
was easily the best show I’ve seen for
quite some time.
CLUBS & SOCIETIES
FELIX Friday 02 march 2012 41
Alexander Karapetian takes to Malaysian Night 2012
It’s lucky that significant arm movements are currently in fashion...
...not to mention black clothing and contrasting headbands
Photos by Gene Peng

