SPORT
FELIX
Friday 02 march 2012
44
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Sport Editor: Indy Leclercq
ICBC find BUCS Head success
than-lightweight bowpair, the constant
chitter chatter from Powell and the hole
in Cottrell’s hand, the quad completed
the course in 13:12.4, taking sixth place
in the category. Next was the men’s
coxless four (bow: Rory Sullivan/Matt
Pointing/Ali Hudson/Ben Spencer
Jones) who took the bronze medal in a
time of 13:32.6. Unfortunately the guys
were unavailable for comment after the
race. The men’s coxed four (cox: Jess
Johnson/Hal Bradbury/Simon Steele/
James Hobhouse/Danny Bellion)
smashed down the power to take fourth
place, the same position their time of
13:50.4 would have earned them in the
coxless event.
For the first time since 2009, ICBC
had a senior women’s eight entered into
BUCS. Although they had had only two
outings and some side-switching was
required, the girls (cox: Libby Rich-
ards/Klara Weaver/Louise Connell/
Lily Beadle/Hannah Patterson/Rosie
Davies/Harriet Cross/Cat Buizza/Siân
Morgan) smashed it to take fourth place
in a time of 14:41.8. In another break
with tradition, lightweight women
were racing and the quad (bow: Maddy
Whybrow/Steph Lunt/Ana Yong/Alice
Pistolesi) consisted of three of Impe-
rial’s finest novices and one from last
year’s intake. The tiny girls battled
against the headwind and crossed the
line to take 7th in the event in 17:37.3.
Their male counterparts continued
to build on their practically unbeaten
record in the men’s lightweight cox-
less four (bow: Paddy Hudson/Gareth
Brown/Wilf Kimberley/Tim Richards)
as they took the win in 13:20.6, 10s
ahead of their competition and 12s
ahead of IC’s heavyweights.
On the way up to the start of division 2,
disaster struck the women’s lightweight
coxless four (bow: Whybrow/Lunt/Pis-
tolesi/Hannah Neenan) as the rudder
string broke, forcing the girls onto the
bank and into cheerleading roles; wel-
come encouragement for those racing at
one of the toughest parts of the course.
This left only the women’s coxed four
(cox: Johnson/Patterson/Cross/Connell/
Weaver) to represent the fairer half of
ICBC. Despite a fracas with Edinburgh
University, whose stroke girl decided
the slower crew had right of way, the
girls finished off the day in the smash-
ing time of 15:08.0. They took the sil-
ver medal, just 2s behind winners and
24s ahead of third place and would have
won the women’s coxless four catego-
ry; a promising start to 2012 for the fe-
male students.
Leading the second division and
wearing the coveted number 1 were
the men’s championship eight (cox:
L Richards/Spencer Jones/Sullivan/
Pointing/A Hudson/Bellion/Hobhouse/
Steele/Bradbury). Starting the division
meant the eight enjoyed perfect water
with only the gusty headwind to con-
tend with. Great crew spirit kept the
rate up and the power going down all
the way along the course, with Spencer
Jones and Sullivan bashing out a strong
rhythm. The guys completed the course
in 12:08.6, an agonisingly close 0.4s
behind Durham, forcing them to settle
for the Bronze medal behind the two
north-eastern universities, with New-
castle taking the win. The next closest
crew were more than 30s off the pace.
The lightweight men were back out
in the same order (bow: P Hudson/
Brown/Kimberley/T Richards) but with
two blades each instead of one for the
men’s lightweight quad. The glassy wa-
ter experienced by the eight had turned
to vicious waves by the time the quad
arrived. The skinny boys soldiered on,
wearing their new tartan leggings and
camouflage lycra combination, and
added another gold to their ever ex-
panding collection in 12:46.6.
Once back in London, some headed
to Fiesta Havanas to dance away their
last remaining ounces of energy. Over
the weekend, 93 BUCS points were
won between the ten championship
boats, giving a running total of 123 so
far this season. Now the focus turns to
the Women’s and Men’s Heads of the
River on 3 and 17 March respectively.
...Continued from Back Page
Coming soon: VARSITY
It’s that time of the year again...
the hard training and gruelling matches
have been leading up to everyone’s
favourite contest.
Playing in one of the matches? Or just
fancy yourself as a sports reporter/
photographer?
Get in touch with us to take part in our
extensive Varsity coverage.
It’s going to be epic.
We arrived at Harlington knowing
that a win would secure promotion,
so we were ready to f*** s*** up,
despite our chunderous captain be-
ing MIA. The game started off slowly
with half of our team away with the
fairies and severely hungover from
the previous weekend – we know, it’s
an issue.
After a bit of scrappy hockey we
settled back into our classic form and
Kirstin slotted in a quick two goals to
take us ahead at half time. With a riv-
eting half-time chat from our award
winning coach, we started strongly
into the second half. Gigi showed the
other team what hockey skills were
and defenders Celia, Aash and Maria
cut shapes through their midfield like
Imperial boys in Metric on a Wednes-
day. With our legendary passing seri-
ously confusing the other team (and
with a few protein shakes later) we
were many more goals up and show-
ing the Brunel girls who really was
top of the league.
The defence held steady with the
addition of Shanika taking it up the
rear, an unusual position for her as
she is usually running riot with Scor-
cha up front. Harry, Ted, Nora and
supersub Hannah all trashed the goal-
keeper and took us to a 6-1 lead (their
only goal coming from GK Percy’s
charitable conscience). Anyways,
what it really comes down to is that
we won (port), and that we are going
to get PROMOTED (PORT!!!).
In summary IC Ladies 1s are amaz-
ing – both in looks and talent – and
we thoroughly deserved some trophy-
ware. Bring on the ULU and BUCS
semi-finals.
IC Hockey
Promotion and port
for IC Hockey Ladies
1s after Brunel tussle
Hockey
Celia Hayes
Cruella de Vil had better watch out – they’re armed and dangerous (with sticks)

