As a glance through Time Out (without which this
column would have died long ago) will tell you,
there is really nothing better to do at this time of
year than to indulge in the sentimental excesses of a
modern westernised Christmas. Even attempting to
do "something completely different" has become as
hopelessly traditional as the festival itself, and so it
is with very little hesitation that I recommend that
you spend this Christmas in exactly the same way as
you have spent and will spend, every other
Christmas; you won't escape it, so you may as well
wallow in it along with the rest of us.
In fact I doubt if, given the choice, you'd really
want to do anything else anyway - oh, alright then,
of course you would, but bear with me anyway, will
you? Aftei all, at what other time of the year can
you savour the rare delights of arguing with all your
relatives at the same time, watching non-stop drivel
on TV whilst working your way through your
parents' drinks cabinet-as like as not with their full
knowledge and approval, and explaining to your
mother why you really don't feel like even looking
at her Christmas lunch, far less actually eating it.
On the subject of rare delights, I've always
maintained that there's no better source of
Christmas Eve entertainment than the local church's
Watchnight Service-that subtle blend of sincerity and
sarcasm as the minister declares how nice it is to see
the church so full, well, it gets me in stitches every
year. Better still is the sheer exquisite embarrasment
of my granny lusting after the organist and
attempting to quieten down the "rowdies" in the
pew behind us (i.e. those of my friends who are
unencumbered by elderly relatives.) All that, with
carols and grandson plus points thrown in, and for
however much you feel like paying: surely there are
few cheaper shows running on the 24th, and let's
face it, by that time you'll be counting every last
penny...
Assuming that you're not sufficiently organised
(laughable possibility as it is) to have already done
your Christmas shopping-and not only that, but
remembered where you've hidden it, or that you
bought it at all-you'll be spending the next week or
so frantically searching for the right gift (well, any
gift really) to give your nearest and dearest. What
better way, indeed, to prepare yourself for all those
calories than by fighting your way through the
crowds on Oxford Street?
own&Out in London
If we're to believe the past few weeks' crop of
Sunday colour supplements-heaven forbid that we
might have any of our own present ideas-it seems
that peace, goodwill, love and affection etc. are
readily exchangeable for hard cash down at you
high street bank (and-here comes a bit of satire by
the way-I reckon those bastards at Barclays might
even do it, given their own vast experience of
trading off human suffering). All of which, to get
back to the point, would suggest that if that price
tag (self adhesive price tags in an assortment of
currencies, 75p a pack from Boots and John
Menzies) you so carelessly left in your loved one's
pressie isn't of telephone number proportions, then
it simply means that you don't love them enough.
Hey! Let's hear it for the emotional bankruptcy of
modern society!
Good news for us poor students eh? Mind you,
with the seasonal rush there's a fair chance that your
Access bill won't come through until the beginning
of February, so you'll have a month to bask in the
gratitude before the full horror of your financial
situation hits you.
Oh, and by the way, have you peeked yet? Under
the 24th on your Advent Calendar? I just did, and
it's a Mr. Man Santa Claus holding a huge
Christmas pudding, and he's got his tongue hanging
out, and a huge sack of presents, and...Ah well,
whatever they say, it's all worth it really. Happy
Christmas, everyone.

