News FELIX, Wednesday December 10th 1986 5
Stick Of Rock
There was a minor row at the IC
Union Council Meeting on
Monday, which culminated in Ian
Howgate, the Geology Depart-
mental Representative, walking out.
Mr Howgate was upset by the
amount of mundane business on the
agenda, he objected to the reports of
people who did not attend the
meeting being considered.
Arguments began when Mr
Howgate objected to the report
from Postgraduate Academic
Affairs Officer Gareth Fish. Mr
Fish had sent a written apology for
being unable to attend along with
his report. Mr Howgate objected to
Mr Fish's report the grounds of his
absence. During the ensuing debate
on whether this was reasonable, Mr
Howgate also proposed that all of
the minutes of Council Committees
such as Internal Services and
Academic Affairs be rejected as
well. Council Chair Hugh Southey
explained that these minues were
presented for information purposes
and that Mr Howgate was "out of
order" in his suggestion. Mr.
Howgate left the meeting. Earlier he
had said that he was upset that the
papers for Council members were
circulated late and had earlier
criticised Union publicity as being
responsible for the failing of most
events this year including Guilds
Carnival and Rag Carnival.
Hugh Southey later described Mr
Howgate's action as "rather
childish". He used some of the time
after the otherwise quiet meeting to
hold a short discussion on
improving Council meetings and
making them less intimidating for
new members.
Dave Colley, Union Hon
Secretary, apologised to the meeting
for the late circulation of reports but
explained that he had been ill and
that a lot of the reports had been
submitted to him late. In future
there may be a strict deadline for
submission of written reports if they
are to be circulated before the
meeting.
The business of the meeting was
briefly suspended after M r
Howgate's departure while Chris
Martin, who had just returned from
observing the National Union of
Students Conference in Blackpool,
presented those present whith a
large stick of rock which was broken
up and passed around.
Womens
Officer
At ULU
The University of London Union
(ULU) elected it's first Womens'
Officer at the General Union
Council last week, almost a year
after IC created a similar post.
The post, a non-voting position
on the U L U executive, is to be
shared between Francis Taylor
(KQC) and Rachel Picheathly
(UCL). Beforehand the women
delegates to the meeting held a
closed discussion to decide whether
to ask the male delegates to abstain
in the election. A vote showed equal
numbers for and against this
proposition, and U L U President
Jane Cannon used her casting vote
to defeat it.
No election actually took place,
however, as the candidates agreed to
share the post.
A U L U International Officer was
also elected for the first time at the
same meeting.
Mike Foulds and Portia Smith in Dramsoc's recent production, "After the
Fall" by Arthur Miller, which closed on Saturday.
Benefits Notice
On the 1st September the present Government changed the
regulations which had made it possible for students to claim
various benefits over the two short vacations. Students can no
longer claim unemployment benefit or supplementary benefit
over the Christmas and Easter vacations, even if they have
paid enough contributions to qualify under normal
circumstances.
As from September 1st the College year was officially
regarded as being 38 weeks long to include the short vacation
periods. Students are considered to be still attending College
during these short breaks and not available for work, and
therefore they become ineligable for the unemployment and
supplementary benefits;
The only benefit now available to students is housing
benefit, which may be claimed by those not living in College-
owned residences (such as halls and houses). Unlike in
previous years, those ineligible for housing benefit during
term time will not have a chance of eligibility during the short
breaks.
Any student with questions on benefits can call into
Student Services and see Lesley Gillingham, the IC Welfare
Advisor.
Union Adrift
Following the emergency meeting of
Council on Friday November 28th,
Union Deputy President Jackie
Pierce sent a discussion paper to
College administration as a response
to the revised plans for the JCR.
Included in this is a definiteproposal
that ICU should take over the new
JCR bar, and a speculative
suggestion that, given certain
• management changes within the
Union, control of the QT Snack Bar
should be transferred to ICU. The
paper asks College to confirm or
deny that each refectory outlet is
self-financing and non profit
making, beyond a level necessaryfor
maintenance and refurbishment of
that outlet. Clearly this "perceived
aim of the refectory system" does
not apply in the case of QT, which
has been raking in a healthy profit
ever since it opened just before the
start of term. It is really rather naive
of Council to expect a constructive
response to a proposal such as this,
and but for a healthy caution which
the Union is wisely displaying, the
situation would be very similar to the
"let's get the Union bar"fever which
affected last year's Executive. The
more important question, however,
is whether ICU is acting correctly in
trying to expand the Union-backed
services. Already the administrative
chores take up too large aproportion
of each sabbatical's time, and if the
Union services are expandedfurther,
it will be more difficultfor the Union
officers to contribute something
positive to ICU during their term of
office.
Season's Greetings
Looking back on this term's
FELIX, I have been disappointed
with the lack of variety in the
content, and will be taking steps to
try to improve this next term. As
ever, this depends entirely on the
availability of as many people as
possible to write andpaste up. After
Christmas there will be a staff
meeting on Monday January 5th (the
first day of term), and this will be
followed by regular Friday meetings
at 12.30pm. Please try tofindyour
way to the office sometime early
next term.
Credits
The amount of work put into
FELIX by some members of staff
this term has been quite startling.
My own performance as Editor has
frequently left a lot to be desired,
and so I am especiallygrateful to the
following for their continuing help
and tolerance; Chris Martin, Chris
Edwards, Bill Goodwin, Mole, Pippa
Salmon, Judith Hackney, Kamala
Sen, Nigel Whitfield, Jane Spiegel,
Aaron Kotcheff, David Williams,
David Burns, Liz Holford, Alex
McNeil, Richard Bleasdale, Richard
Fincher, Gail Turner, Sarah Kirk,
Ian Thomas, Hugh Southey, Mark
Cottle, David Wooding, Norman,
Mark Hunter and Fourth Avenue,
Gren Manuel, David Rowe, Pallab
Ghosh, Colin Palmer, Steve Cook,
Laura Dain, Rosemary Hosking and
Steve Shacked. Merry Christmas.
FELIX Is published by the Editor lor and on
behalf of Imperial College Union Publications
Board and is printed by the Imperial College
Union Print Unit. Prince Consort Road,
London, SW7 2BB (Tel 01 589 5111 ext 3515).
Editor, David Jones. Business Manager, Jane
Spiegel. Copyright FELIX 1966 ISSN 1040.
0711.

