Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Decide the theme for our Summer Ball
The Union is currently preparing forThe Summer Ball 2017 and we need
your help to choose a theme! We listened to what you had to say about
last year’s ball in our feedback survey and have picked the following five
themes from your suggestions.
A Disco A BlackTie A Hawaii/Beach party
A Masquerade Ball A 1950s
Take the poll online at imperialcollegeunion.org and cast your vote and let
us know what theme you would like to see atThe Summer Ball 2017
. You
could also win a pair of tickets to the Ball by taking part!
The poll will close at 17:00 on Monday 6 February.
You are Imperial.Will you take the lead?
The Leadership Elections 2017 are your chance to shape the future of student life at Imperial. Every single Imperial student, no matter their subject,
degree level, or campus, can cast their vote for the students that will lead the groups that make this student community what it is. Imperial College
Union brings together Clubs, Societies & Projects, Constituent Unions, Liberation Officers, Academic Representatives, and Community Volunteers
into one vibrant and active organisation. Nominations open at 00:01 on Monday 6 February. Visit our Elections website for more information.
imperialcollegeunion.org/elections
Get ready for the Leadership Elections - nominations open Monday 6 February
Calling all student social entrepreneurs
The A.C.T. Now Social Enterprise are calling all Student Social
Entrepreneurs at Imperial to take advantage of this exciting opportunity
to showcase your social projects, initiatives and enterprises. On Monday
20 March, we’ll be hosting the first ever A.C.T. Now! Social Enterprise
showcase. We will be looking for students to submit an application to
either pitch or present a poster at the showcase and no matter what
stage your enterprise is at you can apply to present a poster or pitch for
up to £1,500 funding.
Applications for pitching and poster presentations are open now until
Tuesday 14 February.To get involved and submit an application visit:
imperialcollegeunion.org/social-action

