35 36
felixonline.co.uk/millennials millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk felixonline.co.uk/millennials millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk
Friday 3 February 2017 Friday 3 February 2017
felix felix
M I L L E N N I A L S M I L L E N N I A L S
SEX
BEANS
When did you first realise you were into this stuff?
I think I first realised it was a turn-on in my mid-teens, I
stumbled upon some Japanese game-show porn involv-
ing cream pies and then just followed a series of links.
It became my go-to wank-fuel for quite a while.
What was your first real life experience of WAM?
Well I tried some solo stuff shortly after I got into
the porn. I had a bit of a shaving foam adventure.
I emptied several cans over myself and mastur-
bated in the shower. My first experience, with
someone else involved, came a few years later. I
met someone online and we poured jelly and baked
beans all over each other in the bath.
Where do you think it stems from psychologically?
From quite an early age I tended to enjoy gunge themed
or messy game-shows a fair bit more than my friends and got
a bit of an odd feeling watching them, so it seemed to pop up
fairly early on in my development. I guess making a mess is a bit
of a taboo and a lot of fetishes are based around some kind of
rule-breaking. It’s certainly an unconventional kind of experience
which, for me, makes it quite exciting. It can also be involved in
sub/dom or humiliation dynamics which definitely draws me to it.
Have you ever had a bad experience with it?
Oh god yes. About two years ago, I was between apartments
and so was staying with a friend in his London flat for a while.
I was super horny while he was still at work so, knowing that he
was into it too and wouldn’t mind, I decided I was going to have
I heard you like... food?
We get down and dirty to get you the messy details in ‘Wet and Messy’
a solo session in the bath. I went out to buy some milk, eggs,
custard and corn-flour. I mixed a big bowl of corn-flour and
water, made up the custard and sat in the tub with everything
I’d acquired placed by the side. I had a great time, but by the
time I finished, the bath had a three inch layer of mess in it. I
had planned to clean up before my host arrived back from
work, so I pulled the plug, stood up, and went for the
shower tap. No water came out.
A bit puzzled, I climbed out of the bath and started to
wonder how I was going to get cleaned up. I grabbed
an old looking towel and started to wipe the sludge
off my body. That’s when I noticed something coming
out from beneath the bath side-panel. Unfortunately my
host hadn’t told me that the bath wasn’t yet plumbed in.
I took off the side panel to see that the mess had spread
all over the untiled floor beneath. He got home about two
hours later as I was making a feeble attempt to clean it up.
He didn’t actually seem that pissed off and after a few hours
we managed to get the bulk of it cleaned up, but I don’t think
I’ve ever been so ashamed in my life. I avoided talking to him for
about a year after that.
God, that sounds pretty awful. So, do you have any advice or
suggested messy substances for people who might want to try
WAM?
Allow for a lot of clean up time. It always takes longer than
you think. Doing it in a paddling pool or a plumbed in bath is
usually a good idea. As for substances, Corn-flour and water
is great fun. It’s a personal preference thing though. If you
like gunge and slime, you can try Natrosol or Slube which are
made for gunge play. Just make sure you check for allergies
before you get in a tub of it!
H
ave you ever found yourself aroused by the thought of having a cream pie pushed into your face or cracking eggs over someone’s chest? Of course you have.
Well, you’re not alone. This fringe phenomenon is called ‘Wet and Messy Fetishism’, often abbreviated to WAM or simply called sploshing. Fans of WAM
enjoy the sensation of wet or messy substances being rubbed or poured on their bodies. These can include cream, custard, eggs, milk, beer and non-food
substances such as paint, gunge, oil, mud or lotion. People involved in WAM often like to stress that bodily fluids are not included in the list.
I caught up with a guy who’s been into WAM for some time to ask him some questions. (He has asked not to be named so we’ll give him the pseudonym
Hamish.)
That concluded my interview with Hamish. I was left wondering how many minds shows like ‘Get your Own Back’ and ‘Dick and Dom’ had affected early on in sexual
development, or whether these urges were more nature than nurture. Either way, rolling around in a paddling pool filled with gunge does sound like a laugh. Maybe I’ll
give it a go.
B.C. Maile
DRUGS
DRUGS
Thatmomentyou’rerushingonsugar
T
he dictionary
definition of a
drug is either “A
medicine or other
substance which
has a physiological
effect when ingested or
otherwise introduced to
the body” or “A substance
taken for its narcotic or
stimulant effects”. Each of
these definitions are perfectly
valid, and classify drugs as
having either a medicinal
or recreational purpose.
This is all well and good,
but what happens when the
lines are blurred? Ingesting
caffeine results in stimulation,
leading many to take coffee
frequently as their opium,
yet society views only one of
these addictions to be harmful
(bet you can’t guess which
one).
Our brains are hardwired
to perform certain essential
bodily functions such as
eating, drinking and taking
cocaine. When we perform
one of these vital actions, a
hormone called dopamine
is released into the brain.
Dopamine is interpreted as
pleasure, therefore almost
programming our brains to
repeat the action in order get
another hit. Cocaine does
this by releasing enormous
amounts of dopamine,
thus explaining its addic-
tive nature. A substance
which releases very
large quantities of
dopamine is known
as a ‘superstimulus’.
But what if other
legal substances
produced the
same effect? For
example, exces-
sive amounts of
sugar and high-
ly-processed junk
foods can have the
exact same result,
also functioning
as superstimuli. If
cocaine and sugar both
create addiction in the
same manner then perhaps
be more accepting of your
cokehead flatmate when they
tell you about your develop-
ing sugar addiction.
Foods have the presumption
of safety. We are all aware
that if you eat too much you
get fat, and die. You can also
eat too little, lose weight, and
die. But beyond these minor
tropes, in general, if you eat
an apple a day you won’t get
AIDS (that is to say eating
an apple a day won’t give
you AIDS. Eating an apple a
day will also not protect you
from AIDS or keep the doctor
away. Especially if the doctor
is a sexual health adviser.
Stay safe kids).
However under the
current classifi-
cation, alcohol
is treated as
a food and
not a drug.
Alcohol
imparts
large
amounts of
calories so
perhaps
under-
standably it
is treated as
a food, how-
ever I’ve never
heard of anyone
drinking alcohol
for its
nutritional
advan-
tages
S U G A R
when not rolling around in
their own faeces at a summer
festival. With such a danger-
ous substance being classified
as a food, it is eminently
available and therefore thor-
oughly abusable.
In general there is a wisdom
to separating drugs from
food. Food is supposed to act
as fuel to attend all those lec-
tures you don’t go to. Drugs
are meant to have medicinal
and therapeutic effects that
you’re too busy experiencing
so you don’t bother going to
lectures. Substances that act
as both food and drugs blur
that line, leading to a steadily
more convoluted classification
system. With this in mind take
note of what you’re ingesting.
Just because it’s a food
doesn’t make it inherently
safe and just because it’s a
drug doesn’t make it inher-
ently fun. If sugar produces
similar effects on the brain
to cocaine and you’re not a
fan of steady addiction then
you’d better stop ordering
that organic chocolate
brownie iced vanilla dou-
ble-shot caramel cream
extra hot Frappuccino
from Starbucks every
morning eh?
\\ I met
someone online
and we poured jelly
and baked beans all
over each other in the
bath \\
Do you LOVE drugs?
Do you HATE drugs?
Either way, we want to know.
Get in touch.
millennials.felix@ic.ac.uk

