I
t’s one a.m. Through my
tinted sunglasses, my vi-
sion – augmented, of course
– picks out clearly the French
Cathedral, even at night. The
Cathedral, and its cyborg guards
who are working for that shady gov-
ernment corporation that’s trying
to kill me. But I’m damned if I’m
taking off these shades. It’s like my
old partner used to say: “better to
look good than have distractions of
another agent who needs backup”.
He was a bit bitter, but that’s prob-
ably because I shot his friend in the
face. A lot.
And it’s funny, because that was
a full three hours ago, and I hadn’t
had that much alcohol then. Now,
seven hours into the Deus Ex en-
durance run, I’m beginning to re-
gret that last glass of whatever it
was, that fourth packet of Skittles,
and leaping from my hiding place
singing Yankee Doodle and armed
with nothing more than a stun gun
against what is essentially a metal-
coated lump of badass.
Enduranceseemedlikeafantastic
idea.Thepremisewassimple–most
gamers are pussies. They save and
quit when they play games. They
‘come back later’. They take breaks
to speak to people, or wash. In fact
it’s more like they play life, and take
Endurance Gaming #1 – Deus Ex
Save and quit? Michael Cook tags along with a chosen few and discovers how to really play a game
fifteen minute breaks for games
here and there, like the warning on
the tin says. Lightweights.
Is this right? Thanks to Felix, we
now have an answer for you – no.
No, this is not right - this is wrong,
and it must be fought. And so, in
late December, a few brave men re-
solved to quest after higher goals.
8pm, start Deus Ex afresh. And
don’t leave until you’ve seen the
credits hiss slowly up your power-
addled monitor. And so Felix Games
gave birth to the Endurance sect,
christened in Ion Storm’s spectacu-
lar RPG/FPS chapel.
By one a.m., however, the burn
was beginning to settle in behind
my eyes, and I’m not talking about
my fictional, electrically-charged
ones. While JC Denton, the ram-
paging protagonist, had his vitals
kept up by a rigourous combination
of cyborg enhancements, biocells
and, well, being fictional, he did
have one fatal flaw – he was being
controlled by an overtired student
hepped up on e-numbers and in
an experimental mood. This had
already led him to storming a pub-
lic monument whilst chain-smok-
ing and brandishing a crowbar. It
Before - mild-mannered mathematician. After - paranoid wreck. Jim’s notes show what 12 hours of gaming does to a man. With a song finale
16 felix Friday 12 January 2007
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk

