No replicas here, we’re the real
deal (unlike those airsoft folk you
read about last term). Imperial Col-
lege Rifle & Pistol Club’s got off to
a flying start this year with high
turnout and interest for both our
rifle and air pistol shooting over at
Moorgate on Wednesdays and also
our fortnightly Clay Pigeon shoot-
ing trips.
Over the summer Sam Dash
(former President) flew all the way
back from NYC to compete at the
annual Imperial Meeting and last
February our Clay Pigeon teams
came in 8th at the annual BUSA
Championships.
Before anyone asks, yes, the guns
are real and yes, they could poten-
tially hurt you but rest assured all of
our activities are conducted under
watchful eyes and observe strict
safety guidelines whether you’re a
beginner or an experienced marks-
man. If you want to make it a regu-
lar pastime or if you just want to try
it out and see how it goes, we’d love
to hear from you!
As a rough guideline a Clay Pi-
geon trip will cost around £20 all in
and Wednesdays can be as cheap or
expensive as you want to make it
– you pay as much as you shoot.
For more information, times and
costs, Dave (Club Captain) and
Ayman (Clay Captain) can be
found at icrpc@imperial.ac.uk.
Imperial College Railway Society
is a bit of a dinosaur. Our society
perhaps represents the geekiest
pastime at college, and perhaps
the most misrepresented. None
of the current committee (as far
as I know) stands at the ends of
station platforms taking pictures
and writing down numbers in little
notebooks. Even if they did, railway
enthusiasts are not anorak-wearing
neanderthals – most trainspotters
these days note down their train
numbers on Blackberries and have
state-of-the-art digital cameras!
After 25 years of dormancy, we
resurrected the dinosaur two years
ago in a Jurassic Park-like exercise
with the support of staff and alum-
ni. Without your support, however,
the dinosaur could become extinct
once again. The interest from staff
and alumni remains strong, but un-
believably students are shunning
the opportunity to find out about
Britain’s public transport heritage.
With our lectures and visits to com-
pany depots, we could offer valu-
able networking opportunities!
One of the most popular activi-
ties we have carried out is a series
of trips to volunteer on the Welsh
Highland Railway (WHR). It’s
messy, hard work but this is amply
rewarded by the warm fuzzy feeling
of helping to reopen a railway that
has been closed for about 70 years.
In addition the hard work takes
place in the inspirational setting of
Snowdonia. Our links with the WHR
have grown this term with a talk by
John Sreeves on the reconstruction
of bridges along the route. Given at
a rather technical level some of the
details in the talk were beyond me,
but it goes to show that we do more
than just drool over steam trains!
We visited Chiltern Railways de-
pot at Aylesbury on the afternoon
of Wednesday 6th December. The
interesting itinerary included a
chance to ride on the driver-train-
ing simulator operated by Chiltern.
This was a great opportunity to
learn a bit more about the operation
of a modern railway and to have a
go at driving a (simulated) train!
This term we’ll have more talks
and trips, including a private visit to
the London Transport Museum De-
pot at Acton, our annual dinner and
a talk on railway safety. Contact us
at icrs@imperial.ac.uk if you want
to be put on our mailing list, and
we’ll keep you informed of upcom-
ing events.
Full steam ahead
Altogether now... He’s behind you! Clay pigeon shooting at the BUSA
Championship. Left, Rupert using a Silver Pigeon. Right, Tristan
with his vintage semi-automatic.
Ayman Sleiman
ICwakeboarding’s first event of
the year, the Beach Party, was a
massive success. The Beach Party
isn’t the only event that the club has
organised so far this year; there has
also been a fantastic Halloween-
themed free beer night and most
recently the club’s first-ever tour.
Seven lucky riders ventured out of
London to Northampton for a week-
end of both boat and cable riding.
The venue for Saturday’s riding
was Grendon lakes, where the club
had booked a boat (a Mastercraft
X2) for the whole day, with each
rider getting three twenty minute
sets. This may not seem like a long
time to be riding, but I can assure
you that wakeboarding behind a
boat for twenty minutes is very
hard work. Fresher Dave, the first
on the water, adapted very quickly
to the huge wake and was soon fly-
ing across it in style. Also on the
water in the morning session were
committee members Sam and Jen.
Particular congratulations to Jen
who had never wakeboarded be-
hind a boat before yet still managed
to stand up first time.
The afternoon session saw Jenny,
Darko, Will and John (a.k.a. Ker-
mit) hit the water. All were very
impressive, despite Darko and the
boat engaging in a tug-of-war which
he inevitably lost. Jenny managed
a wake to wake with ease and laid
down a stylish surface 360. John
also succeeded in going big over
the wake and was desperately close
to pulling a wake to wake 360. Con-
siderable kudos also goes to Will
who inverted his ride by attempting
some backrolls over the wake.
Sunday saw us hitting one of the
UK’s premier wakeboarding loca-
tions, WakeMK in Milton Keynes.
This was more familiar territory for
the club’s riders as we were back
behind a cable. WakeMK is home
to pretty much the finest selection
of obstacles (kickers and sliders) in
the UK. A kicker is a ramp which
riders can use to launch them-
selves high into the air and a slider
is analogous to a grindbar in skate-
boarding. The WakeMK cable was
also much tighter than the cable we
regularly ride; theoretically making
it easier to Raley – launching into
the air from flat water.
There wasn’t a cloud in the sky
and the water was nearly flat as we
stood on the dock ready for another
hardcore day’s riding. The morning
started slowly as riders acclima-
tized to the different cable, howev-
er it was not long before confidence
grew and the obstacles were ses-
sioned. John took the initiative and
eyed up a boardslide on the slider
on the far side of the lake which
was sporting a distinctive paint-
job, very reminiscent of a cow. His
first few attempts resulted in some
nasty-looking slams into the slider
followed by a long swim each time.
Perseverance soon paid off and he
managed to slide the entire length
and ride away clean. Understand-
ably chuffed he was ecstatic to dis-
cover that he had just conquered
the longest slider in the country.
With the gauntlet well and truly
thrown down Will took on the 6ft
high funbox and had some early
success before slipping and butt-
checking the edge of the box. Un-
deterred he continued and pulled
a 50:50 across the funbox, adding
a cheeky 180 off the end. Fresher
Dave also wanted part of the action
and started hitting the long slider
with the cow-inspired paintjob.
Whilst not quite able to reach the
end of it he still managed to ride
away every time. Darko took an al-
ternative route and decided to try
and go aerial by Raleying. Despite
some very brave attempts and some
painful-looking faceplants tired
arms started to take their toll and
he switched to some wakeskating
(like wakeboarding but there are no
bindings, thus opening up a raft of
skateboardesque tricks). Honours
for best performance of the day ul-
timately went to John who went on
to boardslide the imposing looking
A-frame slider on his first attempt.
After nearly 5 hours riding the
cable, darkness finally brought the
weekend’s wakeboarding to a close.
Overall the weekend had been a
huge success with all riders mak-
ing significant strides forward in
their wakeboarding as well as hav-
ing had an awesome time.
We’d like to thank the Union’s
Tours board for their generous con-
tribution to travel costs, Jenny’s
parents for allowing us to crash at
their house, Jenny for driving the
minibus, Matt for driving the boat
and the members and cable mon-
keys at WakeMK for their brillant
advice and welcoming atmosphere.
Creating waves with wakeboarding
Samuel Murphy
David Weir
Real guns, fake pigeons
‘Jubilee’ class 4-6-0, No. 5690
Check my flow: ICwakeboarding’s first ever tour took its members to the tropical waters of Northampton
22 felix Friday 12 January 2007
CLUBS & SOCIETIES clubsandsocs.felix@imperial.ac.uk

