What you (didn’t) miss, part 94
Our intrepid reporter Phil Space brings you up to speed with everything that you missed while you (and
the editor) were enjoying Festivus, consuming alcohol, and pretending to be friends with your old friends
(Finance & Services) to President,
and she did a pretty good job. I also
remember a certain Will Dugdale,
who was Felix Editor two years in
Another try at banning two year sabbatical positions
Two year sabbs, eh? Those foolish
folk that enjoy their year as verita-
ble kings of the Union so much that
they want to have another crack at
it?
Apparently this year’s team have
had enough already, and don’t want
to stand next year, as a paper was
put to Council that would ban two
year sabbaticals (or only allow them
in certain cases, for example from
Deputy President to President).
It seems the Council wasn’t hav-
ing this, and voted it down after a
great deal of general hand-wring-
ing and pontification.
This is despite the horrible repu-
tation of notable two year sabbs
from recent years (c.f. Mustafa “it’s
not illegal if the President does it”
Arif, and Sen “the unremarkable”
Ganesh).
Sameena was a two year sabb,
moving up from Deputy President
Mustafa Arif, seen here fellating a microphone (we think)
a row, but apparently that’s not a
proper sabb. Whatever. The topic
is dead, at least until next year’s
sabbs bring it up.
Furniture finally arrives in da Vinci’s
Alert the internets! The long-lost
furniture for the Hospital Cafe...
sorry, Da Vinci’s. It’s made out of
wood and everything. With chairs.
Awesome, I say.
The tables with benches are ideal
for huge drinking parties, creating
that wonderful Viking-esque drink-
ing environment (long tables, sticky
beer everywhere, quaffing, no girls).
The bar has seemed incredibly full
over the last few nights, with even
your intrepid, well-known and ad-
mired reporter failing to secure
for himself a chair, such is the joy
of the student populace at finally
being able to sit down comfortably
and drink beer.
Before (above) and after (below). Still an awful colour, though
Pillow fight on Queen’s Lawn claims five victims
Returning Officer’s report out; no-one surprised
Christmas Carnival completely sells out
Imperial’s first ever flashmob on
campus took place on a cold De-
cember lunchtime. Wielding sus-
piciously bulky bags, the mobbers
could have been taken for some-
thing more sinister. However, at the
pre-decided time, the bags were
dropped to unveil pillows. The mob-
bers then proceed to beat the living
shit out of each other (on Queen’s
Lawn) with said bed appliances be-
fore melting away into the Sherfield
building and environs before the
very eyes of the group of bemused
onlookers in the JCR, SCR and
Queen’s Lawn.
Unfortunately, your intrepid re-
porter managed to sleep in that
morning, and was therefore unable
to show of his pillow-fighting skills,
honed during a dangerous two
month tour at Ikea.
Surprisingly, no-one was arrested on terrorism charges
Reversing a somewhat dismal
trend for Union events at the mo-
ment, the end-of-term Christmas
Carnival completely sold out, and
by all accounts was a massive suc-
cess. Kudos, I say. The bars took
more than £12,000 and the crowd
of more than 950 people stayed un-
til the wee hours of the morning,
keeping the Union bar open for an
additional 90 minutes to cope with
the huge demand.
Jon Matthews, returning officer for
the NUS referendum, submitted his
report to Council. Among the shock-
horror results, it seems the medics
were heavily in favour of affiliation,
with 68% of those that voted voting
yes. The other faculties were split
roughly 50/50, showing how close
the referendum was in the end. It
seems that the medic vote, plus the
non-faculty voters (sabbs, Tanaka
folk) was enough to secure the yes
vote.
No-one was surprised, as the
Medic President was known to be
strongly in favour of affiliation.
Really, this story was just an ex-
cuse to use the fabulous picture to
the right. Hahaha.
3
felix
Friday 12 January 2007
NEWS news.felix@imperial.ac.uk

