I hope you all had an enjoyable and refreshing Christmas break. I trust that
Santa treated you well - he brought me no less than 15 pairs of new socks
and delivered some rather lovely new tables and stools for the Da Vinciʼs café-
bar.
There are a lot of cracking events lined up for this term. At the end of this
month we have the launch of the Centenary to look forward to and this is
closely followed by RAG Week, International Night, Green Week, ArtsFest and
the Sabbatical elections. We will keep you posted of major events throughout
the rest of the term.
A New Year and a new chance to have your say
This term also sees the launch of our latest democratic initiative: Community
Forums. Throughout the ﬁrst half of this term we will hold a series of open
meetings that any student is welcome to attend and speak at. Unlike Council
meetings, they will be run in a simple, understandable way and only discuss
issues that you want to raise.
There are three forums coming up this term: the ﬁrst
will be held on Thursday 18th January and will focus
on academic and welfare issues. All of the issues
discussed at this meeting will be raised at the Collegeʼs
next strategic education committee, which is attended
by all senior academics who have speciﬁcally invited
us to speak at this meeting. If you are a year, course,
department or faculty representative then you will be
especially welcome to attend this meeting.
The second forum will take place later this month
and will focus on all of our trading and commercial
activities. This is your chance to tell us what you think of our bars, catering
outlets, events and shops.
We have saved the best for our last forum, the Rectorʼs forum. This event will be
held in the Union Dining Hall at 6pm on Thursday 22nd February. This will be
a rare and exciting opportunity for students to throw any question that comes
to mind to the Rector, Sir Richard Sykes. Look out for further information closer
to the time.
Court Elections: there are still vacant positions
Finally, here is a gentle reminder that there are still two positions (for Medical
and Natural Sciences students) vacant on the Union Court. We will be running
elections for these positions at the next Union Council, which will be held on
January 22nd in the Union Dining Hall. If you wish to stand for the Court, please
email me at president@imperial.ac.uk as soon as possible.
unionpage
Happy New Year from the Union
John Collins
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
T
The National Student Survey
is a survey of final year
undergraduates and takes
no longer than five minutes
to complete.
Your views will help future
students to make the choice
of where and what to study.
satisfied?
are
you

