W h a t ' s o n
r
Friday, October 24
'Socialist Society Bookstall, lunchtime, JCR.
•Christian Union: Jesus said I am the Light, Sue Knight,
6:30pm, 53 Princes Gate.
•Outing to B S F A meeting, 7:00pm, meet at Hammer
smith tube station.
Saturday, October 25
• I C C A G : Building work and mural painting and general
helping out at theHolySt Adventure Playground, 10:00am,
meet at Beit Arch. Bus fares are paid.
•The Ram Walkers, 11:00am for 11:15am departure,
meet Brewary Tap, High St, Wandsworth.
Sunday, October 26
• C N D demonstration against Cruise and Trident mis-
siles. IC contingent leaves Beit Arch at 11:00am.
•Wargames Club Meeting, 1:00pm, SCR.
Monday, October 27
•No Badgesoc Meeting on Monday.
• A Meeting for people interested in forming a Wind-
surfing Club at IC, 12:30pm, Upper Lounge (above Stan's).
•External Affairs Committee Meeting, 12:45pm, Upper
Lounge, Union. All welcome.
• M O P S O C visit to Battersea Power Station. See
committee members for details.
Tuesday, October 28
•STOIC transmission, 1:00pm, JCR, Southside TV
Lounge, and Southside, Beit and Linstead Halls. Featuring
'Papa Whiskey', a programme about flying light aircraft.
•Der- of Humanities present:
1. World War Two: The War Beyond the Fighting: Intel-
ligence, with Prof M R D Foot, 1:30pm, Read Theatre,
Sherfield Building.
2. What's New in Engineering? Digital Recording with
Martin Morcom, Sony UK Ltd, 1:30pm, Pippard Theatre,
Sherfield Building.
•Jewish Soc Elections, 1:30pm, Union Senior Dining
Room, Beit. All members requested to attend. New mem-
bers very welcome.
•Natural History Soc Lecture: Bird Brains and Calling
by Dr T J Sellers, 1:00pm, Lecture Theatre, Botany
Basement.
•Photosoc Talk: Out Of My Mind (an approach to
landscape), by Mr C Westgate (FRPS), 7:30pm, Metallurgy
303 (RSM).
•Microcomputer Club Meeting, 7:30pm, Dept of Com-
puting, Room 145.
•Mountain Club E G M , 8:30pm, Union SCR.
Wednesday, October 29
• M O P S O C visit to Battersea Power Station. See
committee members for details.
•An introductory talk on Transcendental Meditation,
1:00pm, Green Committee Room, Union Building.
•Wargames Club Meeting, 1:00pm, SCR.
•PG Group Meeting: important! PGs please attend,
12:30, Upper (ICWA) Lounge.
•Hang Gliding Club Meeting, 12:30pm, above Stan's
Bar.
•Dept of Humanities present:
1. Film: Life on Earth (David Attenborough), 1:30pm, The
Great Hall, Sherfield Building.
2. Lunch-hour Concert with Takashi Shimizu (violin) and
John Blakely (piano), the Music Room, 53 Prince's Gate.
•Socialist Society, 1:00pm, Maths 340. Women's Voice.
•STOIC transmission, 1:00pm and 6:00pm, withNeu;s-
break, and Stuff the Front Page, Hold the Coffee, a
progreamme produced by Network 4, Leeds University's
Students TV Service.
• M O P S O C Lecture, on Severn Barrage Scheme,
5:45pm, Physics Lecture Theatre 3.
INDIA SOC
Satuday, October 1
Annual Diwali Celebration
JCR, 8:00pm
w i t h a f a m o u s live b a n d , d i s c o , the ' G r e a t I n d i a n
D a n c e r s ' , Indian f o o d a n d b a r .
C o s t £ 1 . 5 0
E v e r y o n e w e l c o m e .
Wednesday, October 15
Rugby
I C 1st X V V Q M C 32-0
I C 2 n d X V V Q M C 18-9
Football
I C 1st X I V L o n d o n H o s p 4-0
I C 2 n d X I V L o n d o n H o s p 13-0
I C 3 r d X I V I C 5 t h X I 1-3
I C 4 t h X I V Q E C 4-0
I C 6 t h X I V S O A S 3-0
Hockey
I C 1st X I V W H M S 3-2
G u i l d s V K C H 2-1
R C S V Q M C 3-3
M i n e s V G u y s 0-9
L a d i e s V C h e l s e a 1-3
Football Firsts
AFTER a good 2-2 draw against Southampton
University 1st XI the previous week, IC began
their league campaign at London Hospital on
Wednesday. From the first kick it was
obviously going to be an easy game for IC.
Most of the team seemed to feel the same
way, as they promptly missed six easy
chances in the opening minutes. Finally,
Dave Dean put IC ahead after fifteen minutes
and this was followed by a penalty, awarded
for a trip on James Rowley, converted by Kev
Reeve. Dan Dean made it 3-0 before half-
time.
In the second half, IC decided to feel sorry
for their opponents and only managed one
goal, a thirty yard effort from Ged Elliot, who
thus proved the law of averages! Meanwhile,
James Rowley had been continuing his non-
scoring efforts with two shots that hit the bar
and, at the centre of the defence, Steve and
Phil seemed to keep themselves amused!
TEAM: Smirnoff, Reeve, Smith, Mulhall,
Ward, Dick, Elliott, Ryan, Dean, Hartland and
Rowley.
Football Seconds
ON AN excellent pitch, IC started their league
programme against this newly promoted side
with a resounding victory.
IC quickly took a firm grip on the game and
the pressure applied to the rickety LH
defence resulted in several free kicks around
their penalty area. The first half ended at 4-0
to IC with Veenman (2), Carr and Armstrong
supplying the goals.
The opposition's 'electric' defence, which
seemed to have developed a short circuit
meant that the goals continued to flow freely
in the second half. Bateson made forceful
forward runs and was unlucky not to have his
dive in the penalty area noticed by a rather
dozey referee. With the LH attack now non-
existent, the defence were free to attack at
will; both MacDonald and Curran putting
their names on the score sheet.
At 10-0 the opposition were looking
distinctly disinterested, and some turned to
kicking our players instead of the ball, in the
vain hope of enlisting some more patients. A
good overall performance was finished by a
powerful header from Carr. The complete list
of second half scorers was: Saunders (3),
Carr (3), MacDonald, Niccolls and Curran.
TEAM: Veats, Curran, Beer, MacDonald,
Bateson, Clarke, Niccolls, Armstrong, Carr,
Veenman (Merritt), Saunders.
Football Thirds
IN THE first half of, what proved to be a
highly entertaining game, the fifths rock-like
defence of Brown in goal and back four,
Teahan, Cable, Lay and Gohil dealt with
everything, the thirds attack could produce.
Just after half-time the fifths went a goal
behind to a well-taken opportunist effort by
Wiggins.
As the saying goes: "When the going gets
tough; the tough get going"; so it proved with
the fifths. Finding themselves a goal behind
for the second week running they moved up a
gear into overdrive to produce one of the
finest comebacks.
The equalising goal came from an own
goal, and with the thirds now on the rack the
fifths started to turn the screw. Both Morris
and Archer had shots cleared off the line
before Baldwin disposed a thirds defender on
the edge of the box and thumped the ball past
the despairing keeper. The third killer goal
was added soon after, when Audin's deep
cross from the right wing left Healy with the
simple task of slotting the ball home.
This set the seal on what was a fine fifth
team result demonstrating the incredible
spirit which has already developed within the
team.
A particular mention must go to Dave
Hardy and Kev Teahan who were both
playing in their first fifth team game and gave
excellent debut performances.
TEAM: Brown, Teahan, Gohil, Cable, Lay,
Morris, Archer, Kelly, Healy, Baldwin, and
Hardy. With Audin as sub.
Many thanks to Al's girlfriend for coming to
cheer the fifths to another emphatic victory.
Football Fourths
RIGHT from the start of the game IC had an
edge over QEC in all areas of play and soon
started to pressurize the QEC goal. With less
than ten minutes gone, IC suffered a setback
when centre-forward, Burns, had to leve the
pitch with an ankle injury. This did not effect
IC's domination of the game and they took
the lead soon after when McNicholas turned
in a hard low cross from Maddy. IC
continued the pressure, with any Q E C
breaks being easily handled by the defence
QEC held out the IC attack until Richy Dolan
scored a brilliant individual goal beating
several QEC players before prodding the ball
under the advancing keeper to make it 2-0.
In the second half QEC put up a better fight
and had much more possession of the ball. It
was after a spell of QMC pressure that IC
scored their third goal with a sudden break
out from defence which allowed McNicholas
to go clear on the right and chip the ball to
Kev Buckley who turned the ball in at the near
post.
There were many attacks and several
narrow misses before Graves got clear of the
defence and side-footed past the keeper from
the edge of the box to score the fourth goal.
TEAM: Williams, Berns, Maddy, Flanagan,
Chown, Dolan, Hunter, Buckley, Burns,
McNicholas, Williams J, and Graves.
Football Sixths
IC SIXTHS cruised to their second victory in
four days with a polished performance
against the School of Oriental and African
Studies.
At first the game was very evenly balanced
and very few chances were created by either
side, however, gradually IC began to threaten
the SOAS goal more frequnetly. IC scored
after twenty minutes following a corner that
Page 10 FELIX, October 24, 1980

