broke loose from a mass of players allowing
Chamberlain to put the ball in from close
range. Following the goal, SOAS launched a
series of attacks on the IC goal but could not
break through the tight marking and tackling
of Davies, Higham and Barton, ably backed
up by composed sweeper, Nagle. Although,
on the defensive, IC counterattacked well,
and, on one of these occasions, IC forced a
corner. Sean Davis floated the ball across the
area enabling Mike Roache to rise above the
defence and head the ball down for John
Chamberlain to slot in his second goal.
Although IC were two up the game continued
to be very even up until half-time.
The second half started similarly to the first
half with both sides creating few chances, but
as SOAS pushed more men forward they left
gaps at the back and, following one of the
many good moves on the left initiated by
Steve Davies and Liam Gartside, John
Chamberlain crossed the ball for Sean Davis
to score.
With ten minutes left Christov Caseau came
on for Dick Tangier. IC still had their work cut
out as the opposition pressed forward. SOAS
very nearly got a goal when their forward
appeared to outrun Dave Bradley (probably a
trick of the light) but the ever alert Neil
Hampton raced off his line to make a brave
save at the oncoming forwards' feet. SOAS hit
the post in the closing minutes, but IC held on
to gain a creditable win.
T E A M : Hampton, Higham, Bradman,
Nagle, Davies, Tinkler, Clegg, Gartside,
Davis, Roache and Chamberlain.
D Tinkler
Rugby Firsts
AFTER a scenic two hour tour of London, we
finally arrived at Q M C ' s ground near
Brentwood. The match kicked off at 3:15pm
in brilliant sunshine, with both sides looking
very pretty in their new strips.
It took a few minutes for IC to get going,
but it was soon evident that our pack would
overpower QMC's. Our first try came after
some tentative handling in the backs finally
allowed George Chan on the wing to go on a
dazzling run, only to be tripped near the line
and be awarded a penalty try. From this point
on, the backs gained in confidence and with
plenty of ball provided from set pieces, we
began to pile on the points. Tries came from
Chan (2), Johnston (2), Davies, Manzoni,
Austin and amazingly 2 conversions from
Morgan.
The 'Random lineout thrower award' goes
to A Lorans with the much coveted 'extra
fullback' award going to R Smart (Capt).
All together this was an encouraging match
for IC who are still trying to find the best
combination before the Guteridge Cup.
TEAM: Pullen, Davies, U-Narbro, Morgan,
Fazacarli, Paixao, Chan, Johnston, Austin,
Stear, Smart (Capt), Warby, Richards, Lorans
and Manzoni.
RCS Hockey
N E G L E C T I N G all thought of pulling off
another series of convincing cancellations,
RCS produced a team, an umpire, seven
shirts and a gritty performance against one fo
last year's top teams. Any question of RCS
winning points by luck were dispelled by this
performance. RCS scored first with a dazzling
run from the half-way line by Farrington, but
QMC hit back swiftly to lead 2-1 at half-time.
In the second half, a short corner led to a
mad scramble by the somewhat shaky QMC
defence and Mike Cope forced the ball home.
Another piece of scrappy defending saw the
ball come to Cope again and RCS were
looking for their first league win for more than
a year. However, they were denied by a late
goal from QMC. On this performance Gordon
Baxter wouldn't even get to be 15th man.
Robyn
Snooker
Saturday, October 18
Rugby
I C 1st X V
I C 2 n d X V
Football
I C 1st X I
Hockey
I C 1st X I
I C 2 n d X I
I C 3 r d XI
v P o l i c e D D i v i s i o n 8-9
v P o l i c e S D i v i s i o n 0-4
v K i n g s
v M e t P o l i c e
.v M i l l Hill
v S a i n t s
1- 1
0- 1
2- 1
1-0
Football Firsts
THE FIRSTS made hard work of their match
on Saturday. The side had been reshuffled
due to injury and the 'unavoidable' absence of
Steve Ward! IC found themselves 1-0 behind
at half-time following a medicore first half. In
the closing stages of the game, Hartland
stabbed the ball homefollowng good work by
Elliott. Still looking for a win, IC Pushed
foward again and won a corner on the left. A
deep far post cross found Mulhall rising like a
salmon to connect firmly with the b a l l . . . and
send it flying over the bar!
TEAM: Smirnoff, Curran, Smith, Reeve,
Mulhall, Elliott, Bateson, Ryan, Dean,
Hartland and Rowley.
Hockey Firsts
AFTER the euphoria of last week's victory
over a weakened Birkbeck side, we at last
settled to our usual losing ways.
With or without the influence of certain star
players we played like idiots. Yes, we have to
admit it, we were hopeless and the scoreline
of 0-1 really flattered us; we should have been
creamed. Never mind there's always next
week. Perhaps we can lose more impressively
then.
T E A M : Butler, Crowe, Riley, Davey,
Hughes, Barry, Ayres, Coatesworth, Rao,
Rich, Bell and Gatley.
Hockey Thirds
THE THIRDS won for the first time this
season despite having two goalkeepers
playing outfield and an outfield player
masquerading as a goalkeeper. The Old
Creightonians, with their high level of
individual skill, provided very strong
opposition.
The first half was goalless with both sides
missing scoring opportunities. IC failed to
convert several good chances, both from atta-
cking moves and penalty corners whilst the
Old Creightonians failed to capitalise on two
crosses that split the IC defence, and an
excellent chance when the goalkeeper was
left bemused at one post, as the ball passed
just outside the other.
IC took the lead early in the second half from
a penalty corner. Dave Cornwell hammering a
shot low into the corner of the net. Old
Creightonians were kept out by some solid
defending and were unlucky (?-Ed) to be
denied two penalty strokes. One when an IC
defender submitted to his goalkeeping
instincts and kicked the ball away, the other
when out keeper 'accidentally' body checked
an advancing player.
The game was hard, but played in good
spirit with the final score reflecting IC's
slightly better team play.
TEAM: Hutchings, Sawers, Leinster, Pound,
Webb. Cliff, Cornwell, Taylor, Wylie, Morgan,
Mitchell and Shaw (umpire).
OVER twenty-nine people entered this year's
Freshers' Tournament, the highest since the
last one. The eventual winner was C
Gallagher and runner-up Lindsey Hancox.
Drinks were kindly donated by the finalists,
after gentle persuasion by Mr President, to
everyone present.
The league started last Wednesday and we
are ready to defend our hard-earned title of
last year, during which we beat all opposition.
Cricket
Imperial College CC v Magdala CC
Indoor 6-a-side Knockout Competition at
Lords
ARRIVING his usual one minute late the
Captain's appearnce only just prevented Mr
Simpkin from conceding the match, so
distraught was he at the thought of playing
without such a devastating bowler.
After making the usual excuses about
tubes, etc., the toss was lost and IC forced to
field. Mr Ellacott not wishing to disappoint Mr
Simpkin, preceded to open the bowling with
Mr Silva. Having got his obligatory couple of
leg side wides out of the way, Mr Ellacott
conceded only 12 runs off his 3 overs with Mr
Silva, although conceding 23 runs, bowling a
Maiden Over, which is quite an achievement
in an indoor game where 10 runs per over is
considered an average run rate. Then further
tight bowling from Mr Simpkin (16 runs) and
Mr Tear (19 runs) and some sharp fielding,
limited Magdala to a mere 79 runs in their 12
overs.
The usual practise when in s u c h a
commanding position (especially in ULU Cup
matches) is for the IC batsmen to try and out
do the opponents and get an even more
ridiculous score. But on this o c c a s i o n
tradition was broken. Messrs Simpkin and
White opened with such aggression and
timing that they were hardly recognisable as
IC batsmen. Soon Mr Simpkin reached 26 and
had to retire having passed 25 and Mr White
was caught out for 20. But Messrs Clarke and
Silva proceeded to score at twice the required
rate scoring 24no and 10no respectively.
The Magdala score was soon passed in
only the sixth over when Mr Clarke despatched
the ball for six over the bowler's head, thus
just about making up for dropping the easiest
catch ever given at Lords, off the bowling of
Mr Ellacott.
Tennis
HOPE everyone heard about the meeting and
found the room. A fairly good attendance
with about 50 people. Points raised included
the fact that the discount arranged with
Drobny's is no more, so don't use them!
A Round Robin tournamant has been
arranged for this and next term. Format will
be two groups and the top pairs from each
group will play each other. Names to T
Tsoukkas, Civ Eng 3 by Friday, October 31
1980. Anyone without a partner (mens and
ladies pairs only please, a mixed tournament
may be arranged later) please send your
name and we'll try and find you one.
Coaching sessions are held every Thursday
(beginners especially welcome) between
12:45 and 1:15(ish).
We hope to arrange a couple of film shows
and a trip to the WCT Braniff. World Airways
Championships in Olympia. For details see
the tennis noticeboard in the Sports Centre.
Please note all of these facilities (except the
last) are free to members, but cost £1 to non-
members, so send your £1 with your name,
department and year to A Clarke, Civ Eng 3 as
soon as possible and become a member.
FEUX, October 24, 1980 Page 11

