Freshers' Dinners are now water under the bridge
hat has just been crossed. Term moves into the
all before Rag Week. Or does it? Not quite.
There is still life about. Tomorrow is the
Alternative Rag stunt, organised by Rich and
Steve. They're not quite sure what it is, but they
do know that it starts in the Union Bar at 1:00pm.
It could be fun so why not go along.
On a more serious note the first General
Committee of term takes place on Monday
evening at 6:00pm in Bot/Zoo Common Room.
All members must attend and observers are also
welcome.
The second UGM is on Thursday, October 30,
at 1:00pm in Physics Lecture Theatre 1. Four
members of the Entertainments Committee have
to be elected and you are needed to exercise your
democratic right to vote. (Strains of The Stars
and Stripes' in the background.)
Phil, the Broadsheet Editor is grovelling to ask
me to remind everyone that Broadsheet will be
produced on Wednesday afternoon in the RCSU
Office. Willing hands are wanted, especially those
that can type and put up with flying gestetner ink
and bad coffee.
That's about it for another week, except to
start rumours about . . . the Halloween Party!
(gasp, shock, horror)
A bientot
PJ
C&G
FIRST, the good news: Ruth's jacket has been
found, none the worse for its ordeal. The bad
news is that there has been another theft. After
the Chem Eng Freshers' Dinner some swine
nicked six packets of coffee and fifteen pints of
milk. I hope he dies of caffeine poisoning or gut-
rot. Then we might get the coffee back, 'cos we
need it for other freshers' dinners. We also need
wine waiters. Any volunteers (who will get a free
meal normally costing £6) should see Sandy or
put their names on the board in the Guilds Office
Monday, October 27 is the Elec Eng Freshers'
Dinner and Thursday, October 30 is Computing
Freshers' Dinner.
On Friday, October 31 there will be a Joint
C C U Halloween Party in the JCR. Tickets should
be available soon from the C C U offices.
On Sunday, November 2 Bo goes to Brighton.
You can go too if you get a coach ticket from the
Guilds Office. Turn out in your pyjamas to see Bo
off from Hyde Park then join the coach (don't be
late or you'll be left behind) and greet Bo in
Brighton with a rousing Boomalaka and, judging
by last year, by demolishing a fence. Then there's
a meal in a hotel which you can regurgitate back
up at the funfair. There's also some sea and a
beach, if you're that way inclined (in November!).
The tickets for this event always sell quickly, so
come and get yours as soon as possible from the
Guilds Office.
Andy Dixon
Publicity Officer
i t * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * * *
NICOLE
67 Notting Hill Gate, London W l
F A N T A S T I C KNITWEAR S A L E
Shetlands £6.95
Lambswool £7.95
Thursday, October 30
12:00—2:30pm
Junior Common Room
It is remarkable to me that postgraduates seem
only too willing to take part in PG Group activities
(Cambridge Trip, Ploughman's Lunch, etc.) from
which they expect to reap benefit, and yet are
totally unwilling to spend about twenty minutes
on a Wednesday lunchtime to come to a meeting.
I wonder if any of them realise that the
organisation which gave them these events can
only be run as a successful enterprise if they are
willing to lend a hand every now and then. After
all, it is their organisation.
I presume that they realise that the present
committee are only acting because insufficient
people are concerned enough to get off their
backsides and ratify them. Do they realise that an
acting committee cannot be forced to do anything
for them?
I wonder also how many PGs are aware of the
new security arrangements which are about to
come into force. If they can't be bothered with
one side of PG Group, then this matter will
probably concern them. However, unless a
concerted body of opinion can be put forward on
the matter, they may find themselves being
locked out of departments at all sorts of
inconvenient times.
College Security are in the process of installing
'cardkey' access points to the departmental
buildings. So far they've said very little about how
these points are going to be operated, when
they'll be in use, or who will be given cards.
These points are very important to the many
PGs, who for whatever reason, work outside
norma) hours. Consequently, I hope youH turn
up to next Thursday's meeting, where more
details should be available and discussion can
take place.
Finally, an apology to those who did attend on
October 15, and have just read this minor tirade. I
hope, however, that they will realise that they too
have a part of play in dragging people along to
meetings, otherwise nothing will get done; PGs
will have no voice and they will be trodden on
even harder — or maybe that's what they want.
Graham Green
Chem PG
Matters Raised
Lost! £10,000 worth of pots
That was the amount lost in 1978/9 in glasses,
crockery and cutlery "disappearing" from
refectories and bars. As this amounts to about 2p
on every pint of beer you buy, it's in your own
interest to return any glasses, plates, etc.,
promptly, i.e., before they become so ingrained
with muck they're uncleanable and therefore
useless. Prompt return also ensures there is no
shortage of glasses in the bars, so please
cooperate and help us keep prices down.
Haldane Library
At the recent committee meetings we were
presented with a distressingly long list of missing
books. If you have any forgotten loans lying in the
back of your cupboard, or see any library books
just lying around, please return them — no
questions will be asked.
I'd also like to remind library users that, with so
many popular records, cassettes, and books
available, prompt return is essential so that other
users can have their turn. However, loans may be
renewed by calling in, or (in an emergency) by
phoning internal 3980.
L o n d o n Student Travel
Another plug for our wonderful office on the JCR
walkway — you shouldn't be able to miss it with
its nice new sign. It is now open 10:00am till
5:00pm on Mondays, Tuesdays, Wednesdays and
Fridays, for railcards, tickets, and all general
travel enquiries. We should also be selling British
Rail tickets in a few weeks time.
Feedback
Yet again I'm appealing for your views on any of
the above, or anything else the Union provides or
should provide. So, if you have any suggestions or
complaints please tell us, because it's only when
we know the problems that we can do something
about them.
Cheers.
Rae
DARE TO BE
DIFFERENT,
GotoaUG
Tues. 28th Oct.
lpm Great Hall
Going thru the motions
Lecturer Training
T h e U G M A g e n d a
Overseas Students' Fees
G r e e k Students' Fees
A N D , wait for it, a motion of censure on F E L I X Editor, Steve Marshall.
It could be funttUUUUHlHllttUlHUllUUUHlUH
Page 8 FELIX, October 24, 1980

