politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 felix Friday 25 January 2008
Politics
Politics Editors – Li-Teck Lau and Kadhim Shubber
Palestinians in the Gaza Strip and the West Bank must deal with an economy in free fall as well as political infighting
Can we see peace on the horizon?
C
onflict in Israel, or Pales-
tine if you prefer, was one
of the defining features of
the 20th century, and its
continuation in the 21st
century stands as a regretful monu-
ment to humankind. I will not label
the Palestinians as terrorists; nor will
I condemn the actions of the Israeli
state; those wishing to reinforce their
prejudices should read elsewhere. Is
there a realistic route for peace in the
future? I believe that there is, but it
does not lie in a two-state solution.
In a rather tedious way I must reit-
erate the basis of peace in the Holy
Land, as has been iterated countless
time by various world leaders; an end
to violence is paramount. The situa-
tion as is it now makes this goal sub-
stantially more complicated than it
was a mere 10 years ago. While in the
past U.S. leaders have put a lot of effort
into ending violence in the Holy Land,
for example under Bill Clinton, the
current administration has neglected
this conflict and thus lost credibility
as a peacemaker. Also, there are now
two separate groups who have a hand
in deciding the fate of the Palestinian
people; the Islamist Hamas that has
control in Gaza and the secular Fatah,
which has control in the West Bank.
This makes the problem of ending
violence more difficult. Firstly, be-
cause gaining a meaningful ceasefire
agreement is much easier when you
only have to deal with one group, but
realistically this alone does not turn
a molehill into a mountain. Secondly,
and more importantly, for violence to
end Hamas must stomach its aversion
to dealing with Israel while Israel and
the U.S. must stomach their aversion
to dealing with Hamas. However we
should not exaggerate this issue and
deceive ourselves that this is impossi-
ble. Hamas and Israel have previously
held a ceasefire and in fact currently
Hamas is seeking a ceasefire with Israel.
Infrastructure minister Binyamin Ben-
Eliezer and transport minister Shaul
Mofaz have both said that Israel should
be receptive to a ceasefire with Hamas.
“If Hamas comes to us with a serious
proposal for a long-term truce, in my
opinion Israel should not reject it,” Mr.
Ben-Eliezer told Israeli public radio.
Despite my optimism, I concede that at
present neither side has shown the po-
litical guts to work seriously for peace.
Israeli PM Ehud Olmert has ruled out
a ceasefire with Palestinian Islamist
movement Hamas unless it recognizes
Israel and renounces violence. “This
war will continue,” Mr Olmert told his
ministers. a Hamas spokesman also
denied it was considering a truce. “It is
up to [Israel] because when they stop
all their aggressions we will then dis-
cuss the issue.”
The Israeli government argues that
allowing refugees to return to their
original homes (many of which are
in what is now Israel) would create a
Palestinian majority and undermine
Israel’s status as a Jewish state. Critics
of the right to return state that Pales-
tinians were made homeless because of
the Arab-initiated 1948 war. However,
several UN resolutions call for refu-
gees to be permitted to return to their
homes “at the earliest practicable date”.
Little progress has been made on what
is perhaps the most difficult issue.
Regardless of the differences on both
sides, progress is steadily being made
on the issue, and despite suspicion
from some quarters, both sides gen-
erally agree that a peaceful solution
is mutually more beneficial than con-
stant conflict.
Tension between Iran and the U.S.A
has, in some ways, made the peace
process more difficult. The U.S. and
Israel are distracted from the goal
of peace and instead feel their na-
tional security is threatened. Hamas
is regarded as a proxy fighter for Iran
rather than a representative of the Pal-
estinian people and so this conflict is
interpreted as a proxy war against Iran
rather than a tragedy that requires a
rapid peace. Iran does not act in the
interests of the Palestinian people. It
perpetuates the violence by supplying
weapons and funds to militants. The
use of this conflict by both sides as a
proxy war is highly damaging to the
peace process and obviously the lives
of Israeli and Palestinian people. There
is an unexpected benefit however of
With a growing humanitarian crisis in Gaza, Kadhim Shubber investigates a possible route for peace
From top: Sheikh Ahmed Yassin
and Ismail Haniya
With over 1,000 active mem-
bers in its military wing Hamas
is the largest and most influential
Palestinian militant movement.
2 years ago this month Hamas
won the Palestinian Authority’s
(PA) general legislative elections.
They defeated Fatah, the party
of Mahmoud Abbas, the PA’s
president. Hamas grew out of
the Muslim Brotherhood, a reli-
gious and political organization
founded in Egypt in the 1960s,
Hamas’ founder and spiritual
leader, Sheikh Ahmed Yassin,
started Hamas as the Muslim
Brotherhood’s local political arm
in December 1987, following the
eruption of the first intifada.
Hamas combines Islamic Fun-
damentalism with Palestinian
Nationalism. Its founding charter
commits the group to the de-
struction of Israel, the founding
of an Islamic state in Palestine.
Hamas devotes much of its esti-
mated $70-million annual budget
to an extensive social services
network. “Approximately 90 per-
cent of its work is in social, wel-
fare, cultural, and educational ac-
tivities,” writes the Israeli scholar
Reuven Paz.
Hamas is believed to have killed
more than five hundred people
in more than 350 separate terror-
ist attacks since 1993. The group
uses mortars, short-range rock-
ets, and small arms fire as well
as suicide attacks.
History and facts on Hamas
the tension surrounding Iran. Other
Arab states, seeking to counter-act the
rising power of Iran have been more
willing to co-operate with Israel. This
was seen at the Annapolis conference
in December. Israel often feels threat-
ened by its Arab neighbours and this
hinders peace, therefore by bringing
the Arab states closer to their Jewish
neighbour, Israel will gain the confi-
dence to pursue peace with the Pales-
tinians. It remains to be seen whether
renewed co-operation with Arab states
will re-assure Israel as much as tension
with Iran concerns it.
Previous ceasefires and peace agree-
ments have come to nothing. Despite
the many summits and opportunities in
the past that seemed to point towards
peace, we still find ourselves no closer
to the light at the end of tunnel. The
Oslo Peace Accords are the most pub-
lic example in our lifetime of high-level
meetings resulting in little progress on
the ground, due to in part the actions
of Hamas. What will make a peace
agreement work? Instead of agreeing
on terms through which the Palestin-
ians and Israelis will be divided, the
exact opposite should be done.
In comparison to the economic
condition of the UK, the Palestinian
territories’ situation is appalling. The
unemployment rate is approximately
35 percent in Gaza but slightly lower
in the West Bank. Import and export is
essentially a non-entity with the Gaza
Strip’s only import being humanitar-
ian aid. I do not wish to trivialise the
issue, but the cause of this miser-
able economic situation is rather eas-
ily summed up. It is the isolation of the
Palestinian Territories due to ongoing
violence and the restriction on travel
and trade imposed by Israel. Israel
has destroyed Gaza’s airport and har-
bour while keeping its people behind a
Recently, Israel has tightened
it’s grip on the Gaza Strip. Re-
strictions have been placed
on fuel imports resulting in
Gaza’s only power plant go-
ing offline. U.S. Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice urged
Israel to avoid a humanitar-
ian crisis in Gaza; she joined a
large number of nations con-
demning Israel’s actions. She
did add that, ultimately, Hamas
was to blame for the situation.
Humanitarian
Crisis
Hamas militants armed to the teeth

