politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
Politics
More
immigrants
please!
The country’s full! We’re storing up
problems for the future! Immigrants
are blood-sucking, benefit-stealing,
lazy terrorists! Any idea what these
statements have in common? Let me
add another to help you: “like the Ro-
man, I seem to see ‘the River Tiber
foaming with much blood’”. That is a
quote from Enoch Powell’s ‘Rivers of
Blood’ speech and the thing that they
all have in common is that they are all
bullshit.
Those of you who have a copy of the
Daily Mail in your bag will be aghast at
my statement; luckily, due to the mul-
ti-cultural and well-educated nature of
Imperial students, you are a minority.
Immigrants are economically benefi-
cial; you are free to dispute this, though
you run the risk of embarrassing your-
self. The Economist recently reported
“Without migrants, the greying and
increasingly choosy populations in
much of the rich world would already
be on the decline today.” One estimate
in 2004 of the impact of letting an ex-
tra 16m migrants into the OECD club
of rich economies suggested that the
gain to the global economy would be in
the order of $156 billion. There may be
strains on local public services - at least
until bureaucrats catch up and allocate
resources according to the larger local
populations. Problems with the prison
system, NHS and crime in Britain to-
day are just those; and to label immi-
gration as the cause simply distracts us
from the true roots of the problem.
The thought that we can just build
a fence and watch NHS waiting lists
disappear is very comforting. It is
however, equally delusional when you
consider the strain smoking, drinking
and over-eating put on public services.
We are all scientists, and as scientists
we must look at the facts. Opposition
to immigration is simply ignoring the
facts.
Unfortunately, the facts of immigra-
tion don’t actually make a difference
to politicians devising immigration
law. More important to rational gov-
ernment decisions, it would seem, are
the nonsensical ranting of the tabloid
press. The horrifying story of an ille-
gal immigrant who wasn’t deported is
more important in the public mind-
set than the tangible economic gains
of international migration. Everybody
at Imperial will have experienced the
benefits of migration either directly,
through friendship and their own ex-
perience as migrants, or indirectly
through a high standard of living (a
quick scroll through your contact list
will remind you that your life would
be worse if not for immigration).
Certainly there are immigrants who
do not integrate or learn English, but
these are not symptoms of a system
headed for disaster; rather they remind
us that - like the readers of the Daily
Mail - close-minded idiots come in all
colours, creeds and religions.
40km long barbed wire fence. It is not
for nothing that Gazans regard them-
selves as prisoners in the world’s largest
open-air prison. For Israel too, there is
a harsh economic cost of the current
status quo. While the uninformed of-
ten disregard the effect of the conflict
on Israelis, the impact of the Second
Intifada in 2000 was dramatic, includ-
ing a cessation of economic growth
an increase in the extent and depth of
poverty. Israel suffers from the conflict
and from financing its involvement in
the conflict.
Is there anything to be gained from
these statistics? Both Israel and the
Palestinian people suffer economically
from the conflict. Please no applause,
I beg you. What is important is that
economics provides both an incentive
for peace and also the glue that will
hold peace together. Once begun, it
becomes self-sustaining. If the Pales-
tinian territories are able to produce
and export goods then links are estab-
lished with the wider world, wealth is
produced and greater prospects are
opened to the Palestinian people. With
a stable economy, a stable job market
and stable future then militant groups
– those who wish to destabilize the
region through violence – will lose
support.
The economic angle has another im-
portant part to play. Isolation between
communities is one of the biggest per-
petuators of conflict in this region. Is-
raelis and Palestinians develop preju-
dices against each other based on the
worst atrocities of the conflict. These
prejudices are not easily destroyed.
The West Bank Barrier physically sep-
arates Israelis and Palestinians, for ex-
ample, but there are also no trade links
or other connections between these
two peoples. By encouraging and initi-
ating trade and commerce between the
Palestinian Territories and Israel then
these links will begin to exist. Palestin-
ians and Israelis will interact daily with
each other through business, initially,
but as this regular contact has an ef-
fect also in friendship. Today the Pal-
estinians and Israelis lose tremendous
amounts from conflict but fear and
prejudice allow them to justify these
losses. Their leaders have been unable
to make peace but it is not at high-level
talks that this conflict will end. It will
end as these communities come closer
together on a long-term basis through
trade. Instead of justifying their losses,
an opportunity should be presented
for them to justify moving past this tit-
tat conflict with long-term economic
benefits.
Off the coast of Gaza lie at least $2
billion in undeveloped gas reserves.
This provides the basis for the future
of economic development in Palestine
As stated earlier, the division be-
This will probably be the first
time you have heard about
gas reserves off the coast
of Gaza. BG Group Plc was
meant to drill for natural gas
36 kilometers off of the Gaza
coast, in an area that was des-
ignated as PA territory follow-
ing the Oslo Accords. The gas
was meant to then flow four
km underwater in a pipeline
850 meters below the surface
to an Ashkelon refinery. The
field, which BG purchased in
2000 and to which Hamas now
claims rightful ownership,
contains 1 trillion cubic feet of
natural gas worth an estimat-
ed $4 billion. If Israel were to
be the main purchaser of Pal-
estinian gas exports it would
represent a win-win situation.
The Palestinians would have a
guaranteed purchaser for their
gas, one that would generate
£50 million a year for 15 years
in tax revenues, and provide
the foundation for sustainable
economic growth. And the
Israelis would have a secure
source of affordable gas to
underwrite their economy’s
growth. However the deal
was scuppered due to Israeli
fears that revenues from the
gas development could fall
into the hands of its enemies
such as the various militant
groups that operate in Pales-
tine specifically Hamas.
Is there really gas off Gaza?
tween Fatah and Hamas complicates
the matter. In the West Bank, Fatah
has made leaps and bounds in terms
of good governance. The Palestin-
ian Prime Minister, Salam Fayyad, has
won Western plaudits through his ef-
forts to put Palestinian finances on a
new footing - and root out corruption.
He has announced plans for a sewage
treatment plant in Gaza and a number
of projects in the West Bank, includ-
ing an industrial park in Jericho and an
industrial zone in Hebron. However
while in the West Bank Mr. Fayyad,
an internationally respected moder-
ate, is in charge, in the impoverished
and overcrowded Gaza Strip, the oth-
er Palestinian Prime Minister, Ismail
Haniya leads an organization regarded
as terrorist by the EU and U.S.A. Since
Hamas took over Gaza, leading Presi-
dent Abbas to choose another Prime
Minister, Salam Fayyad, Israel and the
U.S. as well as international donors
have tried to undermine, bring down
and skirt around the authority of Ha-
mas. This action has been taken under
the assumption that Hamas will not
make peace readily and instead must
be forced economically and militarily.
Definitely Hamas has proved itself as
a force against peace, it showed an ef-
fective veto over the peace process
launched by the Oslo Peace Accords
by launching suicide attacks. However
the isolation of the people of Gaza does
not persuade anyone to come to the
negotiating table, instead it reinforces
the mentality of conflict and gives jus-
tification to those who label Israelis as
the enemy. The economic stranglehold
on Gaza is simply driving people to
join Hamas, if only because it is one of
the few employers left. After decades
of conflict the defiant streak of the
Palestinians still exists, coercion sim-
ply hardens attitudes and reinforces
prejudices. Hamas can be dealt with in
a peace process; currently they act as
the defender of the Palestinian people.
Remove the impetus to fight through a
ceasefire and they will be forced to act
as the provider of the Palestinian peo-
ple. The reason why they were elected
was not because Palestinians were af-
firming their support for terrorism;
it was because Hamas were seen as
honest and capable of providing basic
services. Instead of forcing them into
conflict, we must force them into good
governance.
The most important tool of peace-
making is the unshakeable will to
reach an agreement. There are many
signs that neither the Israeli nor the
Palestinian government possesses this
will. Israel’s role in preventing the ex-
ploitation of Gaza’s offshore resources
leads one to the conclusion that Israel
does not want the Palestinians to stand
on their feet economically while Ha-
mas and other groups seem more than
ready to allow their people to wallow in
poverty than build a sustainable future.
The most important thing, more im-
portant than a ceasefire or economic
co-operation, is that these two peoples
have representatives that share their
desire for peace.
Isolation is the fuel that drives this
conflict. Israel isolates the Palestinian
territories due to security concerns,
and by isolate I mean denies freedom
of movement to Palestinians and pre-
vents the Palestinian economy from
functioning. This isolation leads to
desperation and desperation can end
nowhere except in violence. First these
security concerns must be addressed.
However the mistakes of the past must
not be repeated, we cannot wait for
peace before peace talks. Israel must be
prepared to negotiate with its enemies
and appeal to the Palestinian people
through economic assistance. A two
state solution is a misnomer. There
can be no solution as long as the Pal-
estinians and Israelis are kept separate.
The Israeli state will remain suspicious
of its neighbour and continue to have
total control over it while the Palestin-
ian people will continue to rue what
they see as the greatest injustice in
mankind’s history. There is no inher-
ent animosity between the Jewish and
Muslim faith, only that which exists
today because of association with the
Palestine-Israel conflict. The future of
sustainable peace is one state for both
Palestinians and Jewish people. A state
for the Jewish or Palestinian people
carries an inherent discrimination that
could only lead to conflict, conversely
an inclusive state will lead to peace, un-
derstanding and an end to this chapter
of human history that reveals the worst
within us all.
Jerusalem is a barrier to the two state solution, with both sides claiming it as their natural capital. For both Jerusalem is a sacred city.
Samuel Black
Political Know-it-all

