Elections season is almost upon us
where you get to decide who will be your
sabbatical team for 2008/09.
Taking a sabbatical year involves taking a
year out of your studies or doing (as I did)
it at the end of your course. The positions
of President, Felix Editor and the three
Deputy Presidents are all full time jobs and
successful candidates will be employed by
our Union for one year taking on one of the
following roles. I will now attempt to sum
up exactly what is involved in these roles.
The work of Sabbatical officers is so varied
that these descriptions will be no where
near exhaustive. So if you are thinking about
running for a position I would strongly advise
you to get in touch with whoever it is doing
the job at the minute; as myself and the other
sabbaticals will be delighted to fill you in on
what our respective roles entail.
President
The Union President is ultimately responsible
for all Union activity and finances. The
President meets regularly with the Rector
and other senior College academics and
managers to provide student input in decision
making processes and to raise any immediate
concerns that students have. The President
also works closely with the General Manager
who is in charge of the Union’s staff. Finally
the President is responsible for ensuring that
the Union’s finances are in order. To answer
the question “What the President does?”
would solicit a 2000 word essay so all I will
say is, it is a very rewarding job where you
have a real opportunity to make positive
changes for students on campus and within
the Union itself. As ever I can be contacted at
president@imperial.ac.uk
Deputy President (Education and
Welfare)
The DPEW is responsible for coordinating
academic representation and welfare
provision within the Union and sits on
countless College committees giving input
on a very diverse range of issues from
e-learning to student residences. The DPEW
is also responsible for coordinating all the
Union’s campaigns and works with the
student volunteers who organise them to
make sure that as many people hear about
them as possible. Kirsty Patterson is the
current holder of this office and can be
contacted at dpew@imperial.ac.uk.
Deputy President (Clubs and
Societies)
The DPCS makes sure that all the Union’s
290+ clubs are kept as happy as possible.
The holder of this office can expect to work
closely with Sport Imperial, ULU and BUSA
to address any issues arising regarding
sports teams, competitions or facilities.
The more serious side of this role involves
responsibilities for ensuring that health
and safety requirements are met across
all Union activities so that the organisation
is compliant with the relevant laws and
College policies. For more information
contact Ally at dpcs@imperial.ac.uk.
Deputy President (Finance and
Services)
The DPFS is responsible for the day to
day financial administration of the Union.
The holder of this office will spend a lot of
time dealing with budgetary queries from
Clubs, Faculty Unions and event organisers.
You would also collate and solicit student
feedback about the Union’s bars, catering
and shop to gauge how students would like
to see things run. The holder of this office is
also responsible for coordinating the Summer
Ball (the preparations for Summer Ball 2008
actually started in November 2007) which is
a great opportunity to be creative to make
sure thousands of us students have a brilliant
time at our end of year bash. Chris Larvin will
be more than happy to provide more details
and you can reach him at dpfs@imperial.
ac.uk.
Felix Editor
The Felix Editor produces a copy of Felix
every week during the Undergraduate term
time. Your main challenge in this role is
to recruit and motivate a willing band of
volunteers to do a range of tasks including
writing, editing, photography, design
work and good old fashioned investigative
journalism. Once you have a happy
team in place for the rest of the year you
keep a watchful eye on both the College
management and the work of the other
Union Sabbatical Officers and committees on
behalf of the student body. Tom Roberts can
be contacted at felix@imperial.ac.uk although
I imagine dear old Ed has his contact
details available on many pages of this fine
publication.
NUS Delegates
NUS Annual Conference 2008 takes place
from the 1st to the 3rd of April in Blackpool.
Imperial College Union is entitled to elect
another 8 delegates and these elections
will take place concurrently with the
Sabbatical Officer Elections. The students
who volunteered to come along to the
Extraordinary Conference held in December
thought it a very interesting experience so
without reiterating some of my colourful
views of this organisation I would like to
encourage you to come along. For more
information contact me at president@
imperial.ac.uk
Student Trustees
The Trustee Board is the governing body
of the Union and is there to make sure that
the Union is being managed effectively, has
sound finances and is legally compliant. I
know this sounds rather dry but the last
meeting did formally approve the next
phase of the Union Building Redevelopment
so I hope you would agree that this is of
huge relevance to the student body. This
committee is a very important new feature
of the Union’s governance structure (more
info on our website, governance is not the
sexiest topic you encounter as a sabbatical
officer but it is an important one) and has 4
student members elected by cross campus
ballot in addition to the President and the
other Trustees.
We are going
to be electing 2
student trustees
for next year so
if you would like
to provide some
student input
into the strategic
direction of a
charity that turns
over millions of
pounds a year
please stand
for one of these
positions. Again, drop me an email if you
would like more information.
So how do I stand?
If you wish to stand for one of these
positions nominations open on Monday 28
January online at www.imperialcollegeunion.
org/vote and close at midnight on Sunday 10
February. Depending on what position you
are running for you will need to get a certain
number of your friends (no more than 20) to
log on to the same address and second your
nomination. The Returning Officer for these
elections is ex-ICSMSU President Daniel
McGuinness who can be contacted with any
questions about the elections process or
procedures at elections@imperial.ac.uk.
unionpage
Imperial College Union, Beit Quadrangle, Prince Consort
Road, London SW7 2BB
Tel: 020 7594 8060
imperialcollegeunion.org
Stephen Brown
President
president@imperial.ac.uk
Elections season is almost upon us
where you get to decide who will be your
sabbatical team for 2008/09.
Deputy Pres
Societies)
ecti
Nominations open Mon 28!
stand at imperialcollegeunion.org/vote
Monday 28 January – Nominations Open
Monday 11 February – Nominations Close

