15
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
environment in its history, especially
after the death of Benazir Bhutto. It
will also be discussed if there are any
similarities with any events in the past
and what the predicted result of the
upcoming elections will be; for exam-
ple, a coalition or a single party win-
ning a majority in Parliament, and the
future of the role of the Military in Pa-
kistani Politics.
Mr Manzoor ul Haq, Minister of Po-
litical Affairs will be attending from
the high commission. He will brief
the audience on why the elections
were postponed and how the govern-
ment is trying to ensure that the elec-
tions are free and fair. He will explain
if there will be any bans on organising
rallies and any new rules and regula-
tions regarding campaigning that have
been drafted in the light of the security
situation. He will also advise Pakistanis
living in London on how to cast their
vote. Also there will be speaker from
the Pakistani People’s Party (PPP).
Entrywillbeonafirstcomefirstserve
Focus on... The Pakistan Society
T
he Pakistan Society is a
very proactive club that
strives to unite the Paki-
stani community within
Imperial College. They
hold events to bring the community
closer together throughout the aca-
demic year. In 2007 they were awarded
the President’s Award for their achieve-
ments during the year.
On the 20th of November last year,
the Pakistan Society held their annual
Charity Dinner, SHAAM. The aim of
the night was to meet up with friends,
eat well, enjoy comedy and raise money
for the Edhi Foundation.
SHAAM 07 was very well attended
by both students and families, and the
organisation was excellent. The mar-
quee was decorated with a main stage,
soft lighting and each table had float-
ing candles and decorations. It was
clear that a lot of work had gone into
the event. Two large screens were used
for videos and information about the
raffle, sponsors and the forthcoming
East Meets West extravaganza.
The meal was traditionally Pakistani
food, and was delicious. The dishes in-
cluded: Tandoori Chicken, Vegetable
Spring Rolls, Chicken Jalfrezi, Palak
Aloo, Chana Pilao rice, naan, and Gajar
ka Halwa. It was provided by Barkat
Catering, who also provided an ex-
tremely popular 3 foot high chocolate
fountain!
The night started with a musical act
and then continued with comedy acts
including: Haqi Ali, Shazia Mirza, Ha-
lal Bilal, and Prince Abdi. After dinner
there was also a lovely performance
by a Bollywood fusion band, with per-
formers Salwa Malik, Roshina Nandra
and Mez Pahlan.
Whilst the main theme of the night
was to raise money, the comedy seemed
to focus on the differences between Pa-
kistanis and “others” and Muslims and
“others”. Many of the jokes revolved
around stereotypes, and even some of
the Pakistani audience were blushing
at jokes about the Jewish, Western and
Indian people! The aim was to use hu-
mour as a way to break down barriers
within the Asian community. Shazia
Mirza, my favourite of the night, was a
truly funny comedienne, using mostly
observational humour about people in
the room and everyday life.
At this year’s dinner, the Pakistan So-
ciety raised over £1600 for their cho-
Last year the Pakistan Society won the President’s award and are one of the most active societies in college.
This year promises to be even better. Sally Longstaff reports on this years events including SHAAM ‘07
sen charity. The Ehdi Foundation is a
non-profit organisation that provides
social services and relief work in Pa-
kistan. Founded in 1951, they provide
24-hour emergency care at 250 Edhi
centres throughout Pakistan, including
medical care, air ambulances, burial
services, and shelter for destitute peo-
ples, orphans, abused women and the
handicapped. They also provide free
dispensaries,wheelchairsandcrutches,
as well as drug rehabilitation centres,
family planning and maternity care.
Shazia Arshad, the President of the
Pakistan Society said, “SHAAM was
once again a hugely successful evening,
as it was well enjoyed by everyone who
attended, and we raised a significant
amount for charity.” She also wishes
to thank the committee for their hard
work and dedication, and the sponsors
of the event, TravelPak, who organise
small group adventures of Pakistan,
and the Finance Society.
On Wednesday January 30th there
will be a political talk about the cur-
rent situation in Pakistan, entitled:
“Pakistan at the Crossroads – A Jour-
ney through the Changing Political
Climate”. This will be held in Mechani-
cal Engineering Room 220 from 6:30 –
9:00pm. There will be representatives
from all the major Pakistani political
parties, who will give short talks, out-
lined below, and a lengthy questions
and answers session.
Mr Shahid Dastgir from the Paki-
stan Tehrik e Insaaf (PTI) will talk
about why his party chose to boycott
the elections and what the PTI will do
during this time and the party’s future
course.
Mr Mohammad Anwar from the
Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM)
will outline why MQM should not be
underestimated as a small party in na-
tional politics, whether the election
will be free, fair and transparent and
predictions on how MQM will fair in
the elections and its future role in Pa-
kistani politics.
Mr Ziauddin, the senior editor from
Dawn News will provide an impartial
and factual analysis on whether Paki-
stan has ever witnessed the likes of the
current socio-economic and political
Top: Playing Carrom - a mix of billiards, marbles and air hockey!
SHAAM 07: Some of the participants at the Annual Charity Dinner
“SHAAM was
once again
a hugely
successful
evening”
“...whether
Pakistan has
ever witnessed
the likes of the
current socio-
economic
and political
environment in
its history...”
basis for 300 guests. This is a chance to
take part in an extremely challenging
and engaging event about the future of
Pakistan and its government.
During the second week of February,
the Pakistan Society will be hosting
their “infamous” Carrom Tournament,
where students will battle one another
to become supreme champion of this
game which is a mixture of billiards,
marbles and air hockey.
Also in February will be Dholki Raat,
a girls’ only night of henna, music,
good food and much more! For the
boys there will be a Poker tournament.
Later in the term there will be an arts
and culture exhibition, which promises
to be a showcase of the best in Paki-
stani culture.
Details of these events and
information about the Pakistan
Society can be found on their
website: http://www.union.ic.ac.
uk/osc/pakistan/
The late Benazir Bhutto

