16 felix Friday 25 January 2008
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight, David Paw and Emily Wilson
Budding culture vulture? Write for us.
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Emily Wilson
Arts Editor
Welcome everyone to the
Wellcome Collection!
Emily Wilson introduces you to a little-known London museum that blends science,
medicine, history and art all in one very swish and glamorous package
L
et me introduce to you per-
haps my favourite place in
all of London – a place that
brings together the two po-
lar opposites that are art
and science: the Wellcome Collection.
This museum, funded by the Well-
come Trust, contains two permanent
collections, a changing exhibition, a
bookshop, a café and a world-renownd
library. It is completely free to visit and
open to the public.
The Wellcome Collection can be
found at Euston Square, over the road
from Euston train station, so it’s very
easy to get to. The building is subtle –
a dull, concrete affair jazzed up with
a few flags. But you’re impressed as
soon as you walk inside. The interior
is big, clean and modern. The design
of the whole place is crisp and mini-
malist without being soulless. On the
ground floor, aside from the space for
temporary exhibitions, there is a spe-
cialist branch of Blackwell’s that sells a
few Wellcome-related gifts, and a very
classy (i.e. not cheap) café/restaurant.
The first of the two permanent col-
lections, Medicine Now, is a slick, shiny
exploration of modern medical issues.
It aims to portray the experiences of
scientists, doctors and their patients.
It focuses on a few key topics at the
forefront of medicine today, including
genomes, malaria and obesity. Most
of the material here would probably
be considered art, for example “Left-
sided orchidectomy II” by Michael
Landy (2005). This is a down-to-earth
coloured pencil drawing of the scar left
after an operation to remove the art-
ist’s left testicle. At the other end of
the room, bringing attention to the hu-
man genome project, Andrea Duncan’s
“Twenty three pairs” (2002) is a human
karyotype – a map of chromosomes –
made up of socks. There is also a range
of artistic manipulations of the human
form, such as a rearranged human
skeleton and a hideous blob monster
to alert us to the dangers of obesity.
On a far wall, there is the opportunity
for visitors to contribute a postcard of
their own writings and drawings re-
lated to health and medicine. They are
wonderfully varied, and I could have
looked at them all day. One person had
drawn “this is what is in my brother’s
veins”, depicting some limp, mutated
red-blood cells. There were several
doodlesofevilvirusesattackingpeople,
some more science-based than others.
I also noticed there was an oddly large
number of unicorn drawings.
But Medicine Now isn’t just art, it’s
also hard science. The Sanger insti-
tute has contributed a giant robot that
was previously used in the sequenc-
ing of the human genome. Next to it
is a bookshelf full of lever arch files
containing the Gs, Ts, As and Cs that
make up the genome itself. One file is
open, revealing a typeface so small as
to put into perspective the staggering
volume of genetic information that is
required to generate a human being.
Also present are some droppings and
fleece taken from Dolly the Sheep.
Something else that should be noted
about Medicine Now is the interactivity
of the gallery. There are touch-screen
computers to tinker with, books to
read and there was a whole crowd of
people drawing their own postcards to
contribute to the wall. There are also
a lot of headsets dotted about, where
you can listen to patients’ stories. I’m
not usually a big fan of interactive ex-
hibits – they tend to detract from the
substance and attract small children
who want to bang on the touch-screens
mindlessly. But I think Wellcome have
used them unimposingly, usefully and
to great effect here.
Next door is the second permanent
exhibition, Medicine Man. This con-
tains historical artifacts collected by
Henry Wellcome, founder of the Well-
come Trust, himself. It’s a treasure
chest of medical oddities from around
the world. Many will enter and see a
stuffy museum of old junk, but there
are some real treats to be found here.
Objects range from simple bleeding
bowls to “porcelain fruit and vegeta-
If the Wellcome Collection is good enough for Stephen Fry then it’s good enough for you. He doesn’t look
too happy about being there. Possibly because he’s being followed by some kind of blob monster
This is Stephen Fry after the blob monster was done with him. Now
he’s doomed to stand for all eternity, greeting visitors
A
few months ago I started
out writing the occasion-
al art exhibition review,
generally with an empha-
sis on the phallic sym-
bols I found in the art and how good
the cake in the café was. This term, I'm
suddenly one of the Arts Editors. I like
the way things work here at Felix.
This week I review the Wellcome
Collection. I could ramble on about
how AMAZING this place is for hours
on end, but until now I've never per-
suaded anybody else to go. I hope this
week's Felix changes that. You'll notice
that the article doesn't discuss my café
experience, this is because I didn't have
one. However, the cake I have eaten
here on previous occasions was excel-
lent. They do some kind of chocolate-y
Millionaire's Shortcake which I highly
recommend. But you will be pleased to
knowthatIfoundplentyofphallicsym-
bols to satisfy your expectations. Not
to mention Napoleon’s toothbrush.
One problem I did encounter on my
trip to the Wellcome Collection this
week was with getting there. Normally
I can zip over to Euston Square on the
Hammersmith and City line in less
than half an hour. But this weekend
the Hammersmith and City line was
closed, as was most of the District line-
and the buses were all diverted because
of some kind of religious procession.
London public transport at its finest!
Nevermind – five buses and multiple
hours of travelling was a small(ish)
price to pay for art. Don’t ever say I’m
not dedicated to my journalistic craft.
It looks like I’ll be out and about be-
ing arts-y in the next few weeks, to
keep you entertained. Not that I have
any objection. The last time I set foot
in an art gallery was in fact yesterday,
when I nipped into Tate Modern. But,
OK, I’ll be honest with you- I was in
there for a grand total of six minutes,
as I only went in there to use the toi-
let. It turns out there’s a distinct lack
of public facilities on the South Bank
(if you’re reading this, Ken, sort it
out!). It’s not the first time I’ve done it
either. Sorry, Tate, I love you for your
art really.
In addition to my introduction to
the Wellcome Collection, we have
two new regular features starting this
week. Rosie Grayburn is fed up of you
all sitting at home in your bedrooms all
weekend. Don’t claim you’re working –
we don’t believe you! Rosie’s going to
come up with some exciting ideas for
day trips in London on a student (i.e.
very, very low) budget. And then we’ve
got our resident musical theatre buff,
Lucy Harrold, poised and ready to in-
troduce you to a few shows you may
not have discovered yet.
Obviously, I can't be much of an edi-
tor if I don't have anything to edit, so
I'm very eager to receive any contribu-
tions. Rantings and reviews of books,
theatre, musicals, art, opera and clas-
sical music are all welcome here. I can
even try and get you free press tickets
(yes, free! Every student’s favourite
word) to anything you want to see –
just drop us a line.

