arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
Arts
bles containing erotic scenes”. There’s
a snuff container made of an entire
ram’s head from nineteenth-century
Scotland. Near it is a box containing
a selection of glass eyes. I also find a
gall bladder (possibly Chinese, the
label says) and a fragment of Jeremy
Bentham’s skin. Not to mention an en-
tire mummified male body from medi-
eval Peru, curled up in the corner.
There are items that really make you
wonder how they got there. Like the
death mask of Benjamin Disraeli. Er...
might he want that back? And then
there’s Napoleon’s toothbrush. There’s
also a whole glass case of sex. Such
items probably belong down a side
street in Paris. “Statue of a copulat-
ing couple”, “figurine depicting sexual
foreplay”, “still life with concealed erot-
ic scenes”, “Japanese sex aids”... Henry
Wellcome was clearly a very dirty old
man. The phallic amulets are unmiss-
able – ornaments of penises with legs
and wings, hailing from Roman times.
Medical history wouldn’t be medi-
Left: the Medicine Man gallery filled with dead bodies and penis amulets. Right: yes, it’s a penis. With legs and hooves. This is what old Henry Wellcome was into, it would seem
cal history without a healthy helping
of blood and guts. Medicine Man does
not disappoint. There’s a top notch
painting of a Victorian woman mid-
way through popping out a baby. Plus
if you’re squeamish, you won’t like
the nearby case of metal instruments.
Knives, saws and a staggering array of
birthing forceps. Nice. This case al-
most puts “torture chair” to shame.
Now, I could rant and rave about the
unequalled brilliance of the Wellcome
Library, but I’ll try to keep it to a mini-
mum. If you’re studying medicine, bi-
ology or any kind of history of science,
I guarantee you’ll find all the books
you’ll ever need here. For everyone
else, this is a blissfully quiet and com-
fortable place to work, complete with
computers and Internet access. Never
again will you have to beat people off
with a stick to get a library desk around
exam time. You can turn up at any time
and register for free. They’ll even take
an unflattering photo of you and print
it on a handy swipecard.
The Wellcome Collection is like the
Science Museum, but mixed with a
splattering of art. It has the advantage
of being more compact – you can eas-
ily work your way round all the galler-
ies in a few hours. Something I very
much appreciate is the relative absence
of small children running about under
your feet, even at weekends. A trip to
the Wellcome Collection would make
a sophisticated, intellectual but fun
(and free!) day out for any future doc-
tor or scientist.
The Science of sleep and dreams
The Wellcome Collection’s current exhibition explains why sleeping through your lectures might one day
earn you a Nobel Prize. Emily Wilson stumbles about in the dark to find out. Zzzzzzzz...
W
hy do we sleep?
What purpose does
dreaming serve?
These are some
of the questions
which the current Wellcome Collec-
tion exhibition, Sleeping and Dream-
ing, seeks to answer. To answer these
questions, simply enter the imposing
glass door to the left of the informa-
tion desk as you walk into the building.
You will feel a blast of cold air as you
walk in – the exhibition space is no-
ticeably cold. You’re also plunged into
near-darkness, which isn’t too helpful
when you’re a journalist trying to take
notes. But, on the bright side, there to
greet you are some giant sleeping faces
projected on to the walls.
So what’s in Sleeping and Dreaming?
Much like the rest of the Wellcome
Collection, it’s a trendy fusion of sci-
ence and art. There are paintings and
sculptures of people sleeping, images
of dreams, but also medical instru-
ments and footage from experiments.
Some of the artwork is deeply sinister.
A painting about narcosis by Richard
Tennant-Cooper from 1912 is fuck-off
scary in fact, showing little green men
torturing a naked, sleeping man. Ap-
parently it portrays the fears aroused
by temporary loss of consciousness.
Well Richard, until now I had no such
fears. “Die nacht/der traum” by Battista
Dossi (1544) is more amusing. A sleep-
ing woman is surrounded by an owl, a
rooster, a lobster waving a flag and a
bearded bloke about to whack her over
the head with a stick. Also good is “A
dandy fainting”, a cartoon by Robert
Cruikshank from 1835. The caption
seen it before (it’s become somewhat
of a cliché recently, I think) and I don’t
want to revisit the scene with the eye.
*Shudder*. However I love “Dream
Paintings” by Jane Gifford (2004) – 144
different miniature paintings of her
various dreams.
My personal favourite is number
fourteen, described as: “I saw Gor-
don Brown carrying a mug of ‘Cov-
ent Garden’ carrot and coriander soup
across the courtyard”. Other exhibits I
appreciated were the display cases of
Sleeping and Dreaming: it’s cold, it’s dark, it asks too many questions, but you might just learn something
reads “this caricature pokes fun at the
effeminate behaviour of English dan-
dies who wore their clothes too tight
and swooned upon hearing a castrato
singing”. As you do, really.
But the science is just as interesting.
There is an interesting section about
the development of electroencepha-
lography (EEG), which allowed brain
activity to be recorded for the first
time in the 1920s. It apparently revolu-
tionised sleep research and medicine.
The information is accompanied by
footage from a sleep laboratory. I was
hoping somebody to start sleepwalking
or sleep-killing-spree-ing, but it’s just
people snoring in bed. Shame.
I also found it fascinating how many
scientific discoveries have been made
through the dreams of their creators.
August Kekulé von Stradonitz attrib-
uted his discovery of the ring-shaped
structure of the benzene molecule to a
dream he had in 1861 or 1862, which
featured a snake twisting and turn-
ing. On 17th February 1869, Dmitri
Mendeleev dozed off and in his dream
he saw a table in which all the known
chemical elements fell into place. Two
weeks later he published the Peri-
odic Table. And in 1920, Otto Loewi
dreamed the design for an experiment
on the transmission of nerve impulses.
He discovered neurotransmitters and
won the 1936 Nobel Prize for Medi-
cine. Such evidence showing the im-
portance of sleep to science, is surely
a perfect defence for anybody caught
snoozing through lectures.
Carrying on the dream theme,
there’s a looped showing of the Salva-
dor Dalí film “Un Chien Andalou”. I’ve
modern sedatives (Nytol, Sleepeaze),
devices to prevent snoring (SnorBan,
AntiSnor – so originally named) and
stimulant drinks and tablets (Red Bull,
Relentless, several mysterious Japanese
products). However, the “Headthink-
er” sculptures by Laura Ford (2003),
sleeping children with donkeys’ heads,
are ghastly and their role in the exhibi-
tion seems to be little more than filling
empty space.
Overall Sleeping and Dreaming is
good, but not very good. It is of a very
high standard considering it’s free to
view, but I much preferred their previ-
ous exhibit, The Heart, which filled the
available space impressively and had a
bit more substance to it. This exhibi-
tion just keeps on asking questions.
What happens when we are asleep?
Is life without sleep possible?... But I
didn’t come away from the exhibition
feeling any of them had been answered.
Perhaps Wellcome need to spend less
time making us think and more time
teaching us something.

