arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
Arts
19
Phoenix rises from the ashes again
The Arts magazine of Imperial College is returning this term and we need writers and content. If you enjoy
writing short stories, poetry, drawing and any other forms of art that you can think of, come, get acquainted
Way back in 1887, H.G. Wells – an Im-
perial student at the time – founded the
literary publication Science Schools
Journal, which would later become
the Arts magazine of Imperial College,
Phoenix, in 1904.
Phoenix started life covering news
and events around college, but as time
passed the magazine evolved into a
more artistic publication. With the cre-
ation of Felix (which is in fact a spin-off
from Phoenix) on 9th December 1949,
Phoenix lost its role as a news source
for students and consequently its focus
shifted onto creative writing.
Since then Phoenix has been through
many changes and different ver-
sions over the years. Technology has
changed dramatically during its life-
time. Phoenix has gone from typewrit-
ers and sketches to glossy paper and
full CMYK glory, most recently with
its most latest publication in 2005.
2005. That’s quite a gap since the last
issue was published, but over the last
century a space of three years in be-
tween publications is relatively short. It
seems that whoever came up with the
monicker “Phoenix” had some spook-
ily accurate foresight.
Rather inevitably considering the
nature of this article, you won’t be
surprised to hear that Phoenix will be
rising again later this term and subse-
quently during the summer term.
We need contributors. Felix Arts
editor David Paw will be at the helm
of the operation with yours truly as-
sisting him all the way. If the brief his-
tory lesson above has whet your appe-
tite enough, then you can email David
straight-away on arts.felix@imperial.
ac.uk. If, however, you’re still feeling
undernourished, let me continue...
This term’s issue of Phoenix will be
based on the same specifications as
I,Science; a full technicolour A4 maga-
Tom Roberts
zine. Sections are yet to be finalised,
but we would love to receive your short
stories, poems, sonnets, haikus, draw-
ings, comic strips, theatre and culture
reviews, photography, screenplays and
anything else you can think of! If you
can come up with any bright ideas of
your own that haven’t been mentioned
above, fire your mind bullets in David’s
direction and he’ll consider them.
If you look around the page in front
of you, hopefully you’ll be able to get a
feel for what the essence of Phoenix is.
It’s about as far removed from Felix as
possible. Issues in the past have been
made wholly from seemingly random
articles; snippets from warped minds
that have been and gone through Im-
perial College.
Phoenix is free from the newspaper
Above: Just a small sample of Phoenix front covers from over the years. Below: A selection of poems from the archives
conventions that restrict Felix. What-
ever your brain can conjure up, Phoe-
nix can consider it to be published.
Beware though, we will be drawing the
line at fascist dictator love-ins though.
Phoenix got stung by that one when
one of its old editors, namely David Ir-
ving, used the magazine as a platform
to spout his pro-Hitler views.
But... don’t let that put you off! Ahem.
As students studying science, creative
opportunities like this aren’t as readily
available in comparison with other in-
stitutions, so put your literary cap on
(the one with the flower and the rib-
bon) and get in touch!
Contact David Paw by dropping
him an email on arts.felix@imperial.
ac.uk. He awaits your email with bait-
ed breath.

