20 felix Friday 25 January 2008
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
Arts
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
Culture Crawling with a Friend
Institute of Contemporary
Arts Cinema
The Mall
Charing Cross Station
Home to some of the best new art and culture from Britain and around the
world. It showcases contemporary culture and screens both documentary
and fiction feature films. Monday to Thursday and late night Friday fims.
Pre-booking required. Offer ends 31 March.
Wildlife Photographer
of the Year
Natural History Museum
South Kensington Station
This exhibition showcases the very best photographic images
of nature and is truly inspiring. Weekdays only until 15 April.
Madame Tussaud’s
Marylebone Road
Baker Street Station
Mingle with the stars, dance with Kylie and ogle at Prince
William at the world famous Madam Tussaud’s. It’s
usually rediculously expensive, but with the 2 for 1 offer
it becomes really worth it. Offer Ends 29 February.
London Aquarium
County Hall, Westminster Bridge Road
Westminster/Waterloo Station
Amazing aquarium with over 350 species of fish and
aquatic beasties. Offer ends 31 March.
London Dungeon
28 Tooley Street
London Bridge Station
Transport yourself back to the darkest moments in the capital’s history
within the deep depths of the London Dungeon. Everything that you
see is based on real historical events from Jack the Ripper to the Great
Fire of London, torture and the plague. Offer ends 31 March.
Chapter Six – 2 for 1 with your Oyster card
West End Shows
Various stations: Covent Garden, Leicester Square and Picadilly Circus
2 for 1 deals at the following shows: We Will Rock You, Chicago, Les Miserables., Stomp, The Woman in Black,
Buddy and The 39 Steps. This offer involves booking through TicketMaster (there are the appropriate links
from the Transport for London website: www.tfl.gov.uk) for two top-price tickets and paying for just one. This
is a very good dea, because although it means paying up to £50 for tickets, they will be the best in the house for
about £25 each. Bargainous! Most offers end on the 31st March, although a couple run for longer. London plays
host to some marvellous shows and going to see a West End Show is a must-do whilst you are here!
Written by Sally Longstaff, designed by Rosie Grayburn
RHS Shows
Greycoat Street
Victoria/St James’s Park Station
The Royal Horticultural Society hosts the following
wonderful flower shows in spring:
Signs of Spring Exhibition: 12-13 February
The World of Plants Exhibiton: 11-12 March
London Orchid Show: 15-16 March
Daffodil Festival: 15-16 March
Vinopolis
1, Bank End
Borough Station
The best place in London to try different wines.
Vinopolis offers a self-guided tour where you can
learn about and try wines from all around the world.
Offer ends 15 April (Sundays and Mondays only)
Shakespeare’s Globe
21 New Globe Walk
Mansion House Station
Visit the Globe Theatre and see where Shakespeare, the
world’s greatest playwright lived and worked. 2 for 1 deal
on Globe Tour and Exhibition. Offer ends 31 March.
HMS Belfast
The Thames, off Tooley Street
London Bridge Station
Moored on the Thames, HMS Belfast is a musuem
showing life on board a big gun armoured warship of the
Royal Navy. A brilliant day out! Offer ends 31 March.
Cabinet War Rooms
King Charles Street
Westminster Station
The Churchill Museum is the first major museum dedicated to the
achievementsofWinstonChurchill,combiningcutting-edgetechnology,
rare historical objects and film recordings to tell his life. Housed in the
Cabinet War Rooms, the secret underground HQ that served as the
nerve centre of Britain’s WW2 effort. Offer ends 15 April.
Chelsea Physic Garden
Swan Walk
Sloane Square Station
Don’t miss this rare chance to see London’s oldest botanical garden.
A “Secret Garden” in the heart of Chelsea, it’s very peaceful and
relaxing. Founded in 1673, it continues to research the properties,
origins and conservation of over 5000 species of plants. It played
a major role in renewing interest in natural medicine, with a
Pharmaceutical Garden and garden of ethnobotany. The garden is
open on the following dates: 3-4 and 9-10 February.
Lord’s Ground Tour
St John’s Wood Station
Have a guided tour at the “Home of Cricket”, including walking
through the Pavillion, the Long Room, the Dressing Rooms and
onto the Balcony. It also includes a visit to the MCC Museum
to see the Ashes Urn. Offer Ends 29 February.
For details on all the offers mentioned here, and more,
go to: www.tfl.gov.uk/microsites/oysteroffers/

