film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Film
Film Editor – Alex Casey
Bittersweet laughs and comedic tears from The Savages
It’s going to take more than just a book (or indeed a film) to sort this mess out
Elah, Elah, Elah, Ay, Ay, Ay
The analogy of the Valley of Elah in the
title here is destined, probably against
the wishes of the filmmakers, to be
the largest talking point of this film.
This, the latest in a series of Iraq-cen-
tric films has chosen the location for
David’s biblical confrontation with the
giant Goliath as a metaphor for the de-
ployment of young heroes into Iraq in
a somewhat oversimplified, misguided
metaphor, assuming as it does that this
war was (a) won, (b) justified (seem-
ingly contradicting the film’s central
message) and (c) as swift as the launch
of a stone from a catapult. Oh dear.
The story follows Vietnam vet Hank
(Jones) searching for his son, a soldier
who has gone missing following his
squad’s return from duty in Iraq. The
events leading up to his disappearance
slowly unwind with the ‘help’ of the
inept local police, fronted by the De-
tective Emily Sanders (Theron), who
simultaneously seems to be getting a
bit of stick for being a woman. Why?
Just because.
With Lions for Lambs, The Kingdom
and Rendition released over the last
year to lukewarm box office figures,
Elah has tried to sex up its image by
giving Charlize a gun on the poster.
This is mournful talkie, not gun-toting
action flick. More honest would be a
Paul Haggis’s take on the human cost of the Iraq War. For the Americans, of course
sign saying “Hypocritical lecture, this
way”, but I can see the advertisers re-
thinking that one.
Elah is of the award fodder breed:
deftly crafted but lacking soul. In this
case, it loses out because it’s so well
made. There is nothing outstandingly
original about it, but what Haggis has
developed in narrative ability since
Crash, has been countered by loss of
charm. The naivety with which Crash
was constructed seemed to lend itself
well to the black-and-white picture of
racism it was trying to dispell. Here,
The sight of Laura Linney on screen
is always enough to make me leave
a cinema smiling. Her unique style
and talent convey a knowledge of her
craft beyond that of her peers, and her
Speechless ad in favour of the Writers’
Guild Strike made me question why
they do need writers with Linney on
the books. Not the point it set out to
make, but with a script like The Sav-
ages, Linney can really pull it out of the
bag.
The Savages is not a slasher movie as
its strange title would suggest, but the
story of a brother-sister pair who sud-
denly are left to look after their aged fa-
ther. Given director Jenkins’ young age,
making a picture about the depressing
realities of old age would seem to be a
dare, but The Savages manages to keep
a spring in its step.
From its Blue Velvet-esque open-
ing, The Savages never quite panders
to simple expectations, and with two
of Hollywood’s finest character actors
taking on the idiosyncratic siblings
there’s enough to keep you intrigued.
Hoffman doesn’t shy away from roles
in which he may not be exactly likeable
and this would be one of those ones:
a Brecht scholar seemingly more in-
terested in his work than his father or
sister, but an idealised version of the
characters would render the whole
picture pretty pointless. Old life sucks
is the message, deal with it.
The film itself does seem to slow
down towards the end, however. Its
bittersweet look on life has a depress-
ing tinge of reality involved, although
not to the same shattering effect as
4 Months, 3 Weeks, 2 Days. Its dark
comic stylings are an inviting prospect,
but there are times when it all seems
a bit convoluted. The central storyline
is intriguing, yet the creation of bag-
gage for the two siblings in the form of
two characters implanted in the script
to assumedly give us a further vantage
point to see into their lives weighs the
pace down slightly.
The Savages was never seen as one
of the films of the year. For a starter,
neither of the leads seem interested
in those kind of pictures. Instead it is
an interesting, sometimes comedic,
look at an issue that does require real
emotion. The moniker “Savage” may
be a bit extreme, but the film itself is a
nicely understated family story.
Alex Casey
T
his is actually the second
column that I’ve written
for Felix this week, the first
being some stupid awards
crap that you might get
next week if nothing exciting happens
before then. And then Heath Ledger
died, and it showed the whole awards
fiasco for the trivial bollocks that it is.
To be fair, given the prevalence of
death in the media - young boys shot
down by teenage gunmen, exchange
students gang-raped and stabbed, x-
number of soldiers killed in a Baghdad
car bomb attack - a 21st century was-
it-suicide-or-was-it-accidental passing
of a Hollywood actor, albeit one who
tried to do things differently, is a poor
indicator of injustice in the world, but
there is still something haunting about
the news.
I heard about it on Tuesday night, just
after the BBC website found the story
and a friend called to tell me. Stopping
short of professing massive swathes of
grief that overcame me, I’ll simply say
that it was a shock. I can’t say I was a
massive fan - I’ve certainly never hid-
den my dislike of Brokeback in particu-
lar, not least his inaudible mutterings
that meant I only ever got Jake’s half of
the conversation - but only in the past
month I had a respect for him as one of
those actors, alongside Cate Blanchett
or Christian Bale, who did something
slightly different.
It is all the more shocking in that he
didn’t seem sensationalist in his private
life at all. This isn’t an iconic figure on
the lines of Marilyn Monroe, but some-
one who maintained a very closed pri-
vate life, only to have the unfortunate
circumstances of an untimely death
beamed out worldwide. I imagine it
would be quite embarassing if he were
around to see it, suicide or not. After
all, he couldn’t even watch his own
films without being self-critical.
We don’t know him. Those who do
can pay proper tribute to something
more than characters he created. For
those that can’t, though, there is still
something to feel there. I won’t com-
ment on what that is, but the questions
surrounding it should be something
more respectful than “So what hap-
pens to Batman now?”
Alex Casey
Film Editor
every shot recalls an acceptance speech
to Oscar, and its no surprise that it
hasn’t exactly made the buzz list.
The acting is the star here, with Jones
at his best (better than No Country) and
most wearisome, leading every frame.
Susan Sarandon is almost a cameo as
his wife and seems to have jumped on
board just to espouse the liberal cause,
while Charlize Theron seems to have
picked a pretty slim role with some
pointless feminist squabbling to be
had, North Country-style. Yawn.
Elah probably doesn’t deserve to be
savaged. It’s a good film, albeit with a
slightly dubious message. The human
cost of war is very real, but the in-
nocent Iraqi children who have died
didn’t get their own film. Surely they
should have been higher on the agenda
than a soldier nicknamed “Doc” for
his penchant for poking the exposed
wounds of Iraqi soldiers. Elah makes
it look like all soldiers have a labotomy
of common decency on entering the
battlefield, a message I’m sure wasn’t
intended. This is simply soap box Hol-
lywood; too little, too late.
In the Valley of Elah ★★★✫✫
Director: Paul Haggis
Writer: Paul Haggis
Cast: Tommy Lee Jones,
Charlize Theron,
Susan Sarandon
Alex Casey
The Savages ★★★✫✫
Director: Tamara Jenkins
Writer: Tamara Jenkins
Cast: Laura Linney,
Philip Seymour
Hoffman,
Philip Bosco
Laura Linney, bless
Heath Ledger (1979-2008)
22 felix Friday 25 January 2008

