music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Music
Music Editor of the Week – Jemil Salami
23
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
Jacko turns 50 and
Thriller clocks 25
Matty’s not here this week, so the Felix
music page is free to let loose and turn
into the dirty mainstream whore it re-
ally wants to be. I don’t have the deep
introspective banter that Matt usually
fills his column with and you’re in the
wrong section if you’re looking for an-
swers to those puzzling questions that
have been plaguing your mind recently
like, ‘what is the meaning of life?’ (Al-
though I suggest you try Az’s fantabu-
lous games section for that one. I’m
pretty sure there are pages and pages of
it and I hear it’s really good) or, ‘would
the US economy be brought to a stand-
still if reporters were no longer allowed
to print news about Britney Spears?’
(I vote yes). I do, however, have some
good old music reviews and news for
you to sink your Nescafe-stained teeth
into. Enjoy. And remember, it’s music,
bitches!
In music news, Jacko is having a
double whammy this year. Not only is
he approaching the big 5-0 (although
you probably couldn’t tell by looking
at him) but his classic best-selling al-
bum, Thriller, is turning twenty-five.
Michael therefore has two aims this
year 1) To show us it is possible to be
sexy, happy, relevant free-spirited at 50
and 2) To remind us why he is hailed as
the King of Pop.
To cash-in celebrate, Thriller is be-
ing recycled re-released with 7 bonus
tracks and artists set to feature in-
clude Kanye West, Akon, Fergie and
will.i.am. You should be shot if you
don’t already own a copy of Thriller
so it just remains to be seen if the new
tracks justify buying the album. Keep
checking Felix music for a review once
the album drops in February.
In more Jackson news, Janet is pre-
paring to make her umpteenth come-
back. She is set to release her 10th
studio album, titled Discipline, next
month and has already shot a video
for lead single Feedback (See opposite
for a review). The music video is awe-
some, in case you were wondering, so
YouTube it now. Peace.
Jemil Salami
Music Guru
B
efore achieving main-
stream success with the
Ne-Yo-penned Let Me Love
You, Mario was annoying.
I mean it was obvious he
could sing his ass off but he could never
seem to get his hands on the right ma-
terial. This is probably why his debut
album, despite being marketed to teen-
Do you like my style? A fan-made replica of Feedback’s cover art
I
t’s been quite a while since Janet
has had a hit album. Her previ-
ous two efforts, Damita Jo and
20 Y.O. both underperformed
commercially. It would be very
easy to put her lacklustre sales down to
patriotic Americans still being mad at
her after the Super Bowl stunt, and to
be fair, MTV and TRL refusing to play
her videos would undeniably have had
an effect on her record sales, but the
bottom line is that both fell short in
content. That’s the only way to explain
why they also bombed in the European
music markets and why the ‘wardrobe
malfunction’ hasn’t slowed Justin’s at-
tempt at world domination. You’ve got
Album Review: Mario’s 3rd studio LP is finally released. Check it out
age girls (and we all know they’ll buy
anything if it has a half-decent looking
guy on the cover), sold so poorly.
It looked like Mario would disap-
pear into the abyss that swallowed the
likes of Mario Winans (still have night-
mares) and Eamon (remember him?
Man did he suck). But fortunately, not
just for Mario but for us too, he had
what is in all honesty an urban classic
dropped on his doorstep, and the rest
is history.
There was always going to be pres-
sure on his next release. It would give
people a chance to see if he’s an artist
worth watching or just another flash in
the one-hit-wonder pan. It was pretty
obvious that there were only two ways
this could go: 1) He’d recruit Ne-Yo
again to make an album of rehashes of
Let Me Love Yous or 2) He’d be so eager
to stray away from the image that he’d
end up doing something wildly differ-
ent. Fans were dying to know which
direction he’d pick and then the release
date finally arrived. But there was no
album.
Go! is finally going to be released
an entire year after it was initially
supposed to drop and you can’t help
but wonder why it was shelved for so
long. With Ne-Yo’s name not appear-
ing once in the credits, it became clear
that Mario has traded his clean-cut Let
Me Love You image for a more grown-
up and overtly-sexual persona and no-
where is this more evident than on the
hyperactive Neptunes-produced title
track Go! on which he uses enough
expletives to make Lil’ Kim blush. It’s
very different, works surprisingly well
and doesn’t overstay its welcome.
The rest of Go! (the album) is more
laid back and consists of well-crafted
ballads like Why, a worthy cover of
Keith Sweat’s Right and a Wrong Way
and of course the single Crying Out
For Me all of which showcase his vocal
ability brilliantly. He even manages to
shine on the Stargate-produced How
Do I Breathe despite it sounding un-
comfortably similar to some of the pro-
duction team’s other recent projects
(Rihanna’s Hate That I Love You and
Beyonce’s Irreplaceable).
Other notable tracks include Kryp-
tonite, which features a rap from the
up-and-coming Rich Boy and sees
Mario comparing his weakness for oth-
er girls to Superman’s weakness to the
green stuff, and the Akon-produced
Do Right – a song about his mother’s
drug addiction. Go! is easily his best al-
bum to date and is a must-have for lov-
ers of contemporary R&B who find the
likes of Beyonce a little too pop-ish to
handle. A new video for Do Right can
now be viewed online.
Jemil Salami
Single Review: Feedback
Mario in the studio
Janet Jackson
Feedback
(Mercury)
★★★✩✩
to admire her though. She’s right back
up on that horse and is set to release
studio album number ten, titled Disci-
pline, in February.
Feedback, the first single taken from
the album, doesn’t quite come close in
brilliancetoherhitsinglesofyesteryear
like ‘Got ‘Til It’s Gone’ or even ‘Some-
one to Call My Lover’ but it’s definitely
her best work in quite a while. Co-
produced by Rodney Jerkins (Brandy’s
What About Us?, Destiny’s Child’s Lose
My Breath), it has a futuristic giddiness
to it and coupled with the super-catchy
hook it is the perfect track to embar-
rass yourself on the dance floor to.
The most exciting thing about this
track, though, is the video. It’s artis-
tic and quite slow for the first half but
once Janet lands in the milky stuff and
begins her choreography, she kills it.
It’s so good that MTV has been forced
to scratch her name from the blacklist
and jump right back on the we-love-
you-Ms-Jackson bandwagon.
History tells us that this by no means
indicates a good album but things do
seem to be looking up for Janet and she
seems to know what she has got to do
this time around so don’t rule her out
just yet. Janet is set to perform Feed-
back at the Grammys next month.
Jemil Salami
Jackson Cover Art: MJ’s Thriller 25 (top) and Janet’s Discipline
Mario
Go!
(J Records)
★★★★✩

