26 felix Friday 25 January 2008
Got more cash than sense?
Andrew Lyle, Andrew Slater and James Finnerty find out what to spend it on
W
ith people going
nuts over the re-
cent release of the
Apple iPhone, we
thought it would
be just to compare it to the products of
more experienced phone manufactur-
ers. Who will win? A company fabled
for product design and user experi-
ence? Or the team of companies who
created the mobile phone market in
the first place?
Now aside from the iPhone there are
several stand-out phones on the mar-
ket. I’ve tracked down as many people
who own these little guys as I could
so we can get some authentic user
feedback and put together a proper
comparison.
Lets start with the popular N95 from
Nokia. Now I’m going to try and set my
bias to one side as I own one of these
amazing little gadgets.
Due to its popularity this phone has
now become very affordable for what it
offers. You can expect to get it free on
a £30 a month, 18 month contract with
a decent plan, pretty good for a hand-
set valued between £300 and £400.
There is also a newer version which
has a slightly larger screen, more user
RAM and 8Gb’s of flash storage built
in. However, this version is limited to
Vodafone and as such is difficult to get
hold of for good value.
A phone like this is what we call
a smart phone, basically meaning
the user can add applications to the
phone’s roster. This comes with heaps
of benefits and an equally daunting pile
of problems. The phone is very power-
ful and has tonnes of cool features such
as a 5 megapixel camera, high resolu-
tion decent size screen, loud speak-
ers, 3g, WiFi and Bluetooth to name a
few. What do these accessories have in
common though? They all eat batteries
for breakfast. I am lucky to get a day’s
worth of battery if I use the N95 as an
mp3 whilst I walk to and from college
and then as a phone throughout the
day.
A cool little feature is that this phone
can be plugged into a TV. So you can
put films onto it and play them in your
living room or anyone’s living room.
Also, with some of the console emula-
tors that have been developed for this
phone, you can even play games on the
TV.
So overall it’s clear that this phone’s
popularity is very well justified and
Nokia have really kept their reputation
as premier phone designers.
The other big boy in the market is
obvious. The dreaded iPhone. Now I
think practically everyone has heard of
it by now but not everyone will know
why it is so popular. Well, a portion of
its popularity is rooted in the army of
loyal Apple consumers, but this only
explains why people pay over the odds
for it.
In a lot of areas the iPhone is dwarfed
by other phones. Its camera is reason-
ably dated, no swappable storage and
no 3G but the beauty comes in what
Apple always strive for. An enjoyable
user experience. The biggest tool that
allowed this was the new multi-touch
screen. Now touch screens have been
around for years but they have only
ever been able to accept a single in-
put. You can see them get confused if
you put two fingers on the screen in
different places. The iPhone, however
,can recognize these as separate in-
S
o what happened this week?
The tech world seems to have
taken a bit of a break after
all the releases at the events
from the last issue.
So as I sit here in the Felix office
struggling to fill up this column with
who-knows-what I’ll begin with an in-
tro to what’s sprawled across the next
two pages.
We have the promised phone reviews
comparing some of the big sellers and
top-end models in the phone market.
Some of the phone reviews are written
by owners and others are written based
on opinions we got off of people who
do use them but were to lazy to write
about it.
Also, to fill up a little bit more space,
Andrew Slater has written about tablet
PC’s. Watch as he tries to justify the
money that these things cost.
Now lets try and find out if anything
significant happend in the last seven
days. The whole of the Hull lost access
to the internet, now whether or not
you feel this is good or bad news is up
to you but the phrase “nothing of value
was lost” springs to mind.
Microsoft has decided to rush out
another new version of Windows that
will replace the void which was Vista’s
intended sales. Windows 7, as it is cur-
rently creatively dubbed, is planned for
release at the end of 2009. So if past
records are any indicator we’ll be lucky
if we start seeing an ad campaign at the
London Olympics.
The ex-boss of Gizmondo has been
released from an American prison and
is being deported back to Sweeden. He
was jailed after admitting to embez-
zlement and some charges relating to
totalling his Ferrari Enzo.
The army of people against mobile
phones has had new fuel added to their
fire this week. Apparently, using a mo-
bile phone in the hours before you go
to bed will cause a bad night’s sleep.
I wonder if someone could argue the
case that not having the conversation
just before bed would have caused a
worse night’s sleep?
Internet social networking sites are
being blamed for glorifying suicide.
The argument is that after people wit-
ness the affection someone receives
online after suicide they begin to crave
the same attention. Arguably this has
been happening for years but sites like
Facebook and MySpace just amplify
the scale.
In more news more red tape is block-
ing the widespread use of the $100 lap-
top in developing countries. It goes to
show that even the most humanitarian
of projects can be brought to a halt by
the actions of a few.
What a cheerful week it’s been. After
that depressing revelation let’s hope
that reading about some of the world’s
most popular hand-held gadgets will
put you in a better mood.
P.S. I know I’m kind of stealing this
from Azfar’s section but EA are break-
ing down some bonudaries in digital
video game distribution. The next title
in the Battlefield franchise, ‘Battlefield
Heroes’, will be released for free online.
It’s been designed to run on older ma-
chines and is being targeted at the large
Asian online gaming community.
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Technology
Technology Editor – James Finnerty
James Finnerty
Technology Editor
puts, allowing you to do cool stuff like
pinching your fingers together to make
things smaller. Getting all this together
into the polished version that was re-
leased was a fantastic piece of work as
it is pretty much glitch-free.
This phone definitely ain’t cheap. A
one-off payment of £269 and a compul-
sory £35 a month 24 month contract is
the price you pay. This makes it one of
the most expensive contracts there is
and this is solely down to branding.
I’m gonna cut the coverage of the
iPhone a little short as so much infor-
mation of it is readily available. Ulti-
mately it is a very impressive device
but it’s very hard to justify its cost.
We now move onto the LG Viewty.
In many ways this phone is the only
thing that competes directly with the
iPhone in terms of user experience. It
has a similar-sized touchscreen, but it’s
only single input, and has a menu sys-
tem that is as easy to use.
It does surpass almost all other
phones in one area, though. If you
fancy yourself as a photographer, this
phone takes some of the highest quali-
ty pictures available to a camera phone.
At 5 megapixels it seems on a par with
the N95 but in reality it produces much
better results.
The big con of this phone is that it
has no WiFi functionality. So if you
want any internet access on it you’re
going to have to go through the hefty
price tags of your network provider.
This is a real shame as if this has been
included we could have seen a serious
direct competitor to the iPhone.
The next phone to cover is the brick
like e90. This phone was originally go-
ing to have its own article but we de-
cided to attach it to this one, so apolo-
gies for its far more in-depth coverage.
Oh; and this is the bit written by An-
drew Lyle.
It’s that time of year again when all
your mates whip out their sleek new
phones. The new iPhone, the LG View-
ty - both undeniably sexy pieces of kit;
the acclaimed Nokia N95 with its huge
Nokia N95 - Anything you can do I can do better
feature set or perhaps the new Sony-
Ericsson K850i ‘Cyber-Shot’ camera
phone. I get asked what my new phone
is and amid looks of utter disbelief,
I take out this asymmetrical, dirty
brick. Go back to the early 90’s and this
phone would fit right in. So why, you
may ask, was I so overjoyed to finally
get my hands on one?
Well, this phone is more than it first
appears; open it up and what greets
you is a miniature laptop complete
with a gorgeous wide-screen display
and full qwerty keyboard. If I went
back again to the 90’s or even to a few
years ago, this phone could put a lot of
home PCs to shame. With an obscene
amount of RAM it’ll multi-task better
than your mum and it has a processor
to match, keeping all the applications
you could wish to run whizzing around
at top speed.
It is termed a ‘Business Communi-
cator’ and rightly so - with a full suite
of office-esque editing applications
you can flick through your lecture note
Apple iPhone - Don’t really need to point this out but it’s the best selling phone model in the world

