games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
28 felix Friday 25 January 2008
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Sebastian Nordgren
Games Editor
G
reetings, fine folk of
Imperial! You may not
know me, though my
name has graced the top
row of this page for the
entirety of the year, and so I feel intro-
ductions are in order. I am the mysteri-
ous Sebastian Nordgren, and though I
have not addressed you directly before,
that is an imbalance that I hope to cor-
rect during the remainder of the year.
This week, we find ourselves firmly
in the middle of the post-Christmas
dry spell, with most holiday releases
already played through during the hol-
idays and nary a worthy title coming
out in a long time. In other words, the
perfect time to dig into those game col-
lections and uncover a forgotten gem.
Recently, I did exactly that and found,
buried under too many sequels and
mediocre games, a great game indeed:
System Shock 2.
It was a game that I remember
well from the time before ESRB rat-
ings, playing it as a mere 14-year old
(against all industry recommendations
to the contrary). I remember delving
into the world, progressing further
and further into the ship – and as the
ambient noises of monsters unknown
got louder and more terrifying, I finally
caved in and set it aside to gather dust
until I become more courageous. So it
was with great excitement that I played
through the game for the first time,
enjoying the experience thoroughly.
Most interesting, though, was having
played it only shortly after finishing Bi-
oShock, a bonafide spiritual successor
to the System Shock series.
And with this experience still fresh
in my mind, this week we bring you
a roundup of the most well-known
spiritual successors of recent times,
making our English teachers proud by
comparing and contrasting the original
and the successor. Though the quality
of these successors varies across the
board, and the links are sometimes
tenuous from one to the other – I for
one am glad that good game concepts
don’t get completely lost in the quag-
mires of intellectual property laws.
This week in Byte we also bring you
two very different rhythm games, the
electronic and rather psychaedelic
Synaesthete; and the thoroughly rock
Frets on Fire. Both require a bit more
than a browser to get working, but all
but the most rhythmically challenged
among you should put in the effort and
give them a twirl. It’s refreshing to see
that the rhythm genre has branched so
far from its popular origins in Dance
Dance Revolution.
Going with the succession theme,
we’ve decided to talk some smack
to counteract the love. That’s right:
Flamebait is back and this time it’s
Samir Talwar who’s drawn his katana
and prepared to make sushi out of
sequels that have almost driven great
franchises to te ground. That’s the se-
cret behind a trilogy: the third game
needs to be the saviour.
I hope you enjoy the issue! As always,
please feel free to mail your musings to
felix.games@imperial.ac.uk.
This
Week
Burn under our fiery gaze
Flamebait: More is less
Samir Talwar runs over sequels and then doubles back to make sure they’re dead
P
layed a sequel lately? I have,
andI’mbitter.It’slikereturn-
ing to a theme park: you’re
full of wide-eyed wonder as
you walk in, but you soon
realise you’ve seen it all before, the
queues are longer and the rides aren’t
as fun as they were last time around.
Add to the fact that at some point a
fifteen-year old ape-child with far too
many spots will step on your foot and
crush three bones, and a little girl will
drop her ice cream on you and then
start howling as if it’s your fault, and
you may as well have stayed at home.
Frickin’ kids...
ButIdigress.Onlyslightly,ofcourse...
many sequels do make you feel like this.
Metal Gear Solid 2 springs to mind, in-
troducing perhaps the most hated pro-
tagonist since Macbeth (who spends
far too much time running around sans
undergarments), a story more confus-
ing and boring than my ex-girlfriend,
completely disregarding my preferred
ending to the first game and adding
cut-scenes as if removing the gameplay
for far too long will make it all better.
Thankfully, I still had the first game, so
after forcing myself through the second
out of sheer loyalty (read: stupidity) to
Hideo Kojima’s genius, I sacrificed it to
the heathen Gods, stuck the battered
disc of the original into my PlayStation
and purified my soul.
It may interest you to know (or not...
to be honest, I don’t care) that Deus
Ex: Invisible War is the sequel to my
favourite game. It got glowing reviews
and was generally regarded as a must-
buy... unless you played the prequel.
The reason? While it’s good, the first
one was better. The story was more en-
gaging, the weapons and gizmos were
a damn sight cooler and to be honest,
the game was just more fun. But why?
Surely the design team, with a big-
ger budget, more staff and a loyal fan
base, have all the right wooden blocks
in their slots? Not only that, but with
a killer game under their belt, cod-
ers, artists and lackeys a-plenty were
clamouring to work for them... so what
went wrong?
Everything, apparently. The design-
ers suffered from visionary conflicts,
which is basically a fancy way of say-
ing they argued a lot and generally the
idiots won. In addition, the program-
mers were no doubt missing a few
bolts, choosing to develop a game that
barely worked on the Xbox and assum-
ing it would run amazingly on the PC
without any real work at all. The result
was a half-finished product that, in
comparison to its big brother, looked
like it had been run through the Tex-
ture Crippler a few too many times and
played about as well as a three-legged
dog with no lungs.
There are many problems that plague
any developer looking to make a few
quid quickly and quietly by creating
sequels. A huge one is a lack of moti-
vation, often brought on by the parent
company (we love you really, EA) bully-
ing their friendly neighbourhood sub-
sidiaries into milking the public for all
they’re worth, but it’s definitely not the
only one. It’s hard to create something
fresh and exciting while still staying
true to the original game’s roots – just
ask Nintendo what the hell they were
thinking of when they released Super
Mario Bros 2: The Vegetable Throwing
Contest. Often, designers will attempt
to bring in new features – such as the
3D environment in the case of Worms
3D – even if it actually worsens the
gameplay.
Sequels don’t just have to be good. As
Deus Ex proved, they need to be bet-
ter than the original, or you’ve wasted
your time. Valve figured this one out
with their Half-Life series: they beefed
up the graphics tremendously, tweaked
the gameplay just enough to keep it
fresh without ruining everyone’s per-
ception of the first game and added a
cool new widget that blows stuff up in
style. The only problem was that god-
damn Steam thingy that refuses to let
me play until I’ve given it my credit
card and let it fondle me a little, but
it seems to be getting slightly better
(though not faster – it’s still a pig on
older systems) with every iteration.
A bit of research (or searching on
Wikipedia, which passes for research as
far as my assignments are concerned)
shows that Halo 2 came out just a week
before Half-Life 2. Now there’s some
polar opposites if I ever saw them:
while both were big successes based
almost solely on their prequels, Half-
Life 2 was brilliant in every way. Not
so much for Halo... while many think
the multiplayer far surpasses the first
game, for many, the single-player was
the reason they bought it. Of course,
their expectations were dashed when
they found out Bungie had been snort-
ing crack until the last possible second
and then thrown in what amounts to
long, drawn out bullshit scattered
across a dark room so you can’t see it
(or anything else) clearly... which in-
cidentally was what a lot of the levels
were like. There were good moments...
and then you had to shoot yet another
grunt who got too happy and started
firing his pistol at his partner like a
trigger-happy US marine. Moments of
real action were few and far between,
with most of the game following the
exact same story arc as the first game
but with less actual plot and more
funny-shaped aliens with big heads
and annoying voices. To this day, I still
don’t know what the game was about,
but I’m going to assume it’s not worth
playing again to find out.
Thinking about it while my subcon-
scious rattles off a list of reasons why
you’re wrong and I’m right, there is
one reason above any other why se-
quels have a tendency to fail: it’s your
own nostalgic brain. Your memory has
finite space, and is much better at stor-
ing those moments you really treasure,
as opposed to the ones where you were
pretty much indifferent to the entire
situation.
As such, if you liked a game when
you were seven years old, there’s a
high probability you’re looking back
on it fondly right at this moment...
apologies for bursting your bubble, but
Double Dragon really wasn’t that good
compared to its younger siblings. Go
back and play it, assuming you can find
that bloody NES – it may still retain
its charm and revel in its glory as your
love for it blossoms... but on the other
hand, it may tank under your petrify-
ing stare as you realise that even Peg-
gle gloriously storms past it in the Fun
charts.
I wonder if the BBFC actually played the game before deeming it a 15
Deus Ex: The Invisible War – bigger, prettier... but better?
NFS has made visual strides since NFSIII (‘98); gameplay, not so much
Colossal successor
Shock therapy Total commander

