games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games
30 felix Friday 25 January 2008
Unlike the usual relations between
spiritual brethren, the couple Ico and
Shadow of the Colossus share an evoc-
ative, unusual symbiosis that extends
far beyond the superficies.
The key theme that binds these two
perspicuously is that of rescue. The
segue lies not in thematic similarities
but rather in a sense of dichotomy.
In Ico, you find yourself a prisoner of
archaic, superstitious circumstances.
As per village tradition, the kid with
the horns sprouting out of his head
must be locked away before calam-
ity befalls the people. Incarcerated in
a gargantuan castle hewn of stone, a
freak earthquake releases you from
your cell and upon exploration you
wander upon a pallid, almost-lumi-
nous woman trapped in a cage. Fueled
by a mixture of bravado and curiosity,
you set about releasing her and pay the
price for your heroism. From then on,
for your entire journey you are dogged
by sinister spectral shadows that will
do anything to capture the girl.
The combat is simple and hardly the
focus; even the shades aren’t a true en-
emy of sorts. Rather, it’s the castle that
you must contend with. The design is
equally sublime and subliminal. The
bleak darkness of each massive room is
accentuated by tiny shafts of light that
trickle through, creating strong ebbs of
isolation. The harsh cries of seagulls
and the staccato-esque crashing of
waves outside enhances the longing to
be free. The puzzles are of an organ-
ic, seamless nature that are ingrained
into the mechanistic workings of the
castle itself. While these brain-teasers
are laterally gratifying by their own
rights, another oblique and unique lev-
el of challenge is proferred upon your
success.
Being impaired of mobility, the girl
Yorda, can only join you once you’ve
set out an easier path for you. This is
where the game achieves something
that no blurb will ever boast about: a
genuine sense of attachment, of affin-
ity. There’s a latent yet ever-nurtured
sentience to Yorda that’s somewhat in-
tangible, but still there. It’s the way she
refuses to listen to you if you put her in
any danger, it’s the way she’ll look curi-
ously around and point out a possible
solution to the conundrums, it’s the
way she eventually trusts you and takes
certain leaps of faith and more impor-
tantly, it’s the gentle way the controller
vibrates whenever you’re leading her
by hand, turning those tugs a little bit
more real.
In Shadow of the Colossus, the protag-
onist Wander has taken it upon himself
to enter a forbidden realm from which
there is no escape. His motivation lies
in his arms: the lifeless figure of his
love, Mona. Legend has it that whoso-
ever slays the ancient Colossi intrin-
sically bound to this desecrated land
will be gifted with the power of gods.
His trusty steed Agro now in check,
Wander brandishes an arcane sword
which has the power to defeat the be-
ings. The land surrounding you is an
expanse that stretches as far as the eye
can see and you can definitely find no
Colossi. Holding up your blade to the
sun reveals a shaft of light focused into
the distance and that’s where you find
your quarries. The land, despite being
seemingly sparse, is a character in and
of itself. Quiet rivers are deafened by
rushing waterfalls, the winds from bar-
ren wastelands blow into lush copses.
There is far more to see and through-
out your journey you will witness sights
that ensnare the senses. This sense of
scale creates a dizzying aura of insig-
nificance and lonliness that is punctu-
ated by the antics of your horse. As you
ride onto each battle, you’ll learn not
only to control your equestrian com-
rade but to care for it and respect it
because it truly embodies a spirit of its
own. There’s a beautiful sense of cama-
raderie that is both unusual and some-
what unsettling if you think about it.
However, at sixteen junctures you
won’t have time to think about such
things since you’ll be in heated battle
with the Colossi. Coming across in
all manner of shapes, sizes and coun-
tenance, the Colossi brim with origi-
nality and unfettered creativity. The
same applies to methods in which you
need to defeat them. It’s not just about
discovering the weak point(s), but
rather how you get there. The Colossi,
despite being mostly large and cum-
bersome, will make every attempt to
protect themselves, often leading to a
battle of attrition. When the final blow
is administered, there’s almost a need
to stand at attention to respect and
mourn at the fall of something rather
magnificent.
Visually, both games embody the
same Impressionistic art styles and
subtleties in animation. A minimal-
ist approach to music is used to evoke
deeper emotion and there is always this
overarching thought of a girl dressed
in white who wants to be free. Even in
terms of the rather elusive stories of
each lie hints and vestiges of embody-
ing the same world. Similarly, both
games are equally quite divergent. One
focuses on combat and exploration
over a vastness littered with minutiae
whereas the other is about escape from
an enclosed fortress.
Where these games achieve un-
ion is something that no hardcoding
could achieve: an illusion so convinc-
ing that it goes beyond palpable and
into the transcendental. Whether it’s
the uncanny evocation of isolation or
the genuine relationship between the
only two characters existing in the
world, both games offer an ethereal
experience that’s almost dream-like in
nature.
Similarities
Similar styles in visual presentation
The themes of isolation and escape
Evocation of a tangible world
Stories that are almost evanescent yet existent
The need to rescue a pale young girl dressed in simple white
The sense that the more you proceed, the further you are from
the end
Puzzle elements that are organic and lateral
An emotive segue with the only other sentient character
Differences
A focus on exploration as opposed to that on combat
The dichotomy in evoking claustrophobia and agoraphobia
respectively
The circumstances of the main characters
Ico features a fully functional castle/fortress, whereas
the temple/shrine in Shadow of the Colossus,
despite being no less large, is mostly
cavernous space
Azfarul Islam
Games Editor

