news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
News
Ethos’ swim and gym to remain free
Two years after opening, Felix went along to Ethos sports centre to say “Happy Birthday”, to see how things
have been going and to investigate whether students will have to pay for the pool and gym in the future
Andrew Turley
This Wednesday, Ethos will celebrate
its 2nd birthday, having seen over the
past 12 months more students, more
activities and more revenue, than
before.
New initiatives planned for the com-
ing year focus on strengthening links
with the university’s sports teams, en-
couraging new sports into the centre
and getting out onto campus to talk to
students about sport and health.
The centre has also confirmed that,
at present, there are no plans to alter
any of the current student benefits,
such as free pool and gym.
At present, Ethos compares favoura-
bly with sports facilities at the capital’s
other large HE institutions. The Kinet-
ic gym at the King’s College Waterloo
campus, for example, charges students
£199 for a 12 month pass. Similarly, a
swim in the pool at Energybase, the
University of London’s sports com-
plex, requires day membership, cost-
ing £4.50.
Imperial remains the only univer-
sity in the country with a sports cen-
tre offering free pool and gym to all
students.
Some students, however, have voiced
concerns over whether the centre
might become more commercial in the
future.
Situated in the heart of Kensington,
one of the wealthiest regions of Lon-
don, Ethos could generate considerable
revenue from external membership,
but would risk marginalising student
interests in doing so.
In response, the centre assured Felix
that there were no plans to alter stu-
dent access to the pool and gym and
restated its commitment to student
needs.
This year, total membership rose to
over 1400, of which 73% is made up of
students, 22% of staff and the remain-
ing 5% of external members, who are
restricted to off-peak hours to prevent
a build-up of visitors during lunch
hours and early evening.
Lesser concerns have also arisen re-
garding registration. Some new stu-
dents experienced long waits of up
to a month for gym inductions when
they joined in October. Ethos says this
is unavoidable due to high demand at
the start of the academic year, stating
that a proper induction is essential for
Health and Safety compliance, and this
necessitates small groups for extended
periods of time.
To ease the October congestion this
year, it became possible to register for
the centre online, preventing the recur-
rence of the long queues experienced
in the first year.
By far the most popular section of
the centre is the gym, with on average
600 visitors every day. The most popu-
lar sport in the main hall is badminton,
closely followed by 5-a-side football,
but the centre is keen to encourage less
familiar sports as well, such as ultimate
Frisbee and handball.
Ethos has several new initiatives in
the pipeline. The centre is planning a
Healthy Campus week for some point
during the spring, during which its
staff will be present on the South Ken-
sington site to talk to students and staff
about their fitness, the facilities avail-
able at Imperial and offer guidance
about healthy living.
It is also keen to strengthen exist-
ing bonds with the university sports
teams. Last year, the centre organised
pre-season training weeks for several
teams, as well as sports massage pro-
grams, and this year it is investigating
sports psychology training.
In addition, Ethos can produce, on
request, training programs for any of
the university sports societies, tailored
to the demands of their specific activ-
ity, free of charge.
“It’s been a great year for the centre,”
said Iain Reid, Ethos Centre Manager,
“but we’re always keen to keep improv-
ing in any way we can and welcome
feedback from students and staff.” He
added that, further details regarding
the running of Ethos and its future are
published in the Sport Imperial Strate-
gic Plan.
Left: The Ethos sports centre facade. Right: Ethos swimming pool will remain free to IC students along with the gym
Union Council descends into bickering
M
onday evening’s
Councilmeetingtook
a turn for the childish
as discussions about
the legitimacy of the
Union’s Constitution boiled over.
Former Deputy President (Finance
& Services) and former GSA Chair Jon
Matthews presented a paper to Coun-
cil highlighting flaws in last year’s
submission process of the Union’s
Constitution.
Any changes made to the Union’s
Constitution have to be presented to
and approved by Union Council at two
consecutive meetings of the commit-
tee. These changes are then taken to
College Council which has a reading
and makes the final approval.
Mr Matthews’ report pointed out
that changes were made to the Consti-
tution in between the meetings of last
year’s Council. Effectively, Councillors
had seen two different Constitutions.
Moreover, further changes were made
before the Constitution was presented
to College Council.
Mr Matthews was supported by the
Deputy President (Education & Wel-
fare, Kirsty Patterson, who wrote a
supplementary note. The pair request-
ed Council to repass the current, oper-
ating Constitution, in the hope that it
would become legally sound.
However, both papers were met with
opposition by members of Council,
most notably the Union President who
Tense: the Union Sabbatical Officers at Monday evening’s Council
Jon Matthews, whose paper
sparked the heated discussion
SALLY
LONGSTAFF
believed the changes were unnecessary
and could wait until the summer when
work eases off.
The discussion quickly descended
beyond farce and into bickering. Miss
Patterson was clearly irate and Mr
Brown even told her to “pipe down” at
one point.
In the end Mr Matthews’ paper
was rejected by Council: 18-6, with 5
abstentions.
Union officials will be watching their
tongues’ from now on. With the up-
coming Sabbatical Officer elections,
they will be keen to give a good im-
pression of politics within the Union.
SALLY
LONGSTAFF

