games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
Games
Similarities
Imperishable resource system
Emphasis on macromanagement rather than micromanagement
The commanders return to the fray
Fantastic orchestral soundtrack by Jeremy Soule
Economy is your lifeline, protect it
Ditto for your commander, protect him/her
Differences
Now anti-air guns can’t fire on ground units and vice-versa
Three races rather than two
Base management system has been made more complicated and
detailed
Scale [in Supreme Commander] is even more epic
More in-depth technology trees
Many a moon ago there was a game
that people hailed as ahead of its time;
its name is Total Annihilation (TA).
The game featured so many radical
additions that many would consider
to be standard in modern games like
terrain blocking line of sight, as well
as intelligent skirmish AI. Fans of the
game were left disappointed when the
developers disbanded and rights to the
game were sold off, leaving them with-
out a hope for a true sequel. However
the light shone upon humanity and
the lead developer of the original TA,
Chris Taylor, started work on his lat-
est project, which he dubbed Supreme
Commander.
Using TA as a starting point and up-
ping the scale the battles are fought on
is the first line to say about Supreme
Commander. Everything about the
game has been streamlined and tweaks
to the control systems allows the con-
trolling of several armies numbering
in the hundreds which are scattered
all over the map. One my personal fa-
vourite additions is called the “strategic
zoom”, as in Supreme Commander the
normal view may be zoomed out until
the whole map is visible and each unit
is simply displayed by a little coloured
token. Other more minor changes to
the control system includes things like
coordinated attacks, where one army
can wait for another to move into po-
sition before making its move and re-
peating build queues have been fleshed
out a lot. The overall control system
allows full control over both your epic
army that spans miles across while still
keeping an eye on your airforce that
would make the Spartans fight in the
shade.
The economy system from TA has
alsoreturnedforitssuccessor,SupCom.
There are simply two resources in the
game mass (TA has metal instead) and
energy, and each one has a different re-
source deposit on the map (mass/met-
al deposits and hydrocarbon/geother-
mal vents). One of the major features
of SupCom and TA is that resources
don't run out as the game goes on, the
resource deposits just keep on gener-
ating funds to finance rebuilding your
army. Coupling this with the fact that
half of your economy doesn't rely on
these deposits but instead on standard
power generators and mass fabricators
means that as the game goes on rather
than players becoming more and more
careful with money they instead start
to build larger and larger armies, and
those armies don't stop becoming
larger and more dangerous until some-
one takes a hefty hit to their economy
which normally pushes them out of
the game. However, do not be fooled
into thinking that both resources are
of relatively equal value like wood/gold
in WarcraftIII and minerals/vespene
in Starcraft, energy in Supreme Com-
mander is more like power in C&C
games, as things like shield generators,
radars and turrets require it to carry on
running.
So Supreme Commander allows ar-
mies far larger than the ones seen in
Total Annihilation to be built and man-
aged with any sort of effectiveness, its
worth mentioning some of the things
that make lots of difference in small
numbers. First up is the Commanders
themselves still return in all of their
base building glory. At the start of each
game each player only starts off with
a single commander which in turn is
used to produce factories and an econ-
omy, and the final victory condition in
the game is to kill off your opponents
commander. The commanders them-
selves have had a few tweaks, as they
start out weaker than their TA coun-
terparts but can be upgraded to fur-
ther specialise at a particular role, such
as becoming a dedicated combat unit
or perhaps an engineering powerhouse
capable of building a wall of turrets in
a minute. The other units that make a
difference even in small numbers are a
call back to the TA expansion, the Core
Contingency, which brought in the
Core Krogoth. For those who haven't
played TA:CC the Krogoth is a mas-
sive unit, magnitudes above all others
in terms of armour, size and firepower,
and capable of taking out small armies
even without support. Supreme Com-
mander takes this single unit a step
further and adds 3 experimental units
to each race, each one unique in its
battlefield role and capable of taking
a small army if its fighting on its own
battlefield. Some of the experimentals
further the epic numbers strategy de-
spite only being a single unit, as they
can function as a mobile factories, set-
ting up mobile command posts and
pushing out units in the field to further
fortify themselves.
With such a focus on economy, Su-
preme Commander still keeps the pow-
erful base defences of TA to stop errant
harassment of your base. However, like
in TA they can still be brought down
with a suitable application of force,
whether its launching 5 nukes at his
lines to overwhelm his missile defence
systems, or doing a quick strike by a
large bombing fleet to disable his shield
generators. Also worth mentioning is
the effectiveness of artillery, which puts
the ranges displayed in other games to
shame. A single artillery cannon often
has minimum ranges similar to a nor-
mal units maximum ranges, with shells
flying between bases or onto oncom-
ing armies a common sight.
The unit strategy has been sub-
tly altered since TA, as now there is
a fixed divide between anti-air and
anti-ground attacks so now you have
to remember to bring AA flak guns or
fighter support with your army. On a
more personal note I miss seeing the
sight when a scout flies above my army
and I see rockets and artillery shells fly
everywhere as my units try in vain to
land a hit on the agile aircraft (just be-
cause everything can attack everything
doesn't mean its any good at it).
So overall Supreme Commander
holds everything that TA holds dear,
while still upping the ante and tighten-
ing the control system. The fact that
all the cool stuff returns, even if it may
have been renamed or altered slight-
ly, with a whole host of new features
added makes Supreme Commander
a worthy successor to Total Annihila-
tion. For those who haven't played to-
tal annihilation, it probably wouldn't
hurt to think of Supreme Commander
as a cross between C&C Generals and
the tactical combat on the Total War
games.
Alex Stubley

