felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
Volunteering in rural Kenya
Volunteering for one month in mobile health clinics in rural Kenya, 4th year Medic Ammar Waraich
shares his experience of ‘field medicine incarnate’. Non-medics amongst us need not necessarily look away
O
n the western border of
Kenya, many kilometres
from the nearest town, I
enter a mud-hut set on
a sugar cane plantation
to the backdrop of intense tropical
rainfall.
These are my first few days in Af-
rica and I look forward to, as they say,
‘making a difference’ and ‘getting away
from it all’. As I put my corpulent ruck-
sack down, I let out a sigh of relief, hav-
ing just travelled for over 10 hours on
a rattling bus across possibly the worst
road in the world.
I can make out many new faces hud-
dling around me in this hut; I am told
they are my colleagues in volunteering.
There is no electricity and so no light,
so I give up on making eye contact
and swiftly proceed to engage them in
some friendly chit-chat. Devoid of any
freshness or originality, I say “hi”. They
all say “hi” back and introduce them-
selves. So far, so banal, but amongst the
many polite Canadian, American and
Kenyan accents I hear, I pick up a Brit-
ish one which comforts me a little, be-
ing so far away from SW7 and merci-
fully opens up a natural avenue for me
to progress in my predictable banter. I
ask the Brit her name, and she replies
telling me it’s Heather.
“Are you from the UK?” I ask. “Yes”
she replies. “Where from in the UK?”
I ask back. “London” she replies. Cool
I think, a fellow Londoner! It turns out
that she lives in Hammersmith. “…you
don’t go to Uni in London, do you?” I
enquire cautiously. “Yes. I go to Impe-
rial” she answers. Ugh, not that place...
“Oh really, me too!” I exclaim, “What
do you study at Imperial?” I go on to
quiz courteously. “Medicine” she re-
torts. This is too close for comfort.
“Oh really, me too!” I yawp, excitably.
“What year are you in?” I ask, expect-
ing the worst. “Third” she discloses,
“What, really! No way! Me too!!”
So, here in the middle of Eastern Af-
rica, of all places and times, I run into
a fellow 3rd year Medic that I hadn’t
even had the chance to talk to back
home, and it makes for a splendid, al-
beit weird, way to start everything. So
much for getting away from it all!
My new Canadian friends plead with
me to repeat the conversation once
more for the entertainment of a few
newcomers into the hut, but I didn’t
really see much need.
32 felix Friday 25 January 2008
“So, here in
the middle of
Eastern Africa,
of all places
and times, I run
into a fellow 3rd
year Medic that
I hadn’t even
had the chance
to talk to back
home”
Anyway, back to the topic at hand. I
was to be based at this sugar cane plan-
tation for one month, residing with the
family of a local reverend by the suave
name of Reuben Lubanga and my ac-
commodation here was to be a simple
mud hut shared with other volunteers,
with no running water, electricity or
gas.
The organisation I was working for,
called ICODEI, ran the mobile clinic
programme I volunteered in as just
one facet of its operations, with pro-
grammes in micro-enterprise develop-
ment; micro-financing; teaching and
HIV awareness also running. While
I was there, it was also looking to set
up a cheap HIV testing scheme and a
cheap ceramic water-filter project.
The situation that we operated in
was a sad one. Funds were limited,
volunteers short in supply and the ob-
jectives to be achieved huge. We went
out to set up and run a mobile clinic
in the rural areas everyday, hours from
the few tarmacked roads to be found
and accessible only by a bumpy, muddy
4x4 ride. Since this was field medicine
incarnate, we had no access to labs for
tests, no imaging and no beds. Actu-
ally, the list of no’s could be indefinitely
longer but our biggest problem was
that due to the numerous localities we
took responsibility for, we could not ar-
range for any ‘follow up appointments’.
This implied that any treatments had
to be administered on the spot, empiri-
cally fashioned, basing them on history
and physical exams alone.
People we saw all across the area
were, as expected, struggling with
health or economic problems and live-
lihoods carved out of subsistence farm-
ing equating to no stable income. For
people needing healthcare in Kenya,
transport is a significant limiting factor
with medical facilities dotted around
the country at great distances, up to
Malnutrition is a serious problem in the young
Discussing cheap testing with a HIV support group
Various skin symptoms were often the main presenting complaint
Appeasing our little patient
My desk at the office

