infection, pneumonia, TB, cellulites,
infectious diarrhoea, UTI and even
an insidious presentation of AIDS.
Malnutrition, dehydration and worms
were a huge problem in the young, and
other than this we saw many varied
and interesting surgical and medical
problems.
One gentleman, who flummoxed me
during my second week of clinics, came
incomplainingofpaininhiswristsfrom
felix@imperial.ac.uk Travel
This man needed an amputation we could not provide
The team. My flies are sadly undone
33
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
excessive digging. But as I finished my
questioning, he pulled his trousers up
to reveal an enormous 2 year-old hole
in his leg as a final niggling problem!
Apparently, it had happened due to a
pickaxe accident and was now infect-
ed, needing amputation. Another man
came in with two massive lumps under
the skin of his chest claiming that his
family had decided to insert batteries
under his skin to ‘recharge’ him after
pneumonia had made him feel ‘very
tired’. He was deadly serious. The sad
thing in both cases was that we could
not do anything for them, as our clinic
could not conduct surgery.
For me, this is also where the frustra-
tions started. We saw many cases where
we could have done so much had we
the right resources and our hands were
not tied by our situation. Yet at times,
there were patients coming in declar-
ing every symptom known to man in
the pursuit of cheap medical treatment
or in the lust of dear drugs. For exam-
ple, one lady complained of a headache
on hearing bad news and would not
leave until she was given “something
at least”, as she put it. There was also
a craze for needles with many people
believing that an injection, no matter
what the content of the syringe, was
a cure for any illness and a protection
against further disease. Add to this the
disorganised management of ICODEI
and the concept of ‘African timing’ and
you get closer to understanding the
feeling of defunctness that sometimes
overcame me.
One mother came to clinic with a
severely malnourished toddler; evi-
dent by his swollen belly. She said that
she was feeding him “ugali, beans and
porridge” day in, day out. There was
no meat or even milk in the diet, and
hearing this really angered me. I was
quick to make judgements on her poor
maternal skills and not surprised that
the child was in this state going by his
diet of pure starch. I made it clear to
the translator that the mother should
be told how angry I felt and be asked
why she was not feeding the child any
protein- “...because we can’t afford to
feed him anything else” came the reply.
This was truly a heartbreaking thing to
hear, especially considering the state of
the child, and it made me very annoyed
at myself for a long time after she had
left. Needless to say, poverty is at the
root of the health situation people here
face.
And then we obviously have the AIDS
catastrophe. Kenya faces a very high
prevalence of the disease and many
patients we saw had several terrible
infections ensuing from their positive
HIV status. One such patient whom
we set out to visit at her home, died
as our jeep approached her house; this
left the whole team visibly depressed
considering we had just talked to her
that very morning.
In my humble and inexperienced
opinion, what Kenya needs to improve
its health situation is a strong educa-
tion plan to dispel the strongly-held,
incorrect health beliefs (where, for
example, kids with wet malnutrition
are thought to be healthy because of
“claiming that
his family had
decided to
insert batteries
under his skin to
‘recharge’ him”
four hours away from some villages
we saw, via a 30-60 Kenyan shilling
matatu journey. Most of these facilities
were being run by one or two nurses,
without the support of any qualified
doctors and one such clinic I visited,
to try and learn about local diseases,
made so many errors that even as a
medical student, I could see they were
practicing atrocious medicine. What’s
more, they were charging 300 Kenyan
shillings plus per sub-standard basic
consultation and treatment! Com-
pared to that, our mobile clinic was a
steal at 50 shillings for the same thing,
and it was much easier for us to take a
mobile clinic to them rather then they
come to us. But with so many people to
help, where could one jeep go to make
a lasting difference?
The majority of patients we saw were
young adults or children suffering from
fever. Fever implies many things: most-
ly malaria, but also dispersed amongst
these were typhoid, respiratory tract
their swollen bellies and faces) and an
education plan on germ theory, to an-
nul the rampant misuse of antibiotics
responsible for the rising bacterial re-
sistance. Basic health and nutritional
needs should also be addressed and the
international community has to act to
help Kenya alleviate poverty, in order
to let the locals move beyond purely
subsistence farming. Furthermore,
HIV awareness needs to take a surge, as
people still have a shockingly low level
of awareness by western standards and
some unreal beliefs on the spread and
control of HIV which I won’t mention
here. All of these ideas are obviously
easier said than done.
Upon my return, a friend was quick
to point out that my visit sounded like
a “glamorous” one, but in reality it
is anything but. It is a saddening and
frustrating experience that opens your
eyes to the world’s indifference as you
ultimately realise that you can try your
best but not make any lasting differ-
ence. To achieve such change requires
far more than the individual.
“‘…because
we can’t afford
to feed him
anything else,’
came the reply.
This was truly
a heartbreaking
thing to hear”
An AIDS patient
Fungal infection gone septic
Simple problem, no solution
A patient with varicose veins

