Hidden depths: down the rat hole
Jarvist Frost provides us with the riveting report of a Caving Club expedition underground
W
e stagger our
way up the path
weighed down with
bags of rope and
metalwork, passing
the toddlers being carried to see Father
Christmas at the Ingleborough Cave,
our comedy yellow PVC suits cracking
in the sub-zero temperature. The sky is
a perfect blue from horizon to horizon,
the bog frozen beneath our feet.
It was the first caving day of our
Winter Tour and this was our plan: To
split into two groups and rig separate
ways down into the enormous Gaping
Gill cave system, meeting in the main
chamber and swapping routes - going
out on each other’s ropes. The others
set out across the moor on a compass
bearing, while we hop over a fence to
protect the unwary from the stunning
110m waterfall.
A last recheck of our gear, a few nerv-
ous grins, and we dive in. We start by
crawling down an old dry entrance, a
distant roar becoming a thud pounding
through the limestone as we approach
the underground stream. We regroup
perched in the middle of this torrent
and I attach our bags with 150m of
rope between them to my harness.
A few short pieces and soon we ap-
proach the monster. Swinging from
ceiling bolt to ceiling bolt, judging
lengths and tying rope as I go. Finally
out above the main drop, below is an
utter maelstrom. The river pours over
a jagged lip and unravels into disor-
dered streams, ricocheting off the
walls as it plunges down. To go straight
down would be suicide - the hurtling
water would first batter and freeze and
then drown you. Through the spray is
a view of pure blackness - the ninety-
odd metre drop to the floor.
And so our way is to traverse, ab-
seiling down a little, carefully holding
steady and then throwing ourselves
across the shaft towards where we
hope the next bolt will be, bouncing
off the walls and scrambling along with
whatever holds can be grabbed. With
the rope safely tied off, I kneel against
the wall and contemplate the next ob-
stacle - a traverse between two over-
hanging walls a little over two metres
apart, with tiny footholds, to gain the
next bolt and place of safety. There is
a crack of a ledge on one side, and a
few graspable bumps on the other. The
climbing wall does not prepare you for
moments like this.
I pull the necessary slack through
my descender - no chance of being
able to self-belay as I climb, and set
off - bridged across from one wall on
tip-toes standing in the crack on one
side whilst pushing with my finger-
tips on the other. I don’t remember
what moves I used to get across, or
how I stepped from one side to the
other when the ledges ran out. My only
memory is being in the middle and
looking down, feeling the strain in my
tendons, watching the drips plunge to
the floor.
On and drifting down on a 9mm
spindle of rope, lassoing the walls to
swing in to the bolts finally landing on
‘The Amphitheater’, a scallop shaped
ledge with the waterfall-powered
winds whistling past. One hundred
metres of rope used so far. The view
from here is amazing - looking down
into the enormous main chamber.
Downing my light, I can just make out
the daylight filtering down from above,
so dim and speckled from bouncing
off the rocks that it could as well have
been the Northern lights.
I set off again, knots tied to bolts,
karabiners clicking in to hold the soft
rope away from the jagged rock. The
walls blossom out and I am left in free
space, dangling between two water-
falls. The weave of the rope sets me
gently spinning as I drop to the floor,
my descender purring to itself as my
height is turned into puffs of steam
freed from the wet rope.
Down on the cobbled floor, I dodge
the other seven waterfalls as I stumble
across a chamber big enough to hap-
pily host the Albert Hall, blowing my
whistle till I am out of breath to sig-
nal the others. Eventually (after a lot
of blowing!) they get the message and
a pinprick of light appears a long way
up above and starts to drift down as
slowly as a feather.
With perfect timing, the other party
arrives. We share a wee dram and a sip
of hot chocolate, and make our sepa-
rate ways out. Passages and chambers
and climbs and rope: finally we were
back on the surface, nearly eight hours
underground.
Starlight glinted from the crystal
clear sky, lighting the white beards of
frost on the heather. To think a day ago
I had been walking home under the
orange glow of South Kensington! We
walked the long path back to the mini-
bus, the ropes dangling from our belts
stiffening into rods as they froze solid.
Don’t you wish you were there?
I think I can see the light at the end of the tunnel... if it’s not someone’s flash
In the name of the Father, the Son and into the Hole he goes
34 felix Friday 25 January 2008

