felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
The Relays are coming
Hyde Park Relays are on their way. See page 38
The Medicals entertained Hampstead
at Twickenham looking to cement 2nd
position in the London 3NW table
whereas, the visitors, reeling after a
17-7 defeat to the Medicals earlier in
the season, arrived fired up and seek-
ing revenge. Skipper Austin Dekker se-
lected a familiar looking side with the
exception of fresher Ed Pickles, fresh
back from injury, in the front row and
hooker Peter Russell, available for the
first time this season, on the bench.
Despite the heavy mid-week rain the
Teddington pitch was, as ever, in su-
perb condition allowing for the open,
running game the Medicals favour.
However, the resolute visitors and a
referee seemingly gripped with the mi-
nutiae of the game meant that the first
half was repeatedly punctutated by
set pieces and penalties. The referee’s
whistle was to allow the Medicals their
first opportunity to open the scoring
when he adjudged the visitor’s back-
line to be offside at the ruck. Directly
in front of the posts and 30 metres out
Medicals’ weekend team continues good form
the penalty caused centre Dan Neville
little trouble as his sweetly struck effort
sailed over the posts. Almost immedi-
ately Hampstead were awarded two
chances to score penalties, however,
the visitor’s kicker pulled both penal-
ties wide of the left hand upright.
With both sides unable to string
phases together the game deteriorated
into an atritional affair with every me-
tre keenly contested as the set piece
became increasingly important. In this
respect the Medicals were able to hold
their own in the scrum and disrupt the
visitor’s lineout, whilst Ruairidh Craw-
ford and Peter O’Neill kept the Medi-
cals lineout in good order. Proceedings
were brought to life by a piece of ex-
ceptional Medicals play. From a lineout
on the Hampstead ten metre line the
ball was taken up by James Saffin and
the resulting ruck superbly cleared out
by the back row. Quick ball from Tom
Maynard allowed the backline to move
the ball wide where Martin Borthwick,
who had cut a superb line from full-
back, was fed by Graham Sidorowicz.
Neat interplay between Borthwick,
Sam Codrington and Joe Codrington
resulted in the fly-half able to power
his way over into the corner. Neville
masterfully added the extras.
Now more established in the game
the home side began exerting more
pressure on the Hampstead defence.
Using the strong left to right wind Joe
Codrington and Dan Neville kept the
visitors pinned in their twenty-two
with an accurate kicking game. Chris
Hallewell was able to steal a Hamp-
stead lineout 10 metres out from
their line. With a huge overlap to his
right Francois Tudor chose to go for
the line himself. Despite being hauled
down just short Tudor was, rather for-
tuitously, able to shovel the ball back
to Borthwick who, making light of a
smack to the face, crossed under the
posts. Neville again made no mistake
with the conversion.
As the half-time whistle blew the
Medicals knew they had set a plat-
form on which to build for the second
half but were as yet not playing to the
standard they are capable of. Kevan
Bell implored his charges to string
phases together and look to play with
more confidence in attack.
The coach’s words were clearly taken
to heart as the Medicals started the
second period in electric form. Im-
mediately from the restart the Medi-
cals become more inventive in attack
with forwards and backs alike cutting
imaginative running lines and looking
to offload at every opportunity. The
home side’s play forced the visitors to
concede numerous penalties, which
when asked to by his captain, Neville
steered into the corners or success-
fully kicked between the posts. Win-
ning quick ruck ball and playing with
an air of assurance the Medicals soon
crossed the tryline again when Austin
Dekker received the ball 5 metres out
and dived over to the right of the posts.
Neville again made no mistake with
the boot.
Superman!
Jeremy Bartosiak-Jentys
Rugby Union
London 3NW
Imperial Medicals 1st 39
Hampstead Men’s 1st 19

