4 felix Friday 25 January 2008
Education Proclamation
Today, the Union launched its Higher Education funding survey. If you want to influence the Union’s policy
and stance on HE funding, take it online now by heading to www.imperialcollegeunion.org/hesurvey.
Below is an overview of how we’ve arrived at this point and what could possibly happen in the future
A brief history...
The most significant recent review of Higher Education funding was the Dearing Report in
1997. It was commissioned to find out how funding should develop over the following 20
years. Before 1997 universities were funded entirely by the government from taxpayers’
money. University was free to attend, there were no tuition fees and there were grants
for the poor to pay for living expenses.
Sir Ronald Dearing, the lead author of the 1997 inquiry made a number of
recommendations to the government, most notably the introduction of £1,000 per year
tuition fees. He also recommended the continuation of means tested grants and loans.
The Labour government came to power in 1997 and in 1998 Prime Minister Tony Blair
introduced tuition fees. On top of this, Mr Blair introduced student loans which replaced
maintenance grants too.
In 2003, Mr Blair announced it had made plans to introduce “top-up fees”. Despite a
narrow five vote victory (316-311), the 2004 Higher Education Bill was passed and top-
up fees became a reality. Later that year maintenance grants were re-introduced for
students from poorer backgrounds. This all leads us to the current funding model...
Why are we all talking about HE funding again?!
At the start of last term, Imperial College Union Council passed a policy to revise its
stance on Higher Education funding, pending a consultation with the student body. The
Union’s old policy mandated it to campaign for free education. The President, Stephen
Brown, and Deputy President (Education & Welfare), Kirsty Patterson, believed that “free
education funded entirely by the taxpayer is unrealistic.”
Rather than having Council determine what the new policy should be, the Union
decided that it should listen to the entire student body to get a broader idea of the views
it should be representing. The time has arrived for the consultation to begin; as of today
you will be able to go online and complete a survey which asks you questions about
your views on Higher Education funding. The answers will be used to form the Union’s
revised Higher Education funding policy.
What’s the current funding model?
If you are starting University now you will be paying top-up fees. At present they are capped
at £3,000 and most universities charge the full amount. Top-up fees, unlike tuition fees, are
not payable up front. Rather, once you graduate, the fees get paid back automatically from
your salary with the amount dependant on thresholds.
Along with a new payment scheme came a new funding and bursary scheme. Students
paying £3,000 top-up fees may be eligible for an additional “HE Maintenance Grant”. This
makes up a proportion of your total loan amount and is not repayable. The Maintenance
Grant is calculated according to your family’s income and acts to reduce the level of debt
incurred by students from poor economic backgrounds. A “Special Support Grant” is also
available to students entitled to benefits which acts in a similar way to reduce the amount
repayable on a student loan.
Institutions are also encouraged to offer bursaries that will widen participation in Higher Education. From 2007 Imperial
College has awarded “Student Support Bursaries” of up to £4,000 per year to students from low income families. These
bursaries are awarded to cover maintenance and study related costs during a student’s time at Imperial.
Union Council back in October last term
Tony Blair’s Labour Government introduced tuition
fees in 1998 and top-up fees later on in 2004
Money: the root of many discussions,
including this one

