5
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
What alternative funding methods are there?
Well, some people believe taxpayers should have to pay for Higher Education once again
making it free to everyone. However, this would be a major step backwards for the
government.
One alternative model to both top-up fees and funding from taxpayers is a Graduate
Tax. Students would contribute nothing towards their degree whilst they are studying;
there would be no tuition fees. Once a student graduates his/her earnings would have
an additional tax on them for a fixed period of time, say 25 years. The tax rate would be
fixed for all graduates, meaning that higher earners would pay more than those on lower
salaries.
Another suggestion is to revise the distribution of funding depending on the subjects a
university teaches. So, for example, universities teaching science based subjects would
get more money than those teaching arts subjects because test tubes and lasers cost
more than books and paints.
What does the future hold then?
2009 is an important year for students; the government is scheduled to conduct a
review of variable top-up fee rates. The cap on top-up fees could be lifted meaning
that universities are free to charge students whatever they like. If it’s not lifted
completely, it may be raised above £3,000 per year instead. Or... it could just stay
the same.
It’s highly unlikely that the government is going to have a sea-change and
revert back to free education if previous policies are anything to go by. These
reports do not (as can be seen from the Dearing Report) directly dictate policy
to the Government. If the role of City Academies (schools funded partially by
independent bodies, such as banks and partially by the Government) in secondary
education is an indicator, the Government may see the benefits of privatising off
both student loans and sectors of the higher education. Imperial College as an
elite university may benefit from this whilst others might struggle to compete.
Head to:
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/hesurvey
You’ll be asked to give your opinions on
the purpose of Higher Education, where
funding should come from and also
bursaries.
Once you’ve taken the survey you will
be invited to leave your email address to
be entered into a free prize draw.
The main prize will be two return
tickets to Paris on the Eurostar. More
prizes will be added as the number of
responses increases so watch out for
more additional prizes over the coming
weeks and get all your friends to fill in
the survey.
What’s going to
happen with the data?
After the survey the Deputy President
(Education & Welfare) and the Representation
and Welfare Board will draft a new policy to
be voted on at Union Council.
While this piece of paper will not make
very much difference on its own it will
dictate how all 10 NUS delegates will
vote at the NUS Conference in April. It
will also give the President and DPEW
a mandate to follow when presenting
Imperial College Students’ opinions
and finally it will provide a powerful
and substantial argument for the Great
Higher Education Funding Debate
which is taking place in March.
This will be an opportunity for Student
Unions, academics and politicians
to talk about the future of Higher
Education Funding ahead of the review
in 2009 and will take place over a whole day at
Central Hall in Westminster.
So, how do I take this survey?
The survey is online now:
www.imperialcollegeunion.org/hesurvey
2009: The year of the top-up fees review and
possibly the next General Election. Coincidence?
Should universities be given more funding
depending on which subjects they teach?
Written by Tom Roberts, Kirsty Patterson and Matty Hoban

