6 felix Friday 25 January 2008
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
How should universities be funded?
In light of the Union’s survey released today, Comment returns to the Higher Education funding debate
Steve Brown
Union President
Take a step back from it all
A
t times it can be difficult
to engage one of the least
politicised student bod-
ies in the country but it
is all part and parcel of
Students’ Union Presidency. Whilst
the majority of Union activity centres
around clubs and society activity and
social events, the real reason the Un-
ion was established way back when
was to provide a representative voice
for the students of Imperial College.
In the future the Union is looking to
make greater use of electronic means
of gathering student opinion which is
why we are giving this electronic sur-
vey on the topic of how our Universi-
ties should be funded a go. The stu-
dent body of Imperial has the power to
mandate elected officers like myself to
take a certain position on issues such
as this so in order to help this process
along I urge you to take the few min-
utes it will take to complete our short
survey. Whilst I am happy to share my
opinion at the end of the day it doesn’t
really matter what I think – the view
that matters is the one taken by the
largest number of students.
My successor (who you are about to
elect) will also be looking to collate and
voice your views in the run up to the
government’s Higher Education fund-
ing review which is currently sched-
uled for 2009. In respect of the current
£3000 cap on the contribution made by
UK and EU students you will hear a va-
riety of calls from student leaders, Uni-
versity Vice-Chancellors (most places
don’t have a Rector) and politicians to
keep it, raise it or perhaps even remove
it altogether. I will use the rest of this
article to pose some questions to you
First of all, what are your opinions
of the current system? I have made
my own views clear on this matter in
previous issues but do you think that
the introduction of top up fees has
changed our universities for the bet-
ter or for the worse? Are the enhanced
bursary packages students in finan-
cial need now have access to whilst at
university worth the debt? Getting in
to debt on a buy now, pay later basis
can be quite daunting but it can be
considered to be quite attractive to
the alternative of increasing the rate
of income tax. One day we all will pay
off our student debts whilst any addi-
tional tax burden on graduates could
make our education even more costly
than it currently is. One of the benefits
of the current system is that what you
pay back every month is determined
by how much you earn and if your
earnings never increase pass a certain
level then you don’t have to pay back
a penny. Could it be that the endless
scaremongering that has emanated
from Students’ Unions on the issue of
student debt put some people off ap-
plying to university?
Secondly, looking to the future you
might want to consider what mecha-
nisms should be in place to direct
funding? With finite resources availa-
ble how should they be distributed and
what criteria should be taken in to ac-
count?Weareconstantlyhearingabout
shortages of suitably qualified and will-
ing students wanting to study science
and some have argued that resources
in this area should be increased. With
regards to the more popular subjects
where there is already a glut of gradu-
ates to what extent should learning for
learning’s sake be funded?
These are some pertinent and con-
troversial questions that we would like
your views on. If you think my opin-
ions are awful then our survey is a
quick and easy opportunity to steer me
back on to the right path and to bet-
ter inform the Union’s policy making
process. Visit www.imperialcollegeun-
ion.org/hesurvey to take the survey.
Matty Hoban
Free education leads to a free society
I
n the run up to the 1997 gen-
eral election, Tony Blair prom-
ised that the new Labour/New
Labour government would be
about three things; the now fa-
mous, “Education, education, educa-
tion!” We now know with the benefit
of hindsight that he was really promot-
ing arbitrary targets alongside part
privatisation of schools. The same sort
of hatchet job has been applied to uni-
versity and higher education funding
where rarely the student or institution
is satisfied. With the Union asking for
student consultation with regards to
their future policy on higher educa-
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
W
ith the suspen-
sion of the Union’s
policy on Higher
Education funding
last term, the Coun-
cil said they wanted to gauge student
opinion on the matter. You might ask
why the President wanted to conduct
a survey instead of having a referen-
dum. After having a look at a draft of
the survey last term, I can guess at the
reason why – it asks vague questions
about things such as who should be ap-
plying to university rather than asking
definite questions on how university
education should be funded, which
should leave the few people pushing
for new policy enough room to inter-
pret the results however they wish.
Throughout this whole process cer-
tain people on Council have stressed
the importance of having a debate on
this issue, while at the same time do-
ing everything possible to inhibit the
debate. At a meeting of the Repre-
sentation and Welfare Board where
the questions in the draft survey were
supposed to be debated, the discus-
sion was halted after several minutes
and people were asked to voice their
opinions by email rather than being
able to discuss them with everyone
else present.
So what are the main points in this
debate? Firstly, our Union should fight
for free education because any other
policy would only weaken our posi-
tion as a Student’s Union. If we fight
for a cap on top up fees, how do we
decide what “cap” is suitable? In this
situation, the Rector’s position in fa-
vour of unlimited top up fees would
become harder to fight against. If we
fought for the cap to remain at £3,000
thinking that it’s the best we’re going to
get, then we are accepting that the free
market should dictate Higher Educa-
tion.Furthermore, if entrance to uni-
versities is dominated by the free mar-
ket, then Universities will continually
compete to increase fees, and it will
become harder and harder for people
to afford to go to University.
Secondly, the main duty of a Stu-
dent’s Union is to take a principled
stand on issues that affect students.
Fighting for free education is not be-
cause people “prefer something free
over something you have to now pay
for” as the President previously said; it
is because people who can’t afford to
pay the top up fees are being excluded
from going to University out of fear of
the resulting debt.
The previous Union policy stated
that “Top-up fees have created a mar-
ket in Higher Education which hinders
the involvement of those students who
come from backgrounds with histori-
cally low participation rates.” They also
said that the Union believed that “any
‘review’ by the Government is likely
to be a sham, designed to smooth the
passage of unrestricted top-up fees.”
As I have noted before, I believe that
this comment should be applied to the
review of this policy by the Council;
it has been a sham, aimed at pushing
through opinions which aren’t repre-
sentative of the student population at
Imperial.
So I urge you to reflect the arguments
made in this article in your responses
to the Union’s survey.
Fight for free education
tion funding (through the online sur-
vey), big questions and easy solutions
are thrown about. I am personally for
free education, and luckily due to my
background I enjoy not having to pay
tuition fees. However, I have witnessed
first hand people struggling to pay tui-
tion fees and the financial uncertain-
ties it brings.
Aside from my ideological view-
point that education should be free
and readily available to all, I see the
system as inherently hypocritical. New
Labour set the now infamous target of
fifty percent of school leavers to attend
university. Through this they imme-
diately aligned themselves with uni-
versity admissions and ideas of wider
availability. However, at the same time
they present a cheque as a solution to
the funding implications. The main
difficulty I have is the fact that those
who suffer most from the tuition fees
are the lower middle classes whose in-
come lies just above the fees threshold.
New Labour was about wooing Mid-
dle England and to do the above just
makes no political sense, these are also
the people I have seen suffer the most.
You are lumbered with debts, which
is a problem that you will personally
have to solve. If anything, this destroys
the nature of social mobility, or at
least makes it about as easy as walking
through a pool of treacle.
Whether a Students’ Union should
naturally be in favour of free education
will hopefully come to light from this
survey; the Union is there to repre-
sent your interests. Just remember that
education is the most liberating of hu-
man endeavours; could placing a price
tag on it only undermine this liberty?
Whether you believe this or are a self-
proclaimed “pragmatist”, one thing is
for sure, someone will be burdened by
the cost. However, you can choose who
will be better at dealing with it.
Caroline Clark

