comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
7
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
Comment
Journey to the End of the Paragraph
L
et’s go on an expedition.
Yes, that’s right, you and
me. Don’t be nervous – I’ve
been told I’m pretty good
company. In any case, we’re
not going very far. In fact, you don’t
even have to move to make the highly
glamorous Journey to the End of the
Paragraph.
What drives a person to set off and
make their mark on the vast, daunt-
ing expanse of a white page? Some are
drawn by the rumour of hidden treas-
ure, theirs for the unearthing if they
steer the right course. Others want
nothing else but to leave the world they
know, and immerse themselves in the
magical lands they may find beneath
the cold whiteness of the page. Then,
of course, there are those who seek the
thrill of exploration. Who are driven
on by the insatiable need to unlock
the potential of these uncharted ter-
ritories. Armed with but a handful of
punctuation marks, a sturdy thesaurus
and a strong pair of glasses they reso-
lutely set off for the Terra Incognita.
The journey that lies ahead is not
an easy one, and adequate prepara-
tion has to be taken. The first step is to
ensure the possession of a sufficiently
powerful vocabulary to fight one’s way
across the verbal wasteland. Without
one, even the most ardent explorer will
be lucky to cross into the second para-
graph; the firepower a decent vocabu-
lary provides is crucial for the success
of a literary expedition.
Assuming that transportation is tak-
en care of, a good supply of grammati-
cal rules is indispensable for creating a
healthy atmosphere; making sure the
group stays united and structured, and
that no individual words go straying
off into the wilderness, where no feat
of construction, however daring, will
save them.
Gilead Amit
Any such trip’s failure can be guar-
anteed by the absence of proper plan-
ning. Paths have to be sketched out,
goals must be set. Certain fixed desti-
nations must be reached before others.
Above all, random meandering in the
wild leads nowhere. For a sentence to
be successful it must have a fixed aim,
and a detailed map must be drawn up
as to how to get there.
The trip seems more daunting now
than it did before, doesn’t it? Con-
structing a sentence outline, ensuring
sufficient word-power, being familiar
with the grammar? Don’t worry. You’re
well equipped. You have the finest set
of punctuation marks in the history of
man in your rucksack; an invaluable
aid if you know how to use them.
Vital to success is the comma; the
most precious tool available to you.
You can now embark on the longest of
sentences without fear. The steep climb
to the end of a thought can be danger-
ous, and without the assistance of a
comma, one can fall all the way back
down the cliff face to the beginning of
the sentence. The ‘fallen apostrophe’ is
a crampon for these sheerest of slopes,
giving you a resting-place while you
plan the next section of your climb. Be
warned, though – use too many and
you won’t get anywhere.
The semi-colon is the big-boy equiv-
alent. A much more powerful, more
finely-crafted tool, it is extremely dan-
gerous in the wrong hands. Needless
to say, it is very effective; but unsuper-
vised use can result in structural cha-
os. It is, of course, made by the same
manufacturer as the colon, which is
no less risky, and should be used only
in the event of an emergency. It serves
as a warning shot: it slows the pace of
your expedition down, but keeps them
moving. Be prepared though: the gen-
eral tension will rise after its use, and
everyone will be desperately eager to
reach the end of the sentence as soon
as possible.
The dash is a helpful and compact
rope bridge for getting across the most
perilous of breaks in the sentence
structure. The linguistic framework
can collapse under your feet in a mo-
ment – and it is the dash that can guide
you to safety. Should you fail to use it
in time, however, a solitary ellipsis will
indicate the final resting-place of a
thought cut off before its time...
There will be times when your words
will get restless and want to stray from
the arranged path. Occasional devia-
tions are very healthy (so long as you
mark your trail properly with paren-
theses, so as to able to return to it
eventually), but if your phrasing gets
overexcited, you may have to pull the
trigger and fire a full stop through its
head. Sentences that are going no-
where do sometimes need to be put
to sleep; as gut-wrenching as that can
sometimes be.
These adventures are by no means
rare, but they are remarkable, and
can be as thrilling and terrifying as
any. They are voyages that anyone can
make with ease, so long as one plans
one’s trip well, is well-equipped, knows
where one is headed, and, above all,
avoids excessive comma usage.
Roses are red, violets are more costly
F
our weeks, then. Less than
that, by the time you’re read-
ing this. I don’t need to tell
you what it’s four weeks un-
til, because there are amoeba
living at the bottom of trenches in the
Pacific that have already begun to put
up Valentine’s Day decorations in their
presumably single-celled shopfronts.
You can’t not know that it’s Valentine’s
Day soon, because if you’re single then
High Street Kensington looks like it’s
dangling its genitalia and laughing at
you from every shop window you pass,
and if you aren’t single then you’ve
probably been obsessing about gift-
buying for the last two months, and if
you haven’t then why not? Don’t you
love your partner? Don’t you? Then
why aren’t you buying You2Me bears to
express it? Why not, you loveless shit?
Not that people are predictable, but
around this time of year you gener-
ally get two camps forming based on
the groups above. There are those
who are ready to chow down the col-
our pink in every available form for
the two weeks running up to The Big
Day, and there are those that claim that
it’s “a manufactured holiday” that “the
greetings card companies” made up. I
don’t know whether the greetings card
companies deserve being referred to in
the same tones as OPEC, but I’m pretty
sure that if they’re planning anything,
it’s more likely to be how to make their
celebrity-parody cards even bloody
A. Geek
“
My point
being this –
dealing drugs to
primary school
children? Moral
grey area
noisier rather than convincing people
to express their love in paper form.
But what’s so bad with a manufac-
tured holiday, anyway? It’s not like it
makes the gestures any less sincere. It’s
not Hallmark that’s screwing you over
really, it’s just you that’s doing it. It’s like
how heroin on it’s own is actually kind
of pretty, if you put it in jars and shine
halogen lamps through it. But if you
give it to nine year-olds, suddenly it’s
a massive evil and bang! You’re in jail
for twelve to eighteen months. Jesus.
My point being, firstly – dealing drugs
to primary school children? Moral
grey area. But secondly, and more im-
portantly, it’s you that’s to blame deep
down.
Now, I like to think that my girlfriend
and I are different, but then again I
would. And though I should point out
that she not only knows I write this,
but also – god forbid – actually reads
the shit I churn out, you might have a
right to be cynical about anything I say
this week. But that’s up to you, really.
Anyway, there’s this girl, as men-
tioned above, and God love her she
manages to tolerate my unhappiness
and general anger on a weekly and
frequently daily basis. I’m incredibly
grateful for this. It makes me ludicrous-
ly happy, in fact, and there are times
when she manages to entirely defeat
the whining, rage-filled sloth that pulls
the majority of my levers. I don’t know
if that’s supposed to be something a
girl puts up with, but I guess it beats
putting up with, say, physical abuse or
a private stash of pornographic maga-
zines. Maybe.
The point is that I’m extremely grate-
ful and take any opportunity I can to
show this. That means that Valentine’s
Day is just a convenient marker, a kind
of ‘why the hell not’ label in the diary
where we think it might be a good idea
to put aside trivial things like study
or other people and take the time to
remind each other that we really feel
better with the other around. And
that whiny sloths can never beat roses
bought from French people.
Now, if you’re looking at Valentine’s
Day as a day where you’ve got some-
thing to prove, then you’re just setting
yourself up for a fall. This is why most
people end up collapsing under the
weight of their own self-pity, or panic-
attacking every time they see a stuffed
toy in January. The ‘commercialism’ is
just what shops do. It’s why there’s a
guy selling umbrellas outside Glouces-
ter Road every time it rains, and sure,
I want to punt him in the groin with
one of his own products just as much
as you do, but it’s not his fault. When
the hell else is he going to sell them?
No, the reason everyone gets so de-
pressed is because they convince them-
selves that there’s some kind of demand
being put on them by everyone else. It’s
why you want a pair of Converse now
that you’ve seen them in Felix’s fashion
page, and it’s why you can never tell
people ‘no’. Because you can’t, can you?
You feel bad, as if there’s going to be
some repercussion that the Universe
itself will exact upon you. Well, good
news – there won’t be. No-one’s going
to care if you’re single come this Val-
entine’s Day, and if you’re so desperate
to have someone for that particular day
then it’s probably time to reassess your
life vis-à-vis being a normal human be-
ing. Similarly, if the best you can think
of your partner is that they’re going to
abandon you unless you offer them a
chocolate box so big that it interferes
with the Earth’s own gravitational field,
then you’re probably not in a healthy
relationship. Trust doesn’t just mean
leaving your boyfriend alone with
that pretty research assistant from the
fourth floor. It also means that you
don’t think they’re so gullible as to
judge your commitment to them on
the basis of confectionery.
This compulsion thing, actually, is
one of the more frustrating things I see
from day to day; the fact that so many
of us are bounded by expectation.
Most of the time, though, I can’t find a
way to make it sound funny rather than
just very, very sad. If you’re lucky, I just
might tell you that story another week.
For now you should scurry off to the
local commercialism store and stock
up on exploitation. I will be at in my
apartment, looking after my garnet.
Much love.
Not quite as glamorous perhaps, but just as thrilling
“
Armed with
but a handful
of punctuation
marks, a sturdy
thesaurus and
a strong pair
of glasses they
resolutely set
off for the Terra
Incognita
”

