8 felix Friday 25 January 2008
Noel Forrest
Celebrities say the funniest things
A
ren’t celebrities silly! The
charity Sense About Sci-
ence have flagged up
some classic science
gaffes from 2007, includ-
ing Sarah Beeny’s, “lovely make up
and moisturisers which don’t have any
chemicals in them” and Heather Mills’
views that animals farmed for meat
and dairy “are at the heart of almost
all the world’s environmental catastro-
phes.” Richly comic, but based on per-
sonal experience, I really can’t believe
my state of knowledge about the world
is any good either, even as a scientist.
Not because there’s so much informa-
tion out there, but because there is so
very much horse manure out there.
As an ecology student I fretted about
a sixth and this time human-led mass
extinction, but was then taught that
plant diversification has actually con-
stantly progressed upwards through-
out earth’s history, as explained by the
‘zoo versus botanic garden’ paradigm. I
diligently uprooted the invasive Hima-
layan Balsam from the banks of my
local river, but did I poison the alien
Rhododendrons in my garden? I did
not. I believed the eminent climate sci-
entist Jim Hansen when he said we’d
“exceeded the normal operating range
for carbon dioxide in our atmosphere”,
and in the context of the recent glacial/
interglacial cycling that’s true, but is it
true in the context of geological time?
Well, no actually.
Geologist Stephen Drury sums up
earth’s history as “constant change”,
which kind of puts things in perspec-
tive. We may even have averted the on-
set of the next ice age. I walked in the
woods and I marvelled at nature, and
then I read Oliver Rackham’s The His-
tory of the Countryside. Nature went
when Bronze Age man cut down all the
trees I’m afraid (that’s if you still be-
lieve there was ever such a thing as wil-
derness in the first place.). Legendary
plant scientist Peter Grubb (“spend an
hour with him you’ll think he’s Dar-
win, spend a week and you’ll think he’s
God”) rounded off my undergrad days
with a lecture on how many intelligent
people leave ecology because they can
see it’s faults too clearly, and that the
only people who ever really discover
anything anyway are the obsessive
“shrinking violet” types. So I left too,
and went into banking.
But let me tell you, things aren’t any
better there either. If you think you can
read the business section, see M&S’
sales falling and think “oo I’d better sell
those shares”, and make some money
like that, you are very, very much mis-
taken. You’ll probably sell them to a
trader who is buying the dip because
he has a hunch there’ll be a private eq-
uity bid, and what’s more if he himself
makes any real money then that too
will be basically luck. Because unless
you’ve worked in an industry or con-
sulted for it, you’ll be hard pushed to
say which company in that sector is
likely to outperform over the coming
year. And as for timing entry and exit
into asset classes, well just forget it.
But does that stop heavy advertising
by fund managers to get your money
into a zero-sum game where they’re
charging a fee? Or sales driven stock-
broker chat for the commission on the
trades they make, all well within the
FSA regulations? You know it doesn’t.
Many adverts boast of established po-
sitions in India and China, but could
they please explain why that’s a good
thing? Ever heard of emerging market
crashes? Nah, China’s all the rage! Fine,
I’m sold. Buy. Buy manure.
This is why enhancing our sense of
personal responsibility is thankfully
moving up the political agenda. Vul-
nerable members of society will not
make the most of life unless they real-
ise they have to work things out them-
selves. Interestingly, at the other end
of the spectrum, the message appears
to be the same. According to the Vice
Chancellor of the University of Cam-
bridge, Alison Richard, the aim of an
elite education is to learn to think for
oneself.
My point is simply that this is very
important, because of the vast swathes
of claptrap we need to navigate through
in life. We need to start asking more
pertinent questions, like why must Im-
perial’s front doors rotate slower than
the earth? If I die in there after some-
one touches the sides and it stops, then
I don’t want to be moved. I want to rot
in a bloody Catherine-wheel of protest
against getting it wrong. That’s if it
ever gets going again.
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Comment
“
We need
to start asking
more pertinent
questions,
like why must
Imperial’s front
doors rotate
slower than the
earth?
”
Heather Mills: Speaking sense
since the dawn of time. Cough

