comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 25 January 2008 felix
Comment
Dear Felix
Last week I was having a quiet lunch
in the Senior Common Room with sev-
eral friends when we were interrupted
by a rather rude member of staff who
had taken it upon himself to go around
the SCR asking for ID from anyone he
deemed not worthy of being there. As
Masters students, there is some de-
bate as to whether we are allowed to
buy and eat food in the SCR. However,
this ‘gentleman’ (he declined to give his
name) obviously thought otherwise,
and told us to leave. After we politely
asked if we could at least finish our
lunch first, he proceeded to man-han-
dle us out of our seats whilst subjecting
Letter to the Editor
Man-handled
and kicked out
of the Senior
Common Room
S
tudent journalism is A Good
Thing. Let’s put that onto
the table right there, before
we get too far into this one-
sided conversation between
you and my fine self. Student Journal-
ism is A Good Thing, and when I en-
visage the world collapsing under the
strain of nuclear war with only the core
tenets of human society remaining
intact, I like to think that dry-roasted
peanuts will still be the snack of choice
for the discerning gentleman, and that
students who can string seven words
together will still continue to write en-
tertainingly for their fellow slackers.
However, I think it’s fair to say that
Real Journalism is not the same as Stu-
dent Journalism. Here are some ways in
which Felix, for instance, differs from a
real publication – first of all, Felix isn’t
hugely reliant on anyone. It has adver-
tisers, sure, but they’re largely unrelat-
ed to anything they write about and the
income isn’t the only thing that keeps
it going. Felix also is running in a one-
horse race. If you want to read some-
thing written by students, for free, in
paper format, then you’re picking up
Felix. No competition. No stress. And
most importantly, no other outlets for
budding student journalists.
Now I’m not one to tootle my own
cor anglais, but I’ve been lucky enough
to experience both of these worlds. By
day, I’m a mild-mannered freelance
journalist, and by night I don black
leather and a gimp mask and write
something like this for something like
Felix.
If the self-appointed title of ‘freelance
journalist’ makes you think of me as an
arrogant retard then you’d pretty much
be right on the money, but neverthe-
less it doesn’t change the fact that I’m
paid, on regular intervals, to produce
amounts of words for others to read.
It’s a completely different experience
for writing aimless rants in a student
paper, and it’s possibly why I found last
week’s article in Felix Games a little bit
wide of the mark.
For those of you too cosmopolitan to
be caught reading the Games section
of Felix, even though you secretly really
want to, last week it covered the scan-
dalous – if slightly old – story of a one
us to verbal abuse.
There are two points I wish to make
concerning this incident. Firstly, to ad-
dress the behaviour of the individual
concerned, I was somewhat shocked
by the arrogant and patronising be-
haviour coming from a member of Im-
perial College staff. Obviously he had
nothing better to do during his lunch-
break than talk down to people like an
irate headmaster.
Moving on from discussing superi-
ority complexes, I come to my second
point. Is it really necessary to segregate
taught Masters students from the rest
of the postgraduates? I would like to
know the reasoning behind this. As a
thirty-two year old with a PhD (from
Imperial), MSc, six years industry ex-
perience and studying for a second
MSc, I consider myself mature enough
to sit and eat lunch for thirty minutes
without making a scene. I am also pay-
ing (some might say pay-rolling mem-
bers of College staff?) a substantial
amount of my own money to be at Im-
perial, so I rather resent being treated
like a school child when I want to eat
my lunch.
The SCR and Junior Common Room
are both busy at lunch time. Allowing
taught Masters students into the SCR
is not likely to cause the whole system
to collapse though (I should also im-
agine that the caterers would be quite
keen to have the extra customers).
One-year taught Masters students are
postgraduates just as PhD students
are. I understand that Imperial runs
many four-year undergraduate Mas-
ters courses, but these are still under-
graduate courses so I do not include
them here. It’s an issue of attitude. To
have segregation between postgradu-
ates seems to me to be divisive and just
plain daft. Where is the forum for in-
tellectual development and exchange
of ideas within the postgraduate and
academic community at Imperial? The
College should be encouraging such
interactions, not making us feel like
children.
Dr David Stacey MSc DIC
Mr. Jeff Gerstmann, a games journalist
who was last year dismissed from the
high-profile website GameSpot. The
story goes that Gerstmann reviewed
blockbuster title Kane and Lynch
and gave it such a low score despite
the game garnering huge advertising
revenue that the website sacked him.
GameSpot denied that this was the
cause, but then they would, wouldn’t
they because they’re the evil corpora-
tion and that’s exactly what they want
you to think.
At this point I’d like to make sure no-
one’s getting turned off by the men-
tion of ‘games’ and so we’re going to
abstract away the product and pretend
that we’re talking about the ‘Object’
industry, where journalists review and
write about ‘Objects’ so that you, the
public, might decide to pay money in
some way to read their words about
the ‘Objects’.
Fuck it, I’m calling them games, you
can abstract it yourself.
It’s fair to say that people’s reaction
to Gerstmanngate has been less than
rational. The media, or rather ‘the bits
of the media who give a toss’, covered it
with usual aplomb and overuse of in-
flammatory headlines, and most blogs
took the opportunity to wax lyrical
on the ethics of journalism and, of all
things, the integrity of the games in-
dustry. Which I assumed was a sarcas-
tic joke until I began reading past the
opening paragraphs.
Here are some things that no-one
ever mentions when they attack large
media outlets – and I’d like to point out
that this goes for film, music, theatre,
television, food; whatever kind of re-
viewing you like, my personal experi-
ence being the first in that list.
First of all, Gerstmann wasn’t a boat-
rocker all of his life. In case I didn’t
make it clear, the implication people
made after his being fired was that
most reviewers will tack on an above-
average score to please publishing
houses even if it means lying to the
reader, and that Gerstmann was some
kind of loose cannon who chose to
defy convention. Well, he wasn’t. Ger-
stmann was the kind of guy who gave
super-generic button-masher Tekken
5 a score of 92%. He was the sort of
journalist that thought lazily designed,
lowest-common-denominator stuff
like Unreal Championship 2 was worth
9 points out of 10. Gerstmann was like
every other games journalist, he just
guessed wrong when it came to Kane
and Lynch.
Second of all, although you see Ger-
stmann’s review as critical and uncen-
sored, this was only because there was
no-one directly above him editing his
work, because he was the editorial di-
rector. The kind of high-level censor-
ship that was seen after his dismissal
– his review was edited by GameSpot’s
higher-ups – is endemic among lower-
level journalists. If you review a game
and your editor thinks you made the
wrong call, your opinion is going to get
changed. Sure, they’re not going to add
40% onto a score. But they can easily
turn a few negative-sounding phrases
into a positive one and add an extra
mark out of ten on. The only difference
is that no-one notices and even fewer
people would care.
Perhaps most importantly, though, is
that people are suddenly complaining
that media monoliths such as Game-
Spot have too much power. Internet
swinging dick CNET took control of
GameSpot over seven years ago, the
owners didn’t wake up one winter’s
morning last November with a dark
suit on and a white cat in their arms.
I’m fortunate enough to do most of
my writing for media groups with
less complicated chains of command.
CNET is a group so large and so hun-
gry for advertising revenue, that any-
one visiting them in serious search of
journalistic integrity is like an Aztec
visiting a Medics’ Bar Night looking
for a virgin sacrifice.
What puzzles me most, however, is
that this isn’t a monopoly, like Felix, and
it’s not a place where advertising isn’t a
big deal. It’s on a high-profile website
that’s slap bang in the middle of the
internet. The Internet slings opinion
and up-to-the-minute news at you like
a monkey at the zoo and even though,
as with the monkey, most of what’s fly-
ing at you is shit, it’s not that hard to
find alternative sources of opinion or
comment. GameSpot aren’t ‘signal[ling
that] this type of thing is acceptable’.
They just made a PR cock-up at ex-
ecutive level. I can understand people
wanting to make the gaming world
more exciting than it really is, but even
geeks should have their limits.
Editor-in-Chief Tom Roberts
responds:
Thank you for writing in Dr Stacey. I
hope you’re not too badly bruised! Your
letter came as a surprise to me for two
reasons: firstly because of the appalling
behaviour of the staff member you de-
scribed and secondly because I had as-
sumed that MSc students were allowed
in the Senior Common Room anyway.
I have always thought of the SCR as a
place for postgraduate students and as
you say it seems incredibly daft to seg-
regate them from each other.
One possible explanation the Felix of-
fice came up with is that MSc students
are forbidden from the hallowed SCR
because lecturers don’t want to be has-
sled by them whilst they’re eating their
lunch. It seems like a pretty feeble ex-
planation though and I’m interested to
find out what the real reason is.
What do you think, dear readers?
Should MSc students be allowed in the
SCR or left to mix with the undergradu-
ate paupers in the JCR?
Games Editor, Azfarul Islam
comments:
Felix being a rather independent body is
what encourages us to speak our minds,
engender constructive debate and bring
forth what we feel is necessary. It’s
definitely a place where opinions from
across the spectrum are appreciated.
Constructive opinions, in particular.
And to be fair, the discussions were
from three different perspectives. I’m
talking about the actual status quo of
the commercial bodies that govern this
medium, Sebb speaks of the reviewing
conundrums and Samir waxes lyrical
about consumerism in this niche.
We’re not complaining about media
monoliths possessing much power, we
know they do.
And, oh, sure. Hurray for the bigwigs.
Let’s all rally up and give ‘em a big
Thumbs Up™ so that Small-‘n’-Squishy
can keep charging snide amounts for
its Bazaar and Sunny can make over-
priced products all under the guise of
media convergence. Huzzah.
Ah, sorry.
Just had to.
Games Editor Sebastian Nordgren
comments:
The gaming public isn't martyring Jeff
Gerstmann – he's not the saviour of
gaming reviews. Nor are we surprised
or outraged that review scores have and
will always be fudged a bit by upper
management (though I do question how
CNET knows that Kane & Lynch was
better than Gerstmann claimed it was,
having presumably never played it). No,
the issue at hand is one of escalation.
Yes, advertising dollars have always
played their part in review scores, but
never before have they got anyone fired.
It's a worrying trend by any standards,
especially if corporate swinging dicks
everywhere gain momentum from it.
The idiot is whinier than the sword
Lisa
“
It was
covered by the
media with the
usual aplomb
and overinflam-
matory headlines
”
Should MSc students be allowed
to use the SCR?

