imperialcollegeunion.org/whats-on
Union Page
t ake a l ook a t wh at ’s on offer
Calling all Imperial students! You’re invited to submit a smart idea to
improve the capital and compete for a chance to be crowned Mayor’s
Entrepreneur 2017.
As well as becoming the Mayor’s Entrepreneur, the lucky winner will
get £20k to bring their idea to life. Last year’s winners where Elena
Dieckmann and Ryan Robinson, students from Imperial College London.
Whether you enter as an individual or as part of a group, the benefits to
taking part include:
- improving your skills and future employability
- free mentoring and workshops from business experts
- an opportunity to pitch your ideas ‘Dragon’s Den’ style at City Hall
- a chance to win £20k to make your idea happen
For more information and to register go to london.gov.uk/what-we-do/
environment/smart-london-and-innovation/mayor-entrepreneur-2017
You could be an entrepreneur!
Every November, RAG (Raising and Giving) sell poppies - the symbol
of remembrance, to raise money for the sacrifices made by the British
Armed Forces.
Throughout the week of November 7 – 11, poppies will be sold in the
Sherfield Building and around campus to raise money for the British
Legion.
On November 10 and 11, RAG will also be selling poppies at Gloucester
Road and South Kensington underground stations respectively, and
following on from there, they will go onto the streets around Imperial
College on Saturday 12 November. Get involved in their collections, sign
up at:
imperialcollegeunion.org/poppy-appeal
Help RAG with their Poppy Appeal
Bring your idea to life!
We want to help you make Your Idea for a volunteer project a reality.
If Your Idea is to tackle an issue or deliver a service on campus or in the
local community, we can help. If you want to run a project that is time-
limited or on-going but don’t know how, we’re here to offer advice and
funding. Or if you imagine a group of five student volunteers or an army
of 50, we’ll help you to recruit them.
You’ve got the ideas, passion and ability to make the world a better place.
Tell us what Your Idea is and we’ll tell you how we can help.
imperialcollegeunion.org/your-idea
We oﬀer academic and non
academic advice.
We are conﬁdential,
impartial and independent
from the College.
We’re here
to help
Worries?
Get in touch advice@imperial.ac.uk 020 7594 8060
INDEPENDENT
CONFIDENTIAL
IMPARTIAL
C
M
Y
CM
MY
CY
CMY
K
Advice Centre A5 leaflet.pdf 1 28/09/2016 18:20

