Page 4 FELIX October 4, 1971
TO
Born in a beery, smoky hole, or perhaps several, mishandled by
illeterate students, how does FELIX ever reach the newstands ?
The initial preparatory work on the next issue is due to start the
Thursday the previous FELIX finally emerges by some miraculous
process. Throughout the following week articles trickle in, are
sub-edited and sent for typing. The page layouts are concocted and
sent by special messenger (G.P.O. for short) to our printers, Baileys.
The type is then set, the proofs returned for checking and finally
FELIX is printed to reach us on the Wednesday before publication.
Felicity is churned out on the Wednesday, collated into FELIX,
and the finished literary masterpiece is unveiled.
That is the theory; now for the practice. O.K. Day one is the day
of recovery and conception; the editor sits in the press room with
the rest of his staff, scratching his head and saying "Well lads, what
shall we put in the next one?" This process continues sporadically
between pints until the weekend when the first pages have to be sent
to Baileys.
Alt this point the press room telephone glows red with constant use
as the reporters and other contributors are chased for their articles.
When the articles, mainly features at this stage, finally arrive they
are sub-edited and typed, then the fun starts.
The articles, now readable, are proof read and instructions relating
to size and type of print, column width and other mysterious instruc-
tions are included for the benefit(?) of the type setters. The layout
of each individual page is then decided upon.
This is the real hairy stage of the process — trying to squash or
stretch each article to fit the available space, decide roughly the
shape and size of the photographs which depends on the subject and
the aesthetic tastes of the editorial staff.
These conceptions are then transferred into semi reality on the
layout sheets which then accompany the copy to the printers.
This process continues throughout the week until the Sunday before
publication.
On arrival at the printers the photos are separated from the
copy and sent to the room shown below. In this photo the
machine operator can be seen setting up the raw material
for making a photographic block. The photo is placed
under the plate, and the machine arm is lowered. Hey Presto,
ten minutes later, a plate, wonderful stuff this science you
know.
Many thanks to
Bailey's staff for their
co-operation in the
production of this
article.
Wmm • -
S O M E T H I N G F O R N O T H I N G
Be a m o n g s t first 300 c u s t o m e r s to s p e n d
m o r e t h a n £7*50 at I.C. B o o k s h o p
[223 College B l o c k ] a n d get y o u r free gift
E x p e r t , f r i e n d l y assistance g i v e n at a l l t i m e s
W e l o o k f o r w a r d to m e e t i n g y o u !
F R O M L A Y O U T
T O P R O O F S . . .
The copy or the actual wording of
the articles, however, follows a
different process and is taken to the
type setters. In the photo on the far
left, one can see the various linotype
machines in the background which
are used for setting the type. In the
foreground of the same photograph
can be seen the pages of type,
photos, etc., being set in their frames
ready for printing. The type is set by
two different means, depending on
the size and style of type face being
used. The large letters are set by
hand from ready made type one
letter at a time and this process is
shown in the photograph directly
above. The two photos to the left
show how the bulk of the type is
set by linotype machine. Each letter
has its own individual die or matrix.
These are selected by the keyboard
from the magazine which can be seen
at the top of the upper photo. The
words and spaces formed in this
way are assembled in a line, which
when complete forms a mould into
which is pumped a molten alloy of
lead, tin and antimony, which forms
the actual print used to produce the
newspaper. The line is then trimmed
and ejected onto the storage galley
(which can be seen above the key-
board in the photo bottom left). The
dies used to mould the lines are then
returned automatically to their res-
pective spaces in the storage maga-
zines. As a large number of maga-
zines are available, many different
sizes and styles of type can be used
such as BOLD, ROMAN, ITALIC.
When the pages are set up, the type
is inked and proofs returned to
FELIX for checking.

