2 FELIX
White Magicians in
Flying Saucers
ATOMIC POWER is not as new as it seems. This was one of the
observations heard at the meeting of the Aetherius Society on
Monday, 25th October,
The talk was given by the founder
of the Society who was given his in-
formation by the voices of space.
The speaker detailed the history of
man, beginning with his occupation of
the planet between Mars and Jupiter.
The discovery of thermonuclear power;
power from the hydrogen atom re-
leasing all its energy instead of the
mere fraction available today, dest-
royed their world when an atom of
hydrogen was exploded—completely
iisintegrating the planet.
Millions of lifestreams were released
into the astral world through this
;atastrophe. With rebirth necessary,
til other planets apart from Earth
jnsuitable, the Earth was approached
ind duly gave her permission.
After man had been reincarnated,
le built up another great civilisation
which also discovered atomic power,
dragged himself from the atomic slime
and founded the civilisation of
Atlantis. Again, atomic power was
discovered and the civilisation des-
troyed, but not before the interplane-
tary intelligence had intervened and
removed the while magicians in Hying
saucers to Mars. M a n then formed his
present civilisation.
The Earth, however, has suffered
for long enough now and is beginning
to get the energy she is entitled to.
This will result eventually in 100
per cent bombardment of the earth
by ultra-violet and cosmic rays.
Those among us who are sufficiently
advanced to progress into the great
millennium will be hardened to en-
dure this, the rest will be removed to
a distant part of the Galaxy to start
life again. G . B O L C H
PETE AND DUD A T
GLAD RAG BALL
ACCORDING TO London Students Carnival, proposed highlights
of this year's London University Carnival (expected to take place
November 1st to 20th) is the " Glad Rag Ball" which would
feature star groups (as yet unnamed), and an hour long cabaret, with
Peter Cook and Dudley Moore.
This Ball would be expected to pro-
fide most of the profits for the Car-
lival (i5,000 according to Chairman,
Vlax Williams), only £1,000 being
:xpected from the other events.
T o avoid last year's " Six Bells"
iasco, an all night beer cellar under
i central London car showroom is
planned, and, more ambitiously, a
lance in the Park Lane underground
3ar Park, featuring the Animals.
It is hoped to acquire a West End
Theatre to put on a " student show,"
and to hire one or two of the Classic
cinemas for special film shows. A
debate in Senate House will be tele-
vised, and street collections are
planned with busking musicians.
The doubt referred to in the last
issue of L S C still exists, but our
latest information suggests that it will
go ahead, despite the boycott by the
six largest colleges, and the bad
accounting of its organisation last
year.
THIRD WORLD WAR?
By Peter Combes
" Q A N WE PRESERVE PEACE ?" That was the subject to be
discussed at Communist Socie'y meeting last Tuesday evening.
But the subjects actually discussed varied from Welsh Culture to
Neville Chamberlain.
The speaker, Ken Knox, Chairman
of the Kensington and Chelsea Coun-
cil for Peace in Viet v.in, started the
meeting off by attacL.rj the belief of
the inevitability of war. He main-
tained that peace would be preserved.
The socialist countries, he said,
were the main forces for peace. Un-
fortunately he could not give much
evidence to back up this statement.
His talk was well presented and ap-
peared interesting but did not contain
very much that was concrete to verify
his statements.
Afterwards the audience of seven
put forward their views. But these
soon wandered from the point and
instead of talking about peace in the
present day they went back to the
First World War.
Over coffee the arguments warmed
up, and from the First they progres-
sed to the Second World War; here
the Speaker came into his element and
began on a long analysis of the ac-
tions and motives of Neville Chamber-
lain at Munich. This proved absorb-
ing, but at 10.30 the Third World
War had not been reached and this
was put off for another day.
Ken West, Vice-President of
R.C.S. proposing the Notting
Hill Housing Trust at this year's
Carnival Charity at I.C. Union
Meeting.
NHHT won by 23 votes
encyclopaedic Marconi
Electronic and mechanical engineers,
designers, system planners and
nanufacturers of telecommunications,
broadcasting, maritime and aviation
radio equipment; radar, television,
specialized components, microelectronics,
data processing equipment and navigational
aids on land, at sea and in the air
The Marconi Company Limited
MARCONI HOUSE. CHELMSFORD, ESSEX. ENGLAND

