4 F E L I X
F HIX
Imperial College Union
Prince Consort Road
London, S.W.7
Telephones : K E N 2963
Internal 2881/2799
E D I T O R — D . I. WILLIAMS 2799
Assistant Editor—Peter Combes
Production Manager—Barrie Pichler 090
Features Editor—John Cawson 2751
News Editor—John Grout 3351
Sports Editor—Frank Hobson 3353/4
Treasurer—Andrew Mayo 3353/4
Sales—Pete Ash, Elizabeth Rankin, Richard Mitchell
Advertising Manager—Chris Lampard
Sub-Editors—Graham Bolch, Tim Doe. Trevor Holness, Malcolm Rossiter,
Garth Simpson, Dick Waterman
Photographers—Brian Ray, Michael Burke, R. J. Cooper, Tony Firshman,
Colin Harrison, J. Hashteroudin, R. A. R. Qatfan, John Whiting
Cartoons—Richard Gentle
Production Assistants—Roger Lethbridge, Brian Rich
Secretaries—Shirley Sexton, Stephanie Vogler
Advertising Agency—Educational Publicity (Partners) Ltd. CHA 6081
Comment
False Steps from the Chair
JCS CARNIVAL took a backward step at thefirstIC Union Meet-
ing of the term, on 21 Oct. For here, this year's Carnival Chair-
man, Chris Hocking, tried to blackmail the members oi the Union
into supporting his favoured charity.
What this supposedly " impartial" gentleman did in effect was to say that if
the Meeting voted in support of either the Family Planning International
Campaign or the Notting Hill Housing Trust, then they would have to
find a new committee to run the 1965/6 Carnival.
The Carnival Chairman is appointed—by a Board of Student Officers upon the
recommendation of his outgoing predecessor—as a policymaker on the
way in which the Carnival is run. H e has no say—other than as an
ordinary member of the Union—in determining which charity his com-
mittee should work for. But an official position is difficult—if not
impossible—to shed.
Hocking that Thursday abused his position. Asked to speak as Carnival
Chairman, instead of saying that it did not really matter which charity
was elected and appealing for helpers whichever won, he proceeded to
divulge his personal views.
Hocking poisoned more people against.the Carnival than he gained supporters.
Not only was Hocking far from impartial, but he was also peculiarly i l l -
informed. A t the Union Meeting he stated that he could not recall an
IC Charity Carnival that had raised less than £2,000. Dr. iCen Weale, the
Union's Honorary Treasurer, however, tells me that O N L Y T W O have in
fact topped £2,000.
Recent Carnivals have raised : —
1965 Notting Hill Housing Trust - £2,417
1964 National Mental Health Appeal - - - £2,211
1963 Freedom From Hunger Campaign - - - £1.673
1962 W a r On Want - £1,126
1961 Oxfam £877
1960 World Refugee Year - £600
1959 World University Service - - - - - £636
From these figures it should follow that this College is capable of raising
£3,000 this year for charity (especially considering the recently increased
undergraduate maintenance grants).
Our unsuitable Carnival Chairman must be pushed—not merely by student
opinion, but also by their active participation. £3,000 is not an .-'easy
goal—but it is feasible. We did not expect to raise anything like £2,000
for Notting H i l l last year—but we did. Apart from money, we can
help the Trust by labour. A n d should all this lead to a successful
Carnival, then the Union may feel justly proud.
But if this year's Carnival does not raise even £2,000, the fault will lie squarely
on the shoulders of the Carnival Chairman—not on those of the members
of the Union who failed to give him the support he needs.
Childish Sport and MorphyDay
U O W C H I L D I S H it was of Guilds Union a fortnight ago to debag I C
' •'•Deputy President Chris Molam, " t r y " h i m for desertion to Mines,
" hang " him in Prince's Gardens, and attempt to " bury him at sea "
in the Round Pond !
However, behind: the irresponsible facade of constituent college union meetings
there lurks deadly earnest. This instance was unique in that it brought
the four unions together. Moreover, it gave the shy, retiring President of
RCS, Mike Scott, the boost he so badly needed, by his appointment as
administrator of justice upon the accused.
The constituent college union officers persistently announce that their union
is the greatest. But confidentially, they may tell you, there is one greater
— I C Union. They believe that I C U can only be strong if C & G U ,
R C S U and R S M U are also strong. If all are weak—which, thank goodness,
they are n o t — I C U too is weak. If only one is powerful, I C U does not
exist.
And so to Morphy Day—today. Obviously, if two Unions are represented on
Putney towpath in ludicrously small numbers, the whole fun of flour
missiles and mutual debagging is lost, and these activities could well
backfire onto the innocent general public.
Any incidents—such as have occurred in the past—like . . . two old ladies in a
car terrorised, another knocked down . . . a small boy's balloons deliber-
ately burst . . . traffic delayed . . . cars turned round . . . firstly give
the College a bad name—so spoiling your chances of obtaining a respon-
sible career—then in turn weaken I C Union and the constituent college
unions.
The strength of IC Union lies in the competition between the constituent
college unions, and its weakness in the ill-treatment of bystanders. So
this year exhaust yourself infirst-class" sport" at Putney, and travel from
and to South Kensington peacefully and responsibly. You will get odd
looks—but they will at least be ones of curiosity, not displeasure.
A N G R Y ABOUT
SOMETHING ?
DONT WASTE all that beautiful
invective on the barmaid—FELIX
welcome sletters on almost any topic.
Drop them in our pigeonhole in the
Union Lower Lounge.
HUXLEY THANKS
\ SHOULD LIKE to take the
opportunity to thank, through
your columns, the members and
supporters of the T. H. Huxley
Society, who gave their vote to the
Family Planning International
Campaign as their choice for
Carnival Charity at the last Union
meeting. As there was only twenty-
three votes separation in the final
result. I think we can feel well
satisfied with our efforts.
However, now that a choice has
been made, I hope that all members
of the. Union will respect the ma-
jority decision and give their full sup-
port to the 'Carnival organisersr.
if you like dancing
in an exotic decor
at prices geared to students
come to
countdown
1a palace gate kensington w8
For those still interested in the
work of F.P.l.C I would recomment
the Huxley Society's " Population
Control Week," 22nd to 26th Novem-
ber,-when speaker meetings, slide and
film shows on the subject of F.P.l.C.
and OXFAM will further advertise
these aspects of the population explo-
sion.
GRAHAM THOMSON
(Chairman, Huxley Society).
1984 ?
\\AVING READ in last fort-
night's issue of Felix that one
"unacceptable" Hall resident had
been replaced, and making the
obvious assumption, one is inevi-
tably disturbed by this persistent
intrusion into one's personal pri-
vacy.
surely the person at fault is not
the resident of the room, who is
merely exercising his own individu-
ality and ethical and moral viewpoints
in complete privacy—and conse-
quently offending nobody—but the in-
truder who is imposing a set of ques-
tionable—minority held—-moral codes
upon him. for his own self-gratifica-
tion. I abhor this situation ; we are
forced to be social animals most of
the day, therefore is it not right and
proper that each of us should have
his own small part of the world where
he can act as (he sees fit
I was, consequently, alarmed to see
Southside's gates permanefly shut
this term. I wonder if this is the
prelude to far grerater restrictions on
our liberty; possibly scouts patrol-
ling the halls or one may even specu-
late the existence of closed circuit
television monitoring our rooms.
This prying and forced conformity
in our private affairs must stop. It
is decidedly wrong that the warden
of a Hall can enter a person's room
without the occupier's consent at any
hour and on any pretext whatsoever.
B. PILCHER,
BALLOT DOUBTS
AS REPORTED IN this issue of
•**-Felix, in the voting for the Car-
nival Charity the second preferences
of tnose who voted for the Family
Planning International Campaign,
were used to decide between the
other two charities, which tied for
second place.
I would suggest that this was a
mis-interpretation of the wishes of the
voters. I myself, for example, put the
F.P.l.C. as my first choice and, to
guard against its coming third in the
first ballot, Notting Hill as my second
choice. I definitely did not intend
this second vote to be used to decide
between the two other charities. Had
I known that this would be done in
the interests of my first choice, I
would not have given a second one.
Surely it would have been more
reasonable to have used the second
preferences of those who voted for
N.H.H:T. and Cancer Research to
decide between them—this at any
rate would have been nearer to the
ideas of voters at the meeting.
P. M. RU HEM ANN,
Chairman Comsoc.
QUEUE BEATER?
IN view of the long lunch-hour
queues, that have actually in-
creased since I came last year, and th*
apparent shortage of Mooney's staff
to deal with this situation, I draw tnj
attention of Imperial College students
and especially those queue-frustrated
freshers among them to a nearby re-
fectory (self-service of course) at 15
Princes Gardens (only five minutes'
walk from the Union) where better
meals-, are served at equally cheap
prices.
GEORGE BARAMKI,
Physics II

