10 Clubs and Societies
Overseas Students
Committee Page
Soccer Tournament
The opening games of the tournament were
played with great enthusiasm, with a lot of good
football being played by all teams. The first
match played was contested between the Indian
and Malaysian teams. This was an extremely
close contest with many goal opportunities, but
in the last five minutes, the Indians stepped up a
gear and overran their opponents.
Both the Malaysian and Indian teams beat the
French team and both sides look very strong.
The games were played at a fast pace without
any aggressive play, which made the games
exciting and enjoyable to play. As the games are
being played on a hard outdoor court, players
must remember that serious injuries can result if
teams get physical.
Wednesday 9th February
The games to be played are:
3.00pm Pakistan vs Lebanese
3.45pm Lebanese vs Japan
4.30pm Japan vs Pakistan
Results - Group 2
C y p r i o t 9 - 6 I r a n i a n
I r a n i a n 8 - 0 M a u r i t i a n
M a u r i t i a n 1 - 9 C y p r i o t
Fame and Fortune Can Be Yours
The OSC Exec requires two comperes (male and
female) to host International Nite '94 on Friday
4th March. Members of any OSC society inter-
ested in taking part should contact the OSC Exec
via the OSC Exec pigeonhole in the Union Office.
Applications should include name, depart-
ment, society and any relevant experience and
should be received by Friday 11th February.
Fame, fortune and notoriety are guaranteed
along with/ree entry to the Cultural Show!
Volunteers
Wanted
Volunteers required for the following, experi-
ence is essential. A l l costs incurred will be
covered by the OSC. Places are limited so place
apply by 18th February.
Photographers
Artists for stage backdrop.
Please contact S Ratnam via OSC Exec pigeon-
hole in the Union Office.
Sinaran Express - A Trip Through Sunshine
If you buy a ticket on the Sinaran Express,
chances are your journey will start at sunrise
from a small wooden railway station in the north
of the Malay Peninsula. Settling comfortably in
your seat, you will gaze out the window at the
land so vast, so flat, so unbelievably green that
you won't be able to look away. This is the
'rice-bowl' of Malaysia. Slowly the scenery
begins to change, the terrain becomes hilly,
covered with dense rain forest. You will also see
mile after mile of rubber and oil palm plantation,
dotted by the occasional village. Late in the
afternoon you will arrive at Kuala Lumpur, our
capital. The sun glistens on the tall skyscrapers,
it gleams off the golden domes of the mosques,
shimmering on the marble elegance of the colo-
nial buildings and even shining on the tiny stalls
lining the roads that tempt your taste buds with
an assortment of delicacies. From then on, it is
south all the way to Johore Bahru and at your
journey's end you can watch the sun set on the
Straits of Tebrau.
This is the Sinaran Express - the sunshine
express... and we're bringing it to you all the
way from Malaysia. We are going to take you on
a journey through our culture - from north to
south and across the sea to the east. To begin the
night we have a sumptuous meal
prepared...Malaysia style. Mouthwatering dishes
guaranteed to satisfy your taste buds and your
appetite! Next, we will sit you down to an
exciting show. It will begin with the traditional
welcome: the Dikir Barat - when we welcome
our guests we do it in style, then we will treat
you to the intricacies and diversity of our
multiracial culture. We will not only present you
with traditional dances passed down through the
generations, we will also give you a taste of
modern Malaysia...And we have something very
special for you: a musical comedy that is
composed, written, sun and acted entirely by our
members - it promises to bring lots of laughs
and maybe even a few tears. But that's not
all...from East Malaysia we have The River, a
sketch depicting a journey through life...and our
very own Lion Dance troupe!
So, come join us on Saturday, 5th Feb for
Sinaran Express and we promise you that even
on this cold winter's night, you will feel the
sunshine!
The Malaysian Society will be setting up a
stall to sell tickets for Sinaran Express at the
Sherfield Building Foyer today from lpm-2pm.
Tickets may also be obtained from Vibin Menon
(Tel 071-589 0249 e-mail: v.menon@ac.ic.uk).
The diary lists many of the clubs' regular meetings and events

