Clubs and Societies 11
The London
Duck
Sunday saw the end of the qualifying league
and unfortunately IC just failed to scrape
through to the quarter finals.
Southampton, Birmingham and the two
London teams won their quarters and progressed
to the semi's. Southampton scored a convincing
victory over London 2, but London 1 hung in
there and shot past Birmingham to secure their
place in the final.
So yet another London/Southampton final.
London took the first of the three races, but
Southampton won the last two to claim this
year's London Duck Trophy, several yellow
plastic ducks and a crate of beer.
Final Results
1st Southampton
2nd London 1
=3rd/4th London 2, Birmingham
Quarter Finalists: Bristol, Queens Belfast,
Oxford, Southampton ladies
Plate
1st Cambridge
2nd Cardiff
League finalists: Bristol ladies, Imperial,
Brunei, London ladies,
Cambridge ladies, Durham,
Oxford ladies, Manchester
Cafe Club Go To Wales
Saturday 22nd January saw the first day of this
year's London Duck, a two day sailing event for
universities across the country. The Duck is held
by the University of London Sailing Club by the
Welsh Harp Reservoir, near Wembley.
Eighteen teams entered, each one consisting
of three helms and three crews. It was great to
see five ladies teams compete on close terms to
most men's teams and beat several of them.
The qualifying leagues held on Saturday
produced good sailing and some surprises,
including London ladies storming through to
beat Southampton, one of the favourites.
Also in for a surprise was IC's very own
Mark Riley falling out of a boat. While he was
yachting around before the start, casually hiked
out over the gunwales, he performed a backward
roll that any gymnast would be proud of straight
into the drink.
The surprises did not include our very own
commodore, Ben Deverson missing two starts
and capsizing in another race. But this did not
stop us beating Bristol ladies, Cambridge ladies
and Manchester, though it might have played a
part in our 'close' losses against Queen's
Belfast, London 1, Oxford, Bristol and Oxford
ladies (who mostly consisted of men).
Our loss against London was not close, which
may be because a 'top' IC sailor James (Flees)
Lees was sailing for London; then again, maybe
it wasn't! Oxford had to resort to some severe
rule bending to beat us, but by the time the
protests were held, the IC team were too drunk
to get through the protest room door.
The Mountaineering Club's first trip of the new
term was to Tremadog in North Wales. After the
ordeal of the president's driving we arrived at
the cafe that is conveniently situated below the
crags. There are only three other buildings
nearby, one of which was the barn where we
were staying, but it still took us a quarter of an
hour and a serious degradation of relations with
the locals before we knew exactly where we
were sleeping.
Saturday morning saw us up at the unbeliev-
ably early time of 10am but life goes by at a
different pace in Wales and we still had to wait
for the cafe to open. Suitably encouraged by a
high cholesterol breakfast, members of the Club
were to be seen performing great acts of bravery
all day, moving gracefully (and otherwise)
across the sun drenched rock and back and forth
to the cafe.
Several demonstrations of advanced air
traffic controlling were also observed, as flying
members of the Club were brought to rest by
ropes as opposed to pinnacles of rock and the
ground. To round off the day we went to the pub,
only to be confined to the games room, well
away from any true Welsh-blood locals (and that
was before we said what we thought of Welsh
rugby).
Sunday morning was also blessed with
sunshine, and temperatures were swiftly into
double figures. The cafe owner was slowly
learning the economics of a free market
economy and opened earlier allowing an earlier
start. (Climbing on an empty stomach is strictly
frowned upon.) Some Club members, obviously
underwhelmed by the 200ft high cliffs of
Tremadog, left to sample the delights of some
"well 'ard" stuff in the Llanberis slate quarries,
while the rest renewed their struggle with the
more immediate rock.
Sunday evening saw ten very tired bodies
transported back to London, with a brief inter-
lude at Holly's, the culinary paradise fit to
convince any Frenchman that the English know
their stuff about cuisine.
The Club has three further trips planned this
term and anyone, including complete beginners,
is welcome to come. See the Club notice board
in the corridor to the Live-Net studio next to the
JCR for details.
Rag On Tour
Rag Tour is 'Going South' rather than north this
year for financial reasons. If you fancy a trip to
the beach combined with a wild weekend away,
this is the event for you. Towns include
Canterbury, Southampton, Portsmouth, Brighton
and Bournemouth. The minibuses leave early
afternoon on February 18th and will be
returning on Sunday.
Those of you who were disappointed when
the abseil from the Forum Hotel was cancelled
should fret no more. You can now abseil from
the Holiday Inn, Kings Cross on 12th March.
Calling all sick and depraved students. We
will soon be electing next year's Rag Mag
Editors. If you think you have the right mind for
the job then see Jane or Helen in the Rag Office
as soon as possible.
This weekend is the R C S collection at
Covent Garden for the C C U challenge. We are
collecting on Sunday for Turning Point who are
giving the top collectors a hamper of condoms.
We have a meeting today at 1.10pm in the
Ents Lounge or come and see us in the Rag
Office which is on the second floor of the east
staircase in the Union.
It can be found in the centre pages of every issue of Felix

