Reviews 15
Art Of The Ancient World
George Ortiz is one of those great rarities, the
collector of antiquities. Once upon a time it was
common for the rich and famous to gather
hoards of valuable and unique object. In the
modern days of regulations and bureaucracy it is
virtually impossible for one person to gather
together such objects. Ortiz is one of the few
who has managed to overcome such difficulties,
and over the past 45 years he has acquired an
incomparable collection of objects from all over
the wWorld. A selection of these rare carvings,
works of art and obscure devices are on show for
the next two months in the Royal Academy.
The works on show date as far back as
3000BC, and represent the artistry and skills of
many of the world's great ancient civilisations:
Mesopotamia, Egypt, the Middle East and also
from Africa and the Pacific islands. The majority
of the collection, however, heralds from Ancient
Greece. These artifacts give an intriguing insight
into the life and the beliefs of the people who
created them. A whole collection of opulent
Neolithic fertility goddesses are gathered
together in one display, dating from around
2500BC. Later works from Greece include small
carved warriors, maidens, hunters and a splendid
bronze figure of Alexander the Great.
From Ancient Egypt come tiny sculptures of
animals, sculptures of figures and an outstanding
bust of Pharaoh Amenenhat III. From the Roman
age come many statues and busts, along with
A middle Bronze Age gold armlet
ornate metal plates and drinking horns. A n
ancient Byzantine metal book cover shows the
beauty of early Christian art. From Africa, the
Pacific and South America come a whole collec-
tion of religious objects, carvings and even a
wooden stool!
When shown together in this manner, the
collection is very impressive - not least because
of the craftsmanship that has gone into the
objects themselves, but also because of the way
in which they have been displayed. Each room
in the Royal Academy has been arranged with
minimal simplicity, with clear but unobtrusive
light highlighting each display cabinet (the
arrangements were designed by the collector
himself). Many of the objects are tiny and the
arrangements really help the viewer to focus on
each object in turn, none of them appearing
crowded or overshadowed by the other items
nearby.
The George Ortiz collection really is superb,
but there is one major drawback - the Royal
Academy. Such a collection should be within a
museum and not locked away in a gallery with a
vastly over-inflated entry fee (£4.50 or £3 for
students). In such a place the objects seem
isolated from their origins and become merely
decorative, whereas in somewhere like the
British Museum they could be placed in their
proper context with other objects from the same
times and places.
So, on the whole, I would recommend that
for anyone who wanted to see works of great
artistry and historical interest, they should make
their way to the V & A or the British Museum
and not the R.A. - after all, the museums are
free(ish) as well.
MA
The George Ortiz Collection, Royal Academy,
Burlington House, Piccadilly W1V. 071 439
7438. Tube: Picadilly. Until 6th April.
Eat, Drink and Be Merry . . .
Texas Lone Star
Tex-Mex food has been steadily gaining in
popularity, but the style of food being what it is,
there is scant variety from menu to menu. This
drawback equally applies to the restaurants - all
Tex-Mex joints aim to give the feel of being in
the Wild West. Texas Lone Star is no different,
there is the bar, wooden tables, cowboy objects
on the wall and lots of meaty dishes.
Moving on to the food, your first obstacle is
the menu. It is a very entertaining piece of
artwork but it is easy to miss out on some of the
dishes offered. The portions are large, so only
eat a starter if you are really hungry.
Assuming you can find what's on offer, the
Texas Pup frankfurters (£3.65) are unusual and
the Nachos (£3.85 or £4.95) are good to share. If
there is a big group the selection of starters with
dips (£19.80) is good value.
The main course holds no surprises, a wide
range of burgers (£5), some good ribs (£6), and
the normal Mexican selection of enchiladas,
burritos and chimichangas (£6). All this is rather
meaty, but veggies don't worry! There is a vege-
tarian Mexican selection, small but pleasantly
filling, all costing roughly £5 each. With all
dishes a salad or fries is given.
Along with these main dishes there are some
good side orders to complement your main dish.
I don't think you need one but they are good
value for what you get, with all of them costing
less than £2.
Now, the dessert! All very American, all very
rich and all very tasty! I loved the Pecan Pie, but
I was told that the Apple Pie is a must if you like
that kind of thing (which I don't). Desserts come
in at less than £3.
TLS is a fun place to go, you can be loud and
watch the cartoons and the service is pretty
amiable and fast. There is a queue on Fridays
and Saturdays and you should book for parties.
On the weekends there is a nice atmosphere at
lunch, with kids running around, getting tangled
up in the legs of the waiters!
A filling meal at TLS will cost quite a bit less
than £10, but a full three course job equals £15.
With the cartoons coming to the rescue I
award TLS a 7/10.
Nainish Bapna
154 Gloucester Road, SW7 Tel: 071 370 5625
Stockpot
There are several branches of Stockpot around
London and they all follow the same basic
formula - quick, simple and cheap food. Decor,
is is minimalist and the service is reasonable.
The menu changes daily, I guess it depends
on whatever is cheap at Sainsbury's. The food at
Stockpot is mostly just re-heated/cooked frozen
food. You may well ask why go there? I can
only offer the excuse that you feel too lazy to
cook.
You can quite happily have a 3-course meal
here, with delicacies like chilled melon or prawn
cocktail to start you off.
The main course always has a fair amount of
pasta and a couple of steaks, with chicken, fish,
omelettes and salads thrown in for variety. But,
there is a larger vegetarian choice here than
normal. The dish prices range from £2 to £5 - to
cater for all budgets.
Desserts are eaten just for the sweetness, not
for their exquisiteness (after all, Sara Lee makes
them) but it's nice to see jelly and ice-cream on
a menu. There are cheese and biscuits if one
wishes to eat properly!
Wine is offered and when they serve Coke,
you get the whole can! Don't hesitate to ask for
tap water. The hot chocolate is made with all the
froth at the top - lovely!
Table bookings are not required, but at the
Kings Road branch, I am sure there is a 'love
table' because I only ever see 'couples' at it!
The Stockpot makes no pretensions and is a
cheap place to start an evening. Remember, the
food is purely functional. Service is pretty good
and fast. A heavy meal comes to £6, but £4 is
common. This is about as cheap as you can get
with waiter service. Stockpot gets a 6/10.
Nainish Bapna
6 Basil Street, SW3 Tel: 071 589 8627
273 Kings Road, SW3 Tel: 071 823 3175
18 Old Compton St, W1V Tel: 071 2871066
If you have suggestions of restaurants to review, let us know

