16 Reviews
Moving Mars
by Greg Bear
What an arrogant title! And I can assure you that
'moving' is not an emotional qualifier. Yet, if
you are a loyal follower of Greg Bear, even such
a feat is conceivably commonplace.
By employing Mars as a nebulous and young
proto-Republic and Earth as the supposedly
mature big-sibling, Bear examines a whole
spectrum of value systems (some of which are
quite visible in some nations at the time of
writing) and the socio-political sparks that result
from a (s)wordfight between the two. Whilst
Earth purports to be socially and technologically
mature, it feels threatened when independent
Mars is on the verge of an Earth-shattering (pun
intended) scientific breakthrough. But the novel
is so complex that it encapsulates everything
from nanotechnology to Martian weather, from
leadership to love. Bear contends that we shall
never break free of our primal selves - our
primitive instinct to survive that so often contra-
dicts our logical reasoning. And sometimes, to
our horror, in hindsight, it actually assumes the
driver's seat.
If you have had visions of the ultimate in
democracy (a truly plebiscite society quite
conceivable with the direction and growth of
today's communication-and-computer-networks)
this book will reveal some very special side
effects. If you are on the verge of tapping the
Bell Continuum, this novel will tell you of some
of the impacts that wielding the technological
Sword of Damocles will have on supposedly
mature cultures. If you are thinking of patenting
the first neural-enhancement module, this book
explores further (from Queen Of Angels) the
loss of creativity (humanity?) that may result
from the consummation of marriage between the
natural and artificial mind.
I must admit to having been slightly disap-
pointed in the 'Far out!' department initially.
Most of the devices (as in literary) and drama (as
in scientific) that he uses in Moving Mars have
been toyed with in his past opuses. (If you have
not read the likes of Queen Of Angels, Anvil Of
Stars and Forge Of God, especially the former
two, ignore this paragraph.) At one stage I was
convinced that he had all but run out of ideas.
But I quickly realised that I was approaching
the novel from the wrong parabola. I had placed,
quite unjustifiably, the above expectations
without considering Bear's own growth as a
writer and this book is immensely satisfying in
the chaotic complexity of the socio-political
terrain that it explores.
I heartily recommend Moving Mars. The
novel is self-contained but I suggest that you
read his last few novels as well in order to glean
a better understanding of the sort of technology
he alludes to. Do wait for the normal-format
paperback, unless you are willing to spend £9.99
and not fret about lugging around something as
unwieldy as a neurobiology text-book.
Or, you could borrow it off me.
Hermes Trismegistus
Published by: Legend
Price: £9.99 (Large Format Paperback)
Quarantine
by Greg Egan
In 2034 the stars went out. The planet Earth has
been cut off and quarantined by the rest of the
galaxy.
In the thirty three years since 'The Bubble'
formed, the fear of this unknown has produced
many religious cults and terrorist groups.
Nick is a private detective, who is asked to
find a woman, Laura Andrews, who has man-
aged to escape from a secure clinic. Using a
range of neurological implants that have
augmented his normal senses and physical
reactions and keep him plugged into the world-
wide communications net, he sets off in pursuit.
However, very little goes to plan once he locates
Laura and he finds himself caught up in some
mind-bending experiments.
The book starts off as a Marlowesque (!) plot
with characters transferred to the 21st century. It
develops from there to a clever story with nice
sensible technology; but halfway through the
book, the plot just loses direction. Although it
picks up towards the end, it never regains the
momentum that it developed at the start.
Blodwin
Published by: Legend
Price: £4.99
Night Sisters
by John Pritchard
The book's cover is all wrong: the title should
have been 'The Clinicians', with the threat
' Y o u ' l l never feel safe in hospital again'
replaced by 'You never did feel safe in hospital,
did you?'.
"They started out as doctors...so where did it
all go wrong?" In their gruesome quest for
death-defying life, the Order of Clinical Judges
carry out live biopsies and more - all in the
name of knowledge that is necessary to stay
alive for more than one lifespan - they obviously
don't believe in reincarnation. The Clinicians
are happy to hack away at live 'expendables'.
Their need for operating equipment and rubber
gloves (the irony lies in their not having washed
themselves in at least five centuries), not to
mention a supply of live patients (!), makes
them take over disused floors in a hospital. This
may carry a warning to St Bart's Hospital and
others who have suffered Tory cutbacks on
expenditure. That ex-outpatient's clinic or
ex-cancer treatment unit could be the perfect
arrangement for the Clinicians to carry out their
experiments on human pain thresholds.
Conclusions: Medics playing God - old hat,
new brim. Big deal nothing.
Ziegler
Published by: Harper Collins
Price: £4.99
The Days Are
Just Packed
by Bill Watterson
A new publisher and a new format means it
doesn't sit nicely on the bookshelf with the rest
of your Calvin & Hobbes collection - but, hey!
when cartooning is this good who gives a stuff.
Yes, Watterson is back and this time he's
even better than before. More snowmen, better
philosophising, more 'GROSS' and even the
return of the Dad Poll! What more could one
want? A tuna sandwich, perhaps?! Oh, and best
of all, the transmogrifier is now a time machine.
Don't delay, buy one today. (Did I leave enough
space for a frame or two?)
Sphen
Published by: Warner
Price: £6.99
HOP IN THE TIME MACHINE,
HOBBES' WE'RE GOING A FEW
HOOK INTO THE FUTURE.' I'll
HME FINISHED MH STCS.V Si
THEN, 30 WE'LL JUST PICK IT
UP AM) BRING IT RACK TO
THE PRESENT.' THAT WAX I
WONT HAVE TO WRITE FT.'
SOMETHING OOESNT |
MAKE SENSE U S E ,
AND I THINK ITS
ME SITTING IN
THIS BOX.
RELAX.'
WELL BE
BACK AS
SOON AS
HE GO.
Next week: Falling Off The Map by Pico Iyer

