Reviews 17
Wayne's World 2
Starring: Mike Myers, Dana Carvey
Director: Steve Surjik
(Camera tracks backwards through a heaving
mob of heavy metallers, keeping just one step
ahead of an unruly mop of yellow hair and teeth.
He wears NHS glasses and he looks excited. He
turns to a long haired man wearing a black cap.)
Garth: Hey Wayne! I just saw a great new film.
Wayne: Wow, I'm pleased for you Garth! But
wait., just how great was it?
Garth: If this film was a dairy product it'd be
greated cheese! If it was an island it'd be Great
Britain. If this film was a rock band it'd be the
Greatful Dead!
Wayne: Name that film! Name that film!
Garth: Waynes World IP.
Wayne: Excellent, I shall go purchase tickets at
the ticket emporium for myself and Cassandra
this very minute. But still, it seems familiar -
pray, run through the plot my fine companion.
(Garth ducks to avoid a crowd surfing pizza
delivery man. 'Iggy Pop?' the man says. Wayne
points towards the stage. Meanwhile, Garth has
The Age Of
Innocence
Starring: Daniel Day-Lewis, Michelle Pfeiffer,
Winona Ryder
Director: Martin Scorsese
For his new film, The Age of Innocence, Martin
Scorsese has made a break from some of his
perennial themes. Instead of violence and
Italian-American machismo in modern America,
he brings us a far from contemporary tale of
repressed love, passion and sacrifice.
Fortunately it works; the depiction of the idle
rich in 1870s New York, a strictly formal world
concerned largely with social standing, gossip
and etiquette, is rich and memorable.
Newland Archer (Day-Lewis) is awaiting his
marriage to the young, apparently nai've May
Welland (Ryder) when May's unconventional
cousin Ellen Olenska (Pfeiffer) returns to New
York after many years in Europe. Gossip about
her disastrous marriage and her scandalous
behaviour precedes her and she is soon
ostracised by this insular society.
It is apparent that Archer feels restricted by
his starchily formal existence and sees a kindred
spirit in Madame Olenska who remains defiant
in the face of society's intolerance. The two are
drawn together from a common desire to escape
and they tentatively embark upon a passionate,
yet discrete, love affair.
The Dynamic Duo of Wayne and Garth go Schwinging back into action
been picked out by a dazzling spotlight.)
Garth: These two real dumb jerks, Wayne and
his best friend Garth, are inspired by the long
dead Jim Morrison to stage a rock concert,
'WayneStock'. Meanwhile, Wayne's babe
Cassandra is lured away to L.A. by a creepy music
mogul. But never fear, Aerosmith save the day!
Wayne: Okay, (nodding head) But tell me Garth,
how do you think the film fared, both wearing
your directors cap and holding your popcorn?
Daniel Day-Lewis embarks on an affair with
an 'innocent' Michelle Pfeiffer
The heart of the film revolves around the
dilemma facing Archer: can he find the courage
to leave the safe but stifling world of his
upbringing for an uncertain but happy future
with the woman he truly loves. It may be a
costume drama in the vein of Merchant-Ivory
but the brilliant period setting in this beautifully
shot film is never an obstacle to becoming
totally involved with the characters. There's a
fine cast too of mainly British actors - Miriam
Margolyes in particular gives a great comic turn
as Mrs Mingott. Definitely a film to go and see.
Garth: Well, the film is as funny as WWI but it
could be more consistently funny. It has some
un-missable gags and an auraltacious sound
track. I'd definitely Schwing to it again!
Wayne: Garth, you have sold me. I shall proceed
to the cinema without delay.
Garth: Party on Wayne!
Wayne: Party on Garth!
(Exit to Pearl Jam.)
Sphen and Owain
R E E L ^ R E A L
Never know what to see at the flicks? Feel
incapable of choosing between the myriad
movies clammering for your hard earned
sheckle? Fear not! Your caring, sharing
Cinema Ed has taken pity on your plight,
with a round-up of the best films doing the
rounds at the moment.
Manhattan Murder Mystery marks a
welcome return to form for Woody Allen.
The script is packed full of one liners and
slapstick situations, the direction is sharp
and inventive - we even have the pleasure of
seeing Woody play off Diane Keaton once
more.
Aladdin is still riding high at the box
office and for once the hype is deserved.
N O T a kiddies film, this is a hip, slyly
contemporary retelling of the familiar story.
Robin Williams' genie steals the show, the
animation is mind-blowing and as a 'feel
good' film this can't be bettered. If you
haven't already, go see this film.
Farewell My Concubine is a lush,
opulant epic of two opera players caught up
by turbulent changes in China. Beautifully
shot, it shows the grand sweep of history but
never loses sight of the human story. A
magnificent cinematic spectacle.
A Perfect World sees Kevin Costner
playing a bad guy with a golden heart, a role
he pulls off convincingly. Support comes
from Clint Eastwood, who also does a solid
job of directing this intelligent and highly
enjoyable chase movie.
Wayne's World 2 is released today - Excellent!

