18 Reviews
Alice in Chains
Jars ofFlies/Sap
'Sap', recorded a couple of years ago but until
now only available on import, is probably Alice
in Chains' finest moment to date. Lacking the
disconsolate anguish of the two albums,
'Facelift' and 'Dirt', 'Sap' is a chink in the
curtains which allows a ray of light into the
darkest room. That's not to say that these four
songs are particularly cheerful, they're just more
laid-back than the album material. Plaintive
rather than bitter, soothing rather than
oppressive.
'Jar of Flies' tries to do the same thing as
'Sap'; again it's heavily acoustic and replaces
the twisted, dark approach of 'Dirt' with a
mellower one. But, alas, it isn't half as good.
Singer Layne Stayley is partly to blame, having
elected to croon the majority of his vocal lines
as though terminally weary. Maybe he was tired
when this was recorded, but that's no excuse for
piling bushels over an unparalleled talent. Only
the Country and Western number 'Don't
Follow' and the jazzy 'Swing On This' save 'Jar
of Flies' from sounding like a collection of
tracks rejected from 'Dirt', but then it's too late.
I blame it on complacency. (7)
Freddy Cheeseworth
Terrorvision,
Baby Chaos
Garage
Here come Baby Chaos. Sounding like a
mixture of the Spin Doctors, Ned's Atomic
Dustbin and Wonderstuff, seasoned with
perhaps just a pinch of Mindfunk. I don't think
that this band are in immediate danger of being
original but they make a good noise and that's
what's important. With their own hint of
direction, these Babies could well have
something going for them.
As for Terrorvision, well, I think I'm starting
to like them. Their most apparent feature is that
they don't sound like anyone else. Also in their
favour are diversity, a dry Northern humour and
an utter lack of shame when throwing around
the sort of pop hook that would make Pete
Waterman cringe. Tonight we're treated to some
new material from the forthcoming album which
is far better than the older material. This is
hopefully a sign that it won't be long before the
Bradford foursome have enough material for a
full length set with no boring bits at all. Then
they'd be brilliant.
Freddy Cheeseworth
... it never rains but itjust pours eh viewers?
M i l l
lllllllllllllllllll!
M i l l I l l l l l l l l l l l l l
Pavement
Cut Your Hair
For 199l's 'Slanted and Enchanted', Pavement
took pop music and turned it on its head to
produce a uniquely charming, if occasionally
odd, album. This time around they've taken their
own music and turned it upside down,
unwittingly arriving at Classic Pop. But there's
still something special about the melody and the
apathetic voice of Steven Malkmus which melts
the heart. So, from the opening squeals, through
the "Ooh, ooh ooh" chorus (reminiscent of the
older 'In The Mouth A Desert') to the fuzzed-
out guitar break, a mellow, melodic time is had
by all. This is not Pavement at their best and
some will doubtless complain that it sounds
more commercial than their previous output, but
it's as good as anything else so far this year and
there's no reason not to love it.
Guy
Oh dearly beloved, we are gathered here this
crisp Friday morning to partake of the most
joyous occasion there can be between the
human cognitive system and the aural world of
external stimuli. I jest not in jestfulness, for
there is another Gigolo Aunts single released.
It is Vik's turn to yawp, this time barbarically in
favour of 'Where I Find My Heaven". "Imagine
a toon from the hyperactive, illegitimate child of
the Posies, Teenage Fanclub and Gin Blossoms;
jangly-heavy guitars and a melody that bites like
a pitbull packaged into something altogether
American. One of those rare breeds, a great
single." I myself can only nod wisely in
agreement and to show how much we love this
band, here's a picture - just in case you still
don't get it.
But we must press onwards and upwards to
the heights of Intastella's 'Point Hope'. "I saw
them once in Manchester," reminiscences a
tearful Glyph. "Stella was out at the front
pumping her hips and trying to grapple a
microphone. She couldn't remember any of the
words and after one or two songs the guitar
player fell off the side of the stage...I'll give this
the thumbs up for old times' sake and for the
time in the Milk Bar when I saw Stella and she
waved at me. All right I fancy her..." OK, so he
did also tack onto the end of his fantasy "...but
the mixes are quite good."
Our arrival on planet Red Kross is about two
weeks too late. So. The single was 'Visionary'
and appropriately Guy gets the job: "Red Kross
should be seen and not heard. On record you
can't see the sequinned lycra body suits and the
metal-parody posturing, so you're just left with
this, a thinly disguised Bon Jovi song. It's
inoffensive...go and see them live."
Quickly we dash onto Lisa Germane, label
mate of the most illustrious Kristin Hersh. Lisa's
delicately named single is 'Inconsiderate Bitch'.
" A heady, eclectic brew of breathy vocals and
oddball lyrics refuses to fit the round holes of
our expectations" pipes up a fully awake Joe.
The violent persuasions of my colleagues
inform me that the Boo Radley's album 'Giant
Steps' is a matchless piece of art. Their new
single, 'Barney(...and me)', despite being
cunningly parenthesised, reminds me more of a
mix 'twix the summer of love and Rainbow, that
well-loved children's programme. The twirly
flute could be played by Bungle himself and the
happy smile throughout is like that blazoned
across Geoffrey's woolly sweaters.
I remain, sadly, Tintin.
"...the kind of mistakes nobody can trace...?'

