Brutal
Vengeance in a
Corrugated
Wasteland
Imagine the Royal Opera House and one
conceives opulence of design and colour, a
comfortably indulgent environment. However,
as the houselights dimmed on the opening night
of Richard Strauss's Elektra and the orchestra
erupted into life, we were abruptly exiled to a
chillingly grey wasteland, the glint of corrugated
steel shelters cold and cruel. This uncompro-
mising vision extended to ubiquitous threadbare
trenchcoats - Elektra a starkly sexless creature,
obsessively struggling for vengeance and escape
from her torturous grief. The producer, Gotz
Friedrich, does not quite explore the extreme
symbolism of a Harry Kupfer, limiting himself
to a steady engulfing of the stage in blood at the
moment of retribution. Elektra's consequent
'dance of death' is thus both repellent and pitiful
in its ecstatic celebration. Her anguish seems to
have been cleansed with blood before her death,
an appropriately unsettling end.
Strauss's music refuses simply to caress the
senses, clawing at something deeper within. Eva
Marton returned to the title role with a fright-
ening conviction that transcended the purely
vocal. Not a poetic performance, but one that
complemented the production for its harrowing
intensity. Of the other performers Marjana
Lipovsek's Klytemnestra was gloriously voiced,
and it was a delight to encounter the noble
Orestes of Robert Hale.
Christian Thielemann's contribution is a little
more difficult to assess. Both orchestra and
conductor seemed to take some time to release
themselves from the first-night fetters of self-
consciousness. However, it became apparent,
particularly in the recognition scene, that
Thielemann is a Straussian of peculiar insight,
attentive to the myriad orchestral details, while
always sustaining tautness and never stinting the
naked brutality of much of the score.
The performances will surely improve yet
further; strongly recommended.
iqqy
At the Royal Opera House, Bow Street, WC2E.
(071) 240 1911. Tube: Covent Garden. 4th, 8th,
12th and 17th February.
iPIJI 1
1 t ' ~
j
11
mi 11
The Cut
Illllill
Wildest Dreams
The first act of 'The Cut' could have been
another language for all the sense it made to me.
Then maybe I'm just a southern puff pastry who
doesn't know the difference between Celtic and
Rangers. In fact the only words I could under-
stand were the sort that don't get published in a
polite college magazine, Scottish or not. But I'll
keep the stereotypes warm; the majority of the
cast had appeared in Taggart. Y o u know,
"There's been a mudder". And indeed that's
ostensibly what the play's about. A murder in a
coal mine and a determined son heading under-
ground to find out who killed his father.
Yet it's not as easy as that. The remaining
threads of the Miner's strike and Union power
seek to entangle the truth, until by the end, the
actual disclosure of the mystery is not the issue
it originally seemed to be.
The director, Mike Cullen, was a miner
himself and he plays the factual canvas with
certainty. The closeness of the Bush Theatre
itself enhances the claustrophobia; the clanging
Ever wonder what goes on in the real lives of
that burgeoning community of singular individ-
uals who lose themselves in role-playing games?
Alan Aykbourn's Wildest Dreams probes these
murky regions with an often humourous, occa-
sionally moving, but ultimately disappointing
portrait of a typical (a-typical?) fellowship of
four. Each adventurer, it is suggested, uses these
games to abdicate responsibility for confronting
some private misery or inadequacy. Alienation
(emotional and terrestrial!), sexual abuse and
mental subjugation are some of the sorrows
from which these characters fly, and which the
play shows each being compelled to resolve.
Despite a harrowing central scene depicting
physical intimidation, involving absolutely no
contact, the play never quite seems to find a
balance between serious exploration and playful
satire. Still, an entertaining, if rather whimsical
evening.
iqqy
In the Pit at the Barbican, EC2 (071) 638 8891.
Tube: Moorgate/Barbican. Until 12th March.
of picks in a small space. Mines provide excel-
lent thriller settings - remember 'The Edge Of
Darkness'?
Despite the cast's professionalism and the
neatly packaged end, I came away with the
impression that a better story had been missed.
A real drama seemed to be the power struggle
between the union men, even the aftermath of
the strike and the rehabilitation of Scabs. It was
touched early on with a fleeting glance but then
left alone. Still it remained as real, hard and dark
as the coal face itself.
Tintin
Bush Theatre, Shepherd's Bush, W12. (081) 743
3388. Tonight and tomorrow only. Tube:
Shepherd's Bush.
GormenghastwlW be reviewed in next week's issue

