20 Reviews
One Sunday afternoon I sat practising S.D.
(selective deafness) in the presence of my noisy
family of four other members. Perching
perilously on the edge of my ex-bed (recently
taken over by my younger female sibling), I
travelled through dimensions unknown to a
space where Bram Stoker's Dracula mercilessly
snatched and bagged infants from their mother's
bosoms. While the mother sent heart-rending
cries of grief echoing through the otherwise still
night air of Transylvania, the Count rubbed his
claws together in anticipation of his twilight
feast of such fresh, young blood. No longer able
to bear the annoying wails of the bereft mother
casting herself on his garden path, pleading for
an act of mercy from this progeny of men and
devil, this fifth cousin three times removed to
Atilla the Hun, Count Dracula, lets loose his
starving wolf-pack upon the grieving mother.
Within the passage of a few femtoseconds, the
night becomes silent once more, but for the
howling of the half-fed wolf-pack. Suddenly my
whole body was displaced to the left by a few
centimetres as a ripple of fear raced through me.
I held the book at arm's length as lucid
visions of the read events replayed themselves in
my mind's eye. I tried to indulge in the feeling
of making it last a few more seconds during
which time all was shattered by the shrill ringing
of the telephone. M y mother informed me that I
was in demand. I emitted a sigh worth ten litres
of air and reluctantly went to answer. Just
between you, me and this piece of paper, I was
quite relieved for the excuse to take a break from
Count Dracula and his eccentric life-style.
There's only so much excitement one can take in
each lifetime.
Amanda had called from her brother's place.
She was baby-sitting Milton, her two-year-old
nephew and, in the process of doing, so had
become restless. So, to relieve her boredom and
to repay me some mild grief I'd caused her in
high school, she rang my number. Mission
accomplished. First she asked me a few pointless
questions to which I replied with non-committal
grunts. Then she harassed me about not replying
to any of the many letters she had written to me,
not forgetting to mention that I hardly ever rang
her during term-time. I responded with some
half-hearted exam revision (what's that?) excuse
and something else equally pathetic.
Trivial chit-chat. As friends in a position to
run up someone else's phone bill are included to
do, Amanda then revealed to me more trivial
information. As she was talking to me, her
brother's fax machine had just given birth to a
long message from one of his pestering friends.
Before I could open my mouth again I heard the
fax being read out to me and it went something
like this:
" A small bird was flying south for the
winter when he was driven off course by
strong gales. He ended up in a snowdrift in
Greenland. When it was all over, the poor
bird lay on the snow-covered ground,
frozen to the bones. A wolf came out to
hunt for food and, surveying the aftermath
of the snowdrift, he noticed a frozen feath-
ered creature. The wolf approached the
thing and saw it looking pathetically help-
less. So, although he was hungry, the wolf
refrained from devouring the bird. Instead,
he picked up the half-dead bird and dropped
it in a pile of fresh, steaming manure.
The warmth of the manure soon gave the
bird use of his limbs again and upon
opening his eyes, found himself in deep
manure. Eager to improve his condition, the
bird waited for any passer-by to chance
upon him. Presently along came an animal
who, responding to the bird's pleas,
dropped him on the ground then walked
away. The little bird found it impossible to
stand up on the icy ground so like any
amateur in an ice-rink his legs splayed
treacherously and he fell. The impact of the
fall was too much for the hungry, tired bird
who had already remained frozen for some
time. The fall caused his death.
Morals of the story are two-fold:
Someone who drops you in shit is not
necessarily your enemy, and Someone who
gets you out of shit is not necessarily your
friend."
When she'd finished, I commended the morals
and also the style of the story. After further
exchanges of trivia and meaningless promises to
keep in touch with each other we eventually
ended our long association via telecommunica-
tions.
Later that night, while I lay in bed unable to
sleep a wink (though it was way past two
o'clock in the morning) I reflected upon our
seemingly profane telephone conversation.
Perhaps Amanda had been hinting at the state of
our friendship - both past and present. We've
both managed to drop each other in shit quite a
few times since our first acquaintance in 1988.
But the mystery in it all is that somehow or other
we've always managed to get each other out of
shit as well.
Maybe it's got something to do with our
insane state of mind or perhaps the fact that we
both love south-easterly winds and snowdrifts.
Whatever the reasons, I still couldn't get to
sleep that night.
Ziegler
Situations Vacant
Features Journalists
Short Story Writers
Salary: £0 per annum (non negotiable)
Perks: Cranial inflation and life aquiration
In an effort to enlarge the pleasant green corner of this ever expanding empire, we're
currently looking for talented writers (or would-be writers) to produce features and Cat's Tales' without
delay! Reply in writing, in person or in a compromising position to:
Owain, Features Ed., Felix Office, Beit Quad. You know the place, yeah, next to the Ents Lounge.

