22 Opinion
Editorial
If you are as fortunate as I am to be living in
Southside this year (one of the perks of being a
sabbatical is that you get a room in hall), you
will no doubt be in the process of having a new
carpet fitted in your humble abode. 4
Some lucky people were told that their new
carpets would be fitted over Christmas. So, they
cleared all their stuff away before they went
home and expected a new carpet when they got
back. But no. When they returned, there was a
distinct absence of one.
When it came to the turn of staircase 6
(where I am), a letter went round telling us that a
carpet would be fitted at the end of the week. So,
we all cleared our stuff away and expected a
new carpet to be fitted by the time we got back.
Wrong. Due to 'unforeseen circumstances' they
couldn't do it that day.
I wonder if they'll have got it sorted by the
time they get to staircase 8?!
I get the feeling that people think that
because they are dealing with students, they can
treat them differently to the general public. Have
College complained to the contractors that the
work hasn't been done, or are they waiting for
the students to complain to them? Maybe they
think that they can get away with sub-standard
treatment because it's just students? Maybe
they're right? How many people know how to
S M A L L A D S
complain about the service offered by the
Accommodation Office within College? (I'll
give you a clue - her name's Jill Dove. She's the
Union's Accommodation Officer and can pass
on your comments and complaints to the rele-
vant people in College. She can be contacted
through the pigeonholes in the Union Office.)
It has been rumoured that the rent in Linstead
Hall next year will be more than the level of the
student grant. This just leaves people the
'option' of surviving off a student loan. When I
came to College, which was the first year after
they froze the student grants, I worked out that I
wouldn't be able to afford a single room in hall
(£50 per week) and things certainly haven't
changed much since then. I guess College can
get away with it because students have no other
option when they come to College than to go
into Hall.
How many people realise that the rooms in
Southside are rented out over the summer as
conference rooms? This makes even more
money for the College than they already get off
the students. Maybe this is why the new carpets
were fitted in the rooms? Not because they
thought the students would appreciate them, but
because it would improve them as conference
rooms over the summer.
Credits Photography: Cinema: Puzzles:
Mike Chamberlain Joe McFadden Sphinx
Typesetter: Simon Govier
Rose Atkins Theatre: Collators Last Week
Features: Rekha Nayak Juliette Decock
Printer: Owain Bennallack (Ed) Simon Shaw
Andy Thompson Phill Henry Opera: Tony Grew
Don Adlington Patrick Wood Ivan Chan
Business Manager: Ziegler Joe McFadden
Simon Govier Nainish Bapna Arts: Penguin
Marcus Alexander Steve Newhouse
Advertising Manager: Books: Jon Jordan
Steve Newhouse Juliette Decock News: Owain Bennallack
Michael Ingram Tim St Clair
Layout and Bromides: Music: Lynn Bravey
Kin Wei Lee Jon Jordan
All Valentine messages must be in the
Valentine box in the Felix Office by the
end of today (4th February).
The Valentine special issue will be out on
11th February.
DramSoc Rehearsal for 'Doctor and the
Devils' on Wednesday 9th February, 6.30pm in
the Union Dining Hall, first floor (central stair-
case), Union Building.
Six Stewards Needed for 22nd February
between 9am and 6pm. £4 per hour. If you are
interested, see Michelle in the Union Office or
telephone her on ext 3500.
Large Single Room available now. £44 per
week. Park Royal tube. Three others in house.
Contact Ben Mars through the Physics pigeon-
holes or telephone 081 998 0464.
Crime Prevention Week
7th February -11th February
Exhibition from 10am - 4pm in the Anteroom,
Sherfield Building and the Foyer of Mech Eng
Videos will be shown on personal safety
Cycles can be postcoded free of charge all week
No Parking
For the week beginning 14th February there
will be no parking along Prince Consort Road.
Any bikes chained to railings will be removed.
Answers to
last week's
Elimination
a Well Done 15,5
b Wait, Weight 13,30
c Vicious Circle 32,22
d Kingdom, Nations 33, 35
e Happy Medium 19, 25
f Brevity, Wit 31,3
g Fee, Charge 1,21
h Double Dutch 23,18
i Marshal, Playing 34, 37
j Pot Luck 2,7
k Reigns, Singer 26, 28
1 Take Five 11,6
m Open, Training 8,41
n Brain Wave 16,14
0 Toot, Civic 12,17
P Wedding, Elephant 38,40
q Least Square 20,29
r School, Opinion 27, 36
s Roll Call 10,4
t Reef, Granny 9,24
The word left over
was Academic
Articles Deadline: Friday, 6pm Letters Deadline: Monday, 6pm

