Opinion 23
The Munster Road Kitchen
by Samin Ishtiaq
Read this philosophy: If someone is weak then
you should bully him, 'cause it'll prepare him
for the cruel world outside. This is a sadistic
version of "Nanny knows best", I suppose, and
one which Nils adopts towards, for instance, his
younger brother. (Or, at least, he did adopt it
while his brother was still shorter than him.)
Nils tells us with pride the way he would slap
his brother or lock him in his room. His claim
that it was good for him is something that we've
argued about for a long time. Initially, Paul and I
disagreed - but Paul, being Paul, soon came
around to this sadistic point of view.
I was nearly converted the other day. I was
just beginning to bike onto Queen's Gate when
this woman driver stopped her car. She was
obviously in a very agitated state, really ready to
cry. And she shouted about trying to find the
Sculpture Department. At first I was going to
make a sarcastic remark about the value of art at
Imperial College, but I checked myself. I
explained to her where the Royal College of Art
was and that their Sculpture Department was
probably somewhere nearby.
It doesn't pay to be kind, of course. I got an
ear-bashing back sbout how she'd already been
there, about how late she was, about how she
had taken a wrong turn, etc, etc. At this point I
was still intending to help her (my brownie point
for the day, I suppose). But, on being shouted at
by this stupid woman, I was actually trying to
help...If I just left her to it, she would actually
find out about this cruel world. (If Paul had been
in my place, he would have very likely sent her
towards Earl's Court.)
So, I said to her: "Look, if you're glint to
shout at me I'm not really glint to help you." I
put my cycling hat back on in a very deliberate
way and pedalled off.
So far this has been my best attempt at the
Sadist Nanny philosophy. Most of the time I'm
very helpful. But I fear that, as I get older and
more cynical, everyone will look like that
woman in Queen's Gate. So, if you want any
favours, ask me now. .
C A R E E R S INFORMATION
Milkround - Details of interviews are put up on
the noticeboard outside the Careers Office (level
3, Sherfield building) a few days before the
interview date. Another company has joined the
Milkround: Softwright
'Assessment Centres - What To Expect And
How To Cope' is a short course for all on
Wednesday 9th February in Huxley 344 from
2pm-4pm. Sign up in the Careers Office.
Summer Vacation Training Opportunities are
now available on the new Database in the
Careers Office. Apply to UROP for research
opportunities.
For further information come to the Careers
Office, Room 310 Sherfield - open from 10am-
5.15pm Monday to Friday. A Duty Careers
Adviser is available for quick queries from 1pm-
2pm daily.
Exam Stress Workshop
Three sessions will be led by Claudio
Calvi, physiotherapist on how to cope with
any stress problems caused before and
during the exam period.
Workshops are held in the Health Centre,
14 Princes Gardens on Wed 16th Feb, Wed
23rd Feb and Wed March 2nd, 3pm-4.30pm.
They are all free of charge.
For bookings, please Liliane Carter
on 071 589 5111 ext 3088.
Dr David
Wilkinson
Methodist Minister and
one time Cosmologist
talks on:
'Science Religion and
Stephen Hawkins'
6 . 3 0 - 8 . 0 0 p m
H u x l e y 3 0 8
T h u r s d a y 1 0 t h F e b r u a r y
( I C C h r i s t i a n U n i o n )
Vacancy
WARDENSHIP
BEIT HALL
The College invites applications for the
position of Warden at Beit Hall which falls
vacant with effect from 1st September 1994
Wardens receive rent free accommodation in
return for pastoral duties within their
residence. The post is open to all non-
undergraduate members of the College.
If you would like further information and an
application form contact The Personnel Office
on extension 3308/3309/3176, Sherfield
Building
C l o s i n g d a t e f o r a p p l i c a t i o n s :
3 1 s t M a r c h 1 9 9 4

