4 Feature
The Trouble with Research Students...
...isn't just their tendency to have cool dreads and possess an encyclopaedi
knowledge of late eighties Indie music. In fact, says Don Adlington in his
concluding welfare article, they can experience difficulties 'peculiar to them'.
When I first came to work at
Imperial I naively assumed that I
would not be seeing very many PhD
students. I was wrong. I have talked
to hundreds of them over the last
twenty years and continue to do so.
I quickly learned that besides the
normal life hazards to which all
students are exposed, research
students can experience difficulties
which are more or less peculiar to
them. They are probably best
defined by simply listing those
which arise most frequently in
practice.
Misunderstandings (and occa-
sionally overt conflict) between
research student and supervisor are
a potent source of anxiety and
distress - it is the salience of this
relationship more than any other
factor perhaps, which most sharply
distinguishes the day to day life of
the research student from all other
students. Where it works well - and
I have no doubt that in the great
majority of cases it does - this
relationship can be stimulating and
immensely productive, but con-
versely if serious tensions arise
things can be become very difficult.
The essential 'unboundedness'
of research both in the ultimate
scientific/philosophical sense, and
in the more mundane "how do I
structure my working day?". Sense
seems to me to be the other fundamental change
which the research student has to accept and
cope with. The need for pragmatism in putting a
boundary on a research project is sometimes in
tension with some sort of ideal in a student's
mind and this may throw up serious difficulties
at the writing-up stage. The slightly perfectionist
quality in some students' make-up, which had
served them well on taught courses, can actually
be something of a burden at research level,
where the capacity to compromise is sometimes
important.
A capacity for tolerating the mundane is not
formally recognised as a required qualification
for PhD work, though I believe that it is in fact
so. Virtually all research students have very
good academic records, and moving on to a PhD
programme is the culmination of long held
hopes and ambitions. There is (and there should
be) a strongly romantic element to it. But the
early stages of research can be very unromantic
and plodding - (chasing up equipment and other
material resources, literature surveys, the failure
of initial ideas for research topics to crystallise) -
and it is easy to become a little bit disillusioned
and to begin to question whether one has made
the right decision.
Students who, during their first degrees,
either at Imperial College or elsewhere, have
enjoyed a full social life, sometimes experience
a powerful sense both of physical and social
isolation when they move into research. This
varies according to the relative gregariousness of
the individual and also depends strongly on the
ethos of the particular research group in which
he or she is working.
Uncertainty about 'normal' working hours
and vagueness about entitlement to leave give
rise to bad feeling from time to time. Most
research students simply fit into an existing
pattern that precludes any other social or
recreational activities.
PhD students sometimes feel that despite the
name they are not really students at all and, for
reasons which from their point of view may or
may not be valid, they effectively exclude
themselves from participating in student life
outside their laboratory or research group.
Also research students sometimes
feel that supervisors are not always
sensitive to the time parameters
within which they are operating -
parameters usually dictated by rigidly
restricted funding. Problems of time
and money are very acute and clearly
predictable for some overseas
students in particular, who may have
saved up a third of their assured
funding following required taught
courses, before beginning their
research at all.
From time to time a student
comes to recognise that the decision
to do research, made for impeccable
motives, was in fact a mistake. This
perception may indeed be shared by
the supervisor, an agreed decision
having been made the the student
should disengage. Despite the fact
that this may be acknowledged to be
the right thing to do and in the
student's own interests, there is
sometimes an irrational but very
powerful stigmatic sense of failure.
There are a number of things to
say about all this. One of them is that
most of the potential sources of
worry I have discussed briefly here
have long been recognised. Some of
them are dealt with very clearly in
the College's booklet Research
Students and Supervisors: Their
responsibilities and duties. Y o u
should have a copy - if not ask for
one at the Registry. Secondly, all research
students have chosen to do what they are doing,
and what they are doing should on the whole be
satisfying and certainly should not be the source
of protracted tension and anxiety.
You should not underestimate the importance
of talking to your supervisor properly if you are
unhappy about your situation and things can
sometimes be changed very easily once a
problem has been identified. Every Department
in College has a Postgraduate Tutor who has a
pastoral responsibility to all the postgraduates in
a department and who can be a key person in
putting things into a wider context, sometimes
helping directly to effect change. You also have
the right to consult the two College Tutors - Dr
Margaret Goodgame in Chemistry and Dr
Gareth Jones in Physics, quite independently.
You are also very welcome to talk to me. I am
easily available and my work is totally
confidential. My office is at 15 Princes Gardens,
Ext 3041.
Calvin's transmogrifier becomes a time machine on page 16

