Feature v. i.
Put It Away, There Are Ladies Present!
Are women scared of particle accelerators? Phill Henry investigates...
Imagine a place, in the most expensive area of
London, where all the men are budding doctors
and scientists and where the women are out-
numbered seven to one.
Is it a misogynistic MENSA convention? Or
maybe even a high class gay club? Neither. It is
Imperial College of Science and Technology,
circa 1986. Because of this, the College initiated
a program to entice more women into science, a
program which has so far been remarkably
successful. In just seven years this scheme has
managed to raise the percentage of women in the
College from about 12 to 26 per cent.
This national program is called Women Into
Science and Engineering or WISE. It takes sixth
form girls on a two day tour of the College.
These 'WISE women' are housed in student
accommodation and allowed to sample their first
taste of true student life for absolutely no charge.
Melanie Thody, joint coordinator of the
scheme, estimates that out of the 550 partici-
pants between thirty and forty choose the
College on their U C C A forms. "It is an
extremely successful scheme," she says. "It is no
coincidence that the number of females in the
College has doubled since the start of WISE."
Melanie believes that the girls find two things
particularly interesting: "Firstly, a novel sense of
freedom in being away from home. A n d
secondly, they find that scientists are not the
dull, grey people they are made out to be."
This last point is not necessarily accepted by
Kristine Vaaler, I C U ' s Student Womens'
Officer. It is her job to foresee problems that
may affect women - not enough street lamps on
campus or an absence of rape alarms in isolated
public places for instance - and act appropri-
ately. Although she agrees that there is a large
number of dull, boring and sexist men but there
are many pleasant males as well.
Kristine is concerned that, even though things
have improved substantially, there is still a lot of
patronisation especially towards women on the
campus. However, there continues to be few
complaints made officially. She feels that this is
because the women at Imperial have to be
prepared before they start at the College. "They
know the male/female ratios before they apply,"
she says. "Easily intimidated women, I suppose,
would not come to IC."
Intimidation by some men cannot be the only
reason for the poor male/female ratio. Kristine
suggests that convention is largely to blame for
the lack of female scientists. She believes that
society teaches science and engineering as a
masculine discipline. This point is echoed by Dr
Margaret Goodgame, one of the College Tutors.
"Women are not expected to be good at
science," she says. "While little girls are given
dolls, little boys have meccano sets. They have
no fear of science."
Dr Goodgame, a lecturer in Chemistry, has
her own theory why the College female popula-
tion has risen: "Apart from the WISE project, I
think that the introduction of small language
options have helped. The number of female
students taking a small language course is huge.
"One year," she adds with a grin, "in one of
the language options, there were seven females
to every male! For Imperial, that is incredible."
Dr Goodgame was one of the first to realise
the potential in enticing women into science by
means of these courses. The Chemistry depart-
ment currently has a forty per cent female popu-
lation, a rise from only twenty per cent in just
three years since the introduction of the courses.
Departments slow to implement this provision
have enjoyed no such success. Since the intro-
duction of language options, the proportion of
women in the Electrical Engineering department
has risen from the low figure of six per cent.
Although given the opportunity to read
languages at University, Dr Goodgame, unlike
most girls of her generation, chose the sciences.
"I always liked science but I loved languages.
My headmistress kept sending me on science
courses telling me that they would make me
prefer science. They didn't. However, in my
day, you had to be eighteen before you applied
to Oxford University, so I spent my spare year
appeasing her and learning science. I loved it so
much that I chose to do Chemistry at Oxford
instead of a language."
She personally felt that the extent of sexism
at this College was not very worrying. "Most of
the sexism is in the form of trivial remarks such
as: 'Oh, you are the woman so make the tea.' I
do not think that this is very serious. After all, if
girls don't experience sexism now, then they
will be even more intimidated when they leave
and get a job in the big, bad world."
She has rarely experienced any sexism
against herself during her time as a lecturer. "My
colleagues are very nice. Only once did I feel
that I was being asked to do a trivial job because
of my sex. I told the person: 'No, you do it.' It
never happened again."
Her undergraduate years at Oxford were not
so easy, however. "In laboratory, the ten per cent
who were girls were separated from the boys. I
didn't mind. That was the system and I accepted
it without thinking. Today, thank God, women
don't have to put up with that kind of treatment."
Despite the attack on sexism by college
authorities, Imperial has still got far to go to
redress the male/female imbalance. The
percentage of women is rising by only one
percent a year and shows signs of slowing down.
Maybe, despite all the valiant attempts by the
College, society must first change its attitudes to
women in science before Imperial can boast that
half of its students are female.
The second installment of restaurant reviews are on page 15

