ft. Clubs and Societies
Do We Have The Mentality Of Vegetables?
The idea that most students at Imperial College
leave with a great degree but unfortunately little
by way of education is a recurrent, albeit occa-
sional, topic of discussion; if you don't believe
me, check out the letters' page a fortnight ago.
Rather than chastise those of you who spend
your three or four years here with the mentality
of a vegetable, the purpose of this article is to
encourage you to develop and broaden your
horizons and interests.
This coming week, S C C (Social Clubs
Committee), the fragment of the Union which
contains religious, political and miscellaneous
societies, presents (for want of a better name)
'Ideological Week'. This, hopefully, will be a
week of events aimed at provoking political and
religious discussion between all the students, not
just those who've bothered to join such societies
because of their convictions.
Education, from my subjective viewpoint, is
about opportunity; this opportunity, to gain
knowledge and find out about both the external
world and oneself, is one which students can
benefit from probably more than most sectors of
the population. Unfortunately it's also one which
a large number choose to ignore. Even if we
were to divide ideology into the two main cate-
gories of religious belief and politics (excepting
of course ideologies such as Islam, which offer
an entire creed), this ignorance would be illus-
trated by the sheer numbers of people who
haven't really thought about religion (i.e. who
don't even claim to be agnostic) and who can't
be bothered to vote in the various elections that
get held around college, let alone those which
decide the government of the country.
Without wishing to appear to agree with the
'back to basics' campaign being bandied about
by the current government (crap, in my humble
opinion) I'd suggest that this indifference is a
reflection of the prevalent lack of not morality,
but any consideration of morality. The blame for
this, the shunning of personal responsibility, lies
with all of us as individuals, rather than the
abstract scapegoat of 'society as a whole'.
Instead of exploring the relationship between
behavioural and societal changes, however, a
task which I personally am incapable of, I'd like
to point out just some of the wide range of issues
which have to be resolved if people are to make
what is often called progress.
It ought to be noted first that such issues
often involve both the religious and political
spectra; examples of this include blasphemy,
censorship and homophobia, all of which have
been in the news in quite a major way over the
last couple of years. The issues of blasphemy
and censorship, which will be highlighted by
this week's showing of The Last Temptation of
Christ, themselves ignite questions about reli-
gious tolerance and cultural prejudice.
English society is often capable of extreme
narrow-mindedness, hypocrisy and prejudice.
This isn't some desperate, blind attack and I am
not claiming that English culture is worse than
any others; it's merely an observation (how
many of you who object have any genuine expe-
rience of an alternative culture?). Global cultural
diversity and multiculturalism is perhaps one of
our greatest assets in trying to understand answers
to religious and political questions. Our percep-
tions of problems such as political (and some-
times religious) bias in the media, sexual
discrimination and the relationship between the
third and first world can all benefit if contrasted
with arguments about the same topics around the
world. It's worth bearing this in mind when
trying to make sense of the following arguments.
On the subject of religious tolerance (and
acceptance), to what extent does the invocation
Brazilian Party Night
Last year Third World First staged a Brazilian
night to raise money for the Brazilian Rubber
Tappers (who fight to preserve Brazilian Rain-
forests). If you came last year I need only say
that due to popular demand its happening again
on the Thursday 10th February in the Union. For
those who didn't come it's a great night. We
have the Latin-Salsa band ViraMundo playing
(starting at about 8.30pm) along with a Latin
disco and cheap Latin beers and it's only £3.
On Wednesday 9th February, there will be a
talk on Fair Trade in Biology Room W2 and in
the evening there will be a debate on Third
World development. There will be stalls selling
fairly traded goods all week in the JCR
The profits made from the party will go to a
project supporting the Brazilian Rubber
Tappers' Union, jointly funded by Oxfam and
Third World First.
In Brazil, which is one of the most indebted
countries in the world, vast areas of the rain-
forests are being destroyed to repay the coun-
try's debts to western and international banks.
The Rubbers Tappers are fighting to stop this
destruction and exploitation, they were the first
group to alert the international media to the
plight of Brazil's Rainforests and their leader
Chico Mendes was assassinated for his
campaign work against the vested interests of
the major logging and 'development' companies.
The Rubber Tappers have fought to establish
'extractive reserves' to develop the forests in
ways that protect the environment and provide a
livelihood for themselves and their families -
of blasphemy prevent the questioning of reli-
gion, as opposed to its ridicule, and how legiti-
mate, assuming personal morality to be indepen-
dent of religion, is this? M y own sentiments are
that any form of religious questioning ought to
be allowable as long as prejudice, hatred or
violence aren't promoted in any way. If these
criteria are satisfied then ridicule ought to be
permissible as well in the name of freedom of
speech. I sympathise with those who disagree,
though, since it's very difficult to differentiate
between ridicule and the promotion of prejudice.
Conventions and standards need to be ques-
tioned continually for us to be assured of their
usefulness. When is the last time anyone thought
to consider inherent biases in the media? One
example was the publishing by 'The Observer'
on the first Sunday of the Gulf War of a photo of
the burnt corpse of an Iraqi soldier trying to
climb out of a tank destroyed by American
bombers. One of the effects was to highlight the
sycophantic militarism which pervaded other
papers. Politics is often seen as a set of abstract,
semi-philosophical arguments; it isn't. It may be
regarded as the choice of criteria, which must be
used to determine the best method of govern-
ment. The solutions to particular issues aren't
difficult; the choice of the criteria used to eval-
uate them, however, is. In this case, any issue
which affects people is a political one.
This article has investigated the scope and
importance of a few aspects of personal
ideology. Hopefully, it has stimulated you into
thinking about your own beliefs a little more. If
you're interested in other people's beliefs, or if
you'd like to share your own then come to some
of the events in 'Ideological Week'. Even if you
don't benefit from someone else's opinion, then
they at least can benefit from yours.
Jayanta K Fouzder
they take nothing from the forest that cannot be
regenerated.
Money raised for the project will help to:
1. Support Rubber Tappers in their campaign to
protect the Rainforests and create 'extractive
reserves'.
2. Provide eduction in literacy and numeracy.
3. Set up schools for children in the community.
4. Organise training in running co-operatives.
The Rubber Tappers' campaign to protect the
environment is one that affects us all. If you
want more information on the project there will
be a short speech from a Brazilian development
worker before the band starts, there will also be
a display in the U D H on the night of the 10th or
if you can't make it on the 10th you can contact
either Third World First or Oxfam.
Ideological Week is organised by the Social Clubs Committee

