Clubs and Societies 7
The Last Temptation Of Christ
When Universal Pictures released this religious
epic, ostensibly about an aspect of Christ's char-
acter, the resulting furore centred around blas-
phemy and censorship. This Tuesday, S C C ,
although not with the approval of all its
constituent societies, provides the opportunity
for you to experience the film at 7pm in the ICU
Cinema (second floor, Union Building).
Judged solely as a film, The Last Temptation
is a masterpiece from Martin Scorsese,
frequently hailed as 'America's greatest living
director' and auteur of such diverse classics as
Taxi Driver, Raging Bull, Goodfellas and Age of
Innocence. The script attracted an impressive
cast, with Christ portrayed by Willem Dafoe,
Barbara Hershey as Mary Magdalene and
Harvey Keitel with the screen's first sympa-
thetic portrait of Judas Iscariot.
Traditional Catholic themes of sacrifice and
redemption, which often underpin Scorsese's
movies (he trained to be a priest) here dominate
the film, albeit with perhaps slightly more
emphasis than in Kazantzakis' novel. The film's
central motif is the reconciliation of the spirit
and the flesh using Christ as its basis. Although
the plot initially resembles the Gospel, it departs
from it in order to portray The Last Temptation
as being Jesus' desire to subjugate his divinity in
favour of his humanity, until such time as he
finally recognises his true nature and the
dichotomy of his character is resolved.
As far as blasphemy is concerned, it is
perhaps worth noting that explicit sex scenes
between Mary and Jesus don't appear. Scorsese
himself, when questioned, summarised his
motives for making it as being 'to get to know
Christ better', while one magazine's (Empire)
main criticism was that it was ' i f anything, a
little too devout'. The question of whether or not
the representation of Jesus is insulting is still
difficult. The main issue which needs to be
answered is whether or not the suggestion that
Jesus might have been tempted to renounce his
divinity is offensive. While I admit that any
simple response would almost certainly prove
too glib, my personal feeling is an inability to
comprehend any such offence, if the motive
behind the question is irreproachable.
Relating this to the censorship concern high-
lighted by the film, this aspect of the controversy
which engulfed The Last Temptation can only be
resolved by clarifying the distinction between
the questioning of a religion and its ridiculing
(note though that blasphemy laws in this country
apply only to Christianity). This specific debate
wasn't ever pertinent to The Last Temptation,
however, since at no point was it intended to
'question' Christianity in any hostile sense. M y
own opinion on blanket censorship is that
suppressing the expression of thought, which is
what it is, serves only to restrict freedom;
freedom of thought can achieve solutions, while
its restriction can only lead to the exacerbation
of problems
The answers offered are clearly personal.
Should the questions interest you, there will be a
discussion about both 'The Last Temptation' and
the issues surrounding it following the
screening. Whether you decide to show up or not
(entry is £1 to everyone); think about them.
The Mission The Manchurian Candidate
This week's joint presentation between CathSoc
and SCC Exec, The Mission, tells the story of
Christian missionaries in South American rain-
forests during the 16th century and does so with
an emotional impact which few films made
since have been able to match.
The newly-founded mission of the title
attracts several different missionaries, most
notably Robert De Niro, playing a nobleman
repenting after committing a murder and Jeremy
Irons playing a puritanical priest. When it is
threatened by a wrangle between the European
nations trying to colonise as much of the land as
possible, the missionaries are torn between
using force against their former masters both to
keep their 'crusade' going and to protect the
indigenous population as opposed to following
their own pacifist teachings.
The Mission contains themes of environ-
mental awareness and religious conviction. The
film also acts as a suitable precursor to TWF's
'Brazilian Nite'. Entry to the film for everyone
is just £1, while the film itself starts at 5.50pm
in the Concert Hall in the Union Building this
coming Thursday.
The Manchurian Candidate is widely regarded
as the finest film about political indoctrination
ever made. The film was directed by John
Frankenheimer (who later went on to make
Birdman of Alcatraz and The French Connection
II) and stars Frank Sinatra, Janet Leigh (from
Psycho) and Angela Lansbury (who received an
Oscar nomination).
The film was withdrawn from its original
release in 1962 following JFK's assassination.
The reason for this was that certain ideas in the
film closely echo Kennedy's ideological stance,
or at least the popular impression of it, and the
plot was hence regarded as highly sensitive.
The movie starts with the men of an army
division returning from the Korean War in 1952,
a couple of whom are plagued by horrific night-
mares, and all of whom may or may not have
been brainwashed as part of a Sino-Soviet
master plan to control the American political
landscape. At least two of the men begin to
suspect that a third, who was decorated for
valour on their return to the U S , may be an
assassin.
To give away any more would be to spoil the
film for those of you who turn up to see it, so I
shan't. Essentially, the film questions the rela-
tionship between a nation's people and its
government as well as the nature of government
itself, much in the same way that thirty years
later JFK would question the relationship
between a government's relative responsibilities
to truth and towards its people.
Despite The Manchurian Candidate being a
masterpiece of cynicism, it offers no trite
answers to the issues it raises and recommends
(c.f. JFK) a greater involvement and interest by
ordinary people in their government (I could
draw an easy parallel here to most students' atti-
tudes towards the Union, but I won't).
The programme starts at 7pm on Wednesday
in the ICU Cinema (second floor of the Union
building) and will be followed by a discussion,
for those of you who're interested, about the
issues it raises. Entry is a mere £1 to anyone
with a valid Union card.
Part 2 of Solving Cryptic Crosswords is on the back page

