Clubs and Societies
Flying Free
Soaring is flight in its purest form. For millions
of years birds have spread their wings and
harnessed the forces that nature gives away for
free, rising on powerful, invisible elevators in
the sky. If you look up any fine day you may see
one of these aviators dancing and circling in
what might seem random motion. You would be
wrong, for these creatures have perfected the art
of gliding and their dance allows them to cheat
gravity for free. We still have much to learn
from them, but man's progress in the past 70
years is remarkable. His graceful wings are
sculpted from carbon fibre, not feathers, but he
knows the same secrets.
Imperial College Union has the finest college
gliding club in the country. Students learn to fly
every weekend through structured training prog-
rammes at Europe's largest gliding centre at
Lasham Airfield, Hampshire. We also provide
courses during the holidays for intensive learn-
ing and many reach solo standard quickly.
Many people think gliding is prohibitively
expensive but the costs are offset by a 40%
subsidy by the Union. ICGC itself operates a
two seat training glider and two single seat
gliders which are regularly flown around the
country in competition, for fun and for expedi-
tions to other sites in the U K and Europe
allowing members to experience the thrill of
mountain flying and long cross country flights in
ideal weather conditions.
For a limited time we are offering free trial
flights if you decide to join. The annual mem-
bership fee is £30, which gives you the opportu-
nity to fly through the summer as well as term
time. We have a regular programme of events,
including the annual dinner to be held on Friday
18th February for only £14.50! If you are inter-
ested come to one of our meetings in Aero room
266 every Thursday at 1pm. See you there!
Anything
Could Happen
IC 1st 2 -1 UCL
A confident Imperial side gathered on Saturday
ready to play top-of-the-league U C L in the
quarter finals of the Cup. This normally
daunting task was diminished by the fact that
Imperial had beaten the other top teams, Kings,
only last week. However, with Mike Jarvis out
through injury and Alex de Stefano recovering
from illness, it was always going to be tricky.
The match started scrappily, with neither
team willing to take too many chances. The
Imperial defence of Ian Finnerty, Andy Fentol,
Rob Williams and occasionally Ben Willis made
sure that U C L had very few chances. Some
excellent calls by Chris Evdeman also helped!
In the midfield Tellis Botzios was superb, and
Wai Kwok was doing well covering for the
obviously troubled Richie Dixon. Up front Bill
Khatib-Ali was doing a fine job, but man of the
match Ike Omambala was in a different class.
However, with such a quality team, the lads
still could not score and, with the game looking
like a 0-0 draw, IC made an inspired substitu-
tion, bringing Dennis Nadarajah on for ten
minutes before full time. Even he could not
score though, so the game went into extra time.
Imperial were by far the strongest side and a
quality move involving Stefano and Botzios
culminated in a fine header from Ike. This goal
was soon followed by another superb finish
from Ike, following unselfish play from Dixon.
U C L did manage to pull one back, but there was
no doubt who the best team were, as IC sailed
into the semi-finals of the cup. Anything can
happen from now on!
Born On The Fourth Of February
Today, Sri Lanka celebrates the 46th anniversary
of independence from its colonial masters. The
sad irony, however, is that not all of its citizens
(the Tamil minority) have been truly liberated.
Sri Lanka is an island situated in the southern
extremity of the Indian subcontinent. The total
population is 17,103,000 consisting of 70%
Singhalese, 18% Tamils, 7% Muslims (mostly
Tamil speaking) and the rest being others.
Sri Lanka is multiethnic, with two separate,
distinct ethno-linguistic nations (Singhalese and
Tamils). The two nations differ in religion,
language and culture. However, colonial powers
forced unification for administrative purposes.
When the British colonisers left the country
in the hands of the majority Singhalese in 1948,
the Sri Lankan government:
(a) Decitizenised and disfranchised one million
Tamils living in the plantations;
(b) Colonised Tamil areas with Singhalese
settlers. This state-sponsored colonisation
was calculated to destroy the Tamil identity.
(c) Enacted Singhalese as the only official
language (1956); discriminated against
Tamils in employment, higher education and
share of resources,
(d) Resorted to state terrorism against the Tamil
people to intimidate them into submission;
A series of violent actions calculated and
planned against the Tamils were carried out in
1956, '58, '61, '72, '75, '77, '77, '79, '81, '83.
In sum, the government became an oppres-
sive regime: "I am not worried about the opinion
of the Tamil people...now we cannot think of
them, not about their lives or their opinion...the
more you put pressure in the north, the more
happier the Singhala people will be here...
Really if I starve the Tamils out, the Singhala
people will be happy." - President J.R.
Jeyawardene, Daily Telegraph, 11th July 1983
Discriminatory legislative and administrative
acts together with state terrorism culminated in
the demand for the restoration of the Tamil state.
Initially the struggle was through peaceful
means but when that failed it metamorphosed
into an armed liberation war.
During the past 10 years, more than 20,000
Tamils died and 6,000 disappeared having been
rounded up the security forces. A million or
more Tamils have become refugees internally,
another 350,000 Tamils externally in Europe and
North America and in Canada alone more than
90,000 Tamils have sought political asylum,
according to Amnesty International.
At present, the Tamil people in the North of
the island are undergoing severe hardship due to
the civil war. The Sri Lankan Government has
imposed an economic blockade for the past three
years. Essential commodities such as food,
medicine, fuel and electricity are not available to
Tamil civilians who the Sri Lankan Government
claims to be its citizens! Many consequences of
this deprivation are in contravention of interna-
tional law and remain unpublished due to coer-
cive censorship by the Sri Lankan Government.
"There is no Tamil problem but only a
terrorist problem" - Sri Lankan President
D.B.Wijeyatunge in an interview with the Sri
Lankan Sunday Times, 2nd January 1994.
Even after making this absurd statement, the
President claims he has always been for a polit-
ical solution! One wonders, what is this political
solution for or about if there is no Tamil Problem?
Though it may be Independence Day for Sri
Lanka, Tamils have nothing to celebrate.
Does being a sabbatical take your fancy? Then turn to page 21

