Riddley Walker by Russell Hoban, 214
pages, Picador, £1.95.
This isn't a bad book, but it's nowhere near
as good as the rave reviews all over the cover
say it is. It's set in the east of Kent about two
and a half thousand years in the future after a
full-scale nuclear war in 1997. Everyone has
been p e r m a n e n t l y r e d u c e d to a m u d hut
existence. The hero, Riddley Walker, writes an
account of the adventures that happen to him
over a period of about a week following his
twelfth birthday.
The author writes that the book is "written
not even in proper English but in a broken-up
and worn-down vernacular of it." This is the
most striking feature of the book. Here's a
sample:
"Being the Big 2 they only done ther 4 shows
a year regler plus special Is now and then but
they liket to look like Jul time Eusa showmen
they kep ther faces shavit and all. Orfing the
littl 1 he carrit the fit up and Goodparely the
big 1 he carrit the weapons the same as regler
Eusa show partners done even tho they cudve
had the hevvys carry the fit up and the
weapons and them as wel."
I don't think it's meant to be a serious
attempt to predict what an English dialect
might be like two thousand years in future but
it is v e r y e f f e c t i v e at e s t a b l i s h i n g a n
atmosphere. A jarring note in the dialect is the
presence of technical words like program
(make a plan) and pirntowt (printout, meaning
conclude). They add a futuristic touch that'll
apeal to science fiction fans but it's a gimmick.
The story itself contains a strong mystical
element that puts the book closer to fantasy
than science fiction. The plot concerns events
which are important for the main characters
but don't have any significance for the whole
world. This isn't quite clear until the end of the
book, which makes for an anti-climax, and
when the Punch and Judy show starts on page
128 the book begins to get silly. All the same
it's a more imaginative book than most and
well worth the initial struggle that's needed to
make sense of the language.
Stories (seventeen of them) by Desmond
Hogan, 254 pages, Picador, £1.95.
Pretentious rubbish. Every paragraph is a
candidate for Pseuds' Corner, for example:
" H e came in the summer, left Dublin, city of
hippies, of Divine Light people, flowers before
an altar in Santry, oranges before the same
altar and rhubarb." Rhubarb it is.
N . IViflson
What has 16 million feet, a radius of 14 miles
and a big nose?
Give up? It's London (I lied about the nose).
Have you ever held a warm, voluptuous
woman (or man, for 14% of you) in your
arms? No? Neither have I. But if you have,
then it probably gives you very little idea as
to what London is like. Life here, like
anywhere else, is what you make of it; to
different people it is different things: the
proverbial rose or the thorn that lies below
it. In this series of epic written voyages
(blockbuster film coming soon) I will try
and show you places that I enjoy, or would
enjoy, whenever I visit them.
- Chelsea
(To be read in an Alan Wicker style.)
"Welcome to one of the most eccentric
roads in England. In the mid-60s it revelled
under the title "the most hip street in
London". Come down here any Saturday
and you'll see why. For this corridor which
links Sloane Street to Parsons Green by
passing through the area of discussion
allows some of the most eccentrically
(some say forlornly) dressed people to taxi
through as they stare at expensive shops,
restaurants and, most of all, themselves."
But equally worthy of comment are the
parades of very individual shops that line
it. Let us divide King's Road (for that is
what the A to Z calls it) into three sections,
the first running westward from Sloane
S q u a r e to C h e l s e a C o l l e g e a n d the
Chelsea Fire Station, the next continuing
to that temple of architectural araoe and
economic folly, the World's End, and the
final part running on from there which I do
not intend to deal with and suffice it to say
that it contains some very extravagant
antique stores (very compelling study for a
lazy Sunday afternoon). No, far more
interesting are the first two regions.
Sloane Square itself has many things
including a notable arena of very good,
mostly exoerimental plavs (thanks Mrs
Thompson), i.e. Royal Court Theatre and
the only underground station I know with a
pub on the platform—the less said about
that, the better, I fear. Nevertheless, good
sense prevails and we may begin our trek
by musing at one of the J o h n Lewis
archipelago, the Peter Jones departmental
store which houses all kinds of somewhat
middle-class goodies.
Then we get into what the Kings Road is
all about—boutiques. No taste in forms of
attire is spared the ravages of commercial-
ism; all kinds of mannequins stand all day,
all night trying to convince you that you
too may, when so dressed, be equally
g o o d - l o o k i n g . Heaven forbid s u c h a
morbid thought!
There are many such emporiums which
may well withstand close inspection and,
indeed, even intrigue one into looking
inside. The Great Gear Market (just take a
peek at this one!), The Chelsea Drugstore
(No. 49, clothes in the basement, bar on
the g r o u n d floor and topless g o - g o
dancers and a disco upstairs), The Chelsea
Cobbler (No. 54, booties), and Boy (No.
153, army gear) reside in the first bit of
Kings Road, while the likes of The Dress-
Pound (No. 396, second-hand clothes from
Dior downwards),Tibet House (No. 490a,
take a guess), Ace (No. 185, wildish
clothes, diamante T-shirts, expensive), Flip
(American preppy get-ups), Retro (No.
229. 30s and 40s clothes) and many, many
more tend to fill the other important bit.
A s with any other major s h o p p i n g
centre, restaurants abound and some of
the more notable ones on this road are, in
order (approximate), The Chelsea Kitchen
(No. 98, cheap, good), Borscht'n'Cheers
(No. 273, Russian and rushin'), The King's
Road Jam (No. 289a, extremely, very
interesting), Kennedy's (No. 316, good
hamburger and live rock music), Asterix
(No. 329, for R e a l B r e t o n C r e p e s ) ,
and Theirry's (No. 342, nicely romantic).
Instead of letting my article rampage
further into the wilderness of lists, I will
take this opportunity to consider The
Chelsea Antique Market (No. 245a, see the
F O R G E T ME N O T stall) and Antiquarius
on the corner of Flood St (where Mrs
Thatcher lived) and King's Road for they
are both very I think I've overused most
superlatives.
Chelsea, as you may well be wondering,
is not just made up of King's Road. To be
sure (in slight Irish accent) there are many
more streets but, with the exception of
maybe Fulham Road, they are certainly
less fulfilling with regard to trade. (They,
h o w e v e r , m a i n t a i n their very great
aesthetic value and are a pleasure to walk
along.)
For people with wallets willing to die, I'd
point them towards places like The Frock
Exchange (450 Fulham Road), A. Clarke
(340 Fulham Rd) for second-hand clothes
and Laura Ashley at 157 Fulham Rd and
cheaper, slightly imperfect Laura Ashley at
60 Lower Sloane St, SW1.
As nightlife will always be a part of
student life (try taking that away, Maggie)
one could spend time at the Paris Pullman
Cinema (65 Drayton Gdns, 11:00pm every
night), the Pan Bookshop (158 Fulham Rd,
open till 10:30pm), Midnight Blue (186
Fulham Rd, an expounder of the D. Dirts
tricks) or mayble try getting an early
breakfast from Up All Night (325 Fulham
Rd, closes at 6:00am). And, whatever the
rest may say, I'd tell you to go to Parson's
at 311 Fulham Rd for good hamburgers
and great waitresses. (If you push this one
a bit, you know do your Imperial bit, I may
have a special discount scheme for all of
you lovely people.)
I am sorry that I may have successfully
avoided public houses so far, but you must
be considerate. Enjoying yourself may
mean going to the Six Bells (197 Kings Rd)
for a spot of jazz on Monday nights or,
equally, you may want to try a hand at the
lunchtime strippers at the Golden Lion
(490 F u l h a m R d , i n c l u d i n g student
discount). The Cafe des Artistes (266
Fulham Rd) have a nice enough disco
while The Trafalgar (200 Kings Rd) have
jazz sessions sometimes.
As a guide this is somewhat discriminat-
ing, but fairly comprehensive. It is not, as it
may seem, attempting to go through all the
shops that may exist in Chelsea, but an
attempt to get some of you folk off your
bums and trying to enjoy some of this
fabled conurbation. I hope it goes some
way towards helping.
Shezi Abedi
FELIX, January 15, 1982 Page 11

