FEATURES
Features Editors: Stephen Smith,
Caroline Wood
felix@imperial.ac.uk
11
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
A view from the top
Undoubtedly one of the most recog-
nised modern buildings in the UK,
The Gherkin (oﬃcially known as 30
St Mary Axe) is magniﬁcently impres-
sive from the outside, yet even more
so from the 19th ﬂoor up. The view of
London from such a height is incred-
ible, and on a clear sunny day there is
more than just a pang of jealousy as
Amanda Brumpton welcomes me into
her glass oﬃce.
Having ﬁnished University in the
80s, Amanda began her career at
Guardian Royal Exchange following a
summer internship with the insurance
company in the actuarial department,
before leaving for the Social Services.
“Big organisations are never boring,
because there’s always something dif-
ferent you could be doing,” Amanda
states.
Amanda’s career history also in-
cludes an impressive 10 years running
large outsourcing accounts for IBM,
and a brief stint at Japanese ICT com-
pany Fujitsu.
Today, Amanda is at the world lead-
ing IT company CSC where manages
the operations of the company’s sales
department based on a model she cre-
ated from scratch.
“I’m good at realigning businesses
that are not performing, and trans-
forming business from one state to
another. A lot people can strategize
and create a plan, but it’s a diﬀerent
skill set to be able to take that plan and
execute it. I’m all about execution.”
“I probably work at least 10-12 hours
a day, 5 days a week, full on. Everyday
is diﬀerent, there’s some common
themes: choosing which business op-
portunities to go after, helping my
team shape the conversations they
have with clients and meeting clients
themselves to talk about their busi-
nesses.”
Yet despite such success, Amanda
admits that she didn’t even know what
sales was at university. “Selling is just a
conversation with purpose. If you ap-
pear to be a brash shiny sales person,
people back oﬀ. So actually, the art of
selling is for people to not think it’s a
sales conversation, but rather a busi-
ness conversation about them and
their issues.”
Changes in Technology
On the topic of issues, I question
Amanda on how recent developments
in the global markets both in terms of
ﬁnancial turmoil and improvements
in technology are aﬀecting her role.
“There’s been a lot of changes over
the last 15 to 20 years, but the pace of
change is speeding up exponentially.
What’s happening is that the way
you get IT services at home is tripping
over into what we call the “enterprise
space” of big companies, something
we call “consumerisation”. The chal-
lenge now is keeping things secure
and complying with regulations in or-
der to protect people’s data and client
information.
This has caused a big change in the
way companies operate their services,
but it also oﬀers a huge opportunity
for them to become more ﬂexible in
how they deliver front line services
and internal operations to their cus-
tomers.
Our job is to help our customers un-
derstand how they can get maximum
value out of these opportunities whilst
still delivering all of their obligations
from a regulatory perspective.”
Being “superwoman”
Having covered how the company
deals with its challenges, we turn to
talk about how Amanda deals with the
challenges in her personal life.
“The biggest challenge is how to bal-
ance being a working mum and wife
with the demands of the job, and try
and be successful at it all.
As women, we have the natural ten-
dency to want to be the best at eve-
rything; we want to be the best mum,
best wife, and the best in our jobs, so
we push ourselves really hard to be
“superwoman” and it just isn’t possible
to do everything.”
“There are some stereotypes that
make the bar really high about what
is perceived as the right thing. I think
the biggest challenge is learning to be
content with the choices you’ve made,
to forgive yourself for the fact that
you’ve got to make compromises, and
not carry this burden of guilt around
trying to be superwoman, because
frankly, you’ll burn out.”
In regards to the compromises she’s
had to make, Amanda refers to when
she chose to return to work just 4
months after having twins.
“At times I’ve thought “I’m not doing
this anymore, I want to stay at home
with my sons”. But for me, I was the
main breadwinner so I needed to work
and I also wanted my career – I’ve
learnt to accept that the choice I made
doesn’t make me a bad mother, but it
isn’t always easy.”
Managing Success
“I think today, men and women ex-
pect both parties to work. There’s
fewer and fewer stay-at-home-mums,
but we still get hit with all these ste-
reotypes – everything in the media
and on TV, even fairy tales you read
your children – working women don’t
match the model.”
“I learnt the hard way that whilst
some men like the lifestyle that comes
with success, they are very competi-
tive and sometimes can’t cope with
the feeling of having a lesser role. But
has this stopped me in my career? No,
because I enjoy what I do, I’m com-
petitive, and I push myself to succeed.”
“You’ve got to learn how to manage
success, but fundamentally, what I get
enthralled by are the roles and their
challenges. Work doesn’t deﬁne me,
but it’s a big part of who I am.”
Given that work plays such an obvi-
ously large part in her life, I question
whether Amanda feels that a glass
ceiling exists. After a good laugh at the
irony of such a question being posed
from inside the Gherkin, she replies “I
can’t see it and I’ve never hit it – but
I think in other companies it’s possi-
ble, and the lack of senior female ex-
ecutives across business demonstrates
that there are issues.”
“You’ve got to be careful that you
stay true to yourself and your values,
that you don’t try and be a bloke –
women are diﬀerent and that’s impor-
tant for business and for ourselves.”
“For example, I always wear col-
ours, I have blonde hair, and I wear my
jewellery – I subconsciously empha-
sise all the time that I am a female. I
used to live in dark trouser suits and I
don’t now; I live in a business world of
men in dark suits, but I don’t need to
emulate that to be successful. Women
bring diﬀerent skills and styles, and its
very valuable in business, particularly
women in male dominated environ-
ments because we’ve a diﬀerent kit
bag of skills and interact with people
diﬀerently.”
80:20
Continuing, Amanda says, “psycho-
logically if there’s an opportunity for
progression, women naturally think of
all the reasons as to why they can’t do
that. They may have 80% of the skills
nailed down, but they’ll think of the
20% they can’t do. When a man looks
at the same thing, he naturally looks
at all the things he can do, and even if
he’s only got 20% of the skills required,
he will probably apply for the role if he
wants it and really go for it.
Women don’t push as hard, we don’t
have conversations with our bosses
about our next role and our career
development plan. But, if you sit and
wait, you get passed by. It’s our psyche
we have to manage in order to pro-
gress rather then the company holding
us down. If you’ve got the skills for the
job, you should go for it.”
Read more at:
www.title-mag.com
Alice Yang interivews Amanda Brumpton, CSC UK&IR, VP Sales
Inspiring Interviews with Successful Women.
Written by students, for students
Read, Aspire, Write. @EditorTITLE titlemagonline
[TITLE]
www.title-mag.com

