COMMENT
Comment Editors: George Barnett,
Navid Nabijou, James Simpson
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
14 FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
nybody who has ever
seen The History Boys,
whether on stage or on
screen, will remem-
ber the moment when
Irwin, that world-wise and world-
weary teacher, turns round to his pu-
pils observing a monument to fallen
soldiers and says: “All this mourning
has veiled the truth. Because you
should realise... there’s no better way
of forgetting something than by com-
memorating it.” But whilst I’m a huge
fan of Alan Bennett’s play otherwise,
I couldn’t disagree more with this
statement. Moreover, it saddens me
that so many people choose neither to
mourn, nor commemorate, on what
I see as one of the most important
dates in our calendar: Remembrance
Day.
And it’s almost funny, how whilst
I’m certain my 10 year old brother
(who has only thoughts of FIFA 12 on
his mind) will be standing at 11 o’clock
in the middle of some school yard,
surrounded by three or four hundred
other boys and girls (who for sure do
not have anything more profound than
FIFA 12 on their minds), all sniﬄing
and knocking their knees together in
the bitter cold whilst some pompous
red-nosed headmaster calls them to
attention, sounds the bugle and bul-
lies them into a minute’s worth of si-
lence, my 11am on 11/11/12 will be as
unremarkable as the 11am of the day
before, or the day before that. No one
shall force me to pause my day for 60
seconds. No one will take to a brass
instrument to squawk out some piti-
ful notes. No one will recite ‘They shall
grow not old, as we that are left...’ and
place a wreath.
No. My lecturer will do none of
those things. “And WHY NOT?!” I
want to ask. Let’s be honest here, if I
don’t do as well as I’d hoped in my end
of year exams (or God forbid, fail them
outright), it won’t be because 8 months
before that a Professor stopped what
he was saying, lowered his glasses and
looked up at the room to say: “Boys
and girls, I want us to take a minute
to think, to REALLY think about the
incredible sacriﬁce some people not
so unlike you or me gave some tens of
years ago so that you can be here now,
A
A call to remembrance
recovering from last night’s hangover
in this stuﬀy lecture theatre, safe in the
knowledge that outside of it is a free
country. That your lives are free from
fear. That you won’t be persecuted for
being the ‘wrong’ race or religion, nor
come home to ﬁnd a relative missing
because they said the ‘wrong’ thing out
loud. That you won’t, in your majority,
ever experience the horrors of war.”
Granted, Remembrance Day this
year falls on a Sunday, so if I’m sitting
in a lecture theatre then, I really will
question whether I live in a free coun-
try. But last year and the year before
that it didn’t, and no one interrupted a
snoozing room then to announce that
it was in fact, the 11th hour of the 11th
day, etc etc.
Don’t get me wrong, I’m one of the
most politically obtuse people I know.
I don’t religiously watch Question
Time every Thursday evening (or in
fact, at all), and whilst I was distressed
by the proposed rise in tuition fees,
mine was not a face that you could
have found at the street protests. But I
do ﬁercely ‘mind’ that with each pass-
ing year, it seems that fewer and fewer
people care about paying homage and
respect to (or even just reﬂecting on)
the vast number of men and women
who suﬀered unspeakable brutalities,
ultimately for our sakes. We can argue
for hours over whether commemorat-
ing with all those wreaths and all those
poppies actually does anything, but it’s
unquestionable that in making no ef-
fort whatsoever to commemorate the
deaths of those who gave up their lives
for our freedoms, we are in eﬀect trivi-
alising their sacriﬁce.
Which is why I want to appeal to you.
To you, the reader of this piece who
has made it this far down the page. To
you who also thinks that the signiﬁ-
cance of Remembrance Day shouldn’t
dissolve in our minds. To you who re-
alises that just because you may never
have met somebody, it doesn’t mean
that their actions and their bravery are
worth forgetting about.
Please, buy a poppy to show that you
care. Wear it with pride and tell some-
one else about why you’re doing it. Or
just take a minute out of your busy day
to think and to Remember: it’s the very
least you can do.
Margot Pikovsky despairs at the College’s apathy
United States of Eurasia
The college’s Europe-centric approach to overseas study is some-
thing we should change.
Doug Hunt
ne of my manifesto
points was that there
needs to be more non-
European study abroad
opportunities as part
of our undergraduate degrees. I be-
lieve this because when you bench-
mark some Imperial departments
against others you will see some have
the University of California and the
University of Melbourne as partners,
while others only have partners inside
Europe.
Furthermore, when you compare
certain departments to others at rival
institutions that we compete with for
UCAS applications, we are far behind
them with respect to our partners
outside Europe. One example is that
the Biochemistry, Physics, Chemistry
and Mathematics courses at UCL of-
fer a chance to study at Caltech (the
university the Big Bang Theory show
is set), while chemistry at Imperial is
the only department within the Fac-
ulty of Natural Sciences with study
abroad partners outside Europe –
Emory University (Atlanta, Georgia,
USA) and Nanyang Technological
University (Singapore).
So if Imperial is supposed to be one
of the top 10 institutions in the world
(according to both the QS and Times
Higher Education world rankings),
then why do not all departments of-
fer these study abroad placements
around the globe at other world class
institutions? And why are Imperial’s
competitors oﬀering these opportuni-
ties, while we seem content with the
ones we currently oﬀer?
As you can see this is something I
feel passionately about, but I need to
make sure I am not being delusional
and I am doing my job by representing
your views. To make sure I am being
a good DPE, I have set up the one-oﬀ
International Mobility Survey that
will start next Monday and you can ﬁll
it in via www.imperialcollegeunion.
imsurvey. You also have the chance of
winning a Kindle Fire - not bad for less
than ﬁve minutes work!
This will not just focus on study
abroad options but also whether Im-
perial should be oﬀering more funded
summer research placements around
the world. Something MIT has been
doing since 2009, branded under the
name of MISTI and has proven popu-
lar with their undergraduate cohort.
I am not going to spend forever giv-
ing reasons to why I think more inter-
national opportunities outside Europe
should be given to our students, but
here are a few I want to leave you with:
- Some current and potential pro-
spective students aren’t willing to
learn a language in order to carry out
an exchange programme. This can
lead to potentially disgruntled stu-
dents and Imperial missing out on
talented undergraduates to our com-
petitors.
- A competitive year abroad scheme
acts as an incentive for undergradu-
ates to work harder within their ﬁrst
2 or 3 years of their degree, which I
believe will lead to a better quality of
Imperial graduates.
- To help Imperial’s international
reputation grow, graduates now need
to be internationally mobile.
- According to a recent British
Council Survey: 54% of 18 -24 year-
olds feel their career prospects would
have been better if they had studied or
worked abroad.
O
Deputy President
(Education)
Margot Pikovsky

