Obama Claims Second Term
Emilie Beauchamp has the results from America.
ast Tuesday, 6 November
2012, Americans re-elect-
ed Barack Obama as the
President of the United
States, for a second and
last four year mandate. It was a slim
victory after a harrowing campaign,
nothing as glamorous as his ﬁrst ‘Yes
we can’ pinnacle, but still a win. Shall
we ﬁnally see Obama power through
with his close-hearted healthcare and
tax reforms? Does this mean new be-
ginnings of hope for peace on Earth?
Far from it. For those who have slept
through the most important politi-
cal event of the year, here is a blitz on
what needs to be known about what
happened, what to expect in the US
over the next four years and what it
means for the rest of the world.
And the exhausted winner is…
The 2012 race to Presidency was one
of the most competitive in ages, with
polls swaying left and right for a new
favourite candidate every hour. Both
hopefuls spent relentless weeks and
altogether more than $1.5 billion on
aggressive campaigns. Last Wednes-
day 7 November, at approximately 6
GMT, President Obama was declared
re-elected with a total of 302 votes
hence securing the 270 votes required
to get elected. On his side, Romney
won 206 votes, while 29 remained un-
allocated – meaning the voters simply
didn’t turn up. In parallel, the Demo-
crats retained a majority in the Senate,
but the House of Representative is still
dominated by the Republicans.
What does this all mean? As an ap-
parte, in the US, it is good to remem-
ber that individuals vote through the
electoral college, who are pledged
to presidential and vice-presidential
candidates based on the popular vote.
Each state and the District of Colum-
bia have diﬀerent quantities of votes
allocated pro rata to their population.
To be elected President one has to gain
270 of the 538 votes dispersed across
the country. This explains why while
the map of the US can seem over-
whelmingly crimson at ﬁrst glance
with a large band of sworn Republican
states in the middle of the country; the
dedicated Democratic coastal states
prove to be more populous. This last
election was considered particularly
competitive, as eight ‘swing’ states
(representing 18% of the US popula-
tion) were oscillating between camps
long into Election Day: Colorado,
Florida, Iowa, Nevada, New Hamp-
shire, Ohio, Virginia, and Wisconsin.
In the wee hours of the morning, Iowa
swayed for Obama, making him clear
the magic 270 mark to get re-elected.
Dark clouds will linger
While Obama won a second term, he
will still be dragging relics of his past.
First, the President will be facing a
gridlocked Congress, which will keep
on making it hard for him to press on
his agenda. As a brief recap, the Presi-
dent can only sign a law once the Con-
gress has passed it as a bill. But this in
turn requires that the two Houses of
the Congress, or the Senate and the
House of Representatives, agree to-
gether. The intended purpose of this
intricate political system is to prevent
anything less than a wildly popular
President passing unilateral laws with-
out checks. In other words, it usually
makes legislating very slow to avoid
politicians infringing on individual
rights and liberties of the American
populace.
Against that background, Obama
faces the enormous task of tack-
ling the national economy. Amongst
others, this means addressing the
stagnant 7.9% unemployment rate,
dealing with a $1 trillion in annual
deﬁcits, trimming the $16 trillion na-
tional debt and facing a ﬁscal policy
reform legally planned for the begin-
ning of 2013. One might wonder why
Obama still wishes to be Head of the
US in such ominous circumstances.
But Democrats heading the country
means more in terms of state liberties.
Take for example Maine and Mary-
land’s population, who have already
rushed to put in place same-sex mar-
riage legislations. Similarly, Colorado
and Washington became the ﬁrst U.S.
states to legalize the possession and
sale of marijuana for recreational use
just last Tuesday.
Better news for us than the US
With regards to foreign policy, not
much change is expected either but
this is rather good news for the world.
In fact, the continuation of the Obama
administration is an immense sigh of
relief for most countries. Embroiled in
its economic crisis, the last thing the
EU needs is a distraction from inter-
nal aﬀairs in lieu of new Republican
foreign policy, having built joint po-
sitions with the Democrats over the
past four years. While there are no
grand strategies over international aid
and development in Africa and Asia,
we can expect a closing of trade rela-
tionships in Central and South Ameri-
ca – yet nothing out of the bloom.
America’s current focus on the Mid-
dle East is likely to remain too. Troops
will continue to withdraw from Af-
ghanistan, but new conﬂicts have
taken the spotlight: the war in Syria
only ever expanding to neighbouring
states, and Iran’s nuclear aﬀront will
have to be addressed soon. One of the
trickiest tasks will probably be taming
the new generation of Arab leaders
that emerged from the Arab Spring,
most of which do not count the US as
their favourite pal. Add on top of that
a mounting rivalry with China and
head-butts with Russia, and the Presi-
dent has his hands full!
Overall, the grey clouds hanging
over Obama’s head seem like they are
here to stay, forecasting nothing more
than a lingering status quo in domes-
tic and foreign policy. Yet instead of
losing patience or accusing Obama
to have failed his original leftist pro-
gramme, one should always consider
what our world would look like in four
years’ time if Americans would have
chosen to elect their ﬁrst Mormon
President rather than give Obama a
second chance.
L
POLITICS
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
16
Politics Editors: Padraic Calpin
Marie-Laure Hicks
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The Invisible Candidates
s stated by the Federal Election Commission, 413 people have
filed a Statement of Candidacy, meaning that they are effectively
running for President of the United States of America. Two of these
candidates have access to 270 or more electoral council votes, so it is
possible for them to get the job if they win enough states.
Gary Johnson, former Governor of New Mexico, is running for the Libertar-
ian Party, following his initial unsuccessful campaign for the Republican nomi-
nation, centred on balancing the budget by reducing government spending by
43%.
The Green Party has nominated Jill Stein, a physician from Massachusetts.
One of her main proposals is a “Green New Deal”, aiming to create public sec-
tor jobs in the clean energy sector to reduce unemployment and boost the
economy. She has been endorsed, amongst others, by the infamous political
critic and linguist Noam Chomsky.
A
Marie-Laure Hicks
What can you do with $6bn?
he total cost of the US election this year is not yet known precisely,
but it’s been estimated that the figure will run in at close to $6bn.
Advertising alone in this election cycle ran over $2bn.
But this is an astounding amount of money; in 2010, the total elec-
tion spend from all UK parties was a mere $49m, less than 1% of the American
total. This week, Felix Poltics asks: what exactly can you do with $6bn?
• Build the LHC – TheestimatedconstructioncostsoftheLargeHandron
Collider were $4.7bn and it’s annual running cost is about $1.2bn. So this
election could cover construction and one year of experimentation at
the LHC.
• Bail Out US Towns (and then some) – In the past 4 years, 10 US mu-
nicipalities have had to file for bankruptcy, but outstanding debts are
a drop in the ocean compared to this expenditure: most recently, San
Bernardino in California filed with debts of $45m, again less than 1%.
• Boost Federal Budgets – The Federal Budgets for both NASA and the
Department of Education this year run at about $18bn apiece. So, with
the US Election spend, the nation could increase either of these by 33%.
• Make a Downpayment on Sandy – Hurricane Sandy, which struck the
US last week, is estimated to cause anywhere from $20-60bn in dam-
ages, of which $6bn is no small fraction. Indeed, $6bn is roughly the
annual budget of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
T
Padraic Calpin
Trollbama Strikes Again
Politics Editor
AWW MAN. I lost, but at
AWW MAN. I lost, but at
least I can still write for Felix
least I can still write for Felix
Politics:
Politics:
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Politics Editor

