According to the World Health Or-
ganisation, one in four of us will have
a mental illness at some point in our
life, and that by 2030 depression will
be the largest cause of disease around
the world. That’s a scary statistic.
Mental health issues, be them our
own or someone else’s, aﬀect us all,
and yet we don’t talk about them. This
is the problem cited by Ed Miliband in
his speech to the Royal College of Psy-
chiatrists last week.
Miliband highlights that we are
ignoring a problem that aﬀects all
of us from every walk of life, and
proposes to challenge the lack of
focus the government has on the issue
of mental health. He cites personal
experience of counselling after the
death of his father, Ralph Miliband,
and talks about the brave decision of
Labour MP Kevan Jones to talk openly
about his depression.
The government have cut £150m
from services for people suﬀering with
mental health problems, and outreach
programmes. Imagine, he asked, if
this was from funding for strokes, or
heart disease.
He emphasises that mental health
problems will not go away if we
ignore them, so we have to tackle the
prejudice and the taboo. Mental health
provisions need to be properly funded,
and health and social care providers
need to be better educated to deal with
the demands that increased rates of
mental health conditions are putting
on the NHS and especially the prison
service, where 70% of inmates have
a mental health condition. Miliband
recognises that not all conditions can
be cured, but we can and should oﬀer
more support for those suﬀering.
Perhaps the most coverage of this
speech was in the reaction it received
from Jeremy Clarkson, who was
attacked by Ed for his insensitive
comments – “Jeremy Clarkson, who
may have at least acknowledged the
tragedy of people who end their own
lives, goes on to call them ‘Johnny
Suicides’ whose bodies should be
left on train tracks rather than delay
journeys.” Clarkson responded by
asking if Ed Miliband was “right in the
head.”
Despite the taboo around talking
about mental health, the speech could
be considered an easy way to gain
media coverage over the Coalition
by the government, but things are
changing across the political spectrum
in the way that mental health is talked
about. In September, the Conservative
and Labour front benches supported
Conservative MP, Gavin Barwell’s
Mental Health Discrimination Bill,
which would prevent discrimination
based on mental health. Currently any
person who has ever suﬀered from a
‘mental disorder’ is banned from jury
service, and any person who has been
sectioned for more than 6 months
is barred from serving as an MP,
school governor or company director,
irrespective of their current state of
mental health.
The tide is not just changing in
political circles, but the celebrity
world is opening up about mental
health too, trying to emphasise that
mental health aﬀects us all. Actor,
Rebecca Front started a twitter
hashtag, #whatstigma, in February
last year – it trended for days as users
shared their experiences of mental
health. There is still a long way to go
to tackle the stigma, but as more and
more people feel able to talk openly
about mental health issues, we are
slowly seeing change and a big speech
from a UK party leader is a sight that
should be encouraged.
http://www.mind.org.uk/
Miliband opens debate on mental health
Kirstin Hay Politics Writer
POLITICS
17
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
Politics Editors: Padraic Calpin
Marie-Laure Hicks
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Time To Change
A Letter From America
Arthur Turrell Politics Writer
t 6am on Monday
morning, groggy from
jetlag and the 15mg of
valium I took on the
plane, I sat in a taxi in
downtown San Francisco waiting to
be driven to a car rental company.
The driver asked if it was my ﬁrst time
in San Francisco and I told him that
it was. In the blunt light of dawn, we
crashed up and down San Francisco’s
inclined streets, and I noticed steam
rising from the man-hole covers. It
was America as I had imagined it.
Lurching down another main road,
he pointed and said, “There’s a lone
midget hooker”. When I looked I saw
a dwarf in an uncompromising red
dress checking her long, blonde hair
in a shop window. There was no hint
of judgement by the taxi driver. This
was not America as I had imagined it.
Nor was the needlessly large but hy-
brid rental car I was given; I’d wanted a
beat up ’49 Hudson à la Jack Kerouac’s
On The Road. However, it struck me
as I drove over the Golden Gate bridge
and stopped at a vantage point on the
north side of the bay that what I had
received was more reﬂective of mod-
ern America, with its inherent con-
tradictions and conﬂicts. Presidential
elections are reminders that such a
vast country has to accommodate the
diﬀerent views of 300 million people.
California has voted Democrat for
the last ﬁve elections, and it is no sur-
prise that this liberal state has gone
Obama’s way again. Perhaps that’s why
A
the Americans at my hotel didn’t seem
overly concerned by the election, even
though television channels pumped
out endless predictions, analysis and
sound bites. Barely a soul looked up as
the American football game showing
at the bar was interrupted by short in-
terviews with each of the candidates,
Obama looking weary but conﬁdent,
Romney with a background of care-
fully placed football paraphernalia.
I am not a US citizen but I did man-
age to vote on election day, in a ballot
run by the organisers of my confer-
ence. Our vote was a landslide 90%
victory for Obama. Later, at the con-
ference dinner, whispers of an Obama
victory in the real election were whirl-
ing around the room by the time we
were onto the second course. I called
over an American colleague whose
face was lit up by their smart phone
and asked what was happening. “It’s
Fox news,” he said, “they’ve called
it for Obama.” We knew then that a
Democrat victory was certain. Back in
the bar, as Obama spoke, the feeling in
the room was one of relief rather than
excitement. ‘Four more years’ does not
hold the same promise that ‘yes we
can’ did. A group of Republicans half-
heartedly booed as everyone else was
glued to the victory speech.
The day before the election, I had
been chatting to an American couple
who were sharing a beer outside the
bar. She and her husband joked that
it didn’t much matter who got elected.
‘It’s the Supreme Court I’m worried
about,’ she said, ‘there’s a good chance
two of the members will die in the next
four years and whoever wins the elec-
tion appoints new ones’. The Supreme
Court has nine members, in the sim-
plest terms four are liberal, four are
conservative and one is a conserva-
tive who occasionally sides with the
liberals. This last member often calls
which way the 5-4 split will fall. My
American friends felt that the consti-
tutional right to abortion, established
by the famous Roe v. Wade case, could
be threatened by a Romney victory,
as a pro-choice member is likely to
be replaced. This would mean states
setting their own abortion laws, with
some undoubtedly opting to enact a
complete ban.
Obama’s victory means that this
won’t now happen, but the extent to
which this election was inﬂuenced by
moral issues is surprising. In Britain,
MPs are increasingly given a free vote
on moral issues. It feels like America
is heading in the other direction, with
increasing politicisation them since
Roe v. Wade. Opinions on abortion
and gay marriage are held strongly,
and defended vigorously, and the bat-
tles fought over them have inevitably
aﬀected the outcome of the election.
Two Republicans aiming for seats
in the Senate were brought down by
their comments on abortion. Todd
Akin fundamentally misunderstood
biology when he talked about the body
shutting down in cases of ‘legitimate
rape’, and Richard Mourdock implied
that abortion was unacceptable be-
cause, horrible as rape might be, God
must have intended the victim to be
pregnant. This is not the mainstream
Republican view, but it has cost seats
in the Senate and damaged the image
of the party.
But it is not just moral issues that are
the cause of the bitter divisions in con-
temporary American politics. Repub-
licans and Democrats at the national
level seem incapable of understanding
one another’s point of view, let alone
forging the kind of compromises that
are required for eﬀective government.
In Britain, we are still getting used to
life under a coalition, but, so far, it has
functioned. In the United States, a
uniting of parties is unthinkable.
And yet the elephant and the don-
key have much to gain from work-
ing together, even though consensus
seems to be so diﬃcult to achieve. The
Republicans face a demographic col-
lapse over the next decade as many of
their supporters are subject to what
can only be politely called natural
wastage. They need to broaden their
appeal if they are to win back moder-
ates, women, ethnic minorities and
the young. A rejection of the aggres-
sively partisan politics represented
by the Tea Party movement would be
a good start. Those on the right are
unlikely to abandon a more moder-
ate Republican presidential candidate
because there would not be a more at-
tractive alternative.
Obama needs to build bridges with
the Republicans; the Democrat Senate
majority is not big enough to stop ﬁli-
busters, and the house remains under
GOP control. More importantly, the
national vote only gave Obama a pa-
per thin mandate. To really represent
the interests of the US people, he has
to factor in that half of the voting pop-
ulation did not want to see his policies
enacted.
In the few tired and exciting days
that I have spent here, America has
proven itself to be split in two. Now
that the battle for the presidency has
abated for ‘four more years’, this vast
country, so variable in geography,
wealth and mentality, needs its politi-
cians to forge the compromises that
will cater for all of its people, from
the hard-line Republicans to the hard-
working hookers of San Francisco.

