Preserving your judgement
Alex Savell avoids sticking a knife in his eye at the Jam Cupboard
t’s a hard thing, striking a bal-
ance between hotel dining
room and proper restaurant.
The prospect instantly calls
to mind several possibilities:
the over cushioned, shag-pile of a
seaside resort; or the soulless, white-
washed canteen – scrubbed so hard
it removed all personality in its quest
to achieve the Scandinavian, ﬂat-pack
ﬁnish. Though it perhaps strays a lit-
tle into the undertow of this second
swirling maelstrom, the Jam Cup-
board on Gloucester Road does seem
to manage to navigate the dangerous
straits between Scylla and Charybdis
without capsizing horribly along the
way.
Upon ﬁrst impressions, the restau-
rant, associated with the Rydges Ho-
tel complex, does appear to be a fairly
seaworthy vessel in the same way that
a P&O ferry is – it doesn’t look like it’s
about to spring a leak or unleash a col-
ony of rats from the galley, but you’re
not necessarily overwhelmed by the
luxury of the surroundings. However,
as you settle, your attention starts to
be drawn to details that belie this early
judgement. Much like a good suit, it’s
this eye for detail that marks it out.
From the gently unique wine glasses
and the crisp, leather-bound menus;
through to the ‘unobtrusive but out
there’ lightshade and the subtly mini-
malist feature wall, the restaurant isn’t
just cut to highlight its broad shoul-
ders and slim waist – it’s also been
paired with a carefully selected shirt,
tie and cuﬄink combination.
There’s one more important thing
to comment on before the food in
any dining experience, and that’s the
wine. I have no pretentions to the ti-
tle of wine connoisseur, nor any real
knowledge on the matter. However, I
like a glass of red and feel I ought to be
able to get something pretty palatable
without the pain in my back pocket
reaching excruciating levels. With
its satisfying length and breadth, the
Jam Cupboard’s wine list does cater
for this – it includes everything from
a few aﬀordable wines by the glass or
bottle, up to something to splash out
on. That said, however, we ended up
gambling on the £17.50 Wine of The
Month. With a wager like this, even a
good restaurant can choose to stitch
you up worse than a Mexican sur-
geon who’s just watched that episode
of Top Gear. But we were pleasantly
surprised by the Primitivo that ar-
rived, which The Blonde (possessing
a better palate than mine) decreed to
have a pleasantly nutty bouquet. Even
I could appreciate its fairly light and
mellow ﬂavour lacking the acidy kick
of a cheaper wine.
It’s diﬃcult to come up with an ac-
curate metaphor for the menu. The
best I can do is to say that it’s like Delia
Smith: everything there makes your
mouth water – quintessentially Brit-
ish and guaranteed to be satisfying.
But if you’re anything like me (or as it
turns out The Blonde, which was a lit-
tle bit of a surprise), chances are you’re
going to get more excited by Nigella.
Put plainly, though we were enjoy-
ing the exquisite frustration of paring
down our eventual meal from a num-
ber of appetising options, we realised
that this was partially due to how safe
the selection was. Personally, I don’t
think you need your entire menu to be
strange and innovative combinations
of ﬂavours to be appealing, but I think
the menu here slightly missed the bal-
ance between dishes that jump out as
‘interesting’ and things that lean a lit-
tle bit towards good, rural pub grub.
Still, in the grand scheme of things,
this is clearly a minor sin and com-
plaining about having too many
perfectly adequate choices seems
rather ungrateful. So we quickly shut
up and plumped for our respective
meals – Pea and Asparagus Tart fol-
lowed by Onglet Steak done bleu for
The Blonde, and Ham Hock Terrine
with Piccalilli plus Slow-Cooked Beef
Cheek for me. On arrival, the presen-
tation stands up to that of the restau-
rant, with my only slight gripe being
its predictability compared with the
eclectic choices of the room.
The food itself did just edge, ten-
tatively, into that bracket of cuisine
where you feel the urge to consume
slightly slower and savour it slightly
more. For me, the terrine was a little
too chilled; partially losing the ﬂavour
I was hoping for – though I couldn’t
complain about the Piccalilli which
satisﬁed my love for all things pickled.
The Blonde was perfectly happy with
her tart, having to fulﬁl her “grum-
bling quota” with some choice re-
marks about the validity of slinging an
assault of Eastern ﬂavour (in this case,
coriander leaf) like a kamikaze plane
into an otherwise perfectly good sal-
ad. This is the problem with food in a
place somewhat nicer than my normal
boozer of choice; you are ﬁguratively
poking your head above the comfort-
able trench of adequate mediocrity
and into the ﬁring line of real culi-
nary prowess from a wealth of good
London restaurants. However, there
is a niche for places that bridge the
gap between pub grub and the upper
echelons of the culinary world, and it
probably speaks in the Jam Cupboard’s
favour that I started to think of it in
this category. Clearly, its pretentions
to sneak quietly out of the hotel-din-
ing-room cliché have been successful.
I’ve managed all this before com-
menting on the mains. The slow-
cooked beef cheek fell apart in my
mouth like a male fresher chatting up
a girl in FiveSixEight. The bleu onglet
arrived looking moist but worryingly
cooked, however with the ﬁrst cut the
enjoyably red centre was revealed. My
mash was given just the barest hint of
wholegrain mustard whispering sweet
nothings of ﬂavour to my tongue – the
entire aﬀair was extremely tasty. For
both my and The Blonde’s taste it was
slightly under-seasoned, but knowing
my predilection to add black pepper to
practically anything, I’d give the ben-
eﬁt of the doubt on this. In any case,
they certainly raised their game.
Overall, it’s not a place I’d tell people
to walk across hot lava (or Central Lon-
don) to go to, but it works extremely
well as a convenient and friendly spot
for a quick, intimate meal. The food
is a little pricier than what you might
usually pay, but it won’t break the bank
for a special occasion. As well as the
very worthwhile Wine of The Month,
the Hotel retains a down-to-earth at-
titude, oﬀering a free membership
scheme and various oﬀers on sites like
TopTable without the condescension
shown only by those in a position too
shaky to pull it oﬀ. As such we man-
aged to keep a meal for two with a de-
cent bottle of wine to about £25 a head
(all in), which isn’t a particularly high
price for treating someone special.
The Jam Cupboard
Rydges Hotel
61 Gloucester Road, Kensington, Lon-
don, SW7 4PE
Opening hours:
Breakfast – 7am-10am Monday to Fri-
day, 7.30am-10.30am Saturday and
Sunday
Lunch – 12.00pm to 5.30pm, Monday
to Friday only
Dinner – Seven days a week from
5.30pm, last orders at 10.30pm
I
The main problem with it is
the lack of real people. You
only find silhouttes next to you
FOOD
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
18
Food Editors: Carol Ann Cheah,
Sophia Goldberg, Yiango
Mavrocostanti
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk

