LOLCAT OF TEH WEEK: Finding these is a perk of the job
Tim Arbabzadah
Editor-in-Chief
Fee’ding well?
Another week and another late night.
Also, of course, another hasty and
frantic sprint to the finish.
This week, we looked into all of the
fees charged to international students
by the Russell Group. What we found
was that Imperial was significantly
higher than the average, and that in
most cases we were the highest. Only
Oxford tipped us off the top spot for
some categories (however, if you take
the cost of living into account it is
once again Imperial that is on top).
Why are the fees so high? There are
the understandable points about the
fact that we are in London and that we
are a purely science university, which
means each student takes more mon-
ey to train. Although the London point
is lessened by UCL, Kings, et al (I feel
like I’m referencing again) being much
lower than us. Even taking into ac-
count those points, some of the fees
seem just way too high.
Medicine is the highest, at £40,000
a year. A year! Ouch, that hurts. Here
is the question though: for what?
They get exactly the same lecturers,
firms, and so forth, as the home stu-
dents, so why are they charged so
much more? Possibly it’s to subsidise
the home students, but is it okay that
that’s happening? Or is there a cheeky
little extra bonus of Imperial chucked
in there?
Why are people willing to pay the
fees? Well, one word: prestige. It’s a
good degree, so therefore is a good
“investment”, but degrees shouldn’t
be purely an investment, and fees
shouldn’t be charged based purely on
that.
I’m worried that they are essentially
pricing out a lot of people from apply-
ing to Imperial. Yes, as an international
student, you would have to pay higher
fees anyway. So you could argue
that some international students are
priced out from the off, but you should
aim to let as many people as possible
be able to apply (ideally all, but that’s
not going to happen). Then you can
pick the best, not the richest.
Another point is that it really isn’t
fair to international students to use
the fact that they are willing to pay
such high fees as an excuse to just
pick a high figure and charge away.
Unfortunately, systems are systems:
now, everything is set in place, and so
money is going to be allocated with
an expected income. This means it’s
likely that fees will only rise. That’s a
depressing thought.
Are international students willing to
pay that much for the Imperial degree?
Well, yes, they are if they are here.
However, just because you can do
something doesn’t mean you should.
Allow me to make a rushed analogy:
I could, perhaps, if I were more co-or-
dinated and had bigger pockets in my
coat, steal a chocolate bar from the Li-
brary. I choose not to (JCR has a wider
selection... I really hope no-one looks
at the CCTV images – joking, obvi-
ously) because I deem it to be wrong.
POLITICS SCIENCE GAMES
Letter from USA Professor Nutt Halo 4 and more
We’ve gone hard on the US
Election. A report from in-
side the US, and a calcula-
tion of what you could buy
with the campaign spends.
Professor Nutt is a badman
(in the good way) as he
stands up for what he be-
lieves and for science. His
bookisreviewedinScience.
A report from Imperial’s
Gaming Society as they take
on UCL. Plus, a quick review
of Halo 4. There’s also some
odd crediting going on?
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by Iliffe Print Cambridge, Winship Road, Cambridge.
Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2012.
TO YOU
THIS
WEEK
WAS
BROUGHT
BY
EDITOR’S PICKS
2
Medical Summarizer Wanted
Looking for 4th, 5th or 6th year medical student with medical understanding.
15 hours a week.
Crompton Medical Centre
London W2 1ND
For further details please contact Mr. Faisal Ahmed on 07776126204
Job Description - Summarizing all medical letters and discharge summaries
from Secondary Care (Hospitals) into the medical records for each patient at
the practice, clinical software used is EMIS LV.
Part-Time PA/Tech Person
Good with Apple computers and technology
Someone who wants to come in ground level start-up with new tech
company and dealing with tracking device sector.
Researcher and highly organised to work with the proprietor and
teams in London and Silicone Valley, California
General Office duties
Preferably CRB checked
Start off at 2 days per week
Total 8 to 10 hours per week at £10 per hour
Please send CV to kimrortiz@aol.com
>>16 >>22 >>39
CLASSIFIEDS
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
Editor-in-Chief Tim Arbabzadah Deputy Editor Saskia Verhagen Assistant Editor Matt Colvin News Editor Aemun Reza Features Editors Caroline Wood, Stephen Smith Business Editor Deepka Rana Science Editors
Philip Kent, Laurence Pope, Philippa Skett Politics Editors Padraic Calpin, Marie-Laure Hicks Food Editors Carol Ann Cheah, Sophia Goldberg, Yiango Mavrocostanti Comment Editors George Barnett, Navid Nabijou,
James Simpson Fashion Editors Alex Ramadan, Saskia Verhagen, Alice Yang Arts Editors Eva Rosenthal, Meredith Thomas Books Editor Maciej Matuszewski Music Editors Mark England, Ross Gray, Simon Hunter, Íñigo
Martínez De Rituerto Television Editor Lucia Podhorska Film Editors Katy Bettany, John Park, Lucy Wiles Games Editor Ross Webster Technology Editor Jason Parmar Coffee Break Boss Matt Colvin Travel Editors
Veronika McQuade, Simon Carnochan Sports Editors Oli Benton, Sorcha Cotter, Margot Pikovsky Online Editors Philip Kent, Jonathan Kim Puzzles Commanders Louisa Byrne, Sotirios Karamitsos Copy Chief Annina
Sartor Copy Editors Jonathan Peek, Al Norman, Matt Colvin, Christopher Witham, Laurence de Lussy Kubisa, Illustrators Hamish Muir, Outi Supponen, Lizzy Griffiths Illustration on cover Lizzy Griffiths
Feedom of IC
HEAR me now
The Higher Education Achievement
Record was recently announced. This is
big news, as it could essentially change
how your degree looks. I, personally,
think that having a permanent and dif-
ficult to make up record of extra-curric-
ular interests is a good idea. It benefits
everyone. You gain from it, as it shows
you are more than just one single grade
on a piece of paper, as well as allowing
you to be credited officially for things
you like to do anyway (bit like me with
thispaperactually...).Employerswillfind
it useful as it means they can see what
sort of person they want, and choose
more easily. Also, it means they don’t
play a cat and mouse game in terms of
the classic “is this person in front of me
exaggerating the truth when they say
they once out sprinted Usain Bolt”.

