Calling all Entrepreneurs!
Pranav Tulsian presents the latest business event at Imperial
ver wondered what it
would be like to own a bil-
lion dollar company? Ever
debated the pros and cons
of starting a business over
a career? Ever wondered if you can
start your own business? Ever thought
about starting your own business
but don’t know how? Silicon Valley
Comes to Imperial (SVC2Imperial)
is your chance to get answers to all of
these questions.
SVC2Imperial is run in conjunc-
tion with Global Entrepreneurship
Week (GEW), which will take place
this coming week. GEW is an adap-
tation of Enterprise Week in the UK.
Co-founded by The Ewing Marion
Kauﬀman Foundation, which was es-
tablished in the mid-1960s by the late
entrepreneur and philanthropist Ew-
ing Marion Kauﬀman, their vision is
to foster “a society of economically
independent individuals who are en-
gaged citizens, contributing to the
improvement of their communities”.
GEW UK is now hosted by Youth
Business International, a global net-
work of independent, non-proﬁt initi-
atives helping young people start and
grow their own business and create
employment.
Now GEW has become the world’s
largest campaign to promote en-
trepreneurship, taking place in 115
countries. The theme this year is to
‘Pass it On!’ – to provide the practical
help & support needed by early start-
ups and individuals who are consider-
ing taking the plunge.
In the spirit of GEW, another organ-
isation, ‘Silicon Valley Comes to the
UK’ (SVC2UK) has a similar purpose.
SVC2UK is a not-for-proﬁt series of
industry supported events organ-
ised by Sherry Coutu, the UK’s most
prominent angel investor, and Reid
Hoﬀman, early Facebook investor and
founder of LinkedIn. SVC2UK brings
leading Silicon Valley Entrepreneurs,
investors, and thought leaders to the
UK to explore ideas and to inspire
local entrepreneurship. Entering its
sixth year, over the same week as
GEW, Silicon Valley and UK leaders
in entrepreneurship will lead work-
shops, masterclasses and lectures
across the UK, with the aim to debate,
discuss, create and fund today’s most
innovative technologies to change
our world in the years to come. It’s
designed to improve the ecosystem
for entrepreneurship in the UK and
Europe.
In partnership with SVC2UK,
Imperial Entrepreneurs is running
SVC2Imperial. SVC2Imperial en-
compasses three free events over two
days, held on Thursday 15th and Sat-
urday 17th of November 2012.
On the Thursday there will be a
live stream of the opening SVC2UK
conference held in Cambridge from
5.30PM till 7pm. The opening con-
ference will consist of a panel of Sili-
con Valley and UK speakers, talking
about scaling up and the challenges
faced. Speakers will include Venture
Capitalists (eg. Raj Kapoor, Mayﬁeld
Fund), Founders and Chief Oﬃcers
(e.g. Renaud Visage, Eventbrite) and
Educators (Bobbi Kurshan, Executive
Director of Academic Innovation &
Senior Fellow in Education).
On that same day at SVC2Imperial
there will also be a CEO & Investor
Workshop and Networking Dinner.
CEOs from some of the most prom-
ising start-ups in our ecosystem,
which are in the process of scaling
up, are invited to attend a workshop
with successful local entrepreneurs
and Silicon Valley CEOs and execu-
tives, where facilitators will share
their experiences and participants
can troubleshoot any current issues.
It provides a unique opportunity for
start-up CEOs to learn from the best
in the business. The purpose is to
bring together like-minded people
in hope of increasing the interaction
amongst the entrepreneurship com-
munity not only in Imperial College
London but in the whole of London.
The Saturday will mainly consist of
a conference running from 10am till
5pm. The day will be split into three
parts: Masterclass, Company Show-
case and Keynote Lectures. In the
Masterclass, there will be workshops
and panel discussions run by suc-
cessful entrepreneurs, industrialists,
authors and businesses. Students will
get the chance to hear from leaders
from the local ecosystems on a range
of entrepreneurship topics; from lean
start-up methodologies to why you
should join/start start-ups and how it
diﬀers from a corporate career.
The Company Showcase is an op-
portunity for companies to showcase
their ideas, businesses and technolo-
gies to the Imperial community giv-
ing them exposure and a chance to in-
spire students who would like to join
or found start-ups. It provides a way
for Imperial Students to interact with
local entrepreneur companies.
The Keynote Lectures will have suc-
cessful entrepreneurs give speeches
and run multiple discussions for an
entire afternoon. The aim is to moti-
vate and inspire students by sharing
the success stories of established en-
trepreneurs as well as providing ad-
vice. Some topics of lectures are how
an idea can grow to become a great
start-up and how you can create a
great team. If you have started, how to
overcome adversity and fear.
The main purpose of SVC2Impe-
rial is to bring the ‘start-up mentality’
found in abundance in Silicon Valley
(San Francisco) to Imperial.
Imperial Entrepreneurs’ motiva-
tions for running these events are to
connect Imperial College London
students with Imperial College Lon-
don start-ups, and introduce these
start-ups to well established London
start-ups and investors. We also aim
to create an environment where vari-
ous entrepreneurship related topics
could be discussed.
The conference is suited to everyone
at Imperial; we have diﬀerent work-
shops tailored to your needs whether
you have your own business or have
never thought about entrepreneur-
ship. To register your interest and
keep up to date with the latest news
you can become a member of Impe-
rial Entrepreneurs (for free!), we will
keep you informed through our Face-
book page.
E
BUSINESS
Business Editor: Deepka Rana
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER

