ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Seduced by Art: Photography Past and Present @ National Gallery – Art is seduced
by photography as the National hosts its first important exhibition on the subject.
Now – 20 January 2013.
William Klein + Daido Moriyama @ Tate Modern – The urban existence of New
York and Tokyo from the 1950’s to present is revealed through the lenses of two
celebrated observers of street life. Now – 20 January 2013.
The Northern Renaissance: Durer to Holbein @ The Queen’s Gallery – The exqui-
site beauty of the artists that emerged from Northern Europe in the 15th and 16th
centuries can be viewed in an exhibition of over 100 works. Now – 14 April 2013.
The Kingdom @ The Soho Theatre – Three Irishmen, labourers, tell tragic and
passionate tales from their lives. Written by Colin Teevan, who’s production of
Japanese macabre play, The Bee, was a resounding success. From £10. Now - 17
November 2012.
Rosas: En Atendant / Cesena @ Sadler’s Wells – UK premier of two contemporary
dance pieces by Anne Teresa De Keersmaeker: the first on the dawn, the second
on twilight and the night. Very profound apparently. Hurry up, tonight is the last
performance!
Meredith Thomas
Fusion achieved
at last in Huxley
An interview with Physics’ artist in residence
Why work? Instead, doodle all lecture long and then send us your draw-
ings to arts.felix@ic.ac.uk. This doodle is by Ioanna Kalogerakis. Oba-
ma looks very triumphant!
Arts Editor
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
26
met Geraldine Cox in a windy
garet on the roof of the phys-
ics building. The abandoned
weather station is an octago-
nal room half-open to the ele-
ments and ﬁlled with drying clothes,
bits of mouldering, esoteric looking
equipment and empty beer bottles.
It was an appropriately idiosyncratic
setting for an interview with a unusual
person. Geraldine is the Department
of Physics’ artist in residence.
Over the sound of the howling wind
we begun to talk about here experi-
ences and her work. As we chatted a
rainbow formed over Hyde Park.
Meredith: When did you start this
residency?
Geraldine: Well, it’s hazy. I started
thinking about connecting physics
with art about three years ago.
I originally did a degree in Physics
then I worked for Accenture for a few
years. You don’t need to mention that
[laughs]. Then I went to art school for
four years. After you’ve learned to be
an artist and you’ve learned to paint,
you ask yourself – “what shall I make
work about? What do I want to say?”
That was why I came here. I had a
hunch that there would be something
here to talk about, and I had the back-
ground to do it.
To me it was personal in the sense
that it was like pulling strands togeth-
er in my mind that are important to
me. I really used to love physics and
this was an opportunity to combine it
with art.
I was incredibly lucky, I went to a
talk one night and met the speaker –
he put me in touch with Terry Rudolf
who works in quantum information.
I’d had forgotten all my physics so I
started reading books. It was formally,
April the 1st, 2011 when the Lever-
hume Trust paid for an award to do
that ﬁrst year of work. That’s when
people started calling me the artist in
residence, which is a title that I never
have aspired to.
M: How would you describe your-
self and your work?
G: I really try to avoid any labels.
Sometimes my work is educational
or documentary and sometimes it is
expressive or poetic. Sometimes it
is about the science, sometimes it is
about the people. I don’t really worry
about it. I call myself an artist, but that
is because I am interested in express-
ing diﬀerent ideas. But the artist in
residence thing is a bit too formal for
me.
M: So what did you feel that you
could gain from this relationship
you have with the physics depart-
ment... whatever it is?
G: Well, I didn’t have a clear idea when
I started. I felt that there were things
there that were really worth explor-
ing and expressing as an artist. Other
than that I had really no idea what I
expected.
I decided that, this is going to sound
a bit ﬂaky, a bit arty-farty, but I de-
cided that I wanted to make work that
was really optimistic, about the best
that humans can be. It is a really in-
teresting aspect of humanity. I wanted
to talk about humans and discovery
and how they see the world. I think,
philosophically there is a lot that can
be learned from science for life in gen-
eral. There is a sense of the power that
it gives you, but also the humility. You
understand the limits of your knowl-
edge.
M: How much of a diﬀerence did
your science background make?
G: Massive. It makes all the diﬀerence.
Even though when I started I was in-
credibly rusty. I read over 30 books
in the ﬁrst year. I couldn’t even think
about an electron when I ﬁrst met
Terry.
When I got here I did nothing for
three months apart from speak to
people, just to ﬁnd out what was go-
ing on in the building, who these peo-
ple are, how they work. No one has to
start from scratch with you, which can
be tedious and you can make connec-
tions yourself.
It is the idea that you see something
here and extrapolate it somewhere
else and you get a deeper understand-
ing of physics. It is incredibly exciting.
You get these things that just pop up
again and again on all these diﬀerent
scales around the world and the uni-
verse. That we can even see that and
map that is amazing. Yes the physics I
think is just a massive help.
M: Has the experience lived up to
your expectations?
G: The thing about being here is
that your mind is constantly being
stretched because you are always ex-
periencing and thinking of the world
in diﬀerent ways – developing diﬀer-
ent abstract models all the time. It’s
just incredibly exciting. It’s more ex-
I
Geraldine Cox the artist
in residence at Huxely

