ARTS
Arts Editors: Eva Rosenthal,
Meredith Thomas
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER 27
In a way they are complementary,
not competing. Part of what I am
trying to do is open doors and help
people to understand how science
can help complement how they un-
derstand the world alongside other
things.
M: Where do you think these diﬀer-
ences arise?
G: Maybe our education system silos
people too much, separating them out
into art and science and having very
diﬀerent ways of thinking. I’m not
sure it has to be like that. I meet young
people all the time who feel this way
and are trying to bridge the gap and
talk about the world in all its beautiful
complexity by whatever means they
can.
I do think that people like black and
white and I think everybody could do
better if they were more curious about
things. More open to uncertainty,
which is everywhere.
M: How do you explain your work to
scientist and engineers who may be
more sceptical?
G: I don’t really come across any overt
scepticism, not after the ﬁrst few min-
utes. People are very generous with
their ideas and time. I always try to
listen and learn as openly and atten-
tively as possible and give something
back. It is always a dialogue.
M: Can you give me some exam-
ples of projects you have worked on
while you have been here?
G: I have made so many things and
think of each one like a short poem –
some hitting the mark or ﬁnding reso-
nance better than others
One of the ﬁlms is called Chalk-
board and is something I made with a
theoretical physicist. It was images of
a chalkboard, which sounds mundane
and uninteresting. They were close-
ups, using a special lens and the back-
ing track is of his singing. He does this
throat singing – producing diﬀerent
voices from one head, I don’t know if
you have ever come across that sort of
singing. It is probably from Mongo-
lian regions.
It is about a three minute ﬁlm. Fas-
cinatingly, if you look closely at the
chalkboard it takes you to another
world, another cosmos opens. The
ﬁlm is really successful at expressing
what if feels like to be on the edge of
knowledge, to be working in that way.
I’m gauging it by peoples’ reactions to
it.
The yurt on the roof a little natural
light cinema so the yurt has a hole in
the roof, so the light ﬂushes through
the hole. Our project will work by
passing light through an LCD screen
so it’s like your ﬁlm transparency,
down onto a table. So the ﬁlms are
being projected on the table just us-
ing the light outside. And when clouds
go over the image will go darker. I love
that idea. You are beholden to nature.
What limited electronics you need to
run the LCD screen and the speakers.
A few watts will come of these ﬂexible
plastic photovoltaic cells, so it will just
generate it’s own electricity.
It’s a pop up so it can just pop up
anywhere. It can go onto the street or
into schools, exhibitions or festivals
and be this atmospheric, welcom-
ing, non-threatening environment to
watch some of these ﬁlms.
There will be all sorts of diﬀerent
things we could show like Chalkboard
for example to give people a sense of
some of the work that goes on here in
a more sensory way I suppose. It’s the
poetics of discovery.
M: Is there something unique about
physics because it is so fundamental
to our very existence. Do you think
you would ever see yourself working
other departments?
G: I think I am really attracted to
physics. What is it with physics? I
think what personally I love the inves-
tigation into the inanimate. It is just
purely a question of ﬁnding out more
about the world, no matter how many
business cases physicist write to say
‘that this is to make that, or this will
help us make that’. Fundamentally it is
curiosity based. and I love the purity
of that.
There is lots of good work going on
other ﬁelds. But I think that pure cu-
riosity is probably the essence of my
project. And there is a great beauty in
the creation of abstract models and
testing and applying them around the
universe. Like a casting of the human
mind. It is a powerful thing to do, but
also comes with great limitations in-
herent in the human mind. This story
of power and humility is also a part of
my project.
M: Do you ever feel yourself drawn
to go into research yourself?
G: I think I don’t have what it takes.
I like exploring diﬀerent ways of ex-
pressing ideas and as a friend of mine
said the other day: we absolutely do
not want self expression in the labora-
tory. On the theory side, I haven’t got
the head for the maths and probably
and on the experimental side, maybe I
haven’t got the patience.
There is possibly useful work that I
am doing. There is something strange
about having someone in the physics
department who has studied physics
and art, who is always asking ques-
tions, but never going to ask you
whether something is examinable, and
who wanders around all the ﬁelds of
physics.
I’m walking around all the time and
asking questions and playing things
back to people. Telling it in a diﬀerent
way. People say that it actually helps
them think about physics. So there is
some role I can play that’s of beneﬁt as
an artist. Although it is not helping in
any direct way a person’s research. It
seems to me that scientists can enjoy
the work I produce for the guy on the
street as much as the guy in the street.
M - Do you think every department
should have a... someone in your
role?
G: You know, I really don’t know. It all
depends on the people – it’s not some-
thing that can necessarily be organised
by shipping artists into organisations.
There can certainly be great beneﬁts.
This is a very personal project for
me, it’s very philosophical and per-
sonally driven, so I behave in a certain
way. The reason I am not looking at
working in other departments, is also
that I am overwhelmed here. It is a
really big department, I’ve changed
track so many times in my life, I just
can’t go and do it again. This is really
enough. This is a big pie to eat.
Find out more about Geraldine’s work at
www.findingpatterns.info
citing than a lot of art. The ideas come
so thick and fast here and it colours in
your mental image of the world. So for
me – this is the most stimulating place
to hang out. M - Wow! Newsflash!
You can deﬁnitely have too many
physicists in one room. Deﬁnitely...
more than two [laughs].
My own experience of life is richer
because anything I look at has layers
of meaning. I can look at the poem I
read yesterday that makes me look at
the world in a diﬀerent way, or I can
look at what is happening to the light
bouncing oﬀ the tree down there. It
just makes every moment richer.
One of the things I am really inter-
ested in is how physics identiﬁes pat-
terns. My project is called ﬁnding pat-
terns. So that was a notion, and idea I
had at the start. I see it really strongly
now, the name is really the right name.
M: Do you feel that there is a big
void between the art world as you
experienced it and academia and
the sciences?
G: I have to be so careful with this.
You can be so inﬂammatory. This feels
like home to me. I can really talk to
people here. I feel like I understand
the way they think. I am less at home
in the art world and I’m not sure why
that is.
There is something about the scien-
tist and the engineer, maybe because
they are looking outwards and be-
cause they are completely beholden
to nature somehow. There is a check
on them. Whereas artists, they are in
a more boy band world and there is
a machine operating that selects you
and promotes you. It’s a rather mys-
terious machine based on all sorts of
forces. And I couldn’t tell you what
they are.
Some people sense that: that artists
have an agenda to put out there and
they will do that at any cost rather
than being open to learning.
Maybe it’s down to education. May-
be it’s just that people don’t have a way
in. A friend always says that science is
a channel, or a way of looking at the
world, as is poetry or painting. The
most wonderful thing is to include
various aspects of those in your life as
ways of talking about your experience
of being there and understanding it.
All matter is the same, Oil on linen
The Physicist, Oil on japanese window paper

