BOOKS
Books Editor: Maciej Matuszewski
books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
29
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
The Lathe of Heaven
Maciej Matuszewski talks about Ursula Le Guin’s masterpiece
here are few SF and fan-
tasy authors who have
won as many awards as
Ursula Le Guin. For over
40 years she has been well
known for writing thought provoking,
intelligent stories and she is fast be-
coming one of my favourite authors.
Having thoroughly enjoyed reading
her Earthsea series of novels last year
I decided to ﬁnally try one of her sci-
ence ﬁction oﬀerings and so turned to
The Lathe of Heaven.
The novel focuses on the life of
George Orr, a seemingly ordinary man
who has the ability to have so called
“eﬀective dreams” which can alter re-
ality itself. Terriﬁed of his abilities he
plunges into depression and attempts
to stop himself dreaming at all using
drugs, eventually being forced to see
psychiatrist William Haber. While ini-
tially sceptical of Orr’s abilities Haber
slowly begins to believe that they can
they can be used to improve the dys-
topian world they live in, as well as to
advance his own position. A person’s
dreams, however, prove diﬃcult to
control and attempting to bend real-
ity to one’s will never has exactly the
intended consequences.
This is a masterfully written novel.
Exploring complex issues of philoso-
phy, ethics and the potentially destruc-
tive eﬀects of an excess of ambition it
remains readable and accessible, in no
small part due to its short length. To
ﬁt all of these themes, as well as an
interesting plot and engaging charac-
ters, in less than 200 pages without
making the story feel rushed or forced
is an amazing achievement.
The exploration of diﬀerent levels
of consciousness and reality is some-
what reminiscent of the work of Philip
K. Dick. Indeed, Dick himself greatly
praised the book, saying: “One of the
best novels, and most important to
understanding of the nature of our
world, is Ursula Le Guin’s The Lathe
of Heaven, in which the dream uni-
verse is articulated in such a striking
and compelling way that I hesitate to
add any further explanation to it; it re-
quires none.”
I personally believe that The Lathe
of Heaven is far superior to much of
Dick’s work. Le Guin never succumbs
to the self-indulgence present in so
many of Dick’s novels. Her work re-
mains far more grounded – its mean-
ing never obscured by impenetrable
psychobabble or weirdness just for
weirdness sake. As such, it remains so
much more powerful a read.
This is a wonderful book that I can
honestly recommend to everybody,
even those who don’t usually like sci-
ence ﬁction. A standalone master-
piece, this is the perfect way to get
into Le Guin’s work if you don’t want
to start with one of her longer series.
T
Penguin and Random House – the
consumer publishing divisions of
Pearson and Bertelsmann respec-
tively – have recently announced
their intention to merge, creat-
ing the world’s biggest publishing
house, duly named ‘Penguin Random
House’.
The logistics of this union are sim-
ple: Bertelsmann will own 53% of the
new publishing house to Penguins
47%, this division being represented
in the board room – Bertelsmann
having ﬁve directors of the board to
Penguins four with the contract last-
ing for at least three years. The merg-
er makes Penguin Random House the
largest publisher in the world, pub-
lishing at least 25% of all books sold.
What brought about the merger
between two previously distinct en-
tities? The threat of Amazon and
Apple, the purveyors of the e-book
‘revolution’, explains the decision
to merge to an extent. Overall book
sales in 2011 were down 11% and the
reports for 2012 suggest a worsening
of this downward trend. Of course,
it is the e-book that has lead to the
ill health of the publishing industry.
With the threat from the digital sec-
tor only set to grow as more e-read-
ers and tablets become available, the
merger between the two publishing
houses seems to only gain ﬁnancial
credibility – though the eﬀect it shall
have upon the rest of the industry
remains debatable and largely un-
predictable. Will the remaining pub-
lishers be squeezed into publishing
even safer literature than is currently
available, or will they abandon the
centre ground that Penguin Random
House shall straddle and instead
publish new, innovative literature?
When I say the word
Antwerp, you are going to
have an effective dream...
The coming of the Random Penguin
Joseph Spiking Writer
The situation may not be as bad as
it seems. When Faber, an established
publisher, enabled the independent
publisher And Other Stories to pro-
duce a mass market edition of the
Man Booker Prize nominated Swim-
ming Home, they hit a gold mine:
Swimming Home is one of the best-
selling novels of this year.
This kind of co-operation between
established and independent pub-
lishing houses may only increase, as
established publishers will be driven
to seek a niche that is not covered
by Penguin Random House. This is
not only of great beneﬁt for those
seeking original novels to consume,
but it may also provide fresh impe-
tus for a ﬂagging industry. Maybe the
printed novel shall have a happy end-
ing after all.

