The Science in the Series
Astrid Armgarth has a nerdy fascination with Bones
ecently, I read an inter-
esting article about out-
raged nerds demanding
a change of the outdated
deﬁnition of the term
nerd. As it stands, the oﬃcial transla-
tion according to the Oxford English
Dictionary is “a foolish or contempt-
ible person who lacks social skills or
is boringly studious”. At a university
such as this there is no shortage of
nerds or people that may be consid-
ered boringly studious. Most Impe-
rial students would probably join in
this uproar against old-fashioned ter-
minology that fails to convey the full
meaning of what it means to be a nerd!
But the couch is simply too comfort-
able. Another, easier way of showing
your support to this cause is to simply
watch the right shows. As the num-
ber of viewers of nerd-approved TV-
series rise, our inﬂuence expands until
ﬁnally nerds overthrow the market
(and inherit the earth). By then some-
one with “more social skills” is bound
to have presented our case for us.
But be aware, the untrained nerd
might be drawn to watch fake-nerd
shows. These are in actuality merely
hipster-approved. A good example of
such false advertisement is the show
New Girl, starring Zooey Deschanel.
This series ﬁts under the outdated
translation of nerd, as the main char-
acter in fact is a foolish and contempt-
ible person. This proves just how hip it
is to be a nerd, since even hipsters try
to mimic our lifestyle but alas fail.
The beginning of true nerd-series
started early on and focused mainly
on science ﬁction, with Star Trek be-
ing the most obvious example. But
there has been a second coming of the
nerds on TV in which the spot light is
on science and not science ﬁction. For
the award of the best original series
of the second nerd-era I would like
to nominate Bones. This show started
in 2005, which was notably two years
prior to the big bang of The Big Bang
Theory.
Bones is still going strong as its 8th
season brings on new murder crimes
that can only be solved by the forensic
anthropologist Dr. Temperance Bren-
nan, aka Bones, and her invaluable
team. The role of the highly intelligent
and socially awkward main character
is well played by Emily Deschanel,
who coincidentally is the older sis-
ter of the previously trashed actress.
For those of you who are new to this
show, Bones is simply put a female
version of Sheldon Cooper in The
Big Bang Theory, as she constantly
and brutally reminds her co-workers
about their intellectual inferiority.
Equipped with empirical reasoning
and intimate knowledge of bones,
she studies the remains of victims
and deducts the cause of death. Her
counterpart is the emotional and tem-
peramental FBI Special Agent Seeley
Booth, starring David Boreanaz. The
central theme in the early seasons
revolves around the sexual tension
between Bones and Booth, which
reaches its pinnacle in season 5. After
that point the viewers can be expected
to be slightly disappointed if they were
only interested in this couple.
Luckily, viewers need not fret as
Bones has a full nerd squad by her
side, known as squints. These sup-
porting actors impressively demon-
strate the wonders of interdisciplinary
science, but more importantly brings
humor and additional relationship
intrigues to the show. There is the
“bug and slime” guy, Hodgins, who is
fanatical about the insects that infest
victim remains. He is partnered with
Angela, the group’s self-trained com-
puter wiz and reconstruction artist.
Their boss, Cam, deals with matters of
the ﬂesh, whereas the FBI psycholo-
gist Dr. Sweets deals with matters of
the mind, or “soft sciences” as Bones
calls it. In addition there are plenty of
funny intern squints that are replaced
on a seasonal basis, which makes eve-
ry episode unique.
As with most nerd-shows, the de-
piction of science is not always cor-
rect. The cleanliness of the Smithsoni-
an laboratory clearly shows ignorance
of the chaos most scientists are used
to. But they do get some things right –
Hodgins likes to blow things up in the
name of science as we all do at Impe-
rial. This quirky show shines a light on
science and the vast variety of nerds
without coming across as boring or
studious.
R
As you may have noticed, the TV page
has a new addition in the form of a fea-
ture called ‘My Top Five Episodes of the
Week.’Thetitleisprettyself-explanato-
ry, I think, but just so there is no confu-
sion this list will contain an individual’s
ﬁve favourite episodes from that week. I
will start this oﬀ and (hopefully) people
will send in their lists. It’s not such hard
work, all you have to do is watch ﬁve
episodes in one week (as if you’re not
doing that anyway) and then send me
the names of the shows and episodes
and your ranking. So, without further
ado, here is my top ﬁve…
I really hope they’re not
eating that in the lab...
My Top Five Episodes of the Week
Lucia Podhorska
TELEVISION Television Editor: Lucia Podhorska
television.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
30
A totally valid excuse to watch even more TV
Television Editor 1. Grey’s Anatomy, Season 9 Episode 3, “Love the One
You’re With”
2. How I Met Your Mother, Season 8 Episode 4, “Who
Wants to Be a Godparent”
3. The Big Bang Theory, Season 6 Episode 4, “The Re-Entry
Minimization”
4. The Big Bang Theory, Season 6 Episode 6, “The Extract
Obliteration”
5. How I Met Your Mother, Season 8 Episode 5, “The Au-
tumn of Break-Ups

