MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
31
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
IC Radio Special
Tonight sees the return of the Lon-
don Jazz Festival. The capital’s largest
pan-city festival, this two week aﬀair
comprises hundreds of events span-
ning dozens of venues.
Glancing at the range of the bands
playing this year reveals that the days
of ‘jazz tradition’ are long gone. One
would be hard-pressed to distil many
common themes from the character-
istics of the groups performing over
the next two weeks, given the breadth
of their inﬂuences, the seemingly un-
likely genre fusions, and the wide-
spread propensity to push bounda-
ries in every conceivable direction.
With some of the more well known
performers long since sold out, here
are my “alternative picks” of the fes-
tival - just a few those groups who I
feel are leading jazz in exciting new
directions.
Tonight (9th) sees a triple bill of
up-and-coming Norwegian artists at
Vortex. Bushman’s Revenge whose
genre bending sound has been de-
scribed as “moving between jazz
and classic heavy rock … with traces
of blues, prog and acid rock” will be
joined by Rune Grammofon label-
mates Albatrosh, a dynamic piano/
saxophone duo who eﬀortlessly blend
strong compositional and melodic
nous with elements of near-telepathic
free-improvisation. Rounding out the
Matt Earnshaw looks ahead to this year’s London Jazz Festival
line up are Synkoke, self described as
“punked prog-jazz”, their no-holds-
barred approach is a modern take on
the style pioneered by groups such as
Peter Brötzmann’s Last Exit. Not
for the faint of heart!
Award-winning Finnish experi-
mentalists Oddarang (Southbank
Centre, 10th, free) blend their unique
strain of jazz with inﬂuences from
world music, classical, and post-rock
to create moving, minimalist sound-
scapes set against a gently propulsive
rhythm section and ethereal melo-
dies, whose overarching aesthetic has
been likened to the works of Icelan-
dic group Sigur Rós.
One-man band Hyperpotamus
(11th, Artsdepot, free) produces mu-
sic using only his voice and a loop
pedal, both singing and using word-
less vocalisation to provide rhyth-
mic and melodic lines, and creating
technically impressive multi-layered
compositions.
The talented, young, London ﬁve-
piece Psylus (13th, Southbank Cen-
tre, free) melds contemporary bop-
ish themes and free improvisation
with elements of hip-hop and elec-
tronica, to create a refreshingly crea-
tive sound that is poised to become
a success on the international jazz
scene.
London’s World Service Project
(16th, Vortex) use their tight, groovy
rhythm section as a basis for trumpet
and sax to lock horns in lively conver-
sation over liquid time-changes and a
danceable funk-laden beat. Support-
ing them are Norwegian indie-jazz
ensemble Pixel, who combine the
energy of indie rock with the struc-
tural and harmonic freedoms of jazz.
Leeds’ Roller Trio, complete the
night’s line up, a group combining
elements of funk, noise, electronic,
and rock music with schizophrenic
themes but whose identity ultimately
eludes pigeonholing given the im-
mense variety in their compositions.
Underground legends of Poland’s
new jazz scene, Jazzpospolita (16th,
POSK) mix jazz with elements of psy-
chedelic rock and electronic music to
create delightfully modern yet acces-
sible sound.
On the back of this year’s stunning
debut on Tzadik’s Spotlight Series,
French jazzers Guillaume Perret &
The Electric Epic are set to storm
the Bishopsgate Institute on the 17th
with their breed of highly energetic
fusion of electric jazz and progressive
rock. The triple bill also includes the
Leeds based trioVD, fearlessly shat-
tering conventions with a metallic,
abrasive mixture of distorted guitars,
thrashing drums, and wailing sax, all
whilst retaining a strong sense of di-
rection and melodic sensibility. Nor-
wegian trio Puma will push levels
into the red with their noisy, electric,
free-rock-inspired improvisations
that show excellent dynamic range
and variety.
The long running Norwegian elec-
tric improvisational group Supersi-
lent will play out the festival (18th,
Village Underground) in collabora-
tion with Led Zeppelin bassist John
Paul Jones. Given that Supersilent’s
only rule is “no rehearsals”, expect the
unexpected from this consistently
creative collective as they explore
hitherto uncharted soundscapes.
The festival runs from Friday No-
vember 9th – Sunday November 18th.
See www.londonjazzfestival.org.uk for
more details including a full event
listing.
Happy birthday, John Cage!
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
4’33’’ of silence, in three parts, for one
piano.
The performer goes on stage, sits at his
piano and closes the keyboard. When it’s
over, he gets up, bows and leaves.
Perhapsthemostcontroversialpieceof
music ever written, John Cage’s 4’33’’ is
not a comedy routine, but a call to listen-
ing. Invariantly, the longer the piece goes
on, the more the audience gets frustrated
and begins to make noise, disrupting the
silence. The environment becomes the
instrument.
He wasn’t looking for silence. He found
it did not exist. In 1951, he stood in an
anechoic chamber (a room with absolute
acoustic isolation) to experience silence.
Instead he heard two sounds, one high
and one low – his nervous system and
his blood circulation. “Until I die there
will be sounds. And they will continue
following my death. One need not fear
about the future of music.”
Cage listened to the world. Chance op-
erations were one of his favourite meth-
ods of composition. Whether throw-
ing dice to determine what was played
when, or using the I Ching (an ancient
Chinese text used for divination), his
musical ventures were often informed
by Zen teachings. In more deterministic
works, he employed a variety of objects
and techniques to make sound. Child of
Tree is played on ampliﬁed cactus, using
the plant as a resonating body. He also
invented the prepared piano, by plac-
ing various objects between the strings,
creating a curious medley of percussive
sounds when the keys were struck.
What’s wonderful about his music is
that it is timeless. His scores are open to
interpretation, yet governed by chance.
The principles translate to just about any
facet of life.
It is his centenary this year and as a re-
sult there are innumerable performances
of his work taking place everywhere (the
next one is on Monday at Kings Place).
Last month, the Trinity Laban Con-
servatoire of Music and Dance in Green-
wich held a one-day festival called Out
of the Cage. Numerous performances
were happening at once around the cam-
pus and the audience was encouraged
to move between them. One man was
cooking mushrooms (picking them was
a passion of Cage’s) and serving them to
passersby while he mic’ed up the pot and
cutting board, running it through ran-
domised eﬀects. In another room, dance
students interpreted random words cho-
sen by the audience to the sound of pre-
pared pianos. The night culminated in
the courtyard, where four loudspeakers
played four symphonic orchestras simul-
taneously. The quadruple-climax was the
most immense musical moment I have
ever experienced.
Before leaving, a song of Happy Birth-
day. The rules were: sing every syllable
until you are out of breath. Stop when
you are done.

