MUSIC
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
You Don’t Have To
Call It Music
Pt. 5 avant-garde America
by Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
FollowingFranceandGermany,thethirdpost-warmusicalrevolutiontookplace
inNorthAmerica.Unliketheprecedingmovements–concrèteandelektronische–
the Americanvanguarddidnotgatherinasinglestudio.Insteaditsranksconverged
primarily on two tendencies – minimalism and tape music. Where the Europeans
had arguably derived their creative manifestos from cultural customs – the Gallic
love of life turning its ears to the world, the Germanic fervor for exactitude invent-
ing electronic machines to surpass earthly airs – the American philosophy perhaps
evidencedthemetaphysicalgroundswhichbuilttheirnation.
The ethereal quality of the American spirit translated subconsciously to its musi-
calexperimentsinthe‘50sand‘60s,almostasiftoheraldtheheadydaysthatledto
Woodstock.Themusicwasvisceralasitwascerebral,contrastingwiththepredomi-
nantlyintellectualexhibitionsofEurope.Itspowersomewhatakintotheexpression-
ist paintings of Rothko, attempting to capture an emotion rather than an explicit
sceneorpurpose;thecultivationofaninternalpresenceinsteadofadissociatedob-
servation,reappropriatingthe“fewcubiccentimetresinsideyourskull.”
PerhapsthemostrevolutionarythinkerandcomposerofthemovementwasJohn
Cage.Hismostfamouspiece4’33’’isfourminutesandthiry-threesecondsofsilence,
thepointbeingtolendyourearstothesoundsaroundyou.Othertimesheusedcacti
orradiosassoundsources,orplayedwiththespeedoftapeandvinylplayers.One
ofhismostfavouritetoolsmusthavebeenthestopwatch,whichheusedextensively
to direct performers based on randomly generated time durations. Truly, his body
of work and influence on experimental music and its conceptions ever since are
monumentous.Indeedfartoomuchtoincludeinthiscolumn.Asitishiscentenary
thisyear,Ihavegiftedhimwithhisveryownarticle,whichyou’llfindontheprevious
page.
SteveReichandPhillipGlassaretwoofthemostpopularcomposersofminimal-
istmusic.Theirworkslackthetediouscomplexityofconcrèteandelektronische,opt-
inginsteadfortheprimacyoffocus.Superimposedmelodiesandharmoniccounter-
pointssubmergethelistenerbeneathalternatingcurrentsofsound.Polyrhythmand
repetition were used to great effect in Glass’s score for Reggio’s Qatsi film trilogy,
wheretheroleandbehaviourofhumanityintheworldisputintoquestion.
Maryanne Amacher was a more controversial practitioner of the minimalist
tradition. One of her last recordings, Sound Characters (Making the Third Ear) ex-
ploitedinterferencepatternstoproduceotoacousticemissions–soundsgenerated
by the inner ear which may be heard externally. The piece is eerie but entrancing.
Unknowinglyfallingoffthecliffofliminality,findingoneselfsurroundedbyendless
permutationsofafewnoteschangingplace,movingaroundtheroomasyoumove
withit.Ascapesosimpleyourbrainhastofillinthegaps.
Another intriguing proponent of the minimalist practice was the mystical La
Monte Young. With Marian Zazeela, he founded the Dream Syndicate, a group
dedicatedtointerminable,spiritualizedimprovisation.Thoughheneverconsidered
thepiecefinished,hissoloperformancesofTheWell-TunedPianolastaround5hours.
The concrète school’s ever-refined observations of sound itself, wore particularly
strongly on one Curtis Roads. Literally magnifying their percepetual philosophy,
he developed granular synthesis: composition through microsounds. Microsounds
are microsecond-order samples that reveal the instantaneous characteristics of a
recording.Byapplyingastochasticreplayofvariouscutsinalongerrecording,one
canachievetheeffectofstretchingthesoundtovirtuallyanylengthoftimewithout
shiftingthepitchasoccurswhenslowingdownvinyl.However,thefunreallybegins
whenthecutsareplayedbackoutoforder.
Another contributing factor to the diversity of the Americans’ recorded output
wasthevarietyofstudiosinvolved.Insteadofbeingprovidedbyradioandtelevision
networks,astheRTFhaddoneinParisortheWDRinCologne,universitiesacrossthe
country were supplying their resources. Some of the most influential studios were
builtinPrinceton,Urbana-ChampaigninIllinoisandHarvard.TheCCRMAinStan-
ford is now home to the public favourite mobile phone orchestra, MoPhO. In Bell
Labs,Max MatthewsandMiller Puckettedevelopedthewidelyusedgraphicau-
dioprogrammingsoftwareMax/MSP,beforeitwasusurpedbytheIRCAMinParis.
Some remarkable individuals built their very own synthesizers in order to real-
ize their visions. Raymond Scott, whose music was posthumously employed by
Warner Bros in Looney Tunes and Merrie Melodies, spent close to a million dollars
developinghisElectronium.DavidTudor,withthehelpofamagicalchipfromIntel,
designedasynthesizerwhosecircuitswerebasedonneuralnetworks
Nowadays,NorthAmericaishometotheworld’srichestexperimentalscenes,the
‘noise’underground.Theirexploitscontinuetocollapseandrebuildperennialmusi-
caltraditions,blowingspeakersandshakingeardrums.
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
32
Everythingisgood
Everything Everything at the Vil-
lage Underground in Shoreditch was
certainly a hot ticket; the show had
sold out well in advance and obscene
amounts of money were being ex-
changed online to gain entry. As peo-
ple crammed into the relatively small
venue the anticipation for hearing
Everything Everything’s new album
was tangible after the huge success
which their debut album proved to be.
This was the week in which the band
got their ﬁrst top forty hit in ‘Cough
Cough’ which rocketed in at number
thirty seven. All this proves to me is
that the singles charts are fucked be-
yond saving but apparently it was a
reason for celebration, and what bet-
ter way to celebrate then playing a
knock out show in East London.
The support band Post War Years
at ﬁrst reminded me of a sub-par
Delphic, who themselves are a diet
version of New Order so I was not
expecting anything to blow me away.
I was left pleasantly surprised by their
electro-schtick and soaring tunes but I
cannot decide whether my low expec-
tations were the decisive factor.
Opening with ‘Suﬀragette Suﬀra-
gette’ Everything Everything showed
their intent straight from the start
to brighten up the bitterly cold night
for everyone in the majestically cool
venue. Half of the set consisted of
new tracks interspersed between old
favourites and it was clear to see that
the band enjoyed the chance to play
fresh songs. The exhaustive touring of
their last album had certainly taken its
toll but this was a band revitalised and
refocused. Some of the most notable
new tracks which are going to make
people lose their shit are ‘Kemosabe’
and ‘Torso of the Week’.
Everything Everything are the sort
of band that your stereotypical Impe-
rial student should love. Their indie
hits creep towards the angular math-
rock side of the spectrum, they used to
do all their shows in orange jumpsuits
to continue some sort of in-joke, and
their songs include some hilariously
nerdy lyrics. Highlights include “Isam-
bard, I am all steel”, “I’m as giddy as a
baby in a centrifuge” and my personal
favourite “You said ‘Boy Lets Fuck the
Ozone’ but boy that hole is too wide”.
Genius!
The set came to a frenetic ending
with ‘Cough Cough’, ’Two for Nero’
and ‘Photoshop Handsome’ frothing
up the crowd into a fanciful lather.
Everything Everything have deﬁnitely
matured and their upcoming album,
set to be released in January of next
year, is looking like it won’t disappoint.
Their new sound is slightly more ex-
pansive but keeps the lyrical edge and
the rush you experience when you
hear the saccharine choruses. Will
2013 belong to Everything Everything
just as this year has belonged to the
Vaccines? They managed to charm
the pants oﬀ of East London tonight
without breaking into a canter so I
wouldn’t bet against them.
Mark England Music Editor
Apparently bright
colours are not in this
season. Or smiles...
Soul hero Terry Callier passes on
Two weeks ago Terry Callier’s name
was added to the ever increasing list
of great soul artists who are no longer
with us. Callier, born in 1940’s Chi-
cago released his ﬁrst record in 1968
to little commercial success. This was
followed up in the ﬁrst half of the 70’s
with two more albums, including the
brilliant What Colour is Love. Again,
despite being critically acclaimed,
little commercial success followed.
While Callier toured with the likes
of Gil Scott-Heron and Jerry Butler
he struggled to join them at the top of
billboards. Two releases later and into
the early 1980’s Callier retired from
music to concentrate on bringing up
his daughter.
So far, so unremarkable. Yet in the
late 1980’s a little-known release from
Terry Callier started lighting up dance
ﬂoors over this side of the pond. Ed-
die Piller, owner of Acid Jazz Records
(alongside Gilles Peterson), con-
tacted Callier asking to put out this
particular record; it was agreed and
within two years Callier was using
vacations from his job as an adminis-
trator at the University of Chicago to
play gigs and festivals here in England.
Callier started recording again, all be
it reluctantly, and touring more.
In 1998 his album Timepeace re-
ceived an award from the United
Nations; instead of this bringing him
fame it meant his employers at the
University found out about his dou-
ble life, and promptly ﬁred him. That
Terry Callier never received the wide
acclaim during his recording career
that he deserved is a travesty, yet he
was always relaxed about what came
his way. Music was just one of his in-
Simon Hunter Music Editor
terests, family being his ﬁrst. On being
asked about hitting the big time he re-
sponded “If I broke as big as the Bea-
tles tomorrow, it still wouldn’t mean
much because my mom’s not here”.
Get on Spotify and search:
‘You’re Goin’ Miss Your Candyman’
‘Dancing Girl’
‘Ordinary Joe’

