Return of the Rebels
MUSIC
Jeni Pillai gives Peace a chance
Music Editors: Mark England,
Ross Gray, Simon Hunter,
Íñigo Martinez de Rituerto
music.felix@gmail.com
33
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
AMS album of the week
Neil Young: AftertheGoldRush
So last Thursday i had the good for-
tune to visit the Electric Brixton for
the ‘Return of the Rebels’ tour. The
set included Harlem based rappers
Swave Sevah, Mazzi, Poison Pen and
Dj Static, one of UK’s ﬁnest namely
Lowkey, and the main event himself
was Immortal Technique. Those
who know who he is and have heard
his music will probably realise that it
must have been an incredible gig. And
boy it was.
I should say a little bit about the ven-
ue. Not familiar with the Brixton area,
I thought it was the O2 Brixton just
under new management, but it wasn’t.
Formerly The Fridge, Electric has un-
dergone a major £1,000,000 facelift
and is set to become the latest state of
the art music venue to open in Lon-
don, hosting both DJs and live acts.
It really was an intricate and intimate
arena, which wasn’t overcrowded and
yet felt full of energy. A quick visit to
the website will provide pictures, vid-
eos and a list of interesting upcoming
events, including Sub Focus in De-
cember.
Some probably saw the word ‘rapper’
and turned the page, but for those still
reading everyone knows the rap/hip-
hop genre is not universally approved
of. And some of the mainstream crap
with no musical ability coming out
these days (yes you, Drake) doesn’t
help. As a lover of lyricism and word-
play, quality has gone down in my
opinion over the years, along with the
concept of “socially conscious hip-
hop”, which even prompted Nas to
release an album called “Hip-Hop is
Dead”.
So when I heard some of Immor-
tal Technique’s stuﬀ back in 2005, I
was amazed. In his ﬁrst two albums
Revolutionary Vol. 1 and Revolution-
ary Vol.2, he attacks capitalism and
the power of corporations, the ﬂawed
power structure in America, life on the
streets, drug trade, slave labour, media
bias, going to jail and even philosophic
ideas. If you don’t like the angry/pas-
sionate tone associated with hip-hop
and rap, I strongly advise at least read-
ing the lyrics if not listening to the
music. His standing as a revolution-
ary is increasing rapidly worldwide,
and rightly so. And he doesn’t just
talk the talk; in June 2008, Immortal
Technique partnered with Omeid In-
ternational, a non-proﬁt human rights
organization, to lend his support. He
dubbed the work as “The Green Light
Project”. With the proﬁts of The 3rd
World album, Immortal Technique
traveled to Kabul, Afghanistan to help
Omeid build an orphanage without
any corporate or external funding.
The orphanage, having been success-
fully established, currently houses
over twenty orphaned children from
Kabul. (A lot of ass-kissing I know..)
The other stand-out was Lowkey.
He is described as a poet, playwright,
political activist and award winning
Hip-Hop Artist of mixed British and
Arab descent who has received air-
play on numerous major radio sta-
tions including BBC Radio 1, Capital
FM, Kiss 100, Choice FM, BBC 1Xtra
and BBC Asian Network, and toured
internationally, performing to crowds
everywhere from Glastonbury to
Trafalgar Square, Germany to Am-
sterdam. Lowkey also records duets
with another rapper called Logic as
part of their non-proﬁt organisation
The People’s Army, aimed at raising
awareness of infant ﬁghting in Israel
and Palestine. His album Soundtrack
to the Struggle in 2011 was met with
widespread acclaim, a key track being
‘Voices of the Voiceless’ featuring Im-
mortal Technique. The two combined
on stage to perform the song, which
received the biggest cheer of the night.
The other three were pretty me-
diocre, mainly because it was nigh on
impossible to hear anything they were
saying, which is sometimes a problem
in live hip-hop concerts. The biggest
cheer they got was when one shouted
out, “Where my weed smokers at?”
All in all, it was £20 well spent, and
as Technique said to ﬁnish oﬀ with,
“Someone once said that Hip Hop is
dead. Well today you just saw a living
ghost. Vive la révolution!”
Priyank Shah Writer
You might be wondering why the AMS are talk-
ing about Neil Young. You might be thinking,
Neil Young’s not cool, he’s not relevant, he’s just
some shit old country singer that nobody cares
about anymore. I used to be like you. I always
had this preconception of him as bland and un-
inspiring.TheStatus Quoofsinger-songwriters.
The Ben Howard of the 60s (yeah, I went there).
Then, a few months ago, whilst going through a list of ‘the greatest albums of all
time’, I decided to actually listen to After the Goldrush. It turns out he’s amazing.
He’s not even particularly country. His career is ridiculously varied, I mean, the
man (kind of) invented grunge. Some of his albums are, very rightly, considered
amongst the greatest ever written. Honestly, he’s really worth a listen. Give him a
go. I’d personally suggest On the Beach as the ideal starting place, but After the
Goldrush is also fantastic.
I should probably talk about the album a bit. It’s another collaboration with his
intermittent backing band Crazy Horse. It’s 90 minutes of noise drenched psy-
chedelic hard rock. It’s great. From the first track to the last it’s a really interesting
listen. It is a double album, so of course there are bits which feel a little extrane-
ous, but the vast majority is really good. The album is full of brave decisions, such
asmakingthefirstsonga28minuteswirlingpsychedelicjam.Normally,ifaband
opened an album with such a long song, I’d be highly abusive. It shouldn’t work,
28 minute songs should be put at the end an album, or ideally, the bonus disc
that I will never ever listen to. However, here, it completely works. It fits into the
ethos of the whole thing. Neil Young doesn’t care about what music should be.
He has a voice you could shave boulders with. Neil Young does whatever the hell
he wants, and he’s a good enough songwriter that it (usually) works.
It’s obviously not his best album, and I certainly wouldn’t recommend starting
with it. However, it is the best new album I’ve heard in a good few months and
for those of you who are already Neil Young fans, I’d definitely recommend it.
Stuart Masson
At ﬁrst glance, Peace appear to be
yet another so-cool-it-hurts, indier-
than-thou, guitar band. Just have a
look at their haircuts and you’ll see
where I’m going with this. But after
seeing them play at the Lexington on
Tuesday night, I can conﬁrm there’s
deﬁnitely more to them than that.
They stormed straight out of Bir-
mingham this year, along with bands
like Swim Deep and Troumaca, to
introduce the London music scene to
a sound that it hasn’t heard in a while.
I’d even go so far as to say that it’s
comparable to the Grunge movement
in the mid-80s, of which Peace are the
equivalent to Nirvana. Big statement,
I know, but listen to the EP and you’ll
get it. No but seriously, LISTEN TO
THE EP. It’s one of the most exciting
(and delicious) things to come out this
year and if the debut album (expected
to be released in the Spring of next
year) is anywhere near as good as the
EP we’re in for a treat.
Before the band took to the stage, a
5-piece from Cambridge called Car-
ousels played their set. The combina-
tion of their lo-ﬁ sound and soothing
male-female dual vocals produced
something that wasn’t easily forgetta-
ble, as so many support acts are. How-
ever, there were some issues with the
sound that meant it was a real strug-
gle to hear the vocals over the guitar.
I have no idea what they were singing
about. They certainly made an im-
pression though, judging by the rush
of people clambering over each other
to grab the EPs they were selling at the
back of the room.
Peace started their set with ‘Ocean’s
Eye’, a song with all the roguish charm
and twanging guitars you could want
from a good old indie record. It’s when
they played ‘Follow Baby’, one of their
most popular tracks, that we got more
of an idea about what sets Peace apart
from the rest. The slurring, scratchy
vocals coupled with the screeching
guitar injected the room with a mas-
sive shot of adrenaline. There was
something about being in the midst of
a crowd of hipsters chanting the line
“we gonna live forever baby” that did
feel slightly surreal. ‘Li’l Echo’, the B-
side to ‘Follow Baby’, has a haunting
tone to it that rings in your ears long
after it’s ﬁnished and suddenly made
the gig feel even more intimate. Then
‘California Daze’ provided a change in
mood; calm descended and I genuine-
ly thought we’d have to get our lighters
out and wave them in the air at some
points.
The highlight of the night for me
was when they launched into ‘1998’,
a cover of the Binary Finary track of
the same title. It ﬁzzled into a massive
Pink Floyd-esque jam at the end and,
at the risk of sounding cliché (which
in itself is a cliché, ha), I have to ad-
mit it was quite magical. Everyone just
seemed completely mesmerised by
what was going on on-stage, and that’s
pretty rare because jams like this can
feel so indulgent the crowd loses inter-
est. Not this jam. This was a good jam.
To ﬁnish the set, they played ‘Blood-
shake’, a song reminiscent of an early
Foals improv’ with Harry (Harrison
Koisser, singer) drawling “we spit
blood in the sun, we spit blood in the
ocean” over it. There’s a bit near the
end that wouldn’t sound out of place
in an xx song as well, so they’ve cov-
ered all bases there. It’s a ﬁrm favour-
ite with the band’s fast-growing fan-
base and, along with the white confetti
that exploded over our heads, created
the perfect ﬁnale to the show.
Peace are a band that seem to be
growing exponentially (had to drop
that in, we’re at Imperial guys, em-
brace it). They’ve certainly come a
long way since I saw them support-
ing the Mystery Jets earlier this year.
The grungy yet elegant atmosphere of
the Lexington provided the perfect
environment for Peace’s grungy yet
elegant sound. They say they make
music to “fuck you in the heart”. After
Tuesday night, I kind of agree.
Jeni Pillai Writer

