I was recently challenged to rate every
ﬁlm I have ever seen. Apart from being
a shockingly huge task, it also threw
up a massive problem. Because there
are incredible ﬁlms for every emotion.
And of course there are some God-
awful ﬁlms too – less said about these
the better. The problem I have is,that
there are some terrible ﬁlms that I
adore. Films that I will watch over and
over in secret; ﬁlms that I suspect eve-
ryone loves but is ashamed to admit.
Well, since nobody ever thought I was
cool, and since my taste in ﬁlm is al-
ready universally known to be dodgy;
consider this my oﬃcial confession.
Shit films I love (or why I sh
The Fog (1980)
The original, not the waste-of-oxygen
Wainwright remake. Inhabitants of a
coastal town fall victim to their trou-
bled history. 100 years earlier, six of
the town’s founders deliberately sank a
boat, using its cargo to build the town,
and killing all the sailors aboard. On
the towns centennial, a glowing fog
rolls into town, containing the zom-
bie sailors, who kill six of the town’s
residents to settle the score. For 80s
horror this isn’t bad, and was John
Carpenter’s ﬁrst ﬁlm after Halloween,
which was released a couple of years
earlier (also starring Jamie Lee Curtis).
It is undeniably low budget: the glow-
ing fog looks more school disco than
supernatural, the gore is unrealistic,
and close-up shots of the zombies
reveal less than perfect prosthetics;
however, I still ﬁnd the ﬁlm utterly
terrifying. The zombie threat is under-
stated, playing more on the fear of the
unknown than explicit threat, and the
score is fantastic (unusual for cheap
horror) contributing to an absorbing
and intense experience. This is clas-
sic independent horror – Carpenter
should never have agreed to the 2005
remake, which featured the incompe-
tent acting ‘talents’ of Tom Welling
and Maggie Grace, and while had su-
perior eﬀects, could not compete with
Top Gun (1986)
I was recently asked to explain the plot
to a backwards friend who hasn’t seen
the ﬁlm. He couldn’t understand why
I’d included it in the list, as it scores
in all the right areas – Tom Cruise,
ﬁghter jets, fatal accidents and plenty
of faux-macho behaviour. In fact, it
was the highest grossing ﬁlm of 1986,
and caused an inﬂux of Navy recruits
after its release. When Pete ‘Maver-
ick’ Mitchell (Cruise) and his wing-
man Goose are sent to the Navy’s
Fighter Weapons School, Maverick
falls for his female teacher, and over-
comes crippling doubts after Goose is
tragically killed in a training accident.
This ﬁlm is completely and unasham-
edly inaccurate – the main source of
criticism is its lack of realism, but that
simply doesn’t matter to me. Top Gun
is about bromance, being as camp as
humanly possible, and ﬂying awesome
planes. And again, the nine times plat-
inum soundtrack is one of the most
popular OSTs ever, featuring the Os-
car winning “Take My Breath Away”.
But none of that can save it from its
relentlessly awful lines, continuous
shower scenes, and the distinct im-
pression that if the Village People
rocked up at naval base, it would look
a little something like Top Gun.
Crocodile Dundee (1986)
Mick Dundee, a less shit version of
Bear Grylls, falls in love with a New
York journalist when he shows her
around the Australian outback for an
article she is writing about him. He
rescues her from the jaws of a croco-
dile, and she brings him back to New
York, where Dundee struggles to ﬁt
in with cosmopolitan life. This ﬁlm is
hilariously terrible; full of cliches and
cheesy moments, and so inauthen-
tic I’m sure no Australian has ever
watched it. Nonetheless, Crocodile
Dundee is a ﬁrm favourite of mine
because it is charming, adventure
packed and has some spectacular so-
bad-they’re-good lines.
Dead Calm (1989)
Despite a great cast (Nicole Kidman,
Sam Neill and Billy Zane), this thriller
is, objectively, middle of the road at
best. Kidman and Neill embark on a
journey on their yacht in a bid to get
over the death of their son in a car ac-
cident. They encounter Zane after they
cross paths with a sinking schooner,
but soon ﬁnd out that he isn’t just a
stranded survivor, but in fact a mur-
derous, Botulinum infected psycho.
Bad times. Zane is unpredictable in
the role – a living scrapbook of all the
mentally defected villains in cinematic
history: one minute he’s calm and cal-
culated, and the next he’s oﬀ his rocks.
The script isn’t great, but suspense is
kept throughout. And there are some
proper scare moments – I still require
cushions to hide behind whilst watch-
ing.
The Bodyguard (1992)
The soundtrack to this ﬁlm is the busi-
ness – an homage to Whitney Hou-
ston, featuring it’s title track and epic
“I Will Always Love You”, “Run To You”
plus dud “Queen of the Night” (what
was Houston thinking?). Houston
plays Rachel, (essentially playing her-
self), a famous singer and actress who
comes into desperate need of a body-
guard (Kevin Costner) after it emerges
she has a stalker with motivation to
kill her. In the ﬁlm’s closing scenes,
Costner takes a bullet for Houston
as she collects her Oscar (she wishes)
in slow motion – the original VHS I
owned of this ﬁlm eventually wore
out at this part because I replayed it
so often. Shockingly bad acting from
nearly all involved aside, no amount
of shunning can take away from this
ﬁlm’s appeal. This said, I’m in no rush
to see it on stage (it’s musical version
comes to the West End this month), as
without the chemistry between Cost-
ner and Houston, not to mention the
unrivalled vocals of the female lead,
the story would be dead in the water.
Speed (1994)
Keanu Reeves can’t act. He tries his
best, but he has no discernible tal-
ent. He is expressionless, monotonous
and delivers his lines like a priest giv-
ing a eulogy. His only saving grace in
this ﬁlm is, and it’s quite a consider-
able saving grace, his beautiful face
and hot body. If only his role as Jack,
NYPD cop with a penchant for throw-
ing himself oﬀ fast moving objects,
was a silent one. When a madman
rigs a bus with a bomb that will ex-
plode when the bus’s speed dips below
50mph, Jack, with the help of Gracie
(Sandra Bullock again) at the wheel,
ﬁght to save the lives of the passengers
aboard. The ﬁlm does have some good
action sequences, but peaks too early
–the lift scenes at the start are prob-
ably the best, and should have been
better developed.
Jumanji (1995)
Every 90s kid should know what this
is – if you don’t, what were you do-
ing? Not watching the most awesome
ﬁlm probably ever made, that’s for
sure. For the deprived, Robin Wil-
liam’s younger self is sucked into a su-
pernatural game, Jumanji, and trans-
ported to a distant jungle. Years later,
a couple of orphans ﬁnd the game,
bring Williams, who by now resem-
bles Tarzan, back into the present
day, along with a host of CGI jungle
animals that at the time, I was con-
vinced were real (watching now, the
eﬀects are pretty poor, but it doesn’t
matter.) The orphans, Williams, and
his original game opponent, play the
game against the odds to send the jun-
gle creatures back to the jungle. I love
this ﬁlm because it packs in endless
adventure and imagination. Escapism
in a ﬁlm, original, and my childhood
all wrapped into 100 minutes of pure
comedy gold. Even now, when rolling
a dice, I privately recite the immortal
warning: “In the jungle, you must wait,
until you roll a ﬁve or eight”.
Space Jam (1996)
Again, if you were born in the 90s you
should know this ﬁlm like the back of
your hands. Starring NBA star Mi-
chael Jordan and the cast of the Loon-
ey Tunes, this part sports comedy part
animation extravaganza is a ﬁlm I’m
not ashamed to admit I love. A band of
animated alien terrorists, The Nerd-
lucks, try to kidnap the Looney Tunes,
in a desperate plot to save their tank-
ing theme-park, Moron Mountain. A
bargain is struck for their release – the
aliens, being tiny, are challenged to a
game of basketball – but they have a
trick up their sleeves. The Nerdlucks
steal the sporting talents of the 1996
NBA championship team, and trans-
form into giant basketball playing ma-
chines. To help them win, the Tunes
recruit a recently retired Jordan, and
together they eventually defeat the
team of evil aliens, propelling Jordan
back into the NBA (in real life too).
The animation is classic Warner Bros,
the script is hilariously cheesy, and the
soundtrack is brilliant, going six times
platinum and featuring R. Kelly’s best
song “I Believe I Can Fly”. Space Jam
was pretty much panned by the crit-
ics, but was a massive success despite
the poor reviews.
Parent Trap (1998)
Back in the days of video-stores, I re-
quested this remake so many times
my parents could have paid for its
production (probably). Lindsay Lohan
plays identical twins Hallie and An-
nie, separated when their parents di-
vorced and moved to separate sides of
the world. The twins meet for the ﬁrst
time at holiday camp, and cunningly
switch places without their parents
knowledge in a secret plot to reunite
the family. This ﬁlm has some great
characters, funny script and a really
great soundtrack. Lohan is super cute
(what happened?), although nowadays
I ﬁnd the mirroring and doubles used
to create the twins annoying. There
is a lot of blatant stereotyping going
on, and the plot is predictable; but it
transports me straight back to child-
hood with its wholesome light-heart-
ed goodness.
Katy Bettany “Film Editor”
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
34 FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER

