houldn’t be a Film Editor...)
Deep Blue Sea (1999)
Featuring the immortal Samuel L
Jackson line, “things are going to get
a whole lot worse”, delivered just be-
fore he gets ripped apart by a shark on
‘roids. A group of scientists decide that
what giant sharks, as if they weren’t
scary enough, are really lacking is
brains. A few freaky experiments later,
and the sharks get clever and team up
to sink the rig housing the group of
moron scientists and one token black
chef (LL Cool J). Spoiler: basically
everyone gets eaten. Some really aw-
ful special eﬀects, overdramatic lines,
and physical impossibilities make this
ﬁlm simultaneously shit as well as bril-
liant. Because who doesn’t enjoy the
sight of absolute idiots being mauled
by super-cunning creatures with three
rows of razor sharp teeth?
Notting Hill (1999)
I would never have put this in the ‘ter-
rible’ category until I recently discov-
ered nobody outside my immediate
family rates this ﬁlm. I actually think
it’s pretty special – and the scene that
sees Hugh Grant walking through
Notting Hill as the seasons change, set
to Bill Withers’ “Ain’t No Sunshine” is
one of my favourite ever scenes. With
screenplay by Richard Curtis, who also
wrote Four Weddings and a Funeral
(another excellent and probably wide-
ly loathed ﬁlm), a kick-ass soundtrack,
my secret fantasy cast (Julia Roberts,
Hugh Grant, Rhys Ifans, Gina Mckee
and Hugh Bonneville); I’m still per-
plexed as to why this ﬁlm is bad. Sim-
ple plot: bumbling, foppish (who else
would Grant play?) English bookshop
owner meets the most famous woman
in the world, American actress Anna
Scott (Julia Roberts, playing herself,
probably); and they fall in and out of
love. But the really special parts are
played by Grant’s posse of eccentric
friends; not least by Ifans, whose in-
appropriate costumes throughout are
worth watching alone. And the Cos-
tello cover of “She” recorded for the
opening credits? Whenever I hear it I
know that I will continue to watch and
re-watch this gem of a ﬁlm.
Miss Congeniality (2000)
I’m a sucker for transformation ﬁlms,
and not in an Optimus Prime way.
An uncouth Sandra Bullock plays
FBI agent Gracie Hart, who goes un-
dercover in order to stop a domestic
terrorist plot to attack the 75th Miss
United States beauty pageant. Bullock
is transformed from disgusting slob
to poised beauty who still manages
to kick some terrorist arse even while
wearing massive heels and a tiara.
Bullock should never have been in this
ﬁlm, because frankly she’s too good an
actress: the story was pretty awful and
a lot of the acting dire. Nonetheless,
Miss Congeniality is funny despite its
predictability; and saw Bullock nomi-
nated for a Golden Globe for Best Ac-
tress.
Save the Last Dance (2001)
Dance movies are universally cliche.
This one is no exception – ballerina
Sara (Julia Stiles) encounters a per-
sonal tragedy and vows never to dance
again. She moves to the black part of
town, and falls in love with hip-hop
dancer Derek (Sean Patrick Thom-
as), as well as with dance again. Rife
with racial stereotypes, this ﬁlm tries
to hard to be something it isn’t. That
aside, it features some inventive dance
routines; and as far as dance movies
go, a fairly involving storyline.
Snakes on a Plane (2006)
More Samuel L Jackson comedy gold.
Pretty self explanatory – hundreds of
deadly snakes get released into an air-
borne plane with the intent of crashing
it. The graphics were poor, the acting
was poor, the struggles with obviously
rubber snakes ridiculous, but none of
that mattered. Just stupid, gory fun.
27 Dresses (2008)
This sounds like a trashy rom-com
nightmare – and to be fair it has all
the components. Katherine Heigl,
vacuous storyline, the inappropriate
crush, the obvious husband material,
and more weddings than a Moonie
ceremony. It is horrendously predict-
able; and some of the characters are
so underdeveloped they could just
be made of cardboard and nobody
would notice, but despite all that, I still
love it and watch it. Heigl plays a se-
rial bridesmaid in love with her boss,
George, who falls in love with her slut-
ty sister Tess, (never before has a char-
acter ignited such burning hatred in
me). Heartbroken, Heigl falls into the
arms of the true man of her dreams
(James Marsden, so hot) but not be-
fore sabotaging her sister’s wedding.
My love of Heigl knows no bounds: if
she’s in it, I will give it a go; and the
steady stream of hideous bridesmaid
dresses and wedding plannage satis-
ﬁes the occasional cravings I have for
low brow, thoughtless entertainment.
Plus, a drunken, appallingly-sung ren-
dition of one of my all time favourite
songs “Bennie and the Jets” secures its
place in my secret-love list.
Jurassic Park IV (2014)
OK, so this hasn’t actually been made
yet, but when it does it will almost cer-
tainly go into this category. Dinosaur
DNA gets mixed with human, creating
fantastic dino-man hybrids with guns.
This sounds TOTALLY AWESOME.
And let’s face it, the franchise lost all
credibility after the third ﬁlm anyway.
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
35
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER

