The best films from the 1960s
John Park Film Editor
10. The Lion in Winter (1968)
A sharp, bitter, long-term family feud
sets the screen ablaze as the histori-
cal drama focusing on Richard II, his
imprisoned wife Eleanor, and his sons
bring up all sorts of dirt, back-stab-
bing, shifting allegiances, and never-
ending plotting. It’s wonderfully writ-
ten, with each insult to one another
perfectly devised and packing in lots
of punch. And of course, there’s the
fantastic cast. Headed by the loud,
larger-than-life Peter O’Toole and
acid-tongued Katharine Hepburn,
this also is a superb ﬁlm debut for the
great Sir Anthony Hopkins.
9. What Ever Happened to
Baby Jane? (1962)
Yes, what DID happen to Baby Jane
Hudson (Bette Davis)? Once a popular
child star, she is now an ageing ﬂop of
an “actress” living in the worn-down
family home paid for by her more suc-
cessful but now wheelchair-bound
sister, Blanche (Joan Crawford). The
two biggest divas of Hollywood com-
mand your attention in their power-
ful, and in Davis’ case, hysterically
over-the-top performances. It’s dis-
turbing, but also deliciously fun as it
embraces its campy, gothic vibe.
Recently, the British Film Institute
(BFI) released the results of their
celebrated poll, “THE GREATEST
FILMS OF ALL TIME”, in which they
surveyed ﬁlm critics and directors to
list their ten favourite ﬁlms. Now the
Felix Film team, as much as we’d love
to, doesn’t have that kind of time or
resources. And so we decided to split
the ﬁlms up according to the decades
in which they were released. So every
week, we will present you with our
top ﬁlms of each decade.
8. Cool Hand Luke (1967)
It’s a true showcase for Paul Newman’s
talent playing the cheeky, rebellious
prisoner who becomes the hero and
inspiration to his fellow inmates. It’s
full of unforgettable moments (New-
man gobbles down 50 hard-boiled
eggs in an hour for a bet), resonant di-
alogue (“what we’ve got here is failure
to communicate” spoken by the sick-
eningly snarky Strother Martin) and
a ﬁtting but tragic end. The rest of the
cast is faultless to say the least, and so
is the genuine plausibility of the often
ruthless nature of corrupt hierarchy
and forced injustice.
7.2001:ASpaceOdyssey(1968)
A genre-deﬁning ﬁlm, many con-
sider Stanley Kubrick’s sci-ﬁ space
adventure ﬁlm, which is quite the
understatement when it comes to de-
scribing the scope and scale of what’s
on oﬀer here, as one of the greatest
ﬁlms of all time. From its powerful
opening it shows no signs of playing
down its bold ideas. Featuring one of
cinema’s most terrifying villains, the
mother of all things evil and robotic,
the special eﬀects are electrifying,
and the score, astounding. A ﬁlm of
unimaginable scale and ambition, it’s
certainly one of the most iconic.
6. La Dolce Vita (1960)
Federico Fellini is by no means eve-
ryone’s cup of tea, but there is no de-
nying the Italian director’s extraor-
dinary vision when it comes to the
much-mentioned neo-realism. Run-
ning at almost 3 hours, it’s a draining
watch, as we follow a week in a jour-
nalist’s (Marcello Mastroianni) life as
he tries to ﬁnd love and happiness of-
ten to very little avail. The sad decline
of his surroundings (i.e. Rome) and its
moral decay are captured beautifully,
and Swedish actress Anita Ekberg’s
walk in the Trevi Fountain is the
ﬁlm’s most stylish scene.
5. Bonnie and Clyde(1967)
No-one thought this would be a suc-
cess. Many were repulsed by the ﬁlm’s
frank attitude towards sex and violence.
But this was a cinematic sensation
worldwide which let actor/producer
Warren Beatty walk away with a hefty
sum of cash. Based on the true story of
the two titular lovers and bank robbers
making a name for their antics during
the Great Depression, it has romance,
violence, and heart. The sultry and
charismatic Faye Dunaway makes her
winning debut here, a high-proﬁle role
that sky-rocketed her career in the ﬁlm
industry.
4. Dr. Strangelove (1964)
Yet another Stanley Kubrick entry
here and this time it’s a political sat-
ire, and possibly the funniest you’ll
ever see in your lifetime, which is a
real surprise from someone who is
not generally considered a top direc-
tor of the comedy genre. Taking hu-
mourous passes at the Cold War and
its nuclear missile crises, it beneﬁts
enormously from having the great
Peter Sellers take on three principal
roles in the ﬁlm, as characters who
try so hard to be serious in the deli-
cate times of war fail miserably in
their attempts to remain credible.
3. The Apartment (1960)
This has the rare distinction of being
one of the very few comedy ﬁlms to
have walked away with the Best Pic-
ture award at the Oscars, and it’s an
honour that is completely well-de-
served. As it delicately probes around
the sensitive subject matter of sex and
inﬁdelity, movie legend Billy Wilder
ﬁnds the space and time to centre it
all around the developing romance
between a lowly oﬃce drone (Jack
Lemmon) and an elevator operator
(Shirley MacLaine). It’s darker than
you might think, but ultimately de-
lightful nonetheless.
2. Psycho (1960)
Some would argue vehemently
against this but to me here is the best
ﬁlm Hitchcock has ever directed.
Slowly mounting tension from the
get-go, we get the chilling shower
scene to set the creepy tone, and
every time Norman Bates (the excel-
lent Anthony Perkins) shows his face
accompanied by that high-pitched
soundtrack, it’s enough to send shiv-
ers down the spine. And who can for-
get the demented conclusion? Daring
for its time of release with none of
the haunting factor lost even to this
day, Hitchcock’s legacy will live on.
1. Lawrence of Arabia (1962)
This is the epic of epics, a true grand
masterpiece in ﬁlmmaking. Director
Steven Spielberg loves it so much he
watches it every time he’s about to di-
rect another ﬁlm. It’s just that good.
And endlessly watchable. This is Peter
O’Toole at his ﬁnest, his eyes at their
bluest, Omar Shariﬀ at his most char-
ismatic, and director David Lean at
his most ambitious. Like most grand
spectacles to come out of Hollywood,
it has a sizable length (running time),
as well as a star-studded cast who
are tossed into incredible scenes of
breathtaking action sequences.
FILM
Film Editors: Katy Bettany,
John Park, Lucy Wiles
film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
36 FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER

