Arealistictakeonroguelikes
Robin Thomas reminisces back to when times were hard
popular mod on the PC
gaming scene, as many
of us will know, is DayZ,
where you get one shot
at survival on an island
covered with zombies. It’s hailed for
ﬁnally getting “survival” right, with at-
mosphere, realism and diﬃculty – and
it’s the diﬃculty that interests me.
Games have been getting easier for
years. DayZ doesn’t let you save and
forces you to restart every time you
die, however, if your character some-
how survives long enough for you
to quit the server, you pick up where
you left oﬀ. The ﬁrst games to do per-
madeath in a big way were ‘roguelikes’.
We have to look very far back to ﬁnd
their beginnings, as the ﬁrst crop ap-
peared in the 1970s with games such
as Adventure, Dungeon and, in 1980,
Rogue, which the genre is named after.
In simple, relatable terms, imagine
Diablo, but really, really hard. The av-
erage Roguelike has you make or ran-
domly generate a character (with more
choices than you could shake a wand
of wishing at) and dumps it in a walled
village with a staircase down to a dun-
geon. Levels are randomly generated,
usually simply a series of pitch black
rooms and corridors riddled with se-
cret passages, traps, creatures and loot,
depending on how deep you’ve delved.
Your character must gain experience
from monsters, travel down as far as
possible, and kill some impossible boss
at the deepest limit. Combat is roughly
like Dungeons & Dragons, so it is turn
based and requires a rulebook to prop-
erly understand. Oh, and most rogue-
likes use ASCII graphics and don’t take
mouse input, in case you thought the
above sounded remotely accessible.
There is much variance between dif-
ferent versions, but the core game
stays the same. Nethack, easily avail-
able on smartphones, is a straight-
into-the-dungeon job, and generously
provides small sprite graphics. Larn
features a time limit and if you win ,
your subsequent characters get taxed.
Brogue puts a lot of eﬀort into mak-
ing ASCII dungeons more colourful.
Moria spawned many child-variants
based on Lord of the Rings lore. All of
them are completely unforgiving.
So what’s actually good about them?
Variety and randomness. My half orc
barbarian could take a sip from a water
fountain on level one and be unlucky
enough to get one-hit by the water de-
mon that had a 1% chance of spawn-
ing from it. My elven ranger, however,
might make it down to the gnome and
dwarf catacombs on level 5 thanks
to his bow and come unstuck against
some tricky spellcasters. You could
start oﬀ as a wizard with a ring of in-
visibility, only to die of hunger when
paralyzed by a trap on level 19. You
have to take some amount of enjoy-
ment from the inevitable death of your
character.
Okay, ﬁne, you get what I’m saying,
but games have moved on. We’re used
to hammering quick save and quick
load to get the perfect hit for maxi-
mum experience, regular checkpoints,
and having a player character that isn’t
an ampersand or “@” symbol. Why
don’t you just play Diablo and actually
have fun rather than live in the past?
I propose an alternate solution –
choose the right variant, and cheat.
Yeah, I’ve now been completely reject-
ed by any hardcore roguelike players
(who are still out there), but hear me
out. Wizard mode is for “debugging”,
but it allows you to simply respawn at
the start of any area you die. Combine
this with the variant ZangbandTK,
based on Angband, full of LotR char-
acters and items as well as other hi-
larious easter eggs that become an
integral part of the game, plus dizzy-
ing character creation options. Most
importantly, it’s got good sprite based
graphics, so you won’t be squinting
to see the diﬀerence between a wall
(#) and a demonic quylthulg (%). The
game now becomes an exercise to cre-
ate the best possible character from a
random system, mostly done through
grinding quests with high level loot.
Boy, that sounds familiar, doesn’t it?
ZangbandTK is still brilliant fun if
you don’t cheat, if not more. It’s sim-
ply diﬃcult to bring this type of game
to this generation. If you enjoy RPG
games, or simply like to think you
know a thing or two about the history
of gaming, you owe it to yourself to
experience this genre as it is meant to
be. Even if you roll a gnome priest who
dies at the hands of a lichen (yes, a li-
chen) on the ﬁrst level of the dungeon,
you’ll catch a glimpse at what some of
today’s games are missing – a learning
curve with balls.
A When I level up, I want to be
Chaos Bacon too! Sounds tasty.
GAMES Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
38
Strike team sent to upset UCL. Mission successful.
My Little Zergling DVD box set
It’s been a question that has ﬂoated
around Imperial College Union’s
Gaming Club for years now – why
don’t we play anyone else? This year,
gears actually started moving.
On Thursday evening, in a quiet area
of UCL, pizza was delivered and the
party started. The LAN party. League
of Legends (LoL), Team Fortress 2
(TF2) and Call of Duty: Modern War-
fare 3 (CoD/MW3) were downstars,
whilst the revellers upstairs Brawl-ed
and kicked a ball around in FIFA 13.
The event was well attended, even af-
ter the free food had vanished (about
5 minutes in) and then the games
began. Kinda. One of the UCL Tech
Soc’s new (I hesitate to say ‘shiny’ as
it looked like it had been used to buﬀ
a pavement) Xbox 360s had broken,
resulting in some slightly awkward
2v2s., rather than the planned 4v4s.
Despite that, Imperial beat UCL in all
CoD games played, bar one (as their
best player had to leave after the ﬁrst
game). LoL in the corner was domi-
nated by the Imperial cohort, with
the UCL team conceding (read: rage-
quitting) in the middle of the second
game, giving the Imperial team a 2-0
match win. One stalwart Imperial
student spent all day playing FIFA,
winning 5 out of the 6 games played
(and only losing when it came to pen-
alties) bringing great success to the
motherland.
There wasn’t much success however,
in the land of Super Smash Bros., with
UCL wiping the ﬂoor with us. Finally,
TF2 ﬁnished and the scores rolled in.
However, all was not well in the land
of inﬂatable unicorns and hats. The
UCL view is that they slaughtered us,
fair and square. The Imperial view is
that they slaughtered us, but cheated
by bringing in someone with banned
weapons and so UCL should be dis-
qualiﬁed.
Regardless of the rivalry, everyone
was still in high spirits at the end of
the day and wonderfully, not a single
shout of ‘n00b’ rang throughout the
building.
For the ﬁrst (of hopefully, many)
tournament, things went surprisingly
smoothly and when it’s time to host
the next evening, on the home turf,
we should have the food shortages,
console shortages, UCL rage-quitting
shortages and “Imperial won” short-
ages ﬁxed.
When the date and time are known,
it’ll be posted up on the Imperial Col-
lege Union Gaming Club’s Facebook
group and you can put your name in
for the Imperial team, for the games
of your choice.
Tl;dr: Imperial possibly beat UCL at
a bunch of video games, with a score
of 2-1 or 3-2. Or maybe we drew with
2-2 - I don’t know. Just read the arti-
cle.
UCL players in a variety
of stages of loser’s grief...
.... and this is why. (No it wasn’t
just him. We’re not that good.)

