First impressions: Halo 4
Let me point this out before I start
– I love the Halo universe and the
progression and impact the game
series has made within the indus-
try. I remember picking up Halo: CE
many years ago and not having a PC
that could play it, faster than I could
draw the frames with a novelty pencil
the size of the Eiﬀel Tower. But I still
played the hell out of it. The idea of an
artiﬁcial world, in the shape of a ring,
created by an ancient and long-dead
race, worshipped by your mortal en-
emy and explored by a super-soldier
just pushes all the right buttons in my
book. That being said, I never ﬁnished
it – the damn ﬂood can keep the li-
brary. I never liked books anyway.
So, a quick future-history lesson for
those who’ve continued past the ﬁrst
paragraph. In the 26th century, hu-
manity is a space-faring race, having a
stroll around the galaxy and creating
settlements all over the place, when it
bumps into the Covenant. The Cov-
enant declares war against humanity,
citing that their gods don’t like us. No
match for the fervent and aggressive
nature of the Covenant, humanity was
on a losing streak. On the frontlines
of these battles were the Spartans –
genetically engineered super-human
super-soldiers, who wear kick-ass
armour. You’re one of them. Despite
your awesomeness, humanity was on
it’s last legs and the main bastion is
Earth. You’ve the original three Halo
games, covering the journey of Mas-
ter Chief (a.k.a. John//Spartan-117)
and his ﬁght to save Earth from the
Covenant and the ancient parasitic
life-form known as the Flood. Charm-
ing name. Halo 3: ODST covers the
exploits of an Orbital Drop Shock
Trooper (ODST) squad that’s been
sent to clear up the covenant remnants
after their quick invasion of Earth (as
seen in Halo 2) – no superpowers in
sight – you’re just regular squishy hu-
mans. 2010 saw the release of Halo:
Reach, a prequel game, set before the
events of Halo: CE. As the original
Halo series mentions the fall of Reach
often, as you can guess, it doesn’t end
well for anyone vaguely human. Let’s
not talk about Halo Wars.
Practically spoiler-free history les-
son over, we’re onto the main exhibit -
Halo 4. As the numbering convention
would suggest, we’re back with Mas-
ter Chief, who was last seen sticking
himself in cryogenic suspension, after
the cruiser he was escaping on, was
cut in half by a closing intra-dimen-
sional portal, leaving him stranded. I
would’ve been happy with leaving it
there – it allows for speculation, mov-
ies, fan-work, you get the jist. Bungie,
the original creators of Halo up until
now, was disbanded and a new Micro-
soft studio took up the helm, with the
name 343 Studios (343 Guilty Spark is
the name of the A.I. in charge of the
original halo). There was quite a lot of
discussion over why this studio-swap
happened and lots of people weren’t
happy, claiming that they wouldn’t be
able to get the feel of Halo right. Well,
I’m glad to say, they were wrong.
I’ve only gotten about a quarter of
the way through the storyline (2/8
chapters completed, according to the
info boxes that pop up), so I can’t give
a complete review of the game, yet.
More annoyingly, I can’t spoil the
whole thing for you guys, as I don’t
know the storyline myself. Even this
far in however, I’m loving it. The en-
gine has been heavily modiﬁed since
Bungie’s departure, and the whole
look and feel of Halo 4 is great. It’s
not the dark and lonesome world
of ODST, nor the bright and happy
world of Reach: the atmosphere of
Halo 4 is a mixture of gloominess, but
there are also some wondrous mo-
ments as you come across large pieces
of forerunner (the guys who made
the Halo system) technology and ar-
chitecture, that make me want to sit
there and watch for hours. I have to
keep on reminding myself that I’m
still playing on a 5 year old console –
it doesn’t feel, or look like it.
Weapons, armour and upgrades
have altered within the campaign. I’m
not completely sure how your armour
upgraded whilst you were in stasis
(maybe I just missed that part), but
the new weapons I’ve seen so far seem
a little... dull. The Covenant’s storm ri-
ﬂe seems to have replaced the trusty
plasma riﬂe, and the UNSC’s SAM is
simply a weaker, less accurate, higher
clip-size assault riﬂe –º not really my
thing as I actually prefer to kill my
enemies than tickle them. There will
be much jubilant crying and weeping
when people realise that armour lock
has now vanished. The ha-ha-I’m-
so-indestructible-that-even-a-nuke-
can’t-touch-me-armour-lock has
been replaced by a hard-light shield
that faces whatever way you’re look-
ing, and is able to block most small
arms ﬁre.
Reach did something new for multi-
player – it gave you a recurring perso-
na. You were a Spartan and you could
customise your armour with hun-
dreds of diﬀerent pieces. These pieces
were bought with XP and unlocked
according to your level, and I’m very
glad to see that it hasn’t changed...
much. Weekly and daily challenges
are still around to give you more XP
than you can shake a gravity hammer
at. I’ve yet to play any proper amount
of multiplayer, but it feels like Reach+
– there are more options, more maps
and just as many opportunities to as-
sassinate people.
So for those of you still on the fence,
I’d say to get it. For those of you who
don’t want to get it, I’d say to get it. To
everyone who has already bought it –
see you on the battleﬁeld.
Ross Webster That editor’s a spy!
GAMES
Time, Dr. Freeman?
“Shouldn’t you have been in the test
chamber half an hour ago?” asks the
scientist standing next to me. Quite
possibly – I’ve been running around
this lobby for the past 20 minutes
just trying to see if I recognise any
of the equations on the whiteboards.
Between the unresolvable scribbles,
I think I might just have seen the
Schrödinger equation!
For those clueless as to the context
of my equation hunting, I’m playing
Black Mesa: Source. It’s a fan recrea-
tion of Valve’s PC hit, Half-Life, which
was released in 1998. You are ‘mute’
physicist Gordon Freeman, whom
whilst at work at the Black Mesa
Research Facility, almost inadvert-
ently creates the infamous Resonance
Cascade scenario. Since the entirety
of the game was played from a ﬁrst
person perspective (there were no
cutscenes), the game was praised by
many for its immersion.
But anyway, perhaps it would be
more appropriate to label Black Mesa
as a second attempt at Half-Life:
Source; a direct port of the original
game released on Valve’s then new
Source engine in 2004. With few
new features and seemingly little im-
provement over the original game, it
was thought by some to be a lacklus-
ter eﬀort by Valve. A group of fans of
the original took it upon themselves
to develop a new remake using freely
available tools from the Valve’s Steam
platform. True to Valve’s normal de-
velopment time frames, the game was
released in a mostly complete form
eight years later, save for the ﬁnal
chapter.
I’m trying not to be accused of bias;
however as a fan of the Half-Life se-
ries and other Valve games, it seems
my patience has paid oﬀ. There is an
attention to detail which will please
fans of the original game, from the
various control panels all the way
down to the weapons. There are a
handful of nice touches, with the on
screen HUD showing weapon ammo
much like the original and new eﬀects
too. Anyone with fond memories of
backpedalling from hound-eyes
whilst frantically trying to reload will
not be disappointed. The soundtrack
is also nice and refreshing; not a di-
rect copy of the original, but a ﬁtting
inspiration.
I do have a few criticisms though.
Despite the fresh graphics, the me-
chanics of the game haven’t really
changed much. I’m not expecting
the latest cover-based shooter tactics
similar to the Call of Duty series, but
Josh Price Tomato-in-exile
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER 39
Games Editor: Ross Webster
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
it’s likely you will ﬁnd yourself rely-
ing on quick-save quite often. The
familiarity also makes it diﬃcult to
play sometimes, a few sections have
been reworked, which hardcore fans
may ﬁnd jarring. It should be noted
though, that it is technically based
of the original game and not a direct
copy, so it is to be expected.
Perhaps the most surprising thing
of all is that the game exists at all, and
is free to play. You might expect, that
given complaints about heavy-handed
attempts by publishers at enforcing
copyright, that such a project would
be squashed early on. However, Valve
have not only allowed the game, but
insist that it be distributed for free.
The original requirement of owning at
least one source engine game has also
been dropped, and combined with the
recent approval on Steam Greenlight,
means that it will appear in the Steam
Store right next to the original game.
So, if you’re at a loss for something
to do on a Sunday afternoon, or you
enjoyed the original game and its se-
quels, it’s worth a try. You can ﬁnd it
available at http://release.blackme-
sasource.com/. As the other scientist
kindly reminded me; “We’re waiting
for you Gordon, in the test chamber.”
Spartans never die. They play
legendary, rage-quit and throw
the controller at the screen.

