SPORT
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
46
Winning is easy for Women’s Rugby
Imperial Women’s Rugby has seen
a fantastic start to their 2012-2013
season, winning their first three
games with impressive margins.
The success began even before the
matches started, with a strong turn-
out for Fresher’s Fair and our taster
session, which says a lot about the ef-
fectiveness of certain team members
enticing freshers to the stall through
the medium of dance! Our large in-
take this year sees a range of talent,
from those who have played compet-
itively before to those who had never
even picked up a rugby ball before
this year but all show great potential
and enthusiasm for the game. With a
new team assembled, it wasn’t long
before our first game of the year – a
friendly away at Oxford University.
This game set the tone for the sea-
son to follow with a great turnout of
the new members, with Carolanne
Vouriot scoring our first try of the
year! Oxford put forward a largely
Fresher opposition but this provided
a great opportunity for those who
hadn’t played before to experience
the often chaotic world of rugby
against a more evenly-matched side.
Our new girls took to the challenge
with admirable panache and enthu-
siasm whilst our senior members
led by example. 80 minutes later and
Imperial stood slightly muddy and
probably fairly bruised, but victori-
ous with a full-time score of 31-10.
Kudos to our men of the match –
newcomer Juliet Lennon and last
year’s captain Kath Fok!
Not content with this single suc-
cess, Imperial took to the field a
week later to begin their London
Universities Sports Leagues (LUSL)
campaign against Royal Holloway
at Harlington. This match required
much more serious game faces due
to the presence of several very expe-
rienced players on Holloway’s side,
but Imperial were not deterred. A
strong message was sent out by Im-
perial’s solid defence which man-
aged to hold off the opposition for
the entire first half whilst simultane-
ously racking up tries aplenty from
old and new members alike. This
try bonanza continued on into the
second half, though it was met with
greater resistance from a reinvigor-
ated Royal Holloway who managed
to break through to set up a try
and conversion which we allowed
out of respect and extreme polite-
ness. By the final whistle Imperial
had clocked a massive 58-7 win and
were celebrating in the appropriate
fashion (i.e. a cheeky pint down the
pub). Congratulations go to our men
of the match: Ran Xiong, for her no-
table double try and all round gusto,
and Carolanne Vouriot for making
consistently awesome tackles and
some really solid runs!
With a desire to keep the winning
streak live, Imperial approached
Kingston University with caution on
the 4th November as the opponents
were a relatively new team of un-
known skill. Despite this, the teams
faced off with Imperial leading from
the front despite freezing conditions
and uncontested scrums from the
first five minutes, which provided a
disadvantage as our scrum usually
delivers knock out performances.
However, we made up for this in our
line-outs which were consistently
effective for our own throw-ins and
often during our opponents as well!
With a season’s best score of 67-0 to
Imperial, Lucy Olliff and Juliet Len-
non were richly rewarded as men of
the match – Lucy for her all-round
solid commitment on the pitch and
Juliet for her amazing line-out prow-
ess despite never having been lifted
before. Special honours should go
to Caitlin Jackson who pulled off a
hat trick of tries within the space of
a single half and Lana Lee who suc-
cessfully converted the majority of
tries and who also scored a try on
switching from hooker to fly-half
due to injuries in the team.
Imperial have certainly started the
season on the best possible terms
and though there are potentially
some tough matches yet to come,
we’re confident we can build on the
success we had last year (winning the
BUCS SE conference cup and finish-
ing second in our division) and more
recently in order to achieve our best
season yet. If all of this sounds right
up your street and you love rolling in
the mud, it’s never too late to join us!
Hayley Rigby Sports Writer

