SPORT
47
FRIDAY 09 NOVEMBER
Sport Editors: Oli Benton,
Margot Pikovsky, Sorcha Cotter
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Swimmers drink more than just pool water at BUCS
Hayley Rigby Sports Writer
After a reshuﬄed schedule, the boys
kicked the BUCS 2012 short course
championships oﬀ with 50m free on
Friday evening. Michael earned him-
self ﬁrst of many ﬁnes by closely losing
out to Fraser by .04 seconds. Similarly
in this event Niki ﬁnished in 27s with
compliments from Brad “Niki, your
technique was held perfectly through-
out the race, well done mate!”. (In an
Australian accent...)
The girls got oﬀ to a good start with
Catherine breaking the IC 50m free re-
cord to then beat her own time again
in the ﬁrst leg of the girls relay ﬁnal in
a time of 27.71, giving her a ﬁne to give
out (unfortunately to myself…). More
success on Friday evening was brought
by Caterina qualifying for the 50 back-
stroke semi ﬁnal, to then swim even
faster in a time of 30.91 to get our ﬁrst
BUCS point (and IC record) by quali-
fying for the ﬁnal ﬁnishing in 8th place.
After an unwelcome 7am wake up
Fraser managed to smash out a 55.06
in 100 free with Niki and Michael
closely following in low 57’s! Catherine
also closely followed the boys with a
60 second 100 free making a new IC
record, followed again very closely by
Zelie in 1.03. Also, for this event, Hay-
ley earned herself her ﬁrst ﬁne with a
wrong entry time for Meric (sorry!)
Matt Jackson, though feeling unwell
managed to pull a 1.07 out of the bag
for the 100m backstroke. Also in this
event, Fraser reveals himself as not
only a freestyle swimmer by ﬁnishing
in a 1.04 for 100m backstroke.
Caterina narrowly missed out on a
200m ﬁnal qualiﬁcation. Great eﬀort
was put in by Meriç and Hayley for
this event however, setting some good
times to start this year oﬀ. Morris Po
set a new IC record in a time of 2.15
for the 200 IM.
To quote Morris Po before his 200
breastroke swim: ‘I don’t want to swim
this event because I don’t want to upset
Florian by beating his record’, which
Brad didn’t think was a viable excuse
to drop out. Bad news for Florian then,
as his record was swiftly broken by
Morris in a time of 2.31s. Morris and
Caterina continued to shine with their
performances in the 200 backstroke
event – Caterina qualifying for the ﬁ-
nal and Morris setting a new IC record
in a time of 2.13.
Scott, whilst modelling the tight blue
speedos, put out a great performance
in both breastroke events, only nar-
rowly missing out on breaking (his
own) IC records.
Michael Ingram swam the dreaded
100 ﬂy on Sunday morning whilst the
majority of the team stayed in bed/
had a cooked breakfast and Catherine
similarly battled out in the 200m free
setting a new IC record of 2.17.
The relays were all swam at times
very close to IC records with all 4
boys (Fraser, Scott, Niki and Michael)
swimming 25’s in the 4*50m free relay
and the girls (Catherine, Hayley, Zelie
and Caterina) qualifying for the ﬁnal
on Sunday evening. Morris Po set a
new 50m backstroke record in the ﬁrst
leg of the boys medley relay in a time
of 29.64. The girls ended the compe-
tition by ﬁnishing in 5th place in the
freestyle relay after qualifying in 10th
place.
There was not one disappointing
swim all weekend, with everyone per-
forming better than expected after
only 5 weeks into training.
The Freshers (and Scott) were all re-
warded (they might say punished…)
on Sunday evening with a large num-
ber of shots and pennied pints con-
sumed. Special mention goes to Fraser
for ﬁnishing all his ﬁnes after chunder-
ing only 12 hours earlier from the night
before at Sheﬃeld Union. Additionally,
Scott (after a struggle) managed to ﬁn-
ish his larger number of ﬁnes (not sure
how he managed to get so many...) and
just managed to save the queen before
heading home.
Overall, a successful and fun week-
end to hopefully be topped by the long
course meet in February. Well done
guys!
Hockey Ladies 1s haunt UCL
Harriet Stevenson Ladies 1s
On All Hallows Eve the Ladies 1’s set
out to play some old rivals UCL. UCL
deﬁnitely had a point to prove as we
had put them out of 2 cups last year.
We went out hard in the ﬁrst 10mins
with a new line-up having fresher
Bryony in central-midﬁeld control-
ling the game. With some good play
down the right, from Gigi and Haz-
man we scored our ﬁrst goal from a
short corner, from banana slit (Har-
riet).
Our conﬁdence grew and great
play up to the forwards from fresher
Hayley ensured we had the majority
of possession. We had lots of shots
narrowly missing or being saved from
Jules and Sorcha. Unfortunately UCL
were relentless in their determination
and managed to aggressively score a
goal just before half time, making the
score 1-1.
We set out for the second half de-
termined to get a goal back in the
ﬁrst 5 minutes. Our second goal took
some time but came from a reverse
stick shot again from the one and
only Hazman! We were however also
faced by the fearsome attack from
UCL keeping our keeper Percy busy,
luckily UCL were unsuccessful in get-
ting past her ninja-like skills. She was
aided by a miraculous save oﬀ the line
from Emma, resulting in a breakaway
from us and Hazman tucking away
her hatrick. Defenders Kirsty, Maria
and Anna Tommy kept strong and
prevented further chances from the
UCL forwards with some textbook
defending, low ﬂat tackles. The dis-
tribution from the back was beautiful
from Celia helping to keep the ball
down out end of the pitch and giving
the forwards more and more chances.
The accuracy from her passes was
ultimately too much for the UCL de-
fender to cope with and a ball through
to Sorcha giving her a one-on-one
chance at the goalie brought us our
4th goal of the game. Skilful tackling
from Kathryn in the last few minutes
of the game in our attacking D, result-
ed in some close chances but the ﬁnal
score was 4-1.
This has been a tricky season for the
Ladies 1s getting promoted from last
year and now facing tough teams. The
team is growing in conﬁdence and
with this ﬁrst Win hopefully they can
build on their successes, to try and re-
main in this league next season. Good
Luck girls!
Super speedy superheroes
Sophie Kirk Club Captain
On a cold Wednesday afternoon Impe-
rial’s ﬁnest runners headed oﬀ to Rich-
mond Park for the second of our London
College League races of the year. Since
the race coincided with Halloween, club
members stepped up to the mark with
some spooky costumes to scare oﬀ the
competition. We deﬁnitely deserved the
prize for best dressed team.
Despite some transport issues causing
theracetobedelayedbyhalfanhour,Im-
perial were ready to take on the 2.5 mile
or 5 mile course. A chant of ‘Gary Hoare’
started the race which saw superwomen,
Tony the Tiger and escaped zombies run
oﬀthestartline.Themen’steamwerefull
of anticipation for the race ahead as they
knewtheycouldimproveontheﬁrstrace
result.
An excellent run from ﬁrst timer Faron
Hesse meant he ﬁnished an incredible
4th position a mere 30 seconds behind
the winner. The rest of the ﬁrst men’s
teamalsoimprovedgreatlywithPhilMc-
Corquodale, Sam O’Neill, Chris Thomas
and Reuben Bogg all moving up 34, 17,
9 and 10 positions respectively. Special
mention to Men’s Captain James Ellis
who missed the start but still managed to
bolt round to ﬁnish just in time to make
the 1st team! Overall the Men’s Team
moved up 2 places to ﬁnish an incredible
3rd position just behind St Marys, the
secondteamalsoﬁnishedin6thposition.
In the women’s race, the ﬁrst team
improved on their score from last time,
with Sophie Kirk, Josie Bowler and Imo-
genKeaneﬁnishingin19th20thand21st
position respectively. However the team
remainin5thpositionjust6pointsdown
on Brunel. First timer Kimberley Mason
had a great run to ﬁnish in 35th position,
we look forward to watching her im-
prove over the season.
Despite losing Tri Captain Ed Hallett
onhisﬁrstleaguerace,wehopehecomes
back for more. A successful days racing
was followed by some suitably spooky
cakes, apple bobbing and much celebrat-
ing. We look forward to next week’s race
and Wimbledon common where we
hope both the men’s and women’s teams
canﬁnishinthetop3!Formoreinforma-
tion about Cross Country and Athletics
Club please email: run@ic.ac.uk

