“Keep the Cat Free”
Issue 1530 felixonline.co.uk
09/11/12
SPORT
ICUAFC 1s conquering London
On the 27th of October the “ICUAFC
elite” (Toﬁs, 2012) ventured north of
the wall to a place so windy that Doro-
thy and Toto thanked their lucky stars
that they live in Kansas: Shenley. The
opposition were the old enemy and
second best university in London,
UCL. A ﬁxture steeped in history,
this was always going to be a diﬃcult
ﬁxture. It wasn’t. With new recruits
James Murphy, Luke Butler, Mari-
us Wedemeyer, Amine Cherif (aka
Cherif Snr) and the returning Peter
Bjorkstrand, on top of 13 goals with-
out reply in 270 minutes, ICUAFC 1s
were full of conﬁdence. We arrived
at Shenley with no sign of the oppo-
sition; rumours were banded about
that Imperial’s multicultural line up
had scared the UCL army into sub-
mission. However, just when it looked
like there would be a no show, they ap-
peared over the hill, armed for battle
(a football match).
Our conﬁdence was high, and
rightfully so, as we dicked on them
for 90 minutes winning 3-0. Garner
was majestic in goals (at each end),
protected by Toﬁs, Woodhead, Am-
jad and Cherif Snr. The midﬁeld was
bossed by housemate combo Tim
‘Smithy’ Beasley and Hill, who con-
tinues to roll back the years. Width
was provided by Murphy and Butler
spearheaded by Bjorkstrand and Rob-
inson. Unfortunately, Butler’s fancy
footwork put him on the receiving
end of a rash challenge forcing him
oﬀ early only to be replaced by Cherif
Jnr. The early exchanges were domi-
nated by Imperial although an early
shot from UCL talisman James ‘Just
a shit’ Greatorex produced a smart
save by Garner. The ﬁrst goal came
from a vicious shot by Bjorkstrand
and, following immense pressure,
the UCL defender had no choice but
to thrash the rebound home from 3
yards. Imperial continued to domi-
nate with multiple chances much to
the dismay of the UCL wags present.
The second half brought no respite to
either the weather, which was appro-
priately North-sideways sleet, nor the
UCL goal. A whipped freekick from
Toﬁs resulted in another outstanding
ﬁnish from their right midﬁelder this
time as he placed his clearance eﬀort-
lessly into their top corner. The dubi-
ous goals panel (controversially) gave
it as an own goal despite Toﬁs’ pleas.
Wedemeyer and Nielsen were intro-
duced to kill oﬀ the game with one
having more impact than the other.
Within 2 touches the former was on
the scoresheet. Hill played a simple
5 yard pass to the ruthless German
who, with one touch, turned and got
it out his feet before placing a ﬁnesse
shot over the keeper from what at ﬁrst
appeared to be at least 100 yards, but
was later conﬁrmed as 40. The calls of,
“Keep the ball!” from the IC midﬁeld-
ers, prior to the shot, were a textbook
example of how mindgames are still of
paramount importance in the mod-
ern game. Pandemonium ensued, as
Wedemeyer opted for a Henry-esque
silencing celebration whilst cheers of
“German eﬃciency!” echoed around
the stadium/pitch. The game wound
down with a few more chances for
Imperial but none taken. We left tak-
ing our “One way” sign with us. The
chants of ‘Get back in your biscuit tin,
Ginger’ and ‘Oi number 11, number
11, mate, number 11, you’re shit’ were
absent but even without our 12th man,
victory was comfortable. Smithy’s in-
dustry won him man of the match but
everyone was impressive; however,
justice will not truly be served until
further destruction of UCL in the cup.
Next up were St George’s on the
31st of October. The reverse ﬁxture
the season before brought back bad
memories of a 10 O’clock kick oﬀ and
a Cypriot ﬁnishing the ﬁnal 5 minutes
in goal. The squad were buoyed by the
false news that they now played on 3G.
However, upon arrival we were dis-
mayed to hear we would in fact be on
grass in the overwhelming stadium of
high ﬂying Tooting and Mitcham FC.
Solace was only found in the pitchside
chicken van and proper seating for
our ever growing fan club. Again Im-
perial dominated despite inappropri-
ate footwear and whining from Toﬁs
that he needed insoles for his boots.
A wunderstrike from Toﬁs opened
the scoring from a corner delivered by
the consistently dangerous Dale. Af-
ter the ball was weakly cleared, Toﬁs
headed it over an opposition defender
before unleashing an unstoppable
drive through the keepers’ butter ﬁn-
gers into the net to deafening chants
of Golaccio from no one. Wedemey-
er continued his impressive scoring
streak with a clever right-footed ﬁnish
from a Toﬁs cross.
Half time provided relief for a vis-
ibly shaking St George’s against an
Imperial team smelling blood. Impe-
rial pressed to extend their lead with
more slick play drawing ‘Olé’s from
the crowd. Such was their dominance
that Amjad found himself in approxi-
mately an acre of space all of 2 yards
from their goal, dead centre, with the
ball before him. No one was quite pre-
pared for what followed: with the goal
at his mercy the pressure got to him.
Luke Varney’s midweek miss against
Southampton in the Capital One Cup
was forgotten in an instant. There was
screaming silence from the travelling
supporters which was shattered by
a high pitched moan from Amjad’s
mouth – a cry of despair, anguish,
pain, remorse, guilt and pure regret.
The sadness seen on his face was com-
parable to that of Achilles mourning
the death of Patroclus. He received a
Man of the Match vote from Garner
after the match, but this was widely
assumed to be a sympathetic gesture.
Bjorkstrand took a leaf out of Amjad’s
book by promptly spurning a host of
chances that Fernando Torres himself
would have struggled to miss. Unfor-
tunately, overcommitment from the
Imperial team and a few missed chal-
lenges from an otherwise untested de-
fence allowed St Georges to pull back
a sloppy goal, the ﬁrst goal they had
conceded in approximately a decade
of football. This served as a wake up
call, lifting Imperial with Wedemeyer
winning a penalty after a disgusting
challenge from a St Georges defender,
prompting the 2 travelling supporters
(Smithy’s parents) to brandish imagi-
nary cards which were unheeded by
the immoveable referee.
The resulting penalty was comfort-
ably converted by Robinson, sending
the keeper to his right whilst nestling
the ball in the opposite corner. Smithy
won man of the match for the second
week running earning himself an-
other embroidered star on his kit bag
(@SmithysBag). The result was more
important than the scoreline but it
was frustrating to have conceded. The
squad agreed that we were not good
enough compared to the new stand-
ards set by a team which very possibly
could win everything this year.
Whole Team EffortFootball Team
Disappointing start for the Falcons
Imperial’s baseball team, the Falcons,
began their season yesterday with
a double header of friendly games
against the University of London Japa-
nese Society.
The ﬁrst game of the day began
amidst some animosity as the opposi-
tion catcher was an Imperial College
student, and last year’s hapless vice-
president of the baseball club, who
this summer ditched us for ULJS, de-
spite not actually being Japanese. This
animosity was apparent as Imperial’s
starting pitcher, Hajime Urata, hit him
with his second pitch, allegedly by ac-
cident.
In the ﬁrst few innings, ULJS’s score
crept up, but Imperial’s hitters strug-
gled against a ridiculously good ULJS
pitcher, who, incidentally, had been
shipped in from Manchester for the
match. Imperial thus failed to score
in the ﬁrst four innings, and ULJS ﬁn-
ished with a four-run ﬁfth inning, leav-
ing us 8-0 down with our ﬁnal inning
left to play.
After a ﬂurry of new ULJS pitchers
(one of which thought he could throw
knuckleballs), Imperial showed faint
hints of a comeback, loading the bas-
es with only one out. Unfortunately,
ULJS threw on their last good pitcher
(this one imported from Edinburgh)
who struck out our last two batters.
Three of our players scored hits in the
ﬁnal inning, although I don’t know
who they were as the score-sheet dis-
solved in the horizontal rain that fol-
lowed the conclusion of the match.
After much huddling under a tree,
the rain eased oﬀ enough for the sec-
ond game to start. Both teams were
ﬁelding less experienced teams in or-
der to give the fresher’s some experi-
ence, including ULJS’s token European
guy who’d joined them to watch anime.
Imperial started brightly against a
much less experienced pitcher, going
7-3 up after two innings, thanks to a
lot of walks and a sacriﬁce ﬂy by Matt
Bidwell, while the ULJS oﬀence strug-
gled against the pace and power of
Falcons pitcher Julian Chiu. Imperial’s
scoring dried up, however, as ULJS
brought on another, better pitcher.
The opposition then chipped away at
our lead, going into the ﬁnal inning
only one run behind.
Unfortunately, ULJS achieved the
two runs needed to secure the walk-
oﬀ win, ending a fairly disappointing
day for the Falcons. The games were,
however, a good experience for our
new players, and a crash course in
British weather for the beneﬁt of the
Americans who joined us. Hopefully,
the Falcons will learn from this game
and improve as we move into the sea-
son proper.
Falcons 0
ULJS 8
Falcons 7
ULJS 8
Benjamin Sandy Basketball Team

