ISSUE 1698
FELIX
BOOKS books.felix@imperial.ac.uk
21
B
ritish Pakistani writer Mohammed
Hanif’s second novel is eagerly
anticipated, after the exploding success
of his debut novel, A Case of Exploding
Mangoes, in 2008. This time, the story is set in a
refugee camp in an unnamed country occupied
by America. The narrators are a US pilot forced
tocrashlandonhiswaytobombingthecamp,a
young aspiring entrepreneur whose aid worker
Felix recommends autumn reading
Overwhelmed by the huge selection of books released this fall? Books editor Jingjie Cheng selects five of the best.
L
onglisted for the Man Booker Prize this
year, Rooney’s second novel follows
less than a year after her celebrated
debut Conversations with Friends. The
praise heaped on Conversations applies to her
new novel – witty and elegant, both novels
are testament to Rooney’s talent for exquisite
exploration of inner lives. She writes adeptly
about intimacy and brings to life the interiority
of her characters. Normal People might, on the
outset, be another coming-of-age story of a young couple studying in
Dublin trying to find their place in the world, but it is more than that – this
is a timeless exploration of what it is like to be young and in love, in the
incisive, economical language of one of Ireland’s rising stars.
Normal People by Sally Rooney
is writing a book on the teenage Muslim mind, and a philosophical dog.
In the style of his trademark black comedy, Red Birds is an absurdist take
on modern conflict, bringing to mind Catch-22.
Red Birds by Mohammed Hanif
T
his list would not be complete
without mentioning the celebrated,
internationally-loved Japanese writer’s
new book. This is Murakami’s first new
novel in four years, and will no doubt be an
event. Killing Commendatore is about a Tokyo
painter who is hiding away in the mountain
retreat of a famous artist after his wife demands
a divorce. There, he discovers a painting which has the ability to bend
reality. Revolving around art, war, and loneliness, this new novel follows
various strange characters and the antihero’s journey of self-discovery.
Killing Commendatore
by Haruki Murakami
A
Poetry Book Society autumn
recommendation, As Slow as Possible
explores the connections between
time and place, between people
and the environment. Drawing from his own
experiences of migration, award-winning Hong
Kong-born poet Kit Fan retells the Genesis story
drawing on Chinese mythology. The poems
in this collection are anchored by this story,
while weaving back and forth between East
and West, past and present, art and memory. The first part of the book
reads like a chromatic travelogue, but the collection ends with a more
grounded sequence,‘Twelve Months’, which focuses on home, the house,
and housekeeping.
As Slow as Possible by Kit Fan
T
his is a book very relevant to our times, and indeed is written with the current
world context in mind. The Guardian describes the book as “much-needed”,
presenting an “original explanatory framework” for what is happening in the
world today,Trump and Brexit included. Davies is a rising star in political thought,
and in this book offers many contemporary examples, along with historical ones, to argue
that it is the speed of life in the digital era that makes public debate and commentary
increasingly instinctive and reliant on emotion. It is not a leaning towards“post-truth”or
“emotional states” that drives increasingly warlike public discourse, but rather, it is that
the speed of knowledge and decision making has become more crucial, sidelining public
agreement and expert opinion, instead making us rely on services that are fast.
Nervous States: How Feeling Took Over the World
by William Davies

