Felix Arts guide to theatre on a student budget!
London is home to one of the best theatre scenes in Europe, spanning from hit West End shows to more obscure
independent productions. But seeing shows on a student budget can be hard and a lot of students are put off by
the prices. No more! Felix Arts takes you through the ways to get cheap (or even FREE) tickets to some of London’s
best venues!
ARTS
FRIDAY, 28TH
SEPTEMBER, 2018 FELIX
30
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Mousetrap Theatre Projects
This charity is dedicated to making theatre accessible
for disadvantaged children, including those with special
needs or a sensory disability. However, they also run
some amazing schemes for young people, giving
access to affordable tickets to major West End plays.
Their September shows included the incredibly popular
Wicked and Harry Potter and the Cursed Child!
National Theatre
£7.50 tickets for 16-25s: Entry Pass is a free scheme for young people aged 16-25
that allows you to book £7.50 tickets to every National Theatre production; you can
even bring a friend aged 16-25 for £10. Tickets are limited though so you need to act
fast and grab them early. The Entry Pass also gives you the added bonus of discounts
for the NT’s bookshops cafes, backstage tours and prop hires.
To sign up, register on the National Theatre website.
Royal Shakespeare Company
£5 tickets for 16-25s: The RSC provide a limited number of £5 tickets to all of
their shows in London and Stratford upon Avon. Current London shows include the
RSC’s London Shakespeare season at the Barbican as well as Matilda: the Musical
at Cambridge Theatre and Don Quixote at Garrick Theatre.
The tickets aren’t available online, but can be bought in person or over the phone at
the respective theatre’s box office.
Donmar Warehouse
FREE tickets for under-25s: The Donmar offer a limited number of these for each
performance. They are available by ballot for those registered on their YOUNG +
FREE list, with tickets released on the last Friday of every month for next month’s
performances.
To sign up, register for the YOUNG+FREE mailing list on the Donmar Ware-
house website.
ARTS
Vaishnavi
Gnanananthan
Arts Editor
Rosette Simon as Cleopatra and Antony Byrne as Mark Antony in Antony and Cleop-
atra, 2017 // Helen Maybanks © RSC
Simon Russell Beale, Ben Miles and Adam Godley in The Lehman Trilogy at the Nation-
al Theatre, London // Mark Douet
Theatrelive4£5: £5 tickets for 15-18 year olds.
Westend4£10: £10 tickets for 19-23 year olds.
Theatrescene4£15: £15 for 24-29 year olds.
To join, sign up to the relevant scheme for your age on their website.

