ISSUE 1698
FELIX
31
ARTS arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Almeida Theatre
The Almeida runs several schemes for young people:
£5 tickets for 16-25s: available for selected performances.
£15 tickets for 30-and-unders: available on Monday-Thursday evenings and all
matinee performances.
Almeida For Free Festival: This annual festival features several free performances of
one of the Almeida’s productions exclusively for young people aged under 25. Past
performances have included the massively successful Hamlet, starring Andrew Scott
of Sherlock fame.
Tickets are bookable on the Almeida Theatre website, although the Almeida For Free
festival often gets booked up pretty fast. Join their mailing list to be alerted when
booking opens.
Young Vic
The Young Vic have got a range of schemes making theatre a possibility on a lower
budget. These include:
£10 tickets for 25-and-unders or students.
£10 Lucky Dip: fill in empty seats on the day. You’re guaranteed entry, but might end
up standing…or get some of the best seats in the house!
Both are bookable on their website with ID to be shown when collecting tickets on
the day.
Royal Opera House
The ROH student scheme gives you access to a whole load of offers:
Student Amphitheatre performances: All seats in the amphitheatre exclusively for
students and priced £1-£25!
Whole House student performance: The entirety of the ROH reserved exclusively
for students! With ticket deals to be announced. This is a once-a-year event with this
year being Billy Budd on 2nd
May 2019. Booking opens on 29th
October.
£10 Student Standby: Announced by email a minimum of 24 hours before the perfor-
mance, this allows you to book £10 tickets for an upcoming performance.
Sign up to the scheme on the Royal Opera House’s website, with tickets available to
book online.
The Barbican Centre
£5, £10 or £15 tickets for 14-25s: The Barbican’s Young Barbican offers discounted
tickets across theatre, dance, art, music and film. They also hold young people’s
private viewings for many of their exhibitions.
To join, sign up to the scheme on the Barbican website
Write for Felix Arts!
Join Felix Arts to request press tickets to any show or exhibition in London, with the
possibility to take a +1 with you! All we ask in return is a written-up review of your
thoughts.
Email arts.felix@ic.ac.uk or join our Facebook group Felix Arts 2018/19
Kaisa Hummerland and Brooke Haynes in Fun Home, 2018 // Marc Brenner
The Royal Opera House auditorium // Sim Canetty-Clarke, 2016

