Union Page
imperialcollegeunion.org
Welcome Week Let’s elect our Reps
Meet our Ofﬁcers Breakfast is served
Our new Officer Trustees have been hard at work all summer, putting
foundations in place to fulfil the aims and promises on which they were
elected in March.The team, who will lead the Union full time for a year,
includes (left to right pictured above) Alejandro Luy (Deputy President,
Education) , Claudia Caravello (Deputy President, Finance & Services),
Rob Tomkies (President), Becky Neil (Deputy President, Welfare) and
James Medler (Deputy President, Clubs & Societies).
Read their plans for the year ahead: imperialcollegeunion.org/officers
Follow their progress: imperialcollegeunion.org/blogs
Find them: Level 2, Imperial College Union, Beit Quad
Keep in touch and let’s maintain our democracy year round!
Autumn not only means new students, but the election of course reps
and other student leadership positions. Let’s take charge of our Imperial
experience by putting the right reps in place to defend our interests.
Nominations open at noon tomorrow for those interested in becoming
Academic Reps, Wellbeing Reps, Representatives to Council,
Constituent Union committee leaders or LGBT+ Officer. Reps and
Officers influence the student learning experience, help peers access
support, represent their area of study at Union Council, or ensure
underrepresented groups are heard.
Nominations close at noon, Wednesday 10 October, while voting opens
at noon, Monday 15 October.
Stand for a position tomorrow at imperialcollegeunion. com/elections
Mornings just got a lot better this term - we’re serving breakfast in
FiveSixEight at Beit Quad from 8:00 - 11:30. Grab a breakfast burrito,
some porridge, or a smoothie to go. If you’ve got more time, sit and
graze on runny eggs, sourdough, or a hearty English spread from
10:00 -11:30.
The introduction of breakfast is part of efforts to improve the student
experience and help us make great memories at Imperial. It’s filling and
healthy!
Become a life member now at imperialcollegeunion.org/breakfast
T’was a fun scorcher but we’re happy everyone’s back and raring to go.
A big welcome to new students - we can’t wait to meet you at Freshers’
Fair on Tuesday 2 October. Fair starts at 11:00 at the main entrance to
College on Exhibition Road at South Kensington Campus - everyone’s
invited, including returning students who would like a refresher.
There are loads of other events happening over Welcome Week. We’ve
designed them just for you to meet other people, learn about Imperial
College Union, and make great memories in your first few weeks on
campus. Get tickets at imperialcollegeunion. com/welcome-events
Other useful links
Bars and restaurants: imperialcollegeunion. com/food-drink
Clubs, Societies & Projects: imperialcollegeunion. com/activities/a-z
Advice & Support : imperialcollegeunion. com/advice
Join a Liberation Group: imperialcollegeunion. com/liberation
For the best Imperial experience
Welcome to
Imperial College Union

