GAMES
FRIDAY, 28TH
SEPTEMBER, 2018 FELIX
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
40
Leicester Square Station – Orbital Comics
For the vintage comic hunter Orbital Comics brings an expansive catalogue of comics new
and old that can truly satiate the atypical comic book enthusiast. Within their collection they
also boast a large amount of graWWWphic novels as well as comic artworks.
Leicester Square Station– Orcs Nest
With its walls literally covered in shelves of boardgames the Orc’s nest is a goldmine for finding rare
and brand new boardgames. Can’t remember the name of that obscure boardgame you played whilst on a
drunken bender? Try giving a description of it to the friendly shop owners, as they are incredibly knowl-
edgeable on everything board game related.
Piccadilly Circus Station – Gosh! Comics
Just like the name of the shop you’re going to be surprised how this
small store can hold such an impressive bounty of comics, graphic novels
and manga. Featuring signing events and an added touch of launch
parties that will have you celebrating the release of quality material!
Piccadilly Circus station– Las Vegas Arcade Soho
For the lover of fighting games Las Vegas packs a punch with a fantastic
roster of fighting games including: Tekken 7, Street Fighter V, Ultimate
Marvel Vs Capcom 3, Guilty Gear Xrd Revelator. Not to forget its large
quantity of music games including Guitar Hero and DDR style games
alongside an assortment of classic arcade cabinets
Tottenham Court Road – Forbidden Planet
Just a short walk from orbital comics and bearing a massive inventory of everything nerdy, Forbidden planet can be considered
one of the best if not the best geek merch shop in London. Looking for a buffy the vampire vinyl figure or even a volume of Jojo’s
Bizzare Adventure (for maximum duwang), Forbidden planet has it all. Featuring book signings and comic deals, Forbidden planet
is definitely a place you don’t want to miss out on.
Wardour Street & Stratford– Belong by GAME
A host to multiple high end gaming PCs, PS4s and Xbox Ones, these gaming arenas are the
place for gammers to belong.You can take part in eSports tournaments and gather your friends to
have a LAN party. If you love VR, then the Wardour street branch is the place to be with the HTC
Vive and Playstation VR available to use.
Gamer’s guide to London: A comprehensive guide of
GAMES
Connor Winzar
Games Editor
Anthony Onwuli
Games Editor
Moving to a new place, especially a place as big as London, can be a disorienting and confusing experience.

