ISSUE 1698
FELIX
GAMES games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
41
Loading bar franchise: Server- Goldhawk Road Station , Secret Weapon- Stratford,
Scenario- Dalston Kingsland
A fantastic branch of gaming and boardgame bars spanning across London with some great events
such as weekly student nights (alongside fantastic cocktails), Mariokart tournaments and RPG
sessions. Hosting various consoles with a plethora of games which varies between bars, in the
case of Server (the nearest of the bars), you can find over 70+ Board games and Xbox One, PS4,
Nintendo Switch and mini SNES.
Draughts Hackney - Haggerston
A homely hangout where you can play boardgames with your friends whilst having a coffee and a bite to eat. With over 800+
board games this tabletop café is an astounding hub of all things tabletop. I know it sounds like quite the popular place, but if
you’re scared of not having a table when you get there, just reserve a table online to make sure nothing gets in between you and
boardgame bliss.
Namco Funscape – Westminster Station
Standing up to Las Vegas Arcade Soho’s reputation is Namco funscape a
massive complex containing a bumper carts arena, bowling alley, downstairs
bar and not to forget a gamer’s galore of token giving arcade games. Not
feeling flashing lights and glowing screens? Then head to the basement for
the bar, pingpong and snooker tables.
Four Quarters – Peckham Rye
Featuring 15 arcade cabinets and 10 retro consoles as well as a basement cocktail bar the Four
Quarters Peckham is quite the catch. Not to mention its theme parties and excellent selection of
craft beers, this place is definitely worth sparing a quarter for.
Dark sphere- Lambeth North
Looking for rare boardgames or just another Warhammer figurine to add to your collection? Then look no further, the dark
sphere has plenty to offer with its large tabletop collection and group sessions featuring Magic the gathering, Warhammer and Star
wars X-wing. Now don’t go spending all your student loan at once … seriously Warhammer figurines will bankrupt you.
Meltdown London - Caledoninan Road & Barnsbury
Hosting a large collection of gaming platforms, weekly tournaments and
showcasing of Esports streams, Meltdown London is the perfect spot for
Esport fanatics. With weekly Hearthstone tournaments as well as competi-
tions in CS:GO, LOL , DOTA and other mainstream Esport games. So don’t
forget to follow the four g’s of gaming: good game and git gud.
all things tabletop, video games and more!
So we’ve decided to breakdown the most important places you need to visit during your time in London!

