F E L I X
N E W S P A P E R O F I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E U N I O N
NO. 168 FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 24TH 1961 PRICE 4D
I.C.C.N.D.
RETURNS TRIUMPHANT
At the first I.C. Union meeting this term on
Nov. 16th, a motion "that I.C.C.N.D. be re-
instated forwith" was passed by a very large
majority. This reverses Council's decision at
t
h
e end of last term to disband the College
C.N-D. Group.
The Concert Hall was packed by 1.15 and
replying on the equation capacity = quorum, the
Executive decided that the meeting was quo-
rate. l.C. Secretary Martin Staccy read the
minutes and they approved in the usual man-
lier (i.e., with the house shouting "No\") and
Dr. Weale dealt thoroughly and briefly with
t
h
e accounts.
The first motion before the house was that
the proceeds of this year's Carnival be devoted
to some local charity: the charity suggested
w
a
s a local boy's club. Mr. Madison, propos-
ing the motion made a brief and convincing
speech and so did his seconder, Jon Bareford
w
h
o is this year's Carnival Organiser, but
neither was a match for Dan Elwyn Jones,
who leapt onto platform and made a passion-
a
t
e and very strong case for the Algerian re-
fugees in particular and refugees and starving
communities in general, proposing that the
proceeds go to War on Want rather than the
local charity. After a few more speeches from
t
h
e floor I.C. President Si Lyle rightly ignored
strict procedure (there were in fact two mot-
ions on the floor) and asked the house to de-
cide between the local charity and War on
Want. The result was overwhelmingly in fav-
our of War on Want: we hope that the Union,
having told the Carnival Committee which
charity to support, will give them every assist-
a
n
c
e in their difficult task.
Bv now it was two o'clock and the eagerlv
awaited I.C.C.N.D. motion came on to the
floor. It was proposed bv Bob Finch in a
rch nothing short of brilliant and by far
best of the meeting. He managed to cover
m
o
s
t of the relevant points in a short time,
to make an extremely strong ease for C.N.D.,
t
o deal wittily and effectively with heckling,
and to create a good impression with his aud-
ience. In the past Mr. Finch has had the re-
putation of making long, dry and humour-
l
e
s
s speeches and this one was a con-
siderable improvement. After this broadside
Brian Bond, S.C C. Chairman, made a brief
and effective speech, consolidating the propos-
ition's case, which could be summarised as:
i. The rule-breaking did not justify
ICCND's disbandment.
ii. The Group as a body had not supported
the Committe of 100.
iii. They fulfilled the concept of an I.C. Soc-
iety as much as any of the other polit-
ical, ethical and religious societies .
This completely refuted Council's pub-
lished case for disbanding CND and proved
to be unanswerable.
The opposition was pitful by comparison.
One gentleman spoke from the floor for what
seemed to be a very long time to absuletely
no effect and R.CS President Finlay Mc-
Pherson made a speech that was a master-
piece of passionate rhetoric and little else. The
only point that he made, that ICCND was a
Campaign and therefore not a proper society
had been dealt with by Bob Finch very effect-
ively, and Finlay's demagoguesquo style com-
pared unfouvorably with Finch's cool reason,
ing. The vote was practically unanimously
in favour of reinstating ICCND and the result
was received with acclamation. The newly-
authorised Chairman of ICCND, Frank Fuchs,
left immediately, grinning all over his face
to claim the ICCND notice-board heading
from the Union Office where it had eben lan-
guishing during their suspension.
The only other business dealt with was the
Swimming Grla at U L U which was an-
nounced, and the question of mascots-bearers
on this occasion. Nominations were put for-
ward hastily as the quorum disappeared rap-
idly out the door.
The standard of speaking at this meeting
was unusually high and most speakers seemed
to have grasped that time was at a premium
and made their speeches short. The abscence
of the usual bickering about procedure was
also appreciated and made the Chairman's job
a good deal easier. This was an unusually
pleasant and fruitful Union meeting, far bet-
ter than the procedure-bound slanging matches
that we sometimes have to endure.
EXTENSIONS TO GARDEN HALL
The Rector has announced his plans for
some of the miscellaneous property around
the College. The most interesting;, from the
students' point of view is that Garden Hall
is to be extended into the 4th and possibly
the 3rd floors of nos. 10 to 11 Prince's1
Gar-
dens. This should be accomplished by the next
session.
Otherwise only minor allocation changes
are envisaged for nos- 10 to 14 Prince's Gar-
dens, and demolition work on nos. 1 to 7 to
make room for the Sports Centre will start
next January. Building work on the Sports
Centre is planned to begin in May 1962.
The Lyon Playfair Library, at present over
Ayrton Hall, will move into no. 180 Queen's
Gate in March and demolition of the Ayrton
Hall block will start at Easter. The Staff Re-
fectories and Dept of History of Science and
Technology will also be moved into no. 180.
The most VITAL Politician
visiting I.C. this term
Lord ALEXANDER
of HILLSBOROUGH
(Leader of the Socialist Party in the Lords)
Hear him speak at
GENERAL STUDIES
next Tuesday. Nov. 28th at 1.30 pm.
ROOM 102 — RODEXJC BOX i

