C H U R C H SOCIETY
F O U R T H A N N U A L DINNER
The term "Angry Young..." has been ap-
plied to a number of people during the last
few years. It was, however, the title "Angry
Young Anglican" which the guest speaker at
church Society's Fourth Annual Dinner, the
Reverend Timothy Beaumont, applied to him-
self. He is the Editor of "Prism" and the
owner of "Time and Tide".
His speech was the culmination of yet an-
other successful annual dinner at which were
present some 110 people, including students
from Imperial College and the other colleges
in West London area of the University of
london Church Society. His anger, he ex-
plained, was due to the inefficiency which he
saw in the Church today both in the utilis-
ation of manpower and money, and he sug-
gested reforms which he would like to see
brought about.
The Chairman of the I.C. Church Society,
Anthony RusseUones, in his address, ex-
pressed the resets of all that this was the last
occasion which the Bishop of Kensington
would take the Chair before his translation
to Peterborough.
Ever had the
WOLF
AT
THE
DOOR?
then come and see the next best thing
when
I.C. D R A M A T I C SOCIETY
presents
TIGER AT THE GATES
DECEMBER 5TH, 6TH 7TH A N D *TV?
FELIX
S T U D E N T E X C H A N G E SCHOLARSHIPS
1962-1963.
We have received advance publicity of two
exchange scholarships, tenable at Zurich and
a German university. These scholarships are
worth over three hundred pounds for the
period October to July, and the College will
provide assistance to meet travelling ex-
penses. Candidates must have a sufficient com-
mand of the German language to be able
to follow laboratory and practical work, and
the Zurich scholarshop is open only to post-
graduates. Third year students or postgradu-
ates may apply for the other scholarship.
Full details may be obtained from the Re-
gistry.
T H I E F C A U G H T A T I.C.
On Saturday night a man was arrested in
the Union, and later convicted, for stealing
money from the cloakroom attendants' grat-
uities dish. He was fined £10 and ordered to
pay £5 costs.
George Elms, one of the attendants, be-
came suspicious the previous evening when
three shillings or so disappeared from the
dish while the man was handing over his coat.
On Saturday night he was able to catch him
red-handed. The man was not a student at
I C .
Y O G I K I D N A P P E D
See what publicity does for you! It was
only in the last issue of Felix that Yogi Bear's
arrival at I.C. was reported and eight days
later he was kidnapped. The incident occured
at the Friday's Chem.-Eng. Hop. Chem.-Eng.
2, now in official mourning, have been advised
of the kidnapping by those responsible and
ai the time of writing are considering retaliat-
ory measures. Any news of our beloved friend
is welcomed; contact us via the Union Rack.
3 -
C A R N I V A L
W A N T E D !
MEN, W O M E N , HANDS, FEET, MUSCLES.
BRAINS — T H E L O T !
You are needed madly, desperately, frant-
ically to help with the BIGGEST EVENT OF THE
YEAR ! Now is the time to show that sense
of responsibility you were endowed with,
that physical strength, that organising brain,
that artistic talent . . .
Well, even if you think you possess none
of these, you will find it worth while to get
involved in an enterprise that is, at its lowest
level, damn good fun, and, at its highest
level, a nobel effort to help many millions
who have never had it so bad.
The Imperial College Third Annual Char-
ity Carnival will begin a fortnight after the
start of the Summer Term. Unlike previous
years, we are starting with a float procession
round the neighoburhood on Saturday, May
6th, and finishing a week later with a fete
in Prince's Gardens, followed by a dance.
During the week there will be various other
activities such as a barbecue, an internation-
al evening, a film festival, and Grand Debate.
Also, the Carnival Magazine and raffle tickets
will be on sale.
Last year we raised about £1,000 for the
Oxford Committee for Famine Relief. (Lon-
don University as a whole, in another Carni-
val, raised £600) This works out about 8/-
a head. There is no reason why we shouldn't
raise £1 a head this year. Many other Col-
leges in the country have reached similar
figures. But we need as much help as we can
get — particularly in the first two terms, be-
fore examinitis sets in. Arrangements should
be practically complete by Easter; plans and
projects should be started now.
Can you organise a fete? Or wield a paint-
brush? W E NEED YOUR HELP.
Please contact:
The Imperial College Carnival Organiser,
Jon C.F. Bareford,
via the Union Rack,
or Weeks Hall.
R E C E P T I O N
7.00 p.m — 9.00 p.m. — 11.00 p.m.
TICKETS W I L L B E O N SALE NEXT W E E K
7/6 Single Ticket
C E L E B R A T I O N ( S T A G )
8.00 p.m. — 12.00 p.m.
IN T H E BAR A N D LOWER LOUNGE
ALL WELCOME
Lounge Suits

