- 4 FELIX
hWtA to iht [djfbL
Dear Sir,
Mr. Kubba's recent article in Scrutiny prov-
ided an interesting interpretation of "moral-
ity" in the Arab-Israeli dispute. I shall be re-
plying to this article in full in the next issue
of Scrutiny; however, it is essential for the sake
of honesty, that some of the more blatant fact-
ual inaccuracies be made known right now —
hence this letter to Felix.
•
Mr. Kubba said, "since the war, as a result
of American pressure, sympathy, etc.... all
barriers to immigration came down.", and that
the maintainance of these barriers "is to the
credit of the British." The fact is that the
British maintained these barriers right to the
end of the mandate despite the cost, financial-
ly, militarily, and to het reputation as a great
"liberal" power. It is believed that ONE
MILLION LIVES could have been saved had
there been no restrictions on Jewish immigrat-
ion before, during and after the war.
Mr. Kubba states that "Palestine was a land
already fully populated" and that "Arabs are
the righful inhabitants of the country." The
facts are that in 1936 there were only about
100,000 people in the whole of Palestine; to-
day there are over 2\ MILLION people, in Israel
alone, which occupies a much smaller area.
Moreover, nobody ever inhabited the swamps
and deserts which now form over 90% of
Israel's land area. Most important of all, it
should be realised that Arabs are not the only
people in the Middle East, and that Jews,
Kurds, Vruze and others have as much right
to independence as anyone else.
Mr. Kubba also spoke of a Jewish plan to
"eliminate" the Arabs in Palestine and that
the Arabs did not wish to "drive the Jews in-
fo the sea". This is an outrageous lie. The facts
show that exactly the reverse was the case.
Before the Arab invasion every effort was
made by the Jewish leaders to live peacefully
with their neighbours (refer to any reliable
source of information). It was the Arabs who
rejected the portion plan (which today the\
find acceptable) and further more it was the
Arabs who favoured the Nazi-like process of
"elimination"; to quote; This will be a war of
extermination and a momentous massacre
which will be spoken of like the Mongolian
massacres and the Crusades," said Azzam
Pasha, Secretary-General of the Arab League,
on the eve of the British departure.
Finally, Mr. Kubba speaks of the misery of
the Arab refugees. This is a fact. The great
tragedy and most contemptible aspect of Arab
"morality" in the Middle East is that these
poor unfortunate human beings are being de-
liberately kept in this state by their own
"brother" as a weapon in the propaganda war
against Israel. I have ample evidence to sup-
port this disgusting allegation.
Yours etc.,
H. LEVITT
Felix
Pub
Guide
by KEG
NO. 3.
THE NAG'S HEAD
The Nag's Head in Kinnerton Street, off
Knightsbridge, is one of the smallest pubs in.
London. It retains it? old-world atmosphere
without becoming artificial, unlike some other
pubs near I.C. The original bar has been ex-
tended by incorporating another room at the
back, but it still retains its painted China
beer-pump handles. In the basement there is
another small bar with a squint into the up-
per bar. The main attraction of the lower bar
is a large musical box, which plays a variety
of Victorian pops, using large punched steel
discs as records. Although the pub is a Ben-
skin's (Ind Coope) hquse, it serves draught
Red Barrel (Upper Bar) and Guiness (Lower
Bar). Kinnerton Street is the first turning on
the left down Wilton Place, which is off the
south side of Knigjhtsbridge, 300 yards east
of Sloane Street.
Dear Sir,
I never realised when I came here that
would be such a large number of men and suc
a small number of women, and I would like
take this opportunity to give the famale v
i
point on the seemingly interminable war o
the sexes which may nod but never sleeps
In the first place, most men at I.C. displa
a remarkable lack of common politeness w
they come across an ICWArian. To open a
door for a young lady is usual practice in
polite society, but it doesn't happen here
From this I can only infer that common po
iteness is unknown to the men here.
Secondly, who on earth told these drun
sots that they are the answer to the maide
prayer! They assume that an unshaven, lo
mouthed, rugby player is the dream of eve
ICWArian. Their attitude can be summed u
as follows; "I play rugby. I drink beer. I a
a good chap, so all my bar friends tell me.
Therefore, any young ICWArian will be
thrilled to 'death if I offer her one or two bee
embraces. Let's go I" Saturday evening is
terrible night, for us anyhow.
Third, and last, why do they always loo
at us as though we had fust crawled out r&
the gutter. None of us I'm sure, think of ou
selves as potential Helens, but are we that b
I think not. It's very difficult for us at this
College, and the attitude of the men here
doesn't make it any easier. We'd like to b
treated as ordinary human beings and not as
coffee and portable sex-machines, to be lus
after on Saturday evenings and ignored d
ing the rest of the week.
In conclusion, I'd like to say that not all
men at I.C. are of the type I've describe
On the contrary some of them can be charm
ing; they are polite, considerate and helpful
Why, oh why, can't you all be like thatl
Yours faithfully,
A.N. OTHER
EDITOR'S N O T E :
For obvious reasons, the name of this young
lady has been witheld.
Dear Sir,
What is this College coming tot A month
ago, a few friends of mine and myself wen
into the bar for a quiet drink. What happen
We are set about by an unruly crowd oi
R.C.S. freshers and we have our trousers
moved and I lose a pair of shoes.
A few days later, a close mate of mine
walking up the stairs carrying a 60i lb. heav
piece of metal and he is set upon by a grea
mob of R.C.S. proles and relieved of it
which he undertook to carry of his own free-
will.
Sir, this conduct cannot continue. You
have printed in your columns two letters
moaning the uncouthness of the present I.C
students, and I wish to add my voice to th
plaintive cry in the hope that a small am-
mount of couth will seep through this sin
if iniquity which is I.C. (specifically R.CS.
in fact).
Yours Alcohollicaly,
p.p. ALCHOLICS UNANIMUS

