fa-cram
FELIX
by COLCUTT
And now we have had a Union meeting, what
a fine bunch of fellows we are! We all be-
lieve that the Carnival should be directed
towards doing good to those most in need
of it (and I wonder how many of those ap-
plauding so vigourously twill actually take
an active part?), and we also believe in the
right of every man ta express his opinion at the
Union's expense. All we need now is for the
Union to join N.U.S. (that hardly annual in
Union politics) and thus save the students
who are going to save ten pounds on cheap
travel the expense of paying the fifteen shil-
lings individual membership. Long live the
Campaign for Celtic Freedom.
The CND debate left a number of impres-
sions; the terrible weakness in organisation
of CND's opponents, the scrupulous fairness
and complete characterlessness of Si Lyle's
chairmanship, the quiet confidence, sureness
and competence of Mr. Finch, the mob-ap-
peal approach of Mr. Bond, and the impot-
ent rage behind Mr. McPherson's neurotic
outburst. On the whole a lively meeting,
guaranteed to improve the ego of all those
present.
Last year's secretary of the Union, Jim
Carter, reports flying saucers, wit'i cups at-
tached, sailing past his window. Apparently
Now Felix is crammed with news of debag-
ging sessions and Scrutiny is more than ever
a vehicle for propaganda, the first issue of
Phoenix this term comes as a welcome breath
of fresh air. Slimmer than usual, it is still
well worth buying. This issue is given a wel-
come degree of unity by John Munday's draw-
ings which are used throughout, but the lay-
out, also by John Munday is not quite so
good. The aim was obviously to make the
layout simple straight-forward and effective,
but the result tends to be pedestrian. How-
ever, it is satisfactory and devoid of useless
frills and gimmicks.
Rush's cartoons, of which there are four,
are more mature both in subject and execut-
ion than most of his previous work, and help
towards the good balance of this issue.
One cannot compare the work of student
writers, especially students at an all-science
cqllege, with the best professional writers,
and naturally we do not except Phoenix to
come up to these standards, so your reviewer
hopes that his remarks will be taken by the
writers as constructive rather than as a con-
demnation of them. The usual complaint
made about Phoenix is that while the writers
are competent enough and produce occasional
brilliant patches, they cannot sustain them and
their work seems uneven and unbalanced in
quality. Tony Musgrave, whose "Story" stands
above the rest of this issue, is a good example
of this. He is obviously an observant and a
very sensitive writer, and his sensual, outward-
ly inconsequential tale invites comparison with
one of the crazj residents of his establishment
(no connection with any similarly named or-
ganisation) is suffering from Galloping Ath-
lete Head. The usual symptons are a tend-
ency to tie a cup and saucer on a long piece
of string and then to race back and forth
along the highest flat roof you can find, dang-
ling the icupt-anu-saucer assembly over the
edge.
The sport machine in the Union gents
has proved an absolute boon to the scruffs
of the Union. Subtle use of a bent sixpence
has led to the electric shaver's going full
blast for the last few days, generously giving
free shaves to all and sudry.
A complaint has been received from a hos-
pital in West London about the men from
I.C. who go to their nurses' hops. Apparent-
ly they are such callow youths that the nurses
don't know what to do with than and vice-
versa, so could we please send some more
mature men along. They omit to state whether
the desired maturity is to be physical or
mental, so the beer-and-rugger and the soc-
ialist-humanist fraternities had better send a-
long a contingent each to ensure the nurses'
satisfaction.
D.H. Lawrence's stories. But whereas Law-
rence can sustain his vivid and daring phras-
ing and similes, Musgrave lapses occasionally
into ordinary and rather dull passages. Never-
theless, "Story" is an impressive, confident
work; the unconventional touches appear as
an integral part of the texture and not merely
as gimmicks, and the whole story has a pro-
mising sureness of touch about it.
Howard Glover writes a more convention-
al short &\aiy,"Let's Forget If, with a rather
oonvetional twist in the ending! The general
impression is one of compeence rather than
brilliance, for the story is well-balanced and
effective and the atmosphere of the dirty cafe
and the bored, frustrated youths in it is well
captured, but one misses the virtuosity that
distinguishes "Story". John Graham is again
competent, effective and brief and Emelyn
Jones writes an ingenious tale in a style that
falls between two stools; not delibrately and
absolutely pedestrian so as to turn the whole
thing into a fable, and not quite colourful
enough to keep up the interest all the time.
Musgrave consolidates his position with
some mature and lively comments on the con-
temporary novel and its background and
there are also some poems which your re-
viewer is not competent to comment on, ex-
cept to say that Alan Ablewhite's "Priests
in the Sun" appears as the most successful.
An enjoyable issue, but could we have more
of it next time?
1
t *
DAVE WILBRAHAM
Dave first came to I.C. from Stockton-on-
Tees in 1957 to do Chemical Engineering. He
rapidly got to grips with Union activities and
became Hon. Jun. Treasurer of the the Film
Society. From this post he proceeded through
the ranks of Secretary and President of that
society, being at the same time connected with
the Conservatives of the Union. Work-wise
he graduated after three years with a first
and stayed on to do research on radia-
tion heat transfer.
In the summer of 1960 Dave stood for
Chairman of the SGIC. but was defeated.
This turned out to be the luckiest event so
far in his college life since he then became
convenor of the proposed R.C.C.. Later he
was elected unopposed as the first Chairman
of that Committee.
Having decided that research was, not the
easy thing that he first thought it to be, he
decided that his Union (activities this year
would be severely curtailed, and with tvpical
efficiency he was elected on to Union Coun-
cil as Guilds Rep. However the Wilbraham
power complex came to bear once again and
an hearing that the DeputifPresidency of
U.L.U. was vacant he decided to stand. In
spite of being the official underdog in the el-
ection he got in, "probably," he &a\d,"be-
cause I was less well-known and therefore
less disliked."
Dave is a familiar half-a-figure round the
Union and can frequently be seen in the bar.
It is rumoured that he only goes there because
somebody told him that beer was good for
the scalp. He appears to have his share of
the fair sex, but is never to be seen around
I'.C. with a woman. This causes considerable
speculation: perhaps his girl-friends are all
serven-foot monsters.
Despite his official position in U.L.U. the
most important of all his activities is the capt-
aincy of the B.2. rugby team. This is ex-Jim's
or die I.C. Accidentals and includes four
members of Council and last year's President
and Secretary of the Union.
I am sure that we all wish Dave success in
his job and hope that his supervisor continues
under the; delusion that he is having a big
think.
Felix apologises to Dave Wilbraham for its
statement that he was elected Vice-President
of U L U . He is in fact Deputy President, *
much more important position.
PHCENIX
BY O U R LITERARY CORRESPONDENT

