FELIX
An IC Motor Club?
6
A N I C W A R I A N L O O K S A T R U G B Y
Of all the esoteric pastimes, rugby (or
perhaps one should give it its proper title of
Rugger), is the most unintelligible to the fe-
minine mind. The mixture of schoolboy en-
thusiasm, masochism and sheer brutality that
constitutes this purely male preserve, defies
description, except possibly in purely Freud-
ian terms. It would take the uninitiated a long
time to understand even the jargton, let alone
the philosophy of the game, that is, if there
is any philosophy attached to it.
The first thing that strikes one is the com-
plete disregard that the originators of the
game of the game had for the meaning of
words. In the game of rugby, there are two
centres, four threequarters, and the attack con-
sists of the backs (who presumably fall upon
the opposition from behind), while the defence
is made-up of forwards, who defend from an
advanced position, a philosophy of warfare
that would not, one thinks, have recom-
mended itself to Napoleon. A centre, semant-
ically speaking, should be in the middle, while
one would suppose threequarters to be three
and not four in number, unless of course they
should be referred to as f s, which makes non-
sense of halt backs, who are threequarters of
the way up the field for most of the game.
One, of course, refuses to accept the idea that
the half backs are not all there, or rather,
only half-there. In any. other case, this would
be taken for granted, but it seems necessary,
to be very explicit when referring to rugby.
According to the best authorities, a loose
head prop, is not a player with a dislocated
vertebra, but the gentleman (!) who holds the
hooker up, whilst he himself has his head
free. O n the other hand, the head prop holds
down his position not, as one might think,
because or his nightly communings with the
god of wine, but because of his ability to
told up the hooker and, at the same time,
to prevent his opponent in the opposite front
tow <a loose head prop and not a tight
head prop, as one would, with justification,
deduce) from performing the same service for
his hooker. This leads, one must admit, to
soine confusion. One more ambiguity arises
in the case of the lock forward, sometimes
known as the "number eight", although the
number on his shirt is 14, but in South
Africa, apparently the lock forward plays in
the second row of the scrum. One can imag-
ine some inexperienced lock forgetting that
he is, in fact, a number eight, and trying to
play in the back row, while his South Africar.
team-mate who plays lock when at home, is
desperately trying to find room for himself
in the second row. That doesn't sound quite
right, but any errors due to ignorance can
easily be rectified by experience.
Next, one must deal with the jargon, which
is complex, confusing and, quite often, very
suggestive. Brutal is not nearly strong enough
to describe the usual phrases which are uttered
every Saturady afternoon. Cries of "Feet I
Feet I Feet\" rend the air; "Do that again
and I'll break your bloody neck." "Stop bit-
ing my ear or I'll fill you in\" and hundreds
of other such terms which are in every true
sportsman's vocabulary, are heard during all
rugby matches and are quite audible on the
hockey pitch next to the rugby fiield.
But the most baffling bits of descript-
ion usually go like this: "We got the
ball against the head, and I broke on
the blind. 'Their wing forward was offside,
for a start, and then he attacked me after I'd
passed to the fly half. What makes it worse,
the whistle had already gone, for foot-up, and'
I was in touch anyway." What on earth does
all that mean?
At present C. & G. has a Motor Club with
the very large membership of over 120, R.C.S.
has a very small club of about 10 members,
and R.S.M. at the time of writing has no
Motor Club, but if certain plans are success-
ful, it will have one within a fortnight.
R.C.S. holds occasional meetings, but the
response does not warrant further meetings
oncei a fortnight. Some otfi the activities of
these meetings are mentioned later.
If there were an I.C. Motor Club, the ex-
cellent facilities and organisation of Guilds'
Club would be avilable to all the motor en-
thusiasts of I.C.
The main objection to this is that some
people think that rivalry between the colleges
over the upkeep of the motor mascots would
be lessened. Utter rubbish! Is the rivalry on
Morphy Day between the College crews less-
ened because the! following week the I.C.
crews will consist of members of all three col-
leges? Of course not! B y all means have
branches of thei 'I.C. Motor Club', existing
in each College to maintain the College char-
iots. If anything, rivalry may be increased; it
certainly will not be lessened.
What about it them, motor enthusiasts of
I'.C. — the formation of an I.C. Motor Club?
R.C.S. Motor Club.
The Club was formed in 1955, i n order to
keep 'JEZ' in running order as a ceremonial
chariot for the President of R.C.S. secondly
to act as a Motor Club for enthusiasts.
'JEZEBEL' (a 1913 Dennis Fire Engine) was
purchased in 1955 from J. Cornfields Ltd. of
Warrington, the soap manufacturers. Perhaps
a load of free samples had been carried down
on her.
The Club is a member of the Historical
Commercial Vehicles Club which holds ral-
lies from time to time. A t Basildon, in Sept-
ember 1960, 'JEZ' won a driving test trophy,
there being about 50 entrants in this class.
Each year 'JEZ' goes to Beaulieu, although
she has not met with any success yet. She also
goes to Sjlverstone for the) veterans' racing
I.€. Musical Society
ORCHESTRAL CONCERT
M O N D A Y , N O V E M B E R 27TH 1961
at 6.00 p.m.
in the PHYSICS COMMON ROOM
Physics Building to be followed by a
BUN-FIGHT (musical evening)
to which all musicians in the College
are invited-
Only two courses are open to the ICWA-
rian. She can learn about the game, in which
case she'll probably find that men disgust her,
or she can remain in blissful ignorance, and
only find out how horrible is the rugby-play-
ing male, after she's married one. B y that
time, it's too late anyhow. The best advice
on the subject is, probably, don't go out with
rugby players. Stick to hockey players. Then,
at least, you'll know what they're talking
about.
P.H.
rally and to Brighton, 'JEZ' is not eligible to
enter for either of these, but goes along for
the fun of it.
During term time, 'JEZ' has to be kept in
running order, a few works visits are being
arranged, and a treasure hunt is also being
arranged for next term. Support in the form
of mechanics, polishers (ladies of R.C.S.,
here is your chance to shine) and drivers (who
must be over 21) is urgently needed.
C. & G. Motor Club.
This Club was formed essentially to cater
for everyone interested in motoring, whether
he be a novice or an enthusiast. It also main-
tains 'BOANERGES' in running order. The pre-
sent 'BO' is a 1902, 2\ litre James and Browne
chariot; previously 'BO' was a 1908 Rover,
which, unfortunately, came to grief in 1928
at the hands of some hooligans from Kings.
The Club holds meetings once a fortnight
on Fridays when, talks are given or films
shown. The talks are often given by people
of the motor industry, and by well-known per-
sonalities of the track. The Club is hoping to
be addressed by John Surtees and Eric Oliver
this year. One film which they are hoping to
show next term is the second part of 'The
Heroic Days' and is entitled 'History of Rac
ing'. This is a new film and should prove fasc-
inating to everyone who enjoys the thrills of
the race track. Visits to motor firms (Lotus.
Aston Martin) are made each year. Two ral-
lies are organised each year, one of which
was held last Sunday and the other is due to
take place in the Spring term.
'BO' enters that epic for veterans cars
the- London to Brighton Run and only
on two occasions since the war has she been
unsuccessful!: once >he was not entered and
the other occasion was when he exceeded the
average speed limit of 20 m.p.h.
The time taken this year was 4 hrs 40 mins.,
the only troubles being, slightly faulty navig-
ation at one point, over-heating due to the
new plugs, and a tremblercoil packing-up
temporarily so that she was running one cyl-
inder only.
m res entertainments production
DEC lsl O N E GUINEA

