F E L I X 7 -
Four of the cast of "Tiger at the Gates":
(Above) Ann Hunt (Andromache) and Bryan
Hooper (Ulysses); (Below) Simon Adlam
1
(Hector) and Chris Petri (Helen).
D E B A T I N G SOCIETY
On Thursday Nov. 9th the Debating Soc-
iety met in the Concert Hall to debate the
motion "That this house would rather be Red
than Dead." The attendance was an improve-
ment upon that for the first debate, having
risen to the astronomical figure of 120 per-
sons. The speakers were:
For:
Mr. John Cox and Mr. Combes
Against:
Mr. Assist Chandmal and Mr. George Turner.
John Cox gave an outline of the Com-
munist idea of Communism — a striving for a
materialistic Utopia, and used this as a basis
for his contention that "17 is better to be Red
then Dead". He thought that the main argu-
ment against the motion would be that under
a Red regime one's personal 'freedom" would
be curtailed. He attempted to refute this by
quoting the Cuban situation; viz. that it would
eb better to be free to choose one's job and
thus be able to obtain the necessities of life,
than to be free to say what one liked (and
in all probability, starve). The pitfalls of this
arguement are obvious.
The opposition produced two themes a-
gainst the motion. The first was concerned
with the impossibility of living in a society
which various atrocities were committed (such
as the purges in the 1930's» and the second
was on the question of "freedom". George
Turner compared an advanced (Communist
society with those in "1984" and "Brave New
World" and stated ;
n essence that he would
rather be dead than a conditioned Red. In-
cidentally George Orwell's concept of Russian
Society had beetn refuted by Mr. Combes but
with little qualification.
There were again some mtellingent speeches
from the floor and when the motion was put
to vote it was carried by a majority of two.
The voting was as follows: 52 for, 50 against,
and 16 abstentions.
On the whole it was a good debate, there
being a good balance between the serious
and the humourous. The Chairman, Dick
Lewist made a request for speakers for com-
ing debates, so if you feel you have some-
thing to say, contact him through the Union
Rack.
RIFLE CLUB HOP
A Y R T O N H A L L
DECEMBER 2 N D , 7.30 P . M .
PRICE — HALF-A-DOLLAR
BAR and SNUGGERY
W A N T E D Cool-cat guitarist for strictly non-
cultural rock 'n pop group. Anyone interested
please contact F.D. BARKER via Physics Rack.
l.C. G R A D . has two seats vacant for long
week-end ski-ing in Scotland. Feb./March,
depending on conditions. Phone after 6.00
p.m. St. Albans 53343.
1 SWOT'S B A L L (double) ticket Dec. 8th
55/- only. J. White, Room 43, Weeks Han.
LOST on Putney towpath a dark green rain
jacket. J. Davis, 1M, C. & G.
T H E B E T R O T H A L is announced of Bryan
A. Slim (RSM) to Miss Margaret Blanchard.
a physiotheraphy student in Birmingham.
Minesmen would wish them every success.
I . C . W . S . c .
M e n ! Where do the women of I.C.
spend their leisure hours? It's quite obvious
by looking around the Union — youll find
them keeping fit in the squash courts, gym,
table tennis room, even that masculine strong
hold the billiards room. A keen set of freshers,
who are already taking a prominent place In
the teams, have added a lot of enthusiasm
to that shown in I.C.W.S.C. activities last
year
The hockey team although recovering from
bruises suffered in their match against the Soc-
cer Club, still manage to do well against their
fairer opponents. Perhaps, it does help to have
our first proficient goalkeeper in the histofy
of I.C.W.SC.
There are five keen ICWArian members
of the Sailing Club, two of whom hold I.C.
colours and often represent the College in
matches. Penny Howard is doing well in the
University B points races; and if she con-
tinues in her present form has a good chance
of winning the series, provided that her mast
does not break again!
The Table Tennis Club is now in the third
division of the U.L.U. League and are again
running a ladder for any interested ICWA-
rians. For those would exchange a shuttlecock
for a ball,, LC.W.S-C. also run a women's
badminton team which plays in the league,
so far undefeated (victorious in one match!*.
Our other activities include squash, swim-
ming, athletics, tennis, and netball so there
is plenty of scope for everyone (women only').
BRIDGE CLUB
On Monday, October 30th, we held our
first duplicate pairs event in which 12 pairs
took part. The results were of a fairly high
standard, but although two slams were bid at
most tables, only one pair reached a very good
small slam in hearts on the following, hand:
Game All; Dealer, South.
S. N.
KQ 87 63
AQ 105 J 984
K 1062 A 8
5 A K Q 82
The hand is a good example of dummy-
reversal play by South. Since the King of
Hearts was on the right side, declarer had
only to ruff one Club in his own hand in
order to set up the dummy, losing one trick
to the Ace of Spades and so making his con-
tract of six Hearts.
The next pairs event will be held shortly,
and anyone interested in taking, part should
watch the Bridge Club notice board
F A B U L O U S O F F E R ! Make money in your
spare time. Do it yourself string vests! Got
to clear stock! 200 yards best quality twine
and 2 gross holes in assorted sizes. Apply:
George, Monday, Weeks Hall.
T H E I . C - Musical Society Gramophone
Record Library is open every Friday between
1.00 and 2.00 p.m. To find follow the signs
in the Guilds Library (over Ayrton Hall).
T Y P I N G and D U P L I C A T I N G undertaken.
Theseis, reports, books, etc. Quick service.
Contact: — Miss Brock, Int. Tel.: 2273
(Botany).
F O R S A L E 1 pair Bally Sports climbing
boots, size 10. Guaranteed low mileage. £5.
Contact: — A . G . Alcock via Union Rack.
S M A L L A D S .

