Page 14
I.C. WATER POLO CLUB
On Tuesday 20th two I.C. teams turned up
to play in the ULU League at Malet Street.
I.C. 1 was to play Guys Hospital and I.C. 2 was
to play St. Thomases.
I.C. 1 was the first to play. We got off to a
fast start with Philip Mills scoring a goal with a
hard shot from the left wing. Guys however,
with tight marking and accurate passing,
were able to level the score almost
immediately. I.C. repeatedly pushed forward,
but were foiled by tight marking. In the
second and third quarters, Guys scored
another couple of goals after rapidly breaking
from their men. Dave Roberts played well in
goal, but had difficulty stopping the "Cannon
Ball" shots that were produced by Guys
centre forward. In the last quarter after a hard
push forward by I.C., Dave Dunstone got
fouled very hard and was awarded a penalty
which he got. Guys scored the last goal to
bring the final score to 2:4.
Team: D. Dunstone, P- Mills, D. Roberts, B.
Bradley, D. Papacostantinov, B. Davies, N.
Buckland.
I.C.2 now played their game against St.
Thomases.
The IC forwards pushed forward from the
throw in, and Pat Porter was able to score
from a good pass completely taking the goal
keeper off his guard. I.C.'s next goal was also
scored by Pat with a long shot from the right
wing.
St. Thomases gained possession of the ball
and scored a lucky goal. They were, however,
completely out played and were not given
another opportunity to break. As if to stress
that I.C. were very much in control Pat scored
his third goal of the match by neatly placing
the ball through the goal keeper's hands.
In the second half of the game Dave
Roberts scored after swimming up the left
wing. IC's last goal was scored by Dimitri
Papacostantinov with a flick shot from in
front of the goal. The final score to a well-
deserved win by I.C. was 5-1.
Team: P. Porter, D. Roberts, D.
Papacostantinov, B. Davies, M. Cherry, B.
Bradley.
O n Thursday 22nd I.C.1 played another
game in the U L U League against University
College.
The goal scoring was opened by Dave
Dunstone with a strong swim up the pool and
a hard shot in goal. U.C. pushed back but
were prevented from scoring by good
marking by our backs. Dave scored I.C.'s
second goal after an accurate pass from the
back. In the second quarter U.C. put a lucky
shot past Dave Roberts who was playing in
goal for the first two quarters. However
almost immediately Philip Mills scored after
breaking off his man. I.C. was playing well as
a team with tight marking and covering back,
because of this play U.C. were given little
opportunity to score.
In the third quarter U.C. pushed forward
and scored with a very hard and accurate shot
which left our goalie standing. I.C. pushed
back immediately with another goal scored
by Philip The score was pushed up to 5:3 by
the end of the third quarter, our other goal
being scored by Dave. In the final quarter
CROSS COUNTRY CLUB
As Sunday paper sports readers may have
seen, Mike McLeod won the National Cross
Country Championships at Luton last
Saturday and Gateshead won the team race.
What the papers didn't tell, however, was of
the fortunes of the I.C. team. Now read on.
In an epic race in which Steve Ovett could
come no better than 6th and Brendan Foster
only 19th, the mighty Stu Littlewood
astounded everyone to finish a magnificent
five hundred and fifty ninth. Steve Webb, of
somewhere in the Blackett Laboratory and
captain of Hercules Wimbledon, was
shunned by his own club and so chose to run
for us, contributing 617 points to the team
score. Bryan Acford failed abysmally in his
attempt to beat Brendan Foster, but
nevertheless just about finished in the first
half of the field in 833rd place. Geoff
Sherwood, running in his first National,
successfully broke the four figure barrier to
be 987th. March Pickard, having competed in
a 55 (five five) mile charity race in Manchester
earlier in the morning (!), arrived minutes
before the start and pushed his day mileage
to 64 whilst finishing 1034th.
Meanwhile, Rich Harrington and Pete
Johnson were having a private battle to see
who could finish closest to the number on
their vest. Rich (1321) won by being 1317th,
and thus completed the I.C. scoring team,
and Pete (1323) was a close second in 1334th.
Our team total of 5347 points (only 5149
behind Gateshead) was sufficient to leave us
in our usual position of about 100th.
Mark Thwaites, competing in the Junior
race against many people a year older and
vastly more experienced, completed the
tough 6 miles course in 443rd place.
Unfortunately, since Mark was our only
competitor we were unable to repeat last
year's performance when we finished the last
complete team.
Once again the selectors have ignored the
potential wealth of talent that we possess in
the club, and chosen the first 9 finishers to
represent England in the International in
I r e l a n d . We m u s t o b v i o u s l y c l a i m
independence for I.C. and thus send our own
team.
This report was brought to you by your on-
the-spot team of observers - Steve Kirk (Team
Manager), Maurice Wilson (Team Recorder)
and Ian Morton (Photographer).
T A B L E TENNIS
By the time this report is printed, I
shall undoubtedly have been beaten at
the R.C.S. Pressy Elections and be just
the T . T . Publicity nobody again ah,
well, on with the show and all that
T w o weeks since the last report (luckyjohn
Harris!) due to lack of matches, but the two
results from a fortnight ago are: -
C U P M A T C H (away)
I.C. IV v D E P T . O F E M P L O Y II 4-5
The fourths did extremely well against a
team two divisions higher (having beaten D
.of E in the previous round) but were just
edged out of the cup this time. Rutherford
won three matches and Lambert one.
I.C. v F U L H A M V (Home) 3-6
Another defeat for the thirds means that
they will be the least successful I.C. side this
season - guess who plays for the thirds! Last
week, a disaster for the 2nds against
G A I X S F O R D IV. the top team in Div. V .
H a d the 2nds won. they would have gone top,
but they lost 5-4 away, with Tye and
Rutherford winning two games each. O n the
bright side however, second place (and hence
promotion) is virtually assured now.
I.C. 1 v T H A M E S W A T E R A U T H . 8-1
Another rampaging win for the firsts keeps
their hopes of promotion very healthy, with
only a handful of matches to play. (You can
dp it K u m a r ! ) .
F a r less successful were I.C. IV v
B A R B I C A N II (Home). This 5-4 defeat
seriously impaired - nay, has almost certainly
destroyed, their promotion hopes unless a
couple of minor miracles occur - like the
thirds beating B A R B I C A N in two weeks
time.
Also last weekend saw a small I.C.
contingent (plus several U . L . U . players from
I.C.) in the Thames Polytechnic O p e n
Championships.
T h e most successful player was K a r t i k
L a k h a n i (Chem 2) who reached the quarter-
final of the men's singles, but Rutherford,
Stean and Singarajah were less fortunate,
being eliminated in rounds two or three.
Here's hoping I haven't drowned at the
S w i m m i n g Gala,
Super M o r o n
Dave scored yet another goal for I.C. to make
the final score 6:3. I.C. winning a well played
game, and hopefully starting a long string of
wins yet again.
7eam: S. Taylor, D. Dunstone, P. Mills, D.
Roberts, N. Buckland, S. Hadden, B. Bradley,
J. Grove.
O n Friday 2nd March I.C.2 played a
Middlesex League match against Hounslow.
The match started with a couple of I.C.s
players not present. In the first quarter
Hounslow seemed to have played all their
own way, they scored three goals by breaking
through I.C.'s slightly disorganized defence.
However, in the second quarter IC pulled
together as a team and stopped most of
Hounslow's breaks at goal. Hounslow,
however, still managed to score one goal with
a good pass and flick in front of our goal.
In the third quarter after the arrival of Dave
Chadwick, I.C. played an attacking game.
Dave opened I.C.'s scoring after a swim up
the pool and a shot into the left of the goal. He
scored another two goals in rapid succession
with fast and aggressive play. Hounslow were
awarded a penalty halfway through the
quarter due to a slight misunderstanding, and
with that, pushed the score up to 3:5.
In the final quarter Dave was awarded a
penalty which he got and Hounslow managed
to score one more goal to make the final score
4:6.
Team: D. Chadwick, M. Cherry, P. Porter, C.
Dale, E. Iverson, B. Bradley, B. Davies, D.
Papacostantinov, S. Madden.

