Page 3
When the cat's away....
By now the "great FELIX scandal" will be common knowledge, and by this time
next week it will probably all have been forgotten. Personally, I am very relieved
that the story concerning our Litho-charges has come to light and deeply grateful
to those who helped me come to the decisions that played a part in its exposure.
Although I was bothered about the rates when I was Business Manager it has taken
six months of my Editorship to get around to doing anything about it.
Hopefully the situation will improve from now on, but one or two things still need
to be said.
Firstly, there is no danger of the Union taking over FELIX. The Print Unit belongs
to the Union anyway: the final say in what is or is not printed belongs to Pub.
Board. Production of FELIX has always been the responsibility of the Editor as, I'm
sure, it will continue to be.
Secondly, although FELIX, and hence the Union, has gained plenty of new and
expensive equipment as a result of the deception, such deceit cannot possibly be
justified. It's this kind of "ends justify the means" argument that has perpetuated
the fraud for so long. Clubs and Societies have a right to know what they are being
charged for, and they should certainly not be used to subsidise this unit. The "We
know what's best for you in the long run" attitude is a very dangerous one indeed.
One man show to Democracy
Another complaint that is levelled at FELIX from time to time is that it is a clique.
Hopefully, the new FELIX constitution will smash that impression once and for all.
Whilst retaining Editorial Freedom, the Editor is now part of a committee which
regularly discusses the content and policy of FELIX. Also, this structure will make
it easier to attract and retain student volunteers who want to help on the paper,
especially during Freshers' Week which is, in any case, a very busy time for the
Editor. All in all it should create a more sociable and open FELIX.
Doubtless this will come as a great blow to those who would rather retain power
by restricting information or hide behind a host of technical terms. All I can say to
them is, tough!
A subscription has yet to be fixed, but as soon as it is FELIX will be open for
general membership. Also, papers for next year's committee will be going up next
term so if you're thinking of standing....
The Future
Final details have yet to be worked out, but as of July f st there will be three new
rates for Litho-printing as well as the new typesetting facility. But, increased load
on the print unit will inevitably cause delays, resulting in a much longer turn-
around then at present.
Forthcoming Events
After the meaty stuff there are a few events you should know about. There will be
a Lunchtime Prom in the Consort Gallery on Tuesday 13th March at 1:00 p.m. The
programme includes Vaughan Williams, Bach and Vivaldi, played by the Consort
Chamber Orchestra.
Today sees the Grants Demonstration march from DES to Hyde Park. The aims
are to stop grants falling below the cost of living, ending of financial dependence
on parents and ending discretionary awards. The NUS didn't want us to go on this
march, so there's an added i ncentive. Constact Tim Hillyer or Mary Attenborough
in the Union Office for further details.
Notification of Meeting
The Annual General Meeting of the Athletic Grounds Committee will take place
just before the Results U.G.M. at 1:00 p.m. on Thursday 15th March in the Great
Hall. All members of the Union are invited to attend this meeting which ratifies next
year's committee.
Vandalism
As a result of mis-use of the College headliner machine during the scramble to
produce election publicity, the door to the headliner room will, in future, be
locked. Anyone wanting headliner for official Union work only will have to come
and see me for the key.
Credits
Many thanks to everyone at IC Radio especially John Allen for so quickly
installing a speaker in the FELIX Office. It really makes working at night a lot
easier. To "Harvey and the DJ", who gave us lots of laughs on Wednesday night as
well as playing our requests, all I can say is, Paste-downs indeed! Cheers,
John
PS. Don't forget to vote!
Dear Sir, - Just because I think tHe
Socialist Party of Great Britain is
a contraversial organisation that
can provide an interesting and
entertaining discussion does not
mean I agree with it. I would have
preferred it if you had kept my
name off the end of the article.
I would like to reply to Miss
Pratt's points (the editor has
requested me to be brief).
Although it may not appear so
superficially, men have more to
gain from freely - available
abortion than women. A m a n can
easily evade all responsibility for
looking after a woman and his
child by telling her to go and have
an abortion. T o kill her own child
goes against all a woman's
maternal instincts, however far
removed a woman may imagine
the foetus to be. H o w many
women who do not wish to have
an abortion are bullied and
p r e s s u r i s e d by b o y f r i e n d s ,
parents, husbands etc. into
having one?
Yes, of course abortions is a
traumatic experience. That is
another reason why organisations
like P A T A try to help a woman
who wishes to avoid one in every
way they can.
T o justify killing a person
because he isn't really h u m a n
because he's 3 " long is as
ridiculous as saying someone can
be killed because he is not really
human because he's got black skin
(or because she's a woman!)
N o matter how good a person's
reasons mav be I would not like
T H E M to decide to take M Y life
no matter how m u c h they may
think it is for my benefit.
The presence of abortion
provides the powers - that - be
with a good excuse for not
improving the conditions in
society for adequate care of the
" u n w a n t e d " child.
W i t h the shortage of children
for adoption in this country it is
quite easy for a woman to give her
child to selected foster parents if
she cannot bring it up "the way
she wants to". D o you think
having her child adopted is more
traumatic for a woman than
killing it?
Neither I, nor P A T A , are
putting any pressure at all on Miss
Pratt to have (conceive) a child.
It's her choice, not ours. But once
the child is created it is the duty of
Miss Pratt and everyone else in
society to respect its right to live.
Conception from rape is
extremely rare. A n d rape isn't too
common either.
Most of the other points Miss
Pratt raised were dealt with in my
first letter. I suggest Miss Pratt
reads my first letter again.
Barry Austin
Dear Sir, - I a m writing to thank
our College Administration and
our Student U n i o n for the actions
they have taken concerning the
sudden change in the interpret-
ation of the grant regulations, due
to which my local authority has
now rectified its decision on my
eligibility.
I emphasize my gratitude to
our Rector for his genuine belie!
and support for equality in
education, and his concern with
students' welfare. I would also like
to thank our Registrar, M r . M e e
and our Deputy Registrar, M r .
W a r d , for their sympathy and
understanding of our worries
about financial difficulties. M r .
Mee has written and telephoned
many times on my behalf. I
believe this has had the strongest
influence upon the education
department.
People who deserve my special
thanks are our welfare adviser
vnd the President of our U n i o n .
Being a graduate in law, M i c h a e l
Arthur has exerted tremendous
efforts w i t h his p r o f o u n d
knowledge to elucidate explicitly
the m e a n i n g of ' o r d i n a r y
residence' in his very well written
essay, which has impressed the
education authority. Above all, it
was o u r P r e s i d e n t , M a r y
Attenborough, who first brought
our grievance to the attention of
the Rector and the Governing
Body of the College. Also I
appreciate greatly the numerous
letters sent and visits paid to the
M P ' s c o n c e r n e d a n d t h e
Department of Education by our
President, to whom I sincerely
express my gratitude.
Finally, and most importantly,
I must mention that there are
seven students who are still
deprived of a grant, unreason-
ably. I have heard that the U n i o n
is planning to take legal action on
their behalf. I hope this will be
successful.
In a word, I a m glad that our
College cares abeut the welfare of
its students. I proclaim the
injustice of the difficulties
inflicted upon the students
concerned and I request your
support in their imminent legal
battle.
F.Y. L i
C h e m . Eng. 1
Dear Sir, - Reports in F E L I X are
usually concise, I'd always
thought due to lack of space.
Election manifestos are cut at the
300th word. W h y then was a
1,743 word (1,753 including title
and credits) piece of propaganda
for T h e Socialist Party of Great
Britain included in last week's
issue?
Surely this kind of material is
better suited to fly-postingby the
relevant society, (- in the same
way G o d Squad plague everyone
with St. John's Gospels) - at their
own expense. Also I'd like to know
if, to make it fair, you propose to
print similar length 'manifestos'
from the Conservatives, Liberals,
Communists, Scottish National-
ists Party, National Front ....
Rachel Snee

