Page 5
DHSS Begging Letter
Are you one of the lucky
many who recently received a
begging letter f r o m the
Department of Health and
Social Security?
What is being asked of you is to
cough up in the form of Class 3 or
Voluntary contributions. If you
pay these it won't entitle you to
unemployment benefit or sickness
benefit but they do count towards
less immediate benefits such as
M a t e r n i t y G r a n t , W i d o w s
Benefit, Retirement Pension,
Child's Special Allowance and
Death Grant. If you want to pay
them there is a special concession
for students (and people in prison)
in that these contributions can be
paid any time up to the end of the
sixth tax year following the year
your course (or imprisonment)
ends.
Another point worth bearing in
mind is that it is possible to get the
basic pension at the standard rate
despite a five year gap in your
contribution record and you are
credited with contributions for
the years in which your 16th, 17th
and 18th birthdays fell. So even if
you have faith in the continuance
of civilisation - as-we-know-it for
long enough to allow you to get a
pension, so long as you don't have
any more time off during your
earning life, the fact that your
contribution record for your time
at college isn't fully paid up
shouldn't materially effect your
position.
As far as the maternity grant
a n d t h e d e a t h g r a n t a r e
concerned, the cost making up
your record is likely to exceed the
amount you would get back even
if you d i d become eligible for
those grants!
If you want to go any further
into this fascinating topic I've got
lots of relevant leaflets u p in the
Welfare Centre but if you decide
to send the aforementioned letter
to its rightful destination - the
wastepaper basket, it is unlikely
that you will have to regret it.
Michael A r t h u r
Welfare Adviser
Unrest at U L U
The University of London Union is going through a stormy time at the
moment, with discussions and arguments continuing over a proposed
new Constitution.
At the moment there are three separate bodies responsible for
running the Union - The Sports Council, The Societies Council and the'
Students' Representative Council.
The two sabbatical officers are elected by and responsible to the
Annual Assembly of all three Councils. Therefore they are accountable
to a body which only meets once a year, which is rather undemocratic.
For several years now, attempts have been made to introduce
changes to the Constitution which would make the Union more like
other Unions, with elected executive and sabbatical officers
responsible to one overriding Electoral Body which meets more than
once a year!
Therefore it's been proposed, as a result of much long hard
bargaining and discussion, that constituent colleges should send
delegates to a Union Council which would meet at least 8 times a year,
and from which the Executive and Officers would be elected. Also, 2
members of the Executive would be nominated from each of the Sports
and Societies Councils.
So far, all progress on changing the constitution has been blocked by
the Sports Council who are paranoid that they might lose some of their
power with the introduction of democracy. However, an emergency
meeting of the Assembly of Councils was recently called, and both sides
(i.e. Sports Council versus the rest) were keyed up for a battle, but due
to some very bureaucratic bungling and appalling Chairmanship, the
meeting had to be adjourned. It's now been called again for Wednesday
21st March, and I hope that this time (it last coincided with the Rector
speaking at Council) we can send our full delegation. Our mandate is
quite dear, because all that is being proposed is that University Union is
run along similar lines to our own Union here at Imperial.
It has become a matter of urgency because the new Statutes of the
UR+vfi«rsity allow for student senators for the first time, but we have no
means of electing them at present.
Looking for Work Next Year?
There's still time to stand for the post of External Affairs Officer for
next session, so if you're at all interested, then don't hesitate to contact
me to find out about the (enormous!) amount of work involved.
Meanwhile, don't forget about the Grants Demonstration today,
especially if you're one of the many affected by the means test.
We've just taken delivery of another 1000 copies of National Student.
If there's not any in your department, then they're outside the FELIX
officer
Sheyne Lucock
External Affairs Officer
Mistaken Identity
A chapter from the everyday life
of a Union Hack.... Scene: The
waiting room of a health centre
dMtewhere in Prince's Gardens.
Seated, stage left, jean-clad
student contemplating nervously
his imminent encounter with a
hypodermic needle. Enter from
stage right a Health Centre
official. Sees student and
speaks.
"Waiting for the doctor?"
" M m m "
"Aren't you something in the
Union?"
"Yes...Welfare Officer"
"Don't be silly, you can't be - I've
met Michael Arthur...."
T h e a b o v e s i t u a t i o n will
become all too familiar for the
person who iS elected as next
year's Welfare Officer. For those
of y o u who don't know, Michael
Arthur is the "Welfare Adviser"
and as such is a full-time Union
employee; the Welfare Officer is
an elected student post.
The Welfare Adviser concerns
himself with running the welfare
centre (3rd floor Union Building)
where he gives advice and help on
such matters as legal problems,
a c c o m m o d a t i o n , c o n s u m e r
advice, dentists etc.
j The Welfare Officer represents
I.C. students in welfare matters.
He checks that the Union and
College Welfare services are
being run correctly and also
considers ways in which they may
be improved. The Welfare Officer
works closely with the Welfare
Adviser and so provides him with
useful feedback as to the current
problems and feelings of the
student body.
The job entails: -
(1) Sitting on I.C.U. Council (3
meetings a term)
(2) Chairmanship of the Union
Welfare Cttee. (meets every 2-3
weeks on a Tuesday lunchtime).
This body exists to discuss
current welfare issues and is a
fruitful source of ideas.
(3) Membership of the following
College Cttees (one meeting of
each Cttee per term)
Student Residence Cttee
Student Welfare Cttee
Medical Services Cttee
Overseas Students Cttee
Nursery Steering Cttee
So if you're thinking of standing
you have until 17.00 on Monday.
The paper is up in the Union
Lower Lounge for the election at
the U G M on Thursday 15th
March.
Personally I have found the job
to be fascinating - it's amazing the
kind of things you find out!
Paul Davey
Welfare Officer 1978-1979
Elk Encounters of
the Election Kind
Well folks, the time has almost come to put your m a r k
against the name of the candidate you most prefer for the
sabbatical officers - and I'll explain exactly the sort o f m a r k
you will be m a k i n g (At least I hope you'll be m a k i n g - there's no
need to vent your sexual frustration o n the ballot paper). A s I
said last week, the voting system used at Imperial is called
S T V (standing for single transferable vote). Instead of just
nominating one candidate by an X as is done i n general and
local authority election you can place all the candidates i n an
order of preference by (believe it or not) n u m b e r s 1,2,3 etc.
T h e good thing about this system is that it does not lead to two
candidates, who attract support broadly from the same quarters,
'splitting' their votes and letting a 3rd candidate not quite as popular or
well qualified get elected, it roughly works like this: T h e first count sorts
out the papers into piles of first preferences for the candidates, and if the
leading candidate has got less than half the votes cast (called the quota),
then the last person's votes are reallocated i.e. his second preferences are
then taken into account and redistributed among the remaining
candidates. This carries on until (a) the leading candidate has got more
than half the votes cast, counting second, third preferences etc. or (b)
there is only one candidate left. - In both cases that person is elected.
Well d i d you understand all that? You're a better person than me if
you did. A l l I can say is that I've definitely made H o n . Sec. the most
sexual post there is this year and I will continue to play erotic games
with next year's set of U n i o n officers long alter I've ceased being H o n .
Sec.
N o w don't forget - vote M o n d a y or Tuesday - bring your U n i o n C a r d
- it's your U n i o n . If you can't be here on M o n d a y or Tuesday ior a good
reason e.g. job interviews you may vote in advance, come up and see me
in the U n i o n Office, ravage my body lor a couple of minutes until I cry
" n o more" a n d I'll see what I can do (even if you don't ravage me).
Cheers,
M i k e E l k i n
P.S. Don't forget the results U G M - T h u r s d a y 15th M a r c h , 1 p.m.,
Great Hall, Election ofother U n i o n Officers and spicey sexual games
involving all sorts of bizarre fantasies.

