Page 7
Day B y Day f l
A ROUND-UP OF LAST W E E K ' S NEWS J ^ J f |
Wednesday 28th
Computer Shakespeare
A n old hypothesis states that if a crowd of
monkeys were to tap endlessly and at random
on typewriters they would eventually write
the complete works of Shakespeare.
Dr. William Bennet, professor of physics at
Yale University, has thrown fresh doubt o n
the hypothesis. He calculated that if a trillion
(1,000,000,000,000) monkeys were to type 10
randomly chosen characters at the rate of
one a second it would take, on average, more
than a trillion times as long as the Universe
has been in existence to arrive at: "To be or
not to be, that is the question."
Dr. Bennet believes that with the use of
rules based on the frequency with which
letter combinations occur in a given language
a computer programmed to simulate the
hypothetical monkeys could achieve in
minutes some startlingly intelligible, if not
quite Shakespearean, passages.
During one all-night run he was presented
with the output, ' T o dea now nat to be will and
then be does doesorns calawroutrould."This
is the nearest the computer reached to
achieving the celebrated passage in Hamlet.
Thursday Ist
Steam train marks Paddington anniversary
The 1929-built G W R 4-6-0 class locomotive
King George V left Paddington Station for
Didcot to mark the 125th anniversary of
Paddington station.
Thousands turned out to watch it make a
nostalgic day trip with 600 enthusiasts on
board. A brass band gave it a send-off as
crowds waved from bridges, footpaths and
stations.
The King George made the 53 mile trip to
Didcot but an overheated axle-box meant
that it could not make the return trip to
Paddington.
Beggar dies leaving over a quarter of a million
A legless beggar known as "Eddie the
Monkey M a n " because of the monkey he
used to help him panhandling on the streets
of Washington for more than 30 years, died in
Florida leaving an estate of $691,000.
In 1972, another beggar accused him of
using the money he earned on the streets to
buy property in Florida. Eddie said at that
time, "If I had money and property do you
think I'd be sitting out in the cold all day? If
you think begging is a good life ....just try it."
Friday 2nd
Devolution Referendums
Ministers appeared ready to accept that
there now is no possibility of pressing ahead
with devolution even in Scotland where 32.9
per cent voted Yes. A s for Wales, which
produced a derisory 11.8 per cent Yes vote,
the issue is a dead duck.
Traffic wardens back to normal working
After five months of free parking, motorists
will have to begin feeding parking meters.
1,300 traffic wardens employed by the
Met. Police will return to full-time work.
They have been working to rule since last
October over a 9-and-a-half per cent pay
claim. The wardens decided today to resume
normal work while their case was sent to
arbitration. During the dispute wardens have
banned overtime and refused to issue tickets
and reset meters.
Editor to be chosen for MAYFAIR
It is something of a record in Fleet Street
that for five years there have been no editorial
vacancies in a certain magazine but
M A Y F A I R - "entertainment for m e n " is
perhaps an understandable exception.
No fewer than fifty applicants have applied
for the job of editor. Journalists, from
veterans of what someone called the second
oldest profession to bright eyed young men
clutching shorthand certificates have all
shown interest in the job.
The present editor, Mr. Kenneth Bound,
said that the particularly successful applicant
will "be groomed to lead MAYFAIR into the
eighties "'
"/ don't think there are many people who
can conceive of a job part of which is to sit in
an editor's chair and decide whether a young
lady has the right figure or not to model. It is
an interesting diversion."
Saturday 3rd
Second referendum in Scotland?
The Prime Minister is being urged to
consider a daring plan to keep his
government alive. He has been asked by pro-
devolution M P s to give voters a second
referendum in Scotland. Their grounds are
that the electors were not able to understand
the ins-and-outs of devolution.
Coronation Street vote
Disaster will strike at the Rover's Return
and viewers were asked who they would like
to see out of the programme. 362 said Albert
Tatlock should go because he was an old
misery. 24 said all of them should get the
chop and 2 voted Jor the cat.
Sunday 4th
Carter calls in 5ada
A last effort to save the camp David
agreements has been made by President
Carter. He is urging President Sadat of Egypt
to come to Washington for talks with him and
Mr. Begin before the Israeli Prime Minister
leaves the USA.
Mr. Begin spoke today of President Carter
as "an honest man" and "my friend" but he
also determinedly refused to describe him as
an honest broker. He encouraged the view
that Mr. Carter is supporting the Egyptian
side in negotiations which Mr. Begin
continues to describe as "in a deep crisis".
Indian and Pakistani medicine men to be
studied
A three-year study into the activities of
Indian and Pakistani medicine men among
Britain's immigrant communities is to lead to
a recommendation to the D H S S that they
should be regulated but tolerated.
The man in charge of the project, Professor
Stanley Davis, believes that " H a k i m s " and
"Vaids" perform services that cannot be
directly replaced by Western medicine.
A herbal preparation called Reserpine
taken in India for centuries, is now being used
by Western doctors as an effective treatment
for hypertension and migraine, while a
medicine called Vinchristine, prepared from
the periwinkle, is now being used to alleviate
leukaemia.
Monday 5th
Storm breaks over nurses pay
Britain's nurses were offered a 9% rise - a
pay offer virtually identical to that made to
workers who did their best to disrupt the
Health Service.
The first reaction from the nurses, who last
month refused to take any action that would
harm patients, was disgust and anger.
No more Scotch Whiskey for Amin
Britain banned, this evening, the 'whisky
airlift' that has pumped supplies of Scotch to
President Idi Amin. Amin's shattered army
are poised for a fight-to-the-death counter
attack in Southern Uganda on forces intent
on overthrowing him. The Department of
Trade order forbids all air cargoes leaving
Britain for Uganda from now on.
Elton John named top British singer
Capital Radio awarded 31 year-old Elton
John the title " T o p British Singer". Elton was
embarrassed and said that 'new wave' singer
and writer Elvis Costello should have won.
Kate Bush was named best British female
singer and best British newcomer.
Tuesday 6th
Vietnamese agree to peace talks
Vietnam agreed to meet China for peace
negotiations. However, Chinese troops must
be withdrawn from Vietnamese Soil before
talks can begin.
China claimed an "important victory" over
a "swell-headed and extremely arrogant"
Vietnam. China termed its action in Vietnam a
defensive counter-attack against repeated
killings and shootings of Chinese border
guards and civilians.
There has been no reliable information
from Peking on the progress of the Chinese
withdrawal.
Prince Philip teaches Russia a lesson
Prince Philip inspected the Moscow
Olympic equestrian facilities today. H e
pointed out that there weren't enought seats
for the dressage events.

