10 felix Friday 2 November 2007
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk Science
The internet has made access to news
and sharing of information extremely
simple. The success of video sharing
website YouTube shows how popular
and easy it is to share and recommend
videos to other people, with many get-
ting more than 1 million views.
Even established news websites such
as the BBC and CNN encourage more
information sharing by allowing read-
ers to bookmark stories on Facebook
or to get news direct to their mobile or
email. Millions of people can be read-
ing a single news story or viewing the
same video simultaneously, in which
case these stories are said to have the
population’s collective attention.
However, as popular as they might
be at the time, interest in a news story
can rapidly decline and the novelty
can soon wear off, be it from a lack of
people spreading the story or from too
much exposure.
Using the novelty news website digg.
com to do their research, scientists in
America have studied the collective at-
tention of 1 million users to see if they
could quantify the loss of novelty.
For those of you unacquainted with
digg.com, the concept is simple: news
articles from the internet, both novel
and serious, are posted by the users of
the site. Users have full control of what
is displayed, by recommending stories
Christiana Christodoulou in the “Upcoming Stories” section to
other readers. Users who ‘digg’ the
story in this manner increase its digg
rating, keeping the story on the front
page.
As one would expect, on breaking a
story generates a large amount of in-
terest, which increases as news of the
story spreads, but this interest soon
decreases as the novelty wears off. This
is reflected by the rate at which a story
receives a digg.
Eventually a story is removed from
the main pages and put into the ar-
chive sections where it generates little
interest.
For their research the scientists
quantified the novelty of a story by a
factor known, unsurprisingly, as the
novelty factor. They found that this
factor decays rapidly approximately
two hours after the story is first shown
on the front page, declining to less than
0.03 after three hours as promotion of
the story decreases.
The researchers propose that the de-
cay time of 2 hours is linked to some
natural in-built attention span of a
large population. If so, these findings
could be useful to advertisers who rely
on the spread of information within
a large population, and along varying
time scales.
Others researchers point out that the
types of stories with high ratings tend
to be those that have little impact on
society but just provide something to
relate to and be intrigued. For example,
stories on Paris Hilton going to jail for
drink driving offences or Amy Wine-
house has going to rehab.
At the time of writing the top three
digged stories of the American website
from the past 24 hours include “Fash-
ion tips for women from a guy who
knows dick about fashion,” “5 scientific
reasons a Zombie Apocalypse could ac-
tually happen,” and “Marijuana is not a
drug, it’s a leaf, says Schwarzenegger.”
You might as well check them out
now; they’ll be gone in a few hours.
Such is the rise and fall of news
stories.
Neophiles’ attention span gauged
If you’re one, you’ll be moving on to a new story soon. But not before you’ve finished reading this one mind!
Digg.com, not too long after this article was written. And yet already,
nary a sight of Arnie and his dubious dope defenses
Scientific Zombie attack reasons, apparently: brain parasites,
neurotoxins, the real rage virus, neurogenesis and nanobots. Avoid all
“Digg stories:
Fashion tips from
a guy; Scientific
reasons for
a Zombie
Apocalypse &
Marijuana: drug
or leaf? Arnie
decides.”

