Realise equality,
celebrate diversity
Student RISE Week November 5th – November 9th 2007
RISE Week is a London-wide anti-racism event supported by the Mayor of London’s Office and the NUS
Black Students’ Campaign. The Union is hosting RISE as a celebration of our multi-cultural society at
Imperial. With the theme ‘Realise Equality, Celebrate Diversity’, we will be bringing together food, films
and art to showcase the cultural diversity that thrives on our campus and give you the opportunity to
experience and learn about new cultures and backgrounds.
Imperial from an International
Student’s Perspective
Are you an international student? If so, we want to hear about your
experience of Imperial as a University and what living away from home is
like in London. Imperial is launching a brand new website in December and
integral to the website will be real life interviews with students and short
films showing your friends and prospective students your opinions, ideas
and perceptions.
If you are interested in telling other people about your time at Imperial
please get in touch with Kirsty Patterson at dpew@imperial.ac.uk who will
be able to put your name forward for selection.
Culinary Delights
Try your taste buds at something new with a different International Dish
every day in daVinci’s! If you choose the days special dish, with culinary
extravaganzas from Spanish Paella to Ghanaian Chicken Jollof Rice, you will
also receive a free Fairtrade Fortune Cookie with your meal!
Foreign Film Festival
Imperial College Cinema are hosting a Foreign Film Week with Award winning Film ‘Volver’
and the acclaimed International Collaboration ‘Motor Cycle Diaries’ topping this weeks bill.
Don’t worry if your Spanish isn’t up to scratch as there will be English Subtitles! See both
films on either Tuesday or Thursday in the Union Concert Hall for only £3 for one film or £5
for both.
In 1952, two young Argentines, Ernesto Guevara and
Alberto Granado, set out on a road trip to discover the
real Latin America. Ernesto is a 23-year-old medical
student specializing in leprology, and Alberto, 29, is a
biochemist. The film follows the young men as they
unveil the rich and complex human and social topography
of the Latin American continent.
With a highly romantic sense of adventure, the two
friends leave their familiar surroundings in Buenos Aires
on a rickety 1939 Norton 500. Although the bike breaks
down in the course of their eight-month journey, they
press onward, hitching rides along the way. As they begin to see a different Latin America in
the people they meet on the road, the diverse geography they encounter begins to reflect
their own shifting perspectives. They continue to the heights of Machu Picchu, where the
majestic ruins and the extraordinary
The Motorcycle Diaries
9pm,Tuesday 6th
6pm,Thursday 8th
Volver is a mixture of my previous films: “Mildred
Pierce” and “Arsenic and Old Lace”
, combined with the
surrealistic naturalism of my fourth film, “¿Qué he hecho
yo para merecer esto!!” (“What have I done to Deserve
This?”)
The story is set in Madrid with its lively working-class
neighbourhoods, where the immigrants from the various
Spanish provinces share dreams, lives and fortune with a
multitude of ethnic groups and other races. At the heart
of this social framework, three generations of women survive wind, fire and even death,
thanks to goodness, audacity and a limitless vitality.
They are Raimunda (Pénelope Cruz), who is married to an unemployed labourer and has a
teenage daughter (Yohana Cobo); Sole (Lola Dueñas), her sister, who makes a living as a
hairdresser; and the mother
Volver
6pm,Tuesday 6th
9pm,Thursday 8th
Monday
Country: Italy
Dish: Lasagne
No. of Students: 178
Distance from London: 1,176 miles
Capital City: Rome
Tuesday
Country: Spain
Dish: Paella
No. of Students: 146
Distance from London: 1,068 miles
Capital City: Madrid
Wednesday
Country: Ghana
Dish: Chicken Jollof Rice
No. of Students: 9
Distance from London: 3,172 miles
Capital City: Accra
Thursday
Country: Mexico
Dish: Fajita
No. of Students: 0
Distance from London: 5,466 miles
Capital City: Mexico
Friday
Country: China
Dish: Sweet and Sour Chicken
No. of Students: 1,172
Distance from London: 5,277 miles
Capital City: Beijing
Student RISE Week
November 5th – November 9th 2007

