politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
12 felix Friday 2 November 2007
Politics
Politics Editor – Li-Teck Lau
A pre emptive strike on Iran?
With Iran still defying US pressure to end its nuclear program, the West and its allies may act unilatterally
Kadhim Shubber
As a person who is interested in poli-
tics (deduced from you reading this
article), you might just know a little
bit about the Iran-U.S. nuclear dispute.
Well this week that is what my article is
about but instead of talking about the
right and wrong of this conflict – be-
cause inevitably I’ll fall into the trap of
unrestrained, outpourings of anti-U.S.
sentiment which plagues all peoples
of Arab origin – I will instead update
all you politically minded scientists on
how likely it is that we’re going to be
spending Christmas in underground
bunkers or watching “shock and awe”
Tehran style on the BBC.
So first question, are the Iranians go-
ing to bomb the UK? Unfortunately I
can’t read the minds of the Iranian
government but I can tell you a few
reasons why they might and why they
won’t.
One of the most common miscon-
ceptions that pervade the minds of
Western people is that Iran is a tradi-
tional dictatorship with maniacal Pres-
ident Ahmadinejad at the top; a Sadd-
am Hussein figure in Tehran. In fact,
while the Iranian government is not a
liberal democracy, there are many dif-
ferent groups and factions vying for in-
fluence in government; some of which
are opponents of Ahmadinejad. Essen-
tially there is no one person with their
hand over a red button labelled WAR,
sitting in a suitably menacing room
just waiting for their finger to slip; well
not in Iran anyway. However this is the
current situation and another result of
the political situation in Iran is that it
is possible that one faction i.e. hard-
liners will benefit from the pressure
being applied by the U.S. and become
the dominant group. To make it a lit-
tle clearer, currently there are enough
groups with different interests in Iran
to make it unlikely that the Iranians are
suddenly going to disturb your Sunday
lunch. However in our attempts to en-
sure this, we may be giving ammuni-
tion to hostile elements within Iran
who thrive on the idea of the Western
threat to the Middle East.
Now lets try that again but the other
way around. Is the UK, or more likely
the U.S. or more likely still Israel going
to launch an attack on Iran? Well… no,
well… maybe, well… yes. These three
answers aren’t because I can’t make up
my mind. It’s because these three na-
tions will behave differently given the
same situation. Let’s look at the UK.
With the Army stretched to breaking
point, the public literally throwing up
at the idea of war and Parliament be-
ing given the final say on going to war;
it’s just not going to happen. In the U.S.
the answer is a little different. While
no politician on Capitol Hill is ruling
out military action, it would seem that
military action in the Middle East has
lost credibility.
At the same time though, it would be
foolish to underestimate the ability of
Americans to see the world in terms of
good and bad, friend and foe, us and
them. The real problem of the Iraq
war in the U.S. isn’t that our Atlantic
friends are morally averse to conflict
but that the plan doesn’t appear to be
working. It is unclear whether or not
the U.S. would again embrace conflict,
given the right man (or woman) with
the “right” plan. I answered the ques-
tion of the UK fairly simply and so too
will I answer the question of Israel.
While only a fool would suggest that Is-
raeli troops are going to push through
Syria and Iraq to take a pot-shot at the
man who wanted to wipe their nation
off the map, a person of similar intel-
ligence would suppose that Israel will
not take direct action. In 1981 Israeli
jets – in a unilateral surprise attack –
bombed the light-water nuclear facility
in Osirak to prevent the development
of Iraq’s nuclear program. Only in Sep-
tember this year Israeli jets bombed
a suspected Syrian nuclear material
store.
The point I’m putting to you is not
that Israelis are war loving maniacs
who only need someone to give them
a reason, instead I’m pointing out that
pre-emptive strikes are an acceptable
part of Israel’s foreign policy and cer-
tainly in the case of Iran’s nuclear pro-
gram, Israel will not hesitate to attack
if it feels sufficiently threatened.
Regardless of whether or not the cra-
zy people who run this world are going
to get us killed, let’s look at what the
Islamic Republic of Iran could do to
strike the UK in the event of some irate
Iranians getting their way. Primarily it
could cause trouble for British troops
in Iraq. We’ve been told that the Irani-
ans give support to insurgents in Iraq
and that Iranian weapons have been
used to kill our soldiers in southern
Iraq. Since this is already happening, I
should add here ‘apparently’ to keep a
healthy level of cynicism, then what I
mean to say is that the Iranians could
cause more trouble for our troops in
Iraq. In addition it could be feasibly
conceived that Iran could also give sup-
port to the Taleban in Afghanistan. So
along with capturing unarmed service-
men in the Gulf, Iran could indirectly
attack our troops.
Serious stuff but admit it, for the ma-
jority of us, it doesn’t affect our daily
lives. This leads me back to the nuclear
issue. Of course if Iran is develop-
ing nuclear weapons and simultane-
ously ballistic missile technology then
the situation is on a different level of
risk. Nuclear weapons in the hands of
people willing to use them or at least
willing to give them to non-state ac-
tors who are willing to use them cer-
tainly pose a massive immediate risk
to the UK and the Western world. But
here’s the problem, do I or anyone else
know that Iran is developing nuclear
weapons? The U.S. and Israel say that
it is but Iran vigorously denies this. As
scientists we are taught not to believe
or disbelieve something until we are
shown evidence that strongly or defi-
nitely suggests one or the other. Well
there is certainly no direct evidence of
the Tehran Project but also there is no
way to prove that Iran is not going to
develop nuclear weapons. While you
may have already decided, I reserve
judgement pending real evidence. Iran
has not been linked to terrorist groups
operating in the UK and so the main
threat that it poses is to our troops in
Iraq and Afghanistan. Excuse me if I
am complacent but the Burger King on
Gloucester Road is likely to be safe for
some time yet.
Israeli fighters ready for pre emptive strikes against Iran
I hope I’ve given you a measured
picture of the current situation with-
out out too much diatribe but in my
closing paragraph I’m going to give it
my all. I’m a very pessimistic person,
although I don’t believe that this con-
flict is inevitable it seems to me that
both Iran’s, Israel’s and the U.S.’s ca-
pacity for diplomacy is lacking. While
I’d hope for either side to work towards
meaningful dialogue I worry that the
few “strong leaders” at the top will ig-
nore their people’s desire for peace and
prosperity, their longing for security
and stability and their aversion to vio-
lence and conflict.
Iranian President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad reclines into his seat in Parliament

