16 felix Friday 2 November 2007
Culture &
The Arts
Arts Editors – Mike Cook, Rosie Grayburn, Caz Knight and David Paw
Budding culture vulture? Write for us
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
David Paw
Arts Editor
I
was thinking about art the
other day. I thought about what
it constituted, its many defini-
tions and the lack of definition
that it ultimately had in its cur-
rent form. Which is by no means a bad
thing. Art is broad, should be broad,
and defined by the individual.
We all have our own ideas of what
constitutes “art”, falling into aesthetic
definitions and ideals, and schools of
thought – self-expression and so forth.
Though most if not all, would agree
on The Establishment, everyone else
fights and disagrees about Jake and
Dinos Chapman, splatter paintings, in-
terpretative dance and mime.
Though the merits of more vague,
less accepted endeavours are less well
appreciated, they are by no means less
valid as systems of thought or creative
outlets. We will always struggle to de-
fine our environment through creative
and artistic mediums.
As crazy as it may appear at times,
the risk-takers and the unafraid are
ultimately the ones asking the ques-
tions and challenging what we think
we know, what we think we want, our
perceptions of beauty and indeed, what
constitutes “art”.
Why is there so much detritus in
modern art at the moment? Who
knows. There could have been as much
debris in previous eras – but all we’ve
been presented with, and all that has
been talked about has already been es-
tablished. The best and the definitive
– they already did away with all the
crap. Even Banksy is cashing in at ma-
jor auction houses – who’s to say the
intelligentsia won’t be speaking about
him with high airs given time?
Similarly, there are still some who
believe that art is a bowl of fruit and
still life. Clearly not you – you’re read-
ing Felix Arts, after all – but that is the
other end of the spectrum. Somewhere
along the way, architecture is still dis-
credited as a viable art form, and they
are not entirely wrong – essentially de-
signing structures for clients does not
seem highly glamorous or definitive of
creative endeavour.
But conversely, at the zenith of the
craft is the best architecture, that most
complicated of art forms. The concep-
tion of a striking yet functional struc-
ture that has to be able to be appreci-
ated by those perhaps not that way
inclined day in, day out, within the
constraints of a client’s personal taste,
budget, and the intricacies of other
real-world guidelines.
Which brings me to this week’s issue
– heavy on the architecture, and jus-
tifiably so, with fourth-wall-removed
mime thrown in for good measure,
courtesyofEmilySteele–checkouther
review of the impressive production of
Behind The Mirror at the hidden gem
that is the Blue Elephant Theatre. Caz
Knight gets to grips with an emotion-
ally charged production of War Horse,
finding there’s more to puppetry than
lukewarm seaside shows.
A little less conversation?
Emily Steel is transfixed by one of London theatreland’s concealed gems
A
young man prepares to
propose to his girlfriend.
He shaves, he flosses his
teeth, he squeezes a spot.
He checks himself out in
the full-length mirror, and is pleased
with what he sees. He practises get-
ting down on one knee and pulling a
ring from his pocket. He lays the table
for dinner. He straightens the plates.
He lights a candle in the centre of the
table. And when his back is turned,
his reflection comes through the mir-
ror to steal his woman and ruin all his
plans…
Behind the Mirror is the first UK
production from Theatre Ad Infini-
tum, a new company formed by recent
graduates of the Jacques Lecoq theatre
school in Paris. The Lecoq school spe-
cialises in physical theatre, storytelling
through movement. It has a reputation
for rigorous training and for producing
impressively skilled and creative per-
formers. Behind the Mirror is further
evidence that this reputation is thor-
oughly well deserved.
The performance space at the Blue
Elephant Theatre is kept almost bare.
There is a blue frame on wheels that
stands in for a mirror. Other than
this, there is no set, and there are no
props. The physical world of the play
is imaginary, entirely created by the ac-
tors – George Mann, Deborah Pugh,
and James Turpin – who remain on
stage at all times. Through gesture and
sound they conjure up doors, walls,
tables, telephones, cigarette lighters, a
machine gun, an electric shock. They
speed up time and they slow it down.
When they speak, it is nonsense lan-
guage, but through it they convey anxi-
ety, a desire to please, indecision, the
pleasure of wickedness, and the awful
emptiness of loss.
A word about the Blue Elephant
Theatre. It is tucked down an unlikely
street in Camberwell. The nearest tube
is Oval, and it’s a fair walk from the sta-
tion. The theatre has a map on its web-
site, which is lucky, because it would
be tough to find without one. But it’s
worth making the effort, because this
is a hidden gem. The venue is welcom-
ing, with a good-sized black box thea-
tre and a friendly bar, and the show is
nothing short of delightful.
It’s a simple story: boy loves girl, boy
loses girl to his own reflection, boy
enters alternative dimension on the
other side of the mirror and fights his
reflection to win back his love. It has
mime, clowning, slapstick, pratfalls, a
good-hearted hero, a spirited heroine
and a delicious villain. It is inventive,
irreverent, charming and funny. It is
also surprisingly moving and funda-
mentally human.
From the moment it begins, the audi-
ence is captivated. There is no ‘fourth
wall’ in this production – the actors
acknowledge and engage with us, and
so we too play a part in the illusion.
When the young man’s evil reflection
steals the candle off the table, he hands
it to a man in the front row. Finding
the candle missing, the young man re-
trieves it. In the time in between, the
man in the front row keeps a careful
hold on his piece of invisible wax. It
speaks volumes.
The performances are precise, com-
mitted and generous. George Mann,
also who directed and conceived the
show, is particularly talented. He plays
the young man with a vulnerability
that lends pathos to the comedy, and
his technical ability is remarkable. He
does extraordinary things with sound:
when he polishes the plates before lay-
ing them on the table, he makes them
squeak, and in this tiny detail he lets
us know how clean they are, and what
kind of quality the china is. After a fall,
he stands, gives a lopsided grin and lets
out a little whistle, and we see the blue-
birds fly round his head.
At we sat down in the theatre, my
friend Susannah said, “I hate mime.”
By the time it was over, she was con-
verted. This production is wonderful.
They say it lasts an hour but it feels as
if it flies by in about twenty minutes. I
could have watched it all again. I will
look forward to Theatre Ad Infinitum’s
next show. They’re a young company
to watch.
Theatre Ad Infinitum’s Behind
the Mirror is running at the Blue
Elephant Theatre, Camberwell,
until 10th November. For more
information head to the website:
www.blueelephanttheatre.co.uk
The production is a tour de force in narrative, finding innovative and imaginative ways of telling a story
Zhang Yimou meets Will and Grace. In Camberwell
The Joey reruns clearly took their toll on Chris’s gran

