arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
17
Friday 2 November 2007 felix
Arts
Reinventing the steel (and glass)
David Paw scopes out a retrospective of Zaha Hadid’s greatest hits at the London Design Museum
O
ne of the world’s most
influential, controver-
sial and recognisable
architects, Hadid looks
to be finally receiving
the recognition her followers believe
she deserves. First receiving the cov-
eted Pritzker prize (the architectural
equivalent of an Academy Award) and
now bestowed with her own gleam-
ing exhibition at the Design Museum,
these highs are in contrast to the lows
she has sustained throughout her ca-
reer – most notably the populist snub
to her winning design for the Cardiff
Opera House. One inevitably asks why
opinion polarises when it comes to the
charismatic Hadid.
Born in Baghdad in 1950, Hadid re-
ceived her degree in mathematics from
the American University of Beirut be-
fore reaching these blessed shores to
study at the prestigious Architectural
Association, graduating to work with
the revered Rem Koolhaas at the Office
of Metropolitan Architecture (OMA)
in Rotterdam, and establishing her
own London practice in 1980.
Known for her inspiring and breath-
taking visions of urban spaces, most
notably the prizewinning Peak in Hong
Kong early in her career, she was equal-
ly known for being unable to transfer
most of these to tangible structures.
Wings clipped by physical, structural
or financial limitations, Hadid entered
the 21st century with only one notable
structure to her name and with count-
less plans and drawings, hence the de-
rogatory description of her as prima-
rily a “paper architect”.
Yet despite this, she has managed
to remain one of the most influen-
tial and inspiring figures in her field,
with a jaggedly angular yet curva-
ceous style as distinctive as any of her
contemporaries.
Somehow the floodgates opened and
her office in Clerkenwell is now over-
whelmed with activity as she enters a
new phase of her career with a plethora
of buildings in progress – a new opera
house in Guangzhou, the extraterres-
trial Performing Arts Centre in Abu
Dhabi and The Opus, an incredibly
ambitious office tower in Dubai that
will appear to hover over the ground.
More close to home is the new
Aquatics Centre for the Olympics,
controversially running way over its al-
ready immodest £75 million budget.
These are represented immaculately
in an exhibition that spans two hushed
rooms on the Shad Thames. The first
represents the early phase of her ca-
reer, with early sketches of The Peak
and her initial brief and thoughts –
“the architecture appears like a knife
cutting through butter devastating all
the traditional principles and estab-
lishing new ones. Defying nature but
not destroying it.”
Though clearly in the mindset of an
artiste-cum-visionary at times, Hadid
backs it up with typical attention to de-
tail; her sprawling yet concise plans for
Italy’s National Museum of Contem-
porary Art in Rome and the Phaeno
The BMW building in Leipzig is one of many to possess Hadid’s striking angular style
The interior of the first room is perhaps definitive of “sleek”
Zahid’s Dancing Towers
Science Centre are there for anyone to
peruse at their leisure.
A wall is taken up by her paintings,
scale drawings and sketches of The
Peak and her visions for urban redevel-
opments – her representations of city
centres and even relatively straightfor-
ward structures such as office blocks
are turned on their head warp across
the canvas in a manner nothing short
of mind-blowing.
Incorporated too, are hitherto lit-
tle known plans for developments for
London such as the intriguing “Leices-
ter Square” project in 1990, for an
exhibition exploring London’s pub-
lic realm. A new space was proposed
approximately the size of the current
Leicester Square but semi-submerged
below its surface, rather like a sunken
space. All development would be in-
verted and sunk into the ground, slic-
ing subterranean “skyscrapers” into
the earth.
On a vast wall are projections of dig-
itally-rendered three-dimensional im-
ages of concepts and completed works.
The Cardiff Opera House scale model
is here too, unrepentantly displayed or
perhaps a reminder of the architect’s
chequered past before the turn of the
century.
Speaking of which, things picked up
between then and now – three major
works displayed include the brooding
and angular BMW Central Building
in Leipzig and the Rosenthal Center
for Contemporary Art in Cincinnati,
an excitingly jarring yet fittingly con-
gruent addition to the city’s urban re-
generation scheme and a counterpoint
to Koolhaas’s similarly proportioned
Seattle Public Library.
The whitewashed second room
displays Hadid’s works-in-progress
including the aforementioned, but
also a re-imagining of the traditional
skyscraper, moving away from single,
isolated towers to almost contorted,
helix-like forms.
Like other architects, Hadid has
been lured into dabbling with small
scale design by the prospect of a short
time-frame and working on a 1:1 scale.
Though hardly miniature buildings,
ordinary household items can offer the
opportunity to explore an idea or an
architectural form.
Presented are regular items such as
shelves that looks like something out
of Alien, tea and coffee pots that are
more military issue than Homebase,
and the sleekest, sexiest tables and
chairs. Though mundane and humble
in function, calling this homewares
would be like calling an F1 car a daily
commute.
Speaking of commutes, included is
a low point in the exhibition – a de-
sign for a lightweight car that, though
progressive and brave, looks pretty
insipid; more Pikachu than Gordon
Murray. Also included is the obliga-
tory handbag which, though taken out
of context, also fell somewhat short of
the mark.
Capturing the diversity and essence
of Hadid’s work never seemed a sim-
ple prospect, but the curators have
succeeded admirably in emphasising
Hadid’s creative strengths even if her
current body of completed work is not
comparable to other architects held in
the same esteem. With the concurrent
Matthew Williamson exhibition run-
ning at the same space, a trip down to
the Shad Thames seems due.

