arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
18 Friday 2 November 2007
felix
Arts
Maturity is the sarcastic word of choice for this week’s poem, “The Boys I Mean Are Not Refined”
Poem of the Week – e e cummings edition
Ghostly equines, hallowed ground and a tender narrative – Caz Knight gets in at the deep end
Emotion and pathos for a Horse called War
E
verything that’s wrong with
War Horse happens in the
first fifteen minutes. After
that it’s nothing but a de-
light; yet again the National
Theatre has delivered. Of course, the
National can’t take all the credit! Your
attention is first drawn to a large white
crack hanging above the stage- highly
reminiscent of the Tate Modern’s cur-
rent exhibition. The only difference is
no shit comes out of this crack!
War Horse is the story of the First
World War from the viewpoint of a
horse. I didn’t have any inkling of how
such a concept would be conveyed and
whether it would successfully captivate
an audience – would it be experimen-
tal theatre? Of the rubbish kind?
Kicking off in 1912 in Devon, we see
Joey, the starring stallion (then a mere
foal) being bought in a rural market
square. He falls into the hands of Al-
bert- a young boy who quickly forms
a strong bond with Joey. Once Joey is
grown, the thought of losing him co-
erces Albert into training him into a
plough horse in 7 days. Albert and Joey
succeed but their efforts have been in
vain as, come 1914, Joey is sent off to
war. The uncertainty of Joey’s wherea-
bouts drives Albert mad with worry
until he runs away to join the army to
find him.
Expecting a play about war from the
word go, the initial scenes exploring the
blossoming relationship between horse
and man lack substance and direction
with the occasional sappy emotional
moment thrown in for good measure
to appeal to half term audiences.
Fast forward past these scenes and
we’re thrown into a production which
amazes on both sentimental and tech-
nical levels.
The first thing that is striking and
novel about the play is the way in
which Joey is brought to life. Three
people manipulate a wooden puppet
horse to an uncannily real effect- the
mannerisms identical to a live horse.
The puppet itself bore a resemblance
to a Trojan horse (rather apt given the
theme of war) and also the steed of a
Black Rider from the Lord of The Rings
films.
Given the play’s title, I was a lit-
tle worried the play would centre too
much on the horse’s actions. If any-
thing, Joey’s role took a back seat while
other issues prevailed. The futility of
war was highlighted with British and
German troops flipping a coin in no
man’s land for Joey. The horrors suf-
fered during the First World War were
poignantly actualized, with some griz-
zly effects and scenes at times. War and
peace were juxtaposed, with a scene
set back in war-devoid Devon going on
while the dead bodies from the previ-
ous scene were still strewn over the
stage. One thing I admired was how
the play successfully portrayed the
National Pride that would have been
present at the time; something which
is utterly absent in today’s highly indif-
ferent Britain and something which I
hope changes.
There were definitely moments
where I felt the tears prickling my
eyes, which was often brought about
by the music. Accordion sounds were
paired with beautiful old English folk
songs and evoked a lot of emotion and
pathos.
However, War Horse is not always
heavy going; just the right amount of
humour is added without detracting
from the gravity of other issues, but
keeps the audience from getting too
upset from some of the other serious
elements of the play. Animal rights ac-
tivists be warned that there are several
scenes with enactments of animal bru-
tality. I am in no way condoning animal
cruelty but in the current climate of
political correctness and not wanting
to offend anyone in the slightest, it was
refreshing to see something controver-
sial- also bold of the producers know-
ing that the play would attract a young
audience.
From a technical side, I thought
it could get no better than those as-
tounding puppets. I was proven wrong
as, towards the end and the climax of
both the war and the play, the Olivier’s
rotating stage was impressively lifted
to create the illusion of trenches. The
colossal tank that makes an entrance is
terrifying indeed.
Any of you who have either read or
seen productions of Journey’s End by
R.C. Sherriff will adore this, and even
if you haven’t you are guaranteed a de-
lightful evening.
the boys i mean are not refined
they go with girls who buck and bite
they do not give a fuck for luck
they hump them thirteen times a night
one hangs a hat upon her tit
one carves a cross on her behind
they do not give a shit for wit
the boys i mean are not refined
they come with girls who bite and buck
who cannot read and cannot write
who laugh like they would fall apart
and masturbate with dynamite
the boys i mean are not refined
they cannot chat of that and this
they do not give a fart for art
they kill like you would take a piss
they speak whatever’s on their mind
they do whatever’s in their pants
the boys i mean are not refined
they shake the mountains when they dance
T
his month’s highly mature
poem comes courtesy of
crazed literary giant e e
cummings. For the folks
who aren’t so familiar
with the man, cummings (always writ-
ten lower case, no full stops) was one
of the 20th century’s most unconven-
tional yet popular poets.
Born Edward Estlin Cummings in
Cambridge, MA, Cummings started
writing poetry at the age of 10 before
treading the hallowed halls at Harvard
and rooming with John Dos Passos
(American, writer, terrific) and labour-
ing over the college paper with S. Fos-
ter Damon (critic, academic, all-round
smart person).
Influenced by national predecessors
Gertrude Stein and Ezra Pound (writ-
ers, poets, also awesome), cummings
delivered a controversial commence-
ment address entitled “The New Art”
– he was subsequently chastised by the
press.
Also interesting is the fact he was
arrested and detained on suspicion of
espionage, and subsequently flitted
between Paris and New York, meeting
amongst others, Pablo Picasso.
He then travelled throughout the So-
viet Union and the rest of the world (as
one does). Hence, in addition to rela-
tive frolics such as the imaginatively
titled “The Boys I Mean Are Not Re-
fined” (right), he also published a lot of
anti-American poetry.
But he didn’t just stop there – he
has also written heartfelt and ethereal
sonnets and romantic poetry, much of
which was in his spaced, oddly abbre-
viated and broken avant-garde style.
Odd, but accessible and often with
wry humour, they are the perfect anti-
dote to the overwrought and tiresome,
yet more directly relatable than some
of the Beat Generation’s more kooky
writings. What’s not to like?
cummings spent the last years of his
days travelling, getting paid to speak
and spending time at his ranch in New
Hampshire.
The return of the Mystical Potato Head. Nice shirt
Mikey noticed that the lineup for this year’s annual Ascot was looking well... a bit crap

