arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
19
Friday 2 November 2007 felix
Arts
More sex & drugs, less rock & roll
Rent purist Lucy Harrold treads into uncharted territory with the shiny new Rent Remixed
F
irst I have to admit – yes, I
am a Rent fan. I bought the
soundtrack, I watched the
movie. Hell – I even knit-
ted the scarf. Oh, she’ll write
an “I loved every single minute of this
show” review you’re thinking. Well
sorry, but I meant the original version.
Rent was one of the first Broadway mu-
sicals I discovered back when I was do-
ing my GCSEs (it was only 3 or 4 years
ago) and so it was a little precious to
me; I didn’t really want to see anyone
screw it up. So I was a bit apprehen-
sive in going to see Rent Remixed, the
“new” version by William Baker, crea-
tive director to Kylie Minogue.
But first, a quick history lesson. Rent
first opened in 1996, based on the life
of its author Jonathan Larson, whose
friends around him were living hard
lives and dying of AIDS. Ironically, he
died the night before the opening of a
heart aneurysm (and not AIDS) and
did not live to see his show win the
Tony Award (like an Oscar for theatre)
and the Pulitzer for theatre.
Rent came to London for a while,
but didn’t do too well, perhaps because
they cast Adam Ricketts (the guy with
the 6 pack off Coronation Street) and
Caprice. The film came out in 2005
starring the original Broadway cast and
was panned for them being too old.
Which brings us to “Rent Remixed”.
Without giving too much of the story
away, Rent looks at a group of 8 friends
in New York and a year in their lives
seen through the eyes of Mark, a film-
maker. Okay, it’s not that simple.
There’s a drug addict exotic dancer,
an ex-junkie recluse, two gay guys,
two lesbians and half of them are HIV
positive. It is originally based on Puc-
cini’s La Boheme, and is updated for
the MTV generation. For example,
Rodolfo the poet becomes Roger the
songwriter, and Schaunard the musi-
cian became Angel Dumott Schunard,
the drag queen drumming busker.
The show is billed as the first to of-
fer a general admission price, which is
great for us students, especially as they
knock off another £10, making it a bar-
gain £20!
The first thing that hits you as you
enter the theatre is the a vastness of
white. The set is basic but effective.
Most of the action takes place on a
white square with simple props (a
chair, a table, a funky chaise lounge).
Above is a walkway lined with a digital
display, used most effectively to display
the names of famous people who have
died of AIDS.
The show starts with a new prologue
which introduces the main musi-
cal themes of the score and the main
themes of the show; the idea of ques-
tioning how your life will change when
hit with a terminal illness, how you
should spend the time you have left
to the full and to measure your life in
love. The themes are carried through
the show by Larson’s powerful lyrics
and the actions of his characters.
Whilst the film was set firmly in
1989/1990, the play could be set any-
time, which adds to the idea that AIDS
is still as big an issue today as it was
in the 80s. The location on the other
hand, is set firmly in New York City,
which brings us to the first negative
point of this version of “Rent”. Baker
wanted to make the piece timeless
and placeless – a universal show, but
to make this happen he would have
had to remove many of the lyrics and
dialogue. Unfortunately, half the cast
seem to have forgotten this, and so
Mark is well spoken and slightly Welsh
(this kind of fits with the character, ex-
cept I don’t know many Welsh Jews)
and Angel is a slightly gruff Cockney
(which really didn’t fit as Angel has
always been the happiest and most ef-
feminate character).
Of course, when they start singing,
most reverted back to American. So
with every other problem in the show,
instead of fixing it, Baker just adds extra
dialogue to gloss over it, so Angel and
Mimi now came over from London.
The songs themselves are what make
the show. They push the storyline, they
play with your feelings and take you on
a roller coaster ride of emotions over
the 2-ish hours.
The best word to describe Rent
Remixed would be inconsistent. There
are some amazing scenes that are
much better than in the original – look
out for the Tango Maureen and What
You Own – but some songs, in an at-
tempt to “funk up” the score, have been
reduced to Kylie Minogue backing
tracks. Rent was originally billed in the
nineties as a Rock Opera for the MTV
generation. Now in the Myspace gen-
eration, it has been transformed into
a Pop Opera – yet surely pop had its
heyday in the nineties?
The cast have also been sexed up
along with (supposedly) the music.
There’s lots of pouting and leather, and
the cast definitely aren’t ugly! There
were some great standout perform-
ances too.
Yes, Denise Van Outen is in it. Yes,
she is good and can definitely sing and
yes, that is the main reason why most
people will go see Rent Remixed. I
found that her main song, a perform-
ance art protest, actually took the audi-
ence away from the story leading you
into the “Denise Van Outen Show”.
We saw the understudy for Joanne,
CJ Johnson, and I thought she had an
excellent voice, especially singing ma-
terial originally written for a gospel-
syle belter. Unfortunately both Joanne
and Maureen are both blonde, which
made them look more like twins than
lovers.
At first I was put off by Mark (Oliver
Thornton)’s very British accent, but it
grew on me and I did begin to feel for
Mark and the loneliness he experiences
through the show. Leon Lopez and Jay
Webb made the relationship of Angel
and Collins realistic and sweet, both
with different but brilliant voices.
But most of my praise is for Luke
Evans. The man has an amazing voice
– just the right combination of boom-
ing musical theatre and rock timbre.
He also grasped the concept of his
character and understood his situation
so well, making me feel for Roger, a
character I never really liked before.
So will Rent Remixed last? I’m not
sure; I hope so, perhaps with some
changes. Do I want you to go see it?
Yes! It’s a powerful show (especially act
two) if you look beyond the “Hey, we’re
suddenly all dancing and singing” as-
pect, and it carries a strong message
that is still relevant today. Maybe I
didn’t feel for the characters as much
as I felt I could if they had been played
differently, but I still laughed and cried
(luckily theatres are dark).
Plus, although it may not be original
now, it’s score and book are definitely
more original than the jukebox musi-
cals on at the moment. So take your
next step on the road to musical thea-
tre appreciation and go and see Rent
Remixed!
Rent Remixed tackles tough issues like terminal illness, living life to the full. And bro love
Denise Van Outen returns to the stage in this supremely hip, not camp-at-all uber remix of the classic musical Rent. Doesn’t she look pretty?

