22 felix Friday 2 November 2007
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Arts
The Great Culture Crawl
Serpentine Pavilion
Architects - Various
Every summer, the lights go up on the pavilion of the Serpentine Art Museum, reimagined in an
array of guises. Why such a big deal? In contrast to the cop-out of the Diana Memorial, the Pavil-
ion is always an interesting prospect, generating the attention of some venerable names – Toyo
Ito, Daniel Libeskind (architect of the new Freedom Tower in Manhattan) and Rem Koolhaas have
all contributed their energies in previous years. In July 2007, Zaha Hadid contributed her second
design to the ever-changing Pavilion in partnership with civil engineering firm Arup, shaping
quite beautiful lily pad-like structures that glowed in the darkness. Also of note are the numer-
ous workshops and creative talks that take place in conjunction with the unveiling of each new
design.
Imperial College
Architects – Various
Fittingly, for an institution renowned for its position at the forefront of technology, our very own
campus takes the cake as far as architectural kudos goes. The ubiquitous Norman Foster designed
four buildings alone – the prize-winning Sir Alexander Fleming Building, the shimmering Fac-
ulty building, the more understated Flowers building and the monolithic Tanaka. If that wasn’t
enough, internationally prominent firm Kohn Pedersen Fox designed the shiny new Southside
complex – no wonder it looks so good. We are smack bang in probably the greatest concentration
of modern architecture in an educational institution and outside of the City. Just don’t mention
swimming pools.
British Museum
Architect – Foster & Partners
Another Foster & Partners creation, the Great Court of the British Museum is huge, inspiring and
inescapable. Your jaw will drop after entering through the massive main doors – the gargantuan main
hall opens up before you and it is difficult not to be taken by its sheer size and scale while also being
impressed with the detail – a huge staircase spirals up to a café at the top while groups buzz around
the deli counters and within the Museum’s bookstore, made all the more dramatic by the blinding
white of the interior.
Chapter Five – Modern Architecture

