arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
23
Friday 2 November 2007 felix
Arts
30 St Mary Axe
Architect – Foster & Partners
Undeniably Foster’s greatest contribution to London’s dramatic new cityscape, the Gherkin is an ultra eco-
efficient office space, a new icon for the city, a masterful and dramatic reinterpretation of the skyscraper
and has entertaining spaces to boot. Some laud it and some loathe it but like it or not, the Gherkin – of-
ficially recognised as 30 St Mary Axe – is here to stay. The pièce de resistance is the last two floors in the
nose cone of the tower, a glass bubble with uninterrupted 360-degree views. For once, the interior justifies
the word sensational. There is nothing to get in the way of a breathtakingly awesome view.
Bishopsgate Tower
Architect - Kohn Pedersen Fox
Another proposition amongst the plethora of proposed new skyscraper projects in the square
mile, The Bishopsgate Tower is the brainchild of high-rise specialists Kohn Pedersen Fox, de-
signers of the World Financial Centre in Shanghai. If built, it will become the tallest building
in Britain – depending on whether the Shard is built first – and one of the tallest in Europe.
The design looks enticing. Nicknamed variously “The Pinnacle” and “The Helter Skelter”, the
tower is one of a few that has enraged those obsessed with preserving the air of the old city,
though at what price progress? All we know is, it looks awesome.
The Shard
Architect – Renzo Piano
Though only a proposition, the prospect of this 310 metre Renzo Piano-designed creation is
controversial although, like the Gherkin, it has the potential for rejuvenation – call it urban
re-branding, if you will. A slender, spire-like form at odds with the rotundity of its contempo-
raries across the river, it is not only the design that is intriguing. Piano proposes sophisticated
use of glazing, with expressive facades of angled panes to reflect light and the changing pat-
terns of the sky, so that the form of the building will alter according to the weather and sea-
sons – having said that, you couldn’t expect get that much more dramatic than it already is.
Tate Modern
Architect – Herzog & De Meuron
Possibly one of the most intimidating gallery spaces in any major
city, the Tate Modern is a remarkable creation. Renovated and re-
designed from the shell of the former Bankside Power Station and
reopened in the new millennium, this huge space looms dauntingly
over the South Bank – after late night openings, the Tate oozes men-
ace but looks fresh and inspiring all the same. Inside, the huge tur-
bine hall is a stark reminder of the building’s origins and its annual
solo exhibitionist is always a hot topic amongst the city’s urbanites.
Just outside is the infamous “shard of light” millennium bridge –
now stable and affording some of the best river views at night.
Written by David Paw, designed by Rosie Grayburn
Next Week...
Is there a particular guide you’d like? An area of London you’d like covered? Get in touch
with us and tell us what you want to read – arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk

