felix@imperial.ac.uk
Travel
Travel Editors – Ahran Arnold and Nadine Richards
Sex and the City – Parisian style
It’s not known as the city of love for nothing. We tell you why Paris is the horniest place on Earth and then
give you ideas on how to have the sexiest time while there. Don’t say Felix never helped your sex life!
Nadine Richards
Travel Editor
Sex? Did someone say sex? Have I got
your attention? Good. Now keep on
reading! I have to be honest with you:
this won’t be an account of my sexual
experiences in Paris (for that, I advise
watching “One Night in Paris” – it’s
not a personal account by any means,
but Salamon’s account is surely ade-
quate enough). However, I can promise
to reveal to you my sexual encounter
along the Seine. In the meantime, let’s
start with how to have the sexiest time
in the sexiest city on Earth.
If Paris is the most sexy city on Earth,
then it must also be the most horny.
How, you ask, can a city be horny? Let
us start with the Montmarre, the red
light district of Paris, home to seedy
nightclubs and the usual tacky sex-
shops. If you’re a man and fancy a
pleasant stroll amongst the backdrop
of neon-lighting, I suggest trying your
hand at a nightclub in Pigalle where
you’ll most likely find women happy
to try their hands on you. If you’re a
woman, then fear not, there are other
options for a quick drink and a quick
grope in Pigalle: just try standing out-
side one of the gawdy clubs, and you’ll
land yourself one very quickly.
Before you worry about the state of
my mental health, we really did try
starting our trip in a normal manner. A
wonderful scenic stroll along the Seine
was the initial plan: and it was certainly
as charming as can be imagined. Look
at the Notre Dame and Saint Michel
Bridge lit up so beautifully at dusk,
with all those happy couples drinking
champagne and frolicking romanti-
cally beside the riverbanks, whilst the
symbol of Paris can be spotted mak-
ing its distinct impression against the
skyline of Paris. Ok, so the Spanish
13-year olds did harass us constantly
with immature sexual jokes along our
river cruise of the Seine and somewhat
spoilt the fantastic atmospheric view,
and my fantastic fantasy of finding a fit
Frenchie to frolic with beside the riv-
erbanks. But ahh, aren’t they so young
and sweet really, before they grow into
sleazy Spanish men who deserve to be
punched in the face for inappropriate
comments. Anyway, where was I? As
we promenaded our way across Pont
de l’Alma, I recall thinking to myself
that Paris was the most romantic city
I had ever been to. It suddenly caught
our attention that a peculiar old man
was standing beside the Seine, wearing
a long coat, and, having opened it, he
displayed nothing except his nakedness
and his Eiffel Tower. Suddenly Paris
seemed less romantic – just more like
an exhibitionist trying way too hard.
(That pun was unintentional, I swear)
So this brings me back to the concept
that Paris is the sexiest, most horny
city. If this theory can be extended to
people, then are the most sexy people
also the most horny? (well, I’ll leave
that to Sarah Jessica Parker to answer.
From personal dating experience, I’d
say no. Horny people are horny cos
they ain’t getting any. And yes, usually
there’s a good reason why.)
All of this brings me back to Mont-
marre, in particular the Moulin Rouge,
which is settled in the heart of Paris’s
red light district. Sadly, if you’re look-
ing for your own courtesan tonight,
then firstly you may be a few decades
too late, and secondly, you’ll have to
dish out £100 to see a flash of knick-
ers during the can-can performance.
But The Erotica Museum to be found
just a g-string’s throw away around
the corner and may well perk you up
instead. And this is actually a classy
place – white marble floors, gold ban-
isters, and seven floors of penises.
Highlights include sculptures of Chi-
nese acrobat-style moves which puts
the Karma Sutra to shame, and many a
dildo about the length of your course-
work and just as fat. Don’t forget the
old style French porn –one obese old
man with two obese old women, taking
part in various acts, all with the most
bored expression on their faces. Well,
if I were with two obese women or
even one obese man then I’d probably
look equally bored.
Moving onto Paris’s most famous
asset – and I’m not talking about cel-
lulite. I mean that absolutely beauti-
ful gigantic lattice metallic structure,
pointing so proudly into the sky. Well,
it used to have reason to be proud: it
retained its title as the world’s tall-
est phallic symbol until 1930. Sorry, I
meant tower. The title is now held by
Kiev’s tower (well fair enough, Ukraine
are still lagging with hot tourist sites,
although they did win Eurovision re-
cently). Tokyo Tower tries to butt in
every now and then by sticking its 33m
antenna onto the end of the tower to
try to cover for its inferiority complex.
How very Japanese.
Thinking about it rationally, it seems
ridiculous to think something resem-
bling an overgrown grey pylon should
be something so magnificent. Perhaps
it is the harsh, cold, structured feel of
the tower, at once so striking and origi-
nal, which makes it so simultaneously
artistic and inartistic. To me, this is
what lends it its charm. For the engi-
neers of Imperial, there is an additional
reason why the Eiffel Tower may be so
sexy: Apparently it was built with “a
nonlinear integral differential equation
based on counterbalancing the wind
pressure on any point on the tower
with the tension between the construc-
tion elements at that point. That shape
is exponential.” Uh huh.
So did I mention that Paris is not
only sleazy-sexy but also incred-
ibly classy-sexy? Well, I may have ne-
glected to mention the Louvre, the
Arc de Triomphe, the Musee d’Orsay
(home to the infamous “Origin of the
World” painting. I dare you to google
image this), the Sacre-Coeur, and the
Notre Dame in all my excitement for
the Erotica Museum, but I refuse to be
accused as my advice to you is to visit
them all! But don’t forget that a hint
of sleaze mixed in with the class isn’t
so bad – it is after all, what gives the
French their distinct charm.
This is one of the much tamer pieces in the collection. Printing any of
the other ones would probably get us in a lot of trouble
The Louvre: I may have neglected to mention this in my article but perhaps this picture makes up for it
“The man
displayed
nothing except
his nakedness
and his Eiffel
Tower”
“My fantastic
fantasy of finding
a fit frenchie to
frolic with beside
the riverside”
25
Friday 2 November 2007 felix

