film.felix@imperial.ac.uk
27
Friday 2 November 2007 felix
Film
What’s that coming over the hill? It’s no Monster
Surfing the New Wave of Romanian Cinema
T
he 2007 Palme D’Or win-
ner comes from Romania.
It’s probably not a terribly
exciting fact, as film buffs
will have been aware of it
for months and the more lay film fans
won’t really care too much about it.
But in its home country, 4 Months, 3
Weeks, 2 Days left many people in a
state of bedazzlement – and a pleasant
one, if I may say so.
It seemed like something peculiar
might happen at the prize ceremony
ever since Cristian Mungiu’s film was
first screened at the beginning of the
festival. The buzz was really good, but
most would have thought it far-fetched
to actually put money on it. By the
time the big night had had its turn and
Mungiu his award, the whole Roma-
nian media was stunned by the film’s
success. There was finally a reason
to awake from the grave of perennial
moral deprecation in order to actually
write and talk about something worthy
on its own behalf.
4, 3, 2 is the only Romanian film to
have won the Golden Palm, but in con-
text it is the pinnacle of a film scene
that has been totally revived in the last
five years - and the prestigious French
festival of cinema was one of the first
to notice. Cannes had taken a liking
to Romanian movies ever since The
Death of Mr. Lazarescu (d. Cristi Puiu)
received the top prize in the Un Cer-
tain Regard category in 2005. It was
then followed by 2006’s wins of Dor-
oteea Petre (Un Certain Regard – best
actress) and Porumboiu’s 12:08 East of
Bucharest (Golden Camera and Label
Europa Cinemas prizes) as well as both
Mungiu’s and Cristian Nemescu’s wins
in 2007 - the latter, sadly deceased,
won in the Un Certain Regard section
with California Dreamin’ (Unfinished).
These awards come to confirm not
only a certain penchant for anguish-
ing realism the “French” juries tend to
have, but also the high calibre produc-
tion values of this new, young genera-
tion of filmmakers, born and bred in
the old communist block.
Cristian Mungiu, 39 years old, was
at his second feature film, after 2002’s
West (in its Romanian title Occident),
an excellent comedic take on contem-
porary Romania. However, the Palme
D’Or winner is as far away from com-
edy as they get.
The story of two student girls (Gabita
and Otilia), one of whom is pregnant,
takes place in the late eighties, when
abortions were considered illegal, and
it portrays in a vivid and blunt fashion
the ordeal through which many women
had to go through between 1966 and
1989 (actually, Ceausescu’s decision to
interdict abortions turned against him
at the revolution, as most of the people
who took a stand for freedom in it were
part of the generations born immedi-
ately after ’66). That about summariz-
es the idea that lies behind the film –
the first in a series planned by Mungiu
about life in communist Romania - but
it is the raw performances of the lead
actresses and harsh truths that it offers
which stick to you once it’s finished.
Gabita is played by Laura Vasiluiu,
while the part of Otilia is taken up
by Anamaria Marinca, winner of the
BAFTA best actress award in 2005 for
her performance in the Channel 4 pro-
duction Sex Traffic. Personally, I think
there is really little to say in a review
about the film, because it’s just such a
tremendous experience – even if not a
joyful one.
Beyond the heaps of praise that it gar-
nered, the fact is that 4, 3, 2 managed
to fill the dusty cinemas of Romania
with eager and expectant viewers, an
impresseive feat given the desolation
that normally fills the movie theatres.
Moreover, because many cities didn’t
have any running cinemas left, Mun-
giu and his crew went around with the
film and projected it for anyone who
was interested in watching it.
In the 15 cities it stopped and 3,200
kilometres it travelled, the 4 Months, 3
Weeks, 2 Days Caravan afforded 18,000
people the chance of seeing what is
widely considered the best Romanian
film of the decade. It surely wasn’t as
fancy as the 19th October premiere at
The Times BFI 51st London Film Festi-
val, but it meant a lot for many people.
Perhaps it’s just one of the weird
paradoxes of our contemporary, me-
dia-driven society that people came to
fill Romanian cinemas for a film that
is such an opposite of a crowd pleaser
– and maybe there’s something to be
learned from this which could benefit
other good films that are often over-
looked because of the inconvenient
themes they treat.
Whichever the merits of Cristian
Mungiu’s movie may be, it has one that
outranks them all: it made a film be-
come something more to many of the
people it was about. And hopefully, it
remains just one of the many signifi-
cant tales of cinema that are to come.
Stefan Carpanu explores the latest force in world cinema, led by Cannes champ 4 Months, 3 Weeks, 2 Days
An apple a day keeps the bills away
Michael Moore reloads his cannon against the problems of healthcare in those good ol’ United States
Michael Moore, the loved and loathed
walking soap box returns with a look at
the healthcare of his good old United
States of America. Not exactly a fan of
the administration, Moore tones down
his aggressive attitude from Fahrenheit
9/11 but makes sure where he lays the
blame for the pitiable state of his coun-
try’s health service, but does so much
more compellingly than his last effort,
the result oscillating between a hilari-
ous and heart wrenching tale of the
failings of a Government to protect its
people.
Regardlessofmypoliticalallegiances,
I found Fahrenheit to be a horrendous
documentary. Having not seen Bowl-
ing for Columbine, I felt I was watch-
ing the American Jim Royle chasing
US senators down a street with ridicu-
lously sensationalist techniques and
was incapable of comprehending the
support this man had gathered across
his country and the world.
Seemingly I was not alone in this,
and perhaps someone back at base
camp told him to tone it down slightly,
because in Sicko, the OTT techniques
take a backseat (for the most part) and
the problem at hand is permitted cen-
tre stage.
To me, this doesn’t seem to be a
point worth arguing on. Unlike the de-
bate over Iraq, free healthcare is some-
Alex Casey
thing that we as a country may take for
granted. Now imagine if that weren’t
the case and you had to pay for health
insurance, incurring costs every time
you wanted to go to your GP and living
life in fear that you may get anything
more serious than a cough. That’s the
picture Moore paints here, and it can
make for deeply upsetting viewing at
times.
I was close to leaving within the first
few minutes of this. Gore in films
doesn’t bother me, although I’m not
a fan of it just for the sake of it. Pain
however, normally in documentary, is
another story completely and the dis-
tinction between what a good make up
department can do and the suffering
of a real person can put me off a film
instantly.
Watching a man stitch up a gash in
his own leg because he didn’t want to
pay for help placed him squarely in the
latter category but I figured I’d stay
past the credits. Let it be known that
it is worth doing so, because Moore
quickly balances such horrifying im-
ages and stories with his Powerpoint
style of graphics and a few well aimed
swipes at retarded buffoon George
Dubya. The laughs may seem pretty
cheap sometimes, but they’re hearty
audience pleasers. This screening had
frequent laugh-out-loud moments
(even if it were just at those retro pic-
tures of Mrs Clinton) and a round of
applause to close.
As for factual accuracy, I’m not one to
comment. The shock of his points was
slightly dulled when he began a tour of
the world seeing “socialist healthcare”
in operation in the likes of France and
the UK where everyone gets, gulp, free
Sicko ★★★★✫
Director: Michael Moore
Writer: Michael Moore
Cast: Michael Moore
So, you mean it’s really free? Really? No, I mean seriously here
healthcare. At this point his continued
gasping at the thought of not being
charged on entering a hospital does get
more than slightly tedious and the NHS
being held up as a model system seems
to fly in the face of what our country’s
media tells us, although we should ad-
mit to ourselves we don’t have it that
bad. Just keep your voice down about
MRSA…
Sicko succeeds as a persuasion piece
on a level that Fahrenheit didn’t, and
while I would rather not continue
comparing them, Moore’s unique style
makes it impossible to hold them up
individually. His comedy stylings are
obviously going to make this appeal
to a much wider demographic than
the stuffy professionalism of a Pano-
rama special so he’s easy to dismiss as
a perpetrator of unsubstantiated shock
tactics, yet there’s something in his
presentation here that strikes a chord.
That would be the chord of injustice
most probably, and with any luck that
might be a key note for the next US
administration.

