music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
30 felix Friday 2 November 2007
Music
Music Editors – Jenny Gibson and Matty Hoban
A bumper bag of musical treats
Felix is here serving up more reviews than you can shake a CD case at. With Radiohead’s new offering, a
potential Bob Dylan in-the-making in the form of Stephen Fretwell and even a Ghost, what’s not to like?
Radiohead
In Rainbows
★★★★★
Album Review
Now if mediocrity was currency, and
the British alternative music scene was
a person, that person would be richer
than a member of one of these medio-
cre bands. Ingenuity and excitement
are quite hard to come by in today’s
alternative music scene, with some al-
bums being as bland and contrived as
the above metaphor and a lot of alter-
native bands being hackneyed, unim-
aginative- possibly both, or even hav-
ing all three of the above problems.
But there has been a band, a certain
rock outfit which has been the sav-
ing grace of British alternative music
throughout the 90’s and beyond, who
seem to still be holding strong where
other seminal artists from the past
couple of decades have died out (not
literally died, I mean have become
unpopular or become another band
which is not as good). These saviours
go by the name of, I believe, Radio-
head. Some may say it’s Oasis, but its
not, it’s Radiohead.
Radiohead have been churning out
albums and hoards of b-sides which
are consistently creative, original and
I would even go as far to say “revolu-
tionary” (in popular music terms) for
over a decade. Their work has made
a place for itself in the list of seminal
albums of not only the 90’s, but of
all time. Such magnificent works for
which they are responsible, include
their mid-90’s album, Ok Computer
(which topped Channel Four’s prestig-
ious “Best albums ever” list), the more
experimental 2000 release, Kid A,
which drew heavy influences from the
Warp records brand of electro-stuff,
Amnesiac (with all recordings made
during the same sessions as Kid A) and
the more recent release X&Y...
Only joking about that last one, it is
not a magnificent work. (Nah, I actual-
ly quite like that album and Coldplay.)
The band, fronted by Thom Yorke,
famous for his trademark falsetto vo-
cals and political opinions (both of
which can be sampled on his solo al-
bum The Eraser), have been fairly quiet
since 2003’s Hail to the Thief, another
album that would be the magnum-
opus of a lesser bands career but hasn’t
garnered blanket critical acclaim, lead-
ing many to believe Radiohead to have
peaked creatively at Kid A. But the band
return from their “hiatus” with a com-
pletely new album In Rainbows, which
is currently only available on download
from their website with a unique sales
approach where you, that’s right- you
the consumer can choose your own
price (however there is a service charge
of 45p but still, at least you don’t have
to fork out £8 for it. Just be grateful
that Radiohead have had the decency
to liberate you from your consumerist
hell). This may seem strange, but this
is due to the absence of a record con-
tract and they probably have enough
money anyway and if they don’t then,
they’ll have enough if you buy the disc-
box (released 3rd December) for £40.
Anyway, that’s enough about prices
and all that lark, I’ll start talking about
the actual album content.
In comparison to all their previ-
ous albums this one seems far more
relaxed, it floats smoothly from start
to finish and is set far apart from the
tumultuous, mercurial tones of Hail to
the Thief. Lyrically, it still has the same
themes of tense modern living and hell-
ish urban nightmares, but this album is
far lighter than Hail to the thief which
was teaming with tension and anger,
possibly due to the quick “blitzkrieg”
style of recording they applied to it.
The band seem to have applied the op-
posite recording technique in this case
– as any Radiohead fan will know, they
have been recording this album for ap-
proximately eight million years.
Anyone hoping for a return of the
guitar driven anthems of The Bends
will be disappointed, and anyone hop-
ing for a reincarnation of Kid A will
also be so. In fact, anyone hoping for
a repeat of another album-style will be
disappointed. Radiohead have made a
habit of entering a new vein of music
with each album and this is no excep-
tion. The album is unlike any other but
it is comprised of elements of some, if
not all of their past work. To put some
sort of relativity into the matter it is as
if Hail to the Thief has had a car crash
with Ok Computer and the emergency
services turn up, but instead of the
emergency services it is actually Kid
A with The Eraser in the background
‘rubbernecking’. I hope that confused
mess of personification can give you
some idea.
The album opens with a hammering
electronic beat and Yorke soon enters
with his usual vocal acrobatics. After
18 seconds of listening, I was worried
Thom Yorke had persuaded the band
to make an Eraser Part 2, but I was
soon saved by the clean, melodic gui-
tar which glides in to the song. 15 Step
(the opening track) builds up gradu-
ally and it is clear this is Radiohead as
a band. This sets the tone for the rest
of the album with the mixture of heavy
percussion (reminiscent of Boards
of Canada at some stages), plenty of
bustling ambient noise comprising of
strings and synths and a noticeably
large presence of guitar. Many fans
will be familiar with the three song,
Nude from various live performances
and some bootleg albums of such per-
formances (for the curious, see Eras-
ing Warnings which is comprised of
live tracks from Toronto). The song is
elegant, soft and flowing, building up
gradually from an almost Treefingers-
esque beginning, transforming into an
unfamiliar style. You will begin to ques-
tion whether this is in fact rock music.
It becomes apparent at this point that
if Hail to the Thief was Radiohead
having fun, In Rainbows is Radiohead
working. The album is consistent but
loosely bound lyrically, it is unified by
strands of a minimalistic style, it is ma-
ture and thoroughly accomplished, it is
clear that Radiohead made this album
to be viewed as one work, a united col-
lection of music which is meant to be
heard together. The concept of compo-
sition of an album is clearly thought of
as an art to Radiohead, shown by their
unwillingness to let iTunes sell single
tracks from the album.
The only thing I have to say against
this album is that it is lacking in any
particular stand-out tracks, but that
is countered by the consistent qual-
ity throughout. It blends minimalism,
tuneful vocals with often heavy beats
and thrashing distorted guitar, such
as in the wild scaling sounds of Body-
snatchers. On a whole, this album is
mellower than Radiohead’s previous
albums but Yorke’s lyrics conjure up
images of 21st century alienation and
an anxious society which is, in his own
words, “terrifying”. The album reaches
it’s peak of mellowness with House
of Cards, 5 minutes and 28 seconds
which float by and could easily lead a
listener into a world of slumber. That’s
in a good way by the way.
Anyway I must conclude due to a
word limit [Cough – Editor]. In Rain-
bows is consistent in quality and al-
though definitely not what the fans
were expecting, I believe they have de-
livered something superb, refusing to
duplicate any previous works or styles
and again reinventing themselves. Al-
though no songs stand out as being
classics when you first listen, they will
definitely grow on you. If you are a fan
buy it, if you have never heard of them,
buy it, and if you have heard them and
hated them, just pinch your mate’s CD
and give it another listen.
Deni Edgars
Don’t expect Radiohead’s new album, In Rainbows, to be quite this tranquil
Duke Spirit Competition
Win the chance to see The
Duke Spirit play live in your
living-room!
Following the announcement
of their latest tour The Duke
Spirit are running a compe-
tition where a fan will win
the opportunity to have the
band play live at their own
private party in their house to
celebrate the release of their
latest EP
, Ex Voto. The party
will be held at a fan’s house
for them to enjoy with a large
group of friends. It’s a one
off, once in a lifetime op-
portunity to have a real rock
band play, quite literally, on
your doorstep.
To enter the competition,
fans must go to The Duke
Spirit myspace page www.
myspace.com/thedukespirit
and complete the entry form
by entering the barcode
numbers found on the back
of the 10” vinyl or the CD EP
.
The winner will be selected
at random on the 5th Novem-
ber and then we’ll start plan-
ning the party for early 2008.

