news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
3
Friday 2 November 2007 felix
News
Over the past few weeks, complaints
have been received from several sourc-
es about the behaviour of Imperial stu-
dents around campus. The criticisms
all share one common feature: accusa-
tions of students’ lack of discipline and
respect for their college.
The front page of Felix this week
shows a letter received from an offend-
ed visitor who was appalled at the lack
of consideration that students in the
JCR showed for their surroundings as
they left the place covered in litter and
uneaten food. He went on to question
the prevailing attitude amongst the of-
fenders, and to maintain that “tidiness
in (the) scientific world is essential.”
Whilst the letter is phrased as a gen-
tle reprimand of the student body, it
follows similar complaints received by
Felix over the past few weeks, seeming
to follow a trend of people becoming
distressed at the lack of care that stu-
dents show for their environment and
colleagues. One can only speculate
what the 78 year old author would have
thought had he learned of the events
surrounding the Royal School of Mines
(RSM) Freshers’ Dinner.
Felix has learned, from sources at the
event two weeks ago, that the hosts of
the “most notorious night of the year”
have been temporarily banned from
holding a ‘sit-down’ dinner whilst its
future is debated. Sources close to the
event have alleged that the dinner in-
volved abuse of the traditional “fining”
system (where freshers are command-
ed to drink large quantities of alcohol
for committing offences such as sitting
down before the president, and remov-
ing a jacket at the wrong time) which
apparently continued for over an hour,
breakage of a large quantity of glass-
ware, a food fight at dessert, copious
amounts of vomit, and an unknown
person urinating into a pint glass and
leaving it to be found by the staff. The
dinner was finished early after staff or-
Students: selfish and inconsiderate?
Character of Imperial students debated after multiple complaints over their questionable behaviour
Andrew Somerville
News Editor
dered them to leave when the dessert
was found to be decorated over the
walls.
Whilst the RSM has been charged
for damages and forced to apologise,
its already poor reputation has not
been improved and serious questions
are being asked about the event, which
seems to become more extreme in its
abuses each year.
“Our dinner runs in a similar fashion,
with traditional fines and freely acces-
sible wine,” said one CGCU member
following their union dinner, ”but the
RSM take it far too far. They’re just
animals.” Indeed, comparison to the
popular CGCU Freshers’ dinner por-
trays the RSM in an even more nega-
tive light, after it passed “pleasantly all
round,” and without major incident.
Most worrying is the RSM’s reaction
to the incidents. Whilst they have of-
ficially apologised to College catering,
an article that was submitted to Felix
following the event (see “Just Another
Night in the RSM”) shows their point
of view on the subject, “pools of regur-
gitated joy” and all.
For decades now, debate has been rife
across society surrounding the “youth
of today” and their seeming decline in
“values” and “discipline.” Perhaps this is
just another case of society’s changing
formats. But when “the youth” begin
to shock not just the previous genera-
tions, but their own contemporaries,
something must be very wrong with
the population.
Just another night in the RSM
“It’s the most notorious night of the year!” was the first thing Union President
Stephen Brown had to say when asked to comment on what he thought of the
RSM Freshers Dinner. From what I remember, this year was no exception.
The fun begins when all the newbies learn that the ticket they’ve just pur-
chased entitles them to a host for the evening. Such hosts take the form of
any previous survivors from last years carnage and it’s their job to provide
the freshers with drinks for the evening. Sometimes these drinks are of the
alcoholic variety and sometimes these drinks are of the very alcoholic variety.
Nevertheless, it is not in the interest of the freshers to spend a single penny
more than what they paid for the ticket. Now, freshers being freshers then
become stuck between the proverbial rock and a hard place when the pre-
dinner drinks begin. Let’s face it, we’ve all been there. It’s hard to refuse a
drink when it’s bought for you.
After a quiet pint or 6 at the bar, the mining student body both first years
and veterans alike staggered down to the MDH for the dinner. Not even had
the first course been completed when our beloved RSM president, Mr Danny
Hill, stood up and in very good taste, fined all those filthy little retards who
began to eat before he had. For those reading who ask why? Well, its tradition
to follow one particular Royal’s set of regulations at our dinners.
Plenty more fines were issued for various acts of misconduct and dress code
infringements and as the beer, wine or spirits slipped down our throats the
memories began to get hazy. I do however remember one particular young
blooded lad to my left who said something along the lines of “it’s not that
hard to down wine”……16 rather swiftly imbibed glasses latter I was met by
the most unholy retch I’ve ever heard and a wet sleeve. My next little flash of
memory was being in a toilet cubicle nursing the poor guy back to a state of
pseudo-life.
I returned to the dinning hall just in time for dessert, which I might say was
a damn sight better than the slice of pensioner’s handbag they tried to pass
of as pork. A glass of water or two down my own neck made me see and ap-
preciate in true detail just how good a time people had been having. Pools of
regurgitated joy lay all around as did several of our new followers. The thing
is though; if they could only just learn to keep their mouths shut then they’d
never get themselves into these situations. Any person stupid enough to ap-
proach a certain individual with a habit of wearing a tie every Friday and say
“I love vodka” is going to be rewarded with just that. Ouch.
However, a few more drinks made me stop caring and enjoy the music that
had begun to play. That’s DJ music, not music in my head. The next thing
everyone (and I do mean everyone) seems to remember is suddenly being in
the union again. Apparently we had been asked nicely to leave so the stewards
could clear up our ‘happy puddles’ and had brought the party elsewhere. All
in all it was a cracking night despite the rotten food. A tactical stop at Subway
prevented any manner of beastly hangover which would no doubt have oth-
erwise reared its ugly head the following morning. Special thanks to all those
who had a pint glass holding hand in the setting up of the room as well as a
big pat on the back to our Honorary Secretary, Mr Alex Middleton, for or-
ganising said event. Cheers lads and lasses, can’t wait to do it all over again!
by Steve Smith (RSM member)
“Poor Fresher!” (caption and photograph supplied by RSM)
Student held at gunpoint 20 minutes from IC
Tom Roberts
Editor-in-Chief
At around 2:30pm on Wednesday af-
ternoon, a student from Imperial Col-
lege was mugged by two men, one of
which was armed.
The student, a member of Photosoc,
who wishes to remain anonymous, was
making his way to university from his
house in the early hours of the after-
noon. He reached the large Tesco su-
permarket on Cromwell Road where
he was asked if he had any “weed” by
two black men. After declining to give
the men anything, one of the muggers
revealed a large pistol. He pulled the
gun from beneath his trousers and de-
manded the student to hand over his
mobile phone.
The student who is a keen photog-
rapher had his expensive SLR in hand
at the time as he had just been taking
some pictures. “Without thinking,” the
photographer commented to Felix,
“I handed over my mobile phone and
pushed my camera in their direction
at the same time too. They didn’t even
threaten me for the camera, I just gave
it to them.”
The student suffered no physical as-
sault as the muggers then walked away
with over £300 worth of electronic
equipment.
The incident occurred less than
twenty minutes away from campus.
The student carried on towards uni-
versity and happened to see a parked
police car, so he informed the officers
of the crime.
The photographer described the
muggers to Felix as “people you’d ex-
pect to get mugged by” but despite this
he was still surprised at the “daylight
robbery.” He continued by commenting
on how unexpected the whole event
was and how he thought “it might have
happened around North End Road at
2:30am (nearer to his house), but not
there at 2:30 in the afternoon.”
The student stated that he “will be
far more cautious in the future, when
walking around with expensive stuff”
and that he felt a mixture of emotions:
anger combined with relief that more
wasn’t stolen from him, or that he
hadn’t been hurt.
He offered some advice to anyone
else who finds themselves in such hor-
rific circumstances: “If it happens to
you, just hand over your stuff, it’s re-
ally not worth it. Make sure you report
the incident to the police too.” The po-
lice contacted the victim at his home
later in the evening and informed him
that a man had been arrested later on
Wednesday, possibly in connection
with the mugging.
Thankfully the Photosoc member
was not attacked or assaulted. Felix
spoke to him a few hours after the in-
cident when he appeared at the office
door requesting to use the telephone.
He appeared remarkably calm to this
reporter considering what had hap-
pened only moments earlier.
If you have been the victim of crime,
there are support services available
within both the Union and College.
For general advice, ranging from get-
ting help with insurance companies
to dealing with the distress of being a
victim of crime, you can contact Nigel
Cooke in the Information and Advice
centre by phoning 020 7594 8067 (ext:
48067). Alternatively you can talk to
the Student Counselling Service by
phoning 020 7594 9637 (ext: 49637).
Both services are free and offer full
confidentiality. The victim’s own hand-drawn artistic impression of the muggers

