music.felix@imperial.ac.uk
31
Friday 2 November 2007 felix
Music
Frank Turner
The Real Damage EP
★★★✩✩
Album Review
“I woke on a sofa in an unfamiliar
house, surrounded by sleeping folks I
didn’t know,” the EP starts. As a Fresh-
er, every morning has been just that.
Frank Turner returns after the 2005
break-up of cult band Million Dead.
Turner embarks upon a new direction
after the raw post-punk ideals of two
highly popular albums with Million
Dead. This ‘new’ sound will be famil-
iar to dedicated fans after Turner’s solo
acoustic sets became a solid feature
of later Million Dead gigs. The Real
Damage EP sees Turner preview this
acoustic folk-sound finally in a right of
its own.
Sea Legs and Sunshine State show a
much softer, more emotional side to
Turner’s previous songwriting, whilst
the fifth track Heartless Bastard Moth-
erfucker glimpses at a more familiar,
edgier and blues-ier frame. Although
the combination doesn’t completely
work as a five-track record, only the
Cherry Ghost
4am
★★★★✩
Single Review
Their first album Thirst For Romance
debuted in the top 10 UK charts at
number 7 and received outstanding
commendations and endorsement
across the board. Following a stream of
sell-out gigs around the UK as well as
appearances at prominent music festi-
vals including Glastonbury and Lati-
tude, the band is indeed relentlessly
recruiting new webs of fans, capturing
both new and old audiences with their
unique concoction of sounds and lyr-
Stephen Fretwell, singer-songwriter
from Lincolnshire, is described by Q
Magazine as 'Scunthorpe's finest ex-
port... ever'. “Man on the Roof… teems
with wit, originality, sharpness and pa-
thos, with stand-out tracks including
Darlin’ Don’t, Funny Hat, She and San
Francisco Blues. Wonderful” – Sunday
Times Culture. Fretwell has certainly
matured as an artist since the release of
Magpie, his gold-selling debut in No-
vember 04. After receiving numerous
plaudits from the likes of NME back in
2000, it has been a long wait for album
number two. Fretwell has in the recent
years supported the likes of greats such
as Oasis and Travis. He is the real deal
as one would put it.
He is generally recognized music-
wise for his sentimental, sombre lyr-
ics on life, trials and tribulations, love,
pain and vocally for his gravelly deep
voice that conveys so much heart-
felt emotion. With Bob Dylan being a
huge influence, its no wonder that one
glimpse of his music and one is unas-
sailably reminded of Dylan's ingenius
handiwork. Indulge!
The sweet jaunty opening number-
Coney definitely makes you want to
sway about to the music. The album
declares its magic with the fairground
sway of Coney, the story of a girl yearn-
ing to leave the fairground life but ends
up succumbing like we all do. It's a
bouncy, flamboyant merry-go-round
corker of an opener and strength-
ened with the “boom-cha-cha-boom”
chorus.
His trademark is being very chilled-
out and sentimental, Fretwell certainly
creates a world of his own. To follow
up, the next folksy track Scar sees the
drums kick off with a lilting rhythm
and accelerated pace that contrasts
markedly with some of the mellow
tracks in this fantastic array of classic
tuneage.
The third track, The Ground Be-
neath Your Feet laments on past love,
such a prevalent thing that features
in just about anything. Those who
have ever broke up with a significant
other will empathise with the some-
what poignant lyrics. We all fancy a
bit of schmaltz from time-to-time re-
ally. The interjection of a quick drum
roll and guitar hook works a real treat
in the middle of the song. The much
-adored electric guitar fills the instru-
mental section towards the end of the
song which dynamically plays with the
texture and orchestration of this piece.
The syncopated guitar arrangement is
awesome, as it manages to somehow
effectively lift the song from total mel-
ancholy. (We don’t honestly want to
put a gun to one’s head in hopeless de-
spair for crying out loud). Dead on the
other hand, takes a more upbeat turn;
a groovy tune. The pace has turned up
a noticeable notch with the drumbeat
being more prominent as the rhythm
intensifies, providing a sense of con-
tentedness and a tentative temporary
sense of happiness that is ruthlessly
pervasive.
Next, we have Funny Hat’ Ta dah!
An absolute darling of a number. This
beauty laments on love, bring deliv-
ered with such delicate passion and
pathos, one evidently feels a spasm of
incredible jealousy of Fretwell for be-
ing so damn good! The melody is ach-
Stephen Fretwell
Man on the Roof
★★★★✩
Album Review
ingly melancholic, but nevertheless
truly breathtakingly emotional and the
lyrics will resound softly in your head.
Stephen's voice conveys such tender
passion that you cannot help but get
teary-eyed at times. Listening closely,
his voice is a cross between the lead
singer of Athlete, Chris Martin and
James Morrison. Sexy and throaty. Hell
yeah!
The next track San Francisco Blues
starts with an interesting bluesy gui-
tar prelude. The chorus reminds one
of the Chillies for a split second with
the simple quick application of arpeg-
gios and gentle drumbeat. Guitar riffs
are seemingly simple but take an en-
chanting hold. Now is equally magical,
it impresses with a bittersweet melody
in which the piano and guitars feature
predominantly. The chorus sees the
drums start to kick back in, giving it an
uplifting outlook. The next one lasts
for no more than 2 minutes. Saturday
is somewhat gloomy and sadly not re-
ally up to the pedestal set by the rest of
the album.
Ninth track Bumper Cars is more
instrumentally based, with a violin
accompaniment thrown in for good
measure, giving it a rich, full texture.
The album then gives rise to She, a
slow, easy-going tune that is backed
up with extra vocals, soulful to be sure.
Fretwell has an uncanny way of get-
ting songs stuck in your head all day
long. Sweet and melodic. Darlin Don’t
is reminiscent of Jose Gonzalez with
its soft guitar strumming in the back-
ground and the mellowness has you
unwinding on the sofa, daydreaming
about past childhood. You can hap-
pily drift to sleep listening to this little
number. Once again, sombre melody
drift in for track twelve, Sleep, bemoan-
ing love and all the emotional baggage
that it entails.
The penultimate tune, The Scheme,
begins eerily with electronic synthe-
sised sounds which slowly creep in
stealthily- no trace of the guitar in
this one. Instead, the piano triumphs
by creating long drawn-out repeated
chords that have you almost floating
on the clouds. This gives it a somewhat
mystical, dreamy, surreal quality. The
minimal, almost sparse, use of instru-
mentation in this track is very effective,
doing away with extravagant ostenta-
cious soundscapes and orchestration
to allow the fragile but altogether po-
tent melody to do the talking.
The album concludes with the biz-
zarely titled William Shatner's Dog.
The last number is highly laidback and
casual in the style of the guitar accom-
paniment. Sadly, the finishing track
does not end on a high. A return to the
mellowness which he does best. Can’t
complain.
It’s plain to see that this album really
has no airs and graces – it is comprised
wholly of unpretentious song-writing
brought to life by Fretwell's distinctive,
breathtaking and altogether euphonic
vocal and acoustic delivery.
There are a few minor numbers that
do not stand out in blinding fashion,
but even though you might not be
enthralled by all the tracks, for most
of the duration of the album, you will
hopefully discover yourself rapt with
attention. This collection of intimate,
melancholy and compelling numbers
will surely have you wanting more.
Even though he is outside the main-
stream, one cannot deny that he is a
great, raw talent with a lot to admire.
Thankfully, his songs do not fall into
the category of ten-a-penny that we
sadly seem to see in the charts. His
songs are interestingly meaningful and
palpably tinged with honesty; his vocal
range is impressive, and his lyrics are
ostensibly confessional and memora-
ble. It is so rare nowadays to find such a
jewel amongst the cheese that is ubiq-
uitous in the mass commercial music
market these days. I digress.
Over the 14 tracks, Fretwell alludes
to heartache, jadedness, nostalgia, re-
gret and loneliness. This album is just
stunning, it is simply perfect for the
imminent long, dark, winter nights. A
time-less repertoire. Lights out, let the
fire crackle on and fill the room with
these beautifully haunting melodies.
Dylan fans, here’s something for you.
Watch out though, Fretwell may well
usurp him one day!
Susan Yu
ics, heavenly heartrending and always
beautifully evocative.
4am is the third single from Man-
chester-based Cherry Ghost. Their
music is heavily inspired by the sub-
lime melancholy of acts such as Smog,
Johnny Cash and Sparklehorse. Their
previous hit anthemic single People
Help The People is still hot property
reverberating everywhere with its ra-
dio omnipresence. Simon Aldred, the
main singer-songwriter does seem to
have a knack of knocking out tunes
that are euphonic to our ears, both
musically and lyrically of course.
This track begins with a fusion of
electronic sounds which steadily leads
into a gentle melodic intro, setting the
mood to a relaxing time out. It’s al-
ways good to come back from a hard
day’s slog, put one’s feet up and listen
to something like this whilst drinking
hot chocolate. Very sweet and mellow,
with the acoustic guitar playing pleas-
antly and shaping the simplistic chord
structure. The wistful, almost nostal-
gic feel emanates not just from the soft
crooning quality of the singing and the
peaceful guitar strumming but also
augmented by the lyrics: 'There ain't
no hiding place on Earth that loneli-
ness ain't been first'. The pace is nice
and laidback giving you plenty of time
to feel the stress of the day seeping out
of one’s pores.
This little gem of a song is reminis-
cent of a sweet night time stroll, tinged
by the loneliness that is forever preva-
lent throughout life. Indeed there is
some slight resemblance to Newton
Faulkner, who also broke into the mu-
sic scene quite recently with a similar
style of the guitar backdrop laced with
the easy laid-back singing. It is defi-
nitely worth considering playing this
album whilst cooking a simple meal
or doing some light reading. Cherry
Ghost are, without a doubt, a rare find
with their atmospheric repertoire of
songs. I’m sure they are destined for
bigger and better things, ascent is the
only way up!
Susan Yu
opening track The Real Damage makes
it onto Turner’s full album Sleep Is For
The Week. Despite this, the quality of
the song writing is ubiquitously top
notch throughout the five tracks. Vocal
wise, gone are the days of throat-rip-
ping, hundred-mile-per-hour scream-
ing; replaced by a greatly measured
and melodic integrity.
It’s definitely not Million Dead, but
that can only be a good thing for Turn-
er. It’s definitely more accessible to a
wider audience then his previous musi-
cal endeavours, but it may suffer from
the size of his record label, Xtra Mile,
coupled with his relative anonymity.
Hardcore but fickle MD fans may fol-
low Turner’s latest efforts with initial
dedication but move on once they re-
alise they can’t thrash their heads along
to it. But you wouldn’t want to thrash
any of your members along to Frank
Turner’s material. Calmly tapping your
foot will do just fine.
Daniel Wan
Clockwise from top left: Stephen Fretwell in the studio, Frank Turner enjoying some “me” time and Cherry
Ghost’s Simon Aldred looking pensive. Nice shirt to be fair to him. Not sure about the window decor though

