games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Games
Games Editors – Azfarul Islam and Sebastian Nordgren
Azfarul “Az” Islam
Games Editor
N
ormally, I’m not much
of a handheld gamer.
I’ve randomly had
goes at the Gamegear,
Gameboy, Gameboy
Advance(s) and the two newer ones
over the last decade or so. Sure, I did
have quite some fun with the games,
but never did I find a handheld console
beckoning me to purchase one for my
own. Given that I had a deluge of great
games to get through on my PS2, my
gaming time was devoted to such.
Then I realised only recently that I
wasn’t exactly playing the most entic-
ing games on these Console Minis.
A week ago, I had touched Wari-
oWare (pun intended) on the DS and
I’ve found myself completely hooked.
And what’s not to love? Designed as a
series of ephemeral mini-games, you
end up breezing through the zaniest
variety of tasks you’ll have attempted
in a game thus far. Within a span of a
minute or so, I picked a nose, made a
couple fall for each other, connected a
lightbulb and sucked an entire galaxy
into an unforgiving swirling vortex. All
in a day’s work, really. Insane. There’s
hardly any time, initially, to climb the
learning curve. The instructions are
basic and minimal: it’s upto you to
figure out how to succeed and then
do so - all within a span of five to ten
seconds.
Similarly, I’ve been able to muck
around with a PSP for quite some time
as well. Virtua Tennis didn’t end so well
with the A.I. trouncing me until I real-
ised that I was playing on the highest
difficulty. It’s quite a different feel from
its console brethren, but that doesn’t
deny the game some impressive visuals
and solid gameplay mechanics. Later
on I got in a couple of hours with Met-
al Gear AC!D. Now, I’m a Metal Gear
fan first and foremost (judge me by my
Halo articles at your own risk heh) and
AC!D is the furthest departure from
the series I’ve seen. They turn a spon-
taneous, stylistic stealth game into, of
all things, a tactical card-based battler.
It’s not Magic: The Gathering or Duel
Masters, but it’s still a design decision
that’s bizarre at best. Within a span of
two hours, I had to come to grips with
a rule system that lacked intuitive-
ness, a few rounds of bad luck when
drawing cards and a group of enemies
who spasmed between absolute idiots
to ruthless pack hunters. And yet, it
was a thoroughly entertaining experi-
ence. Oddities involved having cards
for every. Single. Action. Movement?
Check. Climbing over waist-high box-
es? Check. Random, insignificant task
requiring basic motor skills? Check.
The soldiers I was assigned to kill were
an odd bunch. During an alert scene
two of them, on the verge of tracking
me down, ended up in a storeroom
and did god-knows-what for the entire
sequence until the alert was taken off.
Yeah, definitely not creepy [/sarcasm].
However, the overall experience left
me realising that handheld games have
really carved a fantastic, more focused
niche for themselves over the years. I
definitely need one now *hint hint*
This
Week
Phantom Hourglass class
Should you trust this wierdo? Be careful of your dentures!
Ready for new adventures? I don’t think so
Eduardo Vasquez-Silva finds a silent cartographer and goes on another epic quest
T
he Legend of Zelda is a
franchise full of surprises,
as fans never know what
to expect from each game,
but they know that a game
with the princess’ name on it is guaran-
teed to be great (for those thinking of
the CDi disasters, do yourself a favour
and assume they were never made).
Take Ocarina of Time, for instance.
The jump from 2D to 3D was some-
thing that concerned many gamers,
as it was hard to imagine how things
would work in a polygonal world.
Luckily, the wizards of Nintendo did
what they do best and delivered one
of the finest pieces of software ever to
grace a console. The Wind Waker also
surprised many with its different looks
and combat system, but again, it was
one of the best games on its system.
So when Nintendo announced that
there would be a sequel to The Wind
Waker (TWW) on the Dual Screens, I
got really excited, but felt a bit scepti-
cal at the same time. Mainly because
the cartoony art style of TWW never
really convinced me, and the fact that
Link would only be controlled using
the stylus was something I couldn’t
see working very well. Luckily, I was
wrong. Phantom Hourglass has now
become my favourite DS game, and
probably the best one out there.
What makes this game so damn good
is actually the way it is controlled. As I
said, you control Link by simply touch-
ing on the screen wherever you want
him to go, and he will faithfully follow.
However, it happens to work fantasti-
cally well. Fighting is as simple (and
surprisingly satisfactory) as tapping on
your enemies, although some require a
little more skill than others.
This is a Zelda game and most stand-
ards are here: lots of dungeons full of
enemies and puzzles that will push
your brain harder than Kawashima’s
Brain Training, lots of different weap-
ons, places to visit and people to talk
Reader Rating: 9.5 / 10
to. However, it is the new way in which
all these features are implemented
where this game excels.
Phantom Hourglass does a fantastic
job at using all the capabilities of the
DS. To use certain weapons, such as
the boomerang, you simply draw on
the screen the trajectory you want it
to follow. Then let go. Enjoy. Repeat. It
never gets old.
Some puzzles are so inventive, they
actually require gamers to think in
ways they are not used to. I particu-
larly remember an enemy I was told
was “sensitive to loud noises”. What
I thought would be one of the most
predictable ways of defeating an en-
emy ended up being one of the biggest
surprises I’ve had while playing games.
All I did was throw bombs at him, hop-
ing he would run away crying due to
the noise, but nothing worked. After a
while, I remembered that the DS has a
microphone incorporated. I thought
about it for a second, but then I just
went for it and yelled at it. To my sur-
prise, the foe did actually get scared, as
did the rest of the people who were on
the bus with me.
One of the most inventive uses of the
touch screen is to actually write memos
on your map or sea chart. This being a
Zelda game, this comes in very handy,
given that there are places you know
you’ll have to come back to when you
are appropriately equipped, or people
you’ll have to do favours to.
Another thing that really helps this
game stand out is its presentation. It’s
just beautiful to look at: the colours are
bright, animations are smooth and the
sound demands the use of headphones.
The music is really good, my favourite
tune being the one you hear while you
are cruising the seas, which is good,
because you’ll do it a lot.
For a DS game, this is a very long one.
The main adventure can take from 12
to 15 hours to complete. However, this
is one of the things that really, really
bothered me about Phantom Hour-
glass. There is one temple that you have
to revisit several occasions, and every
time you go in, you have to go through
every single room you had already
beaten. Again, and again, which is kind
of repetitive. I found this a lame excuse
to make it feel like a longer lasting ad-
venture. Fair enough, you’ll eventually
get upgrades that allow you go through
it quicker, but that doesn’t help the fact
that you are doing the same stuff over
and over!!...phew…I had to get that off
my chest….Well, I guess it really isn’t
such a big deal, after all. It’s probably
just THE ONE thing that keeps this
game from a 10/10.
Overall, this is an awesome game: it
looks great, the sound and music are
top-notch and the puzzles and game-
play do the console fair justice. It will
stay in your DS for weeks, and if you
don’t have a DS, go buy one now. Trust
me, it’s that good.
Link Teaches Writing™
Cue Indiana Jones’ theme The Treasure is a lie!
Hackity-slashity fun returns! Cue more Indiana Jones’ music
33
Friday 2 November 2007 felix

