sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
38 Friday 2 November 2007
felix
Sport
Mens 2nd fend off St George
Fencing
ULU Men’s 1st 129
Imperial Men’s 1st 97
The first match of the season saw the
Mens 1st Fencing team away to the
University of London. With both Team
Captain Chris and Club President
Chris having spent much of the sum-
mer training with the ULU team, there
was a certain amount of healthy rivalry
going into this match. First up was the
foil match, having both fenced ULU’s
top foilist on many occasions, there
was much debate over which Chris
should take the anchor position for
the final bout. Captain Chris decided
against taking it himself which meant
he started the match with the first bout
against their top foilist. Despite a hard
fought fight, after losing this first bout
the Imperial team never quite managed
to regain the upper hand with Nathan,
the one member of the team to never
have fenced any of the ULU team, hav-
ing the most success (who said left-
handers were awkward). Chris decided
to substitute himself for reserve Alex
for his final bout, but even this change
to a fresh fencer did nothing to save the
foil team and left the other Chris with
an unenviable chase in the final bout.
With the pressure on Chris went into
the bout knowing that he had beaten
his opponent before, though this
though was not to be his day and the
foil victory went to ULU.
Beth Jelfs
Epee was up next, despite being ex-
perienced fencers all three of the epee-
ists are freshers so this was their first
BUSA team match and added to that
they were going into it knowing the
team really needed a win in epee to
keep them in with a chance of winning.
The first bout started well for Ed but af-
ter a close fight eventually went ULUs
way. Sjoerd and Alessandro’s bouts fol-
lowed in a similar vein and despite the
best efforts of all three fencers by the
time it came to the final bout, short of
a minor miracle, a win was realistically
beyond Imperial’s grasp. Despite this
Alessandro was not giving up that eas-
ily and gave the ULU fencer a good run
for his money.
Finally up last was the sabre and short
of winning by a huge margin this was
mainly for the pride. Sabre started well
with an easy victory for Charlie over
the injured ULU captain and continued
well. Despite being primarily a foilist
Alex had the best performance of the
match in sabre (and was ultimately the
only member of the team to avoid the
forfeits in the bar later). All was look-
ing good until the final bout where,
despite good performance, Wookie
gave away 11 points of their lead be-
fore finally managing the 5 needed for
a win in sabre. Unfortunately this win
in sabre was not enough to make up
for the previous losses and ULU won
the overall match. All that was left was
a trip to the ULU bar for a drink with
our hosts and to administer the forfeits
for bad performances, though whilst
there, small consolation was found in
the news that the Mens 2nd team had
at least won their first match.
Imperial Men’s 2nd Fencing team got
their season off to the perfect start
with a hard fought victory against St
George’s 1st team that went right to
the wire.
Late arrivals dictated that Sabre
would be fenced first. St George’s took
an early lead when Will Hoy found
himself defeated 3 – 5 in the first match
and despite Luka Lukic, Maurice Berk
and the aforementioned Will battling
valiantly, it was a lead they were never
able to overcome, eventually succumb-
ing 38 – 45 in that weapon.
Foil was up next and this proved to
feature some of the most controver-
sial and electrifying moments of the
match. Ez Hassan eventually made his
way to a 5 – 3 victory in the first match,
with tensions running high over debat-
able referring decisions. Next up was
Norris who struggled in his first con-
test, managing 4 hits to their 7 and
surrendering the lead. Nathan Blundell
scored 5 in his first, leaving the contest
balanced on a knife edge at 14 – 15.
Norris then redeemed himself with a
fine 6 – 2 victory over the opposition
captain before Ez further extended the
lead to 25 – 20. Nathan then produced
some simply sublime fencing, thrash-
ing their best foilist 5 – 1, apparently
putting the game beyond doubt at 30
Fencing
Imperial Men’s 2nd 128
St. George’s Men’s 1st 121
Maurice Berk
– 21, and earning himself the Man of
the Match award. Yet rather than roll-
ing over and accepting their fate, St
George’s bounced back with two mas-
sive victories, leaving the final score for
foil a nail-bitingly close 45 – 43.
Going into épeé, the combined
scores stood at 83 – 88, requiring the
final weapon to be won by at least 5
points. Luka set the ball rolling with a
5 – 3 victory and Maurice’s blushes due
to a 3 – 7 defeat were saved when Ez
followed this up with a 7 – 2 victory,
leaving Imperial 3 points in the lead.
Maurice’s 5 – 5 draw in the next match
up did nothing to change the situation
while Luka’s hard work to extend the
lead by 2 points in his 5 – 3 victory was
partially undone when Ez found him-
self on the wrong end of 5 – 6 score
line. With 4 points in the lead and 3
matches to go, team captain Maurice
stepped up to the piste and exploited
the inexperience of his opponent to the
full, with a resounding 5 – 1 victory, in-
creasing the lead to 8 points and seem-
ingly putting the match beyond doubt.
Ez drew his final match up 5 – 5 while
Luka made sure with another excellent
performance in a 5 – 1 victory, leaving
the final score for épeé 45 – 33 and the
combined score 128 – 121.
Fencing 1st lose out to ULU
After two seasons away from the BUSA
league, IC’s Men’s Table Tennis team
made their return this time with the
strongest squad to date.
Our campaign kicked off a few
weeks ago at King’s College. Imperial
started off like a steam train taking the
first eleven rubbers without reply, at
which point I became the weakest link
and allowed King’s to pull one back!
There were times when King’s did look
threatening especially towards the end
of the match but IC was quick to re-
spond and closed out the match 16-1.
It was a dominant performance from
the team. Serkan, Gaetan and Kevin
were unbeaten and in particular, Kevin
won all his matches without dropping
a set!
IC went into the next match against
UCL with real confidence boosted by
the support of the home crowd. There
were two changes to the team with Wei
Lun Wong and Eddie Liu joining Ga-
etan and Kevin in the line-up.
We got off to a great start as Gaetan
Table tennis domiante Kings, then fall to UCL
Table Tennis
King’s Men’s 1st 1
Imperial Men’s 1st 16
William Do
opened up proceedings with a domi-
nant 3-0 win over Jonathan De Wind.
UCL hit back immediately with Rizwan
Umarjee beating Wei Lun 9-11, 11-9,
11-6, 11-9. Eddie was up next and he
edged out a close first set against Jackie
Cheung, then raced through the sec-
ond set before Jackie took the next two
to force a decider. It was a tight final set
but it was Jackie who prevailed making
an inspiring comeback to win 11-13,
6-11, 11-7, 11-6, 11-9. UCL’s Number
One player Chaoen beat Kevin 11-2,
11-5, 11-6 in the fourth rubber of the
tie to extend their lead to 3-1 after the
first round of matches.
Gaetan and Wei Lun scored two cru-
cial wins over Rizwan and Jonathan
respectively to bring the score level at
3-3. IC continued to give it their all but
a stubborn UCL surged ahead to open
up a 7-3 lead. Eddie lost to Chaoen in
four very close sets while Kevin also
lost a tight encounter with Jackie Che-
ung. Gaetan went 2-1 down against
Jackie and showed his battling qualities
to take the match into the deciding set,
but it was to no avail as Jackie closed
out the set and match 11-8.
Eddie and Kevin fought back to re-
duce the deficit to 2 points but it only
delayed the inevitable as UCL moved
into an unassailable 9-5 lead. We kept
going and won the remaining four rub-
bers to make the final score 9-8 and
these points may well be valuable to-
wards the end of the season.
In our next match, we face South
Bank, a university renowned for its
table tennis excellence but the team is
now settled and we are ready to take
on anyone!
Table Tennis
Imperial Men’s 1st 8
UCL Men’s 1st 9
St George’s captain charges down the piste at a resolute Norris
Ping-pong, ping-pong, ping-pong, ping-pong, ping-pong, point to IC

