felix sport Send in your sport reports:
sport.felix@imperial.ac.uk
High resolution photos only
En garde!
Double whammy of fencing match reports, see page 38
Organised by Badminton England and
run in conjunction with Sport Imperial
and Imperial College Badminton Club,
a special event was held at Ethos, the
emphasis of the day was on fun, friend-
ly competition and inclusion. It aimed
to show that those with disabilities can
play alongside more able-bodied play-
ers in a social setting.
The Badminton Club provided 16
volunteers to help throughout the day.
They began at 08.30, setting the nets
at the right height for wheelchair us-
ers (1.4m), registering participants etc.
Where possible, volunteers aimed to
run Men’s and Women’s matches sepa-
rately and endeavoured to play both
singles and doubles matches.
All the volunteers did very well
mingling with all the participants and
getting involved in as much as possi-
ble. Some of the participants travelled
from as far as Scotland, demonstrat-
ing the value of an event of this kind.
The Badminton England Representa-
tive, Jon Train, has even mentioned the
possibility of making this an annual or
bi-annual event.
This is true partnership working in
action – an excellent example of col-
Disabled badminton event held at Ethos
Unbeaten this season, Imperial Net-
ball 2nds team had another victory this
Wednesday with their BUSA match
away against St. Canterbury Christ
Church’s 3rd team.
After the antics of last week, with
the double-booking of Holland Park’s
courts with the Imperial Tennis
teams causing our first BUSA match
to be cancelled, it was hoped that the
match on Wednesday would run more
smoothly.
However, only having a squad of
8 with a player down due to injury,
getting a team together for the game
proved to be more challenging than
first thought. Eventually a 3rd team
player was recruited on the day to com-
plete a 7 player squad, only for the 1st
team to take one of our players hours
before the game!!! Fortunately, the 3rd
Frances Thomson
Netball
Canterbury 3rd 29
Imperial 2nd 49
team captain came to the rescue and
we set out for our 3 hour journey to
Canterbury.
After a quick warm up, we got off to a
slow but good start to lead 12 - 5 in the
first quarter. The game then picked up
in the second quarter and we extended
our lead to 28 - 11. The ball was get-
ting fed into the shooting circle much
quicker and the play down the court
started to flow with greater control.
The third quarter was eventful with
Imperial storming ahead 40 - 19, with
everyone playing more aggressively.
Jackie, the Goal Attack, playing bril-
liantly as ever, managed to knock over
her defender (who was a bit of a .....)
and there was a brief appearance of
Anna’s underwear during her spectac-
ular fall on court.
After having travelled so far and with
no substitutes, our team started to tire
in the last quarter while the opposition
continued to substitute on fresh play-
ers. The match was won with a 20 goal
difference with a final score of 49 -29.
Having bonded so well and with our
play continuously improving, we look
forward to a highly successful season
in both our leagues.
laborative working by a National Gov-
erning Body, Sport Imperial and the
Badminton Club.
2nds win despite lack of subs
In case you can’t spot the disability, the guy has no leg. Well played!
Nick Gore
Sport Imperial

