4 felix Friday 2 November 2007
Comment, Opinion
& Letters
Let us know your views: comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Letters may be edited for length and grammar purposes
Views on these pages are not representative of Felix
In response to the President
I
was disappointed that the previ-
ous article (Issue 1383) by the
Union President about the de-
bate on Higher Education (HE)
funding seemed to attempt to
label anyone who opposed top-up fees
as a “Greek Trotskyite” or “sub-Marx-
ist.” I hope instead that we can have a
reasoned and intelligent discussion.
The current debate over HE fund-
ing at Imperial has been sparked by
the NUS Campaigns Convention over
the summer. The NUS claimed that
we “have lost the argument for state-
funded higher education with the pub-
lic” and we must “focus our efforts on
keeping the cap on fees and not let the
fight for free education make us inef-
fective and destroy our chances of win-
ning on the issue of the cap.”
For a Union that was so worried last
year about Imperial no longer form-
ing policy independent of the NUS, we
seem to be reversing our policy on HE
funding precisely because the NUS is
doing so. Just because our Union has
affiliated to the NUS it does not mean
we have to adopt precisely the same
position as them.
Our Union President, along with
the NUS, thinks that the debate has
moved on. By their logic we must ac-
cept that there has to be a market in
higher education and all we can do is
limit it. However, there has not always
been a market in Higher Education.
Prior to the introduction of tuition fees
in 1998 everyone received a grant to go
to university.
If our policy was aimed at trying to
stop the cap being lifted on the basis
that paying £3000 is the best we’re go-
ing to get, then all we do is weaken our
position. The Union seems to believe
that maintaining an “unrealistic” - but
principled - stance on free education
will weaken the ability of ICU and NUS
to prevent the £3,000 cap from being
lifted. In fact the reverse is correct. If
ICU doesn’t retain its support for free
education, then any future argument
against increasing the cap loses its
logical basis; if we accept the need for
the free market to dictate who attends
university then our Rector’s position
in favour of unlimited top-up fees is
one that becomes almost impossible
to resist.
Tactically we need to keep our cur-
rent policy if we are to win the argu-
ment in a couple of years when the
government reviews top-up fees. If we
allow Universities to be subject to the
free market then they will constantly
be competing to increase fees. Sir Ri-
chard Sykes and other members of the
Russell Group make it clear that they
would like to charge unlimited fees.
We must maintain our support for free
education (that is free at the point of
use) in order to avoid this situation.
I hope the Union Council will clarify
their position with regards to releasing
the cap on top-up fees. Will the Union
robustly oppose increasing the cap on
top-up fees when this issue comes to
prominence in 2009?
The President’s simplistic argument
that the only opposition to top-up fees
is because people “prefer something
free over something you have to now
pay for” ignores the reality in which
poorer people are excluded from at-
tending University out of fear of the
resulting debt.
Although the overall number of ad-
missions did not change much after
the introduction of top-up fees, it is
not clear just how much people from
the poorest backgrounds have been de-
terred from going to university. I only
managed to come to Imperial because
I obtained one of four scholarships, as
my parents can not afford to contrib-
ute anything to my tuition fees. I only
decided to come to university because
under the old system of means-tested
benefits I was exempt from paying
tuition fees, which took away a lot of
worry about debt after graduation. I
can testify to the effect that top-up
fees would have had on me: I would
not have come to University, let alone
Imperial.
Under the current system students
from poorer backgrounds will end up
coming out of university with much
larger amounts of debt than before
top-up fees were introduced as their
parents will not be able to contribute
towards their tuition fees. Although
new bursaries have been introduced a
lot of the time this has been done at the
expense of old ones. For example the
scholarship I was awarded by Imperial
College is now £1000 per annum for
new students as opposed to £5000 per
annum 2 years ago.
If we change our policy on HE fund-
ing we will be agreeing to the exclusion
of students from low income back-
grounds, which is something that we
don’t want to do.
The title of the previous article by
the President, “The Union’s View”, was
erroneous, as it is clearly only the view
of those people on Union Council who
voted for the HE Funding Policy to be
revoked, not all the members of the
Union. I renew my call for a full refer-
endum of the student body to decide
this critical issue.
Caroline Clark
Steve Brown
President
“
If we allow
universities to
be subject to
the free market
then they will
constantly be
competing to
increase fees
”
Continuing the education debate
Comment returns to the discussion about what the Union’s stance on higher education funding should be
H
as anyone heard the
joke about how many
sabbaticals it takes to
win the “fight” for free
education? Don’t get me
wrong, I am deadly serious. This time
last year only eight of you responded
to the rallying cry of the then Deputy
President (Education and Welfare) to
attend a national demonstration in
Central London to register your dis-
gust with the current education fund-
ing arrangements.
To respond to some of the other
contributors to these esteemed pages
I would like to clarify that at no point
has myself, Union Council or even the
Rector has recently put forward the
idea that our education should be en-
tirely “self funded”.
Union Council voted to scrap our
policy on free education as they ac-
knowledged that it is no longer a re-
alistic stance to take given that the
government is now aiming for 50% of
all school leavers to embark upon a
degree course. If you believe that the
taxpayer should pick up the tab for this
exercise then you better start formu-
lating a proposal that will find favour
with the leadership of either of the two
main political parties. If I really wanted
to I could use this column to sanctimo-
niously scaremonger on this topic but
given that less than 0.1% of the student
body attended the last National Demo
I will take this opportunity to put a dif-
ferent view across.
To respond to Ms. Clark who was
at odds with my view in issue 1,383 I
would like to give her a bit of a real-
ity check. She correctly points out that
a Students’ Union has to “defend the
interests of students” but to do so we
need to engage with society on what
exactly constitutes the “interests” of
current and potential students. Ms.
Clark seems to be suggesting that the
Union should embark on a self-defeat-
ing internal monologue on this topic.
There is no point in convincing
Union Council, the NUS or even the
student body via a general meeting or
referendum about the merits of “free
education” if you cannot convince any-
one else. Whilst the Union held a pol-
icy mandating officers to toe the free
education line I am confident in say-
ing that we would probably get taken
about as seriously as doctors would be
if they asked for a 100% pay rise. The
abolition of the graduate contribution
is a position that both the Conserva-
tive Party and the Labour Party do
not support and if you want to change
their mind it will take considerably
more than sending eight people along
to wave placards in the air and offering
a couple of ill thought out arguments
in the pages of Felix .
As I have stated in these pages previ-
ously, even the phrase “free education”
is a complete misnomer. Education
is not free and someone, somewhere
has to pay for it and there is little to
be gained from me sanctimoniously
scaremongering that if there is no
mechanism for a graduate contribu-
tion then society would be worse off.
I would like to point out that higher
education still is free at the point of
use. All EU students repay their fees
via the student loans company. The
amount they pay back is dependent on
how much you earn and currently the
government subsidises the interest on
student loans.
Currently I am over £20,000 in debt
but if I was given a lump sum tomorrow
I would be better off financially if I put
that money in a savings account rather
than using it to pay off my student loan
early. The introduction of student fees
has also seen the reintroduction of
bursaries. If I was a bit younger and
started university now I would qualify
for a grant. Is Ms. Clark going to argue
in favour of a system whereby financial
support can’t be targeted at students
who need it the most? Would she
be in favour of an alternative system
whereby contributions paid by Impe-
rial graduates would be used to sup-
port “students” studying Surf Science
or Golf Course Management?
Student debt is not like credit card
debt. There is no incentive to pay what
you owe back any quicker than the gov-
ernment asks. Professor Nicholas Barr
at the LSE illustrated this by stating the
fact that a graduate earning £15,000
pays nothing but a graduate earning
£50,000 would repay their loan at the
rate of £262.50 per month. Higher Ed-
ucation is free at the point of use and it
is only once you start earning that you
can afford to pay for it. The only alter-
native is to argue that we should all pay
more in tax once we graduate to cover
the cost but given that neither politi-
cal parties are in favour of significant
tax increases this is unlikely to happen.
Imperial College graduates command
some of the highest starting salaries so
is it really in our members interest to
argue for this?
If students are that unhappy with
the system or if any evidence emerges
that fees have had a negative impact on
access to Imperial College then I will
be the first to man the barricades. It is
crucial that Union policy is based on
how things actually are rather than it
being formulated around few cheap
slogans about “free education”. If you
want to suggest an alternative to the
current graduate contribution where
there are significantly increased levels
of support for low income students
and that all the money paid by Impe-
rial students stays with Imperial Col-
lege I will be all ears. Until then please
remember that if you abolish fees you
will also abolish targeted financial sup-
port for the students who need it most.
If the student body wants their most
senior representative to make a case
in favour of this then there has to be
more evidence of this than the views
of the eight students who went march-
ing through the streets of London last
autumn.
“
Education
is not free
and someone,
somewhere has
to pay for it
Free higher education is unrealistic

