6 felix Friday 2 November 2007
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk Comment
Comment
The world is a reflection of its religion
I
have, on the desk next to me, six
copies of a book called “GOD –
Man’s Loving Enemy” by a man
named Adam Bolton. The man-
ner in which I came to own these
copies is, I promise you, entirely true.
Fourteen months ago, I signed up to
a self-publishing website to read about
a friend’s book. Then I didn’t go back
to the website ever again. About a year
ago now, they sent me a large box, with
a letter in that congratulated me for
publishing my first book – something
that I, also, was happy about, having
not actually written one.
It turned out that this was actually
some other poor sod’s first book, and
seeing as my attempts to return the
books to the publisher were met with
an email promising a second set, I de-
cided to keep them.
Of course, at that point I assumed
they were actually readable. My mis-
take. The subtitle of the book is, “The
World Is A Reflection Of Its Religion.
Religion, In Turn, Is A Reflection Of
The God It Worships”. In short, the
book is written by a believer in God,
and details the myriad ways that the
creator of existence is shit at his job. It’s
Richard Dawkins, crossed with Martin
Luther. It’s out of its mind.
Not to worry though, as I thought
Felix Arts might like to take a look and
they’ve informed me you fine people
will soon be able to get your hands on
the copy I’ve given them. Please try to
contain your excitement and read on,
because the book represents such a
bizarre standpoint that I may actually
be able to contain my resentment for
mankind as a whole in order to lay into
Mr. Bolton a little more sharply.
You see, Bolton’s underlying argu-
ment is this – Organised Religion
is brainwashing the people, and we
should all wake up to the idea that-
God is God, fallible but ultimately In
Charge, and that people like the Pope
just want your money. Your money,
and our nation’s children. And pup-
pies, probably, to kill and feast upon.
Anyway, in between LARGE SEC-
TIONS IN BOLD CAPITAL LETTERS
and general rambling, Bolton doesn’t
ever grasp the idea that Religion is
more useful than simply a means of
oppession. Or even faith provision.
Religion dupes people into worship-
ping itself, it’s true. So does television,
and the Felix Editor. The thing Reli-
gion has that the others don’t, is that it
dupes people well. Really well. In fact,
forget governments and corporations,
Religion still remains the biggest social
glue on the planet. Yes, this is going
where you think it’s going.
I don’t know how many of you are
religious, or who are religious but pre-
tending not to be so you can get in the
pants of that existentialist you see at
the back of Friday afternoon lectures,
and I don’t really care. Maybe you con-
sidered your faith carefully enough to
chooseityourself.Morelikely,youwere
coaxed into it by someone else – just
like others were coaxed into atheism.
And maybe, yes, you give money every
year that ends up funding your local
bishop’s supping on golden retriever
babies. But at the end of the day, you
feel like you’re part of something. And
irregardless of The Big Guy’s actual ex-
istence, you are part of something.
In fact, in an age where we can’t even
group together for long enough to turn
off televisions that we’re not watching,
Religion is something of a unique insti-
tution in the world, where people get
together to genuinely act as a group.
Sure, you might think they’re doing
it out of self-interest, or that it’s akin
to brainwashing, or that, occasion-
ally, what they do as a group involves
murdering large numbers of people.
Touché. But that sort of thing happens
whether you’ve got a story about an old
guy in a toga sitting on a cloud or not.
What happens far less when you
don’t have the old guy, is philanthropy,
selflessness and Genuine Good Stuff.
I’m not religious, and I like to think
that between shouting at you and
A. Geek
“
Religion
dupes people
into worshipping
itself. So does
television
and the Felix
Editor
” This week in England... Issue 002
The
Ringmaster
Does Sanchez Ring A Bell?
If there were any time we required
evidence to suggest that our wonder-
ful government either cannot count
or was terribly distracted with writing
inspirational forget-the-party’s-values
speeches, it would have to be now. Af-
ter all, it only takes so long for some-
one to be sitting at their desk and final-
ly concede... ”I’ll leave the last stack for
tomorrow” before binning the rest of
the visa applications and accidentally
falling 300,000 heads short. Whoop-
sies! England has to take a firm stand
against this clearly evil invasion that
has befallen the country; ignore the
fact that you’re all more or less Spanish
in the first place (although these days, I
must say, that Spanish lot seem to have
fared somewhat better a-swimming
in the gene pool...) and that without
your so despised call centres the cost
of your BT landline will want to make
you swallow your own face, this has to
be put at an end!
This is a rallying call to all the Impe-
rial College aspiring plumbers, kebab
shop owners, telemarketers, mobile
phone salespeople and fruit vendors
across all departments – without
everyone’s support, the government
would look rather silly. And let’s be
honest: we don’t want them taking our
most valuable jobs now, do we?
Now, if you don’t mind, I have my
plush office in Fleet Street and my 50
million pound bonus this year to look
forward to.
Who’s This Bloody Bloke anyway?
I’m unsure as to how many letters of
holy enlightenment our esteemed edi-
tor has received after my teachings in
the second previous issue, but I have
yet another revelation to share with
you inspired lot – I have chosen to walk
amongst you. Because cameras tend to
stop working whenever a photo of my
face is taken (you should see what I can
do to polaroids) I shall, over the com-
ing months, attempt to show you some
bits and bobs of the person whose
worldly form I have decided to take.
To make things even more interesting,
the first person who does not directly
know my worldly alias who guesses
correctly to our esteetmed editor, will
win an as-of-yet undetermined prize.
Details to follow in my next issue.
England Does It Best...
Once again, England has not failed to
impress. You would be excused, prior
to the 2002 World Cup, if you believed
the hype that we weren’t just going to
sweep the rest of the world under a
rug, but that Wayne Rooney himself
will be biting the fingers off any goal-
keeper that dares keep a football out of
the net touched by his supple foot.
Come the cricket world cup, and oh
dear oh dear oh dear – a rallying call
against the Aussies was in order, of
course, and it would have been great
to watch had we ever gotten that far.
It seems like we were beginning to
learn a lesson, but that was before the
World Cup Final in the rugby, and the
Formula One world championship
showdown in Brazil. In one weekend,
the worst, most gutting, and horrific
battle cries I have heard in my life were
echoing throughout the desperate face
of England. Despite the fact that Perry
Montgomery is effectively a Jonny
Wilkinson v3.0. Despite the fact that
nobody really expects Hamilton to win
shouting at Mr. Bolton that I’m a pretty
amiable person. But I wouldn’t say eve-
ryone was like that. And nor would I
say that I could organise anything good
on a very large scale. My advice would
be this – if you’re happy as you are,
don’t change it. Atheism might look
crisp, modern and rational, but it’s un-
likely to organise anything more help-
ful than Marxism for many decades to
come.
the title in his rookie season (although
all credit to him, how close can you
get!).
England has done what it does best,
and, well, I’m proud of her. Finishing
second is the best way to push world
standards up further. “Just you watch
out,” Old Brittania says, “because if I
somehow manage to do better next
time...”
God Bless the Media.
Marxism: On same level as atheism?
“
England
has done what
it does best
... finishing
second
Text your comments to the Felix Catfone
for free* and we’ll publish them!
*if you have a contract phone. Technically, this might not be true.
Basically, the Catfone is just a regular mobile on the Orange network
07980 148 785

