science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
8 felix Friday 2 November 2007
Science
Science Editor – Ed Henley
What do stable
isotopes tell us?
Carbon: Distinguishes be-
tween marine and terrestrial
protein. Also differentiates
between plants that grow at
different altitudes.
Nitrogen: Distinguishes plant
from animal protein.
Oxygen and Hydrogen: Vary
in water supplies, providing
information of temperature
and altitude
Sulphur: Used to track chang-
es in the diet and origin of
food that is sourced from dif-
ferent background geologies.
The Llullaillaco Maiden. No, she’s not getting a make-over – they’re collecting stable isotope deposits
CSI: Cuzco – Incan ritual sacrifices
An international team of research-
ers has found that the ritual sacrifice
of Inca children involved “fattening”
them up before death. Using data from
stable isotopes and DNA they have
been able to establish a picture of the
final few months of four mummified
children found at some of the highest
archaeological sites in the world.
To discover information about these
final months the scientists measured
deposits of various stable isotopes in
hair samples from the children. Scalp
hair samples were used for analysis as
this tye of hair grows approximately
1 cm a month, the isotope deposits it
contains reflecting the food that an in-
dividual has eaten during the months
leading up to their death. Once de-
posited, these stable isotopes (which
include carbon, nitrogen, oxygen and
hydrogen – see box for details) remain
unchanged for thousands of years.
Two of the children were recovered
from a shrine 25m from the 6,739m
summit of Volcán Llullaillaco, the high-
est archaeological site in the world.
They were a 15 year old girl called the
“Llullaillaco Maiden” and a 7 year old
boy called, you’ve guessed it, “Llullail-
laco Boy”.
The shrine is one of over 100 Inca
ritual sites all located between 5,200m
and 6,700m. The peaks of the Andes
were sacred to the Inca, and were of-
ten associated or even identified with
the major deities such as the weather
god Illapa. Sacrifices at these peaks re-
inforced the reverence for these sacred
peaks and legitimized the growing Inca
empire.
Dr Andrew Wilson, of the University
of Bradford, and the lead author on this
research commented: “By examining
hair samples from these unfortunate
children, a chilling story has started to
emerge of how the children were ‘fat-
tened up’ for sacrifice”.
Historical and archaeological ac-
counts suggest that those chosen for
sacrifice would first be taken to Cuzco,
the capital of the Inca Empire, where
celebrations would take place for their
impending sacrifice. Following the cel-
ebrations the children would begin a
pilgrimage to one of the burial sites in
the Andes, which could last for several
months.
Stable isotope analysis of hair sam-
ples from the Maiden show a chang-
ing diet during the 12 months before
her death, suggesting an elevation in
her status as she was prepared for sac-
rifice. Originally she had been fed a
diet of vegetables, such as potato, sug-
gesting that she came from a peasant
background.
Her diet then changed to one con-
taining plants such as maize and pro-
tein from charqui (dried llama meat),
both regarded as “elite” foods in Inca
societies, and which would have been
deposited for the children at way sta-
tions along their pilgrimage route.
While the cause of death of these
children is still unclear, it is known that
they were given maize beer to “dull
their senses” and coca leaves (a chew-
ing quid was found in the mouth of the
Maiden) to alleviate altitude sickness
and inure them to their situation, has-
tening their deaths.
Previous research has shown that
Llullaillaco Boy was particularly dis-
tressed when he died. His clothes were
covered in vomit and diarrhoea, the
vomit stained red by the hallucinogen-
ic drug achiote. However, he appears
to have been killed by suffocation, the
textile wrapping which enveloped his
Scientists use stable isotopes in victims’ hair samples to gain a chilling insight into the fattening-up process
body having been pulled so tight that
it crushed his ribs and dislocated his
pelvis.
“It looks to us as though the chil-
dren were led up to the summit shrine
in the culmination of a year-long rite,
drugged and then left to succumb to
exposure,” says co-author Dr Timothy
Taylor, also of the University of Brad-
ford. “Although some may wish to view
these grim deaths within the context of
indigenous belief systems, we should
not forget that the Inca were imperi-
alists too, and the treatment of such
peasant children may have served to
instill fear and facilitate social control
over remote mountain areas.”
To this end, children chosen for sacri-
fice were often the sons and daughters
of local community leaders or were of-
ferings from within the community.
Sacrifices to social cohesion as much
as to religion, these children were mere
pawns in Inca society. Yet through the
Bradford scientists’ work, they may yet
prove to be some of its most important
emissaries to the present, providing
us with an insight into rituals which
have previously remained shrouded in
mystery.
Gossip. Loose talk which costs lives, or indirect reciprocity’s lynchpin?
Pssst, have you heard? Some clever
clogs over at the Max Planck institute
have found that far from insidiously
undermining the social fabric of com-
munity, gossip could actually form an
extremely important part of the way
we interact with our peers – and even
be key to the evolution of our society.
Researchers have been aware for a
while that humans help each other out
through ‘indirect reciprocity’. This is
the idea that it’s good for me to help
people out, as the likelihood is that you
will then give me a hand when I need
it. But the chances are that, even if you
and I are acquainted, you’ll have very
little idea whether I habitually help old
grannies cross the road or prefer steal-
ing their hairnets. So how does indirect
reciprocity actually function?
Obviously, only a small fraction of a
given population would have the op-
portunity to directly observe an inter-
action between two of its members.
Ralf Sommerfeld and his team investi-
gated to what extent gossip might help
provide the mechanism for the infor-
mation-sharing that is needed. Do we
actually pay any attention to idle chat-
ter when forming opinions about our
peers, or do we give everyone a chance
to make their own impressions? And
which is the more savvy thing to do?
Sommerfeld’s team got their results
through the age-old method of giving
money to a herd of undergraduates in
exchange for them becoming guinea
pigs in an experiment involving ‘pris-
oner’s dilemma’ style computer games.
Participants could cooperate – each
participant giving up £1.25 of their
money to obtain £2.00 for their partner
– or be mean, and take everyone else’s
money but not give away any of their
own. Although the best way to max-
imise everyone’s wealth would be for
everyone to be generous and give away
money, the best way for an individual
to do the same is to be mean.
Although not perfect, the game is a
useful analogy for human society in
general, and in particular the ‘tragedy
of the commons’, as it may provide
clues as to what stops public resources
being completely exploited. It’s been
speculated that the answer is reputa-
tion; people who are consistently mean
– I like to call them bastards – get
sticking the knife in, maybe you can
take comfort in the fact that you could
be performing a valuable function for
humanity, you backstabbing cow.
found out, and the indirect reciprocity
system shuns them.
Sommerfeld found that when they
gave players in the game the chance
to rate their partners and share that
information with the community, then
mean players suffered and generous
players gained. As predicted, players
were making decisions on whether to
cooperate or not based on gossip. Even
more interestingly, the information
they gained via gossip was more in-
fluential and could even overrule what
they saw through direct observation.
This research suggests that, far from
being damaging, gossip is actually a
reliable and very powerful source of
social information, which provides
community cohesion by discouraging
‘free riders’. So, the next time you’re
Simon Shears
Imran Khan
MUSEO
DE
ARQUEOLOGÍA
DE
ALTA
MONTAÑA
A service to the community?

