science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
9
Friday 2 November 2007 felix
Science
Scientists at the Interuniversity Mi-
croelectronics Center (IMEC), an in-
dependent research center in Belgium,
have developed a new health sensor,
which runs off electricity generated by
the temperature difference between
the skin of the forehead and air.
This thermoelectric powered elec-
troencephalogram (EEG), which mon-
itors brain-waves, straps to the head
and wirelessly transmits information
on the electrical activity of the brain
to a personal computer.
Despite the EEG’s thermoelectric
generator only having a small theo-
retical efficiency, the thermal gradi-
ent present between the skin of the
forehead and air at room temperature
provides more than enough power to
run the EEG. How the generator ob-
tains this power is central to its use in
devices such as this one.
In one sense, thermoelectric gen-
erators are nothing new, having been
used for many years in various devices
from refrigerators to spacecraft. How-
ever, IMEC’s EEG is a good example
of their more recent application to
medical devices, where they are used
to convert waste heat from the body
into electricity, to power sophisticated
sensors for gathering sensitive data on
human health.
IMEC began research into thermo-
electrically powered health sensors in
2003. One of its goals was to eliminate
the need for batteries in medical de-
vices worn on the human body. Wear-
able thermoelectric generators would
also provide the autonomy afforded
by batteries, but with an unlimited
lifetime.
However, there are physical obsta-
cles to overcome when designing this
type of sensor, and to understand these
it helps to know how a thermoelectric
generator works.
The generator basically consists of
thousands of thermocouple junctions
made of two dissimilar semiconductor
materials, such as bismuth-telluride
or silicon-germanium. When thermo-
couples are exposed to temperature
gradients, they produce an electric
current, through a process known as
the thermoelectric effect. Thermo-
piles, formed by connecting thermo-
couples in series, are sandwiched to-
gether between ‘hot’ and ‘cold’ ceramic
plates, the whole sandwich forming a
thermoelectric generator.
One of the biggest obstacles in
producing thermoelectricity lies in
matching the varying thermal energy
resistance of the generator with the air
temperature of its environment. To
accomplish this, the thermoelectric
generator must be designed to corre-
spond with an adequate air tempera-
ture, such as the indoor temperature
of an office or hospital. The forehead
is and ideal location for the thermo-
electric generator because it has a low
thermal resistance and provides heat
at a constant rate resulting in a decent
thermoelectric output – up to 25 mW/
cm2
. In order to increase the thermal
difference between the generator and
the air, and hence the electrical out-
put, the hot and cold thermocouple
junctions are isolated .
Currently, researchers at IMEC are
looking to lower the power consump-
tion of the EEG sensor even further,
and are designing a semiconductor
process for manufacturing thermo-
piles at a lower production cost. Ther-
moelectric-powered health sensors
such as the EEG, could play a vital role
in the medical industry. But it doesn’t
have to end there. After all, if one
could power an EEG by generating
thermoelectricity utilizing heat from
the forehead, why not power your cell
phone or iPod from the heat of other
parts of the human body or even the
sun?
Fever’d electroencephalogram on your brow
What a brainwave! Health sensor demonstrates a novel method to generate energy, based on body heat
Brett Cherry
“Why not charge
your cell phone
from the heat
of the human
body?”
Inspired, the editor tries to charge his mobile using his overheated
brain. Rapturous expression last seen in a notorious Warhol film

