GRADUATE
PRESENTATION
We are hiring "Heroes"!
QAS are the market leaders in the development and sales of name and address management software.
With over 6000 clients around the UK, new offices in Australia and future international expansion on the
horizon, can you really afford not to talk to us?
To find out more about brilliant careers in IT and sales within a fast growing, dynamic, professional and fun
company, please come along to meet us and enjoy some food and wine.
Date: Tuesday 26t h
October 1999
Time: 6.30pm start
Venue: Civil Engineering Lecture Theatre 201
Please sign up at the Careers Office.
We look forward to meeting you!
Actuarial Consulting
Investment Consulting
HR Consulting
Presentation & Buffet
20th October 1999 6. , 0 p m
LT 208, Civil Engineering
Further information is available
from the Careers Service
I
ures
Spend a convivial evening in the company of Watson Wyatt. Over a
few drinks and a buffet, vou'II hear how we're a significant global
force. Watson Wyatt Worldwide brings together two disciplines,
financial management and people management, to help clients to
improve business performance. Watson Wyatt Worldwide is a
global actuarial, benefits and human resources consulting firm,
employing over .5,500 associates worldwide with over 1,600 in
Europe. You'll discover how our clients are significant we have
more than 20,000 worldwide, including over 50 of the FTSE 100
companies. Most importantly, you'll learn that our most significant
figures are our people - and this could mean you!
We'll tell you about working on high-profile projects...
confronting complex strategic and business issues... and taking
substantial responsibility. But you'll also hear how we'll support
you with a comprehensive development programme that will help
vou to tackle your own particular role and prepare you to take
professional qualifications.
It's an informal evening, and The invitation is extended to
people with imagination, business acumen and confident
communication skills - those who can give sound advice to our
domestic and global clients. We look for a minimum 2:1 degree: in
Actuarial Consulting, a degree with a substantial mathematical
content is expected; in Investment Consulting, an economics or
business studies degree is ideal; and in HR Consulting a degree in
any discipline is accepted.
So, find out about becoming one of our significant figures -
and enjoying the financial and long term career rewards that this
entails. Give your name to the Careers Service or if you can't make
it to our evening, contact us for a brochure and an application
form.
Write to Terence Perrin, Watson Wyatt Partners, Watson
House, London Road, Reigate, Surrey RH2 9PQ. Tel: 01737
241144. E mail: Graduate_Recniitment@watsonwyatt.co.uk
Visit us at http://www.walsonwyatt.cotn

