PAGE 9
felixonline.co.uk FRIDAY 29th
JANUARY 2016
SCIENCE science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Madeleine Webb
Writer
Is science for everyone?
As the US government steps in to tackle sexual harassment, it’s time to ask, what is it
going to take to fix this problem?
S
exism in science; is there a
real problem? How do we
fix it? When is everyone,
including myself, going
to shut up about it? Probably not
for a while. And yes, I do realise
that I could begin sounding like
a broken record, considering this
is the third piece I’ve written for
FELIX discussing the topic, but
unfortunately the problem isn’t
disappearing so neither will the
analogous articles. Things are
about to get a bit gross and very
complicated.
Following the increased publicity
around three high profile sexual
harassment cases in US university
science departments, democratic
lawmaker Jackie Speier is proposing
to Congress the strengthening of
existing federal discrimination laws
in order to tackle the issue at hand.
Although the exact details haven’t
been finalised, Speier has made
it clear that the system needs to
change and people should be held
accountable.“It shouldn’t be like the
Catholic Church, where once there
was an establishment of paedophilia,
they just move the priest to another
parish”, Speier told reporters.
However, the proposed changes
are not unanimously supported and
some argue that the actual impact
of these changes will never trickle
down to the lab level. Many states
have laws that explicitly prevent
the sharing of employee personal
records between Universities, which
are themselves constantly under
threat of lawsuits. However, what
is clear to most people is that the
current academic set up is untenable.
For those of you who haven’t been
keeping up with these cases, which
is understandable considering the
whole thing is pretty depressing,
here is a short synopsis. In a 2005
investigation recently released by
congresswoman Speier, Arizona
University unveiled that lead
astronomer Timothy Slater created
a workplace environment that
involved lunchtime trips to a strip
club, demeaning comments to
female co-workers,and open leering
at female undergraduates. The
condemning report was released on
the same day it was reported that
a Caltech astronomer, Christian
Ott, had harassed and fired two
undergraduates from his lab after
they filed a complaint against him.
The whole situation turned into a
massive scandal, partly because just
three months earlier, a prominent
astronomer from the University of
Arizona, Geoff Marcy, was found
guilty of sexually harassing female
co-workers.
If social media is anything to go
by, unfortunately these cases are
only part of a wider trend. These
high profile examples of sexism and
sexual harassment have triggered
the formation of a new hashtag,
#astroSH, which is being used
by scientists to share stories and
voice opinions on the reality of
being a woman in STEM, with
emphasis on Astronomy. Such
outcry has prompted institutes
like NASA to put out statements
reinforcing its commitment to
inclusivity. Administrator Charles
Bolden stated, “Let me be perfectly
clear: NASA does not tolerate
sexual harassment, nor does any
organization seriously committed
to workplace equality, diversity and
inclusion.” Strong and encouraging
words,but some argue that although
scientific institutions wholly
condemn sexism, there are no
consequences for those who unfairly
discriminate against women.
The worrying part of both the
official and anecdotal cases is
the general lack of repercussions
faced by most of these individuals.
Although the report about Timothy
Slater is damning to say the least, he
was allowed to stay at the University
of Arizona until 2008 and now
holds a science education chair
position in the state of Wyoming.
Geoff Marcy, the professor from the
University of California has been
allowed to continue calling himself
the honorary title of “Professor
Emeritus” since he technically
chose to step down amidst
widespread criticism, rather than
being fired. Ott was never fired and
CalTech allowed him to continue
to work with undergraduates.
This unaccountability has created
a culture where victims of
discrimination don’t feel able to #AstroSH – hashtag to voice the reality of sexual harassment in STEM.
report the harassment. A series of
articles recently published by Forbes
called “Deciding whether to report
harassment in science” demonstrate
that many cases don’t move through
official channels because of a
tendency to sweep the indiscretions
of important professors under the
rug.
So you can see how the whole
thing is a bit of a mess and the
scientific community is once more
stuck, knowing action is needed,
but remaining indecisive as to what
that action should be taken. Just to
clarify, no one is saying that all male
scientists are sexist, chauvinistic
pigs or that work place harassment
is unique to STEM fields or only
Geoff Marcy was found guilty of sexual harassment. Photo Credit: Wikipedia
towards women in STEM. The fact
that the problem is so hard to tackle
seems to generally be the result
of sexism, racism, homophobia
and other general unpleasantness
being prevalent within society and
subsequently academia. But, science
at its best doesn’t lead from behind
nor does it sit on its hands waiting
for the world to catch up. Personally
I’d love for this problem to go away,
if for no other reason, just so that
I can write articles about literally
anything else at this point.
It’s absurd and deeply worrying,
that for a bunch of supposedly
smart people, we still struggle with
tackling what should be a simple
issue.
Jackie Speier fights to tackle the current sexual harassment issues and the lack of
repercussions. Photo Credit: Wikipedia

