CCLUBS
KARATE
Portsmouth
Sunk!
Missing Mr Drinkwater, but not the coach, a
combined Imperial Budokwai team took the
Portsmouth invitation tournament by storm
on Saturday. Fielding a slightly under
strength team, good performances were put
in all round. P March, M Wainwright and M
Budzinki did well to get to the last sixteen of
the Kumike, which was won by Sheriff Amin.
C Nappura was second in the mens Kata
whilst Belinda Walker just failed to take the
honours in the ladies Kata, fininshing
second. Both A and B teams were quite
outstanding, and it was a pity they had to
meet in the first qualifying round. After an
inspired effort only a team of Black Belts
from Eastlegth snatched the trophy from the
grasp of the A team. The Budokwai ladies
made a clean sweep in the ladies Kumite,
finishing first and second, and mention must
also be made of the team members who put
in sterling performances, J Rowlands, Ping
Chung and Adrian Bradley. As a confidence
builder for the University Championships
next Saturday the tournament was a great
success, and not to forget the grading and
Dinner on December 5th.
SNOOKER
Cash
prizes
You may not be aware that lurking on the top
floor of the Union building, far from the
madding throng of party goers and bar nights
there lies a quiet haven. A darkened room
where the green baize beckons you to enter
a hitherto unknown world of colliding balls
and to explore the mysteries of deep screw
(of which our president lays claim to be the
number one exponent).
Ignorance as to the existence of this room
means that you have been missing out on
probably the best value club at college.
Members of IC snooker club enjoy free use
of two (soon to be three), bookable, full size,
tables, cues, and other accessories with
membership for the year costing a pitiful one
pound.
To enable you to take advantage of this
opportunity the club treasurer has set aside
his Monday afternoon (3 Dec) from 12.30pm
when he will be in the snooker room ready to
enrole you as a member.
Standard of play is unimportant, in fact
you need never have picked up a cue before,
although the treasurer will buy a pint for any
new member able to beat him over a frame.
For those interested there will also be a
tournament on Sunday 9 December when all
non-team members will receive a 40 point
start. This will not only give you the chance
to humiliate the team members but also to
reclaim your membership fee by winning the
cash prize — full details will be available in
the snooker room.
New Keep
Fit Club?
We are hoping to start a keep fit club. The
classes will be held by Nina in the Southside
gym as at present. However, we hope to
reduce the cost of lessons to considerably
less than the £1.50 per hour charged at
present.
If you are interested then come along to a
meeting in the Bot/Zoo common room on
Monday 3rd December so we can give you
further details and get an idea of the
response. If you can't come to the meeting
then contact either Deb Bailey or Caren
McCormack via Life Sci 3.
Great Owl butterfly feeding on
rotten bananas at Syon Park. See
Photosoc article on facing page.
10 Friday 30 November 1984 FELIX

