PHOTO
Christmas
Competition
Just a quick reminder about our slide show
next Tuesday (see Diary) featuring two of the
more important of Modern British
Photographers. We had a great turn out last
month, so let's see you all back again.
Anyone can come, you can become a
member at the meeting. Y o u all missed a
terrific morning out at the Syon Butterfly
house (sorry about the short notice), but no
bother, there'll be another trip next term,
when it'll be even warmer and more fruitful
than before. If some of you haven't heard of
this place, it's a large green house, full of
tropical greenery with many large exotic
butterflies flying around. They're quite tame
and accessible, so it's easy to take
photographs; it's one of the most interesting
ways to start close -up photography, even
with the minimum of equipment.
In the meantime there'll be a couple of
competitions run next term. The first, judged
in the third and fourth week of term, will be
for Colour/B&W, slides/prints, on the
subject of Christmas (sesu lato), ie quality
snaps from the coming holiday. The other
will be a double competition, about midway
through next term. On one hand, you can
enter a portfolio of three photos that best
represent your abilities, or you can enter a
portrait, of whoever you like, or dislike. The
portrait can be included in the portfolio, but
they must all be prints. Most people join the
society to use the darkrooms, so let's see the
results of this use, even if you've just started.
They are judged not only on technical merit,
but also originality and creativity. There will
possibly be prizes for this competition, and
winning entries will be published in FELIX, or
even The Phoenix. Incidentally, if you have
any photos you think may be newsworthy or
interesting in anyway, don't hesitate to take
them to the Editor, as Felix Photographers
can't be at every event during term.
WEIGHTS
Better body
If you would like to have a better
conditioned, stronger, more attractive body
or raise your athletic performance to new
heights then weight training is for you. Most
people think of weight training only as a way
of gaining large powerful muscles. Certainly
weight training is the very best way to
achieve this but this narrow image of weights
training prevents many people who would
like to look and feel at their best from
realising the potential of weight training for
them. Weight training allows you to shape,
tone and strengthen the entire physique,
while gaining or losing weight according to
your individual r e q u i r e m e n t s . By
appropriate application of weight training
anyone in normal health can take giant steps
in a matter of months towards achieving their
ideal physique and the sense of physical and
mental well-being which goes with it.
Weight training achieves this through the
principles known as progressive overload.
Starting well within your own capacity you
increase the weight used in various
exercises, carefully designed to work
particular muscles group's, until the level at
which the muscles is just overloaded is
reached. This overload causes the
breakdown of muscle tissue stimulating the
body to replenish and rebuild the muscle to
withstand the stress imposed. As you
progressively increase the load the body is
constantly provoked into replenishing and
renewing the tissue so that you assume a
strength and vitality which previously you
could only dream about. With regular
training two to four times a week, a man
starting weight training can readily double his
strength in about a year. For a woman the
increase in strength will probably not be so
great but the increase in tone, physical
vitality and poise will be rapid and evident.
The purpose of the weights club is to
provide you with the facilities and advice
needed to achieve these highly desirable
results. It provides facilities to train using free
weights (bar bells and dumb-bells) with
advice on how to construct a training
program appropriate to your particular
needs. If you would like to join the weights
club or find out more about its activities then
come to its A G M , Union Lower Refectory,
12.45pm, Thurs Dec 6.
CHRISTIAN
Houseparty at
Elm Tree Farm
Early Friday evening, an eager bunch of
about 30 members of the C U departed on
our mid-term houseparty. This was designed
to give everybody a chance to get to know
each other better, to provide a well earned
(in some cases) break from work, and to try
to discover something of what the Lord
wants us to do in College. Elm Tree farm is
near Ashford in Kent and consists of
cottages set near the old farm-house. It is let
out to Christain Groups throughout the
year. We were accompanied by Ken Mc
Greavey, who is a member of the ICTHUS
Fellowship, an organisation in South
London, concerned with the setting up of
churches in areas where there is not
evangelistic Christian witness. Ken led our
meetings on the theme of'Hearing the Voice
of the Lord'.
Our coach journey took about -two hours
and we got to the farm at about 8.00pm.
There was now a slight delay as our cooks
(last year's C U president and his wife) had
not arrived, and they also hadour food! They
arrived soon after, however, and gave us a
CLUBS
typical C U meal of Bread and Chesse and
Pate . We finished off the Friday evening with
a time of worship and praise. The other
major panic of the evening took place when
our Glorious leader 2nd Lt Roger Preece
REME left his rubber duck outside by the
coach. Both rubber duck and 2nd Lt were
happily reunited soon after, however!
Saturday morning started off with a prayer-
meeting for the keen and a lie-in for the lazy.
After breakfast, Ken led the first of our
meetings. One of the things that
characterises the ICTHUS fellowship is a
belief in the power of God and how it is still
expressed today. Ken stressed this very
much in all our meetings. Apart from lunch
the rest of the day, until about 5.00pm was
free. Some people went for a walk, but the
highlight of the day was the Chem Eng end of
the World football match. This titanic
struggle was on the neighbouring field and
involved getting as muddy as possible. The
game was highlighted by the performance of
Jo and Sarah. Jo, tastefully outfitted in her
rainbow wellies, scored a hat-trick, which
says a lot about the Chem Eng goalkeeping!
Sarah tried very hard and succeeded in
scoring twice, although one was through her
own goal! The final score was Chem Eng 12
Rest of the World 15 which was considered
to be a fair result.
The rest of the afternoon was spent
preparing for our entertainement in the
evening, which took place after another
meeting and supper. The highlight of the
show was Roger's dynamic singing of the
blues. Next time, though, he should
remember to write some lyrics first! Other
memorable performaces included Alec and
Sarah's playing of some traditional folk-
music on medodium and violin. One of the
most noticeable things about the week-end
was the amount of musical talent in the C U .
Unfortunately the dancing would have been
better had the dancers not burst into
hysterics. Also Derek's impression of a man-
eating carrot was something not to be
missed. We ended Saturcday night with a
time of prayer to focus our attention on our
role in College and how as individuals we fit
into the C U .
Sunday morning began like Saturday with
the lazy staying in bed till breakfast. We then
packed up and had our last meeting. In this
meeting Ken concluded all that he had been
saying, by talking about how God uses the
gifts of his Sprirt to talk and minister to us.
Some of us experienced His blessing in
different ways and some of us were healed. I
used to be very cynical about this thing and I
daresay some of you who are reading this
ariticle feel the same way. All I can say is
come along and have a look for yourself.
After the end of the meeting we had lunch
and cleared up before getting the coach back
to College. Thank you to Cheryl and Clive
for organinsing the week-end, and I hope our
next one is so enjoyable. I will leave with two
un-answered questions posed by the
weekend.
1) -where did Mark and Sarah buy their
sweaters?
2) Where is Roger's duck?
FELIX Friday 30 November 1984 11

