Timer
TINKER
This weeks puzzle column will be delayed until the 12th — the
Christmas bumper edition.
The answer to last fortnight's puzzle was that three planes
were required to ensure the flight of one of their number around
a great circle of the earth. There are many ways this can be
achieved. The following uses the minimum amount of fuel,
allows pilots B and C quite sufficient time for several cups of
coffee and a sandwich and has a pleasing symmetry in the
process.
Each plane leaves base with a full tank and arrives back
empty. Their trajectories are plotted on the graph below.
Answers ranged from six planes (from a Mechanical
Engineer) to two and threequarter planes (from an Electrical
PUZZLESD
Engineer). Seven people solved the problem with three planes.
The lucky winner was Neil Thornton, who may be pleased with
himself for winning £10 in two weeks at 49:1 against!
The flight around the world.
Wines for Christmas
Christmas is for most of us a time of celebration, family
reunions and happiness. It is also an opportunity toexperiment
with food and drinks. The College Wine Committee has
arranged for a number of special-offer cases of three or six
bottles which can afford the purchaser much pleasure. They are
all modestly priced.
Seethe display cabinet, Ground Floor, Sherfield orenquire in
the Refectory Office.
Some of you may want to be a little more adventurous and I
would like to draw your attention to a number of expensive
wines which nevetheless offer good value for money. All are
ready for drinking but could, if you have the necessary will
power, be kept for a few years.
The 1976 German vintage was exceptional and I can
unreservedly recommend two great hocks, Winkeler
Hesensprung Auslese (£7.00) and Johannisberger Holle
Auslese (£7.25). Both are made from the Riesling grape and
come from the banks of the sundrenched stretch of the Rhine
between Mainz and Rudesheim.
For the Claret lovers I recommend Ch Cissac 1979 (£5.50) and
Ch Chicane 1979 (£5.00). Both will repay keeping but their
excellent balance of fruit and tannin make them a powerful
challenge for the Christmas turkey. To complete the Christmas
festivities nothing could be better than a Vintage Port. The
Committee is particularly proud of its 1967 Cockburn's
(£10.00). This should be decanted a few hours in advance but
unlike many younger ports ought to be drunk within 48 hours of
opening.
Most of these wines, while somewhat expensive, are
undoubtedly fine wines and ought to be drunk from time to time
in order to have a basis for assessing the quality of the cheaper
more commercial wines.
Orders can be placed in the Refectory Office, Ground Floor,
Sherfield. A seven and a half per cent discount can be obtained
for orders of six or more bottles, made up as a mixed parcel but
cheque or cash on collection.
Merry Christmas
P Grootenhuis
Imperial College
The Wine Tasting Society
Cjjr&tmaa limner
Monday 10th December 1984
Lounge Suits
EAT DRINK A N D BE MERRY
If the above takes your fancy come to the Wine Tasting Dinner,
Monday 10 December. After a special tasting of sparkling wines
treat yourself to a superb meal with complenting wines, chosen
by the expert nose and palate of the Wine Tasting Society.
Now is your chance to taste the right wine with good food.
Tickets £10 from tasting on Tuesdsay 4 December, or from
College Christmas Dinner
Tuesday, 11 December 1984
Price
Students: £9.00 including wines (£3.00 subsidy)
Staff: £10.00 including wines (£2.00 subsidy)
Book now to avoid disappointment. Forms are available from IC
Union (Students),Mrs E.M. Finlayson, Room 508, Sherfield Building,
or the Senior Common Room, Sherfield Building.
FELIX Friday 30 November 1984 13

