CLETTERS
OUR
LAS appeal
Dear Sir
Following recent actions taken by the
Union Executive (UE) which have resulted in
a temporary banning of the Latin American
Society (LAS), a few remarks are in order:
1. As stated in a letter to L A S from M r I
Bull dated November 13 1984 (copy
enclosed) and confirmed by the Appeals
Committee today, the decision to ban L A S
was taken on the grounds of running an
'unauthorised' bar and not clearing union
premises on Saturday November 10 after a
event organised by the Latin American
Culture Centre (LACC) — and sponsored by
L A S .
2. A n 'unauthorised' bar is any sale within
union premises of alcoholic drinks not
bought from the union and sold without
union permission. It is widely known that
'unauthorised' bars are nothing new in union
premises, not even in parties attended by
members of the Union Executive.
Although not knowing the regulations is
not an excuse for not complying to them, it is
surprising such a sudden change in union
'policies' on this matter.
This topic of'policies' takes me to the next
point.
3. It is clear from a letter sent by M r I Bull
to the Chairman of L A S on October 22
(enclosed) that actions taken against L A S are
influenced by events which occured in
previous sessions under different union
executives! Events which, by the way, were
positively solved for L A S
It is indeed very easy to prejudge this kind
of situation when second hand information
from unknown sources is available.
4. The event of Saturday November 10
was booked under a £150 deposit and £100
for hiring of union premises and £40 for
additional security. The deposit has been
kept by the union as part of the action against
L A S .
Although union premises were returned in
quite a good condition on November 10, it
seems to me that £250 for residual cleaning is
enough to do the job at the new quality leve.1
required by the union officials.
On the other hand, the mere fact of
charging £100 for hiring union premises in
any event implies that it is not an IC Club or
Society event. It would otherwise be against
the very much called for Union regulations.
The L A S acted solely as an intermediary,
happy to see the event taking place at IC, and
L A C C acted as a private user of union
facilities and therefore payed for it, although
this was not a profitable event the L A C C
being a charity. Such was the agreement.
If the Union Exectuive does not welcome
such events, why was it given the green light
in the first place? Why charge a £100 and
come to an agreement? This was the mistake.
And taking action a posteriori against L A S
seems a very dubious way of setting a new
precedent and correcting an error.
The Appeals Committee has ruled out that
the ban imposed on L A S is to remain for
several weeks and the £150 deposit to be kept
by the Union. It appears that the committee
just did not appreciate the previous remarks.
It might be relevant to point out here that
95% of the members of L A S are adults doing
post-graduate research at IC who run the
society at a very limited budget. It might be a
mistake to expect to deal like adults with
people in the union.
If this ban is to remain as it is, I expect to
see the £100 fee for hiring union premises
given back to L A S in order to be consistant
with union constitutional regulations. Or is
the union going to profit from its own
societies?
I would very much like to see the Union
Executive reconsidering their position.
Yours sincerely
L A Zenteno
Member of LAS
Carnival
Chaos
Dear Sir
Last Fridays Guilds Carnival, despite, or
perhaps because of its being run entirely by
IC Entertainments Committee, with
remarkably little help or encouragement
from Guilds, was an outstanding succcess.
Although the admission price, was, at £3.50,
remarkably cheap for such an event, the
Carnival managed to make a small profit, a
considerable improvement on recent years.
The highlight of the evening was
undoubtedly Mud's performance, which was
ecstatically received by all those present.
What most people didn't realise, however,
was that Les Gray, Mud's lead singer and the
only original member of the group, was
almost not allowed into the Carnival at all.
When he arrived at the front door ai 9.30pm,
rather later than expected, the people on the
door, thinking he was having them on,
refused to believe that he was in fact Les
Gray, and wouldn't, let him in without
paying. The rest of the evening, however,
passed without any further hitches, and so
congratulations are due to all those who took
part — in particular Charlie Troup, the
Guilds Ents Chairman, who had the
awesome responsibility of running the whole
event.
The questions that must be asked,
. however, is why Guilds should take any of
the credit for an event to which they
contributed absolutely nothing, with the
F E L I X
Next Friday there is no F E L I X , but there
will be an extra-special, bumper Christmas
issue on the following Wednesday, December
12.
Anybody with cartoons, jokes, humorous
articles, letters and so on, should drop them
in to the F E L I X Office.
The deadline for the last issue (small ads,
diary entries, clubs, letters) is Wednesday 5
December.
Acknowlegements: Ajay, Nigel, Grenville,
Pete, Hugh, Martin, Jon, Richard, Finian,
Tinker, Peter, all the ICCAG people, Andy,
Prof Grootenhuis, Rosemary, Tony and all the
collators, especially Chris Martin and the IC
Radio mob, Farrah and Hugh.
Felix is published by the Editor for and on behalf of
Imperial College Union Publications Board and is printed
by the Union Print Unit, Imperial College, PrinceConsort
Road, London SW7.
'Telephone 01-589 5111 Ext 3515 '
Editor: David Rowe, Business Manager: Martin Taylor,
Advertising Manager: Paul Belford.
Copyright FELIX 1984. ISSN 10140-0711.
notable exception of M r Troup, who is,
significantly, also a member of IC Ents. Of
those Guilds people who came along on
Friday afternoon as helpers, so gaining free
entry, only a fraction turned up later in the
evening to move the band's equipment out,
and none stayed to clear up afterwards
(contrary to the claims made in Guildsheet
this week), both these jobs being ones that
Guilds were specifically asked to do. The
barbeque, the single biggest money spinner at
any carnival (and remembering that the
profits from this carnival are donated to Rag)
was also meant to be run by Guilds, and as a
result failed to take place. A representative at
IC Ents commented afterwards that the
Guilds Exec seemed to think it enough to
turn up late on in the evening, getting in free
because of their union position, and then
bask in the success of an event at which they
had not even once offered to help.
Yours faithfully,
Disgruntled
(real name witheId by request)
Dear Sir
Having read the letters, features, opinions
etc, etc, of the last few weeks I have decided to
urge anyone with an IQ greater than that of a
carrot to join the Society for the elimination
of Peurile Twats from Imperial College.
Anyone who thinks I'm taking the piss need
not apply.
Yours in utter contempt of all semi-evolved life
forms
Tony Wildish
Physics PG
Friday 30 November 1984 FELIX

