EFELIX;
It
th* world's most
boring student
by Finian T h i s is my pet newt, C h a r l e s .
I've often wondered what it'd be like being a
newt, swimming in the little brooks all day,
eating waterweed...
cftwvcfl
all those pretty lady newts to chase, plenty of
gravel to play with...
life treats newty people pretty well, eh
Charles?
Too bad you're so tasty!
B U L L !
pay. The proposals to abolish the minimum g. -
families pay some or a l l or the tuition fees n
>
to restrict access, and make Higher Education
The Tact that a significant number of student
parental contribution (a fact that Sir Keith
James Callaghan last year) already causes m
a
Assuming that parental incomes have risen b
also have moved up the new "means test" ace
The abolition of the minimum award is a r
serious consequences. At present the mi1
the beginning of term for those student;
f i l l In tiirir application roms on time
sids the cash flow problem for student?
*"» of each term when parents an
a lump sum. As you ci
minimum grant, be'
cor*1
, a °>
VOUR GRANT FOR NEXT SESSION
Or should I say, 'Student Loan' for next session.
So you think that times are hard at the present level of the
undergraduate student grant. Well, lets examine the recently annouced
proposals from the Government for next session:
1. Abolition of the minimum award.
2. Steeping of the sliding scale for parental contributions towards the
grant. (Means Test)
3. Introduction of the payment of some or all of the tuition fees (again
Means Tested) currently £520.
4. The level of the student grant will be increased by around 3% ie less
than the current rate of inflation.
Should these proposals be passed, then they will come into effect
from NEXT OCTOBER. Be warned; some students, currently registered
on a course at Imperial today, may have to pay another £725. This will
apply to an estimated 53,000 students countrywide (source: THES),
roughly equivalent to the student population of the University of
London.
The largest problems will be faced by those students whose parents
do not make up the full amount of the parental contribution. Supposing
that such a person now has no minimum grant to fall back on AND will
have to pay some or all of his/her fees. This could be you, ACT NOW.
WRITE TO YOUR MP.
How large will you overdraft be at the end of three or four years in
London, given todays level of grant? And how large will it be if your
grant doesn't even keep pace with inflation? Add to that the fact that
your parents may not be in a position to increase their contribution any
more. Where does that leave you?
The introduction of the payment of tuition fees on top of the grant is
liable to cause problems right from the start, and can only get worse.
Fees are currently set at £520 which is a somewhat arbitary figure and it
is not the true cost of, say one year of an undergraduate course in
Electrical Engineering. Should the decision be made to set fees at
£1,500 or higher, (which may be a more realistic estimate) and parents
are expected to pay some or all of the fees as well as the grant, how
many families will be able to afford higher education for even one of
their children.
Higher Education must not and should not be restricted to those who
can pay. The proposals to abolish the minimum grant, to steepen the
sliding scale on which parental contributions are calculated and to
charge tuition fees are attempts to restrict access to higher education,
and to make higher education a privilege and not a right.
What Should You Do?
Write to your MP and complain, in you own words or on a standard
letter that is available from the Union Office.
Send it to:- (Name of MP)
House of Commons,
LONDON, SW1A OAA
If you don't, I hopeyou enjoy workingthewholeofyourfirstyear after
graduation in paying off your overdraft.
4 Friday 30 November 1984 FELIX

