COPINION
E d u c a t i o n —
an investment in the future
The proposals of Sir Keith Joseph to alter the system of grants
represent the biggest change in higher education for many years.
Here Tony Atkins and Abigail Levin of IC SDP Society consider the
changes and their implications.
As you are probably aware, Sir Keith Joseph
has recently proposed the abolition of the
minimum grant, a significant steepening in
the rates of parental contribution and the
dangerous precedent of parents having to
pay college fees. This follows a 45% increase
in the rates of parental contribution (for
those earning over £13,000) and the
introduction of a measley £110 travel
allowance this summer. These latest
changes were announced without any
consultation with N U S , the only available
national voice for students, or indeed with
any group representing parents or colleges.
The British Higher Education system is
under increasing attack. We feel now is the
time to show the dangers of the present
trends in Government policy, and that a
restatement of the principles on which our
education system is based is vitally
important.
In 1943 the Beveridge Report summarised
the ideals to which our present Welfare State
aspires. The aim of welfare is to fight
ignorance, poverty, unemployment and
disease. The role of the State is to help create
a modern and efficient economy whose
wealth is used to create a fair and just
society. This society should educate its
people independently of their background,
and education should be free at the time it is
required. Funds for education should come
from a national fund raised by taxation and
admininstered by Government, contribution
to the fund being based on one's ability to pay
and the recognition that education benefits
everyone eventually. Education is a long-
term investment in the individual's and hence
the nation's future, for a higher quality of life
we need a stronger economy and culture, for
which we need a higher and more broadly-
based overall level of education.
The bulk of funds in the 1960's and 50s
were channeled into primary and secondary
education, so not until the influential Robbins
Report in 1963 did the Higher Education
system start to expand vigorously. Despite
the economic difficulties of the 1970s this
trend was continued, recognizing that
economic health is fuelled by an increasing
level of education both in quantity and
quality. Even so, Britain still has the lowest
level of participation in Higher Education
amongst all our competitors. In the US over
45% of young people take a degree of some
sort and a far wider range of courses are
available. In Britain, Higher Education
remains the privilege of an elite. If we are to
maintain and improve our current standard
of living, we must have an expanding and
healthy education system- working with a
broader range of student and courses. We
are in the midst of an industrial revolution
and we cannot afford to restrict the number
of people being educated to cope with the
times ahead of us.
The Government, however, continues to
cut places and resources and imposes
increasing financial burdens on students and
parents. This is bound to discourage
participation in Higher Education.
Apparently there 'must' be cutbacks now on
the grounds of lack of resources and the
falling birthrate. Yet right now we are part of
the Baby Boom, and large numbers of school
leavers cannot find places at universities or
polytechnics, despite qualifications that
would have easily been sufficient several
years ago. The lack of money is due solely to
policy, putting other areas of government
expenditure ahead of education in priority.
There is an alternative to this attitude. We
should maintain the present number of
places and even increase the numbers in
science and engineering, for at the end of this
decade the falling birthrate will provide an
ideal opportunity to lower entrance
requirements and increase the proportion of
each generation able to benefit from higher
education. The limited access available at
present is an insane waste of human abilities,
whilst the cutbacks on facilities built up so
painstakingly over the last two decades is
foolish, short-sighted and only increases the
privilege and elitism in our society.
Sir Keith Joseph, by advocating that
parents whose collective earnings are over
£12,000 should contribute to their children's
tuition fees is violating the principle of 'free
education for all! At present those pupils who
chose to leave education at sixteen and who
are unable to find employment can claim
unemployment benefit or social security
independently of their parents' income.
Those of us (and that includes every British
student at IC) who chose to continue our
education to the age of eighteen do so
through our parent's good will and
hospitality. But how far will this hospitality or
the finances of our parents stretch? There is
no reason why parents/guardians should
support any child over the age of eighteen
when that person is classed as having
reached the age of majority and is recognised
as an adult by society at large. This problem
is not just one of parents' duty though, if one
considers the many inactive students who
will now have to pay for their maintenance or
fees whilst their net income is zero. One can
forsee a tremendous saving for the
Government at a vast expense for the
individual who no longer has the right for free
education. This right has not always been
there though. It was only in 1977 when
Shirley Williams, then Minister of Education
for the Labour Party, abolished the necessity
for the payment of tuition fees by parents.
The present system has worked successfully
for the past seven years and even though cut-
backs have taken place the country is
producing thousands of graduates who
control the future of the country. By altering
the education system the Government will
suddenly have several million pounds to 'play
with' and, no doubt, will congratulate
themselves on their mass saving.
This means saving by the Government on
education will be done at your expense, your
brothers' and sisters' expense and that of
your parents. Although most students to
whom this applies will not agree with the
proposals, many will let apathy rule, enabling
the present proposals to become an act. This
is why we are urging you to write to your local
MP, to get your parents to write to their M P
and to support the motion concerning the
above which is being raised at the U G M on
the 4 December. It is after all directly
affecting you and if passed it will be
implemented as soon as next October.
Furthermore these changes are only the thin
end of the wedge. Having found that
Parliament will not accept a formal loans
scheme, Sir Keith is trying to introduce loans
by underhand means. Due to the increasing
hardship suffered by parents and students,
he supposes, students will be forced to go to
banks and mortgage their future for a loan.
Parents who have been paying considerable
taxes for 20 years will now find they have to
pay tuition as well, as if higher education
were comparable with a private school.
Education may no longer be free in this
country. Unless we act now, the student of
the future will look back on 1984 as the
disastrous year in which the principle of free
education began to be reversed. Once we
allow it to start, who knows where it will end?
JCR BAR
Carlsberg Promotion
50 p per pint
(lunchtimes)
3rd to 7th December
Friday 30 November 1984 FELIX

