EFEATURE
L ^ f f y —the community action group
Most people have heard of ICCAG, but how many know what
they get up to, how many even know what ICCAG stands for?
Here some of the group's activities are described.
Soup
run
It was a cold October evening as I
entered Weeks Hall, contemplating the
experience I was to have that evening.
Asl walked into the kitchens the smell of
hot, steaming, chicken soup hit my
nostrils and I noticed the excited, if
slightly apprehensive, looks on the faces
of students sittingaround wrapped up in
coats, woolly scarves and gloves. In no
time at all we were all huddled together
in the minibus amid the swilling soup,
paper cups and loaves of bread shaking
about on the floor.
Our first port of call was Lincoln's Inn
Fields. It felt a bit eerie as we drove into
a pitch-black park, devoid of any sign of
life. But suddenly I noticed movement
from behind the bandstand and
gradually, one by one, men started to
appear from nowhere. As we got all the
food and drink out they queued up in an
orderly manner to get their ration of
sustenance to help them last the night.
They were all so grateful and polite that
I was quite taken aback. Down and out,
destitute, tramps; call them what you
will, they're just as human as you or me.
They seemed to long for people to talk .
to, people to listen to, people to listen to
their problems, people who would treat
them with some respect rather than as
second-class citizens; people to offer
them a little love.
When all the food was gone we drove
off to Embankment Station where
people were huddled under blankets,
sleeping bags, even cardboard boxes,
against a cold, corrugated-iron frame. I
spoke to one young lad in his twenties
who hadn't eaten for three days. His
face was pale and thin, he looked
desperate. They all looked so pathetic in
one way, but such a strong little
community in another. It was so
different from what I had expected. I'm
sure that the night left me with a unique
experience which I shall never forget.O
•The soup run leaves Weeks Hall each
Thursday evening at 9.15pm, returing home
by midnight. If you don't live close to College
you can catch the tube home from
Embankment or Charing Cross stations.
Eager 'Jobber squadders' carpet laying.
Jobbersquad
'Jobbersquad' operates on Wednesday
afternoons when students help with the
practical needs of people who are
referred to ICCAG through the
Voluntary Bureau for Kensington and
Chelsea. The variety in the jobs
available reflects the needs of the
people who, for whatever reason,
require the assistance of others. As well
as practical help, the company of
students is always appreciated,
especially by those who have little
contact with the outside world.
The variety of jobs is immense; sitting-
in with an elderly, housebound woman
so her husband can get a chance to go
out; painting the ceiling and walls of a
staircase for a single mother who would
not have been able to manage alone;
fitting draught excluders on doors and
windows; helping an elderly man taking
his first bath; fitting a new carpet for a
man who had just moved into new
accommodation. Most of these involve
about three people each a week.
Jobbersquad does not require a
weekly committment from those
involved. Helping out, even just once in a
while, is very rewarding and is always
greatly apprecitated by those
concerned.O
m
• .
flHjj
'mm
Loading up the van for the Soup Run.
Bread, biscuits, tea, cups and soup.
Friday 30 November 1984 FELIX

