FEATURED
Crisis
at
Christmas
Visiting St Pancras
The thought of a spell in hospital is something which few people relish, and the
realisation that it might become home permanently can be a tremendous blow
to many patients. To soften this blow, and break the monotony of hospital
routine, our volunteers descend on the wards of St Pancras on Wednesday
afternoons and then... Well it's pretty much up to you. Chatting(or more often
listening), doing shopping, playing cards or chess with the patients are all week-
to-week activities. Christmas is great fun; mammoth shopping expeditions to
Oxford Street stores are organised, and last year there were several lively trips
to the V&A. The tea-table had to the seen to be believed!
Hospital visiting isn't for everyone, but it can be very rewarding for both
patients and volunteers.O
Venture
Christmas is hard for the homeless.
Many who usually go to stations, cheap
cafes and day centres find these closed
at Christmas. There is nowhere to keep
warm, and nothing to do. CRISIS aims
to improve the lot of the homeless and
lonely. One of the ways it goes about
doiung this, and the one that is most
publicised, is to open up a centre over
Christmas to provide shelter, warmth,
plenty of food and a touch of the festive
spirit for anyone who drops in.
The 1983 'Open Christmas' was held
in a vacant warehouse supplied by the
GLC. Two weeks earlier it had been a
gaunt, bare place. Then coconut
matting and coloured lights were
installed, balloons and paper chains
hung, and the place began to look more
homely. Over 400 volunteers were
directly involved and many more in the
pre ceding national campaign.
Volunteers were employed in the
kitchens preparing food, in the clothes
store sizing garments, as well as in
cleaning and providing company for the
guests. All this happened 24 hours a day
during the Open period.
The 'Open' lasts for about a week,
providing basic care and friendship at a
time when others are sharing Christmas
with their families. Although some
accuse it of being a 'seven-day wonder'
it does fill a gap. It is not attempting to
take over the work of projects that are
open all year round and, because it is
short-lived, it can operate without all
the rules and restrictions that
permanent places require. This means
that homeless people who would
normally avoid hostels will come along
for somewhere to sleep, something to
eat and some new clothes. No questions
are asked, no names are taken.
But crisis does not just operate at
Christmas. With the money they raise in
the Christmas campaign they support
over 50 projects nationally rangingfrom
night shelters providing the most basic
accommodation, to rehabilitation
schemes and day centres.•
•If you would like to be involved in CRISIS at
Christmas either directly (by lending a hand
in the preparation, the actual 'Open' or the
clean-up operation) or indirectly (taking part
in the collection that will be in College on
December 4, or attending the CRISIS carol
concert at Southwark Cathedral December
9) please drop into the I C C A G Office next
Monday lunchtime.
Club
The :'\cton Saturday Venture Club is
run for physically and mentally
handicapped children betrwen the ages
of 5 and 21, to which IC has sent
volunteers for several years.
Although the club is based in Acton,
excursions are frequent Recently the
children have visited Boulogne, a local
fire station and Chessington Zoo.
The club has many facilities including
a playground, costumes, toys and a
kitchen (a strong stomach is required
for sampling the delights produced
there!).
Many join the club having no previous
experience of working with children or
the handicapped, but it is impossible not
to feel welcomed and to find the time
spent with the children rewarding.
Volunteers just need to be energetic,
willing to listen and to have an endless
variety of answers to the children's
favourite question, 'But why?'.0
Hopefully this has given you an insight
into the activities with which I C C A G is
already involved. Several new projects
that the group will be starting soon
include an association with Age
Concern, and a link with a battered
wives' hostel. If you think you might
enjoy aking an elderly person out
shopping (or down to their local) or if
you're good at coping with kids, these
might interest you.
A regular committment to help is not
always necessary (the soup run is a good
example). One-offs last year included a
trip to the Royal Mews for five otherwise
housebound people, which went dwon
extremely well, and of course we're
always at Rag Fete.
We welcome any ideas on how to
expand the group, get more people
involved, look into new areas of work.
Please feel free to contact the
committee at any time if you'd like to
know more, or get involved. It costs
nothing to join I C C A G , except what is
at Imperial, the most valuable
commodity — time. We've found out
that it's worth a few hours a week—we
hope you will, too.
FELIX Friday 30 November 1984 9

