SCIENCE
FELIX
10
Science Editors: Katya-yani Vyas
Kelly Oakes, Charlie Harvey
science.felix@imperial.ac.uk
How to Teach Quantum Physics
to Your Dog by Chad Orzel
And a few suggestions...
You won’t believe it...
When it comes to their bad driving, elderly people
may have been given an excuse thanks to research
published in the Journal of Neuroscience. They tend
to focus on what’s going on in the background and
are less likely to notice moving objects closer to
them. The brain region responsible for suppressing
irrelevant visual information, the middle temporal vi-
sual area, loses function over time. So the next time
you get run over by lovely Betty here, just remember:
it’s not her fault.
I received this book as a Christmas present, probably
as a humorous allusion to my ineptitude at physics.
The premise is very simple: Emmy the dog is adopt-
ed by Orzel, a physics Professor, and subsequently
becomes enraptured with his work and how it applies
to everyday dog issues. Orzel is happy to explain,
creating a witty dialogue between the two.
Using Emmy’s tendency to chase squirrels and
her attempts to tunnel into the neighbour’s garden,
Orzel takes the reader through the fundamentals of
quantum mechanics, from Heisenberg’s uncertainty
principle to quantum tunnelling, quarks and gluons.
I expected a simplistic overview of the subject but
the book is surprisingly comprehensive, using the re-
lationship between dog and owner to breathe some
life into what can sometimes be a dry subject. Orzel
writes succinctly and with a genuine passion for the
physics which is reflected in Emmy’s enthusiasm,
providing a highly readable and novel way of ap-
proaching quantum physics.
Katya-yani Vyas
Contagious canine cancer
Chloe McIvor
Researchers working on a contagious cancer
found in dogs have discovered that the cancer-
ous cells adopt an unusual method of genetic
repair.
The results of this study, published in Science
last week, suggest that this particular cancer
combats genetic decay by “stealing” genes
from its canine host.
Canine Transmissible Venereal Tumour
(CTVT) is considered an unusual disease as
we predominantly think of cancer as strictly
non-infectious. Thankfully, transmissible can-
cers are not found in humans and diseases such
as CTVT differ from other cancers in several
ways.
Most cancers occur as a result of genetic
changes that make a normal cell develop into
a cancerous one. With transmissible forms, the
cancerous cell comes from another dog and
shares its genome with the first animal in which
the disease developed.
Dr Clare Rebbeck, a former PhD student at
Imperial College, was originally investigating
the genetic variation between CTVT samples
and their geographic location. She noticed that
the genetic differences found in the DNA of the
mitochondria – commonly referred to as the
“power-houses” of the cell – were much greater
than those found in the nuclear DNA.
Until now, scientists believed that mito-
chondria were only transferred via inheritance
Friday 28 JANUARY 2011
through the maternal line. This research is the
first evidence of mitochondrial transfer be-
tween genetically distinct cells outside of the
laboratory.
It is thought that CTVT has developed this
strategy of recruiting host mitochondria to
combat the degradation that tends to occur in
cancer’s own mitochondria.
Leader of the study, Professor Austin Burt of
the Department of Life Sciences at Imperial, is
hopeful that the finding will help improve our
understanding of the development of cancer in
general.
“Our study has revealed that this type of can-
cer works in a really unexpected way.” he says,
“it raises some really important questions about
the progression of other cancers, such as how
they repair their own DNA.”
The origin of CTVT is thought to be linked to
the domestication of the dog, as it can be traced
back to approximately 10,000 years ago.
Since then the disease has been transmitted
sexually among dog populations and at some
point it developed this ability to take up host
mitochondria to replace the cancer’s own dam-
aged ones.
Not only does this research mark a significant
development in our understanding of mito-
chondria, it also likely to prove useful to future
cancer research.
Melissa Lever
The social amoeba, Dictyostellum discoideum, harvests bacteria when times are hard
Slime moulds its own little landscape
The humble amoeba is more intelligent than
you would think. A new study published in
Nature by evolutionary biologists at Rice Uni-
versity has found that the social amoeba Dic-
tyostellum discoideum exhibit a primitive form
of agriculture.
A genetic trait in one third of the “Dicty”
amoeba species – also affectionately known
as “slime mould” – causes them to engage in
dispersal and prudent harvesting of the crop.
While this form of farming may not be as
advanced as that of fungus growing ants and
beetles who cultivate their crops, for example,
the discovery is surprising given that amoeba
are mere single-celled organisms.
The Dictyostellum species are labelled as
social since, when prey becomes scarce, tens
of thousands of amoeba will aggregate into a
migratory slug. If being an amoeba wasn’t al-
ready unappealing, taking part in this aggrega-
tion process is potentially sacrificial, since 20%
of the cells forming the slug will die to form
a sterile stalk. The stalk aids the dispersal of
the surviving cells which form spores within a
spherical structure called the sorus.
It was previously thought amoeba would
gorge themselves on their prey, bacteria, be-
fore forming their fruiting bodies, but the study
shows that approximately a third will stop
feeding early and incorporate the bacteria into
the fruiting bodies.
The lead author Debora Brock explains: “We
think they’re able to do this because they’re
social”.
Solitary amoeba, by comparison, do not form
the fruiting bodies that enable the amoeba to
travel.
The ability to farm is not always beneficial.
The study shows that rewards of farming are
context dependent. As expected, the farming
amoeba had a clear upper-hand against non-
farming amoeba when transferred to bacteria-
free plates. This advantage disappeared when
farming spores were transferred to a site abun-
dant in edible bacteria.
The non-farming amoeba were in fact able
to produce more spores in this environment
compared to the farmers. The explanation was
attributed to the habits of the farmers, who con-
sume less bacteria in order to preserve some for
dispersal.
A further disadvantage to the farmers is that
they are forced to make smaller fruiting bodies,
and cannot travel as far.
“To think of a single-celled amoeba perform-
ing something that you could consider farming,
I think, is surprising,” Ms Brock sai,. “choices
like that are generally costly, so there has to be
a pretty large benefit for it to persist in nature.”
You should see this guy on the half pipe.... Surprisingly, he’s not that good

