FELIX 11
SCIENCE
Friday 28 JANUARY 2011
Maciej Matuszewski
S ci-Fi
Column
Those of you who complained about
me focusing so much on the plot holes
in my Moon review should stop reading
now because this is much of the same.
I’m sorry, but I just couldn’t pass up the
opportunity to review a show as monu-
mentally stupid as Primeval.
The series focuses on a secret gov-
ernment team tasked with investigat-
ing mysterious ‘anomalies’, basically
big glowing disco balls which act as
gateways to different time periods, and
protecting the public from the danger-
ous creatures which often come through
them. I could understand this secrecy at
the beginning of the show when the gov-
ernment had only just found out about
the situation and wanting to stop the
public from panicking but not after three
and half seasons when they’ve devel-
oped methods of both detecting and clos-
ing the anomalies. Indeed we have seen
many civilians brutally killed just be-
cause they were not aware of the danger
posed by the creatures. This makes even
less sense as in the latest series where,
mirroring real life, the Tories have part
privatised the top secret operation, giv-
ing control of the its scientific arm to
Philip Burton, played by Star Trek’s Al-
exander Siddig, and his company.
The team itself is hilariously incom-
petent, in the latest series managing to
get trapped in a creature infested school
by a pair of teenagers. This is not helped
by most of the missions being done by
just the four of main cast members,
one of whom, Connor, is a palaeontol-
ogy student. A recent episode involved
him accepting Doctor Bashir’s, sorry, I
mean Philip’s, offer to study the anoma-
lies themselves. I haven’t seen all of the
episodes so perhaps somebody could
explain to me why, if Connor is so in-
terested in advanced physics, he didn’t
choose to study it.
Fans of the show might accuse me of
nitpicking. This might be true but even if
you ignore all of these factors the show
is still average at best, with a horribly
confused storyline and mediocre special
effects.At least if you concentrate on the
plot holes it becomes so bad it’s good,
rather than just being boring.
Superfast genome sequencing on a chip
International effort to make air travel greener begins at Imperial
Look at them, aren’t they cute
The first step on a path that could lead
to the sequencing of an entire genome
in minutes has been developed by chem-
ists at Imperial College London. A paper
describing the prototype technology was
published last month in the journal Nano
Letters.
This innovation also means sequenc-
ing will become much cheaper, making
it available to everyone.
It was ten years from the start of the
Human Genome Project to the publica-
tion of the first draft of an entire human
genome.
While things have moved on con-
siderably since then, we’re still not at
the stage where anyone can unlock the
secrets of their DNA for a reasonable
price. As it stands, the process can take
weeks or months of continuous work to
sequence all the DNA of an individual.
Current methods require several steps,
including the breakdown and replication
of the DNA, which is done by robots.
The effort and time required means that
the cost is prohibitively high.
The new technology in development
at Imperial would streamline sequenc-
ing into a single procedure.
DNA is made up of around 3 billion
base pairs attached to a sugar and phos-
phate backbone, arranged in a double
helix. A base pair consists of two mole-
cules bonded together — either adenine
with thymine, or guanine with cytosine.
DNA sequencing determines the order
of these base pairs.
The new technology pushes a strand of
DNA through a 50 nanometre wide pore
in a silicone chip at high speed. When
it leaves the pore, an electrical current
passes through the DNA. From the re-
sulting signal a computer determines
which base pair has just passed through
the nanopore. The speed at which it can
do this means that, in theory, an entire
genome could be sequenced within min-
utes.
Genome sequencing for all would
have many benefits. It could mean
custom drugs based on a person’s own
DNA and would give individuals ac-
cess to information about their suscepti-
bilities to diseases such as Alzheimer’s.
Fast genome sequencing would also
benefit police who want a quick yet reli-
able way to profile DNA found at crime
scenes.
The technology will require more
work before it’s ready to sequence its
first genome but Dr Joshua Edel, a co-
author of the paper, is optimistic: “It
should be significantly faster and more
reliable, and would be easy to scale up to
create a device with the capacity to read
up to 10 million bases per second, ver-
sus the typical 10 bases per second you
get with the present day single molecule
real-time techniques.”
Dr Tim Albrecht, another author on
the study, said that the next step was
to create something that can determine
between individual bases as opposed to
just base pairs. He was cautious about
the work ahead, saying: “I think we
know the way forward, but it is a chal-
lenging project and we have to make
many more incremental steps before our
vision can be realised.”
The Green Aviation Forum organised a
one day international symposium at Im-
perial College on the 6th January 2011,
in an attempt to link together many of
the green aviation research activities on-
going at the College.
The Forum aimed to address the mul-
tiple environmental challenges faced
by the aviation sector. An integrated
approach is being adopted to develop
aircraft technologies focussing on fuel
efficiency and low-emission across the
whole sector, improve airport planning –
with supporting transport infrastructure
– as well as air traffic management. The
key word is collaboration, integrating
manufacturers, climate scientists, regu-
lators, airline operators, airport authori-
ties and the government.
Three percent of global warming is
currently caused by aviation and air
travel is expected to increase by 5% per
year over the next 20 years. The avia-
tion industry in Europe has agreed to
a set of targets that would reduce fuel
and carbon dioxide emissions by 50%
per passenger kilometre, nitrous oxide
emissions by 80% and noise pollution
by 50%.
The Green Aviation Forum will pro-
vide a useful link between Imperial re-
searchers and the aviation industry. Im-
perial is aiming to give birth to a new
generation of ultra light commercial
aircrafts that can fly faster over longer
distances, producing lower emissions
and less noise.
As an aircraft comes in to land, spoil-
ers are deployed on the wing to help re-
duce the lift and increase the drag. This,
however, generates low frequency noise
that can travel great distances which is a
major problem for the aviation industry.
Profesor Vassilicos and his team from
the Department of Aeronautics have de-
veloped a new spoiler employing fractal
patterns that reduce the low frequency
noise, without affecting the lift and drag.
An aircraft burns more fuel mainly
due to the aerodynamic force known
as drag. Professor Jonathan Morrisson
and colleagues from the Department
of Chemical Engineering and Chemi-
cal Technology are developing a new
electro-active plastic for covering air-
craft fuselages and wings, which reduc-
es drag by pulsing low-level electrical
currents through it. The pulses distort
the plastic and therefore the air flowing
over the plane, reducing the impact of
drag.
Eco-friendly plane designs are cur-
rently being developed by Dr Varnavas
Serghides from the Department of Aero-
nautics. He believes that reducing the
number of aircraft components could
bring dramatic increases in fuel effi-
ciency. Dr Varnavas is also working on
designing a wider fuselage to fit in more
passengers. This would reduce the levels
of emissions, while maintaining similar
profit levels.
Imperial researchers are also develop-
ing new types of composite material that
can render aircraft structures even stron-
ger and more long-lived. One type of
material, known as a hierarchical com-
posite, comprises carbon fibres, resin
and carbon nanotubes.
As well as being stronger, this type of
material can withstand lightning strikes
by dissipating the electrical energy be-
fore the aircraft system is damaged.
When the skies became green
Kelly Oakes
Victoria Bignet
New composite materials will make planes of the future lighter, stronger and longer lived – like Thunderbird 2 here
DNA is not actually made of beads

