12 felix
TECHNOLOGY
Technology Editors: Samuel Gibbs
Feroz Salam
technology.felix@imperial.ac.uk
HTML5, the HTML standard’s newest major
revision, was finally given a visual identity last
week with the introduction of a shiny new logo.
The logo’s bright and blocky visage, along with
the shield-like shape, has almost martial con-
notations. It represents a considerable evolu-
tion of the existing HTML standard, which is
determined to transform the web as we know it.
According to the World Wide Web Consortium
(W3C), the logo “stands [as] strong and true,
resilient and universal as the markup you write.
It shines as bright and as bold as the forward-
thinking, dedicated web developers you are. It’s
the standard’s standard, a pennant for progress.
And it certainly doesn’t use tables for layout.”
HTML5 is intended to replace its predecessor
HTML 4.01 as the dominant markup standard
used to create the Internet’s billions of pages.
The need for a major revision of the HTML
standard was borne by the ever-changing na-
ture of the web and the content it delivers.
In particular, the requirement of proprietary
plug-ins and APIs used to display rich media
content, such as video and audio. Indeed, one
of HTML5’s most widely discussed new fea-
tures has been the inclusion of the <video>
tag, designed to standardise the way in which
webpages handle video without the need for
Free App of the Week
iOS - Last.fm
Last.fm brings personalised radio to your pocket
pal courtesy of an iPhone app. Streaming radio has
never been easier.
The Android version of the Last.fm app lacks the pol-
ish of it’s iOS cousin, but thankfully all the goods are
there. And it’ll even let you scrobble music on the go.
Android - Last.fm
Is it a bird? Is it a plane?
No it’s super-HTML5!
Louis Constant
If you’ve ever carried a MacBook Pro out and
about with you, you’ll know that a laptop bag is
essential. Considering you’re carrying around
the best part of £1000 at least, when it comes
to a bag you’re going to want something well
built and with decent padding, God-forbid you
drop the thing. Be.ez thinks it has the answer
with the LE rush, a range of Apple laptop bags
that combine lightweight materials with silicon
padding.
Available in three colours, the LE rush fea-
tures a main central compartment for your lap-
top, with a padded band along the bottom and
up the edges of the bag, which provides impact
protection to the edges of the laptop. There are
also two slip pockets and a Velcro closeable
Ez laptop protection for those in LE Rush
Samuel Gibbs
plug-ins of any sort. However,
disagreements surrounding this
feature have given rise to much
debate and delay, hindering at-
tempts to make the tag the
new standard for display-
ing online video.
In particular, tech heavy-
weights Nokia and Apple
have in the past publicly
expressed concern about
the specification’s recom-
mendation of support for the
Ogg video format. Follow-
ing this, the recommendation
was removed, and thus those
web browsers that choose to
support the HTML5 video
tag, are free to support it using
whichever underlying video
formats they wish. This, it is
argued, defeats what was the
main motivation of the <vid-
eo> tag in the first place – to
help introduce a common, free,
and open baseline format sup-
ported by all browsers, eliminat-
ing many of the unnecessary co-
decs currently required to view
online video.
More recently, while video utilising the
HTML5 video tag (primarily using the H.264
video format) has slowly begun to replace the
widely used Flash for video content, some of
the web’s biggest providers of online video
remain cautious. YouTube for instance, cites
the aforementioned lack of a standard video
format, and lack of DRM, as two issues pre-
venting the HTML5 video tag from meeting the
requirements of its site. Popular US streaming
video site Hulu similarly states the tag’s lack
of content protection, as well as its inability to
provide advertisers with viewership data, as
two of its reasons for not having yet rolled out
support for the new standard.
Will the new logo spell an end to the conflict,
providing an ensign for corporations and web
developers alike to rally around, unite under,
and resolve their differences? Probably not, but
at least it’s pretty.
document wallet in the main compartment for
ancillary stuff.
The front of the bag features a Velcro-seal-
able, expandable pocket for things like a power
adapter. Inside that there’s also a slim line zip-
pered pocket with two slip pockets for smaller
items. On the back of the bag there are also
three slim line slip pockets, useful for bits of
paper you need quick access to.
Overall the LE rush features light but hard-
wearing materials, a solid construction and de-
cent protection for your beloved laptop. Com-
plete with a nylon shoulder strap and bespoke
sizes for the 13 and 15-inch MacBook Pros, as
well as a smaller ‘netbook’ bag, the LE rush
line deserves to be in your sights if you’re look-
ing for a slim but sturdy bag. Yours for around
£30 from all good retailers.
“It’s the standard’s
standard, a pennant for
progress. And it certainly
doesn’t use tables for
layout.”
Friday 28 JANUARY 2011

