13
felix
TECHNOLOGY
Make your own iPhone app
C
hances are you’ve read
about the 14 year old that
recently designed a mobile
application for the iPhone,
which proved to be incredi-
bly popular. So popular in fact it knocked
your friend and mine, ‘Angry Birds’, off
the top spot to earn the American teenag-
er the position of number 1 free app in the
UK. Upon your reading of this news you
may well have thought to yourself ‘well I
could do that, I’ve had hundreds of ideas
for apps’. Everyone seems to like saying
this, but very few actually put their wal-
let where their iPhone is and invest some
time in their idea. Why not follow our
How-To guide to become the next ‘Paper
Toss’ success story.
Once you’ve got a concrete idea then
there are two routes you can go down.
To make an app with simple functional-
ity you can design it online with a com-
pany who will launch it for you and take
a share in the profits, or you can design
and launch it yourself. For the former
there are plenty of companies that will
help you do this, find the top ten at:
http://rww.to/felix_app.
Brainstorming
Your catchy name and single idea for
an app is not enough. You need a well
thought out plan for what the app will
do, and you can start this by firing out
ideas about what it could do. Think of
all the features available to you on the
iPhone and think of a use for them all.
You need to ask yourself whether the
app will fulfil a function, make people
laugh, solve a problem and/or just be ri-
diculously interactive? Will people pay
Jacob Lea-Wilson steps you through designing a successful app
for the app or will it generate revenue
through advertising?
Market Research
You might think you’re the first person
to come up with the idea to slice fruit
in the air with ninja swords, but some-
one may have already beaten you to the
chase. Get out there and download all
apps that are in the same area as yours.
Evaluate and improve on each of them
noting down their strongest and weakest
features, making sure you learn to copy
what works and remove what doesn’t.
Have you considered your market audi-
ence? Ask people you think would be
interested in it for their ideas and see if
they’d pay for it.
Sketching
Now the real work starts: your first
task should be to write out a content-
map. That is to say a mind map of each
page that will feature in your app and
how they connect to each other. Now
sketch out each page with notes to re-
mind yourself what you want each but-
ton to do. There’s a handy website to
help you with this step called MockMe,
which aids in producing good looking
sketches to get you moving: http://bit.ly/
app_sketch.
can usually find a collection of iPhone
images to help you with this step should
you need it. If you don’t fancy yourself
as a designer then you can pay for one. It
will make your app look ten times better
if it’s professionally done. Get in touch
with your fellow students, ask around
for someone who’s designed websites or
phone apps before. Or start searching
on the Internet, as there are hundreds of
designers in the UK who can help you.
Programming
For this one you’re probably going to
need to find yourself your own Mark
Zuckerberg to work for you (make sure
you know what he’s doing with your
idea though). You can find someone to
program your designs on the Apple De-
velopers Forum. Unless of course you
fancy learning Objective C? If you al-
ready know some C++ then jump right
in and start by downloading iOS SDK
and Xcode from the Apple iOS develop-
ers website. This program helps you to
create content while being able to view
the graphics on an iPhone emulator.
Don’t forget that programming is half
coding and half testing. Your app must
be solid and cannot have any bugs in it
at all when it’s ready to launch.
Launching
Now with your finished app in hand you
need to do a few things before you can
get it on the Apple App Store. Firstly
you need to join the Apple iPhone De-
velopers Program (which costs £59).
This will also allow you access to their
“Just because you’ve
designed an app to
take people on a
Monopoly Board Pub
Crawl of London,
complete with aug-
mented reality direc-
tions, doesn’t mean
that anyone will
download it.”
Graphics
This is the stage that your app starts to
come to life – take your drawings and
make them real. Using a professional
package like Flash or Photoshop turn
your drawings into real graphics. You
fantastic website full of help for improv-
ing your app and learning the program-
ming language better. There are some
technical details to take care of before
the final launch:
• Creating the app certificates
• Defining the app ID’s
• Compiling the app
• Uploading to iTunes Connect
Promoting
You’re not done yet. Just because
you’ve designed an app to take people
on a Monopoly Board Pub Crawl of
London, complete with augmented real-
ity directions, doesn’t mean that anyone
will download it. You need to promote
and advertise your app. Start an email
campaign to anyone you think might
mention your app in the paper, on a web-
site, or on TV and radio. Start your own
social media advertising campaign by
setting up a website for the app and pro-
moting it through the usual channels of
Twitter and Facebook. Get your friends
to start talking about it and download-
ing it.
In order to become really success-
ful you need to reach what’s called
the Tipping Point. This is the ultimate
achievement of any app whereby word
of mouth, fashion, and advertising, meet
in one massive sales spike.
Great Success!
Congratulations, you’ve made your own
iPhone application and you can now af-
ford to give up your job as a Biochemist!
And he hasn’t even been to one of the world’s best technology universities... Look dull? Wait till you try making one yourself
Friday 28 JANUARY 2011
Sketch out your app thoroughly before you start programming

