POLITICS
FELIX
14
Politics Editors: Rory Fenton
James Lees, Rajat Jain
politics.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The world beyond
College walls
Edited by Kenneth Lee
Sudan
Russia’s President has said that Israeli style se-
curity is needed in the nation’s airport following a
suicide bombing at Moscow’s Domodedovo Airport
on Monday. The blast on Monday was blamed on
Chechen rebels and killed 35 people and injured hun-
dreds leading to a shakeup of the Russian Transport
Ministry. Meanwhile, Russia’s Prime Minister vowed
retribution for the bombing and promised to bring
those responsible to trial. Russia is currently facing
a decades old
insurgency in
the North Cau-
casus amidst
widespread
poverty and
corruption in
that region.
Palestine
President Omar al-Bashir of Sudan has pledged
to support South Sudan in his first address since
the referendum held two weeks ago. Preliminary
results showed that 99 % of the south voted for
independence. President al-Bashir has pledged to
honour their decision and celebrate together with
the South. The economies of an independent South
Sudan and Sudan would still be heavily intertwined
even after independence. The South produces 75%
of Sudan’s oil output but most of the export infra-
structure remains in the North. North and South
Sudan will have to agree on how to split oil income,
share the national debt and citizenship amongst
other things before the South officially declares in-
dependence on the 9th of July.
Russia
Palestinian officials are looking for the source
of leaked confidential papers about the Middle
Eastern peace process which were leaked to Ara-
bic news channel Al-Jazeera. Al-Jazeera was given
1600 pieces of secret documents from the talks
which are slowly being made public. Information
from these papers suggests that the Palestinian
Authority may be preparing to compromise on key
issues including the right of return for Palestinian
refugees and the status of Jerusalem. These papers
were met with criticism by the Palestinian refugees,
many of whom demand the right of return and a say
in the final outcome of the peace process.
Tunisia’s revolution:
the first of many?
Friday 28 January 2011
Majid Al-Khalil
On the 17th December 2010 Mohamed
Bouazizi went to the office of his regional
governor, drenched himself in petrol and set
himself alight. He succumbed to his horrific in-
juries and died some days later. As a twenty six
year old high school graduate he was relatively
well educated yet despaired at the lack of op-
portunities for more-than-menial work. Local
government officials made his life a misery,
repeatedly harassing him and subjecting him to
public humiliations. A street vendor for many
years, the final straw came when they began
confiscating his wares after demanding a li-
cense which they knew not to exist. Described
by his family as a quiet and softly spoken man,
his death was the result of a psychological
breakdown brought on by years of submis-
sively accepting injustice at the hands of a gov-
ernmental system so corrupt and extensive that
it interfered with the daily lives of many of its
citizens who, beleaguered by poverty, were just
trying to make ends meet.
His seething anger at his situation was shared
by many others and manifested itself in a
month of rioting and violence which has erupt-
ed across Tunisia. The wrath of so many com-
mon people has brought the autocratic govern-
ment to its knees and sent “President” Ben Ali
fleeing for his life; only the second man to rule
the country since 1956.
The question on the minds of many, no doubt
including the other puppet presidents, kings
and emirs who rule the Arab world is whether
or not this unrest will spread. Mass protest is
uncommon in the Middle East and is in general
illegal or restricted. State run security agencies
mercilessly punish those involved and repres-
sion is swift and brutal. For many Arabs, espe-
cially those living with some financial security
in less harsh regimes, the stakes in the struggle
for democracy are far too high. However, as
the economic crisis bites, millions of Arabs are
struggling with soaring food and fuel prices
that make our VAT increase seem rather pal-
try. As mentioned in Time earlier this week,
economic despair strips citizens of their fear.
An example many will be watching is that
of Jordan. One of the safer and more stable
Arab countries, it has been relatively free of
unrest in recent decades. But with unemploy-
ment reaching a staggering 30% (double the
official figure) it is more difficult than ever to
predict what lies in store and thousands have
been protesting at the rising food prices and
unemployment.
All this presents an unsavoury dilemma for
policy makers in the rest of the world. It is not
just a question of the oil reserves which we are
all so evidently dependent on. The simple fact
is that although many of our western leaders
call for democratic reform in the Middle East,
these are generally hollow cries. The results of
true democracy could be tough to swallow. A
despotic king who can be persuaded to share
his oil in exchange for financial gains is often
a safer bet than a radical Islamist regime which
would benefit no one. The result is that coun-
tries such as Dubai form the acceptable face of
Arab autocracy. The way in which their lav-
ish, opulent and stupid construction projects
and their endless shopping malls, greed and
gluttony are rebranded as some sort of new
Arab sophistication is a remarkable feat of
marketing and spin. Less often do we hear of
the living conditions of the South Asians who
construct these palaces of shit, or the massive
abuses of power within.
In truth, these recent events are unlikely to
herald a 1989 moment for the Arab world, the
vested interests are too deep and the economic
factors which are inflaming the situation will
not last forever. But no system is perfect, and it
may be the case that a few Arab leaders will be
a little less relaxed as they continue to sip from
their poisoned chalices.
Wednesday 25th saw Obama give his second
State of the Union address – his first since his
party’s ‘shellacking’ at the hands of the Repub-
licans in November’s mid term elections. The
speech was short on policy but included conces-
sions to the Republicans. His speech included:
– The rocketing advance of China and In-
dia, and the need to confront this as the US did
when faced with the technological advance of
the USSR – the need to find this generation’s
“sputnik moment”.
– The promise of increased spending in sci-
entific research; especially in clean energy.
– A 5 year spending freeze to save $400
billion.
– Lower corporate tax and simpler regulations.
– Tougher sanctions on Iran and reiterated
support for South Korea.
– Support for the ousting of Tunisia’s president
and ‘the democratic aspirations of all people’.
Obama’s State of the Union address

