Business Editors: Sina Ataherian
Afonso Campos
business.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX 15
BUSINESS
A look into the Bank of
England’s monetary policy
Shiang Jin Chin argues that the central bank’s critics on the right are wrong to
advocate fiscal tightening in the midst of a weak economy and high unemployment
T
he Bank of England (BoE)
has kept rates at record
lows of half a per cent for
almost two years. Its ‘quan-
titative easing’ has pur-
chased assets totaling £200 billion in the
last eighteen months. Interest in this ex-
tremely loose monetary policy sparked
recently when the latest UK Consumer
Price Index (CPI) figures showed an
annualised rise of 3.7% in December
– above the already high previously
forecast of 3.4%. A loose monetary
policy may have two severe side effects.
Firstly, it risks overheating the economy,
creating bubbles in the stock market and
property markets that force the economy
into downturn upon bursting. Secondly,
it broadens the monetary base; a cause
of high inflation.
Inflation in price levels in any par-
ticular currency may be mainly caused
by two factors. The external factor
consists of rises in world commodities
prices and changes in exchange rates of
a country. The internal factor consists of
increased demand in nominal terms; an
expansion in the monetary base or a rise
in taxation. The recent inflation of the
Sterling may be attributed largely to a
spike in commodity prices (The Econo-
mist commodity-price index in Sterling
terms shows a rise of 41.3%) and the
VAT increase of earlier this year. The
extent to which the looseness of the
Bank of England policy has also con-
tributed to the current, dangerously high
levels of inflation has attracted signifi-
cant media and political interest lately.
UK GDP growth for 2010 is expected
to be 1.6%, further hit by the severe
weather in December which saw the
worst retail sales figures recorded in
recent years. The unemployment rate
still stands high at 7.9%, the average
pay rise last year is reported to be 2.1%,
and there is a pay freeze across the pub-
lic sector. These figures show, firstly,
that the fundamental economy is still
so weak that we need a loose monetary
policy; and secondly, that the demand
for goods is still weak. The latter means
that inflation is unlikelypushed up by
internal demands. A further look at the
broad money figure shows that the total
amount of money available in the mar-
ket had decreased from £2,228 billion to
£2,176 billion in 2010. All of this means
that this inflation was hardly caused by
the broadening of the money base. Does
this mean then, that the broad money
base is contracting when the Bank of
England keeps a loose monetary policy?
Yes – and the answer for that con-
tradictory outcome is simple. The of-
ficial bank rate is the interest rate that
the Bank of England charges banks for
secured overnight lending. Quantitative
easing measures increase the buying of
government bonds and financial assets
from commercial banks, both leading
to increased capacity of the commer-
cials to lend. The decision to increase
lending activities, however, still lies
between the demand of the market and
the willingness of the banks. The lat-
est trend in lending published by the
Bank of England showed that for the
three months between September and
November 2010, despite a £2.2 bil-
lion increase in the amount of lending
to individuals (most of which goes to
purchasing houses and has little effect
on CPI), the business lending has de-
creased by £5.3 billion.
Given that the fundamental economy
is still weak and the latest inflation is
not caused by loose monetary policy,
the only reason for the Bank of Eng-
land to tighten policy is when bubbles
are created in property and stock mar-
kets. Perhaps the only place where we
saw the significant effect of the Bank
of England’s actions was in the rever-
sal of House Price Index and FTSE
100 downward trends. The average
house price, which saw its lows around
£148,000 in February 2009 has climbed
up to £162,763 recently. But there is
no bubble here. The FTSE 100 index,
which represents 81 per cent of the UK
stock market, had recorded its low of
3493 in March 2009 but trekked back
up to 5896 points this month. A bubble
might be forming in stock market, but
tightening the monetary policy now will
do more harm than good.
Seven months ago, when giving a
speech in Liverpool regarding the rise
of the CPI, Paul Fisher, a member of
the Monetary Policy Committee of the
BoE was quoted saying that, “given the
expected degree of spare capacity in the
economy […] and that the temporary
factors should wear off, the most likely
outcome is that inflation falls back to
below target over the next couple of
years. On that basis it was sensible not
to try and offset the recent rise in infla-
tion by tightening policy.” His statement
remains true today, and if the Bank of
England worries about creating bubbles
in markets, it always has other measures
to deal with the problems without alter-
ing its monetary policy.
Friday 28 January 2011
The fundamental
economy is still so
weak that we need a
loose monetary poli-
cy; inflation is unlike-
ly to be pushed up by
internal demands
“
Ahhh, so this is how they make chocolate coins

