16
COM M ENT
felix
FRIDAY 28 January 2011
J
anuary is generally not the best
month in anyone’s year. What
passed for enjoyable, seasonal
weather in December has be-
come dreary, cold and depress-
ing in the new year. For all Imperialites,
the first month of the year is stressful,
sleep-scarce and just generally bollocks.
While reading this on campus, there
are two ways you could have reacted
to the previous paragraph: by nod-
ding your head in agreement more and
more vigorously, as you remember how
bloody cold it was this morning (and
your unfinished lab report); or by telling
me to fuck off if you know me. Chances
are it’ll have been the former. So, why
do all my friends hate me?
Time to confess something: I’m not
in London, but in Spain, thanks to some
lovely people at the EU (and a Renais-
sance humanist). I’m spending my year
on the Spanish Mediterranean coast, in
Valencia. Two semesters that involve
learning some physics (no, really), some
Spanish, and how to “communicate”
with the twenty-six other nationalities
of the European Union. It’s not exactly
Imperial. There are far too many beach-
es, for a start. Not to mention the 20ºC
“winter” temperatures.
What right do I have to be moping
about January, then? None, whatsoev-
er. But if you’ve got this paper in your
hands then neither do you.
One of the first things that a Spanish
person on my course said to me was
“what are you doing in Spain, if you’re
at Imperial?” I gave her the usual bab-
ble about the weather, the language, the
culture and the people (thus understating
the relative importance of the weather)
– but it got me thinking. Over the next
few weeks, as I discovered life under the
siesta regime, it was impossible to stop
drawing comparisons between London
and Valencia. Culture shock probably
isn’t strong enough a word to describe
it, but to compare the advantages and
disadvantages of life in the UK and in
Spain would take an entire book, and
I’m going to let that be somebody else’s
problem. For the skeptics who think that
there’s no way that Spain could be worse
than the UK, I can give you reasons
ranging from the 20% unemployment
rate to the seemingly arbitrary opening
hours of shops.
However, there is one side of things
where the balance is tipped in London’s
favour – the university itself. Don’t get
me wrong, Valencia has a really good
university with excellent lecturers, a
decent library, sports facilities and the
like…yet it is simply incomparable to
Imperial. The two don’t fit on the same
scale. It’s like comparing the Heathrow
Holiday Inn to the Ritz.
“World-class” is a term that gets ban-
died about by College PR people quite
a lot ; while it may be a bit over-used,
it is unquestionably legitimate. Very few
other institutions in the world can claim
to have facilities on a par with us. We
are spoilt; having free use of a gym and
a pool in the centre of London, societies
for everything you could possibly think
of, an incredibly active student union…
the list goes on (not forgetting the inimi-
table felix). The whole science campus
here has about as many cluster comput-
ers as the physics department at Imperial
and its library covers about one floor of
South Ken’s.
Forget widescreens in booths in a
café; think CRT monitors and missing
mice. But that’s just the material side
Wish I was there...
of things. Everything back home is so
much more structured: for example,
you know what you have to hand in, to
who, and when. In Spain these are con-
sidered variables rather than constants,
which ends up being a lot more stressful
in the end. Not everything can be done
mañana.
I‘m loving Spain, though, and I’m lov-
ing my year abroad. One thing it’s taught
me so far is this: Don’t take Imperial for
granted. Of course, I know that you ex-
pected a lot when you chose Imperial.
I know that you pay more than Spanish
students. I know that I’m talking about
two very different cultures.
But next time you’re complaining
about how full of geeks this place is, or
how small the gym is, or how cold it is
in January, go find an Erasmus student
and ask him to compare their university
to yours. You’ll see how lucky you are.
Oh, and buy a thicker coat. You live
in London, for god’s sake, not Valencia.
Going to a Spanish university for a year makes you
realise just how fortunate we are to be at Imperial
The majority of students at this university,
one would hope, have a good idea of why
they are studying their particular subject and
why they are at Imperial. To cut straight to
the point, it is commonly a combination of
the reputation and quality of an Imperial de-
gree, the concentration of world-class and
cutting-edge research and of course, that re-
jection letter from Oxford or Cambridge. We
jest, we jest. Put more simply, it is usually
either because we want a high paying job, in
finance or industry, or because we wish to
embark on an academic career.
But, while those things are what give our
time at Imperial drive and purpose – one
would hardly pull all-nighters every few
months without expecting some significant
reward at the end – it is the social experi-
ence that gives us joy and happiness. We
do not accept that the social life at Impe-
rial is uniquely deficient. Quite the opposite,
there’s a great vibrant social experience to
be had at this university and much of it is
powered by our wonderful Clubs & Societies.
And what a range and quality of Clubs
& Societies we are blessed with. Without
naming any individually – for fear of causing
offense by omission – the student organi-
sations excel themselves each and every
week. From the sporting achievements of
our athletes to events that professionals
couldn’t hope to surpass, our students con-
sistently show their worth and their passion
for the world beyond their studies.
But why is this important? Aside from the
substantial amount of money that we raise
for charities, the extra-curricular activities
make Imperial, to be blunt, a bearable place
to study. The large workload and difficult
subject matter can, at times, feel like an un-
bearable burden. It is extremely important
that we are able to escape our subjects for
a while and explore other disciplines. Which,
for the record, is not something that stu-
dents at other universities are able to do to
the extent that we are – our Clubs & Socie-
ties are amongst the most successful, nu-
merous and varied in the UK.
When we have completed our degrees,
whether we have embarked on careers
in the City, entered into research or some
other path, we shall surely acknowledge that
the Imperial academic brand has carried us
forward with some advantage. But when we
look back on our time here, we suspect that
it will be those extra-curricular achievements
of which we are most proud. That’s why we
raise our glasses, so to speak, to those cre-
ative, energetic and enthusiastic students
who make our time at Imperial truly memo-
rable and above all, fun. Thank you all.
FELIX
Indy Leclercq
Have your say on
this article at
felixonline.co.uk
In Praise Of...Imperial’s
Clubs & Societies
No, seriously, January in Spain is awful. It’s just so sunny and warm. Absolute hell, trust me.
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
“
“
just so sunny and w
”
One of the first things that a
Spanish person on my course
said to me was “what are you
doing in Spain, if you’re at
Imperial?”
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
Saskia Daniel/Imperial College London

