IS SOCIAL NETWORKING
RUINING
OUR LIVES?
D
ecember 23, 2006 at
20:41, “Ben has joined
Facebook”. It was a sim-
ple page, no friends, no
photos and a fake birth
date to get around the age restrictions.
If you had told me then that this, and
other social networking sites, would be
the cornerstone of social interaction for
our generation I probably wouldn’t have
believed you. But, whilst this development may be surprising I believe
that it has been positive.
There have been many examples of where social networking has
brought happiness to lives and in some cases saved them! Phillip Pain,
whilst on a year out in Mexico, fell from the 7th floor of a hotel. Howev-
er, the hospital did not have enough O negative blood for the life-saving
operation he needed, so his friends in the UK made Facebook groups
calling for people to help out. After 24 hours thousands of people had
joined to spread the word. Then amazingly, people started turning up at
the hospital to offer their blood.
Whilst social networking may not have such a drastic effect on the
lives of most of us, its impact is undeniable. LinkedIn is great for busi-
ness, MySpace/last.fm for music, twitter for journalism with Facebook
a ‘jack-of-all-trades’ patriarchal figure. Each of these enhances how we
interact each other in different ways; there are bands I wouldn’t have
heard, news stories I wouldn’t have found and events I wouldn’t have
attended if social media did not exist.
Whilst like anything there are those who take social networking too
far, it is a fantastic tool if used correctly. It can connect you to anyone
anywhere in the world, reunite lost friends and help to maintain long
distance friendships that might otherwise disintegrate.
The true global potential of the medium is perfectly demonstrated by
the recent story of Ashley Kerekes (aka @theashes), a 20 something
American twitter user. She woke up one day to find that a large num-
ber of people had sent her messages on twitter regarding the Ashes tour.
Having no idea about cricket she responded, initially with annoyance but
this then developed into full conversations. Soon she had thousands of
followers and through the power of social networking was flown out to
Australia to watch the Ashes for real.
The social media revolution has without a doubt changed the way we
interact with each other and the wider world. It has provided a new easy
way to communicate and for those who want it, a channel through which
your voice has the potential to be heard by millions.
18 felix
FRIDAY 28 January 2011
COMMENT
Comment Editors: Anna Perman
Jan Piotrowski
comment.felix@imperial.ac.uk
H
ow many times have
you been introduced to
someone of whom you
were already aware,
perhaps the collateral
of a recent facebook browse or, if
you’re one of the pathetic many (like
me), a target of a facebook stalk? Or
at least made decisions based on rela-
tionship statuses as seen on facebook?
Singles, haven’t you checked out the guest list for a friend’s party and
decided not to go because there weren’t any fit single ladies attending?
(There were a few in the “Maybe attending” and your wingman said let’s
risk it for a biscuit but computer games won out in the end.)
Non-singles, have you been jealous when you looked at every single
tagged photo of your girlfriend from before you got together? And nearly
died when you looked through that album from a trip she took with her
ex-boyfriend?
None of this applies to me, of course, but you lot should be ashamed
of yourselves! The way Facebook (more so than any other social net-
working site) has changed the way people interact is a disappointment.
It completely takes the mystery out of life, let alone making it a lot more
difficult to get away with lies. There was a time you could have got away
with bailing on a mate’s birthday party, organising with other friends to
go clubbing and just maybe suggesting to go to the same club where the
girl you fancy just so happens to be going. But not anymore! Thanks to
the inevitable day-after-the-night-before album, your actions WILL be
recorded and you WILL be found out.
Social networks do have innumerable benefits of which I have defi-
nitely taken advantage, but I can’t help feeling let down. I’m a big fan of
tradition, admittedly because I read too much Jane Austen, but romance
is dead and I blame social networking, as it fosters a society which is too
busy for real-time contact with people. And how many times have you
had coffee with someone who checks twitter on their smartphone every
five minutes? While it helps people juggle their busy lives and is a bit of
fun in easy reach, there is no substitute for real interaction. So please, I
urge you to join me in mocking those who “check-in” everywhere they
go.
Much as I’d like to resist social networking e.g. by boycotting or some
such gesture, it’s a lot of effort to follow through on my ‘principles’ only
to become even more of a pleb. Safe to say, resistance is futile. Hey Trek-
kies, Seven of Nine is really hot isn’t she? If I only I could “network”
with her, then maybe I’d stop complaining. Live long and prosper.
“It can connect
you to anyone
anywhere in
the world.”
Ben Good Alex Nowbar
Whether you spend your life tweeting or check
your Facebook page once a month, social
networking is here to stay.The question is....
Take the National Student
Survey,it will help
improve your course
Ever felt that your Department doesn’t lis-
ten to your views? Want to thank them for
all the hard work they have done or quite
the opposite? The National Student Survey
(NSS) is a platform for you to voice your
positive and negative opinions!
If you are a final year undergrad, you prob-
ably have already heard that the survey be-
gan on the 10 January. When I was asked
to complete it last year, I had no idea what I
was filling out and I guess most of you feel
the same way. It’s easy to complete and
only takes a few minutes, but does it really
live up to the hype? Yes.
The NSS isn’t like other surveys. Over the
past years, you’ve been asked to complete
numerous surveys (and are probably sick of
all the acronyms by now!). Whether SOLE,
TOLE or ROLE, these all provide quality
feedback on specific issues which are go-
ing well (or not so well) in Departments. The
NSS is different. It allows both College and
the Union to measure themselves against
other UK institutions. Questions range from
learning provisions to Union activities. You
get to let College know how you really felt
about your 3 or 4 years here. Oh, and did I
mention it’s anonymous?
The Union and your student reps encourage
positive changes using this survey’s results
as (metaphorical) ammunition. Equipped
with views gathered from a large majority of
students, it is hard for Departments to ig-
nore major issues. It is important, however,
to have a high participation rate, otherwise
results aren’t representative.
The NSS has changed things in the past
and you’ve been reaping the benefits. Last
year the NSS showed that students weren’t
happy with their coursework feedback. Re-
sulting from that, we introduced a 2 week
turnaround deadline and have clamped
down on Departments which have been lax
with feedback. I hope you have noticed the
difference! In the past, NSS results have
also played a key role in opening our be-
loved library resources 24hrs. Although the
resulting action taken from the NSS will not
directly impact your uni experience, your
feedback will allow prospective students to
know what they are getting into by applying
to Imperial. The results also have an impact
on Imperial’s standing in the League tables.
As with all surveys we run, we are provid-
ing some great incentive prizes to those
who complete it. We are giving away 6x £20
Union Shop vouchers as well as 4x free
Ents tickets to this year’s massive Summer
Ball at the end of the year. All winners will
also receive free lifetime membership to
the Union! So make sure to complete the
NSS under www.thestudentsurvey.com
Very soon the people running the survey
will begin targeting those of you who have
not completed it via post, email and even
telephone so get on it before they begin an-
noying you! Alex Dahinten
“Romance is
dead and I
blame social
networking.”

