HIGHLIGHTS
FELIX
Friday 28 january 2011
2
FELIX
Felix, Beit Quad, Prince Consort Road, London SW7 2BB.
Email: felix@imperial.ac.uk. Tel: 020 7594 8072. Fax: 020 7594 8065.
Printed by The Harmsworth Printing Ltd, Northcliffe House, Meadow
Road, Derby. Registered newspaper ISSN 1040-0711.
Copyright © Felix 2010.
Lolcat of teh week
Writing Competition!
On campus
The Age of Information
Emeritus Professor
Igor Aleksander explains
the role of ‘information’,
how the brain processes
it and asks if humanity
can survive in the pre-
sent age of information.
Tickets are £3 for staff
and students. Email Jill
Cook – admin@friend-
sofimperial.org.uk – for
more information and
tickets.
A Low Carbon Economy
As part of the Energy Futures Lab lecture series, Dr
Julian Allwood will be looking at how industry can
realistically achieve carbon emission reductions. A
former lecturer in mechanical engineering at Impe-
rial, he now leads a research group in the Depart-
ment of Engineering at Cambridge. The lecture is
open to all but registration is required in advance.
Contact Laura Budd – l.budd@imperial.ac.uk – for
registration and further information.
Mech Eng Building, LT220
08 February 18:00-19:00
Sherfield Building, The Great Hall
08 February 19:00-20:00
Do you want to win up to £500? Ah, I knew
that would get your attention. This year is
the 100th anniversary of the Biochemical
Society and to celebrate they are running
an essay competition for under- and
postgraduate students, regardless of
degree; you do not need to be a member
of the society to enter. Entrants must
write up to 1,500 words on molecular
bioscience topic of your choice. The piece
should be aimed at the general public
and must be an original piece of work not
published elsewhere. 1st prize: £500,
2nd prize: £250 and 3rd prize: £100. Visit
biochemistry.org/sciencecommunication
for more information.
East Meets West
The Indian Society present their yearly extravaganza
of Eastern and Western song, dance and fashion
at their biggest ever venue, the O2. Performances
include Funkology, Bollywood, Hip Hop, Fashion Show,
Ballet, Tap and Gaana. Tickets range from £12-£20
and can be purchased in the SAF or by emailing
emwtheshow@ic.ac.uk.
IndigO2, The O2
30 January 18:30-22:00
Union Notice
Sabbatical Elections!
It’s coming up to that time of year again, when campus is
flooded with flyers and eager candidates rot the teeth of
Imperial students with their sweet election bribes. Yes,
the Sabbatical and Trustee elections for Imperial Col-
lege Union kick off on the 15th of February when nomi-
nations open. The positions up for grabs include Deputy
Presidents for Finance & Services, Clubs & Societies,
Welfare and Education as well as Felix Editor and finally,
President. Do you have the dedication and enthusiasm
required to serve Imperial students?
Editor-in-Chief Kadhim Shubber Deputy Editor Gilead Amit Copy Chief Lizzy Griffiths Assistant Editor Dan Wan News Editors Alex Karapetian Matt Colvin Reporters Katherine
Bettany Charles Betts Sophia David Maciej Matuszewski Deepka Rana Aemun Reza Ian Wei Layout/Design Editor Veronika McQuadeova Features Editor Lizzie Crouch Sports
Editors Jovan Nedic David Wilson Science Editors Katya-yani Vyas Kelly Oakes Charlie Harvey Business Editors Sina Ataherian Afonso Campos Politics Editors James Lees Rory
Fenton Rajat Jain Technology Editor Samuel Gibbs Feroz Salam Comment Editor Anna Perman Jan Piotrowski Arts Editor Rox Middleton Music Editors Greg Power Christopher
Walmsley Luke Turner Film Editors Jade Hoffman Ed Knock Tv Editor Matt Allinson Food Editor Dana Li Fashion Editor Saskia Verhagen Games Editor Simon Worthington Clubs
& Societies Editor Roland Sookias Online Editors Niharika Midha Dakshaa Rai Ravi Pall Chris Birkett Jonathan Kim International Editor Kenneth Lee Puzzles Captains Polly
Bennett James Hook Aman Nahar Photo Editor Thomas Welch Travel Editors Dylan Lowe Chris Richardson Copy Editors Alex Nowbar Hannah Thomas Sharanya Subbu Ritika
Gupta Zainab Ali Joe Marinelli Shruti Mishra Sophia Man
It might be easier if you write your entry on the computer...
Editor
Nominations open 15th February

