Grayson Perry – “The Walthamstow
Tapestry”. Turner Prize-winning ce-
ramicist turns his hand to another
traditional medium and fills it with
his trademark snippets of modern life
(and lots of actual trademarks, funnily
enough).
Marcus Rees Roberts – “Catalunya”
series. My highlight of the fair – claus-
trophobic interiors, primitive figures,
Spanish darkness. A cheery combi-
nation of brooding menace and an-
guished psychosis.
Colin Self. Various small drawings
from the 1970’s onwards. Witty, sar-
castic and weird.
Alice Attie. Delicate typographical
structures, like spider webs made of
numbers.
Joel Clifford / Anka Dabrowska. Two
young-ish artists, both represented by
Jealous Gallery. Both good.
A R T S
FELIX
Friday 28 January 2011
20
Arts Editor: Rox Middleton
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
When asked to write a book review for Felix, I found
it incredibly difficult to choose what to write about.
My favourite books are classics, but since coming
here I’ve had little time to read anything but articles
and I’m sure that most other people feel the same.
As Imperial students, few of us have time to read a
full length novel, which is why I’ve decided against
recommending one. Smoke and Mirrors is a collec-
tion of short stories and poems that possess a sub-
tle elegance that is often lacking in longer books.
Neil Gaiman’s stories are often dark and disturbing
with a hint of the occult. It’s hard to imagine that
the same author writes children’s fantasy or has
co-written with Terry Pratchett.
The stories in Smoke and Mirrors are reprints
from anthologies, so are incredibly varied. Most
are a mix of fantasy, horror and the occult, drawn
together in Gaiman’s entrancing style of writing, but
some, like The Goldfish Pool, are more real and viv-
id. Whether it’s a disturbing version of Snow White
or We Can get them for You Wholesale, a sinister
story about assassins who offer discounts for large
orders, the book is bound to have something in it
for everyone. My personal favourite is The White
Road, a chilling poem about Mr Fox and the mur-
ders he committed.
In Smoke and Mirrors, Gaiman gives a glimpse of
another world that is not so different from our own,
where the surreal is treated as ordinary. It can be
read in those few moments a student has to spare.
Whether you’ll want to read them again is for you to
discover, but I urge you to give them a try at least
once. You may find that you like horror after all.
If you read nothing else
this week...
Zainab Ali puts the case for this
collection of poems and short
stories by a darkly original author
Smoke
and Mirrors by Neil Gaiman
Which book do you love more than any other? Tell
us why it’s so good - Send 300 to 400 words to
arts.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Will Prince
Everybody, it seems, loves Terrence Rattigan
at the moment – or Terry, as the people who
sat next to me during the Jermyn Street The-
atre’s production of Less Than Kind, insisted
on calling him. Last summer, After The Dance
at the National Theatre paved the way for Ter-
ry’s centenary year in 2011 and the Old Vic is
bringing their rendition of Cause Célèbre to
the stage in March – be sure to watch this page
for details. And whilst the latter two sought to
add clout by drafting in big names, the Jermyn
Street Theatre (JST) has taken a different ap-
proach entirely. Rather than trawl ES Magazine
for glossy faces, it seems they’ve been ventur-
ing into the archives.
This is Less Than Kind’s maiden perfor-
mance. Despite being written during the war
years, Rattigan’s own lack of self-belief and
the capricious world of show business meant it
was worked and reworked and then finally left
for dead – only one copy remained, saved in a
license office. And JST must be commended for
their efforts. Whilst they might not have uncov-
ered a gem, they’ve certainly found a keeper.
The story centres on Olivia, an attractive yet
simple-minded widow, as she tries to reconcile
her forthright, left-wing son and her wealthy
paramour, a cabinet minister briefed in tank
production. The scene opens on an apparently
blissful familial scene, but gradually we see the
seams in the patchwork quilt of life appearing.
Sir John Fletcher, the lover, and Michael, the
son, tug the fabric to breaking point, until the
woman is forced to decide between son and
lover.
A struggle ensues between the men, with
ploys aplenty, in a scenario that at times has
echoes of Hamlet. Despite this, the setting is
distinctly British and inescapably 1940’s – it’s
all hard times, dried egg omelettes, evenings at
Jaw-dropping prices, gallery owners hover-
ing like buzzards around the fat-of-wallet and
pretentious conversations carrying through the
air: “This is Christophe’s latest work, he’s cur-
rently juxtaposing renaissance frescos with im-
agery from Countdown.” A landscape entitled
“Profane Impossibility of Diametric Neurosis”
(it’s not pretentious because it’s, like, obviously
ironically pretentious, you know?) and a gal-
lery called Pratt Contemporary... It can all mean
only one thing – the London Art Fair (LAF) has
rolled into town for another year, bringing with
it all that is both bad and good in UK art.
The bad? See above. It’s hard not to feel a
tinge of cynicism when viewing the commer-
cial art-world in all its pustulent glory. Maybe
it’s the idealist – and former art student, fact-
fans – in me, but somehow the sight of an ob-
ject dragged kicking and screaming from the
deepest depths of an individual’s tortured soul,
or painted surfaces of delicate and shimmer-
ing beauty, or scribbled sketches that somehow
capture the very ‘now-ness’ of the moment in
all its simplicity and complexity – all these sit
slightly uneasily with the sight of some bloke
with a dodgy cravat trying to flog it to you for
fifty grand. Ah well, everyone needs to make a
living I suppose.
And the good? Well – the art itself, happily
enough. Not all of it, obviously – some of it
was rubbish, RUBBISH I tell you – but a lot of
it was very good indeed. The LAF is a basically
a trade fair – much like you get in any other
industry, such as plumbing for example – only
instead of ball-valves, stop-cocks and brass
nipples, all the stalls sell... paintings. I heart-
ily recommend a visit to next year’s event – al-
though a minor Lottery win may be required if
you want to leave with anything more substan-
tial than the Fair Guide.
I should also add that it’s bloody massive, so
my five highlights are just there to the right.
(For a fun interactive reading experience, why
not try Googling them to have a look?)
Sara Crowe and her internal struggle
the pictures and knowing your place.
This may all seem very plain vanilla, but Rat-
tigan injects into his pieces a distilled essence
of normality – turns of phrase, idioms and id-
iosyncracies – that makes all the proceedings
very real. The notions of stiff upper lip and
female sacrifice are delicately touched upon.
“I love how you turn everything into a joke,
I wish I could do that,” says the bouncy and
blunt Michael to his mother with a smile, as
one sees ever more clearly the painful necessity
of her own smile in the face of grim situations.
Adrian Brown’s production is a very solid
piece of theatre, well staged and neatly cast.
Whilst at first the piece lacked vigor, any first
act qualms were well allayed by the final cur-
tain. Sara Crowe pitches the character of Ol-
ivia well, and makes the comic lines her own.
Michael Simkins brings his role as Sir John
Fletcher a gravitas and authority than contrasts
perfectly with the boyish cockiness of David
Osmond as Michael.
Less Than Kind, in truth, has all the ingre-
dients to be a run of the mill piece of theatre,
but strangely, I must confess, I really enjoyed
it. Surveying the crowd, waiting for the lights
to dim and seeing that your presence probably
brings the audience age down a decade never
bodes well. But by the end, I found myself in
its the fabric, being tugged to and fro by the
characters’ conflicts, and cheered throughout
by Rattigan’s polished one-liners and endear-
ing characters. Good, traditional theatre.
Jermyn Street Theatre until 12th Feb.
Less Than Kind, more than ordinary
Jack Jelfs
London Art Fair Highlights
A brand new old-fashioned play, full of 1940’s atmosphere
The huge art sale is still a good show

