FELIX Friday 28 january 2011 21
ARTS
Let’s talk about
Clowning as a visual theatre is one less
commonly seen on the London stage.
And Compagnia 2+1’s performance of
their show La Porta was definitely in
keeping with what most people think of
as traditional clowning, complete with
brass, juggling, acrobatics, funny hair-
styles and falling over.
Compagnia 2 + 1 are comprised of
Swiss clowning duo Bernard Stockli and
Andreas Manz and clown and acrobat
Kai Leclerc. They hail from a very tra-
ditional clowning background, touring
with famous circus companies such as
Circus Knie, Circus Monti and Barnum
and Bailey. Leclerc is presented as the
multilingual, opera-singing, more seri-
ous 1. Whereas Stockli and Manz are the
hopeless, but very endearing, 2.
The performance centres around a
red door in the centre of the stage, La
Porta, which facilitates an array of tricks
and scenarios, as the performers come
and go through the door and fight over
its possession. The continued struggle
over ownership of the door, however,
was tenuously linked to some other as-
pects of the show and when the clowns
repeatedly fought over it, it became a
little tiresome. On the other hand, I par-
ticularly liked the use of the door as a
portal to a skiing holiday, where a clown
shivered under flurries of little paper
pieces, exaggeratedly blown at them by
the two others, then, as the little drifts of
paper lay about the stage and were later
kicked up again, the clowns gave a clas-
sic shiver of remembrance. At one point
the door came into its own as a character
when it accidentally got caught in one of
the clowns’ brawls and ‘died’ (wouldn’t
open), and needed music in order to get
it to open again.
Many of the tricks performed by the
The Office with a taxidermied twist is
an excellent description of this apoca-
lyptic physical comedy from American
duo Geoff Sobelle and Charlotte Ford.
Emerging from an oversized bin and the
office toilet, Gerry and Rhoda appear
ready for a day at their workplace which
is eerily devoid of any signs of other hu-
man life. Settling into their respective
routines, Rhoda obliviously indulges
in her impulsive snacking habit whilst
Gerry begins compulsively rearranging
his post it note collection and obsessive-
ly stalks a particularly obnoxious fly.
However the monotony of office routine
is slowly shattered by the intrusion of
some rather unwelcome furry friends. A
ferret scuttles furtively across the floor,
a badger settles in between the folders,
plants burst out of filing cabinets and a
deer or two appear casually from the be-
hind the doors. Unable to cope with the
exotic events of the day, predictably, the
two workers give into their wild side and
mayhem ensues leading to the final ex-
plosive climax involving the collapsing
of walls and an ingenious bear attack all
set to the sinister synthesized chords of
Debussy’s Claire de Lune.
There are some hilarious pantomime
elements to this play. Taxidermied ani-
mals slowly creep into view causing
you to want to scream “It’s behind you”
to the oblivious characters on stage,
and their unpredictable reactions to the
strange events never fail to disappoint.
Both Sobelle and Ford possess that rare
comedic talent of pushing a joke to its
absolute limit without letting it wear
thin, as well as a formidable mastery
of the dramatic pause, employing ex-
clowns were well executed and techni-
cally impressive. A Houdini-style es-
cape from a box tied with ropes was
excellent and some fantastic acrobatics
mime
Herpreet Bhamra
Cecily Goodwin
London’s annual International mime
festival lands once again, showcasing
physical theatre from all over the
world. We tried just a couple to get a taste of what’s been going on
Flesh and Blood & Fish and Fowl (The Barbican)
La Porta (Southbank)
“The door came into
its own as a charac-
ter when it acciden-
tally... ‘died’”
were performed around a lamp. One of
my favourite tricks was when Leclerc
can-canned across the stage singing an
aria whilst tearing up a copy of the eve-
ning standard and then opening it out
into a copy of Le Figaro. Although, in
between these ‘wow-factor’ tricks the
sequences of slapstick or competitive
door-possession wore a little thin.
That said, the interaction between
the clowns themselves was very well
portrayed and the characterisation was
excellent, making them very likeable.
Each clown had characteristic facial
expressions, actions and movements
that were very charming, as evidenced
by repeated ‘awws’ from the crowd.
This was something of an achievement
as all three spent a large proportion of
the show striving to inflict pain on the
others.
Despite the fact that sometimes the fo-
cus on the door seemed a little strained
and that I personally don’t find people
being slapped in the face particularly
funny, the show was entertaining, the
characters of the clowns were endear-
ing and the execution of the tricks im-
pressive and unpretentious. The perfect
show for anyone with a penchant for
slapstick, and of course, the under 10s.
“Taxidermied animals
creep into view”
cellent comedic timing. The physical
characterization of the neurotic, irritable
characters perfectly captures the social
awkwardness exploited so effectively
by Ricky Gervais et al. but this physical
portrayal gave it a refreshing and much
darker twist. The appearance of the taxi-
dermied animals is well choreographed,
often leaving you clueless as to which
office appliance they had materialized
from this time, although from time to
time the flash of a hand quickly diving
back behind the door that the pheasant
had appeared from ruined the magic of
the moment.
The ecological message of the play
was clear; in these concrete fortresses
we’ve built, we’ve removed ourselves
so far from the natural world, that the
two worlds cannot co-exist and this will
be to our own detriment. In the end the
natural order shall be restored. How-
ever, Sobelle and Ford manage to won-
derfully entwine this with message with
an absurd and hilarious physical comedy
parodying the pressures of modern life.
All the fun of the fair, well, mainly just the clowns, but they are quite fun
Rhoda (Charlotte Ford) being chased in her office by stuffed wildlife

