MUSIC
FELIX
24
Music Editors: Greg Power
Luke Turner
Christopher Walmsley
music.felix@gmail.com
Kill ‘em All at Fabric with the legendary Erol Alkan
Album of The Week
James Blake
James Blake
Hemlock Recordings
2011
★★★★✩
Widely touted as one of the acts to watch this year,
James Blake finally releases his debut full length on
the 7th of February. In contrast to previous EPs, such
as the infectious CMYK, the record is predominantly
vocal lead. It is also far more downbeat, and chilled
out – more suited to bedrooms than dancefloors.
The first single from the album, a rendition of Feist’s
‘Limit To Your Love’, is arguably the worst track on the
album, unable to capture the elegance of the original
and the sparse arrangement in this version feels rath-
er flat and dull. The rest of the album however is sig-
nificantly better, despite the surprising shift in focus
from his previous work (it’s fair to say this reviewer
can hear more Anthony Hegarty and Bon Iver than say
Mount Kimbie or Burial here) this is still a good solid
album that is easy to enjoy. Christopher Walmsley
Most lis-
tened to
this week by
Felix Music
members on
last.fm
Make sure not to miss
Deaf School + Eighteen
Nightmares at the Lux
Relentless Garage, Islington
Tonight! @ 19.00
Hailing from Liverpool, Deaf School are set to rock
the Relentless Garage in Islington tonight with their
energetic, upbeat songs that really create atmo-
sphere as well as sound. It was this atmosphere that
launched them out of Liverpool in the 1970s with
such buzz and inspiration, and brings them crashing
into north London.
Eighteen Nightmares at the Lux are a London-based
foursome that play the sound of surfer rhythms and
tight progressions over fuzzing rockabilly. The mu-
sic suits the image of a surfing skeleton. It’s clas-
sic rock with fuzz, 60’s garage without a leash, a
blend of the dark side to all things good, with that
burlesque charm, a surfing nightmare. And for that
reason, we love it. Luke Turner
Join in at: http://www.last.fm/group/Felix+Music
1. Daft Punk
2. Kanye West
3. The xx
4. Radiohead
5. Muse
6. Gorillaz
7. The Killers
8. Sleigh Bells
9. Bon Iver
10. LCD Soundsystem
Friday 28 January 2011
T
he underground dance music scene
in the UK is the healthiest it has
been for a number of years. Lon-
don is, as ever, a melting pot for
musicians from a myriad of back-
grounds who push the boundaries of what be-
comes many peoples’ 4am soundtrack. It is in
testament to this that I devote a second label re-
view to a London-based label: Ramp Record-
ings. Set up in 2004 by Tom Kerridge in order
to give his life a direction, Ramp Recordings
has released music from the likes of Flying Lo-
tus, Zomby and Maxmillion Dunbar.
Kerridge professes to simply release music
that interests him and over the past few years it
seems that the world has aligned with his ideas
as opposed to him changing his ethos in order
to cash in on the flavour of the month. From
American instrumental hip-hop to UK Funky
and then Zomby, Ramp Recordings essen-
tially sums up the current mood in UK dance
music today. In 2007 the label helped bring
Zomby’s lucid synth dreamscapes to the at-
tention of the world, quickly turning him into
extremely hot property. Even Lady Gaga used
some of his music in one of the transitions on
her recent ‘Monster Ball’ tour.
Although Ramp dictates a lot of what is go-
ing on in the UK music scene right now, a lot of
the output has origins from across the Atlantic.
P.U.D.G.E, Maxmillion Dunbar and FaltyDL
all originate from across the pond and have con-
tributed to some of the best releases on the label
to date. P.U.D.G.E makes distracted instrumen-
tal hip-hop; his recent album ‘Idiot Box’weaves
erratic beats with smooth synth lines over a
strange vocal sample that continues throughout
the whole record creating the effect of a radio
that can’t settle on a single station. In contrast,
Maxmillion Dunbar’s most recent effort ‘Cool
Water’ mixes smooth electronica with hip-hop
TECHNO
NONSENSE
Pt. 4: This week Simon
Hunter reports on the
trailblazing label that
is platforming some of
London’s most exciting
underground music
beats and tinges of disco. FaltyDL treads a
more familiar path with his most recent EP ‘Hip
Love’, displaying elements of UK Funky and
Garage through a beat that whilst continually
tripping over itself, refuses to go down.
Ramp Recordings is an excellent showcase
of where the UK scene is at at the moment,
and to get a taste of it try these favourites. Doc
Daneeka’s ‘Hold On’ warms up UK Funky
with soul samples and a faint vinyl crackle, and
JamieXX’s remix of ‘Hip Love’ by FaultyDL
does away with the complicated drum rhythms
of the original and replaces them with a bouncy
bass line.
Simon Hunter will be playing a DJ set at
19.02.
Techno-bot wants to BLOW YOUR MIND!
L
ast Friday saw the promotors Kill
em All hijack the club’s hallowed
halls and the music policy was
strictly four to floor, ranging the
whole spectrum from disco and
electro to pounding techno. Filthy Dukes set
the tone of the night, a rendition of Green Vel-
vet’s classic ‘It’s Time for the Percolator’ indi-
cated that it was going to be a long one indeed.
At midnight, the electro-rock outfit Django
Django took to the stage in room 1. Their soar-
ing guitars accompanied with glitchy synths
and resonating bass sounded perfect as the club
began to fill up.
By the time Erol Alkan was handed control
of the decks the room had swelled to an eager
mass of convulsing and grinding bodies. After
a month touring the festivals in Australia the
London legend looked perfectly at home mix-
ing classics with contemporary tunes. It had
been a while since I had seen Erol do a full
club set and I was not disappointed; nineties
rave was harmoniously mashed with New Or-
der and Caribou, the rises and drops perfectly
anticipated and the denouement being a re-
edited version of his Boys Noize collaboration
‘Avalanche’.
Dutchman Paul Chambers presented the
novel idea of a live set incorporating synthesiz-
ers and drum machines however the succession
of discordant synth waves followed by drum
rolls and bass soon became repetitive.
Fortunately, over in room 2, rising stars
Hey Today! kept the crowd moving and the
energy levels soaring, not a single soul in the
club could prevent their bodies from dancing
as bass heavy fidget house and furious electo
instructed their legs to move. This resurgence
of rave-inspired dance music is becoming huge
in Europe and the German duo gave us a taste
of what we might be missing. While tired faces
became more common and the dancefloor emp-
tied, Londoner Stopmakingme kept the strag-
glers entertained with a well crafted techno set
until the early morning.
Fabric is still not showing its age. The sound
is meticulously controlled, with crystal clear
treble and deep bellowing bass, never once
hurting your ears. The recently updated lasers
were fantastic making one random raver I met
declare they had triggered an ‘acid flashback’
(although his heavily diluted pupils told a dif-
ferent story). The laid-back feel of the club and
‘everyone is equal’ vibe made for a very pleas-
ant atmosphere. It’s no wonder people choose
to return to Fabric again and again. Ed Knock
Erol Alkan bums you with his sex-noise

