28
TELEVISION
felix
Television Editor: Matt Allinson
tv.felix@imperial.ac.uk
10 O’Clock Live premier: Confused
Vicky Jeyaprakash
In the last month Channel 4’s market-
ing department has done well in bom-
barding us all with anchormanesque
billboards and amusing adverts for 10
O’Clock Live, their new topical com-
edy show. I suspect, however, that the
hype and anticipation created is where
their downfall will lie. All of us were far
too young to have seen the first show of
say ‘Have I Got News For You’ or Pax-
man doing his first interview but I have
vague memories of ‘Mock the Week’
having a fairly mediocre start. These
shows however were allowed to develop
and grow with an increasing fan base as
they found their feet but I have an ink-
ling that this show, which does have the
bare bones of great television, won’t be
allowed that space to breathe and re-
group. I can see why Channel 4 has gone
with this approach though. The success
of their alternative election coverage
has prompted 10 O’Clock Live. Pissing
everyone off by ending the Daily Show
from airing every day and touting 10
O’Clock live as an alternative
was a mistake.
Talk about
setting the bar
far, far too high.
In theory TOCL could have been com-
ic gold with Jimmy Carr, David Mitch-
ell and Charlie Brooker being some of
the funniest men in business. Oh and of
course Lauren Laverne.
Taking on Lauren Laverne just seems
nonsensical. I suspect the thinking was
something like…. “don’t we need a
woman? Oh and make her look smok-
ing”. Really people, really?
Ironically one of the major failures of
the show is the fact there are too many
people involved and with the content be-
ing divided almost evenly between them
the show loses any momentum it has. It’s
such a shame because it feels that just as
you start to engage it cuts to a break or
the next segment. As the boys begin to
settle into a dynamic and the wit sparkles
we’re off on some moronic Hollywood
report about Sudan and the potential
that’s just around the corner is lost.
Mitchell was easily the superstar of
the group being the most erudite and
genuinely funny. His first interview on
the subject of bankers made me ques-
tion his ability as an interviewer but ret-
rospectively I’m not sure many people
beyond Dimbleby could handle a dia-
logue with three professional politi-
cians whose knowledge of the topic
far outweighs your own. He han-
dled David Willetts wonderfully
and his rant was pitch perfect.
Jimmy Carr looked like live
television made him want to
cry and the first five minutes
were so Jimmy heavy it was ob-
What We Watched...
This week’s TV treated us to two chilling new epi-
sodes of the brilliantly gory Silent Witness, which
starts with womanising Harry taking a trip to Buda-
pest to perform a second post mortem on a Roma-
nian prostitute who suspiciously turned up looking
cadaverous in the River Danube. I have always con-
sidered it slightly odd that the pathologists seem to
single-handedly conduct an entire murder investiga-
tion, but I suppose there wouldn’t be much drama if
they stuck to their usual mandate of messing around
with the victims’ insides.
The first of these two episodes actually turned
out to be the exception to this rule as the team got
caught up with the Hungarian Mafia (Police?), but as
usual, it was packed with loads of cliff-hanging drama
and a little [big] bit of tragedy... Your mourning will
last for days if you are a long-term fan – the sus-
pense kills! Definitely one to watch if you missed it.
At the cutting edge of shit TV this week was Chan-
nel 4’s all new series The Joy of Teen Sex – a horrify-
ing expose of some of Britain’s best ugly people. A
great bullfrog of a woman proffered tips to improve
the taste of a man’s mayonnaise and a sex doctor
tries to convince a sixteen year old muntbag that
contraception is a good idea because of how much
of a village bike she is. Later, in what the mother de-
scribes as her ‘proudest moment yet’, she eventually
gets the implant. I hope it fucking hurts. Slag.
The fifth episode of Lucas and Walliams’ Come
Fly With Me conformed to expectations by being al-
most exactly identical to the previous 4. In typical
‘Little Britain’ style the rather tenuous characters
evolve last week’s sketch ever so slightly by altering
a few words. Funny? Yes, in a way, but it seems to
be mostly catering for the playground audience and
their eternal desire for something repetitive to annoy
their poor teachers with. I’m not sure I’d bother to
On The Box
This Week
The best shows on television
for the next 7 days
vious it took him a while to relax and
deliver his one liners without looking
like he was reading from a prompter.
Both Carr and Brooker had trouble with
camera and line cues which made the
show look incredibly amateurish , which
wasn’t helped by the sudden switch-
ing of camera angles for seemingly no
reason at all. Brooker, beyond his pre-
recorded Palin segment, shined when
mocking Tunisia but felt oddly absent
during the panel chats. Which leaves
just Ms. Lauren Laverne who is wholly
miscast and I fear will come out the oth-
er end of this looking like an idiot.
Finally if you are going to conduct a
political talk show, some prior knowl-
edge is a must. Not knowing who the
cabinet ministers are is embarrassing. I
enjoyed the smirking Richard Sharp of
Goldman Sachs who smugly listened
to Mitchell fumble through the banking
crisis and this I fear seems to be the ma-
jor failing of this confuzzled little show.
Comedians are not stupid people but to
keep up beyond witty one liners when
debating with leaders in their respec-
tive fields, some homework is required
which I think the cast are skiving off
so far. The second half of the show did
pick up with Jimmy looking far more
comfortable and so I have great hope
with a little restructuring and a deep
breath every so often this show can de-
velop on the potential it has to be great
satirical comedy that is informative and
topical. Especially if they stop airing it
against Question Time and News Night.
C4 Thursday, 10pm and 4OD
catch the whole series, maybe the odd episode here
and there.
Similarly, Hustle is one of those programmes that
I always intend to watch, but there’s always some-
thing better to do. Having to write something about it
meant I probably should make an effort to the tune
of one or two episodes – I have to say I was a lit-
tle disappointed. Entertaining though it was, it was
reminiscent of a low-budget version of ‘Spooks’ that
stretched credibility like Anne Widdecombe stretch-
es underwear (...and skin). That being said; it was
very watchable and did make me spend around 40
minutes brushing my teeth because I didn’t want to
miss a second. Thinking back, that must be what the
pause button is for.
The redeeming factor is undoubtedly the excellent
casting of the main characters, who are so comfort-
able in their roles that it could almost pass as a
documentary if it weren’t for the over-the-top areseh-
oleishness of the usual ‘baddies’. This, considering
the genre, is no mean feat, but I still think it’d be
brilliant if one of them shouted BANTER when the
mark realises they’ve been conned. James Simpson
Friday
Fast And Loose
Improvised Sketch shows shuffle off
Radio 4 and onto primetime TV.
BBC2, 10pm
Saturday
The Tudors
British TV is fixated with costume dra-
mas, but this is actually alright.
BBC2, 9.45pm
Sunday
Wall Street
Classic Movie, now with added, miss-
able Shia Labeouf sequel.
Sky 1, 9pm
Monday
University Challenge
An evening spent smugly beating your
flatmate with your intellectual prowess.
BBC2, 8pm
Tuesday
Big Fat Gypsy Weddings
Channel 4’s newest “thinly-veiled-laugh
-at-people-umentary” doesn’t disapoint.
C4, 9pm
Wednesday
Carpool
Channel Clarkson delights with this
beautifully laid back interview format.
Dave, 8.30pm
Thursday
The Ultra Zionists
Expect about as much editorial neutral-
ity as a Sarah Palin youtube video.
BBC2, 9pm
If you missed it...
How TV Ruined your life
Charlie Brooker is rich through whining
and he is boning Connie Huq. Bastard.
on iPlayer untill sunday
University Challenge is back!!!
Friday 28 JANUARY 2011

