“ ”
GAMES
FELIX
Friday 28 JANUARY 2011
Games Editor: Simon Worthington
games.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Web Games
Each week we’re going to bring you a selection of
fresh, free and fun web games that you can play right
away in your browser. Unless otherwise specified,
you’re going to need the Adobe Flash Player plug-in
which can be installed from http://get.adobe.com/
flashplayer/.
Armor Mayhem
armorgames.com/play/10215
In this 2D futuristic shoot-’em-up, you play an ar-
moured soldier fighting for a trans-planetary corpo-
ration on a planet consumed by humanity’s energy
crisis. It’s a fight to the death for control of mysteri-
ous crystals (which don’t feature in the gameplay)
and you and your AI team-mates must compete in
deathmatch, capture-the-flag and king-of-the-hill style
games against other corporations.
The game delivers very solid action that does its
forefathers Quake and Unreal Tournament proud.
The AI is actually very competent and do a good job
of keep the game challenging. Although the selec-
tion of weapons is small, they’re well balanced and
complement each other in damage and accuracy.
There’s also a admirable variety of maps who’s styl-
ish visuals round off the game into a great little
experience.
30
Is it as delicious as they say?
(or maybe that’s just me). This only heightens
the feeling of success when you finally manage
to navigate Meat Boy across the beautiful but
incredibly deadly 2D environment to reach his
love, Bandage Girl. Honestly, it’s rare to find
a game that leaves you feeling like such a true
platforming pro.
This challenge, along with the nostalgia-in-
ducing 16-bit console feel and suburban musi-
cal score puts SMB a cut above the rest. The
‘light world’ alone will keep you occupied for
ages – don’t even get me started on the ‘dark’,
much harder world. The hype SMB generated
T
hree things are required to com-
plete a game like Super Meat Boy
successfully: The first is a sturdy
keyboard or controller, the second
is a level of patience few devout
Zen Buddhists can ever hope to attain and the
third is more free time than your average Arts or
Media Studies student. Whilst I’m rich enough
to afford the first and lazy enough to possess the
third, I sadly fall short on requirement two, and
boy does it show when I play.
Before I delve deeper, a short history lesson
for the unfamiliar. SMB originated as a Flash
game on popular portal Newgrounds.com some-
time in 2008 and was such an orgasmic success
that it was developed by the aptly named Team
Meat into a fully-fledged game, released on
Xbox Live Arcade and Windows near the end of
2010; there’s a Mac version coming soon, sup-
posedly. Anyone who follows reviews will know
that the game did bloody ruddy well, generating
a truckload of hype and literally making review-
ers cream their pants (ok not ‘literally’). But
why? Well I don’t know. Go research it yourself
you lazy bums.
Ok, ok, that’s not very professional of me.
Let’s try again... Before I attempt to answer that
question for you eager little beavers, let me tell
you why this game is amazingly fun whilst si-
multaneously being amazingly rage-inducing.
It’s hard. Let’s not sugar-coat this, it’s balls to the
wall hard. Team Meat realised that some gamers
want a challenge, and so those bastards gave us
one. Saws will rip you apart, lava pits will melt
you and you’ll fall to your meaty death more
times than you can say buggering cow nipples
remote isn’t exactly touted for its accuracy and
SMB requires accuracy in the same way that I
required sanity and counselling after my first
hour of play.
Sneak peeks of the game during development
touted the game’s retro feel and NES-style
graphics, to the delight of many eager players.
I was amongst them, although I’ll admit it now
I wasn’t quite swept up by the hype this game
conjured up. Then again, I try to avoid getting
sucked into to any of that stuff, since in many
cases the overly-hyped game flops like a moist
fish and you’re left feeling rather unsatisfied,
like coming home from Imperial and finding
some bastard’s drunk the last of the milk.
Super Meat Boy didn’t leave me with that
feeling. It’s fresh, fiendishly difficult and quite
possibly the most enjoyable way to give your-
self hypertension. And let’s be brutally honest
here, who hasn’t dreamed of playing a game
where you command a lump of sentient meat
to rescue a girl made of bandages from a top
hat wearing foetus in a robot suit?
@FelixGames on Twitter
Stop having a boring Twitter, stop hav-
ing a boring life. You’ll love my tweets!
This SHOULD be totally awesome... and yet somehow I just feel a bit grossed out.
L a urence Pope asks if Super Meat Boy deserves the hype
“Let’s not sugar-coat
this, Super Meat Boy is
balls to the wall hard.”
before its release is another question entirely.
The fact that SMB stemmed from a Flash
game certainly helped, it already had a plat-
form from which to launch its meaty self – to
date, the Flash version has recieved over 8 mil-
lion views, which, I’ll say now, isn’t half bad.
Hype was also generated due to the fact that it
was supposed to arrive on the PC, Mac, Xbox
and the Wii, making it the first Indie game to
be released on multiple consoles. Unfortu-
nately, the poor ol’ Wii just couldn’t hack it
and that incarnation of Super Meat Boy had to
be scrapped due to filesize limitations. In all
fairness, it was probably for the best; the Wii
New Age of Empires
Online to take series
in fresh direction
It’s been a long time since real-time strategy
fans have been treated to a new game in the
ever-popular Age of Empires series, but in
early 2010 it was announced a new title would
finally be arriving. New developers Robot En-
tertainment have revealed details about how
Age of Empires Online will be departing from
the traditions of previous games in the series.
While the classic real-time strategy elements
will remain in some form, AOEO brings a new
twist to the table with persistent online game-
play. Even when players aren’t in the game,
their cities and civilization will continue to
work and grow. Friends will be able to ‘visit’
and purchase items in a similar style to social
games like FarmVille.
The title will be free to play with no one-off
price or monthly subscription, instead employ-
ing a premium service that will give players
access to exclusive items and allow them to
gather more resources. Despite this, Robot En-
tertainment have given their assurance that the
game will remain balanced.
Meat Boy
newgrounds.com/portal/view/463241
Just read that article to the right and fancy getting
yourself a slice of that bloody red action? Why not try
the original Flash game that started the craze? It’s
not as well-polished as it’s big brother but still packs
all the crazy-hard levels that you could ever need.

