GAMES
FELIX Friday 28 JANUARY 2011 31
N
ow I don’t usually start
off by focusing on Lara
Croft’s buttocks (who
does?), but I’ve seen an
awful lot of them late-
ly and feel the need to confess why: I
changed the controls I used in Tomb
Raider Anniversary. And now I’m wor-
ried, because somehow I changed ev-
erything else too.
Hear me out: I did not change controls
to stare at Lara’s behind due to being
some sort of pervert. That is just a co-
incidence. All I did was shift the Jump
command on to the right-mouse button
so I could streamline my tomb raiding.
That’s it.
Normally of course I’d use a game-
pad. I’d have my thumb primed, curled
like a scorpion-tail over the x-button so
I could jab – and jump – at the slight-
est provocation, occasionally giving the
right-stick a quick nudge to shift the
camera into position; like say, a film
director punching his cheap Hungarian
cameraman. The focus was on control-
ling Lara’s acrobatics, with the camera
as my unruly lens on the action. A good
camera is revered in gaming, as can
be seen by the reams of praise review-
ers give to capable game cameras, as
if ‘Looking The Right Way’ was some
state of the art graphical effect.
But now I was being all trendy, play-
ing games on my laptop using a mouse,
my left hand punching out a million ana-
grams of the WASD keys. Unwittingly,
in using this set up I had changed the
way the whole game felt to play. I was
suddenly able to both steer the camera
and jump… at the same time! Freed
from the alternating rhythm of camera
changes/climbing forced by pad play, I
was climbing and catapulting through
tombs with the smooth grace of some,
curiously busty, underground Spider-
man.
Effectively I was controlling Lara like
Marcus Fenix or Max Payne, forever
running forward, gracefully steering my
way around the environments with the
mouse-camera and never seeing any-
thing other than Lara’s improbably pro-
portioned backside.
But was it better? Sure my fluidity in-
creased ten-fold and those tombs were
probably grateful to be raided at record
speed and have done with it, but some-
thing felt a bit off. I was used to feel-
ing like I actually moved Lara around
the environments, like my gamepad
buttons were hooked up by strings to a
digital marionette on some pixel-pow-
ered stage. Now instead my avatar was
locked in some eterna-run in the centre
of the screen while I practically rotated
the whole world around her with the
mouse. Egypt still looked like Egypt and
that T-Rex still filled the screen, but the
small sliver of change had slid into my
psyche and had turned Tomb Raider into
some kind of Tomb Runner.
Don’t get me wrong, it was still fun,
perhaps even more fun than usual. But in
changing the control scheme I had stum-
bled upon something deeper: the delicate
link between control, camera and immer-
sion, the role these play in the depiction
of our avatar’s physical presence in an
environment and also just how obsessive
I could be when my hard-wired expecta-
tions of a game are violated.
Did I mention I originally preferred
playing it at 640x480 too?
Too much of Lara Croft’s bum
Omar Hafeez-Bore wasn’t trying to get a better view... honest!
Have your say on this article at
felixonline.co.uk

