FOOD
FELIX
FRIDAY 28 january 2011
32
Food Editor: Dana Li
food.felix@imperial.ac.uk
The hazards of eating out
Gastronomical News
Dana says:
“The 2011 Michelin Guide landed last week (19th
Jan), celebrating its 100th anniversary this year.
Kitchen W8, off High Street Kensington, and Gordon
Ramsey’s Pétrus in Belgravia were newly awarded
a star. A Soho favourite, Polpo, which serves Ital-
ian tapas in a Venetian-like backdrop, received a bib
gourmand, an accolade that recognizes good food at
moderate prices.
Receiving a Michelin star is what certain chefs as-
pire to, counting their stars almost like how we count
our PhDs; one if we’re extremely lucky but most of
us - none at all. But for many diners looking for a
good meal, the Michelin guide means little or noth-
ing. If anything, the guide allows chefs the right to
arrogance whilst the restaurants jack up the prices.
The reality is that today’s diner does not require an
annual guide to direct them to a good meal. Polpo,
and its sister restaurant Polpetto, have enjoyed suc-
cess even before Michelin cottoned on. Refusing to
take dinner reservations, the success largely relied
on word of mouth from friends, family and the online
food blogging community.
Once considered a ‘food bible’ (albeit this was
self-described), the Michelin man and his guide just
doesn’t seem so vital anymore.”
The SCR food, with its leather-tough beef, dry
chicken, and liquefied peas – is there anything
more depressing? Well, yes – genocide, estate
agents, malaria, sexual rape, facebook rape,
yawn rape, and Robert Peston. The SCR is,
after all, just a university canteen in a country
mocked globally for its poor gastronomy –
Great British Menu being as much of an oxy-
moron as Corporate Culture. An overhaul of
the lugubrious menu would nonetheless not go
amiss – I did contact Jamie Oliver, but he was
elsewhere engaged. At a minimum, I trust Fe-
lix will not have to apologise again for daring
to point out that the SCR food lacks a certain
finesse (they have yet to find that delicate bal-
ance between burnt or soggy food).
But whilst the SCR is at a push tolerable, is it
fair to also let the best restaurants in our capi-
tal city get away with murder? The top Lon-
don eateries seem to be becoming increasingly
unpleasant and inconsiderate, in the same way
that having pliers gripped to one’s testicles isn’t
very nice.
If I want to go out for an enjoyable meal with
friends, and take the precaution of booking a
few days in advance, I do not want to be told
that I can have a table for four at 8pm but that I
have to be done eating by 10pm for the next sit-
ting of diners. Where’s the sense of occasion?
I hate deadlines when they’re for coursework,
let alone recreational purposes. The thing is
that once you have to time a meal, it no longer
feels like a treat – just an inconvenience to the
restaurant.
What is most depressing about these fixed
seating times is that you come to the realization
that your life is pretty insignificant. The restau-
rant is effectively telling you they don’t give a
damn, but they would quite like your cash and
if you could leave promptly that would be very
jolly indeed.
But not only can I not choose how long I
stay; I also have to be forcefully generous for
the privilege by coughing up a minimal 12.5%
“discretionary” surcharge. It is discretionary
if the service charge is not mentioned on the
menu but appears on the bill – sounds like a bit
of ruse to me. I have to bear with phone com-
panies, the council, and British Gas ripping me
off, but I didn’t expect this sort of behaviour
from a restaurant. Soon I’ll be feeling quite
unhappy as they gorge my eyes out for loose
change, and I’ll be wishing I had gone to Mc-
Donalds.
When I look at the prices on a menu, I feel
they should tell me how much I will be paying
at the end of the meal. By financially tapping
themselves on the back in this way, the restau-
rant is effectively removing the need for good
service to obtain a decent tip. They could choke
a chicken over my plate, and I bet the 12.5%
would still be there cum the bill. Even the
SCR hasn’t gone that far (although that tartare
sauce…). And they love that little trick of hav-
Discretionary? It doesn’t look particularly discreet to me
The art of being screwed over by restaurants today
JustinPoliachik/flickr
ing an automatic step in the PIN machine that
asks the patron for a tip amount to be added,
above the 12.5%. The sheer nerve of it all – do
I get a discretionary happy ending if I tip more?
No – I just get shafted.
And when looking at the bill, one item al-
ways stands out. A litre of water costs about
£100! Something that falls from the sky with
some regularity in London, and is cursed at by
most commuters most of the time – yet in a res-
taurant, we’re asked to fork out good dough for
this. It’s a goddam scandal. You know you’re
getting screwed, and the waiters smile while
they screw you and you inexplicably smile
back.
But you know what? I’ll keep getting
screwed. I don’t really do prolonged acts of
protest, so I will just have to settle with nar-
rowing my eyes, tutting and getting on with my
life. See you at Le Caprice sometime soon.
“Soon I’ll be feeling quite
unhappy as they gorge
my eyes out for loose
change, and I’ll be wish-
ing I had gone to
McDonalds”
Charles Betts
Look for this voucher every week to enjoy kickass
waffles at Wafflemeister for the next month and a
half - you know you want to...

