Priya Garg begins her meandering journey in Rio de Janeiro, learning the
importance of soccer and discovering how to embrace Latin passion
My South American debut
W
e emerged from
twenty-three hours
of flying like wild
animals, bleary eyed
and not used to natu-
ral light. As the sun of Rio de Janeiro
washed over us, we stumbled out of the
airport dragging our bags behind us.
Almost immediately we were pre-
sented with a display of what is termed
‘Latin passion’. A smartly dressed busi-
nessman and his wife were arguing in
the arrivals terminal. He turned to the
woman and gesticulated pulling his hair
out: rather than responding with fear,
she gestured back, shouting and scream-
ing. Suddenly, he yanked the kicking
baby from her arms and stormed to-
wards the exit. Dramatically, she sunk
to her knees, and then just as quickly as
he had disappeared, he was back, pull-
ing her up, and taking her with him. She
kissed him on the cheek, and they both
left. Nobody else seemed perturbed by
the noise and theatrics involved. In fact,
we were the only people to stand watch-
ing, mouths agape – welcome to Rio.
After surviving a rather bumpy bus
ride to Cobacopana, dodging small ve-
hicles and jumping red lights as horns
blared, we walked six blocks up to our
hostel, dumped our backpacks and be-
gan to explore the beach. It was packed
tions were being held the next day and
politicians’ cars sped by with mega-
phones attached, singing out the voting
numbers to catchy drum-beats. “I’d like
to see David Cameron do that!” a fellow
gringo joked.
As we nervously entered the stadium
to spectate on the Botefugo supporter´s
side, the atmosphere was electric.
Around us, giant black flags sporting
players’ faces were being frantically
waved around. We sat down to await the
starting whistle, while our neighbours
were standing on their seats, shouting
what we later learnt was ‘up yours Fla-
mengo’. Locals were handing out bal-
loons and toilet rolls: as the drumming
hit its crescendo, the rolls were thrown
downward to produce a fantastic array
of falling white streamers. Music and
cheering surrounded us. Everything was
extremely animated, so much so that we
hardly even noticed the match had be-
gun.
Amidst the kettle drums, horns, mara-
cas and singing of the first half, the tour-
ists remained the only people still sat on
their seats, nervously clutching at the
programmes in Portuguese and clapping
only every so often when the match in-
tensified. An old man amongst the sup-
porters suddenly became enraged. He
turned to us, gestured towards his heart
and screamed an endless rant that ended
feet when it looked like Botefugo might
score?
Brazilians are very emotive people,
especially when sport is involved. If
you cry, you should be wracked with
sadness, with tears streaming down
your cheeks and your face buried in
your hands. If you are joyous, then you
should leap up, hug the nearest person
and celebrate. The worst thing you can
do is sit in your seat and engage in the
game by yourself.
Lesson one from Brazil was certainly
learnt: live life with ‘Latin passion’.
Brazilians are not worried about how
they appear to others, and display emo-
tion in every movement that they make.
To do otherwise is to not live within the
moment. You are not really feeling un-
less you show it. Life in Rio is a celebra-
tion: whether in sadness or in happiness,
it must be savoured and enjoyed. Hum-
bled, we rose to our feet, and cheered
with our hands to the stars.
´NE APPASSIONATO!´ – he simply
could not understand why we had no
passion! Why were we sat rather than
“Life in Rio is a
celebration”
Sugarloaf Mountain. It definitely resembles a sugarloaf and not a turd
with svelte, tanned volleyball players,
energetic footballers and elderly fisher-
men. Youths confidently strode down
acres of white sand in itsy-bitsy-teeny-
weeny day-glo string bikinis, despite
the growing cloud cover. Sugarloaf
Mountain loomed over in the distance
as aggressive waves splashed and roared
against the shore. The sound of samba
and loud Portuguese conversation flut-
tered in the breeze.
That evening we went to a local foot-
ball match. A derby had been organised
between Flamengo and Botefugo, two
famous rival clubs. The streets were
overflowing with loudmouthed support-
ers, chanting, drinking beer and dancing
into the road as buses veered to avoid
them. Rio’s local parliamentary elec-
“Politicians sped by
singing to catchy
drum-beats… I’d like
to see David Cam-
eron do that!”
And if their team loses, the flags morph into harpoons and impale innocent bystanders
standing? Why we were not raising our
arms to the sky when a ball was kicked
off? Why were we not bounding to our
TRAVEL
FELIX
Friday 28 JANUARY 2011
34
TravelEditor: Dylan Lowe
Chris Richardson
travel.felix@imperial.ac.uk

