FASHION
Fa sh ion Editor: Saskia Verhagen
fashion.felix@imperial.ac.uk
FELIX Friday 28 January 2011 35
Boutique du jour: One, Two, Three...
A new concept store in Shoreditch is causing a sensation: 123 offers patrons the very
best of British – that means locally-sourced fashion, accessories, homeware and cake!
T
ucked away in Shoreditch, lives
one of London’s most excit-
ing concept stores. 123. Offer-
ing beautifully crafted, locally
sourced British clothing and
accessories, as well as homeware and other
trinkets, the main ethos of 123 is anti-mass
production: British and vintage sourcing and
recycling. Micaela Phillipo, representative for
123, tells us more:
What was the philosophy behind 123?
Our philosophy is simple. We want to create
100% sustainable clothing that is fashionable,
stylish and hand- made. We want to keep the
whole manufacturing process local and so,
do not outsource any labour nor materials. In
store we will be stocking a range of products,
home-wares and art that have all been made
by locally based brands and artists. We want
123 to be a store where you can rest assured,
knowing that everything stocked has been
manufactured in, if not London, certainly the
UK.
What has the reaction been to it?
The reaction has been overwhelming. In the
weeks after opening, we were featured on
Dazed Digital, iD online and Vogue. More
recently we were voted Time Out’s best new
shop 2011! It seems that people are really
positive about making changes in the fashion
industry and exposing the lack of necessity for
mass production and exploitation of cheap la-
bour found outside of the UK.
What are your policies for vetting labels
you stock?
We initially aspired to be a concept store,
stocking entirely eco brands, products made in
a sustainable and ecologically sensitive man-
ner. However, as the store evolved, and we
began carefully curating a stock of products
from art to gifts, home-wares and jewellery,
we wanted to emphasise the subtext of the 123
philosophy; ‘Made in London’. We feel that
as much as the use of sustainable material in
manufacturing is important, so is keeping the
whole process local. All labels stocked at 123
will be London based and made within the
UK.
Which ethical brands do you stock and
why?
At the moment, the main brand we stock is
‘NHS’. The designer, Dr. Noki, is famed for
creating one-off couture garments through a
process of deconstruction and rearticulation.
At 123, we exclusively stock his diffusion
line, which takes your conventional T shirt,
collared shirt or sweater, and carefully takes it
apart, piecing it back together with embellish-
ments and screen prints.
All of the fabrics used by Dr Noki are
sourced from our own warehouse of recycled
fabrics and manufacturing occurs around the
Leather swing skirt, £120
The Grade II Listed building used to be an old cockney gangster hangout, apparently
corner from the 123 store.
We also stock the D.R. Harris ‘Naturals’
range, beauty products constituted entirely of
natural ingredients and made in England. Also,
Jonathan Ward artisan candles, made in Lon-
don, 100% organic and contained in a recycla-
ble glass, and Miller Harris perfumes, all made
in London with natural ingredients.
What sort of wholesale price points are you
looking for from brands you stock?
We have learned, through our 123 range, that
hand-made, high quality garments end up with
a higher than average production cost. We try
to keep our price points affordable as we do
not believe in alienating our customer, deny-
ing them the opportunity to own a sustain-
able garment. We look to sell brands with an
opening retail price point of £50 and closing
at £400.
Who is your target audience?
At the moment, the 123 label is exclusively
womenswear, however, we stock premium
vintage for Men and the Noki label also ca-
ters for your more creatively attired man. We
are opening the scope for products we stock
so the store can be a destination for tourists
looking to buy something especially made in
London or your average person looking for an
affordable but luxury gift. We are also target-
ing fashion conscious individuals who want
to wear something different, a timeless item
which wouldn’t be disposed of at the end of
the season. Our audience is diverse but we are
mostly targeting the intelligent consumer.
Do you feel like your location is key to your
identity?
Our location is intrinsic to our brand identity.
The parent company of 123, LMB, has its
roots in East London where the textile recy-
cling factory used to be. The Grade II listed
building we occupy on Bethnal Green Road
has it’s own history which gives it landmark
status in the area. It was once a front for an
illegal gun trading racket and after the own-
ers were sentenced to jail, the building fell
into disrepair. When we bought the building,
it needed complete renovation, and this way
we have effectively recycled the space which
would have otherwise been demolished.
Do you have any further plans to expand?
Yes, at the moment we are working on our tea
room which is in the basement of our store.
We will be serving tea and coffee and locally
baked cakes and breads, freshly made sand-
wiches and selling food and drink products
sourced from around London. We will be us-
ing this space to stock a selection of books,
tea sets, antique furniture and 123 label home-
wares.
Also, we are currently building the ‘scout
hut’, which is the large warehouse space be-
hind our shop. We want to help local designers
by providing an outlet to retail their products.
123, 123 Bethnal Green Road, Shoreditch E2
7DG. Interview by Saskia Verhagen.
“People are really positive about
making changes in the fashion
industry and exposing the lack of
necessity for mass production”

