36 felix
HANGMAN
Twatter
hangman.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Well actually, Facebook isn’t the problem, it’s just the
douchebags who use it
e
DRUNKEN MATE OF THE WEEK
Send your photos to felix@imperial.ac.uk.
Get permission. Don’t be cruel.
Friday 28 JANUARY 2011
D IE FA C EBOOK D IE!!!
I’ve been a bonafide member of The Facebook
for three years now. It’s a great tool for keeping
in touch with old friends and grooming young
children. However, of late, something very bad
has started happening every time I log in.
A continuous stream of suffocatingly dull
information seems to be flowing, from the pe-
ripheries of my life in to my news feed, as if it
were some virtual septic tank with an infinite
capacity for inane bollocks.
Having consulted others it seems that this is
a ubiquitous phenomenon, but if you aren’t fa-
miliar with it here are a few cases in point from
some people who used to be my friends:
“Sally: Going to finally go do some washing,
lol :P.”
“Simon: O2 put me on hold!”
“Kyle: Turns out my phone was under the
sofa cushion. LOL! So glad to have it back.“
“Hannah: Just bit my tongue and it hurts
sooooo much :(. ”
“Timmy: The train I’m on is so slow!!!!”
Sally, Simon, Kyle, Hannah and Timmy all
have one thing in common: the audacity to pre-
sume anyone gives a shit. And there are liter-
ally hundreds of thousands more like them out
there.
Let’s take a minute to consider a real-life
analogy. Recall a social event you recently
attended, possibly a dinner party. The main
course has just been served; it looks delicious.
Sharp wit is abounding around one end of the
table and at the other a deeply profound yet en-
tirely unpretentious conversation is being had.
Then suddenly from one corner of the room
someone you knew you were never quite sure
about pipes up, possibly even referring to
themselves in third person, “Andrew thinks the
weather’s so nice today :).” Confused, you look
over atAndrew but before you can say anything
someone else has butted in, “Sarah h8s spiders!
LOL,” says Sarah sat to your left. Gradually
more and more people start saying uninterest-
ing things, “My dog just woofed and it sounded
so funny :P ,” “Just finished tidying my room,
so happy!” “Couldn’t sleep last night :(.”
The room begins to crescendo and before you
know it the whole party has exploded in to an
orgy of stock phrases and mundane statements.
Having studied this process extensively it’s
become clear to me that drabness is being
disseminated via a handful of primary forms.
Brief descriptions of a few are given below:
The Moaner: This can range from something
entirely trivial, “Potatoes for dinner, I hate pota-
toes!” to something really deep like, “I thought
I saw the light but its slowly disappearing
now...*sigh*.” Both are equally dull. A female
moaner is often responded to by either friends
The Zuckerface can live, but only if defeats the Winklevi in a bare-knuckle fight!
SexyOsama69
Yeah, from me lol
The_Cleggomatortrontown <3
uprisings and protests. Dem-
onstrators calling for political
reforms
Chow Yun Fat
(Ed – Who the fuck?)
leading equally uneventful lives, “Is every-
thing okay hun?” or creepy balding older men,
“Gimme a call if you want to talk to someone.”
The Shameless Gloater: Strictly speaking not
that dull but worth a mention anyway. These
types are usually involved in one of the crea-
tive industries and feel obliged to give a run-
ning commentary of absolutely everything that
happens to them. A lot of stuff tends to happen
to them because they’re pretty cool but they’re
completely un-cool for telling everyone about
it. News like “Backstage at Jay-Z” is often met
with a string of “likes”, every single one of them
a lie, but then there isn’t a “bitter and jealous be-
cause I’m at home crying and wanking” button.
The New Year Special: At New Year’s face-
book took a real beating. In fact it’s a miracle
that it didn’t just break. A cringe was waiting to
be had everywhere you looked, “2011, gonna
make it really happen this year!” “Yes 2011!
You couldn’t have come at a better time!”
“Happy 2011 guys, can’t wait to share all the
great times we’re gonna have :P.”
Ultimately they all said the same thing, “I’m
gonna write a status about ‘making it’ in 2011,
and then do nothing about it...that’ll make
people think I’m a success! 2011 MY YEAR
GUYZ WATCH OUT IM’A BE DOING IT!!”
The Meal Photo Mobile Phone Upload
(MPMPU): Pretty simple concept here: cook
a nice meal; let everyone on facebook know
about it by uploading a photo of it. Unfortu-
nately this is usually done with a shit quality
camera phone making it look like someone’s
just gone and vomited on a plate. Responses
generally involve a chorus of moronic “Oooo,
looks yummy, why wasn’t I invited to din-
ner?!” or something to that effect.
If social interaction has been degraded to
images of food flying across screens followed
by banal expressions of approval it’s probably
time to throw the towel in; go live in isolated
cubicles and break off communication with
one another all together. These guys are usually
shameless gloaters as well (see above).
Facebook used to be the kind of thing you could
use to find out what films people were in to; find
out what your friends’favourite quotes were and
collect top notch wank-bank deposits from peo-
ple you know with out them knowing.Now, all of
that is being overwhelmed by an army of bores
bent on contaminating everyone else’s lives with
the day-to-day humdrum of their own. There’s
really only one solution; a witty friend of mine
put it succinctly just the other day, “Toby feels
this particular mode of self expression should
be made unobtainable to the insipid masses fre-
quenting my news feed... you’re hungry... real-
ly... you’re bored... cool... you’re dying... good.”
“Facebook is being
overwhelmed by an
army of bores bent on
contaminating everyone
else’s lives”
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
ahhh shit, think my phone might
have been hacked
SexyOsama69
yeah, by me lol
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
Nah, I’m being serious. Getting
blackmail threats
SUPERACEGORTHEROAR87
oh lol
Cameron_DA_Maneron!!!
You heard about Egypt, Tunisia
and Yemen?
Barack_attack_l33thaxor
No. What’s going on?
Cameron_DA_Maneron!!!
Dunno
Cameron_DA_Maneron!!!
Oh :( Thought it was a bomb or
something

