Increasing obstacles for
prospective students
NEWS
FELIX
4
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
Halls
Students Switch Off to Success
ucstult.wordpress.com
The Student Switch Off Scheme, a not-for-profit
project aimed at reducing the amount of electricity
used in student halls of residence, achieved great
success at Imperial last term. Recently released
data shows that the 11 participating halls have re-
duced their energy use in October and November
by 2% compared to previous years. According to a
press release by the scheme this is enough to make
631,716 cups of tea and has reduced carbon emis-
sions by 11 tonnes. The 223 students involved, rep-
resenting 12% of those living in halls, have already
surpassed last year’s efforts, which organisers be-
lieve reduced emissions of CO2
by seven tonnes.
Eastside has made the most progress, saving al-
most 0.60kWh of energy per student per day, mak-
ing them the best placed to win the free end of year
party which awarded to the hall which has made the
biggest reductions.
The scheme is part of a national venture involving
37 universities, which include The London School
of Economics and the University of Liverpool, and
14,000 students. Its sponsors include Carbon Leap-
frog and the National Union of Students. It was cre-
ated in 2007 by Dr Neil Jennings at the University of
East Anglia, where it managed to reduce energy us-
age by 10% and has gone from strength to strength
since then. Last academic year the project helped to
save over £292,000 and 2,100 tonnes of CO2
.
As well as the end of year party, the Student Switch
Off Scheme also runs photo competitions with en-
ergy saving themes, with winners receiving Ben and
Jerry’s products, LUSH goody bags or tickets to Met-
ric. The title of the latest competition is “Wrap up
Warm”. Last term students were invited to screen-
ings pro-environmental films “The Yes Men Fix the
World” and “The Age of Stupid”. The scheme’s web-
site (www.studentswitchoff.org/) also has a “how to
save energy” page and students can discuss their
green ideas on the individual university facebook
pages.
This year’s scheme looks set to be a huge success.
Dr Jennings says that he believes that it is “mak-
ing significant environmental and financial savings
across the UK” and that the students involved are
“playing a part in the fight against climate change”.
Maciej Matuszewski
Recent figures published by UCAS in their Fi-
nal End of Year Figures for 2010 has shown
a decrease of 0.1% in accepted applicants in
the UK compared to 2009, but this doesn’t re-
ally come as a surprise after all the over-hyped
news of university cuts and how 200,000 stu-
dents had missed out on places last year.
UCAS statistics indicate that even though
there is a 0.7% increase for undergraduates,
there is a significant percentage drop for post-
graduate applicants resulting in an overall
decrease of applicants getting their places for
universities.
Everyone knows how difficult getting a place
at university has become in recent years. Not
only are there spending cuts, A* grade-offers
and higher tuition fees, but the number of appli-
cants applying this year compared to last year
has risen by 2.5%. So with more applicants and
less places, the university admissions process
will be setting their standards pretty high.
The Sutton Trust has conducted an investiga-
tion on the differences in background between
students who are getting places at universities.
They compared and reviewed the number of
students coming from Independent schools
and students from schools that provided them
with ‘Free School Meals’ over the last three
years.
The findings from the Sutton Report showed
that Independent school pupils are 6 times as
likely to attend a highly selective university as
the majority of children in state schools. Basi-
cally, students from private schools have a bet-
ter chance of getting into the universities such
as Oxford and Cambridge.
Aemun Reza
Imperial College statistics showed that we
were no different from Oxbridge with a mas-
sive 37.2% of students coming from Indepen-
dent schools and only 2.9% of students that had
‘Free School Meals’.
To combat this unfair gap between the princ-
es and paupers of university applicants, the
Sutton Trust suggested that universities should
agree to targets that cover new measures for en-
suring fair access into their universities (where
these new measures were not given).
Additionally, the tuition fee rise means that
students from poorer backgrounds are recon-
sidering whether they can afford to attend uni-
versity, regardless of getting a place or not and
possibly despite the changes The Sutton Trust
are proposing.
And to top it all off, university admissions
will have an even stricter entry process than
before as many universities have increased
their offers to include the new A*s (with some
courses at Cambridge going as far as 3 A*s).
To conclude, even though UCAS statistics
don’t show a significant difference between the
number of accepted applicants between 2009
and 2010, it is likely that ever larger numbers
of prospective students will fail to gain a place
at university as failed applicants from previous
years compete with new students for the same
university spots.
Jewish and Muslim student ‘ambassa-
dors’ to promote interfaith relations
The introduction of 18 Muslim and Jewish stu-
dents acting as “campus ambassadors” in 10
universities across the UK is hoped to promote
more interfaith relationships between the two
communities.
The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is possibly
the most controversial of our time and is of-
ten the cause of tension between Muslims and
Jews many hundreds of miles across the world;
frequently restricting dialogue between mem-
bers of the two groups.
The 26th January 2011 saw the launch of the
“campus ambassador’s programme”. Run by
the Coexistence Trust, a London-based char-
ity set up in 2005 as a parliamentary network
to tackle Islamophobia and anti-Semitism, the
programme aims to build a “network of trust
and understanding between Muslim and Jewish
students on UK campuses”.
The problem, explains Yuval Jacob, Jewish
campus ambassador and first year chemical
engineering student at Imperial, is that the two
communities do not actively mix. Yuval reasons
that some Jewish and Muslim students “do not
see the point in developing a friendship”.
ShahnazAhsan, manager of the trust, says that
she has found that “there are pockets of students
who want to be working together and are quite
excited when they see there is an external organ-
isation supportive of what they are doing”. Ah-
san hopes the programme will “set a new tone
of respectful debate on campus and avoid the
polarisation we have seen in recent years”.
Yuval believes the campus ambassador pro-
gramme could have a much greater impact
than simply promoting interfaith relationships
on university campuses. He argues that bring-
ing together the “constant onlooking majority,
which lets these conflicts reign since they are
simply unsure, undecided, or too cowardly to
resist and denounce it” is vital to a final resolu-
tion of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
Ian Wei
He’s not just turning off a light, he’s also making a
bold statement on our reliance on Russian gas...
A decent ‘A-Level Results’ photo. Girls? Check. Blonde? Check. Jumping? Ah, sadly no
Friday 28 january 2011
“The programme will ‘set
a new tone of respectful
debate on campus’”

