Felix Sport sponsored by
SPORT
28.01.11
ISSUE 1480
MUSIC
Techno Nonsense
features Ramp
Recordings: Page 24
TELEVISION
Sexy vampires!
HBO comes to Sky
Atlantic: Page 29
COMMENT
Is social networking
ruining our lives?:
Page 18
GAMES
Super Meat Boy...
yes, that’s what it’s
called: Page 30
FOOD
Be brave!
Homemade sushi
isn’t hard: Page 33
Phil Sandwell
...Continued on Page 42
Ultimate is played across three divisions: Open,
Mixed and Women’s. Any player is eligible to play
in the Open division, although the highest levels
are dominated by men. The Mixed division re-
quires a combination, usually split three to four,
of both men and women where the two genders
compete as equals, an unusual scenario in team
sports. Finally the Women’s division, although the
smallest, is becoming increasingly competitive not
only at national and international level but also in
university sport. Three of Imperial’s female players
give their insight into what makes women’s Ulti-
mate unique.
Meg Claverley, captain of the Imperial women’s
team, explained that while female players are capa-
ble of the skills of their male counterparts, victory
is determined more often by ingenuity rather than
by physicality. “It’s about the communication and
how each player plays off of the rest of the team. In
Women’s, the game is more often won because you
figured out the other team’s tactics and shut them
down rather than having faster players and longer
throws.” She also highlights the team spirit within
the female branch of dD, affectionately known as
Double-D. “Women’s Ultimate at Imperial is a rel-
atively small group of people, which makes us re-
ally close and also gives you a lot of opportunities
on the team. It’s given me a better understanding of
the game than I would have had otherwise and also
meant that I play a lot!”
Áine Ní Bhreasail, a PhD student at Imperial,
likes to play across all three Ultimate divisions.
“Open is interesting as a woman because you of-
ten have to mark or be marked by a guy. In some
cases you will be as fast as him, but in other cases
you aren’t and have to use tactics and skill to beat
them rather than brute strength.” As well as for
Imperial, she plays for one of the best club teams
Imperials
ultimate
frisbee full of
Double D’s
Are foreignmanagers
victimised?
Page 43
This week saw the hockey mens 1st XI in action
twice, both in cup matches. As holders of the ULU
challenge cup, IC were hoping to retain the trophy
this season, but received a tough draw against this
seasons form side, UCL, in the quarter finals. Im-
perial showed plenty of ability, but some defensive
mistakes and some missed chances saw us crash out
of the ULU cup, eventually losing 6 – 4 in a fast,
open game, where attack was the only form of de-
fence for both sides.
IC took heart from their Sunday game, but started
poorly against GKT, and were 1 – 0 down at half
time, causing legendary first team coach Avtar to
swear for the first time in living memory. After
some relentless metaphors, IC improved after the
break, and showed real character and patience,
eventually breaking the deadlock midway through
the second half with some inspired play by creative
playmaker Tom Koch. At 1-1, all was to play for,
and the game opened up, leading to goals on both
sides, with fresher sam scoring his first goal at Im-
perial, and captain Yogi finding the net despite hav-
ing his dislocated finger reset twice this week.
With 5 minutes to go, IC went 3-2 in front, and
looked to have sealed a victory, when a last minute
breakaway gave GKT a controversial penalty cor-
ner seconds before the final whistle. With all their
men up, GKT managed to convert the corner cour-
tesy of a baseball style shot as the ball rebounded.
Three all at full time meant extra time was to fol-
low.
Vowing to continue in the same vein, IC went
into extra time confident that they could find a goal,
but after being reduced to 10, and then 9 players
courtesy of some debateable yellow cards, the first
half of extra time was goalless. When IC returned
to full strength, they were dominant, and creative
playmaker Tom Koch once again found some mag-
ic, sealing the victory with an outstanding golden
goal, with 2 minutes of extra time remaining.
IC go into this weekend’s BUCS league match
with Holloway full of confidence that they can turn
around a disappointing start to the season on the
back of the fantastic BUCS cup win.
Ed Lacey
M en’s Hockey
ULU Cup Quarter Final
Imperial 1st 4 - 6 UCL 1st
BUCS Cup Third Round
Imperial 1st 4 - 3 GKT 1st
Hockey
1st out of
ULU cup
but still
in BUCS
Big crowd, eh? It doesn’t even look like the goalie is paying attention...

