FELIX 5
NEWS
Last December, Professor Owens confirmed that the teaching review would begin in January
Life Sciences teaching review
Details about the teaching review finally emerge but the review panel is criticised for
not allowing enough time for staff and student questionnaire responses
More student cuts
More student cuts for Imperial
students at South Kensington’s
FRESH Hairdressers.
Men’s cuts £22
Women’s shampoo and cut and
shake dry £28
Women’s shampoo, cut and
blow-dry £38
All of our cuts are done by highly
experienced stylists.
Tuesday to Fridays 9.30 to
4.30 (sorry no discounts on
Saturdays).
We are only 70 metres from
South Kensington tube station
To book an appointment, call
Sponsored Editorial
Discount haircuts for Imperial
students at Fresh Hairdressers
0207 823 8968. Ask for a
student discount and bring your
Imperial ID.
Cash only.
The long-awaited review of teaching
in the Department of Life Sciences has
finally been opened to staff and student
input. The review panel, led by Profes-
sors Murray Selkirk and Andy Purvis,
aims to submit its recommendations to
the Science Studies Committee in late
April, after an initial period of consulta-
tion in January and a follow-up period
in March. However, opponents of the
staff cuts in the Life Sciences Depart-
ment have criticised the panel for not of-
fering enough time for student submis-
sions in the initial consultation and for
a general lack of information about the
on-goings of the review.
As previously reported by Felix, Head
of the Life Sciences Department Pro-
fessor Ian Owens confirmed at a public
meeting last December that the teaching
review would be held in January, with
the aim of improving teaching, aided by
additional student input. Up until now,
however, there has been little informa-
tion released about the review. Professor
Owens failed to respond to an email en-
quiring about the review in early Janu-
ary whilst Union President Alex Kendall
claimed that the department has left the
Union out of the loop: “There has also
been no attempt to include the Students’
Union in this review so far.”
Staff within the department have also
felt left in the dark. One staff member,
who wished to remain anonymous, told
Felix that he “had absolutely no idea”
how the review was proceeding.
Professors Selkirk and Purvis have
sought to reassure both staff and stu-
dents by providing Felix with an update
of the situation. They confirmed that
the panel had met twice already – “with
considerable work being conducted by
sub-groups in between” – and signalled
that the next meeting of the panel would
be in February after the responses to
the questionnaire had been collated. In
March a second consultation period will
start, “during which we will be solicit-
ing comments on our proposals.” The
Review Panel will then decide which
of the suggestions it wants to incorpo-
rate. The final stage of the process is
the Panel’s report to the Science Studies
Committee, which meets on May 17th.
Professors Selkirk and Purvis told Felix
that they “aim to submit [their] propos-
als four weeks before that date”.
The review group is made up of two
co-chairs, Professors Selkirk and Purvis,
seven other members of staff heavily in-
volved in teaching (three from the Biol-
ogy degree and four from Biochemistry)
and a representative from the undergrad-
uate office.
In terms of the direction and aims of
the review, Professors Selkirk and Purvis
told Felix that it was too early to make
specific comments but that there had
been “very wide-ranging discussions”
and that the questionnaire would give
students an indication of what the panel
are discussing. They also confirmed that
the panel intended for “students arriving
in October 2011 [to] be the first to see
the changes throughout their degrees”,
but also said that they were primarily
taking a long-term view.
The first sign that the review had
started was on the weekend of the 22nd
of January when a questionnaire was
circulated to staff in the Life Sciences
Department, which they were asked to
complete by the 31st. The questionnaire
covers a range of topics relating to de-
grees in the Life Sciences Department.
The Union responded positively to the
questionnaire saying that the “questions
seem dedicated to finding out a wide
range of aspects of the undergraduate
degree.” But one member of staff, afore-
mentioned, was less impressed by the
range of questions calling it “bland” and
said that it only requested “vague opin-
ions on what is OK.”
The survey was made available on
Wednesday on Blackboard for undergrad-
uates in the department, asking them for
their opinions on the format of lectures,
classes and tutorials and the attributes of
the degree programme in general. Stu-
dents have until the 31st to complete the
survey. An introductory statement from
Professors Purvis and Selkirk reads: “We
particularly value your views now, so
they can feed into the review process at
an earlier stage.”
Union President Alex Kendall, a key
figure behind the opposition to the Life
Sciences cuts, “encouraged all under-
graduates who are able to to fill it in”,
but also criticized the Review Panel for
offering less than a week for students to
provide their opinions and comments.
“Considering the work we did on
trying to spread information about the
restructure I am disappointed that [the
Union] has not been included,” said
Kendall, “I am also critical of the lack
of any reference to the restructure in the
questions or in the responses from the
Chairs.”
Whether further developments in the
review will improve the opinions of
both students and staff towards a depart-
ment which has seen some severely un-
wanted attention as of late will depend
on the careful handling of a situation
that is growing ever more delicate as
time passes.
Matthew Colvin
Review timetable
The current questionnaire will
close on the 31st of January.
The panel has met twice al-
ready and will meet again in
February after the responses
to the questionnaire have been
collated. In March a second
consultation period will start,
during which staff and students
will be invited to offer com-
ments on the panel’s propos-
als. The comments will then
be taken into consideration
and possibly incorporated into
the proposals. The final stage
of the process is the Panel’s
report to the Science Studies
Committee, which meets on
May 17th. The proposals will
be submitted to that commit-
tee 4 weeks before it meets.
Afonso Campos
Friday 28 january 2011

