NEWS
FELIX
6
News Editors: Matt Colvin
Alex Karapetian
news.felix@imperial.ac.uk
We’ll pay higher rate
says Aero Department
reduction in payments and said that he-
had not been aware of the discrepancy
between the EPSRC minimum and the
College minimum. He confirmed that
the affected students would have their
funding returned to the EPSRC mini-
mum plus the London living allowance.
However the situation for two of the stu-
dents who are on Airbus-funded grants
is not yet clear.
Alex Kendall, President of Imperial
College Union, has said that he does
“not think it is right that any depart-
ment can cut salary half way through
the financial year,” and has asked the
Pro-Rector (Education and Academic
Services) Professor Julia Buckingham
to look into the issue.
The lack of communication has also
been heavily criticised by the students
affected. Oliver Rhodes, a PhD repre-
sentative in the Department of Aero-
nautics, said, “if a meeting had been
arranged and the students been properly
informed I doubt there would have been
an issue.”
Professor Aliabadi explained that fail-
ure to notify students was due to “staff
workloads, accentuated by staff ab-
sences through sickness”. He described
the lack of communication as an unfor-
tunate oversight and added that, “in no
way have we ever attempted to pay stu-
dents at anything other than the fair and
proper rate.”
A similar situation arose regarding
the payment of postgraduate students in
the Department of Electrical and Elec-
tronic Engineering (EEE) last term. Stu-
dents were confused over whether their
funding included payment for their four
hours of required teaching activities per
week. The department was forced to in-
troduce a new measure to reduce the cur-
From the Archive
Few will remember the glorious days
when a working day at Imperial Col-
lege was limited between the times of
9.30am and 5.30pm. However propos-
als to axe this ‘slackers’ paradise were
brought forward in the early nineties,
causing great agitation amongst students
and staff alike. Sound familiar?
A trip to the Felix archives reveals that
the first whispers of the possibility of ex-
tended hours came in early November of
1990, with the ‘Working Party on Col-
lege Days’, a committee set up to look
into the matter, announced that Impe-
rial lacked teaching space and timetable
clashes were becoming the norm, hint-
ing that lengthening the working day
was the only viable solution. Almost in-
stantly the cries of outrage were heard,
and published, with critics pointing out
that societies and humanities (the things
that make the science overkill at Impe-
rial bearable) would suffer the most and
could even crumble altogether under
these new plans.
The next encounter between bureau-
crats and students occurred at the the
Union General Meeting (UGM), which
enjoyed its largest student turnout thanks
to the threat of a longer working day, one
of the items on the agenda. Straight off
the bat, theWorking Party committee was
keen to emphasise how it represented the
interests of students as well as staff and
management. However, as I’m sure ev-
eryone will be pleased to hear, they were
made to look ridiculous when the Royal
College of Science handed over a survey
they conducted, where an overwhelming
646 replies stated that they believed col-
lege days should remain the same.
There were many practical ways of
maximising the time already available at
Imperial, as pointed out by an editorial
shortly after the UGM took place, point-
ing out that if departments cut down on
current wasted hours, there would be no
need for timetable changes. The fact
that in many courses, material covered
by different options and lectures tended
to overlap, caused an unthinkable num-
ber of hours unavailable for productive
activity. Another suggestion was to
make use of the expertise of the Human-
ities Department, which had more expe-
rience in time-management, rather than
punishing them by reducing the hours
available for students to pursue the op-
tions they offered. Déjà vu doesn’t seem
to cover it anymore.
The arguments were put to the test
again in early December of 1990, when
the Students’ Union held a referen-
dum on the proposals. It won’t come
as much of a surprise to learn that the
result came out as 457 to 59 against the
increased time and it seemed that this
major indication from the student body
would finally lay the issue to rest. This
was the general consensus amongst stu-
dents with many a strong worded letter
being written to Felix, enjoying the ap-
parent victory over the Working Party,
who had “been ominously silent for
quite a while now. It’s tempting to think
that maybe the resounding ‘f**k off’
given to them in the referendum held
before chrimbo hols has halted them in
their tracks”.
It brings about quite a sense of sadness
to see lines such as “It shows that if we
can rise above the rabid apathy…we can
change things. It might also show Col-
lege that they can’t do what the hell they
like without considering what we think
about it” as we can see from looking at
our timetables in 2011, that College has
indeed done whatever it pleases. This
makes the proposals for extended hours
currently being examined seem scarily
possible as we have reason to question,
yet again, how much attention senior
management at Imperial pay to the voic-
es of students and staff alike.
Changes to College hours
Deepka Rana
rent bursary and have students explicitly
earn their lost money. After this latest
run of events in the Aeronautics Depart-
ment, Alex Kendall highlights that such
problems “may be more widespread.”
He continued “The department has a lot
of explaining to do to its students and
the Union is looking into whether this is
happening in other departments.”
Musictech @ Ministry
of Sound: Tuesday 1st
February
£5
For tickets contact Adam
on 07891 390923 [or email
musictech@imperial.ac.uk]
facebook.com/musictech
“Imperial’s finest DJs take to
the decks in the superclub
for a night of
awesome fun and exclusive
music. Check out our room
‘The Loft’ open from
11 on the night.”
NOTICE
Mechanical Engineering
research groups: A football
knockout competition is
being organised. If you
interested contact Rob Long
– r.long@ic.ac.uk
...Continued from Front Page
EPSRC PhD Funding
The Engineering and Physical Sci-
ences Research Council (EPSRC)
funds research and training in
engineering and physical scienc-
es across the UK – investing in
excess of £850 million per year.
Imperial College London receives
approximately £6m per year from
the EPSRC, which it distributes
to various departments.
Each department allocates
its funds as it sees fit but the
EPSRC sets a minimum stipend
that PhD students on their grants
must receive, which for 2010/11
is £13,590. It increases this
year on year with inflation, as
determined by the Treasury GDP
deflators; a measure of gen-
eral inflation. For example, for
2010/11 it increased by 2.25%.
Universities have the flexibility to
fund their students’ PhDs from
a variety of sources but at least
50% of the minimum stipend
must come from the funds of a
single Council.
Imperial has its own recom-
mended minimum stipend, which
is approved by the Manage-
ment Board. For 2010/11 it is
£15,367. It is not directly linked
to any one measure of inflation.
According to the EPSRC, their
rate is set to increase at 1.5%
for 2011/12 and then 2.5% for
2012/13. The College have said
that while they would not want to
anticipate their future minimum
rate, it was possible that the two
amounts would reach parity in
coming years.
Man, Felix used to be way better, damn I miss the 90s...
Friday 28 january 2011

