FEATURE
FELIX
8
Features Editor: Lizzy Crouch
felix@imperial.ac.uk
Friday 28 january 2011
Ben is a postgraduate student
at Imperial College. In December
2007 he was commuting from
Brighton to work in London. One
particular day he had a headache
on the way to the station. After 15
minutes on the train, he decided
to go home, thinking he just had
a nasty bug. It was not until days
later, when he eventually went into
hospital, that a doctor told him that
he had kidney failure. “That was
something I’d never really given
any thought to beforehand”, he
says. “I had had a bit of nausea
in the past few weeks, but hadn’t
thought any more of it.” Doctors
didn’t know why Ben’s kidneys had
failed, and he still doesn’t know to
this day. But he needed a trans-
plant as soon as possible.
Ben went on dialysis immediately.
“I had to be hooked up to a ma-
chine three times a week. It has an
enormous impact on your life. There
are all sorts of things you can’t eat.
Everything becomes about that. All
those things you took for granted,
you can’t do, and your whole life is
being put on hold.”
His family immediately started
looking for a donor. Ben’s sister,
Simone, was a match, meeting all
the requirements for organ dona-
tion. For her, it was a no-brainer. “It
seemed clear from early on that he
needed a transplant. It was not a
hard decision to make. He needed
something, so I gave it to him.”
Before the transplant could occur,
the two had to go to a councillor, to
ensure that there was no coercion
involved. Simone says that as she
went in for the operation, doctors
offered to tell her family there was
a medical reason not to go ahead,
if she wanted to change her mind.
In August 2008, after 7 months
of dialysis, the transplant went
ahead. For Ben the chance to get
back to living his life was an incred-
ible gift from his sister. “There is
no chance of me ever forgetting
what she has given me. You can-
not underestimate what an amaz-
ing thing organ donors give to the
people on the transplant list.”
The operation has left a lasting
impact on both of them. Simone’s
immune system has been weak-
ened and she is prone to infection.
“I can still go out and stuff, but it
does have an impact.” But she has
no regrets about the decision that
she made.
It is almost certain that Ben will
need another transplant in the fu-
ture. “I try not to think about it, but
at least this time I will be more pre-
pared.” For now, he is determined
to live the life that his sister has
given back to him.
I
magine. Something in your ma-
chinery has stopped working.
Somewhere in your body, a vital
organ, your kidneys, eyes, your
heart, has malfunctioned. Your
doctor says that the damage is irrevers-
ible and that you need a replacement.
For nearly 8,000 people in the UK cur-
rently waiting for an organ transplant,
this is a reality. Their life is on hold un-
til one becomes available. Fortunately,
96% of us would be willing to give our
organs to those patients after our deaths.
Yet only 27% of Britains are on the
register to donate and a shortage of or-
gans is the biggest problem facing NHS
Blood and Transplant services (NHS-
BT). This week Felix spoke to Dr. Lorna
Williamson, Medical and Research Di-
rector of NHSBT, who highlighted the
true consequence of such a shortfall;
that “3 people a day will die before an
organ becomes available”.
At present the UK has an opt-in sys-
tem, where you have to sign up to do-
nate organs after your death. So why are
there so few people doing so?
For many of us, it is unpleasant to
think about and easy to be put off. But
by thinking about it now we could save
lives later. Dr. Williamson explained
that for the families of deceased organ
donors, the knowledge that lives have
been saved can continue to be a great
source of comfort for a number of years.
Some people worry about being on the
register; for example some imagine that
doctors might give up on them earlier so
that their body parts can be used. There
is no need to be concerned about this.
“No one knows whether a patient is on
the register until the point at which it
is clear that other treatment would not
be beneficial to that patient. And in fact
death has to be certified by two doctors
who have nothing to do with the trans-
plant team.”
What is important to remember is that
anyone could suddenly find themselves
requiring a transplant: two major causes
of kidney failure are hypertension and
diabetes, both common diseases in the
UK. Chronic liver disease, a common
cause for liver transplantation, claims
13,000 lives a year in the UK and can be
caused by excessive alcohol consump-
tion; something of a national occupa-
tion.
If you suddenly found yourself in need
of a new organ, the first job for NHSBT
would be to find a match. Dr. William-
son explained that familial donations
are preferable to deceased transplanta-
tion, “partly because the whole thing
has been planned, so you can have the
donor and the recipient in the same hos-
pital, and can go straight from one to the
other. And also because if it is a relative,
they will be a particularly good match.”
In the case of kidney failure, patients
waiting to find a match can be sustained
via dialysis. However, the average wait-
ing time is well over 1000 days and with
other conditions there may be no other
option besides transplantation. Dr. Wil-
liamson highlighted that “for some pa-
tients with acute liver failure, for exam-
ple, they really only have days or weeks
in which to have the possibility of an
organ transplant, and it may even be too
late for them”.
For the recipient of a donation, the
procedure is not without its side effects
and transplanted organs do have an ex-
piry date which may require the patient
to re-register for another subsequent
transplant.
The system has been set in place to
run as smoothly as possible. But with
8,000 people currently requiring organs,
and only 3,000 operations a year, getting
more people to sign up for the register is
vital for saving more lives.
Experts look to Spain as a country
which has been successful in this. There,
being an organ donor is seen as the
norm. Experts think a change in culture
is needed here.
That is part of the reason an opt-out
system, where everyone is on the reg-
ister unless they state otherwise, was
rejected by a government task force in
2008. According to writer and commit-
tee member Vivienne Parry, “presumed
consent would not increase the number
of donors and might do the opposite.”
She felt it was all down to trust. Assum-
ing people were willing to give organs
without really asking them might alien-
ate people further from the system. For
many people who have donated organs,
an opt-out system would fundamentally
change the relationship between donor
and recipient. It would become taking
rather than giving.
Most people sign up to the organ do-
nor register when they get their first
driving license. As of this year, that pro-
cess will be changed. “Rather than just
skipping over the question, you have to
either register or put a positive tick in
the box that says ‘no’, so it’s as easy to
sign up as to put it off,” says Dr Wil-
liamson.
There are also problems getting the
right mix of ethnicities and age groups
to meet patients’needs. People from eth-
nic minority groups are underrepresent-
ed on the register, yet are highly likely to
need an organ due to high rates of diabe-
tes and hypertension. Finding matches
for children of mixed-race couples could
Ben was given a second chance by his sister’s donation
also be difficult, as fewer people on the
register will match their genetic profile.
This is why a lot of research has gone
into finding transplant methods which
don’t require a blood and tissue match.
Last year a patient was given a donor
trachea that had been stripped to its col-
lagen base and covered in the patient’s
own stem cells. The body recognised the
organ as belonging to the recipient, so
immune-suppressants were not required
to prevent rejection. There is even re-
search on building an organ from scratch
using a patient’s stem cells. However,
these measures are a long way off, and
in the short term, NHSBT is focussed
on raising awareness and improving the
way they look after the patients who
need transplants now.
So what can you do? When finding
ways to put off writing that lab report,
go to the NHSBT website and sign up to
be an organ donor. Your procrastination
could save lives.
The UK’s organ shortage kills 3
people every day...
Katy Bettany and Anna Perman on why you should donate
Tom Welch

