Founded in 1949 The Newspaper of Imperial College Union
Big day for jolly Jack Tar
LAST WEDNESDAY EVENING about 140 local residents and
200 students and staff turned out to IC's public relations
exercise 'Meet Imperial College 81'.
Interesting displays had been set up in the J C R , and the Sherfield
Building was specially spruced up for the occasion. Later on, guests
were treated to wine and snacks, including sausage rolls which did not
seem popular, although M r Mooney assured F E L I X that these were
the same as those served in the refectories.
O n e of the more prominent visitors was M r M a r k Carlisle, a Cabinet
Minister. H e was shown around the exhibits by the Rector, L o r d
Flowers, and he spent some time at the I C U stand talking to R u t h
Hildebrand. M r Carlisle later made a sizable donation to R a g funds of
£\A5(£l ol which he borrowed). Later M r J o h n Passmore, I C U
President explained the situation on overseas students lees to Mr-
Carlisle, who is Secretary of State for Education.
Most visitors at Meet IC seemed to have enjoyed it, although
attendance was not as high as had been expected.
Captain Lindley, Domestic Secretary, who was the chief organiser of
'Meet I C took time on Wednesday afternoon to talk to F E L I X about
his hopes and aspirations for 'Meet I C
FELIX: How many people are coming lo 'Meet IC"?
Captain Lindley: It's very difficult to give you an exact answer; we
know that as of now we are expecting a total of about 500. but you see
the difficulty is when you start out, as we did in 1979, you have to try
and find out as best you can the numbers of invitations you have to
send out to get anybody to reply at all, and from previous experience
here we were ol the opinion that it would take about two and a hall to
three invitations to get one acceptance. So we've sent out a lot of
invitations and we've had a lot of answers, but not nearly as many as
perhaps you would like in terms ol proportions. It's interesting because
this time we've got almost the reverse of what we had last time. W e
ended up with rather more refusals than acceptances. This time we've
got a much higher proportion of acceptances. Given the decent
weather and we've had a lot of invitations to which no one has replied,
I've consistently said that we'll have somewhere between 500 and 700
in total.
FELIX: So you would be disappointed if there weren't more than 500?
Captain Lindley: II we got about 500 to 600. that's what we're
aiming at.
Yo-ho-ho, and a bottle o' rum!
O n e of the amusing things about 'Meet I C is the lengths that college
went to in 1979 to obtain large numbers of drawing pins. However,
Captain Lindley did not think this was tunny.
FELIX: In 1979, I believe, a drawing pin sub-committee was set up lo gel
large numbers of drawing pins of the same colour. Has anything humorous like
that happened this year?
Captain Lindley: No, let me correct you. There was no drawing pin
sub-committee. It was merely decided as part of the business of one
committee meeting when we covered the nature ol the type — how big,
how many and what colour, and it was said, 'Right. D r a w i n g pins all
one colour.' I'm sorry, there was nothing humorous about it.
FELIX: Is it live that tonight you, or your staff, will stand and count the
number of people at 'Meet IC'?
Captain Lindley: O h , I see. We're going to get back to that, are we?
In fact, of course we shall try, we shan't count them as heads going by.
Yes we've got to try to get a record. People will be t h e r e to receive
visitors and give them programmes, and part of the job will be to keep
a check on numbers.
This last question referred to a remark made by Captain Lindley in
the A u t u m n t e r m .
Throughout this session, doubts have been expressed about the
necessity of Meet IC and Captain Lindley's organisational ability.
Anyone actually a l Meet IC would have no doubt about either "I
these.
College had n o doubts about this event's benefits: they had sent out
about 1300 plus invitations to people and spent about ^2000 plus a n
incalculable amount in administrative costs. Captain Lindley refutes
any allegations about his ability.
FELIX: It was said at ICI' Council on Monday that you are only given the
organisation of 'Meet IC' to stop you meddling in other things. Hoiv do you take
that?
Captain Lindley: If you want me to give you a n answer in straight
plain English...What utter rubbish. Never heard of it. If there was a
grain of truth in it you could ask the Rector. Lets talk sense. The
House Committee before 1979 discussed in detail the idea of a kind of
get-together which would allow us to bring in local residents with the
objective of furthering our relationships with them. W e tried it out in
1979 as a pilot scheme, it was considered to be highly sucessful . and il
the number of letters and comments made are any gauge at all. So the
Committee decided they would like to have the same thing at a
suitable interval, two years. I had no part to play i n thai at all.
Shiver me timbers, me Hearties!
A notable absentee from the evening was M r Nick M o r t o n , I C U
P r e s i d e n t - e l e c t . H e was i n v i t e d but r e t u r n e d his i n v i t a t i o n
complaining about the expense. M a n y students acted as demonstrators
at the exhibits and about I w e n t y had been invited as guests. Twelve
students acted as guides, and they wore white sweatshirts w i t h 'Meet
Imperial College '81' printed i n green. Four secretaries from Sherfield
acted as recoptionists and these were the people who had been
delegated to "stand and count ' e m " by Captain Lindley. These
secretaries wore green skirts which they made themselves alter Captain
Lindley had given them material, cotton, zips and a pattern.
It was a little disappointing that alter so much time had been on it.
'Meet I C was seen b y so lew outsiders (137 — we counted 'em). Others
suggested that the displays might have been left up for students to see
the next day so that they too could get some idea ol what the College is
doing. The general opinion o f those F E L I X talked to was (hat tin
event was not well attended, and it was hard to say il the expense was
justified as the returns are not tangible. A l t h o u g h some people
expected (or hoped for) a Hop beforehand, they were proved wrong.
No decisions have yet been taken about a possible 'Meet I C ' in 1983.
It's periscopes up and torpedoes out week
in your fun, fun, fun, FELIX!!!!!!!!!!!!
No. 584 Friday, May 15,1981 Free!

