W H E N Y O U L E A V E ,
T A K E M O R E T H A N TOUR
D E G R E E W I T H Y O U
As valuable as it is, we'd like to think your degree isn't the only important thirtg
you'll want to take with you when you leave.
The form below is all you need to make sure your account is moved automatical
you move to your new surroundings.
Of course you may not yet know exactly where you're going. In which case, keep this
handyand complete itas soon as you do.
What you will know, however, are the benefits of having a Barclays bank account.
And we'd like to reassure you that these advantages won't necessarily diminish now that
you're leaving college.
We can still offer you free banking.
There's no need to startpaying bank charges just because you're no longer a student.
If you keep a minimum of £50 in your account at all times, our service still won't cost you
a penny. In fact, the majority ofour customers who stayin credit never face a bankcharge.
Before you do leave college, ifs a good idea to call in at your branch and talk to the Student
Business Officer. Let him know what you're doing, and he'll help in any way he can.
He'll tell you which is the most convenient branch to
move your account to, explain any new services you may need
and make sure you know just how to avoid bankcharges.
BARCLAYS
To: B A R C L A Y S B A N K L I M I T E D
Present Branch Address:
•Please advise Barclaycard of my/our new address.
My/Our card number(s) is/are:
Please transfer my/our account! s) on:
(date)
together with any securities, boxes and parcels, authorities
and bankers orders which you hold on my/our behalf to:
New Branch Address:
NOTE: Any unused cheques drawn on the branch from which the account is transferred should
he returned, preferably in person, to the office on which they are drawn or to the new account-
holding hranch. Unused personalised credit slips should be destroyed and a fresh supply
obtained from the new branch.
My/Our New Address:
Name(s): BLOCK CAPITAL
Account Number:
Signature(s)
•Delete il not applicable
FELIX, May 15, 1981 Page 5

