A Hitchhiker's Guide to Travel Insurance
b y S u e T e l l i n g of S t u d e n t S e r v i c e s
Horror stories of holidays ruined by inadequate
travel insurance, mainly arising from the cost
of medical treatment, most notably in North
America, have alerted travellers to the fact that
i the medical expenses section of a travel
insurance policy can be its most important
aspect.
Many insurance companies have recently
responded by stepping up the medical expenses
limit without too great an increase in premiums.
Anything less than £10,000 cover in Europe and at
least double that amount in U S A and Canada
should not be considered adequate.
The U K does have reciprocal health care
arrangements with other E E C countries and also
with Austria, Bulgaria, the Channel Islands,
C z e c h o s l a v a k i a , the G e r m a n D e m o c r a t i c
Republic, Finland, Hungary, Isle of Man, Malta,
N e w Zealand, N o r w a y , P o l a n d , Portugal.
Rumania, Sweden, the USSR and Yugoslavia
H o w e v e r , since the range of cover varies
considerably with each country it is still advisable
to retain medical insurance and possibly include
extra cover where necessary. Also, students over
nineteen years of age do not always qualify for the
E E C schemes. Leaflet SA30, available from IC
Student Services and local offices of the DHSS
tells you who is covered, which medical services
are free in each E E C country, and how to apply
for them. It also outlines the seperate agreements
between the U K and the other countries
mentioned above. If you do qualify for free or
reduced cost treatment in the E E C countries
(Belgium, Denmark, Eire, France, the Federal
Republic of Germany, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg
and Netherlands) this will usually only be
provided on production of form E l 11, which can
be applied for by filling in the back of leaflet SA30.
Those who have already become entangled in the
machinery of the D H S S will understand the
necessity to ask the social security office for this
form at least a month before setting off.
Policies can be bought as a package or as a
selective deal. The package policy is invariably
the cheaper alternative for a conventional trip.
However, selective policies, which allow travellers
to choose which risks they prefer to cover, can be
useful when certain clauses in a package deal are
not needed; as a topping up exercise when an
existing policy is insufficient; or to obtain
insurance for longer periods than under a
package deal. Some standard or package travel
policies can be purchased in units and if the sums
insured for one unit are not sufficient you can
double them by taking out an additional unit.
Package policy cover usually includes your
luggage, cancellation, medical expenses, personal
accident and personal liability. Some with an eye
on current trends in holiday hazards include cover
for delays caused by industrial action and hi-
jacking. Features of package policies that need
watching, apart from the medical expenses limit,
are the exclusion clauses and the permitted cover
for lost money. Volunteers in work camps, with
insurance arranged by the camp may be covered
for accident, disablement, loss of personal
property, or sickness. Package insurance policies
may also contain an exclusion clause on medical
expenses for an accident or illness while engaging
in manual labour.
If you are travelling as part of an organisation
with cover already arranged for participants do
obtain precise information on what the policy
includes. The College worldwide insurance cover
is a good example of the need to avoid
complacency when someone else is handling your
affairs. This insurance, for students engaged in
university or union organised sports and other
activites, still retains a ceiling of £1,000 for medical
expenses incurred abroad. Along side this is the
incredible anomaly of a £50,000 medical limit for
IC academic staff.
Endsleigh (71 Old Brompton Rd, SW7, tele:
589-0183) is the most well-known insurance
company for students, but as far as travel
insurance is concerned it does not compare well
with schemes handled by travel agents and banks
for shorter periods up to three weeks. Endsleigh is
often best for longer periods, but check out differ-
ent policies since the premiums and the
periods they relate to vary considerably. One
policy may be best for a two week trip to Europe,
while another may be more economical for six
weeks in North America. We do have all the
Endsleigh policies in this office for comparison
and also details of the National Westminster
insurance services which can be arranged
through Tom Cottrell at the campus branch.
If you do decide to go with Endsleigh, they are
still operating at last year's premium rates (and
last year's maximum cover) until 1981 proposal
forms are printed, which could be any time now.
A F T E R T H E E X A M S , when it's all over and you
want to relax and blow what's left of your grant,
why not go on the Guilds trip to France. It will be
on Wednesday, June 24 and there are only fifty
tickets at £11 each. We'll leave Victoria at 8:00am
and return there at 9:17pm having spent five and
a half hours in Boulogne. Full details and tickets
are available from Ruth in the Guilds Office.
Caving
' " D A N G L I N G on a fragile rope, with only a helmet
light to guide him, a caver descends into the dark
of the earth. What will he find? Not, according to
Tony Waltham the "nasty muddy hole" of popular
belief, but a strange and challenging world of dry
caverns, narrow crawlways, noisy underground
rivers and crashing waterfalls, of peaceful
chambers and sudden beauty; of total blackness
and silence. A world where man is an intruder,
and must crawl, climb, swim, dive and even travel
by boat to make his way.
Tony Waltham explores this remarkable
environment in all its aspects; the varied nature of
caves; the skills, difficulties and rewards of caving
as exploration and as sport; how caves are
f o r m e d ; how they a c q u i r e t h e i r c l a s s i c
ornamentation with stalactites, stalagmites and
other mineral formations and colours; the part
caves have played in man's development, from
their use as simple prehistoric shelters to modern
exploitation and research; the bizarre, specially
adapted animal life of caves; and the spectacular
extremes of famous caves around the world.
Tony Waltham is an experienced caver and has
travelled most of the world in search of the new
and interesting. In 1970 he led an expedition to
explore the caves of Nepal and Kashmir. He is
also a skilled photographer and has spent much
time perfecting the difficult techniques of
underground photography. He is a lecturer in
geology at Trent Polytechnic." •
The introduction to the book Canes, written by
Tony Waltham, and is one of the finest books on
the sport for its excellence of photography. Tony
Waltham was president of Imperial College
Caving Club, since then his interest in caves has
grown enormously, with one of his most recent
travels being on the Mulu Expedition, in his own
words "caving in some truly incredible caves".
O n Monday, May 18, Tony Waltham will be
coming to Imperial College to present a talk on
his part in that expedition, with a large selection
of slides. The talk will be in Lecture Theatre 303 in
the Royal School of Mines at 7:30pm (admission
30p), and if you have any interest at all in the
fascinating world of caves, then it is a talk not to
be missed.
Wellsoc
W E L L S O C L I V E S once more! The Herbert
George Wells Society of Imperial College was
founded in 1963 to investigate subjects on the
borderline of science fiction and fact and to
promote the appreciation of the works of H G
Wells. The society evolved into the largest and
most active society in the whole of the University
of London, and it shall be once again!
Wellsoc are in the process of inviting lecturers
to the College to speak next year on any subjects
that might be of interest to students at IC.
Previous lectures have included hypnotism (with
demonstration!), the paranormal, gambling,
humour, special effects in the cinema, etc., etc.
If you fancy joining a society that is a little bit
off-beat and fun or if you have any ideas about
speakers you would like to hear or even if you are
only vaguely interested get in touch with Tony
Rayham, Chem 1.
Death to all martians.
Pallab Ghosh
Chairman 1981/2
SF Soc
W E L L , Flesh Gordon was a great success. Can't
imagine why, it's a terrible film. As a result, we will
chance permitting, show Alien and 2001-A Space
Odyssey next a c a d e m i c year (Alien free
to members).We also have managed to purchase
a small planetoid with the proceeds. I have been
asked to mention (against my better judgement) a
Rag Fete stall. We will have a Rag Fete stall,
where our secretary, will be on display. Anyone
who — My God! I forgot the election. Next year's
President is called Graham. Further details next
week. Anyone who can think of original ways to
start and finish SF Soc Bulletins should contact
Ken Mann, Physics 2.
Ed elect: Hey Ken, I've got a great idea for
finishing SF Soc Bulletins (forever)!
RCC
T H E A G M of the Recreational Clubs Committee
will be on Thursday, May 28. Nomination papers
can be found in the Union Lower Lounge.
Club Chairman are reminded that their annual
reports are now due and that all unbudgeted
monies shall be withdrawn from club accounts on
June 4.
Rober Brugge
GLRBCBTS
Do you give blood? Ever thought of giving blood?
You probably know about the National Blood
Transfusion Service, but have you heard of the
GLRBCBTS? This is a voluntary organisation
which complements the NBTS by providing
FRESH blood from donors at short notice, thereby
saving lives in emergencies. Sometimes up to 24
hours notice can be given (eg for a scheduled
operation) and the service tries to send donors to
their nearest hospital.
An initial blood test (for which, transport will be
laid on) is all to get you started.
To enrol, or just for further details, contact
Roger Serpell on int 3707.
Page 8 FEUX, May 15, 1981

