3
EVERY
FORTNIGHT
N o . 7 7
FELIX s
I M P E R I A L C O L L E G E 2 0 t h M a y , 1955
T H E F I R S T T I M E E V E R /
F . G . I . F L I E S C H A N N E L
FRANK IRVING OF THE I.C. GLIDING CLUB MADE , WITH
LORNE WELCH,LAST SATURDAY, THE FIRST TWO-
SEATER GLIDER FLIGHT ACROSS T H E ENGLISH
CHANNEL.
There was an unstable North Westerly airstreaw. giving
good l i f t and forming thunderclouds over Southern Wwgima,
They inspected the weather and declared their intention of
attempting the Channel. * V "
At 10.30 a.m. on Saturday morning they were towed off
behind the Tiger Moth from the I.C Sliding dub at Lashamt
near Alton Hants.and headed East over the aerodrome at 2000
ft. The Slingsby Eagle T.A2 sailplane whioh they were flying
made good progress and they were last seen over Dover at a
about 800Ofeet by another of the Club's pilots who was
soaring in the same wioinity.
"mm
FRANK IRVING WITH MIKE HEALS
RECTOR HOST TO UNION OFFICERS
THE RECTOR'S RECEPTION
The Rector and Mrs. Linstead were at home on 5th May,
as hosts to the professional staff and officers of the Union.
In 178, Queen's Gate, students and lecturers chatted
informally over dry sherry. Prom 6 o'clock onwards when
the first guests arrived, the new Council room began to f i l l
with those people who have done most to aid the College in
the past year. The Rector, speaking at 7-30 to the assem-
bled throng, emphasised that this year has been a most diff-
icult one. The Union officers, he 3aid, were to be congra-
tulated on their hard work and diligent labour which had not
gone unnoticed. They had made the year a success in both
the social and academic spheres.
At this point, the reotor was loudly applauded by his
gnosis*
Commemoration Day would be held on the 25th October in
the Albert Hall, the Rector announced. Lord Adrian would
preside over the gathering, and eleven old members of the
staff would also be present at this celebration of the
visit of His Majesty the lote Aing George VI on October
25th 1%6.
After this no further news was received which meant that
they had either made i t or were down in the sea.Finally at
6.00 p.m. London Airport rang through to Lasham to relay a
message relayed from Brussels. They had crossed the channel.
The glider landed in a Belgian field after a flight of 250
miles.
It now remains to get them back. The glider will have
to be dismantled and taken to the nearest aerodrome. The
Tiger Moth can then be sent over to tow i t back.
It seems appropriate that Frank should be the first to
do this as he has done a lot of work for British Gliding.
Frank is on the British Gliding Association Technical C
o
m
m
-
ittee and is responsible for the issue of all gliding
certificates of airworthiness in this country and has been
ground crew in the British team at the last two World
Championships.
Slingsby Type 42 Two-Seater
MO'
TYPE 42
1
THE GLIDER IN WHICH HE CROSSED THE CHANNEL. '
GUILDSMEN ENTERTAIN THEIR STAFF
GUILDS SHERRY PARTY
The Guilds' Committee organised a very successful re-
ception in the "Squadron H.Q." on Tuesday 10th "may. The
object was that the staff of the college who take an active
interest in student affairs might meet the committee and
their guests for a chat and a glass of sherry. In this
way next year's prospective Union officials were introduced
and i t is an under-estimation to say a good time was had by
all.
As was hoped, many of the guests later attended Hall
dinner, which with an attendance of 120 - in evening dress
- must be an all time record.
Afterwards the party continued (thanks to the hospi-
tality of the Squadron) until well after midnight. The
main cabaret "spot", of this late night gathering was Basil
Evans' rendering of his "Lurgi?" and many impromptu "blues".
The latter oonoerned nearly every character in Guilds - staff
and students alike. One verse referred to our esteemed dean
of Residents P.G.I. whilst that same gentleman was almost
breathing down Basil'a neck. But oh - that chorus:
"Pass me another trifle, Ifcr, Ash! ".

