2 F E L I X
PROFILE
MR MOONEY
dietician-in-chief
In the Lower Dining Hall Suggestions hook, dated 19th.
February, is the entry:
W
E LIKE M
O
O
N
E
Y
Good old Mooneyl
Keep up the good work!
Keep off the 1
On the opposite page, the dietloian-in-chief has written:
"Noted".
Mr. Mooney was born in 1923, and he tells us that his
early life before 1939 was uneventful. He spent seven, years
during the war in the Merchant Navy, and saw most of the
world, but not as an adviser on oookeryi His life as a cat-
ering manager did not start on Joe's Stall in the Mile-End
Road; i t started at the Selsdon Park Hotel in 1946. From that
time onwards, he stayed at the St. James Court Hotel, the
Grand Hotel at Harrogate, and many others.
In 1952, Mr. Mooney came to I. C. as manager of the
Union Catering, and sinoe that time he has taken over nearly
the whole of the catering of the College. When he was aakad.
what he liked, he replied "Quieter Carnivals, and trifles--
eaten, not used as missiles!".
Any profile of Mr. Mooney would be incomplete without
a reference to Mr. Kitchener.
"At a recent Dinner in the Upper Dining Hall," said Mr.
Mocmey," I put peppercorns in Kitchener's soup; but he found
them. I put cayenne pepper in the fish course; but he twigged
i t . But I got him at last - I put ginger in the cherries of
the fruit salad, and I cant tell you what he said to m
e
.
'
"
Kitchener replied by asking Mooney to " come out and
have a good dinner".
H O P S
The entertainments committee are holdij ; hops in the
Ayrton Hall on the following Saturday evenii ga of the term:
Tomorrow 28th May 4th June & 11th June.
It will not be possible to hold one on June 18th as
the Hall has been booked for another function.
Tickets will be sold in the new Union on Friday lunoh
times and on the door Saturday evenings.
Scores of fair "maidens" were turned away from the
Hop on 7th May last and doubtless they will not be very keen
to oome again. What is the oause of this deplorable situ-
ation? - YOU Y - 0 - Ul
At 8.30 p.m. there were about 100 girls and 30 men, and
the numbers did not become even until some of the girls had
departed to make way for the 10 per cent. boys.
I.C. Hops were once the best in London and there is no
reason why they should not again hold this distinction.
Gentlemen, i t depends on Y 0 U I
R.C.S. C O U N T R Y H O U S E B A L L
The second R.C.S. Formal Ball waa. held at Silwood
last week and i s now an established event. The organ-
isers defied superstition! "by holding i t on .Friday 13th, "but
were unlucky only in the weather the evening being as wet
as any since the last Silwood Ball*
we were all pleased to see the Rector and Mrs- Lin-
stead there, and also Mr. and Mrs, Savage who had helped
to make the dance a success*
There was dancing in the Hall until 6,00 a.m, , but
many preferredto sit out on the balcony and watch their
friends below.
At midnight everyone walked over to the refectory
for an excellent buffet set amidst delightful floral
decorations, Silwood has a reputation for its
flowers and again the gardener proved himself a master
of his craft.
As the night progressed most people explored the
rooms around the hall and car drivers were doing a brisk
trade renting out back seats. As i t became lighter, y
many couples were seen strolling around the park app-
arently getting an appetite for breakfast before climb-
ing into t ie coaches for the return journey.
Studentship is a branch of that well-known, but little
studied, art, Undergraduateship, which is in itself an in-
tegral part of Lifemanship. The basic premises of Lifeman
ship are laid down in several excellent treatises on the sub-
ject by Potter, and the headquarters of the Lifeman movement
are situated in Exeter. Being such a large field of study,
many of the smaller branches are handed over to research
teams who send periodic reports of their work to the head-
quarters. Such a report was read to the I.C. Lifeman Soci-
ety on May 11th and is republished in an abridged form with
their kind permission.
STUDENTSHIP: by Mr. Lentil
I think, before I begin to talk about m
y researches in-
to Studentship I should define the meanings of a few terms
used in LIFEMANSHIP. To start with, Lifemanship is the art
of being "one-up", of making the other fellow ftfel a cad by
legitimate means. The Lifeman is, or always should be,"one
up" on the other fellow by using Lifeman ploys (sometimes
called gambits). The art of Lifemanship is the ability to
know when and how to use the oorrect ploy.
Studentship generally takes two distinct forms; that
of ploying fellow students, and that of ploying academic su-
periors, such as lecturers. There is, of course, a danger
in the latter, as the academician may be a Lifeman himself,
but this is a rare i f not a good thing. Taking the first
case, I shall consider one or two well known ploys, and give
examples of them. .As is often the case, the Lifeman's main
object during his career is to be "one-up** on his mentally
superior colleague.
The BEE gambit, named after Mr. Edmund Bee is an example
of this type of ploy. It is quite well known now, but loses
none of its efficacy for all that.
2ACSIMILS OF
OLD DRAWING USED IN BEE GAMBIT
I
"It is not a good thing", thought Mr. Bee, "that there
are gentlemen among us who work too hard, i f such a thing is
possible". Acting on this thought, he would procure a half
finished engineering drawing,- about six months old, an^ app-
roach the gentleman who was most ahead in his drawing, "Ex-
cuse me", Edmund Bee would say, "can you please tell m
e how
to construct the plan view from this elevation?" This ques-
tion so unnerved the other on finding Mr. Bee far behind
in his course, that he was quite unable to work any more
during the day, and either retired for coffee or went home.
Mr. Bee did not restrict himself to one ploy, however,
and there is on record a striking instance of the "
D
O
N
'
T
MIND W
H
A
T PEOPLE SAT, IT'S VERY. SMART" ploy, used by him
with great effect.
A certain Mr. Grave was growing moustaches, but the
grjwth was somewhat inhibited. For a whole month after ^
Mr. Grave had embarked upon whiskering his upper lip, Ed-
mund Bee pretended not to notice, and then one Monday morn-
ing he said:
"What luxuriant moustaches you have there, Grave , old
chap".
"Oh, not really", simpered Mr. Grave.
"But they are magnificent - vous I'avez echappe belle",
returned Edmund Bee.
"Well, they're not so fine as Mr. Slater's, "replied
Mr. Grave, who didn't speak French.
"Don't mind what people say, they're very smart",
ployed Edmund and turned on his heel. The next day Mr.
Grave was clean-3haven.
The ploying of academic superiors is best done incog-
nito, such as from the baok of a lecture theatre, unless
the Lifeman has reached stage three. The VICE-VKRSA ploy,
otherwise known as Oak's gambit, is devastating when used
correctly. Mr. Oak, in company with many others, attended
hourly lectures under the direction of a Mr. T e who
was wont to expound at great length on the beauty of certain
mathematical formulae. After some time had elapsed, during
which silence reigned, he stopped for want of words at the
sentence "... and so we see that the Ooriolis compo-
nent acts in this direction i f the body moves in that direc-
tion" .
In the hush that followed, Mr. Oak's sotto voice was
heard to pronounce ... " ..and vice-versa".
"And vice-versa", repeated Mr. T......e, completely
ployed.
Many other instances of standard forms of Studentship
gambits were given by Mr. Lentil, but laok of 3pace prevents
us from publishing them. At the next meeting of the I.C.
Lifeman Sooiety'a talk will be given by Mr. Bee on "Student-
ship : Exam-man3hip".

