F E L I X 3
F e l i x
THE NEWSPAPER OF IMPERIAL COLLEGE
EDITOR-. P.A.E. SOUTHGATE Circulation 1200
Iflhen the last Felix was published, I asked my fellow
students what they thought of i t , "Too much Sport; too
much Bar; not enough New3", they said* I agree. There
was too much about sport - but remember that two tours took
plaoe over Easter. There was too much aoout the Bar - and
especially its colour. But ask yourself this - i f the Bar
is painted in this way, how will the new Union be decorated?
We're all going to use the Union when i t is completed,
and none of us want i t looking like a modernistic monstrosity.
Someone had to stand firm, and FELIX is that someone.
There wasn't enough news. Well, to report news, news
lias to be made. We can scarcely report that which doesn't
happen!
This week, we've done our best to give you a good paper.
If you don't like what you see, write to us. If we haven't
reported something which should have been reported, write to
us. Above a l l , don't say "It doesn't matter". IT DOES.
THE BSGOTKING OF THE END
\
The sub-zones of the Carboniferous
Should differ us
From fleas in heliotrope pinstripes
Playing bagpipes
Thus spake a lady coalheaver I knew
But to be true
I've since found that she erred
(Coalmen preferred -
The Swine!) But turn the other cheek
Let Mother speak
"My Son you'll have to learn to fight
And even write
And read and 'rithmeticate and be inscrutable
That's irrefutable
For advanced Aya-Aya contemplators
And divers meditators,
Thinkers, bolshevik dustmen and, the better me
Do all agree
That i f Skunks think like Skunks stink
(Or drunks drink)
Home will have among his friends
Skunk Sapiens., '
Donovan P. "Ashwin
(Philosopher Erotica to the Half Crowned Heads of Tales)
WE STILL W
A
N
T MORE PEOPLE HELPING ON "FELIX"-
ESEECIALtar TYPISTS !
INTERNA TZONAL MEETING - PLACE.
Some time ago one overseas student was overheard saying
to another "Englishmen, the cunning devils. Give them half
a chance and they'll worm their way into all the post-gradu-
ate courses at I.C." This was, of course, said in a joking
fashion, "but nevertheless i t gives us some idea of the ever-
increasing number of overseas students who annually come to
Great Britain to further their education, a fact the Home
student should be proud to acknowledge, for does i t not go
to prove that perhaps Britain has a higher standard of edu-
cation than almost any other country in the world?
However, far too many of us are taking the overseas stu-
dent for granted, and do not stop to think that perhaps these
. students may feel rather lonely in this city of millions, or
even a little home-sick, on remembering their climate, their
customs, and their so often entirely different way of life.
How would we feel in similar conditions i f for instance we
studied at Bombay, with not a soul paying any attention to
us? We have a duty to perform to our overseas students,
and an important duty at that.
It is therefore very satisfying to hear that yet another
overseas student meeting place has recently been opened "by
the Veryj Rev. Monsignor John L. Coonan S.T.L. It is the
Catholic students international Chaplaincy at , Holland
Park, London W. 11 (Tel. PAR 301*7). whioh is of course open
to all students, national or international* The facilities
include a chapel, library, lecture room, canteen, lounge etc.,
and accommodation is available for a limited number of men
students. The Chaplaincy is open daily from 10 a.m. to 10
p.m. and i f anyone wishes to be notified of forthcoming events,
he should simply send his name and address to the above-men-
tioned address.
Finally,, another point should be brought to the attention
of the Home student. The overseas student will never feel at
home unless he meets his hosts, and i t is therefore of the ut-
most importance that the home student should attend some of the
overseas students' functions.
M M . M L m
A PIECE OF NE3S THAT MISSED THE LAST
ISSUE: AT THE DRAM. SOC. HOP AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE TERM, a lady was very
keen to meet members of the society.
Mr. Peacocke was introduced as a player
of 'Hamlet'. His other role, he said,
was Ophelia. Turning to Jim Anderson:
"And this i s my understudy."
•VirHK LANDLORD OF THE "THATCH" at Silwood i s most
cooperative. He i s w i l l i n g to.exchange one I.C.
scarf for a missing £3.10. rubber mat and a
"Courage" plaque. Writing re Guilds Spring Rally,
further details may be obtained from: The Thatch-
ed Tavern, Cheapside, Near Ascot, Berks.
'i^'FAKE SUICIDE ATTEMPT! A Mr. B. Evans was seen
recently on the roof of C & G shouting " I can't
stand i t - the work i s getting me down." A large
crowd of passers-by accumulated, waiting for him to
jump. A pity he didn't.
LORD W00LT0N, speaking last week, said that what
was needed i n Manchester and Birmingham were Univ-
ersities giving f a c i l i t i e s l i k e Oxford and Cambridge
where the student would be able to"live i n " for at
least one year during his undergraduate training.
THE DAILY EXPRESS, (another newspaper) published an
a r t i c l e a week ago, Friday May 13th., by James Bart-
l e t t , i n which he explained that 43 out of every 100
study the arte. Opposed to this, 21 study pure science
and 12 study technology. Out of university yearly,
grants, 4 goes to help science and technology. We
feel inclined to agree with him when he says "Our
attitude to s c i e n t i f i c training i s hopelessly old-
fas hi oned."
4>'
THE ROYAL COLLEGE OF SCIENCE! Nelson would l i k e
to hear of news items from this l i t t l e publicised
establishment. We cannot have the Guildsmen occ-
upying a l l of this paper. R.S.M. i s not large en-
ough to compete on i t s own. Don't R.C.S. ever do
anything?
"W i
SEQUEL TO " FEMALE MUSCLES AT HARLINGTON":
The I.C.W.A. athletics match against King's
was cancelled because KING'S could not raise
a team 1
We are indebted tc a fellow called Sam for
•i» the following:
A GUILDS MAN, UNABLE TO FINISH A DIFFICULT EXAM.
QUESTION i s reputed to have written at the bot-
tom of his attempt;" The remainder of this question
is l e f t as an exercise for the examiner."
AT THE MATHS AND PHYS. SOC. DINNER there was a
demonstration of closed c i r c u i t television. I t
i s not known whether the I.T.A. were there, but
certain ladies fancied themselves as future
Bronwen Pugh 's. There may be more money i n this
than Maths, and Physics.
' A NBW COLLEGE BADGE:
Does the college motto,
"Science i s the Shield
and Defender of the
Empire" s t i l l apply ?
Here i s a humble sug-
gestion:
IT WAS ICWA who painted the Traction engine.
Nelsonius n i l defend!! icwariorum any more.
'•>* TH3 FELIX SPORTS EDITOR,"Mad Mike", has taken up
pole-vaulting. The sports page i n this issue has
had to be curtailed because we cannot get him down
from the pole.
There Is no reference to Miss Russell i n this
column.

