F E L I X
BUT ARE YOU SURE H*RD*N6 IS A FRESHER?
L E T T E R S T O T H E E D I T O R
An Imperial College Lavatory.
NEW PROPOSALS FOR FRESHERS' DINNER
b
y paul harding
How ta launch a Fresher ? That question is now
being delved into by the Committee of the City and Guilds
College Union.
The advantages of & running buffet are few tut impor-
tant, namely economy and ease.of organisation. The fault
of the buffet is great. After two weeks of finding his way
around the long gloomy corridors, the fresher goes to the
Buffet, where, although he i s told to work hard and get
all he oan out of "College life", he (the fresher) merely
comes away full of free beer and free food with the idea
that this College i s a place for providing oheap (if not
free) entertainment. Thus, getting off to a bad start,
the student i a further influenced in this way of thinking
by those around him. As I see many students, subsidised
though they are, their cry always seems to be "something
for nothing or I do not want i t t "
I do not suggest that this attitude i s caused 1
>
y the
"beer-up" of the Buffet but a fresher, who arrives at Col-
lege and is treated to a reasonably sober dinner by another
student, second or third year* will realise that he has: a
certain amount of responsibility to the community which he
has joined. I have heard arguments to the effeot that
the fresher oould pay for his own dinner amongst the money
he pays to the College in entry fee, breakage deposit, etc;
also that the library donations scheme in whioh students
leaving give the rest of their breakage deposit to the
purchase of books, should support the fresher's'dinner.
And I say no I Why should the literary belly be starved
for the benefit of a few shillings pocket money of the sec-
ond and third year students ? Let them actually pAve a
chap a dinner even though, when they were freshers they had
sandwiches and sausages. Thy not "nothing for something".
In this act they will be able to f u l f i l some of their
responsibility to the College and to those who have estab-
lished i t for producing sound engineers; (and not merely
technicians)
That the system works has been proved by the Royal
School of Mines Union which has, 7. am ashamed to say as a
Guildsman, a far better spirit and a more worthy average
man. Indeed the Mines has something of that university
air which the Guilds lacks.
Now, with the majority of freshmen arriving at
College straight from school)and probably very green, i t i s
up to those who can, to teach them a l i t t l e in the art of
living and the support of this scheme by the present first
and seoond years in the C & G , will go a long way to pre-
venting this College from becoming just another teohnioal
oollege in the years to oome after the expansion.
May I say to those whom I might have offended,
"if the oap fits, wear i t " .
Personal Advertisements
Editor,
FELIX.
Sir,
I was deeply shocked when I entered the temporary bar
to find i t so revoltingly daoorated, and soon had to with-
draw to the above-mentioned quarters.
Whoever oould have been responsible for the appalling
colour-scheme (whether the pink was intended or not), and,
moreover, why was no attempt made to consult the regular
patrons of the bar on this important item?
W
e should not be inflicted with the twisted and hideous
tastes of a few cranks in this objectionable way. However,
we have been well warned of the horrific possibilities of the
new Union, especially the bar, whioh is one of the most im-
portant rooms in the College.
One of the most pleasant aspects of life in the college
bar is the opportunity i t frequently provides to meet ex-
members of the oollege, who enjoy returning to their old
haunt for a few pints. I suggest that a committee, on which
both past and present students are represented, should be
responsible for the decoration of the new Union's Bar. I
should think the present atrocity will frighten all old stu-
dents away.
Yours feeling siok,
NOAM.
Sir,
The Overseas Students' Committee are anxious to draw
up a list of suitable lodgings for overseas students. To
facilitate the work of conjpiling such a list I should app-
reciate a postcard from any overseas student leaving the
oollege this year recommending his lodgings. The postcard
should be sent to me via the C. & G. Raok and oontain suoh
details as the name and address, the telephone number, the
student1
s nationality, and any other information.
Neil Wilson
(Hon. Seoretary, I.C. Overseas Students' Committee)
The Editor,
•FELIX'.
Dear Sir,
In a letter published in the last issue of FELIX Mr.
Cox is described as 'a declared Communist*. In their con-
text these words are either irrelevant or must be taken to
imply that they alone sufficiently refute certain views ex-
pressed by Mr. Cox.
I am concerned neither with his views nor with Mr. Cox,
who is unknown to me. But that suoh an 'argument' should
be advanoed by men at an English University I most strongly
deprecate. It is without moral or intellectual integrity.
Yours faithfully,
A.V.S. de Reuck
(Late Chairman I.C. Conservative Assoc.)
Sir,
I wonder i f you oould tell me i f our "dear" Entertain-
ments Committee know the meaning of the word "DANCE". Even
i f allowanoes were made for our Jazz enthusiasts, the oper-
ators or tne turntables on Sat. 7th should s t i l l know the
meaning of the words "quickstep", "foxtrot", "tango" etc.
Rhythmically yours,
"METRONOME".
The Editor,
FELIX.
Dear Sir,
May we crave the indulgence of your readers for a while
in order to introduoe to thera the cult of "M-A-R-T-Y"
All over the world men (and women) of independent minds
are turning to MARTY, as a solution to their problems, created
by the complexities of the modern world.
Be kind to MARTY and he will be kind to you. Next week
is "Let's all be kind to MARTY week" and already donations to
this worthy cause have been pouring in by day and by night.
Anything YOU can do to help will be appreciated.
Friends of Marty.
The Editor
FELIX
City and Guilds Oollege
12.5.55.
Dear Sir,
I have, of late, been somewhat bewildered by the appear-
ance of posters advocating kindness to one Marty.
Who, or what, is Marty?
Could he be oonneoted with the "Billy Graham Campaign"
or even perhaps with Communist infiltration? On the other
hand, I fear i t may be merely another manifestation of the
Juvenile mentality possessed by some members of this college.
Yours sincerely,
M. 0. Peters.
FOR SALE: Underwood typewriter (portable), in good working
order - £8-0-0 or nearest offer.
Please contact F. G. M. Gillett, R.S.M. Letter raok.
HO RESPONSIBILITY IS ACCEPTED BY THE EDITORIAL BOARD FOR
VIEIS PUBLISHED IN THE LETTERS TO THE EDITOR COLUMN.

