F E L I X 5
9h<munieA> of %
SPLOSH - "and yet another Guildsman hits the Serpen-
tine".
It's a funny thing how sounds "bring back memories of
occasions in the past. Splosh always reminds me of last
year's Field Cup race. Not even the weather, Scotland
Yard, or the Home Secretary could prevent this annual bat-
tle taking place. The Aero dept. led practically all the
way, until, contrary to rule 35 of the Field Cup race some
merman from one of the other departments managed to divert
their path; and made way for the Civil Dept., who subse-
quently won.
The Field Cup was presented to Guilds in 19— (no re-
cord available) by a Mr. Field. It was intended that the
departments in Guilds should select rowing teams from their
ranks, each oarsman not being a member of the Boat Club, and
they should all row for the cup. In the early days, only
the Mechar '•< :-.-~t
r. i.pr! Civils took part, but in recent years
all departmeijCc . .
:
•
. competed.
195"! stands out as the year in which the race to end
all races was run. That is unique in the history of the
race, as no rowing was involved. 25 feet high skylons were
raced iYom Exhibition Rd. to Battersea Power Station, trans-
port being provided by the entrants. The result was very
kindly judged by the gentlemen in blue, who were asked to
choose between a complete but inerectable skylon, and an
erectable but incomplete one. Fortunately for the Electri-
cal Department, they chose the latter.
The celebration have not always been confined to Guilds,
for in 1953 one or two bodies from R.C.S. were present at the
Union meeting. Fortunately for Guilds, their presence was
detected by one or twc Guildsmen Just following their noses
(The stench being easily perceptible).
Following the ejection of these stalwarts, Guilds, armed
with fire extinguishers and hoses soon damped out any contem-
plated R.C.S. participation in the festivities.
Guilds then retired to Hyde Park and continued the pro-
gramme.
Apathy amongst the members of I.C. towards sporting and
social activities has always been much criticised by other
colleges, and the Field Cup race is no exception. Any men-
tion of the Riot Act seems to put the fear of God into most
members of Guilds. It's not only in the last couple of years
either: for in 1949, quote from Union Records: "The Field
Cup had been dropped due to lack of support" and in 1947» Mr.
Synett asked whether i t would be possible to restart the boat
raoe on the Serpentine, between the Mechanicals and the Civils.
Mr. Arnot, a civil engineer, replied there was nothing he
would like better. It was not a Union matter but departmental.
It is hoped that this year there will be no lack of enthu-
siasm for the Race. It will be held on 31st May and now is
the time for you to start preparing plans and subterfuges to
help your team along. However, due to the close proximity of
the general election, no H-bombs PLEASE.
See you in the water, Guildsmen.
A "FELIX" PHOTO OP THE 1952 FIELD CUP RACE.
\
\ /
/
POSITIVELY MAGNIFICENT
Last week (May 10-1 if), the Photo. Soo. held its Annual
Exhibition. The Society is indebted to Miss Ethel Miller
A.R.P.S. for judging.
Her comments about the prints as a whole were that
"extremely good technique was evident, but a fair number of /
prints were too complicated involving poor arrangement of
the masses." This "simplicity" demanded by the Judge was
the keynote of the prire winning entry in the Pictorial Class
by R. Parry.
The Glaister Trophy for the best print in the Exhibition
went to a portrait of an I.C. Warian by T. Eyoott (R.S.M.).
The Record Seotion winner was B.R.F. Cook (Guilds);
and in this seotion L. Dowdall is to be congratulated on his
fine action shot of a Hawker Hunter A/C.
College Activities, as usual, were poorly represented
(Why?); so also was the colour print seotion, but this was
understandable (expense!)
The colour slides, to quote the Judge, "were not of Ex-
hibition standard, the oolours being too garish, and no thought
taken before shooting". The individual winner was S. Paah.
The Exhibition was anhanoed by first rate prints by Drs.
Glaister and Heywood, former and present Presidents respect-
ively.
Summing up, the Exhibition showed definite improvement
over last year as regard to technique, mounting and general
layout of the show. The Committee are to be congratulated
for ooping so well with a l l the hard work involved in putting
on a maanificient Exhibition.
A.T.R.
C O M I N G EVENTS
Friday, May 20th:
1.10 p.m. in Committee Room 'A', Lit. and Deb. Soc.
A.G.M.
Saturday, May, 21st:
Hop in Ayrton Hall
Monday, May 23rd«
1.15 p.m. in Metallurgy Theatre, Christian Union open
meeting - "How should Christians live?" All welcome.
Sandwiches on sale.
5.15 p.m. in Zoology Theatre. Methodist meeting, Rev.
R. Redman - "Spiritual Healing".
Tuesday, May 24th:
7.J0 p.m., for three nights at I. of E. Assembly Hall,
U.L.U. presents "Opening Number" - a May Revue. Tickets
3/- and 1/6 from I.C. U.L.U. Officer.
5.15 p.m. in Committee Room 'A' Dram. Soc. A.G.M.
Thursday, May 26th:
General Election.
Friday, May 27th:
8-12 midnight at Empire Rooms, Tottenham Court Rd.,
N.E.C. President's Ball. 6/6 and 11/6.
1. 15 p.m. in Committee Room 'A' - Jazz Club A.G.M.
1.15 p.m. in Committee Room 'A' I.C. Y.H.A. Group A.G.M.
1.15 p.m. in Committee Room 'A' - Lifeman Soc. A.G.M.
Ayrton Hall - I.C. Railway Soc. Dinner.
Saturday May 28th:
Entertainments Committee Hop in Ayrton Hall.
Tuesday, May 31st:
1.15 p.m. in Metallurgy Theatre. Christian Union Open
Meeting - "What lies beyond Death?".
WARSAW YOUTH FESTIVAL
The Union Council has met and discussed its attitude
to this year's World Touth Festival in Warsaw. After
listening to a statement from the secretary of the British
Youth Festival Committee, they decided not to support the
sending of any delegates to the Festival - as this might
be taken to entail agreement with its aims - but made
clear that any team wishing to participate in the 3por ting
- but not the political - events of the Warsaw Festival
may participate as official representitives of I.C.
As a result, a semi official "agency" for popularising
the Festival has been set up in the college. FELIX sent
a reporter to the Festival "Agents" and the Following
interview took place with one of their spokesman:
Q: What happens at the Festival?
A: The Festival programme includes shows of songs,
dancesand plays of nearly every country in the world
a sports programme second only in size to the Olympic
games, and meetings between the delegations of tfte
countries represented.
Q: How many students from I.C. are going?
A: Four at present — all as individuals.
Q: Is participation compulsory?
A: There is no obligation to attend any event in the
Festival. Some visitors to previous festivals
have spent the whole of their stay looking around
the Festival city.
Q: Will the opinions of I.C. delagates pass as the
opinions of I.C. and can this be used for Communist
propaganda, or will i t "promote peaceful co-existence?
A: It i s explicit in the decision of Council that no
delegate has the authority to speak for I.C. The
worst that can be said of Council is that they are
prepared to allow a team from I.C. to play against
teams from behind the 'Iron Curtain' and of course
no one can prevent individual students of I.C. from
attending the Festival. Your readers can decide
for themselves whether they consider that such a
gathering will promote peaceful coexistence.
H A M M E R S M I T H R E G A T T A
Four crews were entered in the Hammersmith Regatta en Sat-
urday 1Vth. May. The 2nd. eieht entered the Junior eicrhts -
and the 3rd. and two Freshers eights wer. entered in the
Maiden Eights.
In the first heat of the Juniors, the second sight were
beaten by a hefty Hi. Pauls' School orew, who were the event-
ual winners.
In the heats of the Maidens, both fresher crews were
beaten aftervgood races, "B" crew by Emanual School, and 'C
orew by Fnrnival Sculling Club.
The 3rd. eight beat Thames R. C. in their first heat,
and then Oxford House in the semi-final, thus avenging their
defeat by this crew the previous week at Putney Regatta.
In the final the third eight beat the holders Furnival
by two lengths, and so wen the Marshall Hayes cup, last won
by I. C. in 1926.
It has since been reported that an Aston-Martin with
five people up and one person outside was stopped by a Police
oar near Hammersmith Bridge, objections being raised to the
erratic hand signals given by a jubilant stroke with an umbrella.
3 rd. Bight. D. Griffin, J. Hendy,. S.Grsyj R.Freer, J.Farrant,
D. Faokhaau D.Barries, J.Chadwiok. fstr.) D.Willott, (Cox)
J.Ssnl*ers,(Coach)

