F I F T Y W O M E N B E A T R E S T O F U L !
M
A
U
R
E
E
N H
O
W
E
S s
h
o
w
s the m
e
n H
O
W T
O D
O I
T
Hotspur Park on Saturday 14thi May was tha scene of a
performance whioh will go down In the annals of I.CI.A.
The 'Imperial College Challenge Cup',which waa awarded
to the College gaining the most points during the meeting,
and the Sherwood Challenge Cup, whioh depends on a factor
based on the number of women attending the oollege,were
both won by the Women Students of I.C. Kings College were
beaten for both oups by 54-^$ in the I.C. Cup, and by
746-96 in the Sherwood Cup( Factors do corns in handy somet-
imes i f they are large enough! )
The team spirit displayed was largely responsible for
the victory, though two individual performances are most
worthy of mention.lt is emphasised that some of the team
have done very little athletics before, and therefore had
to muster up a great deal of courage and will-power to
loap(?) out of bed and run around the Statue of Physioal
Energy in the early hours several times each week.
Brenda Walker entered five events and oarried off a
1stf two 2nds and two 3rds; Maureen Hawes succeeded in
gaining one 2nd, one 3rd and one 5th. Both of these are
to he congratulated for their afternoon's performance.
It resulted in their being chosen to represent London
University in the Women's Inter-Varsity Athletio Board
Championships at Manchester next weekend.
RESULTS;
100 yds
220 :"
; B.Walker 3rd H Jump : B.Walker 2nd
100 yds
220 :" : M.Hawes 5th : F.Pipe 5th
440 " : M.Hawes 2nd L Jump : M.Hawes 3rd
: P.Clarke 6th Discus : B.Walker 2nd
880 " : P.Clarke 3rd : P.Clarke 6th
: E.Stephen 4th Shot : B.Walker 3rd
80m Hdls : B.Walker 1st Javelin : CRoberts 4th
: B.Lancaster 3rd : J.Walsby 6th
C R I C K E T
Since our last issue the 1st XI has scored three re-
sounding viotories, with one draw.
Westminster College were driven into negative defeaott,
some accurate howling by Ault and Regan,and declared at
106-7 (Ault 5-53) and-I.C. won i n a canter, by 8 wickets
(Oldland 32, Kitchener 311 no* out).
I.C.lost tae toss against Old Sincrine who compiled a
studious 141-6 dee. (Cook 4-36).I.C i rs-rarther lucky to
draw at 71^81
In the next matoh I.C.'s.batting came into its own,
and some bright cricket from Wbiddon (56 not out), Shepherd
(27) and Oldland (24) led to a total of 167-9 deo. During
this innings B. Heam made his first run of the season with
an off slash, and added yet further to his tally with an
ungainly prod between his legs whioh went for four. He
followed up this spectacular circus act by failing to take
his first wicket of the season during Wembley* a reply of 53
(Ault 4-27).
A weakened team dismissed U.C.S. Old Boys for 91 (Ault
7-35) and won by 9 wiokets (Oldland 60 not out).
The Sunday XI, deapite a brilliant 52 by a promising
youngster, John Smith, lost to Baygreen. W.S. Robinson,
verbose and ill-informed breakfast-time critio that h» i s ,
has yet to score his first run of the season!
M E R B E R T
K
E
E
N F
I
G
H
T I
N M
E
N
'
S C
H
A
M
P
I
O
N
S
H
I
P
S
AC. LOSE BY NARROW MARGIN
In the U.L. Athletios Championships at Mot spur Park
on Saturday, the I.C. men's team did not achieve the glory
whioh was I.C.W.A's but nevertheless did better then expec-
ted, in finishing only 7 points behind U.O. A H who had an-
ticipated a muoh more comfortable viotory. Throughout the
afternoon, the lead alternated between I.C. and U.C. but
victory was assured for U.C. when, with only the 440 yds. to
be run, I.C. were leading by 3 points but had no finalist,
while.the two.U.C. runners finished 1st and 4th.
1.0.'s impressive total of 61 points was amassed as a
result of a fine all round effort from the t«am who gained
points in J?., of the 19 events. The Athletio Club has at
last learned that the I.C.W.A. taotios pay dividends and many
valuable points were gained from the "unpopular" events, suoh
as the hammer and pole vault.
The best individual performance oame from John Evans,
who retained his mile title in the new I.C. reoord time of
4-14*7 to give I.C. their only first place. The hardest
worker in the team was undoubtedly Terry Hyslop who ran in
all three hurdles finals, finishing 2nd, 3rd and 6th in the
120 yds, 220 yds., and 440 yds., respectively. His times
of 16*1 sees, end 26'7 sees, in the first two were both I.C.
records. In the 3 miles, Trevor Bailey lost his title end
University reoord to Richards of U.C. but ran better than of
late to finish 2no. He followed this with a very tired 4th
plaoe in the mile.
STEWART FINISHES 2ND. IN THE
ONLY TO BE DISQUALIFIED
JOHN EVANS SCORES ATX EAST
VICTORY IN THE VJXK
Other good performances oame from Barry Colman who was
2nd. in the pole vault at 10ft. and'Henry Pinsent whose 3rd.
plaoe in the 440yds. hurdlea waa achieved in a tjj# approa-
ching his best. The throwing events were, as usual, dis-
appointing hut bearded Phil Toynbee gained two useful 4th.
places in the shot and hammer. In the latter event, Bunny
Snellook, throwing for the first time in competition,
remembered to let go at the^right time and finished 5th.
Rather surprisingly, 1.0. had no finalists in the high
jump and long jump, \at|in the hop,%tep and jump, Snellook
was 4th. and Mike Browne" 6th. Tne hurdles proved to be
I.C.'s strongest department,; for in addition to Hyslop and
Pinsent, Tony Raeburn finished 5th. in both the 120yds.
and 220yds. races. Mention too should be made of Oldfield,
Meller and Turner who gained a point eaoh for their 6th.
plaoea in the walk, steeplechase and pole vault.
Hie unluckiest I.C. runner was Gordon Stewart who
qualified for the final of the 880yds. but whose fine 50.8
sees, in his heat of the 440yds. failed to give him a
plaoe in the,£ia*U In the final of the 880yds. he fought
his way throuarJi^a tnd. plaoe after using a vigorous"
breast-stroke\rt* action to force his way between two
other runners U»Jtfmtunately the U.C. captain appealed
to the Refer** tri Gordon was disqualified.
PHOTOGRAPHS BY "FELIX" AND C. R. H3CHESNEY AND L. E. PALMER
PuUaUd by tta FEUX BOARD. Impanel Coikge Umoe, Loedcm. S.W.7.
Mated by 8*1L VOUS PLAIT Lt*. »7«, Takpkow ««*. TR14.

