The Newspaper Of Imperial College Union Founded 1949
Union Clash with Chaps
IC Union Officers have clashed with one of the CCU tie clubs
once again. Following the annual dinner of the Chaps Club,
the Royal School of Mines drinking club, on Wednesday Night,
there were several reports of disruptive behavior in the Union
building. Union Deputy President Jackie Peirce, who was duty
officer for the evening, was subjected to verbal abuse from a
group of Chaps Club members.
The incident comes at the end of a
difficult year for relations between
ICU and the College tie clubs. In
November a motion to ban the clubs
from Union premises was brought to
a UGM, backed by the ICU President
and Deputy President. At one of the
few well-attended Union General
Meetings of the year, the motion was
defeated by 23 votes after some
heated discussion.
On Wednesday, Ms Peirce was
present to see that club members left
the Union Concert Hall, which Chaps
had booked until lam, in good order.
Ms Peirce described the behaviour, of
some members as "quite abusive"
and added that they "told me exactly
what they thought of me and
Christine".
Speaking to FELIX yesterday,
Chaps president and former RSMU
President Dave Pearce admitted that
some members of Chaps had been
abusive on a personal level, but
denied that there had been any
obstructive behaviour, or opposition
to Ms Peirce when she asked for the
building to be cleared. He added that,
as President of the club, he had
probably not taken charge of the
situation as early as he should have
done. He said that Chaps had taken
longer to vacate the Concert Hall than
had been planned because they were
not aware that they would be expected
to clear up. The incident, he said, had
been a personal disagreement between
the Deputy President and a few ex-
student members of Chaps, and that
there had been no argument between
the Union and Chaps Club as a whole.
Though there have been reports that
a group of Chaps had gained access
to the roof of the Union Building and
had thrown a large missile into the
Quad, these rumours were denied by
Mr Pearce and Chaps Club Secretary
Chris Griffin.
ICU Executive will be discussing
>possible disciplinary action against the
club. In addition, Chaps Club will be
re-examining the responsibilities of
the Club President.
Mr Pearce and Mr Griffen said that
the dinner had been a great sucess,
and that the Union Snack Bar
manager Mr Norman Jardine had
done an excellent job.
FELIX on the Box
It was all smiles and screen tests in
the FELIX office yesterday when a
production team from Channel 4
turned up to capture the Thursday
afternoon panic on film. After word
of the imminent arrival of Stephen
Spielberg got about, the office was
suddenly filled with keen staff
members, anxious to get FELIX to
press before the cameras left at
1.30pm. After a series of half-hearted
rehearsals, the Channel four people
managed to film the really big scene
where all the pages had to be ready
"in ten minutes". Notable absentee
was former FELIX editor and SDP
agent Clive Dewey, who turned up a
day too early and sat in the office for
fourteen hours on Wednesday,
waiting for the crew to turn up and
getting in everybody's way.
Channel four were at Imperial
College to film a half hour
programme on the University of
London.
Clive Dewey is 57.
Free Friday, J u n e 5th 1 9 8 7 N o . 7 7 4

