FELIX FELIX, Friday J u n e 5 t h 1 9 8 7 5
C
A
R
E
E
R
S
Teaching seems to be the thing that
most students want to avoid at the
moment—the status is poor, the pay
is lousy and the work is gruelling—
these are the reasons usually cited
for giving teaching a wide berth.
Whilst it is not my job to 'sell' any
particular career to anybody—I do
have a duty to help people to assess
possible career paths as objective-
ly as possible. So read on if you are
interested.
What's it all about?
The job of a teacher doesn't need any
description. You've all been through
about 13 years of primary and secondary
education. Your memories of what it
was like are probably the single most
influential factor determining whether
you become a teacher. But try, just for
a minute, to put yourself in the shoes of
the teacher whose subject you would
most like to teach. How does it feel?
Terrifying? Threatening? Challenging?
UNION ROOM
BOOKINGS
Bookings for next term can only be made after 22nd June, 1987.
These will initially be provisional until UGM dates are confirmed.
Thank you,
Kathy Tait, Union Receptionist
GYM BOOKINGS
To all clubs & societies who use the gym facilities (ie
Union, Southside & volleyball court), if you are not using
the space over the summer vacation. Please let me know
ASAP. Also, although you managed to get a space this
year, you still need to apply for space next year.
Applications can only be made after 5th October, 1987.
THANKS,
KATHY TAIT, UNION RECEPTIONIST
Your reaction may help you to think
about teaching from a different angle.
How would I be trained?
Anyone wanting to teach in a State
school has to take a Postgraduate
Certificate of Education (PGCE). This
lasts for one year and may be taken at
a wide range of colleges throughout the
UK. A central clearing house operates
called the Graduate Teacher Training
Registry (GTTR) through which most
applications must be channelled. The
important point to remember is that
applications can be submitted as early
as September and places are filled on a
first-come first-served basis. It is
therefore important to apply early if you
want to get your first choice. Courses
include both theory and practice. You
will have opportunities to teach under
observation. LEA grants for courses are
automatic once a place has been offered.
Engineers, physicists and
mathematicians should note that
Bursaries exist which boost their
mandatory grant by £1,000—£1,200.
Details are available in the College
Careers Office.
Would I be suited to it?
An interest in and rapport with young
people is a good starting point, as is the
ability to put a subject across in a clear
and interesting way. It helps to be able
to speak confidently and remain calm
under pressure. Teaching can be tiring
and a high level of physical and mental
stamina is an asset. Patience is required
when dealing with slow learners. Most
Heads require their staff to participate
in some extracurricular activities such
as helping out with school plays, chess
club, sporting activities etc.
What about career prospects?
This will depend upon demand for your
subject. Currently, physics teachers can
expect to progress faster than most other
teachers becuase of staff shortages. New
teachers are likely to start on Scale 1,
the position on the scale depending upon
your age, degree class, work experience
etc. Promotion to Scale 2 usually
requires taking on an additional
responsibility such as becoming Head of
First Year or running the school library.
Scale 3 posts usually involve running
departments. Further promotion leads to
deputy headships and headships. These
jobs are often entirely administrative.
Can I survive on the pay?
Starting salaries vary depending upon
the point on Scale 1 on which you start.
The range is currently £6,533. Scale 2
is £7,302—£10,986. Scale 3 is
£8,910—£12,627. Scale 4 is
£10,533—£14,151. Senior teachers earn
£11,349—£15,330. Heads of large
comprehensives can earn above
£20,000.
What next?
If you want to follow up the idea of
teaching, why not come and have a chat
with one of the College Careers
Advisers in Sherfield Building. Your
Departmental Careers Adviser would
also be happy to talk to you.
Alternatively, you could read the
Information Booklet—'Teaching in
Schools and Colleges in the UK", copies
of which are available in the Careers
Library, Room 311, Sherfield.
Whatever you decide, I hope this
article has been of some help to you.
Russ Clark,
College Careers Officer

