Features
The Great Knock
& Poll Swindle
Even before they
are elected, the
political parties
try to rip off Pete
Wilson in this
searing expose of
blatant
profiteering
I rang up the three 'main' party's central
offices to ask for copies of their
respective manifestos. The
Conservatives told me 'with all due
respect' that FELIX was not really a
newspaper, and I would have to go to
their bookshop and buy a copy. They
relented after I pointed out that Imperial
College has a hall of residence in
Westminster—a Tory marginal—and
most students are first time voters. The
Labour party sent me a free manifesto
and invited me to some press
conferences, including one good one on
the arts with Billy Bragg and Ben Elton,
but they later rang up to say I couldn't
go after all. The first time I rang the
Alliance, they cut me off on their
switchboard. I don't know if any of these
events are significant.
The Tory and Alliance manifestos cost
one pound, while the Labour Party's
brochure is a snip at just seventy-five
pence (always assuming you don't
pretend to be a jo malist and get them
for free). I cannot see any reason why
anyone should want to buy them, as their
contents have all received a liberal airing
on television over the last two weeks,
They all have catchy slogans on their
covers: 'The Next Moves Forward',
'Britain Will Win', and 'Britian
United—the time has come'. The
Alliance and Labour manifestos are A3
folded sheets, while the Tory one
consists of two booklets, and comes in
a rather nice plastic wallet.
You may be wondering why I have
spent so long on trivialities: the covers,
who said what on the phone etc...this
is because the contents of all three
manifestos are dull, designed only for
the party faithful, and TV
commentators. This might seem like a
sweeping generalisation, and maybe I
should be more respectful when talking
about the propaganda of those who
would govern us for the next four to five
years, but there is no escaping it—they
do not make good reading.
They all start with an introduction.
The Conservatives talk of strength and
pride, and a new spirit of enterprise, and
then try to convince us that they care an
awful lot, honest. The Labour party uses
words like fair chances, care for all,
work for people, and then spend the rest
of the intra slagging off the Tories, and,
to a lesser extent, the Alliance. The
Alliance, for their part talk about a
united Britain, using lots of
alliterations—confident, compassionate
and competitive, slag off both the other
parties in general, and our electoral
system in particular.
When I first thought about doing this
piece on the election, I was going to
compare some of the policies of the three
parties, but since then there has been,
to my mind, too much in the media in
general about the election, and
surrounding issues. Someone suggested
a poll of students, to see which way they
are going to vote on the eleventh, but
I figured that the replies would either be
'what election?', or T haven't got time
on the eleventh, I've got a lab report due
on the twelfth'. Maybe I should have
interviewed Dave Colley about electoral
reform.
So there you have it. I wouldn't advise
buying any of the manifestos, but it
might not be a bad idea to watch a little
television and actually vote next
Thursday. I'm sorry if you expected
FELIX to bring you an informed debate
on the issues—this is all you're getting.
This article was compiled under Dave
Jones' reporting restrictions.
FELIX, Friday June 5th 1987
BLIND
CURVE
While looking at the wars fought
between 1820 and 1945, a
British meteorologist found a
curious relationship. Chris
3£9NP Edwards looks at his discovery,
«3pt the Richardson Curve.
While politicians argue over whether the
possession of nuclear weapons has
prevented a major war, few bother to
pay even cursory attention to the patterns
that war has conformed to in the past.
Patterns that may help avert an all-out
nuclear war. In the wake of the
destruction that was World War II, a
British meteorologist, Lewis F
Richardson took an interest in the fickle
causes of war. His approach to the
problem was very similar to an approach
in studying the weather. International
conflicts can be regarded in much the
same way a storm begins, both have
systems that are almost impenetrable in
their complexity—but their bulk
properties can be studied and tabulated.
The patterns can be found that lead to
war, and their frequency can easily be
plotted, so that a reasonable waiting time
can be found for a war of any severity-
even World War III.
In the 19th Century the Reverend
Thomas Malthus had theorised on the
causes of war being due to nations trying
to expand their populace. Whilst it left
a gaping hole for those wars fought
purely on a religious pretext, or sparked
off by traditional hatreds, it could
explain a whole range of conflicts.
However, Richardson's work was of a
more fundamental nature; he produced
a graph which accurately reflected the
period of waiting between wars of a
particular severity..
He collected data for the hundreds of
wars that had been fought between 1820
and 1945, the results of which were
published posthumously in the book
"The Statistics of Deadly Quarrels", in
1960. He defined an index for the
number of deaths it caused directly, M .
Magnitude M=3 might be only a
skirmish killing a thousand, while M=6
would be far more serious, with a
million dead. He found, quite
expectedly, that the more serious a war
the less frequently it would occur. He
also found that the data fits a smooth
curve that can be continued from M=0
(a single murder)rightup to M = 10 and
beyond (the total annihilation of the
human race). The frequency for murder
he extrapolated from the main graph to
arrive at a figure of a murder occuring
once every five minutes somewhere in
the world—an answer of approximately
the right order of magnitude. The odd
thing is that both murder and holocaust
represent just two extremes of a
1000yr
100yr
l O y r j
S
I: 'v
5- 1mo4-
continuous curve.
Just as one person can commit murder
either in a rage, or to effect a larger plan,
then nations can cause others to do the
same on a far larger scale. The efficient
fighting of wars has often depended on
a good propaganda system to encourage
people not only to fight the enemy, but
to loath it as well—with images of "cruel
heathens" in the Crusades through to the
"red menace" of Vietnam, and the "evil
Argies" in the Falklands.
There is a certain inevitability about
Richardson's figures; they do not just
represent the time to wait before a war
of a given magnitude might occur, but
the time before it does, or is supplanted
by a succession of smaller conflicts.
While politicians claim that nuclear arms
and the attendant theory of Mutually
2 3 4 5 6 7
War Magnitude, M
The Richardson Graph
Assured Destruction, have ensured
world peace, the truth is that the
superpowers have become more
circumspect in how wars are fought.
With the exception of Korea, Vietnam
and Afghanistan, the Superpowers have
declined to involve themselves, but act
by proxy, supplying the weapons and the
know-how to smaller nations only too
eager to expand their spheres of
influence.
Continuing the graph past World War
II, an approximate figure can be found
for a nuclear holocaust—for the simplest
model this gives a value of M =9.8 (5
billion people). The expected gap
between 1820 and a conflict of that
magnitude would be about 800 years,
giving total devastation of humanity in
the 27th Century. However the
Richardson curve only applies to
mortalities resulting directlyfroma war.
The further deaths from radiation and
cancers after Hiroshima and Nagasaki
were not taken into account in the
Richardson Diagram. So, it would be the
fatalities by blast damage alone that
would govern the M value on the
diagram, and correspondingly that value
would be much lower, bringing
Doomsday that much closer.
However this assumes the worst case
scenario of an all-out nuclear conflict.
More likely is the theory put forward by
General Sir John Hackett and others who
postulate that World War III will again
be fought in Europe in a 'limited'
exchange, whereby much of Western
Europe is laid waste. Using a simple
model for population of Europe that
gives 500 million people killed, it gives
M=8.7. Crossreading on the graph
produces a figure of 200 years after
1820. So the destruction of Europe could
have happened by 2020—a period
commonly ascribed by strategists is
between 2000 and 2020.
The most worrying thing about the
graph is that it seems to indicate that
warfare is for the while, a part of the
human condition and that the only way
to avoid large conflicts is to let tension
dissipate through a series of smaller
battles. In the wake of World War II,
General MacArthur was in favour of
invading Russia while it was still
recovering from the effects—hoping to
defuse a future conflict. However, the
analyses of human nature suggest that
the West would now be skirmishing with
China instead. No matter how decisive
a war, a new enemy is always around
the corner to satisfy the Richardson
relation.

