FELIX
CARNIVAL QUEEN
PROFILES PROLIFIC
KRYSTINA.
It should be obvious, even to those who
have not had the pleasure of meeting
Miss Krystina Bragiel, that no one but
no one could optimistically oppose her
election as the Carnival Queen. It will
after all be merely a formality to appoint
her. However, for democracy's sake
Krystina will stand for election together
with other nominees.
To expound on her many varied talents
is hardly necessary here; her fame has
already spread the length and breadth
of I.C. However for the ill informed few
amongst you here are a few pointers as
to her desirability (as Carnival Queen).
Two of Krystina's diverse activities un-
doubtably recommend her election. Last
termKrystina was elected to that much
coveted position that of Queen of the
second floor annex (Beit Hall). You will
agree of course that this is a position
demanding infinite charm, an outstand-
ing personality and resolute determinat-
ion. Krystina fu1
filled the position ad-
mirably, indeed she has created a pre-
cedent that her successors will find difficult
to emulate. Added to this Krystina suc-
cessfully captained I.C.W.A. against the
I.C. Soccer Club at hockey. Her cross
field glances were superb. Unfortunately
her entrancing poise completely mesmer-
ised the Umpire who was sent off for
not attending to his duties.
PlifllliBSi*:,.
....... • :/•::
CAROLINE.
Sweet Caroline! loviest woman of that
name;
Your smile and plenty cheer the working...
Sweet Caroline, sitting by a brook
With brave young Porritt, lovely, fresh,
green.
Bid court the lad with many a lovelv
look.
Such looks as none could look but a
Carnvial Queen.
She told him stories to delight his ear;
She showed him favours to allure his eye;
But whether unripe years did want
conceit,
Or he refused to take her figured proffer,
The tender nubbler would not take the
bait,
But smile and jest at every gentle offer.
Alone, he thought of how he'd been too
green,
And set his mind to make her Carnival
Queen.
And this explains why Porrittheads this
nomination
And others wrote the explanation!
(Wjith apoljogites to those gentlemen
who wrote the lines that scan.)
The above should be sufficient to con-
vince you that Krystina,* and Krystina
alone is the perfect choice for the I.C.
Carnival Queen.
Proposed by A. Miller.
MISS JOYCE FOWLER.
Proptosed for the Carnival Queen by
N.B. Greaves and D.K. Fisk on behalf
of the City & Guilds Union.
So far in this competition, proposers
have made elaborate efforts, often to the
embarrassment of their candidates, to
cover up deficiencies in carriage.and char-
acter with stunts and gimmicks, and just
plain blurb.
Being convinced of the immorality of
modern advertizing techniques and having
confidence in the powers of discrimination
' of students, the C. & G.U. wishes to
present truths, not half-truths, in sup-
port of its candidate, Mis Joyce Fowler.
Slight and graceful, smart and pract-
ical, sweet and beautiful, Joyce has pre-
served feminine charm through the
rigours of a Guilds education. One of
Joyce's most appealing qualities is that
she is quiet without being shy, a rare
quality in attractive women. She hasn't
the figure of a Sophia Loren, the forceful
character of Bessie Braddock, or perhaps
the athletic physique of a Mary Bignal.
If you want this type of Carnival Queen,
you had better invite their nominations,
but Joyce will do for us.
N.B. Greaves
D.K. Fisk
!—REFECTORIES
U
N
D
E
R F
I
R
E
Dear Sir,
In view of the fact that the prices uf
meals served in the Imperial College Re-
fectories are due to be increased bv anv-
thing from sixpence to one and sixpence
to make a few comments on the quality
of the food that is continously churned
out in large quantities for the consumpt-
ion of a mass of students whose complaints
and suggestion are always ignored by those
responsible for the catering arrangements.
I am appalled to the total indifference
displayed by Mr. Mooney and his staff
several restaurants giving better service
much better food at lower prices than this
so-called non profit making organisation.
It is therefore reasonable to assume that
the present conditions in I.C.R. are due
to the fact that Mr. Mooney imagine that
he has an absolute monopoly whereas if
students would look around they would
soon realise how they are being treated.
I therefore advocate a boycott of Im-
perial College Refectories until such a time
as Mr. Mooney is capable (a) of providing
a reasonable service, and (b) of meals
which are both eatable and edible.
Yours faithfully,
P.J. Cunningham
Dear Sir,
I, and many others, regard the increased
refectory charges with disgust. It is nor-
mally a "point of honour" among students
to decry their refectory meals, and although
not belonging to the extremists, Jhe con-
tinual serving up of lukewarm foods has
made me feel that it is about time some-
thing was done visibly to attempt to just-
ify the increase.
Having visited a large number of Uni-
versity refectories, I would like to know
why vegetables cannot be served up se-
parately from a hot plate, as is done else-
where thus ensuring hot meals as well
as allowing a choice of vegetables instead
of having an unwanted combination thrust
at one.
Yours faithfully,
Colin McArdle
THE M A Y BALL, 1961
Now only two years after its formation
the I.C. May Ball is firmly fixed in the
College Social Calendar. On Friday May
2nd 1959, the most fabulous event was
attended by over 600 people. This was the
fiirsit May Ball. The second was even
more successful.
This year the Entertainments Comit-
tee are combining with the Charity Car-
nival Committee to promote a May Ball
on Friday May 5th (NOT Friday May
19th as previously publicised). However,
the ball will retain the flavour of the pre-
vious May Balls, being a formal event.
The whole of the Union Building will
be opened for dancing to thjree bands
from 9.30 p.m. until dawn, a cabaret.
drinking in three bars and lavish buffet.
You may of course purchase the win-
ning ticket number. If you do, you will
be chauffeur driven to and from the Ball
and entertained throughout the evening
at the Union's expense. The price of the
ticket will be refunded.
You would be well advised to order your
ticket now and ensure your share in the
fun. Double tickets are a modest £2.2.0.
each. Last year there was a heavy demand
for tickets and an even heavier one is
expected this year. So to avoid disappoint-
ment, please complete and return the
application from the Union Office, with
your remittance now.
YEOMAN ofTM GUARD
by J. McManus
OPERA AND BALLET
by I.L. Gibson
Postgraduates and others in London dur-
ring the Easter Vacation will have the op-
putunity of seeing the first performance
of revised production of "Giselle" which
will be given at Covent Garden on April
4th. The ballet has been extended with
some additional choreography by Frederick
Ashton and now occupies a whole evening.
"Giselle", one of the oldest ballets ;
n
the repertory, tells the story of a village
maiden who, after falling in love with a
prince and then realizing he can never
be her's, becomes distacted and dies, oniy
to join the 'Willies' — a group of young
girls who died on their wedding nights and
who now haunt the woods, unable to rest
in their tombs. Balletomanes will have the
opportunity of comparing the versions t-f
Fpnteyn, Beriosova, Nerina, and Page
who will alternate in the title role.
During the five weeks Opera Company
in on tour, four other full-length ballets
will be. given. There are — Ondme, La Fille
Mai Gardee. Le Lac des Cygnes and the
Sleeping Beauty.
It has been brought to my notice that
it is not widely known in the College that
it is always possible to get into popular
performances at Covent Garden (first
nights etc.) if one is prepared to stand.
If all the other seats are sold beforehand
(As is the case with the present series of
performances of "Fidelio"), forty-two
standings tickets are sold at 4 p.m. on
the afternoon of the performance, per-
mitting the hplder to stand at the back
of the Stalls Circle.
During March and -April, Sadler's
Wells are staging light operettas many,
who perhaps find Wagner and Verdi rather
heavy going,will enjoy. These are "Die
Fledermaus" by J. Strauss and "Merrte
England" by Edward Germans the latter
re-entering the repertory on April 11th.
The evening of March 24th saw the
conclusion of the fourth successful pro-
duction of a Gilbert and Sullivan mus-
ical by the I.C. Musical Society. In this,
once again, the ranks of I.C. were streng-
thened by some members of R.C.M., but
a most welcome sign was the presence
of a representative from I.C.W.A. in the
chorus.
Throughout the First Act an all per-
vading lethargy tended to mar the sing-
ing movement, but the interval the per-
formers raised the standard to a high level
for an amateur company.
Accompaniment of an interesting nature
was provided by the I.C. orchestra which,
once it had progressed beyond the rather
shaky overture, did nothing to disgrace
Mself, and indeed its mteljingemt anti-
cipation of the singers (and dare one add.
the conductor), kept the whole together.
Of the principal soloists both Lorna
Heywood and Christina Clarke not only
sang well, but also acted, a welcome feat-
ure on any British stage. Perhaps the most
outstanding performances were by Richard
Ha^ell, who, as Shadbolt, had even this
hard-to-please audience actually laughing,
and by JNiei Murray, who successfully
negotiated the tricky toungue-twisters and
capers of Jack Paint.
The men's chorus left much to be des-
ire, but the women's chorus was adequate.
Perhaps the greatest problem in this re-
spect was the distribution of the chorus
so that its members could all see the
conductor, and the frequent positioning
of the men's chorus in such a clearly ob-
scuring line did nothing to help either
the overall unity of attack, nor the bal-
ance, where, one suspected, the orchestral
brass section was used as a partial
counterweight, which in effect drowned
the sopranos.
The set, designed by Maurice MosSf
was effective and clearly aimed at provid-
ing the maximum of space on the small
and often overcrowded stage.
The appearance of an unscheduled duck
on the scene caused little dismay to the
singers, and passed unremarked by the
stony audience. This I.C. audience could
well come in for some criticism in its artic
attitude which gave the hard-working per-
formers no help or encouragement what-
soever.

