FELIX 3
Editorial c o m m e n t [ JUttetd ta the Edltm Dear Sh
Much attention has been focussed rec-
ently on a controversial series of articles
published in the Oxford'magazine 'Isis'
and a letter on the same subject was
printed in the last edition of 'Felix'. The
articles in question were reviews by stud-
ents of the academic lectures given at
the University and caused much argu-
ment amongst the Dons. Eventually pub-
lication of the articles was banned by the
proctors.
Opinions on this action differed widely.
In many quarters the proctors were
condemned for their "high handed" act-
ion while elsewhere the 'Isis' staff were
accused of an irresposible action.
At Imperial College a much more con-
servative atmosphere prevails: possibily
the so called "apathy" of which we hear
so much .However, we must all be aware
that a similar state of affairs exists here *
many is the time that we hear "old so
and so's" lectures bitterly criticised over
the refectory tables. If we treat this as
a serious problem then we can set about
solving it in two ways. Firstly we can
follow the Oxford example and start
throwing bombs.) Apart from creating a
disturbance and probably much hard feel-
ing this kind of approach could achieve
little else. It is destructive.
On the other hand we can adopt a con-
structive approach. Much could be gained
by serious discussion among those who
are interested. Could it be the proposed
"Educational Society might be a step in
this direction?
ARE YOU HONEST?
We note with curiosity the fact that
whereas the circulation of 'Felix' is re-
maining fairly steady, as judged by the
number of copies left over each fortnight.
th« cash return is steadily dropping. On
the last issue there was a discrepancy
of between £3 and £4. You may not think
that your 'Felix' is worth fourpence but
if you take one away then for heaven's
sake pay for it. After ail we are amongst
that 5 per cent of the British population
with the highest I.Q. rating so we should
be resonably honest. Are you?
COPY DAY for the next issue, the last
of this term, is Wednesday 8th March
for all letters, feature articles etc. and
Sunday 12th March for sport and other
articles of a topical nature. Out on Friday
17th March, one week before the end of
term.
Dear Sir,
I hope that if Felix is to continue what
I imagine purports to be independant re-
porting of the R.C.S. Union Meetings,
it will at least send along a reporter for
I cannot believe that the writer of 'Serious
Side' was actually at the Meeting.
According to your report, the meeting
was spent considering the Constitution,
whilst what actually happened was that
the matter of the Constitution was raised
under A.O.B. Mr. McPherson indicated
one or two obvious anomalies and ana-
chronisms, and asked if it could be revied.
I said I would not accept any discussion
involving proposed changes in the Con-
stitution for the obvious reason that such
a review is not a matter to be discussed
lightly at the end of a some-what sport-
type Meeting. I did say, however, that
I would be pleased to accept any motion
leading to discussion of the Constitution
at the next Union Meeting. I also said
that if we are to have this discussion,
then it was obviously essential that the
Union should be fully aware of what
was to be discussed; and to facilitate this
the Constitution would be made more'
readily avalable to every member of the
Union (Year Reps, now have large nos.).
I also said that the Union General Com-
mittee — (not the Executive, no such
body exists) would examine the Constit-
ution to find a basis for discussion.
The procedure adopted is that the Gen-
eneral Committee has considered the Con-
stitution and Year Reps, are now end-
eavauring to discuss it in their depart-
ments. At a further Meeting-of the Gen-
eral Committee it is hoped that a fairly
comprehensive idea of any revision con-
sidered necessary will be obtained. This
will then be put before the next Union
Meeting.
I trust that this has cleared up the mis-
conception of your reporter and anyone
else not at the last R.C.S. Union Meeting.
Dear Sir,
After Mr. W.A. Irvine's entirely un-
provoked attack on the College newspaper
FELIX, published in the Hallowed
Pages of the One Hundred and Fifty-
eighth issue on the Seventeenth day of Fe-
bruary in this year of Grace One Thousand
Nine Hundred and Sixty-one, it was de-
cided that only one course of action was
left open to Free-thinking Imperials —
that of replying.
It appesars that the afore mentioned
Irvine would be better foisted upon the
Um^versity lat Oxfbrd since he appears
to advocate the philosophy of one immortal
Don, that "Yea may be turned into Nay
and vice-veisa if a sufficient quantity of
wordage is applied to the matter." Per-
haps we might recall to Mr. Irvine's
mind (?) the other two gems of wisdon.
upon which that University is founded
— that "In any argument the Victor is
always right." and "Although the pen is
mightier than the sword, the sword speaks
mightier and louder at any given moment-''
Thfe afbresai'd Irvine's commetnts on
the cartooniferous nature of the above
mentioned Hallowed Pages merely shows
his ignorance of the fact that the addit-
ion of a certain cartoon character (One
Yogi Bear) to the pages of one of our Nat-
ional Newspapers, in two weeks, tripled
its circulation.
The authors also fail to see with what
authority Mr. Irvine comments on the
Literary Merit of the articles adorning the
Hallowed Pages of the first part.
If after reading this note, some-one
shold say an unkind word, strike a friend
or cause distress then we feel that we
will not have entirely wasted a Mathem-
atics Tutorial.
Finally, we may leave our readers, if
any, and Mr. Irvine, with this thought
"A person over pensionable age not be-
ing an insured person, shall be treated
as an employed person if he would be
an insured person were he under pension-
able age and would be an employed were
he an insured person.
Yours faithfully,
John R. Maddison
James C. Ingram
As a partially finished product of one
of the largest degree factories in the coun-
try I wish to complain about the storage
arrangements between processing stages.
It is quite obvious that the majority of
products are missing the required stress
relieving processes and therefore leaving
the factory as faulty goods.
In short the amount of hostel accom-
odati m available at this College is ap-
pealling. Many have been the discussions
recently as to how the Union can improve
the state of collegiate life but let's be
honest, however, many College clubs
there are and however, many affiliations
the Union makes with other societies, un-
less the fresher is brought intimately in-
to contact with them it is unrealistic to
expect him to take any strong interest.
The great majority of freshmen come
from secondary, technical and similar
schools and they cannot possibly be ex-
pected to educate themselves socially. A
strong deterrent to those willing to do so
is the time spent travelling between Col-
ledge and lodgings, iti being impossible
to obtain these locally without paying
exhorbitant rents.
The authorities proudly state that by
1965 a proportion of one third of all
students will be living in, one is half in-
clined to treat this as a joke. What is
desirable is a living in proportion of at
least two thirds, if this was achieved the
Union really would begin to function r.s
it should. Apart from Union activities an-
other necessary requirement, an done that
could be begun at present, is an effective
tutoring system throughout the College^
It is appreciated that the staff have their
own lives and work to consider but it is
not difficult now to detect a certain dis-
interestedness in student affairs, but this
is another subject.
It will be argued that hostels will cost
a great deal of money and that we are
in ho position to do anything about it,
but is this really so? The additional sum
required to remedy the situation compared
with the millions the Government is now
pouring out to rebuilt the College is fract-
ional and the benefit gained by the stud-
ents, and thus by industry, would be im-
measurable. Would it really be imposible,
by concerted effort, to make the Govern-
ment see this? Clearly the benefits gained,
even if the money were forthcoming,
would not be experienced by those of us
now at Imperial College but surely this
is something wurth working tor and some-
thing also that would show that we are
only human, in the most decent and hon-
ourable senBe.
That, in my analogy, the College will
remain a factory even if improved, is not
accidental for let us not forget that the
Government is financing it primarily in
an attempt to sate the greed of industry
and not to satisfy the more complex needs
of civilised society.
N. Harmer
An open letter to the Hon Seo I.C.
Squash Club.
Dear Sir,
20th February, 1961.
V i e w p o i n t s
C O M M E N T .
by John Cox
Yours faithfully
A.. Logan
When considering any issue it is use-
ful to consider whether one is expressing
a viewpoint ahead of, or behind, current
opinion. It is fairly certain that ones view-
point will be modified more rapidly if
one holds the current opinion of dynamic
issue than if one adopts either the 'pro-
gressive' or the 'reactionary' view. The
interesting fact is that very few people
notice when their views change, they us-
ually think their viewpoint remains con-
stant for all time.
A few years ago, there was considerable
controversy about whether students
should receive a grant at all. Nowadays
99 per cent accept the situation without
question. Only five or six years ago it
was controversial to suggest that local
Educational Authorities should pay the
state scale of grants. Today it is a matter
of controversy as to whether grants should
be completely uniform, not even subject
to a Means Test In a fairly short time
COUNTER COMMENT
by R.T.L. Fotheringhnrn
Mr. Cox's mam argument this week
appears to be that 'progressive' thinkers
hold views ahead of the Establishment
and by 'reactions move' forward. This pro-
cess is, in fact, remarkably similar to
the lever rule, in that the smaller the
group the more violently and aggressively
'progressive' they must be to move the
great dough-like unthinking mass — or so
we are expected to believe, There is one
great fallacy in this proposition ; this fallacy
centres on the work think. Neither the pro-
gressives nor the reactionaries think be-
fore striking. Their stands are not based
on the results of their thinking.
The lever situation described above a-
rises purely from political expediency. As
soon as the progressives have edged the
reactionaries forward they immediately
leap ahead again and howl once more
about backwardness, despite, the fact that
the reactinaries now hold !hat position so
recently held by the progressives them-
selves.
If either of these groups thought about
a problem instead of striking character-
istic poses, thev would decide on a solut-
ion, work, to achieve it„ and then abide
by it.
I predict the major controversy will be
on the issue of a Central Grant Award-
ing Authority for all Britain with grants
being automatic upon acceptance to Uni-
versity. In effect, by 1970, I except the
arguments will be about whether study-
ing shall be considered like a job, with
a wage being paid as for any other full-
time occupation.
My complaint about I.C. is that our
thinking is consistently behind the cur-
rent opinion for students in Britain. The
normal procedure is that students think-
ing leads to N.U.S. pressure on the Gov-
ernment which leads to a Government
Report which leads to furthur N.U.S.
pressure add finally Government action.
When we have a proper University attit-
ude we will be initiating thoughts at I.C.,
not as at present, thinking about the Means
Test after a Royal Commission has de-
cide in our favour.
I wish to querry recent and present book-
ing of the squash courts on two grounds.
1. The extraordinary upsurge in the
frequency of matches.
2. The surely regrettable practice of in-
serting a squash match booking at a late
date, overruling members' existing book-
ings and not even offering the courtesy
of informing them of the alterations.
Th first point could be regarded as a
most praise-worthy example of enthusiasm
in an Athletic Union Club. I have no wish
to underestimate the importance of com-
petitive sport, or rather the importance
many people attach to competitive sport.
Perhaps, though, squash is not an ap-
propriate sport for such an attiude where
the numbers of courts is severely limited.
Certainly a sense of balance is lacking at
present. Considering the times when the
snuaish courts are not in demand, i.e.
weekdays evenings, a quick look at the
oookihgs for the four weeks between Jan-
uary 30th and' February 24 th gives a
total of three club nights and 11 matches
(one of which was scratched at a late
date). I.e. members could not book a game
for 14 evenings in 20.
I suggest that" the second point is a
matter of incredibly autocratic behaviour
and that this is quite indefensible. I doubt
that I am the only member to weary rf
this treatment but I will restrict myself
to my own experience. After having a
booking (made 6 days in advance) for
February 14 th deleted in favour of a
match, I rebooked for February 23rd re-
questing I be informed if this booking
too were altered. I notice today that a
match has indeed been inserted, my book-
ing deleted and yet I received no notice
whatever. Does the person responsible for
this behaviour enjoy misusing his powers of
office to demonstrate his ascendancy above
mere club members? There is quick re-
medy for this. I believe that all Union
members are appreciative of those who
devote time and energy to filling the.
posts which must be filled for the Union
to run well, but equally, all members are
quick to resent high-handed behaviour on
the part of elected officials. In this case
only a little courtesy is required and per-
haps more responsible attitude.
The Squash Club contains a large num-
ber of members, relatively few of whom
are interested in representative matches
(how man yspectators support these
events?) and all of whom are entitled to
some consideration from their governing
officials. We enjoy playing squash and
wish to know why we are being barred from
doing so.
Yours sincerely,
A. Lew
We again have the complaint that I.C.
thinking is 'behind' that of other students.
Could it not be that I.C. has thought
about the problem and come to a con-
clusion? There is then no point in chasing
every new kite flown by so-called leaders
of student opinion. In fact, if we wait long
enough these enlightened gentlemen will
compete the full circle and catch us up.
I am always amused to read that the
mighty N.U.S. pressure forces the Gov-
ernment to set' up Royal Commissions
and take action contrary to its own des-
ires. Perhaps if we have an I.C. March
on Whitehall and the Government will
be terrified into resigning. After all this
would be the epitomy of democratic gov-
ernment.
In enclosing I wish to say that I agree
with Mr. Cox's view that all students
accepted at University should automat-
ically get a grant and that this grant
should be standard throughout the country.
I only hope that when this system is fully
established Mr. Cox will not change his
views and start campaigning for further
reforms just for the sake of being 'pro-
gressive'.
= PHOTOGRAPHIC=
EXHIBITION
by R.F. Cheeney
The first impression of the exhibition
organised by the Photographic Society
this year was that it suffered from being
cramped. Too mariy exhibition stands were
crowded into too little space.
Technically speaking the quality of the
prints was high. However, too little
thought and care had been put into the
mounting of the prints and in many cases
this was positively scrappy. "Several photo-
graphs were without names or titles.
The subject of both the prints and the
colour transparencies seemed to lack in-
spiration except in one or two isolated
cases. The colour transparencies especially
tended rather to I e "snapshots" than ser-
iously composed pictures. With regard to
the prints it seems that to much attention
had been paid to the well established rules
of photography. A little originality would
have done much to enhance the exhib-
ition. After all, if photography is to be
treated as an art form then is should in-
clude an element of self-expression.

