4 FELIX
SPORT
f SOCCER f"f_ CROSS COUNTRY
SUMMER
IS A'COMING
Although winter is still with us I feel
that a few words about 1,0. cricket will
not be out of place.
The fixture lists for all three Saturday
sides are as full as the short summer term
permits, and that of the Sunday team,
like the Sunday team, is very much a law
unto itself. The 1st XI plays the other
big colleges first and several of the club
sides in and around London whilst the
lesser colleges are dealt with by the 2nd
and 3rd teams. The climax of the season
is the annual Devon Tour which starts
on the first Tuesday after the end of
term and last's for ten days with 8 or 9
matches in that time. The tour is centred
on Plymouth and Torquay and matches
are played against a variety of clubs in
these areas. Of course it's not all cricket
and there really is some sport to be had
on a tour such as this. I urge anyone who
wants to relax (if playing ten davs cricket
'on the trot' is relaxing) and play some
good cricket to consider applying to go
on the tour. The cost to you depends en-
tirely on what you eat and drink but
won't come to more than £15 unless you
have an insatiable thirst.
Of more immediate interest, perhaps
are the arrangements for net trials at the
beginning of the season. These, will be
on Monday 24th April at 1 p.m. and
League fixtures for the current season
are now completed and four of our six
teams have gained promotion. The first
team will be back in division I next
season, but, perhaps, our outstanding suc-
cess was in the third division, where our
3rd, 4th, and 6th teams won divisions
IIIA, and IIIC respectively. The 5th
team would no doubt have won their
league too but for the fact that the I.C.
4th team were in the same division, -and
thus they had to be content with second
place.
The U.L. Championships were held on
19th and 20th February and our congratr
ulations go to C.L. Chow who only lost
lost 21-19 to G. Muranyi, the eventual
winner in the semifinal of the Men's
Singles.
I.G.C.
ONE, everything in this country is one.
no he's, she's, its hers, all one's. If they
ever start thinking in terms of twos this
island will really be overcrowded.
Crowded... specially the tube system. If
a person ever finds himself trapped in
a mass of people all heading the direction
opposite to that he wants to go (this
happens to every station at 5 p.m.) ; the
only chance to stay put is to grab any-
thing and hold on for dear life (preferably
a sexy blonde). Even though you might
still end up on the platform when you
really want to be on the train, at least
you have someone to talk to while you
wait for next train. Undoubtedly you will
be pushed back onto the next train
whether it is the right one or not so to
make the whole thing worthwhile you
have to make sure that the sexy blonde
ends up on the same train. It never fails,
I have met more blondes that way.
. I had intended to wjrite this article
neW the beginning of October, however,
my first assignment took all my time. This
assignment was to locate all of the better
pubs in London (and some of the worst).
This project is not anywhere complete,
but I hope that within the next two years
I will be able to produce a guide to the
pubs in South Kensington.
To add to the enjoyment of living on
a budget provided by the Board of Trade
I have bought a car. Not much of one
on anybody's standard, but it goes like
a charm (occasionally like a car), sits
four people, does thirty miles to the gal-
lon of petrol (gas), and about twice that
far on oil. It has such equipment as
doors, floor-boards, windows, and other
Wednesday 26th April at 2 p.m. at Harl-
ington. All prospective College players
will be welcomed.
By the time this article is printed there
will be a notice on our board, cunningly
sited close to the bar, asking for details
of your past experience (cricket only
please) so please fill this in before the Vac.
In the meantime if you want more in-
formation contact either myself, room 30
Old Hostel, John Preece (V. Capt.) or
Alan Bushby (Sec.), both in the New
Hostel.
The Club hop will be on March 18th
and we need a dozen people to help
organize this; volunteers may contact Ian
Towner (Treas.) in the Old Hostel. The
Annual Dinner will be early next term,
the provisional date being Monday 8th
May.
G. Brough
SHOOTING
by A.S.R. Cousins
Since the last report the Club shot
against Birmingham and managed to win
with a good score of 682 against 664. The
highlight of this term, however, is the
Constituent College competition for the
Courtman Shield. Guilds, the holders,
won the first round with a score of 584;
R.C.S. obtained 579 and R.S.M. 576. The
second round contained a surprise; R.C.S.
won with 582 and R.S.M. trailed slightly
with 5,71- The third and firal round will
he shot on Wednesday -1st March.
A newcomer to rifle shooting this term
is Bedford College who are trying to form
a club. In the meantime we are assisting
in this project by providing range and
coaching facilities. It is hoped that by next
season the standard will be such as to enter
a team in the Inter Collegiate League.
such comforts. Also it readily starts after
half an hour of crackling on a warm day.
The only thing I have to be careful of
is that if ever it backfires it will blow
itself off the road.
My project at the college is coming along
like a bat out of hell, but apparently
they won't give me a degree for produc-
ing bats, so I have tried something else
which might interest them a litle more.
However, I am still learning how to spell
the names of the units used in my project
so there will probably be a slight delay,
like a couple of years.
We haven't had any of the bad fogs
in London that you hear about, at least
I don't think so, the mist outside right
now is so heavy that I cannot see what
the weather is like. The weather is
really something over here, the sun has
three forms: mist, drizzle, and pouring;
however, the rain has only two forms:
buckets and holy £&@ %' where did
all this water come from in the last five
minutes?
Sport is another big thing at the col-
lege, if you're not a player then you play
the pools. Everybody plays the pools, no-
body wins, but it is the prime enjoy-
ment of everybody to see the other guy
just about die when he learns that he
had seven out of eight draws correct.
Well, the mist is starting to come
through my window and it is getting
harder to see the page so that I had
better close before I cannot see the type-
writer. Actually that is one reason, the
other is that the bar in the Union closes
in fifteen minutes and I must go over
for my night cap.
The Club is being well represented by
its first eleven who have won all their ten
games since Christmas. Tomorrow, March
4th, the final of the U.L. Cup will take
place at Motspur Park (K.O. 3 p.m.), and
I.C. will be trying to equal Kings record
of three victories in successive seasons.
I.C.s opponents, as in the final two years
ago, are Kings; I.C. won this game 3-0
Should I.C. win the Cup they will have
a splendid chance of pulling off the
double, a feat only performed once be-
fore: by U.C. in 1952. at the time of
writing I.C. have two league games to
play, one against Kings and the one
against L.S.E.
The second eleven have also been play-
ing reasonably well recently, and are at
present second in their league. Like the
first eleven they have reached the final
of their cup competition. Their opponents
will be L.S.E. second eleven, who they
have already beaten twice this season in
league matches.
The third eleven, playing in the same
league as most College's second elevens,
will have to fight hard to avoid relegation
but the fourth eleven, who have already
been playing consistently well since the
start of the season, are well placed for
promotion.
On 16th March the Club will be hold-
ing its Annual Dinner. The guest of hon-
our will be Douglas Insole, the well-known
criketer and amateur footballer. Tickets
can be obtainad from Club officials.
Finally, I hope to see a large number
of the College at Motspur Park on Satur-
day for the finals. Coaches will be run-
ning from the Union, and particulars will
he posted on College notice boards.
THE BLACKBURN TWO-STEP.
No, this is not a Lancastrian Clog
Dance. It is in fact the I.C.W.A. vs.
Union Exec, pancake race on Shrove
Tuesday. Exec, were first across the line
but being the gentlemen that they are
conceded defeat to the ladies.
JUDO-JINX
On Wednesday 22nd February we at
last managed to find some opponents who
did not cancel their fixture at the last
minute and I.C. scored clear cut victor-
ies over Goldsmith's and King's. In the
contest against Goldsmith's newcomer to
the team, Cohen, won a convincing victory
with reaping throw followed up with a
scarf hold. This was followed up with
quick wins by Home and Simons who des-
patched their opponents in good time.
Downing then fought a draw with a rather
hefty orange belt who seemed quite con-
tent to hang on for a drawn contest.
The two Universities men, Bowles and
Ramsbottom, both won their fights
against an orange belt and a green belt of
some years experience respectively. (The
In the Annual London Colleges Trophy
race held by S'.W.E.T.C, the I.C. team
had yet another close tussle with Borough
Road. This time we were beaten by surely
the closest result possible — both teams
scoring the same number of points but
Borough Road, having their last man one
second in front of our last man, took the
match.
Result
1. Borough Road 41
2. I.C. I 41
3. Q.M.C. I 110
4. U.C. I 127
5. I.C. II 166
6. Kings 176
The following Saturday (11th Feb.),
the I.C. team was again weakened by sev-
eral of the team running in the Southern
Cross Country Champs., and was beaten
by a strong Met. Police team though man-
aging to beat the London Fire Brigade
very easily.
Result:—
1. Met. Police 43
2. I.C. 68
3. Fire Brigade 120
On Wednesday 22nd I.C. were hosts to
the teams competing in the London Uni-
versity League (Div. I). The course was
extremely fast at Petersham and many
people did their fastest time. John Cleator
first three places (J. Cleator, T. Willkins,
in the first place, took 26-53, which is
better than the existing record (27-10) but
as he went slightly off-course it cannot
be counted as a record. I.C. filled the
first three places (J. Cleator, T. Wilkins,
J. Collins) and with another bunch at
10, 11, 12 (P. Warren, D. Hammonds,
J. Greenleaf). The I.C. teams were able
to take first and second places in the
match. This was the final league match
this year and in spite of the second team's
success in this match they seem to be
doomed to relegation into League II.
This is mainly due to our missing the
first match of the season in which the
second team scored no points at all.
Match result:—
1. I.C. 165
2. I.C. II 129
3. L.S.E. 123
4. Q.M.C. 120
5. Kings 115
6. U.C. 65
Final League Positions:
1. I.C. 658£
2. Q.M.C. 557
3. King s 479
4. L.S.E. 433£
5. U.C. 348
6. St. Thorn. H. 348
7. London H. 334
8. St. Mary's H. 319
9. I.C. II 318
10. R.V.C. 126
orange belt, looking somewnat green aDom
the gills, had then to be helped back to
the dressing room and took no further part
in the proceedings.)
A three man match against King's then
saw some spirited fighting with Home
winning once again and Bowles making
draw. In the final contest Ramsbottom
met his old rival Marshal and after a
brief but hectic struggle pinned him with
a scarf hold much to his satisfaction.
URGENT TRAD NEWS
Clarinet and trombone required
for amateur trad, band in Kensington.
Practice Tuesday evenings.
Contact the Editor of FELIX.
^ T A B L E TENNIS
A CANADIAN SETS FOOT IN LONDON
by Si Lyle
Published by FELIX BOAED Imperial College, London, S.W.7.
Elates & offset) printing by WEST LONDON OFFSET CO., 86, Lillie Road*, London, S.W.6. Tel : FUL 7969

