nil V R V HA V WRITTEN BYAFTAB GUJRAL
U M
TOY UM ¥ Q N B E H A L F OF THE CINA
WEDNESDAY 3rd
Rhodesia peace talks hit crisis point. Lord
Carrington gave the rival delegations until
Monday to accept his proposals for the
country's independance. He rejected the
Front Leaders' objections, but to push the
Front could jeopardize the British peace
plans. ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
The engineers' strike, which has cost an
estimated billions of pounds in lost
production, could be over soon. Employers
gave a broad hint at a secret meeting with
Union leaders about increasing the pay offer.
The talks have save the Confederation of
Engineering Unions from an embarrassing
public split. _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Rolls Royce, who laid off 30,000 workers
because of strikes have missed out on a
£60million order from All Nipon Airways, who
decided in favour of Boeing jets with
American engines.
Mr James Callaghan lost by a slender
848,000 votes his power to determine the
party's election manifesto. Mr Callaghan
already had several shocks: claims that his
defeat would bring election victories and
protest on not including the promise to axe
the House of Lords in the last manifesto. He
was, however, defended by various people,
saying that the N E C was unfit to draw the
manifesto and that the voters do not want
extreme left wing socialism.
THURSDAY 4th
Engineering Unions have won a reduction
of one hour in the working week from the end
of 1981, and an extra holiday week
Employers said that it could lead to industrial
peace for four years, as Unions called for an
immediate end to strikes, which have cost
firms £2,000million in l o s t s a l e s
Mr Callaghan made it clear, that he has no
intention of giving way to the fundamental
question of ultimate authority over party
policy. This week's decision at the Brighton
Conference, he conceded, amounted to a
censure of his premiership. But, he said that it
was still the parliamentary labour party which
retained fundamental responsibility for
action of labour governments
Cambodia refuted c l a i m s by t h e
International Committee of Red Cross and
UNICEF that it authorized the two
international relief organizations to open
offices in Phenom Penh or agreed to a large
scale aid operation for the famine-stricken
country.
The US is sellling grain to U S S R and may
sell arms to China in a complex balancing act.
FRIDAY 5th
A tough package of anti-IRA border
securtiy measures was agreed between
British and Eire ministers. The measures
involve far closer cooperation between the
RUC and the Irish police and more intensive
patrolling of the perilous area on both sides of
the border.
Bishop Muzorewa formally accepted
British proposals for the Rhodesian
constitution and to take part in new elections
under British supervision. T h e Bishop said
the agreement was subject to 'suitable and
satisfactory' arrangements for bringing the
constitution into effect and the lifting of
sanctions. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
The Government is unwilling to pour extra
tax payers' money into British Leyiand. Sir
Keith Joseph, Industry Secretary, said he
would take 'some convincing' of the need for
extra money and that the Leyiand board and
the National Enterprise board must provide
evidence is support of any further funds
b e i n g g i v e n to B r i t i s h L e y i a n d .
SATURDAY 6th
USSR will withdraw up to 20.000troops and
1,000 tanks from East Germany in the next
year. This surprising move is hoped by the
Russians to ease the path to detente, but
sceptical Western observers say that the
catch is that Brezhnev demands NATO
should not increase its own nuclear forces.
This could be said to alter the situation in
Europe radically and force Warsaw Pact
nations to take steps to strengthen its own
security.
Mr Merlyn Rees, warned that the Labour
Party was threatened with extinction. There
are growing doubts by others on the right of
the Parliamentary Labour Party over the
effectiveness of Mr Callagnan's leadership.
They argue that since he was out
manoeuvred by the left and if the erosion of
the leader's authority continues, the left will
dominate the inquiry into the party. Mr
Callaghan, however, will carry on as he has
the backing of the majority of the shadow
cabinet. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Pope John Paul visited the White House
and joined Mr Carter in calling for nuclear
disarmament and agreed with the President,
that more international support is needed for
the relief of the Third World, starving people
and refugees. ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^ ^
Lord Carrington described acceptance of
the British draft constitution by Bishop
Muzorewa as a major step forward. The
Patriotic Front Leaders refuse to accept the
British proposals as they are deeply
suspicious of a secret deal with Bishop
Muzorewa and that he is relying on the front
line nations to put pressure on them.
Leaders of the black consciousness
movement in South Africa are about to put
the South African Governments reformiost
zeal to the test Mr Bott, a South African
premier, might have to rely on the English
speaking section of the electorate to back
his onslaught of the outdated and crude
racial laws in existence
SUNDAY 7th
Mr Smith made his position as leader ofthe
white minority clear, by threatening to use his
political strength to prevent parliamentary
approval of the constitution proposed by
Britian and in doing so he acknowledged his
alienation from the rest of the Salisbury
government delegation. South Africa has
offered to mediate between the Bishop and
Mr Smith. -
The government yesterday hinted that it
mioht order a public inquiry into the death of
Blair Peach. Mr Peach died after being struck
during the Southall race riots and insufficient
evidence has come to light during the inquest
into his death.
MONDAY 8th
The Rhodesia conference reached a
critical stage last night after the Patriotic
Front rejected British constitutional plans
and advanced their own draft. In their
demands the Front leaders called for the
negotiations to move onto the second stage:
p r e - i n d e p e n d e n c e a r r a n g e m e n t s of a
transitional period and their reservations
about the British draft being noted.
Meanwhile white M P s in Rhodesia gave their
unanimous support to the strategy being
pursued by M r Smith to prevent removal of
white privilege.
A soldier in civilian clothes was killed and
another injured in a terrorist ambush in West
Belfast, when their mini was attacked by
automatic fire by three men from a hardware
shop off the Falls Road.
In an unprecedented speech at a private
luncheon to members of the Newspaper
Society, M r Mason (former minister for
Northern Ireland) spoke of the pressure on
him and his family by holding the office. The
post was described as 'awesome and
gruelling' and he said that the IRA's powerful
propaganda machine was skilfully using the
British press to undermine British policy and
small all faith in democratic institutions.
TUESDAY 9th
Lord Carrington told the Patriotic Front
leaders to give him their 'definitive reply' on
the final draft of the Zimbabwean constitution
when he returns to Lancaster House from the
Conservative Party conference. Mr Mugabe
reiterated that some parts of ;the British draft
constitution are unacceptable and that the
Front are prepared to step up the guerilla war
rather than surrender on points of principle,
as they believe intensification of the struggle
will eventually lead to victory, but a
settlement at Lancaster House would be
welcome. _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
The Defence Secretary, Mr Pym, said that
the Russian offer of troop withdrawal should
be seen in the proper perspective. Even these
reductions would leave the Warsaw Pact
forces with 140,000 more men and 9,500
tanks than N A T O . He was speaking at the
Conservative Party conference and went on
to reaffirm the present government's
commitment to nuclear weapons and
maintaining an effective nuclear deterrent.
The Irish government was found guilty by
the Human Rights Court of two breaches of
the European Convention of Human Rights
because it failed to provide civil legal aid orto
simplify its family courts systems. The case
was taken to Strasburg by Mrs Airey in 1972,
after a long and bitter struggle to persuade
the Irish courts to bar her estranged husband
from her house
12

