MODERN PHYSICS
AND THE IRRATIONAL
by our Science Correspondent
The tube station walks to my house every
morning, i buy a ticket, get in the train and the
earth sets off. Usually I do not take any notice
of the train's destination, so I ask the
passenger" sitting next to me, 'Excuse me,
does South Kensington Station stop at this
train?' 'I beg your pardon?!'
I apologize for having been carried away by
relativity, but ever since I received my formal
modern physics training at IC, those exotic
principles, weird theories and subtle
paradoxes of modern physics (relativity,
uncertainty, antimatter, blackholes, big bang,
quarks etc.) have really muddled and
troubled me.
Try to imagine the plight of the physics
student. He is taught at school (and I am
quoting from a text-book) that 'the earth is
our frame of reference, ie it is treated as
absolutely stationary (fixed) and all motion is
observed relative to it.' I would have thought
that this is pretty obvious, for the huge earth
c a r r i e S j in physical phenomena, an
immensely greater weight and gravity than,
say, the mere speeding train. But when I came
to IC I realized that fashions change in
science too - just as in millinery; I was
lectured about Einstein's celebrated train-
embankment G e d a n k e n experiment
according to which one is allowed to describe
the hard facts of life in the extraordinary way I
ventured to introduce above.
The unfortunate physics student is taught
relativity and he is also taught quantum
mechanics. However, rarely is it pointed out
to him that the basic philosophy, concepts
and mathematics which underlie these two
grand systems are mutually exclusive and
often contradictory. Taking into account the
fact that gravitation and electromagnetism -
two less mutually exclusive systems - have
defied unification for so long, even despite
the lifelong efforts of no less a scientific giant
than Einstein, one wonders how the former
two theories are ever going to be reconciled.
I have come across text-books of
electromagnetism and treatises of optics
which develop their respective theories on
the basis of an 'ether* - light-medium - but
towards the end (typically page 600 or so)
they deliver a shocking blow to the poor
student by stating explicitly and
unashamedly that 'the simpler view seems to
be that there is no ether'; I would say that the
simplest view is kthat there is no text-book.
It is not surprising then, but seen from
another angle it is extremely disturbing,that-a
famous contemporary philosopher of
science, Professor P. Feyerabend, has
declared that 'under all circumstances and in
all stages of human development (science, of
course, includedjanyfh/ng goes.' Right you
guys, have a go with your own brilliant
ideas....
Nor is it surprising that there is a great deal
of talk about revolution in science: in a time of
such upheaval, the unfortunate scientist has
to suffer the embarrassment and humiliation
of abandoning long cherished views and
theories in favour of more modern and, as a
rule, more esoteric and more abstruse. In
addition to this, a fantastic amount of work
along the lines of the discredited viewpoint is
s i m p l y thrown into the d u s t b i n .
The Dance of Shiva pictured by twelfth-century
Eastern artists and twentieth-century physicists
Ever since my first days at IC I have always
felt uneasy with modern physics and its
methods. I could detect in them, (from quite
early on), a touch of divine revelation and an
aura of metaphysical mystique which at times
befogged and obscured the real facts and
phenomena of nature. My suspicions grew,
slowly but constantly,stronger, when I came
across statements like Mach's criticism of
Newton's law of inertia that 'this law has
attained the dignity and intangibleness of a
papal dictum.'j Einstein's own pronounce-
ment that' theories are not fabricated out of
results of observation, but they can only be
invented'; and Oirac's 'overpowering belief
that its (general relativity's) foundations must
be correct, quite independent of its
agreement with observation', etc., etc.
Unpalatable though the thought may be,
there are striking similarities between the
theories, methods and concepts of modern
physics and those of mystics of all times. My
fears were amply confirmed when a collegue
of mine drew my attention to 'The Tao of
Physics' - a book on sale in the IC bookshop-
which, as its subtitle reveals, explores the
parallels between modern physics and
Eastern mysticism. Dr. F. Capra, theauthorof
this book, who is a theoretical high-energy
physicist and has done research at IC, argues
elegantly and convincingly, that 'a consistent
view of the world is beginning to emerge from
modern physics which is harmonious with
ancient Eastern wisdom'; further,he observes
that 'we often encounter statements where it
is almost impossible to say whether they have
been made by physicists or by' Eastern
mystics'; furthermore, he remarks that
'Eastern mysticism provides a consistent and
beautiful philosophical framework which can
accommodate our most advanced theories';
he also provides quotations from eminent
physicists to support his arguments.
o
C
7T|
t
CO
'
.
•
'
•
•
;
'
>
,
v
.
V
?
,
u
]
'
t i£(fyf?MA - • (
•
"
• V
'
.
-
.
'
j
V
.
j
j
>
oL
©
ICQ
Dr. Capra, by bringing to the fore the
manifold similarities between Eastern
mysticism and modern physics, aims,
apparently, to exalt the former and raise its
esteem to the high level which the latter has
attained with the general public and the
political establishment during this century.
For this purpose, he claims that 'modern
physics is not only based on intuition, but
also on experiments of great precision and
sophistication and on a rigorous and
consistent mathematical formulation.'
On the other hand, there are other books, in
particular, 'Science at the Crossroads' by H.
Dingle, a former professor of physics at IC,
whom the 'Times' described in an obituary
notice, when he died a year ago as an
'eminent scientist and philosopher', that
argues inter alia that abstract mathematics
cannot, by themselves, prove anything in the
stark reality of nature; moreover, it explains
why expeftments involvfng unobservableand
hypothetical, submicroscopic particles (from
the more or less 'familiar' proton and neutron
to the pretty elusive quark and the like)
cannot yield all the data which Is required to
test the validity of theories ana nypotheses
which are intended to apply to the very
familiar macro-world of everyday life.
Irrespectively or wno is right and who is
wrong, this affair smacks of religion and it is
not altogether strange to the unusual fever -
one might say sheer frenzy - that has swept
the entire globe (and not merely the scientific
community) of Einstein's centennial
celebrations earlier this year. As a result,
practically everybody has expressed, at one
time or another, his adulation of Einstein';
stunning genius, but I would rather suggest
that they also consider the remarkably
spurious techniques which the media
regularly employ for promotion purposes.
Einstein himself, ' would have been appalled
by all the fuss' say people who knew him
intimately. There is a good reason, therefore,
to ask; 'why all the uproar?'
I suspect that the use of expressions such
as 'Saint of Science', 'Modern Prometheus',
'Second Isaiah' which we heard or read in
connection with Einstein's life and work are
not accidental. In times past, 'the opiate of the
people' used to be Gods, prophets and saints
- religion in general. In our enlightened days,
such luxurious 'commodities' have become
antiquated and obsolete, and it is rather hard
to 'sell' them; apparently, they must be
replaced - obviously by the exaggerated cult
of Einstein and his incomprehensible (to the
uninitiated 'layman' - and to most scientists
for that matter) mathematical 'testament'.
Portraits and statues of Einstein that have
been made for the purpose, run into the
hundreds, if not thousands, and the whole
world has come to think and talk about him
with reverence, awe and piety, a practice
which in the past was relevant to deities and
the like.
This improper 'deification' to the non-
scientific public of Einstein and his theories
is, irrespective of their scientific value,
uncharacteristic and unacceptable to
responsible science; further, it is offending to
the humble personality of Einstein, who was,
during his lifetime, a perfect example of
modesty and humility, who always detested
megalomania and despised all forms of
authority.
It is high time that this despicable
falsification, misuse and exploitation of
s c i e n c e must c o m e to an e n d .
13

