In the midst of the current crisis at Imperial College,
Justin Newland relates what it's like to be a Fresher at I.C.
'Freshers, welcome to your first identity crisis.' Anne read the poster,
red ink on white background, which was plastered across the face other
Southside Halls of Residence. Her parents, who had driven her to the
college with all her belongings, preferred to ignore its warning. Her
mother, a slim, neurotic woman, chatted away in her usual nonsensical
way, while George, her hen-pecked father, was in the process of making
his fifth attempt on the British weight-lifting title - Anne's two suitcases
weighed a ton.
Her own thoughts were confused. All she wanted to do was bid her
parents a final farewell, yet another part of her felt timid and afraid at the
idea of being left alone in this huge concrete metropolis. With just
seventeen years behind her, the ambivalent figure of independence now
finally stared her right between the eyes.
It was a dreary London Saturday on the week-end before term. The
hand of autumn lay silently over the quaint, typically London gardens:
the fallen leaves already w h i s p e r e d 'Winter is c o m i n g . '
Meanwhile, Anne checked the details of her own accomodation, and
announced that her room was on the fifth floor of the building. A s they
stood waiting for the lift, numerous scruffy-looking people wandered
about aimlessly, some looking completely lost, others trying vainly to
give the impression that they weren't completely lost. Behind this
foreground of confusion there was an air of relaxation and contentment.
Anne and her mother set off to walk up the stairs and soon reached the
fifth floor, where they spent the next ten minutes trying to decipher the
room-numbering system, which, it is rumoured, was invented by the
British Intelligence Service during the Second World War. After
discovering the location of such essential places as the W.C. and the
b a t h r o o m , t h e y f i n a l l y s t u m b l e d u p o n h e r r o o m .
Suddenly Anne realised that she'd forgotten to collect her room key.
Keen to take the opportunity to escape from under her parents' wing,
she promptly set off to find someone who could help her. She made her
way to the kitchen, where a group of five or six girls were avidly
discussing the sexual potential of the male student population.
One girl, who introduced herself as Tassya, provided Anne with all the
information she needed. She'd arrived a few days previously, and was
already schooled in the difficulties and obstacles strewn across the
course of fresher students. T o Anne's embarrasment, her mother
appeared. She began complaining about the minute layer of dust which,
according to her, covered everything. The other girls patronisingly
agreed with her, then fell into silence.
At any rate, Anne ran off to fetch the key. She quickly returned. The
Porter's breath, she had noticed, had smelt of alchohol. Not surprisingly
the key didn't fit the lock. After a return trip, and another five flights of
stairs, the door was opened. How could such simple things create such
difficulties, Anne thought to herself naively. Perhaps it was an omen.
But before her was her home-to-be for the forth-coming year. How
strange is the air of a tidy, un-lived room. There is something naked and
barren about it, yet it's so full of potential .... like a blank canvas to an
artist. Her mother went into ecstasies over the view onto the gardens.
For the sake of being uncompromising, Anne replied that it wasn't
exactly a breath-taking panorama. George just grunted, then slumped
down on the bed, exhausted.
After a while, Tassya poked her nose in the door. She asked Anne if
she wanted to join her and her friends in a sojourn to the bar. They were
going in ten minutes. Anne agreed readily, so her parents decided it was
a propitious time to leave.
Now began an embarrassing sequence of goodbyes, benedictions,
and promises to write and phone regularly. Anne's mother was clearly
distressed at loosing 'her baby'while George seemed totally indifferent,
though tacitly concerned. Anne thanked them both politely, hugged her
mother and kissed her father lightly on the cheek. In the next moment,
she was alone, three years of Life Sciences before her.
Meanwhile, on the floor above, Robin was unpacking his suitcase. He
picked up a text book he had already bought for his course in
Computing Science. The shiny paperback cover reflected what scanty
sunlight that filtered through the clouds on this groggy London day.
'What knowledge lies between these covers' he murmured to himself,
mentally licking his lips in anticipation. How wonderful it would all be.
You see, for Robin, learning was the supreme enjoyment, not a chore or
a hobby. He collected knowledge like others collected buterflies,
women or memories. If he was fortunate, he would not experience the
apathy and grand disillusionment that invariably arrives after a brief
taste of University education. Knowledge, he will find, is only a means,
but not an end in itself.
He had left Cardiff earlier the same day, where he'd been loath to leave
his parents. His danger was that he would bury himself up to his neck in
books, thus avoiding the supremely difficult task which confronts all
adolescents - the task of developing himself emotionally, as well as
intellectually.
For a person like Robin, a University is also a place to escape from,
amongst other things, the annoying intrusions of the female gender,
about whom his knowledge was negligible, not to say non-existent. As
far as he was concerned, Mayfair was just a boulevard in London,
somewhere in the vicinity of Pall Mall. Secretly, he longed for the mellow
quiescence of old age, when all the passions have perished.
After all, Beaumarchais had said that the only difference between
men and the animals was that men drank when they weren't thirsty and
procreated when they didn't need to.
He looked at his watch, then remembered that there was an
introductory tour of the library he wanted to attend. With an adoring
glint in his eye, he carefully shelved the text-book next to Chalmers'
Twentieth Century dictionary, a London A to Z, and a mass of leaflets
and student handouts that had been thrust into his grubby little paws
the moment he had made his entry to Southside. He searched through
this accumulation of confusion until he found a map of the locality, the
happily marched off to the library.
Just as he reached the fifth floor, a group of girls, chattering away like
old women, emerged from their dormitary. He was late, and in a dreadful
hurry, but these girls insisted on walking down the stairs three abreast,
thus barring his way. They sauntered down the five flights as if they were
out for a Sunday promenade. Indeed, Anne and Tassya and their friends
had donned their finest Sunday dresses for the imminent confrontation
with the male population. Clearly, they were about to show that
Beaumarchais' witty epigram applied equally to women as to m e n .
Robin, a staunch Conservative, decided to take an active interest in
the I.C. political life, but only in so far as he voted for anyone wearing a
blue rosette. In one election, he tried to vote for a lost Chelsea
supporter, to the dismay of several West Ham supporters, who
h a p p e n e d to be c h a s i n g h i m t h r o u g h t h e C o l l e g e .
Anne, on the other hand, was more keenly involved, since she was
already in the thick of the I.C. political drama. Of course she was an
ardent left-winger, though really only because her parents were
Conservatives. After a while, the nuances between the doctrines ofthe
Trotskyites, the Marxists, the Neo-Marxists, the Leninists, the Stalinists,
the Communists, the Anarchists, and the Socialist tended to become
slightly blurred in her mind. What amazed her just as muchk, was that
although all these political groups were Left-wing, they squabbled and
argued amongst themselves to such a degree that they never agreed on
anything, least of all got anything done.
But on the occasion of this U.G.M., when you see a hall of people,
crammed shoulder to shoulder, it's easy to believe that their either
elected representatives can wave the political gauntlet with impunity
and so generate a force which no Rector, Government, or whoever else
has incurred the relentless wrath of the Student' Union, can withstand
for long. At any rate, the reader can draw his own conclusions on this
point, I'm only here to tell you about Anne, Robin and their friends.
Tassya was elected onto a Committee specifically established to
consider ways in which the level of bureaucracy, and in particular the
number of Committees, could be reduced. Later she told me that the
task was so complicated, they recommended that two more committees
be established to ease their burden.
At this point, we're going to leave the adventures of Robin and Anne
until we rejoin them on the day of the Fresher's Fair. In the meantime, I'll
quickly describe what happened to them in between time, as well as
s k e t c h i n g s o m e t h i n g m o r e a b o u t t h e i r c h a r a c t e r s .
To Anne, it seemed as it she'd met a thousand and one different
people. She was certainly enjoying her newly-won freedom. Indeed, she
had consummated it on the same night as her arrival by seducing a C C U
President. Although she was unaware of it at the time, this was the best
way for her to make inroads into a social clique, which is the one and
only social division at any University. Mind you, if you'd have pressed
her on the point, she'd have told you that it was she who was seduced by
the President. After all, she had to retain a semblance of feminine
honour.
Robin, however, had continued to lead his slavish existence. You've
probably seen him around: he's the quiet one who seems to be a loner,
until one day you see him somewhere with a couple of people, who just
look his type.

