Now Richard, who rather fancied himself as a future Whitehall
mandarin, thought that an appropriate beginning to such a noble
vocation would be to join the Organising Committee of the Oxford
Street Tiddlywinks contest, which is traditionally held on the first
Saturday after term begins. For better or worse, he was allocated the
task of seeing that no one cheated by surreptitiously placing their
tiddlys in their pockets, and walking, rather than "winking" the course.
On the day, he was posted about half way along Oxford Street,
equipped with his two anti-cheating devices,,,,two lumps of flesh,
blood, tissue and nerves, four fingers and a thumb. Of course, he had
thought that all his job would consist of would be first to indentify the
lawbreaking winkers, challenge them, then demand that they turn out
their pockets. This ad hoc procedure worked well for a while, until it
finally dawned on him that there were members of BOTH sexes
participating in the event.
At any rate, after sometime, his Kojak intuition suddenly told him that
a buxom wench who happened to be passing him at the time was acting
in a grossly suspicious manner. With the unabashed enthusiasm of a
spider about to catch a fly trapped in its web, Richard laid both hands on
his victim. It was at this point that he realised that his methods of search
would have to be radically altered if he was to perform his task properly.
With a suspicious glint in his eye, he looked at Anne, then again at what
she was wearing a navy blue IC tee shirt over an elegant light blue
frock.
'Where could she hide a tiddly or two?' he wondered to himself. First
he took the obvious approach: he body-searched her. With cavalier
gusto, he felt all over her shapely body, from shoulder to waist and so
on.
Anne was quite bewildered by all this, although whatever it was, she
said to herself, it was far more pleasant than tiddlywinking. All the same,
when he'd completed this task, which was obviously so distasteful to
him, Richard was chagrined to find no incriminating evidence
whatsoever. He now went through a prolonged mental debate. Should
he make a more thorough search, or perhaps suffer the humiliation of
being outwitted by this foxy lady. All the while, a mischevious voice
inside him kept insisting that this regal specimen of womanhood, who
stood before him had tiddlys concealed somewhere upon her person.
Without further ado, in the middle of Oxford Street, on a lovely
autumn day, Richard Bignall put his hands up a girl's dress and
promptly got himself arrested for attempted rape. In reply to Richard's
protest that he was 'just looking for tiddlywinks', the arresting officer
was heard to comment that in thirty years of dealing with sexual
offenders, he'd never heard it put like that before. But that's another
story.
At the end of the afternoon, the gallant competitors assembled at
Piccadilly Circus to pay their yearly homage to none other than that
rascal Eros, the son of Aphrodite, the Queen of Lust. It was doubtless
one of his arrows which pricked poor Richard's heart, smiting it with
blinding passion. Nevertheless, perhaps it is significant that it Is at the
statue of Eros, who is both the divine symbol of childhood and the
personification of the most playful amorous desire, that a thousand or
so IC students congregate each year.
Anne joined in the Ring-o-Round-a-Rosie in a state of complete
ecstacy: she'd never realised that a tiddlywinks competition, in which,
incidentally, she was not even participating, could be such a lascivious
and erotic activity. It was only after she'd downed a few lager and limes
in the "Cockney Pride" that she began to feel the earth beneath her
dainty feet.
The last we heard of Richard was that when the judge asked him if he
had anything to say before he was sentenced, he replied, "Beam me up,
Scottie!"
Also there is no more time to see whether Captain James T. will come
to Richard's rescue, for here my story ends. As Master of Ceremonies
of this tale, it just remains to me to bid you a fond farewell. But if you'H
bear with me a while longer, I've penned a few concluding remarks for
your edification. -
17

