'Woyzeck'
a film by Werner Herzog
This haunting production of a German
Romantic play by George Buchner describes
the behaviour of a man within whom the
embers of sanity are barely alight. Woyzeck,
is played with frightening intensity by Klaus
Kihski, is an army private at war only within
himself.
No particular cause of his insanity and
obsessional tendencies is emphasised,
except that he has been participating in kan
inhuman medical experiment; the army
physician has been feeding him on peas for
three months merely to observe the
physiological and psychological effects. As a
result, Woyzeck suffers from the consuming
symptoms of nutritional deprivation; he hears
voices and is visited by apocalyptic
hallucinations.
It is significant that he is mad from kthe
beginning - there is no portrayal of the
gradual fall from sanity. One's sense of pity
for the anti-hero (for he has none of the
qualities of a classical tragic hero - a high
station in life, magnaminity or dignity) is at
first exacerbated because Woyzeck is so
tormented by his masters. It soon becomes
evident that they are victims just as much as
he: the Doctor, of his obsessional desire for
fame through medical discovery; the Captain,
of his bourgeois values and hyperchondria;
and the Drum-Major, Woyzeck's cuckold-
maker, of his Aryan arrogance and insensate
brutality.
Only Marie, Woyzeck's wife, is allowed that
human, all too human virtue of self-
awareness. She sees into her own rotten
nature, and yearns to repent her whorish
tendencies, especially after an amorous
encounter with the Drum-Major. But
Woyzeck, perhaps because of his physical
condition, is given no trace of self-awareness.
Consequently, there is no 'realisation' scene,
an essential feature of the classical concept
of tragedy. Indeed, it is Woyzeck's ignorance
of his own condition that disbars him from
combating his suffering with any dignity. It
also explains why he did not turn the knife on
himself after slaughtering his wife in a fit of
jealousy, a jealousy aroused by his
unrequited love for her.
The pathos of the film is made more
poignant by the use of two dramatic devices
from classical tragedy: the contrast of the
humorous and the pathetic; and irony, with
the occasional use of prophetic irony. An apt
example is the reason why Woyzeck first
agreed to participate in the Doctor's
experiment - he had wanted to earn some
extra money to give to his wife.
Thus, although Woyzeck is the tragic'hero'
in the sense that he is the focus of attention, it
is really society that is condemned as the
'human' man, he is the only character who
has n e i t h e r v i c e n o r n e u r o s i s .
A subtle contrast between animal and
human runs through the whole drama:
Woyzeck's guines-pig status in the Doctor's
tragic agent and victimiser, while humanity
itself is seen as the tragic central figure.
Wrongdoers and wronged alike are the
(innocent) victims of lust for power, revenge
and illicit sexual desires in a society rancid
with cant and the most horrifying
callousness.
The only sign of hope in this bleak
landscape of futility is Andres, Woyzeck's
army comrade and friend. A simple
experiment; the 'speaking' horse which he
and his wife see when they visit the circus;
and the bestial impulses which manifest
themselves in the Drum-Major's lust and
animal cruelty and in Woyzeck's savage
butchery of his wife.
Herzog's dispassionate production is set
against a peaceful, rural background. As in
'The Enigma of Kaspar Hausar', the vivid
natural imagery is used with awesome effect.
But this man Herzog has a highly developed
sense of the tragic, as well as a rare attribute
among film directors, the ability to transpose
a (tragic), play onto celluloid without
d e m o l i s h i n g it in the p r o c e s s .
Now showing at the Paris Pullman Cinema,
Drayton Gardens, SWIO.
Justin Newland
DEF LEPPARD
Def Leppard is an apt name for a heavy
metal rock group, and the band gave early
notice that the name is not undeserved. The
warning came via the pre-concert sound
check; during which a large number of heads
were seen to emerge from Queen Alexandrs
House, and a round of applause emanating
from this building greeted the end of the
track.
The actual concert was started by a support
band, Guilt Edge, who played a set lasting
about an hour. Their vocalist ( who is a
postgraduate student at IC) was the most
notable member of this five piece outfit,
singing vocals that were both aggressive and
expressionate. What let the band down,
however, was their lead guitarist. His playing
lacked attack, and often seemed to subdue
the effect of the strong rhythm section of the
band. He also lacked stage prescence - both
clothes and style of playing admirably
qualifying him to be Hank Marvin's
understudy. However, it was an enjoyable
session from a band who while lacking polish
m a d e a very a c c e p t a b l e s o u n d .
Def Leppard on the other hand are a very
polished and professional band indeed; with
the bass guitarist being particularly adept at
projecting his personality from the stage.
They play loud heavy metal rock in the classic
mould. I must admit that with many bands of
this genre I have trouble telling one track
from another, thus it seemed to me as if Def
Leppard played the same track ten different
times. I liked this track though, so I didn't
object too much.
The rest of the audience also seemed to
enjoy the band, and by the time the second
track had finished there were at least thirty
"head-bangers" leaping around the front of
the hall. Many of these seemed familiar with
Leppard's music, greeting tracks off their
recent EP with cheers. How successful the
night was can be judged by the fact that the
group were brought back for two encores by
some enthusiastic applause.
Finally, if any of you want to listen to some
Def Leppard, they have a single coming out
shortly. In addition to this, they are doing a
series of concerts at the Hammersmith
Odeon supporting AC/DC, between 1st and
4th November, with a return visit on 17th
December.
R e v i e w b y R e e s
W i l l i a m s
P h o t o s b y N i g e l T o o b y

