RUGBY
While FELIX were covering last
Sunday's Rugby match, the Assistant
Secretary of the Metropolitan Police
Club came over and said that the match
should be stopped. We now print the
transcript of the conversation between
the FELIX reporter and the Assistant
Secretary:
FELIX The games got to be stopped?
A.S. Yeah -according to my governor.
Why they didn't tell us the truth I'll never
know. Being a police club we can't
afford to get involved in bloody politics.
If it hadn't been for some fucking
loud mouthed fucking reporter, that was
here, it would be near enough all right.
FELIX: T H E MIRROR?
A.S. Yeah opening his mouth in the bar.
My Governor wants it stopped unless
someone can come and convince him
that it shouldn't be. He's over in the club
house. Me - I'm all for sport because I
organise the sport here. Quite honestly,
we would never have known if it wasn't
for the man from the Daily Papers.
I'm all for it. I would let anybody play.
As I say - if the bloke comes over and
puts it in the national press - then our
governors will be on our neck - we're
only poor policemen and we run the club
for the whole of the Metropolitan Police
and I say as much as I'd like the game to
go on - and I dare say so would he - we
just can't afford to get involved in it.
.... You booked it as the School of Mines
verses the Mining industry. Now I used
to work in the pit and I know what it is all
about. I was down there for 11 years. I'd
like it to go on because I'd like to come
and watch it. I'm only the understudy
and I've got to do as I'm told.
The match was consequently called
off at half time with the score 22 - 4 to the
South African team. The South Africans
liked the hard fast ground because they
are used to bone dry conditions. Ray
Parkinson was the scorer of the select
teams only try.
Central Stores
Central Stores require twelve student
helpers for two or three hours on
Wednesday afternoon, 17th October. £2
per hour. Contact Stores
Superintendant int. 2700.
Scrum Down
CHRIS PLAYS TOO
Amidst controversy surrounding the
Sunday Rugby Match, another game
took place last Saturday, which is
threatening to have even more far
reaching effects. This was a game
between the B2s, whose line up included
the ICU President, and a team from the
Decca Record Company. The B2s
used South African players to make up
their numbers. Chris apparently did not
realise that the South Africans were
taking part until the game was in
progress and said that had he known
they were playing; he would have
carefully considered his participation in
the match.
RAG MAG WARNING
Yesterday, College Solicitors warned
the Union that the Rag Mag was illegal.
T h e President, C h r i s F o x , took
immediate action and seized all copies
from the Union offices. The reason for
the magazine being illegal is that the
printers name does not appear on the
Rag Mag.
PHOENIX
The first Staff Meeting of T H E PHOENIX
takes place in Stan's Bar next Tuesday at
8 pm.
Andy Lewis on the line
There is a meeting next Friday, 12 October, at 8 pm, for anyone
interested in working on FELIX. Come to the FELIX Office and we'll
show you how to operate our equipment.
FELIX is published by the Acting Editor, on behalf of
the Imperial College Union Publications Board.
FELIX is printed on the Union Premises in Prince
Consort Road, London'SW7.
Acting Editor: C R Palmer
FELIX ISSN 0140-0711. Registered at the Post
Office. Copyright FELIX 1979.

