ROYAL
SCHOOL
OF MINES
By now everyone should have settled into
the routine of College life (lectures, beer,
practicals, beer etc). Freshers' week went off
with its customary bang, with the Union
Meeting, Freshers' Fair, Sports Trials, Bar
Night and Pub Crawl.
The slopshirt stock was depleted by the
Freshers' Fair, so if you still want some regalia
get along to the RSM Union Office PDQ! The
turnout for the sports trials was good and
things look promising for the coming season.
On Friday night, if anyone can remember it,
the pub crawl 'occurred'; some marshals
being in a worse state than the competitors.
The fun now is to find out where exactly those
pubs arel If you still have your scoresheet,
please hand it in to the Union Office.
This event inevitably took its toll on the
tiddlywinks next morning, but there was a
good attendance; many thanks to all those
who turned up to tiddle their winks.
The infamous Mines Freshers' Dinners are
back with their usual intellectual
conversation over a quiet drink. The dates
are:
Friday, 12th October: Geology
Friday, 19th October: Met & Mat Sci.
Friday, 26th October: Min. Res. Eng.
These dinners are far from dull and sober
occasions for freshers and old logs to meet
(i.e. fall over) each other and generally get
p i s s e d and have a g o o d time.
Dress in a suit or anything resembling one,
but PLEASE bring a change of clothing. More
extensive details will be given to you over the
next few days.
Foreign Students Trips
We have been invited to send two
representatives to the International Weeks in
Trondheim, Norway (Oct 28th-Nov 3rd) and
Kracow, Poland (Nov 11th-17th). Ask anyone
who has been on one of these weeks and you
will be told how good they are - the days
being taken up by industrial visits and the
nights by parties and the odd drink or two.
If you have any queries (or if you have any
queeries then see Rick Wilson, Hon.
Pornographer) then see the R S M U
noticeboard or Mike Lee. Remember - whilst
there the host universities pay for everything
and the RSMU endeavours to subsidize your
fare by up to fifty percent..So get a friend or
someone and put your names on the list.
THE COPYDATE FOR THE NEXT MINES
NEWSLETTER IS MON. OCT 16TH, SO GET
OFF YOUR BACKSIDES AND WRITE
SOMETHING AND HAND IT IN TO THE
UNION OFFICE.
Future Events
Mines Disco: Sorry about the postponement,
a new d a t e is b e i n g f i n a l i z e d .
Oct. 18th: ELECTION UGM. This is a very
important meeting - please pome along and
vote for a new president (if you don't know by
now, the last one failed).
Oct 31st: Halloween Party
Nov 4th: Nottingham Rugby Sevens and
Football Sixes.
ALKY MALKY WRITES
AGAIN
FRESHERS' FAIR
This went quite smoothly this year (except
for a few little accidents with hot air balloons).
I would like to thank Mr. Mooney for his co-
operation with our using the refectories, and
Mr. Clark of Estates for permission to use the
Queen's Lawn.
I've received a complaint that some people
started playing football on the Queen's Lawn;
this is a very carefully kept lawn, which we
were lucky to be allowed to use, and I don't
expect to see people playing on it again.
I've also received some complaints about
certain societies who did not appear to be
very keen to recruit new members; if you have
any experience of this happening, do come
and see me (in complete confidence, of
course) and I'll have a word with the people
responsible.
DUTY OFFICERS
Could all Council members please come
and see me as soon as possible to discuss
which nights would be most convenient for
them to act as duty officers so that I can draw
up a rota.
CRASH PAD
Only a few people left in Crash Pad at the
moment; I hope to be able to close it by the
end of the week.
S O U T H A F R I C A N R U G B Y T O U R
As most of you will know by now, a rugby
match (or at least, half of one) took place on
Sunday between a team from a South African
mining company and an invitation team
comprising mainly members of IC, the match
having been mainly arranged by RSMU.
After the match, myself and several people
who had been demonstrating outside the
players' hotel that morning, went to discuss
the situation in South Africa with the touring
team (at their invitation) in the hotel bar. As a
C & G U N I O N
Since writing the last article many things
have happened during the first week. On
Monday, we held our reception in the Concert
Hall with introductions to various Union
people and tours with 'small' groups (not
more than twenty) around College. The
Union Meeting on Tuesday was a great
success, most Exec members being hit by
flying objects (Nab retaliated very
successfully). The assembled Guildsmen and
women learnt the Boomalaka and used it with
great effect to raise the roof in ME 220. The
Bar Night on Thursday was a very well
attended and boozy affair. Some excellent
yards were drunk, with demonstrations of the
wrong way by Mr Kalsi and the right way by
Mr Lakin. The Boat Races were won by Elec
Eng 2 ('We woz robbed,' P. Leggett), also the
singing was very loud.
Saturday saw the first Rag collection of the
year with Guilds collecting £747.50 bringing
our Rag total to over £800, not bad for the first
week (better than RCS). The tiddlywinking
result of this discussion, I was satisfied that
the team realized how strongly the majority of
people in this country feel against the
apartheid system.
Later that evening, nine of the players were
invited back for a drink in the Real Ale Bar in
Southside and signed in as visitors, despite
an assurance I had been given the previous
day by Bernie Pryor (RSMU Acting
President) that this would not happen. A
number of people drinking in Stan's Bar,
including that evening's duty officer, Kirsten
Pratt, objected to their presence and asked
me to have them removed, and, if necessary,
calling in the police to do so. I refused to do
this, since I felt that the anti-apartheid
viewpoint had been sufficiently stressed by
the events of the afternoon and earlier that
evening, and that any further action against
them would be unnecessary and possibly
counter-productive. However, I would like to
apologize to Kirsten for the very upsetting
position I had put her in by having appointed
her as duty officer that evening.
None of the visiting players caused any
trouble during the evening, unlike an ex-
RSMU member whom I had to have thrown
out of the bar for a comment he made to the
duty officer. I will not put up with people
a b u s i n g duty o f f i c e r s under any
circumstances - and everybody had better
remember it.
MINES FRESHERS' DINNERS
I'd like to thank the Mines Executive for
their invitation to one of their freshers'
dinners; unfortunately I feel unable to accept
this, despite having attended one last year
(and having thoroughly enjoyed it!). The
reason is simple; women are not allowed to
attend their departmental freshers' dinners.
Certain members of RSMU may give various
spurious reasons for supporting this system,
but the fact remains that it involves blatant
discrimation against women, which I will not
accept as being correct under any
cirumstances, and therefore feel that it
would be improper for me to represent ICU at
any such dinners.
MALCOLM BRAIN
took place as usual with some people winking
all the way up the steps of Eros. Despite a
slight difference of opinion with the boys in
blue, all of Guilds made it to the Cockney
Pride, even though a large number of winks
were lost down drains, up trouser legs or just
into thin air.
The Events to come are the Freshers'
Dinners, so hurry up and buy your tickets
(see advert for details). The Roadshow is on
Saturday 13th at 8:00pm, buy your tickets
soon at the riciculously low price of £1 in
advance. Silly sports is the next Rag event on
Saturday, 20th, meet in the Union Office at
9:00am for some fun with the shoppers
outside Harrods.
Bryan
C & G U
8

