'December 5, 1172 FELIX Page 3
IOHN LANE
First
resident's Piece
I think I should start by thanking all those who
%
o
t
e
d for and ratified me as President of I.C.U. —
thank them before I change my mind about wanting
the job.
Since last Thursday's Union meeting has given rise to
..^certain mild controversy, I'd better explain my view
of it, When I heard that the UGM was cancelled, I
• told my class and began gathering signatures for the
EGM on Tuesday. I wandered over to the Great Hall
to tell any friends who turned up and found a vast
gathering of seething masses — a very healthy sign
indeed. Even healthier the meeting proceeded to rail-
road the Exec "rather than vice-versa. The UGM itself
decided to ratify the election without further discussion,
before the result was known. It clearly indicated that it
would stand behind whoever was elected even if the
College Authorities did not accept the election.
With any luck, this new enthusiasm can be built on
to get this union moving again.
E.G.M.
It is vital that NUS conference would be properly
sdiscussed before end of term. A number of important
Government decisions may be taken soon on student
union autonomy and post-graduate loans instead of
grants. Next term the NUS grants campaign gets under
way. We must come to some clear decisions about
IC's role in these campaigns and that means good dis-
cussion at a well attended EGM.
Refectory Committee
My first involvement in the College Bureaucracy
came only 2 hours after becoming President at the
Refectory Committee which consists of representatives
of staff, students, admin, etc. Some interesting points
came up. The kitchens are infested by cockroaches and
have a really big problem with cleanliness. Steps are
being taken but student vigilance is essential both to
keep the clean-up permanent and to spot the mice pie.
Complaints about cuts in portions and long queues
were, I think it would be fair to say, fobbed off. Your
portions of chips have not been halved merely to cut
back to what they would have been if the servers hadn't
thought that the nice boys needed to eat! I think stu-
dents should discuss in more detail a proposal I made
in the election campaign. That is that as well as the
present representation the refec committee would have
to report to students, staff, etc. in a general meeting
where more direct criticism could be made and the
extent of discontent felt.
Lastly an interesting sidelight on the way private
companies can influence a college. Rob Armitage
brought up the NUS boycott of Distillers' Co. (DCL)
products, e.g. whisky, until they compensate the
thalidomide children out of the vast profits they made
by high pressure salesmanship of Thalidomide. When
it was under strong suspicion. Could the refec commit-
tee back up the Union if we decide to run a boycott by
providing clear notices and labels in the bars? The
answer was that the college couldn't upset DCL be-
cause they supply liquid gas and run some scholarships.
Also, it would be embarrassing for anyone to buy a
DCL whisky with a Union boycott notice nearby. The
last reason was a point of principle. Perhaps there are
higher principles?
MARTIN'S BIT
I apologise to the readers of Felix for not providing
what must be one of their favourite features in the last
few weeks. This, basically, is because there was then
very little to write about. I now put my pen to paper
to write.
on Fallot ]&oxt&
Lam very grateful to all those people who gave up
their time to man the ballot boxes on Friday and Mon-
day last. I would write to thank them all in person,
but unfortunately a person or persons unknown lost the
list so I don't know who the majority of them were. I
do however recall that Alicia Lesniak and Hilary
Pickett spent nearly six hours on Monday doing their
bit for the Union.
on M)lttit$
People who wish to organise Athleticfixturesat Har-
lington should fill in application forms obtainable from
Pam Johnston, the Union Receptionist, to whom they
should be returned. You must give two weeks' notice
of hire. Equipment hire costs are (examples) Cricket
60p, Soccer and Rugby 40p and Hockey 40p.
on election^
At its last meeting Council instituted the post of NUS
secretary and accepted John Rogers' resignation as
Post-Graduate Affairs Officer.
Nomination papers have been posted on the Council
notice-board in the Union Lower Lounge.
o n - t i e e.^.fxi
There WILL be an Extraordinary General Meeting
of the Imperial College Union on Tuesday, December
5th (TODAY) at 1 p.m. in the Great Hall. Petitions are
available in the Union Office.
Opportunities
for Graduates in
the Probation
and After-Care
Service
If you are concerned about people, would you like to offer a professional
service to the community and face the challenge of helping offenders and
their families? The probation and after-care service offers real opportunities
for young men and women graduates. This is demanding but satisfying work
which calls for an unusually high degree of initiative and personal responsi-
bility if effective help is to be given to a wide variety of people. Training
before arid after entry helps the new officer to develop his skill and confidence
in dealing with difficult problems of human relationships.
Career prospects are good and there are opportunities for work connected
with research, training and administration.
There are vacancies for trained probation officers in most parts of England
and Wales. Courses last between one and two years, depending on your
degree, and lead to the award of the Certificate of Qualification in Social Work
of the Central Council for Education and Training in Social Work. During
training a salary of at least £1,311 is paid.
After training a Probation Officer's salary starts between £1,632 and £1,746
(not less than £1,689 for graduates) depending on qualificatjions and experience,
and rises in all cases to not less than £2,232. Officers have opportunity to reach
a higher maximum of £2,661. Promotion to Senior Probation Officer would
bring it up to £3.216. The highest grades can earn up to f6 00ft according to
Probation Area (£7.000 in Inner London). Officers in the Ixndon area get
additional remuneration.
For fuller information write or telephone:
STANLEY RATCLIFFE,
University Liaison Officer,
INNER LONDON PROBATION AND AFTER-CARE AREA
73 Great Peter Street,
LONDON, S.W.I
Telephone: 01-222-3851

