Page 6 FELIX December 5, 1972
Phosphorous the Jobrot
and
Ferocious Din
As Ferocious sat, still stunned by the
instant disappearance of his house, staring
bemusedly at the palm trees. Phosphorous
bounced around chattering aimlessly.
"Gosh, Ferocious, isn't this wonderful?
I've never been on an adventure before,
unless you count getting on the wrong train
last week and going to Glasgow instead of
Cricklewood. That was more surprising than
adventurous, I suppose. But this is quite
different to Glasgow — I mean the trees and
the sand and all that. And there don't seem
to be any Scotsmen round here, which there
are in Glasgow of course. Ha, Ha, . . . "
Phosphorous' voice died away when he saw
the look on Ferocious' face.
"Do shut up, dear boy".
"I'm sorry, Ferocious, but it's so excit-
ing".
"Doubtless for you, dear lad, it is. I am
more concerned for my humble abode, and
its exact whereabouts, as of this moment".
"I know it is worrying for you, but this is
a real Adventure, and we must do some-
thing adventurous. Perhaps?" Phosphorous
added, as he saw Ferocious beginning to
look more irritated than usual.
"Just what do you suggest, my impatient
chum?" inquired Ferocious.
"Well, urn", went Phosphorous, glancing
around. Suddenly something in the distance
caught his eye. "Look Ferocious, look at
that", he pointed to a hut-like object in the
far distance. "Let's go and see what that
is".
"It is I suppose, marginally preferable to
sitting here pondering", said Ferocious,
"Let us proceed in that direction".
So the two friends set off along the beach.
Ferocious strode languidly over the sand, as
Phosphorous trotted on ahead — stopping
every now and then to wait for his friend.
The sun was high in the sky and the sand
soft under foot, as the intrepid adventurers
trudged along. Even Ferocious' long legs
were beginning to tire as the distant hut
became less so. By now Phosphorous and
Ferocious could see that the hut was on
wheels — it was obviously a converted
bathing hut. Peeling pink paint decorated its
sun-bleached timbers, and over the door
hung a large sign:
"MOBILE ADVENTURE RECEPTION
CENTRE. Knock and enter".
"Oh look, Ferocious", said Phosphorous,
"what shall we do?"
"We could try knocking, and even per-
haps entering", replied Din, drily.
"Tremendous", said Phosphorous. So
they knocked and entered.
Inside the hut sat an elderly man, behind
a large mahogany desk. Little tufts of hair
sprouted from his cheekbones, and he wore
a high wing collar. His fingers, long bony
and ink-stained, gripped a quill pen with
which he was writing industriously in an
old ledger. He did not look up when the two
friends came in.
"Ahem!" coughed Ferocious politely —
there was no reaction. "Ahem", he coughed
again — still there was no sign that the
man had noticed them. Phosphorous was
just drawing breath to join his friend in a
little polite throat clearing, when a small
piece of fluff which happened to be passing
was sucked in on the draught.
"Cough, splutter, choke, wheeze", went
Phosphorous as politely as he could in the
circumstances. He clasped his throat,
coughing and spluttering, and staggered
about the little hut banging into walls,
slowly turning purple.
"I say, dear boy, that's going a little far,
don't you think?" said Ferocious.
"Spit, writhe", went Phosphorous, as the
fluff finally exploded from his throat.
"Sorry", he said.
"Can I help you?" inquired the old man,
seemingly unaffected by Phosphorous'
breathing troubles.
" A h " , said Ferocious Din, "May I intro-
duce Phosphorous the Jobrot. and I, my-
self, am Ferocious Din".
"Hello", said Phosphorous.
"Grunt", said the man.
" W e " , went on Ferocious, "are supposed
to be on an adventure, if you'll excuse the
term, and seeing the most explicit sign over
your door, we felt that you might be able
to — a h — furnish us with some assistance
— so to speak".
"Well, you have, as it happens, come to
the right place", said the man, whose name
was Mr. Drains, "but I must say they are
sending us a very different class of adven-
turer nowadays".
" E h ? " said Phosphorous, suspecting an
insult.
"Why I can remember the days", went
on Mr. Drains, "when your adventurers were
real gentlemen, as would have gold watches,
and fine clothes. Y3s people knew their
place in them days — oh yes".
" M y dear wizened old idiot", said Fero-
cious, "nostalgia is all very fine in its place,
and it's certainly not what it used to be,
but: this is not really helping with our ad-
venture".
"Typical", grunted Mr. Drains, "however,
I am obliged to set you off on your adven-
ture. Let me see now". Turning from his
desk, the old man pulled open a vast filing
cabinet which stood at the back of the hut.
"Din F. and Jobrot P, the." he muttered,
flicking through piles of documents. " A h ,
here we are — Ferocious Din and Phos-
phorous the Jobrot: the adventure of the
Tiny Twigworm". Ferocious' eyes lit up.
Since the death of Tonsil he had been look-
ing for a new worm. "Here you are",
snapped Mr. Drains, handing Ferocious a
long, sealed envelope, "read it outside
would you, we're very busy at the moment".
"Thank you for making us feel so much
at home", said Ferocious, taking the enve-
lope, and smiling offensively at Mr. Drains.
"Young people got no manners nowadays,
it was different when I was a lad, why for
one penny . . ."
But Ferocious and Phosphorous had left
the Mobile Adventure Reception Centre, and
walked a little way back down the beach.
They sat down on a convenient sandy hum-
mock and Ferocious slit open the envelope.
Inside was a long, folded piece of paper
with an official looking crest at the top.
Ferocious unfolded the paper and began to
read:
ADVENTURE OF THE TINY TWIGWORM
"Summary of situation so far. Two weeks
ago there was a severe storm in the area
of the Permanent Adventure Centre, and the
Tiny Twigworm was found washed up on
the beach. When he had recovered suffi-
ciently, he told us that he had been swept
overboard from the Twigwormery where he
lived, and remembered little more until he
woke up at the Centre. Twigwormeries are
the floating nest or group of nests on which
the Twigworms travel the Oceans of the
world. ("Gosh" said Phosphorous). The Tiny
Twigworm is, of course anxious to rejoin
its Twigwormery, and its presence in the
Centre has become something of a problem.
It is with this situation in mind that Fero-
cious Din and Phosphorous the Jobrot are
invited to remove the Twigworm and re-
turn him to his home. Each Adventurer
is entitled to one piece of Amazing Equip-
ment. You will therefore call at the Adven-
ture Equipment Stores, Back of the dunes,
3rd Palm Tree on the Left, before starting
the adventure. GOOD LUCK!"
" A concise if not very informative docu-
ment" said Ferocious, shaking the envelope
to see if there was any money stuck inside.
There was not.
"Ooh, ooh, it's really starting", squeaked
Phosphorous, "come on Ferocious, let's get
on".
"All in good time, dear boy". Quoth the
wily- Din. but Phosphorous could wait no
longer. Leaping to his feet, he rushed off
down the beach.
"You are going the wrong way, dear old
impetuous buddy', shouted Ferocious. Phos-
phorous skidded to a halt in a cloud of
sand and came back. " O n the left, it says.
Back of the Dunes, Third Palm Tree on the
Left" explained Ferocious.
" O h " , said Phosphorous.
"Follow Ferocious Din, navigator extra-
ordinary", said Ferocious walking into a
palm tree. He was not seriously injured, and
replacing his monocle, set off for the Back
of the Dunes, with Phosphorous trailing
along behind.
The two friends had hardly passed the
line of palm trees at the back of the beach,
when there could be seen the Adventure
Stores ahead of them. The "Stores" was a
yellow-painted Nisson hut with a large sign
over the door which read: "Adventure
Stores. Prop. A. Drawers. Licensed to sell
Amazing Equipment and That".
"This seems to be the place", said Fer-
ocious, and in they went.
A wooden counter divided off the main
area of the Stores from the little bit by the
door. Behind the counter stood row upon
row of shelves draped with mysterious ob-
jects. Piles of THINGS littered the floor
and yet more weird devices hung from the
ceiling. There was no-one to be seen.
"Er. shop?" said Ferocious, a little ner-
vously. From behind one of the piles of
THINGS emerged a stooping figure, cough-
ing like a lung full of gravel.
"Yus, mate", he croaked —- and the cig-
arette in the corner of his mouth trembled
as he spoke — "what can I do you for?"
"I am Ferocious Din, and this is Phosphor-
ous the Jobrot" announced Ferocious, "and
we are. ah, adventurers so to speak, and we
claim our Amazing Equipment".
"Well, you come to the right place, 'ent
you" replied the man, "I am Alf Drawers
and this here is your Adventure Stores. I'll
just look in me book and see what won pot-?".
From under the counter Alf drew out a
A book in
9 parts
by S. Swailes
PART TWO
large, well-thumbed book. Slowly turning the
pages, he ran an oily thumb down the inky
columns.
'"Ere we are", he said, digging a nico-
tine-stained digit into the page, "You gets
the Partially Invisible Gumboots and the
Strikingly Offensive Cloak — you can fight
it out amongst yourselves as to who has
what". So saying he half turned and let out
a strangled cry, " R e g ! You done them
P.I.G.s yet?"
"Aargle, graaably, mumble, next week,
mate, at the earliest", came the muffled
reply.
"Don't mess about, Reg", shouted Mr.
Drawers, "I got two blokes here who wants
them boots now". There was a clattering
and banging from the other end of the shed
and Reg appeared.
He was younger than Alf Drawers and
carried what looked like a perfectly ordin-
ary pair of gumboots in his hand.
"You can have them now if you wants",
he said, "But I wouldn't want to walk any
distance in them meself. They're done, mate,
your main fusion condenser'll go any minute.
They don't make "em like this any more, you
see, we gotta get parts from Dagenham.
Well, it'll take at least a month, what with
things as they are. Cost more than the
boots is worth".
"But we can't possibly wait a month",
said Ferocious, "We'll just have to leave
the boots, and make do with the Cloak".
"Don't you worry about them boots,
mate", said Alf, "They'll hold up so long as
you treat 'em careful, and don't do no stamp-
ing".
"But, my dear old mate, what exactly do
they do", asked Ferocious. Alf and Reg ex-
changed glances.
"They're called Partially Invisible Gum-
boots, right?" said Reg, finally, "so that's
what they do. 'Ere, let your little mate put
'em on and you'll see. I hope" he added
under his breath.
Phosphorous took the Gumboots and step-
ped into them.
"They don't seem to be working", he
said.
"Don't you believe it, dear boy", said Fer-
ocious, paling visibly, "Look at your legs".
Phospherous looked down. There stood the
Gumboots, but where his legs should've
been going into the boots there was noth-
ing at all. As his gaze travelled up his little
body there was more nothing.
"Help!" he said.
"How does one turn them off, so to
speak", asked Ferocious. "You just gets out
of them, they're quite automatic", said Alf„
proudly. Phosphorous promptly stepped out
of the boots and slowly reappeared.
"My dear old Alfred", said Ferocious,
rather impertinently, "They really are not
much good unless they turn invisible as well
as the person in them".
"You can't have everything, mate", said
Reg, "They is only PARTIALLY Invisible
Gumboots. They'll come in real handy if
you has to hide in a shoe shop". Ferocious
did not reply.
"Right", said Alf, "and you'll be wanting
your Strikingly Offensive Cloak, what I had
right in front of me a moment ago". He
turned from the counter and started to bur-
row about in one of the Piles of THINGS
on the floor.
"I had it in me very hand", he muttered,
digging furiously.
"Here it is, Alf". shouted Reg, pulling a
long purple cloak out from under a stuffed
Boa-constrictor.
"What, dear old mechanical chaps, does
that thing do?" inquired Ferocious.
"This, mate, is your Strikingly Offensive
Cloak", said Reg, "what Alf and Me has
come up with tor putting the frighteners on
undesirables. Highly effective, though I says
it as shouldn't. You try it on, mate, and
you won't half get a shock".
(continued on page 7)
1
Christmas Cards
Choose from the
J. C. BOOKSHOP
selection
Christmas (Jiffs
Solve your problems
give books from the
1. C. BOOKSHOP
i

