Page 8 FELIX December 5, 1972
the s
p
o
r
t
s page
a r n o l d r u g b / b a d m i n t o n h o c k e y
MIXED RUGBY
Gentlemen of LC. versus the Ladies of Maria Assumpta
College, Hyde Park, Sunday, 26th November
It was not the bitter cold that made the knees of the
gallant I.C. lads knock, but the assembled multitude of
desperate women of Amazonian proportions who lined
up to provide a public spectacular never before wit-
nessed by the Sunday afternoon crowd by the Round
Pond. M.A. won the toss (well, they were big girls) and
I.C. took the kick off and they were off. From the start
it- was a scrappy game, neither side capable of a clean
take and the I.C. men failed to get on top. Scrum fol-
lowed scrum with the M.A. scrum-half not liking the
way the I.C. scrum-half was putting it in, but eventu-
ally I.C. were penalised for foot up (even though the
I.C. hooker reckoned it was only seven inches). I.C.
players came in dribs and drabs till at last they had a
full side up and had to give two extra players to satisfy
the other side's needs. The chauvinists from I.C. man-
aged at last to show their prowess, when Ken "don't
touch me, I'm married" Horseman stormed over for the
first try. However, Boadiceas Anonymous were unde-
terred and came back (a trifle kinky but quite prac-
tical) and soon levelled the scores by a devastating
series of net-ball tactics.
Half-time followed and the I.C. team reckoned the
present emergency demanded "Women and Children"
tactics, so straight from the kick off into the Round
Pond went big Ethel and her babe in arms Laurence
"Stand Up" Adams. However, these strong arm tactics
were of no avail, and despite being well chaste (tactical
misprint) I.C. failed to capitalise on M.A.'s boobs in
defence and they had it with the.screaming horde end-
ing up on top. Despite I.C. putting up a firm stand,
M.A. soon wore down their left and right to go straight
up the middle and touch down twice to take the match.
1.C-, puffing and panting hard, covered well until the
final blow brought proceedings to an end. The end of
the game however, was marred by the arrival of two
gentlemen in blue uniforms pushing bicycles (try one,
better than pot any day), who said it was not the done
thing to play Rugby in a Royal Park (a cunning
Thatcher plot after Stirling University, we ask?) but
were informed it is not the done thing for dear old
ladies to bring on their precious little dogs to soil a nice
clean pitch.
Fun and frolics were had by all and I.C. claimed a
moral victory as no virginities were lost, though Johnny
McDonough was last seen groping in the park looking
for his.
Quote (by LC. player): "It was against the true ama-
teur traditions of the game, they were all pros".
2nd Quote (by another I.C. player): "They played
like a load of women".
3rd Quote (by I.C. player leased to M.A.): "I hope
My Dinga-Ling is still number one".
4th Quote (by the Big Lad): "It was too short".
Teams: I.C. Dave Ranson, Dennis Shakesheff, Jim
Hunt, Ken Horseman, Roy "Big Lad" (if only they
knew) Matthews, Pete Ranson, Charlie Wrigley, Tony
Walton, Johnny McDonough.
M.A.: Rich "I'm only here for the beer" Sutton,
Laurence "Dinga-Ling" Adams, Ethel, Jane, one trans-
vestite and many female friends too numerous to men-
tion.
BY YOUR ROVING REPORTER.
b o a t i n g
Sailing against Brunei University proved difficult as
we lost John Labard somewhere on the Kingston By-
pass. However, we made up the team by recruiting an
overworked star member and eventually arrived at
Brunei's gravel pit. There was only a light breeze so
sailing positions changed frequently on the downwind
legs. In the end Brian Rogers got clear wind and went
ahead to win with Simon Briscoe 3rd and Nigel Charl-
wood 4th. In the second race l'C boats got ahead from
the start. Ian Hopkins forgot what boat he was in and
succeeded in ramming the opposition so had to retire
and watch from the shore as Jim Scott and Dave Law
finished 1st and 2nd, winning the match.
On the Sunday, John managed to find Southside on
time and the whole team set off for Reading. Sailing
the Thames with little or no wind and a current was
With 21 matches played and only 2 lost, the club
is having another successful season. Once again it
seemes that none of the other ULU teams are capable
of beating our lsts, led by club captain Dave Ward,
so we won't pay any more attention to them. The
second team, playing in the same division as the firsts,
are also doing well and are, in fact, unlucky to have
lost a match. I don't know who's captain of the seconds
but John is probably the biggest, oldest and hairiest
—so we won't pay any more attention to them either.
THE THIRD TEAM
This is a separate Club altogether, being the Imperial
College section of the Wigan Cricket Club (arid as such
must conform to committee regulation 27 which
stipulates that all juniors must leave before 9.30 p.m.)
The club is captained by Pete Dunbavon, Keith Thomp-
son or Phil Lee—depending on who writes their name
on the score card first—and plays in a different division
to the above teams. They've lost one away match but
that was because the home team didn't bring enough
biscuits. The smooth running of this team depends en-
tirely on players arriving late, or not at all, as this
has been of vital strategic importance on more than
one occasion. (We claim the match if they do it to us.)
The third team, also boast about their trophies ob-
tained this season: 3 beer glasses, 1 tube of shuttles,
several packets of biscuits and 5 signs.
IC IVths or the third team reserves are also having
a good season, winning all matches so far. Notable
asset to the IVths is Graham Wilson who has stood in
for Mr. Dunbavon on several occasions.
In conclusion, any prospective Illrd team member
should have the appropriate kit viz—badminton racket,
shorts, screwdriver, shirt and socks.
KEITH THOMPSON Met II
r a p i d r a m b l e s
And so this happy band of wanderers, though some-
what depleted by injuries suffered in action, set off for
the leafy dales of Bristol and there joined other sundry
colleges from London in a race against Bristol Uni-
versity, Surrey, Southampton and various other classy
runners, and brilliantly excelled themselves (so modest,
these sportsmen.—Ed.).
Rob Parker, after nearly disappearing over a preci-
pice, finished twentieth, followed by Paul Clarke, re-
cently emerged from swaths of bandages, at 33rd. Rob
Allinson, Dave Payne and Neil Boag were 48th, 77th
and 88th, followed by Steve Webb who was 101st after
twisting an ankle and trying to go the pretty way. Dave
Jones was 102nd. A combined team from the London
Colleges finished second to Bristol out of 15 teams.
And then we went to Kings. And won. Steve and Ian
(Both Knees and an Ankle) Isherwood were taking
scores and so, with a Lancashire-accented "Go!"
twenty-two runners from King's, LSE and IC burst into
action, in the drizzle, trying to find their way round a
long and winding course, led in fine style by Dave
Payne. After crossing railway lines, running beside the
Wandle (I Wandled lonely as a cloud . . .) (Since when
have sportsmen been literate ????—Ed.) and generally
causing chaos in the streets of Mitcham, three intrepid
runners from IC surprised our score-takers by storm-
ing in in the first three places, Relieved for once from
early pacemaking, Paul had yet another truly amazing
race finishing first, followed closely by Rob Allinson
and Barry Dabrowski and several King's people. Dave
Payne was 8th and Neil 12th. Packing at the back were
Dave Johns (15th), Pete Johnson (17th), Paddy Don-
nelly (19th), Ray Maddison and Hugh Culverhouse.
Team scores were IC 26, Kings 39 and LSE 63. Thanks
go to a fireman and a mobile library for directions on
the course.
And so, a tired but happy crowd of runners set off
in the sunset into the traffic jams of London wondering
what would befall them in the U L Championships that
Saturday. Answers next week.
Hockey
Saturday saw our fifth league match, against the
league leaders, Old Thamesians. Before the game was
ten minutes old T's were two up and many long face?
in the defence were wondering whether they should
have stayed at home. At this point a good run and
shot by Dave Richman put the ball in the back of the
net, but the umpire ruled no goal — outside the D
or something. This decision was hotly disputed, but
to no avail.
In the second half the defence bottled up the opposi-
tion attack so well that even when an open shooting
chance appeared, they were so surprised that they was-
ted it. The attack was in devastating form—every-
one has their own methods! — and produced first a
goal by Mick Downs from a corner scramble and then
probably the best solo goal of the season by J. Gabir
to equal the score at 2-2.
TEAM: C. Steel, R. Palmer, R. Cameron, R. Evans,
D. Richardson, T. Hanson, A. Tatehall, D. Richman,
J. Gahir, J. Astley, M. Downs, Umpire: J. Allen.
On the same day the 2nd XI beat BAC Weybridge
4-0 and the 3rd XI went down to St. Albans extra
IV's by 2-1.1 think they were the scores, since nobody'
yet again, sent in a report.
Last Wednesday, on a rain-soaked afternoon, IC
1st XI entertained Silverwing, on a pitch not up to the
usual Harlington standard. It started well for IC when
straight from the bully-off, a cross from the left
was slotted in by Dave Richman. However, later, in the
space of ten minutes Silverwing scored three times.
Within ten minutes of the start of the second half IC
were back on level terms with a fine run by Dave Rich-
man who took the ball to the goal-line, from where
he crossed for Jag Gahir to touch in, and then a flick-
on-the-dive by Dave which completely fooled the
goalkeeper.
The game then began to swing from end to end with
Siiverwing retaking the lead from a short corner. How-
ever, Andy Tatehall broke through on the right and
flicked the ball into the net to make the final score
4-4.
Mixed Hockey
Having travelled out to the wilds of Royal Hollo-
way College on Sunday, a depleted IC mixed team—
yet again! — managed to emerge with a creditable
draw. RHC proved to be a very strong team, and a
very entertaining match ensued The first half was very
evenly balanced with fi
rst one side then the other
gaining the upper hand. The second half was very simi-
lar to the first, but thanks to some strange umpiring
decisions RHC gradually became more dominant. Des-
pite this, the IC defence was never seriously troubled.
As the game was drawing to a close, IC almost snatch-
ed victory when Jag Gahir was demolished by a rather
uncompromising RHS full-back.
* Dear Sir, Felix No. 321, December 5, 1972, *
* was edited by Oliver Dowson, with contribu- *
* tions of words, labour and hoot (in Alpha- J
* betical glit): Philip amodio Sid amor Ron *
t appleby Bob carter Peter Crawford Martin $
£ doughty Arnold sprog with teeth Dave hobman £
* Graham king Andy mafeld Ross mCbeath Colin *
* mCcall Mr s j swailes, and the rest of the $
*
£ cast of one
$ Contributions for "felix" are always welcome J
* and should be addressed to the editor (resi- J
* dence Weeks hall 14ourteen) *
* National Advertising contractors are University J
-K Press Representation, Grand Buildings, Tra- *
$ falgar Square, WC1, 01-930 1322. J
* Printed by F. Bailey and Son Ltd., Dursley, *
£ Gloucestershire. j
£ Published by the editor for and on behalf of J
* Imperial College Union Publications Board. J
* All material copyright © 1972. *
* "Felix" is a founder member of the London *
* Student Press Association Floot. '*
£ Yours with much ' J
t Tredmil *
* -*• ;
****************************************

