Candidate Manifestos: Union President
Haitham Idriss
My name is Ramana Sabapathy, and I am
running to be your next Union President.
I’ve worked in many different groups
across college; as the AeroSoc Industrial
Liaisons Officer, I’ve learnt to connect
with authenticity, allowing me to organise
numerous talks and tours, and forge major
partnerships with industry. As a Senior
President’s Ambassador and director of
a theatrical production at Imperial, I have
learnt to think out of the box and tackle
issues in creative ways. Having had
significant experience during my army days
in organising large-scale events that require
Hello,
My name is Haitham, I am a masters student
at the faculty of medicine.
I believe I have what it takes to successfully
lead this union, I know my way around the
college very well. I graduated with a PhD in
biophysics in 1990 and was offered a place
for clinical medicine at the college’s medical
school in 2002. I am currently pursuing a
Global Masters in Public Health on a college
scholarship. Standing up for this role is my
way of saying ‘thank you’ to the college for
believing in me!
Here are some of the things I would like to
No manifesto submitted.
Ramana Sabapathy
No manifesto submitted.
Nia Davies
Benjamin Russell
ask the college for:
1. Free hot daily meal for every student of the
college.
2. With the current Covid-19 world outbreak,
I want to make sure the college is doing all it
can to ensure students are safe.
3. I want to review work conditions and work
pay for students working for the college to
make sure they get the wages and work
conditions they deserve.
4. Distant/overseas students should have
the opportunity to get free B&B college
accommodation for a week to visit/host
their parents in London during the summer
vacations.
I am a nice, understanding and approachable
person, yet when the going gets tough I
do get going. Here is an article about my
experience in the USA back in 2004, (https://
www.sciencemag.org/careers/2004/10/
unexpected-detour). I am a practising
Moslem and was born in Lebanon to
Palestinian parents.
I am seconded by a Lebanese student, Aline
Sarkis.
strong leadership, teamwork, and soft skills,
I know what it takes to bring people together.
As the current CGCU Communications Chair,
I’ve organised events, created marketing
campaigns, and promoted the activities
of both the CGCU and its clubs, most
importantly learning to work effectively and
efficiently with various people.
I believe that the Union needs reform – it has
been on a steady decline. As one of the most
reputable universities worldwide, this needs
to change. It is time you, the student body,
hadYOUR say in how the Union is run.
As President, I aim to achieve the following:
• Restructure the messy, inefficient room
booking system
• Ensure student staff are paid the London
living wage
• Implement a Welfare Support System to
expand mental health support
• Represent and integrate graduate students
with the wider student community
• Create a termly stand for students to voice
feedback on Union’s activities
• Make training for C&S officers mandatory
Vote for Ram, vote for Reform.

