Abhijay Sood
Milun Nair
I’m Abs, your Union President.
This year, I’ve been working hard to change
things at Imperial. For the first time, we’ve:
- Resisted proposed increases to halls rent,
securing a £3m reduction from the College
and kick-starting a campaign to fight for
further changes.
- Successfully pressured the College to
consider the ethics of their investments.
- Actively communicated with students,
with regular interviews in Felix, more
direct communication through the email
newsletter, and stalls across our campuses.
We’re also fixing systems and processes
inside the Union, so clubs and reps get
better support and training, more decisions
It’s ya boi Millie, back at it again running for
president.
Yeah, that’s it.
Plz don’t vote me
xoxoxox
can be led by students, especially around
major events, and the long-standing failures
that led to the kitchens closing never
happen again.
Re-elect me so that we can:
- Keep challenging the College; from our
curricula to the cost of food and rent,
decisions shouldn’t be made without us
- Protect the Union services students care
about most when tough financial decisions
have to be made
- Make sure the Union has a support staff
structure that works
- Initiate a wholesale review of our offer for
postgraduates
- Complete the work-in-progress automating
the room-booking system
- Guarantee a living wage for student staff in
future funding bids
After 7 months as President, and 4 years
as a student rep, I’ve learned how Imperial
works. I can spend the summer working
for you, rather than in training, and lead a
team that gets the best out of every Deputy
President.
To keep fixing the Union, and challenging
the College, re-elect Abs.
Candidate Manifestos: Union President
Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Finance & Services)
Hi, I’m Sam. As DramSocTechnical Director
I have managed numerous successful
events and have extensive experience
in managing both finances and people.
I have done paid work on the Union’s
Systems and understand where changes
are required. I successfully managed the
technical aspects of last years Summer Ball,
despite the decreased budget and time
given to me, and this has allowed me to
push the Summer Ball to be more Student-
focused and better allocate money to the
correct areas. I oversee all the Arts and
Entertainments Society budgets and have
helped manage the creation of the new Arts
Nights.
Sam Lee My plans are:
FOCUS UNION SERVICES ON STUDENTS
- Re-assess the effectiveness of the
approval chain of eActivities finances to
speed up claims and event budget approval
- Allow students to have control over Union
events by pulling together a Student-based
Committee to oversee them
- Incentivise CSP events by providing
management support and training
- Introduce development training for all
Student Staff and Volunteers
- Provide Union presence at other campuses
and get the Union involved on White City
development plans so Student spaces can
be expanded
INVEST INTHE UNION
- Automate services such as Room
Bookings so CSPs are not left waiting for
responses and to be able to view current
bookings of the Union’s rooms
- Introduce and enforce Maintenance Plans
for Union equipment so the Union building
and other campuses are fit for purpose in
the future
- Introduce and enforce a Health and Safety
management tool
Vote Sam for DPFS
No manifesto submitted.
Elena Meganck

