Haitham Idriss
Hello,
My name is Haitham, I am a masters
student in the faculty of medicine.
I believe I have what it takes to
successfully lead this union, I know
my way around the college very well. I
graduated with a PhD in biophysics in
1990 and was offered a place for clinical
medicine at the college’s medical school
in 2002. I am currently pursuing a Global
Masters in Public Health on a college
scholarship. Standing up for this role is my
way of saying ‘thank you’ to the college for
believing in me!
Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Education)
In my 4 years as a rep, it has become clear
to me that there are fundamental issues
both within the College and academic
representation. I have a plan to address
these.
Improve Parity
Your experience at this university varies
greatly depending on which department you
are in, or who your supervisor is. Now is the
time for real action on key issues such as:
- Poor quality of feedback and transparency
of marking
- Large variation in quality of supervision,
and absence of mechanisms for dealing
Michaela Flegrova with problematic supervisors
- Lack of student spaces and services in
some departments, particularly at non-South
Kensington campuses
Strengthen the Rep Network
Only a strong rep network will be able
to implement real change.To make
representation more effective, we must:
- Improve training to make it more practical
and role-specific, to make reps better
prepared for their job
- Develop the rep community for both
undergraduate and postgraduate students,
by increasing opportunities for cross-
departmental interaction and sharing of
good ideas
- Better support individual reps, increasing
the number of contact hours with the DPE
and Union support staff
Make Change Happen
Every year, the College and the Union
respond to student feedback by writing lists
of proposed changes, but little is done to
ensure these are actually followed through.
I will work with the relevant College staff
to finally see these plans implemented,
using the rep network to make sure no
department is left out.
Improve parity. Strengthen the rep network.
Make change happen. Vote Michaela for
DPE.
Here are some of the things I would like to
ask the college for:
1. Free hot daily meal for every student of
the college.
2. Free Chromebook for every student of
the college.
3. Review UG/PG syllabi to ensure state of
the art material is being delivered.
4. Increase opportunities for PG students
to engage in paid UG students.
5. Lobby for the introduction of a dual-
track PhD/MBBS or MBBS/PhD science/
medicine study options.
6. Overseas and distant learning students
should have the opportunity to get free
B&B college accommodation for a week
to visit or host parents during the summer
vacations.
I am a nice, understanding, transparent
and approachable person, yet when the
going gets tough I do get going. Here is
an article about my experience in the USA
back in 2004, (https://www.sciencemag.
org/careers/2004/10/unexpected-detour).
I am a practising Moslem and was born in
Lebanon to Palestinian parents.
I am seconded by a Lebanese student,
Aline Sarkis.
Thomas Fernandez Debets
With my experience and your vote I’m
confident we can make significant, positive
changes.
Some of these are:
OVERHAUL ALL UNIONTRAINING
Provide any elected student with position-
specific introductory training packs; enable
you to develop relevant skills recognised
by employers; and empower you to have
greater impacts as volunteers.
MAKE SPORT CHEAPER and MORE
ACCESIBLE
to everyone across college. I have been
Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Clubs & Societies)
Ross Unwin working with Move Imperial and the union
to shape the future of an athletics union,
and I want to carry on this work to secure
kit deals, contracts, and venues to benefit
you.
IMPROVE UNION FACILITIES and SPACES
The union has the opportunity to invest in
their students and create space on multiple
campuses.This will improve student life,
improve the facilities we use, and improve
the locations we run our clubs in. I want to
develop a long-term strategy with College
for the continual improvement of these.
INTRODUCE A HAPPY HOUR on
Wednesday and Friday afternoons in the
union to promote integration of different
clubs and societies in a space where
students want to spend time.
ENSURETHE UNION OFFICE IS FULLY
STAFFED.
This affects everything from room bookings
and minibuses to welcome fair and
sponsorship, and when this doesn’t happen,
all students are impacted.
From holding DepSoc and sports committee
roles, to CGCU vice-pres and now as ACC
Chair, I have always put students at the
heart of every decision I’ve made. And I
don’t intend on changing that now.
I’mThomas, a Bioengineering graduate and
your Deputy President (Clubs & Societies).
Over the last two years, I have also been
a Bar Manager and your Sport (ACC) Chair.
Extra-curricular activities are a key part of
the student experience, yet our volunteers
aren’t supported enough, nor do they have
sufficient resources to shape clubs the way
students want.
This year, I’ve initiated a complete review
of the volunteer training, empowered
clubs and societies to shape the upcoming
Summer Ball and rolled out a new
budgeting system for all 360+ clubs. Much
still needs doing and, over the coming year,
here’s what I will focus on:
*UPGRADING SPACES AND IMPROVING
PROCESSES*
- Ensure student-led delivery of a £430,000
redevelopment of the Union Concert Hall
- Roll-out of automated room booking
system
- Work with White City students to ensure
Union presence/representation at growing
student hubs
*STUDENT-CENTRIC UNION
COMMUNICATIONS*
- Increase club activity posts to 50% of
Union social media output
- Organise regular Union-update meetings
for senior volunteers to weigh in on key
decisions
- Continue building strong relationships
between volunteers and staff members
*BETTER STUDENT CONSULTATION/
INCLUSION*
- Lead a student ‘Events Committee’ to
decide on what takes place in our social
spaces
- Shape Welcome Week by working with
elected senior volunteers
- Work with all campuses and postgrad
students to deliver activities and events
*DELIVER ONTHE ATHLETIC UNION*
- Introduce 30 more clubs to the Sports Hub
- Create student-led committees for the
internal Varsity and a new LSE Varsity
- Continue improving Harlington and push to
secure new sports grounds

