Hi! I’m Shervin, your Deputy President
(Welfare) this year and, beforehand, the
RCSU’s Welfare Officer for two years. It’s
been a pleasure to represent and advocate
for students at Imperial and I’ve immensely
enjoyed working on projects with volunteers
to bring about change.
My biggest achievements so far have been
co-leading halls rent negotiations producing
a £3 million reduction for students,
reforming Liberation and Community to
better advocate for underrepresented
students, and refreshing the training of
welfare volunteers to better equip them in
their roles. With a second year as DPW, I
Shervin Sabeghi
Danitza Iniesta
will:
IMPROVE SUPPORT AND CULTURE:
- Continue to stand up for students on key
issues like halls rent
-Tackle sexual harassment and misconduct
at Imperial
- Improve support structures for
postgraduate research students, addressing
systemic supervision issues
- Work with clubs and societies to promote
positive, inclusive cultures
EMPOWER STUDENTS AND
COMMUNITIES:
- Review the Union’s offering at non-South
Kensington campuses to ensure all students
are considered and build a unified Imperial
community
- See through the Liberation and Community
reform, establishing advocacy networks for
underrepresented students
- Complete actions from the ongoing review
of the Wellbeing Representation Network
to strengthen its impact on the student
experience
- Improve mechanisms to raise issues
through rep structures so all voices are
heard
As the Union continues changing for the
better, a second year will allow me to
embed a culture of transparency, inclusivity
and care - one that keeps the needs of
students at the heart of all we do.
To keep this change going, #KeepShervIn.
Not your typical “union is failing” type of
manifesto.There are a lot of wellbeing
issues that college has not addressed:
counseling queues are incredibly long,
most engineering departments do not have
a dedicated wellbeing advisor. It would
be unfair to blame an understaffed and
underpaid union, when college refuses
to cooperate in almost any way shape or
form. Students are struggling financially?
Lets increase rent! Student reports that
they have been assaulted? We will quietly
investigate and make sure nothing happens
to the abuser publicly, so we do not gain
any bad reputation. Union does not have
Dmitrii Usynin
Candidate Manifestos: Deputy President (Welfare)
enough money to keep a consistent number
of full-paid staff? Well the president, who is
on the board of directors of Chevron (cough
divest cough) surely does (plus many other
perks). What was the response to these?
There wasn’t: neither college, nor the
current wellbeing team has done anything
about it except for censoring student-run
facebook pages, trying to be silent about
students being assaulted and continue to
make life more difficult for those who try to
change this.
What is the point of this rant? How will
it help me get elected? It probably wont.
But for the past years my campaigns have
achieved exactly what I wanted it to achieve:
there are now more qualified people running
than ever that genuinely care and want to
make a difference. Maybe this year they will
also begin to be open about the real college
wide issues, not just “union is shit”
.
I’m Danitza, a third-year biologist whose
aim is to implement a holistic approach to
improving wellbeing on campus. During
the past year as wellbeing Dep Rep, I have
noticed how the focus has been straying
away from the more concerning welfare
matters and towards less significant issues.
Don’t get me wrong - small changes do
help. But this isn’t enough anymore; we’re
stuck in a treadmill - taking steps forward
without actually moving.This is especially
true for mental health. Whether its the one-
off panic attack or a lifelong mental disorder,
Imperial is not providing the necessary
resources to promote a healthy state of
mind for all. For these reasons, I want to
step up to a position where I can enact
large-scale change that will mark a positive
difference in students’ lives.
Some proposals:
- Organize a mental health awareness
campaign (We Need toTalk), focused on
spreading information, such as how to
detect and deal with deteriorating mental
health (in yourself and others), as well as
tackling the stigmas surrounding most
disorders.
-Train staff to tackle sensitive situations
appropriately, and facilitate struggling
students’ access to counseling services and
mitigating circumstances.
- Implement schemes to encourage all
students to join a society, especially sports
clubs.
- Promote union-run socials and make them
more inclusive and accessible to all.
- Improve knowledge surrounding the
college’s available resources for students in
difficult financial situations.
- Host seminars on managing debt,
decreasing bill expenses, budgeting, saving,
and building credit.
- Increase greenery throughout campus.
- Challenge labs to become more
sustainable.
#icuElections

