No manifesto submitted.
SIWEI Xie
Council is meant to represent the voice
of students when making the policies of
our Union. While it does this for the most
part, significant changes must be made to
improve Council’s ability to fulfil this aim.
As this year’s RCSU president, I’ve spent
my fair share of time on Union Council and
its subcommittees.The issue with Council
is that the student body, which it is meant
to represent, knows little of its activities or
decisions.
This shouldn’t be the case, especially given
that the Union’s policies affect us all, and
the implementation of new policy can enact
Candidate Manifestos: Council Chair
Alex Auyang great positive change.
I want to amplify the common student’s
ability to shape our Union by spreading
awareness of Council and its associated
policies. In addition, I will ensure that
Council runs smoothly using my experience
as a senior volunteer and Council member.
To increase participation, I would:
- Improve accessibility of Union
policy for all students to view.
- Enact a strategy to increase
student awareness of Union Council and its
activities, while also encouraging more
students to submit papers.
- Increase training of Council
members and provide extensive
supplementary documentation.
In addition, I resolve to:
- Hold sabbatical officers to
account, and ensure that they are serving
the wider student body.
- Run productive Council meetings,
focusing on the key issues that students
face.
As Council chair, I believe that I can make
real change, fostering a more inclusive, fair,
and effective student democracy.
Thank you for reading my manifesto.
Candidate Manifestos: Felix Editor
Calum Drysdale
About me
I have been involved in Felix from the
beginning of my degree and have been
involved in lots of roles:
- As a Comment editor this year
and a copy editor last year
- As a writer for 5 sections
- As a frequent contributor of
articles and horoscopes to the Hangman
section.
I’ve been involved in every step of Felix’s
publishing, from the initial planning of each
week’s paper to sending the final versions
to print, and I want to see it flourish.
Outside of Imperial, I am also currently
pursuing a career in journalism and have
worked with both British and foreign
newspapers, spending a month working for
a daily paper in Ghana last summer.
As Editor I pledge to:
- Make the paper a more useful and
interesting part of student life.
This ranges from improving the quality of
news by creating a dedicated team of news
writers, to printing a social calendar that will
allow
students to conveniently see the huge
variety of events available to them and
for societies to more easily publicise their
events.
- Fix the Felix website so that students
can access it anywhere and bring in more
functionality.
- Bring the editorial schedule up a day, so
every article gets the attention it deserves
and goes to print in the best possible
condition.
During my time at Imperial, I’ve seen
the Union from every perspective; as a
student, a bar worker, a CSP volunteer and
as President of the Royal School of Mines
Union. I’ve seen the good work that the
Union can do when it works democratically,
efficiently and transparently for the benefit
of the students.
This year, I’ve worked with Faculties,
Departments, CSPs and other Constituent
Unions to ensure that the Union provides an
experience we can all look back on fondly.
Whether rejecting the College’s proposed
rent increases, reforming the Liberation
and Community Networks or representing
Christopher Carter students at Faculty levels, the Union and
its subsets have the power to positively
impact the student experience, and student
volunteers are an essential part of that.
As StudentTrustee, I’d jump right in and
speak up for students who too often feel the
Union doesn’t work for them. I will:
- Provide a strong, independent,
student-focused voice on the Board of
Trustees when discussing important
financial or administrative matters
- Prioritise transparency when
making decisions, ensuring all major
decisions incorporate an appropriate level of
student consultation
- Ensure Constituent Unions
are afforded the support and resources
necessary to work for students, as CUs
have a greater understanding of the needs
of the communities they represent
Over the past few years, I’ve shown that
I have the experience, dedication and
understanding to serve as a StudentTrustee
of ICU. I hope you’ll give me your vote so
we can build a Union that works for you.
Chris
Candidate Manifestos: Student Trustees (x2)

